throwing things off the top of the building, to
cleaning the floor afterwards. That is probably what
we should expect to do. What we shouldn't expect
is students deliberately trying to undermine us, and
being complete pains in the proverbials!
Freshers' Fair was another wacky occasion. I'm
tempted to suggest that in future no planning goes
into it, as half the people set up stalls when and
where they want anyway, and those that don't
complain that they are being victimised by being
put somewhere they don't want to be. I hope you
all enjoyed it 'cos I didn't.
Ents in General
According to the DP's job description I'm
responsible for overseeing the activities of the Ents
committee. I gave up this responsibility after being
informed it was not my place to question what was
in the contracts I was expected to counter-sign.
Christine has been watching them ever since (she's
better at it than I am anyway). Dan and I have often
not seen eye to eye.
The Saint Mary's HMS Merger
This seems now to be extremely likely to happen,
the mechanism appears to be proceeding with great
haste, and the dissenting voices seem too few and
too late in the day.
I was a member, along with Christine, of the
working party looking into student affairs
concerned with the merger. The opinion I reached
was that the merger would have some slight
potential benefits for the Union and, provided that
when the time comes we are particularly loud in
sorting out our case, there should be no major
disadvantages. There is little point to my going into
detail on the possible future arrangements as 1) they
are presented very well in the report of the working
party and 2) the eventual arrangements will all need
to be accepted by a UGM later in the day anyway.
I would briefly like to answer criticisms that
Christine and I have kept the workings of this group
secret. Christine especially has gone to great length
to publicise the form the discussions were taking
and, anyway, the brief of the working party was
to identify potential problems and indicate possible
avenues for solutions. With so woolly an agenda
the prospect of taking every single discussion point
to an UGM was patently ridiculous.
Junior Common Room
The battle for the JCR has been a long and bloody
campaign (ie I'm bloody fed up with it!). It was
notable for one thing: it caused an alarming
outbreak of selective deafness: the 'College' didn't
listen to the 'Union', half the students misheard that
it was a campaign against beefburgers, the 'Staff
didn't listen to anything until half way through the
year, and then were so busy listening to each other
that everyone else got fed up of waiting and carried
on without them, the 'Union' tried to listen to the
student's answers but the questions kept changing,
and 'refectories' didn't bother listening at all but
just counted 'bums on seats'. And so at the end of
the day what has been achieved? A possible new
Junior Common Room somewhere else, which may
or may not be any good, but we'll have our own
bar; a burger bar in slightly too big an aircraft
hangar; a handsome-ish pay off for lost conference
bookings. Is it a good solution? No idea. And we
probably won't know for a year either way.
Telephones
On several occasions this year I have griped about
abuse of Union phones, in particular the one in the
Guilds office. At present we do not pay the bills
for our phones. Every other department of College
is being told to cut its bills. If we are not seen to
be attempting the same then either we'll lose the
automatic external lines, or be forced to take on
the bills. Nobody expects that absolutely no private
calls will be made but there are limits to people's
credulity.
Camborne
Another thing I've beefed a lot about this year
is the biennual visitation of those delightful people
from Camborne. I should like to go on record, once
again, that I believe that this event and similar ones,
such as Cardiff Minex, should not be allowed to
carry on as present. I was disgusted not only by
their behaviour, but by Council's pussyfooting
response to it. As Deputy President, and main duty
officer, they have decided that I should expect to
put up with verbal and physical abuse, stand by and
watch them vandalise the building, then calmly have
it all put right afterwards. They also deemed that
if College security failed to turn the Sherfield
Building into a fortress then it was their own fault
if Camborne get in and wreck some of the toilets.
I felt this was Council at its most irresponsible.
Thankfully a UGM straw poll backed me up. I shall
try to avoid the temptation of coming back next year
when Cardiff are here, and saying I told you so.
ULU
I have not attended every General Union Council
of ULU. At those I have, I have witnessed a great
deal of political posturing, but also a more positive,
even aggressive, attitude towards issues dismissed
by our UGMs as too political, which was at the
very least refreshing.
I hope ULU does continue to be a focal point for
the University's Unions, and to provide the facilities
which are so important for the smaller institutions.
It is a great shame the majority of our own students
are too narrow-minded to consider that the 3R's
campaign had any relevance to them.
National Student Services
Organisation
This is the relatively new body which has been
established to take on the job of being the national
students' union purchasing consortium. A year ago
I attended its first A G M . I have not bothered to
go this year. For us to join would be extremely
expensive as we are not in NUS, but we have not
suffered yet from not being members. Nor do I
expect that, in the forseeable future, we shall be.
Self Defence
This year I have managed to arrange for two self-
defence courses, provided free of charge by the
Special Police Force, to be run for women students
at IC. The difficulty in arranging these courses has
been the high demand for them from companies.
The instructors are now booked up to 10 months
in advance. Pippa Salmon, next year's Welfare
Advisor, has already had to contact them for a
course next October (she will not be helped in this
by the particularly poor record of attendance from
IC students).
Having attended a course I can vouch that they
are extremely useful and useable. However if we
wish to continue this scheme it will need to be more
regular and better attended. Otherwise we would
do better to use a commercial course.
This year the Union has distributed aroud 350
rape alarms to women students. I would hope that
the commitment to provide these free, to any
woman student wanting one, is maintained.
At the start of the year an attempt was made to
provide free lifts home, for women students in
particular, after late night events. It was used by
two people only, then faded into oblivion. I find
it difficult to believe that there are not women
students who have problems getting home late at
night. It would probably be worth trying this at least
a few more times.
Back to the subject of rape alarms, hopefully in
the next few months a fixed rape alarm will be fitted
in the women's changing room in the Union gym.
The Year
This year has been quite a depressing one for me
discovering that despite hard work I have achieved
little of any importance or consequence. How the
permanent staff cope with more than one year here
is beyond me.
The reorganisation of the way the Union Office
runs has been long overdue. Jen in particular has
become so bogged down in finance work that she
has no time for any other admin. Hopefully the
advent of more staff will alleviate both some of her
work, and the DP's and Hon See's. Maybe we shall
end up with sabbaticals taking decisions rather than
attempting to cope with the day to day running of
the office.
We have, from time to time, been slagged off
for not being sociable, not going to Rag events etc.
I, for one, have almost entirely exhausted my
supply of enthusiasm for doing anything with
students. I think it is probably a sound policy if I
just turn up to deal with trouble or hassle someone
to clear up the debris. If you consider this is not
enough, then tough, because I'm only human.
The Thank You Bit
Jen, Pat and Kathy are very nearly due for
canonisation, or at the very least big sloppy kisses.
There are loads of College staff who have made
this year more productive or less arduous. I hope
you know who you are because this report is already
too long to name you. Thank you anyway.
Christine and Gutman have been excellent
colleagues this year. Christin has done a superb job
of resurecting a credible face for the Union and
gained us the respect of the College, Trade Unions
and other SUs. Gutman has quite simply been
Gutman, which is more than enough for on
sabbatical post.
That's it! nearly finished. Big raspberries to all
the real pains! and goodbye.
Jackie Peirce
Annual Reports 6

