Honorary
Secretary
Introduction
At last year's A G M two of the sabbatical reports
were referred back to the writer because they
expressed the author's opinions of the situation, the
argument being that the sabbaticals should not say
who in their opinion had not been pulling their
weight or express opinions on situations or actions
of people. My article will be representative of my
views of any situation, as I can't view a situation
from any other angle, and my advice to anybody
who wishes to chuck it out on those grounds is:
If you don't want opinions, next year elect a
computer, because I'm not going to write falsities
just to get my report passed.
1. Transport
a. Administration
The transport system has on the whole worked
very well this year with very few complaints and
no enforced cancellations by me. I tried this year
to continue along the same route Quentin began last
year as this seemed to work very well for him. The
only real problem to arise from this was in the
process of shared costing. To put the shared costing
procedure into action for any given weekend, it is
necessary to have all the transport slips back and
in my possession. The lateness of some clubs with
this procedure meant that the billing for some
weekends has been put back by up to a term and
a bit. This has led to a transport committee decision
that the booking form be changed, and I shall be
recommending a new format to Chas. For this year
it has been possible to override the shared costing
procedure by giving a club an inside hire and an
outside hire van, this multiplies the shared effect.
There was some suggestion that the Transport
Committee is superfluous to the transport system,
except for large decisions, and to some extent I
would go along with that. The main argument for
this decision is that any decisions in transport need
usually to be taken quickly, so calling a meeting
is out. If the committee can't be called then it can't
operate so why have it? The main argument for the
committee is it makes the Transport Officer and
the Hon Sec immediately accountable (and we do
have a large turnover to look after). On the whole
though it might be a good idea to get rid of the
Transport Committee and call meetings when
problems arise.
b. The Union Minibuses
These vans have held up remarkably well under
student use and we have had remarkably few
problems with them. This year has seen the buying
of a new minibus (BLR) and the paying for of
another (WLE). HLO has been sold for a not
unreasonable sum and the fleet seems to be ticking
over nicely. The major problems have been an
electrical problem with KLO, braking problems
with AHU and some starter problems on the same
van. I decided to stick with Quentin's decision,
taken last year, to maintain the van fleet at 5, and
have found that this was a very necessary decision
to take and maybe the number will have to be
increased again. At the end of the year a new 17
seater will be bought to replace KLO, so I've begun
my task of searching out a bargain price for one.
The other major point to have come out of the IC
transport system this year is the role of the
Transport Officer. This post is very ill-defined and
with the annual comings and goings in each post,
there are areas where effort can be overlapped or
left out depending upon the whims and fancies of
both officers. It is my aim to invent a job description
along with my successor and the Transport Officer
and his successor before my year has run.
c. Outside Hire Buses
This year I have used only Translocation as my
supplier of outside hire vehicles, but this doesn't
mean that I have not looked about for a cheaper,
and better, source of vehicles. On the whole this
year people have given me reasonable notice of
cancellations so everything is OK there, but they
tend not to tell me about any accidents they have
until I'm confronted by the company involved.
d. Accidents
All the accidents with other motor vehicles this
year have resulted with no damage at all to our
vans, but seemingly being able to inflict severe
damage to the other party. The only plea here is,
please report your accidents.
2 Insurance
a. Club Insurance
There have been two claims made on this
insurance policy this year and as usual the insurance
companies are taking their time over settling them
with us. The premium remained the same as last
year but the excess rose from £10 to £100 and with
the claim being minimal this year it appears that
a concession from the insurance company should
be forthcoming. At the beginning of my term in
office all clubs were asked to provide the Union
with an inventory. One year has passed so I'm left
to assume that 60% of the Union hasn't bought
anything over the year. (If you are reading this
please get me an inventory soon).
b. Hall of Residence Insurance
The full running of this insurance was handed
over to the Union at the beginning of my term of
office, the idea being that direct student to student
contact on a temperamental issue such as this would
be worthwhile. The whole procedure was made
rather ineffective by the failure of the College group
handling the swap to inform both myself and
security of the full demands of the insurance
company and a three to four month delay was the
least claimants could expect to wait for settlement
from this.
It was only due to some sterling assistance from
Terry Bixley in security that the whole process got
moving again so quickly and now the settlement
payments are beginning to filter in.
Last term Students Services expressed an interest
in the running of the insurance process, as it is
indeed a Student Residence Service, so
consequently arrangements will be made for next
year to transfer the running of this policy to Students
Services in Princes Gardens, unless any second
thoughts prevent this.
3 Duplicating Service
This is where some major advances are taking
place this year in the area of cost cutting while
providing a reasonably efficient and high quality
service. The Union will now be buying its paper,
recycled, from a company called Paperback. This
was a response to Environmental Week and a UGM
proposal and will probably save the Union up to
50p a ream and £450 pa. Other savings to the Union
have come in the cheap buying of a stencil cutter
and the aquisition of a Roneo duplicator. Special
thanks must be made at this point to Mr Oakley
(Chem Eng) for giving us miscellaneous office
equipment (ranging from duplicating equipment to
addressing equipment). A supply of stencils for the
stencil cutter has been secured, so any club need
only type up minutes on paper instead of those old
awful stencils. This year I have started helping
anybody out with any duplicating work eg Chiswick
Anti-Apartheid, and as long as the work is not
required to be of really high quality, the new
equipment will ensure that a reasonable standard
of reproduction can be obtained at reasonable rates.
The two photocopiers continue to give good copies
to users and both have been serviced, and will be
serviced again just before I leave, so Chas can start
nice and clear.
4 Union Committees
Except the MSC and Academic Affairs meetings
I take the minutes on all the other committees. This
makes meetings a real chore and also harder to
make any worthwhile contribution to, as you have
to write as well as talk. The planning groups set
up this year have agreed that each committee should
elect its own secretary to take minutes, so the
sabbatical can be released for more useful jobs. The
committees have ranged far and wide in frequency
and usefulness with undoubtedly the Internal
Services Committee leading the list on both these
points. The Internal Services Committee along with
House Committee have caused some useful
additions to the bar and the Union Building as a
whole, and have greater plans to do more. The other
committees have been ineffectual or not really
needed (eg Transport), with maybe a slight
exception in Exec, which is useful to stay in touch
with the CCUs.
b. Council
This year I feel there was a very obvious lean
towards trying to get things done and not bickering
over the petty things in Union life. The
consequences of this were that all councils were
quorate and the introduction of previously
controversial issues (eg gay and lesbian, JCR and
QT). The only problem with both Council and the
UGM is the production of papers for the meeting,
people don't hand motions or reports to me until
the day of the meeting or the day of issue and
consequently their papers aren't out in advance. If
I asked anybody to produce a document in five
minutes, they would quite rightly say no, so give
us a break and hand stuff in a week in advance.
c. UGMs
These in contrast to 4b. have been on the whole
in-quorate (except for the EGM in QT which was
a record breaker), but this hasn't prevented some
useful business from being achieved eg AIDS, the
JCR wrt QT, Tie Clubs and Recycled Paper. These
have on the other hand been stifling free of opinion
and discussion of some of the more contentious
issues, this has been due to the calling of 'quorum',
but more directly, the apathy of IC students about
internal and external affairs. Many times over the
years various sabbaticals have slated the apathy of
students at Imperial College, but it seems that these
rants fall on deaf ears and things haven't changed.
From this it seems that perhaps the only way to
make any policy or decision will be to use only
Council and scrap UGMs. As any student can attend
council only those interested will do so, leaving the
rest to stew in apathy, and perhaps more policies
and discussion can go through on the words of
Council reps that are elected by the student body
anyway.
d. GUC
This in my opinion could have been a useful
forum if only the same loudmouths let others from
other colleges have a word in edgewise. The only
thing that GUC seemed to be held for was so that
a small number of people could hear their own voice
and have the added bonus of making us hear them.
However some of the motions passed eg Quest
for a test for Cancer have been worthwhile and
unopposed, but some of the other motions have in
my opinion at least, been unforseeable by ULU or
any student group
Annual Reports 7

