e. MSCs
MSCs are well run and well orchestrated by their
respective execs. I unfortunately, haven't been to
all of these but those I have attended, have gone
through quickly and without a hitch. This I feel is
their main problem, nobody questioned the
outgoing of money in supplementaries. Whether
this is because of a fear of tit for tat reprisal against
their club's chairman or not, I don't know, but I
feel this is the only useful purpose the sabbaticals
make on MSCs beside making sure nothing illegal
is perpetrated.
5 College Committees
a Refectory Users and Catering and Conference
In Refectory Users Committee we have discussed
the renovation of Southside Refectory, and I bring
up any suggestions and complaints, which unless
they are signed and dated are ignored, and even
if they are, seem to be ignored too.
The QT/JCR argument was brought up here too
but no agreement could be reached, as everyone
was too deeply entrenched on their respective sides,
so this committee can make decisions only if
everybody is on the same side, but isn't too good
otherwise.
b. Safety Council
Safety Council is made up of Union sub-
committees that keep an eye on all aspects of
College safety eg radiation, HSE, biological
hazards, chemical hazards etc. Over the next 2
years each of these committees will be scrutinised
in detail by Safety Council and suggestions for
improvements made.
On the bad side due to lack of money or other
reasons, safety matters only seem to be acted upon
when inspectors say it is dangerous eg at Silwood
a fire escape was said to be against fire regulations
and it was likely the next fire inspection would
demand an alteration. As the problem had already
been identified, why couldn't we act now instead
of waiting? I just hope there isn't a fire between
now and the next inspection, for the sake of those
working or living in that area, and for those who
went against my suggestion.
c. Parking and Traffic
This committee is to control all roads and parking
spaces on College property. The Linstead
motorbike park is now reopened and the parking
spaces outside the barriers on the opposite side of
the road from the Post Office are as inaccessible
as ever but Mr Reeves still gives them to the Union.
The two barrier guards and the Southside warden
are beginning to bite and have cleared up some
congestion and illegal parking, and for this I thank
them and back them up fully.
d. F and E/Governing Body
A lot of the committee decisions are passed
through here, unless one of the small minority of
non-academic voices objects to any issue. The real
fault with this committee however is there is not
complete representation on it, so the views of
academics and admin are more than adequately
heard, but not those of other workers in the College
without whom we would die. We sabbaticals do
bring up points eg paper on the sports hall, the jobs
reduction, increased overseas intake, FELIX's Civil
Engineering letter, AIDS and other issues that
otherwise wouldn't be known, but I feel really free
discussion is hampered by a tendency to stick to
the rigid finishing time of 1.00pm so dinner doesn't
get cold.
6 Other Jobs
a. Parking Permits
These were given out by a committee to nearly
all who applied and appealed, and more were
returned to be re-distributed. This subject still
appears to cause more anguish and consternation
to people who really shouldn't even be applying,
so my advice to Chas is to ignore these people.
b. QT Boycott
There were two points to this boycott that
continued to concern me:
(i) The decision to boycott came from the floor
of the largest UGM I've seen after a discussion with
the Rector and J Smith by a very considerable
majority vote, and still people believe that the
decision was undemocratic. As a point of
information the last government was elected on a
minority vote but we all have to obey that decision,
so the rantings of some people confused me.
(ii) The inability of people to walk 2 minutes in
another direction to get alternative food and assist
their Union to make a democratic point (and I fear
if alternative food had not been available more
would have crossed the picket). Even the most
common excuse: "I didn't know about the boycott"
rankled after 2 days of boycott with the same people
crossing. My only conclusion to this is students are
either severely overworked or really bloody idle,
lazy buggers, who don't give as... about anything
but themselves.
c. Elections
These have run reasonably smoothly except for
the presidential election and the 'abstain' campaign.
While this did raise some important points I feel
that they were mis-timed in making law and the
campaign was instigated on the grounds of personal
feelings, rather than on principal ie they didn't like
the idea of one or more of the candidates being
elected because of personal dislike, and were in a
position to do something about it.
It is the duty of elections committee to act on the
conclusions of an election and its running after the
election (unless a rule is breached) and not change
the terms of running half way through.
Conclusions
I have enjoyed the year as Hon Sec and extended
life as a student, and I hope I haven't put my foot
in it too much. I don't think I have made great
advances in the Union, but I hope I have made a
small advance in some of the fields I'm involved
in and I feel my work could save the Union money
in the long run. I hope that what I've said hasn't
all been dismissed in committees, and after the
laughter dies down a point will have been made
because I've not said anything I didn't believe to
be true or right or useful in directing actions, and
have tried to implement some of my views myself.
Thank you and goodbye.
Credits
This year would have driven me mad and all my
hair would have gone had it not been for some
unbelievable work by Jen, Pat and Kathy all of
whom have helped and kept me going when
sometimes all I wanted to say was 'f... it' and lock
my door.
My last thanks must go to Christine and Jackie.
When we started people said we wouldn't get on
and nothing would get done, especially me and
Christine. Nothing however could be further from
the truth and although we have disagreed on some
points, all three of us have got on well and I hope
ended as friends. I wish them and the office
permanent staff the best of everything for the future.
Dave Colley
Athletics Clubs
C h a i r m a n
Since affiliating to the Universities Athletic Union
(UAU) in 1984, the overall competitive level of
sport at IC has improved markedly. This year, there
have (so far) been four outstanding successes in the
UAU competitions.
The men's volleyball squad reached the final
tournament at Essex, eventually coming sixth. Five
of the team represented the University of London
(UL) side at the British Universities Sports
Federation (BUSF) championships.
For the third year in a row the men's waterpolo
team (coached by Cliff Spooner, the Sports Centre
Manager) reached the finals and came fourth in a
very close, hard fought tournament.
Once more the ladies' badminton VI reached the
final of the competition, only to be beaten by
Sheffield. Further, the first pair won the individual
ladies' doubles title and represented English
universities at the BUSF tournament.
The Boat Club became the first university side
to win three events in the UAU championships, with
the men's first, second and novice VIIIs winning
trophies on the same day. Ninth position (out of
over 400 starters) in the Head of the River Race
(HORR) meant that they were the third fastest
British Club crew. One of the Club won the HORR
single sculls event beating several international
oarsmen in the process.
Off the field, too, there have been some
significant developments over the past year. The
'divisional reorganisation' of the UAU has been
approved and will be implemented from next
October. This means that there will be six teams
in our group, resulting in one extra game for each
team. Also, the UAU General Committee voted to
pay for winners' plaques and medals centrally,
allowing them to be presented after the final
matches.
Within College there has been much debate over
the standard of indoor sports facilities on campus.
This matter was brought to the attention of the
governors who appointed a sports hall working
party. This group (of which the ACC Chairman and
ICU President are members) was instructed to carry
out a feasibility study on the building of an
Olympic-size sports hall on campus. Much progress
has already been made in this direction, but some
hard work still lies ahead.
Another long term project that is being actively
pursued is the laying of an astroturf hockey pitch
at Harlington. The gravel extraction is expected to
take five years under a 'rolling-plan', which gives
us the timescale of this project. It has been
suggested that an astroturf pitch would not only
provide the perfect surface for hockey, but also
produce a large income from external bookings.
This money could then be used to finance student
sport throughout College.
This year has seen the birth of Fives at College,
with a new Rugby Fives section of Squash Club.
Two of the old courts by the Linstead tennis courts
have been revamped and several fixtures have been
played.
Finally, I would like to thank this year's Exec
for all their hard work, and remind club captains
to encourage people to stand in the coming
elections. It is in your own interest!
Rob Kelly
Annual Reports 8

