O v e r s e a s
Students
The term of office of the 1986/87 OSC executive
started clumsily due to the inability of my
predecessors to hand over office smoothly, in good
time and in good faith.
It was observed that there was no documentation,
especially as regards the offices of Chairman and
Secretary. This has been corrected this session and
all principal officers of the Committee do own files
for documentation purposes.
Reception of 1986/87 Freshers
The reception was a huge success. The reception
desk at Sheffield building, manned from the first
week of the session to the end of the second week
of the session by the Committee, did a lot to help
the new students find their way within the College
and some parts of London easily. The reception
'party' organised jointly by the Students' Union and
the Welfare Centre was fantastic as it helped create
a welcome atmosphere to the Freshers in the
College. May I use this avenue to thank those who
helped out especially at the reception desk.
This session, two major lines of policy were
pursued.
1. Greater and wider social interac-
tion/integration between the International groups.
2. Increased presence of the International
Community in the College
The first line of policy was pursued in two major
ways:
a) Encouragement of joint ventures between the
National Societies.
b) Introduction of competitions between the
National Societies (Annual football competition).
The second line of policy was particularly
focussed on symposia which unfortunately featured
during the International week.
International Week
The activities spread over a full week were held
as against the usual one day event—International
Evening.
The week featured lectures, symposia, football
competition and finally the International Nite.
The week started off very clumsily and rose to
peak during the International Nite. Approximately,
1500 people attended the Nite.
The International Cup donated by the College
Committee on Overseas Students was won by the
Cyprus Society. It is hoped that other societies will
fight for and retain the cup in subsequent years.
Jose Molina
One of the saddest and most depressing moments
of the committee was the tragic death of our
Treasurer, Mr Jose Molina on March 9, 1987. Jose
was cremated on 16th March 1987 and on 18th
March 1987 a memorial service was held at the
Holy Trinity Church, Prince Consort Road, London
in his honour. May his soul rest in peace. Jose had
been the Treasurer of this committee for three years
(sessions) at length. In recognition of his
contributions to the committee the International Cup
was renamed Jose Molina (International) Cup.
Magazine Stall in Haldane Library
The acquisition of International magazines and
journals from the different countries comprising the
OSC had been initiated. The Indian High
Commission had donated some books on Indian
culture and art to start off the stall.
The acquisition project was handled by the late
Treasurer and it is a bit difficult to sort out things
now. However, the budget for next session contains
a fixed amount for magazines. This implies that the
whole community will have magazines from
different parts of the world at their disposal for first
hand information and news.
Formation of New Societies
There had been moves to form two new societies:
Egyptian and Iraqi Societies. I have since not heard
anything from the proposer of the Iraqi Society.
The constitution of the Egyptian Society is
awaiting ratification from the Council.
Fury of Overseas Students
Recently, a group of students from the civil
engineering department expressed their disgust and
frustration at the College through the pages of
FELIX. With this kind of protest, it is very difficult
to make any form of representations. I hope in
future one will be able to channel grievances
through the office of the chairman in strictest
confidence as this might yield very quick results.
Conclusion
Except for the sad incident, the session was good,
successful and full of new achievements.
Ini Urua
Publications
Board
It has been a time for change in the Publications
during the year; involvement and commitment are
still very high and IC has a range and quality of
Publications that few colleges can equal.
FELIX have moved their office, changed both
permanent staff and replaced both major pieces of
equipment. Obviously this has caused problems
while things settle down, but the hard work of the
editor, Dave Jones, and many capable staff has
meant that we have continued to have a newspaper
of which we can be proud, even if it did mean
staying up all night to produce it.
The other innovation for FELIX is the
arrangement where any profit that FELIX or the
Print Unit is able to make above their grant can
be put away for replacement of major equipment,
thus relieving at least in part the strain on the Union
equipment fund.
IC Radio have continued to broadcast throughout
the year, with a new mixing desk and committee
structure. They still seem to have had some
problems in providing a daily news service,
although this may change next year, and they are
still chasing the spectre of Community Radio which
would allow them to reach all the students at IC.
STOIC, the student TV service, have had a very
difficult year after being forced out of the College
TV Studio before their Union studio was completed.
The Union has invested a large amount of money
in STOIC and should start to see the return once
their studio is completed for next year.
The Phoenix had its centenary this year, with
celebrations organised with many thanks to Dave
Rowe and Chris Edwards,. A very good Phoenix
was produced, but it Was felt that an Annual
Publication was not the best way for it to serve its
purpose. Next year it will be produced as a number
of smaller regular editions, to be printed in-house
and distributed with FELIX.
THE UG Handbook was produced and universally
acclaimed, and next year I'm sure it will continue
its success. Many thanks to the editor, Judith
Hackney.
The Alternative Prospectus for the first time was
produced on a bi-annual basis, to save money. This
was no thanks to a few narrow minded people who
felt that we should save even more by not producing
one at all, but wiser heads prevailed. This AP will
serve for those entering in 88/89 and 89/90, and
although there were strong reservations about the
quality of the outside printing, it was produced
under budget by a sizeable amount. It would seem
like a good idea to put some of this money aside
to produce an AP 'supplement' printed in-house
next year, especially with the Mary's Merger
looming. All thanks must go to the editor, Sunny
Bains.
The PG Handbook came out (eventually) and
seemed well received by those it was aimed at—
final year undergraduates thinking about post-
graduate courses here.
In general there have been a lot of changes, but
morale remains high and I have every confidence
in the next year's editors' and committees' ability
to expand and uphold the Publications here at IC.
Finally, a few words of thanks are due, to Steve
Cook, the outgoing Senior Treasurer for all his hard
work, to Simon Langan for taking over so
smoothly, to Judith Hackney, James Southward,
Richard Fincher and Nigel Whitfield in helping to
run the Board, and to the Union staff and
sabbaticals; Jen, Kathy, Pat, Christine, Jackie and
Dave—it's been a pleasure to work with you, and
to anyone who has read, listened, helped and
supported the Publications throughout the year.
Thanks.
Chris Martin
Annual Reports 9

