Recreational
C l u b s
The past year has gone surprisingly well for RCC
with most clubs running smoothly and efficiently.
The start of the year saw an excellent Freshers' Fair
with large numbers of clubs substantially increasing
their membership figures. In particular Wine
Tasting and Real Ale Societies have done very well
in keeping their clubs active and thriving after
having their grants drastically chopped by last years
UFC. Competition-wise two clubs have been
outstanding. Wine Tasting for winning the Inter-
University Wine Tasting Competition for the third
year running and Dance Club who seem to have
had a top three placing in almost every competition
they have entered. The Union outdoor clubs have
also maintained their popularity and excellence. The
commitment given to these clubs by members is
enormous, culminating in three expeditions this
summer, the Underwater Club to Egypt and the
Mountaineers and S&G are both off to the
Karakoram mountain range in Pakistan.
UFC this year has run extremely well due to a
good degree of cooperation between its members
and Jackie Peirce. and possibly a large carry over
from last year.
Dave Grimshaw
S C A B
Once again the past year has seen significant growth
in the Board's activities, achieved by both the
efforts of existing constituent clubs and the starting
up of a previously inactive club. It has, however,
also seen its share of problems.
The Chamber Music Society has risen to its
highest level of activity yet, providing opportunities
for musicians within College to play in small
groups. Some participated in the two concerts held
last term, both of which were successful. The
society provides a valuable addition to musical
activity within IC.
The Choir has maintained its activity over the
previous year with the performances of popular
works at Christmas and Easter being well-attended.
Use was also made of the organ in the Great Hall,
which adds to the range of performable works.
The Debating Society has broadened its activities,
maintaining a higher profile than previously.
Debates within College involving joint events with
other societies have led to improved audiences, and
debates outside College have also been attended
with a succesful end to the year being provided by
winning the 150th Anniversary of London
University Competition.
The Dramatic Society have had another successful
year, with not only the two major productions, but
also a lunchtime production in the spring term,
going well. Participation in the London Student
Drama Festival was a major success, as was the
1986 Edinburgh tour. Both the theatre venue
(Theatre West End) and the performing side (Beit
Theatre) were extremely professionally organised
and run, with there again being few problems.
The Jazz and Rock Club has continued to grow
despite early problems with the reliability of
equipment. Many bands have been formed which
rehearse and perform at parties and concerts both
within College and around London.
The Operatic Society has maintained the level of
previous years activities with a successful and well-
attended February show; as well as small
productions taking place at other times of the year.
Having had little contact with the organisers of last
years self-financing summer tour I can only assume
there were no problems and it was as successful
as in the past.
The Orchestra has had another successful year,
performing difficult works as well in both their
Christmas and Easter concerts.
As well as the above activities all the SCAB
societies took part in SCAB NITE which was the
most successful of recent years, and raised over
£200 for Rag. This event must not be regarded by
SCAB societies solely as a fund-raising event: it
provides an ideal opportunity for clubs to increase
the level of awareness of their activities within
College. This year, the fact that other events
directly clashed with SCAB Nite was extremely
annoying to both organisers and performers alike.
The most significant thing to happen this year
has been the re-emergence of the Film Society.
Showing a film every week the Society has
flourished this year, and promises to provide a
significant addition to the variety of entertainments
offered to students at IC. Congratulations to those
involved.
With the theft of a mixer for the SCAB projectors
last summer, the new SCAB PA has been heavily
used both with and without projectors. The
interdependence of the two systems has sometimes
caused problems, which will (hopefully) be rectified
next year. With FilmSoc re-assuming control of the
projectors, the amount of time spent administering
these facilities will be reduced to a reasonable level.
The problems with the SCAB finances
experienced over recent years have unfortunately
continued. At the beginning of the year, a
discrepancy between the Union grant allocated and
that expected was eventually attributed to an
unexplained change made by last year's Deputy
President. The mistakes made in the auditing of the
SCAB books for 1983/84 again caused errors to
be made in the calculation of the end-of-year
returnable balance for last year. This is the third
year this has happened and causes much
unnecessary work on behalf of both SCAB and the
College internal auditor. My thanks to Charlie
Eagle for his considerable help in sorting out this
year's problems. It should not be necessary for
students to have to check the work of College's
finance section, but as has been illustrated over the
past few years, this is not the case. The problems
which emerged last year concerning the distribution
of College funds to Choir and Orchestra appear to
have been resolved satisfactorily at the end of last
year, and have not recurred this year.
IC Music Committee has continued to devote
time to the special problems faced by the musical
societies within College; with discussions ranging
from immediate problems (eg the shortage of
practice pianos within College) to anticipated future
ones (eg the expected loss of facilities in 53 Princes
Gate). The work of the committee has been to the
benefit of all musicians in College, and has been
pleasingly more coherent than I was led to expect.
Finally, my thanks to all the members of the
Board who have made this year such a success: to
Dr Don Monro for agreeing to continue as
Orchestra Staff Treasurer; to Dr Alan Sherlton; and
the SCAB Executive. Also especially to the Board's
Senior Treasurer, Professor Bill Wakeham whose
signature, after years of practice is slowly becoming
more legible, though a few more years are still
required for perfection! Also to Louise, and anyone
else who has had to put up with me in my less
dynamic moments...thanks.
A c a d e m i c
Affairs Officer
To avoid tedium and verbosity I shall simply make
a few points about this year's innovations on the
academic front and some feelings and advice that
I have. Those I can remember are as follows:-
1. Dep Reps
The idea of trying to keep some check on Dep
Rep performance was squashed at Council on
16.2.87. However the AAC meeting on 2.3.87 felt
that the idea was a good one and would be worth
following up in future years if it could be done
accurately and from the beginning of the year.
2. Admissions Issue
The Student Recruitment Advisory Panel was set
up by the Rector to generate policy and advise on
recruitment issues. Its discussions are more
philosophical, rather less statistical, than admissions
policy, or such is one's initial impression. It would
appear to be a useful 'think tank'.
The new scholarship scheme is to be operated
again this year. It seemed to have been a success
initially despite the adverse conditions.
3. Feelings/Advice
It saddened me that Board of Studies can
wholeheartedly approve a document with statements
such as "has gone to considerable lengths...to
expose the proposals to outside scrutiny" when all
student criticism was ignored, largely because the
document was already approved. I would like to
think, after a year of involvement with course
revisions, that in future anyone who is concerned
enough to formulate thoughts on their course should
bring these forward to someone as high as possible
in the Union structure as soon as possible.
Experience shows that if a well thought out case,
which can be shown to have student support, is put
to 'College', then 'College' often will listen. This
is what future Union officers must realise. However
they must also realise that an individual can easily
be shot to pieces, especially academically by a
hawkish Department.
Dave Lowrie
Internal
Services
Officer
QT
It was a pity that such a popular and useful service
proved to be so controversial. It was however
pleasing to note that the popular success of last
term's boycott showed once more that the student
population is not prepared to allow College to ride
roughshod over their long term interests. I can only
hope that the more positive attitude to the whole
JCR issue which appears to have resulted will
eventually lead to a more generally acceptable
solution.
Annual Reports 10

