Trading Services
Another good year generally for Union outlets,
the most impressive successes being achieved by
the Sports Shop and Norman's.
Norman's
The extension of the service into the area of
evening meals has grown in popularity throghout
the year and the Easter Vacation try out period
along with catering for formal dinners in the UDH
both show great promise for the future. The
reputation of London's favorite student eatery even
stretched as far as the city wide student rag 'London
Student'. Earlier in the year they dispatched one
of their crack investigative reporters to look into
reports that herbal tea can increase one's sexual
prowess. The Sunday Sport has not yet called.
We are hoping to be able to sell condoms in this
outlet in the near future.
Sports Shop
The pulling power of ICU fatty Dave Colley in
an IC jogging/romper suit proved to be a valuable
asset. Takings have soared to new highs and a
record profit is anticipated. It is also hoped that the
shop will get a new front similar to the one which
STA had installed last year.
Book Shop
Reduced spending by College libraries has served
to reduce the overall level of takings although
counter sales have increased. Having computereised
the shop's accounts this year, the next 12 months
should see the introduction of an automated stock
control system. We are also hopeful that the shop
will be able to find a way to increase its space.
Union Bar
Quite a lot of money has been spent on new
equipment this year, primarily on replacing worn
out refridgeration equipment and providing a music
system. The response to the many evening events
organised by the Bar Manager Kev Buckley has
been rather erratic to say the least. This is not at
all in proportion to the amount of graft which he
has put into this area over the year and I hope that
next year will be better. In response to many
complaints about the smell of the Gent's toilets, we
introduced automatic air freshener systems which
have, in my opinion served to alleviate the problem
although a long term solution to the Union
Building's lavatory problem is still required.
Etc etc
This report is only a summary of the main issues
considered by the ISC. The Committee considers
a whole range of service-related issues and I believe
that it provides an invaluable discussion forum for
the development of Union services. Now that next
year's ISO elect is unable to do the job I hope that
there will be somebody willing to take his place,
any interested parties can contact me through the
Union Office.
Alan Rose
Postgraduate
A A O
The year has been more of a behind the scenes
action rather than front page news. Due to work
and injury I have not been as active as I might have
been. In December I missed my first ICUGM for
5 years due to being away at a conference. In
January I wrecked my right ankle and it caused me
to miss both Council and Board of Studies, and I
was out of action for about 6 weeks. Despite this
I still managed to make the most of the meetings
that I was supposed to go to.
UGM's
I've missed 2, the first since 1981—I've
contributed speaking at most and I wish Alastair
Seymour good luck in his chairing of UGM's next
session. This session we've not seen much of the
right versus left battles but have achieved some
useful things, despite the presence of a few
plonkers. UGM's should be more fun but there is
no way that we can motivate ordinary students to
come to UGM's under the current climate.
Council
I've been to most Council meetings except the
8/12/86 meeting because I had to go to another
important meeting in the City and the one at the
end of January because I could not get across to
the Union safely on crutches. I felt that most of the
discussion has been worthwhile but there has been
a lot of petty squabbling which has tended to cause
meetings to drag on for too long.
Board of Studies
Unfortunately I've been unable to go to most of
the meetings of the BOS. I am still very disturbed
about the College plan to sack 100 members of staff
and recruit 500 new overseas PG's at £5,000 each,
at the expense of HGC students. Soon College will
find it impossible to recruit outside home students
from universities outside London and as a result
academic standards in research will collapse.
Graduate Studies Committee
This only meets once a term. I've been to both
meetings so far and I must say I've enjoyed them.
We've got quite a few important course changes
and general course regulations. The new PG
Handbook was circulated to the members, who
were all quite impressed with it. It's a pity though
that College have cut tea and biscuits from the
Committee
Undergraduate Studies Committee
I represented Christine for 1 meeting discussing
the Chemistry UG course. A healthy discussion
followed but I was still left with the impression I
had when I was an undergraduate in Chemistry in
that the whole purpose of the Chemistry Department
is to generate new graduates to do research in
Chemistry, and that undergraduate teaching is a
poor relation to research requirements.
PG Group
This has held one successful party in conjunction
with Silwood. We've been fairly quiet on the mass
social front but the vast majority of departments
have enjoyed parties and other social events
partially funded by the Group. We have held quite
a few discussions on PG matters.
Thanks to Chris Martin we have a new PG
Handbook. I've also spent considerable time
helping a couple of unfortunate students with their
problems. I also went to an managerial meeting of
the UL PG Group which appears to have
subsequently died. The A G M will be held towards
the end of this term. I also represented PG's and
the Union at the opening of the new Holland Club.
DES
I'm glad that the DES has finally admitted that
the student grant is not enough to live on but I don't
think that they will do anything about it during my
final year as an impoverished student. It has also
been noted that for London, area weightings have
fallen massively for students and that the London
Allowance should have increased by more than
10% last year but only went up to cover the rise
in inflation.
To summarise, the year has been a quiet one for
the Central PG Group but busy departmental-wise,
I've not done as much work as I could have but
I think that the year has been a successful one. I've
enjoyed my second year as PGAAO and I've also
managed to combine Cricket Club and RCS Motor
Club as well. I've worked hard and hopefully I will
get my PhD. I've also worked on the bar and I'm
glad it's a success despite the vast majority of
students going down to Southside. Finally, I'll wish
you a successful year next year and I hope the
presidential farce is soon sorted out. I think that
I will be glad to get out of IC after 6 years but I
must say I've enjoyed myself.
Gareth Fish
Rag C h a i r m a n
I am glad to say that the general gist of this year's
report is a very good one. The strength of Rag has
continued to grow both amongst College and with
the students throughout the year. Previous
weaknesses last year were identified and made
priority issues to get right this year. The problem
of publicity was identified very early on, and to
this end a publicity team headed by Michael Condon
was set up within the first few weeks of the Autumn
Term. Recognising that the major market for
potential rag participants lay with the freshers, the
team saturated all the halls of Southside, Linstead
and Weeks with publicity, with some other people
covering the student houses in Evelyn Gardens.
Consequently, freshers were made aware of Rag's
activities and aims this year from the very
beginning, and rag took off to an excellent start.
The traditional tiddleywinks down Oxford Street
this year broke the £3000 pound barrier, which
eluded last year's effort, by £400. Similarly.
Human Monopoly in the first term proved to be
the best ever by raising over £2.400, which is over
£ 1,500 more than last year. Almost every event this
year has surpassed last years' totals for that event,
including the hypnosis lecture, beer festival and the
Rag and Drag disco in Rag Week—results very
deserved for the hard work and effort members of
the Rag committee put in.
New stunts this year included our first attempt
to have joint rag events between different
universities such as Nottingham. Swansea,
Annual Reports 11

