FELIX
STA Competition
Pictured here is Mark Ball, receiving his prize of a holiday weekend
in Paris, at Saturday's Rag Fete. Mark answered all the questions
correctly in the FELIX/STA competition, and his entry was the
first to be drawn from the hat. Last Friday FELIX received a flood
of entries after all the questions were reprinted.
The correct answers and mystery photographs were as follows:
Week 1
Who was the Rector of Imperial College before Lord Flowers?
Lord William Penney
Mystery Photograph: The plaque at the entrance to Southside
Week 2
Who was the first President of IC Union?
GSM Taylor
Mystery Photograph: The Lyon Play fair Library, as seen from
near the foot of the Queens Tower
Week 3
When was the Union building extended?
7957
Mystery Photograph: The old ceiling of the JCR
Week 4
How many FELIX editors have there been?
55, including the current one. More complete answers added,
correctly, that there have been one or two Editors who brought
out less than one issue, and so do not appear on the definitive
FELIX office honours board of Editors.
Mystery photograph: A section of the Beit Quad wall, next to
the Security guards' lodge, which feres nn to Prince Consort Road.
Week 5
Where is the Colcutt Tower?
On the Queen's lawn, ie the Colcutt Tower is now called the
Queen's Tower.
Mystery Photograph: The IC climbing wall.
Several entrants scored 9 out of 10; a common error was to put
54 instead of 55 for the number of FELIX Editors. Since we did
not cover up the board in our office, we only allowed answers
which included this year's Editor.
The winner of the last of the £10 travel vouchers was M B Jones
Of EE2. All entrants who won one of the £10 prizes can pick it
up from the FELIX office.
W A * N T E D
E X C E P T I Q N A L
E L E C T R O N I C S
E N G I N E E R S
nII:MK HIrn:ciiN<)uH;ISIS
Microsystem Services Limited, Lincoln Road, Cressex Industrial Estate,
High Wycombe, Bucks, HP12 3XJ, Telephone: (0494) 41661
You are about to finish your course, but you have gained much more
from the last three or four years than a qualification, and you now
realise that the prospect of spending thenextfiveortenyearsinadesign
lab may be good enough for others, but that you have more to offer.
You are intelligent, ambitious and already a little impatient with regard
to your imminent career.
If these are your sentiments, you may be one of the Engineers we are
seeking. But you must also be resourceful, a lateral thinker and an
excellent communicator, who has already realised that to achieve career
success commercial skills will be just as important as technical ability.
Microsystem Services supplies a wide range of tools for Electronics
Engineering, in diverse areas including Computer Aided Engineering,
microprocessor development and high-speed processing.
Our customers form Britain's Defence Electronics Industry, and to serve
their need to use ever more advanced technology, we must be the first to
possess and understand that technology. To achieve this goal we employ
the very best Engineers.
To the successful applicants, we offer a starting salary of at least £1 2,000,
plus bonus and numerous benefits, not to mention an exciting
challenge, a varied life, hard work, and an environment where "routine"
is unknown.
By the end of your first year with MSS, you should be driving a company
car, and earning a substantial salary as a fully trained Marketing
Engineer, Sales Engineer or Applications Engineer. And after that .'
Well, most of our Managers are graduates in their twenties.
If you would like to meet us, please write to me, David Pashley, enclosing
a cv. Sponsorship enquiries from undergraduates are also welcome.

