Opinion- FELIX, Friday May 15th 1987
Apathy? Who cares':
A n o p i n i o n a r t i c l e b y C h r i s M a r t i n
?
We've heard it all before—candidate
X promises to get more students
involved in the Union, candidate Y,
slightly less naive perhaps, promises
to try and do something about it, but
warns that it will not change
overnight.
The symptoms are clear enough;
only 100-200 people attend a UGM,
only about 20% of the students bother
to vote in sabbatical elections, which
are frequently uncontested, and so on.
Are Imperial students different from
those elsewhere? No! The only College
in the University of London which has
have consistently large turnouts at
UGMs is LSE (and we know what they
are like!). It is not only a problem here.
Yet there are some conflicting signs.
When the Union organises action (a
boycott of the bar, or of QT) it gets
almost total support. University
College sit in their Union Building; the
School of Pharmacy get over a quater
of their students out on a ULU "50%
cuts" march. The message is clear:
Students are willing to back their
unions on specific issues. The problem
comes when translating this into
general involvement.
We must face facts: the majority of
students (or for that matter, members
of any democratic organisation) are
quite willing to let their union (or
whatever) to get on with representing
them. This may mean a lot of work
for those that do get involved, but they
don't care. The vast 'uninvolved' don't
consider themselves badly off, they
are doing very nicely thank you.
There are no 'burning issues' that
affect them, they go through their life
with little hassle. They don't think they
need a union to defend their interests,
or at least they don't think it will
disappear without them, so why
should they become involved? The
irony is that the union is a victim of
its own success, the better off the
students think they are, the less they
will perceive the need for a union.
They are quite happy to continue the
'status quo', why should they need a
union to change it?
They are taking the attitude that the
union is doing little that interferes with
them, so why get involved? This is
effectively a mandate for those
running a union to do whatever they
like: if the majority really do object
they have the opportunity to attend
UGMs, or whatever. This opportunity
is what is important, and the UGMs
must continue.
Of course these are vital issues that
unions should campaign on; gay and
lesbian rights, disabled rights, and the
other liberation campaigns; grants,
student loans and many others, but
they should not be surprised if the
involvement from the masses is small.
The majority might not feel strongly
enough to take part, but they don't
object either; give those that are
interest the opportunity they need.
Of course there are dangers, not
least that the general student
population must know what the Union
is doing on its behalf. That is one
reason why an independent student
media is so important. Meetings must
be open, accessible and as
unintimidating as possible. Some kind
of written guide to what may happen
(like the NUS guide to their
conference) available at every
meeting would be a good start.
Meetings must be publicised properly,
but I'm certain that having only one
Union Publicity Officer (a job almost
unique in it's lack of perks!), even with
th'e best will in the world, cannot be
a good place to start.
We must accept that the majority of
students are not interested in
attending Union meetings for their
own sake. Experience has shown that
they will turn up if an issue affects
them. We should stop wasting our
time worrying about UGM attendance
and start worrying, for example, how
we keep our 'apolitical' status while
campaiging against a government
intent on butchering Higher
Education.
COLLEGEBM T
The printers9
tale
I've got a good job when I think about
it. Like, I'm as good as self-
employed. Printing's an odd trade you
know. Like you've got to have
friends, and if you haven't got the
friends you don't have the contacts
and you'll never get anywhere. It's
a shady world, dodgy deals with
dodgy lads who know the trade like
the back of their hand. Caxton would
have been well out of his depth. Like
pamphleteers have given way to
sharks who'd rip you off sooner than
look at you. So I do printing, I can
handle it. I do a few business cards,
the odd bit of publicity, nothing
heavy, like I'm not even into colour
in a big way.
I get my regular fix each week on
Felix, the bread and butter printing
which pays the bills and not much
more. Like, it's hardly challenging.
You know the highlight of my week
is getting my hands on some art
paper, a new colour ink maybe, or
perhaps getting my hands on the latest
Australian travel brochure.
It's travel I'm into at the moment,
with summer on the way, a chance to
get away from it all, like. I've seen
a little bit of the world already.
Absorbed the atmosphere in Europe
you know. It's all part of life's rich
pageant. Seeing things, getting to
know people, a really relaxed way to
live. It stands you in good stead for
later life. The days when I'll be
entirely my own boss, work for
myself, create what I want to create,
maybe write. I can picture myself on
Bondi Beach, book in hand, offset
litho slaving away beside me.
For the moment I sit in the print
room, my friendly machines working
away, while I ponder the latest
paperback. It's work I can tolerate,
it doesn't intrude on my time a great
deal, and I'm free to be my own
person. The others don't see too much
of me. I wander through in between
making plates and occassionally I get
visits from the staff. We don't really
have a lot in common like. Like, I
don't follow the student politics, and
can't see what all the fuss is about
most of the time, but they're nice
enough people.
What does get on my nerves is
having to hang around until two
o'clock in the morning waiting to
print the front page, and they're still
in the office deciding what the lead
story's going to be. Like, if it gets that
bad I bugger off and leave them to it.
Like, its beyond the call of duty you
know.
Anyway, like, I'll be doing the job
for a while longer, until I save enough
to set up on my own. Like, in the
meantime, if there's anyone wants
some business cards doing, like, I can
give you a good deal. After all, like,
if you don't have the contacts you'll
never get anywhere.

