ICLUBS & SOCIETIES!
RCS
Tonight's the night—meet 7:30 for 8:00pm at
the London International for the event of the
term—the Annual Dinner with Brian May,
guitarist with Queen, as speaker.
Sunday see the Rugby Sevens at Harlington.
Free coaches will be leaving Beit Arch at
10:30am.
A reminder to all soc reps there will be a
Carnival Committee on Tuesday February 8 at
1:00pm in the lounge above Southside Bar. It's
important that you attend as Rag Week is
approaching quickly.
If anybody is thinking of standing for an
Executive post papers go up on Monday, for a
detailed job description see the relevant
person.
Don't stop me now I'm having such a good
time!
Fiona
C&G
Well, we have quite an exciting week ahead!
This evening is the Guilds Dinner & Dance at
the Hyde Park Hotel.
This promises to be the best event of the
year with Barry Cryer as guest speaker and
'Jumping Jive' (of Joe Jackson fame) as the band
The dinner has all indications of continuing in
full swing until the early (or late!) hours of
Saturday morning. Enjoy yourselves every-
body!
Then on Saturday, the stupendous band
'Horizon' are playing at the Fremantle Hotel.
They must be good—they're all first year
mechanical engineers (who says I'm biased?).
For only 50p you can listen to them while
enjoying the late bar. Be there—it starts at
8:00pm.
Next Tuesday is Field Cup. If you don't
know what that is yet then ask your Soc Rep.
Teams should be submitted to the Union
Office by today. We meet in the Union Bar at
6:30pm.
And coming up on Wednesday February 16
is a trip to the Scottish Universities
Engineering Field Day.
Also there will be a theatre trip sometime
next week.
See somebody in the Union Office for
further details.
Have a good week.
Cheers.
Rolf
STOIC
Isn't breakfast TV wonderful? Doesn't it warm
the cockles of your heart to see the Jacket &
Tie brigade in jeans and scruffy cardigans!
Andre Preview says "it's probably the best
soporific of all time". We at STOIC just think
that it's much more effective than a snooze
button!
To get back to STOIC for a moment, you
may be wondering why there was no program
a week last Tuesday. The 'Trail of the Pink
Panther' film clip went missing on Monday—
Inspector Clouseau of the Surete is investi-
gating! We know that our regular Tuesday
audience was disappointed because he rang us
up to register the fact! Seriously, though, a
recent survey by BUST (Blatantly Unrepre-
sentative Sampling Techniques 1983) showed
that 97% of people sitting in front of the JCR
TV set watch STOIC (the other 3% had
expired from the effects of eating a Mooney).
Go on! Be mad! Watch our report on the
making of Privates On Parade this coming
Tuesday. You know it makes sense!
Martin Z Cowan is 108.
Bookshop News
Many times over the past few weeks, I have
said to your illustrious Editor, am I forgotten,
to be cast aside. No, to my rescue came the
whole cast of S T O I C adding numerous
column inches to our regular column. The
extra business it generated nearly qualified
them to a small discount.
The young lady buying me drinks in SCR
last Friday really was a bona-fide rep. Believe
me, I will do almost anything to get an extra
discount, which I may add, I pass on to you lot.
And I sold her four books at the retail price.
So comments about old fiddles really go over
my head.
Forthcoming New Titles
Fontana
Triple Factor, Owen Sela £1.75
Taiwan - Christopher Wood £1.50
The Rockefeller Gift - P G Winslow £1.75
Greek Food - Rena Salaman £2.95
The Wine Book - Jancis Robinson £2.95
Pan
Twice Shy - Dick Francis £1.75
Awakening - Oliver Sacks £3.95
Letters From a Faint Hearted Feminist - Jill
Tweedie £1.95
Granada
The Parsifal Mosaic - Robert Ludlum £2.50
Madame L'ambassadrice - Xauiera Hollander
£1.50
Flying Colours - Laddie Lucas £1.95
The Frights - Brian Moore £1.50
Voices in the Garden - Dirk Bogarde £1.95
Penguin
Art of Japanese Management £1.95
Braided Lives - Marge Piercy £2.25
Slow Boats to China - Gavin Young £2.95
Arrow
Beverley Hills Diet - Judy Mazel £1.75
Two Wheel Trek - Neil Clough £1.75
NEL
The Keep - Paul Wilson £1.95
Wargames
At the end of last term the Wargames Club
officially took over the G o C l u b . G o
equipment is therefore once again available
from behind Southside Bar, but only on
production of a valid Wargames Club
membership card. Membership can be
obtained at either the Wednesday or the
Sunday Wargames Club meetings in the Union
SCR.
If anyone would be interested in accepting
responsibility for this section of the club, could
they please inform the secretary when they
join.
Orchestra
If you were in the orchestra last term, but have
stopped coming, please come back as we need
you to play Portsmouth Point by Walton, the
Tchaikovsky Piano Concerto and Mahler's
First Symphony. If even this is insufficient to
attract you tack (or make you join if you
haven't played with us before), can we have
any ticket money you may have outstanding
from last term before we have to chase you for
it, please. Money can be given to Andy Wood,
ME3, Hannah Innes, Chemistry 2 or John
Gildrey, Chemistry 3 or bring it and yourself to
a rehearsal, 7:00-10:00pm in the Great hall on
Wednesdays.
¥<D Soc
Here on my isfand in time I hold that fateful
copy of FELIX. There on the letters page is the
voice that called to my prison two hundred
years in the future. How I wish I could respond
to that lost soul—but since I inadvertently
stepped through Professor Hyde's Temporal
Orifice two (of your) weeks ago all links with
1983 have been cut like the arteries of a
hopeful suicide. Somehow, somehow I must
convey that Lord of the Rings was (is) on
Tuesday the 8th, and that all is not lost,
Daedelus. Professor Hyde assures me that he
will bend every law if temporal physics to get
this missive back to the time of my long dead
past. I pray for his success.
Norman the Space Haddock
AI
The IC AI Group now has an 'investigation'
case. We have to establish whether Mr J A
Genta, a Uruguayan, can be adopted as a
'prisoner of conscience'. This is done by
contacting the government, his lawyer and his
family and asking for more information.
Mr Genta was arrested in Uruguay during a
government mounted anti-guerilla campaign
which was organised to crush an Urban
guerrilla group, the MLN.
Mr Genta completed his sentence in
September 1981 but is still in detention in a
'liberated' jail.
Tom Brake
Physics 3
Chinese
According to the Chinese lunar calendar, the
current Year of the Dog is drawing to a close in
a week's time. The New Year—the Year of the
Pig, starts on February 13. Like on similar
events over the past years, the IC Chinese
Society is again holding New Year celebrations
on New Year's Eve. This year, to increase the
scale of the function, our society is joining with
the P C L Chinese Society for the event. The
programme for the evening includes an hour-
long pantomime 'The Monkey King' (with
rather spectacular special effects using liquid
nitrogen and dry ice), a six course dinner plus
disco afterwards. Amongst the VIPs invited
are Lord and Lady Flowers. The occasion is
open to all. To obtain tickets, write to James
Wong, Civil 3 or approach any of our society
officials. The price for members are: single
£4.50, couple £8.00 and for non-members
single £5.00 and couples £9.00.
The Chinese Society has also hired a theatre
group to do a free lion dance display. For all
those interested, the display will be done on
the Queen's Lawn during lunch on the coming
Friday. To everybody, best wishes for the new
year from our society.
Yes the Social Democratic Society is still
around! (Despite FELIX having mislaid our last
notice). We are arranging a visit to the House
of Commons this term, either to attend a
debate (5:30pm onwards) or for a guided tour
when the House is not sitting. Anyone, of
whatever political persuasion, who is
interested in joining us please contact Estelle
Fawcett (Geology P G ) or Colin Butter
(Biochem PG) asap.
February 4,1983 Pagell

