IREVIEWSI
Opium for Tea
Poppy by Peter Nichols with music by
Monty Norman, directed by Terry Hands,
Royal Shakespeare Company at the
Barbican Theatre.
The first new play to be seen in the Barbican
Theatre, Poppy is a splendid affair. It is a
pantomime and a musical in the Victorian
fashion. The play boasts quite an impressive
pedigree. Peter Nichols is a very talented
playwright, and Poppy is his third work to be
premiered by the Royal Shakespeare
Company, the others being Passion Play and
Privates on Parade, both major award
winners. And Monty Norman, who wrote the
music, holds many stage musicals and film
scores to his credit. His most famous film
score is Dr No, from which the James Bond
theme became the famous signature tune for
all the Bond movies.
Perhaps the Victorian's most favourite
pastime was pantomime. But pantomime in
those days was much more political than is
commonly realised. Nichols has hit upon the
brilliant idea of staging a Victorian pantomime
about the Victorian's favourite occupation:
imperialism. A superb joke is therefore made
at the expense of the Victorians and their
values.
Many of the traditional pantomime
characters fill the cast. There is a Jack Idle
(Stephen Moore) and his panto horse, and
Sally Forth, a schoolmistress (played by Julia
Hills) and Cherry her panto mare. Dick
Whittington, the squire, is played by Geraldine
Gardner, a young lady with superb legs. But by
far and away the funniest character is Lady
Dodo, the" dowager Lady Whittington, played
by the RSC's resident clown, Geoffrey
Hutchings. This man in drag stole the
show—his impersonation was truly inspired
and comic.
These characters meet up with Obadiah
Upwards a London merchant played by
Bernard Lloyd. They set off for India and
China to make their fortune.
The play opens with a greeting by the
Emperor of China. Tao-Kuan, played
amusingly by Tony Church. Queen Victoria
(Jane Carr), the Fairy Queen would you
believe, appears as if by magic, and at once the
two are at loggerheads. For although Poppy is
a comedy and a musical, its subject matter is
essentially serious. It is about yet another
horrifying and profoundly embarrassing period
of English history; the mid-19th Century opium
wars. Poppy charts the Victorian hypocrisy of
a foreign war waged solely to ensure that
China remained addicted to opium, the single
most profitable export of the British East India
Company. Victorian morals are shown to be
nothing but hypocritical.
It all started when opium was traded for tea
and silk. Very soon the British Empire became
the world's largest grower, processor and
exporter of opium. It was grown in India but
China was its main market. The English
fostered addiction in China and by the 1840s,
ten to twelve million inhabitants were addicted.
To the grave consternation of the English, the
Chinese Emperor started to stamp out the
trade. A fleet of gunboats was promptly sent
down to defend the profits, thereby starting
the Opium Wars of 1839-42. In the words of
Lord Palmerston, Queen Victoria's Foreign
Secretary 'these half-civilised governments
such as those in China, Portugal and Spanish
America all require a dressing down every 8or 10
Chinese court scene in RSC's 'Poppy'.
years to keep them in order'. David Whitaker's
portrayal of Palmerston in the play is the
funniest thing 1 have seen for months. He is
perched like a ventriloquist's dummy on the
knee of the merchant Upward, and through
him Upward mouths his demands for free
trade and new markets. Palmerston orders the
dispatch of a task force with the Cutty Sark as
troop carrier.
By the treaty which followed, Britain gained
Hong Kong, a secure future for the Poppy
trade with trading ports up and down the
coast. But the musical takes us past the end of
the Opium Wars to a period twenty years later
when the British tried to ratify a treaty which
the Chinese refused to comply with. A
combined Anglo-French force of 18,000
destroyed the Chinese navy and military forts.
The Emperor's Summer Palace, repository of
an ancient civilisation, was looted of its
precious treasures and burned. Centuries of
Chinese tradition, the epitomy of their culture,
the Versailles of the East, were destroyed in
two days.
The export of opium tripled over the next
twenty years. The trade was diversified but still
survives today. Hong Kong is one of the focal
points for the world's supply of opium en route
from Burma, Thailand and Laos to the
expanding markets of the Third World. The
islanders are also today among the world's
most avid users. Opium was officially banned
in 1896 but now changes hands as its less
detectable derivative Heroin No. 3. What is
not used by the residents is exported to Japan
and the States. The Great British legacy of
unbridled free trade survives.
The RSC's producti >
n involves much
audience participation (we are all referred to as
'boys and girls') and ad libbing. The designs
and costumes are sumptuous and the music and
lyrics catchy. Two particularly good numbers
are The Blessed Trinity (the three Cs:
civilisation, commerce, Christianity) and The
Bounty of the EarHi ,.\ng by Queen Victoria!
Poppy is a tasteful treatment of a very serious
subject and because i; is mixed with comedy,
the strong political mtosage makes a direct hit
at the audience's private political parts. It is
fun, imaginative, provocative and strong in its
message. In short it is theatre at its best.
The last performances are on March 7-9 and
March 17-19. Seats are still available.
Nick Bedding
Nuclear
Con-Fusion
Bedsitting Room II by John Antrobus and
Spike Milligan at the Gate at the
Latchmere, Battersea. Directed by John
Antrobus.
Although it sounds unlikely, this is a comedy
about the after-effects of a nuclear war on
London. Nuclear war isn't a subject one
immediately associates with humour but in this
case comedy serves only as a medium to
convey something of the consequences of a
nuclear war. All the problems are covered:
lack of medical care, no food, radiation
sickness, poor communications, no shelter,
mutations, psychological problems and so on.
Sounds hilarious doesn't it? Well it is funny.
This is Milligan style 'Daz-boxes worn round
the waist' lOOmph zany comedy. Originally
written in 1963 it has been resurrected and
updated by Antrobus. Whereas the original
had* a go at Harold Wilson, this version
ridicules Mrs Thatcher and the tories with
mentions of the Falklands, Costa Mendez and
the Franks Report.
Although the underlying subject matter is
obviously serious the sheer chaos and absurd
inconceivable results of nuclear war make the
production amusing. The population is about
900, no-one knows what has 'won', a char-lady
called Mrs Scroake is Queen of England and
so on. Mixed with this are knock-knock and
other weak jokes that Tony Blackburn
wouldn't use in his show.
The production was lively and went down
well with the audience (though one suspects
that many theatre-goers guffaw when iWey
think they are expected to, rather than when
something genuinely amuses them).
The Gate Theatre is in The Latchmere pub
in Battersea Park Road. It is a new theatre club
which also features food and drinks in the
restaurant/cocktail bar which are designed to
compliment the plays. In this case a cocktail
called Bikini Atholl was available.
Bedsitting Room 2 continues until Feb 19.
Nick Hill
FELIX1 I February 4,19831 I Page7

