Airplane II - the sequel, now playing at
the Plaza, Lower Regent Street.
You thought this column was becoming far
too high brow didn't you? Some bloody
pseudo-intellectual little fart going on about the
precise nuance of some obscure film of a
lesbian workers co-operative in Cambodia
filmed in grain-o-vision by a one-armed dyslex-
ic eight-year-old. Well, this week it's let your
hair down time. Nothing particularly subtle
about this one, it's just a good laugh.
If you've seen Airplane, then this film won't
contain any surprises. The cast is virtually
identical, even down to the little boy who gets
to chat to the pervert Captain Oveur on the
flight deck. The gags come thick and fast and
are as corny as ever; it definitely justifies a
second viewing just to get all the clever bits
you missed first time round while you were
busy chcukling at the last bit of lunacy.
But this isn't just a bit of exploitation to cash
in on the unexpected success of Airplane; I
suppose that's part of the joke, you are
parodying the sequel which just rips off the
punter by reworking the same threadbare plot
in a slightly new guise; this film finds a whole
new vista of unexplored hokum to demolish.
Content in the knowledge that no self-
respecting director will ever make an Airport
eighty-watever, the merciless satirical gaze is
cast on the world of sci-fi. As demonstrated by
HREVIEWSU
the classic Dark Star and somewhat less
memorably in Flesh Cordon, this is a rich field,
merely waiting for the death blow to demolish
the facade of respectability that SF has
somehow managed to build around itself.
The film is set on the first shuttle taking
colonists to the moon. Almost gratuitously, a
quick jibe is taken at Toaiering Inferno as the
cigar-chewing rough neck discovers that the
new ship isn't quite as safe as its cracked up to
be. Thus, inevitably the missions heads for
disaster, as the parodies come thick and fast.
Mission Impossible, 2001 and Star Trek all
receive their share ot the flak. William Shatnci
makes a brilliant contribution as the manic
moon-base commander, a total change from
the ice cool womaniser boldly going nowhere.
It is assumed that Lloyd Bridges manages to
cure his glue addiction from Airplane and
makes a come back to talk our hero 'Striker' in
to land. This time Striker not only has to cope
with the memory of his ill-fated Vietnam mis-
sion but also has his crack-up as a shuttle
test pilot on his mind. But despite impossible
odds, he brings her in, the wind (on the moon!)
whistling through his hair.
Well, I really enjoyed this film, and I hope
you will too. One tip: remain rooted to your
seat as the credits roll, or you'll miss a real gem
delivered by William Shatner right at the end.
I would use this column to remind you that
Ents arc showing my all-time fave film on
Thursday, The Tin Drum (well, should be the
kiss of death to death), but since you won't be
seeing this till Friday, what's the point. If you
saw it, you'll have you're own opinion, if not,
tough. Ents really seem to be trying hard this
term with a pretty good line up. More power to
your various elbows lads, but don't forget to
pay for them this time!
And don't think just because you live out in
the wilds of inter-collegiate halls that you're
badly off. The Scala in Pentonville Road is well
worth a visit. There's a different film every day
and all-nighters on Saturday. If you want to
know what's on. there's a programme in the
FELIX Office Atter the film, why not check
out the local night-life. They didn't rename the
cheap-day return to Kings Cross the have-it-
away-day for nothing.
Lee Paddon
( C H E Q U E S T o SI MOM KODAK C-/o I C . U )
' P H I L L I P ! One cannot take the corgis?'
Page81
The Horns of
Uncertainty
I February 4,19831
4: Quandary
O M H H H H H B H F E L I X

