The Stockpot
6 Basil Street, SW3
l l : 3 0 a m - 1 0 : 3 0 p m M o n - F r i ; 11:30am-
9:30pm Saturday. Closed all day Sunday.
To find a restaurant in the heart of
Knightsbridge which can sell a three course
meal for £1.65 and serve up an extremely
acceptable, larger-than-average Chicken Kiev
for about £1.95 is to find oneself faced with a
lot of questions about the value which other
eating establishments have to offer.
The Stockpot is part of the renowned Hot
Pot chain but whereas some of the branches
are hardly distinguishable from workmen's
cafes (not that there is anything wrong with
workmen's cafes), the Stockpot is much more
up-market in everything except its prices.
The interior is plain but clean and
comfortable. There is plenty of room —
partitioned off eating spaces rather than
cramped tables packed together. The service
is fast and friendly.
Everything on the menu is excellent value
although some items are better value than
IREVIEWSI
others. On the starters, for instance, prices
vary from 30p to 75p. Prawn Cocktail at 75p is
possibly not the best value available since
prawns are rather less evident than are the
lettuce and dressing. A 'small spaghetti' (not
what I would call small) at 56p on the other
hand is exceptional value. Toast and pate
(60p) involves well made hot toast and
adequate pate. Corn on the Cob is also good
value at 45p.
Main "courses range in price from 88p to
£2.80 and are served with chips (or boiled
potatoes) and a choice of vegetables.
Entrecote steak with chips and green beans
(£2.80) was fine as was the Mixed Grill (£2.20).
Best value however, must be the afore-
mentioned Chicken Kiev at £1.95 which would
have been good at twice the price.
Puddings range from 35p to 60p with extra
ice cream and extra cream at 20p each.
Chocolate Gateaux with cream comes to
80p—a safe choice. Banana Split with extra ice
cream and extra cream makes an excellent
pudding for 98p.
The set dinner for around £1.65 is not
particularly good value in that the same items
are on the menu for a total of 5p more.
The extensive wine list consists entirely of
red and white wine. Bottle £2.95, half bottle
£1.50, glass 57p. Nevertheless, the red was
surprisingly good and one could easily pay a
fiver for it elsewhere.
The Stockpot takes a little finding. It is at the
Sloane Street end of Basil Street which runs
behind Harrods. Considering that it is virtually
the only place around where you can choose
from a wide range of dishes and still eat for less
than £5 per head including wine, I am sure that
you will find it well worth the trek.
Cordon
Bleugh
This week, for the independents who like
packed lunches but are bored of cheese and
pickle/ham and tomato sandwiches, here are
some portable Cordon Bleugh recipes.
First of all, my own special recipe for baked
apples. Fry 4oz mince for a few minutes, with a
little onion or garlic. Season with salt and
freshly milled pepper. Cut off top large eating
apple, and scoop out the insides. Stir a large
tablespoon of lime marmalade into the mince
and then spoon it into the apple. Bake for an
hour in a moderate oven. This will travel well
wrapped in foil. If you have a tupperware box
of some sort you can make up a salad to go
with it. One particularly fine dressing is
composed of equal parts cider vinegar, olive oil
and black treacle, with a squirt of lemon juice.
Toss chopped sausages and cold spaghetti in
the mixture, drain and stir in' half a cup of cold
stewed rhubarb.
Finally, instead of the ubiquitous chocolate
biscuit or Mars bar, why not make some
Chocolate Crispies? Melt a few ounces of
chocolate in a large bowl over a pan of boiling
water. Dice one carrot and one onion. Fetch a
packet of cornflakes or rice crispies and a few
raisins. Put the vegetables into the chocolate
with the raisins and then stir in as much cereal
as will go. Spoon dollops of the mixture onto a
baking sheet and leave to set in the fridge or
freezer. The crispies can be kept frozen until
required.
FELIX Poge9

