4d WEDNESDAY, 1 MARCH 1967 No.,,224
NEXT ISSUE:
FELIX looks at the
Constituent Colleges
D U K E
M E E T I N G
Irresponsibly attacked
A heated attack from the floor at the Union meeting last Tuesday
accusing the Executive of rudderless and indeterminate action over
the overseas students fees increase led to personal animosity and
culminated in Union President Duke leaving the chair. A large
lobby was pressing for a more concerted effort from the Execut-
ive in opposing the fees increase. It was felt that Duke was using
th« chair to defend the action—or lack of action—of his Executive.
The lobby from the floor was lead by Messrs Duckett, Fuchs,
Boothman and Mansfield. Duke defended himself by restating that
the College hoped to help individual cases of hardship arising from
the fees increase. A strike or rally would only antagonise the staff.
Frank Fuchs attempted to propose
a formal motion for a rally only to
have it rejected out of hand from
the chair. This biased use of the
chair by the Executive in defending
itself, inflamed already raw tempers.
Les Ebdon produced loud agreement
from the floor when questioning
Duke's right to answer criticism
from the chair.
The temperature of the meeting
was lowered momentarily as Mike
Edwards—last year's chairman of
debates—pointed out that all sug-
gestions being proposed could only
be recommendations. A Union meet-
ing had no power to decide to hold
a rally or to finance coaches. In any
event a decision was impossible as a
quorum was not present.
Tony Duke returns to take chair at
the invitation of Mr Duckett.
Malcolm Duckett sprang to his
feet, to propose a procedural motion
to lower the quorum to two hundred
(there being over two hundred pre-
sent). Duke, by now visibly annoy-
ed, rejected this bluntly, whereupon
Duckett to the accompaniment of
cheers, challenged the chair.
Exit Duke
In a fit of pique, Duke disrobed
himself of his presidential gown and
vanished wordlessly from the plat-
form.
In Duke's absence, Secretary
Parker took the chair. A question
asking why only one member of the
Executive had attended the lobby of
Parliament a fortnight ago had been
set down. Particularly, why was
there this lack of support after the
Executive had recommended support
for the lobby in the first place ? The
reply was given : two were playing
rugby; one was attending an import-
ant seminar; one was working and
die last was occupied in a manner
apparently so dubious that it could
not be divulged.
When this reply was greeted with
derision from the floor Oris Molam
—President of Mines—retorted :
"Rugby is more important than
politics."
Answered shrewdly from the floor :
"This is not politics anyway."
Duke later returned to the chair,
his humour partially replenished.
He was left, however, with no doubt
that there was a consensus of feel-
ing at the meeting that the Execut-
ive's action on the fees increases was
lethargic and impotent. But for the
lack of a quorum at the meeting,
the Executive's hand might well
have been forced.
PIGS smash Union
property
In two nights last week, damage
valued at about £120 was caused
to the Union. On Monday night the
Union bar lavatory was wrecked and
made quite unusable. Plumbing was
ripped from the wall and a porcel-
ain cistern was smashed on the fl^er.
On Tuesday night revellers leaving
the Union after the closing of the
bar threw two heavy wooden bench-
es over the railings and down to the
basement of the Botany Department
—both were broken by the impact.
On both nights many glasses were
smashed and at midnight on Tuesday
the Union lounge was in a state of
filth and disorder rarely reached
even in the bar. In Southside too a
chair has been smashed and the
number of glasses broken is increas-
ing dangerously.
Duty Officers
The damage on Monday night is
alleged to have been caused by a
party celebrating a twenty-first birth-
day. The Duty Officer. Roger
Lethbridge, was in the building but
says that he was not aware of the
occurrence until after it had happen-
ed. One of the barmen sold "It just
happened. Somebody jus' went in
and did it." On Tuesday the Stoats
Club returned to the Union at IGp.m.
having completed their' "Gloucester
Run" (which involved consuming at
least eight pints) and when the bar
closed some fifty alcohol soaked
sportsmen were herder into the
lounge.
It is the job of the Duty Officer to
maintain order in the Union-—this
could be maintained if there were
a Duty Officer every night. Too often
the Duty Officer fails to turn up. or,
having turn up, is not aware of his
duties or even of the layout of the
Union building. Too often there are
still liehts on and outer doors ooen
at midnight, though the building
should be closed by 11.15 o.m.
Fines imposed?
Bv-law 24 in the Union bine-book
reads "The Council may call upon
any member or members of the
Union to make good any wilful
damage to the Union's premises or
appurtenances." It seems possible
that the member who smashed thr
Union lavatory and the members of
Stoats who threw down the benches
may find themselves suffering from
this by-law.

