4 FELLX
FELIX London, S.W.7
Internal 2881/2799
Telephones: KEN 2963
EDITOR C. G. HARRISON
Asst. Editor : Nigel Shindler With : Ron Bass, Nick Clarke,
Sports Editor: Alan Robins Colcutt. Roger Cooper, Adam
Features Editor: David Potter Gawronski, Mike Hale , Frank
News Editor: Stewart Barnes Moms, T
oim Mullah/, Paul Smith,
Photographic Editor: Dave Ormiston Mike Yu, Ian Williams, Caroline,
Business Manager : Richard Davies Lynda and Pamela.
Sales : Chris Palmer, Peter Munday
Asst. Sales Manager : Judith Pearson
Advertising Manager : Robin Hall
Cartoonist : Bob Russell
What's On Editor : Ken Simpson
Advertising Agency : Educational Publicity (Partners) Ltd.
CHA 6U81
C O L C U T T
It is perhaps fortunate that most of the people reading this column
did not attend last week's distastrous Union Meeting. If they had, they
might have come lo the conclusion reached by many who did go : that
the Union is dominated by a group of hot-headed, militant extremists,
anarchists or what-have-you. On Tuesday. IC Union looked like all those
other -Unions we have hitherto looked down upon—those Unions whose
activities are regularly reported in the national press, and which are
very largely responsible for the bad public image of the student.
lC Union has tremendous power in this College compared with the
powers of most Student Unions. This is the result of two major factors.
Firstly, the Union has almost always been well run. Four people,
Messrs. Duckett, Jordan, Boothman and Ebden have decided that all
th:s shall end. Their attempt to destroy the excellent staff-student re-
lations which have been built up over the years has almost succeeded.
Their aim of making IC Union and the students of IC appear to be
a mob of irresponsible and selfish hooligans has almost been achieved.
Onke must take a large share of the blame for the chaos that reigned
last Tuesday. Not because he's a bad President, but because he is
a bad chairman. He has the unhappy knack of being domineering with-
out dominating. The chairman of a Union meeting must have the abil-
ity to trample on the trouble-makers without annoying the remainder of
the meeting by the way the trampling is done. It is Duke's domineering
manner that makes the barrack-room lawyers of the Union so bitterly
against him. Losing his temper and walking out in a huff didn't really
help matters either. Let us hope that at the next meeting he can
use his authority a little more effectively.
The posters advertising that fateful Meeting illustrate the other cause
of the Union's near-capitulation to the extremists. "Your Union Needs
You" But You weren't there. One must expect the Union to be re-
presented as extremist if only extremists attend the meetings. A more
representative group of people would have prevented such a farce. Your
Union Needs You.
I believe that our Union is important. We need it as much as it
needs us. I also have a certain degree of fath, naive though that may
appear, in the people who run the Union and make it worthwhile by
dint of sheer hard \#ork. Like the Labour Government, they make
mistakes, sometimes bad ones. The mistakes are nothing, though, com-
pared with what they achieve on our behalf. I don't like to see all
their work, and that of their predecessors, destroyed by some little up-
start invoking the magic words, rights and democracy, when that same
person is not prepared to do anything more constructive than shout abuse.
When is IC Union Executive go-
ing to stop making pious noises and
actually do something ? Their show-
ing at the Union meeting on Tues-
day (the 21st) was beyond the bounds
of credibility.
Brendan Parker said that only two
people have come forward to ex-
plain cases of hardship. It is hardly
surprising that there are so few cas-
es when one considers the fact that
virtually nc publicity has been giv-
en to what IC Union intends to do.
Besides this, many foreign students
are here on a one year post-graduate
course and will not be hit by
Crosland's measures. What really
matters is students who would have
intended to come here at some
future date.
Mr Parker then went on to say
that full publicity would be given to
what IC intends to do to investigate
the effect of the new measures. Un-
fortunately this is going to be of
use only fit these measures are public-
ised in India, Pakistan, Iran and ail
the other countries with students
here. About this problem, the Exec-
utive had nothing at all to say.
On future action, the Executive,
Whose job it should be to give the
Union a lead on such matters was
equally blank. Bradford University
are rumoured to be shouldering the
extra costs themselves. Could not
IC join them in this action, and
then go on to persuade all other
colleges, to do the same ? This now
seems the only way out, since vf
all colleges were to act unitedly in
this manner, Crosland would be
faced with the choice of cutting
back on teaching and research work,
which he would be loathe to do. or
giving an extra grant to the colleg-
es and universities which would
bring us back to the position before
December 21st last.
It is now up to Duke and the rest
of the Executive to get down to
some hard work on these problems*
If they intend to do so, albeit belat-
edly, then it is to their credit and
that of IC. If not, let tnein resign
and be replaced by others who will
take the necessary action.
Derek Boothman
CEDITOR'S
omment
Tuesday 21st February surely mark a nadir in the respons-
ibility of IC Union. We have the example of a horrifyingly farcical
Union meeting at which it was demonstrated that Duke has little or
no regard for his position as President of the Union but only for
his personal feelings and that there is an active group within the
Union, whose sole function appears to be to reduce its working to
anarchy. There followed an incident, I am informed, in the Union
office in which Duke would not approve a suggestion that the person
who had wrecked the Union bar lavatory the previous night, if he
be found, should be banned from the Union for the rest of this
term. It appears that he did not think the situation justified such
"severe" action
It is not tair, however, to critic-
ise the President of our Union
alone. This year a considerable
amount of damage has been done to
the Union building and also to
Southside by drunken members of the
Union. The Executive's solution to
the brawls in Southside was to re-
commend that such affairs be con-
fined to the Union bar. Is it more
reasonable to inflict over £100 of
damage to the Union in two nights
than to do the same to Southside? It
is costing the Union money to re-
place the glasses, fittings and furnit-
ure and it is costing more in its re-
lationship with the College. Why
should the College give £1000 to a
Union which will spend a significant
fraction of this on repairs caused by
a drunken minority?
Who is this minority? It is easy
to say the Rugby Club or the Stoats
Club, but these are not accurate de-
scriptions. There are members of the
Union who drink with the sole in-
tention of becoming drunk and who
then become vandals. Why does 1G
have this problem, which is not
shared by other colleges? I suggest
it is because of example. What is
the image caught by a Fresher each
year?—that every night there are
"men" in the bar who drink ten
pints or more. These are the "men"
and he, the Fresher, if he wants to
become a "man" must emulate them.
Some of these "men" can hold ten
pints—an inexperienced drinker can-
not—hence some of the unpleasant
sights one sees in the Union. But who
can stop this "tradition" of drunken-
ness, who can command sufficient
authority to clamp down on vandals?
The executive. At the beginning of
the year Duke wrote in FELIX :
"At this time it is vital for us to
INTERESTED IN:
XIMENES
YACHTING
YOGA
Then come to the
HALDANE
LIBRARY
13 Princes Gardens
for a book about it.
Open Term:
Mon Fri (not Wed) 10.0-7.0
Wednesday 10.0-5.30
Vac: Mon-Fri 10.0-12.0
1.0- 5.0
maintain the high standard in the
life of the College of which we are
proud. We must show that we are
a strong and united Union by our
sense of loyalty and responsibility."
When has the Executive made any
attempt to follow this line?
In the Executive we have one
member who is often drunk and
agressive when so, another who, ac-
cording to his friends, drinks a lot,
but is not violent, a third who has
been observed on one occasion this
term, throwing beer mugs the length
of the Union lounge, two others who
are sober types but rarely seen in
the Union after 6 p.m. and Dave
McBam, who is a social drinker, a
powerful and efficient * duty officer
and whose current absence correlat-
es with the outbreak of vandalism
in the Union. Does the Executive as
a body deserve respect from the
average Union member?
The time has come when the
Executive can no longer allow the
Union to run itself—it is running it-
self into disgrace at the moment. I
call on them to face the situation—
the vandals need dealing with, the
knockers need to be shown you are
not a weak as you appear.
President Duke is reported to
have said after the Union meeting
that he had begun the year with a
permissive attitude which he now
realised was wrong. If the Union
didn't like his new attitude he would
resign. It would be a shame if he
did resign since his position should
be strong enough to be able to con-
trol reckless elements—with the
respect of the Union and a sound set
of arguments, it should be impos-
sible to confuse him as was done
recently.
LAMLEY'S
technical & general
books
art materials
drawing
instruments
stationery
paperbacks
1,3 & 5. Exhibition Rd,
London S.W.7.

