6 FELLX
PROFILE OF A BIOCHEMIST
Martin Wa'ker Interviews
PROFESSOR E.B.CHAIN
Unlike many of us Frof. Chain has had no doubts about the direction
of his career. Stimulated from the age of four by an environment of
chemical laboratories in his father's factory, his future lay naturally in
the world of retorts and chemical symbolism. It was, however, towards
a field that was to expand with exciting results that he turned—the
chemistry of living matter.
Thus, interested in natural products chemistry, he took a degree at
ihe age of twenty-four in Chemistry and Physiology from the Friedrich
Wilhelm University in Berlin and later in 1933 emigrated to England
to begin the research at Oxford and Cambridge that was to lead him
to sharing the 1945 Nobel prize in physiology and medicine. Prol.
H.W. (now Lord) Florey and Prof. Chain had discovered the remarkable
property of penicillin to destroy infection. Prof. Chain is the scientific
director of the International Centre for Chemical Microbiology in Rome,
and has been Professor of Biochemistry at Imperial College since the
establishment of the present research block in 1961.
It has been suggested that a
scientist is most likely to make
a significant contribution while
young, since beyond a certain
age—30 has been mentioned—
one ceases to question critically
one's previously held concepts.
Do you think that there is any
truth in this?
This applies only to the theo-
retician. An experimental scientist
is likely to improve with age since
in experimental work, "Experience
is more important than concepts"
Professor Chain for instance, regards
Professor Warburg, now over 80, as
the greatest living biochemist. An
experimenter relies not only on his
ingenuity in devising new techniq-
ues, but also on his cleverness in
avoiding pitfalls, and it is this critic-
al attitude to one's work that grows
with age. However, he agrees that
"The biggest enemy of experimental
or theoretical science is the accept-
ance of established schemes of what-
ever nature' It is unfortunate that
students do not like the idea that
concepts they learn will often have
to be revised maybe even before
they finish their studies, and lectur-
ers who emphasise too much the
ephemeral nature of schemes present-
ed as final solutions in their text-
books, are not popular.
What interests do you have out-
side biochemical research?
Professor Chain is an accomplish-
ed pianist; his special interest is
chamber music. He also reads wid-
ely, enjoyig travel books and bio-
graphies.
When I asked him if he read any
technical literature outside his own
field, we got on to the topic of the
enormous proliferation of published
scientific papers. He estimated that
between 20 and 30 thousand pages
a year at least were produced in
biochemistry alone. Thus, "One can
never be competent in more than an
small field. However, no man can
accomplish more work than any one
man is capable of carrying out, and
one should not be unduly frightened
by the numbers of people working
in one's own field" He cited as an
example the four thousand people
employed in radiobiological work at
Oak Ridge in the US... but, "Pro-
vided the facilities are equally good,
one has an equal chance. It is the
individual who counts."
What is biochemistry? What are
its general aims?
Biochemistry is concerned with
the study of the mechanisms of the
chemical reactions, functions and
structure of the components of living
matter, animals, plants and micro-
organisms.
The practical aim of biochemistiy
is to discover methods of treatment
of disease, infectious and metabolic,
by means of chemical substances.
One of the most important problems
in the realm of metabolic diseases is
the study of regulatory mechanism.
Biochemistry has also important ap-
plications in agriculture; the develop-
ment of plant growth hormones,
weed killers and pesticides are typ-
ical examples. Other examples are
the study of nitrogen fixation by soil
bacteria, photosynthesis, interactions
between plaints micro-organisms etc.
etc.
Do you think that after the re-
cent rapid advances in bio-
chemistry and molecular biology,
research will now slow down, or
do you envisage more rapid pro-
gress ?
The big spurt in molecular bio-
logy—which at least in part is the
modern version of natural products
chemistry—is over, at least, as far
as novel concepts are concerned.
However, a vast amount of work on
macromolecules of all kinds remains
to be done with the known techniq-
ues, and such studies will undoubt-
edly lead to interesting results.
Greater knowledge for instance, of
amino acid sequence and spatial con-
figuration of- proteins—and there
are thousands of these to be invest-
igated—will lead to a better under-
standing of their function, catalytic-
al as well as structural components
of the cell. The same applies of
course, to nucleic acids; our know-
ledge of their structure is as yet
very incomplete, despite all the pro-
gress made. However, it should be
remembered that there are many
other aspects to biochemical re-
search, apart from molecular biology.
We are bound to malre imp ntint
discoveries in the course of study of
the chemical functions of intact
organisms—this approach has been
neglected to our great disadvantage
in favour of the study of all free
extracts of molecular fractions.
Many non-biologists are very in-
terested in the question as to
whether it will ever be possible
to synthesize living organic mat-
ter from non-organic compounds.
Do you, as a biochemist, con-
sider this an important question?
Do you think that such a syn-
thesis would have serious
religious, moral or social con-
sequences?
Professor Chain regarded this
question as primarily one of semant-
ics and definition :—what is 'living
matter'? "People have synthesized
self-replicating viruses from, non-
replicating parts. But this cannot
really be called an ex novo syn-
thesis of life, because the nucleic
acids of the inactive components con-
tain already built in all the complex
structural features required for the
replication process occuring once
they are joined together. In any
case, such syntheses are a very far
cry from obtaining complex animat-
ed living matter, and still farther
remote from the synthesis of a being
with a conscience, or endowed with
the sense for ethical or moral princ-
iples. The synthesis of anything that
complex is so remote as not to
be worthy of serious consideration;
consequently speculation on the
significance of such, hypothetical
"achievement" is futile.
Some people fear the misuse of
our knowledge of the fundament-
al life processes. Do you think
such fears are justified?
"Any invention in any field can
be misused. Of course you can mis-
use biological phenomena; see for
instance the misuse of drugs for
poisoning people or as narcotics lor
inducing stupor or other psycho-
pathological conditions in young
people. If an invention can be mis-
used, sooner or later someone will
surely misuse it, and this applies to
all inventions, biological ones not
excluded. However, this is no reason
for stopping discoveries or invent-
ions; in any case, this is impossible
and if the times are mature for a
particular discovery to be made,
someone will make it somewhere.
Is it the job of the scientist,
more than anyone else to govern the
use of an invention? A scientist has
no more moral responsibility than
any other citizen... and we have
science writting as a profession to
make people aware of the social im-
plications of new discoveries. A
scientist must have a conscience, but
not more of one than anyone else"
What is the significance, aside
from the obvious medical applic-
ations, of biochemistry to man?
The significance of biochemical
research can hardly be overestimat-
ed. Some of these jargons have be-
come very irritating. It has led,
through the use of weedkillers and
knowledge of soil microbiology, to
vast crop improvements. It has help-
ed solve fishery and veterinary pro-
blems, and has lead to improvements
in food technology. Food preserv-
ation alone is tremendously import-
ant.
What are the effects of pesticid-
es on the balance of nature?
"This, he agreed, was a real
biochemical problem" but "much
rubbish has been written about it"
The real problems are of resistance

