F E L I X 7
to biological control, tor example
with flies that are resistant to all
known killers. ''But the danger of
changing permanently the biologic-
al equilibrium in the kingdom of
microbes is less acute : on a world
scale you cannot affect microbes as
you can rabbits or flies because of
the rapidity with which microbes
multiply."
You mentioned in your inaugur-
al address that a lack of collabor-
ation between biologists and
chemists has delayed important
progress. Has this situation im-
proved? What do you think
would be the most effective way
of overcoming this problem?
"You have to make people aware
of the existence of other disciplines.
One should be able to snot pro-
blems outside one's own field and
be able to take them to someone
who can solve them. In biochemistry,
we have an interdisciplinary ap-
proach, and trying to integrate the
system is a very important task. For
example, if a microbiologist finds an
interesting system, a chemist isolat-
es it, an engineer produces it in
large quantities and biochemists and
biophysicists then study its structure
and function. Integration is the key
word for success." But here again
we came up against the communic-
ation problem, and I asked about
jargon in technical literature. Pro-
fessor Chain hold strong views on
this point. Some of these jargons
have become very irritating. People
talk of "melting" of nucleic acids,
but nucleic acids do not melt...
'melting' is a well defined transition.
What they call 'melting' is the dis-
sociation of the two strands compos-
ing the nucleic acids." Another ex-
ample : "We use computers quite a
lot and run up against the electronics
jargon... they talk of 'software' and
'hardware' He made a gesture of
dismay. "International Commissions
are set up to establish conventions
for notations. Mind you, von have to
be a specialist to understand chemic-
al nomenclature!"
As to overcoming the problem of
communication : "You must meet
and talk to people. This is in manv
ways more important than reading
the literature."
Do you think that there exists
a serious gap between sociolog-
ical and technological develop-
ment?
"I don't know whether this gap
is bigger now than it was in the
past. Ever since the introduction of
machines there has been a gap of
this kind, and there must always be
one". He suggested that restrictive
practices were one result of this gap.
"We have to convince people that
improved technology gives more
jobs, not fewer. But this is not a
new problem.
Professor Salam was upset that
people in positions of power in
the Western countries did not
make effective use of the techno-
logical means at their disposal
to attack world problems. He
suggested that scientists should
try to do this. How do you feel
about this problem?
"Scientists are in no way better
qualified to direct human affairs
than anyone else. In fact, many are
more prejudiced and more emotional
then their non-scientific colleagues.
Scientific thought does ot make one
more logical in matters outside
one's scientific subject, more balanc-
ed or a better human being. On the
whole, a scientist is often worse off
than a non-scientist since he does
not have to deal directly with
people. It is important, however,
that politicians should have scientif-
ic knowledge, just as it is important
that scientists should have non-
scientific knowledge. But I don't be-
lieve, for instance, that scientists
alone arc in a position to relieve
world suffering. For example, starv-
ation : this is not a scientific or
technological problem. "Professor
Chain does not believe in the special
agencies of the United Nations...
"since they make people believe
that you can do things you can't.
What is the use of international
organisations if their proposals are
rejected by the governments they are
designed to help on social or
religious grounds ?" He cited as an
example the refusal to use cow dung
as fertilizer in India. "This means",
he said, "that nitrogen from the
soil is not replaced. It is simply
burnt." The problem of starvation
"is not a technological problem, it is
a political and religious one.
People must realise this. Monkeys
and cows in India consume vast
quantities of food". On the 'populat-
ion explosion' "Effective methods of
birth control wouldn't be used in
many countries..." again on religious
or social, not scientific grounds.
Disease? "There is no scientific
reason for tuberculosis to exist. All
you need do to get rid of it is to
abolish overcrowding and under-
nourishment. But it is not up to the
scientist to solve these problems.
"As for improving sanitation, this is
useless unless you also feed people.
The tact is tliat unless you teed
people as well, you merely disturb
a biological equilibrium... something
you must pay for later. To fight
poverty, disease and starvation effect-
ively you must attack simultaneous-
ly from all angles. We in the West
are blamed, but we can't solve
people's problems for them. All our
suggestions are futile if religious or
social taboos forbid their implement-
ation. Moreover, one cannot aboli
such taboos by decree... witness the
caste system in India."
Professor Chain was particularly
concerned with the myth of the omni-
potence of science. "Worship of
science as a panacaea for all evils is
grossly exaggerated."
In your inaugural address, you
mentioned that "Imperial Col-
lege would develop into the
most broadly conceived techno-
logical university in Europe."
Would you expand on 'broadly
conceived'?
"The College has suffered a ter-
rific loss through the death of our
former Rector, Sir Patrick Linstead,
and for me, this has been a severe
and personal loss as well." Sir
Patrick Linstead was strongly oppos-
ed to the 'two cultures' idea, and
wanted to make Imperial College
into a broad College, in which the
humanities had its proper place."
This College has a marvellous
galaxy of scienists, but we must
srengthen the humanistic approach...
as has been done at MIT in Amci-
ica. We must not allow ourselves
to become mere technicians. Sir
Patrick Linstead conceived that the
expansion programme of the College
should include the incorporation of
the Architectural Association; this
would lead through architecture to
the arts—painting, sculpture and
the history of art. We already have
a department of management pro-
blems which provides contact with
psychology and the study of hunan
relations." Professor Chain regarded
the introduction of some measure of
humanities into Imperial College as
of great importance. "We hope
that our next Rector will follow the
path towards broader education,
initiated by the late Rector" he con-
cluded.
encyclopaedic Marconi
Electronic and mechanical engineers,
designers, system planners and
manufacturers of telecommunications,
broadcasting, maritime and aviation
radio equipment; radar, television,
specialized components, microelectronics,
data processing equipment and navigational
aids on land, at sea and in the air
The Marconi Company Limited
MARCONI HOUSE, CHELMSFORD. ESSEX, ENGLAND LTD/X5I

