Become an oilman with Caltex
Youll go places
If you're hoping for a good Degree in
Chemical or Mechanical Engineering, or
in Oil Technology, come and meet our
representative wiien he calls (your
appointment board knows the date
he'll be available).
But first soma facts about Caltax . .
Who we are. Join Caltex and you will
become part of one of the largest oil
enterprises in the world. The Caltex Group,
which was founded in 1 936 to combine
the oil production, refining facilities and
marketing activities of Standard Oil of
California and Texaco outside of North and
South America, is currently active in
exploration, producing, refining and
marketing in Western Europe, the Middle
and Far East, India. Africa and Australasia.
We employ some 40,000 people and own,
or have interests in 26 refineries. Our
products are marketed in over 70 countries.
What we can offar you
SCOPE, for one thing.Such a large
organisation, being activelyconcerned in
every facet of the petroleum industry, has
ramifications which cannotfail to provide
the kind of challenging problems
necessary to develop potential at all
stages of an individual's career.
INCENTIVE for another. We wantthe best
people and we are prepared to pay for
them in terms of attractive salaries,
working conditions and fringe benefits.
TRAVEL too. A career with Caltex means
that you'll have ample opportunities for
assignments overseas. You will get
substantial overseas allowances, be
protected against excessive income tax
liability and enjoy generous leave periods.
As a Chemical or Mechanical
Engineering Graduate, you undergo
initial training at Caltex House in London
priorto overseas assignment. Depending on
your aptitude and personal interests, you
will either be assigned to Engineering and
Construction work or go into Process
Engineering.
As a Graduate in Oil Technology, you
would become a Petroleum Engineer
Trainee, and begin a two-year training
programme in the Middle East.
Like to know more about careers with
Cattex ? Either write to us direct, or make a
date to meet our representative when he
comes here.
f A Personnel Relations
CffltfTj^jXl C a l t e x
Services Limited
Knightsbridge Green

