FELIX 9
Carnival so far
The '67 Carnival is now finalised, and a report on what has hap-
pened and on what is going to happen is called for. So far, great
efforts by the constituent colleges have resulted in Guilds and RCS
collecting about £470 each, and Mines some £230. The football
poai has paid out over £90 in prizes and the raffle tickets are selling
very well. So far everything has been very encouraging and every-
one who has taken part has derived enjoyment and satisfaction from
helping the unfortunate victims of Muscular Dystrophy.
We have invested the money so
far collected at over 7% to bring in
a useful £60 or so by May.
The football pool promoter is an-
xious that everyone who paid their
first half share, sends in the other
five shillings to complete the season.
Send the money to Frank Morris 122
Falmouth. Year reps are asked
again to renew their efforts to sell
more raffle tickets. If we sell out we
will make £3000 on this venture
alone. The leaders in the individual
book selling competition are around
the 30 books mark in Mines, and
about 15 In Guilds and R.C.S. Even
if you don't intend to sell any
more, hand counterfoils to your
rep. as soon as possible so that we
can invest the money.
The colleges are holding collect-
ing times again to finish this term.
Last term a fortnight's collecting
realised £1500, so I call on everyone
to go out once at least to collect a
similar total. It is the public who
have got the money. If you can't go
out collecting, sell raffle tickets in
other colleges, halls, pubs—anywhere
will do I
Carnival week
And so to next term. The rag mag
will be published, and on May 8 the
Carnival week begins, with the In-
ternational Evening in the Union.
This is an unusual but very enjoy-
able function and well worth the
price. Next day is the focus for the
week, the Folk Concert at the Albert
Hall. The Dubliners, the Watersons,
the Young Tradition, Bob Davenport,
Anne Briggs and John Steel have
been engaged. The prices will be
moderate and everyone in college is
urged to go and sell tickets to
his/her friends. There are thousands
of tickets to sell, and since it will
cost over £1000 to stage the con-
cert, everyone's support will be need-
ed. The tickets will be available
from the Albert Hall and agencies
from the end of March. Any en-
quiries about block-bookings etc.
should be made to Steve Grant,
Keogh 268. The Wednesday will see
a Southside Stomp and a Midnight
Film Show in the Union. Thursday
and Friday are set aside for the
Dramatic Society Revue' and so on
to the final day. During the morning,
it is planned to hold a series of
money collecting stunts in Kensing-
ton High Street and along Knights-
bridge. Anyone with ideas for this
should direct them to Ralph
Cornforth in Beit Hall. The Fete is
being held during the afternoon in
Princes Gardens. Various clubs and
societies have been asked to organ-
ize stalls, though any year wanting
to help will be welcomed by A.C.
Sinha in 135 Falmouth. The finale
dance is the last big event of the
year before exams. Everyone will
be there, dancing to the Alan Price
Set.
That's the menu. More details
will be given in later issues of
FELIX and in programmes. Mean-
while I would like to thank every-
one who has worked so hard up to
now, and plead with every single
person to do his best towards making
this year's Carnival the best, most
enjoyable and most profitable ever.
There is no target, we want to hand
over as much as possible, though I
see no reason why, with everyone's
co-operation, the previous all-time
record of £2.400 shouldn't be doubl-
ed or even trebled.
You are Imperial College Carnival.
J.C. Stockbndge
Mild Mines Meeting
A very quiet Mines Union meet-
ing was presided over by top-hatted
Chris Molam on Thursday 16th
February. The preliminary business
including the introduction of Social
Colours was quickly eliminated.
The main business consisted of
reports on visits to Mines by foreign
students and the reciprocal visits.
Mike Rowlands thanked those who
had assisted in entertaining the
visitors but criticised Mines for its
general apathy. Reports on visits to
France and Sweden were given by
the Minesmen involved.
Minesmen abroad
The visit to St. Ettienne seemed
from the various reports to have
gone off well apart from chaos dur-
ing the journey. The visitors were
well entertained, both socially and
educationally. The visit culminated
in a formal ball with free champagne.
The Paris visit was poorlj arrang-
ed with little organisation. The only
thing that the visitors seemed to
remember was a dinner and initiat-
ion ceremonies in the catacombs of
Paris. One souvenir of this trip is
a skull now in Southside bar.
The visitors to Stockholm went by
car via Hamburg. The visit seemed
to have been a social success and
to have been fairly well organised.
After some discussion, it was de-
cided to go to Brighton on the
Mines outing on 21st March—
University of Sussex beware! A
vote of thanks for his efforts in run-
ning Ents. was given to Goldie
Smith—a small overall profit is ex-
pected. Owing to the presence of
another meeting in the vicinity, the
meeting closed without the Mines
sone and chant
The Kaldo steel-making process. Today, over half of Britain's steel comes trom processes developed within tne past ten years.
Take a good look at steel and the road to top management. In the highly
advanced technological world of steel, there is call for graduates with many
different scientific and engineering qualifications. There are exciting opportu-
nities in companies all over the country to work ort new projects as well as in
production, plant maintenance and quality control.
Above all, the steel industry offers opportunities to progress to top-line manage-
ment, as many of today's leaders in the industry have proved. For details of
a career in Steel get in touch with your University Appointments Board.
British Iron and Steel Federation Steel House Tothill Street London SW1

