11
felix FRIDAY 05 MARCH 2010
politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk POLITICS
What will it mean if the UK votes in a hung parliament at the general election?
The polls are narrowing. The lead the
Tories have over Labour has now di-
minished to the point where a hung
parliament has become increasingly
likely. In order for the Tories to obtain
an overall majority, they require one of
the largest swings in British electoral
history, and since the new-year the
chances of this have started to slip.
If there is a hung parliament it could
be more than problematic. Only a cur-
sory glance at how well the three major
parties get along should show the prob-
lems there would be if they had to co-
operate. Labour and the Conservatives
would not be able to work together to
help fix the economy, their policies are
just too different. The country would
grind to a standstill as no votes could
be passed in the House. This could be
disastrous at a time when the nation’s
fincances are so delicate.
A hung parliament would leave the
Lib Dems as the so called ‘king mak-
ers’. It would be up to them to decide
who they wanted to work with, and
as a result, choose who would be the
next Prime Minister. However, the Lib
Dems have said that they are not inter-
JamesLees
JamesLees Politics Editor
ested in taking this role, and that the
party with the clearest mandate should
form the government.
However, as is far too often the case
with the Lib Dems this is an imprac-
tical idea. If no party takes an overall
majority, and no coalition is formed
then the incumbent government re-
mains. Gordon Brown would remain
the Prime Minister without being vot-
ed in by a majority of the public.
Of course if the Lib Dems decided,
post election, to form a coalition gov-
ernment then they would be acting
against a policy they had been voted in
for. They are unlikely to do this, so the
chance of a hung parliament remains
high. To avoid a hung parliament any
party needs to win at least 326 seats,
the most in any election, due to bound-
ary changes. For this to occur the To-
ries must gain 116 seats, and for La-
bour to lose their majority they would
have to lose 14 seats. Anything inbe-
tween these figures would result in a
hung parliament. For the Lib Dems to
win a majority would require a miracle.
Whether you like the Conservatives
or not, I find it difficult to believe that
many people still have faith in the La-
bour party and the dangers of a hung
parliament should be obvious to see.
What’s a hung
parliament?
Happens when no party has
an overall majority of seats in
the house of commons.
Has not happened in the UK
since 1974.
Another general election was
held the same year in order
for a significant majority to be
obtained.
Common in countries with
proportional representation
such as Germany and Italy.
More people didn’t vote at all
than voted for Labour in the
last general election.

