SABBATICAL ELECTIONS 2010
PRESIDENT
The Union President is ultimately responsible for the direction of
the Union, all Union activity and its finances. Tasks vary from simple
things such as having a broken vending machine replaced to man-
aging a multimillion pound project such as refurbishing the Union’s
bars. The President sits on numerous committees within College as
well as the Union and meets regularly with the Rector and other sen-
ior College staff to provide student input in decision making proc-
esses and to raise any immediate concerns that the student body
might have. The President also works closely with the Union’s Gen-
eral Manager who is in charge of the Union’s permanent staff.
I
want to be President because I think that our
Union is great but can be so much better. Too
often, the Union is seen as the building and
the bar; instead, we should think and talk of
the Union as the students. Too often the Union is
passive, waiting for students to come to it and find
out what it can do. I want the Union to become
more active in engaging itself with every student.
Involvement in some way should be the default, not
the exception.
The practical steps I propose to change this are
the following. Firstly, the year representation net-
work should be entirely overhauled leading to train-
ing, handbooks and support. Secondly, I will organ-
ise centralised publicity for clubs and societies in a
printed ‘what’s on’ in every department, ensuring
that every student is aware of events. Thirdly, I will
involve students more in the operation of Metric by
making it easy for societies, sports clubs, and de-
partments to organise club nights. Fourthly I want
to encourage innovation so that anyone can bring
their ideas to us, such as how we can make our own
Biodiesel for the minibuses.
I believe I have the experience and dedication to
be President as I have been involved on all sides,
from clubs to representation … to occasionally
propping up the bar.
Whoever you vote for, remember to vote. The
Union is nothing but the students, but the students
are more important than a building. Please visit
alexkendall4president.blogspot.org.
Alexander Kendall
I
was inspired to run this year after being part
of the Phase 3 working groups and Equal Op-
portunities Officer of the union. Through
both these roles, I’ve had a chance to improve
the union, proposing changes for affiliate members
from RCM and RCA as well as ensuring money is
well spent from the Representation and Welfare
budget. Next year, it is imperative the student ex-
perience is improved to match the fantastic facili-
ties Phase 3 will offer us. Live music is a priority of
mine. After all, what makes or breaks a venue more
than the acts which perform there? Our bar service
must be up to scratch. Whilst service has improved,
brand new bars mean customers expect better. We
also need to up our game when it comes to food.
Although table service hasn’t been implemented
this year, I still feel there are ways to improve the
system as it is. My work with Equal Opportunities
has shown me that although our Welfare and Edu-
cation Sabbatical officers work hard, many students
have no knowledge of the services available to them.
This is something I have strived to change this year,
pointing out the services available to those around
me, but there’s much more to be done. Within rep-
resentation, great strides have been taken this year
to properly assess representation from undergrad
to postgrad and next year it’s crucial that the holes
are plugged and the student voice heard by the
college, the most important function of a student
union.
Christopher Darby
A
s a society founder, treasurer and ac-
tive participant of numerous events at
the Union, in three years I have gained
a solid understanding of its internal op-
erations and developed a wide range of contacts
across Imperial and various London universities.
Now with your help I want to SPARK up the Union
and make it a fun place to be:
SUPPORT communication between the Union
and clubs & societies with monthly progress meet-
ings. As a president, I aim to improve club officers
training by encouraging inter-club and inter-uni-
versity communication in order to create a more
interactive community at Imperial.
PROMOTE our new nightclub Metric. I plan to
collaborate with other student unions in order to
invite more London students to the renovated ven-
ues and raise its profile to that of LSE Crush and
Kings´ Phase.
ARRANGE regular live music events at the Un-
ion by working alongside the entertainments team.
This includes not just Friday night DJs, but live
jazz, blues and alternative rock performances.
REFORM the mailing system for clubs & socie-
ties. My plan is to create a single and centralised
calendar for all student organised events. This will
keep our mailing subscriptions to only clubs which
we truly commit to, whilst allowing us to check-up
on the variety of events taking place around college.
KEEP UP the renovation of the new nightclub
and bar during Phase III. My main priority would
be to ensure that the work is completed strictly on
time for Fresher’s Week 2010.
Serge Vasylechko
H
aving been a hall senior in Beit since Sep-
tember, I have had plenty of opportunities
to observe the activity at the Union and
different states of it, as well as having the
great chance to interact with freshers in order to find
out what their opinion of the Union as a whole is.
Furthermore, having lived in three different kinds
of halls, I have noticed the different influence of the
Union on each one, depending on location, size and
structure. Hence I believe that welfare is a particu-
larly important aspect that must be available to eve-
ryone, and especially freshers, regardless of where
they live.
Finally, I have gained knowledge of internal opera-
tions by being a member of the Aikido club commit-
tee and through friends who are deeply involved with
Union affairs at the moment.
Based on this, my primary objectives, if elected as
president, are:
UNION BUILDING- Extensively oversee and lead
the union redevelopment project to a conclusion be-
fore the beginning of next academic year
NEW VENUES- Create a strong image for the new
bar and nightclub from day one, namely liaising with
the media and performing arts clubs and inviting
live acts to perform regularly at Metric (former dBs)
while keeping the prices to a minimum
WELFARE/COMMUNICATION -Improve com-
munication between students and the Union by in-
troducing a continuous evaluation system similar to
SOLE, where the committee members of Clubs &
Societies and the wardening teams in Halls would
ensure that feedback is provided promptly.
Stanislav Tarasov

