DEPUTY PRESIDENT
(CLUBS & SOCIETIES)
TheDPCSmakessurethatalloftheUnion’s300+clubsarekeptashappy
as possible. The holder of this position can expect to work closely with
Sport Imperial, ULU and BUCS to address any issues arising regarding
sports teams, competitions or facilities. The more serious side of this
role involves ensuring that health and safety requirements are met
across all Union activities so that the organisation is compliant with the
relevant laws and College policies. The biggest date on the DPCS’ calen-
dar comes right at the start of term with the Freshers’ Fair. The DPCS
is responsible for organising the day, where each club is located and for
implementing a contingency plan should the skies open!
E
asy, my name’s Adam, I’m a final year
physics student and if it wasn’t for the
clubs and societies here at Imperial I
probably would have left by now. Over
the past three years, I, like most of you have re-
alised that the two hallmarks of life as an impe-
rial student is a shit load of work combined with a
“below-average-student-social-life.”
And that’s why I feel clubs and societies here are
more important than any other university, it allows
us to meet people with similar interests and gives
us an excuse to drink once/twice a week.
In my first year I was a member of the football
club and last year I was elected as Sponsorship Sec-
retary, this enabled me to see the difficulties clubs
faced in terms of financing and how important
budgeting is. This year I have been an active mem-
ber of STOIC and ICRADIO.
My current position as Welfare Campaigns Offic-
er has offered some insight into the inner workings
of the union, but I feel I have remained sufficiently
detached so as to still provide a fresh approach.
As DPCS I hope to:
- Ensure all students are aware of the massive se-
lection of clubs and societies on offer.
- Be a friendly and approachable face to maintain
a healthy relationship between the union and all
clubs/societies.
- Examine the possibility of holding a Refreshers
Fair in the Spring Term; offering a chance for clubs
to recruit new members, this would be particularly
useful for summer clubs/societies.
Adam Gill
H
i, my name is Emma Beresford and
I’m running for DPCS. As a third year
Chemistry and Management student
I have experienced several aspects of
student life within both the RCS and C&G depart-
ments. I am a highly active member of the hockey
club having been on the executive committee for
two years as well as taking part in many other clubs
and societies, IC radio and Snowsports to name
a few. After reading Jenny’s blogs from this year
I think it’s really important for the DPCS to get a
fully rounded view and experience of all the clubs
available at Imperial, taking time out to visit and
take part in events. In the next few weeks I’m sure
you’ll see me at a lot more society meetings try-
ing to find out exactly what you want from your
DPCS… so beware
With such a vast range of clubs and societies
available to students at Imperial I think everyone
would agree that some of the smaller clubs are of-
ten forgotten even though they add so much diver-
sity to the college. My aim as DPCS is to get people
involved in as many clubs as possible while working
closely with Sport Imperial and the Sports Partner-
ship, starting with the infamous Fresher’s Fair and
continuing throughout the year targeting all college
members not just Fresher’s. Clubs and Societies are
a fantastic way to meet people outside your direct
friend group and expand your interests, as a socia-
ble and friendly person I hope [250 WORDS]
Emma Beresford
I
am Heather, a 3rd Year Physicist. I am cur-
rently on my Year Abroad in Heidelberg and
I want to be your next DPCS. I have been
involved in the Union with a wide range of
clubs from competitive sports like the Boat Club
to Cheese Soc and the Fellwanderers, as well as
Sinfonietta, ICSE and the Choir. I have been a
President, Secretary and Librarian of clubs and
these responsibilities have taught me how the
Union really works and, importantly, what can be
done to improve it.
I want to create a Freshers webpage listing all
club events held in the first few weeks so no-one
need miss essential meet-and-greets, a shared in-
ventory page to pool club resources and to hold
many more interclub events. I want to improve
music at the Union by inviting clubs to run specif-
ic nights and improve the Arts at Imperial whilst
supporting our hard-working Sports clubs with
the equipment they need. Finally I want to create
a Buddy System for struggling clubs, whereby they
would be partnered with good clubs providing
advice and practical help to get them functional
again.
Please vote for me, putting an experienced, en-
ergetic and enthusiastic student in charge of your
clubs next year. If you want to hear more of my
plans, learn more about me or share your own ide-
as please visit my website at www.voteforheather.
co.uk. Get involved, VOTE for Heather!
Heather Jones
T
he Imperial clubs & societies need change!
Though most clubs are generally doing
quite well, endless complaints from mem-
bers of nearly all clubs & societies is a des-
perate sign that improvement is needed in many
areas.
I could blabber on at you all day about how I would
go about changing this and promise you the world.
But unfortunately, anything of the sort would just be
empty promises. I will save you the effort of reading
more promising lies and instead, here are some facts:
I am in my second year, doing biotechnology with
management, living in Beit at the moment and going
for the position of deputy president clubs & societies
(DPCS).
I suppose listing any experience you have had that
relates to your position is a necessary part of every
manifesto, so here goes: I have attended at least 30
different clubs and societies at Imperial, of which I
have attended at least 5 regularly at some point in
time. I have helped out some stalls at freshers fair in
October (supervising freshers fair will be the hardest
task for every DPCS). I am currently founding a new
martial arts club at Imperial and have captained and
founded various teams in past schools.
But all these manifestos are only words and don’t
really tell you who we really are. I suggest trying to
talk to us to find out a bit more about us before you
make your decision.
And always remember: Live life to the fullest!
Paavo Schafer
H
i. I’m Joey and I am running for the posi-
tion of DPCS. I believe with my experience
and passion for efficiency and organisation,
I make an ideal candidate. I am currently
Events Officer for BiochemSoc and have developed
numerous skills in the process- skills that I hope to
take into the Union.
Please check out my manifesto:
EFFICIENCY: There is a lot of room for efficiency
in the way that the Union is run. An example is the
room booking system- many experience difficulties in
this area.
EXTRA TRAINING: for department societies is
needed making a conscious effort to support smaller
groups. Training in acquiring sponsorship will be the
focus.
5 YEAR PLAN: I will strive to get to know the clubs
of ICU by attending as many meetings and events
as possible and help to draw up a 5 year plan for
development.
FRESHER’S FAIR: My first main duty will be organ-
ising the Fresher’s Fair. As Events Officer of Biochem-
Soc, I have had to develop my organisational skills. I
also have experience working in events as a part-time
job.
COMMUNICATION AND COMMUNITY: is
something we lack at ICU. Regular meetings between
clubs in the RCSU, for example, will be encouraged.
ORGANISATION: A centralised online calendar of
events going on in clubs & societies will be looked at.
SUPPORT: for clubs that put the effort in. Some so-
cieties clearly put more effort into the club than others
and this will be adequately supported.
Joey Ra

