DEPUTY PRESIDENT
(FINANCE & SERVICES)
The DPFS is responsible for the day-to-day financial administration of
the Union. This person will spend a lot of time dealing with budget-
ary queries from clubs, the Faculty Unions and event organisers. You
would also collate and solicit student feedback about the Union’s bars,
catering and shop to gauge how students would like to see things run.
One major part of this role is coordinating the Summer Ball (the prep-
arations for Summer Ball 2008 actually started in November 2007)
which is a great opportunity to unleash your creativity to make sure
thousands of students have a brilliant time at our end of year bash. This
means being involved in the process of selecting which bands will play,
whether you want fire-breathing entertainers or clowns wandering
round and how many chocolate fountains there should be.
I
’m a fourth year maths student, and have had
a great time here so far being involved in the
College community. I’ve been on the RCSU
and Imperial College Hockey Club execs and
also been treasurer of both the MathSoc and RSM
Hockey Club, experiencing union finances and or-
ganising events too.
The most important consideration for the incoming
DPFS this year has to be the aftermath of Phase 3-the
redevelopment of the Union bars, somewhere I spend
a lot of my time. I’m not going to promise expensive
newtechnology,howeverIdohavesomemoney-mak-
ing ideas to subsidise student activities, and will also
concentrate on the steady improvement of the basics
that come up every year in these manifestos with your
input and feedback:
1. Catering and Bars.
• Provide a genuine and profitable alternative to the
Eastside Bar for eating, with table service and good
food.
• Train and retain more student staff for an im-
proved service at the new (and bigger) bars.
2. Events.
• Raise the profile of Metric, (the new dB’s) with
more live performances like comedy and bands.
• Organise good events with our neighbours at the
RCA, RCM and American-Exchange Programmes.
3. Increase revenue.
• Develop and raise the profile of the conference
rooms built in Phase 2 as a cheaper alternative to the
College service during summertime.
• Improve profitability of the union shops, for ex-
ample, by encouraging clubs and societies to purchase
clothing, including sports kits, and other parapherna-
lia through it. [250 WORDS]
Andrew Bromfield
I
n my 3 years at Imperial I have been the treas-
urer for RAG, felix Business Manager as well
as Senior Entertainments Officer for the Un-
ion - all jobs that require financial responsi-
bilities. Many of the Union’s commercial services
areas need improving to match the standard set
by the Phase 3 redevelopment. Utilising my expe-
rience in managing events, parties, clubs, festivals
and Union nights (including the ACC Bar-Nights),
I’ll ensure the students of Imperial College can be
proud of, and enjoy, their Union. I will:
Introduce U-Pay: A cashless payment system for
Union trading, using current college cards; an easy
way to pay for everything at the Union shop, news-
agent, bar or club. Think of it like an oyster card.
Improve Bars: I will even work shifts behind the bar
to better understand the job, developing further
means improvement.
Reinvent the Catering service: I will bring back ta-
ble service and ensure more effort is put into mak-
ing fresh, tasty food, concentrating on quality.
Commercialise Phase 3:
This extra revenue will be used to subsidise Union
activity during the academic year.
Summer Ball back to the students! I aim to push
back the Summer Ball, making it more accessible to
those with exams, and create a Ball Committee to
help bring a student focus.
Improve Entertainments: I will encourage more stu-
dent based activities and emphasis on Student DJs.
Listen to your Ideas: I will hold a monthly Services
Forum to gather YOUR input and comments about
Union services.
Ravi Pall
DEPUTY PRESIDENT
(EDUCATION)
The DPE is responsible for coordinating and train-
ing the representation network, which includes all
of the academic reps, and holding regular academ-
ic forums to gather student opinion about issues
related to their course. They will sit on a number
of college committees including those relating to
both undergraduate and postgraduate education,
e-portfolios, careers and the student experience.
Their purpose for attending is to represent stu-
dent views with the aim of making the academic
experienceatImperialoneofthebestintheworld.
C
oursework feedback is still a long way
from where it must be. I will continue to
work on this issue and persuade College
to take this issue more seriously, guaran-
teeing more, quicker, constructive feedback.
Can’t get on a computer to work because some-
one is gaming or watching iPlayer, but don’t feel you
can ask them to leave? I will work to make sure that
in busy times, computers are only used for people
to get on with the work they need to do.
I will work to improve the quality of lecture notes.
Handwritten, badly-photocopied notes will be a
thing of the past.
For a long time we have said that the degree clas-
sification system in this country doesn’t work. Is a
2:1 from Imperial College equivalent to a 2:1 from
some other universities? We know it isn’t, but the
job market disagrees. I will spend a lot of my time
talking with companies, convincing them that
someone with a 2:2 from Imperial has the ability to
succeed in the workplace
SOLE has no soul! By the end of my sabbatical
year, SOLE will work. You will see bigger, faster
changes based on your opinions.
Finally, I will work with College to bring back the
diversity in the number of Humanities options.
Benjamin Stubbens
H
i, my name is Meera Ganeshadevan
(GAN-NA-SHA-DAVE-AN) and you
may know me as the extremely little,
loud Sri Lankan. I come from North
West London and study Chemistry and Manage-
ment. I am tremendously friendly and believe this
is a quality needed as your DPE, as your views can
be resonated through me. As a student not only
belonging to the Chemistry Department but the
Management Department also, I feel as though
I have seen how different departments deal with
the problems faced about our educational needs
and wants.
I do not have a lot of experience in the educa-
tion sector as such, but who has? Being a student
and knowing the needs and wants of the fellow
student body I feel is enough experience for me
to be an exceptional DPE.If I am elected as DPE
I aim to integrate the departments at Imperial
more to increase communication. I also will at-
tempt to enforce a READING WEEK midterm as
a break is required whether it be a week or just a
few days, in which all departments are closed. I
also want to promote the credibility of a 2.2 from
Imperial to both students and employers. A big
part of our education at Imperial is SOLE evalu-
ated however I believe SOLE is not used enough
by the student body and I would like to reevaluate
how this could be improved upon…..would you
do SOLE for better incentives? VOTE MEERA =
STUDENT SATISFACTION =READING WEEK
Meera Ganeshadevan

