DEPUTY PRESIDENT
(WELFARE)
The DPW coordinates campaigns and information
concerning student welfare, working closely with
the Union’s Student Advisor, student volunteers
and the College’s Welfare services. They represent
students’ welfare needs to College and external
organisations, and sit on a number of College
committees relating to welfare, accommodation,
equal opportunities and the student experience.
They are also responsible for the activities of the
Union’s Community Action Group and IC RAG.
NOT SUBMITTED
Alexander Norman
I
’m Mike Richards, an east-ender and strug-
gling physicist. I have no experience in the
union hierarchy I am a proper student. I find
it difficult to get up for 9am lectures probably
because I’ve enjoyed far too much snakebite at the
bar the night before. Every year people campaign
to have a democratic union and this is the only way
it can happen, by having someone who can shake
up the establishment and bring our views to the
university.
Previous candidates have made grandiose pledg-
es that whilst noble are simply un-implementable
within the union. It is because of this I make these
basic pledges which will improve the welfare of the
university:
•Imperial always does poorly in student satisfac-
tion poles. This won’t change easily but a week of
refreshers events at the beginning of the 2nd term
like every other university wouldn’t go a miss.
•Improve the buddy system something which
most fresher’s in SOLE said they were unhappy
with.
•RAG & CAGt do fantastic jobs but we don’t of-
ten hear about it. I want to give these groups more
publicity and bigger projects.
•The disability advice service is an underused re-
source I want to get more people aware of it and
using it.
•The welfare service does a great role but people
don’t know it’s here. A regular article in Felix re-
minding people of what’s available will solve this.
Simple policies for proper students.
Michael Richards
I
’ve proved I can relate to students, older and
younger, through my position as a Hall sen-
ior, from chilling with freshers, arranging and
publicizing their events, to attending serious
committee meetings with wardens. I feel it’s time
to take my experience to the next level.
I’m not going into this role with preset goals, I
think it’s important to find out what your issues
are first and form my work around them. Through
a solid welfare structure I will hopefully iron out
problems before they occur.
Lose the stigma! The DP (Welfare) job is a posi-
tion with emphasis on contact with students and
yet students find it hard to come forward. I plan
on reinventing the view people have of the Union’s
Welfare, so that it’s not ‘laaame’ to come forward
with your problems.
More features in Felix! The more welfare issues
are publicized campus wide; the more people feel
encouraged to come forward, especially students
who live at home or international students who can
feel isolated from College life. I’m going to up my
current involvement with felix and I will encourage
active debate on issues, like the proposed smoking
ban on campus.
Face-to-face! Build relations with hall wardens
and arrange meetings with freshers, so people are
more aware of where they can get help straight off
the bat.
I combine a laid back attitude, which allows peo-
ple to approach me with their issues without hesi-
tation, with the gung-ho finesse to be pro-active in
finding them a solution.
Victoria Masding
RON FOR ALL POSITIONS
Well, here we are. I’ve been waiting for you. I’m Tin-man RON (Re-open the Nomi-
nations) and I’m running for every position at these elections. Why would a lowly
tin-man run for every single election post you might ask? After all , I have no brain
and my limbs can easily be ripped off my body. IT’S BECAUSE EVERY SINGLE PER-
SON ON THESE PAGES ARE A F*CKING JOKE. Seriously. If you think the same,
which I hope you do, vote for tin-man RON.
I maybe made out of tin foil but I’d definitely do a better job than most of them.
President? You’ve got four bloody candidates and they’re all useless as each oth-
er. Seriously, we’d rather just have Obama, and even he definitely no, he definitely
can’t either.
Education? Welfare? I don’t even know what those are. I came to Imperial Col-
lege for a gashfest, not a degree!
Finance & Services? The Union’s fine. What’s not to like about piss-beer, lots of
drunk men and the overriding smell of boredom?
I can guarantee you that every single candidate going for DP (Clubs & Socs) are
lying. I’d know ‘cos they’re all douchebags.
Don’t get me started with Felix Editor. You’ve got a joke candidate running
against a man that looks like a giraffe dressed in a crocodile costume? I’ve seen him
pounding away at a dog his Nan stuffed after it died.
I’m heading off my point. I’ll run the Union all by myself. The others are useless. If
you think alike, well what are you waiting for? VOTE tin-man RON!
Do it. Then regret it. A tin-man running your Union? You know you want it.
Tin-man RON
P
h
o
t
o
n
o
t
s
u
b
m
i
t
t
e
d
VOTING OPENS Tuesday 9th March 00.01 www.imperialcollegeunion.org/elections

