FELIX
EDITOR
The Felix Editor is responsible for producing a weekly issue of the stu-
dent newspaper. There are 30 per year ranging from 32 to more than 40
pages per issue. The Felix Editor is in charge of the overall direction of the
newspaper and for informing the student body on the issues that matter
to them, as well as providing plenty of crosswords and puzzles for comple-
tion in lectures, of course! Each week you will have to source and write
news articles and features as well as supervise the other editors to ensure
their sections are properly laid-out and edited. You will be responsible for
the newspaper’s finances as well as leading your band of writers. There will
be sleepless nights, but it’s a chance to flex your creative muscles and reign
over a publication read by thousands every week.
I
love felix. I’ve worked under three separate
editors, and my involvement has been the
most important part of my student life. The
opportunities and experiences I’ve received
should be open to everyone and I plan on making
every effort to encourage all students to write, edit
and get involved.
I will:
make it easier to get involved by:
- Holding open meetings so that you can meet the
section Editors in person. By face-to-face interac-
tion you’ll hopefully feel more comfortable about
contributing to the paper.
- Setting a stall in the JCR to further break down
the wall between students and felix. You’ll be able
to speak to me directly to find out how you can get
involved. There are loads of ways that you can con-
tribute and I hope to make students aware of all of
these opportunities.
have more student-focused content:
- The Editor should investigate issues affecting
students, as well as shine a spotlight on student
activities. By reporting events on campus in an
objective manner, hopefully students will realise
Imperial is exploding at the seams with extremely
talented people.
- I’ll ensure that the website is regularly updated. I
know the hard work required of felix Editors, but if
elected I’ll only have one shot at the job. It’s impor-
tant enough for me to give it everything I’ve got and
more. I have no intention of letting the newspaper,
or more importantly you the student, down.
Kadhim Shubber
nom nom nom nom nom [sic]
Esther Kang
F
irst of all, I would like to thank the current
Sabbatical Committee for bringing us a
wonderful year. Also I would like to thank
Martin Luther King, Priest Valentio and
Eason Chan for showing us love in this world.
We need love, and love binds us together. I of-
ten get asked of one question: “How do you feel
about London?” My answer is, GREAT. This is such
a lovely city; everyone is very nice, and respectful
towards the every culture background. I believe
there are treasures behind every culture, and Im-
perial College should be the place where every
culture joins together, so we can learn, appreciate
and treasure the values behind different culture.
Therefore, once I am elected, I will not only fight
for the rights for students, but also I will fight for a
better culture communication environment in Im-
perial College. I have a dream, that students from
different culture background can really join hearts
together, just like brothers and sisters.
Count on me, for my determination and experi-
ence. I was the year representative in first year. Dur-
ing my term, I act actively and responsibly, helped
students solving issues, and represented students’
voice to the department committee. My job was ap-
preciated: I not only received those lovely appre-
ciation emails at the end of my term, but also got
elected to be the year representative again this year.
Trust me, and vote me for Student Trustee.
At last, I want to say, I believe in Brother Chun.
Big love.
Hoi Yeung
I
, Rhodri (although nominally a David!), believe
that Student Representation remains impera-
tive in ensuring that our university’s money
properly in our fee-paying eyes. Thus it requires
someone who is pro-active, experienced and com-
mitted to seeing things through. I believe I have this
determination and the ability to fight for the student
community: I have held Debating secretary, Law
treasurer, ICMUN publicity officer and Conserva-
tive external liaison officer in societies this year as
well as working with the ICIC. You may also have
seen me around flyering for the charity Teach First
(where I have a bag of sweets) postering for Herbert
Smith LLP as campus manager whilst also volun-
teering with Pimlico and the Social mobility Founda-
tion. This have given me a large range of experiences
which will allow me to effectively represent what you
want most out of Imperial which includes good fa-
cilities and minimal monetary wastage.
Thus I pledge, should I be deemed worthy of elec-
tion, to:
1) Send out an email every 6 weeks updating you
as to what is happening financially so you can email
me saying what you agree and disagree with to allow
me to effectively represent you.
2) To fight for more funding of the humanities and
to cease the cuts to the language department as this
is a vital part of Imperial life.
3) To reduce any wastage of funds on bureaucracy
and non-essentials.
David Oliver
STUDENT TRUSTEE ELECTIONS 2010
Four positions available

