STUDENT TRUSTEE (CONTINUED)
M
y name is Zubin Jehangir and I am
currently a third year aeronautics
student. If you haven’t already re-
alized, our union is going through
massive changes. The union facilities have recently
been done up and now our bars are finally getting a
much-needed face-lift. There is still so much to be
done and I am standing for the position of student
trustee to be part of this revamp. I want to make
sure the union makes the right choices for us, the
students. If I am elected I can voice your opinions
and concerns at the highest level at the universi-
ty. My experience from being the ACC vice-chair
will come into great use. I have learnt how to build
on the criticism I have gained to provide a better
service to the sports teams. I am approachable and
friendly and will be happy to listen to any problems
that you might have, however small they might be.
If I am elected I will take this job seriously and I will
strive to get what we as students desire and deserve.
So VOTE FOR ME!
Zubin Jehangir
T
he approval for the next phase of the Un-
ion Building Redevelopment has shown
that being Student Trustee has an impact
and is more than just a nice title. As Stu-
dent Trustee I will endeavour to:
Make sure the Union’s finances are managed
wisely and will bring a tangible benefit to the
students
Communicate your views to the board: if you
have any issues concerning the running of the Un-
ion then it is my duty to get these voiced
The “lack of transparency” of the Union has be-
come a bit of a cliché but it’s true, and it does noth-
ing to help student apathy. I hope to at least move
things in the right direction, so make the right
choice and vote me for Student Trustee!
Melissa Lever
M
ost students aren’t really sure what
the Trustee Board is for- perhaps for
good reason. The Board exists so we
can ensure the union and its activities
are legally compliant and fair; something I am pas-
sionate about. Having previously sat on the Trustee
Board in 2008-9, I feel I have a unique insight into
the board and its workings, which I believe makes
me a good candidate for the position. I also have
experience in both running clubs and societies, in-
cluding St John Ambulance LINKS and Medics De-
bating, amongst others, as a Chair and Treasurer,
so promise to robustly scrutinise the decisions that
affect clubs, whether it be budgeting or policy.
Perhaps most importantly, I have the confidence
to pipe up in meetings with the union and college
bigwigs so our voice isn’t lost. As a third year stu-
dent, I feel I have been around long enough to know
what matters to students here and will ensure that
I am always available by email; if you wanted to talk
to me about something you think could be impor-
tant for the Trustees to discuss or just wanted to
come to a meeting I would be happy to be there
for you.
Finally, if I am elected to the Trustee Board, I
won’t make outlandish promises about revolu-
tionising the union, but what I will ensure is that
it is fair and is always acting to serve its primary
stakeholders: us. Vote Jaimie Henry for a safe pair
of hands.
Jaimie Henry
H
ello EVERYONE,
My name is LUKAS ONDRUCH, I
am a bald and bearded MAN (see pho-
to) and I come from the WONDERFUL
country of Czech Republic (unfortunately mostly
known only for its GREAT beer, GORGEOUS
women, and STRONG football & hockey teams).
I am in my 2nd year studying Theoretical Physics
and LOVING it!
In my past years at Imperial, I have been and still
am a committee member and Guest Lecture Offic-
er of the Physics society, Equipment Officer of the
Dance club, and a tour guide for prospective inter-
viewees – among other societies which I hold in big
RESPECT. Bazinga!!!!!!111111111oneone111eleven
I stand to hold people ACCOUNTABLE for their
actions. I will NOT be silenced – thus YOUR voice
will be heard through MY representation of your
opinions and ideas. I will fight for your rights with-
in the Union and make sure that others around me
do not break down when things get TOUGH, and
so can fulfill their duties. It will be easy to find me
on campus (see photo) and I will always be EXCIT-
ED to talk to you and let you know what is happen-
ing with the union.
Simply put, I present a different approach to deal-
ing with the union – whenever necessary. Some-
times, it is simply not enough to be nice to every-
one and hope for the best – unpopular decisions
then have to be made, and I can withstand being
the one to make/support those decisions in order
to move forward to the bright future of ICU.
Lukas Ondruch
NOT SUBMITTED
Salman Waqar
P
h
o
t
o
n
o
t
s
u
b
m
i
t
t
e
d
VOTING OPENS Tuesday 9th March 00.01 www.imperialcollegeunion.org/elections

