28
FILM
Film Editor
Film Editor Ed Knock
Ed Knock
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
felix FRIDAY 05 MARCH 2010
Avatar
The Highest grossing film of all time is also one of the fa-
vourites to take the ultimate award - Best Picture. The quasi
anti colonialism / environmentalism themed plot becomes
second player to the film’s magnificent visuals courtesy of
the fantastic special effects. A human infiltrates a native
tribe of a fantastic planet being strip mined by a sinister cor-
poration and soon finds himself drawn to their way of life.
Scrape beneath the film’s colourful surface and a weak
script and unoriginal plot soon becomes apparent and the
acting isn’t what I would exactly call masterclass. James
Cameron makes up for this however with superb directing.
Reviewed by Ed Knock
Nominated for: Best Picture, Direction (James
Cameron), Art Direction, Cinematography, Editing,
Music Score, Sound Mixing, Sound Editing, Visual
Effects
The Hurt Locker
The Hurt Locker is a film following a bomb disposal team
during the post-invasion period of Iraq in 2004. The film is
claustrophobically directed by Kathryn Bigelow, both James
Cameron’s ex-wife and his main rival for the Best Director
award. Bigelow manages to maintain nail-biting tension,
while giving a captivating look at the individuals within
the team. The film is shot in an up-close and personal
style, which adds to the cagey atmosphere that is sustained
throughout. The style contrasts massively to large-scale
and expansive Avatar. It seems fitting that The Hurt Locker
should be taking on Avatar for this year’s big Oscar prizes.
Reviewed by Stefan Zeeman
Nominated for: Best Picture, Direction (Kathryn
Bigelow), Original Screenplay (Mark Boal), Actor in a
Leading Role (Jeremy Renner), Cinematography, Editing,
Music Score, Sound Mixing, Sound Editing -
Inglourious Basterds
Steven Spielberg somehow managed to make a film about
Mossad boring. On the other hand Quentin Tarantino’s film
about a crack squad of Jewish soldiers drawn into a plot to
murder Hitler is a brilliant revenge fantasy. The star of the
show is Christoph Waltz whose incredible performance as
the ‘Jew Hunter’ Hans Landa elevates the film to very high
standard. The script is slightly overcooked and there are a
couple of weak performances but fortunately the Tarantino
style is still evident.
The dark horse of the Oscar race, will the Academy be
tempted to finally give Tarantino a statuette?
Reviewed by Ed Knock
Nominated for: Best Picture, Direction (Quentin
Tarrantino), Actor in a Supporting Role (Christolph
Waltz, Original Screenplay (Quentin Tarrantino)
Your Complete Guide to the Oscars
This Sunday the 82nd Academy Awards will be held at the Kodak Theatre in Hollywood. Anyone
who is anyone will don their best glad rags and brave the red carpet and paparazzi to attend the
biggest event in the Film Calendar. Underneath the glitz and glamour, hosts Alec Baldwin and Steve
Martin will reveal who has won the most coveted gold statuettes - Oscar.
Up in the Air
Ryan Bingham’s job is to fire people from theirs. The an-
guish, hostility, and despair of his “clients” has left him false-
ly compassionate, living out of a suitcase, and loving every
second of it. When his boss hires arrogant young Natalie,
she develops a method of video conferencing that will al-
low termination without ever leaving the office - essentially
threatening the existence Ryan so cherishes. Determined to
show the naive girl the error of her logic, Ryan takes her on
one of his cross country firing expeditions, but as she starts
to realize the disheartening realities of her profession, he
begins to see the downfalls to his way of life.
Review taken from www.imdb.com
Nominated for: Best Picture, Direction (Quentin
Tarrantino), Actor in a Supporting Role (Christolph
Waltz, Original Screenplay (Quentin Tarrantino)
What the Bookies say
Best Picture:
The Hurt Locker 2 - 1
Avatar 10 - 4
Inglourious Basterds 15 - 1
Best Director:
Kathyrn Bigelow 6 - 5
James Cameron 4 - 1
Quentin Tarantino 29 - 1
Best Actor:
Jeff Bridges 6 - 5
George Clooney 13 - 1
Colin Firth 19 - 1
Best Actress:
Sandra Bullock 5 - 3
Meryl Streep 3 - 1
Carey Mulligan 12 - 1
Best Supporting Actor:
Christoph Waltz 1.03 - 1.
Woody Harrelson 15 - 1
Christopher Plummer 29 - 1
Best Supporting Actress
Mo’Nique 1.05 - 1
Anna Kendrick 17 - 1
Maggie Gyllenhaal 21 - 1
Best Animated Film
Up 1.05 - 1
Fantastic Mr. Fox 12 - 1
Coraline 26 - 1
Sacha Baron Cohen was originally considered to host the ceremony but was apparently
too much of a ‘wild-card’ and so was quite wisely dropped. For the first time since 1943
there are ten nominations for the Best Picture Category. All ten films are presented with
reviews and all the awards they have been nominated for.

