29
felix FRIDAY 05 MARCH 2010
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk FILM
Up
Pixar has a portfolio of acclaimed and beloved animated
films, which many attribute to the fine balance of adult
and child appeal in their work. Up achieves this feat per-
haps more completely than any other Pixar film. The grow-
ing relationship between the two leads keeps older viewers
hooked and that leaves you with a warm feeling after the
credits.
As Russell’s enthusiasm for exploration reminds Carl of
his childhood ambitions, director Pete Docter makes us re-
call the fantasies that were our own comforts when we were
young. Rarely do films marketed towards children have this
kind of emotional depth, and I haven’t even mentioned the
subtle allusions to Russell’s relationship with his father.
Reviewed by Eliot Barford (abridged)
Nominated for: Best Picture, Original Screenplay,
Animated Feature, Music Score, Sound Editing
Precious
Clareece Precious Jones is an overweight, illiterate sixteen-
year old girl living in poverty in Harlem, pregnant for the
second time by her father. She lives with her abusive mother
and has just been suspended from school. But this is not a
film that tries to shove a gratuitously gritty abuse story in
your face, it never dares you to confront the harsh realism
of it all in that frustratingly arrogant way that some films do.
Newcomer Gabourey Sidibe in the starring role gives a pow-
erful and impressively balanced performance, never overdo-
ing it. It is a tremendous presentation of a difficult story that
showcases some truly impressive talent.
Reviewed by Jade Hoffman (abridged)
Nominated for: Best Picture, Direction (Lee Daniels),
Adapted Screenplay (Geoffery Fletcher), Actress in a
Leading Role (Gabourey Sidibe), , Editing, Actress in a
supporting role (Mo’Nique)
District 9
The Surprise hit of the summer and rightly so. District 9
gives a much needed shot of adrenaline into the frail sci-fi
genre. The story of mistreatment of alien refugees with its
real life allusions to Zimbabweans in South Africa is per-
fectly accompanied by awe-inspiring special effects and
edge-of-your-seat action. The film’s protagonist Vickus is
one of the most subtle anti-heroes ever written, immoral
and selfish yet you still find yourself cheering him on as va-
pourises his ex-colleagues. Unfortunately Sci-fi has never
peformed well at the Oscars, 2001: A Space Odyssey was
only nominated for a technical award.
Reviewed by Ed Knock
Nominated for: Best Picture,, Adapted Screenplay (Neill
Blomkamp), Film Editing, Visual Effects
The Blind Side
In this simplified, somewhat shallow rags-to-riches biopic
based on the NFL football player Michael Oher’s life, a
strong-willed, well-off, upper-class woman) adopts a home-
less black teen, helping him rebuild his troubled life. With
slow but steady academic progress, she also sees his poten-
tial in becoming a sports champion.
There are warm, fuzzy moments thanks to the strong,
likeable performances from the cast, Bullock shows plenty
of strength and sentiment. A sweet, moving tale, but its
placement in the list of nominees is questionable especially
when so many more deserving films were left out.
Reviewed by John Park
Nominated for: Best Picture, Actress in a leading role
(Sandra Bullock)
An Education
The film tells one of those coming-of-age tales about living life to the full, ly-
ing to the parents and, invariably, about making mistakes. But An Education.
has a slightly more refined taste than the usual oversweetened popcorn we are
served. There’s no denying that An Education is an extremely well made movie.
Reviewed by Zuzanna Blaszczak (abridged)
Nominated for: Best Picture, Actress in a Leading Role (Carey Mulligan),
Adapted Screenplay (Nick Hornby)
A Serious Man
A Serious Man tells the story of Larry Gopnik, a Jewish physics professor who
constantly tries to do the right thing and be a good man despite the fact that
his life seems to be falling apart around him. The Coen’s sharp script, and their
lack of concession in portraying a relentlessly honest life, means this film has a
resonance that will leave you thinking for longer than most films will.
Reviewed by Tim Davies (abridged)
Nominated for: Best Picture, Original Screenplay (Coen Brothers)
Best Drama - Avatar
Best Comedy - The Hangover
Best Actor - Jeff Bridges
Best Actress - Sandra Bullock
Best Supporting Actor -
Christoph Waltz
Best Supporting Actress - Meryl
Streep
Best Director - James Cameron
Best Screenplay - Up in the Air
Best Musical Score - Michael
Glacchino (Up)
Best Foreign Language Film -
The White Ribbon (Germany)
Golden Globes Winners
Best Film - The Hurt Locker
Best Actor - Colin Firth
Best Actress - Carey Mulligan
Best Supporting Actor -
Christoph Waltz
Best Supporting Actress -
Mo’Nique
Best Director - Kathryn Bigelow
Best Original Screenplay - Mark
Boal (The Hurt Locker)
Best Adapted Screenplay - Jason
Reitman (Up in the Air)
Best Foreign Language Film - A
Prophet (France)
Best British Film - Fish Tank
BAFTA Winners

