3
felix FRIDAY 05 MARCH 2010
NEWS
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
C
hile experienced an
earthquake rating
8.8 on the moment
magnitude scale.
The epicentre was five miles
off the coast of the Maule
region.
Seismologists are estimat-
ing that the earthquake shifted
the Earth’s axis of rotation by
three inches, reducing the length of each day by 1.26 microseconds. One
hundred aftershocks were reported, eight of which were greater than 6.0
and seiches were observed as far away as Louisiana. The death toll has
reached over 800 and is expected to grow. 1.5 million people are displaced
from their homes. Dawn to dusk curfews have been put in place and in
Conception, one of the worst hit cities, army troops clashed with looters.
Discontent with the government’s handling of the situation seems to be
growing, especially amongst those worst hit. In particular, food supplies
seem to be erratic or non-existent in many places. The Chilean govern-
ment is now estimating that the damage’s value is nearly $30 billion USD.
The world beyond
College walls
By Tom Greany
G
erman privacy and civil liberty advocates won a major
battle in Germany’s highest court on Tuesday.
The court struck down anti-terrorism legislation requir-
ing that records on telephone, SMS, and internet access be
held by service providers for six months. The German law was based
on a European Union directive that is now likely to be revised. Six oth-
er members have already refused to implement the directive. 35,000
plaintiffs issued the complaint against the legislation, which the high
court deemed to be incompatible with Germany’s constitution and or-
dered the deletion of any current records. The court called the law a
“grave intrusion” into privacy that did not find a correct balance be-
tween safety and privacy. The ruling left room open for the law to be
more specifically defined both in purpose and scope.
Germany
S
panish police arrested three men who are accused of spread-
ing a virus to 13 million PCs that stole credit card numbers
from its victims.
Mariposa, which means butterfly in Spanish, botnet is one of
the largest in existence and evaded antivirus software because its de-
signers would change its software every 48 hours, making fingerprint-
ing difficult for the antivirus firms. The virus targeted vulnerabilities
in Microsoft Internet Explorer, MSN instant messenger, and installed
itself onto USB keys attached to afflicted computers. Once installed
on a victims’ machine, Mariposa would run as a keylogger, sending vic-
tims’ keystrokes to the hackers. One of the three suspects was appar-
ently found to have the personal information of 800,000 individuals.
In addition to stealing personal information, the attackers also rented
access to the infected machines to other hackers, often for use in denial
of service attacks. Individuals, large corporations, and governments
have all been infected by Mariposa. Forty different banks have been
affected. Microsoft has reportedly denied to comment on the story.
Spain
Chile
RAG Week, which started on the first
of March, has been pinned a success
by the current RAG chair, Alexander
Dahinten.
RAG is Imperial’s Raising and Giv-
ing society, in which members playfully
disrupt the boundaries of society for the
greater good of raising money for char-
ity. Charities involved include Barnar-
do’s, Keep A Child Alive, The Children’s
Trust and Broadway Homelessness and
Support.
RAG Week kicked off on Monday
with the Cooking Society selling cakes
and brownies in the JCR and the be-
ginning of the Queen’s Tower tours,
which ran all week. This attracted many
people on the first two days, and if you
haven’t already been, felix advises you to
Alex Karapetian
Alex Karapetian
RAG Week a success
Teams met up for the RAG Raid in Beit Quad (top) at lunchtime and moved out into town
haranguing Londoners and tourists alike for money, getting themselves some free rides along
the way. RAG have also been running Queen’s Tower tours all week at lunchtimes.
region
Seis
ing th
the Ea
three
hundr
and se
reache
from t
Conce
Discon
growin
seem t
ment i
the la
signer
ing di
in Mi
itself
on a v
tims’
ently
In add
access
of ser
have a
affect
do so, the magnificent view is enough to
brighten anyone’s day.
Wednesday saw the start of the infa-
mous London Raid, where teams of stu-
dents, sporting fancy dress, and bearing
task lists with various challenges were
set loose on the streets of London with
collecting buckets. Tasks ranged from
helping OAPs cross the road to ser-
enading a random tourist.
The joint RCSU and UCL RAG Ball
was at On Anon on Thursday, a black
tie affair where UCL’s historic RAG
society attempted to teach ours a few
tricks. Relations between us strength-
ened as a result, but our RAG society
(naturally) reigns supreme.
Dahinten commented that: ‘’It was
great seeing so many new faces on the
Raid this year! The first half of RAG
Week has been a massive success; the
groups truly enjoyed the events we of-
fered and a large sum of money was
raised for worthy causes. That’s what
it’s all about’’
.
Today there will be a slave auction host-
ed by the CGCU at the Union, in which it
has been rumoured that some sabbaticals
and sports captains may be among those
being sold. Ten kegs of beer and ample
sambucca shots have been promised, and
on Saturday there will be a late night foot-
ball tournament where teams will com-
pete for the RAG Cup 2010.
RAG Chair Alex
Dahinten
has remarked
how pleased
he was at
RAG Week’s
proceedings

