30
FOOD
Food Editors
Food Editors Chris Sim & Holly Cumbers
Chris Sim & Holly Cumbers
food.felix@imperial.ac.uk
felix FRIDAY 05 MARCH 2010
The stuff of legend. High quality, dreamily light cheesecake, oozing with creamy, caramelised and strawberry overtones.
There’s something about Jak’s Cafe
H
aving finished an ex-
tremely satisfying meal
at Jak’s, I asked for a res-
taurant card. Oddly, the
first thing that struck
me was its slightly plush feel. But aside
from my fingers being impressed by
the quality of this piece of card, my
eyes were drawn to the slogan of the
restaurant on its reverse which bore
the words ‘Home Cooked Organic
Food’. I then mulled over the tastes,
smells, sights and sounds that I experi-
enced during my pleasurable two hour
dining experience, and concluded that
Jak’s is much, much more than those
four simple words printed on a piece
of black cardboard. At the time I didn’t
envy the man who had to describe this
eatery on an area smaller than a credit
card, and as I write this article, I still
don’t.
The food at Jak’s was all about
fresh, high quality ingredients, simply
cooked in a caring manner, with no
fuss. Added to this were homely, cosy
surroundings, with friendly, smiling
staff and a touch of South-Ken chic-
ness and a hint of Mediterranean flair.
At face value, this eatery doesn’t strike
you as anything special. But sit down
and immerse yourself in its laid-back
ambience and it’ll soon strike you that
you’ve found a restaurant with that ele-
ment of ‘je ne sais quoi’.
Somehow, dining at Jak’s makes you
feel in control. Ok, at other restaurants,
you are the one ultimately responsible
for your choices. Yet that café touch of
having the main dishes and salads on
display in their full glory does give an
added sense of reassurance. Available
are a range of simply cooked fish, meat
and vegetarian dishes, and a selection
of around ten different salads. I de-
cided to elect two classic dishes; beef
lasagne and fish pie. The first was of a
highly accomplished standard; whose
soft pasta sheets, sandwiching layers of
rich bolognaise-bechamel sauce, com-
pleted with a pleasingly crispy topping,
was as good as at any mid-ranged Ital-
ian eatery I’ve been to. The latter didn’t
quite match the standards set by the
former, but its flavour combination of
parsley and salmon were matched ac-
cordingly with the partnership of vel-
This restaurant’s slogan left Chris Sim pondering its true meaning when he visited this organic Chelsea-based eatery
vet-like smoothness of pureed potato
and the crunch of fresh pea. Acting as
a counterweight to these rich dishes
were the salads. Their tabbouleh salad
with its uplifting tones of mint and
parsley and cleansing hints of lemon
juice and their slightly Asian-esque
sesame infused spinach salad provided
this lighter touch.
Jak’s also places you behind the wheel
when creating your own custom juices.
Upon approaching the juice bar, one
will find a bewildering array of organic
fruits available for blending. I was feel-
ing slightly lazy at the time so I asked
for a recommendation, and within
minutes a freshly blended concoction
of orange, apple and carrot arrived in
a glass, complete with that delectable
freshly whizzed froth.
Another likeable aspect about this
restaurant is that it really does save
the best until last, provided that you
make the right choices. Their banana
bread didn’t quite live up to expec-
tations, but more inspirational was
their lemon tart. No, don’t think of it
as a tarte au citron, it’s streets ahead
of that. It is comprised of a light and
refreshing filling, whose zestiness
was not overpowering, all encased
in a crumbly pastry casing. But even
this was about to be overshadowed
by Jak’s strawberry cheesecake, which
deserves all the plaudits it can get. El-
egantly composed of a vanilla-infused
feather-light cream cheese filling, a
beautifully rich biscuit base oozing
with caramelised tones and topped
off with a thin layer of strawberry-
infused syrupy lining, this creation
was truly dessert making of the high-
est calibre. Somehow, despite the
flavours possessing a deep richness,
this dessert was light on the stomach,
meaning that despite sensations indi-
cating that my tummy was approach-
ing maximum capacity, I was obliged
to indulge in even more.
Price and portions-wise, Jak’s is
comparable to some mid-ranged Ital-
ian chain restaurants such as Car-
luccio’s or Strada, with mains priced
around £9-£10, juices around £3 and
dessert around £4. But the unique or-
ganic concept of Jak’s, its chic yet cosy
feel and not to mention its home-like
food puts this restaurant miles above
such chain eateries. So, to conclude,
there really is something about Jak’s
that makes it well worth an indulgent
visit.
Party like it is 1509 at the Medieval Banquet @ Ivory House
Holly Cumbers took a step back in time and experienced more than just tastes from the Medieval era
I
f you want a unique night out
then I would definitely recom-
mend the Medieval Banquet.
The location for this restaurant
couldn’t be better. Being situat-
ed by the Tower of London, it truly fits
in with the medieval theme and pro-
vides a perfect place for a stroll after
the banquet. However I was slightly
disappointed by the interior décor- I
was expecting candles and sawdust
on the floor (I may have high expec-
tations there!). The whole price of the
evening is £45 per person but this in-
cludes free wine and beer during the
meal, a four course banquet and plenty
of medieval entertainment. When you
first arrive you are instantly haggled
for £5 pounds to dress up in medieval
costume, but it is definitely worth the
money and it just makes the experi-
ence more realistic.
Although there is free wine and
beer- don’t expect anything fancy, you
just get your standard John Smith’s
which tastes like cheap wine (the usu-
al student drink!). In order to get a re-
fill you have to scream ‘wench!’ at the
top of your voice which was actually
surprisingly amusing. Throughout
the night Henry VIII demands the
audience to raise their glasses and
shout ‘wassail!’ (a medieval term for
cheers).
Despite this banquet offering a veg-
etarian option, I was disappointed by
the overall quality of food throughout
the meal. For the first course the meat
eaters got a selection of meat (ham,
beef and chicken) served with salad.
I was told that the meat was quite
tough, but apart from that it was fairly
tasty. The vegetarian option however
wasn’t as nice; the vegetarian pâté was
dressed with too much salt with other
herbs, giving it a weird taste. In fact,
I actually struggled to eat it due to its
odd flavour.
The second course was slightly bet-
ter. Meat eaters and vegetarians were
offered the same vegetable soup (you
had to drink this out of the bowl, in
true medieval fashion). The soup was
served with home-made croutons
and warm bread (which I thought
was the best thing about this course).
However, I thought the soup was a bit
bland, it could have really possessed a
greater depth of flavour.
The third course was by far the
best course. Meat eaters were of-
fered a joint of chicken served along-
side vegetables. This was served in a
cauldron, which was a novelty. I was
told that the chicken was gorgeous
and those whom I was with enjoyed it
to the point that they requested sec-
onds. Vegetarians were given an on-
ion and goats cheese tart- which was
also gorgeous (unfortunately I didn’t
have the option of seconds!) it was
just the right mixture of onions and
goats cheese and you weren’t over-
whelmed with pastry. However the
vegetables tasted and looked as if they
had come straight from a tin!
The dessert was another let down
(however you probably won’t mind as
the chances of being too full by this
time are high). The last course seems
much more appetising on their web-
site; a ‘rich fruit filled flan’ should be
translated to a ‘slice of cold apple pie’. I
thought this was disgusting and again,
it was more than a struggle to eat.
I wouldn’t go to this restaurant for
the food, but for the entertainment- it
definitely made up for the meal. You
are greeted by Anne Boleyn, Henry
VIII and various musicians. All ac-
company your eating with their beau-
tiful voices. Between courses you
are treated to juggling, jousting and
dancing. At one point I found my-
self thinking that this was one of the
weirdest dining experiences I have
ever had, for I really felt as if I had
been transported back in time.
Food: 8.0
Value: 7.0
Service: 8.5
Ambience: 9.0
Overall: 8.0/10

