31
felix FRIDAY 05 MARCH 2010
CLUBS &
SOCIETIES
Clubs & Socs Editor
Clubs & Socs Editor Alex Kendall
Alex Kendall
clubs.felix@imperial.ac.uk
x
The French perception of ‘Le Lakes’
I
t was 1:30am on a twinkle-
starred red-mooned night when
the minibus finally parked, after
the most chaotic road trip of its
life as a minibus. In this kind of
primitive country, roads vanished into
fields, then it was planned that we had
to walk 8oo metres to reach the accom-
modation. What was not planned was
that the car, with the keys of the hut in
it, was an hour behind us. Indeed, the
strategy was based on the postulate
that “cars are always arrive before mini-
buses”. Walking on the path toward the
shack, I wondered if English logic was
evolved enough to understand that this
assumption was now refuted by the
experiment itself. I was developing a
new “car-minibus” paradigm when we
arrived at the hut and Jim’s vomiting
stopped my thoughts. It was actually a
beautiful red-pink vomit (after analysis
it turned out that the red was due to
the ketchup of his burger).
Jim was very ill and half of us stayed
with him wrapped up in his sleeping
and survival bags outside the hut, while
the others went back to the minibus to
look after the remaining kits and get
warm (cowards!). After a long astro-
nomical contemplation punctuated by
Jim-is-still-alive checks, the others fi-
nally arrived. We more or less jumped
straight into our beds. The night was
quiet apart from some unfortunate
noises from Jim.
Saturday 7am; a wonderful unex-
pected English blue sky said “good
morning” to us through the window
from beyond a peaceful stream edged
with naked trees. Maybe it was the ba-
nana, maybe I’m getting used to this re-
volting concoction, but I found Alex’s
porridge not too bad.
Once this had cemented in our stom-
achs, we ventured outside towards our
challenges, cruelly and remorselessly
leaving the carrion of Jim as prey for
jackals in the hut. After one hour walk-
ing, I saw Alex lengthily embrace Thea.
After being ill the previous few days,
she decided to go back and kick the
jackals if they dared approach Jim. Af-
ter going up a bit more I turned around
to catch my breath and saw the tiny
Thea far away. Going back on the path,
with my face in the shade, “I thought
such is the hard rule of the Lake Dis-
trict, only the strongest can attain the
top”.
Past cairn after cairn, under the ris-
ing sun, we slowly reached the ridge.
Walking now in the sparkling snow,
the view became more and more
breath-taking; it was an infinite grey-
shading of mountains with lakes shin-
ing in the distance. We had our first
lunch at the Old Man of Coniston
(803 m.). Then on an undulating path,
lots of “amazings”, “awesomes” and
“Oh my Gods!” were exclaimed and
lots of pictures were taken to update
facebook profiles and desktop back-
grounds (even in the mountain, we are
still geeks). After the second lunch, we
found a nice slope to practice the now
traditional Fellwanderers sport that is
tobogganing with survival bags. Differ-
ent techniques were adopted: prone,
supine, head first, inside the bag head
first, bob-sleigh style, two inside the
bag, but most of the time we ended by
spinning and being snow-covered. The
third lunch was taken at Wetherlan
peak (762 m.).
On the way down to the town of
Coniston, I went into a cave and slew
a dragon, but nobody saw me. Then
the group split: Joe, Flavien and Rafal
returned straight to the hut to come to
the aid of Jim and Thea, because they
learned by text message that they were
now under vulture attack. The less
brave others, including me, went to a
pub in Coniston.
As my lips hurt and I had forgotten
my Labello stick, I looked for some-
thing similar in the shop and the only
thing that I found was a little pot of
Vaseline. When I read on it “lip ther-
apy”, a flash of lightning went through
my mind and life had a new meaning.
Indeed, in France we only use Labello
stick for the lips, and for the bulk of
French people, Vaseline is only used as
a sex-lubricant. So now I understand
why this girl in the library was working
with a Vaseline pot beside her pencil
case. Proud of my new state of knowl-
edge, I bought the pot without shame.
After tea, coffee, chips or beer, it was
time to go home. Nothing happened in
the last hiking hour apart from these
bloody anglophones mocking me be-
cause I put a “s” at the end of the plural
of sheep.
Back at the accommodation, Jim was
still not in fine shape but since Thea,
Flavien, Joe and Rafal had killed all the
jackals and vultures, they had started
making dinner. The hut was worth the
800m hike , it was fitted for the kings
that we actually are: there was a big
kitchen stocked with dishes, the bed-
room upstairs was an aerial shambles
of woody bunk beds where Mariko was
in her natural environment, a business-
class drying room and a vast common
room with a huge stove, a banquet
table and armchairs for everyone! An
incongruous erotic journal was found
by Nathaniel; the hot girls in it were
perfect to light the fire. This bad joke
done, we had an excellent sweet and
sour dinner as a celebration of Chinese
new year and several kinds of cake for
dessert. Then the evening was a calm
sea of conversations and book reading,
sometime disrupted by an apparently
better Thea, reading aloud some epic
quotations from the log book. Lastly,
more and more people fell asleep on
the armchairs with the increasing tem-
perature from the coal stove...
Sunday 7 am: bananas are definitely
the solution to making porridge ed-
ible. It was snowing and yesterday’s
landscape had turned white. Jim and
Thea were definitely better. But a nice
surprise was waiting for us when we
arrived at the minibus: the back-left
tyre was flat. No shit, with the stochas-
tic path of the day before! As a long
funeral procession, we followed Joe
driving the minibus back to a proper
road where Nathaniel changed the tyre
in double-quickish time with his great
skill as a Fellwanderers ex-president. It
was instructive because I learned that
the English actually need the theme
music of Indiana Jones to change a
tyre. Afterwards, we drove a few miles
(what a stupid unit) by car or minibus
to start a new hike. This time it was
Rafal who wasn’t well enough to hike
and who stayed in the minibus. Thank-
fully, today was too cold for vultures
and jackals, but wolves and polar bears
could take over.
So we started a long, long, long as-
cent in the white. After checking for
a 3rd time that Simon was all-right
and his family as well, I told him: “We
are like two-dimensional men walk-
ing through a sheet of paper”. He an-
swered, “Yes, or it is like inside a ping-
pong ball!” We now had snow almost
up to our knees.
Finally after this 500m trek uphill, we
had a quick cold first lunch in the Peak
of Blisco (705m). During the descent,
Thea, from the deep maze of her mind,
asserted “Actually, down is the oppo-
site of up!” Alex and Patrick couldn’t
catch this very profound thought, and
superficial spirits that they are, imme-
diately made fun of her.
The rest of the hike was enlivened by
Simon juggling snowballs, the brave
two Jim and Joe trying to ride their
survival bags over The Slope of Death,
Alex and Patrick playing baseball with
icicles, the snowballs at the Battle of
Oxendale Beck River Bridge where
much blood flowed, and an unavoid-
able sheep hunt.
Nathaniel, Joe and Jim went to pick
up the car, the minibus, and Rafal who
had survived the bears, wolves and the
cold. We waited lazily in a pub around a
massive wooden table, laughing about
this epic weekend. Because yes, it was
actually done. When the minibus ar-
rived we went back, without major in-
cident, to London: such was our fate.
Imperial’s ISoc prepare for Islamic Awareness Week 2010
D
o you confuse your hi-
jaabs and halals? Might
you mistake salat for a
healthy green side dish?
Bill, a film enthusiast
definitely did. He had learned a lot
about Muslims from blockbuster hits.
“Before uni I got all my knowledge
about Islam from movies and I also
gained insight from reliable news net-
works like Fox”, recalled Bill. “Howev-
er, my mind was blown when I went to
Islamic Awareness Week 2009. Now I
realise that Muslims in real life are dif-
ferent to how they seem on the silver
screen- more like Fasting but not Furi-
ous LOL!”
Thankfully, most Imperial students
do not think within the narrow con-
fines that Bill did, nor do they share his
questionable sense of humour. In fact,
it is the student body’s open mind-
edness and capacity for intelligent
thought that makes it possible for us
to run Islamic Awareness Week (IAW)
once again for 2010.
Outside of a university campus it’s
rare to find so many pensive Muslims
from a range of different backgrounds
in one place, so it’s really worth coming
down to the SAF during lunch to check
out the exhibitions they have prepared
to get a small idea of the diversity we
have here on campus. This year’s IAW
promises to be a rich experience, tak-
ing you on a spiritual and cultural jour-
ney through centuries of Islam in just
one week.
IC ISoc will also provide approach-
able Muslims on foot with a broad
knowledge of Islam, spanning well be-
yond that of Sheikh Google and Imam
Wikipedia.
They will be available for stimulating
chats, and to answer any of your burn-
ing questions from beliefs to beard
maintenance.
So come along next week to exhibi-
tions (12-4pm in SAF), talks, Q&A
sessions, gameshows and a PANTO
to broaden your horizons, and also for
banterous laughs.
‘We are like two-di-
mensional men walk-
ing through a sheet
of paper.’
‘Outside of a University
campus, it’s rare to find so
many pensive Muslims’
Jules Morand gets into the countryside with a bunch of lads, a tub of Vaseline and classic philosophy

