33
felix FRIDAY 05 MARCH 2010
technology.felix@imperial.ac.uk TECHNOLOGY
Keep your phone,
save some dosh
Jail time for Google
execs over Italian
autistic abuse video
Would you indict a postal worker for
delivering hate mail? Or jail an eyewit-
ness to a crime for not having stopped
it in the first place? To use the prec-
edent set by a recent court ruling in
Italy, you should.
In a shocking case of judicial incom-
petence, three Google employees who
were involved in the identification and
removal of a particularly offensive vid-
eo from Google Video have been sen-
tenced to up to six months in jail for
their ‘crime’. It’s a puzzling story that
began innocuously enough in 2006,
when a video showing an autistic boy
being bullied by his classmates was
uploaded to Google Video, the Google
equivalent of YouTube until Google
bought and merged the two services.
The video was quickly removed after
user complaints (including one from
the Italian Interior Ministry), but has
managed to morph slowly into yet an-
other battle between Google and a na-
tional government.
The incident only serves as a remind-
er that few of the legal questions posed
over the ownership and monitoring of
material on websites like Google Vid-
eo, Facebook, etc., have actually been
answered. On September 8th 2006,
the video depicting the bullying was
uploaded on Google Video, but was
removed within 24 hours; a rapid re-
sponse considering the volume of con-
tent that Google Video has to monitor
daily. Google went one step further
however, helping the Italian govern-
ment identify those who recorded
and uploaded the video. Ironically, the
perpetrators of the attack weren’t even
sentenced to jail time, getting off with
10 months community service. Then
unexpectedly, in February 2009, four
senior Google executives were charged
for breaching the Italian privacy code.
Bizarrely, they had nothing to do with
the issue of the video until well after it
was removed. Among those charged
were Google’s Chief Legal Officer and
Chief Financial Officer, people whose
job titles suggest that they are in no
way involved with actually managing
Google Video. As Google’s own legal
counsel bluntly put it, “To be clear,
none of the four Googlers charged had
anything to do with this video.”
Google was initially hopeful that the
judge would dismiss the case, seeing
as those charged were being dragged
unwillingly into a conflict they never
showed any interest in. The ruling
came as a surprise, and derives from a
technicality in the Italian penal code,
namely the difference between an ‘in-
ternet service provider’ and an ‘inter-
net content provider’. EU legislation
states that ‘service providers’ aren’t
required to monitor all content hosted
on, or moving through, their servers,
but are obliged to remove objection-
able content once notified, and aid
investigators if desired. According to
these laws, Google is very much in the
clear. According to the Italian judicial
system, however, Google is defined as
a ‘content provider’ and is therefore
responsible for monitoring all content
before it is posted for public access,
leading directly to the rather simplistic
ruling against Google. Yet that raises
an obvious question; what content is
Google actually providing? Google
has never marketed itself as a content
provider, at most a content host and
largely a content index; it doesn’t as-
sume ownership of any of the material
on its servers.
The precedent that such a ruling sets
is truly worrying on consideration of
its broader consequences. To begin
with, it implies that content hosts such
as Google and Facebook would have
to monitor every piece of information
uploaded on to their servers, throwing
up an entirely new set of privacy ques-
tions in the bargain. To do this would
also be financially prohibitive, mean-
ing that the free services that we take
for granted would either need to start
charging, or shut down completely.
Even then, with the Google employees
being charged with violating the autis-
tic boy’s privacy rights, it would mean
that the hosts are responsible for track-
ing down the people in videos and en-
suring that they are fine with the video
being available for public viewing. This
issue would be much worse for website
hosting providers and cloud comput-
ing services, considering the wealth
and diversity of the information host-
ed by them. It sounds ridiculous, and
that’s because it is; no company should
or would be able to maintain such a
system.
Thankfully, the ruling isn’t final and
Google is appealing the verdict. How
far they will get in the Italian judicial
system is another question, but it’s go-
ing to be a while before the issue is fi-
nally settled. In the case that the ruling
is upheld, however, the implications
of the judgement are manifold. It will
probably cause Google and many oth-
er similar service providers to rethink
their presence in Italy, and possibly
even in the EU. Off the back of Google’s
spat with China, it’s quite obvious that
the biggest issue when it comes to the
spread of technology across the globe
is the question of the moral policing of
the internet and who is responsible for
it. With governments looking firmly
towards the hosts and the service pro-
viders, it’s not an issue that’s going to
be resolved any time soon.
FerozSalam
FerozSalam Technology Reporter
O
K, listen carefully guys,
we’re going to try and save
you some good money in
felix this week. For many of
us, our mobile phones are a vital part
of our lives. However, we often pay well
over the odds for them. For instance,
did you know the cheapest iPhone 3GS
contact comes to £729 (not to mention
extra call charges) over the 18 month
contract period? Did you know that
per megabyte, sending a text message
at 10p costs you almost eight times as
much as it costs NASA to receive im-
ages of outer space from the Hubble
Space Telescope?
Many of you will be able to save in
the region of £180 per year by switch-
ing to a SIM-only tariff. You must have
completed the original length of your
contract on your phone, but then all
it takes is a quick phone call to your
network.
SIM-only tariffs
Traditionally, mobile phone con-
tracts have always bundled a “free”
phone together with a monthly allow-
ance of minutes, texts and maybe In-
ternet access. However, a bit of deeper
analysis shows that there really is no
such thing as a free phone; typically
you’ll pay a surcharge of about £15
per month on your bill for that “free”
it’s just a case of looking around your
network’s website, calling them up and
asking to switch over. It’s worth shop-
ping around the other networks for
great deals too.
Most people find they can get the
same or better airtime allowance for
£15 less per month (giving a total of
saving of £180/year).
Apple iPhone 3G users
If you purchased an iPhone 3G
close to launch in around June 2008,
your 18-month contract will have just
come to an end over the last couple
of months. O2 are offering a range of
SIM-only iPhone tariffs with rolling
one-month and 12-month options.
If you are on the standard iPhone tar-
iffs, you will currently be getting 600
minutes, 500 texts and unlimited web
browsing and WiFi for £35 per month.
However, by switching to ‘Simplicity
25 for iPhone’ for example, you will
get 600 minutes, unlimited texts and
unlimited web browsing for £25 per
month; more texts and £10 cheaper!
For the heaviest of phone users, there
is also an ‘Unlimited for iPhone’ tariff
available with unlimited everything for
£50 per month. The best thing about
the both SIM-only iPhone tariffs is that
you can have a one-month rolling con-
tract, allowing you to upgrade to the
new iPhone 4G in June without issue.
iPhone users can also shop around
for SIM-only tariffs on other networks
too, but be aware that you’ll need a
decent free Internet allowance and
some features such as Visual Voicemail
might stop working.
How to switch tariff or switch
network
Finally, a couple of words on switch-
ing your phone tariff or network. If
you are staying on the same network
but want to switch tariff, you can call
the customer services of your mobile
network and ask to be switched over
to your new tariff. Your phone number
won’t change, you won’t need a new
SIM card; all that changes is your
phone bill.
If you want to change network then
there are a few extra steps. Firstly,
you’ll need to have an unlocked mobile
phone. The best way of checking this
is to insert a SIM card from a differ-
ent network and seeing whether your
phone will accept it. Secondly, you’ll
need to ask your current network for
a PAC, a port authorisation code. This
allows you to take your phone number
to your new network. By law, they’ll
have to provide you the code within
two days of your request. Provide this
PAC to your new network and your
number should be transferred within
two working days.
Hopefully this will be helpful! With
mobile prices climbing, the cost of liv-
ing already high and the odd beer here
and there making a dent in your bank
account, every little bit saved helps.
Ken Lo takes a look at SIM-only tariffs, saving
you a decent chunk of change on your phone bill
“...per megabyte,
a text costs you 8
times as much as
it costs NASA to
receive images of
outer space from
Hubble”
phone.
So if you’ve just signed an 18-month
£35 per month phone contract: rough-
ly £15 per month of that goes on the
surcharge for the free phone, meaning
that “free” phone really costs you £270.
After the initial 18 months, you’ve paid
off that phone in full, so why should
keep paying the £15 per month sur-
charge for the phone? In a straw poll,
I’ve found that the vast majority of
people keep paying the surcharge after
the initial length of their contract, in
essence throwing £15 per month down
the drain, or into the network’s cof-
fers, for no reason. Therefore, if you’ve
completed the original term of your
contract, you should consider switch-
ing to a SIM-only tariff.
On a SIM-only tariff, you only pay
for the airtime, or inclusive minutes;
you don’t pay the phone surcharge be-
cause the tariff doesn’t come with one.
All of the major mobile networks have
SIM-only tariffs available, so usually

