felixSport
Send in your sport reports:
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
High resolution photos only
05.03.10
Carla Mulas Gaelic Football
BUCS championships first for Imperial Gaelic ladies
Indy Leclercq Fencing
Two schools one cup bottle : all the RSM vs CSM action inside
Fencing
have shot
at double
O bottle, where
art thou?
The BUCS Ladies Gaelic Football
Championship Tournament took place
the weekend of the 20th of February,
and for the first time EVER, Imperial
College were represented.
Leaving at 4am to trek all the way
to Manchester for a day of matches
wouldn’t be the most exciting pros-
pect for the majority of students, but
as the girls boarded that sexy IC Ford
Transit spirits were high and everyone
was looking forward to a fun weekend,
with bags packed with sweets, oranges
and feck-loads of pasta.
When we finally got there (much
thanks to Chris who for some crazy
reason volunteered to chauffeur us all
the way there and back) the pitch was
empty, the changing rooms locked and
not an organizer to be seen – typical
GAA. But the girls were eager to get
going, and after a few rushed toilet
breaks in the petrol station across the
road, we changed in the bus and began
our warm-up.
We quickly discovered that we were
a bit of a novelty at the tournament
– having only two Irish players – and
the Brighton captain even went on to
say that it was “so NICE” that we had
taught the other girls how to play.
When our first match finally kicked
off two hours late and on a pitch small
enough to rival a 5-aside football pitch,
the girls were ready for it. Brighton was
a tough team, all experienced players,
but our girls didn’t give them an inch.
The opening few minutes saw Carla
the Angry Argentinean slot a ball eas-
ily between the posts – a great opener
for the tournament. Brighton weren’t
happy. As their condescending captain
screamed bloody murder at them all
through the game they fought hard,
but just not hard enough. Every 50-
50 ball was well contested and every
tackle was hard. With brilliant play all
over the pitch from IC, Brighton was
cracking.
The 2nd half was much the same.
Brighton’s captain, in fairness to her,
got a couple of nice points but these
were well overshadowed by a well-
placed goal from Cath Parkinson. With
2minutes to go the score was 1-01 (4)
to 0-02 to IC. Unfortunately as the
pressure mounted a few silly mistakes
on our part resulted in 2 easy free-
kicks that went straight over the bar,
leaving the game at 4 points apiece.
Brighton was lucky to get away with a
draw – and they knew it.
The next game didn’t go so well. The
girls fought hard but unfortunately
our inexperience on the pitch started
to show. With some lovely team play
and passing and some great runs down
the line from the girls, Imperial left no
doubt to the amount of work they’d put
in over the previous 5 months. A beau-
tifully taken long-range point under
pressure saw Hilda Dooley put IC on
the scoreboard, but this was no match
for Stirling’s tally.
A special mention to Jade Yap who
played her first match of the year, and
despite being the tiniest player on the
pitch and marking someone at least
twice her size, managed to get away
some good passes.
The rest of the matches followed
with more of the same. With Mia
‘Gobby’ Gorman making some spec-
tacular saves and clearances, the girls
battled to keep the scoreline down, and
even managed to put a few scores on
the board with two points from Carla
against defending champions Solford,
and Chloe McKeon capitalizing on a
well placed pass against Chester.
So, after (briefly) lamenting our loss,
we headed back to our hotel and got
ready to go out for a night in the North.
From a couple of casual drinks in
Spoons with 50 year old women in hair
extensions and ridiculous mini-dresses
to getting in on the Tiger-Tiger guest
list for wearing our GAC training jack-
ets, it was definitely a night to remem-
ber and despite the early start and trek
back home, it was a great weekend.
Well done to all the girls that played
– you did yourselves proud!
Fancy trying Gaelic out?
We are still training!
Contact Katie: kc208@ic.ac.uk
Last Wednesday the IC fencing club
had another day of matches to try and
prolong what has already been a very
good season for the club. Three en-
counters were scheduled in Ethos : the
Men’s 1sts vs Durham University, the
Women’s 1sts vs Birmingham Univer-
sity and the Men’s 2nds vs Hertford-
shire University.
Both 1st teams were vying for a
semi-final spot in the BUCS Champi-
onships, synonymous with a ticket to
Sheffield alongside the best of Brit-
ish university sport. Spread over four
days, with 6000 athletes competing in
twenty-six sports, the Championships
are a very alluring target for any team,
and the fencing club’s main objec-
tive this season. Victory was therefore
imperative.
The seconds were fencing the semi-
final of the south-eastern conference
cup, a win meaning a place in the final
and a chance of more silverware (not
to mention extending their 8-match
unbeaten run).
Durham turned up on time, despite
the long journey they had to make, and
pretty soon the teams were underway,
beginning with foil. The Imperial cap-
tain was still suffering from a bout of
stomach flu, and was replaced by Chris
Gilliam. The foilists posted an easy
win, displaying some very solid fencing
and giving the sabreurs a lead which
they extended to the point that the fi-
anl weapon, epee, only needed to score
two hits (in a match to 45!) to wrap up
proceedings.
The girls made similarly short work
of Birmingham, with Hannah Bryars
displaying impressive sabre skills de-
spite being a resolute foilist. The final
score was a very large 135-58 win to
Imperial.
The 2nds had a much tighter match
against Hertfordshire, showing great
determination and grit to win by a
meager seven hits, 115-108. This puts
them into the final of the cup against
Surrey.
Wednesday’s successes mean that
both the Men’s and Women’s 1st teams
will be part of the Imperial contingent
travelling up to Sheffield next week to
try a nd grab the highest honours Uni-
versity sport has to offer. Both teams
are in with a very good chance of win-
ning...How far can the fencing club go?

