6
COMMENT
Comment Editor
Comment Editor Ravi Pall
Ravi Pall
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
felix FRIDAY 05 MARCH 2010
The Union have got it all wrong
Dan Wan
Dan Wan Editor-in-Chief
I
n last week’s issue, felix an-
nounced the bar names that won
the online polls set up to find
names for the newly renovated
bar and nightclub next year. The
Union wanted to ensure that Phase 3
was student-led from the very begin-
ning. They made this very clear; from
discussion groups to name suggesting,
they were keen to give this final stage
of redevelopments in Beit Quad over
to the people that will be using it.
Student apathy has long been a prob-
lem at Imperial. People either care too
much or too little, and that’s a major
problem. As a result, instead of cele-
brating the fact the students have both
hands firmly on the Phase 3 steering
wheel, there is a sense of a ‘don’t say we
didn’t ask’ attitude seeping from the
Union offices.
It was all going as well as the Union
could hope for, until last week’s last
minute decision to not use the winning
name of the new bar. Despite putting
the name ‘Library’ on the shortlist,
fears in the Union offices grew as
quickly as its lead did in the polls. If
they didn’t think it was suitable, they
shouldn’t have placed it on the shortlist
of four from the start.
The name ‘Consort’ made a late surge
the night before voting closed and end-
ed up as the most popular name, albeit
by only three votes. However, come
Wednesday when the names were due
to be announced in Friday’s felix, inde-
cision brought to light plenty of issues
that just need to be mentioned.
The final solution President Ashley
Brown and Deputy President (Finance
& Services) Daniel Hill ended up with
was to scrap the least popular name on
the poll, ‘Crown & Shield’, and re-open
the poll with another suggested name
to replace it. No specific time-scale was
given on when and how the new name
will make it to the poll, and indeed
when the poll will actually become
live. There are mutterings it will be in
the Summer Term, and this is the term
most College students have exams or
end-of-degree research projects to be
completing. The students suggested
a total of 150 names for both bar and
nightclub, and who says they’re going
to have any more time or inspiration
in the Summer term to come up with
anything that beats what was judged
the best and most suitable four names
originally shortlisted.
The Union claim to be listening to
the student body by holding off on a
new name for the bar. What they’ve
read is the 50-odd blog replies on
their website where the online polls
were located. With around 900 votes
cast across both polls and about 50
people complaining, that’s around 6%
dissatisfaction.
The people who don’t mind the
names, or, dare I say it, like the names,
have voted and voiced their opinion.
Yet apparently the 131 people who
wanted Consort as the new bar name
have been ignored, alongside the 127
people who wanted Quad, and the fur-
ther 126 people who preferred Library.
Below is a sample of the complaints
that can be seen online. I’ve been slow-
clapping at my laptop for a good two
hours now just reading some of the
comments.
“Consort (again, unimaginative, esp
with Prince Consort Road right around
the corner..I’d like to know whether the
person who suggested such a name
knew the meaning of it?)”
Buddy, I think the idea of ‘Consort’
stemmed very clearly from the fact
Beit Quad lies on Prince Consort
Road. Ain’t those Manchester United
lads so bloody unoriginal naming their
stadium Old Trafford?! It’s not like it’s
in a place called Trafford or nuffink!
The students picked the original 150
names, and the only discrepancy of the
process has been how the shortlist was
made. The committee who took down
the 150 names to two short lists of five
and four for the nightclub and bar re-
spectively wasn’t entirely student-led.
It had one student, three student-sab-
baticals and three members of staff
present.
There should have been more or-
dinary students invited to the meet-
ing, but of course any combination of
names picked from the original 150
names would have angered some-
one. This process was never going to
please everybody and the Union have
folded under the slightest of pressures
of about 50 people’s displeasure at the
both the bar and nightclub names.
There are plenty of people calling the
name ‘Metric’ “embarrassing” on the
Union website also, but this name ap-
parently still remains ‘usable’.
Whenever the Union do decide to
re-open the poll with new suggestions
for the bar, they better tread carefully.
At the same time, however, they need
to be bullish enough to make a final
decision. They have been guilty of do-
ing neither this time around. Although,
don’t you just see the same thing un-
folding all over again, but this time
with even fewer people in favour and
against the new shortlist?
What a mess the Union finds itself in.
The Union has been run without any
major hiccups so far this year, but after
this fiasco, it looks like it’s starting to
choke.
AlexKendall defendstheUnionrefurbishment
I
n last week’s edition of felix,
Colin Hill outlined his opposi-
tion to the Beit redevelopment.
He believes the £2.4m would
be better spent elsewhere and
that da Vinci’s and dB’s are fine as they
are. In his defence, putting some of
this money back into Clubs and Soci-
eties seems like a good idea. After all
they are definitely facing budget cuts
next year and most Clubs have a good
attendance.
However, I think a good indicator of
future renovations are those that have
already occurred. As anyone involved
in Clubs and Societies will hope-
fully tell you, the new SAC has been
a God-send. It has more computers,
more space, a good layout and feels
like somewhere where Presidents and
Treasurers of the various clubs and
CSBs can sort out their paperwork. The
staff offices and SAC are now together.
Previously the offices were closed-plan
and the SAC was in the basement. The
renewal makes clubs better, far more
than spreading the money the SAC re-
development cost around the various
clubs would have done.
So is spending any money on a new
club and bar really unnecessary? In
writing this I think you can guess that
I do not think so. Colin (can I call you
Colin? I’m going to assume so since
you haven’t replied to my email) makes
the point that Cheapskates (a pretty
rank club in central London) gets
plenty of attendance even though the
decor is minimal because of the cheap
drinks. I agree that it is the people not
the place that makes a night out good,
but I don’t think that is a good reason
for letting the Union’s interior decora-
tion rot even further.
And then of course there is the ex-
ample of the Reynolds, which up until
its renovation was making losses of up
to £9000 per year. For the first time last
year it broke even. This is the perfect
example showing how renovation im-
proves the desirability of a place to go
drinking.
We are, after all, trying to attract
more people than those who want to
get completely drunk on cheap drinks.
There should be a place for everyone,
from hardcore drinkers to those who
just want to be social. That is why the
Union Bar is popular; it is a comfort-
able environment with an atmosphere
of its own. The massive tables in da
Vinci’s and the rather strange black
and white paint do little to make it
attractive for small social gatherings.
And dB’s with its bizarre floor colour-
ings, tiny distant bar and fluorescent
lighting when used as a da Vinci’s over-
flow room gives possibly the worst
welcome I have ever seen. Regardless
of who I sit in there with it does not
feel relaxing but more like a hospital
reception. The seating is completely
wrong for a club and there aren’t even
lights at the back.
If you have even the smallest vision
of what the bar and club could be like,
think of it as not just remodelling with
a new paint job, but the attempt to
create a new atmosphere where peo-
ple want to drink or relax or dance.
It is a credit to the people who have
put these plans together that it can
be paid for with no overt cut to Clubs
and Societies funding. Phases 1 and 2
have worked extremely well and so will
Phase 3.
People do come first, but place
comes second. Paying for people is
probably illegal, and pretty sleazy; pay-
ing for place is something we can do.
“There should be a
place for everyone,
from hardcore
drinkers to those
who just want to
be social.”
Write for Comment! Make your voice heard. Or, rather, read. Like this. comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk

