7
felix FRIDAY 05 MARCH 2010
I
discovered the online analogy
for human suffering that is Cha-
tRoulette this week. For those
who haven’t been scarred for life
by the experience – you know
what the Daily Mail claims the Inter-
net is like? ChatRoulette is like that. It
starts off pretty well – you log in and
it displays a cheery welcome message
and two little mini-screens. One is
‘You’ and the other is ‘Stranger’, a word
that has never been so appropriate
in so many simultaneous yet distinct
ways. There’s a friendly “Start” button,
which immediately triggers a Pavlovian
response you inherited from a child-
hood spent playing Super Mario Bros.
so you click it. ChatRoulette then ran-
domly selects someone else connected
to their site, and displays their webcam
feed in the box.
“Random”, “Display” and “Webcam”
are the key three words here, although
the key three words shortly become
“Wanking”, “Hairy” and “Freudian”.
Both parties have a ‘Skip’ button which
autoconnects them to another user,
but the man dressed as spiderman at-
tempting to have sex with a melon
is a bit too busy to press any buttons
other than his own perverted ones, and
frankly the act of you pressing skip is
pretty futile unless you want to rejig
the scene and see a man dressed as a
melon having sex with a spiderman
doll, or something equally surreal.
It really does let the full horror of the
Internet out, resulting in something a
bit like Schrodinger’s cat placed inside
Pandora’s box; the next webcam both
does and doesn’t include a man indulg-
ing his genitalia, but the act of observ-
ing is seriously fucking discouraged.
And I really do mean discouraged –
the most distasteful cameras involved
faked suicide scenes piped into the
webcam feed from a movie file and
set to loop. Then you skip to the next
camera and find a mother and father
sitting down with their six year-old
son, browsing the site, and you despair
for the human race.
But thinking about it awhile, I think
it may have its uses. See, I reckon it’s
a good way to weed out the weaker
candidates for the sabbatical positions
this year. What you do is, you sit every
Imperial student down in front of a we-
bcam, and get the would-be President
to skip through each and every one of
the cretinous, bellowing arseholes that
inhabit the majority of this institu-
tion. If, after the first three thousand
or so, the candidate still gives a venti
skimmed-milk toss about the welfare
of the student body, then they deserve
the position, right then and there. My
guess is you’d be without a Union team
for a good half-decade, but it’d still be
a worthy selection process.
Or better still, use ChatRoulette as
a ‘replacement’ for the Union team.
Think about it – need someone to
make a policy decision about the future
of Imperial’s ten thousand gurning for-
mula chuffers? Log onto ChatRoulette
and bing! Instant Union President. You
might think that the guy who’s blacked
up and is in the process of making
a smoothie in the nude whilst sing-
ing Sheena Easton songs might not
have much to say on the topic of the
NUS, but I managed a perfectly cogent
conversation with him. It just mostly
involved questions about my sexual
preferences, and there’s nothing wrong
with that. I’m sure Ashley Brown opens
most Union meetings with a quick en-
quiry about whether anyone’s ever
copulated with their own siblings.
The way I see it is, the elections as
they exist today are functionally equiv-
alent to ChatRoulette anyway. You log
onto a website, click through a bunch
of gurning faces that you’ll never see
ever again, and choose to give your
time to the one who disgusts you least.
Why not just save everyone the misery
of pretending to care at Hustings and
just take the next logical step?
RhysDaviesisliving life in the fast lane
I
f God had wanted us to walk, he
would have given us legs. Given
the evidence, I guess he actually
does.
I say this because I’m quite a
fan of walking. It gets you from A to B,
and even C if you’re lucky. It’s some-
times faster than public transport and
is always cheaper. I am often pleasantly
surprised at where I end up when I just
sit back and let my legs get on with it.
The scienticians say that it’s good for
you too, so all is well.
Now, I’ve been walking for as long
as I can remember, and quite pos-
sible longer. It’s a fine way to travel
and has always come naturally to me.
Trundling along at four kilometres
an hour was just fine for me. Ok, so I
wore out my trainers a few times, and
no-one could stand near me in an un-
ventilated room, and sometimes I got
blisters that could block out the sun,
but it was a small price to pay for my
perambulations.
But recently, I’ve discovered some-
thing better. It’s like walking on fast-
forward. It’s walking-X, walking2.0. It’s
the greatest innovation in the forward
gait since the odour-eater.
I’ve discovered running.
With no previous experience, I was
relieved to find that the method was
remarkably similar to walking: put one
foot in front of the other and repeat
until you hit something. Admittedly,
it’s faster – quite a bit faster. The bone-
rattling, bladder-busting break-neck
speeds of twelve kilometres an hour!
I’m surprised that this extreme sport
doesn’t come with a safety helmet –
someone might get hurt.
Running holds many advantages
over its tamer cousin, walking. For one,
as I’ve said, it’s faster. This means you
get places quicker. Which is rather use-
ful when you’re pressed for time and
other abstract commodities. You can
even rival the lightning-fast might of
the London Underground. Take that,
Boris Johnson! Furthermore, you of-
ten work up a sweat doing so. And, as
many leading scienticians tell me, this
is part of a phenomenon known as “ex-
ercise” which, for some strange reason,
is good for you. In fact, they tell me
that the more you exercise, the better
you get at it. This means you can run
even faster. Wahey! This means, given
enough time, you can eventually run
faster than the speed of light. I’m quite
sure that’s how Physics works.
However, running does have its
downsides. You sweat, like I just said.
This has the unfortunate consequence
of making your whole body smell like
a bull elephant’s armpit. Most people
don’t find this terribly endearing and
you probably want to avoid those that
do – zoo keepers and other undesira-
bles. Also, just like more people are in-
jured in rugby (and other real sports)
than in football, running takes a
heavier toll on the body than the more
august walking. My father has been
running for much longer than I have
since he is, so it happens, quite a bit
older than myself. After, I assume, cen-
turies of chasing after schoolchildren
(It’s all right – he’s a PE teacher), his
knees have turned to dust. When the
surgeons replaced them, it was akin to
pouring sand out of your plimsoll after
a day at the beach. If God had wanted
us to run, he wouldn’t have invented
arthritis.
But ending my days in a wheelchair
wouldn’t be so bad. Stephen Hawk-
ing uses a wheelchair, as does Profes-
sor Xavier, and they both seem like
pretty groovy fellows. Who knows? By
the time my legs finally clap out, we
may have perfected robotic leg tech-
nology; I could run even faster – and
fire rockets at the same time! I must
start making ties within the MechEng
department.
People started running as a means of
escaping furry things with large teeth
– like leopards. They kept on running
when they realised the heady thrill of
overtaking other people. They’re still
running now, to that elusive bus in
the morning rush-hour, or from a very
persistent leopard. And I predict peo-
ple will be running for a long time to
come – so long as we still have buses
and leopards.
I’ve heard it said that Life isn’t a hun-
dred metre sprint, and, unless you’re
Usain Bolt, that’s probably true. So
walk, take your time, stop to smell the
roses. Just one word of warning:
Watch out for when I smoke you in
my running shoes!
Angry Geek shows his all on ChatRoulette
“I’ve heard it said
that Life isn’t a
hundred metre
sprint, and, unless
you’re Usain Bolt,
that’s true.”
“It really does let
the full horror
of the Internet
out, resulting in
Schrodinger’s
cat placed inside
Pandora’s box”
700-900 words with a mugshot. What are you waiting for? comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk

