8 felix FRIDAY 05 MARCH 2010
BUSINESS
Business Editor
Business Editor Sina Ataherian
Sina Ataherian
business.felix@imperial.ac.uk
What has happened to Class Warfare?
Balancing recent articles in this section, Philip Avraam argues for expanding government intervention
T
he issue of ‘class war’
briefly arose in our na-
tion’s politics a few weeks
ago after Gordon Brown
commented in December
that Conservative Party policy had
been “dreamed up on the playing fields
of Eton”. As usual, the real issues of
class and class conflict were carefully
avoided, in favour of a slagging match
between politicians about who went
to which elite public school. The only
noteworthy point to come out of the
whole fiasco, only because of what it
shows about the people involved, was
the complete denial even of the exist-
ence of social classes by some Con-
servative Party spokespeople – most
notably, Kenneth Clarke (shadow busi-
ness secretary) on the BBC’s Question
Time that week, a point on which he
stood in splendid isolation among
those on the panel.
Meanwhile, in the real world, the
last few weeks and months have seen
an increase in industrial action across
Europe. Workers have been told by
their superiors that they must accept
pay-cuts and layoffs as part of the
“necessary savings” that companies
and governments are seeking to make,
so that they can get safely through the
recession. At the same time, an an-
nual survey of boardroom pay run by
the Guardian revealed in September
that executive salaries had actually in-
creased by more than twice the rate of
inflation in the UK last year (2008/9),
more than three times the the rate of
the average worker, although bonus
payments had seen a reduction.
To cite examples of the dispropor-
tionate impact of the recession on the
poor is misleading because the phe-
nomenon is universal. “Unemploy-
ment hurts normal workers who do
not have the golden parachutes the
folks at the top have”, commented Har-
vard economist Richard Freeman, re-
ferring to the US economy.
This recent wave of wage cuts and
layoffs for the poorest, must be placed
in its proper historical context – that
of a 30 year long assault on workers’
incomes, and sky-rocketing inequal-
ity. A study from the National Equality
Panel published in January is the most
recent to reveal this trend. Income in-
equality has been rising ever since the
late-1970’s, with an accelerated rate of
increase during the 1980s. Real-term
wage growth for lower-income work-
ers has stagnated, and has occasionally
declined over the period – despite the
(rather tepid, by post-war standards)
economic growth. Put another way,
the extra income resulting from the
economic growth of the past 30 years
has gone almost entirely to those in the
highest income brackets.
What has happened in the last 30
years? With the election of Thatcher in
the UK in 1979 and Reagan in the US
dawned the era of a new economic ide-
ology which has been operative all the
way up to the present, loosely known as
neo-liberalism (or sometimes, neo-lib-
eral globalisation), which Nobel Prize
winning economist Joseph Stiglitz
has characterised as “that grab-bag of
ideas based on the fundamentalist no-
tion that markets are self-correcting,
allocate resources efficiently, and serve
the public well. […] [It favours] privati-
zation, liberalization, and independent
central banks focused single-mindedly
on inflation”.
These policies have been enthusiasti-
cally supported by most western gov-
ernments and their extremely happy
corporate sponsors, and have been
cited by many leading economists as
the reason for rising inequality, as well
as the increased depth and frequency
of financial crises over this period.
When governments, with enthusi-
astic support and sponsorship from
big business, implement policies that
favour the interests of business elites
over those of the ordinary worker,
there can be no mistaking this as any-
thing other than a thirty year long class
assault, against which there has been
little retaliation.
Given this sombre reality, why
doesn’t the government implement
policies to ensure that those “folks at
the top” with their “golden parachutes”
bare a larger share of the burden? The
answer was explained by economist
Michael Porter of Harvard Business
School at a London conference of 250
global investors this month where, in
reference to the 50p income tax rate
due in April for those earning more
than £150,000, he told the FT, “If it
goes any higher than that, and if that
is perceived as being a long-term pol-
icy, then I think that’s going to create
some real problems in the long run”, to
which chief economist at the Institute
of Directors added, “... we need to get
the tax burden down to attract foreign
investors. […] If other countries are
cheaper, they win”.
What this shows is that in our liber-
alised global economy, governments
are extremely restricted in what they
can do, because of the increased power
of international capital. A government
with ambitions to implement a redis-
tributive tax which might benefit the
poor, for example, can be, and often
has been, disciplined by international
capital through devices such as the
threat of capital flight and subsequent
speculation on currency. A 2006 arti-
cle in the Washington Post estimated
that although France’s ‘wealth tax’ has
raised $2.6bn a year for the govern-
ment, it has cost the country more
than $125bn since 1998 as a result of
capital flight. Capital flight and cur-
rency speculation have been cited as
major contributors to the Asian crisis
of the 1990s and various recent crises
in Latin American countries around
the turn of the century.
The increased power of international
corporations within a deregulated glo-
bal system has led to a tendency for
governments to compete against each
other to create the most favourable
investment conditions possible in an
attempt to lure in big business – mean-
ing a drive towards lower taxes for the
rich, and lower wages for the poor, an
international tendency which radical
economist Robin Hahnel calls a “race
to the bottom”.
Things weren’t always like this. From
the end of WWII until the 1970s the
Bretton-Woods international regula-
tory system restricted capital flight
and currency speculation (among oth-
er regulatory arrangements), giving
governments a certain space in which
they could implement social-demo-
cratic policies, leading to the creation
of things like the modern welfare-
state, which has benefited so many.
This period, often referred to as the
‘golden age’ of capitalism, also saw, at
the same time, much higher rates of
taxation for the rich, and much higher
economic growth than has been seen
in the last 30 years. High-levels of tax-
ation and economic growth are not at
all mutually exclusive, as we would be
forgiven for believing if we listened
only to the economists representing
the 250 largest global investors at the
London conference this month. Fur-
thermore, the growth seen during
this period was relatively egalitarian
– the income inequality gap reduced
substantially.
The central problem of our time,
then, for those of us who still value
democracy, is the centralisation of
economic power in the hands of
unelected, largely unregulated pri-
vate corporations, and their abil-
ity to sometimes undermine, and
other times sponsor the policies
of governments by their decisions
about where and when to invest or
de-vest. It is the responsibility of
the powerful to negotiate a new in-
ternational regulatory framework
which restricts the power of private
capital, and goes some way towards
returning power to democratically
elected bodies. Workers need not
and should not accept the dictates
of an international system in which
they have little democratic represen-
tation. They have good reason to be
angry, they have good reason to pro-
test and good reason to strike.
felix writers are regularly beaten up by editor Dan Wan (third from left) and his
goons. Kadhim Shubber has promised to end the practice if elected Editor.
The Gini Coefficient is a standard measure of variance in incomes. The scale is from zero (everyone earns the same) to 1
(one person earns everything). This graph for the UK is typical of the developed world over the timeframe shown.
“wage cuts and
layoffs must be
placed in proper
historical context
– a 30 year long
assault on worker’s
incomes”
“A drive towards
lower taxes for the
rich, lower wages
for the poor”

