SCIENCE
Science Editors
Science Editors Nathan Ley & Brigette Atkins
Nathan Ley & Brigette Atkins
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
9
felix FRIDAY 05 MARCH 2010
James Goldsack
James Goldsack
Fusion energy production has got a
step closer according to new research
recently published. The controlled fu-
sion of atoms has long been consid-
ered a possible revolutionary energy
source. However, doubts have been
raised about the use of high energy
lasers to obtain this due to the plasma
they create. The fear is that this plasma
could interrupt the fusion. An article
published in Science has shown that
plasma is far less of a problem than
expected.
The report is based upon initial ex-
periments from the National Ignition
Facility in the US, using all 192 of its la-
ser beams. The experiments also broke
the record for the highest energy from
a laser by a factor of 20. The facility at
Lawrence Livermore National Labora-
tory took 12 years to construct and was
only completed in May 2009. In con-
trast to current nuclear power – fission
– the facility’s goal is the creation of a
controlled thermonuclear explosion by
harnessing the power of the largest la-
ser ever built.
Proving that a fusion reaction in the
lab can release more energy than is
required for ignition could usher in a
new era of large-scale energy produc-
tion. NIF uses a technique called in-
ertial confinement fusion where the
target is a centimetre-scale cylinder of
gold called a hohlraum. This contains
a pellet of fuel made from deuterium.
The plasma that lasers will create in
the hohlraum was one potential hurdle
to the success of the process. The fear
was that the plasma would interrupt
the absorption of energy by the target
and disturb the uniform funnelling of
this energy, compressing and igniting
the target.
Siegfried Glenzer led a team to test
this theory. “We hit it with 669 kilo-
joules – 20 times more than any pre-
vious laser facility”. The experiments
provided proof that the plasma did not
disrupt the process, with about 95% of
incident laser light being absorbed by
the hohlraum. Furthermore, Dr Glen-
zer’s team discovered that the plasma
can be carefully manipulated to in-
crease the uniformity of the compres-
sion – a key component for achieving
ignition.
“For the first time ever in the 50-year
journey of laser fusion, these laser-
plasma interactions have been shown
to be less of a problem than predicted,
not more,” said Mike Dunne, direc-
tor of the UK’s Central Laser Facility
and leader of the European laser fu-
sion effort, HiPER. “I can’t overstate
how dramatic a step that is,” he said.
“Many people a year ago were saying
the project would be dead by now.”
Since the publication in Science, the
pulse energy has been increased to one
megajoule onto the target, a further in-
crease of 50%. The latest calculations
show that about 1.2 megajoules of en-
ergy will be enough to cause ignition
and NIF has the capability to run up to
1.8 megajoules.
Dr Glenzer said that experiments us-
ing slightly larger hohlraums with fuel
pellets, including a mix of the hydro-
gen isotopes deuterium as well as tri-
tium, should commence before May
before increasing the power gradually
to 1.2 megajoules. “The bottom line is
that we can extrapolate those data to
the experiments we are planning this
year and the results show that we will
be able to drive the capsule towards ig-
nition,” said Dr Glenzer. “It’s going to
happen this year.”
Is this a vision
of the future?
Science Editor
A step closer for nuclear fusion
James Goldsack
James Goldsack
Scientists have now decided that
a strong cup of coffee could save
a life, after finding out that it can
protect the heart. This is the find-
ing from US medical giant Kaiser
Permanente’s Division of Research
in California, and it has found that
coffee in all doses can protect from
heart disease. The study followed 130,054 men and women be-
tween the ages of 18 and 90 and found that those who drunk four
or more cups of coffee per day had an 18% lower risk of hospi-
talisation for heart rhythm disturbances. This however isn’t good
enough to prove cause and effect, even though it may offer some
reassurance to people. A similar study from the Universidad Au-
tonoma de Madrid in Spain showed similar results in that drinking
three cups of coffee a day could reduce the risk of women dying
from heart disease by a quarter.
Austin Sendek, a student at the University of California
has started a campaign to create a new prefix for de-
scribing quantities with a magnitude in the range of 1027
. His online petition to call to allocate a prefix of ‘hella’ to
this figure already has the signatures of 20,000 scientists
and members of the public. If introduced, it would be
the first new prefix brought in to use since 1991 when
zetta and yotta became the official prefixes for 1021
and
1024
respectively. Professor Mills of the University of
Reading has promised to raise the petition at the next
meeting of the Consultative Committee for Units but in
a letter to Sendek said “I’m sure it will be received with
smiles - but I doubt it will go further.” The main reason
the name is likely to be rejected is that prefixes such as
zetta and yotta, brought in nearly 20 years ago, are still
not in common use and a new prefix at this stage will
only add to further confusion. Also, most prefixes stem
from a Latin or Greek origin – rather than North Califor-
nian slang for ‘a-lot-of.’
If a new report from Im-
perial College and the
University of Surrey is
to be believed, when
it comes to achieving a
carbon-free UK, relying
on ‘clean’ electricity is not
the answer. According to
the report, the quest for clean electricity is likely to face
‘critical challenges’ as we see a switch from the use of fossil
fuels to electricity in areas such as transport. The demand
for electricity has the potential to double over the coming
years meaning a significant increase in the number of low-
emission power stations being built. A ‘combined heat and
power’ approach has the potential to reduce electricity de-
mand by 13% and cut fossil fuel consumption by 5%, the
report estimates.
A new ‘skinput’ device is being devel-
oped by Carnegie Mellon University in
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania and research-
ers in Microsoft’s research lab in Red-
mond, Washington.
It involves a combination of a micro-
chip sized pico-projector (which creates
the changing display) and a sensor that
192 lasers bombarded a small pellet of deuterium fuel with an energy twenty
times that of any previous experiment.
In
brief
The naming of 1027 Waste heat solution Coffee protects heart
A record-breaking experiment at the National Ignition Facility
restores faith in nuclear fusion through inertial confinement
A video showing how ‘skinput’ can recognise a telephone number input
can tell which part of your body your
arm is tapping. This is based on the idea
that different skin locations are acous-
tically distinct due to bone density and
a filtering effect from soft tissues and
joints. Software is then used to match
sound frequencies (the complex longi-
tudinal waveforms) to specific locations
on the skin. Different interactive capa-
bilities can be bound to different loca-
tions, and so you have a fully fledged
sensor.
The idea behind this device is the ap-
parent desire for people not to have to
carry around extra surfaces with them,
especially for inputs. The skinput de-
vice takes this idea and harnesses the
intrinsic benefit of our own obligation
to carry arms around with us. This be-
ing said, the prototype requires the user
to wear an armband. However the hope
is that the system could use wireless
bluetooth technology to transmit the
commands to many types of devices
such as phones, Ipods, and even PC’s.
Accuracies as high as 95.5% were
able to be achieved at five different
skin locations, which would suppos-
edly be enough for several smartphone
applications.
This would, however, need to be
improved to be able to feasibly go to
market.
Twenty volunteers tested the system
and reported that it was easy to navigate
through icons on the forearm and by
tapping fingers to execute commands.

