24 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON FELIX
17.10.2014
Arts Editors Fred Fyles & Kamil McClelland
Arts
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Welcome to LeoSoc
In a whitewashed room, you sit
down, eyes closed, and your head
gets wrapped in cling film. A
bearded man with a wide grin starts
smothering your face in Vaseline.
Others join in. There are a lot of
fingers. Then they begin covering
your face in cold, dripping strips of
cloth; your mouth gets wedged shut,
you’re left with only tiny nose holes
to breathe through and your eyes are
covered. You’re being mummified!
Bloody heck! At this point you’re just
hoping for a decent sized pyramid.
Then they leave you. Distant chatter,
that effing guy’s beard, and perhaps
the sounds of others suffering the
same fate as you is all you can hear.
Beardman is clearly the ringleader.
You start thinking of all the
things you won’t be able to do
as a mummy. No more PG Tips.
Your place as Dodgeball Captain is
sure to be under threat. The Meat
Appreciation Society have probably
already excommunicated you. You’re
resigned to a quiet mummy life, then.
Take up the ukelele. Adopt a goldfish.
You could call it Jack. But after an
age, an absolute age, another minion
of the Beardman approaches and
starts PULLING your face off! They
yank and grab and pull and suddenly
COLOUR! SIGHT! You can see! You’re
a bewildered headlights-rabbit but
someone hands you something and
you look down. Your face is staring
back at you; there’s a blank, slightly
scared expression on it, but it’s
definitely your face. A mask of your
face. Neat. You admire your eyebrows.
Maybe you touch noses. Welcome to
LeoSoc.
LeoSoc is Imperial’s art society,
and meets every Monday, 18 30 to
20 30, for art related antics in Huxley
340. Regardless of your art skills,
expertise, or how much chamomile
tea you drink, you’ll probably have
a blast. We also run tutored sessions
in acrylic painting, life drawing and
digital art. Last year’s maskmaking
session was in preparation for a
collaboration with PhotoSoc and
Calligraphy & Oriental Arts. It was
crazy fun. More info is available at
facebook.com/LeoSoc or union.ic.ac.
uk/arts/leonardo/
(See an example of the art produced
at LeoSoc on the right)
Kieran Ryan gives us the lowdown on the Fine Arts Society
Student Art
Raven by Sadhira Wagiswara
Surface Pro 3 Tablet, on Photoshop CC
© 2014 PwC. All rights reserved.
PwC refers to the PwC network and/or one or more of its member firms, each of which is a separate legal entity. Please see www.pwc.com/structure for further details.
A new kind of Consultant
Strategy& is changing the landscape of the consulting industry with PwC. We’re the firm combining the best strategic and practical
expertise to help clients build the differentiating capabilities they need to outperform their competitors. Join us at the start to build an
extraordinary career and change the way the world thinks about strategy and how it’s done. Find out more at our website:
strategyandyou.pwc.com/uk
Or come and meet us in person at our Strategy& Imperial Presentation Evening on:
29 October 2014 at the Imperial College Campus from 7pm – 9pm.
Closing date for graduate applications: 6 November 2014
Closing date for internship applications: 8 January 2014
Join a revolutionary consulting business
Build something great

