28 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON FELIX
17.10.2014
Food
food.felix@imperial.ac.uk Editors Carol Ann Cheah and Michael Chung
How To Drink That
Bartenders love cheek and innuendoes just as the next person (this pic calls for one including
the word "pummel"). Just not so much from drunk customers. Photo: Felix Food
Serverella talks student-budget imbibery
"[They
trust] me
to not
freely
throw
around
free shit or
'hook you
up'."
Hey guys – you might
remember me from the
final issue last academic
year, where I cracked the whip on
how to not suck at eating out. Since
then there have been people who’ve
asked how to not suck at cocktail bar
hopping and picking out drinks, given
the steep prices here in London Town.
As someone working at the coalface
of such chi-chi establishments (read
cocktail bars), I’ve heard more than
my fair share of bartender grumbles
from my colleagues.
We’re only too happy to help you,
the skint student, patronise craft
cocktail bars like a pro (even if you’re
really broke and are at extremely high
risk of pissing us off, because you’re
not seasoned bar hoppers yet).
DO YOUR HOMEWORK
Bartenders work long irregular
hours and have to deal with all sorts
of cruddy customers (before they’re
even drunk), so even if our job is to
smile until our cheek muscles hurt
and be generally congenial, it works
both ways. If the bar’s slammed, make
sure you’re already ready to order by
the time they get round to you.
That goes for you groups as well –
either order one by one, or have the
full group order ready to go when
asked. If you’re still looking over your
shoulder trying to get your friend’s
drink order when we get to you,
we’ll probably move on to the next
customer.
It also helps us a lot more if you’ve
done a bit of research on the type
of drinks sold at the establishment
you’re patronising, and act/order
accordingly. If the bar only does craft
cocktails and you go in there asking
for a pint, you’re just looking for
trouble. It just shows you’re a lazy
customer/drinker and don’t give a
damn, so why should we about you?
Also, don’t just come up to us and
go “what’s the cheapest?” If you don’t
have the money to drink, stay at
home. When you go out drinking
you’re meant to budget for that -
AND tips. Which brings us to...
TIPPING
Pretty much the bartender’s
lifeblood, whether you’re in a hipster
hangout in Brooklyn or a cultured
establishment in London. It’s also the
best way to get on our good side.
Where possible, tip in cash as it’s
the easiest for us to take home there
and then; if you’re tipping on card,
remember card fees are a money-suck
so adjust your amounts accordingly.
"IT'S MY BIRTHDAY", "I
KNOW THE OWNER" AND
OTHER FREEBIE-BAIT
EXCUSES
These phrases seem to be commonly
followed by the phrase “hook me up,
will ya?” Without fail, those two are
my favorite things to hear every shift.
Every. Damn. Shift. (Not.)
If it’s your birthday, happy
birthday! Hello, you randomer who
I’ve never seen before, and who I’m
likely to never see again for a long
while. You who’ve just come in with
a group of friends who have yet to
buy anything from my joint, not
even a birthday drink for you (even
if you claim you’re going to “spend
loads tonight” and “take care” of me).
I know your kind, and that you’re
most likely to split and run to the
next establishment after you claim
your free shot. You’re probably pretty
wet behind the ears as a proper-bar
drinker, and you’re very unlikely to
tip. Not good business, if you ask me.
Oh, you know the owner? So do I –
it’s hard to not know the person who
signs my paychecks, and they do that
because they trust me enough to be
in their employ. This also includes
trusting me not to freely throw
around free shit or “hook you up”. If
you really know them and they’re
genuinely your friend, you’d also
know that the best way to be a good
friend is to properly support their
establishment and buy your own
damn drinks. Not by being an asshole
and trying to scam them just for the
sake of a freebie.
The Coffee Break Agony Aunt said
it best last week. Bottom line is, don’t
be a dick. If you’re a regular, tip well
and you’re not an asshole, we might
slip you something extra in gratitude.
Being skint students though you’re
not likely to be regulars, so the
general rule in your case is if you
ask/demand for it, you’re definitely
NOT going to get a freebie. Tip us
well, be polite, order a few rounds, be
casual when you let us know it’s your
mate’s birthday without looking like
you’re hoping for something and we’ll
probably scratch your back.
MANNERS
There’s a long list of do’s and don’ts
when it comes to how you should act
around your bartender when they’re
making/serving your drink, as most
people just generally suck at being bar
patrons. But if I were to list it all this
would span a lot more than a whole
page, and our dear section editor
would weep buckets at the massive
hatchet job she’ll have to do. I’m more
than happy to provide a selection of
major peeves and protips, though.
For a start, “hey you!”, “ barkeep!”,
or finger-snapping with your money/
card... none of these are acceptable
ways to get the bartender’s attention,
busy or not. We know you’re there,
and we know what order people
arrived at our bar. We know you want
something – that’s why you’re at the
bar. If we’ve made eye contact, we’ll
get to you. Don’t you DARE wave or
Curried in a hurry...
CAROL ANN CHEAH
SECTION EDITOR
Happy National Curry Week! The title of this editorial
aptly describes this week's instalment of Felix Food,
as I’ve been positively slammed with the first proper
week of lectures.So much that I actually haven't
had time to do my packed lunch routine; my bank
balance is shaking its head in disapproval at me
–oops! Between said lectures and getting settled
into the Felix write-edit-publish routine for the new
academic year,it’s been a flurry of activity here.
So yes.As mentioned,it is National Curry Week
and I'm hoping to either hit Brick Lane later on or do
something with my flatmates for the occasion! I hope
those of you who caught our Foodie InSight with
our curry-pro Michelle last week enjoyed it; we'll be
looking to do that every other week or every month
from now on.
If you're still too chicken (hah!) to start having a
go at making your own,the Felix editors can highly
recommend the offerings at the new Fusion 54
outlet on the Sherfield walkway.They tend to sell
out very quickly,so I'd make sure you get your hands
on their wares the minute lunch starts! Portions are
decently sized,and they do fill you up nicely for the
money-curry or otherwise.And of course,they taste
absolutely great.Incidentally this editorial was
Fuel-ed (hah!) by F54’s chicken korma,which I’m
eating at my desk as I type.
This week's Food column very nearly didn't happen,
as writing about cocktails/alcohol in a student paper
is generally a toughie.I did say in my last editorial to
look out for something along the lines of cocktailing,
but as an editor I'm constantly conscious about
what kind of message I'm sending out with the
pages I curate.We were hoping to go with a feature
on making your own craft cocktails on low budgets
(and still making sure they taste good),but we're still
stuck in the process of trying to get it down without
seeming like we’re encouraging binge drinking.After
all,including the recent BoatGate,we've already
had enough controversies to contend with here at
Imperial.
That said,we're not keen on being nanny-ish or
imposing our own values on our readers.So while
we’ve sent that student budget craft-cocktail feature
back to the drawing board (to find out how best
to not alienate our readers),we've brought back
Serverella,our resident service industry expert snark,
to teach you how to bar hop like a (skint) pro.
I'm really excited for next week's issue,as we've
got a few different things lined up from our writers.
These include a detailed breakdown on making the
perfect macaroni cheese (mac n’cheese to me,blame
my partially American vocabulary) as well as a list of
kitchen hacks.They look really promising,and I hope
you're looking forward to the issue as much as I am.
As always,do get in touch if you've got a great little
place/thing you'd like to recommend,comments on
anything we've written so far,or an idea for a feature
you'd like to see.Better still if you can write it; though
if you're too shy you could pitch the idea and maybe it
might be picked up by one of our writing team–who
knows? Keep on eating,living and laughing,guys!

