THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON 29
17.10.2014
FELIX
Food
food.felix@imperial.ac.uk Editors Carol Ann Cheah and Michael Chung
Protip: "Shake it like a polaroid picture" is probably not something you should yell to your bartender. Ever. Photo: Felix Food
"We love
what we
do, and
we're not as
misanthropic
as people
think."
yell at us, even if you somehow know
our first names.
If you’re ordering as a group/in a
round and we’re busy, don’t insist on
splitting the bill on multiple cards.
Either order individually or get cash,
and don’t start asking us to work
out individual change amounts for
individual drinks in our heads.
On busy nights if all you have is
plastic, you’ll make things easier for
both you and us if you start a tab.
You’ll get served quicker, and – dare I
say it – better. If you’re worried about
blowing your budget, you can tell us
to set a limit (don’t be too cheap) and
we’ll do that gladly. Yes, it’s usually
in our boss’ best interests to keep you
spending, but we can understand that
you want some semblance of control,
especially after a drink or two, and
we’re happy to help like that.
If you’re a closet cocktail
aficionado, well done you! Just make
sure you keep your smartphone app
with its 9000+ recipes containing
12-part shots to yourself. There’s a
certain extent of off-menu-ness to
which we can cater to, so if you’re
ordering classic drinks (margaritas,
martinis etc) but they’re not on our
menu, any of us bartenders worth our
salt will happily make those for you.
Don’t you dare, however, thrust
your iDevice in our faces and go
“can you make an obscure such-and-
such?” For every drink/shot out
there, there are a thousand and one
variants and names for it from bar
to bar, country to country. Playing
“stump the bartender” will only get
you something insipid and muddy
colored, and we’ll charge you triple for
the privilege. Honestly, just don’t.
TO SUM IT UP...
Now remember guys, we happen to be
in control of the liquor you’re trying
to get your grubby paws on. You show
us love, and we’ll pay you back well –
we’re trained to do that. We love what
we do, and we’re not as misanthropic
as people think. Be patient, have some
respect, and we’re not going to stand
in the way of your fun. Have a great
time out!
Bar staff confess:
your worst faux pas
Join us. Our editor-ess makes cute coffee like this...with no espresso
machine. She'll teach you how. Photo: Felix Food
What do we want?
FOOD WRITERS!
When do we want them?
ALL YEAR ROUND!
If you like ranting about the shoddy service you received the last time you ate out,curating“listicles”(list-
articles,Buzzfeed style) about the best things to make with pumpkin,or similar stuff...we want you!
First-time writers very much welcome; we take our time developing your ideas,writing skill,and style
with you.After all,we’ve been there before.All you need to start off is a burning passion for all things
foodie,and a decent command of English.GSAH (good sense of humour) is a bonus,as we like our column
to put a smile on faces; straightforward-funny and subtler dry wit both equally welcome.Not sure you
have it? We can curate that with time.
Simply email food.felix@imperial.ac.uk, and we'll take it from there.
One too many? Photo: hikingartist.com
“I absolutely hate it when customers order
with multiple bartenders due to impatience.
If you've ordered a drink with me,please stay
with me for the whole damn transaction.
Otherwise you'll get more tipple than you
bargained for,and you're just costing us
unecessary waste.”
“You want water? That’s totally fine if you and
your mates have been ordering a few rounds
through the night,and need a breather in
between.But if that's all you constantly ask
me for during the whole night,and you hog
a seat at the bar sipping just your water,then
you and I are going to have a problem.”
“The minute you bark at me to‘make it
strong!’,I'm annoyed.Are you trying to insinu-
ate that I'm going to make you something
weak from the get-go? You trust me,you'll be
well rewarded.If you're not convinced,pay for
a damn double and watch me measure it.”
“I love it when people watch me while I'm
crafting away.When people start giving
snarky commentary like‘ooh,bad shaking
form’or‘hey,not so much juice’...you might as
well stay home and make it yourself,then!”

