30 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON FELIX
17.10.2014
Editor Cecile Borkhataria
Fashion
fashion.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Vogue Fashion’s Night Out with Erdem
The first look of the Erdem Spring/Summer 2015 show at London Fashion Week Photo: Vogue.co.uk
Cecile Borkhataria attends a Q&A session with the designer
Following every Fashion Week,
an industry only bi-annual
event that takes place in the
four major fashion capitals, Vogue
Fashion’s night out takes place. This
event (open to the public, yay!) sees
clothing stores in the major shopping
areas of the city open until late, serve
up cocktails, host DJ sets and even
offer discounts. Of course, these
efforts are in an attempt to entice
shoppers to spend their money, but
as part of the evening’s events, I was
lucky enough to attend a Q&A session
with British-Turkish fashion designer
Erdem.
The talk, chaired by British Vogue
Deputy Editor Emily Sheffield, gave a
fashion-industry outsider the chance
to learn about what the industry is
really like, and just how high pressure
it can be.
Set in the Everyman Cinema on
the Lower Ground floor of Selfridges,
the session felt intimate and relaxed,
but the glasses of champagne served
up were there to remind you that
this was an exclusive affair. After a
video of Erdem’s Spring/Summer
2015 collection was shown, the man
himself finally came in and sat down
with Emily Sheffield.
Emily began by asking Erdem
where he got his inspiration for the
summer collection. The collection, a
combination of loose, flowing dresses,
was inspired by botany and Erdem’s
visits to Kew Gardens. He explained
that when he plans a collection, he
thinks of a narrative and draws out a
story whilst asking himself “where is
the woman I’m dressing going?”
In every runway show, only a
handful of looks from the collection
are actually shown to the audience,
and the decisions of what to show
on the runway take place right up
until the last minute. These decisions
have to take into account many
considerations; such as making
sure the runway show is cohesive
whilst also showcasing pieces that
will appeal to buyer’s for large
department stores.
As if the creative process
couldn’t be more complicated, the
construction of the garments has its
own set of challenges. Materials and
textiles are sourced from Italy and
France, and these usually close shop
for the month of August, making
September a very busy month for the
design team. When it comes to the
fashion week runway show, models
often fly in a night or two before, so
fitting them into their runway outfits
is a last minute job. Erdem pointed
out that for his Summer 2015 show,
the last model fitting took place at
2am on the morning of the show!
Although last minute changes and
tight deadlines are de rigueur in the
fashion world, one can’t help but
wonder how a designer can unwind
and take a break from the stress!
For Erdem, a big glass of wine right
before the show works wonders for
his nerves.
Erdem highlights that the buyers,
those that decide what pieces to
retail in stores, are a big part of
Fashion Week. They are the ones that
will ultimately drive business and
exposure for designers. The buying
process is mathematical, and buyer’s
take into consideration many factors:
how wearable the pieces are, how
much was sold last season and if the
collection fits their target customer.
He notes that buyer’s decisions differ
across the world, because after all, a
woman living in LA shops differently
to a Parisian shopping at Collette!
When asked to define the woman
he designs for, he responds with “she
doesn’t follow trends!” He designs for
a woman who owns what she wears,
an individual and intelligent woman.
“ The woman I design for marches
to her own drum” he said. With an
impressive 160 stockists worldwide,
Erdem’s brand is growing rapidly.
His first flagship store will soon be
opening on Mayfair’s South Audley
street. As a successful designer with
growing traction, Erdem belongs
to the burgeoning group of young
London designers in their 20’s and
30’s, taking the fashion world by
storm. He says that ten years ago,
fewer international buyer’s attended
London Fashion Week, but now
that’s changed.

