32 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON FELIX
17.10.2014
HANGMAN hangman@imperial.ac.uk
Diary Of a Fresher, aged 18 3/4
Sunday 12th October, 2014
Dear Diary,
This week I bought a fountain pen from the Union shop, SO CHEAP WOW
Was going to have a lie in today, but then I realised that I had to go through all my introductory lectures and make notes.
Who said Imperial students don’t have free time. This is eeeeeeeasy!!!
Monday 13th October, 2014
Dear Diary,
Ran out of kleenex already, who knew that the speed of the internet here would be so good. I don’t think i’ll ever be able to
go back to non-HD
Tuesday 14th October, 2014
Dear Diary,
Been banned from the college network for over use of the bandwidth :-(
Wednesday 15th October, 2014
Dear Diary,
Managed to hack into the wi-fi of the primary school next door. High def is back on! Took so long though I might have to
pull an all-nighter to get this marked assement done but I’M TOTALLY GAME LOL
Thursday 16th October, 2014
Dear Diary,
Submitted my marked assessment today. I reckon it will get 85-90% easily. I really can’t believe that the pass rate is 40%
here. It must be impossible to get anything other than a 2:1 and up. I’ll let you know, dear diary, how it goes. Feedback
here apparently is super fast!!
Whet: The Union’s first non-non-
alcoholic night to be held every night
This week, the Union somewhat
successfully ran their first alcohol
free night in the Union Bars.
Hangman has heard rumours that
at one point several people were seen
in the Dri bars. There were further
reports that people were even spotted
in Metric. However, at the time of
going to print, these reports remain
unconfirmed.
Building on the success of this Dri
night, Union overload Wom Theeler
announced today that he would like
to see Dri built upon and run on a
more frequent basis. In his blog, Mr
Theeler announced plans to fully
stock the Dri bar with alcohol, with
the idea of turning the Union into
Whet event poster Credit: Hangman
one big Whet night, every night.
Hangman believes the plan to be
ambitious and so far well received.
We analysed the President’s blog
hit count and it doubled after the
announcement from 3 to 6. A great
success it seems.
When Hangman contacted the
Union to find out what prompted
the change, they responded with,
“We asked for feedback in regard to
Dri and the overwhelming reply was
“never go in Dri”. We then sat down
with all the Student Trustees (Sabbs).
The Deputy President of Welfare,
Khris Caye made the point ‘that it is
always hard to get people in Metric
without liquid lubrication’, so we
thought we can easily fix that with
alcohol.”
One Felix Editor-in-Chief was
quoted as saying “Whetter is always
better, I’ll be there in Metric with my
gin, soda, limes getting Whet” . She
went on to invite anyone that wanted
to get Whet with her to join her this
Friday night for the launch of Whet.
On a completely unrelated note,
the President of the Imperial College
School of Medicine Students’ Union
has put in his calendar that he too
will be in Metric this Friday.
Let’s hope that we’ll be getting
Whet in Metric for years to come.

