36 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON FELIX
C & S Editor VACANT
Clubs and Societies
felix@imperial.ac.uk
17.10.2014
A fearsome addition to IC’s martial arts roster
For anyone unfamiliar with
Krav Maga, the short summary
is this; it’s a brutally effective
modern self-defence system invented
by the Israeli military halfway
through the 20th
century.
What hopes to become one of
Imperial’s newest societies offered
a free taster session one rainy
Sunday to gauge the interest in this
ruthless sport, and it would seem
that Imperial students will finally get
their chance to learn how to defend
themselves against hordes of knife-
wielding hooligans.
Imperial’s new Krav society was
founded by two friends brought
together by their mutual love of the
sport Pierre and Habib, the president
and instructor respectively. Habib
starts us off – the atmosphere is easy
as Habib’s confidence and boisterous
laugh puts us all at ease.
A seasoned black belt, he’s been
teaching Krav for seven years now and
fighting even longer than that.
Krav is nothing like most oriental
martial arts because they were all
developed in the middle ages. Since
Krav is still being developed today,
it is effective for modern combat,
actually adapting techniques for
use in modern-day situations. It
resembles most closely the Keysi
fighting style, which Christian Bale
demonstrates in Nolan’s adaptations
of Batman.
“I suppose the most similar would
be Mixed Marshal Arts, but that’s all
unarmed combat. In Krav, we defend
against all sorts of weapons – knives,
guns, batons, etc., and also against
multiple armed opponents.”
We warm up before moving onto
what the spirit of Krav is all about
– moving into the opponent and
getting up close for the counterattack.
We only get about fifteen minutes of
this ‘traditional’ martial arts training,
however, because Krav is all about
real life situations and how to get
through a fight and survive.
Habib sets up a deadly obstacle
course where the obstacles are
opponents attacking with knives,
batons, grapples, and kicks – none
of which we were taught at the
beginning. Leaving only half a
second between opponents means
that getting trained this way hones
your survival instinct and the core
principle of getting inside your
opponent’s guard to take him down
with the counterattack. This, it
turns out, succeeds very well when
defending yourself against all of these
situations.
“You don’t have twenty years
to learn every single move and
countermove,” Habib reminds us.
“Most fights are going to be even
shorter than this; five seconds is too
long and in real life you’re looking
at two.”
Over the remaining ninety or so
minutes Habib sets up a fake social
situation, where half of us are the
away victors at a football match and
the other half are the angry home
supporters.
Unbeknownst to us, our rivals are
armed and so after mingling a bit
one of them suddenly pulls a gun on
me. My pitiful reaction of trying to
slap his hand away and stammering
“woah, woah, Jesus Christ” doesn’t
really do much to save me in that
situation.
Habib then explains that these are
the situations that you find yourself
in in real life – these are where your
fights are going to be, not honourable
karate tournaments or an initiation
involving a convenient matchup
against another Wing Chun expert
balancing on tables.
We learn to read a little body
language and also perform basic
checks to see if anyone is hiding any
weapons somewhere. The role-play
gets a little more intense and this
time there is name-calling and
general provocation before any
weapons were drawn.
Unfortunately for my new attacker,
who also pulls a gun on me, he failed
to notice that this time I had been
armed with a knife and that I am
surrounded by ‘friends’ this time.
The result is my companions
dragging the gun out of his hand and
him to the floor whilst I stab him in
the neck, all within one second of the
whole incident taking place.
Habib demonstrates a knife block on an 'attacker'. Photo: Xuan Chen
Xuan Chen gives his thoughts on Imperial’s newest self defence class
"In Krav,
we defend
against all
sorts of
weapons
– knives,
guns,
batons..."
Krav leaves no stone unturned in disabling an opponent. Photo: Creative Commons
Write for Clubs & Societies
Are you a club or society president? Have you started doing something new this year? Do you want the chance to show off a new skill? Do you really like writing experience pieces?
If the answer to any of those questions is“yes”,then you're in luck! We are looking for regular and occasional writers about anything Club & Society related-this could be event
reviews,trip reports,big (or little) wins or even shameless plugs about a new activity.All you need is access to a computer and something to write about.
If interested,drop us a line at felix@imperial.ac.ukwith the subject line“C&S Article”.
Habib is happy to take questions
throughout and demonstrates a
variety of finger and wrist breaks,
disarms, and elbow and knee strikes
he promises to teach us next time.
Krav is a viciously pragmatic
martial art and Habib channels this
by touching on the philosophical
aspects of hurting others as well as
trying to save people you care about,
as well as the importance of common
sense.
“Don’t be a hero; you can walk away
and nobody will judge you for it.”
Any martial arts fan or anyone
who is up for learning a bit of street
defence should definitely drop by to
a session, and witness the unique and
deadly Krav Maga fighting style for
themselves.
"Don't be a
hero; you
can walk
away"

