THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON 39
FELIX
Sports Editor: Kunal Wagle
17.10.2014
Photo: ICU Rugby
© 2014 PwC. All rights reserved.
PwC refers to the PwC network and/or one or more of its member firms, each of which is a separate legal entity. Please see www.pwc.com/structure for further details.
A new kind of Consultant
Strategy& is changing the landscape of the consulting industry with PwC. We’re the firm combining the best strategic and practical
expertise to help clients build the differentiating capabilities they need to outperform their competitors. Join us at the start to build an
extraordinary career and change the way the world thinks about strategy and how it’s done. Find out more at our website:
strategyandyou.pwc.com/uk
Or come and meet us in person at our Strategy& Imperial Presentation Evening on:
29 October 2014 at the Imperial College Campus from 7pm – 9pm.
Closing date for graduate applications: 6 November 2014
Closing date for internship applications: 8 January 2014
Join a revolutionary consulting business
Build something great
of beer Ciro saw and ceased the
opportunity to express his ability to
get things wrong. The result of which
was we either took a worse bus the
following morning or a better one the
following night to Mendoza.
Keen to get to Mendoza half the
group grabbed the first option.
Those remaining then proceeded to
have one of the best days on tour.
A trip to a gorgeous spot on a river
flanked with rocky slopes and filled
with people “finding themselves.”
Whilst there we had a traditional
Argentinean barbeque and two
bottles of wine each. A canoe, a horse
attack and drug addict juggler later
we were ready for bed.
Finally in Mendoza we hit the
ground running, setting straight
off on a tandem bike wine tasting
tour. It sounds like one of the
best things ever and it is, with one
caveat. Tandem bikes require huge
amounts of coordination, balance and
communication.
All three of which degrade
massively when inebriation. So
having had about three bottles of
wine each and shots of absinthe we
weaved our way back home with the
sun setting over the Andes. Now came
the treacherous bus ride through
the Andes. With the majority of the
group having not swallowed anything
illegal we found ourselves entering
Chile with relative ease, where we
were staying in what can only be
described as a palace.
Some highlights of the following
night include Dave Jones drinking
blood, Shuz being covered in urine
and a small concrete malfunction
with one of the load bearing walls.
All that was left to do was make it
home and pass on whatever diseases
we had picked up onto our friends
and family.
The journey back allowed us time to
reflect on what was without doubt the
best three weeks of our lives.
Memories and friends were made
that will last a lifetime.
Shame none of it was on film...
Photo: ICU Rugby

