R
The Sundays—Blind
It's going to grow, it will grow, I
know it's going to grow. I know this
because the single 'Goodbye' has
already wormed its way into my
brain, and this was a song I initially
thought to be a sub-standard
'Reading, Writing and Arithmetic'
(their delicate, enchanting first
album).
What 'Blind' is essentially, is
more of the same. If it was anything
else it would not be the Sundays.
Indeed when they do diversify as on
the funky, aptly named 'What do
you think?' it is as if the Sundays
themselves are not sure of the
answer.
Harriet Wheeler's voice is as
captivating as ever although her
lyrics sometimes sit uneasily within
the metre of the songs.
David Gavurin's guitar echoes of
both Johnny Marr and the Cocteaus
whilst the understated drumming of
Patrick Hannan is a delight
(especially after having to endure
the RockSoc debacle last
Thursday).
It will probably be demeaning to
the Sundays for me to say that this
is a 'nice' album but
Crippledick.
• Out now on Parlophone/EMI.
Felix 946
eviews
30 October 1992
The Frank and Walters: Yawn, and I'll cut your head off.
The Frank and Walters-
Trains, Boats & Planes
Franks' debut album! Bagsy me
review it. Hey, kid, hang on a
moment, we've already got half
these songs. Stand up and be
counted, 'This Is Not a Song',
'Walter's Trip', 'Happy Busman',
'Fashion Crisis' and 'Daisy Chain'.
1.2.3.4.5. (If, of course, you
haven't got all these, then it's about
time you got your act in order. Off
to Tower. Right now). So what's
new in Frank City?
'Trainspotters' evokes no
reaction in me right now.
'After A l l ' is reason enough to
buy this album, twice. A gentle
lilting Frank And Walters in full
effect.
'John And Sue' is an anthem for
lonely people. Now that strikes a
chord with me. Really it does. Sing
it loud, lonely people. 'Bake Us A
Song'? Writer's block, huh, Mr.
Frank? 'Time': Time flies when
you're having fun. I'm not.
The final song, 'High And Low',
is somehow reminiscent of REM's
similarly titled track from 'Out Of
Time', with a dose of
schizophrenia. It's great when
you've had too much to drink and
you're feeling sorry for yourself.
Know what I mean, Walter?
Lise Yates
• Out now on Setanta/Go! Discs.
Felix Competition
We apologise for the lack of Felix competition last week, but we're back
with a stormer this week. Firstly, we are pleased to announce the following
prize winners:
The Jim Beam competition:
The bottle of fine Bourbon goes to G . Leung of the maths department.
And now the Dillons £5.00 gift voucher (for the winner to spend on
'reccommended reading' of course and not on the new book by Madonna).
This wonderous donation goes to Pete Purdie of Aero II.
Please collect your prizes from the Felix office by Friday 30th October
otherwise I will drink the whisky and then go and buy a very rude Madonna
book for myself.
Many thanks to all of the thousands of people who entered, at least it
meant that we could do a draw for the prizes. Oh and by the way, all
those people who won prizes from the Wagamama competition, please
could you collect your prizes by Monday, we are not a storage company
and I could do with a new tee-shirt and a decent meal too.
Which leads us rather neatly to this week's fabbo competition, brought
to you in conjunction with those lovely people at Active Promotions. We
have three 'lovely bottle green' T—shirts from chart toppers T H E
S H A M E N to give away to three very, very lucky people who answer this
question in the most amusing manner.... '
W H A T DOES M R . C S T A N D FOR?
Answers to the Felix Office by Friday 6th November. The Music Editor's
decision is final and unreasonable. Argumentative little gits will be told
to 'sod off.
Shamen, a very long time ago
r n
Name.
Dept.
Answer.
Pounds, shillings, pence
Page 19

