Access Bill
Imperial College in common with other
institutions is awaiting government
confirmation of next year's Access Fund
grant. The finance department at UCL has
already made some approximate
calculations based on information within
the parliamentary publication , Hansard.
Mr Phibb's , in charge of UCL access fund
predicts a 0.05% reduction from 324,800
to approximately 307,800. The reduction
in funds awarded to institutes of further
education reflects the governmental
decision to award money to places of
higher education with no overall increase
in funds.
The projected decrease in funds has
further inflamed the controversy about
their distribution to students.Lead by the
vice-provost UCL has decided to set aside
SI00,000 purely for post graduates.
According to Anna Laslett of Pi magazine
, UCL's student newspaper, the decision
was motivated by fears that research
places would not be taken up and thus
further funds from the University Funding
Council (UFC) would be lost. The financial
burden of research students is shared by
the research councils (SEC and NARC)
who pay the students themselves and by
the UFC that pay for teachers and
facilities. Broadly if research places are
not filled individual departments lose UFC
funds.
Tony Cullen, in charge of the IC access
fund, confirmed that Imperial is
considering earmarking some funds for
students new to Imperial; both
undergraduate and postgraduate.
Although the scheme would be seen as a
sort of bursary they would not be
awarded on academic merit but on
financial need. Mr Cullen said he wanted
to 'keep academic record out of it.' Mr
Cullen felt that although Imperial did not
have a problem 'attracting students'
prospective students with financial
worries would find additional financial
assistance attractive.
Financial assistance on top of the
standard grant is not a new phenomenon.
Industrial sponsorship for mechanical
engineers is of course common place. A
newer development is Geology's
undertaking to award 30 bursaries of
S600 each to next year's undergraduate
intake. Professor Richard Selley, head of
the Geology department, said that the
bursaries are being funded by oil
companies and privately by members of
staff. Although applications were up on
last year take up of places was down.
This pattern has also been seen in other
departments and its cause is as yet
unclear. There is some suggestion that
interviewing coincided with the IRA
bombing campaign in London at the
beginning of the year and this combined
with the college's proximity to the Iraqi
embassy contributed to prospective
students fears about living in London.
Mary's on the Block
Claims by the health service watchdog
group 'London Health Emergency' that St
Mary's hospital will shed up to 400 jobs in
the next five years have been
vehemently denied by the hospital
authorities. St Mary's is considering
becoming a self-governing trust under the
recently introduced opting out policy.
Separate to these deliberations the
hospital is undergoing a restructuring
process. Phase 2 of the restructuring
involves the amalgamation of St Mary's
with two other London hospitals; the
Samaritan and Western Ophthalmic
Hospitals. According to a hospital
spokeswoman the much talked of 10%
reduction in staff involves St Mary's staff
only. Spokesman for the action group, Mr
Jeff Martin, described by St Mary's as
'..quasi political', said that in the original
discussion document the 10% applied to
all three hospitals. The hospital claim that
the figure applied to only St Mary's was,
he said, '... incorrect and misleading.'
If staffing levels at St Mary's are
significantly reduced patient care and
training will be put in jeopardy, claims Mr
Martin. It is the government's intention ,
says Mr Martin '...to close one London
teaching hospital'. He expects the
teaching hospitals to '... slog it to death in
the commercial market place.' Mr Martin
also predicted that reductions in staffing
levels of the type forecast at St mary's
would result in not just reduced patient
care in the short-term but would have a
it
knock-on effect on training. Hospitals
such as St Mary's would not have the
resources to train the medical staff of the
future.
Attempts to contact the Department of
Health to answer these serious
accusations were thwarted yesterday; no-
one was answering the phone.
2

