\
R e n t - a -
A scenic view of Southside and Linstead Halls
through a large bunch of daffodils
Dissatisfaction over the levels of next
year's rent levels for the college halls of
residence has reached unprecedented
levels. The sabbaticals of Imperial college
Union, Paul Shanley, Ben Turner and
Murray Williamson have arranged a
number of meetings to discuss the
situation.
So far meetings have been held in
Linstead, Beit, Southwell, Willis Jackson,
Holbein House and Bernard Sunley
House. They were all reported to have
been well attended and residents were
urged to contact their academic or
personal tutors, or the Rector Sir Eric
Ash, in order to register their
unhappiness about rent levels next year.
In Linstead the meeting dwelled on the
increase in the number of weeks for
which rent must be paid. Next year
residents must pay 34 weeks rent
regardless of how long they actually
intend to stay, in comparison with the
present 31 weeks. It is also compulsory to
purchase a minimum of three evening
meals a week in Linstead, so next year's
rent would approximately be £60 for the
majority of residents.
In Holbein House and Southwell Hall
some residents complained about the
quality of accommodation for which they
had to pay £40 per week. During the
meetings the possibility of a rent strike
was mentioned. IC Union President Paul
Shanley was reported as saying that he
would no longer wish to be a first year at
this college and that you could 'stuff the
academic reputation'.
Members of the academic staff are
believed to be anxious about the current
accommodation problems, and they may
take the unprecedented step of raising
the issue at the Academic Heads of
Department meeting next week. Union
officers will visit the other halls of
residence - Southside halls, Garden,
Weeks and Fisher halls over the coming
week.
The Worshipful Company of Goldsmiths
has donated £250,000 to Imperial College
in order to provide new accommodation
for up to eight students. The house will
be within 'reasonable travelling distance
Of South Kensington' and will contain
eight single study bedrooms.
The students selected to live in this
house will receive a Goldsmiths'
scholarship to lower their rent level. They
will be considered to be amongst the
college's 'more outstanding students'. The
awards will be given mainly to second
and third year undergraduates and
possibly a postgraduate on the basis of
academic merit.
It is unlikely that the awards will be for
any one particular subject, and the
selection of the recipient students has not
yet been made. Dr Jill Pellew, IC's
director of development, told Felix that
the Goldsmiths will 'substantially help
towards the cost of rent for the
accommodation' according, though the
precise value of the scholarships have not
yet been finalised.
Further attempts at alleviating the ever
growing accomodation problem are being
made by the college finance office. One
option under consideration is for the
college to establish a company under the
Business Expansion Scheme (BES). The
BES is a government initiated scheme
whereby private investors are encouraged
to invest upto £40,000 with a five year
tax-free period on the investment.
The money raised by the new company
could be used to buy accomodation from
the college, or to buy new accomodation
for students. The company dividend
would be derived from rent paid by
students. Investors in the company are
expected to be staff and friends of IC, not
professional businessmen.
The scheme has been adopted by
Cambridge University under the aegis of
the Cambridge Colleges Fund raising
£60,000,000 to date. Although the scheme
at Imperial is only in the consultative
stages it is seen by many as an ideal way
of securing accomodation for students in
the coming years.
Example rents for single rooms for
the next academic year with the
obligatory number of weeks:
Beit, Old Hostel £40 51
Beit, New Hostel £43 51
Southside PG £52 51
Southside UG £52 34/38
Garden £41 51
Linstead £52 34
Weeks £52 34
Bernard Sunley £40 38
Robert Pryor £43 38
Holbein £40 34
Fisher £52 51
Southwell £40 34
Willis Jackson £40 34
Olave £52 38/51
Clayponds £48 38/51
3

