Graveyard Shift
Graveyard Shift is the second
Stephen King adaptation to reach
the big screen this month and
inevitably some comparisons will be
made with Misery. I'd have to say that
any such comparisons aren't really fair
because the two films are very different;
Misery is a psychological thriller and
Graveyard Shift is more of a straight
creature feature.
This film is basically about a Gaussian
probability distribution. What it goes like
is this : There's a mill (cutely named the
Bachman Mill, for those of you up on
your King) which uses good ol' bone-
crushing nineteenth century machinery to
spin yarn. Said mill has a bit of a rat
infestation problem. Which is where the
bell curve comes in. See, there's a few
small rats, down at the low probability
end (rats aren't so generous to the
smaller members of their population);
there's a LOT of middlish kind of rats at
the bit where the curve swells upwards,
then the curve tails off again, where the
really big rats are ..
The owner of the mill is an unpleasant
gentleman with a kind of twisted Elmer
Fudd accent who gets his employees
working from eleven p.m. through to the
morning (the 'graveyard shift' of the title).
Unfortunately, one by one, they start to
disappear which necessitates a bit of
hasty cover-up, but not to worry, a
taciturn stranger who's a mean shot with
a catapault has just arrived.
You can pretty much guess the rest,
from the secretary who Finds Out Too
Much to the part the mill machinery
plays in the film's climax. The script (a
first-time effort that doesn't say a great
deal for the writer's future) is derived
Misery
Misery is a fairly faithful adaptation
of Stephen King's book of the same
name. The story is pretty simple; an
author, Paul Sheldon (James Caan), is
rescued from his crashed car by his
'number one fan', Annie Wilkes (Kathy
Bates, who won the 'Best Actress' Oscar
for this performance). She traps him in
her remote house and tends him halfway
back to health, at which point she takes a
high dive off a low plank and introduces
him to her pet pig.
Things only get worse for Paul after
this point, but to say too much would be
to spoil the film. Annie gradually reveals
herself to be in possession of so few of
her marbles that it's a wonder she hasn't
been committed earlier. In fact, as it turns
out, she has, after some rather nasty
incidents at a maternity ward..
Misery is directed by Rob Reiner, the
same gentleman responsible for the much
applauded King adaptation 'Stand By Me'
to the screen. Here he does an equally
skillful job for a difficult project; the
majority of the film is based around only
two characters and one set, but both the
top-notch performances (Bates was truly
deserving of her Oscar) and the excellent
direction made sure my attention barely
from a King short story, and it shows.
There's just not enough ideas to make a
film from (and this is still a short one) and
the direction doesn't exactly give those
that there are a biting edge. Graveyard
Shift is a competent but seriously
unoriginal monster movie.
Hey, I've just had an idea. How about a
film at the other end of the curve ? You
know, really titchy rats. They could, like,
gang up or something ..
The Flying Rat
Video Winners
The winners of last week's video
competition are:
1. Stephen J . Brewster (Maths I)
2. Michael Spielle (Chem I)
3. John Furlong
All three receive copies otDead Calm
and Clara's Heart courtesy of Warner
Bros.
Please collect your prizes from the
Felix office by next Friday.
1 'J
Si
flagged for the two hours.
The unfolding of the painful strategy
games Paul and Annie play is executed
with a surprising amount of humour and
the shocks, when they come, come hard.
You don't have to be a King fan or a
horror freak for this one; it's a damn fine
film.
The Flying Gerbil
—Film
—Theatre

