T h e Silence of the L a m b s
I Silence of the Lambs comes from
the serial killer/psycho school of
films. The point of these films tends
to be 'grab the audience by the balls and
don't let go'. Jonathan Demme's film
grabs your balls.
Starring the excellent Jodie Foster as
Clarice Starling, the 'bird' trying to escape
the clutches of Hannibal Lecter, an ice-
cool role played superbly by Anthony
T h e W i n d
Willows
1"At infant school there were them
and us. They read Winnie the Pooh;
we read The Wind in the Willows.
We won," says Brian Redhead (whoever
he is). We can only grant you that he's
telling the truth. The National Theatre is
staging Alan Bennett's adaption of that'
old childhood classic The Wind in the
Willows, and for all Toad and Moley-fans
out there: This the chance to relive
childhood, to go back to that wonderful
Hopkins. 'Hannibal the Cannibal' (so
named because he ate all his victims) is
serving a life sentence in a modern-day
'dungeon' where his intellect is subjected
(among other things) to the torture of
listening to evangelists on TV. Hannibal
happens to hold the key to the
whereabouts of a killer roaming the
streets whose hallmark is to skin his
victims (nicknamed Buffalo Bill because
in the
atmosphere of sun sets.plat and ice-cream
(and for all you Winnie the Pooh-fans;
this goes for you too! Don't let defeat get
you down-you can always buy your
Winnie postcards in the interval...(?))
They're all there, David Bamber as
Mole, Michael Bryant as Badger, Richard
Briers as Ratty and Griff Rhys Jones as
Toad, each giving the performance of his
life.
Exaggerated? Well, perhaps, but really,
this was fun! Forgetting the world behind
the Big Woods (" we avoid talking about
it ...), the world of exams and other
worries, the audience was captured by
the magic (no kidding!) of the lighting,
the costumes, the sounds, and last but not
least: the scenery, every change of which
brought on a round of spontaneous
applause. Special credit to jane Gibson for
directing Movements - the animal
characters are worked out brilliantly, and
you are entertained just by the way they
move around the stage.
How can we describe it? It's another
world, it's fantastic (in the true sense of
the world...) It's, oh why not go and see
for yourselves! Bring your gran - and
don't forget the ice-cream interval!
Rumpelsgilze and Siao
he 'likes to skin his humps'!!). Detective
Starling is sent to probe the mind of Dr
Hannibal Lecter, in order to track down
his ex-patient, Buffalo Bill.
In the film Jonathan Demme very
cleverly plays on our fears of (and
voyeuristic urges for) mutilated bodies
(which usually remain off-screen), insects,
nasty looking psychos, etc. One of the
most effective aspects of the film is the
strong presence of the character Hannibal
Lecter in all his scenes. Despite being
behind bars, the viewer never doubts the
power he commands, the danger he
poses to Starling. And this I think is the
driving force behind the film; Demme is
able to create great tension with the help
of Anthony Hopkins' performance, but
never quite satisfies, leaving the audience
salivating for the climax.
However, the film does fail when it
starts to wander into the realm of
psychobabble, trying to come to terms
with Hannibal's psyche. The filmmakers
seem to have some pretensions to this
effect, but produce nothing coherent.
If you do go to see this film, however,
there won't be many others in town
offering as many thrills per second.
I.H.
In Bed With
Madonna
I Madonna has FUCK ME written all
over her forehead. She is witty,
crude, sexual and a bitch.
Filmed during her 'Blonde Ambition'
tour of 1990, the documentry tries to
show Madonna as you have never seen
her before; human.
The filming is excellent, the stage
scenes shot in glorious technicolor, back
stage taken in 16mm black and white. It
shows everything that goes on back stage
on a world tour without making it look
like an extended pop video. As a good
documentry always should, it leaves you
wondering whether or not it was all one
big set up.
The hype regarding how sexual she
was all the way through the film was
somewhat exaggerated, after all she only
touched her crotch a few time on stage-
most of the time her dancers did it for
her.
Her parents thought a few acts were a
little over the top and so would yours.
Not the kind of film you'd take your
mother to see but all in all good fun.
Sam
5

