CLUBS
H o w e
Cup
Shooting
C h a m p s
For the fourth year in succession, we
have won the Howe Cup for long-range
pistol shooting. This competition is open
to all universities, but only Oxford were
brave enough to challenge us. As it
turned out, they wasted their time again.
James Hurr started well with a storming
42/50 at 100 yards and achieved a total
score of 105/150, equalling the college
record. Simon Taylor and Tony Menzies
shot on the following day and were
hampered by strong winds and low
cloud.So their scores of 92/150 and
73/150 respectively, were very good
considering the bull at 300 yards is only
12" in diameter.
Cloud cover became progressively thicker
on Oxford's side of the firing line. This
could be the reason for their captain
being unable to find the firing point
within the allotted time.
The gravitational attraction of their coach
is also believed to have adversely
affected the trajectories of their bullets,
although this would still fail to explain
the random placing of their shots.
In fairness to Oxford, IC does have the
advantage of a better firing range and
working facilities for pre-match
preparation. Unfortunately, the future of
the facilities of the club are under serious
threat of closure from the 'powers that
be' in Sherfield. For future details contact
James Hurr, Mech Eng III.
NBWe would like to point out that the
article in 'City Limit' entitled 'Women
With Guns' was largely factually incorrect
on several of the major points and
deliberately misleading.
BCCF
This year the British Students Federation
held the Orienteering UAU finals at
Sheffield. The particularly hilly region
surrounding Sheffield, together with the
seasional Easter weather (driving rain)
made the event even more arousing than
last years, held in the New Forest with its
flat open countryside and warm tropical
weather.However this did not hold ICOC
back, as both old (some quite old indeed)
and new members got some very good
times and positions.
Our best position was second in the Men's
C course, achieved by Shaun Dore from a
field of 17, with a very good time of
54.44 minutes thus ending an excellent
first season with the club. We were most
consistent in the Men's B, with 6th, 10th
and 13th positions for Andy Fazakerly,
Ian Richardson and Jeremy Tongue out of
a total of 57 runners. Tone Nystrom, in
the Woman's A did remarkably well
getting a time of 86 minutes giving her
33rd position from a field of 56.And
finally Rob Haddock came 46th out of
110 in the Men's A race.
Everyone who went had a wonderful
time, even better when they had more
beer. With the tour to Switzerland in 6
weeks, a few first places have to be
possible, if only in the string course !!!
Science
Fiction
The Science Fiction Club Chairman,
Steven Newhouse, would like to tell all
the member of the club, that 'All the
library books are NOW overdue. They
should be returned to the library any
lunchtime between 12.30-1.30pm before
the 3rd June, 1991. After this date bills
will be issued as it will be assumed that
the books are going to be purchased.'

