Fatima
Mansions
-ULU 16.5.91
Hands up, all those familiar, who thought
Cathal Coughlan was a maniac. Really?
That many? Oh well, I suppose there was
enough evidence; He swings and struts in
churches, shrieks commands of 'Get these
dead bodies off my racetrack', and spews
forth other examples of downright
obscure fruitcakery in the lyrics
department. Yup. Mad as a beanpole.
So, after a charming but nevertheless
bland set by The Popinjays, it's a small
surprise to find a true devil of rock 'n'
roll inhabiting the stage, Elvis, Iggy,
Lucifer and Jesus: they're all there,
embodied within the, ahem, 'demonic'
persona of Cathal Coughlan. 'Valley of
the dead cars', 'only losers take the bus'
et al, bitch and steam like the driving
poptunes they are; Big Madness sees him
anguished and forlorn, a disappointed
God saddened by the behaviour of the
little monkey creatures (no solution?) and,
like a good showman, saves all his best
'asskicks' for last. So snarls 'Viva dead
ponies'.
It's hard to see them existing within the
democracy of 'the band' ethos, really. A
water-tight, excellent medium though
they are, they are never anything more
than that. Now that's fine if they're
content to be simply Cathal Coughlan's
band, but it gives me sod all to say about
them. So, no complaints for this mere
mention in passing, eh!
Hmmm. Cathal. What does he do for an
encore? Well, children, the new single
You're a Rose is given an airing, and
finally, the 'never-to-be-left-out-of-the-set'
Blues for Ceausescu. This is rock at its
finest, rock to make even Iggy call it a
day. The Fatima Mansions, coming soon
to a church near you. And remember,
children, keep music evil. Please.
Sonic Euph.
Eskimos & Eygpt
-G'n'R That's What U Want? 12"
Nice try here lads. Using the guitar loop
from Sweet Child of Mine the Eskimos
spokesman raps, sounding like the guy
from Jesus Jones, about homophobia,
sexism etc to a well-worn beat and it
ends up sounding like bad Pop Will Eat
Itself and is actually a total waste of my
time, your time and their time. Nice idea,
after all G 'n' R's social politics leave a lot
to be desired, but stick to the day jobs for
the time being. Sounds nothing like the
MC5.
Dominic.
8
Beat Happening
-Dreaming LP
An amateur looking and sounding
threesome using the same, moderately
successful format throughout; jangly
tuneful guitar and nice thumping drums
are a backdrop for pleasingly atonal
vocals which trundle endlessly about sex
and possibly other unrelated subjects.
The male voice has a wonderful (out of
tune) booming bass growl. This record
has very little production and if you play
it loud enough through big speakers its
attitude alone will put you in a stoopid
mood.
Seb
The Rockingbirds Rolling Revue
-Borderline 21.5.91
Howdy brothers and sisters and today I
just gotta tell you that the country rock
revival has already started and you've all
missed the wagon. However you need
not worry, as pretty soon it'll be coming
to you and it's a-chooglin' that way BIG
TIME. This is only the second time I've
seen them but I can tell you, hey! pay
attention, that they are the sure finest,
smoulderin' band treading the boards at
this moment. Their music, whilst paying
homage—as we all do—to Gram Parsons,
the Burritos, Johnathan Richman and the
MC5 has instilled in it the true spirit of
freedom, the soaring heights of a buzzard
floating on the thermals high above the
desert, the heights we only ever achieve
on a few special times in our life. These
are the heights this band, and tonight
their guest singers but more of that later,
achieve so calmly, so casually. When
song after song, hell I don't know the
song names and frankly I don't care
when a band is this good words are
useless anyway, sends a shiver down our
spine you don't care for names.
Country rock is both at once so
contemporary and so retro that though
these boys may get blasted for being
retro, whoever does the blasting is
missing the whole point. They're keeping
the spirit alive and with this kind of
music it is the spirit it is played in that is
all important. Now don't get me wrong,
these boys are not rednecks or the like,
in fact three of them come from Norwich
and both the bassist and the Charlie
Watts lookalike drummer used to be in
The Weather Prophets, but somehow the
true essence that is Nashville-meets-the
Byrds-meets-Emmy Lou Harris-meets, oh!
what the heck I'm missing the point now
but let it suffice to say the spirit is willing
and the spirit is living and it's in these
boys. They play 'Johnathan' and it's even
better then when they supported the man
himself a few weeks back 'Hanging out
with Gram' they sing. It's just a shame
Jojo himself isn't here to witness it. The
yee-hahs after every song are testament
to the band's devoted following and
thwne one of their guests, who was
wearing a blue shirt with white speckles
all over and looked like a cross between
David Sylvian and Tim Burgess, comes on
and they cover the velvets' I'm Set Free,
well at first I faint and wake up in
Nirvana. It's sooooooooo good. The best
cover of a Ve'vef Undergound song ever.
It's just like the velvets gone country with
John Cale on fiddle and not viola. Later I
discover that the singer is Joss Cope,
Julian's brother. Cooooolness in extremis.
They have lots of foxy babes who come
on and sing all sorts of elolquent
interpretations of old standards whose
names I either never knew or I've
forgotten. The knee length boots, the
long locks, the spangly waistcoats and the
ubiquitous bottle of beer in hand are not
de rigeur but they make everything flow
just that little bit more. Another guest of
theirs looking like a cross between Dr
Scrote and Jools Holland is so far gone
he can't even remember the 'la-la-la-la-la-
la's' when they do Norwegina Wood. The
spirit of the open plains, the hard tales
which lead men to the bottle and the
forlorn love songs which melt your heart
upon first hearing rolls on and there's no
stoppin' 'em yet. Andy the guitarist still
looks like he's either my mate Paddy or
he's in Free circa (don't you just love that
word circa?? Goddamn it it's so middle-
aged.) 1973 with his blond locks all kinda
curled 'n' crimped. This is why there is
still hope for music yet. This is why you
can take all yoru Chapterhouses and
Slowdives and all those others and shove
em right up your narrow-minded self-
centred oppressive ass. You can burn all
my records, tear out all my hair and
throw darts at my eyes, but this band are
the business. This band have reformed
not only my love of music, but also the
joy of living, the joy of breathing, the joy
of having a good time which has been so
lacking in all those dour, introspective,
let's-stare-at-our-feet school of music
bands. Well you'd all better watch out,
'cos The Rockinbirds are comin' for your
daughters. After the show the tambourine
player tells me they've just signed a deal
with Heavenly. Everything fits,
everything is perfect, I am alive, so is the
world, so just keep on a-chooglin'.
Dominic

