Elvis
Costello
-Mighty Like a Rose LP
Thirteen albums on and yes, he's still
angry, still tearing at the guts of society
with that unique brand of gleeful
ruthlessness, still spitting venom at the
villains while tenderly mourning their
victims. And yes, he's still good. Mighty
Like A Rose boasts no less than fourteen
of those unfashionable things called songs
that scream with the McManus genius for
writing in every conceivable musical
style. One minutes he's taking the Beatles
on a magical mystery tour of Costelloland
(Harpies Bizzare), the next he's coming
on like Bob Dylan jamming with Tom
Waits (Hurry down Doomsday).
Then there's the lyrics, a welcome
antidote to the wilful vacuity of the
pseudo blissed-out acid crowd. Take
'Invasion of the Hit Parade', where the
collapse of dictatorship hails the messianic
invasion of all the horrors of the west:
"The liberation forces make movies of
their own/ playing their Doors records
and pretending to be stoned/ ...pursued
by a TV crew and coming after them/ a
limousine of singing starsand their
brotherhood anthem." Meanwhile 'The
Other Side Of Summer' contrasts an
infectuous mock-Beacn Boys tune with a
lyric that describes not good vibrations,
but "the foaming breakers of the
poisonous surf/ ...the burning forests in
the hills of the astroturf." Something tells
me you won't be seeing Elvis on the
Groovy Train—Thank God! Instead he'll
be glaring from the LP sleeve with a
doomy expression, waiting for the end of
the world and refusing to be saved.
Paddy Void, Chairman of the MC5
appreciation society
Fat L a d y Sings
This lot should get their libidos under
control. Eleven 'she's great, fantastic, etc.
but she thinks I'm a prat' songs don't
make a good album. They make a crap
one.
Apart for the single, Arclight, nothing
climbs higher than your shins, a good job
really, most tracks content to slide
around on the floor looking for a victim.
They sound like a mixture of Deacon
Blue with some of the early Hothouse
Flowers stuff. Well the tunes do but the
words, oh what a shame. All this she's so
wonderful crap gets right up my nose.
With this sort of attitude they're as likely
to score as Gazza.
There are far more interesting (and
important?) things to write songs about
than your lower regions and their urges.
You've got talent enough to produce
The Real People
-ULU 9.5.91
Eight months ago The Real People played
the ICA to an audience if counted on
fingers and toes would leave your thumbs
free. They were notably angered by all
this, playing a set of passion that can
only be associated with several years of
struggle culminating with having the door
marked fame and fortune resoundingly
slammed in your face. If this wasn't their
invitation to eat humble pie then the flop
of their first single Window Pane must
have been the second helping.
Eight months on and the times they are
a changing. Lauded as post baggy
champions and the new merriahs of the
Liverpool 'scene' The Real People have
no one to impress anymore, they always
knew they were great and they've come
for some acknowledgement.
'Nice one' says Tony Griffiths between
each and every song, and nice ones they
were too but too nice. Gone the fear of
rejection, the frustrated work-outs and
shouts of 'notice me'.
This is forty-five minutes of take it or
leave it, clear blemishless playing, their
rough edges and poc marks far too easily
concealed. But some things you can't hide
Window Pane is still a classic experience
in melody and tune (where are they
now?) Come On remains as seminal a
Hendrix thrash as ever and, well, and
then there's The Truth, their third single
and it's as staining as the worse wet fart.
This is where the Real People
compromise, lose their identity and
homogenise into The La's slush of jangle
and insipidness.
The Real Poeple will be the great
people but only as long as they remain
The Real People.
Marjorie Strobes.
Twist LP
the fat lady sings
good melodies, so how about it lads,
some decent words?
Pebbles
LOOP MUSIC
-Wolf Flow LP
Loop, where the guitar overload of the
MC5 meets the intense, incessant pulse of
Suicide. Loop, where the diet is hypnosis.
'Soundhead' is faster, rawer than the
original,all tracer like guitar phasing from
speaker to speaker. 'Rocket USA', a cover
of a Suicide track, sounds just like the
original with an added buzzing guitar
which buzzes at just the right frequency
to induce foaming at the mouth. This,
combined with the minimalist pulse of the
keyboards, ensures you pay attention.
Throughout the album the swirling
guitars mesh in the centre of your head,
hypnotizing and repetitive, battling with
the vocals to form a wraparound sound
which entrances and envelopes you.
Sometimes overbearing, never subdued
Loop are loud whatever volume you play
them at. Aside from 'Rocket USA' and the
closing epic track 'Sunburst' the songs are
all variations on the same theme; 'Pulse'
has shimmering tremolo; 'Collision' which
is truly the sounds of planets crunching
together in your head. Alas Loop have
now imploded, but this remains an
evolutionary testament of their unique
brand of drone-rock.
Dominic
WOLF
Competition
Just answer the following easy-peasy
questions:
(1) Who is lead singer with the
U.K.Subs?
(2) What is Loop spelt backwards?
Answers on an orange postcard to
FELIX and the first three correct
answers picked out of the black hole
next Tuesday (4th June) win a copy.
Y o u don't know how lucky you are,
you lucky people!

