S P O R T
IC Cricket Club vs Kenton
Traders
With two IC players at a meeting and
temporarily unavailable it was in IC's
interest to bat first. The captain of the
day was Andy Harris who duly lost the
toss, but luck was with IC as the
opposition put IC in to bat first.
Kenrick and Turner opened. Kenrick
taking his first and last strike giving
catching practice to square leg off the
first ball of the day. Harris came in and
made 27 before edging a catch to the
keeper. Scoring was slow due to
Arthur not being able to find-his lawn
mower, and boundaries were hard to
get. With only forty minutes to tea and
the score on 74, Turner was out for 33
attempting to hit a ball onto the M4. He
missed. From a position of 74 for 2
wickets fell fast. At 92 for 7, Morton,
who had been dragged out of a
meeting was sent in to hit out and to
get 150 runs on the board by tea but
the booze at the meeting must have
gone to his head; the first ball was
missed (perhaps the ball was difficult
to see through the haze of alcoholic
fumes) and the second he was out
caught. A useful 17 not out by Mitchell
gave IC a final score of 119 before
the last wicket went down in the last
over before tea.
Kenton Traders made an auspicious
start to their innings. IC's bowling
strength, in the form of Bob Dean,
lumbered out of the long grass to let
his first ball go. The outside edge was
struck and Harris made a superb catch
at second slip. Dean's second ball was
similar to his first, the batsman played
the same stroke and Harris made an
identical catch. At this point the
remaining nine fielders wanted to
know whether they were required or
could they go to the bar and watch
Dean and Harris finish the game!
It was not that simple. Dean took
another two wickets in his fourth over
and another in his fifth when the score
stood at 19 for 5. The Traders then
made a recovery to 102 for 8 and were
well on their way to winning the match
with one batsman scoring fast but
Morton was to redeem himself by
unsuspectingly throwing down the
wicket at the bowlers' end when the
batsman was just ambling to complete
what should have been an easy run.
With only one over to go before the
close of play the Traders defended .
their remaining wicket solidly to make
sure of a certain draw. With fielders
clustered all round the bat the last ball
of the day was bowled by Silva; the
batsman gave the catch IC so badly
needed and Fifield, looking death in
the face had he dropped it, held on. A
match which could have been lost,
drawn or even tied was won on the
last ball. Who said cricket was a
boring game?
Team: M Kenrick, P Turner, A Harris
(capt), P Silva, R Fifield, A Hunter, P
Hewkin, T Mitchell, N Morton, G
Brereton, R Dean.
WATER POLO
On Tuesday 10th, IC had their last
game of the season against Penguin.
Exams badly affected team selection
and we only managed to get seven
players in the pool and no substitutes.
Cliff Spooner opened the score for
IC with a clever shot, positioned in
front of the goal. Penguin were
playing very aggressively and their
marking was rough and rather dirty,
so they managed to score three goals
In succession and took the lead. Andy
Smith scored our second goal, after
receiving the ball from Dimitri Papa-
constantinou, to make the score 3-2 to
them at the end of the first quarter.
In the second quarter Cliff Spooner
played at the goal and our performance
improved markedly. Pat Porter and
Nick Last tightened their marking in
defence and they did not let Penguin
score again. After a goalless second
quarter, we equalised at the end of the
third quarter with a shot from Phil
Mills, despite their continuous dirty
marking, which resulted in five of
them being sent off during the game.
Steve Taylor organised our game in
midpool and we scored two more
goals in the fourth quarter, with Phil
Mills and Andy Smith. The final score
was 5-3 to IC.
This game was for the fourth division
of the Middlesex League. We have
won all the matches this year and,
with two more matches to be played in
October, it is more than certain that
we will be promoted to the third
division next year. Every player of the
Water Polo Club should be congra-
tulated for this remarkable achievement.
Team: Steve Taylor, Cliff Spooner,
Pat Porter, Andy Smith, Phil Mills,
Nick Last, Dimitri Papaconstantinou.
Cheers!
Dimitri
R E V I E W H H H H H I
FAME (AA, Alan Parker)
Following the enormous success attained by Midnight Express, director
Alan Parker has chosen a rather unusual subject for this, his third film
project. Fame is a musical drama set in New York's High School For The
Performing Arts — a state school which gives needy children the chance
of going to a sort of stage school. Here they learn dance, drama and
music as well as the normal school subjects.
The dramatical content is basically designed to show the realities of
success and failure, tracking the development of eight main characters
during their time at the school. Comedy and music are contrasted with
the tragedies of life in New York, as well as the risks of being a performer.
The film is split into sections, ranging from the auditions to their
eventual graduation. Starting at a lively, happy pace a noticeable change
occurs midway through the film as tragedy and suffering start to play a
large role as they did in "Express". This is not necessarily a bad thing, but
I personally found the ecstatic jamming in the school cafe far more
enjoyable than the latter scenes. The music is very enjoyable too —
especially the electronic creations of Bruno, a young man who thinks he
can replace the music teacher's orchestra with banks of organs and
synthesisers.
The various developments in the plot are expressed through a
sequential look at the eight characters. This immediately leaves gaps and
you may find that particular characters receive inadequate time.
Unfortunate as this may be, the switching from one person to another
maintains the sort of pace which is necessary for a film lasting over two
hours. The climax is a graduation ceremony which ends very abruptly and
left me wondering what happened to the various people in the end — did
they make it or not? D i d they capture the elusive "fame" that they
sought? 1 don't think that even a follow-up could explain.
Director Alan Parker attended the screening, which was especially
designed for students. He was faced with the ordeal of a question and
answer session afterwards, but managed very well to brush off a barage of
"pseudo" questions, mainly from hypersensitive art students. Money, he
admitted, was the primary reason for the project, but this also meant that
the film should be broadly entertaining. 1 think he succeeds admirably and
manages to provide a fascinating insight into an unusual subject.
My advice is to see the film if you are at all interested in a piece of well
presented entertainment. Don't leave it too late, however as it is really a
period piece and will not mean very much when the mood is different
Fame opens on July 24th at the Empire, Leicester Square.
Films to look out for over the summer: at the end of the month
Nijinsky will be released as well as Romero's Zombies ( a real sickie). In
July The Black Stallion reaches our shores, after making a great impact
in America. Clint Eastwood appears in Bronco Billy and Allan Carr's
Can't Stop The Music (with the awful Village People) will no doubt
crash into our lives. A new Neil Simon, Chapter Two, should soon
arrive as well as Kung F u in 3-D with Dynasty. I shall be awaiting a date
for Stanley Kubrick's The Shining, which stars Jack Nicholson and
should be a real stormer.
Have a good summer.
Mark Smith
A C C O M M O D A T I O N
The Welfare Centre has just
received details of a number
of inexpensive fiats for
October in the Brixton area
for two to four people.
Contact the Welfare Centre
for further information.
For sale frame pack for
mountain climbing (made in
USA) in good condition with
padded shoulder straps and
hip belt. Any offers? Contact
Beth Marcus, Falmouth Hall.
7

