PTTNTBATiT; (continued from page 2)
The very first pinball machines, like the
machines of today, were simply for
entertainment and amusement. They
provided a few, much needed minutes of
pleasure to anyone who had time to kill
or who was looking for some new form of
diversion in the depressing times that
prevailed at the start of the pinball era.
Many students at Imperial College are
attracted to the brightly lit machines in
the halls of residence and Union Building.
Listening to players who are able to talk
about how they feel about pinball can give
an insight into its strange appeal.
Roger, a young hot blooded student,
who has been playing the game since his
early days as a student says: "Obviously
all the aggression you put into a game
must have some cathartic effect if you
need to get rid of aggression. But it's a bit
double-sided in releasing frustration. I
mean, if you want to get rid of frustrations
you've faced with the problems that you
might just run up a series of bad games
and that in itself will produce other
frustrations.
"So you're balancing between frustration
and satisfaction and maybe this delicate
balance produces the urge to keep trying.
When asked how good he was at it,
Roger replied: "I wouldn't say I was a
particularly good player, but that's 6ne of
the great things about pinball. You don't
necessarily have to be all that good to
enjoy the game because you're learning
all the time. The more you plhy the better
you get as long as you're willing to let
yourself get involved."
Mike, a student who regularly plays
pinball said: "It's a special form of
satisfaction. Not a compensation for any
lack of achievement in your day to day
life. I get a lot of satisfaction from
studying during the day but I still like to
come along here afterwards.
"Pinball provides a little bit of extra
excitement. It's a self-imposed challenge.
Nobody forces you to play. There's no
punishment for failure and there's no
threat involved. The only contest is
between you and the machine.
"It's a simple diversion, a compact do-
it-yourself entertainment kit. A mechanical
form of solitaire. You challenge the
machine on strictly defined terms which
really give the machine the upper hand.
Push it around too much and it will tilt
and you lose your score. There's no way
you can penalise the machine — except
by beating it. But even then all you get
out of that is a replay — just another
chance to enter the one-sided contract.
"But naturally you're only .too happy to
take on the challenge again. If the
machine beats you after that you don't
mind too much because you know you've
had your share of success."
Tom, a computer scientist, said that he
sees his battle with pinball as a form of
protest.
"Machines and computers control so
much of our everyday lives and there's
not much you can do about it. So it's nice
to meet a machine you can fight.
"There's normally no way you can get
your own back on other machines and
computers. Sure, you can kick them and
shout at them, but that only increases
your frustration. With pinball you get a
chance to beat a machine on its own
terms.
"There's a lot of skill involved. It's you
against the machine. Your reflexes,
knowledge, assessment and timing against
the machine's efforts to get that ball out
of play. And getting that ball out of play
is the only way a machine can beat you.
"In a game lasting only three or four
minutes, a player can run the whole
gamut of emotions: the joy of a superbly
timed skill shot; intensifying excitement as
a bonus builds; suspense as a ball hovers
gently, trembling on the lip of a high-score
rollover; fear as the ball rockets swiftly
towards the flipper gap; panic as the ball
screams out of the firing chute, straight
down the playfield and out of play without
scoring; love as luck plays her part and
guides ball after ball away from the exit
lane and down the run-on track to the
flippers; despair as luck deserts the players
and lets the ball spill from the run-on
track's rim down the exit lane; hope as
jubiliation at the hard crack of the replay
frustration and dejection as the machine
tilts . . . all this compressed into less
than five minutes! If a film director could
inspire half those response from an
audience in an hour and a half he'd be
lauded as a genius — yet you can find it
all in Pinball."
EDITORIAL
The speed of Shakuntala's multiplication will be recorded in the Guinness
Book of Records. Why don't we try to break more records next term at IC?
How about a team attempting to break some of the more obscure records for
R A G .... Talking of R A G - we have raised £20,000
Martin Watson did a grand job with the FELIX Rally, last Sunday, despite
the National Front arranging a Rally outside R S M ! which resulted in all parked
cars being towed away from Prince Consort Road. Thank-you to Tim, Dave,
Ian, Maz and also to G i v e Dewey for being a guest paste up artist this week.
If you'd like to have your copies of this year's FELIX bound then bring a set
into the office A S A P , (by next Friday).
Just before I say Cheers! for the last time I've got space to include some of
the highlights from my annual report to Council.
My first issue of FELIX was published on Friday 10th August 1979. This
edition and the next eight were published while I was Acting Editor of
FELIX. Three issues were published during the summer vacation for the
Post Grads. These concentrated on the High Court injunction served by
John Shuttleworth, but also included articles describing the redevelopment
of Beit Quad and several film reviews.
The Freshers' FELIX was hurriedly put together a week before term
started because the result of the High Court case was only known a week
before the start of term. There had been obvious problems concerning the
court case and resignation of a member of the permanent staff.
FELIX has encouraged advertisers by inserting details of advertising
rates in the major directories. Phone calls to past advertisers have also
helped to make 1979/80 a good year for revenue.
In the autumn term of 1979 the size of FELIX on average twenty pages
per week. Many students helped collate and fold FELIX and I was pleased
to have the support of the C C U publicity officers in being able to include
regular comprehensive articles on Guilds, Mines and RCS. The ICU Exec
also provided articles; some serious, some amusing.
The letters page during the autumn term was full of controversy. Frank
James caused much correspondence by wriring that 'anti-intellectuals take
charge of the CCUs and thus perpetrate their own kinds of beer-swilling
lout'. The Occupation of the Senior Dining Room on Ocotber 16th caused
much comment and several other topics including: abortion, lack of photo
credits, policy passed at ICU UGMs all helped to increase the size of the
FELIX letters' page. Some weeks three pages of FELIX were devoted to
letters.
The spring term began with IC ladies rugby team getting extensive
coverage in the national press. FELIX were the first to realise the
journalistic potential of the ladies, but I regret that the coverage in the
Express and Sunday People was bad publicity for the team and IC.
On February 1st FELIX was able to photograph panellists attending IC
for the BBC Radio Quiz and by the end of the recording we were able to
present Barry Took with a finished copy of FELIX. This demonstrates our
aim to be as up-to-date as possible with news coverage in FELIX. However,
this has meant that the printer, Ian Morse, has had to work
late on Thursday nights. News coverage was helped by the co-operation
with the IC Radio News Dept. FELIX gave news copy to IC Radio for
their bulletins and ICRN helped FELIX with its news coverage.
On 19th February I was involved in an accident while running to take
photographs of a 'bank raid' at the College bank. During my two week
stay in hospital, Roger Stotesbury became Acting Editor of FELIX. He was
ambitious and produced three good issues of FELIX. I was pleased to hear
that many students helped Roger during this period.
The summer term, far from being uneventful has produced some of the
major stories to affect IC this year. The siege of the Iranian Embassy and
the demonstrations by IC students caused many letters to be written to
FELIX.
On Friday 13th June FELIX published a photographic review of the year
containing over sixty photographs.
Summary
This year has seen several new ideas including the questionnaire, a greater
emphasis on photographs, the start of a regular section on IC Radio.
Many first year students have worked on the paper and hopefully
everyone has gained from getting involved in FELIX.
There have been many problems. I wish that I had had more time for
preparation, but taking over in the summer vacation meant that I had to
learn the job as I went through the year. I would like to thank everyone,
for their help especially since my accident in February.
Good luck to Steve Marshall — it's a hard job — there's nothing like
being Editor of FELIX. _ A I M I - D
Cheers' C O L I N P A L M E R
cneers. FELIX Editor
FELIX is published by the Editor, on behalf of the Imperial College Union Publications Board.
FELIX is printed on the Union premises in Prince Consort Road, London SW7.
Editor C. R. Palmer. FELIX ISSN 0140-0711 Registered at the Post Office. Copyright FELIX
1980. FELIX, the Editor of FELIX and Union Officers cannot accept liability in respect of
errors or omissions contained in articles herein.

