F E L I X
THE RAKES PROGRESS
A PROFILE OF JOHN HOBSON
John Hobson was born many years
ago in what was then the tiny hamlet
of Barnet, Herts. The son of the Hert-
fordshire 100 yds. sprint champion, he
inherited from his father tne athletic
torso which was to stand him in good
3tead in later l i f e . At the age of
fifteen he was a promising long jum-
per, being the Herts, junior champion,
and when seventeen was placed second
in the Southern Counties Junior cham-
pionships. Although basically a jum-
per and 3printer (his best 100 yds.
was then 10*4) » his one mile was 4*45
sec., he was a member of his school
cross-country team and played far
his l s t XV an the wing. Even at school
he had the promise of good organising
ability; he held the post of vice-
captain, and later, captain of the
athletics team, and finally ran sever-
al i l l i c i t sixth-form dances unknown
to the Headmaster.
John came to I.C. as a mechanical
engineer in 1951 and during his first
two years threw a l l hi3 Interests into
the Engineering society and the Rail-
way Soc., of which he was the treasurer
in 1952. Though playing rugby regular-
ly for the old Boys XV he found time far
occasional games in College, and re-
presented Guilds in the long jump in
the College sporta, gaining a half
colour.
At this stare in his career his
Part II examiners saw f i t to elect
him a member of t e most popular club
in I.C. John repeated his second year,
and became "visits secretary" for the
Railway Soc. and gained his f i r s t I.C.
athletics colours (he has had re-
awards every year since then). During
his final year in 1955 John was treasurer
of the I.C. Athletic Club, and, as ever,
faithful to the locomotive, was chairman
and visit 3ec. of the Rly. Soc.
John's proliferous term-time
activities are almost equalled by his
vacation pursuits. His love of Scot-
tish scenery is attributable to his
having cycled, over most of the Scot-
tish Highlands. He has visited Norway
ss a member of the 1956 I.C. Athletic
team, and his two visits to Denmark
have given him a fine appreciation of
Danish beer and food. Jo JI has had
a series of vacation jobs the worst of
which he tells me "was working for
C i v i l engineering excavation manu-
facture - I spent a fortnight on blad-
ing bulldozers."
He has a few views on what he
likes which include:
Steam engines, classical music and
opera, cheesemaking, buttered crumpet,
wienerbrod, strong tea, natural -sllars,
Charrington's Burton, lager and _ce,
circuit training, and social and athle-
tic intercourse.
He has definite views on what ho
dislikes which include:
Dull stereotyped thinking, red
tape, dogmatists, crawlers, habitual
topers, cliques, smoochy bands, the
Piccadilly line and the B.S.S. index.
lie has even more definite opinions
on unde graduate l i f e , which he feels
people do not appreciate until their
third year, and which he says , i s sec-
ond only to Post-Graduate existence.
He i s of the opinion that at least
one year at College should be spent in
the hostel, and would like to see more
peo-,le, including P.G. students, parti-
cipating in one or two college activi-
ties. His views, I think, are worthy
of the notice cf anyone, but particular-
ly of the first-year student who finds
difficulty in orientating himself in
the tangle of social activity and aca-
demic work that is college l i f e .
.juite prepared to leave college
with his 2nd class nonours, John was
unexpectedly invited to do a 3 year
course of research in corosion fatigue,
non-metallic protective coatings, and
the durability of latex substitutes.
Hereafter, John indulged in a profusion
of activities. His first two Post-
Graduate years ne was the P.G. re-
presentative, lect ired High«i National
courses in evening classes and was vice-
captain, then captain of the athletic
Club.
John h*-s been the Guilas organiser
of tne last two Lord Mayor's Shows, and
is the present president of the Athletic
Club. Never having attended a carnival
a* an undergraduaie (shame] ; he decided
to rectify this and has been a member
of the last two years' Guilds enter-
tainments Committees.
BY
G I L B E R T A N D S U L L I V A N
M O N D A Y T O T H U R S D A Y M A R C H 1 7 - 2 0
C O N C E R T H A L L AT 7 4 5 P M
Ticket J price 5/-T 3/6 and 2/6 on sale in the Union every kmehtwvw
or on the night
T H E D E B A T I N G T E R M
Debating has proved to be a
popular College activity this year,
and the Lit. and Deb. Soc. has been
pleased to see the increase in the num-
ber of people attending. Audiences
have varied from some 250 at a joint
debate with Beford College, down to
40 at a discussion of a religious
motion- It is interesting to ncte
that the smaller houses have produced
some of the best floor debating:
large houses seem to be attracted by
more frivolous motions, and these are
more difficult to speax on than those
:n which one has a serious concern.
Three debates have been held sc
far this term. On January 21st the
motion was "Triat «-an has made God in
his own Image* with the College
Chaplain the Rev. Cleverly Ford, and
Dr. Harold Allan, as the principal
speakers. There was some hard-hitting
debating of a very high stanuard, and
the motion was rejected with a large
number of abstentions.
On Feb. 11th, the College was
visited by the American Debating Team,
which toured the country, I.C. being
one of the two individual London
Coleges at which they spoke. About
120 people heard the discussion of
"That women's suffrage was a mistake,
and should be revoked." This pro-
duced some exceedingly witty speak-
ing from the platform, both from
Pooofsky and Stokes, the Americans,
and from Finch and Allen of I.C., who
were by no means outclassed. The
floor speeches, unfortunately for our
transatlantic reputation, were few,
and of poor quality; even i f a l l
possible allowance be made for the
difficulty of apeaking on a weak
motion.
The third meeting t i s term, on
Feb. 25th, waa to have been a debate
on Trade Unionism, with the well-
known right-wing politician Edward
Kartell opposing a speaker from the
T.U.C. This had to be changed into
a Brain's Trust, in which three speakers
together with two provided by the
Socialist Society, sat and answered
questions put by the audience. Both
questions and answers were keen and
pointed, and several really good argu-
ments were heard. There was an audi eno*
of 150, and i t s enthusiasm to some ex-
tent belied the current political apathy
at this College. It is a pleasant
ootuBentery on the climate of controversy
at this moment, that the thres outside
speakers after fighting a fierce ver-
bal battle on the platform were able
to share the seme taxi hone.
The Society's progress in compe-
titive debating ended early this term
wnen we were beaten by Birkbeck in
the second roand of the TJ.L. debating
tournament. Oar defeat was not a
crushing one, and the presence of the
Birkbeok tea* in the final of the
nationwide N.TJ.S. debating tournament
attests to i t s esoalleooe.
It would aeaa that I.C. debating
is in a reasonably healthy condition,
but i t probably would be considerably
better. Tne nucleus of experienced
speakers is growing, and paper speeches
are almost always good, but i f the
people aba attend debates would ooae
to regard themselves less aa an audience
aad Bore aa active wamboia of the House,
tbaa the general standard ef debating
would increase in leaps ami bounds.
P.JU

