4 F E L I X
EDITOR :
PETER LEVIN
ORculation
1500
P R O F . S K E M P T O N G O E S T O C A M B R I D G E
Thfe Rector's Bulletin usually contains some interesting facts about goings-on
in th* professorial world. In the March issue, for example, we read that Professor
Skempton has been to Cambridge to give a lecture on "Canals of the Middle Ages and
Renaisssnce" as part of their History of Science course. Civil Engineers will know
that the Prof, gives a third-year course of eight lectures on the History of C i v i l
Engineering, drawing applause and a oonsistent maximum attendance. While this i s
encouraging in that i t shows a demand for suoh courses at I.C., the fact is that of
a l l the lectures given annually in Guilds, a meagre eight are devoted to the human
side of engineering (the Roman viaducts, the development of the Gothic cathedral etc.).
Comparison with the situation at Cambridge reveals a different st-ite of affairs.
To them a course on the History of Science is so important that i t is worth inviting
a professor to come from London to lecture on a relatively minor topic. However,
while I.C. and Cambridge may have their different syllabi and methods of teaching,the
competition between graduates for the best jobs affords some measure of comparison
and one wonders whether the rumours that employers are going for the Cambridge men
f i r s t may not be without foundation (not every firm is run by Old Centralians). Is
the governing body going to wait for industry to say bluntly that there i s some-
thing wrong with I.C.men?
Two years ago the first-year failure rates received so much publioity, from
Phoenix and from failed students themselves, that headmasters of grammar schools
were recommending their sixth-formers not to come to I.C. This state of affairs was
somewhat rectified, w i l l such adverse publioity be needed again?
E D I T O R I A L B O A R D
L E N T T E R M 1958
Features Editor . . . . F. Peacock
Sports Editor P.S. Smith
Photographic Editor . . J.K. Taylor
News Editor R.F Karrod
Art Editor J.I. Sellers
Social Editor R. Browning
Business Manager. . . . I.M. Pluramer
Sales Manager J. Carter
Secretary . . Susan Coombs
Coming Events J.T. Littler
Cartoons B. Cogens
D.J. Irving
Profiles M. Gorb
P. Porgess
J.W. Murray
Production 0. Wiokhardt
Deirdre McRoebie
Sheenagh Wallace
U N I V E R S I T Y E X C H A N G E
If one can take the re.;ult.~ cf
the S i r Arthur Acland English Essay
Competition as an indication of the
literary abilities of the various de-
partments of the College, the Physics
block can consider themselves the pre-
sent leaders in this field. It was
found necessary to divide the prize of
vhis Essay Competition between three
Physics students. D.J. Irving (1st
year) chose the intriginr title
"Paddy on the Buildingr": this essay
being ublished in the current hoenix.
"The Bayeux Tapestry" was the subject
of S.J. Wright (2nd year) and Miss D.F.
Jacksor. (3rd year) elaborated the theme
of "Man's Picture of the Atom."
We extend our he.'xrtiest congratu-
lations to these writer for their ex-
cellent performance, but nope that in
future the prizes will not be restricted
to one department only.
P H Y S I C I S T S S H A P E
E S S A Y P R I Z E
Information has been received by
the Registry reg.rding Exchange Scholar-
ships at European Universities- The
Asohen Technisohe Hochsohule is offer-
ing Exchange Scholarships for post-
graduate, students in Mining, Metallurgy,
C i v i l , Electrical and Mechanical Engin-
eering. The Technische Universitat,
Berlin-Charlottenburg off re scholar-
ships for both undergrads and postgrads,
while the KidgenSssische Technisohe
Hoohsohule, Zurich, is open to post-
grads only.
Anybody who wishes to be considered
for one of these Exchange Scholarships
is advised to apply to the Head of his
Department and also to inform the Regis-
trar by War, 3rd 1)58. The exchange
would be for the session 1958 - 1959«
The only condition that the recipients
must know sufficient German to follow
laboratory and practical work.
VIEWPOINT T H E A I M S O F E D U C A T I O N
In the last issue of FELIX the
Editor made a spirited and well
thought out criticism of some aspects
of education at Imperial College.
There are many who support him, but
unfortunately criticism of this nature
is often regarded as either a sales
gimaick or as immature nonsense coming
from undergraduates. The current c r i -
ticism was certainly not.
It is connon practice to attack
students for their apathy to the l i f e
that goes on around them. They are
called narrow, specialist and irres-
ponsible. They are thought of as
beings without any interest in human-
ity as a result of the bullying abuse
of position xade by many members of
staff, who seem to forget they are
training human beings, not robots or
talking vegetables. Probably more
students stand up to this criticism
than the critics would like to ima-
gine. They become well-educated,
adaptable and competent. But there
i * a large residue who do need bet-
ter education.
What are the aims of education?
Professor D.J. O'Connor (Philosophy,
Liverpool University) summarises them
aa follows:
(1) to provide men and women with
the minimum of skills necessary for
them to (a) take their place in society
and (b) seek for further knowledge.
(2) to provide them with a vocation-
al training that will enable them to be
self-supporting.
(3) to awaken an interest and a
taste ."or knowledge.
(A,) to make them critioal
(5) to put them in touch with and
train them to appreciate the oultwal
and moral achievements of
Five clauses. Bow many doss
Imperial College f u l f i l ? Obriously
only (1) and (2). As for the rest we
are sadly lacking. Perhaps quit* a
few people achieve (3) but vary rarely
because they are inspired by the WJJT
members of staff conduct their research
or teaching. The crit-cal faculty i s
very muoh suppressed by demanding
ridiculous "cramming". Heads are
stuffed full of facta instead of being
trained to think. Worst of a l l is the
way Imperial College attempts to carry
out (5)» A l l these five aims are close-
ly interwoven and the higher the form
of education the more important (5)
becomes. Train a scientist the pre-
sent way; turn him loose into a job.
If i t is soap powde s perhaps i t is
amusingplf i t is munitions research
then we hope he is aware of what he
is doing.
Some students are awake to this
problem but they are powerless to effeot
any direct change. They can only give
voice to their ideas. We don't want
cultural cotton wool; we want a bet-
ter educational system. We rust have
a better, more h
"--uiistlc approach to
science or the vast new buildings will
do more harm in the world than good.
Scienoe and technology are culture,
i f taught properly. In the words of
D.H. Lawrence: "Even the real scien-
tist works in a sense of wonder. The
pity i s , when he comes out of his lab-
oratory he puts aside ..is wonder along
«ith his apparatus, and tries to make
i t a l l perfectly didactic. Science in
its true condition of wonder is aa
religious as any religion. But didactic
scienoe is as dead and boring as dog-
matic religion."
In other wards we must learn to
f i t science into i t s proper place in
society. We certainly haven't done
so yet. It is a l l vary wall blindly
training more scientists and engineers
for jobs, hut waare l a i t loading usT
Son* of u* would f*al mora optimistic
i f wa oeuld haws soma indication that
i t wasn't ap th* garuam path.
Sir Wlmstaa Chnrohill expressed
the** ^dma* vary wells The f i r s t duty
SB* a university i s to teach wisdom, aet
a trade; enaractar, not teoamioaliUaa.
** want a l o t of anglaaars l a the mod •
era world, bat w* do not want a world
of engineer*."
A.M. Hodgson

