6 F E L I X
P H O T O G R A P H I C
E X H I B I T I O N
THE A F F L U E N C E OF I N C O H O L
• i t e r i s the bast of gifts that asa to nan oaa bring,
But who aa I to have the best of everything?
Let princes ravel at the pump, and peers with ponds asks free,
Whysky, wine, or even beer i s good enough for ae.
(anon.)
Browsing through a second-hand
bookshop the other day, I picked
up a volume whose t i t l e "Alcohol and
the Human Body" promised some interest-
ing reading. Written i n 1906, i t was
well worth the money I didn't pay for
i t , and far those who bother to read
this far, I noted some of the more
interesting sections.
In case you didn't know, "Alcohol
is a poison, so i s strychnine, so i s
arsenic, so i s opium," and i t i s
"useful to nobody; i t i s harmful to
a l l . " This is endorsed by the follow-
ing experimental data: "A drop of
alcohol in more than a pint of water
acted injuriously on the growth of
cress, and even one part i n a thousand
of alcohol was found to affect geraniums
adversely. There was less colouring
matter in the leaves and premature
withering of the lower leaves occured."
Also "oray fish, placed i n 2- solu-
tion of alcohol succumb within a single
day; perch placed i n a to 9<
solution rapidly become intoxicated,
f a l l to the bottom and die." The
authors were members of the "so called
temperance party, whose disinterested
public work on behalf of their fellow
citizens has only been required by
obliquy and has obtained for them suoh
abusive t i t l e s as 'extremists' or
'fanatics' or even "fools'."
(Author's note: try reciting the last
sentenoe when you're tight.)
They warn their readers that " i f
a large dose of alcohol i s taken at
one sitting, i.e. within two or four
hours, the symptoms referable to the
nervous system are such as are com-
monly spoken of as drunkenness or
intoxication," and that 'experiments
have shown that the effect of a single
dose of alcohol taken i n the evening
persists until the morning err noon of
the next day," and that "alcohol
lengthens the time taken to perform
ocmplex mental processes.
Alcohol i s "such a narcotic that
there soon occurs loss of the essen-
t i a l regulation of control of the
limbs and especially of the lower
limb3, whioh feel heavy and no longer
move with precision," and " i t has a
prolonged depressant after-stage."
The authors correlate the results of
many medical men, and have listed
over ten diseases caused by alcohol,
and over forty ranging from Homioidal
IC POLISH SOCIETY
PRBSBBTS A
G O I N G D O W N H O P
SATranAX 15 th MARCH
AT 7.30 p.m.
LW THE NEW CONCEIT HALL
BAND CABARET BAR
TICKETS:-
SINGLE 2/- DOUBLE j/fed.
Has anyone get a cheap eomaah
raquet far a beginner? Box 57.
Mania to Sunstroke whioh are indirectly
caused by aloohol, while "to frequent
a publio house is one of most certain
ways of receiving frequent and large
doses of infection." "D.T.'s occur
aa a result of repeated debauch. The
ideal physiological drink ia water."
"Finally" they write in their
last chapters " a l l parents and
teachers ought to bear in mind that
one of the moat frequent causes of
evil habits and sexual i -morality
among young people i s the taking of
alcohol."
Nick Clarke.
W I N E T A S T I N G S O C I E T Y
Continuing i t s t r a i l blazing, the
Society introduced the practically un-
known wines of Cyprus to its members.
The typical wines of this Island
are as rich and sunny as the climate,
although there are a few dry beverage
wines. These have an extremely high
alooholio content, due to the fact
that the sugar contact of the grape,
whioh i s high because of the climate,
i s totally oonverted to aloohol.
The Cypriot vines have retained
their oharaoter since the Roman times,
as the dreaded pbyllexar* plague,
whioh swept Europe l a the SO's, sdre-
omlously missed this Island.
Perhaps the meat famous of the
mines are the Commanderia' a which
take their name from the Cxmaadere.
This la a lnaolome iwiesit viae, which
makes a dellafctfal aperitif, or a
aaaaga from pert.after a meal. (It
is alee relatively abaay, being about
8/ed. a bottle). Cypres also produos*
a variety of sweet and dry Sherries,
whioh are oaDa amely good for the prime.
Why not try some yourself?
With subjects ranging from the
Queen Mother to obsolescent locomotives,
the Photographic Society Exhibition pro-
vided an impressive record of how far
I.C. men have roamed with their oameras.
Most of the prints and transparen-
cies making up the display reached a
good technical standard, but the ex-
hibition left a feeling of dissatisfao-
tion. It seemed far more a snap-shot
display than a photographic exhibition.
In the black and white classes parti-
cularly there were very few deliberate
pictures; even sons of the most pleas-
ing probably owed more to luck thsn to
real planning.
This impression was supported by
some prodigious and unselective per-
sonal entries and by the fact that
there were so few 'experimental' photo-
graphs. Only A.J. Eycott's interesting
•See ourselves as other see us" and
R.H. Linnell's le^s successful "Perspec-
tive" made any attempt at trick effects.
Teohnical and Record seemed an un-
happy merger and one would have thought
that a college of science and technology
could have supported a f u l l technical
section. In fact there were few 100
technical photographs, but of these Mr.
Eycott's "Electrolysis" demonstrated
hoo well colour can be used in this
class. Record shots on the other hand
give soope for snap-shooting at its
best, and judged in this context many
of the entries were mo3t impressive.
The deliberate photogrnpiiy of the
portraiture necion was dominated by
T.P. Xovattana's charming studies. No
other entry matched these for ease of
posing and technical finish.
The black and white display was
marred by a number of prints whioh
sadly lacked exhibition finish. There
were several stained prints and num-
erous dirty mounts (organizers to blame?)
while the standard of mounting and
inanity of some t i t l i n g spoilt many an
attractive picture.
In part,the exhibition was redeem-
ed by the colour section. The transpar-
encies abounded with well planned and
oarefully photographed pictures. Above
a l l , the entries showed a fine sense of
oo] our.
The society should think carefully
how i t can bring the standard of i t s
black and white section up to that of
the colour transparencies. A lira ted
entry with a higher admission standard
of mounting and preparation would a l -
most certainly help.
REFECTORY CLOSING
The Union refectories will close
for Easter after lunch on Wednesday-
April Znd, reopeniog for lunch on
Wednesday April 9th.
Queenle't and the Snack Bar will
elose after tea on the last day of
term and reopen for coffee or. the
first day of next term,
HIDING HOLIDAY
Will anyone interested in a 14-
day riding holiday after th* end of
the summer te-m please contact J.L.
Seller* via th* Union rack. Th* co»t
will be about £20.

