IT'S A RECORD PROFIT
Carnival makes
£3,500
Carnival proved a tremendous financial success—profits reached
£3,500, over 50"per cent more than the record achieved two years ago.
Carnival Organiser Jerry Stockbrdige attributed the success to the
hotting-up of College rivalry during the year. Last year a profit of
under £1,000 was realised.
The beginning of the academic year saw no Carnival Organiser
and no Carnival Committee—the previously elected Carnival Organiser
had failed to return to I.C. Jerry Stockbridge was appointed co-
ordinator and Dick Conn, Vice-President of R.C.S.U., was particularly
interested. It was he who stimulated the collecting by arousing
R.C.S.U. With RCS stepping ahead in collections RSM and C & G
set out to beat them.
Molam and O'Reilly of Mines were
particularly keen and energetic and
Mines achieved by far the greatest
proportion of money per head, with
a total of £426.
But the novelty of the year and
the factor which made this years'
Carnival such a success was the folk
concert. With the Albert Hall almost
R C S Elections
Hulme keeps
Fuchs out
In a low poll which had to be
ratified at the RCS A.G.M.,
George Hulme was elected Presi-
dent ot RCSU. Well-known
" politician " Frank Fuchs was
the only other candidate.
At the actual elections, held prior
to the A.G.M., Hulme received 203
votes compared to the 173 votes cast
for Fuchs, there being 53 spoilt papers
and abstentions recorded. However
the poll was below the one third de-
manded by the constitution and hence
the need for ratification — duly
achieved by a vote of 110 to 102.
Vice-President since January this
year, following the resignation of
Dick Conn. Hulme is now faced with
the problem of returning as a PG
with a pass degree ! It is therefore
very unlikely that Hulme will return
next year. He in fact stood for
RCSU President to oppose Fuchs and
personally to keep Fuchs out.
full, and the artistes a great success
with the largely external audience, a
profit of £1,000 was achieved on the
concert alone. Jerry Stockbridge
warns, however, that the essential
success of the Folk Concert was its
novelty. In future years, while the
Hall should be used again, different
forms of entertainment should be
provided. He suggests as examples
gypsy dancing or a pop concert.
Another novelty this years were the
pools, run by Frank Morris, which
netted £55. The raffle was once again
successful, bringing in £450, and the
Carnival week's events, including the
Dramsoc Revue, the International
Evening and the Fete, produced £122.
M A L L MODEL
Donations are still coming in and
have reached £45. Prominent among
the donors was Tony Duke, who gave
£15. earned as a male model.
Jerry Stockbridge is well pleased
with the result of Carnival but claims
that still greater financial success
could be achieved.
" The inter-College rivalry must be
maintained as an incentive. Each
year we must aim to beat the previous
year's record. Carnival must aim at
collecting money from outside I.C.
Students have money but won't spend
it on a charity."
ROY CASTLE captured by Guildsmen. He reached the Shaftes-
bury Theatre on time for the show, after Carnival had profited by £5.
Loans this summer ?
The Government may attempt
to introduce a system of sludent
loans during the forthcoming
long vacation. This was made
clear in a statement by the Union
of Liberal Students.
Under a loans system students
would have to repay the money
spent on their university education
on a kind of hire-purchase basis.
U.L.S. is understandably annoyed
about this. " Such a reactionary
and pernicious measure is only to
be expected of Wilson and his
lackeys . " runs their statement,
" Why are the NUS doing nothing?"
The style of the writing may smack
of Communist Chinese progaganda,
but there is no question that the
Liberal Students are not taking
action. Together with the Radical
Students Alliance they intend to hold
a series of rallies across the country
and convene a number of protest
meetings with local councillors and
MPs.
Their statement ends, " The struggle
against loans is the fight for free
education, not just the free edu-
cation which we enjoy now but tne
free education that should be the right
of generations to come." One hopes
that NUS will follow the Liberal Stu-
dent's' lead.
•••••••••••••••••••s l a a l n i l n
• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • a
IN THIS ISSUE
COLCUTT PAGE 3
" The Role of the President," dis-
cussed by Tony Duke and Frank
Fuchs PAGE 5
Review of the Year
by Colin Harrison . . PAGE 6
Carnival photo feature PAGE 8
• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • i n
• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •

