4 FELIX
CEDITOR'S
omment
CARNIVAL
The big success of the year !—Carnival—a Carnival which has
produced a dramatic increase in profits from a miserable £800 last
year to £3,500. This beats the previous record profit by 50 per cent.
Carnival Organiser Jerry Stockbridge can only be praised for taking
on at the last minute such a large task and producing such a success.
As Stockbridge says, the job in Carnival each year must be to sur-
pass the previous year's profit and there is no reason why, in the next
few years and with the whole-hearted support of each undergraduate
at I.C., we cannot top £10,000. Particularly, we should concentrate
our efforts into the first term, when each student is fresh, each has
plenty of time and when enthusiasm is running high.
PRESIDENTS—PRESENT AND FUTURE
This year again, the Union has continued to be run by a self-
formed elite. The Executive members are elected not for their vision,
their awareness of the average student condition, their determination
in improving or upholding this condition , nor are they elected for
their vision of I.C., of where I.C. should go or what it should become.
Our Executive is elected on the whole, to preserve the status quo.
Undoubtedly it is the role of the President and the Executive to act
as social representatives and to run the day by day administration of
the Union. It is also their role, however, to represent student opinion,
or even in fact to lead student opinion.
Tony Duke and his Executive have fulfilled the first role, and
often admirably. This is the role they themselves see and in these
terms Tony Duke has been a success as President. He has definitely
been a greater success than some of our previous Presidents in recent
years. Molam, McBain and, to a lesser extent Roberts have all been
successful and have worked hard in their way
They have however failed in their second role. In particular
their efforts to suppress any active opposition to the government, on
the overseas student's fees increase was tawdry and depressing.
Cavanagh as President of RCSU has been far more successful
in this second sphere. He alone on the Executive stood out against
the overseas students' fees increase. It was he, too, who worked to
improve postgraduate grants in London.
When thinking then, in the next few weeks, of our choice for the
President of I.C.U., we must bear in mind that the incumbent has these
two roles to fill. It is not just sufficient that he is efficient in admini-
stration, or that he be a " good lad." He must have some purpose,
some ambition for I.C., and a social conscience to make him aware
where faults or injustices occur.
He needs the determination, too, to continue to vaunt and make
known our opinion when necessary.
FELIX
Finally we take an introvert look at FELIX. We have pleasure
in informing our readers that FELIX will be growing bigger next
year, with a new page size double the size of the present one. This
will allow greater scope in the presentation of a page and lead to a
more stimulating layout.
This year we are able to say that FELIX has made a slight
profit. We are one of the few student newspapers to make a profit*,
but why, though, should a student paper have to make a profit?
FELIX acts as the shopwindow to the Union and as such performs a
very great service for the Union. We therefore feel that the idea of
subsidising FELIX when it makes a loss should be replaced by a direct
and large grant. Only in this way can we afford to become the
" professionally" produced paper our Union deserves.
FELIX London, S.W.7
Internal 2881
Telephones : K E N 2963
EDITOR : D. E. POTTER
Asst. Editor : Nigel Shindler
Sports Editor : Alan Robins
News Editor : Stewart Barnes
With : Colcutt, Adam Gawronski,
Frank Morris, Colin Harrison, Steve
Mallinson, John Mulhly, Paul Smith,
Photographic Editor : Dave Ormiston Dave Sullivan. Mike Yu, lan Wil
Business Manager : Richard Davies
Sales Manager : Chris Palmer
Advertising .Manager : Robin Hall
Production Manager : Peter Mundy
Cartoonijt : Dick Gentle
Whats C.f Editor : Ken Simpson.
liams, Paul Heath. Caroline, Lynda,
Gillie and Beryl.
Advertising Agency : Educational Publicity (Partners) Ltd.
CHA 6081
THAT MAY BALL
Sir,
I would like to know what hap-
pened to the Entertainments Com-
mittee at last night's (5 May) Ball.
I have never seen such a shambles
offered up as the College's major in-
ternal social event.
The food was at normal .Mooney
standards. On my table at the second
sitting (for which I had to wait a
half-hour) the chicken was missing
from most plates and one had no
chicken and very little salad. Mooney
is quite able to produce a reasonable
meal as is evident from this year's
Engineers' Dinner and Dance.
The organization in the main dan-
cing hall was atrocious! The folk
singer—a )Mr. Diz Disley—was, at
the best, mediocre; and at his worst
—bad, very bad. About half the
audience walked out during his
mournful hour. Later we had Mr.
Jesse Fuller with his one-man band.
He started 15 minutes late—due per-
haps to no fault of his own—and gave
an uninspired performance of numer-
ous blues numbers. We were then de-
lighted by a 15 minutes pause during
which nothing happened. WViat fol-
lowed is too pathetic for words—my
main regret is that such an attractive
young lady should have been caught
up in the mess.
In my view and, I believe, that of
some others, the May Ball was rather
a mess. 1 would say a few good
things, however—the decor was simple
but good, and several of the bands
and groups were quite good.
1 should like to ask the entertain-
ments Committee several questions:—
(1) Why more careful planning was
not done to remove these annoying
time-wasting periods?
(2) How the Committee has the
right to reserve part of the very
limited main hall space for its own
private use and private party?
(3) Who should have been in com-
mand during the evening?
(4) Who was the mysterious gentle-
man (not in evening dress) who
crowned the Carnival Queen and what
relevance is he to the major part of
the members of the Union?
(5) How did numerous " gentle-
men " not in evening dress manage
to get into the Ball?
My suggestions for future May
Balls include :
(1) Better planning and someone
who is responsible for the general
running all evening.
(2) More quality and less quantity
in the number of bands, groups and
entertainers.
(3) Bars which have a complete
range of drinks right up until closing
time.
(4) Tickets which arrive well be-
fore the event, not two days before.
(5) Organisers to remove glasses
and chairs from the dance floor and
to do more general tidying work
during the evening—such as collecting
empty glasses more quickly.
C. A. STEWART (Civil Eng 3)
Sir,
1 have, in the past, defended
FELIX in its attacks on inefficiency
and mismanagement in the Union.
However, your last issue carried an
unwarranted attack on Stew Chap-
man, and, indirectly, on IC Ents. in
general.
A mistake was obviously made but
whether through any inefficiency I
doubt very much. 1 know, through
my work on RCS Ents., what a big
event like the May Ball means in
terms of strain and pressure. Unfore-
seen events occur, in this case theft,
that cannot be accounted for in ad-
vance. I can assure you, and the
Union, that this is not the first event
this year to be marred by theft, in
one case almost certainly by Union
members.
But this whole incident only focuses
more clearly just what Ents. members
have to put up with. As Colcutt said
in the same issue, those who are
active in the Union suffer tremen-
dous pressure. This is not only aca-
demically for it can lead to severe
emotional strain. I feel very bitter,
and so do many others, to hear no-
thing but complaints when we have
spent months arranging an event.
There is never a word of appreciation.
This year I produced the Smoking
Concert and RCS Carnival Cabaret.
There were complaints about both
from the Union. The latter involved
many weeks of preparation ending
with a 23 hour period of continuous
organisation and work. On the night,
faced with a drunken, hostile audi-
ence, the sound failed, through no-
one's fault, an artiste failed to fulfil
her contract, and an important cast
member was unfortunately ill (who
could foresee that?) The cabaret
started late, as we had quickly impro-
vised and rearranged, but we were
drowned with abuse from the mob
below. What can we do?
I for one, am not prepared to con-
tinue working day and night to pro-
duce entertainment for selfish, un-
grateful members of IC. Unless there
is a radical change shortly I, and I
won't be alone, will refuse to work
under these conditions.
M. DUCKETT
Chairman-elect of R.C.S. Ents.
M. TAIT
Secretary-elect of R.C.S. Ents.
PARKING MEETERS
Sir,
Sinqe your last issue both the
College and the College Brancn
of the A.Sc.W have objected
to the City of Westminster's
proposed parking scheme for the area
around Imperial College. In this con-
nection we find that the only long
term solution seems to be the follow-
ing scheme ;
(1) Make the complex comprising
Imperial College and the Museums
into a pedestrians only area.
(2) Route through traffic round this
area, or in the case cf traffic
from Hyde Park, under it by a tunnel
terminating at Cromwell Road.
(3) Establish parking for College
Staff and Students and residents by
underground parking in Hyde Park
with access by pedestrian tunnels to
the pedestrian area.
This would be a multi-million
scheme with many technical difficul-
ties. However, the end product would
be a South Kensington that was a
show-piece for the whole country, as
well as the solution of the traffic and
parking problem for I.C.
H. FAIRBROTHER
Secretary, A.Sc.W
NOISE IN HALL
Sir.
In Selkirk Hall, staircase seven
above flight four there is an imbecilic
sot, and I care not a damn at calling
him such. Perhaps he will realise
what I mean when I say that at 1.30
a.m. on Monday morning. May 8th he
crawled up the stairs shouting and
screaming like a newly born pi|j.
This sort of thing is not funny
especially when one* has been awa-
kened the night before at 1.00 a.m.
by an equally imbecilic sot setting
the fire alarms off.
I expect that the attitude of most
people is that this is the sort of things
that one must put up with when
" fortunate enougn to he in Han.
I think it's about time that certain
people who sit and think up rules for
Halls of Residence decided to sit and
think of some way of imposing them.
The idea of having wardens and Hall
Committees is ludicrous when they
cannot control what's going on right
under their noses.
Yours faithfully.
N. W. Andrews (Physics I)

