The role
Administrator
and Social
Diplomat
by TONY DUKE
The Editor of FELIX has asked me
to write an article on my views of the
IC President. Perhaps this is some
trick to twist my words, or yet again
be misrepresented! Obviously, as the
time is drawing near for the highly
criticised Joint Council meeting de-
cision for next year's post I shall have
to be a little conservative in what I
say. Modesty prevents me from
describing an ideal President! Every
President will approach the task in a
different way; all I can really mention
are my views and the mistakes I've
made and equally the mistakes that
many other members of this Union
make every year.
Tony Duke
First, what is the President of Im-
perial College Union? He is not really
a representative of Imperial College
students; this would be impossible,
there being so many different views
expressed by so many different orga-
nisations within the Union structure.
Neither is he a representative" of the
majority of students because, in fact,
the majority are apathetic towards
Union activities and appear to want
to remain in their shells or to stick
to their already flourishing and pos-
sibly more realistic life away from the
bounds of this institution. He can
more aptly be described as a figure-
head, an administrator and co-ordina-
tor. He is the chairman of Council,
a representative group of students
elected by the students, which, as a
unit is meant to govern the finances
and the discipline of the students,
look after their welfare and be re-
sponsible for the Union buildings.
The President is also a diplomat in
his relations with the Governors, and
Academic and Administrative staff
and with external bodies. He is also
responsible for any actions of the
students where the name of the Col-
lege and Union is involved.
I have given you an outline of the
duties of the President, now what
about the manner in which these
o f T h e P r e s i d e n t
A representative of the students
Imperial College Union is dead !
Long live Imperial College refec-
tories!
This sad demise was unmourned,
even unremarked, by the majority of
its erstwhile members. Even the pre-
cise date of decease is vague. The
College authorities, however, were
more observant and in 1960 the then
Rector and the I.C. Governors pub-
lished an epitaph.
In their long-term plan for the
development of residence and other
student amenities they envisaged a
geographical spreading of the student
areas. As a result, South Side has
luxurious lounge, refectory and bar
facilities; the new central College
block will also have refectory and
lounge spaces. Lavish provision is
and will be made for the feeding,
drinking and lounging of large num-
bers of students as individuals. But
no provision has or will be made for
the existence of students as a Union.
Like an ancient Pharoah in his tomb,
the corpse of I.C. Union will be pro-
vided with all possible splendour but
no route back to life.
It would have been possible for a
vigourous and informed Union to
resist its own dismemberment; in-
stead a bureaucratic and undemocratic
Union provided the perfect evidence
of its lifelessness in the shape of its
President.
" leaders instead
ot representatives"
I.C. Presidents—and they are proud
of it—are on closer and more intimate
terms with the Rector than with their
own Union members. They spend a
great deal of time in social and ad-
ministrative contact with the Rector,
but are too busy to go round the labs,
informally meeting and chatting to
students. Indeed, in so much contempt
are the students of l.C. held by their
by FRANK FUCHS
leaders that they are not even allowed
to directly elect them, this being left
to Council.
The whole legal structure of the
Union ensures that most student offi-
cers are merely administrators. The
system practically ensures that an
elitist philosophy is perpetuated. This
philosophy regards student office as
a "valuable experience" V'hich is
"character-building" and fits the
holder for a future managerial career.
Officers are elected, not because they
are democratically representative, but
rather because they are "good chaps,"
or at best " efficient." Therefore the
electorate never learn to appreciate
the purpose of democracy, are un-
skilled in its use. and easily talked
out of wanting more. They elect
leaders, instead of representatives, and
reward self-interested ambition instead
of community service.
A democratic Union should be just
one facet of students' total involve-
ment in the life of I.C. Learning is
not just a process of memorising facts
-that can be done by a parrot. It
should be a two way relationship; I.C.
is one of the few University colleges
where students are content to have no
say in what they are taught, how they
are taught and by whom they are
taught. Many of the staff here are
falling over themselves to offer this
kind of involvement. But the all-per-
vasive elitist philosophy, reinforced
by the structure and officers of the
Union, make us too scared to accept.
What hope is there for the Union to
emulate Lazarus? A little, perhaps.
Through a greater awareness of the
possibilities of change in the academic
set-up at I.C., students may also come
to appreciate the faults in their
Union.
It is Rill possible that the Union
can change the development plan. We
might still negotiate for a single
central Union building which would
Frank Fuchs
bring scattered students together into
a corporate identity, instead of further
dividing them. But these negotiations
would have to be carried out by a
President who spoke for his members
and not merely for himself.
Apathy is not the fault of the stu-
dent. It is merely an expression of his
unconscious acceptance of the death
of the Union. If, however, the Union
were to be democratically active in
academic and welfare matters his
interest might be re-awakened.
In this context democracy firstly
means conveying information -to the
membership. Even the news of such
serious matters as the College de-
velopment plan and the Parking con-
trol scheme has filtered slowly to
Council and too late to members.
Secondly democracy means frequent
Union meetings. If, as during this
year, a quorum requirement of 300
means that 280 people sit impotently
in the Concert Hall and are then
sent away, then the quorum must be
reduced to meet the average atten-
dance. Thirdly, democracy means a
sabbatical President who can spend a
full-time year serving the welfare of
his members. And fourthly, it means
a President who is elected by universal
suffrage, having proclaimed his poli-
cies and not his beer-capacity.
duties are tutniled. this depends en-
tirely on his character and persona-
lity. Ideally he should be objective,
perceptive, discriminating, have a
single-m'indedness of purpose, a discip-
lined mind and a dominating persona-
lity. " Many of you will disagree on
these points. Some of you would like
to see a politician as President; 1 can
assure you that this would be fatal;
it implies an immediate bias which
would unnecessarily annoy the other
parties and have no real bearing on
the aims of 1C Union. Many would
prefer a totally unbiased, impartial
puppet. In my view we need someone
who is proud of Imperial College and
all it stands for willing to stick his
neck out and able to face inevitable
criticism.
1 am very proud of Imperial Col-
lege and support all that enhances its
good name: thus 1 usually have more
sympathy with the sports side than
with political stirring, and the alleged
" shows of solidarity" which have
become a feature of student life.
Obviously, to embark on a job of
this type you need to be an extrovert.
It is essential to be friendly and help-
ful but at times to be aggressive and
show disapproval. I started the year
with the idea that everyone should
have a free hand. I found this to be
useless and time-consuming. The
President must have his own ideas
and principles, and at times must
make a stand. 1 found that I disliked
the narrow-minded, perpetual-student
politicians .and admired the hard-
working cheerful types who, while
holding no particular office in the
Union, give freely of their time and
effort.
1 have also been asked to discuss
the present method of electing the
President. From what I have already
said it should be apparent that an
intimate knowledge of a candidate's
personality and ability is essential.
This can not be obtained by 3,600 stu-
dents nor by 300 attending a Union
Meeting—assuming it were quorate.
The people most HKeiy to nave tms
knowledge are those directly con-
cerned with the running of the Union,
i.e. the Council, who in the main are
the elected representatives from all
sections of the Union. One must also
remember that many active^ members
around the Union are not concerned
with attending Union meetings.
Therefore in a Union of our com-
plexity and size, I suggest the present
system is by far the more sensible.
To anyone contemplating this seat
of honour and target of abuse, ask
yourself if you have the stamina, effi-
ciency and determination to last the
year and are you fortunate in having
a first-rate sympathetic supervisor?
In conclusion, with a sense of hu-
mour and the ability to laugh at your-
self you cannot fail! I have enjoyed
the year immensely but contrary to
rumours I am not offering myself for
re-election; I am standing as the
President of ICWA with full Union
control by " eye-lash flutter" and
corridor gossip.

