FELIX 1!
POLITICS and the NATIONAL
UNION OF STUDENTS
J o h n L a n e
AMONGST THE many redoubtable
qualities of that mythical beast 'the
average IC student' the most frequently
reported is a hostility to NUS and
to 'politics' in NUS. There are at least
3 ways 'politics' arises in the student
movement.
First, all important student issues are
intimately would up with Government
Policy. So you can't avoid it, even if you
want to. At this level, Northern Ireland
would be discussed by NUS Conference
because a number of NUS members are
imprisoned without charge or trial and
because at various times colleges have
been occupied by the British Armed
Forces.
Second, the amount of democracy
experienced by the overwhelming majority
in this country, is precious little, perhaps
15-20 general elections with many im-
portant questions 'not election issues'
and a distinct lack of choice between the
major parties, anyway. The only way
most people have of giving effective
voice to their opinions, or organising to
do something about them, is through
democratic organisations like student
unions or trade unions.
Thirdly, in a situation where students'
interests are increasingly threatened, It
is of urgent importance to find reliable
and long-term allies. Inevitably, this
means assessing the relative value of
alliances with big business and its press
or with the organised working class
movement, particularly since the latter
now embraces large sections of those
white-collar and professional workers,
who are misleadingly referred to as
'middle*class'. The usual argument
against discussing this, stems from a
fear of offending those in authority,
editors, politicians, vice-chancellors,
businessmen etc. Unfortunately, as
Confucius said. 'He who sit on fence
really feel cuts when trousers wear thin'.
If your assessment is that it is in the
interests of both students and the working
class to have more access to education
and to solve the housing crisis, say, then
you must fact up to the problem of over-
coming both 'middle-class' elitism among
students and the 'students scabbed in
1926' attitude among the older generation
of trade unionists. An obvious way is to
act together on common problems and to
give our support when they face attacks
even if we aren't directly involved. And
if the education cuts are more than just
a piece of government stupidity, but
reflect the power that the interests of
private enterprise have in the Treasury,
irrespective of party in power, then
appealing to the reason of establishment
figures will fail, as it has failed so
consistently in the past.
'Students as Such*
The more coherent critics of politics
in NUS would accept my first point only,
and insert a rule in NUS constitution
which restricted discussion to 'students-
as-such' issues. Such a rule existed until
quite recently. Why was it abolished?
First, it was absolutely absurd that
most student activity in the middle
1960's was about Vietnam which NUS
could not even discuss! Secondly, the
old right-wing dominated leadership had
been busy trying to involve NUS in a
relic of the cold war, the International
Student Conference, which later col-
lapsed when its source of funds (the CIA)
was exposed by US student leaders. The
Executive wished to speak on international
affairs for Vim, British students, without
even the authority of an NUS conference
policy, Thirdly, there has been a re-
alisation that to make policy on just the
student bit of problems like Northern
Ireland or housing leads to bad policy,
i neons istenc ies,' special case fors tudents'
selfishness and so on. How can you
demand more cheap student accom-
modation at the expense of local families?
Or ask for higher grants if you accept that
this will bring the country to ruin? Or
object to imprisionment without charge
or trial, of your fellow students, without
objecting to the internment policy as such?
Reds under the Bed
In spite of these arguments the sus-
picion remains that the student movement
is being used by politically motivated
groups for their own selfish aims. Certainly
two groups do so. When the YSSS
(remember 'Force the Tories to Resign'?)
speak they are only interested in the
small minority of potential recruits. On
the opposite wing the voice of Con-
servative students is only raised on
lefty-bashing issues.
On the other hand the ascendancy of
the left in NUS has been accompanied by
an increase in internal democracy. The
election system for executive guarantees
representation for significant minorities;
the steering committee which once ruled,
conference with a rod of iron is now
controlled by compositing meetings; the
new policy making conferences for
Universities, Polys, FE sector, post-
grads etc, involve a much wider range of
students directly in NUS decision making;
resolutions are now only discussed at
NUS Conference if they are chosen in a
ballot of all student unions. In fact the
resolutions discussed in recent years
reflect if anything the insularity of the
British student movement. NUS has no
proper policy on the EEC which might be
thought of some importance even to that
'average' IC student, while subjects like
housing are discussed again and again
and again.
Why then has conference supported the
Broad Left (the alliance of left Labour,
Communist, and non-party socialists) so
consistently over 5 years, the main
debates being with positions further to
the left? Why has no credible alternative
approach emerged from the right? In fact,
why have the typical student politicians
of the '50's and '60's, with their right-
wing Laboui politics, parliamentary
ambitions and complete hostility to any
mass actions, why have they so completely
vanished from the scene? Why the
increase in numbers and influence of the
socialists?
Are right-wing students really harder
then they used to be? Have they suddenly
lost interest in the last 6 years? Or is the
answer, perhaps the obvious one; a new
type of student activist has emerged, and
been elected to positions of leadership,
because of the need of a new situation
where students face problems which can
only be met by fighting back, winning
allies and strengthening the 'frade union'
function of student unions.
The main weakness of NUS's dem-
ocracy is at its roots in local unions
when students do not exercise their right
to decide NUS policy or elect delegates.
The Editorial in FELIX encouraging
these short-sighted attitudes was there-
fore irresponsible in the extreme.
Jewish Communities
in India
Thursday 5th December
Mech'. Eng'. 640 1.10p.m.
A talk sponsored by the
Indian and Jewish
Societies.
UC Dram Soc
Presents
on the 4th, 5th, 6th Dec. at 7.30p.m.
and the 7th Dec. at 7.p\m,
'The Taming of the Shrew'
At the Collegiate Theatre,
Gordon Street, WC1.
Price: Students 20p
Public 30p
National Universities Specialist
Conference.
Held on January 6th - 7th
Nomination papers up on Friday (Today)
and down on December 3rd
election on5th at UGM.

