FELIX
AUDIO S O C
Graham Dwyer
We are now officially 'Imperial College Audio Society' and we
are gradually building up a basic record playing system which
should equal or excede the quality of the records available. By
the end of the year the equipment should include a Shure VI5/111.
SME arm, Ariston RDII deck, NAIM AUDIO amplifier and Spendor
BCIII Speakers.
Talking of speakers: next
year we hope to engage the
expertise of several prominant
members of the audio fraternity
to give ta Iks and demonstrati ons.
These talks will be aimed at
all those interested in lis-
tening to recorded sound,
particularly music, and will
require little, or no technical
knowledge. Although no firm
dates have yet been settled
it is hoped that speakers will
include: Clement Brown -
Editor 'Hi-Fi Sound'; Mike
Thorne - Editor 'Studio Sound';
Roger Driscotl - Leader of
Audio and Acoustics Group at
the North London Polytechnic;
and several representatives
from manufacturing companies.
We shall also continue to
provide the opportunity for
everyone to listen to music at
its best (would you believe,
some people prefer recorded
music to the real thing!!) by
giving informal concerts in the
Haldane library. The next one
of these is next Tuesday at
7p.m. and will be devoted to
Classical music. Everyone is
welcome and the programme
has yet to be finalised (any
suggestions — to Steve Milward
Physics II or myself).
On a larger scale it is hoped
to use the Great Hall for
complete recitals of Pop music
(e.g. Tubular 3ells) some of
these may well be quadraphonic,
if we can borrow sufficient
equipment.
New members please contact
Steve (aboue) or myself. See
you all next Tuesday.
DRAMSOC
presents 2 plays by Tom Stoppard
THE REAL INSPECTOR HOUND
and
ALBERT'S BRIDGE
Union Concert Hall
Wed. 4th - Sat. 7th December at 7.30p.m.
Tickets 40p at door or from Dramsoc storeroom
STOIC
1.00p.m. Tuesday 26th November.
CONTACT
takes a look at Fencing Club.
*
1.00p.m. Thursday 28th November.
THE LORD MAYOR'S SHOW
Stoic revues the Lord Mayor's Show,
featuring the Guilds Float.
Union General
Meeting
on 5th December, 1974
in the
LOWER REFECTORY
at 6p.m.
WATCH OUT FOR THE
PINK PANTHER!
An Open Apology.
TO ALL those interested, both at IC and IF; it is with
deep regret that the Carnival Committee has to announce that
this year's rag procession has been cancelled. This decision
has been forced upon us by the attitude of the authorities,
more than anything else. The situation was that we had been
given permission to hold a procession, and were to have been
accompanied along the route by the police. However, these
same police would have bden issued instructions to the
effect that we would not be allowed to collect or sell rag
mags. If anyone were caught doing so, he/she and the
Committee would have been arrested. This fact alone does
not worry the Committee that much, as it is difficult to
imagine the police taking a group of students to court for
collecting for charity (what would the Da/7y Mirror say?).
It is for long term reasons that this decision has been made.
Firstly, and assuming that we had been arrested (which is
extremely probable), it is very unlikely that we would have
been granted even a licence to hold a procession next year,
let alone the necessary collecting licences. Furthermore,
who would then donate the lorries for the floats? It has
proved very difficult this year, to find such donors (we only
had three lorries anyway), and who is going to give the
lorries for a procession which was stopped by the police the
previous year?
In the light of these questions, the committee (on a second
ballot) has decided upon the cancellation of the procession.
We are very sorry to those who have already begun pre-
parations, but we hope this will not discourage anyone from
enjoying the rest of the week.
John Downs,
Carnival Co-ordinator.
And Now For The Good News.
YES, Rag Week's with us again! One week of fun and
frolics as well as (hopefully) a boost to the amount collected
so far this year. We hope that, you will partake of at least
some of the events organised, and generally have a good
time. We open the festivities with the Rag and Drag Oueen
Disco tonight in the Concert Hall. Entry price is 2fJp, or
free, of course, if you want to compete (entry forms from
your CCU V.P.). The traditional Chariot Race at Marble
Arch on Saturday morning, is followed on Sunday by an
Evening with SCAB. For 25p, you can wander from" jazz to
folk or from folk to jazz, or from the 'udible to the visible —
yes films! As well as a stock of Tom and Jerrys we hope to
have some slightly more suggestive visuals — come and you
will see what we mean (nudge, nudge, wink, wink). Anyway
this all happens on Sunday evening in the Union Building;
tickets from your union office, or on the door.
On Monday, a Three-Legged Pub Crawl will sort the men
from the boys from the girls. Entry forms will be available
from the Union Lower Lounge from 6.30p.m. onwards, together
with suitable ropes, etc., if you don't bring your own. The
CCU's will be organising their own Nites Out on Tuesday
evening, so look to your notice boards.
On Wednesday afternoon, the Morphy Day Massacre takes
place, the Putney towpath being littered with limbs,eyeballs,
tactical' nuclear missiles, etc. whilst the CCU boat clubs
paddle about in the river. In the evening, Fred Wedlock, one
of the very best entertainers on the folk music circuit is
appearing at IC Folk Club, in the Union Refectory, so if you
are at all into folk music, this is a must.
Thursday evening is occupied by the RCS Smoking
Concert — wholesome family entertainment with plenty of
smut, wine, women and wine, and on Friday IF is staging a
Vicars and Tarts Party (with food) in the JCR. You can come
as a vicar or a tart, so, whatever your inclination, you will
be welcome (ducky).
On Saturday evening, and as a climax to the week, there
will be a Grand Barbecue in Beit Quad, with a cow on the
spit, baked potatoes, and a disco in the Lower Refectory.
The cost for this extravaganza will be 40p in advance, or
50p on the night (subject to advance sales) or just lOp if you
only want to go into the disco. As there's a limited number
of tickets, get yours now from your union office.
The final event takes place on Sunday 1st December,
when a sponsored Marathon Dance will be held in the Union
Lower Refectory. There is a prize of two tickets for the Ents
Concert of your choice for the winner. Even if you can only
dance for a couple of hours in the evening (when it will open
into a public disco) do get a sponsor form from your VP and
come along. For the keener ones, we should point out that
food and drink will be provided so all you need is a good
pair of shoes and abounding enthusiasm.
Rag Week is here. It's up to you to enjoy it, and the more
you partake, the more goes to rag. Enjoy yourselves.

