R i z S h a k i r P a u l E k p e n y o n g
Petula Clark: Petula Clark Live
in London'. Polydor 2383 303
THE COVER of the album features
the new Petula Clark image with an
attempted afro hairstyle haircut gone
wrong.
If you did not go to this concert do
not bother to buy this album unless you
are over 35 or a Pet Clark Soc member.
The poor backing is apparent from the
start to the extent that the popular songs
composed by some of the best musicians
of our time are almost unrecognisable —
Dear Gilbert please forgive her, she is
as 'sweef as a button'. In the intervals
between the tracks she embarks on
massive ego-tripping sessions. Mer-
cifully, side one comes to an end, thus
culminating approximately 20 minutes
of torture.
Side two continues in the same vein
when she tries her hand or should we
say her voice at most types of popular
jive, and country and western music,
but most of the time she does anything
but succeed (plant growth would be
stunted by this serenade!). We would
advise Miss Clark to plead ignorance if
inquired as to the identity of the per-
former on this album.
To our great amazement and disbelief
we were still (but just barely) awake
when this record came to an end. All in
all atypical ninety-niner (the real root
of X'-SgX^-SQX-gO^O in pennies-no
darling not those?).
Rubettes: Wear Its 'At
Polydor 2383 306
AN ALBUM obviously directed at the
teenage market, however, we would have
thought somewhat below the average IC
student. The album sleeve Is mediocre
artistically and is a typical sales
promoting gimmick complete with a
serrated paper hat (their trade mark).
After ten minutes listening (or even
less) it becomes quite apparent that this
group do not possess a style of their
own as such. They make several half
attempts at imitating various artists,
however, there is little or no sustaining
power in these and they Inevitably drift
back into their monotonous stream
(or Is it scream).
Amongst the tracks are all of their
top of the pops hit singles. Judging by
the popularity — in the teenage group -
of these singles one would expect this
album to be reasonably successful.
The sad feature throughout this
record is the lack of original thinking.
If you want to know how many per-
mutations there are of the styles of the
following artists: The Rolling Stones,
Alan Price, Elton John, The Bee Gees,
and Say City Rollers'; do not work it
out just check out this album. i
Hie
Johnny Jenkins: Ton-Ton Macoute
(Polydor)
HERE'S a mixture of voodoo and blues
providing in this case a very agreeable
if somewhat errie combination. Johnny
Jenkins is here supported by half of the
Allman Brothers, Muscle Shoals and a
few others besides which give the music
a good sense of depth when its required.
Notable are Duane Allman who comes
over well on slide guitar and Berry
Oakley on bass.
If it wasn't for Jenkins' refusal to fly
anywhere he would have been in Otis
Redding's support band as it was he just
supplied support when Otis was in
Georgia.
This record first came out in 1970
after Redding's manager arranged the
recording session in Macon with, in all,
over a dozen musicians, the result giving
all the atmosphere of the deep south, and
playing some well tried material. Dr. John
Creaux's Walk on Guilded Splintes and
Jackie Avery's Blind Bats and Swamp
Rats laying down the voodoo; the blues
Rollin' Stone and Sleepy John Estes
Leaving Trunk, even a Dylan with Down
Along the Core.
Many of the tracks sound as though
they could go on forever especially with
the powerful obsessive rhythm set up in
the voodoo influenced numbers.
This record Is really worth a listen to
because of the variation in the record
and the obvious musical muscle ability
of the artists who managed successfully
to play together, the only lack perhaps
is a libretto because some of the words
are a little difficult to pick out, not that
that's very unusual for blues after all.
To sum up, thoroughly recommended.
Julian Brook: 'Portrait' (Super).
THE FIRST vinyl of this singer-
songwriter that I've heard, but his second
effort. He opens with 'Christenings,
Weddings, Funerals' plus solid beat
a la Abbey road supported by a weird
chorus aptly credited 'The Crikey Choir',
certainly been doing homework on the
Fab Fours chord sequences. What's this?
'Sing it out across the nation'? Hmm,
shades of deja ecoute. There's a nice
piano intro on 'That's no Way', which
stays to warm the song, and Elton
pianoforte on 'Endless Dreams' — pure
pink eyes. The music works best on the
faster numbers viz '/ Give The Game
Away' in a 'pop' rather than 'rock' sense
but many of the songs from a reiterated
piano sequence, and for this repetitive
method to work the melody must be
particularly strong, which it sometimes
falls short of, resulting in an overall
sameness to the platter.
The press handout says Julian Brook
describes himself as 'the plodder* —
too true 3ruce! Success will be elusive
until the songs stand up to more than
superficial scrutiny.
He adds strictly rudimentary accom-
paniment to the lyrics, but unlike Leonard
Cohen, here the poetry and imagery
aren't strong enough to make the songs
succeed.
The final offering 'Noticing' is
something else. It is transformed by the
excellent flute-playing of Jimmy Hastings,
whose class shines through and could
well have been used throughout the
40-odd minutes. It's a listenable album
with a certain French quality, mais un
peu plus d'imagination s'il vous plait,
monsieur Brook.
Spike Milligan: 'On the Ning Nang
Nong' (Polydor)'.
FROM HIS sold-out world wide tour,
his recently-released smash album
'Badjelly the Witch and other Goodies'
we have for your delegability, 'Eccles'
Milligan mumbling the harmless little
ditty 'On the Ning Nang Nong'. Beats
the hundreds of other candidates for
this honoured spot into oblivion. If this
makes it they could bring back sanity
and re-release 'Eric the Half a Bee' —
and shut that bloody Bouzouki up,
Mr. Wensleydale!

