F E L I X
P R E C 3 P 3 C E
T r e v o r P h i l l i p s
This term, I have tried to concentrate
on straightening out the existing structure
of the Union, strengthening the fairly
rickety procedures existing in some
aspects of the Union's work, and generally
attempting to make the Union effective
in its basic roles as a representative
body and decision-maker.
Our political role has not been as
strident as it has been, perhaps properly
so. Student Unions should pursue political
activities when these further the interests
and aims of their members. Perhaps the
exception is on international issues,
which have, traditionally, a special
place in students* activities, in terrhs of
bar fundamental concern for international
peace, and preservation of democratic
freedoms throughout the world.
I am, however, disturbed about the
demise of the Left in IC." My own political
position has always been on the left of
the student body." Whilst I eschew the
antics pursued by some of the Ultra and
Silly Left, I believe that the correct way
forward for students is through a per-
spective based on the involvement of the
mass of students in campaigns for radical
change in all aspects of higher education.
I adhere to that position both locally
and nationally; but it is true that, as
President, I no longer have the time nor
the freedom to act as I did as a 'grass-
roots member' of the Union. This is only
right. Initiatives and policy are the
prerogatives of the membership, not the
Union bureaucracy. We work within that
democratic structure; forged by the Left,
in Student Unions. For instance, at IC,
it was only through left-wing pressure for
democracy in the Union that every student
was given the vote, in the late sixties.
Before that Council elected the President,
Hon.* Sec, and senior officers.
This year, there is no identifiable
L: it caucus on Council. There is little
real pressure for radical change at this
level. UGMs are now plagued by a
mindless little group, who like to think
of themselves as Conservative. However,
the spectacle of them casting panic-
stricken looks at each other, every time
they have to vote on something is pathetic
in the extreme, and says nothing for their
consistency, and questions whether they
have any views at all, besides that they
don't like 'Lefties'. I suggest tha't those
who do understand Toryism, (and I think
there is one person, at least) try to sort
out this shambles, an uneasy coalition of
liberals, right-wingers and extremist
buffoons, as they are an embarrassment
to us all.
It is instructive to note that of all the
students who said at hustings for the
election of our delegation to NUS Con-
ference, that none of the right-wing
candidates took part in the formulation
of motions on amendments, or tried to do
so. (I am not including the RSMU element
as seriously 'right-wing'). Furthermore,
of the two 'Conservative' candidates, one
has withdrawn on finding that he is
'only an observer' and the other implied
that he was not really interested in going
anyway as it 'interfered with his social
life'. Does this sound as though they
were interested in representing the
Union?
To return to the left, I reiterate my
belief that the sensible perspective for
students is a radical one, and that this
must he fought for at all levels. It is
disturbing to realise, as I have come to,
that the Administration of the College is
considerably more progressive than the
students.
As President I am not as isolated as
I might have been. The Executive is not
as rabidly right-wing as some people
predicted; in fact, it tends to be on the
progressive side. But it is the left-wing
students on the floor of the Union who
have always won advances for students
in all aspects of student work and
conditions; the right has never been
interested in students' welfare, only in
its own ego-trips. The left must 'stand up'
now.
The National Demonstration last
Friday was, by any standards, a smashing
success. Where seasoned campaigners
(including myself) forcasted a low turnout
of less then 10,000 students, two or three
times that number were on the streets of
London, showing their support for the
continuing campaign for higher grants,
and against the cuts in education.
Locally, it was a dismal failure, as
anyone could see. I myself predicted this
as a response to the last grants award.
It is true to a large extent, that the big
battalions, the Universities, have fallen
to the bribe that Prentice has given us,
and us alone. Students as a body, some-
times do behave in a short-sighted and'
ignorant manner, even when it concerns
their own interests, as in this case.
Very few ordinary IC students have
apparently realised the dire threat posed
by the cuts in the education to the whole
of higher education. Very few IC students
appear to realise the meaning of inflation
or its effect (even at its present rate) on
the spending power of their grant. Some
students have vague ideas that the Means
Test is 'unfair'; but almost none seem to
understand the vicious effects of it, and
the other anomalies in the grant situation,
particularly regulations that acutally
penalise students, time and time again,
for being married.
When students come to me, as they do,
in alarming numbers, to ask advice on
grant problems, I more often than not find
myself up against one facet or another,
of a totally unjust Grants system. And
that can only be changed by active and
vigorous — and, if necessary, militant —
campaigning.
j^BBBBsssBeeseeBsi
Cont. from front page
over the country on that day
by their demonstration of
solidarity.
John Randall told the
gathering that a letter had been
sent to Mr. Prentice calling on
nim to award full grants to all
students over the age of 16.
However, he added that he was
not very hopeful of a favourable
response and that this was all
the more reason for a renewed
struggle to achieve their aims.
Calling on the government to
improve educational facilities,
he said, 'The student body
rejects that this country is
poor since many private conT
panies are making bigger
profits than ever'.
He ended by calling on the
students to 'fight for a better
education system, and fair
grants' and added, 'let this
be the beginning of our fight
to show that we want fair
education system and fair
grants'.
The spirit of the march and
rally was amicably summarised
on the NUS banner, which read,
•EDUCATE, AGITATE and
ORGANISE'.
ICWA
presents a
Christmas Lunch Party
on
Friday, 6th of December
from 12.30p.m. onwards
in the Union Concert Hall
Tickets, price *0p from: Julia Dunning—Beit 98
Jenny Newton—Falmouth 146
or from the ICWA lounge Friday lunch-times.
Coffee will now be available every Friday lunch-time.
from 12,30p.m. onwards in the ICWA lounge
everyone, male and female is welcome.
CONTRIBUTE A RECIPE
AND HELP THE CRECHE!
The IC Wives' Club is
hoping to bring out a small
cookery book next Spring.
The profit from its sale will
go towards provldingdesperately
needed equi pment forthe creche.
Please send me as many
original recipes as you can.
Those from overseas will be
extra welcome. They should be
guaranteed tested, and please
add your name and the yield. I
shall be doing the selecting
and editing myself. Thank you!
Lady Flowers.
Anyone have £300 plus, or can
get this amount together, and
would like to see the States
in late August, early September,
please contact 'Chalky White,
Physics I' thro' letter racks.

