8 F E L I X F E L I X 9
IT
51
T
a
Spot the real girl!
OR WHAT PEOPLE WILL DO
Xi
T
V
FOR THEIR MASCOTS'
Tou didn'r was* behind your ears.
D r u B r o w n E d i t o r o f k
G u i l d s h e e f M a r t i n K e s s l e r R C S U V . P .
P h o t o g r a p h s b y R o g e r W i l k i n s
At last, Theta has been returned to its
rightful owners after a month's vacation
in the grips of Guilds. After the somewhat
easy snatch at the Maths Freshers Dinner,
Guilds put into operation a treasure hunt
for RCS by which they would get Theta
back. The conditions of the hunt being
that only the exec of RCS, Pete Teague,
M Xessler and Nick Payne were the
oriij ones eligible to.collect the clues
and that each clue would cost £5 towards
Guilds Rag Fund.
So one week after the snatch, the first
clue was sent telling RCS to listen into
the Kenny Everett's Morning Show on
Capital for their first clue. So at 6.30a.m.,
RCS set tape recorders in motion for 2V2
hours listening to the programme but
Kenny Everett being Kenny Everett did
not broadcast the clue and so if anyone
wants 2'/2 hours of Kenny Everett on tape
(in triplicate) see RCS.
Finally, RCS were given the clue and
sent to the Tower. After fifteen minutes
of Mr. Teague trying to get the next clue
from a Beefeater, the Beefeater finally
gave in and handed their next clue over
after receiving £5 plus £1 for the
Yoeman's Charity Fund.
So clue in hand Mr. Teague sped off
to the Queens pub with the usual £5 and
two flowers with a bit of fern attached
(meant to be two bouquets) for the
barmaids. They were then sent on a rather
wet and windy Wednesday to the Serpentine
to surrender £10 for the next clue. The
clue being on the Serpentine inside a
whisky bottle though Jenny and other
Guildsmen stood on the bridge watching
the antics of Teague and his merry man
in a boat. Then it was off to Ongar (i.e.
at the very end of the Central Line) for
a £5 postal order from Ongar Post Office.
So Pete Teague, being a true and loyal
president of RCS, made a presidential
decision and sent Martin Kessler off on
this mammoth Tube Journey. Three trains
later, he arrived at the post office to find
it just shutting for lunch. So after an
hour's lunch break, he got the postal
order and. set off on the return journey.
Their next ciue sent them to the Post
Office Tower with £5 and a bouquet of
flowers for the receptionist, then the
Dove at Hammersmith with £5 plus a drink
for every woman in the bar. This was
followed by a trip to the Pole's daily
newspaper, the Daily Telegraph at
11.00p.m. for a copy of the following
day's newspaper and -a £5 cheque.
Then off, one Sunday night, to South
Ken tube'station to find that they had
1
'
/
> hours to get into drag and appear In
the Union Bar at Guilds Bar Night. They
did look nice, better than usual in fact.
And so to the actual return, held a
week last Thursday in the Beit Quad. At
1.00p.m., Teague, Kessler and Payne
waited In the centre of the quad, keeping
their eyes on windows in case water
should cascade from them, for their first
sighting of Theta in a month, now in
Guilds Colours.
Rent-A-Bang then stepped in and with
a small explosion, heralded the arrival
of the RCS mascot, closely guarded by
Guilds. It was then handed over and
chained to Kessler and carried away,
escorted by Teague and Payne carrying a
pickaxe and a steel rod respectively, to
an awaiting van. Theta was whisked
away to the exhoes of a Boomalaka in
the Beit Quad and the result of all this,
£52 to Guilds Rag Fund and holes in the
pockets of RCS.
The Great
Home - Coming
Theta is back with its rightful owners
at last, and is being repainted in the
regal colours of black, purple and white,
to replace the deep puce and blotchy
blue in which it was covered when
returned. Congratulations to Guilds on
putting a little life into the method of
returning stolen mascots. I bet your blood
has not flowed so freely since you lost
your lump of brass last year. We learnt a
lot of interesting odds and ends on the
hunt, for instance, if you ever happen
(God forbid) to be in Chipping Ongar, I
can thoroughly recommend Bill's Caff and
the local pub. Undoubtably the highlight
of the chase was the RCS Exec's app-
earance in drag in the Union Bar. Didn't
we do well?! — expecially since we only
had 70 mins. in which to prepare. No
prizes for guessing what we do in our
spare time!! At the end of the search,
Theta was returned in a blaze of pub*
licity in the middle of Beit Quad. In view
of the presence of so many people, it was
chained up and spirited away Into a van
which drove off at high speed, closely
followed by a Guilds Mini and a Mines
Cortina. Mines, displaying their normal
intelligence, crewed their chase car with
one miner and one RCSU Theta Bearer!
After several high speed U-turns in
Queensgate, the procession moved off at
a leisurely 50mph to Piccadilly, where
after losing the Cortina, we did another
U-turn across only 4 lanes of traffic and
returned to Hyde Park via .Victoria. In the
park we collected a second van and with
our two vehicles about'two yards apart
returned to Victoria, where we turned up
a narrow side street and while the first
van drove off the second stayed put and
the poor mini was unable to get past.
So unlucky! After this Theta was taken to
a safe place without any further trouble.
We think that Guilds benefited from
the hunt almost as much as we did, it
was noticable that the standard of English
and typing in the clues improved as the
search went on. Keep it up. Guilds, best
of luck with your next attempt at CSE
English. (Oh, Bitch!).
Seriously though, many thanks for the
fun. It really was fun most of the time,
with the noticeable exception of rowing
on the Serpentine in the pouring rain and
we hope to be able to do the same for you
in the near future.

