A career that takes you places
The digital age is here. It has been for a while. Technology impacts almost every aspect of our lives. From the way schools and
universities educate, how we interact socially, how we store information, to how we shop; it’s simply the way the modern world operates.
And it’s a world that’s bursting with opportunities. Businesses are pushed to innovate and develop faster, be more agile and creative than
ever before. This gives us the chance to show our clients the kind of opportunities that are out there and how technology can give them a
competitive edge.
If technology excites you and you want to be at the forefront of new IT initiatives and explore emerging technologies and trends,
this could be just the career for you.
We look for people who are motivated by a sense of achievement, have a unique passion for what they’re doing and the ambition to go
above and beyond. The range and variety of career opportunities we have is extensive – from Consulting to Tax; Assurance to Legal;
and Technology to Actuarial – and our businesses welcome applications from people who don’t have business or finance-related degrees.
In fact, 50% of our graduate intake studied non-business related subjects. Instead, we focus on whether someone can bring the kind of
skills that will create value for our clients and lead to success in their career. Our roles aren’t just limited to London – over half of our
graduate jobs are regional and just like London, they have high-profile and diverse clients.
So whichever sector you’re interested in, and in whichever part of the country you’d like to be, we have a huge number of opportunities
on offer.
Take the opportunity of a lifetime
pwc.com/uk/careers
of all 2015 promotions
were outside London
50%
68%
In London,
salaries are
on average, 33 % higher
than other cities,
but you pay
60% more
to live there
Internship opportunities
•Summer internships
•Business insight weeks
•Career open days
•Talent academies
•Diversity in business
•Undergraduate work placements
•Graduate work placements
We don’t look at
UCAS
tariff
for our
graduate
roles
of our graduate opportunities
are based outside of London
We welcome all
degree disciplines
9,100 clients are
based across
offices outside of
London, and this
represents 2/3rds of
our client list
Our regional
practices are
at the heart
of PwC
© 2015 PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. All rights reserved.

