Page 2 FELIX 15th January, 1970
T h e p e n n y
d r o p s e a r l y
a t P e r k i n s
There's too much to do, and too many fields to conquer, for
any one to stand idly by at Perkins.
We are interested in new forms of power, as well as busily
expanding to meet rising demands for our diesels. We are,
have been for more than 10 years, the largest manufacturer of
diesels in the world.
You must have heard dread tales of men and women
graduates taking two years to find out what industry is all
about-before the penny drops. On the contrary, at Perkins
we use your knowledge-and indoctrinate you—with a
speed just short of indecent haste.
Get stuck in! Doing a real job is the only way to learn.
Consider the engineering graduate at Perkins. His first
6 months supply the concentrated training in tools, materials
and technology that the Professional Institutions require. He
is then plunged into production, work study, tool proving,
etc., if he is interested in production. Or engine research or
design, if he is interested in product development. Further
manufacturing training or engineering experience follows
before a final 12 weeks devoted to training in a specific
job function.
Each graduate programme is individually planned and
includes tailor-made projects, special assignments, tutorials.
We are a world-active company: every one of our graduates
is encouraged to study a foreign language by language
laboratory techniques.
At Perkins the penny drops early. We give our graduates
real, contributive work. For full information consult
your appointments board, or write to:
N. Perry, Employee Resourcing Services Manager,
Perkins Engines Company, Eastfield, Peterborough.
Representation on the Board of Studies -
THE STUDENT CASE
by Dave Wield
Some years ago, IC was not at all backward in student involvement on College Commit-
tees. Even before the recent demands by University students for more say in the way they
were educated, there were students on a large number of I.C. committees, e.g. Refectory,
Athletics, General Studies, student residence, etc. Because of this relatively liberal atti-
tude shown by the College, it was not surpris ing that students did not press their case for
representation to the limit two years ago. Instead, students considered that a forum for
discussion between the Rector, Deans, Governors, and students would be adequate to
put the student point of view to the College authorities.
It was obvious to the stu-
dents last year that this was
an inadequate way of discus-
sing important issues. There
was no junior staff represen-
tation. A decision on dis-
ciplinary procedure in the
College, after many hours
discussion had to be deferred
because wardens of Halls
had not been consulted and
were dissatisfied. In short,
JURGO was not being taken
seriously.
It was with this in mind
that the students' Union ask-
ed for observers for a limited
experimental period to be
placed on the Governing
Body, the Finance & Execu-
tive Committee of the GoB
(which deals with the day-to-
day affairs of the GoB) and
the Board of Studies. To our
surprise the Board of Stud-
ies refused our request.
This was indeed a shock.
The right of students to be
represented on most decision-
making bodies in the College
had never been contested
before. The Board of Stud-
ies is the first Committee to
refuse to have students on it.
Hypocrisy
The minutes of the meet-
ing which made the decision
make interesting reading.
Criticism of these minutes
has been widespread, not just
among students, but among
large numbers of members
of staff. The hypocrisy of
some members of staff be-
comes very apparent. Pro-
fessor Chain, for example,
worries about "political acti-
vists" and describes our re-
This article was originally
written to be published with
two other contributions from
members of the Board of
Studies, one agreeing with
student representation and
one against. Unfortunately,
the members of staff ap-
proached have been unable,
or in some cases unwilling,
to contribute. The article
should not be considered as
a complete case for repre-
sentation, merely one stu-
dent's impressions of the
negotiations to date.
Contributions on the sub-
ject from members of staff
are very welcome; any staff
members interested in writing
an article should send it to
the Editor of Felix, Union
building. D.V.W.
quests as "a misconception
and distortion."
The difference between our
arguments, which have
always been purely educa-
tional, and his and some of
his colleagues, which are
blatantly political, is self-
evident.
Students have never spok-
en about "the duty of Im-
perial College to show
leadership", "Imperial Col-
lege doing a great service to
the country", "lead in the
national scene". These politi-
cal slogans have no relevance
to academic and educational
matters.
Why, then, are we so an-
noyed about this apparently
irresponsible attitude shown
by the Board of Studies?
Because any body which
adopts a serious reasoned
and responsible attitude in its
requests expects a similar
attitude in its reply.
Forum
The Rector, in his reply
to our original request, did
not mention most of the rea-
sons for refusing. He states
"the Board feels that it is
essential and not unreason-
able that there should be in
the College a forum to allow
free, uninhibited discussion
by members of the academic
staff, of matters affecting the
formulation and direction of
academic policy."
Members of staff, of
course, can have as many
forums for discussion as they
wish. Students have never
tried to stop discussion in the
College. On the contrary, it
was students who first sug-
gested holding the teaching
Methods Conference — and
who at that Conference sug-
gested having an open dis-
cussion forum of academic
matters. It was students who
made the request for junior
staff members to join the
discussions at JURGO.
The difference between a
simple discussion forum for
members of staff and the
most important academic
decision-making body in the
College is obvious.
No Secrecy
[CU feels that any body
as important as the Board of
Studies — which makes deci-
sions of such far reaching
importance about the educa-
tion of students—cannot be
kept secret. ICU is not alone
in these attitudes. The Vice-
Chancellors and NUS agree-
ment is favourable, and it is
supported by the Department
of Education and Science.
The Vice-Chancellors & NUS
agreement was signed by
representatives of the IC
authorities last year.
Students at Imperial Col-
lege fed that they have a
right to sit as equals on such
Committees. They believe
that students can make a sig-
nificant contribution to the
work of the Board, and that
the presence of students will
not only be of great value to
the student body, but also to
the College as a whole.
C O L C U T T
A new term starts at Imperial College, centre of aca-
demic excellence, where the people are so exclusively mascu-
line that they have to have a separate single-sexed bar for
their extra-curricular activities; Where five hundred people
spend an evening crammed in a concert hall gasping for a
glimpse of gyrating genitalia; Where the only thing that will
attract the masses to a Union meeting is an attempt to throw
out the president.
Imperial College, the most advanced technical institu-
tion in the country, where the thirst for booze is so pro-
nounced that they have to have special clubs for it, with old
and glorious traditions, like bouncing up and down on
Union property, or getting a smacked bottom because you
don't wear your tie on the right day: Imperial College, school
of alcoholism; purveyor of puke.
And what have we in store for us this term? Will some-
body put LSD in the beer at a Mines Union Meeting? Will
the Rugby Club cease their booze-ups after matches and turn
on to marijuana? Will slogans of "Come back C2, all is for-
given" appear on noticeboards? Will the Domestic Bursar
be found one night with a girl in his room? Or will the
world shattering events of last term repeat themselves and
bore us to tears once more? With a gigantic retch, I.C.
heaves back to life.

