Are you bored of science already?
Just because you go to Imperial doesn’t necessarily mean that you have to be a geek. Read on to discover a
more of an all-round education that happens to be right on your doorstep (Okay, maybe a bit further).
To all the freshers reading this, well
done for getting to Imperial, and I
don’t mean because its a great uni-
versity. No, I mean well done for
coming to London, because its such
an amazing city.
If, like me, you love art, theatre,
dance, opera and comedy, then
you’ve picked the best city in the
country (if not the world) in which
to live. If you don’t, then you’ve
picked the easiest city to acquire
cultural knowledge without much
effort, and being able to talk about
such things might even help to get
you laid (well, you can live in hope,
anyway).
So for all those who are new to the
city (and all those who’ve never left
South Ken) here’s a little guide to
some of its highlights.
London is full of galleries. Eve-
rywhere you look there are posters
advertising exhibitions at the Tate,
National, Hayward and Serpen-
tine, to name just a few. Though it
all seems a bit overwhelming, the
great thing to remember is that
most galleries and museums are
completely free (at least for the
permanent collection).
Try to avoid the Tate Modern
(Blackfriars tube) being your only
cultural experience in London. Yes
it’s big and exciting and all that, and
theTurbineHallisbreathtaking,but
Emily Lines
Arts Editor
it’s also always completely rammed
with tourists and kids on school
trips, which do tend to detract from
your enjoyment. Also, some of the
works are downright weird.
So for a much more relaxing in-
troduction, head to the Tate Britain
(Victoria), where the collection has
some of the best of British Art from
1500 right up to the present day. It
is also currently hosting the Turner
Prize exhibition (£5).
Another amazing and sometimes
overlooked gallery is the National
Portrait Gallery (Trafalgar Square).
Its fantastic collection provides
a unique record of public figures,
from monarchy in the Middle Ages
through to rock stars of the modern
day. It is currently running an exhi-
bition of David Hockney’s portraits
(£6 for students).
The West End houses arguably
the most famous theatres in the
world, and chances are Mum and
Dad will want to ‘see a show’ when
they come to visit. Take full advan-
tage of this and make them pay as
tickets are outrageously priced (£40
plus for many shows).
Although Leicester Square is full
of ‘discount’ ticket booths, they are
(in my opinion) largely rip-off mer-
chants, selling mostly tickets for
the least popular shows at full price
with a hefty (£2.50-£5) agent’s fee.
The TKTS booth is the only official
discount agent, and sells tickets for
a lot of shows on the day. Rodin’s The Thinker, at the Royal Academy of Arts from October 10
Two left feet?
Try your hand at handball!
Sign up for our free handball
taster afternoon on
Sunday 8 October
2.00 to 4.00pm
There’ll be drill practices and technique
instruction finishing off with a big match!
forms are available to download from the
website or pick one up at reception
www.imperial.ac.uk/sports
Want to experience London’s Arts
scene? Living on a student budget?
Like free tickets?
Write for Arts Felix!
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
It sells tickets for up to half price,
so you can expect to pay £15-£25, al-
though it will never have tickets for
the best shows (Billy Elliot, Guys
and Dolls etc.) or any of the new
ones (Wicked, Daddy Cool) so can-
not be relied on. Go with no fixed
ideas, preferably on a weeknight,
and you might get a good bargain.
The only other option for cash-
strapped students is last-minute
standby tickets. These are sold
from the box-office, usually an hour
before the performance, although
not all shows offer them. The Na-
tional Theatre sells tickets for £10
for all its shows 45 mins before
performances.
Opera and ballet have a reputa-
tion for being expensive and inac-
cessibleformsofentertainment,but
this doesn’t have to be the case.
The ROH and Royal Ballet (Cov-
ent Garden) have a student standby
scheme that sells tickets for £10 and
advertises to students via text mes-
sages (register online). The ENO
(St Martin’s Lane) sings entirely
in English, and is often much more
contemporary that the ROH. Con-
temporary dance performances
can also be found at Sadler’s Wells
(Angel).
Of course, London has much
more to offer than I can list here, so
don’t be confined to South Kensing-
ton. Go out and explore the rich-
ness and variety, and you might find
there’s more to life than science.
12 felix Thursday 5 October 2006
ARTS arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk

