unionpage
Imperial College Union, Beit Quadrangle, Prince Consort
Road, London SW7 2BB
Tel: 020 7594 8060
John Collins
President
president@imperial.ac.uk
Welcome
from the President
imperialcollegeunion.org
Freshersʼ week has been incredible! Our entertainments venues
at South Kensington, Charing Cross and Wye were packed to
the rafters on most nights, indicating (I hope) that our members
are impressed by our newly refurbished facilities. Freshersʼ fair
was a huge success and credit must be given to the dozens of
Faculty and CSC people who worked tirelessly alongside Staﬀ and
Sabbaticals before and after the event to make it run smoothly.
Of course Freshersʼ Week would not be the same without the
oﬃcial freshersʼ welcome talks, which were attended by nearly
3000 students on Sunday, Monday and Tuesday. If you were
lucky enough to make it to one of these events and witness the
Collegeʼs extraordinarily cheesy promotion video, then you may remember hearing one or two
representatives from the Union speak as well!
I appreciate that the speakers at these talks have an irritating tendency to throw a lot of facts and
ﬁgures at their audience in a short amount of time, and I am just as guilty of this sin as any other.
So, for the beneﬁt of those who didnʼt make it to these talks and for the beneﬁt of those who did
but would like to see more information in print, here is a summary of the welcome speech I gave to
our incoming students earlier this week.
What is Imperial College Union?
Imperial College Union is many diﬀerent things to diﬀerent people but in essence it is what you,
our student members, want it to be.
We are the voice of the students of Imperial College: we run a large network of student
representatives and welfare oﬃcers across the whole College. All of these people work tirelessly to
raise studentsʼ concerns to the College and external organisations about any subject ranging from
the quality of lectures and food outlets on campus to campaigning on national issues such as top
up fees and student debt.
We are a community of 11,500 students: we exist to bring our students together through our
comprehensive events programme and our plethora of student clubs and societies.
We are a federation of clubs, societies and constituent unions: our international societies,
departmental societies, faculty and campus unions represent the diversity of our students at
Imperial and tailor events and activities to their needs and interests. We run over 270 well funded
specialist clubs and societies at Imperial College and if none of those interest you then we can help
you set up a new society.
We are part of a wider student movement: we are part of the London student community and are
presently a member of the University of London Union (ULU). As Imperial College becomes an
independent university in its own right this academic year, we will be forced to disaﬃliate from ULU
and seek alternative means of representation – indeed there are rumours that a petition is being
prepared to organise a referendum to aﬃliate to the NUS this autumn…
We are an advice and support resource: if you have any concerns about your course, your
accommodation, your health, student debt or employment then please come and visit our
professional student advisor at the Information and Advice Centre in our South Kensington Building
who is always happy to help. The Sabbatical team, too, are always willing and able to help you.
We are often referred to as a building: when in fact we operate in three buildings (South
Kensington, Reynolds and Wye) and have a presence on almost every campus in the College. The
Beit Building, which is our main building in South Kensington, is presently undergoing a large and
exciting refurbishment programme that may cause limited disruption over the next couple of years.
We are 100 years old this year! So we will be co-ordinating a wide range of events throughout
2007, climaxing with our extravagant Centenary Ball, which will be held at the South Kensington
Campus on 16th June 2007 (put that date in your diaries!).
Imperial College Union exists to help all of the students of Imperial College to get the most out
of their time at Imperial College. It is an entirely student led and governed organisation, run by
students for students. If you have any ideas about how we can serve our student members better
or want to ﬁnd out a little more about how the Union works and how you can get involved in its
activities, then please come along to our Freshersʼ General Meeting on Monday 9th October at 6pm
in the Union Concert Hall.
TFL Discount
30% discount on Oyster cards
Transport for London is oﬀering 30% discount on
Oyster travelcards for students at Imperial.
A Student Oyster photocard entitles the holder to
buy student rate Bus Passes and Travelcards valid for
7 Days, one month or longer periods of up to one
year. Students will get 30 per cent oﬀ the adult rate.
Student Oyster photocards are only available by
application and a fee of £5 applies. Please ensure
that you read the eligibility criteria before you apply
as the application fee itself is non-refundable. Please
note that if you are registered on a part-time basis
you will not normally be eligible for a photocard and
cannot apply online.
In order to apply, you will need:
• Your credit/debit card number and expiry date
• A digital photograph of yourself saved as a jpeg
• Your Imperial College London ID card.
Apply online here:
http://www.tfl.gov.uk/tfl/fares-tickets/2006/
photocards/18.shtml
Union Website
Join online now!
Donʼt forget you can join
Clubs & Societies online at
imperialcollegeunion.org.
Did you see anything at the
Freshersʼ Fair that took your
fancy? Then have a look
around the Clubs & Societies
A-Z for them and join up, it is
simple, quick and secure!
Also online we are selling
eTickets to all the big
entertainment events at the
Union. So, again, have a look
around and see if there is an
event you would like to attend.

