N e w s
No motion
The first IC Union General Meeting
of the year was held yesterday in the
Great Hall. The start of the meeting
was delayed while I C U Honorary
Secretary, Chas Jackson, brought in
the papers for the meeting. In
previous years the first U G M has
always been well-attended but this
year only 112 people attended the
meeting.
The first motion, on Union policy
was passed unchallenged. A motion
on censorship of publications was to
be proposed by Publications Board
Chair, Chris Martin, but I C U
President, Ian Howgate, proposed a
number of amendments. Although the
amendments were passed, the motion
was eventually deferred' to the next
meeting.
Neil Motteram, I C U External
Affairs Officer, proposed a motion on
the right of silence. He said that the
removal of the right to remain silent
was a serious infringement of civil
liberties. Paul Kendall opposed the
motion, claiming that those suspected
of terrorist offences would be more
likely to be convicted if the fact that
they had remained silent was
admissible in court. On the vote, the
motion was carried by substantial
majority.
The final motion was proposed by
Ian Howgate, on the subject of
intercollegiate halls. He said that the
halls were too extravagant in both
their facilities and in the numbers of
staff employed to run them. He cited
the University o f L o n d o n
Management Audit section report on
the rationalisation of the halls.
Opposing the motion, Paul McNeill
from Hughes Parry Hall said that the
motion was factually inaccurate and
that the Management Audit Report
had been rejected by a meeting of
students from all the halls. The
motion was narrowly defeated.
Monday night's New Year's Party has been described as a great success
by the Ents Chairperson John Noble.
Headline band, Voice of the Beehive and supports, The Brilliant Corners
and Blue Aeroplanes were given "excellent receptions" by the 1,140 students
who attended.
Mr Noble praised the behaviour of the crowd for their lack of drunkeness
and vomitting, and apologised for the blockage in the ladies toilets, which
he claimed was not his fault.
B F t I
No salvation
Salvation Sunday, the support band
due to perform tonight at the
Freshers' Ball, have broken up, it was
revealed exclusively to F E L I X
yesterday. A new support has been
arranged by Entertainments
Chairman, John Noble, who was
devastated by the news. The new
band, World T V , reached notoriety
when their lead singer auditioned for
Frankie Goes to Hollywood this
Spring.
Trust gift
At Fresher's Fair last Tuesday,
College secretary John Smith named
a new boat for the Union boat club.
The boast was party paid fpr by the
College's Queen's Gate trust, after
which it was named. The boat was
bought by the club from the winning
Oxford boat race team, who were
beaten by Imperial College in a match
last year.
Exec draw blood
Shaving foam flew and tempers flared
at the Freshers' reception on Monday.
True to form, the City and Guilds Hit
Squad turned up during the
President's address and flanned the
U n i o n Executive. Later, at
Wednesday's meeting of the Exec,
which includes the three C C U
Presidents as well as the sabbaticals,
it ws decided to re-think the rules
governing flanning. The Exec have
imposed a 'fine' of fifty pints of
blood, which the Hit Squadders must
pay before they are allowed to strike
again.
Freshers' reception has become a
regular target for the Hit Squad, and
they are not always well received.
Last year the Union Exec were
angered by a flanning because prior
permission had not been sought.
Though this is not normally required
under the unwritten rules of flanning,
when students are the target, on that
occasion members of Imperial
College staff had also been hit.
Union Deputy President Alan Rose
and Hon Sec Chas Jackson retaliated
when the hit occurred and pinned one
of the Guildsmen to the ground. Both
officers had been expecting the Hit
Squad to arrive; M r Jackson later
commented that this type of incident
was very bad for the image of I C U ,
especially when freshers had only just
arrived at College. M r Jackson added
that, as the Hit Squad had not
collected any donations, no money
had been raised for charity.
The reaction from M r Rose and M r
Jackson has soured feelings within the
Guilds Hit Squad. One eloquent
Guildsman commented that he was
"pissed off". He expanded the
discussion to say that "it would put
people off joining the Hit Squadders
and give freshers the impression that
they can fight back".
I C U President Ian Howgate told
F E L I X that he would not have
objected to being hit had he been
given advance warning. In the event
he was wearing an Italian suit worth
£140. M r Howgate is paid £3,300 per
annum after tax and National
Insurance have been deducted, plus
a rent free room in Linstead Hall. He
expressed concern that the Hit Squad
had made a "real mess" of the stage
area. M r Jackson stated that the stage
had not been properly cleaned up for
the postgraduate Freshers' reception,
but this was denied by Guilds
President Dave Tyler. M r Tyler
claimed that he was not aware that the
hit was going to take place; it was at
his instigation that the Exec imposed
the fine of fifty pints of blood.
F E L I X is published by the Editor for and on behalf of Imperial College Union Publication Board and is printed by the Imperial College
Union Print Unit, Prince Consort Road, London, S W 7 2 B B (Tel 01-589 5111 ext 3515). Editor: Judith Hackney. Business Manager: Chris
Martin. Copyright F E L I X 1987 ISSN 1040-0711.
16 Friday October 9th 1987 FELIX

