Winkie?
Saturday sees the first Rag event of
the year, the notorious tiddlywinking
down Oxford Street. Last year this
event raised £3,500 and got the year
off to a flying start and I hope this will
be true this Saturday. Anyone who
wishes to take part should go to their
CCU Office at 9am. There you will
swift half in the 'Cockney Pride'. As
always prizes will be given to the top
collectors, this year we have a
magnum and two bottles of Moet et
Chandon Champagne. Last year's top
collector raised £76 which can easily
be beaten with little effort. Also this
year IC Rag are offering incentives
be given tiddles (or are they winks),
licences and collecting cans. We then
walk across to Marble Arch, stopping
off to wake up Southside who'll still
be trying to recover from tonight's
New Year's Ball. Once- at Marble
Arch RCS will head off to their start
at Tottenham Court Road. All 3
CCUs then head towards Oxford
Circus where they turn down Regent
Street and everyone arrives at Eros
in Piccadilly Circus at about
12.30pm. The cans will then be
collected before everyone goes for a
to individual collectors. Anyone who
personally raises £100, throughout the
year, will be given a 'lemmings Fete
'88' t-shirt and for any mega-
collectors who raise £250 there will
be some limited edition 'Club 250'
sweatshirts or jumpers made at the
end of the year.
Have a good time at the party
tonight and remember to set your
alarm clock.
Keep Winking,
Nigel D Baker, Rag Chairman.
COURSE ANNOUNCEMENT
Science and Religion-the Great Divorce?
A series of talks and discussions addressing underlying questions of reality in a
reflective way. The aim is to help participants understand the significance of these
questions for their own lives
This term the talks will be on:
Oct 12 Introduction to the dialogue
Oct 26 Evolution, humanity and God-Dr A Peacocke
Nov 9 The anthropic principle-Dr B Carr
Nov 23 Space Time and Creation-Prof C Isham
Dec 7 Scientific models in theology-Dr J Soskice
On the alternate weeks a discussion group will meet for those who wish to
pursue the topics in greater depth.
Mondays at 8pm
Physics Dept, Level 8 Common Room
Organised by the West London Chaplaincies
Episode One
F E L I X
The Baron
'Qank Gott das ist geover" thought Derek
Dash, the Baron, forgetting for a moment
exactly where and when he was. Derek was
sitting in his office at the top of the Surefield
fortress, and for once he was feeling very
pleased with himself. Only an hour ago he had
had to welcome another group of citizens who
had just arrived in the land of Cheapskate.
When the time came for Derek to make his
speech he had managed to read the words from
the large boards at the back of the hall without
stopping once. He had not even had to ask John
Secretary, the chief typist, to tell him what any of the words were. Derek
did not see why he had to read from the boards at the back of the hall;
he really wanted to copy it out and read it from a piece of paper, but John
Secretary had assured him that it was traditional to use the same boards
that were made when the speech was first written many generations ago.
The more Derek thought about it, the more he realised that there was
really no point in making the speech at all. Though he agreed that it was
very nice for all the new citizens to be told what a wonderful place
Cheapskate was, and how it was so good that they really ought to be
very proud that they were allowed even to pa'y a short visit, he did not
see a lot of point in saying things that had been printed in the Cheapskate
Circumspectus for years and years.
Meanwhile, in another part of Cheapskate, there was still lots happening
in the Citizens' office. Ian Whygate, the head Citizen, his Deputy, Alan
Ego, and Charles Takeiteasy, the citizen-in-charge-of-nothing-very-much,
were all working at their jobs. As usual Whygate had his mouth in top
gear but had forgotten to engage his brain and his ears (not that it would
have made much difference). He was talking to John Chivalrous, the
Citizens' Parties Chairman, who had dared to tell Judith Largeamounts,
the PHALIX editor, that Whygate was a complete prat. Whygate was very
cross about this; he was always upset when PHALIX printed anything other
than "Ian Howgate is a 100% nice person". Whygate had decided that
it was a very bad thing for PHALIX not be under his control. He wanted
to be able to tell Judith Largeamounts exactly what she should put in
PHALIX. Recently he had made up his mind that, as top citizen, he should
be making all the decisions and leaving all the hard work to ordinary
citizens. Earlier that day he had told Custard Johnson, the citizen in charge
of beer, that he was going to rule the world. Custard's only reaction was
to ask where Whygate bought his dope.
Ego, the Deputy Head Citizen, was trying to calm down Lesley Tantrum,
the former rent collector. Tantrum had been replaced by Arthur Michael,
the good-but-good-for-nothing fairy, after she had forgotten to send
messages to all the new citizens to tell them which of Cheapskate's
dormitories they were supposed to live in. Arthur Michael had been rent
collector many years ago, but nowadays he spent most of his time plotting
to take over from the all-powerful John Secretary. None of the dormitories
in Yorrick Gardens had been cleaned up for the new citizens, so Arthur
Michael was preparing his "you should be grateful for this very cheap
dormitory we are letting you live in" routine. This normally worked very
well, and none of the important people in the Baron's castle ever
complained about him.
Charles Takeiteasy was having a more difficult time than usual. Earlier
in the day one of the citizens from very far away had come in to complain
that he had not received a copy of the "Citizens' Guide to Cheapskate"
book, Takeiteasy had not known what to do and was about to go and
ask Mrs Jolly Hockey Sticks for advice when the three clowns, Clare
MacUseless, Dave Braincell and Jumping Jehosofat stumbled into the
citizens' office. "Hello dearies", said Mrs Jolly Hockey Sticks, pleased
to have some more interesting company, "let's have a glass of sherry".
With a gleam in her eye, she grasped the keys and advanced towards the
sherry cupboard.
Will the sherry bottle be empty?
Will Whygate be allowed to have any?
Will PHALIX ever say anything nice about Arthur Michael?
Find out in the next installment of "The Baron".
FELIX Friday October 9th 1987
J
7

