The University of London Union
( U L U ) is much more than a
swimming pool and a shop in Malet
Street. It has three full time sabbatical
officers responsible for running the;
building, and co-ordinating thel
campaigning and representation side
of U L U ' s activities. In charge for this
year is John Tilsead, student at St.
Mary's Hospital Medical School and
President of U L U .
John was elected to his year-long
sabbatical in March, with a manifesto
that began "Riot, Rebellion and
Revolution". This was a play on the
" 3 R s " campaign that U L U was
fighting at the time. The University
Grants Commission ( U G C ) had
proposed a 50% cut in the funding of
all the central services of the
University, including U L U , and U L U
was lobbying both the University and|
the U G C to change their minds, j
The 3 Rs stood for Recreation,;
Resources and Representation, three
words which neatly sum up the role
of U L U in the Federal University.
The fight was eventually won, and the
threat of cuts withdrawn. It was, John
admits, U L U ' s first on-the-streets
successful campaign; "it got U L U
away from just representing students
on committees, and got students out
on the streets. It triggered an
awareness of U L U as a campaigning
body. A lot of people put a lot of time
and energy into the 3Rs campaign; I
want to see that energy used to steer
U L U on a path of perhaps greater
relevance to its members."
The follow-up to the campaign is
a document produced by U L U called
" T h e Future of Student Amenities in
the Federal University". It shows that
spending per student on Student
Activities in London is considerably
lower than other Universities
throughout the country, even taking
into account the combined services of
U L U and the individual Colleges.
' 'The report has been submitted to all
the University Committees, and it has
not been questioned; we will be using
that to continue the 3Rs campaign,
coming off the defensive, and going
onto the attack. We will use the
information in the report to campaign
for better student facilities, better
accommodation, better sports
facilities, not just centrally but
throughout the University."
John is optimistic that the report
will have an effect: "I doubt whether
we will solve all the problems that
have accrued over years of diverting
funding away from student services,
but I think we can realistically expect
to start the ball rolling."
One of U L U ' s main roles is
representing students on the Central
Committees that decide policy for the
whole University, on such issues as
T H E ffclU* I N T E R V I E W
examinations policy, postgraduate
appeals, mergers and so on. It is only
through U L U that students have a
voice in these decisions. These
committees are made up from
academics from throughout the
University, as well as lay members
from Local Authorities and the Privy
Council. "It is not unusual for the
student representation on a
Committee to be greater than any
individual College, but", he adds,
" w e can no longer afford to argue
from ideals and beliefs, but we have
to argue on facts. What we very often
find now is that we end up arguing
the same thing, but it takes longer to
do. By doing this we strengthen our
argument, and the other members of
the committee will respect it."
Clearly, with U L U based in the
Central Precinct, there is a danger that
other Colleges smaller and ftirther out
will be left out. " O v e r the past year
we have had a lot of support from
W y e and Royal Holloway and
Bedford, the two Colleges furthest
away; very often what we find is that
because the Student Union hacks from
some Colleges don't use U L U they
assume that nobody from their
College does; a generalisation thay
cannot afford to make". It is true
however that through sheer numbers,
more students use U L U from the
larger Colleges than the smaller ones,
especially those living in the.
intercollegiate halls based nearby.
John is realistic about some
services, like the swimming pool, that
U L U provides; "there is no point in
trying to kid ourselves that it's there
for students from Egham; those are
the sort of people however, that U L U
should be providing campaigning
resources and co-ordination for;
passing on experience from other
Colleges and generally providing,
back-up."
One criticism U L U has had in the
past is that it has been too remote
from the actual students of the
University; there are no students who
have lectures at U L U ; none who are
based there full time. U L U officers
are elected indirectly by delegates
from each Constituent College. "One
of the problems we have to get over
is that we are at least one tier away.
Very often individual College Student
Unions are out of touch with their
membership; it's even more difficult
to be in touch with the average
student. There is no way I can know
every student in the University. We
rely very much on individual Student
Unions to get over this problem; if
Student Union officers are in touch
with their students, and we are in
touch with them, then the problem is
alleviated somewhat, but it really is
a problem"
The U L U Governing B o d y ,
General Union Council (GUC) has
student delegates from every College
in the University. Imperial, as one of
the largest, has 9 representatives. This
is the body which sets policy for
U L U , and elects its Officers. It has
often been criticised for discussion of
issues that are not immediately
relevant to students; recent motions
on Cyprus and South Africa for
example. John defends such
discussions: "the motions that come
to G U C have come from some group
of students who think the issue is
particularly relevant. The problem
over Cyprus is something that is very
particular to Cypriot, Greek and
Turkish students, it means a great deal
to them and I think it is something that
should be debated."
" G U C has two functions: to
determine things concerning the
University, but it also has an
education role by bringing subjects,
such as Cyprus, into a forum for
debate and increasing awareness
amongst student Union officers that
they might not have thought about.''
John stood for the post because, he
says, he wants to steer U L U towards
greater relevance for its students. A s
head of one of the largest Student
Unions in Europe, representing over
50,000 students, he certainly has a
heavy weight on his shoulders; only
time will tell if he can succeed.
For further information about
U L U , John can be contacted either by
calling in at his office on the ground
floor of the U L U building, or by
phoning U L U on 580 9551.
8 Friday October 9th 1987 FELIX

