music reviews
§§§•§
David Holmes
Come Get It I Got It
Out now on 13 Amp recordings
This mix CD from David Holmes has gen-
erous measures of funk, psychedelia and
old-style R&B, which come together as a
heady Sunday morning pick-me-up.
The songs you'll find on this album will
often escape the usual "Best Of..." type
compilations - in fact, there should be a
prize for anyone who has heard of groups
such as The Johnny Otis Show and The
Peter Thomas Sound Orchestra.
Holmes mixes the tracks together
expertly and with care. He also throws in
some sampled speeches and quotations,
which sustain the feeling of era and
place - the album is lodged squarely in
sixties America.
Unfortunately, whilst the album starts
with very distinctive, exciting tracks, the
novelty wears off. Whilst it undoubtedly
has cohesion, it doesn't possess the sty-
listic variety of, say, the Pulp Fiction
soundtrack, which is perhaps its closest
counterpart in terms of celebrating the
music of sixties America. Even as the CD
finishes, I can't help feeling that there
should have been a more significant end-
ing - a twist, a curve-ball that the listen-
er would never have seen coming.
That aside, Come Get It I Got It does
contain some of the finest songs known
to humanity and fully deserves your
undivided attention.
I
D
Cornershop
Handcream For A Generation
Out now on Wiiija records
Before I begin, why not take a minute to
listen to the music press as they gush
about Cornershop's latest offering:
"warm and righteous sunshine..."
(NME); "an early contender for album of
the year" (The Independent). Now, I've
never been one to fly in the face of public
opinion, but on this occasion, I will have
to give it a beating, dress it in a clown
outfit and leave it lying in the gutter.
After 1997's eclectic and satisfying
When I Was Born For The 7th Time, this
new release comes as a disappointment.
While When I Was Born... was inventive
in a number of senses (the rhythms,
melodies and general vibes were a real
assortment), this is a samey and over-
catchy turkey of a record.
The good points first - no track on its
own sounds particularly bad. Lessons
Learned From Rocky I To Rocky III is
funky and bizarre, Music Plus 1 is good
for the dancefloor, and Heavy Soup is
pleasant enough. The best track is prob-
ably Spectral Mornings, which features
Noel Gallagher's indifferent strumming.
But as a whole, Handcream For A
Generation is not much more than irritat-
ing. Motion The 11 is possibly the lowest
point, but when singing children turn up
on Staging The Plaguing Of The Raised
Platform, I know I've had quite enough.
Patrick ODD Derek
COMPETITION
We've got a copy of Come Get It I Got It (see review, above left) to give away.
QUESTION: David Holmes wrote the soundtrack to w h i c h recent film?
Please email your answer, along with your name, year and department, to
music.felix@ic.ac.uk by Thursday 2 May.
The winner of the A album (Issue 1231) is Emily Yeomans of Biology I.
Cyclefly
Crave
Out now on MCA records
Cyclefly are a bit of a mystery. Comprised
of two Irishmen, two Frenchmen and an
Italian, the Cork-based quintet have def-
initely got something strange going on.
Their last album Generation Sap was
released three years ago, and fans have
been waiting anxiously to see if the
multi-national boys can come up with
the goods again. A n d have they?
Thankfully, the answer is a resounding
yes.
For owners of Generation Sap, a warn-
ing: this album is nowhere near as punk
as the last. In fact, the appearance of
Linkin Park's Chester Bennington on the
desperately tense track Karma Killer
demonstrates that Cyclefly have almost
turned to nu-metal.
The album begins with No Stress, the
forthcoming single. This is a metally
track, with plenty of low-pitched guitar
riffs and gravelly vocals. Then, Cyclefly
progress through slightly darker territory
(Karma Killer and Selophane Fixtures),
influenced perhaps by Tool and the early
Smashing Pumpkins.
Then we come to the title track Crave,
which is surprisingly different from the
first three tracks on the album, being
very soft and tender. Other recommenda-
tions include the quiet, almost gothic
Crowns and the very dark Weary, which
features some interesting chord progres-
sions.
This is definitely no "difficult second
album", but it is perfectly possible that
old fans could be slightly disappointed.
Then again, they could be thrilled - as I
am - that Cyclefly have found a few new
tricks and are using them with gusto.
D Jess

