reviews music
INTERVIEW with
Manu Chao
Compared to my usual hungover Wednesdays, chasing the elu-
sive French pop star Manu Chao around London was quite a
turn-up for the books.
After I'd found the right venue - changed by Manu - and wait-
ed half an hour, the man himself walked in, looking like any ordi-
nary bloke you'd sit next to on the tube, with his ever-present
beanie. Some jumped up to greet the musician with the fervour
of teenage girls at a pop concert. Maybe they were just his
friends. Anyway, M a n u sat at the corner of a large table, sur-
rounded by the groupies, while journalists from student and
national media jostled for his attention.
The slightly strange interview began with the predictable
questions about his "inspiration", before progressing to the
subject of his two recent UK gigs.
FELIX: How does the English crowd compare to France and
South America?
M A N U : Really well. They were really excited on both nights,
and I was surprised that people actually know my stuff here.
Were you surprised that the crowd knew the songs you did
with Mano Negra [his old band]?
Yes, it was a great to see that people knew that stuff, but I think
a lot of the crowd were from South America and so had heard a
lot of my other music.
Did the time you spent in Brazil make your music sound more
Brazilian?
Yes, it did influence me a lot, but I think Brazilian music has
been ... [speaks in Spanish for a bit] ... pigeonholed too much.
They are making so much music and such a wide range that you
cannot just say it sounds Brazilian. But yes, I loved a lot of the
music I heard out there.
What do you think of the state of latin music worldwide?
The music in South America is really exciting, but the "latin"
music coming from Miami has nothing to do with it. They have
left behind their roots and changed to an American way of life,
and they aren't making real latin music any more. It is a shame,
because everyone in South America wants to go to Miami - they
all see it as some sort of paradise. The same thing happens in
Africa - the people I know there all want to get to Europe, which
in their minds is this paradise.
Since you seem to have strong views on these topics, have
you ever considered moving into politics?
[Looks offended] No, not at all, I am not interested in politics. It
is all corrupt - all of Miami is run by the mafia, and the govern-
ments no longer have any control over what is going on. It is all
controlled by organised crime or large companies. I am only
interested in affecting the neighbourhood where I can see
effects of what I do. M y neighbour in Barcelona was a fascist,
and would not talk to my girlfriend [who is black], but now he
has changed and he always speaks to her in the morning. He
saw me the other morning and came to say how beautiful he
thought she was!
OUT THIS WEEK
The following are due for release on Monday 29 April:
ALBUMS
BLUE LIGHT F E V E R - Blue Light Fever
D A N THE AUTOMATOR - Wanna Buy A Monkey?
FISCHERSPOONER - #1
PITCHSHIFTER - PSI
REDEFINE - The Daisychain Cycle
THE SUICIDE MACHINES - Steal This Record
SINGLES
TIMO M A A S feat M C CHICKABOO - Shifter
MOBY - We Are A l l Made Of Stars
THE MUSIC - The People EP
Singles
Roundup
KOSHEEN - Hungry
Some of the drum 'n' bass hardheads out there who particu-
larly enjoyed Kosheen's Hide U might find this a bit tame for
their liking. On the other hand, if you prefer beats which haven't
come out of the jungle, this may well tickle your fancy. With
acoustic guitars, inoffensive beats and a vaguely Corrs-like
vocal, Hungry is about as hard as a walnut whip, but it's short,
sweet and perfectly nice.
Derek
BILAL - Fast Lane
This is fun. Bilal's scatting falsetto swoops over a funky Dre
production, with Jadakiss along for the ride providing an enjoy-
able cameo. Bilal sounds like a young Prince, with, bizarrely,
something of a Jeff Buckley feel, which is of course a Very Good
Thing™.
Toby G
HAVEN - Til The End
This is one of the softer songs from the album, gradually
building up momentum as it reaches the chorus. Gary Briggs'
heartfelt vocals work very well with the guitars. Unfortunately
though, it sounds a bit too much like Coldplay.
Tank
HOOBASTANK - Crawling In The Dark
Hoobastank are yet another Californian nu-metal band to be
launched this side of the pond, but with one difference: they are
actually quite good. They manage to get the mix right between
rock noise and noticeable lyrics, and (whisper it!) they actually
sing, rather than shouting or rapping over loud guitars. The har-
monies are clear, even when they're rocking out. Let's hope that
there's a lot more to come.
Nick Tank

