Michael Connelly always wanted to be a crime fiction writer
after reading the works of Raymond Chandler while attending
the University of Florida. Once he decided on this career path
he majored in journalism and when he graduated in 1980,
Michael worked at newspapers in Daytona Beach and Fort
Lauderdale, Florida, primarily specialising in the crime beat.
In 1986 he and two other reporters wrote a magazine story
on an aeroplane crash and the survivors that was later short-
listed for the Pulitzer Prize. Michael then moved to the Los
Angeles Times as a crime reporter. After three years in LA,
Michael started to write The Black Echo, a novel featuring
L A P D detective Hieronymus Bosch. Since then Michael has
written a further ten novels, seven of which feature Harry.
These works are reviewed below and an interview with
Michael appears on the next page.
Michael Connelly Novels
Published by Orion
In 1992 Michael Connelly wrote his first novel, The Black Echo,
which later went on to w i n the Edgar Prize for Best First
Mystery Novel. The Black Echo introduced us to L A P D detec-
tive Hieronymus (Harry) Bosch and saw him investigating the
death of Billy Meadows, a former colleague of Harry's during
the Vietnam war whose body was found in a drain pipe at the
Mulholland Dam. From the beginning Harry was very much a
maverick whose conflicts with his Lieutenant and the hierar-
chy of the L A P D would constantly see him in trouble but apart
from this Harry was regarded as a first-class detective. Instant
success with The Black Echo was followed with the next three
Bosch novels The Black Ice (1993), The Concrete Blond (1994)
and The Last Coyote (1995). The Last Coyote being one of my
favourites (and also Michael's) in which Harry deals with his
suspension from the L A P D by re-opening a thirty-year-old
unsolved crime: the murder of his own mother.
In 1996 Michael wrote the stand alone novel The Poet which
concerned crime reporter Jack McEvoy and the death of his
brother, a homicide detective. Jack finds that the best way to
deal with the death of his brother is to investigate and write an
article on suicides in the police force. When he begins his
research he soon makes the shocking discovery that maybe not
all of these officers committed suicide.
In 1997 saw the release of the next Bosch novel, Trunk Music,
and in 1998 came the novel Blood Work. In Blood Work,
Connelly introduces, Terry McCaleb, a former FBI agent whose
heart ailment forced his early retirement. When Graciela Rivers
asks him to investigate her sister's death, her story hooks him
immediately: the new heart beating in McCaleb's chest was
hers. In 1999, Angels Flight (Bosch) was released and in 2000,
Void Moon hit the shops. Void Moon features Cassie Black a for-
mer burglar who would rob wealth gamblers in Las Vegas finds
herself returning to Vegas for one last job. In 2001 saw a Terry
McCaleb and Harry Bosch novel, A Darkness More Than Night,
in which Terry investigates a murder and finds that Harry
Bosch is the prime suspect. April 2002 saw the release of City
Of Bones, the latest Bosch novel and a full review appears on
the next page. •
book reviews
City of Bones
Orion, Hardback, £17.99
On the first day of the New Year, Detective Hieronymus (Harry)
Bosch is called out when a man reports that his dog has
unearthed a number of bones in the Hollywood Hills. The dog's
owner, a retired doctor, informs Harry that the bones are human
and it is soon determined that they are the twenty years old
remains of a twelve-year-old boy. Harry is drawn into a case
that evocates memories of his own past and for him this is one
case that he is determined to solve.
Most crimes that have gone undetected for twenty years
never get solved but Harry is confident that he will bring this
killer to justice and after much detective work he discovers the
child's identity and the background to his turbulent life.
At the same time as the case is unfolding, Harry starts an
affair with a rookie female officer, Julia Brasher. After being
emotionally hurt when his wife, Eleanor, suddenly left him,
Harry is once again starting to open up to someone.
When a supposedly straight forward meeting with a former
friend of the murdered boy goes hideously wrong Bosch begins
to doubt his beliefs in both his actions and the job he holds. As
the investigation heads towards its startling conclusion Harry
is on the verge of an almost unimaginable decision.
With the Harry Bosch novels, Michael Connelly created one of
the greatest crime fiction series of the nineties. With City of
Bones (and last years A Darkness More Than Night) this belief
can be carried into another decade as well. Michael is one of
those rare writers that manages to never write a bad book. His
description and feel for Los Angeles is haunting and the dia-
logue that his characters purvey is realistic and never over the
top. The plot to this and all his novels show a mind that is both
methodical and he is constantly asking his reader to think about
the images that his work portrays.
As the Bosch series continues we've been witness to both the
highs and lows in Harry's life and this is one thing that keeps
fans returning to these works. With everything that happens in
City Of Bones, Harry has some big decisions to make about his
future and if Michael Connelly writes (and I'm sure he will) more
books of this standard there will be a lot more people following
Harry too.

