reviews book
Michael Connelly Interview
First of all, can y o u tell us about your background and what
you did before y o u became a crime fiction writer?
I was born in Philadelphia but I say I'm from Florida because
my family moved there when I was small and that's where I
grew up. For the last fifteen years I've lived in L A although
recently I moved back to a part of Florida where my wife is from
and we'll probably move again in a couple of years. I moved a lot
in Los Angeles, seven times in fifteen years but it seems to be in
my blood and it kind of helps me with my writing and I find it
invigorating.
I decided in school that I wanted to be a writer and hopefully
write some crime novels but I knew that at that point in my life
it seemed a long shot so I went to journalism school and hoped
that that would be a means to an end. When I left school I
became a police reporter and after a number of years of doing
this I started to write books and for a while the two over-lapped.
These days I'm no longer a journalist but it seems that I've been
writing in some form my entire adult life.
How do y o u go about writing a novel?
It has changed a lot over the years but in general and defi-
nitely more recently I do a lot of thinking before I even start to sit
down at the computer to start writing. For me the thinking and
planning is the best part of writing as it can get you really excit-
ed and then you have to sit down and start writing it which is
less so. In general I know the beginning and the end of a novel
and the three hundred pages in between I make up as I go. It's
hard to have the beginning and the end planned without having
some idea of how the middle will shape out, for example, I might
know what clue will put the detective on the right track so I'm
not totally in the blind when I get to the middle.
In your first novel, The Black Echo, y o u introduce us to
L A P D detective Harry Bosch. H o w did you come up w i t h the
character of Harry?
He is definitely an amalgamation of many different things and
people. Real cops that I know or knew, fictitious cops from books
and movies. The aspects of his personality even come from other
writers such as James Ellroy who has a similar background to
him. A t the time of putting Harry together Ellroy was getting a
name for himself and it was clear to me that this guy was work-
ing out whatever baggage the murder of his mother had left with
him by writing mystery novels. I thought then about a detective
who has the same sort of baggage but works it out by solving
crimes. Harry really does come from all over.
How has Harry Bosch changed over the years?
I think that he has become gentler and more inward thinking
and assessing of stuff he did. In Black Echo he was too stuffy, too
much of an unyielding tough guy. By the time he got to Angels
Flight he had learned more about the world and realised that
there is more grey in the world than black and white. In City of
Bones we come to an ultimate evolution I think with him, he is
coming to a realisation that he may have been using the wrong
fuel in his engine. For a long time, Harry held to the belief that
he needed the badge to go out and conduct the mission which
in his mind is solving murders to make up for the big one that
changed his life. There is nothing wrong with this mission or
that it is still intact in Harry's mind, but he sees another way of
going at it now.
So what is City Of Bones about?
I think it is about that on a character level. It is about him com-
ing to a conclusion that it is time to turn his life in a different
direction and not lose the emotional mission in his life. I'm lucky
because I write from a big picture view so I know what I'm going
to do next. I think this is a story about a guy coming to some con-
clusions and changing his life and that is the very subtle part of
what is pinned to the mystery that he is investigating. The part
about the bones is something that I've wanted to write about for
some time. I came across some academic literature on anthro-
pology and child abuse and it was something that I wanted to
write about. The challenge was to get Harry emotionally
charged with a victim were there is no victim just bones. There
is no flesh and blood he can look at to get him angry to find the
killer. That is why there is a pretty tough scene in the coroner's
office when the doctor is going over the injuries with Harry and
it gets to him because it could have been him. He was a thrown
away child so there is a connection between Harry and the boy.
What is going to happen to Harry?
He is definitely coming back. I've just finished a stand-alone
novel and I'm getting back into Bosch. Basically, I've rocked his
world like I've rocked mine with moving three thousand miles.
The next Bosch is written in the first person and he is not a pri-
vate detective but he is going to get involved with solving those
cold cases he walked out of the door with. He will get a private
detective license about a month after he retires because it is a
routine for cops in California to do so once they retire. Harry does
this, and what I've written so far, is it's now eight or nine month
after he retired and he is opening those boxes and looking
inside. M y aim is to write two books with him on his own and
then I'm going to have him join the newly formed homicide
squad that is being set in L A to solve cold cases that is going to
be run by talented, retired detectives. M y goal is to write two
Harry's in private and then bring him back into a bureaucratic
setting because he is interesting to watch in this way.
Jonathan

