union talk
The Union - A New Beginning
The last few months have seen a great
deal of change for the Union and College.
Under the stewardship of the Rector, the
College has undergone many changes. We
will see the creation of four Faculties, a
sustained drive towards improving the
global brand of Imperial, fund raising to
develop our estate and setting up an
endowment to provide scholarships to the
best students. These changes have been
implemented to ensure that Imperial
College continues to be one of the leading
higher education institutes in the world.
The Union too has taken the opportunity
to review its operations. After one of the
widest consultation process in recent
years we have a new way forward. Gone
are the old Constituent College Unions and
in come Student Faculty Associations.
Council has been changed to allow more
ordinary students to participate in the gov-
ernance of the Union and a new informa-
tion policy will allow for more transparen-
cy in the Union adrmnistration.
This represents a new beginning for the
Union and a new direction for our mem-
bers. One of the biggest challenges we
face is to ensure that we work more effec-
tively to deliver practical and tangible ben-
efits to students.
Funding
One of the key issues the Union faces is
funding. It is clear that funding from the
government is not enough to support the
activities of the College and consequently
the Union. We are still heavily reliant on
College for provision of funds. The Union
gets some £885,000 from College, it uses
this to provide a wide range of facilities
and services for students and this figure is
generally tied with the rate of inflation.
However, more and more students are
participating i n the Union and using its
services. If we want to continue to sustain
this growth, we have to seek funding from
elsewhere. I believe the Union has to
actively engage in partnerships w i t h
external organisations and individuals.
Recent examples have been the
Goldman Sachs support of the night bus
service and the collaboration with the
College Wider Participation programme to
successfully bid for over £350,000 for vol-
unteer support over the next three years.
These partnerships represent the way for-
ward and over the coming months the
Union has to increase these types of part-
nerships in all its areas of operation.
Volunteers
Early on in the year we made it clear that
volunteer support is crucial to the future of
the Union. The Union has more student
volunteers than any other in the country
and we are heavily reliant on the support
of these volunteers to conduct our activi-
ties. However we have very little in place
to support volunteers in the Union. One of
the most important priorities for the next
few months is to establish a volunteer
management programme, one that will
actively look at how we recruit, train and
reward the volunteers in the Union. We
have taken the first steps in this process;
the Union has appointed a new member of
staff to co-ordinate student activities and
another will be appointed shortly to co-
ordinate volunteering in the community. In
addition a new rewards scheme will be
launched later this term, but this is just the
start, we have a long way to go to deliver
a comprehensive and integrated pro-
gramme.
Sites
One of the other key challenges for the
Union is the way we deal with the many
campus sites. Imperial has a large number
of sites dotted around London and the
South of England and ensuring good com-
munication between them is crucial.
The Union needs to dedicate more
resources towards integrating the sites
into the centre. There is no doubt that
South Kensington will continue to remain
the headquarters for the Union, but we
must continue to develop facilities and
services on other campuses such as the
new bar at Charing Cross and the gyms at
Wye and Silwood.
The culture
In addition to these new strategies, the
Union has to introduce a more dynamic
and pro-active culture. The environment in
which we operate is changing rapidly, we
cannot simply wait for things to happen
and react to them, we must learn to antic-
ipate situations and act appropriately. This
is of course not without its risks and
indeed pursuing such a policy will lead to
some mistakes being made. We will have
to accept them and move on because in
the end I believe that we will deliver a bet-
ter Union to our members.
Here at Imperial there has been constant
talk of apathy amongst the student popu-
lous. I do not believe that is necessarily
true. Recently the Union called for a refer-
endum on our affiliation to the NUS. After'
a hard campaign fought by both sides, we
had one of the largest turnouts for any col-
lege-wide ballot in recent years, showing
students care about the issues and will
participate in the governance of the Union.
We must continue to build on this and it
is important for students to realise that
decisions made vnthin the Union can have
an impact on life at Imperial.
The future
If we are going to pursue with the devel-
opment of the Union then we must face up
to our challenges. It is important that the
Union clarifies its vision and develops long
term strategies to meet these goals. For
the first time we have two year sabbati-
cals which I believe will be crucial to
ensuring continuity and development of
these strategies.
The year ahead promises to be an inter-
esting and challenging one. We have
achieved a lot this year, but there is much
more to do. The way forward will rely on
improving services to our students, form-
ing external partnerships, integrating
sites and building support for volunteers.
It is important that students continue to
play an active part in this process to
ensure that the Union fulfils its aim in
meeting the needs of the students.
Sen Ganesh, Union President

