felix talk
Personality is Everything
Cilia's frequent question on Blind Date
is "What type of fella do you fancy" or
"When it comes to women, what's your
type?" The answers are usually to do
with appearance and most especially the
size of specific body parts. Obviously
appearance is instantly accessible. It
takes time for inner qualities or lack of
them to become apparent. Hence the
interest in what happens on the date and
the inevitably cutting comments that fol-
low.
To give Cilia her due there is also talk of
personality. The seeming impossibility of
finding a good date is the persistent
attraction of this show that's been run-
ning since the last Ice Age.
Personality is something that is often
talked about. It is the ever present factor
of the power politics in the work place. It
is the very basis of friendship. It is the
interplay of personality that makes being
in a group so fascinating and so poten-
tially awful.
Chaplaincy
Yet how much do we understand about
our own personality? We might have a
sense that this person is not our preferred
type as a potential friend or partner. But
could we explain why?
How often do we do we talk about just
'clicking' with somebody or about a terri-
ble 'personality clash'?
When we move from the personal to the
political the nature of personality has an
even greater significance. This week's
Budget has opened up the old debate
about Blair and Brown and 'New Labour1
-
is Tony really behind the budget or is he
just going along with Gordon? Has Blair
made an agreement with Gordon to pass
on the leadership or do they just put on a
show in front of the cameras to pretend
they get on?
How far do we understand the ways in
which we prefer to make decisions? How
easy is it to get along with those who do
things so differently from ourselves?
On Wednesday 29th May, two occupa-
tional psychologists will be running a
workshop in the Chaplaincy Centre. As
well as an introduction to the Myers-
Briggs model of different personality
types, there will be practical exercises to
help us begin thinking about our own per-
sonality...How do we make decisions?
How do we relate in groups? Where do
we get our energy from? There will also
be an opportunity to see how under-
standing ourselves better can help us in
all sorts of areas - including communica-
tion, understanding individual difference,
managing stress, team dynamics, rela-
tionships, choosing a career. More details
on www.chaplaincy.ic.ac.uk (book a place
by May 6th)
In the light of current events in the
Middle East we are holding Prayers for
Peace on Fridays at 1pm - a short time of
quiet reflection and prayer for the peace
of the world.
The chaplaincy can be found on the
East side of Beit Quad, through the double
doors (sometimes requiring a swipe card)
and then through the door in front of you
at the bottom of the stairs.

