talk 7e//x
The Colossus' at Thorpe Par
John Clifford encounters the worlds only
ten loop rollercoaster, as well as the
world's most ominous queue
Pinned to my chair, I could see the sur-
real calm of Staines laid out in front of me,
drifting placidly over trees and steeples.
Suddenly breathing became an effort, as
clouds and grass all blurred into one and
shot past me at a terrifying speed, turn-
ing my head into my feet and my spare
change into a memory. I had another 9 of
these to go, and I couldn't wait.
Whilst taking advantage of the free bar,
a terrifying thought occurred to me. With
albums, gigs, plays and such, it's
easy(ish). But what do you say about a
rollercoaster? Cute girl from another stu-
dent newspaper suggested filing the six
words "It had its ups and downs" before
getting drunk. But, I explained, this is
Felix, and whilst you might not have any-
thing useful to say, the primary rule is to
be drastically verbose and to employ gen-
erously a multitude of synonyms where a
singular might notwithstanding suffice.
Remembering I wanted Will to print
this, I headed off to the main event, and
prepared to be amazed. There's no doubt
about it, Colossus is an intense experi-
ence and at only fifty seconds, if you blink
you'll miss it. Once I'd retrieved my con-
tact lens from my neighbour's forehead it
was time to experience it a second time,
in order to analyse the experience fully
and give a balanced review. Actually it
was far too much fun to only go on once.
By the third ride, I'd concluded that the
first half of the ride is fantastic. You don't
even have a chance to work out where
you are as you hurtle past passers-by,
dive underground, resurface and loop
again. Around the fifth loop we're treated
to the surreal sight of a bored looking ride
operator in a warm, calm room narrowly
shooting past our heads at fifty miles an
hour. The corkscrew bit, which takes up
the last fifty seconds, consists of being
turned upside down four times in a row,
which to a speed freak like me isn't quite
as exciting.
You see, for all the looping and the
screaming, it's surprisingly short. Even
going round twice would make it a bit
more of an experience, which was fine for
me as I didn't have to queue (and had got
in free). Riding that coaster 3 times in a
row was the most fun I've had in a while.
But if I'd paid to queue for up to an hour
(and the queuing provision was certainly
generous) for a single, 50 second ride, I'd
be very disappointed. So while Thorpe
Park have certainly put a lot of effort into
designing an expensive and impressive
ride, coming up with a name with ten
loops (C-O-L-O-S-S-U-S -count them if you
don't believe me), and dazzling the press
for an evening, like most theme parks
they haven't really thought about the
experience, which will involve a minute
standing in a distractionless queue for
every second spent on the coaster, which
isn't good enough for the fleeting atten-
tion span of the average TV viewer.
See www.thorpepark.com for more.
Admission: £17-23 depending on demand.
McKinsey&Company

