FELIX
10
In brief
SCIENCE
Science Editors: Kelly Oakes
Charlie Harvey
Thea Cunningham
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 24 june 2011
Black future for coal miners
Decades after pit closures that claimed 170,000
jobs across England, coalfield communities contin-
ue to suffer from chronic arthritis, asthma and long-
term back problems.
Researchers at Durham University found that peo-
ple living in coalfield areas were 27 per cent more
likely to suffer from a limiting long-term illness. The
results suggest that more government assistance
and focus is required if coalmining communities are
to be given a chance at regeneration and improved
health.
According to the findings, regeneration efforts
in some less-deprived coalfield communities have
helped improve health and economic stability, but
poorer areas have found it more difficult to bounce
back. These communities may have to rely on gov-
ernment initiatives to tackle inequalities with wealth-
ier areas.
One such initiative, the Coalfields Regeneration
Trust (CRT), has pledged £30 million to help coal-
field areas overcome health and skills inequalities,
achieve economic growth, and become self-sustain-
ing communities. Andy Lock, Assistant Director at
Coalfields Regeneration Trust said: “We know that
health problems are still very severe in some places
and our challenge from Government is to continue
to address health inequalities. Our success is built
on working collaboratively with communities and to
support their responses to local health needs.”
The pit closures between 1984 and 1997 left coal-
field areas environmentally degraded and in poor
economic condition. Many were isolated in rural ar-
eas, with poor infrastructure and little opportunity
for commercial growth or tourism. The effects of
these closures are still being felt in England’s poor-
est areas, leading to long-term medical conditions
and widespread unemployment.
Kate Hazelhurst
The dream of spaceplanes has often been dis-
missed as fantasy, born out of bad 1950s sci-
ence fiction films. According to most industry
analysts, the rightful place of the spaceplane
– along with food pills, floating cities and per-
sonal jetpacks – is consigned to the dustbin of
history.
However, one small company in Britain
doesn’t seem to have got this message. Ox-
ford’s Reaction Engines Ltd believe that they
now have the technology to turn this dream
into reality.
The reason that so many experts have long
been sceptical of spaceplanes is simple: the
amount of fuel required to propel them into
orbit makes them extremely heavy. When the
Space Shuttle launches, it is connected to a
huge orange tank, which holds the liquid oxy-
gen fuel required for the Shuttle to escape the
Earth’s atmosphere. Carrying this enormous
amount of fuel is not a problem for the Shut-
tle, as it takes off vertically – like a traditional
rocket. But with a true spaceplane, there is
simply no way to carry this much liquid oxy-
gen without making the vehicle far too heavy
to ever get off the ground.
Yet now, Reaction Engines Ltd believe that
they have come up with an ingenious solution
to this problem: breathable rocket engines.
Rather than carrying large amounts of liquid
oxygen fuel, Reaction Engines Ltd’s Skylon
spaceplane will have an engine which is ca-
pable of using oxygen from the air as its fuel
source, thus avoiding the necessity of carry-
ing large volumes of liquid oxygen fuel. Upon
reaching an altitude where the air becomes too
thin to continue using oxygen this way, Skylon
will simply switch its power source to a small,
secondary rocket booster of conventional de-
sign. Recent tests of these engines have been
successful and the first orbital test flights of
Skylon are planned for 2018.
Skylon is controlled by remote and will
have the capability to put both astronauts
and satellites into orbit. According to Mark
Hempsell, Future Programmes Director at
Reaction Engines Ltd: “Skylon will be able to
carry 15 tonnes to a 300km equatorial orbit,
which is pretty comparable with the Space
Shuttle.”
Yet, Mr Hempsell is keen to stress that the
comparisons with NASA’s Space Shuttle end
here. The Shuttle has become notorious for its
long and difficult turn-around times, whereas
Mr Hempsell claims that Skylon will be ready
to go back into orbit just two days after land-
ing: “Our turn-around will mostly be taken
up by hull inspection, in order to make sure
that we haven’t received any micrometeorite
impacts that we weren’t aware of. Everything
else you don’t touch. That’s how the two day
turn-around time is achieved.”
However, not all share Mr Hempsell’s opti-
mism. Christopher Carr, a Senior Researcher
at Imperial College’s Space and Atmospheric
Physics Group, believes that getting the neces-
sary government support for this project may
prove trickier than anticipated. He says: “Sky-
lon would be fantastic, but we don’t do these
big kinds of technical development in Britain
anymore. It would be a bit like us doing Con-
corde again. It would be great, but is our gov-
ernment really committed to supporting this
level of programme? Or, is it going to be yet
another case of a great British idea that eventu-
ally gets built by some other country?”
Perhaps Mr Carr is right; maybe the right
political and economic climate just isn’t there
at the moment. However, all of the early signs
seem to show that Reaction Engines Ltd re-
ally do have the technology in place to support
their claims.
Perhaps this is exactly the sort of innovative
project our Government should be investing
in, if it is to boost our economy and, at the
same time, restore Britain’s position as a world
leader in aerospace technology.
Andrew Purcell
Breathing life into spaceplane technology
We’ve got to go back, I think I left the back door unlocked...
Science Question Time
Tuesday 5 July 2011 from 6.30pm
Join a panel including the editors of Nature and
Research Fortnight, to discuss the impact of science
on economic, academic and political matters.
Register online at:
sciencequestiontimejuly2011.eventbrite.com
Quantum Uncertainty, Does God play dice?
The most recent Friends of Imperial event was
a lecture by theoretical physicist Antony Valen-
tini given to a packed SAF lecture theatre. The
topic, Quantum Uncertainty, was a popular one:
the fact that the half the audience had iPads and
the other half had walking sticks —and one
rather cool gentleman had both — represented
the diverse crowd that such a topic could attract.
Most theoretical physics lectures that generate
large audiences do so off the back of a German
man with distinctive hair, and this talk was no
exception. The sub-heading of the lecture was
taken from a famous letter from Albert Einstein
to Max Born, in which he wrote: “Quantum
mechanics is certainly imposing. But an inner
voice tells me that it is not yet the real thing. The
theory says a lot, but does not really bring us
any closer to the secret of the ‘old one.’I, at any
rate, am convinced that He does not throw dice.”
In the broad introduction to the field Dr Valen-
tini agreed with Einstein’s sentiment, deriding
the “pseudo-spiritual” nature of most popular
interpretations of quantum mechanics, describ-
ing the uncertainty principle as mysticism and
complaining that to view a solid definable con-
cept of reality as old fashioned as wrong.
His alternative theory focused around an
overlooked quantum mechanical model, the
Pilot-wave theory of motion proposed by Lois
de Broglie. Using the same mathematics as the
much more commonly recognised Copenhaa-
gen Interpretation, the Pilot wave theory results
in a deterministic interpretation of quantum dy-
namics, hence the idea that God does not play
dice. By explaining everything without recourse
to equations, Dr Valentini struggled at times to
satisfactorily explain all his concepts, but given
the complexity of the topic at hand, the audi-
ence did its best to keep up. This was especially
the case towards the end of the talk, where de-
finitive proof of more deterministic quantum
theory was apparently to be found in the Cos-
mic Microwave Background Radiation, due to
the conditions in the universe just after the big
bang being different to as they are now.
The lecture ended there, as this was as far as
current research extends. It felt a little unortho-
dox for a public lecture to have such an open
ended finale with no answers, but it gave a good
impression of the challenges facing Dr Valentini
and his colleagues. It seems lonely being at odds
with a large portion of the scientific community,
but the lecture was a fascinating insight into
the fundamental questions remaining in a field
which many people considered wrapped up.
Matt Allinson

