FELIX 11
SCIENCE
Friday 24 june 2011
“It got to the stage of desperation, I tried
GPs, neurologists, psychiatrists and
other types of psychotherapists... it was
purely because I was out of any other
choices that I tried it.”
‘It’ was medical hypnosis and it re-
duced Timothy Ellison’s weekly mi-
graines to monthly mild headaches.
Timothy had to seek private help be-
cause, although hypnosis has been prac-
ticed for a long time in the private sector,
it has never been offered by the NHS.
This may all be about to change. Last
Monday, recommendations made by the
Royal Society of Medicine’s Hypnosis
Section stated that “The NHS could
save millions of pounds if it made bet-
ter use of hypnosis for a wide range
of common conditions.” The hypnosis
they talk about is completely devoid of
the swinging watches and semi-magical
qualities of myth. Instead it sounds like
any other medical tool - sharp, efficient
and precise.
It is a tool that is able to help people
with depression, irritable bowel syn-
drome and chronic pain that other more
conventional methods can’t treat.
Yolanda Rengifo Aguirre, the psycho-
therapist that treated Timothy’s condi-
tion, says: “In my experience, therapy in
the trance reaches parts of the patients
that other psychotherapies do not reach.
It is effective in changing the clockwork
of the mind, such as the subconscious
inner patterns of being in the world that
make us ill and distressed.”
Yolanda used clinical hypnosis to
“show Timothy the origin and main-
taining factors of severe psychogenic
migraine headaches. Hypnosis can be
effective in working to resolve and heal
any trauma or inner psychological con-
flict that could be subconsciously trig-
gering it.”
Timothy said: “Hypnosis helped me
in discovering why I had migraines. It
helped me respond to stress in a way that
was not self-harming, by noticing the
early signs in my body as a warning de-
vice. These signs tell me to relax instant-
ly and so avoid triggering the migraine.”
Clinical hypnosis therefore gives in-
sights into psychosomatic conditions
that other techniques simply cannot do.
In its ability to find subconscious caus-
es, hypnosis is effective in treating anxi-
ety induced disorders from panic attacks
Is hypnosis all it’s hyped up to be?
Camila Ruz
Trying to get laid before beer was invented required far more ingenuity...
Martin Lacey stands proudly in the cen-
tre of the big top, arms splayed, red suit
barely stretching over his ample belly.
His ungainly appearance is deceptive.
To a roar from the crowd, he drops to
his knees as a flash of white and black
passes above his bald head. The lion
lands with a snarl, and the audience rise
to their feet, gasping with delight as it
settles by Lacey’s side like a Golden
Retriever. He stands and bows to raptur-
ous applause. The show is a success.
For one of these performers, the real-
ity of success is a difficult life on the
road, training for hours each day and
pacing a cage smaller than the average
living room.
Earlier this month, the Department for
Environment Food and Rural Affairs
(DEFRA) released what it calls a ‘tough
new licensing regime’ for animals used
in circus performances. Assessment cri-
teria include transport conditions, size
of living quarters, and treatment by ani-
mal trainers. According to Environment
Secretary Caroline Spelman, the strin-
gent guidelines will improve quality of
life for performing animals.
A noble aim indeed, but will it be
enough? In 2009, Professor Stephen
Harris and his colleagues at Bristol’s
School of Biological Sciences com-
pleted a comprehensive survey of circus
animal welfare worldwide.
What they found is hardly surpris-
ing. “Quite simply, there should be an
outright ban” said Professor Harris,
speaking from the Mammal Group Lab
at Bristol University. “We don’t need
animals in circuses…the requirements
of these animals are so specific you just
can’t meet them in a circus environ-
ment.”
It seems that the British public agree.
A government opinion poll in 2010
revealed that 71% of the UK public
support a total ban on all performing
animals across the UK. Of DEFRA’s li-
censing proposal, Professor Harris said
“I think it’s a rather farcical process. I
mean, if you look at the welfare situa-
tion in zoos it is pretty terrible anyway,
and those animals are kept in one place.
So in circuses, well, there simply aren’t
any welfare standards.”
Martin Lacey’s white lion and other
exotic creatures will continue to per-
form for delighted crowds across the
country, and perhaps they will be bet-
ter protected from poor treatment at the
hands of their owners.
But if pressure and petitioning from
welfare groups, charities, higher-profile
scientists and the public continues, DE-
FRA may be forced to take a stronger
stance.
Government calls for better circus animal welfare
to insomnia. Hypnosis can also be used
as a tool to help treat more complicated
cases of psychological distress such as
anorexia and bulimia: “They learn why
they behave in a particular manner and
how to change their responses before
they occur. These are the responses that
were automatic or compulsive in the
past, that’s why I use clinical hypnosis
extensively in the effective treatment
of eating disorders,” says Yolanda. The
pinpointing of these mental habits is
part of what makes medical hypnosis so
effective in cutting the recovery time in
many of these cases.
But if medical hypnosis is so effective
why haven’t we heard more about it?
The problem is that it is currently only
done privately and when done by a fully
trained psychologist, as it has to be, it is
extremely expensive - often up to £100
an hour. As Timothy said: “Hypnosis
changed my life. I think it could benefit
a great number of people. I am sorry for
the people that cannot afford treatment
and are suffering as I suffered.” Putting
it on the NHS would bring medical hyp-
nosis onto the radar of people have run
out of choices, giving people like Timo-
thy another chance.
xxx
That tasted ggggreat
Kate Hazlehurst

