FELIX
12
SCIENCE
Science Editors: Kelly Oakes
Charlie Harvey
Thea Cunningham
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 24 june 2011
T
he last week has seen a
flurry of excitement over
reports that solar activity
may be set to decrease. Cli-
mate change deniers have
sprung upon this news, with prominent
Daily Telegraph blogger, James De-
lingpole, advocating that we increase
greenhouse gas production, in order to
mitigate any cooling associated with
this decrease in solar activity. In an ar-
ticle, which opens with the words “It’s
official: a new Ice Age is on its way”,
Mr Delingpole goes on to claim that
the news “makes global cooling a much
more plausible prospect in the next few
decades than global warming”. Mr De-
lingpole isn’t alone. The Register was
also quick to pounce on this news, as
was Daily Mail columnist, Richard Lit-
tlejohn, who claimed “the world has
actually been getting cooler in recent
years”.
So, what is the evidence to support
these claims? Are we actually heading
for a new ice age, or are the climate
change deniers on some pretty thin ice?
Well, Mr Littlejohn’s claim is clearly
nonsense, as the ten warmest years on
record have all occurred since 1998.
But, what about the claim that the Earth
is about to enter a new ice age? To judge
the merits of this claim, we will have
to look a little more closely at the sci-
ence…
The Sun’s activity is cyclical, with the
overall strength of the Sun’s magnetic
field rising and falling periodically.
Each cycle lasts roughly 11 years and
we are currently approaching a solar
maximum, due in 2013. However, there
is evidence to suggest that the next cy-
cle, with its maximum expected in 2022,
may be significantly weaker. This pre-
diction was made at a recent meeting of
the American Astronomical Society and
is based upon observations that a gase-
ous river, which flows beneath the Sun’s
surface, is forming at a slower rate than
observed during previous solar cycles.
Also, scientists have noted that the av-
erage magnetic strength of sunspots has
been decreasing in recent years and that
coronal activity is unusually low at the
moment.
Yet, this doesn’t necessarily mean that
we are likely to see a decrease in the ef-
fects of global warming and it certainly
doesn’t mean that we’re heading for a
new ice age. This proposed decrease in
solar activity is likely to lead to an aver-
age global temperature decrease of be-
tween just 0.1 and 0.3 °C. By contrast,
anthropogenic global warming is set to
cause an increase in average global tem-
peratures of roughly 4 °C by the end of
this century.
Similarly, the predicted decrease in
solar activity could lead to a 4 per cent
increase in polar sea ice. This is – quite
literally – a drop in the ocean, especially
when one considers the fact that global
warming is set to cause a 40 per cent de-
crease in polar sea ice.
Equally, those celebrating this news
as a long-sought-after excuse to keep
on burning fossil fuels and driving gas-
guzzling cars seem to have conveniently
overlooked a few other facts.
For one, there’s the problem of oce-
anic acidification. Increased carbon
dioxide levels will continue to acidify
our oceans and destroy coral reefs,
even if solar activity becomes sig-
nificantly reduced. For another, what
happens when solar activity returns to
normal? Nobody is suggesting that the
predicted decrease in solar activity will
be permanent, so any reduction in our
efforts to tackle global warming would
only result in a potentially disastrous
‘double-whammy’ period of warming
once this period of low solar activity
has subsided.
Such a period of relative cooling may
last just the one 11-year solar cycle, but
some are predicting another Little Ice
Age, such as that experienced from the
mid-16th to the mid-19th century. Dur-
ing this period, winters were unusually
cold and the Thames froze over regu-
larly.
However, despite widespread claims
to the contrary, the links between de-
creased solar activity and this unusu-
ally cold period are not clear. While it
is often claimed that the Little Ice Age
was caused exclusively by a period of
low solar activity, known as the Maun-
der Minimum, the Maunder Minimum
lasted just 70 years, whereas the Little
Ice age lasted 300 years. It has been
suggested that the Little Ice Age could
also have been caused by high levels of
volcanic activity, or even a temporary
decrease in the functioning of the Gulf
Stream.
During the Little Ice Age, the cooling
effect is thought to have varied signifi-
Global cooling?
This is a false-colour image of our sun. Thought we’d point that out, you know, in case you forgot the Sun isn’t blue
cantly across regions, with Europe hav-
ing been affected significantly more than
North America for instance. Also, while
winters were generally much cooler
during the Little Ice Age, summers were
not as strongly affected. Thus, given
that climate change is already predicted
to cause the UK to experience more ex-
treme seasonal variation (i.e. warmer
summers and colder winters), a return
to Little Ice Age conditions could be
particularly bad for the UK.
London is roughly on the same line
of latitude as Moscow and currently
experiences abnormally warm winters
– given this latitude – due to the winter-
warming effect of the Gulf Stream. If
average global temperatures continue
to increase, causing ever-greater glacial
melt water to continue decreasing the
salinity of our oceans, this is likely to
lead to major changes in the activity of
the Gulf Stream. Thus, winters in the
UK will become drastically cooler.
Coupled with a further potential de-
crease in winter temperatures, caused
Andrew Purcell queries claims that decreasing solar activity will trigger an ‘ice age’
by decreasing solar activity, this has the
potential to be disastrous. Consequent-
ly, rather than diminishing the need to
tackle climate change, the prospect of
decreased solar activity causing cooler
winters, serves only to add impetus to
the already drastic need to tackle cli-
mate change.
On a global scale, if the projected de-
crease in solar activity does occur, and if
it does cause a limited global cooling ef-
fect, this should be seen as a temporary
reprieve, with the potential to buy us
some much-needed time to increase our
efforts at reducing global atmospheric
CO2
output. It should certainly not be
seen – as the climate change deniers
would have us believe – as an excuse to
do absolutely nothing.
The hypocrisy of the climate change
deniers is truly staggering. Quick to
refute the overwhelming body of scien-
tifically-sound, peer-reviewed evidence
in support of global warming, these
so-called ‘sceptics’ have jumped upon
these predictions of decreasing solar
activity unquestioningly; predictions
which were made in provisional form at
a small conference in New Mexico and
which have not yet been subjected to the
rigors of peer review. It is worth bear-
ing in mind that, even if these predic-
tions do turn out to be accurate, the total
energy reaching Earth from The Sun is
expected to drop by just 0.1 per cent.
In light of this, the crowing of the
climate change deniers seems, at best,
woefully misguided and, at worst, wil-
fully misleading. Perhaps unsurpris-
ingly, few of the climate change deniers
have made reference in their articles to
the fact that Dr Frank Hill, one of the
scientists responsible for the predic-
tions, chose to clarify things by issuing
the following statement:
“We are NOT predicting a mini-ice
age. We are predicting the behaviour
of the solar cycle. In my opinion, it is a
huge leap from that to an abrupt global
cooling, since the connections between
solar activity and climate are still very
poorly understood. My understanding
is that current calculations suggest only
a 0.3 °C decrease from a Maunder-like
minimum, too small for an ice age. It
is unfortunate that the global warming/
cooling studies have become so politi-
cally polarising.”
“The total energy
reaching Earth from
The Sun is expected
to drop by just 0.1%”

