FELIX
14
Tips & Hacks
TECHNOLOGY
Technology Editor: Feroz Salam
technology.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 24 june 2011
Bitcoin: truly anarchist currency
Money made and traded online is valuable. Com-
panies across the web have been striving to find a
model for digital currency that works. From Facebook
to Farmville; World of Warcraft to Second Life people
are buying currency that is used online even though
it has no physical manifestation. Stranger still, peo-
ple are willing to accept payments for goods and ser-
vices in the real world using these virtual currencies.
In 2009, Satoshi Nakamoto, a Japanese cryptogra-
phy expert created the worldís first decentralised
digital currency and Bitcoin was born.
Now this sort of economic alchemy has been done
before. All modern day government-backed curren-
cies are fiat: their value is not tied to anything physi-
cal. But unlike conventional currency, Bitcoin (BTC)
has no centralized issuing or holding authority. Its
production is hardcoded into the software itself and
cannot be altered. Only market forces control its val-
ue. So what benefits does this offer compared with
the tried and tested British Pound Sterling?
Transfers are conducted from peer to peer and are
certified by the network itself so there is no need for
banks or other third parties, resulting in almost no
transaction fees. Your account can’t be frozen, even
by the founders of Bitcoin, so you have complete li-
quidity and freedom to spend your money irrespec-
tive of external forces. This is extremely valuable to
people who keep large amounts of money on-line in
accounts at companies such as Paypal. Earlier this
year the US government froze hundreds of millions
of dollars in online poker accounts leaving thou-
sands of people without access to over 80% of their
net value, something that would be impossible using
this new currency.
There are still a lot of kinks that need to be ironed
out. Last week $500,000 worth of BTC were stolen,
causing the currency’s market value to crash from
$20 per 1BTC to just $0.01 per 1BTC. However, it
has subsequently bounced back. Furthermore, the
anonymity that the system affords attracts a black
market where people buy and sell contraband such
drugs, weapons and stolen personal information so
governments are becoming increasingly weary of
this uncontrollable marketplace. Right now you can
only use Bitcoins to buy niche tech products and ser-
vices and gimmicky alpaca socks.
However, if major retailers start taking virtual cur-
rency seriously it could revolutionize our perspective
on money, doing for finance what the internet did for
publishing, ownership and transfers. Adam Labi
A
s summer draws nearer and the
spring round of exhibitions and
trade fairs draws to a close,
there’s a lot of shiny new tech-
nology to look forward to over
the next few months. Driving the latest round of
products is the incessant slide towards perpetual
connectivity: be it mobile, tablet, laptop or the
increasingly elusive desktop, all major tech
players are pushing to have you wired 24/7.
NFC and mobile wallets
The most noticeable push this summer will lie
in NFC and the possibilities it opens up for
mobile wallets. To the uninitiated, NFC chips
are a close relative to the RFID chips that you
have in your student and Oyster cards. The
new NFC technology that is being champi-
oned by telecom operators and device manu-
facturers alike will allow your phone to read
and write data to sensors and other phones by
touch alone.
The applications for the technology are very
promising. Tapping two phones together could
transfer a song between friends, or connect
them on Facebook. The real money will lie in
mobile wallets, however. The concept of us-
ing your phone as a wallet (tap-to-pay on spe-
cial till sensors) has been floated for at least
a decade and has made some inroads in the
Far East, but hasn’t kicked off in earnest yet.
This is all set to change in the next few weeks,
as card companies, phone manufacturers and
line operators are all jockeying frantically for
a slice of what might be a huge revenue pie.
Orange’s Samsung QuickTap handset has al-
ready been introduced in the UK, and the three
major mobile operators in the UK (Everything
Everywhere, Telefonica and Vodafone) have
just announced a move to form a mobile pay-
ment joint venture that will bring widespread
coverage ‘before the end of the year’. With
Google Wallet also promising similar func-
tionality in the near future, the death of cash-
points may be within sight.
Location, location, location
GPS on phones has been available for some
time now, but it has taken a while for most
businesses to cotton on to the potential of
knowing exactly where your user is. While
services that depend on location often tread
the fine line between creepy and useful, there’s
something to be said for the wealth of location-
based discount services mushrooming on so-
cial networking sites. Check-in, publicise the
restaurant, receive a coupon and everyone’s
happy. It’s not everyone’s cup of tea, but on a
student budget, I’m not complaining.
Take your stuff with you
The potential of the ‘cloud’ has been trum-
peted by the media for the last few years now,
but there has been a stark absence of many
real cloud products beyond data backup and
Google docs. If the last few months are any
indication, however, 2011 is poised to be the
year where you’ll never have to worry about
leaving home without your books, music or
videos.
Amazon, Google, Apple and Spotify all
have huge plans for your music library - their
services will all give you varying degrees
of access to your songs across your devices.
Spotify’s services have been up and running
in the UK for a while now, and the others are
supposed to roll out from late 2011 onwards.
Along with the Kindle’s cross-platform books
service and rumours of a launch for streaming
movie provider Netflix, there will soon be no
barrier to carrying your media with you wher-
ever you go.
The summer will also see the launch of
Google’s Chromebooks in the UK. A radical
re-envisioning of what a laptop should look
like, the system only comes bundled with what
is essentially a browser. In future, you will be
able to find all the software you need through
their online apps. It’s a bold move, and there’s
no telling how far it will go just yet, but if
you’re buying into the cloud philosophy and
want a basic computer on the cheap, this will
probably be worth having a look at.
Finally, a free lunch?
The implications of all this innovation are
huge. On the one hand there are the positive
consequences: we will see people finally being
able to exchange media seamlessly by tapping
phones together, while physical money is mak-
ing it’s inexorable decline into obsolescence.
Devices around us are becoming smarter and
increasingly interconnected every day: inte-
grating chips into almost everything we own is
becoming an expectation rather than a luxury.
As always, freedom comes at a price. Ubiq-
uitous computing has been driven in part by
a system of barter in a 21st century context:
your personal information in exchange for
a service. This has worked brilliantly so far:
swapping some personal information for tar-
geted advertising is a price that most of us are
willing to pay. Yet technology companies are
constantly redrawing the boundaries, and for
the first time the, dynamic is shifting away
from users choosing to upload their data and
towards devices constantly collecting data
from your palm as you travel, spend money
and make friends.
If nothing else, it’s always worth remem-
bering that anything you put out there on the
internet will always remain on some server,
owned by a company that you have no con-
trol over. Facebook, Twitter and Google have
us wrapped around an innocuous finger of free
services and constant connectivity. The onset
of ubiquitous computing might take nothing
from your pocket, but will drop these compa-
nies into your life forever. As gloomy a proph-
ecy as that may seem, the information is only
there if you choose to give it to them. So if you
do choose to tap-to-pay using NFC or coupon
your way around town with foursquare, always
remember the hidden price you are paying for
the service. Have a great summer!
‘Everything everywhere’ a reality?
Feroz Salam picks out the top tech debuting this summer

