FELIX Friday 24 june 2011 15
TECHNOLOGY
Augmented reality is here
J
ust what is augmented reality?
I was at an augmented reality
conference recently and the best
definition was this: “Augment-
ed reality is an integration of the
real world with computer graphics that
you can interact with.”
So we are looking at something that
augments your reality with something
you can play about with. A good name
then. But it’s all very well and good cre-
ating a pair of goggles that overlay what
you see with floating unicorns and fairy
dust, but it doesn’t really add anything –
it’s gimmicky. The general consensus of
the conference-goers was that the aug-
mentation had to be useful.
Augmented reality is only just emerg-
ing from that gimmicky stage. It’s a
young technology that is slowly coming
into the public eye. The main limitation,
until now, has been the technology re-
quired for it to be both useful and un-
obtrusive.
These limitations were twofold: the
reliance on fiducials (those black and
white square markers), and a lack of a
bridge between the user and the aug-
mented world. But in the age of the
smartphone, the latter issue is moot.
Now it has become a lot easier for those
innovators in augmented reality to start
distributing their content to the masses.
Still an infant industry
One such company at the conference
was Wikitude, showcasing their self-
named augmented reality browser.
Available on all major mobile operating
systems, Wikitude allows you to look at
your surroundings through your smart-
phone’s camera. It will then overlay in-
formation and facts about what you can
see, including user-added content and
geo-tagged tweets. This is an interesting
use-case, and it certainly seems to be
popular (it was voted the best augment-
ed reality browser two years in a row).
However, it lacks a great deal of interac-
tion, and you have to walk around with
your smartphone in front of you to get
the effect – not a great look.
So the next step could be augmented
reality eyewear – either glasses or con-
tact lenses. Both of these options may
be less obtrustive, but there are, unfor-
tunately, disadvantages to both. People
don’t want to wear unstylish eyewear
just for some extra facts about their
surroundings. With contact lenses it’s
a technological barrier – not just get-
ting enough pixels in a contact lens, but
also having them close enough together.
This is necessary to give the illusion
that the overlaid content is a lot further
from the eye, else it would obscure the
user’s vision.
However, advances are being made in
both of these areas. Vuzix and DARPA
have both created pairs of augmented
reality glasses that, while not supremely
stylish, look more like futuristic sun-
glasses than lab goggles. On the contacts
front, the technology is a lot further be-
hind, but is catching up. Researchers at
the University of Washington recently
managed to embed a four-by-four grid
of blue and red pixels in a single contact
lens, close enough to avoid the afore-
mentioned occlusion problem.
On the other hand, if Ken Blakeslee –
an investor in many companies involved
with augmented reality – is to be be-
lieved, the glasses technology could be
made ready very swiftly. What is lack-
ing is a consumer demand for augment-
ed reality itself. Without this demand,
companies and investors won’t put the
money required into research and devel-
opment of the technologies.
Perhaps with more advancements,
the general public may find something
that leads them to be more interested.
That said, in a time of recession and
careful investments, we’re definitely
going to need to get augmented reality
away from being a gimmick. It needs
to be something that enhances the us-
er’s life.
Thankfully, some people do seem to
be heading in that direction. One par-
ticularly interesting presentation was
from Holition, who describe themselves
as “leaders in augmented retail”. They
described an advertising/retail initiative
they had undertaken with Selfridges
and watch manufacturer Tissot. Cus-
tomers outside the store were given a
single coloured watch band to put on.
They could then hold this up to a web-
cam above a screen on the wall of the
store to see a Tissot watch on their wrist
in real time, and use that touch screen
to customise the watch with immediate
effect. In addition, they could take this
watch placeholder with them to use on
the Tissot website at home with their
own webcam.
This is a great use for augmented re-
ality. It brings benefits to both parties,
which means it’s exactly the sort of
initiative that will bring the technology
closer to the public eye. For the con-
sumer, it saves a lot of time with trying
on the accessory, and allows them a lot
more customisation than they would get
in the shops. It can save and even gener-
ate extra revenue for the company (as
they need make fewer watches if most
people use this system). This particular
example gave a return on investment of
four to one. It was also said that the trial
was considered a success, with others
also having been completed. This is a
hopeful sign for pushing augmented re-
ality forward.
Making it a reality
So where does the technology go from
here? It really needs something to push
it forward, to accelerate its growth.
And if investors aren’t prepared to
stump up their cash, maybe it will
be games that provide this spurt. The
games industry is huge, and if it were
to adopt augmented reality en masse,
it would almost certainly make it big
very quickly. This is definitely a possi-
bility, as we’re starting to see examples
of this already.
The Nintendo 3DS is the main con-
tender here, with its impressive aug-
mented reality software. Effects such
as apparently warping the surface that
you’re playing on bring a worthwhile
addition to the game, but perhaps with-
out the 3D it wouldn’t have such an ef-
fect. But Nintendo aren’t the only ones
– Samsung demoed their AiRaid game
at the conference. It’s a game based on a
similar concept to Nintendo’s own Face
Raiders, but at least it shows that com-
panies are taking an interest.
It’s good to see that some big names in
different sectors of the market are really
getting their hands dirty with augment-
ed reality. It is an emerging technology,
and it may still take a few years before it
takes off. But when it does, I’m sure it’s
going to be huge.
But Chris Bowers examines whether it is all that it is cracked up to be
Despite the fact that she can wear translucent purple tape over her eyes and still look attractive, keep in mind the same may not apply to you...
“Researchers at
the University of
Washington recently
managed to embed
a four-by-four grid of
blue and red
pixels in a single
contact lens”

