FELIX
16
POLITICS politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 24 june 2011
The world beyond
College walls
Politics Editors: Rory Fenton
Joseph Letts
Rajat Jain
China
Nepalese troops have destroyed the last minefield
in Nepal, five years after the end of the civil war.
This makes Nepal only the second country in Asia
to be completely free of mines. The clearing of the
minefields were agreed upon as part of the peace
agreement with the Maoist rebels who now form
part of the Nepali Government. Despite the clearing
of the minefields, Nepal however still faces many
challenges ahead including how to demobilise the
19,000 former Maoist soldiers.
Nepal
The People’s Republic of China has said that it
would abstain from using force to solve maritime
disputes in the South China Sea. This comes af-
ter Vietnam, which was blamed by China for exac-
erbating tensions, held a live fire drill and issued
a decree specifying who will be exempted from a
draft during a time of war. China is involved in a
territorial dispute with the Philippines, Malaysia, Vi-
etnam and Brunei over the strategic Spratly and the
Paracels which are also believed to contain oil and
gas deposits.
Somalia
Somalia’s Prime Minister Mohamed Formajo has re-
fused to resign, defying an UN-backed deal to oust
him. The deal extends the mandates of the Somali
President, Speaker and their deputies until 2012,
and was reached after months of squabbling be-
tween rival political parties. Mr Formajo claimed sup-
port from the people and there have been protests
against the deal in the capital Mogadishu. Somalia
has been without an effective Government following
the fall of Said Bare’s regime in 1991.
Edited by Kenneth Lee
The Politics of Summer 2011
With Felix Politics on holiday for the summer,
you’re probably worried that you’ll either have
to read a proper political paper for the next
three months (really very dull) or become com-
pletely ignorant of the world around you. Fear
not! Below are the only important headlines
that may, or may not, occur. Read these and
you can spend the rest of your summer lying
on a beach, without a care in the world.
Muslim Brotherhood elected in Egypt
Following the ousting of President Hosni
Mubarak after 30 years of power, the interim
military government has promised free and
fair parliamentary elections in September. The
Gaddafi Dead
With pundits increasingly warning of a stale-
mate, the western alliance has been increasing
the military assistance to the Libyan rebels.
A victory would be a clear sign to other lead-
ers, such as Syria’s al–Assad, that they are not
immortal. With any luck, it will also reduce
suspicion of the West, particularly important
after Blair and Sarkozy’s “deal with the devil”,
when they met Gaddafi. It could also give a
popularity boost to Presidents Sarkozy and
Obama who are both facing re-election.
Who will come, who will see, who will conquer?
Rajat Jain
Sarkozy will not stand for re-election
Early next year, France will hold its Presiden-
tial elections, but incumbent Nicolas Sarkozy
has yet to say whether he will stand. His wife,
whose photos strangely seem to appear in
more newspapers during international confer-
ences than her better half’s, is pregnant and
has said she does not want him to stand but
that it is ultimately his choice. Despite Sar-
kozy’s failure to reform the economy, he has
still been described the best candidate for the
job by his centre-right party. He also no longer
has the threat of a strong centre left candidate.
The socialists were widely expected to choose
Dominique Strauss-Kahn who, as head of the
IMF, was likely to understand how to keep the
economy strong and competitive while main-
taining the values of the French Left. However,
he is facing trial in New York for rape. Instead,
with anti-Islamic sentiment growing since
11th September 2001 and anti-European views
emerging due to bailouts of weak economies
such as that of Greece, it seems the far-right
may well sweep to victory. Their new leader,
Marine Le Pen, is young, ambitious and char-
ismatic. With no strong left-wing showing and
no status quo candidate to fall back on from
the centre right, the EU’s most important coun-
try could be about to elect a reactionary racist.
Sarah Palin to stand for president
The former Grand Old Party candidate for vice-
president has, at the time of writing, yet to de-
clare whether she will stand for president. The
formal elections aren’t until next year, but the
Republican Party is preparing for its primaries,
with debates already taking place. Now, I’m
not suggesting she is a credible candidate, but
let’s face it - the only thing that makes these
elections bearable, regardless of which party
you support, is the slightly thick Republican
candidates. With George W. Bush long gone
and Donald Trump recently backing out, Palin
(who recently questioned whether the Libyan-
military-thing we’re involved in is a war, in-
tervention or “squirmish”), is looking to be
the our only chance to laugh smugly at Ameri-
cans while sipping on fine wine in the south of
France (or wherever you happen to summer).
Greece defaults - Euro collapses
European Finance ministers have refused to
increase Greece’s bailout or improve condi-
tions unless austerity measures are pushed
through. This, however, is becoming difficult
as Greeks take to the streets in increasingly
violent protests against the proposed budget.
David Cameron, meanwhile, has declared that
he is unwilling to increase loans to the Euro-
zone country unless he must do so due to IMF
obligations. This all puts the Eurozone under
increasing pressure. ChancellorAngela Merkel
of Germany has suggested allowing Greece to
default if it comes to it, an option that is con-
sidered suicide for the Greek economy by
many economists. France’s finance minister,
Christine Lagarde, has refused to consider that
as an option. If it were to happen, it could well
send a shock wave through Europe that could
spell the end of the Euro.
President Ahmadinejad faces impeachment
One would think the West would be excited by
the possibility of the end of the anti-Semitic,
homophobic, nuclear weapon developing,
hate–mongering and increasingly anti-demo-
cratic rule of Iran’s current president. Unfortu-
nately, in Iran the president is not as powerful
as the title might suggest and things can get a
lot worse. Ahmadinejad is not facing pressure
from the same moderate political opponents
who protested the election results in 2009, but
from his former ally, Supreme Leader Ayatol-
lah Khamenei, who is the absolute authority
in this theocratic state. The first signs of a rift
emerged in April, when the Supreme Leader
reinstated the intelligence minister that Ahma-
dinejad had just fired. As befits any man with
a childish passive-aggressive personality, Ah-
madinejad refused to turn up to work, missing
a number of important meetings, for eleven
days. Now the parliament has rejected two
of his ministerial nominees, accusing him of
choosing friends and challenging clerical rule.
Politics in Iran is highly secretive but specula-
tion is rife about the kind of power plays that
are taking place between parliament, the revo-
lutionary guard, guardian council and supreme
council, who all take some part in ruling the Is-
lamic Republic. Ahmadinejad’s impeachment
or resignation looks increasingly likely. This
could signal an end to what little democracy
the people of Iran had since the 1979 revolu-
tion. Alternatively, optimists may hope that it
will mean the end of nuclear weapons devel-
opment, assuming Khamenei’s fatwa against
them was sincere.
problem is Mubarak was not just unpopular for
his corruption and crackdown on dissidents,
but for making peace with Israel and being seen
as a pawn for the West. The Muslim Brother-
hood, a radical Islamist group, was legalised
after the revolution and formed its own party.
Recently, they have declared an alliance with
liberal parties, however if they make a strong
showing at elections, it could lead to new ten-
sions with Israel and a step back in the Middle
East peace process. Intervention by the United
States or Israel may even be on the cards.

