FELIX Friday 24 June 2011 17
BUSINESS
FELIX
Buffer – Because you want to tweet better
Afonso Campos talks to to Joel Gascoigne about Buffer and startups in general
business.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Business Editors: Sina Ataherian
Afonso Campos
have liked to continue this project, he
came to abandon the idea as his fellow
group members had different plans.
Following university, and further
proof that Gascoigne is a forward think-
er, he co-created OnePage; a one-stop
shop to easily and automatically dis-
seminate your Internet presence, in the
style of prominent sites such as about.
me, before these even existed. Although
the project lasted over a year, it was not
a complete success and he did not get
the traction he desired. During the time,
it also transpired that his co-founder and
himself, while good friends, just did not
work that well together; a most impor-
tant of realisations.
Armed with the experience of build-
ing two dynamic and intelligent web
applications, Joel set upon getting Buf-
fer off the ground. Joel is a keen fol-
lower and believer in the Lean Startup
method, first pioneered by entrepreneur
Eric Ries, which advocates constant
deployment of features and launching
with a minimum viable product. Before
even starting to build the application
Joel wanted validation that his idea was
a good one, and put up a landing page
with a description of the product, differ-
ent pricing levels and an e-mail form.
With careful analysis of the traffic on
his preliminary site he was able to track
the metrics that eventually validated his
idea. He also gathered over 120 e-mails
of prospective subscribers and immedi-
ately engaged in conversation with them
to understand what they really expected
and wanted out of Buffer. These conver-
sations and his acorn of an idea became
the paramount shapers of the applica-
tion. He then set about actually devel-
oping the website, which from start to
finish took Joel a mind-blowingly swift
seven weeks to set up.
With the application up and running,
Joel knew that in order to transform
the product from an idea into a real
and scalable business he would not be
able to do it alone. This is when Leo,
a young student and keen entrepreneur
himself came to the rescue. He is much
more than just a product evangelist or
simply Joel’s right arm. He is an integral
and vital part of the business. Despite
the lack of a technical background, Leo
managed to previously hack together an
interesting cooking social network for
students, giving Joel faith in his can-do
nature. Having just finished his second
year exams, he is taking a year out of
university to focus exclusively on Buf-
fer during this high-growth stage.
At the very earliest stages of Buffer,
Joel had to keep freelancing in order
to be sustainable, despite having his
first paying customer within the first
three days of operation. Buffer has now
grown significantly to over 12,000 us-
ers, a healthy portion of whom are
paying. This has allowed Joel to stop
freelancing and dedicate his full atten-
tion to his creation. At this point, he
isn’t raking it in yet; in fact, he is mak-
ing less money now than when he was
freelancing. Borrowing a phrase from
the prolific Paul Graham, Joel describes
Buffer as ‘ramen profitable’. Something
tells me Joel does not mind that the
riches haven’t yet come and relishes in
continuing to develop the application in
unique and interesting ways.
His product and idea are both, without
a shadow of a doubt, really great, but this
alone is not what makes Joel a success-
ful entrepreneur. He has a great attitude
that is to an extent shaped by some of the
world’s best entrepreneurs. Joel finds it
of the utmost importance to keep placing
himself outside the traditional comfort
zone and finding challenges. He feels
that this is the only way to keep satisfied
and truly learn in a continuous manner.
When asked about his competitors,
Joel was candidly frank. He knows they
are out there and he acknowledges that
there are similarities in the product, just
like different car manufacturers embed
similar characteristics in their vehicles.
Different car brands get you from A to
B, but what really matters is how they
do it. He invokes a quote by Henry Ford:
“The competitor to be feared is one who
never bothers about you at all, but goes
on making his own business better all
the time”. It’s a decidedly healthy and
refreshing attitude in a world of startups
obsessed with an idea and the eventual
exit. In fact, Joel believes that an undue
focus on getting investment or exiting
eventually derails founders and drives
them to focus on the wrong things.
Before our interview was over, Joel
passed some great advice to students
potentially interested in entering the
exciting world of startups. He thinks it
is crucial to take advantage of the sum-
mer, as there is unlikely to be a stretch
in their lives that is so unconcerned with
time or money; two of the biggest con-
straints on young founders. He believes
it to be the perfect time to really experi-
ment and try new things. To that effect,
Joel is always open to talking and help-
ing out young startup founders, feeling
that having gone through the process
very recently, he is in tune with the wor-
ries and questions they may have.
With close to 350,000 scheduled
tweets to date, Buffer is clearly on the
uptrend. There is no doubt that as more
and more companies and individuals
find their voices on Twitter, Joel and
Leo’s application will become increas-
ingly attractive. While Birmingham has
thus far been a good home for Buffer, as
soon as their lease expires next month,
Joel and Leo are off to San Francisco
to see for themselves the allures of the
almost mystical Silicon Valley. They are
already making ripples across the pond,
with the Twitter API big chief request-
ing a meeting with them.
Interestingly, during my interview
with Joel, Buffer raked in almost an-
other thirty users. To put things into per-
spective it took him a week to get those
many users when he first began.
If you take nothing else from Joel’s
story, remember three key things: the
importance of simplicity of your prod-
uct, the importance of a right co-found-
er and the veritable will to make it hap-
pen no matter what. Expect great things
from this duo.
“Buffer is a smarter
way to Tweet” – Joel
Gascoigne
Buffer founders Joel Gascoigne and Leo Widrich planning world tweetmination. Maybe. If they can get over the OS war
Check out Buffer at http://www.
bufferapp.com
Find Joel’s blog on: http://joel.is
You can also follow Joel on Twitter:
@joelgascoigne
T
he proliferation of Twit-
ter is ubiquitous to say
the least and despite the
service being almost uni-
versally loved by its users,
annoying your followers with a barrage
of tweets is not a gargantuan task to ac-
complish. Enter Buffer.
Buffer is a simple, yet highly effective
web application that lets you add your
messages to be automatically tweeted
at scheduled times, thus avoiding a
backlash in the form of decreasing fol-
lowers. Its co-founder, Joel Gascoigne,
puts it best: “Buffer is a smarter way to
Tweet”. I was lucky enough to drag Joel
away from his text editor long enough
to find out what makes him, and Buf-
fer, tick.
Joel, a Warwick University computer
science graduate has a long history of
early adoption of emerging trends.
He embraced the power of the web at
the almost premature age of 12 when
he first started creating websites, and
throughout university he worked as a
freelance developer and designer. It was
never his idea to leave university to set
upon the typical route of the many stu-
dents taking a graduate job: his aspira-
tion was to be completely independent
and build something substantial without
being told what to do by anyone else.
Clearly one with a startup mindset,
when the time came for his final group
project at university, Joel created an in-
teresting location-based social network
where your friends could check-in at
different places on campus. Joel’s idea
actually preceded the behemoths that are
now Facebook Places, Foursquare and
the prevalence of smartphones. While
the entrepreneurially minded Joel would

