FELIX
18
COM M ENT
Comment Editors: Anna Perman
Jan Piotrowski
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 24 june 2011
O
ne might think that, af-
ter having changed nine
schools and two univer-
sities, I’d have gotten the
hang of farewells.
It is true that up to the age of eight, I
can hardly remember some of the faces
of my ‘friends’. Then again, were we
really ‘friends’? Surely rubbing paint in
each other’s faces and playing tag dur-
ing recess (as I did with one particular
boy) is not what you’d call friendship
now. Nevertheless, despite the childish
nature of these attempts at socialising,
you might even conclude we had a crush
going on. I never got to say goodbye to
him because I actually did not know I
was going to leave the States in the sum-
mer of 1997, for good.
By the age of sixteen, I think I got so
bitter about continually leaving that I
stopped socialising in secondary school.
I was the tall kid with the massive head-
phones and the dark jeans, and I spent
quite a significant amount of my time
with my head buried in a book. It would
be stupid of me to say I did not have any
friends, I just never made much of an
effort to ‘hang out’ after school. I knew
that in a year or so, I’d leave them and
that would be that.
But then, after we graduated in 2007,
they made the effort to see me. An email
turned into an in-depth analysis of Anna
Karenina and some of the best brownie
recipes I have ever tasted. These two
people were quite different, and I am not
sure they would have gotten along, but
surprisingly, they mirrored some of my
interests and I found that I was laughing
at a computer screen every other night.A
graduation trip to Ibiza was a nice kick-
off for the summer before uni started,
and I found that I enjoyed just having
fun with other people. By the time I was
leaving Sarajevo and Vienna to come to
London, I had a handful of new friends
and we have managed to stay in con-
tact every now and then. Holiday trips
to Christmas markets, catching up with
friends, English-style pubs everywhere
I go, and nice tunes in the background
are what I love about going back home.
Oh and homemade food only my mum
can make.
Fast forward almost four years to that
post-final exam Union session and one
might think that indeed, we no longer
have the ‘until I finish uni’ excuse to
use. Most of the people I know will go
on to work in the City as consultants,
a few are starting their PhDs and sec-
ond MSc’s, and a handful will still be at
Imperial for another year. It seems that
everyone has been doing the same thing
for the past month – everyone is saying
their goodbyes.
With one group of friends, I vouched
to meet up once a year in a differ-
ent place in the world. With another, I
promised to visit London every now and
again. I’ve offered my home for each
and everyone to come and visit and I
really do mean it when I say “I’ll miss
you”. There are a couple of instances
where I have even forgotten to say those
three words – it might have been due
to the fact that it was quite late at night
that The Goodbye had taken place, or
We’ll meet again
maybe even because I had thought it
was a foolish thing to stay. Wasn’t it
obvious that I’d miss you all? Everyone
has their moments and each relationship
is unique. If it were up to me, we’d all
be able to teleport or travel at the speed
of light whenever we wanted to. And I
choose to ignore the limitations of that
idea.
One night in November 2007, a friend
and I blagged our way into a VIP area
of a nightclub in Piccadily. It was about
one in the morning when I saw a fami-
liar face walk into the room and I heard
my name screamed over the music:
NAIDAAAAAAA!! My reaction was
the same and this was a perfect example
of one of the things I tend to repeat in
my monotonous goodbye speeches: The
world is extremely small and I keep get-
ting astonished at how often this has
been demonstrated to myself. I am not
afraid to say that indeed, I’m one of
those suckers who believe that we shall
meet again when the time is right – or
when I happen to find a better brownie
recipe to share. Goodbye my friends,
until we meet again!
Saying goodbye isn’t easy, no matter how often you do it
Naida Dzigal
Have your say on
this article at
felixonline.co.uk
“
g
g
as
as
o
o
ds
”
The world is extremely small – I
am astonished at how often
this has been demonstrated
I hope that you will excuse me for writing in
the first person. This is the last article I will
ever write as Editor of this publication and, as
such, it is quite a significant moment for me.
When I first came to Imperial in 2007 to
study Physics, I would not have believed
it possible that one could invest so much
time, effort, and emotion into any one proj-
ect. I started right at the bottom of the Fe-
lix hierarchy, writing articles for the Politics
section (in fact, I think I may have started
even lower than this; my first appearance in
Felix was in a photograph of a cross-dress-
ing party from halls). The newspaper quickly
became a home for me, a place where I met
my closest friends and found refuge from
my sometimes-stifling studies.
My writing was incredibly poor, and my edit-
ing probably worse. I made a shocking num-
ber of mistakes and missteps; I am happy
to say that this continues, though, I hope, at
a marginally reduced frequency. I remember
trying to resign my position as Politics Editor
after a particularly awful week – three sepa-
rate letters of complaint about three sepa-
rate problems in my section – but the Dep-
uty Editor at the time understood that Felix
is built upon inclusiveness, opportunity, and
humility; he laughed off my resignation and
told me to try harder next week.
From these ignominious beginnings, I
worked my way up the ladder, learning dif-
ferent skills in different sections, until, in
my 4th year, the student body gave me the
opportunity to take the helm. It is not a re-
sponsibility that I have always felt comfort-
able holding and I have not always fulfilled
my duties as well as I should have. Where
I have made mistakes I have done my best
to correct them and I have always endeav-
oured to, in the words that stay with me
three years on, ‘try harder next week’.
However, though the work has been hard
and the hours long, it has always been a
privilege to edit this paper with the many stu-
dents who volunteer their time in the Felix of-
fice each week. It has been deeply fulfilling to
see my ideas and aims become reality, and
it has been a joy to see students and staff
pick up the paper each week. There is noth-
ing quite like it. The depths I sink to when I
make an error are nothing to the dizzyingly-
high peaks when someone dashes over to
grab a copy as soon as I have laid it down.
I have worked on this paper for four
years – despite, paradoxically, having only
completed three years of my degree – and
it is time for myself and my generation of
editors, to let a new generation shape Felix,
and make of it what they will. I would only
ask them to always remain true to its ethos:
to always ask people to ‘try harder next
week’ instead of chastising them; to always
make every effort to encourage students to
get involved; to always be humble enough
to admit their mistakes; and to always give
Felix their all, and then some. For me, it is
goodbye. Thank you all for your support.
FELIX
‘Try harder next week’
Hello, goodbye... see you on the other side!
“I thought it was a
foolish thing to say.
Wasn’t it obvious I’d
miss you all?”

