FELIX
2
HIGHLIGHTS
Friday 24 june 2011
FELIX
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB.
Email: felix@imperial.ac.uk. Tel: 020 7594 8072. Fax: 020 7594 8065.
Printed by The Harmsworth Printing Ltd, Northcliffe House, Meadow
Road, Derby. Registered newspaper ISSN 1040-0711.
Copyright © Felix 2011.
On campus
Editor-in-Chief Kadhim Shubber Deputy Editor Gilead Amit Copy Chief Lizzy Griffiths Assistant Editor Dan Wan News Editors Alex Karapetian Matt Colvin Reporters Katherine Bettany Charles Betts
Sophia David Maciej Matuszewski Deepka Rana Aemun Reza Ian Wei Umair Aasem Genevieve Pugh Haralambos Dayantis Madhura Ghosh Victoria Druce Catherine Lu Design Editor Veronika McQuadeova
Features Editor Lizzie Crouch Sports Editors Jovan Nedic David Wilson Science Editors Kelly Oakes Charlie Harvey Thea Cunningham Business Editors Sina Ataherian Afonso Campos Politics Editors
Rory Fenton Rajat Jain Joseph Letts Technology Editor Samuel Gibbs Feroz Salam Comment Editors Anna Perman Jan Piotrowski Arts Editor Rox Middleton Music Editors Greg Power Christopher
Walmsley Luke Turner Stephen Smith Film Editors Jade Hoffman Ed Knock TV Editors Matt Allinson Veronika McQuadeova Food Editors Dana Li Vicky Jeyaprakash Fashion Editor Saskia Verhagen Games
Editor Simon Worthington Online Editors Niharika Midha Dakshaa Rai Chris Birkett Jonathan Kim International Editor Kenneth Lee Puzzles Captains Polly Bennett James Hook Aman Nahar Books Editor
Guo Heng Chin Photo Editors Miles Robertson Thomas Welch Travel Editor Chris Richardson Lifestyle Editor Richard Keller Copy Editors Alex Nowbar Hannah Thomas Sharanya Subbu Ritika Gupta
Zainab Ali Shruti Mishra Sophia Man Tim Arbabzadah Jamie Fraser Veli Akiner Samuel Furse Charlotte Ivison Illustrators Luca de Benedetti Hamish Muir Benjamin Kennedy Amanda Diez Joshua Yerrell
Lolcat of teh year
Silfest 2011
Silfest is a music
festival that’s held
every year at Imperial’s
Silwood campus in
Berkshire. Tickets are
only £14 per person
but increase to £16 per
person on the 1st of
July. It has a traditional
fete theme. Contact
rosalie.burdon10@
imperial.ac.uk for more
information.
Stand-up Mathematics
Matthew Parker is a mathematician turned comedian
who now uses comedy to help teach and increase
awareness about mathematics. His shows are
described as “topical and daft”. The event will be
followed by a drinks reception from 17:45 in the
Great Hall. To register a place at the Graduate School
of Engineering and Physical Sciences (GSEPS), email
graduate.schools@imperial.ac.uk with your CID no.
Clore Lecture Theatre, Huxley
22 July 16:30–17:45
Silwood Park Campus
16-17 July 12:00–02:00
Science Question Time
Science Question Time is an exciting collaboration
between the Biochemical Society, the Campaign for
Science and Engineering (CaSE) and staff at Imperial.
At this third Science Question Time, Philip Campbell,
Editor of Nature, and Clare Matterson, a Director at
the Wellcome Trust, will be joining other esteemed
scientists to discuss ‘impact’. Free but contact
k.weeks@imperial.ac.uk for advance registration.
Lecture Theatre 164, Skempton
05 July 19:00–20:30
That’s around
33 times the
height of the
Queen’s Tower!
This year the Felix
team have produced
enough news to create
a stack of papers
3,000 metres high.
Don’t forget to
recycle your Felix
STEPCHANGE >>> Stamp down your carbon footprint
Physics lectures
in SAF?
Cross-departmental
timetabling could be
introduced by October 2012
The College has announced
an initiative to “implement
a College-wide timetabling
project” that could see
departments sharing
major lecture theatres and
potentially reduce the
need to build new lecture
theatres.
The proposal comes out
of work done by Professor
Robin Leatherbarrow and
his team and would see
a “centralised software
solution” for timetable
management being
implemented across
Imperial.
A separate College Day
Working Group, led by
Professor Griffiths, has
been investigating changes
to the structure of the
College day in past months.
Their latest proposals
would see the lunch break
reduced from two hours, to
one hour.
Professor Griffiths said
that she was aware of the
timetabling project but
rejected that it would affect
“the need to review the
College day.”
Kadhim Shubber
Front Cover by Hamish Muir

