The annual artistic extravaganza returns to draw the
crowds to the Royal Academy for a mixed bag of works
FELIX
20
Poems for the Week
ARTS
Arts Editor: Rox Middleton
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 24 JUNE 2011
To Summer
by William Blake
Over the past three terms, I’ve made a habit of
sitting on the fence when it comes to review-
ing. I’ve never known quite why we don’t in-
clude ratings in the Arts section, but I suspect
it might be due to the fact that it would just be
a constant stream of three star reviews. Hav-
ing said this, I wouldn’t give the RA Summer
Exhibition three stars. Well, at least some bits
of it. Christ, other bits I wouldn’t even care to
deign with attention. This, dear reader, is the
Summer Exhibition dilemma.
I struggle to think of anything, like, any-
thing at all, that changes and renews itself on
a regular basis and yet consistently succeeds
in making the grade as the Summer Exhibition
does. Take its distant cousin, the Summer Ball
– 2010 offered Tinie Tempah, 2011 brought
with it Ian Brown. The decline is so steep that
one could easily be lead into thinking that the
Beatles had reformed just to play in 2009. Any
DPFS could learn a thing or two from the an-
nual exhibition of the work of the students of
the Royal Academy.
Like I said before, the exhibition isn’t wall-
to-wall stunners. Anthony Green’s small crop
of postcard, pastoral scenes appeared to be
painted on the theme of Beryl Cook with a
headache. Surrounded by chocolate boxey
oil paintings, the collection had echoes of
Labrinth grinding out a set in the rain with ev-
erybody else, ironically in retrospect, waiting
for him to play “Let the Sun Shine”. The nature
of the Exhibition is that the vast majority of
pieces are for sale, and despite the fact that I
doubt many semi-blind cave dwellers visit the
exhibition on the hunt for a painting of an old
man and a dog decorating a nude woman in a
field, I suspect someone will buy it. Possibly
along with a copy of Stooshe’s new single, the
tender love ballad ‘Fuck Me.’
Just as one man’s Chase and Status is an-
other man’s Chew Lips, it’s not hard to stroll,
nose aloft, past into the more edgy corners of
the Exhibition and find something to one’s
taste. Early on in the exhibition, one encoun-
ters Keith Tyson’s Deep Impact. A huge piece,
eight metres square, depicting a maelstrom of
swirling, foreboding darkness, topped of with
a name that sounds like a low-grade porn film.
It washes the beholder in a charging anger that
with every glance throws up before unnoticed
details, all contained in a smooth, almost cold
slab. A feat of practical creation as much as
conceptual, the skill in its crafting is belied
as the guide lists it as being made of ‘mixed
media’.
Different rooms are given over to different
curators, each of whom bring unique flavours
to each room. Prints this year have a greater
presence, afforded more walls in the exhibi-
tion and not as crammed as has been the case
in bygone years and water colours are making
an unwelcome resurgence, death by pastel co-
lours is apparently in vogue. Head and shoul-
ders above the rest stands Michael Sandle’s
collection on the horrors of war. The pieces are
displayed with a strange air of memorabilia to
them and mix silent, portentous sculpture with
pieces made of scatty splinters of emotion. Tim
Shaw’s sculpture of a man in flames, running,
stands as a poignant testament to the horrors of
war, with the painful directness that the more
solemn pieces lack.
Until 15th August at the Royal Academy
Have a Ball at the RA’s
Summer Exhibition
Will Prince
Deep Impact: Keith Tyson
“Head and shoulders
above the rest stands
Michael Sandle’s
collection on the horrors
of war”
O thou who passest thro’ our valleys in
Thy strength, curb thy fierce steeds, allay the heat
That flames from their large nostrils! thou, O Sum-
mer,
Oft pitched’st here thy goldent tent, and oft
Beneath our oaks hast slept, while we beheld
With joy thy ruddy limbs and flourishing hair.
Beneath our thickest shades we oft have heard
Thy voice, when noon upon his fervid car
Rode o’er the deep of heaven; beside our springs
Sit down, and in our mossy valleys, on
Some bank beside a river clear, throw thy
Silk draperies off, and rush into the stream:
Our valleys love the Summer in his pride.
Our bards are fam’d who strike the silver wire:
Our youth are bolder than the southern swains:
Our maidens fairer in the sprightly dance:
We lack not songs, nor instruments of joy,
Nor echoes sweet, nor waters clear as heaven,
Nor laurel wreaths against the sultry heat.
Imagine this but 4mx2m. Actually impressive
A Something in a Summer’s day
by Emily Dickinson
A something in a summer’s Day
As slow her flambeaux burn away
Which solemnizes me.
A something in a summer’s noon —
A depth — an Azure — a perfume —
Transcending ecstasy.
And still within a summer’s night
A something so transporting bright
I clap my hands to see —
Then veil my too inspecting face
Lets such a subtle — shimmering grace
Flutter too far for me —
The wizard fingers never rest —
The purple brook within the breast
Still chafes it narrow bed —
Still rears the East her amber Flag —
Guides still the sun along the Crag
His Caravan of Red —
So looking on — the night — the morn
Conclude the wonder gay —
And I meet, coming thro’ the dews
Another summer’s Day!
Have a great Summer.
See you next year!

