FELIX Friday 24 june 2011 21
ARTS
Staring at a pile of Civ Eng textbooks
proved too much for one Imperial stu-
dent today, as Alice Liddell was report-
edly seen wandering around the Queen’s
Lawn talking to flowers. A friend told
Felix that Alice had had “a bit of a Don-
nie Darko moment” earlier in the library
and had since been behaving extremely
irrationally. “She started following me
around earlier,” reported Union Fellow
Tosin Ajayi “I was running really late
and I’d lost my gloves or I would have
stayed to help.”
Alice is believed to have developed
some sort of multiple personality disor-
der and has been seen around campus
apparently talking to her reflection in
various windows and bathroom mirrors.
Some students have theorised that drugs
may be involved having yesterday seen
Alice at a party in Metric acting totally
“off her head”. Medic Robyn Jacobs
denies any link with illegal substances
claiming that Alice, a close friend, was
merely “getting in touch with her inner
child”. Let it be noted however that the
suspicious grin on Robyn’s face might
lead some to believe that this story is
merely a cover for some darker involve-
ment in DJ Dave Beaton’s Metric-based
rave scene. Further comments from
Robyn relating to how Alice “totally
fancies me” cast further doubt on the
FIFA 2001 gave me unrealistic expecta-
tions in life. Never before had I realized
that you could transfer Thierry Henry,
Jimmy Floyd Hasselbaink and Fernan-
do Hierro (to name but a few) to Leeds
United and create a star-studded, world
beating super team. In truth in reality,
you couldn’t, but through the wonders
of modern technology, beautiful things
were possible.
The Young Vic’s new re-working
of the Nicolai Gogol’s Government
Inspector brings to together a cast of
similar traits. Julian Barratt of Mighty
Boosh fame leads the cast that includes
Smack the Pony’s Doon Mackichan and
Fergus Craig, off, err, Star Stories. Ok,
so maybe it’s not quite a Leeds team of
01-02, but the strength of this produc-
tion came in the cast.
The play has been brilliantly reworked,
adding touches that tailor the humour to
an English audience and give little bursts
of the kind of off-beat comedy that both
Mackichan and Barratt are so known
for (and Gogol not so much.) Combin-
ing 1830s Russian with touches of 1940s
horror films, the opening minutes seem
far from the play’s origins, but give the
piece a kookiness that will entertain the
faithful and intrigue the sceptics.
Barratt appears not to play the role of
the Mayor, but rather let Howard Moon
do it, bringing a slightly awkward uneas-
iness to his presence on stage. Combine
this with a wardrobe camp costumes and
the Young Vic’s usual frugal ingenuity in
set construction, and at times, the pro-
duction has slight touches of panto. Pol-
ished is not a word that sprang to mind.
story.
Laurence Pope believes revision
stress is more likely to blame, and has
himself been having a tough time re-
Psycho Alice in post-exam wonderland
DramSoc’s free re-imagining of the intoxicating
tale goes on the rampage on the Queen’s Lawn
Get Doon for Gogol at the Young Vic
Julian Barratt takes the lead in the Russian classic, Government Inspector
Shamini Bundell
Will Prince
...and here’s the Duchess relaxing at home
The Duchess David Beaton relaxes at the Summer Ball...
Keith Pattison
“Despite Barratt’s
big billing,
Mackichan does
steal the show a
little”
But each of the actors themselves,
each member of the cast possessed a star,
winning quality. Their comic air and the
natural humour tended to prevail in the
face of comedy’s historical cornerstone,
delivery. Despite Barratt’s big-billing,
Mackichan does steal the show a little.
Her competition with her own daughter
(played with ample squeakiness by Lou
Brearley) to woo the ‘Government In-
spector’ makes for a rip-roaring display
of comedic crowd-control. The cherry
on the cake comes in the form of Dr.
Gibner, whose infrequent additions in
German provide one of the funniest ele-
ments of the production.
The piece is novel no doubt, but
weighs too much on the shoulders of
Barratt, who in truth lacks the gravity
and presence to carry the piece. I like my
Boosh as much as the next man, but I
fear the Government Inspector preaches
a fable of the TV/theatre divide. Some-
times it’s just best to keep the stars in
the places they shine, in reality it never
works like it does on FIFA.
Young Vic until 9th July
“Alice is described
variously as a short
African medic, a
masters student with
a funky black fringe
and a tall slim girl
with light brown hair”
adjusting to a post-exam lifestyle. His
experiences during the revision period
have led him to smash all clocks and
watches in his room and take up drink-
ing enormous amounts of tea.
Despite a serious commitment to
the meditation society over the past
few weeks, Laurence has found it hard
to move on. “I can’t stop going over
and over the exams in my head, think-
ing about the questions that I couldn’t
answer. Why is a raven like a writing
desk? It’s driving me mad. More tea?”
Alice is described variously as a short
African medic, a masters student with a
funky black fringe and a tall slim girl
with light brown hair. If you do see Al-
ice on the Queen’s Lawn this evening at
6.30pm it is recommended that before
seeking help you hang around for a bit –
apparently watching her go mad can be
pretty funny. However the ICU Deputy
President for Welfare is taking this case
very seriously and would like to speak
to both Alice and anyone else with ex-
am-based mental health issues.
Union Concert Hall. 18:30. Friday
24th June

