FELIX
22
MUSIC
Friday 24 JUNE 2011
Music Editors: Greg Power
Luke Turner
Stephen Smith
music.felix@gmail.com
Album of The Week
This is certainly the best album released so far
this year, and it will probably remain that way un-
less Joanna Newsom sneaks out another before
December. Often sounding very 80s with Peter
Gabriel-esque synths on the opener ‘Perth’ and fa-
miliar pop-rock nuances on ‘Beth/Rest’, the album
combines a huge range of influences in interesting
and varied ways. Remarkably, however, the albums
is completely cohesive and utterly original. This
eponymous second album is streets ahead of his
previous (and excellent) record For Emma, Forever
Ago, which, when listened to after Bon Iver, simply
sounds dull and repetitive. Finding words to de-
scribe the sheer beauty of this album is difficult,
but I wrote a poem to explain how it makes me feel.
Autumn
Autumn breeze frigidly touches ailing dreadful lives
Harshly darkness quietly surrounds the broken
souls
Mellow serenades that once played between hearts
Pathetically have transformed into bitter sad songs.
Somewhere beyond the flossy clouds
Cupid has lost his romancing arrows
Plays sad sonorous tunes on his bow
Dedicated to all weepy lonely hearts.
Howling chilly wind blows through the mist
Sounds of sorrow spread all over the place
Fuzzy humid air submerges the inner lust
Lives decay slowly as the autumn leaves fall.
Harry Rickerby
Make sure not to miss
Arcade Fire
Hyde Park, London
Thursday 30th June 2011
www.livenation.co.uk/arcadefire
This truly promises to be the most epic gig this
summer. Kings of Indiedom Arcade Fire present
a huge, festival-sized performance in Hyde Park,
alongside the fantastic Beirut, in their biggest UK
show ever. You’ll be sure to hear songs from their
recent third album The Suburbs, as well as fan fa-
vourites from the fantastic Funeral. On the down-
side, you’ll have to bring earplugs since you’ll need
to put up with support from faux-folk yawn-inducers
Mumford & Sons, as well as awful punk-revivalists
The Vaccines, but you can take that opportunity to
get dinner. The best part of the evening, however,
comes right at the beginning when brilliant Cana-
dian violinist Owen Pallett (formerly Final Fantasy)
plays his half-hour set. Make sure you buy your
tickets quickly, because this promises to be the
biggest gig for many many months. Stephen Smith
With ukelele workshops, a pop-up planetarium and The Go! Team in attend-
ance, Stephen Smith can’t wait for this year’s astro-themed Deer Shed festival
Glorious Glastonbury
dy corner somewhere.
Glastonbury is totally unique amongst festi-
vals, a throwback to the ‘60s and ‘70s when
the events were about more than the music and
instead became a cultural force in their own
right. Glasto has retained at least of that spirit,
despite its vast security fence and slick corpo-
rate PR, making it the only major festival in
the country where you stand a greater risk of
making a fool of yourself country dancing with
the Wurzels than you do of being compelled
to listen to the latest round of identikit beige
popsters while being force-fed Virgin cola.
For all the tabloid headlines, you can tell your
Mum it’s safer than London – you might get
mugged for your ice cream by a man dressed
as a seagull, but your stuff’s pretty much sac-
rosanct – so long as it’s waterproof. No mat-
ter how gloriously sunny the Spring may have
been, one thing you can rely upon is that it will
rain for Glastonbury, and the weather gods will
pour their wrath upon the uncaring hordes and
turn the valley into a scale model of the Som-
me. We won’t care. I’ll see you at the front.
W
riting about music quickly
makes you cynical about
dull and repetitive festivals
all over the country, all
playing boring music and
all with the same sex, drugs and rock ‘n’ roll
attitude. But occasionally there comes along a
festival so perfectly concieved that you can’t
quite believe that it’s real. The Deer Shed Fes-
tival is a perfect example.
This year’s festival is headlined by superb
alt-rock outfit I Am Kloot, whose recent al-
bum The Sky At Night gives rise to this year’s
festival theme: astronomy. On Saturday night,
a group of professional astronomers will lead
festival-goers on a star-gazing trip, with tele-
scopes and binoculars provided of course.
When not staring at the stars, you will be
asked to make a small plasticine alien to place
on the papier-mache moonscape for an epic
stop-motion film, and once you’ve done that
you’ll be able to make an alien mask out of
milk bottles. And all this while bouncing
around the fields on a free space hopper.
Friday night sees an unnamed Russian cos-
monaut hosting an evening of comedy and
cabaret, and afterwards, he’ll be helping to
send a mysterious object space-bound.
If all the astronomy gets too much, you can
always retreat into the wonderful music on
offer, including the fantastic Go! Team, the
beautiful Leisure Society and the always fas-
cinating Erland and the Carnival. Deer Shed
really is a science student’s dream.
Sadly, Brian won’t be able to make it to this year’s Deer Shed Festival, but don’t
worry, there will be plenty of real physicists and astronomers there, and Colin Firth
As the UK’s most famous festival gets underway, Duncan Casey tells us
what awaits the lucky few with tickets
Bon Iver
Bon Iver
4AD
2011
This year’s Glasto line-up is sufficient to send
a tingle up the spine of even the most jaded
festival veteran. Somerset’s annual ‘festival of
music and contemporary performing arts’, to
give it it’s full title, will roll out in a scant five
weeks’ time with its usual blend of anarchy,
bass notes and bemused-looking cattle. This
year, U2 are finally going to chance their arms
on a headline slot alongside an eclectic bill
stretching from Paul Simon to Pendulum to
the Wu-Tang Clan, supported by a thousand
or so other acts to an audience of approaching
a quarter of a million souls.
On the downside, your ticket also means
you’re stuck with indie bed-wetters Cold-
play and a surgically-enhanced dancer by the
name of Beyoncé Knowles. Still, the joy of
Glastonbury’s epic size and scale mean that
there are large parts of the festival that will be
free of such frippery, and the crowds of tee-
ny-boppers rushing towards the commercial
tat will leave you free to explore the Healing
Fields and Stone Circle, rock out all night in
the sci-fi weirdness of Shangri-La or simply
drink too much pear cider and slump in a mud-
Dates: 22nd - 26th June 2011
Location: Glastonbury, Somerset
Price: £200
Website: glastonburyfestivals.co.uk
Astronomy and plasticine
Dates: 22nd - 24th July 2011
Location: Topcliffe, North Yorkshire
Price: £59
Website: www.deershedfestival.com
Glastonbury: Mud, hippies and Colin Firth

