24 FELIX
Friday 24 JUNE 2011
Music Editors: Greg Power
Luke Turner
Stephen Smith
music.felix@gmail.com
MUSIC
1979 holds the key to the farthest reach-
es of musical conception. That year,
Nurse With Wound released their de-
but album Chance Meeting on a Dis-
secting Table of a Sewing Machine and
an Umbrella. Their music is the aural
equivalent to the paintings of Salvador
Dalí, stretching the mind and question-
ing reality. The surrealistic instrumenta-
tion and Dadaist approach are an amal-
gam of some of the strangest music of
modern times. Tucked into the vinyl
gatefold, the revered NWW List payed
homage to their influences and bore the
wonder for others to discover.
From Henri Chopin to Karlheinz
Stockhausen, through the Velvet Un-
derground and into Tangerine Dream,
the list spans and pulls together the most
unlikely of artists. Dabbling in psyche-
delics and staggering with no-wave
drawl, rolling the rocks in one ear and
out the other.
The list pays its respects to a horde of
homegrown freethinkers and experimen-
talists such as industrial outfit Throb-
bing Gristle and freakfolk gem Comus.
Among other London-based groups ap-
pear AMM, pioneers of free-improvi-
sation, whose founding member Eddie
Prévost can be found on Sunday nights
holding improvisation workshops in the
basement of a chapel in Borough.
One of the most influential bands on
the list is Essex-based anarcho-punks
Crass, who cemented the conscientious
and passionate cornerstones of the punk
mind, burning in the grasp of Thatcher-
ism. Taking up camp in the Dial House
commune in the Essex countryside, they
nurtured a creative environment for free
expression, which still exists today and
is documented in the film There is No
Authority but Yourself.
Strongly represented is the psychedel-
ic krautrock movement which sprouted
in Germany at the end of the 60’s in
response to the summer of love. Not-
ing the seminal meanderings of Can,
commune jam band Amon Düül and of
course one of the biggest influences on
modern electronic music, Kraftwerk.
John Cage makes an appearance as
well as Greek architect-turned-compos-
er Iannis Xenakis, who used the math-
ematics of chance and architecture in
many of his works.Avant garde guitarist
Fred Frith is also mentioned alongside
Frank Zappa’s Mothers of Invention.
The list is a colourful display of origi-
nality and with bands such as The Deep
Freeze Mice or Lemon Kittens, some-
times it’s worth reading for the names
alone. For the curious ear, it is a mere
chip of the cookie and a musical map
towards deeper horizons.
Music to make you question reality
Is it me or is this the greatest album cover ever? Just me? Shit
D
ear Friend: it would
appear that we are ap-
proaching the end.
We’ve had some laughs,
we’ve shed some tears. I
think overall we had a pretty damn good
time, wouldn’t you say?
I’ve very much enjoyed being one
of the Music Editors for Felix this
year. It’s one of those things that got
me through the tougher times of life at
Imperial. Being a student at one of the
UK’s leading institutions is rewarding
more often than not, but let’s just say
there’s a dark and demanding side too.
And you don’t want that stuff to bring
you down. This is why it is so impor-
tant to have extracurricular funtimes
to latch onto, balancing out the good
and the bad vibes: the yin and the yang
of the student struggle, if you will.
Perhaps this sort of activity is even
more important in a place like Impe-
rial, where I am convinced people at
times believe there is nothing more to
the student than his/her subject matter.
This makes me sad.
I remember Fresher’s Week like it
was yesterday. Okay, not really. But
anyway I remember arriving at Imperi-
al and people guaranteeing that I would
be bored of the Union by the end of the
first term. The naysayers had a point:
it was nice to get out of the Imperial
bubble and explore all the wonders
London has to offer, be it musical or
otherwise. I’ve had the opportunity to
see most of my favourite bands of all
time during my time at Imperial (here’s
to you Mars Volta, Nine Inch Nails,
Health, Dillinger Escape Plan and
Flight of the Conchords to name but
a few of you fucking legends) leaving
me with many fond memories of un-
forgettable performances, shared with
my best friends. I’ve also discovered so
much great new music just by staying
open and receptive to all opportunities
of seeing and hearing brilliant up-and-
comers with bright futures ahead of
them (I love you Factory Floor).
I guess I’ve always had - and need-
ed - music. I’m grateful that I found
so many other people who think the
same way despite the pressures of Im-
perial. Even though we might not be
renowned for our talent for Arts here
at ol’ Gimperial, some of the most tal-
ented musicians I have met in my life
walk amongst us nerds incognito. If
you’ve ever seen Will Jones shred on
the guitar or Aaron Berk punishing the
drums, then you’ll know exactly what
I’m talking about. Jazz & Rock Soc is
a haven for Imperial musicians, and I
tip my tophat to the gents that run that
beautifully-oiled machine. Long live
J&R. I also want to take this opportu-
nity to publicize that Nick Read is an
all-around badass.
I am also forever indebted to the Sex-
iest Editor Alive (not an actual award,
Kensington Gore, styling back in ‘08, when the world was a simpler place
Famous last words
Gregory Power wishes you a fond farewell
though it totally should be): Kadhim
Motherhugging Shubber. Not only
for letting me spread my dribble on
these pages, tainting the holy institution
that is Felix, but also for believing in
my ridiculous plans. Seriously, I spent
a lot of time at the Union complaining
about the quality of the acts. And most
of the time under the influence of beer
and whiskey. So when I set out to throw
together a “punk”, cheap-as-chips DIY
music night at Imperial, only a madman
would have actually backed my fanta-
sies with cold hard cash. Luckily my
good friend Kadhim is a poet, which is
close enough to mad for me, and so my
dream of a united Imperial music scene
materialised not once – but twice.
Through these activities I met a
whole new cast of awesome peeps from
Music Tech. First and foremost, my
homeboy Iñigo Martinez de Rituerto,
who introduced me to a load of talented
electronic maestros. David Trevelyan
(Phrij), Will Berg (Niceberg), Adam
Chainz and the rest of y’all - you rock
my world. Long after I’m done at Impe-
rial I’ll still be looking for new material
by these guys, along with soon-to-be
BBC Sound of 2012 winners Monsk,
Vetoes and The Tin Can 44s. I’m kid-
ding of course, I would never wish that
sort of horror upon them. I know that
they will however move onto bigger
and greater things.
As for the Union itself, looking back I
now realize I may have been a bit harsh
in my inebriated judgement: the Stop
That Urban Noise nights were actually
kind of awesome: great line-ups, (Rus-
ko, Chase & Status) plagued by Impe-
rial’s general apathy and poor turnouts.
I applaud Malcolm Macpherson and
Ravi Pall for this, as well as for some
great Summer Ball performances - es-
pecially that insane Scratch Perverts
set last year.
One last shout-out and then I’ll get
out of your hair and become just another
nameless face you might or might not
remember ten years from now. Selec-
tive memory is funny like that. I want to
thank the boys from Kensington Gore
(get low, bitches) and Operation Mid-
night Complex (or A Badger Cadaver,
Malarky, T Minus, and whatever we’re
called next year): you guys are seriously
bad mofos.
And so my job here is done. I’m
pleased to hand over the music section
to Stephen and Iñigo. They’re more
than qualified for the role and I’m sure
they’ll do an awesome job.
In retrospect, Imperial isn’t half as
bad as people initially made it out to be.
There’s good people, good parties and
damn good music. If you have any in-
terest in music (and I don’t trust anyone
who says they don’t) then I urge you to
get involved.As a performer, as a fan, as
a Felix contributor; whatever floats your
boat. Just keep on rocking, baby.
Iñigo Martinez de Rituerto de Troya walks you through the influences of the weirdest band ever

