FELIX Friday 24 june 2011 25
FOOD
Food Editors: Dana Li
Vicky Jeyaprakash
food.felix@imperial.ac.uk
So hungry I could eat a horse
D
rinking, Dancing and
Dining is the motto of
this place - a place where
you can drop in after a
walk at Covent Garden
market and have a tasty and relatively
cheap Mexican meal. There are fantas-
tically named cocktails, like “Orgasm
please!” and “Blow work”, and tunes
blasting from 11pm until 3am.
This is a place to have a drink to get
some rest after the endless hours of re-
vision or just celebrate the end of ex-
ams. During the ‘Happy Hours’ there
are offers for house spirits from £2.95,
selected cocktail jugs from £9.95 and
Hunger has taken me to many weird
places – Zone 6, meat free foods and
even Ginster’s pasties. What I have
not done is eat a donkey’s cock as Paul
Merton almost did on his documentary
series about China. But if I were really
hungry, would I?
Having ridden horses for a while, in-
cluding a few stallions, I am confident
that the equine penis is pretty impos-
sible to avoid noticing. Despite the don-
key’s reputation for pork swordsman-
ship, equine vets inform me that that it
is trumped by the tackle of your aver-
age Grand National winner. I cannot
say that that particular factoid makes
me any keener to go near either geni-
tal, let alone imbibe one should it rock
up on my dinner plate—however much
protein it might provide. But what about
the rest of the horse?
It is well known, if not well docu-
mented, that the number of Exmoor po-
nies in South Devon was considerably
smaller after WWII than before it. As
every GCSE history student knows, ra-
tioning hit every food source hard, with
meat as no exception. But people were
still hungry and wanted to eat. And
there is a lot of meat on a horse. Even
a modestly-sized but properly-fed Ex-
moor pony will net over 100kg of meat.
As a large steak weighs about 0·5kg, this
represents a considerable supply of the
red stuff. My father’s family are from
North Devon and so in order to sur-
vive the war healthily they probably ate
horsemeat. Even despite that, I am not
that keen. Sitting in a nice warm office
writing this, with a freezer of venison,
duck, beef, chicken and fish at home I
am not much being tested though.
However there is an intellectual line
R
eviews. I hate writing re-
views for places that I’ve
eaten ‘on the house’.
There’s something about
dining for free, and the
awkward moment when you don’t
call for the bill. Do you just thank
the waiter and bid him “Adieu!”? And
when the restaurant gets my review
in the post, I always wonder whether
they admire and put it amongst their
other shiny reviews; or do they put
your name in the black book if you
foulmouthed the taste of their tap
water; or do they simply throw it in
the trash. The latter does seem far
more likely. (Especially when they
see the last sentence isn’t even fin-
ished with a full stop.)
I’m not a fan of artistic blobs on
the plate to emulate fine dining. Just
because three meagre drops of red
berry jus are served on the side of a
melon starter does not make it look
or taste any better. It’s still 99p Galia
melon.
I am a savoury person. Allow des-
serts,sugar and sweets. It’s a matter
of variety more than anything: think
of the wonderful world of cheese,
the oh-so-tasty steaks, the freshly
baked pastries and breads; pasta,
fish ’n’ chips, fried artichokes! Al-
though, saying that, I don’t settle for
anything less than a Pierre Hermé
macaron. Paul, Ladurée, nada. Mak-
ing these almond delights at home
have always resulted in baking pa-
per studded with sticky, sugar blobs,
so I ask, why waste time when I can
taste perfection from the artisan of
Le Macaron himself. People who
think Ladurée is some kind of luxu-
ry… man, are you oblivious. (And it’s
not two “o”s, but one. If you were
a true macaronolic, you would know
the difference.)
I can’t cook as well as people
would expect. I am a self-confessed
foodie, which means I have an affin-
ity to good food. It doesn’t mean I
can cook (well). What were restau-
rants made for, eh?
And yes you hate me because I’m
the person that makes you wait until
the food goes cold, whilst I take a
gazillion photos on my dSLR. And?
And finally, being food editor this
year, boy was that hard. Having free
meals to distribute, being sent a
cookery book here and there, may-
be just get a free ticket occasion-
ally. But no, seriously, with students’
meal habits ranging from a baguette
from The Sandwich Shop to a meal
in Heston Blumenthal’s ‘Dinner’ -
the middle ground sure is No Man’s
Land. Adieu!
Confessions of
a Food Editor
bottles of wine at 20% off. Food is also
provided with reasonable prices and of-
fers are available most of the times.
Los Locos is one of the best venues in
the area for seasonal and special occa-
sions, for example Hen parties and Stag
nights, private hire, great meal deals and
party menus. The atmosphere cheers
you up, especially if you like the Club
and Party Classics that are being played
a lot. If you visit the place on Tuesday
or Wednsday you’ll find yourself in a
‘Wicked Student Night’ with student
drinks deals all night, but there’s also
free entry for girls on Thursday.
The bar is open Tuesday–Saturday,
By Dana Li
that I make. Horses are working ani-
mals. I do not use them as such, but I
do not use cats or dogs in their work-
ing capacity either: and neither do I eat
them And it is clear that those animals
are not stock animals anywhere in the
western world. What is equally clear
is that cows, chickens and duck are not
working animals anywhere in the west-
ern world either. They are stock animals
that are bred (or shot) for meat. At no
point are they working animals. This
makes a nice distinction between the
two types – animals bred and reared for
meat, and animals that are not.
flickr/publicenergy
Samuel Furse
But there was one I could not put
in the list – pigs. Although they are not
thought of as working animals, ethically
I know they are not only used as stock
animals in western Europe so I could
not put them in the list above. One rea-
son is that they are used to find truffles
on the continent. More recently, heart
valves from pigs have been used to treat
heart disease in humans. If you had had
a replacement heart valve from a pig,
would you feel the same about eating
a Cumberland sausage afterwards? It
might be a bit close to the bone for me.
So unless I make a subtle and rather
lame extension to the differentiation
between the sort of meat I do and do
not eat, that means it is alright for me
to eat pigs (or not), I am cut off from
any sort of moral imperative behind my
choice of foodstuff. I now wonder why
I or anyone else makes a distinction be-
tween which meats to eat and which not
on intellectual or moral grounds at all.
What could that possibly achieve? All it
does it lend a certain lofty high ground
to a combination of personal prefer-
ence, practicality, dated hygiene con-
siderations and availability. And what
is wrong with those as reasons anyway?
Ai Chihuahua!
Anastasia Eleftheriou pays a visit to Los Locos
5pm–3am, and the restaurant is open
Tuesday–Saturday, 5–11pm. The club
nights are Tuesday–Saturday, 11pm–3am.
Los Locos 24 - 26 Russell street,
Covent Garden, WC2B 5HF. www.los-
locos.co.uk

