FELIX
26
GAMES
Games Editor: Simon Worthington
games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 24 june 2011
W
hat if all the world’s not
a stage, but a game? The
men and women would
still be players, but of a
very different kind. And
scientists would be the biggest gamers of all.
When it comes to comparing gamers to sci-
entists, the case is a compelling one. To do
well in a game, the player must test out how
the game works using the tools at their dis-
posal. There’s no way to win in a game world
if you don’t understand its rules (Tekken, per-
haps, aside). “What works and what doesn’t?
Is gravity the same as in real life? How much
damage does an alien take before it bleeds
out?” A scientist has to deal with a much more
expansive set of rules and environments, but
their fundamental goal is the same: to under-
stand how the world works, and then, poten-
tially, exploit it for benefit.
As children, we play to learn the rules of the
world. “What happens if I jump off this step?
Do worms taste good? How long can I badger
my mum for a biscuit until she gives me one or
yells at me?” This is a simple form of experi-
mentation, and our emerging view of reality is
shaped by the results we get.
An extra level of sophistication can be added
to turn play into a game: a system of rules.
Hide and seek would be a fairly pointless exer-
cise if no-one was seeking. Games have been
around for millennia, and their rules range in
detail enormously. Past a threshold of com-
plexity, a game can offer space for a player to
be engaged, to experiment and to learn, both
about the game but potentially also about the
world. The board game Risk can teach basic
geography, statistics and backstabbing skills;
the flash game Kitten Cannon is all about
vectors and momentum. Plus - it almost goes
without saying - games are more fun than the
classroom.
As in game design, there are different ap-
proaches taken by the architects of a scien-
tific investigation. Some define their research
tightly, aiming for specific, applied outcomes
– like breaking down a building to knock out
a pig in Angry Birds. Other scientists take a
more open-ended, basic approach, following
interesting leads as they pop up – more like the
shaping of a species in Spore.
Then there’s the metagame. Scientists can’t
just buy a lab off the shelf, stick it in a slot in
their house and start doing science. They go
through years of being newbies, rarely entrust-
ed with difficult quests, shepherded by veteran
gamers who coax them along with the promise
of experience points but take the publication
gold. As they go up through the levels of ter-
tiary education, they start to build their own
team, their own stores of gold and items with
which they can tackle bigger and harder prob-
lems. If they solve something tough, they gain
esteem in their peer community.
Let’s be realistic, though. In science, the
rewards can be fewer and less intense than
games. That’s because games are designed to
captivate and entertain right from the start.
Sure, there might be hours of side games to get
coins or XP or the knack of the special move,
but at least there’s still nice noises and colours
to keep the brain occupied. Staring at Excel
spreadsheets just doesn’t have the same zing.
Not only that, but if you complete a track on
Guitar Hero on hard, you don’t need to write
it up in 3000 words only to have three or more
stern peers criticise your performance before
deciding not to accept it, two months later.
Science games, like protein-folding challenge
Foldit, seek to tap into the fun of playing a
game, but are actually collecting real data and
developing real scientific skills.
So, next time you walk into the lab, try su-
perimposing your favourite game world over
it. It takes imagination, but it’ll spice up your
day. Just don’t call your supervisor Illidan
Stormrage to his face, or accuse her of being
Medusa and avoid her gaze. And if you change
your computer’s settings to give you the Ma-
rio powerup noise every time you enter a cell
of data, you’ll be a lot happier. After all, your
job is to play the biggest and most immersive
game in the world!
Love video games? Then
you’re a perfect scientist
David Robertson explains how gamers explore and learn just like scientists
Web Games
Each week we’re going to bring you a selection of
fresh, free and fun web games that you can play right
away in your browser. Unless otherwise specified,
you’re going to need the Adobe Flash Player plug-in
which can be installed from http://get.adobe.com/
flashplayer/.
Burrito Bison
notdoppler.com/burritobison.php
This charming ‘catapult-plus’ game features our
titular character trapped in Candyland, home of the
gummy bears, trying to escape his captors by bounc-
ing, gliding and pogo-ing his way to freedom. The aim
is simple: bounce on as many gummies as possible,
eventually blasting through the exit doors and out
into the real world.
Although the repetitive launches get a bit tiresome
later on, things are kept fresh by plenty of ‘special
power’ gummies and upgrades. There’s a genuine
challenge in breaking through each zone’s door, and
a sense of satisfaction when it’s done for the first
time. Visuals are a real treat: the characters and en-
vironments look rich and colourful, and it’s obvious
there’s been plenty of attention to detail.
...then Tekken must be like data entry: pointless, boring and a lot of button-mashing
So if Braid’s time travel is the rocket science or brain surgery of the gaming world...
Angry Birds
chrome.angrybirds.com
I played it once. Just once, on a friend’s phone, but
I was hooked. But then I was stuck - I didn’t own a
smartphone. So, naturally, I had to buy a new Sam-
sung Nebula S or something just so I could play it!
Do you know what I found out when I got home? The
motherfriggers had gone and released a browser ver-
sion. As long as I had an up-to-date copy of Chrome
or Firefox, I could play it in my browser. What am I
supposed to do with my useless Galaxy S II now,
huh? Hot damn.

