FELIX Friday 24 june 2011 27
GAMES
The internet and games. They were al-
ways going to go hand-in-hand, and I’m
sure the gaming industry would look
very different today if not for the advent
of personal broadband. Of course, there
are the obvious benefits such as online
multiplayer and downloadable content,
but there are also slightly more subtle
ways the internet has changed the indus-
try. Things that are not so immediately
apparent.
But, however known to everyone
they may be, it would be wrong not to
talk about those internet-enabled ele-
ments that have the most impact. Online
multiplayer is huge. Whether you like
to run around killing people in Call of
Duty or quest with friends in World of
Warcraft, it’s almost certainly going to
be online. There are many, many games
out there which are far more fun to play
with people you know, and the internet
makes that far easier. It removes the
barriers of you and your friends hav-
ing to be in the same place on the same
network – hugely reducing the hassle
of playing together. For most people it
also probably increases the number of
friends they can play with on a regular
basis, with location no longer an issue.
A good thing then, certainly.
Then there’s downloadable content.
There are possibly mixed opinions on
this one. Some may see it as a nice way
for developers to provide more content
for your game, while others might think
it’s a way to pay more for the content
that would have been included in days
gone by. Indeed, there was general out-
rage when 2K Games released a down-
loadable expansion for Bioshock 2, and
it was proved that the content was al-
ready on the disc.
Also, sometimes the prices are (or at
least seem) ridiculous. For example, the
Call of Duty: Black Ops map packs re-
tail for £11.49 each – just under a third
of what you pay for the game in the first
place, and only for five additional maps!
But at the other end of the spectrum,
where the prices are lower, you may
still end up paying more. It’s a classic
technique – consumers are less likely to
bother to keep track of micro-payments,
and hence will actually spend more of
their cash. Let’s look at buying addi-
tional songs in Rock Band/Guitar Hero
as an example. A single song download
will knock you back around £1.50. It
doesn’t seem much at first glance, but it
will soon rack up. Without this however,
you’d have to rely on the developer re-
leasing a disc with extra songs on – pre-
chosen and at a specific price. At least
with downloads you get the choice.
Patches are in a similar vein. It’s al-
most impossible for a developer to re-
lease an entirely bug-free game. Even
though games studios pour hours upon
hours into testing, quality assurance and
fixes, it is as Josh Olin of Treyarch said:
“If you look at the population size of
the Call of Duty franchise, just a single
hour of gameplay collectively after the
game’s been out - you add up all the
man-hours that all the fans put into it -
that’s more time than you could put into
Quality Assurance in a lifetime.” So –
even for an offline game – the internet
makes it very simple for games devel-
opers to distribute patches for inevitable
issues. On the flip-side however, it could
be said that this makes said developers
lazier. Armed with the knowledge that
fixes for any arising problems can easily
be provided to the users, it’s certainly
conceivable that games could be pushed
out sooner with less testing. It would
probably save the developers money
if the early adopters become testers of
sorts, but it’s something we definitely
don’t want to see.
However, there are ways when early
adopters being testers can be very bene-
ficial, and that’s for indie games. Games
like Minecraft get a lot out of those peo-
ple who buy early versions of the game.
Those who are playing it in such early
stages are likely to want to help out with
aiding development, so they’ll submit
any bugs they find. On top of that, the
testing is free(!) but it is probably go-
ing to be more sporadic than proper
user testing. Also, without the internet,
games like Minecraft wouldn’t even be
on the map. Indie games wouldn’t be
able to create any sort of presence with-
out driving forces such as social media.
So what else has the internet changed
about the gaming industry? In the same
way that the internet has changed al-
most everything, it is so much easier
to find information about games. In
many cases, there is a plethora of in-
formation available about a title even
before it is out. Take Super Smash
Bros. Brawl as an example: before its
release you could find out every char-
acter, stage and item. On top of that,
every gamer has a dozen different re-
views for a game at his or her disposal
at the click of a button. Long gone are
the days when you need to buy a gam-
ing magazine to find out about upcom-
ing games, or just guess as to whether
or not a game will be good. Nor do we
need to ring a premium rate number or
buy a guide to complete a game, with
online walkthroughs available for al-
most every game.
Those gaming magazines also used
to give access to new games via demo
discs. For a few years, due to rising
costs and lack of demand, demo discs
went into decline. However, thanks to
the ease of distribution thanks to the
internet, there are many more demos
being produced today. These are main-
ly on the consoles though, with the
manufacturers offering a fairly easy
way for developers to push out their
games.
What PC gamers sometimes do,
though, is adopt a bit of a try-before-
you-buy mentality. Some gamers will
illegally download a copy of the game
first to try it out and see if they like it.
Of course, this ties into the big problem
of pirating games in general, but it’s
an interesting use-case of sorts. Other
people sometimes illegally download
games for emulators of their favourite
consoles. This though is usually not for
current generation consoles, as emula-
tors are inherently inefficient.
There are many more ways that the
internet has altered the gaming sector,
more than it is possible to detail in this
article. For example, services like Steam
for digital content distribution, the rise
of global leaderboards and rankings,
and the possibilities of game-streaming
services such as OnLive. Nevertheless,
I think it’s safe to say the internet has
definitely affected the gaming industry,
and mostly in positive ways. And I’m
sure it will continue to do so for the
foreseeable future.
HOW HAS
THE INTERNET
CHANGED THE
GAMES INDUSTRY?
Chris Bowers
Oblivion’s useless ‘horse armour’ is widely regarded as the ‘worst downloadeable content of all time’
“Indie games
wouldn’t be able to
create any sort of
presence without
driving forces such
as social media”
“

