4 FELIX
NEWS
Friday 24 june 2011
FEATURE
If you think the grass might be
greener on the other side of the
pond, here’s what you need to know
to apply for a PhD at US universities.
Generally, graduate studies in the
United States take five years. This
seems like a long time compared
to the three years of a PhD in the
UK. However, the first year of the US
PhD is equivalent to the one year
Masters of Science courses in the
UK, which means that the effective
time you spend doing PhD research
is only a year longer than its UK
counterpart. If you are considering
an academic career this extra year
might give you a crucial advantage
when competing for postdoc posi-
tions. As a PhD student you often
have the most productive phase in
your third and fourth years.
During your first year of graduate
studies you will do a Masters de-
gree. Hence it is most convenient to
continue in the US after your three
year BSc course at Imperial College.
However, a Masters in your pocket
will not weigh you down. While you
still have to take the so called quali-
fying examinations for the US Mas-
ters, the courses will often be very
similar to the ones you have already
done and you won’t need to do them
again, which leaves time for re-
search in your first year. If there is a
considerable overlap, you might be
able to do the qualifying exams at
the beginning of your graduate stud-
ies and obtain the US masters af-
ter a few weeks in graduate school.
Some universities even offer an ini-
tial ‘free shot’ at these exams.
So how do you get in? There is no
central application system like UCAS
and there are typically no interviews,
which might be a relief for some of
you given the track record of the av-
erage Imperial Student at Oxbridge
interviews. An application to US uni-
versities has three components: a
statement of purpose, GRE exams
and letters of recommendation.
The statement of purpose is much
like your personal statement, where
you elaborate on your motivations,
experience and research interests.
The GRE exams are like the SATs for
News Editors: Matt Colvin
Alex Karapetian
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
The American Dream
Graduate studies in the USA
graduate students and are divided
into a general GRE and a subject
GRE. The general GRE consists of
three sections that test your verbal,
quantitative and writing skills. To
see which scores will get you into
which grad school you can check
the university website and the www.
gradcafe.com. You can book the
exam up to two weeks before you
plan to take it. You can even resit
the exam, but be aware that the
score report will show all your at-
tempts. For PhDs where the subject
GRE is a prerequisite, it is a crucial
component of your application. It
tests the knowledge of your subject
at undergraduate level with 60-100
multiple choice questions that you
have to answer in almost 3 hours.
Note that you should start prepara-
tion at the end of the summer be-
tween second and third year (third
and fourth year for MSci students),
because you can sit the exam at
only one date in November. It is dif-
ficult to prepare properly during the
first term. Letters of recommenda-
tion are very important and should
be written by someone who knows
you very well and ideally who is also
known by many other researchers in
your favourite field of research.
Funding is often a deal breaker for
most students considering a PhD
in the US. Don’t be discouraged.
Firstly, admission officers know that
students are financially challenged
and often enter graduate school with
a considerable debt. For the record,
US undergraduates pay between
$30,000 and $50,000 annually
throughout their 4-year Bachelor. You
will be surprised to find that univer-
sities compete for you with lucrative
scholarships. The financial package
attached to your offer of admission
will obviously be greater the stron-
ger your application is. This often
covers your tuition fees for the first
year (roughly $35,000) and you can
always do a Teaching Assistantship
(TA), where you work between 5 and
20 hours a week for 9 months and
earn a salary of $18,000. During
the remaining years you will attend
few classes and hence will only pay
a small tuition fee. Additionally, you
will have the opportunity to work as
a ‘graduate research assistant’. This
means you can assist your supervi-
sor and do research contributing
to your PhD for an annual salary of
$19,000. Hence you are in the bliss-
ful situation where you get paid for
research that you would do anyway.
It’s almost too good to be true.
Tom Neiser
Registration chaos for
Business School courses
The registration system for optional
course modules in Business In Science,
Engineering & Technology (BEST) was
hit with problems on Monday. The De-
partmental Student System (DSS) used
for registering optional modules in
courses across college was swamped
with connection requests as students
logged on to pick their chosen modules
in the morning.
The registration system is handled on
a first come first served basis and reg-
istration was due to open at 9:00am on
Monday morning. Since a substantial
number of connection requests were
made by students trying to use the
system concurrently, it appeared to be
down as the connections were slowly
handled. One student from the Depart-
ment of Computing complained that
by the time they gained access to view
the system at 9:10am, all courses with
the exception of two were already full,
with one option from the previous year
shown in error.
Students complained of the system’s
faults especially at such a critical time
as registration and many were left
without their preferred options. Tony
Field, reader in Performance Engineer-
ing at the Department of Computing,
commented in an email that the system
in place was “a new piece of software”
and that “we can safely conclude it
doesn’t work”, noting the lessons to be
learnt regarding testing quality of ser-
vice, performance and other require-
ments in forward-facing systems for
students and staff alike.
Questions have been raised as to
whether the problems ought to have
been prevented due to its foreseeable
nature and how these issues will be
addressed. A number of students have
also complained about the timing of the
opening of registration. Exams are still
ongoing across campus, and a 9:00am
opening time may not be optimal. Stu-
dents also may not know their timeta-
bles for the coming year and may end
up dropping options they register for
due to clashes with compulsory mod-
ules. In addition, third year students,
notably in the Department of Comput-
ing, are on industrial placements and
are unable to check the system until a
designated break.
The issue of each student having an
equal opportunity to take these courses
has been raised, and Undergraduate
Programmes Manager Edina Hamzic-
Maguire commented that the faculty
are “aware that the system is not per-
fect and [they] are reviewing it.” Co-
lin Love, Director of Undergraduate
Studies explained to Felix that they
“teach some 2200 students a year on
BEST courses and demand for places
outstrips supply by three times on av-
erage.”
Derryck Stewart of the Department
of Physics apologised to their under-
graduates and explained that “some
places on some courses have now been
reserved for Physics students”, raising
more questions regarding equal oppor-
tunities. Hamzic-Maguire went on to
mention that “some departments have
integrated these modules into their pro-
grammes and those have had a chance
to pre book spaces.”
Colin Love explained that “the DSS
“There’s no central
application system
like UCAS”
system [they] are using this year is not
owned by the Business School so the
website capabilities are out of [their]
control” and continued to mention that
he understands “the first come first
served allocation of places is not per-
fect but in the absence of a better sys-
tem [they] made no changes this year.”
Regarding reserved places, he said
that “departments were contacted in
May and invited to hold some places
for their students” and that the alloca-
tion “is earmarked for particular cours-
es but not for individual students.” He
explained “where actual demand from
a department exceeds the reserved
places their students have to compete
for places alongside everyone else.”
Addressing the earlier complaint of
the options not all being available in
the morning, he said “the system crash
caused this also as the production team
could not log in to activate all the op-
tions”.
“We have done whatever we could
in the run up to today to liaise with
departments and ensure most students
have a fair chance of registering on
these extremely popular courses”. By
10:00am on Monday over 60% of the
BEST course places had been allocat-
ed. The Business School online page
linking to DSS noted that the technical
difficulties were resolved at 9:40am.
“We are delighted to say that by mid-
day on Monday all 2200 places were
allocated and we look forward to wel-
coming those students to BEST classes
from October.”
Alex Karapetian
The Union has publicly condemned the
behavior of large academic journal pub-
lishing companies, claiming that their
services are detrimental not only to Im-
perial, but to the Higher Education sec-
tor in general.
Currently, about 50% of Imperial Col-
lege Library’s budget is spent on jour-
nals, which are either provided on an in-
dividual basis or as part of a larger deal
through a publishing company, which
instead allows staff and students access
to thousands of academic references.
At the most recent Union Council
Union supports journal subscriptions campaign
meeting, which took place on the 13th
June, a policy was passed outlining the
Union’s dissatisfaction against pub-
lishing companies, with specific refer-
ence and heavy criticism made towards
the journal pricing of Elsevier and Wi-
ley-Blackwell.
In a note brought to the Council
meeting by Deputy President (Educa-
tion) Alex Dahinten, mention is made
of publishing companies being “aware
of the need for their product, which is
reflected in the pricing,” moving on to
explain that subscription prices rise by
about 6% per year.
Dahinten argued that over-priced
journal subscriptions are compromis-
ing the Library’s ability to provide a
service to academics and students at
Imperial.
Director of Library Services Deborah
Shorley is supportive of the Union’s
position on the matter, remarking that
the Library is “very grateful to [the
Union] for its support.”
“We are determined to do all we can
to safeguard access to the information
resources. Our students and researchers
need to do their work but we don’t un-
derestimate the task ahead of us so it’s
great to know that the Imperial student
body is right behind us.”
Matt Colvin
Complaints after high demand
brings down registration system

