FELIX Friday 24 JUNE 2011 29
B O O K S
FELIX
Books Editor: Guo Heng Chin
books.felix@imperial.ac.uk
“People die in his
story [...] this fragility
makes you more
sympathetic”
Guo Heng Chin
The landscape of modern fantasy writ-
ing would have been quite different had
it not been for George R. R. Martin. A
Song of Ice and Fire redefined the fan-
tasy genre from the classic Lord of the
Rings-esque adventure quest cum bil-
dungsroman story of good versus evil
into a darker, more adult and ultimately
more realistic domain. There is no clear
boundary between good and evil in his
stories. No subject is taboo and he does
not gloss over vices like sex, violence
and incest. More importantly, main
characters do die in his stories (Read an
in-depth review of his series on the ad-
jacent page).
Although Martin or GRRM as he is
known to his fans, is now eponymous
with fantasy, he started his writing ca-
reer in science fiction and horror short
stories. A big fan of comic books and
science fiction novels from a young age,
Martin started out writing for comic
fan-zines but soon graduated into sci-
ence fiction magazines like Locus. He
attempted writing professionally after
completing a journalism M.S. in 1971.
It was not a straightforward path, and
Martin recalls having one of his story
being rejected for 42 times by differ-
ent magazines. After losing the Hugo
awards (the science fiction and fantasy
equivalent of Oscars) on numerous oc-
casions, he finally clinched the rocket-
shaped trophy in 1975 with his science
fiction short story A Song for Lya. The
novella follows a young protagonist
and his lover, both whom are telepaths,
(called ‘Talents’) sent to an alien world
in which a human colony is present, to
assist with unravelling the mysterious
humanoid alien’s religion. As the two
telepaths delve deeper into the alien
culture, they discover a shocking truth
about the sacrificial ritual of the religion
and they began to question the boundar-
ies of emotional intimacy.
Five years later, Martin would win the
coveted double crown of both the Hugo
and Nebula award for his sci-fi horror
novelette, Sandkings. Highly imagina-
tive science fiction backdrop with a
strong theme to accompany it, the story
is about a wealthy playboy who buys
colonies of intelligent alien insects to
pit them in a gladiatior-style war against
each other.
In the 80s Martin got into screen-
writing, writing for Hollywood serials.
However, in the early 90s, he got back
into writing novels, a medium in which
he could pull off all the grand scene
he always envisioned, for there is no
budget or logistical restriction when it
comes to writing. In 1996, the first book
ofASong of Ice and Fire series,AGame
of Thrones was published. Inspired by
the War of the Roses in medieval Eng-
land, the story deals with the conflict be-
tween major Houses in a struggle for the
throne of the Seven Kingdoms. Initially
planned to be a trilogy, the story grew
as GRRM wrote it and it is now seven-
book saga. GRRM has a penchant for
growing stories, as demonstrated in the
fourth and the upcoming fifth volume
which are actually two halves of one
book.
Martin is one of those authors with
a large following who actually makes
himself accessible to fans. He maintains
a friendly relationship with the Song
of Ice and Fire fan club Brotherhood
Without Banners. He also blogs once
every few days or so at his grrm.live-
journal.com. However, such strong fan
following has it irks. The initial antici-
pation abuzz the upcoming fifth book
soon turned to irritation and restlessness
amongst the fans as the publication date
keep on getting pushed further. Some of
them even took it upon themselves to
taunt Martin into completing the book.
“Pull your fucking typewriter out of
your ass and start fucking typing” com-
plained a fan on a forum. Some fans are
worried as well that Martin might just
kick the bucket before he concludes the
series. The rising tide of disaffected fans
has got to the point where Martin him-
self had to retort against it in one of his
blog post: “As some of you like to point
out in your e-mails, I am sixty years
old and fat, and you don’t want me to
‘pull a Robert Jordan’ on you and deny
you your book. Okay, I’ve got the mes-
sage. You don’t want me doing anything
except ‘A Song of Ice and Fire.’ Ever.
(Well, maybe it’s okay if I take a leak
once in a while?)”. Robert Jordan, the
author of the bestselling fantasy series,
The Wheel of Time, died of heart dis-
ease before he is able to conclude the
last 3 novels of his 14-novel saga.
This March, Martin announced on
his blog that the book is set to be pub-
lished on July 12 this year. He writes on
his blog “Yes, I know. You’ve all seen
publication dates before: dates in 2007,
2008, 2009. None of those were ever
hard dates, however. Most of them...
well, call it wishful thinking, bound-
less optimism, cockeyed dreams, honest
mistakes, whatever you like. This date
is different. This date is real. Barring
tsunamis, general strikes, world wars,
or asteroid strikes, you will have the
novel in your hands on July 12. I hope
you like it.”
A Song of Ice and Fire starts out with
the Seven Kingdoms under one rule
– the Iron Throne at the capital, con-
veniently called King’s Landing. The
ruling House is the Baratheons, who
deposed of the Mad King Targayen.
Troubles stir as rumours arise that the
wealthy and ambitious House Lannister
are plotting to take over the throne. Af-
ter the mysterious death of the King’s
Hand (prime minister), Lord Eddard
Stark of House Stark, a close friend and
confidante of King Robert is summoned
to King’s Landing to take over the job
of the King’s Hand. So begins a series
of events which would lead you through
a murder mystery, an incestuous secret,
lots of Machiavellian political play and
backstabbing as everyone wants the
Iron Throne for him/herself.
For such a complex backdrop, it takes
a while for the characters and the world
to be introduced, which makes the first
fifty pages or so of the first book seem a
little dull. But bear with it and you will
be rewarded, as when the conspiracies
and drama takes off, you are in for a
roller coaster ride as Martin drives you
through cliffhangers and hair-raising
thrills.
The story is told from first person
POV of different characters from both
Starks and Lannisters. Every charac-
ter has their own narrative arc, and the
breath and variety keeps the story fresh.
Join the honourable Lord Eddard Stark
as he navigates the treacherous politi-
cal landscape in King’s Landing; fol-
low the exiled young princess Daenerys
Targaryen as she seeks to reclaim the
throne that was rightfully hers and loses
her innocence on the way; partake with
the witty dwarf Tyrion Lannister in his
decadent indulgences, misadventures
or just revel in his razor-sharp wit and
equally sharp tongue. Those are but a
slice from the large pie of characters.
And as you progress from book to book,
more new characters are introduced. But
fear not, you wouldn’t end up with hav-
ing to read and memorize 20 character’s
worth of story – for when you play the
game of thrones, you either win or you
die. That brings me to another aspect of
Martin’s writing: people die in his story.
Going against conventions of popular
entertainment, Martin does not stay the
guillotine with some conceived dues ex
machina just because the character in
deep shit is a main character. In a recent
interview with the New Yorker, Mar-
tin stated that he wanted the readers to
feel that “they love the characters and
they’re afraid for the characters.” The
fragility of the character’s fate makes
you more sympathetic to the characters’
lives and you gasp when the characters
gasp.
Adventures and all, the heart of the
story is the drama between the charac-
ters. The complex interplay between
the relationships and motivations of the
characters is one of the books’ strength.
In some way, the books feel like a narra-
tive in Machiavellian politics, with each
party conniving in their own plot to get
into power and trying to call the bluff of
their enemies. It is a smart thriller and
if you are one of those who enjoyed the
intricacy of Inception, you would prob-
ably enjoy the intricate web of politics
in A Song of Ice and Fire.
George R. R. Martin may be called
the American Tolkien, but his writing is
certainly not Tolkein-esque at all. The
subjects Martin deals with in his book
would probably rile Tolkien’s sensibil-
ity. He shows medieval life the way they
are – sometimes romantic, but most of
the time harsh and cruel. There is a lot
of sex in the story too. It makes you
wonder sometimes, when reading Tolk-
ien, where are the whorehouses in Gon-
dor? How do hobbits do it? How about
the elves, what does being immortal do
to your sexual urges? Well, Martin does
not answer those in his books, but his
characters are like you and I, and they
do think of sex quite a lot.
There is also a characteristic lack of
magic in Martin’s books. Unlike arche-
typical fantasy books, magic is very
sparse in Westeros. It is like our world,
where magic is a thing of legend and
superstition. That is why when magic is
mentioned; a sort of awe accompanies
it, as if it is a miracle.
Every once in a while, there comes an
author with an imagination so verdant,
and the skills to bring the story alive and
inhabit it with an intriguing cast of char-
acters as rich and complex as a rainfor-
est. George R. R. Martin is one such. A
Song of Ice and Fire was the herald of
an age of fantasy writing that is darker
and feels more ‘real’.
Guo Heng Chin
Master of epic fantasy Dark tales of ice and tales

