FELIX
30
hangman.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 24 june 2011
Hangman’s Finest College News Source
the turnip
Student to receive experimental transplant
A
student whose identity will be kept
secret for reasons pertaining to long-
winded privacy laws (if confused ask
Ryan Giggs) is to undergo the world’s first full
body-and-head transplant, after simultaneous-
ly contracting cancer of the brain, liver, kidney
and pancreas following a completely unrelated
incident involving drinking water on campus.
The doctor’s official diagnosis was that he
had a bad case of “the unluckiest cunt alive-
itis”. After checking the black market price
for internal organs, Charing Cross Hospital
realised a multiple transplant was out of the
question, opting instead for the radical treat-
ment. According to surgeon Dr. Robert Pol-
lington, “the patient had more bad bits than
good so we decided we may as well swap it
out entirely. Besides, have you SEEN the pric-
es for kidneys these days? Increasing demand
from China has made them unaffordable.” It is
hoped that by transplanting the entire body the
risk of the cancer spreading will be minimised.
Doctors reportedly briefly considered playing
a practical joke on the patient by picking a do-
nor that is a known paedophile.
The procedure itself is fairly straightforward
and safe: no incisions are required and the pa-
tient remains fully awake without an anaes-
thetic throughout, as it is completely painless.
Additionally unlike most transplant operations
chance of rejection is low. It is not without
side effects, however, which may include a
sudden change in height, hair length and eye
colour (among other physical features), as well
as acquisition of memories of the donor, even
assuming their name and identity. The patient
should also prepare for the possibility of being
nicknamed “Frankenstein”, or “Frankenstein’s
Monster” depending on how well-read and/or
pedantic the patient’s peer group is.
Go to festivals
You will tell everyone about it before. Start
calling it “Glasto” despite the fact that you’ve
never been. Then after will constantly not shut
up about how amazing it was and how you
were constantly off your face. You lad. Just try
be one of those pricks that refuse to take the
fucking armband off because it’s a “conversa-
tion starter.” It’s pretty dirty to keep something
on for a whole year, and it gets in the way
when you’re trying to knock one out feverishly
hoping to remember that girl that you saw dur-
ing Arcade Fire. If it does start a conversation
it will go like this:
Them: “Oh you went to Glastonbury?”
You: “Yeah I went to Glasto. We call it Glasto,
as I’ve been you know.”
Them: “Okay.”
That’s it. Guys wont suddenly think you’re
some kind of super badman. Girls will not in-
stantly fall out of their clothes just because you
have heard a semi successful band in a muddy
tent.
See everyone else
Going back home and seeing everyone you
used to know before university is fun. Mainly
because you get to try to prove to everyone
how much you’ve changed since going to uni-
versity. You are now cool as, let’s face it, you
were fairly low down the social pecking order
in school. You drink (WAHAY DOWN IT),
you smoke rollies (you edgy motherfucker),
and to top it all off you write for the student
newspaper (you’ll be batting them away with
a stick if you mention that one). Oh and you
now have an impressive addition of Facebook
friends bringing your total up to an even larger
over-estimation of your popularity.
Of course, for most universities, once you
hear what their workload is like you will in-
stantly consider dropping out and doing an
arts course. What the fuck is this reading week
that they speak off? What do they mean less
than 25 hours of labs each day? Wait 6 contact
hours are spread out over an entire week? A
50:50 ratio? Shit is that how university is sup-
posed to be…?
Internships
That’s right you’re an adult now, sort of.You’re
wearing a suit and tie. You’re drinking coffee.
This is just like Wall Street – the original not
the remake. Okay you’re supposed to be giv-
ing that coffee to your boss but whatever. This
is rewarding, right? I mean, okay, maybe your
not contributing to anything directly, but if that
guy didn’t have coffee and a doughnut on his
desk his work may deteriorate a bit. Although
9am start is not like a 9am lecture – it’s actu-
ally compulsory not optional.
Revise for retakes
It’s summer so way too nice to not go out with
people and show off how cool you now are (see
above). Week before - cramming once more.
Look for a house for next year
Landlords are bastards. Estate agents are Luci-
fer in human form. Rats are preferable to cock-
roaches. All things this process teaches you. Or
you could just stay a hall senior for that sweet
fresher ass.
What you will do during summer...
Is this a picture of a liver, or is it a
jacket potato from the library? The
answer will be after these next few
words. It’s a liver.
DRUNKEN MATE OF THE WEEK
Send your photos to felix@imperial.ac.uk.
Try not to tweet them by accident...
HANGMAN
What you doing this summer, Gaddafi?
What? Don’t get mad... Just asking...
Some say the procedure
is insane in the
membrane. Others say it
is merely insane in the
brain
Twatter
SUPERACEGORTHEROAR87
cleggman how’s it going with the
Ukranian primary school teacher?
The_Cleggomatortrontown <3
Awesome! She’s amazing in bed.
Way better than Miriam. Don’t
tell Miriam.
Cameron_DA_Maneron!!!
woah what the fuck? You had sex
with her?
Barack_attack_l33thaxor
please tell me you’re joking
The_Cleggomatortrontown <3
no...why?
Cameron_DA_Maneron!!!
because Olechka is actually Osa-
ma! Hahahaha. Actually rofling
here
The_Cleggomatortrontown <3
what!? That’s impossible. She
didn’t have a beard. And she had
breasts.
SexyOlechka69
well if I’m going to change my
identity and fake my death I
might as well get some tits. Lol. I
still have my beard though
SUPERACEGORTHEROAR87
haha. It was an expensive prank.
Navy seals, fake burial and osie’s
sex change. Just to get you fuck
him in the ass.
willyoujoinmymiliband?
how come you never fuck me in
the ass cleggman? :(

