FELIX Friday 24 june 2011 31
DRUNKEN
MATE OF
THE WEEK
Don’t just stand there taking a picture, man! THE BAG!!! Take the bag! Ah too late, she’s conscious again...
THE NEWS WITHOUT THE NEWS
Twat takes wheelie-suitcase
to festival...
Scorpio
This week you congratulate the Felix
editor for finishing the year. Except, he
tells you he forgot he had one more issue
left.You despair for humanity and wonder
how godawful the next editor will be if
this is what passes for one these days.
Horoscopes
Aries
This week is your swansong entry in
a publication that has consumed your
thoughts for more than half a decade.
Your cygnets are all grown-up now,
about to fly the nest, making you feel
one webbed-foot in the grave. All of a
sudden you are completely irrelevant.
Taurus
This week you join the cast of The
Borrowers, but you’re 6ft taller than your
fellowactors.Theproducershavetoround
up as many Yellow Pages as possible to
accommodate the little cretins’ verticality
issues. You accidentally squish one under
your boot and get fired. Sad panda face :(
Gemini
This week you accidentally woodwind
during an exam. The fart is unfortunate,
but the stiffy is a natural consequence
of studying forensic science. The girl
beside you gives a knowing glance. She
pretends to tie a noose round her neck
while whopping out a single boob. Score.
Cancer
This week some jumped-up cunt with a
shit hat – and I mean anAIDS RAPE shit
hat – throws you off stage while you’re
trying to get a snap of Lauren Starling’s
filthy clunge. You hunt him down and
gouge his eyes out with a 3.5mm head-
phone jack. FEEL THE BASS.
Leo
This week you are walking down High
Street Ken, the sun is shining, the sky
is blue, a daffodil scent rushes up your
nose. You’re actually having a stroke.
Those adverts about smelling toast,
complete bollocks mate. The latest
strokes come in all flavours. Smell ba-
con: I give you about 4 minutes to thank
God for your grovelling existence.
Virgo
One evening you’re doing your thing,
gently caressing the nozzle of your
Dyson’s hard-to-reach-areas extension
tube when a Chinese leprechaun mate-
rialises in front of you. He tells you you
are doing it all wrong, grabs the tube
and sucks your eyeballs out through
your sphincter. Your corpse wobbles.
Libra
Yo, yo, yo. Hizzzzzle. You looking at
me cunt? I will shit you right up. I’ll
fist you so hard, your kids’ kids’ll have
bruises. Mazda. Yeah, bet those apples
taste good with the egg on your face.
Sagittarius
This week David Dickinson finds you
in an attic and one of the teams on his
daytime antiques show attempts to sell
you at auction. An old lady buys you for
£80. You’re a bit miffed not to make 100
quid at least. She takes you back to her
place where the wallpaper is thick...
Capricorn
...and mint green, and the carpets a mix
of burnt yellows, tans and browns. The
colostomy smell permeating the house
is overwhelming. You try to escape but
her legion of midget-zebras gnaw off
your toes. Monkeys riding tarantulas
with trowels eviscerate your intestines.
Aquarius
This week you play a practical joke on
some shaft who keeps stealing your
Flora from the fridge. You remove the
marg and squatting over the tub, curl one
of your finest yuletide logs into it. You
replace the marg and pop the tub in the
fridge. Mmm, ripe.
Pisces
This week the hairs on your head fall out.
You go batshit mental and after brutally
maiming the nearest 58 people with a
gonorrhea chainsaw, you head to Fresh
Hairdressers to scoop up the cuttings. The
manager charges you £200, so you rip the
legs off each of his family members.

