imperialcollegeunion.org
Union Page
Name our new bar and restaurant
at Woodward Hall
In September the new hall of residence in North Acton, Woodward Hall opens to
almost 700 new students. As part of a number of facilities at the hall there will
be a brand new restaurant and bar offering great value food and drink as well as
entertainment and events. It will be glass-fronted, bright and breezy with a variety of
seating including booths and long tables. We need your input in helping us to name this
new facility!
It is the first time that the College and the Union has opened a new restaurant and bar
outside of one of our campuses and we have been looking into the area for inspiration
in helping us come up with a shortlist of names.
A The site was formerly a factory that produced “Elgee” electricity meters
A The hall is named after Dr Joan Woodward an Imperial alumnus who pioneered
research into Contingency Theory
A The address of the hall is 1 Victoria Road, W3
A North Acton Station on the Central Line opened in 1923
A ‘Acton’ is derived from the Old English for ‘oak farm’ or ‘farm by oak trees’
The shortlisted names are:
One Victoria Road The Foundry
West Three Urban Oak
The Contingency The 1923
The Meter Other...
To pick a name you like from the shortlist go to imperialcollegeunion.org/name-
woodward-hall
Community Connections Mass Volunteering
Looking for a one off volunteering opportunity in the next few weeks? Join us on one of our Mass Volunteering events, volunteering alongside 5, 10 or 20+ other Imperial
Students in a fun and rewarding activity, instantly seeing the difference you are making. Everyone will get a free Community Connections t-shirt and travel expenses can be
reimbursed. Sign up for the activities on the Mass Volunteering pages of the Union website at imperialcollegeunion.org/volunteering
Research Open Day - Wednesday 17 June
Volunteer at the Harefield Hospital’s Research Open Day. Take part in fun and interactive stalls including an artificial breathing lung, pop up surgery and one where you’ll be
making heart valves. Hear about the latest research into heart and lung diseases and meet researchers, getting to talk to them about their work. Hurry – registration close on
Monday at 12pm!
GoodGym - Wednesday 24 June
We are joining forces with GoodGym Westminster to do some good deeds in the local
community. Grab your running shoes and be prepared to run 6-8km to a community
project where we’ll spend 40 minutes making a difference!
Kids City Abbeville Fete - 27 June
Now in its 19th Year, the Abbeville Fete near Clapham Common is entirely ran by
volunteers. Kid’s City are welcoming volunteers to come along and take part on the day,
helping them to run their Kid’s Zone which is set to be bigger and better than ever before!
There will be LOADS taking place for children during the day and you can be part of
running these fun and interactive activities!
Bugs! Day 10 July
Support Bugs! Day at our Silwood Park Campus, helping visitors discover the wonderful
world of bugs and other invertebrates. They are looking for volunteers to help out with
various activities on the day and you can take part in activities you think you are most
suited for. Transport will be provided.

