25 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON FELIX
12.06.2015 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON 26
12.06.2015
FELIX
Arts Editors Fred Fyles & Kamil McClelland
Arts
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk Arts Editors Fred Fyles & Kamil McClelland
Arts
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Oresteia: A Greek Drama as Bloodily
Relevant as Ever
Fred Fyles finds the combination of director Robert Icke and actor
Lia Williams to be an unstoppable tour de force of tragic theatre
Let’s just hold off the
interpretation tonight’.
These words are spoken by
Klytemnestra, the much-wronged,
central character of The Oresteia
trilogy, embodiment of both
woman scorned and maternal
retribution, directed at her husband
Agamemnon, who has just sacrificed
their daughter in exchange for a
victorious conclusion to a long and
bloody war; and yet, in the close
confines of the Almeida Theatre,
she seems to be speaking directly to
us, warning us against attempting
to analyse the work presented.
Indeed, director Robert Icke, who has
radically reinterpreted Aeschylus’
trio of plays - the only surviving
example of a Greek trilogy - seems
to align with Nietzsche’s view of
ancient tragedy when producing
this version: ‘art approaches as a
redeeming and healing enchantress’,
Nietzsche writes in The Birth of
Tragedy, ‘she alone may transform
these horrible reflections on the
terror and absurdity of existence into
representations with which man may
live’. At the stroke of 7pm, the doors
of the theatre slam shut, sealing us
in as if inside a tomb, where for the
following 220 minutes we are - with
little respite - forced to confront
the immediacy of evil, revenge, and
bloody human nature.
While every translator may be a
traitor, there is also an element of
liberation in the act of translation,
and Icke has used his creative
freedom to unlock some of the heavy
chains attached to the story. The
most daring change he has made is to
introduce the sacrifice of Iphigenia,
the daughter of Klytemnestra and
Agamemnon, as an actual on-stage
process, rather than something that
is merely referred to. This first act,
which documents the beginning of
the end of the House of Atreus - a
house affected by the ongoing war,
challenged by the demands of having
a leader for a father, but happy
nevertheless; they sit around the
table at dinnertime, sing each other
songs, and bicker gently - serves to
explain the motivations behind the
characters’ later actions, and allows us
to see how far the family will fall, thus
making their descent into chaos all
the more affecting.
As time passes, and the war is
won, the household - or at least
Klytemnestra - tries to maintain the
illusion of normality: the dinner bell
is still rung, and red wine continues
to be drunk, as the body count
increases, and more and more chairs
at the table remain unoccupied.
These ideas, of ritual and habits,
play into the themes of the final act,
where Orestes goes on trial for the
murder of Klytemnestra - that most
transgressive of crimes: matricide -
and the Athenian tradition of a court
of law, based on the newly founded
Areopagus, is questioned. With such
universal themes - retributive v
restorative justice; the role of the state
in family matters; the foundations
of democracy - it is little wonder that
The Oresteia still hits hard today.
Instead of using the ending, in which
Orestes is pardoned by Athene,
as an explanation for the ancient
Greek law of ‘The Vote of Athene’,
Icke instead uses it to explore the
problems apparent in a democratic
justice system: ‘we favour men in all
things’, intones Athene, ‘and as the
just representative of our society,
it is appropriate that in this house
of justice men are favoured’. What
happens when the democratic choice
is the immoral one? Icke leaves these
questions unanswered, with Orestes’
final cry of ‘what do I do?’ echoing
society’s inability to come to a
conclusion.
Icke’s decision to remove the
Chorus from the play is a bold one,
and is reminiscent of the track taken
by Ivo van Hove in his production of
Antigone, which recently ran at the
Barbican Centre. Like van Hove,
Icke’s production democratises the
script, dividing up the role of the
chorus among the main parts; the
script, with its lines running into
and out of each other, weaving a rich
tapestry of verse, echoes the idea of
a unified Chorus whilst remaining
fresh and modern. The lines are
thrown across the stage back and
forth, punctuated by heavy pauses
and the occasional grand speech,
such as Klytemnestra’s monologue
following the murder of her husband,
in which she revels in the brutality of
her actions: ‘I open my mouth like a
plant in the rain in the red and I feel
so awake’.
Greek theatre is renowned for its
larger-than-life female characters:
Medea, Electra, Hecuba – any
actor attempting to take on one of
these roles faces an uphill struggle.
What’s more, in this revised version,
Klytemnestra’s role is even more
intense, with the on-stage death of
her daughter adding an increased
vulnerability to the character.
However, Icke has found a fitting
Klytemnestra in Lia Williams, who
inhabits the role completely; within
Williams there is a cold gleam of steel
which, only glimpsed at the beginning
of the play, is slowly revealed, until
she is transformed into a cold killer,
blood glinting in the sunlight. Over
the course of the play, we follow
Klytemnestra from a happy-yet-
hardened politician’s wife, through
to a master adaptor, tossed to and fro
by the whims of men – following the
death of her daughter: ‘I will get up
at the very first sign of morning, and
I will make a plan’ – and finally to a
woman in charge of her own destiny;
such a multi-faceted role would
give anyone pause for thought, but
Williams manages to look deep inside
herself and deliver.
Similarly, Angus Wright’s
Agamemnon is wonderful, with
his stilted, slightly chilly delivery
encapsulating the inflections of a
politician forced to go off script.
Jessica Brown Findlay’s delivery of
the character of Electra is excellently
realised – all pent-up fury and
unreleased grief – that makes me
want to see her take on the role in
Sophocles’ tragedy; the fact that this
is her stage debut is only all the more
remarkable.
Hildegard Bechtler’s minimalist
stage design complements the
performance, allowing the script to
speak for itself, and accentuating
the action. The stone stage, dissected
by two wide panes of glass, acts as
simulacrum of a family home, with
the giant marble bathtub – the
murder site of Agamemnon, who was
prophesied to ‘die in water’ – looming
at the back like an ominous warning.
But The Oresteia are not happy
plays, and this is not a happy home. A
certain cold, unfriendly nature runs
throughout the house, beginning
with the murder of Iphigenia. The
sterile nature of the sets, alongside
the aggressively neutral costume
choices – all grey tones and collarless
shirts, like the mood board of a Cos
designer – makes the killing of the
child all that more horrifying; and
thus, Agamemnon’s murder, which
paints the set with red blood, acts
almost like a form of visual catharsis
for the audience.
Unfortunately, there are some
elements of this adaptation that
don’t work as well. Icke’s decision
to stage the play like a court
reconstruction makes sense within
the context of the last act, and adds
an interesting lexicon to the script,
which speaks of evidence, witnesses,
and representatives; however, the
introduction of a ‘Doctor’ character,
who we cut to at intervals in the
action, questioning Orestes, lends
the performance a psychoanalytical
angle that doesn’t suit it. While I
am not suggesting that the works of
Freud and Jung do not have a place
within the Greek tradition, the effect
of this intervention is to spell-out the
meaning of the play to the audience,
as if we are unable to come up with
conclusions on our own. Similarly,
Icke’s treatment of Electra’s
character, which culminates in a Fight
Club-style twist had me rolling my
eyes somewhat.
Aeschylus’ original Oresteia was a
radical departure from the original
Homeric text, which feted Orestes as
a hero to be worshiped. Icke’s version
thus serves as a reinterpretation
of a reinterpretation; Orestes is
dragged into the modern world, not
through any kind of visual trickery,
or gauche plot intervention, but
instead through subtle altering
of the original text. Icke remains
respectful to the source material, but
through a number of changes – the
introduction of the on-stage sacrifice
of Iphigenia, the degree to which we
can sympathise with Klytemnestra,
the modern courtroom drama that
concludes the plays – we have a
revised edition that manages to
convey all the drama and strife of
modern existence. The ancient Greek
tragedies have always spoken to us,
and will continue to speak, as long as
there is a society to hear them; it’s just
that the Almeida’s production speaks
a little louder.
Oresteia is on at the Almeida Theatre
until 18th
July. Tickets from £10.
Jessica Brown Findlay and Angus Wright in Oresteia. Almeida Theatre.
Photo: Manual Harlan
Ilan Galkoff, Lia Williams, Angus Wright, Eve Benioff Salama and Luke Thompson in
Oresteia. Almeida.Photo: Manual Harlan
Eve Benioff Salama, Lia Williams, Ilan Galkoff & Angus Wright in Oresteia. Almeida Theatre. Photo: Manual Harlan
“Icke’s
revision
manages to
convey all
the drama
and strife
of modern
existence”
“For 220
minutes,
with little
respite, we
confront
the evil
of human
nature”

