36 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON FELIX
12.06.2015
What is going on inside
the Blue Cube this week
It’s summer at last, and the sun is shining
bright. What better way to experience its
warming, life-giving rays than through the
delightfully tinted glass windows of the
Faculty Building?
All-Staff Briefing Cancelled
This week’s All-Staff Briefing has sadly been
cancelled by the Vice Provost (Arbitrary
Excuses) due to a problem with the air
conditioning.
Al assures us that this will be fixed post-
haste, but in the meantime he is unable
to find us a suitably chilled room to hold
any meetings in. As a result, all in-person
meetings have now been cancelled, and
will be replaced with conference calls on
the messaging service, Skype.
All staff members are advised to obtain
Skype for themselves as soon as
reasonable possible. Anyone having
difficulties is advised to contact the lovely
boys in IT via their Service Desk. They
assure us they will be on hand to answer
any queries as soon as humanly possible
(1-2 working weeks).
What Is: Conflicts of Interest?
This week, our perennially popular ‘What
Is’ session will be on the tricky topic of so-
called ‘conflicts of interest’.
We received a complaint last week
regarding the positive opinion of big
oil and gas, claiming that there was an
unexpressed ‘conflict of interest’ (their
words).
The complaint has been dealt with (as
has the staff member responsible), but
it has been decided that in order to aid
collaboration between staff members the
concept of a ‘conflict of interest’ should be
clarified.
In a special treat for you all, this session will
be lead by the President herself!
Don’t forget to bring your yoga mat as
usual, and green tea will (of course) be
provided.
What is going on outside the
Blue Cube this week
Due to ongoing concerns over student
nudity and unconfirmed rumours of this
nudity being photographed, the ban
on leaving the Building without written
permission remains in place.
Alice Gast: Thought of the Week
“I was shocked and disappointed this week
to hear of students stripping on campus, and
encouraging their fellows to take pictures
of them. I was even more shocked and
disappointed to discover that these pictures
were then being distributed all across campus. I
hope that all involved will take a long hard look
at what they’ve done. That Pole and Aerial one
was hot stuff though.”
The weekly newsletter of the Faculty Building
Blue News
Provost Post
of the Week
Every week, a member of
our esteemed Provost board
shares their thoughts with
our collaborative, cohesive
community. This week, we
welcome back Al Pologies,
Vice Provost (Arbitrary
Excuses)!
Sadly, Al was unable to
write his column this week,
as he is currently stationed
at Woodward Hall in Acton,
helping to prepare the space
for the influx of paying suckers
students in October.
However, this seems like
an appropriate moment to
remind you all of the exciting
new facilities which have been
constructed over in Acton,
so we’ve asked back Dee
Creaserent, Vice Provost (Halls
Demolition) to give us a few
words.
Hi everyone!
It’s so great to be back on
these hallowed pages with
yet more exciting news about
our ever-evolving property
portfolio!
We’re delighted to be putting
the finishing touches on
Woodward over the next few
months, as these wonderful
new halls present an ideal
opportunity to introduce
students to the wonders of
living and studying out in West
London.
As you all know, the cost of
living in South Kensington has
proven to be extremely high
for Imperial, as we constantly
have to deal with students
complaining about their high
rent prices and the associated
food costs.
Having such a large base in
Acton, alongside the wonderful
Imperial West campus, means
that the case to relocate all
student activities to Acton and
the surrounding area becomes
ever stronger.
Imperial has a wonderful
asset in our South Kensington
campus, but I’m sure you can
all agree with me when I say
that students are a blight on
the pleasant and wonderful
environment we’ve cultivated
here.
Moving them out to Acton
presents an ideal solution to all
of our problems.
Hello all,
It’s with a heavy heart that I welcome you back to this, the penultimate
issue of Blue News for this academic year. Yes, that’s right – after this,
there will be only one more burst of brilliant facts and figures for your
digestion until we recommence printing in October.
I hope this news doesn’t come as too much of a shock for you – as we all
know, all great things must come to an end (before starting again after
a short rest), and that includes Blue News, which we feel confident in
calling the greatest thing of all.
As the temporary end approaches, now is as good a time as any to start
looking back at the year we’ve had – and what a year it’s been!
We’ve had some ups and downs, with the unprecedented success of
the likes of our #PeopleatImperial campaign helping to really push a
progressive agenda amongst our staff, and the ongoing unveiling of
Woodward Hall, our brand new accommodation outlet occupying One
Victoria Road, Acton, taking place to a rapturous reception.
We’ve seen off challenges from the likes of the BUAV, Felix and whoever
it was complaining about oil the other week, showing that Imperial is
stronger than any other institution who wishes to oppose us.
We have an incredibly strong community here at Imperial, and being
able to fend off the baseless accusations of Felix and their ilk is proof of
that. It is to the immense credit of all who live and work in the Faculty
Building that we have emerged through the occasional trial by fire
unscorched, all through the power of collaboration.
We now begin to look ahead, to the future, and to what the next year
may bring. There are murmurings among some staff of crowning the next
year the ‘Year of Collaboration’, and we would like to whole-heartedly
endorse such suggestions. It’s ingenuity like this that helps keep us a
world-leading institution.
Have a productive, cohesive, collaborative and happy day!

