40 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON FELIX
08.05.2015
Sport Editor: Kunal Wagle
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Issue 1609
SPORT
Imperial make storming start to trail season
With exams (almost) over
and the arrival of summer
weather, the last couple of
weeks have signalled the start of the
trail running season proper. IC Trail
Running – part of the Cross Country
and Athletics Club – got things
underway with a trip to the Brecon
Beacons for the second round of the
Welsh trail running series, and then
on the following weekend travelled
down to Dorking for the Surrey Hills
Race. Both occasions resulted in
multiple podium places and victories
for the team, great results all round,
and a lot of sore legs!
After underground closures caused
chaos on the last Friday of May, we
departed for Wales slightly later than
planned, but still in good spirits. The
five team members driving up to
Talybont-on-Usk in south Wales were
James, Ellie, Charlie, Will, and team
captain Simon. Luckily there were no
further delays on our journey, and
we arrived at the event centre early
enough to get a good night’s sleep in
the rooms saved for us by James’ dad!
Getting up early the next morning
revealed a beautiful dawn, and
conditions looked great for the day’s
racing. Each of the team members
prepared themselves and their kit in
their own ways – honed from many
race experiences, both good and bad!
The first to go were the ultra-runners
Simon, Charlie and Ellie, and after a
quick race briefing they were off on
their forty mile plus route shortly
after 8:00. With the forecast showing
rain in the afternoon there was
certainly motivation to get round
quickly. Shortly after, at 8:30, James
and his dad set off on the marathon
route, and then at 9:00 it was finally
time for Will to set off on the ‘short’
ten mile route. All the courses were
tough routes, with fast starts and
significantly more climbing in
the latter halves putting strain on
already-tired legs. The start on the ten
miler was particularly fast with Will
leading out; however the competition
proved too strong, and he was caught
on the main climb, ending up settling
for second. Meanwhile, in the longer
races, signs for another route had
been put up without the organisers
knowing, causing a brief period of
navigational chaos. Most were back
on track quickly though, and James
was soon leading the marathon
again after gaining an extra 3km of
distance. The race continued onto the
Pen-y-Fan ridge, featuring ‘the bog’
on the way where the question wasn’t
“did you fall in?”, but “how deep?” The
Pen-y-Fan ridge featured many steep
climbs and treacherous descents that
were almost as tiring, with the total
climb and descent – over 1500m on
the marathon and over 3000 on the
ultra – really testing the competitors.
James put in a fantastic finish on the
‘marathon’ to come in a clear winner
at under four hours despite the extra
distance, with his dad finishing first
veteran just over half an hour later.
The ultra was won in a blistering
time of six hours and 30 minutes by
a Swedish international runner and
ski mountaineer, with Simon and
Charlie finishing together at around
seven hours and 50 minutes, having
matched each other the entire way.
Ellie came in a while later, having also
run a brilliant and incredibly tough
race. Merely moving the next day was
a struggle for all of us!
After a brief week’s recovery
the team was off again, down to
Dorking with 17 keen club members
and alumni to run the Surrey hills
Race organised by South London
Orienteers. The first to set off – at a
much more reasonable time of 10:30
– were the runners on the 30km ‘A
Race’, who had the task of finding
their way between twelve checkpoints
spread across the Surrey hills using a
map and compass. Six runners from
Imperial were competing in this race:
Will and Ellie (having not decided
that last weekend was enough…);
alumni Jack and Sophie; and fresher
Lily and her friend Lucie. Knowing
the strenuous challenge ahead, all
opted for a steady start up the first
hill. All that is except for Jack and
Will, who decided to play ‘king of
the hill’ and sprinted off at full gas.
Lots of laughs and some “look at
those idiots” were heard in the field
behind them. A few minutes later
the 10km ‘C Race’ runners were off.
Chris Thomas had a strong race
and was smashing it up all the hills,
but a late navigational error cost
him the win. Fellow competitors
Liam and Tom came in 3rd
and 4th
,
running a great race despite the
tough conditions but were outfoxed
by the navigational skills of the two
leaders. Finally the ‘B Race’ was
off ten minutes later, with James
and Simon solving the navigation
problem by simply following right
behind the leader, before sprinting
the finish – James received quite a
ridiculously large trophy as a result!
Great performances were put in on
both of these races by a host of other
IC runners and alumni, and everyone
had fun, both out on the course
and relaxing in the sun afterwards!
Meanwhile in the ‘A Race’ Will and
Jack had (surprisingly) held onto
their early lead, and after a series
of steep climbs (including one that
ended in a scramble up on all fours)
and were in 1st
and 3rd
at the halfway
point. A poor route choice shortly
after this turned a 30 second lead
into a 30 second chase – showing just
how important the navigation can
be – and as fatigue (and the results
of a night out) set in in the latter
parts of the race Will eventually was
caught again and came 3rd
with Jack
finishing strongly to claim 4th
. Sophie
and Ellie both ran great races, the two
of them crossing the line together,
coming joint 2nd
women. Lily and
Lucie also ran together and had a
great day’s running, despite it being
the toughest race they’ve ever done! A
big congratulations to everyone who
competed, and once again there were
a lot of sore legs on the way home!
After these and earlier results in
March and April, IC Trail are now
preparing for more racing over
the summer, both in the UK and
abroad. With the support of our
sponsors, Raidlight (kit) and Aptonia
(nutrition), we’ve been able to achieve
better and better results, and hope to
continue this over the year!
William Jones reports as Imperial put in great performances in Wales and Surrey
The Imperial team before the meet at Surrey Hills Photo: ICXC
Charlie and Simon at the finish line in Wales Photo: ICXC

