10 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON FELIX
12.06.2015
Comment Comment Editor Tessa Davey
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
George Butcher takes a look back on his time at Imperial
There is always room for improvement
Imperial is full of happy memories, but looking back there are always ways it could be better. Photo: Imperial College
This week I finished my degree.
“Congratulations, you have
completed Mech Eng!” said the
figurative game graphic as I answered
the last question of my presentation.
Somehow I managed to do four years
of my degree without failing an
exam (hopefully anyway, there’s still
chance), and probably getting a 2:1
overall. Thanks for that.
Would I recommend the Imperial
experience? Yes, but that’s not to say
that Imperial doesn’t struggle in so
many ways.
We all laugh at the student
satisfaction survey. “People don’t
like no longer being best,” “Imperial
students are just whiny,” and “we’ve
just got really high standards,” are
all excuses I’ve heard wheeled out.
But the reality is that many students
are not happy, Oxford, Cambridge,
UCL and other good universities
consistently outperform us. Students
are not enjoying themselves, and so
why would they rate their university
highly?
The gender imbalance was the
biggest worry for me when I chose
Imperial. It seems silly to say that
now: I haven’t struggled to make
friends and have kept a wonderful
girlfriend, but it does fundamentally
change how life works when a large
part of society is just cut out of your
life. I hope that Imperial is trying to
rectify this – I know the new “Design
Engineering” course has 40% female
applicants. I want Imperial to commit
to end this imbalance, for the sake of
both accessibility and reducing the
testosterone-filled environment that
we live in.
This leads me onto the second
problem with Imperial: mental
health. Two weeks ago Felix published
the results of a student-lead Union
survey showing that Imperial not
only had a huge number of students
struggling with their mental health,
but that it was higher than other
universities surveyed by the NUS.
A few weeks before, we published
my own investigation where I
interviewed many students who
had struggled in some way with
mental health; the stories behind
the statistics. I found that there
was support for students and some
great people doing great work. But
there is very little strategy, very
little organisation and very little
recognition at the most senior levels
that the environment here causes
people to become ill. This needs
recognising, accepting and then
changing. The problem is that we
make students ill in the first place,
not that we struggle to help them
when they are.
The way that departments teach
across Imperial seems to vary hugely.
Partly down to the subjects’ nature,
but also down to the individuals in
that department. As innovative as
the research may be, the teaching
methods are right out of the
Victorian era. Most of my time was
spent in a lecture theatre trying not to
go to sleep. If you were lucky you got
a tutorial. If you were very lucky the
tutor cared enough to teach, most of
the time not.
Whilst my project work in 3rd/4th
year has been fantastic, the teaching
is mediocre at best; my typical state
comprehensive school was more
innovative in its teaching methods.
Dep Rep meetings seem to be focused
on when computer rooms are open,
and cafes – for a university to be
relevant in the 21st
century you need
to radically change how teaching is
done, for soon it won’t be possible to
cruise on a reputation as employers
realise that university is just an overly
elaborate sorting mechanism.
Finally, Imperial needs to better
work with its student union, and the
Union with its students. We’re very
fortunate to have a well organised
and structured student union. It runs
popular bars, allows every student to
use the clubs and societies that are the
backbone of the Imperial social life
and isn’t going bust.
But what is “The Union”? For
many it is this mythical beast that
inhabits the back offices of level
2M in Beit. How can the sabbaticals
have a personal relationship with
the presidents and committee of 350
clubs? Never mind the entire Dep Rep
network, an often overlooked part
of union work. Too often we don’t
feel part of our own student union:
this very paper, which is a society
of the Union, paid for by the Union
with an editor elected along with the
sabbatical team in Union elections,
has a separate “Union Page”, which is
bizarre. This came to a head when the
rugby team actively worked against
the Union’s efforts to minimise the
College or police sanctions into public
accusations by The Telegraph, rather
than seeing them as a method of
support and help.
You might read this and think that
I haven’t enjoyed Imperial. This is not
true, I have done. However an article
about how wonderful Imperial is and
what a great place it is to discover new
stuff doesn’t make as a good a read.
Imperial College is genuinely full
of opportunities and I’ve had a great
time taking advantage of as many as
I can, but there is always room for
improvement. Go on Imperial, you
can do it.

