10 FRIDAY 07 MAR
COMMENT
Editors: Eoghan J.
Totten, Tessa Davey
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
P
eople are always on the
hunt for a place to party, a
place to have a blast, for it
to be a hoot. Maybe, if luck
will have it, you manage
to make love sideways to the rhythm
of Mandy and Stella Artoorhys in
Dalston or Metric. But sadly, London
can be a bit of a ‘les incompetents’ in
this department. It can fail to deliver
the goods.
We want a sustained but simple per-
formance: great music, cheap drinks
that don’t cost an arm and a trip to
A&E, and above all: ‘livid gash’ as my
Australian-Berliner acquaintance puts
it. We wanna vibe and be vibed – it’s a
dog eat dog world out there.
People also tell me that what I just
outlined is delivered by Berlin in a
competent manner. So I, Jonny Miti-
gation and Charles Rotknap, a dear
raver of mine, set sail ‘nach Berlin’ one
fateful January night. One Terravision
bus to Stansted, one ‘Ryan F*****g A’
flight; we cheekily fondled Berlin. If
my memory serves me right,it was a
Friday morning that we arrived in the
vicinity of Kreuzberg, Berlin.
Berlin: A Night Life Review
Jonny Mitigation
Anonymous
night and leave Monday morning just
in time for work (did somebody say
Mandy?).
It’s electric – but we need to amp
the wattage. Charles befriends a fellow
raver: so smooth, so Berlin-esque of
him. Turns out to our no-surprise,
the fellow has 10 euro Mandy. Yes,
please. The judgment might be cloudy,
the price very low, but we take the
skeptical plunge. 40 more minutes
of dancing and it hits. And oh my, it
hits. The warm fuzzy feeling of loving
everyone and everything envelops us,
suffocating our inhibitions. We dance
‘hosto’, we were ready to repeat the
experience, but different venues. And
we had ample of choice: we went
for ‘Mein Haus am See’. This bar is
like no others: it proudly displays a
sign: ‘Hippies are welcome’. You see,
Berlin can have a darker side: with
the recent budding of the Hipster
culture mixed with remnants of the
Beatnik movement, it can be a bit
xenophobic. The sign basically says:
‘oi haters, keep accepting that money
tourism brings to you, but order these
hipsters around into a confined space
so they don’t ‘bother’ you anymore’.
Vilifying any group of people for any
reason is dangerous and abhorrent:
treat everyone as an individual. Is it
not what ‘hipsterism’ kinda espouses
you might say? Ha, I wish but let’s be
honest: they are all just facsimiles of
each other, fancying Echo Park to be a
desert island is crazy talk.
I am putting brakes on my belief
in ‘radical individualism’ akin to Ayn
Rand, so let’s talk venue. It’s brilliant,
less personal and more commercial,
but still with style and grace. On a
persy note, I still prefer ‘Lerchen und
Eulen’ – it simply is unmatched. It’s
a place that on our very last night
before the flight in the morning,
Tuesday 2am stays open upon asking
the bartender who serves us superb
cocktails, talks, shares cigarettes and
‘alcohol knowledge’ (FYI, it is a 24/7
place but closes when no customers
are there).
Time flies, and we get on the
move towards Stattbad, our night’s
destination. On the way, we manage
to get lost in a pharmaceutical
factory of Bayer (this is thanks to our
inebriation, not the ‘basically-free’
24/7 Berlin tube system). We never
waste an opportunity: we use it to
espouse our love for Professor Nutt,
calling him affectionately: ‘Hazey
Davo’, ‘Queasy Davo’ or ‘Sun, Sex and
Suspicious Davo’ to name a few. No
one is confused.
After a while, we make it to Stattbad:
this is a club like no other (seems
like a pattern with Berlin). A 50s
Having settled ourselves into
a drengy yet surprisingly comfy
‘hosto’, we hit the sights. We’re
jonesing through the usuals, ever
so gentile Bundestag (why the
haze do you have massive queues
manned by sporadic ticket office
men?), art exhibitions (where East
meets West), historic squats (f***
Greenpeace for wrecking the vibe),
massive statutes of Soviet liberators
(I have a selfie where I promptly
flip them off) and rounding off the
afternoon with a generous helping
of Curry Wurst.
Enough with this hedonistic
chauvinism, I say: no more
distractions to the storyline. That
very evening, we proceed to get
lashed on Jager and Juice and
hit ‘Lerchen und Eulen’. This is
a ‘F*** ME KINDA SIDEWAYS’
establishment that serves the best
Moscow Mules and splendid Swiss
cigarettes to be enjoyed indoors
(Parisienne). All for a measly few
Euros. The vibe of the place is
mesmerizing, Berliners friendly
as ever sporting phenomenally
crafted ‘Mutze’s (including myself,
minus the Berliner part, but hey, I
felt like I was at home). AND you can
get a Larry David sandwich: white
fish, sabel, capers, onions, and cream
cheese. It was as if I got killed in a
drive-by Biggie-style, went to heaven
Fat Boy Slim-style and back.
As we prep to leave ‘Lerchen und
Eulen’ for Tresor, I acquaint a striking
18 year old brunette who, thanks
to the ensuing conversation and
ample amounts of bisexual tension,
became vigorously passionate. The
culmination of the said interaction
was as per usual with me: a humble
exchange of business cards. Her name
is Sabrina and she sells shower curtain
rings by day. Catch of the day.
Finally, we made it to Tresor. On
the way, I managed to violate some
subsections of my parole agreement,
because after all, I act like a cop, I look
like a cop, heck, I must be a cop! Oh I
nearly forgot: we also met Ben Klock
in McDonald’s beforehand: a resident
techno god who said we would get
into Berghain, bare easy. Easy does it.
No more dilly-dallying, time to talk
Tresor. Where do I start: maybe with
the fact that it is a pioneer of the post-
89 Berlin scene set in an industrial
power station, or that we got a 50%
discount for looking berlin-ish? Here’s
a top tip: whilst waiting, don’t speak
English, don’t talk to people, wear
all black, have piercings, maybe a
tattoo, hide being lashed well IF you
hope to get in. Oh, and best have a
hot girl with you, then it should be no
problem. And try to look older, at least
late 20s. I know, I hate pseudo-rules as
much as the next guy. But hey, this is
Berlin, so no much choice – this is a
calculated loss because what awaits
inside is divine and an anti-thesis to
the outside’s excesses. The inside of
Tresor is spectacular: multiple levels,
famous foggy dark tunnels, booming
German techno, studded enclaves
with fascinating people – everything
lit in dim red lights. We get drinks –
Mate it Gin – the best mixer possible.
We light up. We close our eyes. We
dance. It is a trance to be repeated.
So much so, that the most dedicated
members enter Tresor on Friday
manically, clenching our jaws, and
filming it with a GoPro – we are like
that maniac from Flashdance, that
steel town girl, who danced her heart
out and danced herself into that place
in dancing school. Sure, we tumble a
few times like she did – but that does
not deter us. We are Maniacs. If even
just for tonight.
Next phase enters after replenishing
our dehydrated bodies: chinning the
wag. Discussing Kierkegaard with
Carlotta was an experience, talking
to Nina about Isaiah Berlin (what a
coincidence!) was revolutionary. Mr
Rotknap was a hit too although he
chose to talk techno, making industry
contacts – by that stage he was more
aware than me of where we were, who
we were. Actually who were we?
God knows. We coasted like this till
8am, savouring every second, hitting
an after-party. It was glorious, when
the dust settled, to be able to tuck
into a Kebab so tasty, I would give it
a Michelin star on the spot. Go for
Durum rather than Doner: wrap is
easier to tackle than a bap.
Nap and shower later in the
converted leisure centre, with raves
inside the pool, industrial Bauhaus
infrastructure, heating rooms etc.
This is heavenly – Berlin Boiler Room
broadcasts from there. Needless to
say, this was a night equally splendid
to Tresor, minus that great feeling of
loosing your Berlin virginity we had
yesterday. My Dad says that what
you do first, is usually most beautiful.
Tongue in cheek at worst, true at best.
10am and we make it to Berghain.
It is something you have to do but
there can be no slip-ups. Notoriously
amazing, secretive and sexual, it
is a sight: old Stasi prison 10 or so
floors high that became the world’s
greatest techno club. Just a testament
to hedonism. I will leave it to the
imagination of the readers as to what
happened there. One word of advice:
know your exits and entries.
Coming back in early hours of
morning was fun: filming Jackass-
esque challenges whilst downing
kebabs after kebabs. I will never forget
that morning and the breakfast we had
in our ‘hosto’. We slept for a day and
a half.
To spare the agony of making this
article into a tractate, I shall quickly
whirl through the rest of events. That
week, we got to see Kater Holzig out
on a final night, meet zestful divorcees
in Berliner Philharmonic, nip into
Poznan, Poland for a friend’s house
party, vandalise the Berlin Wall with
ironic/iconic Instagrams, see medical
history museum with headless babies,
get student discounts in Benihana and
other unreal malarkey.
So what is the moral of this story?
Well, Berlin is quite amazing, the
best city to be young. And it gets
even better in summer: all we did in
a week is scratch the surface. Here
is what we’re gonna do: if this article
appealed to you and wanna join me,
Jonny Mitigation, Charles Rotknap
and DJ Principal Goodvibes (another
dear raver of mine) for a July in Berlin,
drop us an email at whydontyoufind
friendsonbeboorfriendster@
gmail.com
theloftberlin.com

