11
@feliximperial
FelixImperial
FRIDAY 07 MAR
COMMENT
Manifesto: Place in Marxist Thought
T
o round up my three weeks
of commentary on the
Manifesto, I shall try and
place it in Marxist thought. I
was originally going to write
a short critique of Marxist thought but
it quickly grew to an unreadable length
and so I have settled for this slightly
less ambitious task. Thus this text is
half criticism, half recommendations
for further reading. Before I start on
the meat of the discussion I should
say that in 1848 Marx had begun but
by no means finished his study of
political economy and so we should
not place too much emphasis on the
relative lack of ‘economic essentialism’
in the Manifesto; the outline of history
in the preface of the Contribution
was substantially the same as in the
Manifesto, but the economic claims
were stronger.
There is still, though, a
rather crude and mechanical account
of the development of ideas, in the
Manifesto: ‘The ruling ideas of each
age have ever been the ideas of the
ruling class.’ Taken literally, this means
that Communism will only become
a ruling idea when the proletarians
have taken power, or worse, that
it is already only a bourgeois idea.
Marx does make room for immanent
criticism, ‘when people speak of ideas
that revolutionise society, they do
but express the fact, that within the
old society, the elements of the new
one have been created.’ However
there is no denying that what we
might call the theory of ideology in
the Manifesto remains in the domain
‘vulgar Marxism’. In their defence, it
should be added that Marxists have a
virtual monopoly on the sophisticated
discussions of ideology.
A full discussion of ideology
is quite impossible here, so I will leave
it at the somewhat unsatisfactory
comments above and move onto
the main practical criticisms of the
Manifesto. Put briefly, these criticisms
are about the theory of politics, the
‘national question’, the role of women
and the role of class.
These four categories, I believe,
can all be subsumed under three
more general criticisms of Marxism
in general, though I will not discuss
these extensively here: the criticism
of Marxist teleology, politics and once
again ideology. It can be seen that
there is some overlap; for instance,
the theory of politics in the Manifesto
relates to the overall Marxist discourse
on politics, as well as the reality of
socialist political praxis. Similarly,
categories 2), 3) and 4) all relate in
various degrees to both the Marxist
theory of politics and ideology,
though I believe it is important to
distinguish the two. My final brief
comment about these more general
criticisms is that, though the central
problem for Marxist thinkers today is
the nature of a political subject, that is,
a problematic of politics and ideology,
the ultimate problem for Marxism has
and always will be whether or not it is
teleological.
1) The Theory of Politics.
Ultimately, there is no theory of
politics in Marx. Certainly, the vague
practical recommendations in the
Manifesto at best suggest that people
should be pragmatic and analyze the
concrete historical situation. While
in the 1872 preface Marx and Engels
historical situation was not yet ready.
Gramsci, however, has perhaps the
best political sense of any Marxist
thinker, with a theory of hegemony
not unlike Foucault’s discussion of
power. The precise mechanism for this
struggle for hegemony, however, has I
believe been best formulated by post-
Marxist thinkers Ernesto Laclau and
Chantal Mouffe in their brilliant book
Hegemony and Socialist Strategy
looking at the way discursive fields
become ‘overdetermined’ by certain
hegemonic interpretations of words
and phrases.
2) The National Question.
In the Manifesto the role of
nationalism in politics had a somewhat
summary treatment. The Manifesto
itself is staunchly internationalist,
though it quite unconsciously accepts
have realized that simply seizing
capitalist modes of production is not
enough, and while in the Critique of
the Gotha program Marx uses the
rather enigmatic phrase ‘dictatorship
of the proletariat’ there is still no
real theory of politics. Lenin gets
somewhat closer, in a practical sense
with the creation of vanguard parties,
and in a more profound sense with
what might be called a theory of
action, which Rosa Luxembourg
spells out best in her criticism of
the Mensheviks refusal to revolt on
the grounds that Russia’s objective
when striking over working
conditions. Much of the early Marxist
discussion of the national question
suffers from the then ubiquitous
error in taking nations to be as old as
time immemorial (nations in general
not particular nations like Germany
or Italy which were clearly recent
inventions). Serious scholarship
on nations did not come until the
flurry of books in Britain in the 80s,
the best being Benedict Anderson’s
book Imagined Communities and the
collection edited by Eric Hobsbawm
and Terrence Ranger The Invention
of Tradition. By then, of course, the
writers had lived through the curious
hybrid of nationalist pan-Africanism
during the end of official Imperialism
in the 60s. That this seeming paradox
was possible was very suggestive for
‘person to compete with’ to ‘women
to compete with’ is both the locus of
sexism and irreducible to class rivalry.
Similarly, feminism was for a long time
a middle-class phenomenon; certainly,
the ‘women’ Mary Wollstonecraft
speaks of are unmistakably bourgeois
women, though this has been largely
remedied by the theorists from de
Beauvoir on. Things were largely the
same elsewhere in Europe and in the
US though Howard Zinn does tell a
rather touching story of a meeting
between Eugene Debs and Susan
Anthony. The relationship between
Marxism and feminism has always
been complicated, and will probably
continue to be so.
4) The Role of Class. Class
is a surprisingly complex concept
in Marx’s work as Lukàc’s History
and Class Consciousness shows.
The formula oft repeated by vulgar
Marxists and their more vulgar
critics that kicks of the analysis in the
Manifesto, ‘The history of all hitherto
existing societies is the history of class
struggle’, is I would suggest, by no
means as determinist as many people
say, though there is not space to argue
this here. Much has been made,
recently, about the disappearance of
class, though if this is true it is a purely
western phenomenon and there is
much reason to doubt that this is true
even in the west. There is a very sad
truth to Warren Buffets words, ‘there
is class warfare, and it is my class, the
rich, that is winning.’ Certainly with
international inequality decreasing
and overall inequality increasing talks
of the end of class society seem a little
previous.
On the other hand, some recent
analyses have also led to a proliferation
of new classes, the precariat, the
consumertariat etc. These discussions
are basically idiotic, or even cynically
disposed along the lines of divide and
conquer, but they contain a core of
truth which all the successful Marxist
revolutionaries (Mao, Lenin, Ho Chi
Minh, Castro etc.,) picked up on.
The truth is, in brief, the declining
demographic role of the industrial
proletariat and the persistent refusal
of society to polarize itself into the
two great camps as per the dictates of
the Manifesto.
On the whole recent left wing
critiques have not abandoned class
analysis,buttheyhavestoppedthinking
in terms of proletariat/bourgeoisie
and the new elect revolutionary class
is the lumpenproletariat of old; Negri
and Hardt’s ‘rhizomatic multitudes’;
the billion new slum dwellers, the
unemployed and those subsisting on
the informal economy – essentially the
demographic base of the progressives
in Latin America. Goran Therborn
has written a perspicacious summary
for New Left Review. I direct those
interested there.
Christy Kelly
Writer
the nation as the basic unit of political
organization. Similarly, in Marx’s day,
there was probably little thought that
there could be any hostility between
national movements and socialist
movements; though Garibaldi was
a somewhat dubious socialist, the
Fenians were considered kosher and
had close links with Engels. It was
really only with WWI that there
was any conscious discussion of the
antagonism between socialist and
nationalist ends, though Benedict
Anderson rightly points out that the
Welsh miners did not feel unpatriotic
nationalist phenomenon.
3) The Role of Women.
Here the issue is in many ways the
other way round to the previous
points. While the Manifesto, because
of Engels, had a really rather feminist
position for its day, Marxism has
traditionally been somewhat hostile
to feminist movements. Women, of
course, were a large ‘standing army’ of
workers to be exploited driving wages
down and so typical intra-class rivalry
no doubt played a part in this hostility
of the working classes to women,
though the transposition from
taringa.net

