12 FRIDAY 07 MAR
COMMENT
Editors: Eoghan J.
Totten, Tessa Davey
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Monday
I woke up to loads of texts about the Union elections.
Apparently everyone thinks I’m that obnoxious guy who
puts himself down for all of the positions as some sort of
cry for help. Hermione told me that if I’m not good enough
for her then there’s no way I’m good enough to win any of
these positions.
Tuesday
As an (unwilling) election candidate, I thought it would
be a good idea to bring some diversity to Imperial College
Union. That quad out front of the bar would be just the
right size for an old wooden ship.
Wednesday
I made some posters for my campaign, which I put up in
all of the college toilets. Unfortunately, the returning officer
and the police didn’t appreciate my award winning work in
the porn industry, and I was expelled from college.
Thursday
I came to the conclusion that the union is illegitimate, and
that like all forms of government it should be abolished.
Everyone thinks I’m an idiot, apart from all the people who
donate bitcoin to my campaign. I stand in every election
until the end of recorded time, and never get any votes.
Friday
Today I tried to get some postgrads to vote for me by
hanging out in H Bar. However, everyone just assumed
from the décor and the food that it was my latest fast food
restaurant. And then someone told me that my bright
red curly hair and clown suit were putting them off their
burger. Twat.
Hangman’s week as RON
Guest editorial
This week’s
lolcats from the
ever so secret
lolcat editor.
Much cat, many
word, such laugh,
cate.
Editor-in-Chief Joe Letts News Editors Nida Mahmud, Aamna Mohdin, Aemun Reza, Maciej Matuszewski Features Editor
Shiladitya Ghosh Wellbeing Editor Marissa Lewis Business Editor James Tsim Science Editors Philippa Skett, Keir Little, Fiona
Hartley Politics Editor Kartikeya Rana, Jash Rughani Food Editors Carol Ann Cheah, Michael Chung Comment Editors Eoghan
J. Totten, Tessa Davey Arts Editor Arianna Sorba Fashion Editor Cécile Borkhataria Books Editors Maciej Matuszewski, Eva
Rosenthal Music Editors Simon Hunter, Riaz Agahi, Stuart Masson Television Editors John Park, Emily Fulham Film Editor John
Park Games Editors Maximilian Eggl, Calum Skene Technology Editors Maximilian Eggl, Yong Wen Chua, Osama Arawa, Clubs
& Socs Editor Nida Mahmud Charity Editor Ben Fernando Travel Editor Chris Richardson Sports Editor Kunal Wagle Online
Editors Philip Kent, Annina Sartor, Stephen Ball Puzzles Commanders Kingshuk Dasadhikari, Oliver Price Copycats Stephen Ball
and Annina Sartor Copykittens Mattin Mir-Tahmasebi, Carol Ann Cheah, Xiao Zhang, Alex Hamilton, Tom Rivlin.
Special thanks to: Kunal Wagle, Alex Hamilton and Tessa Davey, amongst others who put in a lot of extra effort in order to get this
bumper-sized 64 page issue out this week.
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB.
Email: felix@imperial.ac.uk. Tel: 020 7594 8072. Fax: 020 7594 8065.
Printed by Iliffe Print Cambridge, Winship Road, Cambridge.
Registered newspaper ISSN 1040-0711.
Copyright © Felix 2014.
TO YOU
THIS
WEEK
WAS
BROUGHT
BY

