13
@feliximperial
FelixImperial
FRIDAY 07 MAR
ARTS
POETRY CORNER
Eye Sun
by Eamonn Postlethwaite
My mistress’ eyes are the sun,
and having gazed longing to them,
I find my retinas scarred.
I am blind to
any other beauty.
Her freckles are hotbright pinpricks and stars,
though
they themselves cannot pierce my murky gaze.
Instead they callous my fingertips as my eyes,
when I trace my love upon her back.
After her, my charred body
does naught but fill my nose with smoke.
After her, the harsh crackling of flesh
is sound.
Now my thoughts rebel against me, unafraid.
Their pressure shrinks me, and what remains
is butter spread too thin. Pop culture
as glue while I tear at the seams.
When my sun goes supernova
nothing will change for me.
My senses fled this sorry corpse, for without light
nothing grows.
Fancy yourself a poet? Got an artwork you’d like to share? Made a nice
origami? Send submissions to arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk to showcase
your work in Felix.
Is all art propaganda?
A
rt should comfort the
disturbed and disturb
the comfortable. It’s an
instantly quotable adage
from Banksy, but what
does it actually mean? Can a line be
drawn between outright political
propaganda and the canvases hanging
in every hip gallery in London? Or
is all art propaganda, as the title of
George Orwell’s collection of critical
essays claims? Visual media has the
unique ability to reach the masses and
influence thought and perception.
Does linking this to political ideology
threaten the integrity of the artist
and the artwork itself, or is the art
informed and heightened by this social
and political context?
Propaganda and art have always
been closely interlinked. War, in
particular often blurs the lines between
art and propaganda. Dating back to
classical times, battle and its Generals
have been glorified through art, calling
men to arms. In modern times, as the
public consciousness has turned away
from war, art has similarly reflected the
turning tide of anti-war sentiment.
A striking example is Picasso’s
Guernica; a visceral 11x25.6 ft canvas
depicting the horrors of war, and the
misery that followed the Nazi bombing
of the Spanish town of Guernica
during the Spanish Civil War. It has
gained fame for its bold political
statement, made stronger by its lack
of colour; it’s blue, black and white
tones reminiscent more of newsprint
and photographic documentation of
the time than of Picasso’s usual style.
Though Picasso himself always
considered Guernica deeply political,
condemning violence, at the time
of its unveiling in Paris it received
little critical attention. In this respect
it could be said to have failed in its
role as propaganda, never receiving
enough critical acclaim or seen by
Indira Mallik
Writer
enough people needed for truly
effective propaganda. The piece has
gone on to become a potent symbol
of the destruction of war on the lives
of innocent civilians. In many aspects,
it is easy to fit Guernica neatly into
the box of ‘art’ despite its political
undertones. Other art pieces are more
overtly propaganda.
Take for example Rima Najdi, a
multidisciplinary Lebanese artist
based in Germany, who has taken to
walking the streets of Beirut dressed
as a bomb. All in black except for a
fake red dynamite suicide vest, Najdi
hopes to highlight the danger the
citizens of Beirut face every day, and
the real fear they have of dying just
stepping out of their homes. The idea
for the installation piece came as a
result of being a close to one of the
car bombs that hit downtown Beirut,
and the predominantly Shia area of
Dahiyeh, where Hezbollah has a strong
presence. Though without a doubt
food for thought, can Najdi’s work be
considered true art?
Jackson Pollock would’ve thought
not; abstract expressionism, the 20th
century movement of which Pollock
was a major figure, was based on
the ideal that art should be wholly
separated from ideology. Artists in
the movement considered art to be
of a higher form, that should be kept
pure, and that the images or structures
should flow from within the artist
without seeking to influence or impart
any sort of social or political context. It
was the idea of ‘art for art’s sake’, pure
aestheticism.
But even pure aestheticism cannot
be safe from becoming propaganda;
ultimately the power to judge an
artwork lies in the hands of the viewer.
Indeed, the work of the abstract
expressionists including Jackson
Pollock and Mark Rothko was adopted
as propaganda during the Cold War.
In 1995, The Independent reported
that the CIA had confirmed that
it had secretly funded the abstract
expressionists as a foil to the rigid
socialist realism of Soviet art, as a
symbol of American freedom and
creativity.
To address the question whether any
attempt should be made to separate art
from propaganda, we turn to Orwell
when he writes in context of World
War II in his 1949 essay The Frontiers
of Art and Propaganda, “you cannot
take a purely aesthetic interest in a
disease you are dying from”. Speaking
about the way art was so endemically
joined with war propaganda – take
for instance Rosie the Riveter who
has since become an icon of the
women’s war effort in the US, Orwell
writes “[propaganda art] destroyed
the illusion of pure aestheticism…
propaganda in some form or other
lurks in every work of art, [each] has
a meaning and a purpose — a political,
social and religious purpose”.
It seems art cannot exist outside of
the social and political context of its
time. Emphasisingformoversubstance
not only opens the artwork up to the
danger of being too academic for the
masses to enjoy, but often proves futile.
Orwell goes on to write “our aesthetic
judgements are always coloured by our
prejudices and beliefs.” Thus even the
most innocuous abstract piece may
become a political statement in the
mind of a particular viewer.
Pablo Picasso, Guernica, 1937
Jackson Pollock, Number 11, 1952 national gallery of australiA

