14 FRIDAY 07 MAR
ARTS Editor: Arianna Sorba
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
What: Harry Callahan Display
Where: Tate Modern, SE1
When: Until 31st May
Price: FREE
Tiny Tate display still packs a punch
T
he Tate Modern opens its
Harry Callahan display with a
quotefromthephotographer:
“if a man wishes to express
himself photographically, he
must understand… his relationship to
life”. Indeed, one of the most moving
aspects of this display is Callahan’s
reverence for the beauty present in
everydaylife.AChicagoStreet,acarpet
of autumn leaves; the photographer’s
subjects are unremarkable, yet his
images are endowed with a humble
beauty.
Considered to be one of the pioneers
of20thcenturyAmericanphotography
and the New Vision Movement,
Callahan was self-taught. He began
taking pictures with Chrysler Motor’s
Photo Club during his time as a clerk
with the company in Detroit, and was
inspired by the work of landscape
photographer Ansel Adams to pursue
photography seriously from age 26,
in 1941. Rejecting the prevailing
trend for documentation of current
events, Callahan preferred to draw
upon his everyday surroundings
in Detroit and Chicago for subject
matter. His modern style earned
him a teaching position at Chicago’s
Institute of Design and later the Rhode
Island School of Design, culminating
in a retrospective at the Museum
of Modern Art (MoMA) in 1976.
However, whilst critically acclaimed
in the States, Callahan’s name is little-
known outside of art circles in the UK.
Tate Modern’s exhibit aims to bring his
work this side of the pond.
The display spans Callahan’s work
from post-war black and white shots
of Chicago to his colour images
of the seventies. Callahan’s early
urban images are testimony to his
photographic craftsmanship, and
ability to capture the mood of 1950s
Chicago. His crisp silver gelatin prints
lend themselves well to the clean lines
of the buildings in his photographs,
and complement his interest in form.
These urban images have a sombre
beauty. Shadow dominates his
photographs (the dense darkness
of Wabash Street, 1958 is almost
tangible) and many cityscapes are
deserted. Where pedestrians are
present, they seem unaware of the
camera and Callahan is careful to
preserve their anonymity. Men gather
on a street corner in the uniforms of
50s Chicago, grey suits, their faces
obscured beneath hat brims.
The same sobriety pervades
Callahan’s natural landscapes – in
Detroit, 1941 a telegraph pole stands
solitary in a field. Callahan’s eye for
minutiaeisevidentinsomeofhisclose-
range shots of buildings or landscapes,
leading to a deconstruction of the
subject’s form and lending his images
a mischievous abstract quality. His
close-ups of windswept Georgia
Mountain grasses could be mistaken
for a dog’s coat, his cropped snapshots
of New York skyscrapers equally
cryptic. Callahan’s use of multiple film
exposure, allowing for superposition
of images, creates some pictures that
verge on the surreal; a nude female
floats eerily on the side of a skyscraper
in Providence-Nude on Building, 1970.
The display divides Callahan’s work
according to three main themes:
nature, buildings and people. However,
it is arguable that the only person really
present in the images here is Callahan’s
wife Eleanor, who compliantly posed
for him “rain or shine, whatever (she)
was doing” throughout the 63 years
of their marriage. Eleanor’s presence
can be heavily felt in different aspects
of his work. She appears nude in an
apartment, then fully clothed against
bleak winter landscapes, at distant
or close range. In Eleanor, 1949 she
emerges nymph-like from a lake, a
nipple peeking from the glassy water.
We are presented with close-up shots
of portions of Eleanor’s body, and
using multiple exposure, Eleanor’s
naked torso shimmers in front of the
landscape in Aix-en-Provence, 1958.
It has been suggested that Tate
Rhian Jones
Writer
What: Hannah Hoch
Where: Whitechapel Gallery, E1
When: Until 23rd March
Price: £9,95, £7.95 concessions
Witty, irreverent, political collages
Jingjie Cheng
Writer
I
n Heads of State (1920), two
portly figures are pictured in their
bathing suits before a feminine
backdrop of butterflies, flowers
and a woman with a parasol.
One figure is the first president of the
Weimar republic, Friedrich Ebert, and
the other, his defence minister.
It is such comical and emasculating
juxtapositions that make Hannah
Hoch’s collages so subversive and
entertaining. A pioneer of the
photomontage technique, Hoch draws
from journals and magazines to put
vastly disparate elements together,
creating whimsical, counterintuitive
and sometimes irreverent pieces that
comment on the political and social
changes of the turbulent period in
post-World War I Germany. A key
contributor to the Berlin Dadaist
movement but slighted by the
other mainly male members, Hoch
nevertheless left her mark as a witty,
original artist who somehow managed
to combine images into coherent
wholes that tell stories of their own.
Although it is greatly disappointing
that her arguably most famous
work, and icon of the Berlin Dada
movement, Cut with the Kitchen Knife
through the Last Weimar Beer-Belly
Cultural Epoch in Germany (1920) is
not on show, as the fragile original sits
delicately in the Neue Nationalgalerie
ofBerlin,thisexhibitionisnevertheless
important in shedding light on her
contributions to 20th century collage,
as well as to the politically charged
body of art of the time. Being the first
major exhibition of her works in the
UK, with more than a hundred pieces
spanning from 1910s to 1970s, the
show puts this woman in the well-
deserved spotlight.
Hoch had studied at the School
of Applied Art in Berlin before
working at the well-known Ullstein
publishing house. Her early works
saw a confluence of her background in
functional art and aesthetics itself, as
she drew inspiration from embroidery
to create two-dimensional art
reminiscent of tessellation. These
early works reflect interplay between
patterns and human figures, often
nudes, with the geometric blending
into the organic. Already we can
detect an interest in collage – the work
White Cloud (1916) uses fragments of
printed designs.
The ground floor of the exhibition
follows the works of her Dada, or ‘anti-
art period. Hoch often expressed her
Dadaistappealtoirrationalandchance
humour through collages that subvert
institutions. Perhaps influenced by
the cubist works of her time, Hoch’s
works are often disproportionate and
contain conflicting perspectives. High
Finance (1923) depicts two large-
headed men in suits tangled up with
a huge gun and military equipment –
a sharp criticism of military-industry
collusion in the republic. I found her
collages extraordinarily refreshing for
their blatant irreverence.
In her words, her photomontages
“cannibalise the images of popular
culture to satirise not only political
figures but also gender inequality
and sexual stereotypes”. Indeed,
her important series From an
Ethnographic Museum challenges
conventional concepts of beauty by
juxtaposing mainly female body parts
with ethnographic objects. Said to
have been inspired by a visit to such
a place, the works in this series are at
once bestial and strangely beautiful, as
we acknowledge that there is aesthetic
value in bringing different things
together – an idea that went against
not only the prevailing idea of beauty
but more broadly, the totalising
ideologies of National Socialism.
These works may also be a comment
on colonialism and exoticism,
questioning traditional boundaries
of race and culture. She sums up her
purposes best in her own words in the
catalogue of her first solo exhibition
at The Hague in 1929 – “I would
like to blur the firm borders that we
human beings, cocksure as we are, are
inclined to erect around everything
that is accessible to us...I want to show
that the small can be large, and large
small, it is just the standpoint from
which we judge that changes, and
every concept loses its validity.”
The exhibition extends to two
galleries upstairs, one of which shows
her massive scrapbooking project
Album, created during Nazi rule
when, in danger of persecution, she
avoided public life and lived quietly in
the Berlin suburbs. The other gallery
displays Hoch’s post-war works,
which took a turn from her Dada past
and looked to nature for inspiration,
becoming increasingly abstract and
colourful. It is almost as if her works
reflected the liberation she felt after
the war, free from Nazi rule.
However, for me, Hoch will always
be remembered by her bold and
unapologetic political and social
commentary of her Dada period. It
is her matter-of-fact laying out of her
uncensored opinions that give her
collages an irreverent charm which
tickles the surface, but at the same
time, excavates important issues and
places them starkly out in the open.
overstates the importance of Harry
Callahan as “one of the most influential
figures in post-war photography”, and
this small display only provides a taster
of his work (around 90 photographs).
Nonetheless, this retrospective –
intimate, succinct and neatly curated –
is a photographic masterclass that is in
danger of being overlooked. So when
you head to the Tate Modern to see the
heavily publicised Paul Klee or Richard
Hamilton exhibitions, make sure that
you drop by.
Harry Callahan, Providence, 1966 © Estate of Harry Callahan
COLLECTION OF IFA, STUTTGART
Hannah Hoch, Heads of State, 1918-20

