16 FRIDAY 07 MAR
MUSIC
Editor: Simon Hunter,
Riaz Agahi, Stuart
Masson
music.felix@gmail.com
P
rior to writing this review,
I stumbled upon a recent
YouTube recording of
Wild Beasts performing
a mellow and slightly
mocking rendition of Miley Cyrus’
Wrecking Ball. I watched this video
probably three or four times. This
was not just because I love Wrecking
Ball (who doesn’t?), but because the
vocal complementation between
front-men Hayden Thorpe and Tom
Fleming is so damn great. Anyway, it
goes without saying that Wild Beasts
are much better than Miley Cyrus,
and their most recent offering, Present
Tense, may be their best.
For those of you unfamiliar with
Wild Beats, they hail from humble
Kendal – home of those poignantly
disgusting mint cakes. As alluded
to previously, their style revolves
around the vocal partnership of
Thorpe and Fleming; Thorpe’s tenor
punches through intricate guitar
riffs and brooding synth tones, with
Fleming’s harmonies bridging the
space inbetween. The band started
as a brilliantly flamboyant pop-rock
outfit, and in succeeding albums have
transformed to serious art-rockers.
Some of their critics, however, have
felt this has caused the fun to slowly
bleed from Wild Beasts. I agree that
perhaps they aren’t the most exciting
live act, with some of my crueller
friends calling them “Mild Beasts”,
but the music speaks for itself. Are
Radiohead fun? Are The xx fun?
Is music even supposed to be fun?
And perhaps the band agrees: in
Wild Beasts - Present Tense
Wanderlust, the lead single of Present
Tense, Thorpe sings – “Don’t confuse
me with someone who gives a fuck”.
No fucks given here.
Present Tense itself follows on from
2011’s Smother. To progress their
sound the band worked in absence
of their long-time producer Richard
Formby and sought out to collaborate
with producers more experienced
in electronic modes. This electronic
component is a distinct difference
from previous albums, with a large
integration of synthesizers at the
expense of guitar-driven melodies.
This serves to add further texture to
the core of most tracks, helping to
convey despair when needed, as in
Daughter, but also amplify beauty,
as in the track New Life. Personally,
I’ve become pretty obsessed with
Wanderlust, a track that somewhat
epitomizes the changes brought in for
this album. A dark punchy bass-line,
an unrelentless drum loop, a choral-
esque flickering synth, an outro that
is as depressed as it is angry – it’s a
powerful track. As with Smother, I
imagine most of the tracks will be
‘growers’, competing for my affection
and attention.
Emiel’s Guide to
Episode 8 - From North to South
Classical Music
Emiel de Lange
Last week we discussed Josquin, who
is often known as the ‘Beethoven of
the 16th Century, and in particular
his work Ave Maria. For many
generations, Josquin was regarded by
theorists and other thinkers as the
composer who had perfected the art
of music. As Martin Luther wrote;
“He is the master of the notes. They
must do as he wills; as for the other
composers, they have to do as the
notes will”. Josquin’s use of imitation
(different voices entering sequentially
in a similar manner) and his synthesis
of many different European styles
would be taken up by his students and
by their students too. The most famous
of these were Nicolas Gombert,
Jacob Clemens and Adrian Willaert,
all ‘Netherlandish’ – Dutch speakers
from present-day Belgium.
Willaerts had a particularly strong
influence on the future of music, and
although his style is very similar to
Josquin’s – indeed when he went to
Rome he found the papal choir singing
his music under the mistaken belief
that it was Josquin’s – he did make
important contributions himself. His
music was unprecedentedly smooth.
Despite the many voices entering and
exiting throughout a piece, the ‘whole’
seems to have its own energy and
character; voices lost some of their
independence, and their significance
is subsumed into the effect of this
‘whole’. What I mean by this is simply
that the old way of thinking of voices
as ‘lines’ which enter into polyphony
and move relative to each other is
being replaced by a more ‘horizontal’
view, where the harmonic relations
between each voice at any moment
combine to give the music its character.
Furthermore, Willaert gave his music
new continuity by avoiding cadences.
Cadences are the punctuation marks
of music – the points at which a
dissonant harmony resolves into a
consonance to give a sense of finality.
Willaert didn’t simply avoid these,
but cleverly prepared the listener for
them before moving the harmony
away – creating surprise, suspense
and energy. It is easy to see that in
preparing the listener for a cadence,
the composer creates a context in
which the cadence is expected, and
this too was a new, global way of
thinking about harmonies within the
context of others – a step on the way
to our modern system of ‘ keys’.
One of Willaert’s pupils became the
most influential theorist of the day.
The Italian, Gioseffo Zarlino, wrote
widely on many aspects of music and
sought to characterise the Ars Perfecta
exemplified in the music of his master
and his predecessors. In doing so
he formally recognised some of the
recent innovations and made them
known to composers throughout
Europe. The most significant of these
may be the ‘triad’ – a harmonic
structure which is still dominant
today. Whereas previously harmonies
were characterised by the intervals
present between voices, Zarlino
recognised in the music of Willaert
et al. a grouping of notes which acted
as a functional unit. Composers often
used a particularly pleasant stacking
of notes which included the usual
perfect consonants (the 5th octave),
but also the interval of a 3rd. We now
know that this stacking corresponds
to the harmonic series of frequencies
heard when a pitch is played but
Zarlino attempted to justify it using
some bizarre mathematics and called
it the triad. Nowadays when we refer
to a chord, such as C Major, we are
referring to the triad built on C, which
also includes the notes E and G.
Zarlino succeeded Willaert as the
maestro di cappelle at St. Marks
Cathedral in Venice. Here, Willaert
had created a leading centre of music
and invited colleagues from all over
Europe to come work.
Venice became the centre of
the musical world as wealthy
merchants imported musical talent
from the North and eventually the
Netherlandish innovation would give
way to Italian dominance.
Lee Sewell
Music Writer
Cloud Nothings - Here and Nowhere Else
Stuart Masson
Music Editor
I
t has been an unusual journey
for Dylan Baldi, the man
behind Cleveland based Cloud
Nothings. He was signed as
a one-man band and released
his first two albums, Turned On and
the self-titled Cloud Nothings, were
recorded as such. They were full of lo-
fi noise pop at its most frantic and fun,
with catchy hooks oozing out of every
song. They fitted seamlessly, although
with little fanfare, into the lo-fi indie
scene of the time. It was The Pains
of Being Pure at Heart running
late for a dentist appointment, Titus
Andronicus after a Disney film or
Wavves if they’d never seen any real
waves. They were good, but they
weren’t the most necessary of bands.
In 2012, Cloud Nothings recorded
Attack on Memory. It was the first
recorded with the live line-up and
was widely heralded at the time for
being the dreaded “massive direction
change”. As someone who was a big
fan of their early stuff, I approached
it with a fairly closed mind. I was
expecting it to be shit, but I was so
wrong. They may have abandoned
their noise pop roots. Sounding more
like At the Drive-In, Unwound and
Fugazi than Best Coast, and the lo-
fi production completely absent, it
was certainly a big switch up. It was
a switch up that changed them from
obscure also-rans into one of the
most important bands in modern
indie rock. Mixing the catchy hooks
with post-hardcore, grunge and a new
found sense of disillusionment, it was
one of the albums of 2012.
Here and Nowhere Else is not a
massive direction change. Despite
losing the extra guitarist, the sound
remains pretty similar. There’s still
catchy hooks, there’s still strong
post-hardcore and grunge influences,
there’s still a furious sense of urgency.
It might not be innovative, but it’s still
really fucking good.
Opening track, Now Here In, is an
absolute beast that would have fitted
in perfectly on Attack on Memory.
Catchy riffs are matched with Dylan’s
laid back drawl, slowly building up to
an explosive solo and a big singalong
finale. Giving Into Seeing draws a lot
from Sonic Youth, with repeated
screams of “swallow” matched with
a haunting dissonant guitar that just
keeps rising. It’s absolutely brilliant.
All bands should sound like Sonic
Youth. No Thoughts is Cloud Nothings
at their most intense, whilst closer I’m
Not Part of Me features some of his
catchiest work allied with some of his
best ever lyrics. Baldi’s always been
a big fan of repeating a single line
and “I’m not telling you all I’m going
through” is definitely one of his best
refrains.
The highlight of Attack on Memory
was the nine minute long Wasted
Days. Bravely featuring second on the
album it remains an absolute tune.
They seem to have gone with a similar
idea of having one long track here,
the seven and a half minute Pattern
Walks is a bit more traditionally
positioned as the penultimate track.
It certainly doesn’t have the same
impact that Wasted Days did, but it’s
still pretty good. It follows a similar
pattern of catchy section followed
by instrumental section followed by
another catchy bit, but it’s just not at
the same level.
The highlight here is Psychic
Trauma. A slowed down first verse
is pleasant enough, but it’s the
sudden tempo change that makes
it. Everything gets faster, louder and
more intense. It doesn’t let up, it just
keeps getting better.
Cloud Nothings seem to have
settled on this sound, but that’s for the
best. As much as I enjoy the old stuff,
this is better. Loads better. Attack on
Memory was one of the best indie rock
album of the last five years or so, and
this one’s definitely the best of this year
so far. It’s perfect shout-along-at-a-gig
type stuff, but there’s a lot of musical
substance if you want to dig deeper.
This is a highly rewarding listen, and
it comes with a high recommendation
from me, if perhaps a slightly less high
one than Attack on Memory...
Netherlandish composer, Adrian Willaert
Music theorist, Gioseffo Zarlino

