18 FRIDAY 07 MAR
BOOKS
Editor: Maciej
Matuszewski, Eva
Rosenthal
books.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Creative Writing students present more short stories aimed at Freshers
Notes to a Fresher 2
Dear fresher,
Skempton is an inflatable bouncy castle that you’re about to climb
into. When it’s inflated tomorrow, start making the most out of it.
When you’re not scratching your head while staring at the structures
lab from the mezzanine, wondering when you’ll get to play in it,
which is never, take some very high leaps and enjoy some flips. Just
make sure you don’t bounce right out of it and injure yourself. Four
years later, you will probably be drained, but extremely overjoyed and
satisfied. Caution: Not suitable for couch potatoes and heels must be
taken off.
Yours truly,
Bouncy castle operator
Quick tip: use the stairs. The lift’s never there when you need it. But
you’ll wait anyway because – what else could you do? Busy, busy, busy.
You’re too tired anyway. And perhaps you’ll save the extra minutes
to slog over another tutorial, and another lab; another report, and
another project. You might feel your body begin to atrophy as you
spend all your time here but – anything to get a First, right?
Or you could be: a point defect in the bulk, an anomalous data point.
You could use the stairs.
Will you?
The following story was printed in last week’s issue but the final
sentence was cut off. Apologies to the author. - Ed.
When expostulating spirits have you defeated and you are ready to
fall upon your own sword, remember: nothing contributes so much
to tranquilize the mind and excite the body as a steadfast firm and
repetitive grip of purpose, a point on which the soul may fix its
intellectual eye.
Go on, have a wank.
Anon
Physics, 3rd Year
Kawthar Aljufairi
Civil Engineering, 3rd Year
JB
Mechanical Engineering, 4th Year
V&A
An elliptical droplet, circumference 7.8mm, accelerates at 9.81 metres per second, per second towards an
open copy of Advanced Spectroscopy and Nuclear Astrology, Twelfth Edition. It collides with negligible force
upon the page, with respect to the pressure exerted on the brain, encased by a skull of radius 8.61cm; the
frame of which had 8 seconds before expelled said droplet. The head lurches and spins with median speed
of 34cm per second to face bookshelves of height 2.1m. The aforementioned head oscillates along a vertical
plane, with frequency of 30 shakes per minute. Temperature within the core of the brain is 37.2 degrees
centigrade, 0.5 degrees above the mean temperature. Brain system mode set at ‘Highly Stressed, Meltdown
Imminent’.
The bipedal system malfunctions, causing the body to experience 1G as it is raised into the upright position.
Further system failures lead to strides of length 84cm, bringing the system 7.32m closer to a doorframe,
width 0.9m. The system stalls for 3.8 seconds, as unsuccessful irrational thinking overrides are attempted.
The faulty bipedal network switches its operational frequency to ‘Run’ mode. Four groupings of 8 steps,
each of height 22cm, are vaulted with 30% weight distribution on the right moiety of the bipedal system.
Average speed is increased from 4 metres per second to 6metres per second, following a 90 degree turn,
encompassing an overall change of torso direction from South to East. Memory circuits short-circuit for a
duration of 21 seconds. Memory resumes as evasive maneuvers are initiated; introduction of a 20 degree
tilt to the torso, preventing collision with an object (identified as Columba livia; pigeon), with circular
trajectory of diameter 2m towards the right audio receiver. Bipedal systems regain function, allowing
deceleration to walking pace, with default stride of 44cm. The system slows to a complete stop. Visual
sensors observe light of wavelength 650nanometres, reflecting from a complex contour pattern, interpreted
as spelling ‘V & A’. Gas containment chambers expel air with flow rate 0.48L per second. Brain temperature
decreases by 0.3 degrees.
System switched to ‘relaxed’ mode.
What ate my soul
There she sits in the middle of campus.
Like an enormous spider, she draws in her prey with promises of comfortable study spaces, free computers
and working printers.
One by one, students are taken in by her luscious charms, drawn to her like flies to a bug zapper. Through
wind and rain, they journey far and wide to be consumed by her. They huddle desperately outside her jaws
on the coldest of Saturday mornings. They sit within her grotesquely bloated abdomen through short days
and long nights. And when they finally do leave, it is only to return the following day like addicts to a drug.
She is a bank of knowledge; a vast repository of centuries of human advancement, and one page, one
chapter, one book at a time, thousands of students a day leech off her wisdom.
But you must understand that one can never get something for nothing.
Every time a student steps out from between her pincers, they leave a little of themselves behind. A little
joy, a little happiness, a little hope. A small morsel of their soul is retained by the great spider, payment for
time spent within her belly.
When you stepped into Imperial all those years ago, you may have bursting with passion for learning, but
the you who leaves will be little more than an empty shell, filled to the brim with mathematical equations,
derivations, proofs and formulae, but devoid of any trace of emotion or life.
So, by all means, at the end of it all, sign that contract to sell your soul to J. P. Morgan. They won’t realise
that they’re getting the short end of the stick.
MIM
Bioengineering, 3rd Year
VC
Life Sciences, 2nd Year

