20 FRIDAY 07 MAR
FILM Editor: John Park
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Peter Brook
Treasured Writer
Paul Thomas Anderson is the spir-
itual son of Martin Scorsese, he re-
flects many of the styles and themes
of Scorsese’s work whilst adding and
refining to make a style that is very
much his own. Their similarities in-
clude the penchant for long tracking
takes, the style of epic multi-character
stories and along side this many mo-
tifs, including the powerful adopted
father figures.
PTA’s early career began with Hard
Eight (Sydney in the UK) a masterpiece
of dialogue and intrigue following this
with Boogie Nights and Magnolia,
both immense in scope and complex-
ity multicast pieces. Following this,
there was an interlude with the en-
dearing Punch-Drunk Love (possibly
Adam Sandler’s only good film) before
pushing onto two single character lead
films with There Will Be Blood (which
won Best Actor at the Oscars for Dan-
iel Day-Lewis) and The Master (with
Philip Seymour Hoffman and Joaquin
Phoenix). These final two films are
both draped with ideas of faith.
Director Masterclass: Paul Thomas Anderson (1)
Hard Eight (1996)
Hard Eight opens with John C. Reil-
ly’s character on the steps of a diner
as Philip Baker Hall’s Sydney opens
walks up to him and offers him a cof-
fee. The opening 10 minutes of dia-
logue is probably the most intriguing
and quick moving introductions to
two characters I have ever seen. Both
actors have opportunity to shine as
Sydney takes the trepidatious John
C. Reilly to Vegas to show him how
to make some money. This dynamic
of the adoptive father figure can be
seen throughout his filmography, very
specifically in Boogie Nights and The
Boogie Nights (1997)
This film is just a cataclysmic event
in film, it follows the life of porn
star Dirk Diggler getting his first job
in porn, to the highs of his career in
the mid-seventies, to the terrible 80s
when his life starts to fall apart. Every
era has a massive tracking shot around
a big party showing the characters
mingling, interacting and it gives us
an opportunity to reflect on how their
complex lives are unfolding, a club
owner who wants to be in movies, a
stereo salesman who just won’t let the
cowboy aesthetic go…
Really this is an epic that focusses on
Dirk Diggler played by Mark Wahlberg
growing up in the wrong crowd, who’s
ambitions start pure, well as pure as
making pornos with ‘real storylines’
can be. And on New Year’s Eve 1980,
things start to go wrong, he tries co-
caine for the first time and goes from
being very affluent to trying to hustle
Magnolia (1999)
Another multi-character epic that has
no fixed narrative, but relies on weird
coincidental links between a won-
derful cast including Philip Seymour
Hoffman, Tom Cruise, John C. Reilly,
William H. Macy and an outstanding
Julianne Moore. The opening (watch
it on Youtube), which kind of has
nothing to do with the plot of the film
takes three true stories about com-
pletely unlikely coincidences and sets
them up against what you are about
to witness. There are so many writers
that struggle to make one character
interesting, and PTA manages to write
about 10 totally compelling characters
that have so much depth, history and
truth to them. We follow Tom Cruise,
a man who runs Pick Up Artist semi-
nars, William H. Macy as a former
‘What do kids know?’ TV champion
and Julianne Moore, a trophy wife de-
pendant on Xanex to get through the
day, has to collect drugs for her dying
husband. How these stories are re-
lated, and the strange events that get
them there, really let us get inside the
heads of these characters.
Punch-Drunk Love (2002)
Punch-Drunk Love is the only film in
PTA filmography which runs under an
hour and half and has a tone and style
very much of it’s own. It is also one of
the few films that I have enjoyed with
Adam Sandler in. It follows Sandler,
playing Barry Egman, who seems to
suffer from a crippling anxiety after
growing up with seven overbearing
and cruelly teasing sisters. His anxi-
ety leads to him violently lashing out
at inanimate objects. He is otherwise
sweet and conscientious. Again, the
coincidental finding of a small piano,
a phone call to a phone sex line to talk
about life leading to him being em-
broiled in blackmail attempts. There
are also many other elements from
the performance that make this movie
Master, and in Scorsese’s Gangs of New
York, Mean Streets and Goodfellas.
Another nod to Scorsese’s Goodfellas’
Coco Cabana tracking shot is the first
shot we see of as we walk around the
casino, and it is just glorious!
There is one scene which probably
has more intrigue than anything I’ve
ever seen before. Sydney has been
called to a motel room where some-
thing has gone wrong with John C.
Reilly’s character, and for the longest
time all we can see is Sydney’s face
as he looks in the room talking with
those inside. It makes you shift in
your seat so as to try to see around
the frame of the screen into the room
drug dealers out of money (one of the
most stressful scenes in the movie, fire
crackers being let off by a high kid not
only puts the characters on edge, but
put everyone in the room into physi-
cal states of discomfort and tension).
Alongside the wonderful characters
we also get a soundtrack that is just
the best of the 70s, so make sure you
have the speakers turned up to 11.
Again, we have some strange and
wonderful acts of genius coincidence
that make the world seem so real and
exciting; we also get a strong adoptive
father relationship between Dirk and
the porn baron who brings him into
this world and makes him rich. Really
an amazing cast, from Philip Seymour
Hoffman (who appeared in all but
one of PTAs films except There Will
Be Blood) playing a lonely and weird
runner in the porn world, to Julieanne
Moore, Burt Reynolds, John C. Reilly
and William H. Macy. Next week, I will conclude by talking about There Will Be Blood and The Master
yourself. The excitement and terror at
that moment was incredible.
Finally, an idea that follows us
through this film and into Magnolia
is this idea of coincidence; JCR’s char-
acter opens with a story about why
he can’t light his cigarette because
he refuses to carry matches as once
a packet spontaneously exploded in
his pocket. It incites a laugh at first,
but also offers the audience to accept
other weird spontaneous situations
later in the story, as we are primed
to remember that weird things really
do happen. This idea takes to another
level in Magnolia…
wonderful, we have superb cinema-
tography and just beautifully designed
shots. The shot of Barry finally kiss-
ing his love in a silhouetted, busy ho-
tel is breathtaking and the movie has
intermissions include impressionist
style video art, which, along with the
costumes and sets, creates a beauti-
fully vivid world in which Barry lives.
Roger Ebert, the renowned film critic,
said of Sandler in this film “Sandler,
liberated from the constraints of for-
mula, reveals unexpected depths as an
actor. Watching this film, you can im-
agine him in Dennis Hopper roles. He
has darkness, obsession and power.
He can’t go on making those moronic
comedies forever, can he?” Unfortu-
nately, with the benefit of hindsight
we know that Ebert was wrong… Jack
and Jill…

