Imperial College prove too strong for
Imperial Medics
Ranjodh Sanghera’s heroics for the Medics were in vain as the
Medics Basketball team succumbed to a classy College.
Kunal Wagle
Sports Editor
O
n Friday 28th
February Imperial
descended on the
Copper Box (the
beloved stadium
in the Queen Elizabeth II Olympic
Park) to watch one of the most highly
anticipated clashes of the year. But
before the London Lions match there
was the small matter of the College
playing against the Medics in the first
Varsity clash of the year.
The College got ahead early and
stayed ahead, with the Medics
struggling to match them. College
managed to surge ahead to a 22-8 lead
after the first quarter, and from then
on Medics were always playing catch-
up. At half time the lead had begun to
stretch, with the College taking a 36-
17 cushion into the half-time break.
Despite a strong start to the second
half from the Medics, the College
continued to move ahead (despite a
lack of discipline leading to many free
throws), before they sealed the game
in the final quarter at a convincing 62-
36.
Due to a lack of signposts at the
Olympic Park, the Felix reporting
team only reached the Copper Box in
time for the second quarter, in time to
witness a key moment in the game –
a shootout between the two mascots
– Victoria and Albert. When they
couldn’t be separated after five throws
each (none had reached the basket, let
alone gone in) there was a roar from
the crowd as the players replaced
them on the court for the second
quarter.
At the start of the quarter the Medics
enjoyed a good spell of possession
near the College basket, but were
unable to translate this into points on
the board, and soon found themselves
conceding again. Unfortunately for
them, this was to be the story for most
of their evening. It was now 26-8.
The other main theme for the
evening was the ill discipline of the
College as they defended. The Medics
clawed their way back into the quarter
from the resulting free throws, and
eventually the score was back to 26-
12 with just over four minutes to go
in the second quarter. However, it
was not just the medics who were
benefiting from carelessness at the
back. Restarting after gifting the
college a point from a foul, a simple
pass was fluffed, and the College were
able to slot home for yet another 3
points. Yet again, a spell of pressure
by the Medics had only resulted in the
College stretching their lead.
The Medics were not able to take
advantage of more free throws that
came their way, and the College
were pleased to hear the half-time
whistle blow – but that was not before
the College’s number 7, Thomas
Defferriere had slotted another 3
pointer for the leaders. It was 36-17 at
half-time.
The half time entertainments
consisted of the London Lions
cheerleaders dazzling the crowd with
one of their dance routines. However
this was quickly eclipsed by an
impromptu dance off between the two
mascots. After a few minutes, it was
clear that the Medics (represented
by Victoria) had just shaded it. It was
to be the only battle that the Medics
would win all evening.
Clearly the Medics coach had given
his team a grilling, as they came out
for the third quarter all guns blazing.
Inspired by their forward, number 13
Ranjodh Sanghera (who had been so
far the one shining light in the Medics’
performance), the Medics were able to
post seven unanswered points within
the first two minutes of the third
quarter, leading a worried College
coach to call a time-out with 7:40 to
go.
After receiving the hair-dryer
treatment from their coach (although
how he could possibly have had a hair-
dryer courtside I don’t know), College
started to find their feet in the quarter
and started to put some points on the
board. At this stage the Medics had
no answer to the College’s rebounds,
and they were able to slot away points
at will. But it was the same old story
at the back for the College as they
gave away foul after foul after foul.
Luckily for them, with the exception
of Sanghera, the Medics didn’t look
like scoring from any of the resulting
free throws, resulting in the lead being
kept safe. In fact, the Medics then
suffered from a very poor final minute,
as the College added six unanswered
points to take a lead of 22 points into
the final break.
The final bit of entertainment
provided was a shootout between a
member of the College and a medic
from the crowd. However, because
the standard of this shootout was even
worse than the shootout between
mascots Victoria and Albert, it’s
probably best to gloss over this one.
The Medics needed a fast start if
they wanted to win the game, and
whilst it briefly looked as though they
might just manage that, it quickly
became clear that they were going to
fall short. The College were able to
shut down the game very effectively,
with no change in the lead after
the first five minutes of the final
quarter. With just a few minutes to
go the College provided a play that
described the game in a nutshell.
With the medics laying siege on the
College basket, the College were able
to weather the storm and then break
away, force a foul and then register a
point of their own. After this the lead
kept stretching, and it was clear that
it was game over. This didn’t stop the
Stadium announcer from continuing
in his regular gusto, especially when
he commented to people in the crowd
who were wearing cut-outs of the
players, “I’ve just realised you guys
have brought face cut-outs with you.
You guys are some of the best fans
ever”.
The rest of the game passed without
much incident and the College were
able to complete a regulation 62-36
victory to put the Medics in their
place. Sanghera deservedly took the
Golden Basketball for his role of MVP,
but unfortunately for the medics, the
rest of their team were no match for
a classy, yet ruthless Imperial College.
Ontherightareaselectionofphotos
from the Basketball all credit Jack
Elkington/Felix Sport.
BASKETBALL

