Big Elections 2014
President
Hi I’m Ahmed Raja and am running for president of
Imperial College Union for 2014. My agenda is simple
and straightforward, with my main focus on increasing
diversity, participation and most importantly social
events to ensure that everyone enjoys a fun year at
Imperial. Using my past experience as president of
the union at college level, I promise to completely
transform the union into one that will be matched
by none in terms of its socials and opportunities! But
in order to do so, I need your help. So please vote
for me and become part of the movement that will
make Imperial College Union an unparalleled body of
student representation!
No manifesto supplied
No manifesto supplied
Hi, Charles Prichard here. You wana know why you
should voterer for me ratherer than anyone who cared.
Well I’ll tell you later. But first , let me tell you what I
want, and therefore what you want - I want a little bit
of chicken fried. A cold beer on a Friday night. A pair
of jeans that fit just right. And the radio oooooon.
Nah but seriously, my main issue with Imperial is
that they still don’t sell dip dabs on campus even after
my many letters. Once you vote me as your supreme
overlord, the chosen one, I will ensure dip daps for all!
Don’t hesitate to ask me for dip dabs in passing.
A VOTE FOR CHARLES IS A VOTE FOR DIP DABS
EVERYWHERE.
Every student deserves to feel that their Union is
working for them, and I am going to make this
happen. The Union has been one of the best things
about my time here, but I want to make it even better
for even more people. I have observed and reported
on the Union as President of STOIC (the Student
Television Society) for three years now and I’ve seen
what can be done to make it better. As President I
promise to
-Introduce ePetitioning to make sure that the Union
is listening. At the moment it is not clear how you can
make your voice heard by College and the Union: an
online system to raise the issues that matter to you,
and allows other students to support you, is absolutely
crucial.
-Provide more support for students applying for
standalone Masters after completing an Imperial
Undergraduate degree.
-Create a Union resource for extra information on
courses, and a centralized textbook resale system.
-Encourage the use of the Union during the day: there
needs to be a coffee machine and lunchtime menu.
-Introduce better and more inclusive nights out in the
Union: as well as improving the club nights on offer
we also need to continue to run events not necessarily
focused on alcohol.
-Keep students up to date with my progress with
monthly updates in Felix.
For my full manifesto, and expansion on the above
points visit votejonny.com. Every student matters, and
our Union should reflect this.
Ahmed
Raja
Alberto
Perez Robledo
Irina
Moraru
Charles
Prichard
Jonathan
Pratt
President

