Big Elections 2014
Deputy President (Clubs & Societies)
In a constituent union with over 300 clubs and
societies it is easy for groups to feel they are lost
somewhere in the noise.
Setting up smaller management groups would create
a better forum for the exchange of ideas and facilitate
targeted help.
Also, creating events that allow the clubs and societies
to work together in the style of ArtsFest etc. will give a
more united atmosphere within the union and provide
greater exposure to smaller or new projects.
Providing greater year round support for committees
via workshops and seminars would allow for smoother
running of clubs and societies and ensure that help is
offered at the times when it is needed most.
Furthermore, providing talks on sponsorship and
alternate funding methods would make finance
options more clearly and easily accessible.
Dedicating weekly drop in hours would allow clubs
and societies to deal more effectively with unexpected
problems and a blog updated weekly, including a ‘Top
10 society events’, would allow for better publicity.
If elected, altering the room booking system would
also be a priority; a more user-friendly system would
provide greater ease and flexibility improving the
efficiency of room allocations.
Vote Abi for DPCS for a person who supports and
truly appreciates the wide variety of clubs and societies
Imperial has to offer.
Abigail
de Bruin
The Union and College are undergoing many changes,
so it’s important that your Union representatives
understand how to manage these in everyone’s best
interests.
I’m a final year Physicist who has been involved in
Union activities of all kinds throughout his time
at Imperial. This year I have been President of the
Musical Theatre Society and I have sat on the College’s
Arts Imperial Board, giving me insight into the
decision making processes outside of the Union. I have
represented Imperial as a member of Ultimate Frisbee,
I’m an active member of Snooker & Pool and Tabletop
Gaming, and I’ve written and copy edited for Felix.
As a member of A Cappella group ‘The Techtonics’ I
have performed at a variety of functions, giving me a
strong knowledge of how the Union needs to adapt to
different societies. It is this wide experience of Clubs
and Societies that I will use to ensure the Union acts in
the best interests of its members.
During my time as Deputy President (Clubs and
Societies) I will:
-Ensure the Union and College make full use of their
facilities.
-Work with College to make sure that the movement
of departments to other campuses does not impact
the ability of students to get involved with Clubs and
Societies.
-Push the Union to update the room booking system.
-Minimise the impact to Clubs of changes to outdoor
training spaces. -Improve understanding between
Societies and College security.
For more information and a full manifesto please visit
votewitham.wordpress.com
Christopher
Witham
Confused about what’s going on?It’s simple.I can help
you in 3 simple steps:
1Vote IRINA
2Proceed to the next position
3Repeat step 1
Irina
Moraru
Deputy
President
(Clubs
&
Societies)
Visit imperialcollegeunion.o
ELECTIONS
BIG
2014
the

