Big Elections 2014
Deputy President (Education)
Please see my website at BSKforDPE.com for all my
ideas!
Imperial rates poorly in student satisfaction. I want
to change this issue by enabling students to identify
schemes that work well for other Departments and
adopt those in their own Departments.
I have been the Biochemistry Year Representative for
three years running now. I have aimed to implement
platforms by which students collaborated and enriched
their degree experience despite these difficulties. I
would like to implement similar platforms for all
Departments.
My plan involves creating a central website at which
student support information is housed. While there are
several sources throughout which this is spread, there
is currently no one place any student can visit where
they can find both information pertinent to them (e.g.
mitigating circumstances procedures, guidance sent
to tutors, usual grade distributions, planned changes
to the degree programme) and compare the support
available to them versus other Departments. In brief,
this website would amalgamate any information that
usually ‘floats on the grapevine’ within Departments.
The purpose of these systems would be (a) to provide
representatives with definitive evidence about the
efficacy (or lack thereof) of techniques implemented
by other representatives and (b) to provide a public
forum in which students can (anonymously) discuss
issues pertinent to their educational experience at
Imperial. I will identify schemes (like interactive
marking and student-led tutorials) that students find
work well in their Departments and implement those
schemes College-wide by using technology to provide
students a place to voice their opinions.
Bradly
Kneisel
Confused about what’s going on?It’s simple.I can help
you in 3 simple steps:
1Vote IRINA
2Proceed to the next position
3Repeat step 1
Irina
Moraru
I’m Pascal, a third year EEE student and I’m running
for Deputy President Education to ensure that you
have the best academic experience!
I have previously been involved with the Union as
a year rep. My contribution was recognised with
the John Lever Memorial Award for contributing
significantly to teaching and learning achievements. I
have also been web editor for RAG and I am currently
EESoc’s treasurer.
As your DPE I will:
- Take e-learning to the next level. Even though
lectures are currently recorded, the quality is often low
and only few lecturers participate. I will ensure that the
quality will get better and that more lecturers will take
part in the scheme.
- Improve academic feedback. Many students are still
receiving inadequate feedback for their coursework
and lecturers often dismiss year reps’ feedback. I will
change this by improving the communication between
the student reps and staff, for example by expanding
the current rep-staff conference.
- Provide more social events for postgraduate students
and integrate the representation system for PG within
the Union. The PG reps are not connected to the
Union and by reaching out to them I will ensure that
the opinions of PG are heard.
If you want to see changes at your university, vote for
Pascal!
Pascal
Loose
Deputy
President
(Education)
org/voteto cast your vote! ELECTIONS
BIG
2014
the

