Big Elections 2014
I’m running for Deputy President (Education) because
I care about the quality of our teaching at Imperial
College London. I’m currently a final, fourth year
Chemistry student.
During my time at Imperial, I’ve held a number
of positions of responsibility. I am the Webmaster
of ChemSoc, a position which I have held for two
academic years. Additionally, I’m the Secretary of
History Society and an Ordinary Member of Union
Council. I’ve also been involved a promotional video
for the Chemistry Department. What has motivated
me to run for Deputy President (Education) is the
satisfaction of helping to generate a positive outcome
for students. I feel that after four years here, I can
certainly contribute to our student life and satisfaction.
As Deputy President (Education), my aims will be to:
Review the late submission deadlines for coursework.
Review the quality of our coursework feedback.
Liaise closely with all faculties to continue the
development of personal tutor arrangements.
Ensure that feedback from students, particularly
through SOLE, is actively investigated with
improvements implemented as quickly as possible.
Look into bettering our tutorial systems as necessary,
for example pushing for more tutorials beyond second
year.
As an individual, I’m easy going and approachable. I’m
happy to voice your opinions and represent what you
want from your time at Imperial. Fundamentally, I will
work hard alongside the other Sabbaticals to certify
that changes will be made to improve our student life
overall.
Vote for me, please and thank you!
Finance and Services is a role that, I believe, deserves
real experience and responsibility. With 8 years of
college experience including; chairing several varied
clubs, a management group, working at the Union and
the new h-Bar and sitting on Union council and other
committees, I believe I am the man for the job. My
passion for engagement in ICU hasn’t wavered as an
undergrad or postgrad and I think my experience has
let me see not only how much progress we have made
as a Union, but also where we still have work to do.
Not only do I want to continue pushing us to do better
where we excel, but also to start fixing the things that
we have lost and those we’ve yet to get right.
At the top of my priority list for this are:
-Make the union a place for students, not for profit
-More live music, comedy and other events
-Help clubs run events more easily without large
minimum spends
-Help students that want jobs
-Even more inclusion of student staff in all union
venues
-Better training and real accreditation e.g. Cask
Marque
-Active help and support for students moving on to
other work
-Make Club and Society Finances easier
-By Increasing the number of payment methods
readily available on Eactivities
For more info please take a look at my online
manifesto (AlexSavellforDPFS.webs.com)
or my facebook page (www.facebook.com/
AlexSavellforDPFS). Many thanks and vote Alex Savell
for DPFS.
Selina
Leung
Alexander
Savell
Deputy
President
(Education)
Deputy President (Finance & Services)
Deputy
President
(Finance
&
Services)
Confused about what’s going on?It’s simple.I can help
you in 3 simple steps:
1Vote IRINA
2Proceed to the next position
3Repeat step 1
Irina
Moraru

