Big Elections 2014
Deputy President (Welfare)
Deputy
President
(Welfare)
In my three years at Imperial I have been passionately
involved in student welfare at many levels. As an
elected house rep on my hall committee and as a year
representative within my department I successfully
lobbied for positive change and improved conditions
for my peers. As a year rep in the RSM I appreciated
the power of student feedback as a vehicle for change,
and hope to improve the impact of this system college-
wide. Time spent as a Hall Senior showed me the
issues new students face as they begin their first year at
college, and allowed me to hear student feedback from
every department in a friendly, relaxed environment.
These experiences provided me with the skills and
determination to strive for better welfare conditions
for all students, from the fresh-faced new students to
the weary PHD!
Increase awareness of all welfare services
Create a comprehensive welfare services hub where
all services are easily accessible, with tailored sections
for individual student needsIncrease support for
key welfare officers, including liberation, LGBT and
disability officers
Improve welcoming schemes for incoming students
Tackling welfare issues for international students:
-Hosting welcoming events during the opening weeks,
introducing students to support services e.g. visa
support centre
-Opening a dialogue with college over the issues of
rising international fees during the duration of a
student’s degree
Run welfare weeks throughout the year, allowing
focused action on topical student issues
Establish a college-wide baseline for extenuating
circumstances
Lobby with health centre to extend triage hours
My 4th year at Imperial College and I feel it’s time to
give something back.
Coming from a comprehensive school in Bristol, I
have been immensely grateful to receive a Bursary
from Imperial during my time here. It has given me
opportunities in London I would not have otherwise
had.
If elected, I will donate 33% of my generous salary to
Imperial Scholarships.
I will work with the DP(E) and College to try and
change the new Late Coursework Penalty which
I believe to be draconian. College must be more
understanding of real life scenarios, while rightly
maintaining academic rigour.
I want to be part of a ‘back to basics’ Union, which is
not so distant from the people it’s meant to serve.
I have never been afraid to raise matters to Union
Council. For example, I raised issues such as the
disgraceful (and in my opinion, unnecessary) policy
of 17-year-old freshers not be allowed to the Welcome
Night at the Union.
I will not go to conferences or on ‘Nice Trips’ unless I
believe my going would benefit Students as a whole.
I would really like to engage with Women in Science,
Engineering and Technology (of which I am a
member). I applaud what they do, in encouraging
schoolgirls to choose Science A-Levels.
Finally, it is important that Sabbaticals remain
accountable after they are elected. I will propose that
*you* be given a vote on whether your Sabbaticals are
awarded Honorary Life Membership towards the end
of their term.
Arka
Sarkar
Christopher
Kaye
?
ELECTIONS
BIG
2014
the
WhichFacultywillwin?
Keep up-to-date with our exciting live
election statistics online all week at
imperialcollegeunion.org/elections

