Big Elections 2014
Confused about what’s going on?It’s simple.I can help
you in 3 simple steps:
1Vote IRINA
2Proceed to the next position
3Repeat step 1
Confused about what’s going on?It’s simple.I can help
you in 3 simple steps:
1Vote IRINA
2Proceed to the next position
3Repeat step 1
Felix is the voice of Imperial. Recently, this newspaper
has become a self-contained unit rather than serving
all of Imperial. I believe that for Felix to be something
that speaks to and for all students we need to involve
all of Imperial. I would like to achieve this by starting a
survey, to help the reader shape Felix.
Additionally, I hope to involve more students by
consulting societies for certain sections as well as
directly interacting with students through Facebook
& Twitter and having a meet-and-greet sessions.
Furthermore, it is paramount for Felix to have a
separate team to organise events and publicity, as well
as a team of online editors to manage internet content.
Postgraduates are an important part of Imperial but
Felix tends to ignore them. I will change the rounds to
include distribution points in postgrad areas too. I will
also encourage postgrads to submit articles about their
research, making Felix more Imperial-centred.
I plan to distribute Felix every Friday in the morning,
so it’s there for that 9am lecture. I will also increase
the number of copy editors to reduce mistakes and
typos. Lastly, I will better integrate the website and app
together.
Due to the rebuilding of the union, the new Felix
editor will have the opportunity to shape the future
of the newspaper. Having worked as Technology and
Games Editors, I have invaluable experience to make
Felix the voice Imperial deserves. We need the max
from Felix, so put Max in Felix!
I have been involved with Felix since I first came to
Imperial and I have developed a great passion for it.
Two years ago I restarted the paper’s Books section
and have been its editor ever since. This January I also
joined the paper’s News editorial team. I have written
over 140 articles, both for these two sections as well as
many others, including Film, Television and Science.
Felix is such a great paper because of the huge amount
of effort put into it by ordinary Imperial students. I
would therefore want to make it less daunting to get
involved in contributing. I would also regularly meet
with students to find out their concerns and their ideas
on how to improve Felix.
I understand how important clubs and societies are
for many at Imperial and so I would make it easier for
different groups to publicise their events. In particular,
having been Chair of the Media Executive this year,
I understand the importance of collaboration with
groups like STOIC and IC Radio.
One of the key roles of Felix is holding the Union to
account. Having sat on the Union Council and the
Clubs, Societies and Projects Board I know a lot about
how the Union works. I will attend all important
Union meetings and make sure that you are kept
informed of what really matters to you.
For more information check out my campaign website
(www.VoteMaciej.com). Remember to vote Maciej for
Felix Editor.
Irina
Moraru
Irina
Moraru
Maximilian
Eggl
Maciej
Matuszewski
Deputy
President
(W)
Felix Editor
Felix
Editor

