Big Elections 2014
Felix needs a kick up the arse- and I’m the girl to
deliver it.
I’ve written for Felix for three years now, been a section
editor for two (Science), and the Editor-In-Chief of
the I, Science magazine for one. I’ve worked for a press
office team outside of university, and I’m studying an
MSc in Science Communication. I know how real-
life journalism works and how to take a publication
through to print; skills essential for any Felix Editor.
I plan to:
- Overhaul the design and layout of the paper to keep
it fresh-faced.
- Publish news on our website as soon as it happens, so
you don’t have to wait until Friday to find out what is
going on across campus.
- Make Felix funnier! I plan to deliver a bigger
Hangman to keep you conscious through Friday
lectures.
- Encourage investigative journalism.
- Revitalise Sports and News sections with dedicated
writing teams for each, to ensure nothing falls outside
the Felix radar.
- Remove the Union’s influence over Felix to keep the
voice of the students a priority.
- Provide training for editors so they have the skill sets
required to produce exceptional pages.
- Reduce Union influence over Felix to keep the voice
of the students a priority.
- Eradicate redundant white spaces, inconsistently
formatted pages and spelling mistakes.
- Enhance the social side of Felix!
Overall, I want to restore Felix to its former glory of an
intelligent, humourous publication that makes you feel
just that little bit guilty if you start to doodle on it.
There is something special about ICSM students. We
are different. We pride ourselves in having the best
medical students’ union in the UK. My extremely
active role within the extra-curricular life of ICSM,
coupled with my past involvement in ICSMSU as the
previous Clubs and Societies Officer, has allowed me to
gain a wealth of experience that I hope will hold me in
excellent stead as ICSMSU President.
If elected I will strive to:
Education:
-Ensure all sites provide the best quality teaching,
particularly with regards to the recent restructure of
Year 3
-Provide drop-in sessions for educational advice
Sites & Services:
-Ensure common rooms across all sites are fully
equipped for your needs and voice student opinion on
further developments in the Reynolds building
Graduates & Biomedical Scientists
-Better integrate the Graduate Entry, Direct Entry
and Biomedical students into ICSMSU, particularly at
social events.
Welfare
-Continue and expand on ICSMSU welfare campaigns
-Always have an open door so that you can discuss any
issues whenever suits you best
Careers
-Work with NWTFS to ensure students receive
advice and updates with regards to further
trainingEntertainments-Review ICSMSU events in
order to increase attendance and cater towards all
students
Clubs & Societies
-Use the experience I gained as Clubs & Societies
officer to offer the best possible advice to ensure their
financial sustainability
If given the opportunity it would be an absolute
honour to represent you as the next President
of ICSMSU. For more information visit www.
VoteDariush.co.uk
Philippa
Skett
Dariush
Hassanzadeh-
Baboli
Felix Editor
ICSMSU President
Felix
Editor
ICSMSU
President

