Big Elections 2014
Student Trustees
No manifesto supplied
Hello,
My name is Enric and I am a 2nd year Materials
student. If you are reading this it is probably because
you care about our Student Union and its smooth
running. That is what my job as a Student Trustee will
be: making sure that the Union does not diverge from
its aims, objectives and promises, and that it treats
everyone fairly.
One of my main duties will be to speak up for those
societies and individuals who feel their voice is not
heard in the Union council. I will deal with all sorts
of issues including fair financing of all societies,
especially those with fewer resources, so that the
Union spending is just and equal. I will also keep track
of the progress made by Union sabbaticals on promises
made during their campaigns and that they are
placing all their efforts in working to achieve these.
Have you ever felt that your issues were not taken into
consideration or ignored by the Union representatives?
As the vice-chair of IC Sinfonietta I know that feeling.
The union sabbaticals are sometimes very complicated
to approach and they do not respond to your issues
the way you would like them to be solved. I will
democratize the Union by reporting their progress
to you through Felix and by having an open ‘virtual
postbox’ where you can tell me your concerns.
Trust me to be your Trustee!
Enric Juan
Our Union manages revenues of £5 million per year.
And one of the crucial roles of a Student Trustee is in
overseeing how this money is filtered to provide wide-
ranging services and opportunities for you, the student
body!
In three years at Imperial, I’ve been lucky enough
to meet people from many different departments
and now I’m running to be YOUR student trustee
because I want to engage students, from all faculties, in
important questions such as: where does all the Union
funding go and what opportunities can the College
offer you?
As a current member of the Union Council, I have
seen first-hand the power we have to drive real
change to improve upon our university experience.
I want to build on this experience as an accountable,
representative and approachable voice for the student
body, and work towards shaping the Union’s aims and
objectives based on YOUR direct input.
The role requires an active involvement in the College’s
governance and direction - and I’m about as keen,
pro-active and committed as it gets. I want to improve
the transparency and awareness of the executive
committees, whilst introducing more effective
channels of communication so that student views are
constantly addressed.
As your Student Trustee, I will work to build on the
Board’s previous successes to ensure we continue to
improve upon the Union’s long-term strategies with
YOU in mind, creating opportunities and driving
change across all departments and student bodies -
graduate and undergraduate - equally.
#VoteHiba - because you can trust in me.
Irina
Moraru
Enric
Juan Alcocer
Hiba
Saleem Danish
Student
Trustees
It’seasyandquicktovote-anywhere
You can also vote on your mobile phone!
Visit bit.ly/voteicu through your phone’s browser.
ELECTIONS
BIG
2014
the

