Big Elections 2014
I’m Shil, a 2nd-Year ChemEnger from Singapore. Next
year I wish to serve YOU as a Student Trustee of ICU,
to ensure that actions and plans drafted by the Union:
A. account for your interests and their official
objectives,
B. keep the College’s reputation in mind, and
C. maintain fiscal prudence.
I ask for YOUR vote to put me in a prime position as a
Student Trustee, to push for a number of directions for
the Union to consider heading in (so as to help YOU
and Imperial) such as but not limited to:
1. Develop Imperial Plus and the Union’s Volunteer
Accreditation System to more appropriately recognise
the various Clubs, Societies & Projects’ volunteer
officers’ efforts throughout the year so YOUR extra-
curricular efforts are better documented for your
future benefit,
2. Employ a more comprehensive framework to
support the Constituent Unions (CGCU, RCSU,
RSMU, ICSMSU) in their activities/events so they can
serve YOU better from the start,
3. Garner more support for initiatives and
organisations like StepChange, Arts Imperial, and
Imperial Hub to boost Imperial’s overall social,
cultural & environmental engagement... so YOU have
a better chance to be involved all-round College life
and help promote Imperial’s reputation,
- Produce a *revamped* official FAQ for incoming
students, based on the informal guide compiled yearly
on the Freshers Facebook Group so OUR juniors can
better prepare themselves for life at Imperial.
I’ve been involved with >25 clubs/societies (including
leadership roles) so you’ll definitely be in experienced
hands if you vote for me!
Hi, I’m Tagore, I’m a 4th year medic, and I’m running
to be one of your union trustees. The union is an
incredibly important part of your student life, and
student trustees play a role behind the scenes in
running it.
I have a wealth of experiences in various clubs
committees, and have been a member of the union
council for the last 2 years, first as an ICSMSU
ordinary member, and this year as part of my role
as Interfaith Officer. I have also played a role in the
Recreational clubs committee as a communications
officer, facilitating inter-club communications as well
as helping clubs out with grant applications.
I know how the union works, what it can do, as well
as its limitations, so I will be able to keep the union
and sabbatical officers in line, but also know when
they’re doing all they can. I will focus on delivering
accountability and ensuring the long term viability
of the union, and make sure mistakes made in the
past are not repeated. I will continue attending union
council meetings in order to monitor the smooth day-
to-day running of the union, as well as to voice your
concerns. I won’t impress you with vague promises
and grand schemes that I’ll never be able to keep if
elected; that’s not what trustees are for.
I am always available and contactable with various
concerns and ideas. I’ve enjoyed representing you
these past few years, and would love to continue doing
so!
tl;dr I have broad experience across the Union, and am
ready to accept the responsibility the Student Trustee
role entails. Vote for me, Thomas: a Trustee you can
trust!
Hi Imperial! I’m Thomas and in my third year of EEE.
I’ve seen the Union from a range of perspectives. I
led EESoc (the Departmental Society for EEE), sat on
Council for the past two years, and I’m the current
System Administrator (writing the Mums and Dads
matching algorithm!) for the Union (and was a year
rep!). When it comes to ICU, I really have seen it all -
pun intended!
The Trustee Board supervises the Union’s long term
strategy, approves legal and financial decisions, and
is the last step in the appeals process. My in depth
knowledge of all parts of the Union is key to being
a good Trustee. The roles I have taken in the Union
put me in good stead to oversee the Union’s activities,
and to accept the significant responsibility of being a
Trustee. I want to give something back to the Union,
and I believe there is no better role than Student
Trustee.
I have worked tightly with students and union staff
on various projects, and I am keen to continue to
help the Union improve the student experience. I
have had significant exposure to decision making and
challenging conventional thought, both of which are
needed for a strong Trustee board to look after the
Union.
Vote for Thomas, a Trustee you can trust!
Shiladitya
Ghosh
Tagore
Nakornchai
Thomas
Lim
Student
Trustees

