Big Elections 2014
Council Chair
Confused about what’s going on?It’s simple.I can help
you in 3 simple steps:
1Vote IRINA
2Proceed to the next position
3Repeat step 1
The role of the Council Chair is to be impartial,
allowing for fair and open debate at Union Council,
as well as independently representing the views of
students expressed at Council to the Union Trustee
Board.
As ex-President of the Union, I am well informed
of the Union’s procedures and processes, having
implemented the current Constitution & Bye-Laws,
and having been held responsible to Council and
chairing the Union’s Executive Committee in 2012/13.
When President, I worked to increase the number of
relevant student issues being discussed at Council,
though am aware it is still a body not well understood
by many:
- If elected as Council Chair I aim to encourage more
open and free discussion through fair and effective
chairing.
- I would disseminate information widely to all
students with reports to Felix and The Tab on relevant
discussions had, making it easier for you to learn what
the people representing you to College and nationally
are doing (without having to trawl through reams of
meetings’ minutes!).
- I intend to support every student who would like to
raise issue or request something from the Union by
simplifying the process for the submission of papers
and ideas for discussion.
Sabbaticals and officers are there for you (I know, I’ve
been one!), and whilst Council has been strong in
analysing sabb’s proposals, there is an opportunity for
others to initiate discussion, making the Union truly
student-led. With my previous experience, I believe I
am the best candidate to facilitate this for you.
Council has a hugely important role in our Union: it
is the place where our voices can truly be heard and is
where the true power in the Union lies. Council needs
a Chair who can ensure that meetings are purposeful
and effective.
As Council Chair I will:
- bring professionalism to meetings. We might not be
being paid but doesn’t mean we can’t speak and act to
high standards. Accepting anything less from members
results in a Council which does not work well together
or for us.
- ensure that your representatives are being effective.
I will ensure that it easy for you to check on your
representatives’ attendance at meetings and on the
matters that have decided
- why should you have to wait a month (or longer) to
see what decisions have been taken by Council
- put student issues at the top of the Agenda and
support Council in being proactive in dealing with
concerns. Why should we wait for College to fail at
supporting our needs before we act? The consultation
framework currently being worked on by the Union
President should allow us to be better informed about
changes, but unless Council acts on matters then there
will be little gain.
For more information and my full manifesto visit:
http://pageeasy.com/councilchair/
I am a third year undergraduate physicist and am
Chairman of RCS Motor Club. I have previously sat on
the Governing Board of a National Youth Organisation
and attended various other committees and meetings,
including the British Youth Council.
Irina
Moraru
Paul
Beaumont
Stephen
Ball
Council
Chair
Visit imperialcollegeunion.o
ELECTIONS
BIG
2014
the

