Big Elections 2014
CGCU President
Graduate Students’ Union President
Robert
O’Keeffe
Hey I’m Nida, a first year PhD student and the current
International Officer in our Union, I’ve been at
Imperial since I have been an undergraduate so I know
how everything works really well.
Postgraduate student at Imperial are at the forefront
of the research done, but the experience they have as a
student should be the best.
I’m enthusiastic and passionate about the
representation of our PG students. I’ve been News
Editor for Felix for the last two years. During my time
at Imperial I’ve been a Hall Senior, a Year Rep, on
Union Council, a member of the Welfare Board and
a member of the Executive Committee. I have spent
time doing either research or studying across four
different departments at Imperial, so I have a good
idea about the areas that need improvement. If elected,
I will strive to:
- Provide a greater spectrum of events for
postgraduates; ranging from careers events, cultural
events and socials that cater for everyone.
- Campaign against government policies that impact
students the hardest.
- Ensure PG students have a strong and dedicated
voice to represent them.
- Implement a Buddy System where new PhD students
can speak to older students for advice.
- Organise and support campaigns relating to PhD
issues; e.g. tuition fees, academic, and accommodation.
- Have 1:1 drop in sessions for students.- Get Staff for
the GSU.
- Push for greater PG student representation in the
union.
Vote Nida for a united future!
Nida
Mahmud
Hi I’m Tim, I’m a Third year Civil Engineer and I’m
currently the CGCU Regalia Officer. However I haven’t
just spent this year restocking the ties and scarves;
I went CGCU crazy. I’ve helped organise and run
events such as the mince pie giveaway and C&G Week,
been involved in the yearly budgeting process for the
entire CGCU and I even helped out the Academic
and Welfare officers from time to time.Now I think
the CGCUs great, as an organisation it’s got a lot of
potential to make studying engineering at Imperial
so much better. But in no way do I think it’s perfect,
being on the committee this year has given me real
experience of the challenges and problems faced by
the CGCU. I know how the CGCU works and why it
doesn’t work. I know how to make CGCU better.
CGCU needs to stop being run like a club that
provides two events for Freshers a year and start to be
run as an actual union. After all the CGCU represents
all of us academically to the Faculty, looks after our
welfare and is responsible for all the DepSocs and
other engineering societies.I want to put U back in
CGCU!
-Prioritise Academic Affairs and Welfare
-Run Events Members Actually Want
-Promote our Historic Links with the City of London
and the CGCA
-Set long term objectives and plans for a better CGCU
So vote for experience, vote for someone who knows
what to do, vote for Tim.
Timothy
Munday
CGCU
President
No manifesto supplied
GSU
Presudent
org/voteto cast your vote! ELECTIONS
BIG
2014
the

