4 FRIDAY 07 MAR
FEATURES
Editor: Shiladitya
Ghosh
felix@imperial.ac.uk
An Joseph Interfaith Foundation Discussion –
Extremism: Its Root Causes And How To Address Them
Nida Mahmud
News Editor
Comment: Bension Tilley (JSoc)
E
xtremism is one of the most
hotly-debated talks of our
generation. The publicity it
receives in the media reflects
its profound importance
in modern day political discourse.
It would be true to say that the vast
majority of extremism that we hear
of is Islamic in nature, but it would be
ignorant of us to restrict our opinions
on extremism only to what we hear in
the media. In order for a person to be
able to participate fully in a discussion
on extremism, he must first appreciate
the fact that extremism can permeate
into any subject matter, be it political,
religious, economic or otherwise.
Then he must understand that his
view on extremism is not shared by
all: extremism is a fundamentally
subjective matter. What is considered
extremist to one person may not be to
another.
The most appropriate forum for the
analysis of extremism is in a public
debate where all views are free to air
in a non-judgmental atmosphere. I
believe that the IC Extremism Seminar
encapsulated all of these qualities, and
as a result, all present were able to
put forward their arguments in total
confidence that they would not be
judged for them. This made for one
of the most stimulating debates I have
ever been part of, both at Imperial
and outside Imperial. Although
nothing was overtly concluded overall
from the discussion, I feel that all
present, including the speakers,
came away with an altered opinion
on how extremism manifests and its
importance in their daily lives.
It was an absolute pleasure working
with the Joseph Interfaith Foundation,
the Islamic Society and Catholic
Society on the seminar. The way the
societies worked together is testament
to the strong interfaith relations
present on campus here at Imperial.
Everyone present approached
the interfaith discussions with a
completely open mind, willing to learn
about the traditions of other religions
to broaden their already considerable
knowledge of interfaith.
Events like these encompass the true
spirit of interfaith and I am hopeful
that there will be many more interfaith
events to come in the remainder of
this academic year, to which you are
all invited!
Comment: Yusuf Qureshi
(ISoc)
E
xtremism. A word which
bombards us everyday in
the media and has some
form of definition in every
single person’s vocabulary.
The basic definition of extremism
is the maximum possible deviation
from a central reference point, which
in a religious context, would be our
Prophets and scriptures. That being
said, extremism is not necessarily
violent. It is possible to be extreme
in seemingly noble deeds such as
prayer, fasting and even charity!
The topic discussed, however, was a
specific form of extremism; namely
violence in the name of religion. As
a Muslim, you would imagine that I
shall now proceed to ramble on about
how Islam is a peaceful religion and
how the people who commit such
disgusting and heinous crimes are
definitely not acting within the realms
of Islamic law. I won’t. Remember
the aforementioned central reference
point? For Muslims, it is the Quran and
the way of the Prophet Muhammad
(Peace and Blessings be upon him).
Muslims embrace the Quran as the
word of God, who states that ”whoever
kills a soul unless for a soul or for
corruption [done] in the land - it is as
if he had slain mankind entirely. And
whoever saves one - it is as if he had
saved mankind entirely.” [5:32]. As a
Muslim, when I see such disregard for
human life from people who claim to
follow the same book and Prophet as
myself, I can’t help but wonder, have
they even read the Quran? Have they
any notion of how many times they’ve
slain the whole of mankind in the sight
of God? Surely, had anybody read this
verse, it would speak volumes on the
sanctity of life in Islam?
The fact of the matter is that “violent
religious extremism” almost never
has any religious motivation behind
it. When speaking about extremism,
two groups of people spring to mind.
In any given ideology, there will be
people who are willing to defame its
name for their own reasons; generally
political.
This is the first group: few in number
but with a clear but malicious vision.
‘Predators’ is a good description.
The second faction is comprised of
ignorant zealots, people who have
immense enthusiasm for their religion
but lack knowledge of its teachings;
puppets. To put it very simply, the
latter are manipulated by the former,
who exploit the ignorance to give the
illusion that the basis of these actions
are religious teachings.
The solution is very simple:
Education and stemming the flow
of naive enthusiasts, ensuring that
the predators are starved of puppets.
We should see that religious leaders
are properly educated and trained in
the knowledge of their own religions
and the state of current affairs and
political climate, empowering them
to take control of the surrounding
community and to direct the energy of
enthusiasts into something productive
and beneficial to society.
Comment: Theo Susanto
(CathSoc)
J
IF is among the rare chances
where different faith
groups can engage in open
discussion.
This is the second year I
represented CathSoc. Unfortunately
this year, I was less prepared. I was ill
and still losing my voice; I was really
nervous and I stuttered often.
Despite that, people gave me
tremendous support and made
me comfortable in continuing the
dialogue.
Ms Mehri Niknam is extremely
enthusiastic and always pushes us
to loosen formalities and political
correctness. Without which, a fruitful
and meaningful discussion would be
difficult to achieve
Personally I am always anxious
about the event; being put out of my
comfort zone. There is always the
worry that the words I uttered were
not those that I intended, that I was
not representing the views of my faith
properly.
This year’s event is different though;
instead of representing my faith, I was
there to discuss strictly my thoughts,
and my rather mild experiences
pertaining to extremism.
It was a powerful feeling to hear
stories from other people about
their experience: Harassment as
what Benison had experienced can
happen to anyone around us. Often
we do not notice; little things that may
push someone to the edge constantly
happen.
Among some of the privileged,
I tend to overlook the fact that
extremism does not just occur with
sensationalistic violence in some
faraway land; dialogue such as this
serves as a powerful reminder, that
such misfortunes could happen to
someone we can relate to.
At first, it seems that only extreme
constraints warrant such extreme
reactions. However, it is apparent
from the dialogue that the root was
not just the constraints, but also the
inclination to accuse the ‘other’; to
find scapegoats on the matters that
befall the community.
Such unfortunate chain of events is
possible mainly due to the suppression
by those with knowledge and vision.
Amazing is the significance of a strong
will, no matter how twisted it is, in
spilling out and influencing others to
follow it.
It would be great for events such
as this to grow, as they create a
comfortable place for people to engage
their viewpoints, build or rebuke their
principles, and often to allow people
to hear the other side of the story.
Sometimes we get too comfortable
with our own community. I am afraid
that in those cases, extremism often
starts to sprout.
A recent Interfaith discussion at Imperial College London was organised by the Joseph Interfaith Foundation (JIF) and the Islamic Society
at Imperial. Speakers from the Jewish Society (JSoc), the Islamic Society (ISoc) and the Catholic Society (CathSoc) discussed their views on
the root causes of extremism and how they can be addressed.
Mehri Niknam (JIF)
T
he success of the seminar
can be gauged from the fact
that it was due to finish at
7:30. We carried on talking
till 8:30
The Joseph Interfaith Foundation
is a national joint Muslim-Jewish
interfaith organisation. We are
committed to fostering engagement
through constructive and realistic
dialogue and interaction between the
Muslim and Jewish communities in
Britain. The Foundation also aims to
promote a deeper understanding of
both faiths among the general public.
The foundation’s projects are focused
on 4 major areas: 1) University
students; 2) Religious leaders; 3)
Muslim & Jewish physicians, 4)
Academics. . Please see our website:
www.josephinterfaithfoundation.org
We offer support and co-operation
with students/student unions for the
promotion of interfaith relations,
single faith discussions, and student
discussions in the widest and most
challenging aspects. We support
freedom of speech, condemn hate
speech, respect and protect the
privacy of all students who participate
in our projects
“JIF is a national joint Muslim-Jewish interfaith
organisation. We are committed to fostering
engagement through constructive and
realistic dialogue and interaction between the
Muslim and Jewish communities in Britain.”

