Big Elections 2014
As Imperial College postgraduates, we are the key
players to keep Imperial as a world-class university
and resolve the challenges faced by the world today.
To achieve this, I am looking to improve the quality
of GSU activities, as the main Imperial College
postgraduate community.
Having been the Academic and Welfare Officer,
member of the current GSU executive committee,
and postgraduates representative this year, has given
me the experience of leading an executive committee,
how to influence the college committees’ decisions and
how to collaborate towards a common goal. My past
commitments have given me insight into the structure,
the strengths and weaknesses of the GSU and also
the changes which can be made to improve the
postgraduate quality, which will certainly be of benefit
as GSU president.
In particular, as a president of the GSU I will work to:
-Empower postgraduate students; I will make sure
your voices are heard at all levels across the college to
ensure the quality of all postgraduate-facing services.
-Develop more effective representation system and
feedback mechanism among postgraduates so that all
postgraduates can affect the college decisions about
their studies.
-Improve your welfare quality by coordinating various
numbers of social events for postgraduates (research
does not mean to be always in the lab or behind your
computer).
-Facilitate postgraduates’ tuition fees payment (I know
tuition fees are sometimes very frustrating)
I’m looking forward to work with all of you to get the
best out of our postgraduate life at Imperial College.
Hassan
Ahmadzadeh
GSU
Presudent
RCSU President
RCSU
President
Alberto
Perez Robledo
Benjamin
Fernando
No manifesto supplied
Hi! I’m Ben Fernando, RAG Treasurer and captain of
Imperial’s University Challenge team.
In my nine years as a charity fundraiser, effectively
running my own branch of an international
development charity and sitting on committees that
have raised over £200,000, I’ve learnt how to manage
an organisation on the scale of the RCSU in an efficient
and financially transparent way. Not one of the events
I’ve ever run (the craziest of which was my attempt
to climb 5,554m up Mount Everest) has ever been a
failure.
As Union Council Rep I’ve pushed hard on issues
that matter to you as RCSU students, like scrapping
entrance fees to Sports Nights. In my two years as Year
Rep in Physics I’ve worked with the department to
implement a fairer exam system with more consistent
feedback.
As RCSU president, I will make sure that we keep
up our reputation for brilliant events: increasing
the capacity of our Balls whilst also having events
throughout the year to cater to those who don’t like to
drink.
With regard to representation and welfare, we
need to strengthen our academic support network.
We will work with our DepSocs to improve the
Wiki note-sharing facilities, whilst also improving
the Mums&Dads scheme and working with our
departments to make the Personal Tutor system more
effective, with specific emphasis on mental health
support.
In a nutshell, I think the RCSU needs to reach out to
its students more and stand up for us when we need it
to.

