Big Elections 2014
RCSU
President
Cecile
Borkhataria
Serena
Yuen
Irina
Moraru
Hey everyone!
My name is Cecile and I’m running for RCSU
president. I am currently the RCSU Vice-President
and last year I was elected as Academic Affairs Officer.
Having had two years of experience on the RCSU, I
have the necessary skills and understanding of how the
RCSU is run to make it an unforgettable year for all of
us:
As president, I would plan:
More memorable events - RCSU events are always
big nights on our calendars, and I feel that they can
be even better! We can spice up customary balls with
add ons such as performing acts, tasty treats and much
more! More events in collaboration with other faculty
unions will allow for a larger budget and new exciting
venues.
Broader career events - Students often tell me that
they would like to see more career events that are not
banking based. If elected, I would incorporate more
sectors such as Science Communication, PR and
health economics in career talks.
Euro trip - Next year, I’d like for RCSU students
to have the chance to go abroad with their fellow
scientists for an affordable getaway weekend.
Stronger academic representation - In my role as AAO,
I learnt that students were particularly concerned
about exam feedback and coursework guidance. If
elected, I will strongly lobby to obtain these.
Broader events - I would introduce a range of events
that cater to all interests, such as poker tournaments,
gaming events and tea parties!
Vote for a year you’ll never forget, vote Cecile!
Hi! I’m a second year physicist and the current
treasurer of the Imperial College Physics Society - I
helped organise the first international PhySoc trip to
CERN for 35 students and have increased sponsorship
by getting a record number of sponsors for the society,
meaning more frequent and varied events could be put
on for our members than ever before!
I want to spread that success to the RCSU - I already
have a good idea of how DepSocs function and, if
elected, would:
-Use existing contacts to secure sponsorship and
further subsidise events.
-Hold barnights at the start and end of each term,
and increase opportunities available to ride Jezebel at
RCSU Balls.
-Increase the number and variety of careers events,
especially during the first term when most students
apply for internships or graduate places.
-Provide more opportunity for interdepartmental
collaboration, and hold an RCSU Sports Day in the
summer term.
-Introduce a new “Buddies” system for students going
on a year abroad. This will enable them to meet other
students who are going or who have gone to the same
foreign university.
-Hold more frequent Mums and Dads events
throughout the year.
-Increase levels of outreach and science
communication by building awareness of RCSU
Broadsheet and improving prizes and judges for the
annual Science Challenge.
Furthermore, I am not afraid to speak my opinion and
will act with the best interests of members at heart.
Vote for more, vote for Serena
Confused about what’s going on?It’s simple.I can help
you in 3 simple steps:
1Vote IRINA
2Proceed to the next position
3Repeat step 1
RON You should list Re-Open Nominations (RON) as a preference if you feel that the
candidates you have not yet listed are not suitable for that position.

