Big Elections 2014
I’m Alex Mytenka and I’m running for RSMU
president because I want to make a difference to all life
within RSM.
As assistant station manager of STOIC and secretary of
Media I demonstrate leadership, and as part of a team
of likeminded people to ensure that we can make life
within the RSM better.
My campaign is 2-fold:
1. Improve RSM as a whole, focusing on
improving Material participation and influence
within the RSM, bringing the two departments closer
together; helping us to improve and share in our
successes.
Broadening our use of social media to engage students,
and increasing other opportunities for student
communication.
Increasing communication and co-operation between
all departmental societies to help each other, share
ideas and improving their respective abilities to
organise events and increase student enthusiasm and
participation.
Greater cross-departmental events; to appreciate each
department and the aspects which link us together.
(Materials main floor need bigger lockers similar to
ESE common-room)
2. Lay the ground work for a long term strategy
to broaden the RSM’s influence and importance
within Imperial; ensuring that presidents after me will
not have large battles to put us pride of place within
Imperial.
For greater importance on the bottle match, getting
everyone at Imperial excited for it: long term goal of
eventually making it as important as the varsity match.
Short term: Increasing our ties with media societies,
e.g. Radio, STOIC and FELIX, we can present who we
are and why people should care, to a much broader
audience.
Much like Team GB’s bid for the gold medal in the
Curling Final at the Winter Olympics my candidacy
for RSMU President is dynamic, exhilarating and has
women weak at the knees. In line with the concept
within Curling; ‘the harder you stroke, the further it
goes’, I believe in going that extra mile, regardless of
how much stroking that needs to be done.
I want to give something back to a close-knit family
that has given many memorable experiences during
my time at university. My involvement within the RSM
has ranged from my role on the Committee as the PIT-
Licity Officer and within the Rugby team’s efforts of
retaining the Bottle this year in Camborne.
A vote for me will mean:
-Better funded social events
- My experiences within school and university have
allowed me to establish relationships with companies
willing to support the RSM. This will allow us to host
events with bar tabs at a variety of venues
-Improved relationships between the student and the
employer
- Securing summer internships has always been an
issue for undergraduates and I want to work with
the teaching staff in devising new ways of making
this more accessible -Introducing relationships with
charities
- The RSM lacks any association to local charities,
and I want to introduce events where not only we as
a union can have good time but also give something
back to the community.
So as the Dalai Lama once said ‘You’ve got the love to
see me through..
Vote Aneesh!
RSMU President
Alexander
Mytenka
Aneesh
Misra
Benjamin
Warnick
RSMU
President
I've spent my second year as a Royal Miner aboard three
of the RSM committees. As RSM Hockey President,
Men's Hockey Captain and DLB treasurer I have learnt
a huge amount about the inner workings of both the
RSMU and the ICU. As a part of my hockey role I
managed to secure tour funding by presenting in front
of the CSPB which has given me a good insight into
how the union at large is run. Furthermore, as DLB
treasurer I have been actively involved in every step of
organising trips, talks and social events.
As President I will aim to improve participation in
the union by encouraging the DepSocs and sports
teams to put on more events early in the term as this is
where long lasting bonds within the RSM are formed
and where from my experience both hockey and DLB
have had the most success in getting fresher's involved.
Furthermore I will strengthen bonds with the union
to ensure that traditional RSM events such as Fresher's
Dinner are safeguarded and to maintain the high
standards of events and participation throughout the
year; with emphasis on the fantastic clubs, sports teams
and societies that the RSM offers us. In short I will
continue to uphold the traditions that make the RSM
such a wonderful and unique place to study whilst still
updating and streamlining the way it is run.
Vote Ben! x

