46 FRIDAY 07 MAR
FILM Editor: John Park
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Two versions of Anchorman 2
Anchorman 2: The
Legend Continues
Director: Adam McKay
Writers: Will Ferrell, Adam McKay,
Starring: Will Ferrell, Steve Carell,
Christina Applegate, Paul Rudd,
David Koechner, Dylan Baker, Megan
Good, James Marsden, Kristen Wiig,
Greg Kinnear
Runtime: 119 minutes
Certification: 15
Jack Steadman
Treasured Writer
Jack Steadman
Treasured Writer
Anchorman 2: The
Legend Continues...
Continued
Director: Adam McKay
Writers: Will Ferrell, Adam McKay,
Starring: Will Ferrell, Steve Carell,
Christina Applegate, Paul Rudd,
David Koechner, Dylan Baker, Megan
Good, James Marsden, Kristen Wiig,
Greg Kinnear
Runtime: 119 minutes
Certification: 15
Anchorman 2 has been a long time
coming. Ten years, in fact. Partially
due to the length of time it took for the
original film to actually turn a profit/
become the absurdly large cult hit it is
today (which is sort of a pre-requisite
for being a cult hit, in a way), partially
due to the multiple other commit-
ments of the various creative types
involved, partially due to some major
questions over whether a sequel was
worth it or could ever actually be any
good. The law of sequels is a brutal
one, and – certainly from my memo-
ry/the list from Scream 2, none of the
few exceptions that do exist are, in the
strictest sense (Scream 2 arguably be-
ing the closest, and that was a horror
film first and foremost), not comedies.
So the odds are very much against An-
chorman 2: The Pointless Subtitles are
Back here.
In the broadest possible sense, An-
chorman 2 somehow manages to
defy those horrible odds. It’s snigger-
inducing from the start, and there’s
enough material packed in here to
guarantee at least a few out-and-out
uncontrollable fits of laughter (assum-
ing, of course, you were a fan of the
original’s slightly surreal sense of hu-
mour). It’s as quotable as the original
in places (the level of improvisation al-
lowed over the top of the baseline ma-
terial creates some corkers), although
it’s never quite so brilliantly fresh. The
original is so ingrained into almost
everyone’s brains that the idea of the
jokes (and film) going in the direction
you least expect is kind of the direc-
tion you most expect it to go. Which
kills it slightly. In the moment, though,
that point is irrelevant. For those two
hours of cinema, almost everything
about this film is hilarious, apart from
the few bits that aren’t.
If you’ll forgive that painfully ob-
vious tautology, there are some no-
ticeable flaws in Anchorman 2. Most
notably: it’s too damn long, meaning
it joins my ever growing list of films
which would have been so much bet-
ter if they’d spent longer in the edit-
ing suite and less time on the screen.
Several of the jokes are drawn out – in
some cases, that’s the point, it’s where
the laughs come from, in others, it kills
the laughter dead. Plus, with the only
semi-relevant plot (as before), it can’t
help but feel like things lose their way
slightly, leaving the film feeling like it’s
treading water at various points, firing
off gags to distract you from its lack of
movement.
There’s also heavy recycling of the
old scenarios, often adopting the
tried-and-tested sequel method of
making it bigger. Again, in the mo-
ment – it’s hilarious. The news team
battle in particular is a stand-out mo-
ment, but it’s still just repeating the
same gags as before with different
faces and different stakes.
Throw in some obvious satire which
makes a really relevant point (which
is then mostly ignored), and a few
jokes where it feels like maybe we’re
being uncomfortably invited to laugh
at Brick and Chani, and Anchorman
2 eventually boils out to more hits
than misses. It’s much more fun if
you loved the original, and if you go
in fully aware that this is very much
designed to hit all those buttons again,
just harder. And for a longer period of
time.
So, thanks to the nature of the filming
of Anchorman 2, as with the original,
there exists an (almost) entirely differ-
ent cut of the film. Same situations,
different jokes. In some cases, com-
pletely different spins on the storyline.
Which is inevitably what you’re go-
ing to get when you film ‘actual’ takes
based around a solid script, then just
let some insanely funny and smart
people lose to improvise their way
around it.
Of course, this around, what with
the sequel being ‘bigger’ in every
way, this alternate cut hasn’t just
gone straight to DVD. No, it’s come
out – for one week only, and for Ron
Burgundy’s last cinematic outing, ac-
cording to director Adam McKay – in
cinemas. With “763 (approx.)” new
jokes, if the posters are to be believed.
I didn’t count, for the record. That’s
effort.
What isn’t effort, though, is spot-
ting the few moments of old material
(I say ‘old’, I mean ‘from the first film
that only came out in November and
so is only ‘old’ in sense of the lifespan
of a fly or something’) that creep in.
Presumably a funnier, or as funny,
take doesn’t exist for those shots. For
the majority, though, this is an enor-
mous quantity of new material, and it
completely changes the feel and flow
of the film. Several character beats
are altered or dropped entirely, and
the ending (along with a few other
minor scenes) is changed entirely. It’s
also twenty minutes longer, which is
seriously bordering on taking the piss
for a film like this, although it doesn’t
actually feel twenty minutes longer.
Whether that’s because the original
felt too damn long already, or because
I fell asleep (I didn’t, to my knowl-
edge), I don’t know (I do, it’s because
the original – the original sequel, that
is, because this isn’t confusing enough
– was too long, I didn’t fall asleep).
Weirdly, where dragging out jokes
the first time around had a habit of
killing them, here, the multiple se-
quences that are significantly pro-
longed from their predecessors actu-
ally feel funnier, as being given more
room to breathe allows them to open
up far better. It’s almost a reversal of
quality – some of the weakest scenes
become the strongest, and vice versa.
Ultimately though, it’s a very weird
feeling watching this, especially when
you’ve become familiar with the origi-
nal. Jokes you’ve grown to anticipate
fail to appear, with entirely different
punchlines appearing in their place,
although there are welcome appear-
ances from gags that made it into the
trailers but not the final cut, which
is a nice ‘familiar yet unfamiliar yet
technically familiar’ moment. If that
makes any sense, which I’m almost
certain it doesn’t.
I feel slightly bad for scoring this,
what with it being a derivative, alter-
native work rather than an actual film,
per se, but the fact that much of the
material – while funny – just isn’t as
funny as the jokes in the final cut, per-
haps somewhat obviously, means it’s
a weaker little cousin. It’s still good,
and it wouldn’t have been too much of
a disappointment if this had been the
real thing. But that doesn’t mean I’m
not glad it wasn’t.

