47
@feliximperial
FelixImperial
FRIDAY 07 MAR
FILM
Lars von Trier: Danish troublemaker 2
Melancholia
Director: Lars von Trier
Writer: Lars von Trier
Starring: Kirsten Dunst, Charlotte
Gainsbourg, Alexander Skarsgård,
Charlotte Rampling, Kiefer
Sutherland
Runtime: 136 minutes
Certification: 15
Kirsten Dunst’s Cannes Best Actress
Award winning performance in Lars
von Trier’s Melancholia is certainly
worth a look, even if the Danish di-
rector frequently causing trouble and
stirring up controversies (the latest
one being von Trier admitting that he
understands Hitler which invited all
sorts of criticism from international
press) is not greatly to your liking.
His films are depressing, and almost
always see victimised women getting
into unimaginably difficult situa-
tions through very little fault of their
own. A rule to which Melancholia is
no exception. This time, the world is
ending, and not in the metaphorical
way. Life on Earth will actually come
to an abrupt finish. There is a large
planetary body called Melancholia.
What was suspected to pass harm-
lessly is now on a head-on collision
course, and there is nothing anyone
can do to stop that. But the planet it-
self serves no further purpose than for
von Trier to subject his female charac-
ters through some tough ordeals. This
the director staying true to his style
and trademark, whilst incorporating a
new theme.
Of course, most characters are not
initially aware of this mysterious for-
eign planet that will mark the end of
their lives. We look at the complex
lives of two sisters, Justine (Dunst)
and Claire (Charlotte Gainsbourg).
Justine, the younger of the two, has
just gotten married to a charming,
dedicated man (Alexander Skarsgård),
although she does not seem to be over
the moon about her nuptials. She ap-
pears to be a victim of depression, and
her highly unpredictable, repressed
behaviour that struggles to sustain her
marriage and even herself threatens to
ruin her existence. After a lengthy, in-
tense slow-motion opening in which
the thunderous soundtrack from
Wagner’s Tristan and Isolde signals
the world’s end, and the audience gets
a glimpse of ‘The End’, we focus back
to Justine, heading up to her sister’s
lavish countryside mansion for her
after-party, in which many wedding
traditions are supposed to be carried
out (the first dance, the cutting of the
cake, etc.). But looking so distant and
vulnerable, we worry whether she will
make it through the night.
Nothelping,areherbitterlydivorced
parents, who have reluctantly united
under one roof for the sake of their
daughter’s wedding. But of course, not
everything goes smoothly. Their fierce
and possibly a little drunk mother
(the unforgettably sharp and piercing
Charlotte Rampling) openly lashes out
at her ex-husband who is proudly ac-
companied by a younger lover, and is
AWOL during most of the party. She
is highly uncooperative, and we begin
to wonder why she came to this in the
first place. This tense, uncomfortable
atmosphere is not what Claire’s filthy
rich husband John (Kiefer Sutherland)
wanted, who incidentally paid for eve-
rything himself.
The stress becomes unbearable for
the already damaged Justine, and after
the disaster that is her wedding recep-
tion, she suffers a breakdown. And this
is one of many aspects in which Dunst
excels in her mature, sincere perfor-
mance. She doesn’t have an emotional
freak-out, but instead slowly descends
into a state of complete hollow mental
state in which she cannot bring herself
to do or care for anything. Her per-
formance is a wonderfully measured
and grounded one, firmly holding on
to the film’s emotional core. Dunst
reportedly used her own experience
from depression as a source for play-
ing her character. Well it works, and
it works brilliantly. Distancing herself
from everyone, including her husband
and her sister, she is constantly in a
blank, self-destructive state, and eve-
rything becomes meaningless to the
heroine.
However there is one thing that
Justine becomes fascinated by: the
incoming planet. Convinced that the
Earth they are currently living on is
‘evil’, Justine welcomes the planet, and
is not afraid of the inevitable conse-
quence. Claire, who has a lot more
to lose, acts differently. As the seem-
ingly calm and collected one taking
care of her younger sibling in the first
half, she becomes paranoid whenever
the planet becomes larger in her eyes.
Despite her idealistic and optimistic
husband’s assurance that Melancholia
will cause no harm, Claire’s mind also
starts to wobble, at the thought of los-
ing everyone she loves, including her
innocent young son.
Claire and Justine don’t share the
easiest of relationships and this is
shown clearly through yet another
excellent female performance in this
film. Gainsbourg, although showing
warmth towards her sister, also lets
out some cold air towards her, letting
her frustration and annoyance seep
through in her steadfast treatment
of Justine. Hers is also an impeccably
layered and detailed performance,
one that beautifully matches Dunst’s.
Gainsbourg has worked with von Tri-
er before in the much more graphic
and unsubtle Antichrist, in which she
played a mentally unstable, ultimately
violent protagonist. Here she is much
quieter and restrained, although not
without the usual intensity the tal-
ented actress can portray on screen.
She cannot stop obsessing over Mel-
ancholia’s size and the proximity of
the planet to Earth, and towards the
second half it’s Justine, the younger,
seemingly more damaged sibling, hav-
ing to stand firm whilst her older sis-
ter turns into a blubbering mess.
Von Trier has that exceptional skill
of turning the most unlikely sub-
ject into extraordinarily beautiful art
form. Some perceive this as preten-
tious offering, but what he manages
in Melancholia is simply gorgeous to
look at, although the most dramatic
moments do require patience to truly
set in. He is terribly fond of that Wag-
ner soundtrack, which he uses to its
maximum level as it crescendoes and
crescendoes to the whopping big fi-
nale. It’s an awe-inspiring, unforget-
tably charged moment of wonder,
from a director who usually tends to
stay away from using grand special
effects. But von Trier never forgets
whose story he wants to tell. This is
about the mental unravelling of two
sisters facing the apocalypse, and he
never steers away from his pitch-per-
fect, outstanding leads. It’s not an easy
film to watch by any means, any film
by von Trier carries with it a certain
kind of expectation that it won’t be a
mood-lifting, particularly joyful film,
but the gripping dynamic between
the two central women, surrounded
by impending disaster, is completely
original, and oddly sensational. The
director’s reputation and his anti-so-
cial nature might have made the film
hard to advertise for and to attract
much attention upon its release, but
now that the controversy has almost
settled down, it’s about time to focus
on his actual work, without prejudice,
and marvel at his wondrous new cin-
ematic achievement.
There’s a fine line between what’s art
and what’s downright filth and por-
nography. Blue Velvet is art, Caligula
most certainly is not, and as for Inti-
macy, I can argue for both. Lars von
Trier enjoys pushing the boundaries
with his films but his most recent An-
tichrist is his most challenging film
yet. There have been so many stories
surrounding the film, so many con-
demning the violence that a lot of
people I know went to satisfy their cu-
riosity. Half of them walked out and a
few of them ran out at some point in
the film. To be fair, there were people
fainting and walking out at the Cannes
Film Festival so who can blame them?
The film is divided into four chap-
ters plus a prologue and an epilogue.
Within five minutes into the film,
there’s a graphic sex scene which quite
proudly shows the male genitalia in
(God help us) slow-motion. Whilst
He (Willem Dafoe) and She (Char-
lotte Gainsbourg) are having passion-
ate sex, their young child falls out of
a window and dies. Already, the film
is giving off an incredibly disturbing
and sinister vibe. Trying to deal with
their grief, they travel to Eden, a cabin
in the middle of the woods detached
from the rest of the world. Since He
is a psychiatrist, they try therapy but
when nature that surrounds them
start turning more and more evil and
sinister, you know they won’t last long
at all.
All the horror stories involving the
explicit nature of this film are all true.
There’s female castration, ejaculation
of blood, self-harm, and the list goes
on and on. How someone comes up
with these ideas is beyond me and if
you can’t handle violence and gore, it’s
obviously best to avoid this.
But before the final act, the film
remains relatively calm, moving at a
steady pace, engaging the audience
with some intense character develop-
ment. The build-up towards these hor-
rific violent sexual acts is in fact very
impressive. How von Trier uses trees,
animals (one of them is a talking fox,
growling “chaos reigns”), grass, and
even conkers to bring out the charac-
ters’ deepest, darkest fears is handled
Antichrist
Director: Lars von Trier
Writer: Lars von Trier
Starring: Willem Dafoe, Charlotte
Gainsbourg
Runtime: 108 minutes
Certification: 18
John Park
Film Editor
with absolutely no violence, very little
soundtrack, relying completely on the
atmosphere of the creepy forest. Von
Trier clearly shows that He and She
are changing simultaneously with the
environment. As the events start get-
ting more and more disturbing, and as
they occur more and more frequently,
their attitudes towards one another
become more hateful, fuelled by anger
and lust.
To an extent, why these two char-
acters end up in such a psychologi-
cal mess is explained. They are both
wrecked with guilt, She being more
affected than He. Their feelings be-
come repressed until She snaps and
spirals out of control. This process is
portrayed perfectly by the two leads.
Gainsbourg is so utterly convincing
that even at the slightest hint of her
mind deviating from sanity, we are all
naturally bracing ourselves for some-
thing terrible. Dafoe tries desperately
to help her but ends up becoming a
victim to her cruel acts. They have ter-
rific chemistry together, showing their
deteriorating relationship with plenty
of energy.
So the discomforting setting and
both actors have been very successful
so far at giving us plenty of terror. Did
von Trier really need to go into all the
violence? Was excessive violence yet
another one of his brave experimen-
tal cinematic techniques? We’ll never
know, since his interviews provide no
detailed insight into how he came to
write and direct this film.
Antichrist should most preferably be
seen on your own. If you at no point
cry, faint, run out of the room or vom-
it, you’ve done well for yourself. Such
a shame: the atmospheric, artistic be-
ginning was shaping up to be one of
the most original recent horror mov-
ies. But then von Trier had to overload
the screen with horrific violence to-
wards the end.

