50 FRIDAY 07 MAR
TELEVISION
Editors: John Park,
Emily Fulham
television.felix@imperial.ac.uk
The sound of cringe
The Sound of
Music Live!
John Park
Television Editor
The Sound of Music is without doubt
one of the most beloved films of all
time whether you like it or not. There
isn’t a Christmas that goes by without
Julie Andrews running on top of a hill
singing at the top of her lungs, making
the moody yet a-true-softie-at-heart
Christopher Plummer fall in love with
her, dressing the von Trapp children in
those hideous curtain clothes and to-
gether sneakily escaping the Nazis in
their final moment of hurrah. And so
it’s understandable why there was so
much social media hate and concern
when American Idol winning coun-
try music star Carrie Underwood was
chosen to play the lead, something the
von Trapps themselves were not too
happy about, instead suggesting Acad-
emy Award-winning Anne Hathaway
for the role.
Is Underwood as dreadful as peo-
ple thought she was going to be? Not
quite. The good thing is she can sing,
and yodel too. She of course does not
carry the finely tuned, piercing voice
of Julie Andrews, but the more gutsy,
forceful interpretation of the ‘Good
Girl’ singer works just fine. It’s only
when she stops singing and has to act
that problems start to emerge. Her de-
livery of lines is so flat and monoto-
nous that it often feels like the audi-
ence is being subjected to a primary
school amateur production of the
musical. She may have won Grammys,
but she will not be winning any acting
Oscars any time soon for sure.
The opposite is true for Stephen
Moyer as Captain von Trapp. He can
act, but he can’t sing. Thankfully the
number of times he’s required to do
this is scarce compared to the times
Underwood has to speak, but the all-
important ‘Edelweiss’ and the ‘Some-
thing Good’ duet lack a strong emo-
tional punch because of this. Watch as
Moyer struggles through his solo: his
toe-curlingly cringe-worthy interpre-
tation of ‘Edelweiss’ is almost unbear-
able, which goes to show the best has
definitely not been saved for the last
in this special one-off television event.
The love story between the two
characters is of course a massive sell-
ing point, one that Julie Andrews and
Christopher Plummer forever forged
in their 1965 hit film, although noth-
ing of the sort is remotely replicated
here. There is no heart, no chemistry,
and no passion. The two leads appear
as though this is a massive chore for
them, and granted, performing live
for so long cannot be easy, but there is
something so mechanical and robotic
about their performances that no con-
vincing, smooth potrayal is ever in
sight throughout the three-hour run-
ning time (that thankfully takes into
account commercial breaks – the ac-
tual show runs for around two hours).
The wonky, dubious accent of Laura
Benanti, as the posh Baroness Elsa
Schrader so obviously trying to se-
duce her way into Captain von Trapp’s
pants (clearly not thinking through
the seven children she’ll have to in-
herit along with his estates) is at times,
unintentionally hilarious.
The only performer who really
stands out is the four-time Tony-win-
ning Audra McDonald who can both
sing and act (sadly a rare find in this
remake event). Her belting, operatic
rendition of ‘Climb Every Mountain’ is
powerfully resonating to say the least
and as a firm mother-figure to Maria,
she has a brief but crucial and memo-
rable role, one that is filled by a much
accomplished actress.
The young cast, which includes the
seven von Trapp children, are there to
look sweet and harmonise well, which
they do, even though Rolf (Michael
Campayno), the Nazi boyfriend of von
Trapp’s eldest, Liesl (Ariane Rinehart),
is clearly not “17 going on 18” as he
sings in possibly one of the most mi-
sogynistic songs of all time. The two of
them are also required to roll around
on some very limited-space outdoor
set design that looks more dangerous
than romantic.
Despite the surprising omission of
the song ‘I have confidence’, the musi-
cal numbers translate well, with sim-
ple but neat choreography to delight
and put us all in a cheery mood. It’s
a real tribute to the musical itself that
even decades after the stage premiere,
there are songs that are still catchy and
hummable, which goes to show the
love for The Sound of Music will not
be dying out no matter who does what
to butcher the talky gaps in between
the music.
Being a live television production
rather than a one-stage set perfor-
mance, the show uses its freedom to
move around in between the different
background sets built. Scene transi-
tions are generally smooth, although
the incredibly plain-looking back-
drops only further reflect the serious
limitations of the production quality.
Having been watched by over 18
million people in the States upon its
debut in December 2013, NBC has
signed Craig Zadan and Neil Meron,
the two creators responsible for this
tacky rehash, to produce even more
live television presentations stage
shows. Please, please, please leave
some of the greats alone. Nothing to
do with The Phantom or Les Mis. Hav-
ing feature films is good enough.

