52 FRIDAY 07 MAR
GAMES
Editor: Maximilian
Eggl, Calum Skene,
games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Is Competition really that good?
S
tarbound is a platform
adventure game currently
in beta and being developed
by Chucklefish Games, a
UK indie games studio. I
love this game! I am eight hours in
and I’ve barely even scratched the
surface of all that is available in this
game. Indeed I’ve only just completed
the tutorial, a fun yet disheartening
experience that will be shared later in
this review. This game is special, and
not just because fellow games Editor
Max bought it for me at Christmas or
because it’s an indie game. Read on to
find out why you should spend your
time playing this game.
At first impressions Starbound can
be described as a sort of 2D version of
Minecraft, a lot like Terraria, except it
is set in space. When you start out you
get to choose between 6 races which
are all different. At the moment, the
races are sort of similar, apart from
appearance, but each race does get its
own armour, weapons and recipes. I
picked the Avian race, bird looking
creatures who can’t fly but are fierce
warriors. You start the game aboard
your spacecraft, however you have
no fuel! Stranded in space you must
beam yourself down to the nearest
planet and survive while gathering
materials.
For new players the game provides a
handy tutorial, and you are rewarded
money for completing it. It was simple
to start with, and my Avian character
was doing well. I built a campfire,
a workbench and a hunting bow to
hunt the variety of alien creatures the
planet has. The alien enemy creatures
remind me a lot of Pokémon and the
game tells you the attacks they are
making. One in particular reminded
me of Psyduck as it picked me up and
dropped me using gravity slam. After
my relaxing time hunting to get meat,
and mining, I was presented with
the final quest in the tutorial. I had
to build a distress beacon to attract
attention from passing spaceships.
The recipe for the distress beacon
needed a lot more materials than
anything I had built before so off I
went mining into the deeps, and I
mean deep! You can dig down far, and
find dungeons with treasure chests,
abandoned research centres filled
with money and different enemies. I
spent nearly two hours mining and
the varied landscape helped keep
the game fresh. Down in the deeps I
discovered more problems than just
enemies. It is cold when you go down
far, and if you are away from a torch
or campfire you freeze to death, but
it is not the cold that killed me. In the
underbelly of the planet my Avian
creature died of hunger as I failed to
find monsters to hunt for meat. Dying
in this way, although frustrating,
was a lot more interesting than just
being killed by monsters. Back on
the surface after re-hatching from an
egg I had the materials for a distress
beacon. Ignoring the messages to
properly prepare I used the distress
beacon and all my materials with
it and got destroyed by a UFO that
came down. I was in shock, 2 hours
were completely wasted as I needed to
build a new distress beacon to call the
UFO back and this time be prepared to
destroy it. My need for revenge drove
me through the 3 hour mining session
I needed to get enough materials
to build a full set of armour. I even
I
seem to be in a bit of a gaming
rut at the moment. I bought a
few games in the Steam sales and
in Humble Bundles that I haven’t
given due gaming time. Instead
of exploring the vastness of my steam
library, I am always playing the same
game: CounterStrike Global Offensive.
For all you who don’t know what
CounterStrike is or haven’t read my
previous articles, CounterStrike is a
super-successful series made by Valve
based on a mod of the Half Life series.
Either as a terrorist or a counter-
terrorist, you attempt to achieve your
goals, like planting a bomb, defusing a
bomb or killing your opponents, whilst
trying to stop your enemy doing the
same.
moreso than anyone would expect.
I, myself, enjoy this game mode very
much, but at the start I found that I was
quite lost. For beginners, the maps and
strategies, the tension and pressure can
really be too much. I recently played
with Calum, the game’s co-editor, and
one of our teammates got so frustrated
well as your win percentage influence
your global rank and rating. The best
of the best can be scouted for pro
teams, and actually compete for serious
money.
This, coupled with the tension and
excitement of the individual round,
really adds to this game’s replay value,
at the beginner skills of Calum that he
actually told him to commit suicide (or
something to that effect which can not
be printed). Thus, if you are a beginner,
stay away from this mode and play the
more casual game modes.
The best and simultaneously worst
thing about the competitive mode
is your teammates. They make or
break a great gaming session. If you
get enthusiastic, funny and great
companions, make sure you friend
them as they really make playing CS
GO enjoyable in any form. On the
other hand, if you encounter those
douchebags who surrender at any sign
of difficulty, leave or are just a**holes
then I feel sorry for you.
Competitive matchmaking is there to
extend the number of hours you spend
playing CS, and it does so admirably,
especially if you are as competitive as I
am. If this game is getting stale for you,
seriously try out this game mode, you
won’t regret it!
went to an Avian town and murdered
and stole enough money to build the
beacon. My small wingless Avian had
been though a lot, but this time, with
a lot of running, I was able to destroy
the UFO and the penguins it beamed
down to the surface to obtain the
molten core: a required material for
the Metalwork station.
If it hasn’t come across in my epic
adventure, this game is addictive.
Not many games would hold my
attention after having been destroyed
by a UFO following a big mining
session. Starbound manages to keep
you entertained as the landscape is
unexpected and changing. At one
point I jumped out of my seat as
meteors came down and destroyed
everything near my house. Starbound
has lots to do already and it’s just
in beta. It differs from Minecraft
by offering quests which keep you
entertained when you don’t know
what to do as well as offering the
sandbox experience that many enjoy.
When you get good enough to leave
your first planet you can find new
worlds with harder enemies, but
increased ore, and get money to buy
more powerful weapons. The game
looks beautiful and has calming music
to accompany your journey through
space. I urge you all to buy Starbound
now and enjoy this great game while
seeing how the game evolves through
the beta.
More than just a Terraria Clone
Calum Skene, chopping and mining for survival as he is bound for the stars
While this formula seems quite
boring and repetitive, I would say not,
as there are many different variations
of the original game mode. This is not
a review of CS GO, however, but rather
a look at the competitive matchmaking
system in which I have wasted so many
hours.
Imagine what I described above, but
instead of just casual players, you have
a team of 5 all working together to
win, playing another team of 5 just as
determined. Playing 30 rounds, 15 as
terrorist and 15 as counter-terrorist,
you must win at least 16 to clinch
victory. If you die in a round that is it
you have to wait till the next round.
Furthermore, once you have died you
can watch your team mates try to win.
All this combined can sometimes make
emotions run high. If you are the last
person alive and you know that the
rest of the team is watching you, the
pressure can be quite real.
Your performance in the match as
Maximilian Eggl
Games Editor

