54 FRIDAY 07 MAR
CLUBS & SOCS Editor: Nida Mahmud
felix@imperial.ac.uk
Check(mate) your Privilege
I
t’s one thing to write a review
for an Imperial College student
production. It’s another thing to
write a review for such a show
you’ve personally been involved
in for two years (both in acting and
production) - and therefore already
know the good/bad/ugly that comes
with it. You find your pride and
bias as an insider/alumnus of said
production (“oh it was amazing and
we could do no wrong!”) grapples with
your professional view as a neutral
outsider with prior external stage
experience. Still, that was the situation
I willingly put myself in when I made
a snap decision to attend Malaysian
Society’s MNight this year - this
time as an audience member with no
involvement.
If you haven’t seen the infamously-
vandalized poster located in the 4th
floor of Central Library that’s made
the rounds on Facebook, ICU MNight
is an annual 2-day production that
takes place in the Great Hall. It’s a
showcase of Malaysian culture and
quirks wrapped up in an acting and
dancing extravaganza, with tickets
for both nights selling out. This year’s
production was titled Checkmate,
directed by Pashiini Supramaniam
and Shi Kai Wei whilst being produced
by Wee Kii Teh and En Lin Goh.
I took my seat in the packed hall
minutes before the emcees - Clayton
Qwah and Jia Sheng Lee (two of my
fellow MNight 2012 alumni!) - made
their entrance. With light-hearted
humor and a good dose of cringe-
yet-clever punnery, the duo set the
stage(ha!) for the rest of the show,
bringing audience energy levels up.
They then made way for a spectacular
opening dance filled with stunning
shadow imagery, which started
the show with a bang - whilst also
introducing the plot and depicting
some key characters.
The play revolves around a decade-
long conflict between two fictional
countries, Bolehland (pronounced
bo-lay-h-land) and Kiasuland (kee-
ah-soo-land) - a reference to the
friendlier “rivalry” between Malaysia
and neighbouring Singapore. With
both countries’ royal families
having suffered casualties in the
war, a temporary truce is called. The
Bolehland princes - Fitzgerald (Jae
Hann Lim) and Edward (Edward Tan)
- travel to meet the newly-coronated
Kiasuland king, the hilariously quirky
RajaKingthik(KharthikChakravarthy)
and his bubbly yet unrefined niece
Princess Seraphina (Sharon Fu) for
peace treaty negotiations.
Opposing idealogies between the
princely siblings - cynical elder Fitz
believes in war, younger naive Ed lives
by diplomatic negotiation - served
as a constant source of tension that
underpinned the whole play, with
hidden assassination agendas from
their father (the duplicitous King
Kang Kung, played by Wei Jian Tan)
threatening to rear their ugly head.
During their visit, Prince Fitz and
Princess Seraphina fall for each other,
rendering the prince torn between his
ideals of a hostile Kiasuland takeover
and his desire to keep the princess
happy. Drama rollercoaster all around,
we say!
Despite the somber theme, the
show was a barrel of laughs - just
the way MNight traditionally is. It
certainly wouldn’t be an ICU MSoc
production without the customary
political jibes, inclusion of Manglish
(Malaysian pidgin/slang) or pop
culture references, and this year
didn’t disappoint. Cheeky homages
were paid to prior Malaysian political
gaffes (like the Sharifah Jahbeen
“Listen Listen Listen” debacle) and
neighbouring Singapore’s quirks, plus
an unexpected Doge reference had
everyone in stitches. With a great mix
of slapstick humor and cleverly subtle
double entendres (like a noteworthy
“gun-polishing” moment between Fitz
and Ed), the audience’s funny bones
got their fair share of attention.
The whole cast’s acting was highly
natural and a delight to watch, though
special mention has to be given to the
princes’ assistants - Kieran (Dustin
Chung) and Lyra (Sonali Nardkani.)
These supporting characters served as
effective comic relief and the perfect
foils to the more-serious characters in
the plot, with stellar slapstick-acting
that stole the show. The Narrator
(Wui Shen Ng) also deserves kudos
for his clear, perfect diction and
highly expressive “radio-friendly”
voice throughout the play - even if we
didn’t see him acting onstage until his
monologue at the very end.
Scene transitions involved a wide
variety of cultural dances, ranging
from Broadway to hip-hop to even
Chinese Lion dance and traditional
Silat (Malay martial arts.) The
choreography was top notch, with
flawless execution from the dancers.
At one point during the post-
intermission Dikir Barat (a traditional
Malay musical dance form), the
audience got to enjoy a parody of
Blurred Lines, where the lyrics
included some cheeky bashing of
rival universities - much to everyone’s
delight, non-Imperialites included.
The music team provided the perfect
cherry on top; live instrumentals
peppered throughout the play ably
emphasized the relevant moods.
At the end, with the two kings having
been assassinated, the deceptively-
sanguine (now Queen) Seraphina was
revealed to have masterminded the
deaths. This disturbing penny-drop
moment came with the revelation that
she had struggled for ages knowing
that Kingthik had killed her war-
loving father, and was merely fighting
for the same ideals (two united
countries) as the princes - giving the
audience a chance to empathize with
her actions. In a cruel twist of fate
both lovers ended up dead - one at
the hands of the other, denying the
audience a happy ending and leaving
them shell-shocked.
Given the nature of such a
production - where most of the cast
(all freshers!) and crew have minimal
(or even no) stage experience, there
were a few snags to be expected.
Some scene changes were not as fluid
and snappy as hoped, and there were
certain times where the acting was
slightly contrived, or the pacing felt
rather draggy.
Despite that, it was fabulous overall.
Imperial’s MNight is unique in that
it also has to cater to more non-
Malaysians than other MNights in
the country (it’s 2 nights as opposed
to just 1.) It’s not an easy task given
the cultural differences; Malaysians
tend to approach/appreciate stage
productions very differently to
the British - but the cast and crew
managed, taking care of both fellow
countrymen and the non-Malaysians
very well in the process. As an MNight
alumnus, I was proud of what the
younger generation pulled off that
night, and how hard they worked
for it. As that uninvolved audience
member? I’ll quote what Princess/
Queen Seraphina herself said: “Wow,
much deep. So amaze.”
Carol Ann Cheah revisits Malaysian Night - now as a non-performing/producing outsider
DANIEL SAW/ MALAYSIAN SOCIETY
A Scene from the Opening Shadow Dance
DANIEL SAW/ MALAYSIAN SOCIETY DANIEL SAW/ MALAYSIAN SOCIETY DANIEL SAW/ MALAYSIAN SOCIETY
Chubby Bunny - Chess edition

