imperialcollegeunion.org
Union Page
Take the Union Survey and you could win a
prize!
Every day Imperial College Union is
working for our 16,000+ members
ensuring that their time at Imperial
is the best it can be. We are the voice
for all students at the College and
represent the views of students in
College committees, in departments
and in the services we run. As a not-for-
profit charity we measure our success
in the impact we have on our members’
lives.
The Union Survey is your chance to let
us know what you think about the many
services that we run and provide. The survey doesn’t take long to complete and helps us undertsand how to make
your Union better for you. Changes we have made over the last few years have helped us become one of the most
improved Students’ Unions in the UK. In the recent Times Higher Education Student Experience Survey we became
the fourth most improved Union over the last two years.
For just a few minutes of your time, you could win one of the following prizes:
2 x iPad Minis with Retina Display
2 x £20 Union Shop vouchers
2 pairs of Summer Ball 2014 tickets
10 x Nando’s Combo Meal vouchers!
Every month we hold polls to pick
which guest pizza we should sell in
FiveSixEight and which guest ales we
should sell in both the Postgraduate
h-bar and Union Bar.
Pick a Pizza is back! You can vote for
a guest pizza to be on our menu in
March, alongside the regulars on our
menu. This month’s choices are:
Pizza Wild Wild West: Pepperoni,
Baked Beans, Onion, Tomato &
Mozzarella
Pizza Mexican: Spicy Beef, Mixed
Peppers, Onion, Tomato & Mozzarella
Pizza Tropicana: Pineapple, Ham,
Tomato & Mozzarella
Pizza Caribbean: Tuna, Mixed
Peppers, Onions, Jalapeño Chillies,
Tomato & Mozzarella
The poll will close at 17:00 on Friday 14
March and the winning pizza will be on
sale the following week.
imperialcollegeunion.
org/food-drink
Elections Results Party
The Elections Results Party on Friday 14 March is a chance for everyone to come and
celebrate the end of campaign week - whether you are successful in your campaign or
not, you deserve to enjoy yourself after two weeks of frantic canvassing!
The end of the voting period can often be overwhelming and exhausting. We are holding
an Elections Results Party for every candidate, campaigner, voter and student to attend
and celebrate the end of the Big Elections 2014 together.
With a candidates’ drinks reception from 19:00 - 20:00, the party starts at 20:00 for
everyone else. With results being announced until 22:00, the atmosphere will be electric!
The results will be followed by our resident iPop DJ until 02:00 and entry to the party is
completely free.
With a photo booth, student presenters, Big Elections themed decoration and confetti
canons, this is an evening not to be missed!
imperialcollegeunion.org/elections
Pick a Pizza
(or an ale!)
imperialcollegeunion.org/union-survey
We want to know
what you think
about
We want to know
what you
think
about
ELECTIONS
BIG
2014
the
RESULTS
PARTY
1st
14MARCH/20:00-02:00
WHO WILL WIN?
Hear the results announced.
LIVE.

