61
@feliximperial
FelixImperial
FRIDAY 07 MAR
SPORT
Premier
League
Predictions
James White
Football Columnist
West Brom vs. Man United (Satur-
day 12:45pm, BT Sport 1):
West Brom recorded their first win
at Old Trafford for 44 years in the re-
verse fixture back in September. A lot
has changed at the Hawthorns since
then, and Pepe Mel is still searching
for his first win as Baggies boss. Now
would be a good time with the threat
of relegation looming but he has come
from behind to draw all four of his
home games 1-1 and with United as
unpredictable as a bag of revels of late,
that’s a result that would probably just
about satisfy both managers. 1-1
Cardiff vs. Fulham:
What a colossal relegation six-pointer
this is. For what it’s worth, I don’t think
either of these sides has the stomach
for the battle they face and expect
both to be playing Championship
football next year. But whereas Felix
Magath’s Cottagers showed charac-
ter in holding West Brom in their last
away match, Ole Gunnar Solskjaer’s
Bluebirds were hapless at home a fort-
night ago, losing 4-0 to Hull. Cardiff
do not look like beating anyone in
their current form, so I think this is
Fulham’s game to lose, and they have
not lost on the road since January. 0-1
Crystal Palace vs. Southampton:
There will be a major conflict of inter-
ests and clash of styles at Selhurst Park
on Saturday. Tony Pulis’s abrasive style
of play suits the relegation scrap Pal-
ace find themselves in. Saints, mean-
while, has nothing to play for but the
chance to showcase the free-flowing
football for which Mauricio Pochet-
tino has made his name since taking
over. Both sides are on form and I can-
not pick a winner. 1-1
Norwich vs. Stoke:
Norwich’s position seems to have
scarcely ever changed since they re-
turned to the top flight of English
football two and a half years ago.
They have managed to survive every
season without ever looking in major
jeopardy, and are on course to do the
same this year. You might say the same
for Stoke, who have experienced mid-
table mediocrity for five or six years
on the trot. As a result, I can see this
being a dead rubber – the Potters sel-
dom threaten on their travels and the
Canaries struggle terribly for goals
themselves. 0-0
Chelsea vs. Tottenham (Saturday
5:30pm, Sky Sports 1):
With the competition for a European
finish as fierce as ever, rather ironical-
ly Tim Sherwood could probably do
without the distractions of the Europa
League at the moment. One thing is
for sure – he absolutely has to win this
if Spurs are to stand any chance of a
top four finish. But Jose Mourinho is
the master of getting a result in big
matches and the manner in which the
Blues grinded out their last home vic-
tory over Everton epitomised his style.
I expect a similar scoreline again here.
1-0
Polo
Nationals
2014
Olivia Szepietowski
IC Polo Captain
While the rest of the world was wak-
ing up to roses and chocolates on
Valentine’s Day, the Imperial College
Polo Team was making the journey up
to Rugby to compete in this year’s Na-
tional Universities Arena Polo Cham-
pionships. Tim Wright (2nd year
maths) and Olivia Szepietowski (3rd
year medicine) were joined by James
Faulkner (1st year engineering) who
studies at Brunel University but trains
with Imperial.
As the ball was thrown in on our first
match against Edinburgh we all had a
hairy few seconds where our enthu-
siasm and the quick reactions of our
ponies nearly threw the entire team
off! Luckily we all caught our balance
and set about sending the ball towards
goal. With only six minutes per match
(called a ‘chukka’) we had very little
time to get into the swing of it, it’s a
race to get as many goals as possible
whilst committing as few fouls as pos-
sible. Within the first two minutes,
we had a penalty in our favour when
I was hitting the ball towards the goal
and was slammed into the boards by
one of Edinburgh’s ponies. Thank-
fully I managed to score a goal despite
this, so we suddenly had two goals to
none and Edinburgh was beginning to
sweat. From that point our confidence
was soaring and we managed to score
another goal before the whistle blew,
giving us a 3-0 win over Edinburgh; a
great start to the tournament!
We had a few hours to kill before our
second chukka of the day (and polo
time is notoriously slower than nor-
mal time) so we headed to the only
place where the floor wasn’t two
inches below water: the bar. After a
few mulled wines, the team were feel-
ing much warmer and extremely con-
fident about our chances in the N2
division this year, especially after Im-
perial won the trophy last year in the
division above. 52 Universities were
taking part this year, some with mul-
tiple teams, so it was fantastic to meet
so many polo enthusiasts and watch
some excellent matches.
Our second chukka was against Ports-
mouth, a deceptively innocent looking
team whose true colours were soon
shown when the ball was thrown in.
The first thing I felt was sharp elbows
in my side trying to push me off my
pony and they didn’t relent for the
next six minutes. Tim badly hurt his
shoulder a minute in which caused
problems throughout the chukka,
while James and his pony were argu-
ing over speed and direction. That is
to say that we were having problems!
Portsmouth scored the first goal, put-
ting pressure on our team to keep
up. As we rushed to take the ball, we
fouled the other team and so they
were rewarded a penalty shot at our
goal, which they scored. This upped
the ante so we responded by driving
the ball hard up the arena and scor-
ing our first goal. Perhaps the elation
made us impetuous, because we went
on to commit another foul against
Portsmouth and so handed them an-
other goal, leaving the final score 3-1
to them. Disappointed as we were, it
was a fantastically fast paced chukka
that we all enjoyed and found both
challenging and tiring, a good end to
the first day.
That evening we headed to a nearby
pub for dinner and had a romantic,
candlelit Valentine’s dinner for three
before retiring absolutely shattered.
Unfortunately for James, his bed was a
sleeping bag in the arena so when the
first rider entered the arena at 8:30am
the next morning and saw him sleep-
ing there they did what anyone in that
position would do: blow a klaxon in
his ear. So with that start to the morn-
ing we prepared for another day of
polo.
With a few hours until our third chuk-
ka we went to support team GB play-
ing against the USA and were blown
away by the speed and agility of these
young players. It was a hugely excit-
ing, four chukka game, with a goal be-
ing scored every minute. It was tense
at times, and the screams from the
crowd were deafening but sadly not
enough to bring GB to victory, and
they suffered a 15-11 defeat.
With visions of the international
teams in our heads, we headed into
our first chukka of the day against the
Defence Academy. Our tactics were
good and we worked fantastically as a
team but the match was tricky, espe-
cially with Tim injured. Elbows were
back out and ride-offs were vicious,
leading to a final score of 2-2. This lead
to an exciting, sudden death, penalty
shoot-out with the Defence Academy
scoring their goal by a hairsbreadth.
Unfortunately we missed our penalty
shot so lost the chukka but agreed that
it was another exhilarating match that
we thoroughly enjoyed. As we brought
the ponies back to the pony-lines I no-
ticed my hand covered in blood and
was almost relieved that I had a minor
injury to show for the weekend, proof
that I played hard! After getting my
thumb bandaged up, we had a team
talk over a few more mulled wines
and prepared for our final match.
Tim went to play a match for Oxford
Brooks who didn’t have enough play-
ers and managed to fall off his pony
but not before shouting “getting off!”
With three injuries in the bag now
and us all relying on James’ health we
headed into the arena with high spir-
its, determined to enjoy (and survive)
the final chukka against Bristol. From
the moment the ball entered the line-
up, we were in control and headed
straight up towards the goal, scoring
immediately. We threw our ponies
round and galloped up to steal the ball
from Bristol and send it back down to
their end again: another goal. We were
on fantastic form, working brilliantly
as a team and buoyed by the cheers
and encouragement from our sup-
porters. We ended our final chukka of
Nationals with a 3-0 win, placing us
7th out of 16 universities (with War-
wick taking 1st).
That evening we celebrated in style
with all of the other universities at a
fancy dress party, consuming many
bottles of champagne and even the
odd champägerbomb (it’s exactly what
it sounds like, try it at your own risk!).
We partied until the early hours and
weren’t surprised on Sunday morning
to see many players with dark sun-
glasses on and popping Berocca. As
we didn’t have any matches on Sunday
we got to enjoy the brilliant sunshine
and watch some spectacular polo with
friends, a perfect way to end such an
exciting and challenging weekend.
Congratulations Imperial Polo Team,
now for Summer Nationals!
IC POLO
IC POLO
IC POLO

