6 FRIDAY 07 MAR
WELLBEING Editor: Marissa Lewis
felix@imperial.ac.uk
T
here’s been a movement in
the last couple of years to
get people talking about
their experiences with
mental health, whether it’s
on a national scale such as Mind’s
Time to Talk campaign or Imperial’s
own OpenMinds campaign. There’s
also been a move to try and explain
life with a mental illness to others who
haven’t suffered one, a daunting task
at best, but a project which has yielded
really amazing work. My personal
favourite is Hyperbole and a Half’s
web-comic ‘Adventures in Depression’
(shown below) because it rings most
true to my experiences of depression
although, of course, everyone’s
experiences are different. It also
contains the use of stick men, which is
a well-known Union favourite.
What isn’t discussed as much, or at
least what I haven’t picked up on, is
what happens after you recover. I’ll
use the term ‘recover’ quite loosely
here because it means different things
to different people – for many, it isn’t
a matter of curing a mental illness and
being magically better, but more like
finding a treatment program which
works and that leads someone to feel
like they have control over their life
again. For me, I had several years of
really quite debilitating depression
when I was younger and now I don’t.
I’m not currently receiving treatment
for any mental health condition either.
I face a real temptation to simply
close the book on that relatively long
and painful aspect of my life. Talking
about mental illness isn’t easy and
when you pass as a neurotypical
person 99% of the time, you pick up
on thoughtless comments from others
who assume you’re in on the joke.
This year, I heard people say that they
wouldn’t want a sabbatical officer
who’d had mental health problems
and, as a medical student, sometimes
the opinions of my course-mates can
be rather jarring. The idea of a doctor
with mental health issues can be met
with scorn, as a diagnosis is often
equated to irrationality and instability,
whereas patients with mental health
problems can be seen as time wasters.
Conversely, you can also find yourself
excluded from discussions with fellow
sufferers as you are assumed to be
ignorant to these issues.
There are benefits to staying
silent about mental illness and I’d
be disingenuous to pretend there
aren’t; you don’t have to deal with the
associated stigma quite so harshly
and you don’t have to worry about
people treating you differently.
What I’ve found difficult this year is
the increased scrutiny you get as a
sabbatical, namely the odd Tab article
as well as your image on video screens
all over the Union, which amplifies
your normal human desire to present
an infallible image to the world by the
factor of fifty. I often tried to find some
sort of middle ground between saying
nothing and full disclosure, couching
my illness as ‘poor mental health’ or
other euphemisms rather than being
explicit – in doing so I found myself in
the strange situation of being anxious
to disclose even that much and feeling
like I’d copped out of saying anything
meaningful.
I also feel a bit ridiculous talking
about something that happened
years ago and that I was fortunate
enough to get through. I grew up
with a parent with very severe mental
health issues, including delusions and
hallucinations, which led to them
falling in and out of hospital, often
under involuntary sections. For a
long time, I was trying to battle the
perception I had that unless your
illness called for sirens and hospitals, it
wasn’t really worth burdening anyone
with. At the time, I managed to trick
myself into thinking my condition
wasn’t really that serious as I was still
sitting exams and getting good marks,
despite not attending around half of
my classes in sixth form. I now realise
that was absurd.
When you’re mentally ill, your
perceptions often change in ways you
don’t realise and even now, several
years free of depression, I’m still
realising how messed up some of my
old, lingering thought patterns were.
My view of recovery at that time
was particularly wrong. When I was
sick, I either envisioned recovery as
some glorious light at the end of a
hideous tunnel that I’d never reach
or I’d see it as equally bleak as my
current situation. The reality was
somewhat different and I think it
goes something like this: life can suck
sometimes, whether or not you have
a mental illness, and life also doesn’t
care if you’ve had a mental illness in
the past and could really use a break,
thank you very much. What changes is
yourself – the issues that would have
knocked me sideways a few years ago,
which ranged from major events to
getting out of bed in the morning, I
can now handle. And although some
days are rubbish, I’m aware that the
bad times are finite and I will feel
happiness again. Sounds simple, but I
would have scoffed at these concepts
in the past.
I also know how tempting it is to
cling on to anything that offers you
a chance of recovery when you’re
ill, whether or not this is rational,
be it a friend or family member or a
treatment program or risk-taking
behaviours that give you the illusion
of feeling something else for even the
briefest period of time. For me, I didn’t
do well in any sort of formal treatment.
I had counselling for a while but ended
up just telling the counsellor what I
thought she wanted to hear. After I
was diagnosed when I was sixteen,
I was referred to a psychiatrist to
start drug therapy and CBT but that
just freaked me out and it didn’t take
me long to drop out. Instead, I was
fortunate to have amazing friends
who put up with me for several long,
difficult years (no small feat given they
were just teenagers themselves) and
I was fortunate to come to Imperial
when things were at their worst - a
drastic change of scenery was probably
what I needed most of all. For the vast
majority of the population, that isn’t
very feasible.
People often feel a lot of anxiety
disclosing a mental illness whether
informally to friends or formally to
their departments in College. As
Deputy President (Welfare), it’s hard
advocating people to do things that
I’ve personally found terrifying in
the past and this article is one of
many steps I’m taking to rectify that.
Recently, I’ve joined up with the
Counselling Service, Union Advice
Centre and Disability Advisory Service
to go around different departments in
order to talk to students about mental
health. One of the things I say in my
talk is that although, in your head, you
imagine people freaking out if you tell
them you are having problems with
your mental health, the most common
reaction I’ve had to disclosure is
people start disclosing themselves. I
suppose I’m living proof as this article
was prompted by a candidate for
Disabilities Officer disclosing their
own struggles with mental health on
their public manifesto – for me the
most compelling moment of the Big
Elections so far.
Still, I want to end this article with
something positive and so I’ll talk
about the moment that I realised I
was getting well. I went to stay with a
friend of mine (pictured above) who
lives out in the middle of nowhere –
her village doesn’t even have a post
office and only recently got a pub. We
drove out to one of the fields around
her house and it was a late afternoon,
so the sun was just beginning to set,
and we had the car radio blaring as
we drove around in the open, not
another person in sight. It’s irrational
but when you’re depressed the main
problem is that you don’t see a way
out and you lose hope of ever feeling
anything again. For one moment,
driving like an idiot and listening to
canned pop songs in the middle of
summer, I finally saw my life changing
for the better.
I would like to share some massive
moment of revelation that would
be befitting of the end of a film, like
staring out over the Grand Canyon for
the first time (which I did some years
later with the same friend), but no,
my grand realisation occurred in the
driving seat of a Ford Focus.
It was probably equally amazing.
Marissa Lewis
Wellbeing Editor
Hyperbole and a Half tries to show how even well-intentioned offers of help can
feel to someone with depression
Recovering from depression
Myself (centre), my friend (right of centre) and some travelling companions at the
Grand Canyon, showcasing my variable hair styles.

