62 FRIDAY 07 MAR
SPORT Editor: Kunal Wagle
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Imperial Eagles cruise to final of National Championships
With the ever growing interest in
Handball across the country, the Na-
tional University Handball Champi-
onships have become a rather large
event in recent years. This year saw the
introduction of regional qualification
rounds for the first time in the history
of the tournament. Stefan Bauer, who
has been representing Imperial at na-
tional and international tournaments
since 2007, was excited to be part of
the team once more. “I remember the
first Nationals we played. There were
less than 10 men’s teams entered in
the competition, but I knew the sport
would grow. Now there are over 60
University teams in the country and
in London we have managed to set up
a LUS League. The sport has come a
long way.”
Imperial men’s finished 3rd in the
last two tournaments and are ranked
amongst the favourites again this
year. The women’s team has joined
forces with Kings College London and
looked to cause an upset in the early
stages of the tournament.
The men’s team received a rather un-
grateful draw with three of the top
four teams from last year’s event fea-
tured in the same qualification group.
Royal Holloway, who are the Eagles’
closest rival in the league, were their
first opponents in the opening game
of the competition. Fully aware of the
opponents’ strengths and weaknesses,
Imperial controlled the north Lon-
doners fierce left-handed back player
and focussed on fast transitional play.
Their match plan worked beautifully
and helped the Eagles to cruise to an
opening 11:7 victory.
Meanwhile, the women’s team faced
arch rivals UCL on the other court,
but was outplayed by their swift ball
movement and great vision by the op-
ponents’ centre player. Southampton
University was a much more equal ad-
versary, but despite leading for most
of the game, Imperial were robbed
of their victory by a last minute goal.
Margherita Ciano, who was unable
to attend the first day of fixtures was
positive despite the 2 opening defeats.
“We only have to win one game to
make it to the knock out game. If we
manage that, we can keep our hopes
of qualification alive!”.
The men’s team continued their win-
ning streak with a straight forward
win over Brunel 1st team. Lucas
Carstens had to face his Super 8 team
mate Oliver Barton, who played on
the right wing for the Uxbridge based
team, but the Eagles came out trumps
once more. “Brunel is strong on the
wing and on the line, but we were able
to minimize passes to either of these
positions. That forced turn-overs that
we converted in attack. This was a
great team effort”. Only an hour after
their second game, the IC men had
to face UCL and were given a chance
to avenge the women’s team. Recent
encounters between those two sides
have had the potential to be very heat-
ed, but the results were in favour of
the Eagles. This game was no excep-
tion and ended 12:7 after 20 minutes.
Sheng Hong Chai scored his first goal
of the competition and was delight-
ed with his first taste of University
Championship action. “It was a great
day and I am happy to have my name
on the score sheet. Let’s hope we can
keep going like this”.
The second day of competition saw
the women face Brunel women’s team.
With a much more confident display,
the Eagles ladies were leading for large
parts of the game, but due to some
rather questionable refereeing by an
official who is also coaching Brunel,
Imperial were robbed of their de-
served victory in the last minute of the
game. This meant that not even beat-
ing group leaders AECC would save
the ladies team, which had performed
admirably throughout.
The Men’s team was set to face AECC
in the early hours of Sunday morn-
ing in the repeat of the game for 3rd
place in last year’s competition. The
entirely Norwegian team from a Eu-
ropean Chiropractic College won
the competition 3 years ago and has
fielded strong teams on a yearly ba-
sis. Neither squad had lost a game
at that time and the clash lived up
to the spectators high expectations.
Both teams were defending to an ex-
tremely high level and tried to keep
their opponents out as much as they
could. In the dying minutes of the en-
counter, a courageous wing shot from
Tigau Daniel-Horja ended the match
at 2:2 after 20 minutes. Despite the
low score line, it was widely regarded
as the toughest and most tense game
of the weekend. Ruben Freytag was
rather displeased with the result. “We
defended extremely well. Our analysis
of their previous games was spot on
and we managed to control them for
large parts of the game. But we rarely
managed to put pressure on them in
the second wave and from the wing
positions; we were just too wasteful in
attack.”
Having dropped points in a Champi-
onship game for only the third time
in 3 years, the Eagles were keen to put
things right against the Essex Blades
(2nd in last year’s competition) in
their final group game. A win would
guarantee top spot in the table and
progression to the final stages of the
competition. The Blades, who, on
their facebook page, threatened to
“destroy heavily every other team”, had
to win to avoid a knock-out game. An
expectedly heated fixture ensued, but
some impressive displays by Stefan
Bauer in goal and Marios Papamichail
as playmaker, ‘destroyed heavily’ the
Blades from Essex and secured the top
spot for the Imperial Eagles.
Club President Rishi De-Kayne, who
was unable to attend the second day
of the tournament due to romantic
involvements, was very excited about
the team’s success. His girlfriend later
stated, that he asked her “make a baby
and call it Eagle” the same night.
Overall, the weekend was a giant suc-
cess for handball and should strength-
en the bid for a new BUCS application.
As the only Olympic sport to not yet
feature in Britain’s highest university
sports competition, the pressure is
high to produce events like these and
showcase the level and enthusiasm of
the sport and the clubs alike. The final
is set to take place on the weekend of
the 8th/9th of March and the Imperial
Eagles Men’s team will be hoping to
improve on their performances from
last year and finally bring the trophy
to London.
Stefan Bauer
IC Handball
IC 1s thump UCL 5-1
Heading into this match, IC were
comfortably in 2nd position, four
points ahead of our opponents, UCL
1s. A win would secure 2nd place, and
IC went to Shenley looking to exact a
sweet revenge. Having beaten UCL in
the reverse BUCS home fixture 3-0 in
the first half of the season, we lost 0-1
to them a few days later in LUSL due
to a combination of an injury ravaged
squad and a lacklustre performance.
The warm up consisted mainly of
Imperial trying their best not to fall
over. The pitches, although appear-
ing smooth and nicely trimmed at
first were, in fact, mostly waterlogged.
Even Omar Amjad, on a brisk walk in
his world renowned first gear, would
have chopped up the grass to unplay-
able levels. In fact, Amjad apparently
couldn’t even shift from neutral into
first as he didn’t even turn up to play
that day. Some crap about exams...
Five minutes in, Paul Nugnet and Jim
Beam Murphy combined well down
the left before The Nug (#FearTh-
eNugnet – Linstead is the first official
victim) squared the ball to Crawford
before he released Robinson into
some space with a through ball. Af-
ter running into one of their centre
backs, he played a devilish back heel
to Murphy behind him who smashed
a very well hit first time curler towards
goal. It curled so much in fact that the
keeper, originally diving to his left,
had to then outstretch his right hand
the other way to get a palm to the shot.
It was all in vain however, as the parry
just rolled into the back of the net. 1-0
with five minutes played.
Another 15 minutes of IC domina-
tion followed, with the only consola-
tion for UCL being how politely they
were relieved of possession time and
time again. In particular Private Law-
son (Keane) and Andy Pavvvv (White
Viera) were doing well as holding
midfielders, mopping up the mess
and distributing the ball forward well.
However, what then happened was a
defensive implosion. A UCL ball over
the top released their winger, who put
in a good cross to the back post. Their
other winger arrived, hitting the ball
on the half volley and forcing a diving
save out of Casas Bofarull, which he
accomplished for the 135th time with-
out misplacing a single thread of hair.
The resulting spillage was lapped up
by Jonty H 3 yards out who, possibly
a bit peeved at being played at centre
back due to Amjad at home warming
up the oil in his idle engine, decided
to look up, eye up the top corner, and
find it without hesitation. Rumour
has it Kolo Toure, wherever he was
at that exact moment, spontaneously
burst into tears and was inconsolable.
Rumour also has it that Jonty in fact
tried to clear the ball across the face of
goal but it instead ricocheted off Cov-
ers who was standing no more than
1m away from him. However, from a
view from the other side of the pitch,
the former is a more than adequate
description of the events. 1-1.
IC were not pleased with this setback
at all, and proceeded to apply the after-
burners and immediately put UCL on
the back foot again. Winger on a mis-
sion, Cravin’Dale was actually Cravin’
the scalp of his opposition full back,
Inglourious Basterds style, and effort-
lessly relieved him of his head-top be-
fore squaring a low cross to Crawford
who found himself unmarked to fire a
first time finish under the keeper. To
reach the ball Crawford had quite pos-
sibly never run so fast in his life. When
asked about this, he replied “I thought
I heard the bells of an after school Ice
Cream Truck. Sorry”.
The first half finished 2-1, an uncom-
fortable score line for IC, and so Cap-
tain Robinson made the message clear
at half time that at least two more
goals without reply were needed to be
in any sort of comfort. Luckily, that’s
exactly what happened.
The second half began well as the game
was more open with UCL throwing
men forward in their vain attempt to
actually score a goal with one of their
own players. About 10 minutes in, Pri-
vate Lawson decided to grab the game
by the scruff of the neck. Sporting the
finest buzz cut Her Majesty’s armed
forces have ever seen (0-1-0), he de-
livered. Having just returned from a
heavily weighted march to Blackpool
and back, the team were forced to
listen to his tales of the ‘unparalleled’
and ‘magnificent’ Big Dipper. Teary
eyed and emotional from having the
privilege of seeing one of the Seven
Wonders of the World up close, he
produced his own Big Dipper. Con-
trolling a ball on his battle-hardened
knee he thrashed a volley over the
despairing keeper into the back of the
net from all of 35 yards. A 21 gun sa-
lute later and the game resumed.
Cravin’Dale was still as thirsty for
milk as he has ever been (So good,
Dale wants it back. And he will get it
back.), and continued to give his op-
posite man nightmares. I’m not sure if
you readers are aware, but #TheThirst
is indeed Real and Dale has been di-
agnosed terminally ill with it. He was
involved more than twice in a slick,
one touch pass move down the right
involving the dangerous triumvirate
of Jim Beam Murphy, Ice Cream Man
Crawford and Cravin’Dale. Jim arrived
perfectly late just inside the box, a la
Fat Frank, and finished with aplomb
smashing the ball into the left corner.
4-1.
UCL were now in bits and pieces and
were repeatedly sliced open on the
counter attack. Murphy drove for-
ward through the middle from a de-
fensive corner before releasing Robin-
son straight ahead of him on the half
way line with a through ball which left
the centre back with no hope of catch-
ing him. Taking a couple of touches to
steady himself, Robinson then calmly
curled the ball round the keeper into
the bottom right corner while still
a good distance outside the box. 93
goals now for him in an Imperial shirt.
With a minimum of 3 games left, the
century looks a challenge, but defi-
nitely not impossible. 5-1, with 6 goals
scored by an IC player. The match was
well and truly over. Man of the Match
was Cravin’Dale – #TheThirstIsSoRe-
al in him that the award could never
have been given to any other man.
This convincing win not only cement-
ed the team’s 2nd place position in the
league, but also leaves them 2 points
behind the leaders Hertfordshire, who
they play the following week away in
the final match of their BUCS cam-
paign. Beating them would then put
IC at the top of the table, with the ball
being in Hertfordshire’s court to get a
result from a tricky away trip to Can-
terbury on the 19th March for the last
match of the season.
ICUAFC is sponsored by:
Jack Robinson
IC Football

