63
@feliximperial
FelixImperial
FRIDAY 07 MAR
SPORT
How to dismantle an “a-Tomek” bomb
Rob Hughes
IC Snooker and Pool
This year’s renaissance of pool at Im-
perial continued from within the icy
grip of the Vauxhall holiday camp of
Great Yarmouth. From the ashes of
the once booming tourist area, rose
the phoenix of Imperial Pool first’s
season, with an exceptional mid-Feb-
ruary display.
Preparation for the tournament had
been far from ideal, with eleven play-
ers pulling out of the running within a
week of the opening Thursday and the
resulting loss of the second team halv-
ing the club’s chances of promotion.
Worse still, Tomek ‘the aTomek bomb’
Szymaniec and Cheng ‘so good they
named him twice’ Cheng looked set to
miss their individual ties having been
delayed by coursework assignments.
Things were looking bleak as club
president Max ‘Chalm down dear’
Chalmers, took on Connor ‘the post-
man’ in his first individual match, but
a quick look at the drawsheet by Ben
‘not Sean Dyche’ Harvey revealed that
both Tomek and Cheng would make
their (fortuitously) late matches. This
allowed Max, who with this tourna-
ment became the most capped pool
player in the club’s history (since re-
cords began), to concentrate on what
turned out to be an excellent game of
pool.
‘The postman’ was a classy operator
but like a dog in the front yard Max
made his work extremely difficult
with great tactical play and street-
wise pool. This, however, was a very
tough draw for Max (as always seems
to be the case) and eventually he suc-
cumbed 3-1, with the postman deliv-
ering.
It was decided that going out might
be a good idea and the team gorged
themselves on fish and chips in prepa-
ration for their upcoming fixtures.
Tomek finally arrived at the holiday
park at 5:55pm, and calmly strode
off to play his match as the team dis-
persed to their respective tables. By
6:15 both Cheng and Rob ‘the Bank’
Hughes were out, with Rob having
played mature student Mike Giles
and been obliterated and Cheng suf-
fering a similar 3-0 defeat. Everyone
converged to watch Ben take on an
Oxford undergrad with a striking re-
semblance to Jesus in a final frame
which was painful to watch. Ben had
been put in an impossible situation
and after a series of excellent attempts
to escape from it, lost.
It was at this point that Tomek hap-
pened to mention that he had won
his match and was through to the
next round. The newcomer was up
again that evening and just kept on
winning, with a beautiful 3-2 perfor-
mance against Lorne McConnachie
of Abertay. Make no mistake, his
opponent could play, but Tomek re-
sponded to everything thrown at him,
with a stunning double to wrap up the
first frame particularly sticking in the
memory (similarly memorable was his
opponent’s face after it). Next to feel
the sting of Tomek’s cueing was an un-
suspecting lad from the University of
Hertfordshire’s recently formed pool
club, with a comfortable 4-1 win cap-
ping a great three hours’ work for the
‘aTomek bomb’. His reward was a last
64 match against the 9th seed James
Brill on the Friday afternoon.
That evening, the team slept about as
well was as possible in sub-zero con-
ditions and everyone was well rested
and ready for the next day’s play. You
wouldn’t know that, however from
the first team shield match though,
with Warwick 3 running out 6-1 win-
ners (predictably Tomek won the one
frame) with no one really on their
game. At this point the team were
somewhat despondent, unaware of
that fact that they had just played the
best team in the group.
The resulting malaise followed the
team into their next match until, when
3-1 down, Nottingham Trent 2nd’s
captain frantically called over the
organisers to look at Cheng’s shoes.
Black shoes were a requirement for
the tournament and Cheng’s were
unfortunately a very dark brown. De-
spite having potted the black to win
the frame Imperial were docked it and
told that they must provide Cheng
with black shoes.
The final score was 6-4 to Imperial,
even with the team having to con-
stantly swap footwear.
The team matches were over for an-
other day and the squad assembled to
watch Tomek play his last 64 match.
He played fearlessly in the face of an
opponent who was, as his name sug-
gested, brilliant and even won the
first frame to put him on the ropes.
But James Brill wasn’t the 9th seed for
no reason and responded with some
great pool to win 4-1. Tomek could be
very proud of his debut performance
and gave an excellent player a lot of
problems.
The Imperial five then decided to
wind down by taking part in the even-
ing speed pool team tournament, a
version of the game with essentially
no rules. The aim was to start from
the break and pot every ball on the ta-
ble as fast as possible, with each team
member starting when the previous
one finished. The first team to have
all their players clear up won. The at-
mosphere at the event was something
akin to that of a football match, with
Strathclyde and Nottingham Trent in
particular making it very lively and
pushing the boundaries of the dress
(or lack thereof) code. Imperial, hav-
ing never played this form of the game
before, were out in the first round, but
plan to practise this great form of the
game for next year’s event.
Saturday was Imperial’s busiest day
in the team shield tournament with
three group matches to play and more
to follow if they finished 2nd or high-
er. First up were Strathclyde 2, who
had one or two dangerous players in
their ranks. A shaky start saw Impe-
Imperial Cross Country
produce Strong
Performance at the
Hyde Park Relays
Chris Bannon gives his account
On 15 February, 2014, over 120 run-
ners lined up alongside the Serpentine
to start the 66th Hyde Park Relays,
with each men’s/mixed or women’s
team comprising of six and four mem-
bers completing laps of roughly 5km
and 3km respectively. In total over
600 people were warming up ready to
complete their lap meaning the start/
finish line was a hive of activity.
The men’s and mixed race went off
at 2pm followed quickly by the wom-
en’s field five minutes later. Just before
quarter past the lead group sprinted
their way down the finishing funnel
to pass over to their second runners.
Leading the men’s pack home on the
first leg was club captain Chris Ban-
non with a blistering time of 14:55,
this proved to be the fastest leg of the
day by over 10 seconds. He handed
over to new club member Gil Macha-
do who started his lap with a near 45
second lead.
Meanwhile Imo Simmonds brought
the women’s A team home in amongst
the leaders with the fastest IC time of
the day on women’s course in 11:24.
She passed the metaphorical baton
onto Sophie Kirk who 12:48 later
passed over to Antoinette Hardijzer;
who set off on her A team debut (she
would later run another two laps for
other teams).
Meanwhile, in the men’s race ultra-
marathon specialist James Ellis lead
the race out on the third leg before
losing two places in a slight detour be-
fore bringing the team home in third
place to hand over to Matt Douth-
waite, who continued a strong run of
form to break 17mins for the lap.
Further back in the field, William
Jones was roughly 15km through his
solo ‘Milan’ effort to complete all six
laps (30km) of the men’s course by
himself. Alongside him the ICXC Boiz
team were steadily picking their way
through the field whilst some of their
team were simultaneously recovering
from a night out the evening before.
The other women’s IC teams were
also lapping well with strong runs
from social secretary Isobel Holding,
triathletes Sian Morgan and Vicki Sol-
ly as well as new club member Lucinda
Smart all breaking 14 minutes, show-
ing good speed in preparation for the
upcoming Silverstone Half Marathon.
In the last few legs the front few
teams held their positions with Faron
Hesse putting in a superb 15:42 lap
before handing over to Liam Smith
who led the men’s A team home with
a 16:22 lap to 3rd overall in a time of
1:36:39 (and 2nd university team)
closely behind 1st place Oxford Uni-
versity A (1:35:25) and external team
Guac ‘n’ Rollers (1:36:06).
The women’s A team finished
strongly with Kimberly Mason run-
ning the anchor leg in a time of 12:38
racing right to the line to give a to-
tal time of 50:10 and 9th place in a
strong field led by Oxford A and B
teams (1st in 45:01 & 2nd in 46:16)
followed in 3rd by Bristol in 46:06.
The fastest legs of the day went
to Kate Niehas (10:42), Hannah
Kitchen (10:48) and Sarah McCuaig
(11:06) in the women’s race with
Christopher Bannon (14:55), Glen
Watts (15:08) and Alex Muir (15:23)
taking the fastest legs in the men’s
race.
As the day progressed, many more
runners from universities across
Europe, and from departments and
halls within Imperial finished the
course. William Jones finished his
six legs in a total time of 2:04:06
averaging just under 21minutes for
each 5km lap whilst finishing well
into the top half and beating many
university teams in the process! Xe-
nia Hall led home the internal halls
competition by nearly 5minutes,
absolutely demolishing strong com-
petition from Fisher, Beit, Wilkinson
& Weeks and Southwell & Bernard
Sunley. Following the end of the
race, it was time for the celebrations
to begin, with food and prize giving
in the SCR leading onto an after par-
ty in the union with the other uni-
versities. I would say more but there
seems to be group amnesia about the
exact events of the night, potentially
because everyone was so tired from
racing; or maybe due to the gratui-
tous amounts of Jäger consumed and
the boat racing! The next morning
there was the obligatory hangover
breakfast for those who slept over
followed by long runs and a return
to training or coursework for many
within the club.
Special thanks must be given to all
who helped out on the day: setting
up, marshalling and taking down
the course; timing and organising
the results; preparing and serving
the food; and sleeping at the union
to host the other universities. This
event wouldn’t have been possible
without the three organisers: Johnny
Li, Oliver Ashe, and Milan Misak,
with the guidance and help of cap-
tain Chris Bannon and club secre-
tary Matt Douthwaite.
rial briefly behind in this match, but
Strathcylde’s loudness seemed to put
their own players off more than ours
and Imperial ran out 6-4 winners (al-
though it should have been more).
The big London derby followed, with
UCL 1 the pre-tournament favourites
to take the group. They were, how-
ever, destroyed 6-1, with Max twice
producing exceptional dishes and
both Tomek and Ben winning both
their frames. Disgruntled, their team
captain mumbled something about
having to arrange a ‘friendly’ to get
revenge before the end of term, some-
thing which the team agreed they
would look forward to.
That meant that, going into the final
game against group whipping boys
Salford 2nds, Imperial were guaran-
teed to progress with one more victo-
ry. To everyone’s surprise, the Salford
players most of all, Imperial went 2-1
behind early on, with Rob missing the
chance to win an easy frame and oth-
ers losing unluckily. The remainder,
however, of the frames went to Impe-
rial, with Rob atoning for his earlier
frame loss with the finish of his life to
secure a 6-2 victory.
Due to several hold ups in play, Impe-
rial went straight from the final group
game into their first knockout match,
which was against Salford’s first team.
This was the tightest match of the
tournament, with some nice play all
round and Tomek dazzling on the big
stage again. After a great match, Im-
perial were 5-4 up going into the last
frame.
Cheng was playing Salford’s number
five in a horrendously tactical frame,
which neither player was enjoying.
Shot after shot saw the frame get more
and more difficult for both players un-
til at one point it became impossible
for Cheng. He clipped his opponent’s
ball, but the Salford man didn’t seem
to notice. A cry of foul came from the
crowd (with coaching being against
the rules!) and the referee was called
over. Cheng’s opponent now claimed
to have spotted the foul all along and
was allowed two shots, with which he
finished the frame.
With the result being a draw, it went
to a three frame shoot-off between
each team’s three best players. Max,
Ben and Tomek were put forward,
with Salford’s three all very able play-
ers. Max was given one very difficult
chance in his frame before losing and
Tomek played some excellent pool to
take his frame to the black. A won-
derful double from the Salford man
sealed Imperial’s fate.
Overall the group can be immensely
proud of its achievements over the
four day event, with several firsts for
an Imperial team and plenty of rea-
sons to be optimistic for the future.
Four of the five team members will
return next year and two were only
in their freshman year. This is a team
which can, and will, improve for next
year and will stand a good chance of
promotion by the time next Febru-
ary rolls in. More importantly, we
thrashed UCL.

