9
FRIDAY 07 MAR
COMMENT
YES
Columnist
Niall Jeffrey
I
t is ominously simple for people so
far from danger to forget the value of
their own security. When the details
of the recent joint US/UK surveillance
operations emerged, our value assessment
of the governments’ work was skewed due to
our privileged positions of safety.
The occupation of the NSA and GCHQ is
saving lives and preventing attacks on inno-
cent people. It is possible, using information
searched for from Facebook and Twitter, for the
organisations to automatically flag-up any po-
tential threat before it happens.
Any irregularity in typical online activity can
be the first indicators of future danger. Follow-
ing up mobile-phone clusters in a distinguishing
region or newly created friend groups that do
not fit with the geography are all irreplaceable
tools. Once a potential threat is discerned, more
information can then be gathered. No other
methods of terrorism detection or prevention
are effective on an international scale.
The fact that the NSA is able to automati-
cally discover this information prevents serious
breaches of human rights by more aggressive
means. The public hunger to hunt suspects di-
rectly in the wake of terrorist attacks, invariably
leads to entities, like the CIA, forcefully follow-
ing up unsubstantiated claims. A government
agency preventing attacks and dealing with
events with the most amount of knowledge has
the greatest chance of not making mistakes.
The right to privacy itself is a goal that can
only be achieved by a person who has already
secured their right to life. Privacy is useless for
those who are not alive to benefit.
When people weigh up the pros and cons of
government surveillance, they do not picture
themselves as the targets of potential terror-
ist attacks. The disconnect between media re-
porting of bombings or hijackings and our own
personal reality means people do not seriously
picture themselves as future victims. The idea
of our personal Facebook data being analysed
feels much more real than the surreal pictures
on television. So when people choose between
privacy and security they often think privacy is
more important.
This is selfish. Although very relatively fewer
people are victims of terrorist attacks than use
Facebook, the harm to those victims of unpre-
vented terrorist attacks are far greater.
It is true that you will probably not be a hurt
by attacks directly or indirectly, but that does
not mean someone else won’t be. When you
say that you want data to remain private, it is
because you probably will never see the many
benefits that can be gained from good, reli-
able intelligence to the government. If you deny
the ability of security services to target poten-
tial threats, you are increasing the chance that
someone, somewhere will lose their life.
Debate: This House Values
Security over Individual Privacy
Columnist
Anita Chandran
NO
W
hen bodies such as the
NSA are given unrestricted
access to personal data,
they are open to be being
abused. Large numbers
of people are allowed top level clearance
to NSA data within the United States. It is
difficult, therefore, to keep control over this
information. See Edward Snowden, a private
contractor whose clearance level allowed
him to access secret data. Although Edward
Snowden’s motives were not blackmail or use
of information to destroy individuals within the
state, it is not possible to eliminate the idea that
this could happen in a system where security is
valued over an individual’s privacy.
Furthermore, governments themselves are in
a position to misuse information for their own
ends. That’s not to say that states all abuse their
power, but it’s possible that individual govern-
ments use information to maintain their politi-
cal advantage. Scandals such as Watergate (in
which the Nixon administration committed
were involved in a plethora of illegal activities
against his opposition to further themselves po-
litically) are good examples of where this sort of
manipulation has occurred. This sort of abuse
poses enormous harms to people living within
the state system. It opens them up to mistreat-
ment that they are powerless to stop from the
state which is constructed to protect them.
It is highly unlikely that government manipu-
lation of this nature does occur en masse. So,
why is it important that we value individual pri-
vacy over national security? It is for a manner of
reasons that are more likely, that produce differ-
ent sorts of direct harms to individuals.
Take the example of profiling in the search for
threats to national security. Mass electronic sur-
veillance is often used to single out individuals
on an ethnic basis. For example, consider the not
insignificant number of ‘suspected people’ who
are put on government no-fly lists for no appar-
ent reason. These people are from a selection of
‘danger groups.’ This is a direct consequence of
the way in which automated surveillance works
(i.e. by considering certain permutations of
characteristics which would suggest a person
is ‘suspicious.’) However, the harm posed to an
individual when they feel that the state is some-
how aligned against them is significant. It is a
huge inconvenience to be practically restricted
but it is also a deeply distressing occurrence to
be vilified for your ethnicity.
While it is true that some people are willing
to accept the government surveillance, the po-
tential harms of unrestricted prioritisation of
security prove detrimental to a large number of
people. Furthermore, the efficiency of such sur-
veillance should be questioned. Terrorist links
are nigh on impossible to spot with inefficient
mass scanning of data. At the point at which the
system is so open to abuse, and is so easily to the
detriment of those within the state, it is impossi-
ble to prioritise security over individual privacy.
wired.com
“
”
vr-zone.net
Although very relatively fewer
people are victims of terrorist
attacks than use Facebook,
the harm to those victims of
unprevented terrorist attacks
are far greater.
“
”
However, the harm posed to an
individual when they feel that
the state is somehow aligned
against them is significant.

