A 'real prayer session'
In one letter to F E L I X a student expressed his 'absolute dismay' at the
spectacle in Kensington G a r d e n s . 'It seemed to me that a very
substantial number of I C students found enjoyment in making an utter
farce out of an important and potentially very volatile situation."
H e went on to write that " N o t only were they putting over views in a
completely irrational a n d disgraceful manner by jeering at Iranian
protestors, like some rioting school kids, but they also succeeded in
drawing the attention of the world's media in the process. There is no
better way to damage the reputation of Imperial College, than to display
ourselves in s u c h a stupid, uncivilised a n d ignorant way."
IC students kneel in
Kensington Gardens during a
'mock prayer' session
The anti-Ayatollah demonstrators asked that it
should be made clear that their demonstration was
intended to show disapproval of a regime which is
"inhumane and irresponsible." They said that they did
not want to let the world believe that the British
people would stand by without showing disapproval of
such actions. "If the Iranians have the right to support
the K h o m e i n i regime, then likewise we have a right to
protest. T h e student w h o feels sickened by the
manner of the protest should perhaps consider the
chants a n d slogans of the Iranian demonstrators and
the unthinking way in which they worship a dictator."
Mickie Marsh
Mickie Marsh
The endless queues of Police patiently
waiting for their supper in Linstead Hall
Police were to be
seen everywhere during
the siege - even in Prin-
ces Gardens where
they queued for meals
in Linstead Hall refect-
ory. The Police were
not allowed upstairs
into the Linstead Bar
area but in other Halls
it was reported that
groups of Police watch-
ed 'TISWAS' during
their breaks.
Police eating in
Linstead Refectory
Ambulances line up outside
Mech Eng
The day after the siege ended everything
was cleared away. The photo, on the right,
shows the Press Grandstand being dis-
mantled.
One of the hostages who was killed studied
at The London School of Economics but the
swift action of the SAS probably saved the
lives of many others. The terrorists must now
realise that the world will not sit idly watching
and waiting. The terrorist has been shown
that there is no way out - at the end of the
road there is death - they know it.

