www.felixonline.co.uk
Felix
Thursday 25 November 2004
10
Last Wednesday, in the England
versus Spain ‘friendly’ match, we
witnessed hundreds of Spanish
fans whooping and making monkey
noises towards the English black
players.
First of all, as President of the
Spanish Society, I would like to
extend a formal apology to those
football fans and everyone else
who was offended by Wednesday’s
‘show’. It was indeed a shameful
spectacle that has fired up a strong
response from the English press,
which unfortunately has condemned
the whole of Spain as being a nation
that tolerates racism. Headlines
published in tabloid and broadsheet
alike highlight this, including the
The Daily Mail’s “Give Spain some
pain’ or The Times’ “The toleration
of the intolerable”.
A contributing factor to the scan-
dal was a racist remark made by the
unsuspecting Spanish coach, Luis
Aragonés, whose comments about
Thierry Henry were caught on a
microphone. The coach was prompt-
ly made to apologize, but no further
disciplinary action was taken. This
decision to keep a coach who has
been recorded as making an unof-
ficial racist statement is certainly
controversial, as the coach is ulti-
mately the face of the Spanish team.
He certainly does not represent the
country’s attitude, which has been
“condemned categorically” by a
spokesman from the Spanish gov-
ernment.
It must be said that Wednesday’s
events are not common at foot-
ball matches in Spain. The league
includes players from a wide vari-
ety of ethnic backgrounds who are
exposed to the same amount of insult
and praise as the Spanish white
players. Last Wednesday has cer-
tainly not helped Madrid gain many
supporters for its 2012 Olympic
Games bid, but should the action
of some bigots be extrapolated to
the whole of the Spanish popula-
tion? Are the Spanish racist, or does
football bring the worst out of
people?
Sadly, discrimination has not been
fully eradicated from any society.
Racism and football have regret-
tably walked hand in hand before
Wednesday’s game. Let us not for-
get, for instance, that only 20 months
ago the English fans were recorded
chanting “I’d rather be a Paki than
a Turk” at the infamous England
versus Turkey game in Sunderland.
Discrimination in football extends
beyond the issue of racism. On two
independent occasions, gay players
have been driven to suicide in both
England and Italy, due to the abuse
received from football fans.
These and other examples of the
more extreme consequences that
result from any form of abuse direct-
ed to social and ethnic minorities
leads to the conclusion that such
forms of discrimination must be
dealt with. Proposed international
actions as a result of this game range
from the enforcement of a closed
doors game for the next internation-
al Spanish match to a complete ban
on Spanish football displays outside
the country. What actions are to take
place are unknown at the time of
writing, but whether such bans are
a solution to the problem is a matter
of opinion.
Pointing the finger at a whole
nation does not bode too promis-
ingly as a way to deal with racism.
Interestingly, The Times simply says
“you just can’t do that,” referring to
racial abuse against black players.
So are we to believe that the pri-
mary reason against being a racist
bigot is that it is not politically cor-
rect? To brand the whole of Spain as
racist is not constructive, and will
only result in greater alienation and
tension.
Racism is a great problem that
must be dealt with on a larger
scale, beyond football matches,
inside classrooms and work places.
Newspapers should condemn the
action of the Spanish football fans,
not the whole of the country. That is
a form of discrimination in itself.
COMMENT felix@ic.ac.uk
Is Spain a racist country?
After racist abuse was suffered by England footballers against Spain last week, Nacho Quinones,
President of the Imperial College Spanish Society, and Andrew Voak give their views
Some may have noticed the emer-
gence of a number of brave new
technologies on the main campus
in recent weeks and months, the
signs of a green feeling making itself
manifest quietly.
Notable examples would include
the solar cells on Imperial College
Road, waterless urinals in the
Sherfield basement, and (more
cryptically) a passive cooling system
on level five of the central library.
At present they may be token, but
these peculiarities are the forerun-
ners for a movement that could ben-
efit all of us; so not only do I think we
should get excited about them, but
we should actively ask for more.
Now don’t worry, although I’m
an environmentalist I’m not going
to get all ethical, just practical. By
generating our own electricity on
campus (using solar cells) we are
not buying it in, which could feasi-
bly pay for setup costs and maybe
even give returns over generator
lifetime. Equally, by cutting down on
electricity consumption in the first
place (waterless urinals, passive
cooling), we will save thousands of
pounds per year. Surely a university
so in need of money that it needs
to charge its students hefty tuition
fees would want to save as much as
possible elsewhere? Think what the
newly freed thousands of pounds
could do for our Union!
Then there’s Imperial’s public pro-
jection. Most people walking past
will be impressed by the fact that we
can employ cutting edge and devel-
oping technologies, and are willing
to venture forward in a way that
merges efficiency with ethics. Not
only do the government have grants
for the implementation of renew-
able energy technology, but I imag-
ine that it is the kind of thing that
would attract more students. With
£350m being spent on new buildings
and refurbishments over the next
five years, and £70m being spent on
existing buildings each year, there
must surely be scope for increasing
the amount of renewable technology
used within the College?
The general environmental rea-
sons for wanting to reduce ‘fos-
sil fuel’ dependency, water use,
unnecessary waste and energy
inefficiency should really speak for
themselves: in the long term, it isn’t
just a question of ethical qualms
about damaging the world around
us, but quite possibly one of soci-
etal and even human survival. This
may seem like a slightly extreme
outlook, but may I point out the
perhaps microcosmic examples of
Easter Island and the Mayans, both
societies that collapsed and died out
through over-exploitation of their
environment.
Realistically, these are issues
that the College can easily address,
but doesn’t on a large scale. New
buildings like the Tanaka Business
School seem to have had absolutely
no environmental impact assess-
ment carried out on them prior to
construction. Maybe this is the kind
of thing we should be asking for, as
students at, and technically custom-
ers of, the great Imperial machine.
The world is changing. The envi-
ronmental movement has the poten-
tial to grow, as people and busi-
nesses around the globe realise the
true nature of this most powerful,
important and above all excellent
of beasts. All I propose is that we
encourage our university to swell
these green ranks; for the sake of
its students, its economic interests,
and the planet at large.
Imperial and the environment
As some new ‘green’ technologies begin to appear around campus, Joseph Bull argues that
Imperial College is not doing enough
Letters to the Editor
Palestinian posters
Dear Editor,
Posters mourning the death of
Yasser Arafat, Palestinian Leader
were put up around college last
Monday by the Palestinian Society.
The Posters were apolitical, and
did not have any textual comments
related to the ‘cause’. These posters
have now been taken down.
I believe that either individuals or
a group of people at Imperial have
taken objection to these posters. If
this is so, I think this is something
that should not pass unreported and
should be made aware to the read-
ers of the Felix.
There seems to be some form of
political vendetta against the very
presence of Palestinians or those
who support their cause, at Imperial.
I think that neither the college nor
the union has any such stand hence
it is something that needs to be
investigated and rooted out of our
institution.
I understand that the Palestinian
Society who made the posters tried
to make it as apolitical as possible
and conform to all the rules & regu-
lations set by the union and college
on placing of posters in college.
I strongly believe that this is an
issue that needs to be covered by
Felix. I understand the apolitical
nature of the Imperial College Union
itself, but it is also under obligation
to represent the points of views or
issues that affect its students.
Yours Sincerely
Zaki Nuseibeh
Electrical Engineering II
Send your letters to felix@ic.ac.uk. This is the page where you can make your voice heard on just about any topic.
Letters may be edited for length but not for spelling or grammar, and are printed at the Editor’s discretion

