And so another year has passed,
the votes have been counted and
yet again Tiesto is top of the pile
in DJ Mag’s ‘Top 100 DJs in the
world’ poll. But what does it mean,
if anything?
Is trance really the dominant
force in the global music industry,
do the trance mafia actually have
that much influence in clubland, is
techno dead, do people still actu-
ally like prog, does anyone stand a
chance of knocking the big T off his
top spot anytime soon, what the hell
is dance music anyway, does anyone
care any more and is it possible to
be a drug addled OAP non-DJ and
still be considered one of the top ten
best DJs in the world?
If your perspective on the dance
music industry comes from this
annual poll, then the answers are
yes, yes, yes, mystifyingly so, no,
*shrug*, it seems so and only in
America.
But how true to real life is it if
we assume for a second that the
dance industry just about resides
on the verges of ‘real life’? In fact,
it’s not that far from the truth, you
just have to be aware that we get a
severely distorted view of the world
over here in Blighty, and much more
so in London.
On a global scale, trance is huge.
Forget England for a second and
you have Australia, the US, Holland
and Uruguay (no, seriously) at least,
where trance is as big as it has
ever been anywhere, not to mention
the seemingly neverending appeal
of Ibiza. Beyond that, techno will
never die, it can’t. It is such a catch-
all statement and covers so many
varied styles of music that it is con-
stantly evolving and will never be
the same from one week to the next.
Likewise house and all its connota-
tions, even prog.
But my issue is not with the gen-
res represented, but the actual DJs.
The top ten has been astonishingly
static for the last three years that
I can remember; there were only
two new entries this year and only
another three in the following ten.
Is dance music really this static and
predictable, or is it our tastes that
don’t change?
Personally, I take a much more
cynical view. The whole list is a
great big popularity contest, fairly
unquestionably, and much like Union
elections the winners are decided
essentially by who has the most
friends. But no DJ has that many
‘friends’, so they influence people in
other more subtle ways, by having
many radio shows, both internet and
real, getting unsuspecting mangled
members of the public to sign up to
their mailing lists and then send-
ing them emails that subconsciously
make them want to vote in the DJ
poll, and by playing gigs to exces-
sively large numbers of people, like
the Olympics.
It’s all part of the game of course,
and being at the top enables you to
get the big gigs and the radio shows,
but once you’re there, is it then just
a matter of who has the best PR
people and do the top dogs then just
rest on their laurels and trade on
the title? Is the value of the poll any
less because of it? And will it ever
swing in favour of the ‘better’ DJs
rather then the more popular ones?
Inevitably, the answer is a despond-
ent no.
But should we be grateful that
more people than ever are vot-
ing, and that more people seem
to care now than before? Even if
Paul Oakenfold can get in the top
ten, having publicly declared him-
self finished with dance music and
hardly played a single gig all year,
shouldn’t we just be pleased that
people still care enough to vote in
their tens of thousands? Because
isn’t it only through public shows
of unity like this that young talent
comes onto the scene and forces
the bigger names to take the extra
steps forward and move up a gear, to
push the boundaries of our art and
improve life for everyone?
Well, yes. It takes time, but yes. So
in the meantime I suppose we will
just have to make do with the back-
slapping and vacuous popularity
contests, however shallow they may
seem on the surface – a forced grin
and bitten tongue is a small price to
pay. I still think Paul van Dyk should
have won though.
Dominic Farrell
Hundreds and thousands
A couple of weeks ago we printed the results of DJ Mag’s Top 100 DJs poll.
The legendary Mr Farrell passes comment...
www.felixonline.co.uk
Felix
Thursday 25 November 2004
18
Nightlife clubs.felix@ic.ac.uk
Oakenfold: Plays in America lots
Thinking of working for us?
See if we work for you.
Outstanding people fit in at CSFB. If you think you could be one of them, an internship could be the next step.
Our Easter program runs for four days in London. It offers first year students the chance to sample life at CSFB and gives a
valuable insight into our firm and what we do.
Our Summer Internship runs for eight to ten weeks. It’s your chance to get a more in-depth introduction to the company,
and ideal for penultimate year students who are thinking of joining us.
Easter Program – online application deadline 3 December 2004.
Summer Program – online application deadline 28 January 2005.
For full details of these programs and to apply, please see our website.
www.csfb.com/standout
© 2004 Credit Suisse First Boston LLC and/or its affiliate companies. All rights reserved.

