12 POLITICAL FEATURE F E L I X W E D N E S D A Y 1 9 T H M A R C H
The Rt Hon Peter Brooke, CH PC MP
Where were you born and where did you
grow up?
I grew up in North London, and apart from
evacuation, parts of education, the army and
abroad I've been a Londoner all my life. I was
a Councillor in North London, and then I
became a Member of Parliament again.
You talked about your background in pol-
itics, you were a councillor in London
before you became an MP?
I was councillor in the Highgate ward of
Camden, my father had been a Member of
Parliament for Hampstead. I am a sixth gener-
ation Member of Parliament, I don't mean in
a straight line, but in each generation for the
last two centuries there has been a member of
my family in the House of Commons, and the
very first was the Member of Parliament of
Armagh, that's in County Armagh.
For security reasons the former Secretary of
State for Northern Ireland declined to say
whether he currently lives in the con-
stituency.
"I am actually infavour of
higher pay for academics"
Do you regard the Dearing Commission as an
attempt to take third level education off the
political agenda until after the General
Election?
I did think that, when they announced it, the fact
that Blunkett immediately welcomed it, was a clear
indication that both sides were kicking it into
touch. I don't actually think that was a totally bad
thing because it wasn't taking it off the agenda, it
was just simply saying that we've reached the
point where we do actually need to take a look at
it. I have got a lot of time for Dearing and I think
Dearing is very good news.
What about the future do you see it as a
graduate tax?
I should have thought we would go the way of
graduate tax, and I think that there will be an ele-
ment of fees being paid by students, tuition fees
being paid by students.
You say you think that a graduate tax is proba-
bly the way we're going, you're not terribly
worried by this?
Every time this government has changed the
arrangements, of all the changes that have made
since 1983, there have been statements that this is
the end of civilisation as we know it, and civilisa-
tion doesn't seem to have come to an end. The
number of people coming into higher education
had continued to expand dramatically and more
than half the student body are now mature students,
I think it is a remarkable success story.
So basically you accept that it's going to happen
and that it's not a big disaster?
I think that it's going to happen, I can't predict the
precise manner in which it's going to happen, at
the moment only one in thirteen of the people who
are repaying student loans are defaulting on them,
What Who's Who have to say:
BROOKE, Rt. Hon. Peter Leonard, CH 1992; PC 1988; MP
(C) City of London and Westminster South, since Feb.1977; b
3 March 1934; s of Lord Brooke of Cumnor, PC, CM and of
Lady Brooke of Ystradfellte, qv; rri 1st, 1964, Joan Margaret
Smith (d 1985); three s (and one s deed); 2nd, 1991, Lindsay
Allinson. Educ Marlborough; Balliol College, Oxford (MA);
Harvard Business School (MBA). Vice-Pres., Nat. Union of
Students, 1955-56; Chm., Nat. Conf, Student Christian
Movement, 1956; Pres., Oxford Union, 1957; Commonwealth
Fund Fellow, 1957-59. Research Assistant, IMEDE, Lausanne,
1960-61. Spencer Stuart & Associates, Management
Consultants, 1961-79 (Director of parent company, 1965-79,
Chairman 1974-79); lived in NY and Brussels, 1969-73. Mem.,
Camden Borough Council, 1968-69. Chm., St Pancras N Cons
Assoc., 1976-77. Contested (C) Bedweilty, Oct. 1974; an Asst
Govt Whip, 1979-81; a Lord Comr of HM Treasury, 1981-83;
Parly Under Sec. of State, DES, 1983-85; Minister of State, HM
Treasury, 1985-87; Paymaster Gen., HM Treasury, 1987-89;
Chm., Conservative Party, 1987-89; Secretary of State: for NI,
1989-92; for Nat. Heritage, 1992-94. Pres., 1APS, 1980-83;
Mem. Council, Marlborough Coll., 1977-83, 1992-; Lay
Adviser, St Paul's Cathedral, 1980-; Lay Mem., Univ. of
London Council, 1994-. Chm., Churches Conservation Trust,
1995-. Trustee: Wordsworth Trust, 1975-; Cusichaca Project,
1978-; Conf. on Trng in Archtl Conservation, 1994-. Sen.
Fellow, RCA, 1987; Presentation Fellow, KCL, 1989.
Recreations: churches, conservation, cricket, visual arts.
Address: c/o House of Commons, SW1A OAA. Clubs:
Beefsteak, Brooks's, City Livery, MCC, I Zingari, St George's
(Hanover Square) Conservative.
so it looks as though that was working reasonably
well.
You talked about the AUT before, I'm sure you
saw the press coverage and everything they got
for their recent strikes, did you particularly
oppose those strikes?
I didn't actually see them, so I can't actually
make any comment on them, I hadn't actually
realised they had been on strike. I am actually
in favour of higher pay for academics, I think
you run the risk if you don't actually make it
an attractive profession, you run the risk of
them going to other parts of the world if you
make the rate of return less than satisfactory.
Why should the Science and Technology
Minister not be a Cabinet position?
There is a limit to how many cabinet ministers
you can have, there is actually a statutory
limit, you can't more than a certain number of
ministers. At the moment it isn't even done at
Minister of State level, it's done at a
Parliamentary Secretary level. It so happens
that the man who's doing it at the moment is
extremely good, he's actually very well qual-
ified for doing it. We had a shared responsi-
bility when Mr Waldegrave was doing it,
where he was both doing science and doing
the civil service, and all those aspects of the
public sector. I can't remember what took
William out of it.
"I am a sixth generation
Member of Parliament"
Do you see science and technology as important
enough to warrant a cabinet position?
I don't think that it's a big enough job for it to be
the only job that somebody did, therefore I had no
difficulty at all with William Waldegrave's contri-
bution and I gather it was regarded as extremely
effective within the science community.
So is that an acceptance that it is important
enough?
In my view you would have to have a strong rea-
son for not giving to cabinet level responsibility.
Do you know the Referendum Party candidate,
Sir Alan Walters [former aide to Margaret
Thatcher]?
I know him slightly because he was of course at
No. 10.1 was in and out of No. 10, and of course I
saw him then, but I don't him well. He was the eco-
nomic adviser.
Presumably you would have some respect for
him then?
Of course I do, of course you would have respect
for him.
Do you expect him to gain very many votes?
Well he will gain a number of votes, a number of
votes from people who feel very strongly. A num-
ber of people have very kindly written to me and
told me that they're going to vote for him. Nice
thing about being a Member of Parliament, they're
people whom I have had dealings with in the past
on constituency matters and they've written, in a
sense almost apologising, and I've written back
and we've had a good discussion. So there are
some people who do it because they feel very
strongly about it, and there will be other people
who want to do it because they want to exercise a
protest vote of one sort or another.

