F E L I X W E D N E S D A Y 1 9 T H M A R C H POLITICAL FEATURE 13
Kate Green (extreme left) at Imperial College supporting last December's AUT led strike
What background do you come from, profes-
sionally and educationally?
I was educated in Scotland and went to university
in the end in Edinburgh, where I graduated in law,
which is absolutely no use down here at all because
it's Scots law and it's completely different, and
then I came down to London to work for Barclays.
What about prior to university?
I lived in Midloathian which is in Scotland, south-
em Scotland, went to school in, well you won't
heard of it, a place called Currie.
From a political point of view, where do you
come from?
I've been involved on and off over the years in pol-
itics, and certainly in this constituency, in the
Cities of London and Westminster, for about the
last five or six years since I came back to live in
London.
You haven't stood as a councillor?
No, no I haven't. By way of background, I live in
the City of London personally, the City, we have
put Labour candidates up from time to time but the
City Corporation is a very odd political animal
which effectively doesn't organise on party lines.
So you do actually live in the constituency?
I live in the constituency yeah, and I work in it as
well. I work in Westminster for Barclays Bank.
I've been in Westminster
for about nine months, I
was at Piccadilly Circus
for two or three years
before that, and for years
Do you see the future as a revamped student
loans system, or as a graduate tax?
I'm not sure what you would call it, I think that it's
unrealistic now to expect that a system of grants is
going to be sufficient, but it's very important that
we structure a repayment programme to the time
when they are best able to make the repayments.
Surely there are quite significant differences
from a National Insurance led system where
you pay for your lifetime, and having fixed
amount to pay back?
I think you've got to —
bother about how it's
look at something which "I'm V e r y O p p O S e d tO t o p U p f e e s " funded for the future,
is in between the two Will Labour reinstate
New
Labour's
Kate Green
and universities and start taking parts?
And getting some sort of credit for them, now
that's going to require a quite radical big thinking
for institutions that have traditionally really only
had to think within their own operation.
Wasn't the Dearing Commission an attempt to
take third level education funding off the politi-
cal agenda, and didn't the Labour Party collude
in this?
I'm not sure whether that was the reason it was set
up, I don't think you can take tertiary education
funding out of the political agenda, it matters far
too much to too many people and there's too much
money in it.
So you wouldn't say that it is an attempt, a
fairly crude attempt, to put it off the agenda?
I hope it isn't, I'd be very, very dismayed if it were,
and I'd be ashamed, and I would think that it would
be a real betrayal of the next generations, for those
of us who've been lucky enough to get that educa-
tion to sit back and say oh we're not really going to
how
"I work in Westminster for
Barclays Bank"
before that in the Head Office, which is in the City.
Where do you stand on the funding of third
level education, how do you see the future?
First of all I'm very opposed to top up fees, and I
will carry on taking that position. I don't think the
current student loans system is working at all, it's
loading up huge debts for students which they then
have to pay off over a very short period really. And
I think that's deterring particularly less well off
families from going into education, and I think it's
also very important that institutions aren't put in a
position where they're competing against one
another either for research monies or to attract the
best students.
otherwise for example ""
you're penalising people who take more expensive
courses or who take a longer course, so that archi-
tects for example would be paying back a lot more
than people on three year courses in perhaps the
Arts or something. But I don't think that it's fair
either to say to students that you've got this indef-
inite burden for life, if you're genuinely talking
about recouping the cost of supporting them during
their education you can't say you've got to pay that
back for ever and ever until your income dries up.
In the Labour Party's submission to Dearing
they seemed to outline a plan for a learning
bank, how long would it
take to put it into place?
I think it's something they
would want to try to do
H reasonably quickly. I
don't think that there's any intention, that there
won't be undergraduates going through university
programmes, post-graduate programmes and so
on.
So it could be quite some years before under-
graduate degrees at Imperial are for instance
part of that?
I guess what will happen is that bits of them will
get into it before other bits, so you might say there
are parts, especially degrees at Imperial I would
imagine, bits that are very vocational or very tech-
nical that could be really closely allied to people's
perhaps technical on the job training, obviously at
a fairly high level.
So you might start going through the colleges
the Science and
Technology Minister to Cabinet? '
Gosh I don't know, I really haven't a clue, but I
mean I think, we've got to have a huge commit-
ment to making the importance of science and
technology much more visible.
So you didn't think it was a problem taking the
OST [Office of Science and Technology] within
the DTI [Department of Trade and Industry]?
I'm not sure that I've got a really strong view one
way or another. I do think it's very, very important
to get the profile raised. We need to look at all the
ways we can of raising that, and that might well
mean considering whether we've got the organisa-
tion within the government itself right.
Do you accept that there's realistically no possi-
bility that Labour is going to win this seat?
Do the Tories have any safe seats? I'll say to you
quite openly, Labour is targeting first of all those
seats which we must take to get a decent majority
in Parliament, and in the order of those seats which
we must take, Cities of London and Westminster is
fairly low down.
Was this the only constituency where you
applied to be a candidate?
No I applied to a few others, two or three not very
many. I was really quite focused because it's a very
time consuming process and I wanted to learn how
to do it.

