14 POLITICAL FEATURE F E L I X W E D N E S D A Y 19TH M A R C H
Mike Dumigan from
the Liberal Democrats
What sort of background do you come from?
I was born in Northern Ireland, near Belfast,
Lisburn, a town which is where the army are sta-
tioned in Northern Ireland. I spent a fair part my
youth in the west [of Ireland], Swinford, Co.
Mayo. The reason why I don't have a particularly
good Belfast accent is that any time I wasn't going
to school in Belfast, I was off in Mayo.
Where did you go to school in Belfast?
It was LaSalle, which is just off the Falls Road, not
a particularly gentle and easy going place. Sort of
Jesuitical brothers, it was quite a tough schooling.
And then QUB [Queens University, Belfast] stud-
ied genetics, and then on without any break to do
an M B A in Manchester Business School.
And what have you done since then?
Then I've worked for a living. In advertising agen-
cies and design consultancies and marketing con-
sultancies. That's my
livelihood, so I've been
doing that for ten years,
slightly longer.
How long have you lived
in the constituency then?
For 8-10 years, so apart ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^
from two years in Manchester I've lived in
London, and always interestingly enough in the
constituency. Well the interesting thing about the
advertising world is that it's all centred around the
west end, up as far as Paddington, but never as far
as the East End. So you can be in every single one
of the top twenty agencies and never leave the con-
stituency.
What about in the constituency itself, have you
been active in the constituency?
Yes I've been Chairman of the constituency party
of the Liberal Democrats for a few years. I've
stood for a local Council seat, and I wasn't suc-
cessful in a seat where there has traditionally been
a strong Tory majority.
You still obviously take a very strong interest in
the local council?
Well, a constituency M P needs to understand what
local issues are. So if the local electorate are
allegedly being defrauded of seven million pounds,
then whatever your position in public life you
should be concerned about it. Particularly if you
happen to be a student and are concerned about
lack of spending in education, it should be of inter-
est that seven million quid is being pissed away
somewhere else.
Do you regard the Dearing Commission as an
attempt to take third level education off the
political agenda?
Well I think the fact that it's reporting after the
general election is clearly an attempt to take ter-
tiary education off the agenda until after that, and
that the Conservatives see is advantageous to them.
Equally I think Labour sees a great advantage to
their party. They have refused to put forward to
increase spending on tertiary level education, or
" i t s h o u l d b e o f i n t e r e s t t h a t
s e v e n m i l l i o n q u i d i s b e i n g
p i s s e d a w a y "
indeed on education at any level, and do not
have any precise plans on tertiary level educa-
tion. So yes I think the fact that Ron Dearing
will report after the General Election is very
much or was very much a political decision.
And what about your party's submission to
the commission, what approach did it take?
Well as a party we have a view that tertiary
education is vitally important. We do think our
approach is new in that we think that there are
three sources of funding for tertiary level edu-
cation, one is government, two is employers or
future employers, and three is the student body
and we think that all three have a contribution
to make. It's significantly different [to
Labour's proposals] in that education in ter-
tiary level will remain completely free under
all the Liberal Democrats proposals, but for subsis-
tence, accommodation etc.
we believe that students
may be making a contribu-
tion themselves and that
would be funded, rather
than the government sys-
tem where the funding is
No I wouldn't, I think it's absolutely a key priority.
Politics is about balances you cannot say that edu-
cating a three year old is more important that edu-
cating a seven year old, which is more important
than educating a seventeen year old or a twenty
year old, because you have to educate that person
through their life. So if we bolster up one area of
education, because we take that what I call the
holistic approach we're naturally bolstering up the
rest, otherwise there is a weak link.
Does your party or do you personally have any
preference as to reinstating the Science and
Technology Minister to Cabinet level?
I'm not absolutely certain we have a view on that.
My personal view is that science, technology and
information technology is absolute key to the
future success of this country and also key to
empowering of individuals. This country I think
fails miserably in the investment it puts into sci-
ence and technology and I do think that govern-
ments should play a much
' W e h a v e S t a t e d t h a t W e ' l l S p e n d stronger role into trying to bol-
ster those areas and if that
a n e x t r a £2bn o n e d u c a t i o n " means the Minister in Cabinet
' h p n personally I'm all in
through high street banks, through a government
body and that would be paid back from people's
wages as a percentage of that so that if you're not
working you're not paying back, so it's only paid
back when some can afford to pay back, when
they're earning at a high enough rate to do so.
Would you accept that there aren't really major
difference between you and Labour?
No, I think there are fundamental differences, I
think the fact we have stated that we'll spend an
extra £2bn on education and some of that will be
spent on tertiary education and that's a commit-
ment we make is a
real difference.
Where Labour do
not make any
actual financial.
commitment and do not state their policies with
any detail then you take the risk, it's like the lot-
tery.
You've committed to spend an extra £2bn,
you've haven't committed to spend any precise
amount of money on existing third level educa-
tion, is that correct?
We have committed to spend part of those addi-
tional revenues we gain on tertiary education, we
just haven't set a sum, not to my knowledge, it may
be that our education spokesman has done some-
thing in the last few days that I'm unaware of.
You've got your pre-primary you've got your
existing primary and secondary, and you've got
your extra adult education?
We make a commitment to each of those areas.
You've got at least four priorities there before
you get on to the existing tertiary structure, so
you would accept that the existing tertiary
structure is not exactly very high up?
favour of it.
So you are personally in favour?
Mm.
But your party you don't think has a position
on the matter?
I'm genuinely unsure.
With the Liberal Democrats coming third in this
area in 1992, Mr Dumigan denied that hehad no
chance of winning the seat and emphasised that
he didn 't wantpeople to vote tactically in this con
stituency. He went on to say that he would "prob-
ably" be contesting the next general election in
the same constituency and insisted that this was
the only seat where had sought to be the Liberal
Democrat candidate. On hearing that his Labour
opponent had tried "two or three" other con-
stituencies he suggested that Ms Green could be
described as a "carpet bagger".

