F E L I X W E D N E S D A Y 19TH M A R C H CAPITAL PUNISHMENT 17
"Many 'monsters' offer equally impenetrable exteriors. They
are eliminated on the mere consideration of thefacts. Apparently
the nature or the magnitude of their crimes allows no room for
imagining that they can ever repent or reform. They must mere-
ly be keptfrom doing it again, and there is no other solution but
to eliminate them. On this frontier, and on it alone, discussion
about the death penalty is legitimate..."
Albert Camus, "Reflections on the Guillotine"
Perhaps the best demonstration of a judiciary system that includes the sanction
of death for the most serious of crimes is the USA. 38 states practise the death
penalty, and there are also 60 capital federal crimes, with federal law stat-
ing that the methodof execution shall not be cruel or unsual. These states".1
execute, not because it has been shown to be an effective deterrent; but
that it is a fitting punishment for crimes such as murder.
Execution is surrounded by such a stigma that sends a signal that the crime
committed is utterly immoral. As a society we have a duty to display the intol-
erance of immoral behaviour.
Every person is a single moral entity that is capable of decision, right or
wrong. In just the same way that many people are praised for their good moral
decisions, criminals should be punished for their immoral decisions. This
makes justice seem vengeful, but justice is just that, regulated revenge by soci-
ety for immoral deeds with a punishment to fit the crime.
Punishment by death for murderers equilibrates the weight placed on the life|9"
of the victim and that of the murderer; without such punishment the murder-
er's life appears to be more sacred than the of the victim. Removing murder-
ers from society takes away the capacity of and forcibly prevents the recur-
rence of violence, maximising public safety. Figures have shown that over
10% of people on death row are there for more than one murder. Had they
been sentenced to death, rather than life with the possibility of parole, than 4
innocent lives may well have been saved.
But surely state sanctioned murder is one of the greatest invasions of iqm
our civil rights? Civil rights shold be inherent in our society, but a J H r
deliberate deviation from what society expects should be punishable jjm
by the removal of such rights. We don't complain when thieves are fP
imprisoned, for they have voluntarily given up, in their decision to
steal, their rights of freedom. People who deliberately kill have
invaded an innocent person's right to life, and have given up all their
own civil rights in their decision to commit murder. Society should
have the right to reduce the civil rights of people by a level that fits
the crime, which in the case of pre-meditated murder is death.
The death penalty is a means by which society can regulate its moral ||
standing. The sanction of execution for intentionally causing the death
ensures that things remain equal between the criminal and victim, which
essentially is society itself.
Survey Questions
1. Are there still capital offences in the United
Kingdom? (yes there are)
2. Do you think it acts as a deterrent?
3. Are you generally in favour of capital punish-
ment?
4. Should Britain extradite people to face charges
for a capital offence?
5. Do you think under 18s should be eligible for
the death penalty?
6. Are you in favour of public executions?
The deliberate, methodical and pre-meditated termination
of someone's life is an action abhorrent to all of us who
believe we live in a civilised and enlightened society.
Collectively we choose to punish those who breach thi
fundamental ofhumanity.
This is right and proper, for the foundations of our society has to be test-
ed continuously. However, in some parts of our global society legitimate
governments have discarded the advances of thousands of years of civil-
isation and taken themselves as low as the perpetrators of murderous
crime by the use of a deliberate, methodical termination of someone's
life as a deterrent.
The validity of this deterrent should not be in question. It is mediae-
val and barbaric, inhumane and fecund and has no place in any modern
society. The usefulness of this torturous treatment is also in doubt.
Surveys and statistics have shown repeatedly that the effect on the lev-
els of crime is minimal and is often instigates an increase.
The power that is inherent in capital punishment is widely abused by
those who have no right to end another human's life. Look, for example,
at the overwhelming proportion of black inmates on death-row in
America's southern states. The ratio exceeds by far that of crimes
committed by black people. The death of a murderer does not make
up for the death of his victim, but imprisonment and rehabilitation
may lead to some repayment to society by the criminal. Also, the
death of a prisoner takes no account of the possibility of a mistake in
the legal process, as has happened several times in recent years.
Indeed, one of the last people to be hanged in Britain was later found
to be innocent. Who then shall we hang in their stead?
As for the British who may think that they can rest on their laurels and
say that the death penalty has been abolished in the Sixties, it wasn't.
I The punishment can still be given for the civilian and military offence of
treason and several other military offences. Still feel loyal to our coun-
try?
I shall quote an example of the premeditated torture that we inflict
upon our fellow humans. John Evans, who was executed by electro-
cution in 1983, was given three charges over a period of 14 minutes.
\fter the first and second charges, Mr Evans was still conscious and
there was smoke coming from all over body as a result of his burn-
ing flesh.
When it comes to the crunch, death row is not filled with the ser-
ial killers and cold-blooded murderers that we imagine, but peo-
ple who invariably poor, are usually of below average intelli-
gence, and have led unglamourous and undistinguished lives.
They find themselves up against a system driven by the need
for revenge, and are in no position to counter it. It is not a sys-
tem we can be proud of.
Yes No Survey Responses
78%
28%
6% 94%
82%

