F E L I X W E D N E S D A Y 1 9 T H IANUARY V E R N O N M C C L U R E 1 9
Would the r^al Vernon MeClunz;
pl£a§£ st£p forward...
Where were you born and brought up?
I was born in Neasden, before Private Eye
invented a university there, and went to school fair-
ly locally in Highgate. I read History in the
University of London, at Westfield College, where
Marion [Director of Personnel] was. 1 did a PGCE
at Oxford afterwards, it was quite interesting.
When I came to do my teaching practice I had a
super school, discipline wasn't a problem, but I
thought there was no way I wanted to teach History
until I'm 65. When I was at college I was secretary
of the union for a year, I tended to be a reasonably
organised sort of person so I started looking for
jobs in education administration.
I was out of work for six months after leaving
Oxford but then within a week, I think it was
November '71,1 was offered two jobs a the same
time. One was in the Education and Training
Directorate of the CBI, and the other to work as an
administrative assistant in the private office of the
College Secretary at University College. I chose
the latter and there are two reasons why. One was
that I couldn't see the career path was with the CBI
and it wasn't as strong as it is these days and it was
more politically conservative than it is now, and
the other was that at University College the post
was on an incremental scale, of three, and they
were offering me a £100 a year more to start. So I
started on £1600 in 1971.
What does your job as Academic Registrar
entail?
I think the one place where universities and
companies are different is that we have a registry.
Our one starts with schools liaison and we have an
office that is involved with admissions - this is the
Wembley Arena that Simon Baker so fondly
remembers. Once you've come we have an office
that looks after students records, people will come
and get their Council Tax certificates or to get a
transcript of what they have done while they have
been here. There is another big office called the
student finance office, and that gives out peoples
maintenance grant cheques. That office also deals
with student loans and Access funds.
That's very much the nuts and bolts of things but
there's also the policy side so all of the major aca-
demic committees are serviced by me or one of the
deputy registrars. Most of these are involved in
making sure that above departmental level propos-
als that individual parts of the College want to put
together are considered in an informed way by the
College community and that decisions are made
for the best interests of the community as well as in
the interests of the department.
You mentioned Access funds, isn't there a
Hardship fund as well?
Yep. The Hardship fund we have greater control
over to whom that can be given. For the Access
fund we have a template which we are provided by
the government in effect, and this year the template
has changed in a significant way where unless a
student has taken out a student loan, you can't have
any access funds. You may agree with that or you
may disagree with that but, but, we've got no con-
trol over that so we have to apply the rules.
Do you get many applications?
I think that students hit the ground running and
there seem so many to begin, perhaps it has
increased with greater knowledge of its availabili-
ty but its a major exercise each year to determine
that for Tony Cullen, the deputy registrar. He pro-
vides me with his proposals and I sample 20 or 30
and satisfy myself that those who get more are
more deserving than those who get less, but it's not
an exact science.
You deal with applications to College. Can you
tell me the breakdown between state schools
and non-state schools successful applications?
Let me not answer that by going back a step. If
you look in the prospectus and some of our other
publications, you will see an equal opportunities
policy for students, and to paraphrase what that
statement says is that IC wants to recruit the best
students no matter where they come from.
We know through our schools liaison office
which schools frequently provide us with pupils
and we can track how well they perform when they
come. I joke sometimes that here at IC people
crave for statistics and if it moves then put it down
on a piece of paper, but we certainly haven't stud-
ied the link between students' origins and their suc-
cess.
When, if ever, you leave here, what would you
like to be remembered for?
When I came here, the perception was that
undergraduate teaching was not taken seriously
enough and as the first secretary of the undergrad-
uate careers committee I think I provided a catalyst
for raising the profile of teaching skills and learn-
ing skills in a variety of ways.
Secondly, whereas the teaching quality assess-
ment visits for each department have ownership in
that department, when the College as a whole was
subject to this academic audit in the early- to mid-
nineties, there wasn't ownership, we didn't have a
Pro-Rector educational quality, and for nearly
three years, I lived and breathed trying to make
sure that it was transparent that we did have quali-
ty assurance procedures which for an institution
that is really quite good in many of its provisions,
where the means of demonstrating that we were
and so we could monitor that we were.
Was a Managing Director here a good idea?
I personally think the experiment didn't work. It
was because the administration at that time was
perceived not to be fulfiling the academic mission
of the institution; that some parts of the adminis-
tration had an agenda that was not in step with
what the majority of the college community want-
ed to achieve and that caused serious tensions. I
think it has taken up time, but we are back to a
model with a college secretary and, I would say it
wouldn't I, but I would say that the heads of
administrative divisions do understand what the
college is trying to achieve and they do work rather
well together. Well, you can judge better than me,
you have interviewed almost all of them. I think
that they are human.
What has had the biggest influence on your life?
I've got a father, who is 92, who is still going but
not quite going strong. He probably had the great-
est impact because he is such a reasonable person
except when it comes to the Irish Question. He's an
Ulsterman and he has got no sense when it comes
to that. My wife keeps me on the straight and nar-
row.
What do you do in your spare time?
I play tennis, I play squash. I've got a son who is
14, he and I particularly like a particular
Megadrive game, which is called' EA Hockey,
which is an ice hockey game. I'm not bad at that
either, I enjoy it.
What make and model was the first car you
bought?
I inherited a mini from my brother who had been
given one for his 21st birthday. He was seven years
older than me so he then went to Ceylon to work,
when I was 15. This thing was put into mothballs
and I used to start it up religiously every week until
I was 17 and was allowed to drive it. It was almost
the first version of the mini, creamy white. I had a
succession of minis which got progressively more
powerful until I progressed to a Fiesta which was a
fiasco. It was painful. I bought that without having
test-driven it, and I have never bought a car since
that I haven't test-driven.
Could you describe an anecdote typical of you
time as a student.
We used to have to write an essay for a weekly
tutorials, and instead of reading this out and send-
ing everyone else to sleep, my tutor, Mrs
Anderson, said that we should prepare a resume to
be read from notes or off the top of our heads. I can
remember vividly Vernon being very big headed in
those days and I decided to do it off the top of my
head and it was not very good, and at the end I said
'I'm awfully sorry Mrs Anderson, that was a bit
woolly wasn't it.' She looked at me over her half
glasses and in front of all my friends and peers she
said "Mr McClure, you flatter yourself.'
Words: Alex: photo: Neville Miles,
College photographer

