F E L I X W E D N E S D A Y 19TH M A R C H LETTERS & NOTICES 21
tourist trade.
The head of the British state is in
her position by virtue of her heredi-
tary right. Many people find this
unacceptable, but this does not mean
that although all other public office
may be fought over in whatever
unscrupulous and vulgar manner the
politicians see fit, the highest office
of all is above the dishonourable
means so often employed in the
game of politics. I see this as an
opportunity for te monarchy to
restrain the excesses of grasping
politicians and to protect the people
from their various forms of corrup-
tion, whilst in no way interfering
with the legislative process.
Historically, the monarchy has done
much to protect the people from the
excesses of Parliament often suffer-
ing for it. In a republic, the head of
state would most likely be another
Conservative politician intent on lin-
ing his own pocket.
Yours sincerely,
Paul Squires
Despite failing to live up to its
promise of expelling the tired and
painful cliches that surround the
monarchy debate, I find your let-
ter intriguing as it casts the Queen
as squeaky clean against the grub-
by common politicians. This is
viewpoint is rather too simplistic,
however I do not have the time to
adequately discuss this issue,
maybe next term!
green green grass
Dear Felix,
With spring fast approaching, I
have been looking forward to the
days in the summer term when the
Queen's Lawn becomes the place to
go for a quick fix of greenery and
sunshine (or shade!). As a result, I
was more than a little perturbed to
see an item on "Queen's Lawn and
Dalby Court" on page 5 of that
august organ of propaganda aimed at
the alumni, IC Matters.
This article suggests that not only
are college looking forward eagerly
to the transformation of the Queen's
Lawn into some sort of bizarre water
park, but they also plan to turn Dalby
Court into a car park, and put a land-
scaped terrace on top.
As far as I can tell, this means no
more grass for us students to loiter
on. Presumably a few extra benches
might be provided, but I can't see
college shelling out for seating for
hundreds of students.
The college is already extremely
short of green spaces, and these latest
plans will, as far as I can tell, leave
only one grass verge for those of us
who prefer to sit on grass rather than
concrete. In addition, both the
Queen's Lawn and Dalby Court pro-
vide a lift to the spirits even when
one is rushing past on the way to the
library or along the walkway.
Yours sincerely,
Sarah Talbot (comp pg)
high times for all
Dear Sir,
Re:High Times in last issue
The issue of drug "abuse" is
always clouded with ignorance, dis-
information and preconceptions. Not
meaning to criticise the authors of the
article, it was claimed that all "safe
drugs" are "far more dangerous and
addictive than tobacco and alcohol."
To the best of my knowledge
cannabis, amphetamine, LSD and
M D M A are not physically addictive,
unlike tobacco and alcohol. People
may come to feel that they need the
mental effects of the drug to face cer-
tain situations - psychological addic-
tion - but their bodies will have no
cravings.
A few more facts that people
should know are: no-one has ever
died from taking too much LSD (and
I would imagine the numbers for
death through cannabis overdose are
fairly minute); the deaths caused by
ecstacy are nearly all caused through
heatstroke or drinking too much
water rather than from the direct
effects of the drug (NB - most of the
deaths "caused" by E are due as
much to the amphetamine that is
often taken along with it rather than
the E itself); it is statistically more
dangerous to eat your first peanut
than take your first E.
The article also claimed that legal-
ising soft drugs would lead more
people to try them (a positive thing in
my opinion) and then on to harder
drugs. Admittedly if someone is buy-
ing soft drugs from a dealer regularly
then they may be offered some hard-
er drugs and so a connection may be
arguable, but if that same person is
going to an off-licence to buy the
same soft drugs then there will be no
need for them to meet anyone who
can supply them with hard drugs,
surely reducing the chance of further
experimentation?
In my limited experience, alcohol
causes much more social problems
than any other drug. If everyone went
out and did ecstacy instead of getting
pissed then there really would be lit-
tle need for police to patrol the streets
looking to stop violence as there
wouldn't be any. And people would
have a lot more fun.
Drug addiction is a terrible thing
(although I have only experienced
this through one or two alcoholic
friends, and most of the people I
know who smoke) and naturally I
would not advocate the rampant use
of all drugs. M y standpoint is that if
people want a different drug of
choice rather than alcohol then it
should be available. I have much
more to say on this subject but this
letter is far too long already.
Yours faithfully,
Name withheld by request
Letters may be edited for length.
Deadline for letters in Felix 1084
is Tuesday 22nd April.
Letters may be e-mailed to our
address: felix@1c.ac.uk
VACATION ACCESS TO OTHER HIGHER EDUCATION LIBRARIES
Undergraduates and postgraduates on taught courses at IC
will normally be granted reference use of other university
libraries free of charge during the vacations of the host uni-
versity (under a scheme arranged by S C O N U L - the Standing
Conference of National and University Libraries).
You should take proof of your current membership of IC, such
as your current library card. You are also strongly advised to
check in advance of your visit, through the Web page or by
telephone, to see if there are any special requirements. The
scheme does NOT provide for borrowing, nor for access to
electronic sources of information.
The following tapes are now available from STOIC:-
International Night 1995, International Night 1996
Abandon 1996, Abandon 1997
Chinese Soc 1997
East Meets West
Tapes cost £10.00 inc. VAT. We are on level 3, Union Building,
e mail: stoic@ic.ac.uk
Felix is produced for and on behalf of Imperial College Union Publications Board.
Printed by Imperial College Union Print Unit, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road,
London SW7 2BB. Telephone: 0171 594 8071
©Feiixl997. Telephone/fax: 0J71 594 8072. ISSN 1040-0711
N E W S : R O B I N ; F E A T U R E S : A F U A , H A M I S H ; I L L U S T R A T I O N S : S T A V R O S ;
P U Z Z L E S : D U N C A N ; G R A P H I C S A N D L A Y O U T : D A V I D A N D M A R K ; W E B
E D I T O R : L E O N ; P H O T O G R A P H Y : A L D O U S , L I L Y A N D L I N G ; S P O R T : S I M O N
A N D M o ; C O L L A T I N G L A S T ISSUE: A F U A A N D M o
HEALTH CENTRE MOVE TO SOUTHSIDE
The move will take place over the period Friday 21 st to Monday
24th March and there will be some disruption to services on the
Friday and the following Monday and Tuesday.
Our new address will be :
Imperial College Health Serviuce
Southside
Watt's Way
SW7 1LU.
Telephone numbers remain the same.
Services will operate as follows :
Friday 21 March - (at 14 Prince's Gardens) all appointments are cancelled but
open clincs will run as follows :
Doctor : 08.30 - 11.00 and 13.30 - 16.00
Nurse : 09.15 - 11.15 and 14.30 - 16.00
Monday 24 March - (at Soutbside) all appointments are cancelled but open clin-
ics will run as follows :
Doctor : 09.30 - 11.00 and 13.30 - 16.00
Nurse : 09.30 - 11.00 and 14.30 - 16.00
Tuesday 25 March - all appointments are cancelled but open clinics will run as
follows :
Doctor : 08.30 - 11.00 and 13.30 - 16.00
Nurse : 09.15 - 11.15 and 14.30 - 16.00
We will be back to normal on Wednesday 26 February when
appointments will be available, the Doctor's Open Clinic will
run from 08.30 - 10.00 and the Nurses Clinics 09.15 - 11.45
and 15.00 - 15.45.
Interviewers required.
Busy West London market research agency urgently requires
interviewers from April to early July. There is opportunity for con-
tinuous ad hoc work after this date. Training provided. Good
rates of pay. Please contact Emma Cody or Emma Fisher on
0181 742 2211.

