We're
confident well
pass ijour
examination.
A business-focused career in IT
Competitive salaries + benefits • London
The next few years will see radical changes in financial services -
especially retail banking. Changes in customer expectations, and the
emergence of new competitors from traditionally non-finance sectors,
are transforming the landscape. NatWest is meeting these challenges
head-on with innovations to ensure we remain 'First Choice' for our
customers in the new millennium.
As you might expect our IT teams are at the heart of this revolution,
working in a seamless partnership with the business to develop and
deliver new products, services, capabilities and ideas.
Our environment embraces an exceptional diversity of technologies,
with powerful IBM mainframes complementing our massive investment
in new tools and techniques such as Client Server and Windows NT... an
investment which will run into hundreds of millions of pounds in the next
year alone.
But the most important part of the budget is the expenditure
earmarked for talent and training. We're looking for the best graduates
of '97, and we offer an unrivalled commitment to their personal and
technical development
If your talents are suited to Systems Development, you can look
forward to an IT career that is uniquely 'business-focused'. Learning
and development evolve through a balanced mix of project
responsibility and wide-ranging courses in technical, business and
personal skills according to your aims and ambitions. Ultimately,
through our belief in the principle of 'career ownership', you ore in
control of the pace and direction of your individual development and
personal progress. The long-term options, either in business or
technical management, are unlimited. The rewards include a
competitive salary, bonus and benefits package.
For further information and an application form, please
write to Lynne Hauff, Graduate Recruitment Manager, NatWest,
2nd Floor, Eastgate House, 73 Lemon Street, London El 8EG.
E-mail: lynn.houff@natwestuk.co.uk
A NatWest
More than just Q bonk
Notional Westminster Bank Pic seeks to provide equality of opportunity for all individuals.

