F E L I X W E D N E S D A Y 19TH M A R C H NEWS 7
IC's 'secret garden' no longer a mystery
The secretive Prince's Gate Gardens can be seen on this ariel photograph of the South Kensington site, behind
Weeks Hall, up and to the left of the familiar dome of the Albert Hall. The garden, larger than the adjacent
Prince's Gardens was purchased in the middle of last year to "provide a quality quiet garden area for the aca-
demic community to enjoy."
than a week later, a Felix reporter
reentered the garden to study (it is
much quieter than Kensington
Gardens, being virtually unknown to
all but residents of Weeks Hall), only
to find the gate locked and the gar-
dens full of school children.
The garden is bordered by several
properties that, although they do not
own it, have legal rights set out in the
deeds to the properties for access to
the garden. In return, subscribers pay
an amount towards the upkeep of the
garden. The school involved is the
Montessori St Nicholas Centre,
which is situated on Princes Gate, to
the north of the garden. Mr Caldwell
stated that, though they have a right
to use the garden, this does not
extend to the children using the gar-
dens as a playground. The children
were using the garden in such a way
that any other users would be pre-
vented from enjoying quiet contem-
plation, in clear contravention of the
"rules" stated on boards in the gar-
den. The College, according to Mr
Caldwell, "are not very happy at this
and are taking it up in pretty tough
terms with them."
A spokesman for the Montessori
school said that the pupils are always
under supervision when using the
garden, and never do so in large
groups. He said that the school was
pleased to learn that IC had bought
the garden, as they felt that the
College would protect the garden,
and the rights of those who own the
properties around it. The school
spokesman went on to suggest that
the previous owners of the garden
had been dissatisfied with the
school's use of the garden, but there
was nothing that they could do about
it, the rights of access being guaran-
teed in the deeds. He also claimed
that IC had thus far been amicable in
their attitude towards the school, but
admitted that the College were
unhappy with regards to the school's
use of the gardens.
The gardens should now open for
the College community to use.
Students are advised that to gain
entry, they should use the gate to the
east of Week's hall, and follow the
path.
This newly-constructed path was
itself the subject of some controversy
last year, as building work disrupted
the residents of Weeks during the
exam revision period.
'Student Affairs' Sabbatical to join gang of four
MATTHEW BENNETT
Imperial College has run into prob-
lems regarding its acquisition of
Prince's Gate gardens, the "secret
garden" behind Weeks Hall.
The garden was bought by the
College last year for an undisclosed
sum of money, rumoured to be in the
millions, from the widows of the pre-
vious owners. The reasons for the
purchase were set out by Ian
Caldwell, head of Estates: "...To pro-
vide a quality quiet garden area for
the academic community to enjoy,
with a relatively natural habitat in the
middle of our hard urban campus...
As a strategic purchase to project the
College's long term interests for
developing the Sports Centre site and
8 to 15 Princes Gardens."
Mr Caldwell went on to deny sug-
gestions that the college had plans to
build anything on top of the garden,
admitting that "the planners are
unlikely to support this anyway".
The possibility of extending the
sports centre under the gardens has
been examined, but studies conclud-
ed it would be more cost effective to
build under the tennis courts.
However, Mr Caldwell has suggest-
ed that the gardens could be open via
swipe card access to all members of
the college. Initial investigations by
Felix found this not to be the case,
with only residents of Weeks hall
being allowed into the garden via the
hall, and the path by the side of
Weeks. Once access was gained
(thanks to a Weeks resident), we dis-
covered that the newly aquired part
of the garden was padlocked, and the
only way in was through a hole in the
fence.
After Felix contacted Mr Caldwell
for a second time, the swipecard
machine now permits access for all
students to the garden during the
specified opening hours (9am-6pm).
The gate was also unpadlocked. The
gardens were at last open to the
College community for "quiet study
and contemplation". However, less
continued from front page
Alex Feakes, another of ICU's four
sabbaticals, questioned Mr Pursey as
"expert witness" on the usefulness of
the proposal since UCL's Students'
Union has, at present, five sabbati-
cals.
Mr Pursey explained that U C L
students had recently discussed the
possibility of moving from five to six
sabbaticals for similar reasons, but
had come to the conclusion that it
wasn't another sabbatical they need-
ed but more union staff at an admin-
istrative level. Such permanent staff
should filter out day-to-day matters
and paperwork, thus reducing the
sabbaticals workload and leaving
them the time to concentrate on poli-
cy issues.
This system is currently being
introduced at UCLSU and has
proven effective. ICU Council recog-
nised the value of permanent staff
and agreed that this would have to be
a long term project. Ms Corneille
added that she has already reorgan-
ised the Union Office's staff, so that
next year's Deputy President would
have a 'clubs and societies adminis-
trator' to help her.
After some discussion, Council
voted in favour of the proposal to
create a new post but agreed that
much planning is needed before
implementation. ICU must also take
steps to secure funding for any new
members of staff. Any change in the
number of ICU sabbaticals must be
approved by the Governing Body.

