8 FEATURE F E L I X W E D N E S D A Y 1 9 T H M A R C H
PAST: PRESENT: FUTURE
- A YEAR IN THE LIFE OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE UNION -
CLUBS AND SOCIETIES
Despite cuts in funding, the Union has managed
to support and encourage the growth of around
160 Clubs and Societies - so if you are involved in
any club or society, the Union is supporting you.
There have been many successes including BUSA
victories for fencing and snooker, endless
achievements by all our sports clubs, an outstand-
ing International Night, shows from Dramsoc and
Opsoc, plus the continued success of ICU Cinema
(still the 6th largest screen in London) and anoth-
er 28 issues of your favourite Friday read...
A pressing need for better facilities to aid clubs
and societies in their organisation and administra-
tion has been perceived, and with this in mind the
Easter break will see the conversion of the current
Senior Common Room in the Union Building into
a Resource Centre. Within this area will be the
phones, faxes, pigeonholes, noticeboards, photo-
copiers, PC's - anything to make
running a club easier. An adminis-
trator will be appointed to assist you
with all the information on sporting
fixtures, including details of games,
locality, transport and recording of
results, and information packs on
how to do things (like budgets and
events) will be available.
The centre will come on-line on
April 21st, and will be accessed
through the first floor Union
Reception area. This will also have
undergone refurbishment in order to
provide better access to the centre
and the staff working for you in the
offices. The current information packs, room
bookings and minibus hiring services will remain.
THE UNION SHOP
Our sorrow at no longer being able to sell you
books is tempered somewhat with expectation
because - in its place from April 21st - will be
'The Union Shop". Its going to be a 'totally new
shopping experience' of a place, designed to be
the equal of any high street stationers, and will sell
an extended range of stationery, clothing, comput-
er consumables, and regalia. The exciting design
is a product of intense consultation between the
designers, students, Union staff and sabbaticals,
and (hyperbole aside) its going to be great.
ADVICE CENTRE & REPRESENTATION
The Union Advice Centre continues to give aid
and information to students who need help, cither
through course, housing or other problems. This
year private sector accommodation problems have
been very much at the fore, and the Union has
been pressing the College to take a more active
and protective role in this for the vast majority of
its students who do not live in hall.
Members of the Union Welfare Committee also
took part in a seminar attended by senior tutors
and College staff where they highlighted issues
relating to sexual harassment and discrimination.
They raised the need for a College harassment
policy and a clearer framework for settling prob-
lems between students and staff.
CAREERS FAIR
Over 2000 students attended November's
Careers fair - the biggest union held fair in the
country. Companies from all over Europe partici-
pated, as the reputation of both the college and the
fair itself have spread, so students were able to
interrogate a broad range of would-be employees
face to face, and find out for themselves (mostly
from ex-IC graduates) what working for a partic-
ular company would really be like.
SO, YOU'VE ALL SEEN THE POSTERS:
"YOUR UNION WORKING FOR YOU"
BUT WHAT DOES IT ALL MEAN?
WHAT EXACTLY HAS THE UNION
DONE THIS YEAR, WHAT DOES IT
INTEND TO DO, AND HOW DOES IT
AFFECT YOU ANYWAY?
lunchtime by hungry students. Some of the con-
gestion should be hopefully solved by serving cur-
ries them from a separate dispenser in dB's next
year, and leaving the main outlet to dispense the
other great value meals we produce, but again we
wait with bated breath for some extra space to
carry out the Grand Expansion Masterplan.
One aspect of catering often overlooked is func-
tions, of which the most notable this year was the
ACC Colours Dinner, a medieval style banquet
thoroughly enjoyed by all.
ENTS
A much more balanced programme has seen a
more successful Ents programme, packing out
every Friday night this year. The start of the year
saw the opening of dBs, which was a huge
improvement on the old Ents lounge, and the
improvement has been rewarded with high atten-
dance not only for club nights but
also for the Bust-A-Gut Comedy
Club. Next term promises no slack-
ing in pace with Bust-A-Gut playing
host to the Open Mic semi finals,
with Boothby Graffoe, and Charlie
Chuck. There will also be more live
music, plus the Summer Carnival
will be the Carnival to end all
Carnivals.
BARS
Both DaVinci's and the Union Bar have had
hugely successful years, and continue to improve
their service by increasing their range of real ales,
and cocktails, as well as introducing new products
when suggested. The bar has benefited signifi-
cantly from a raised profile in the college, and
should hopefully become less of a sticking point
on a Friday night with a nice new floor (again,
being done over Easter). One of the bars biggest
successes has been the UDH Cocktail Bar, which
came about through a students suggestion, and
regularly attracts a few hundred up there on bigger
nights. Congestion has become a problem, simply
due to our immense popularity, and we can only
hope for extra space to expand the venue when
Biology move out in '98 (and the Medics move
in).
CATERING
The ubiquitous £1 curry continues to go from
strength to strength, again causing problems with
over popularity. The summer refurbishment of
dB's seems to have paid off in spades - the extra
seating area thus generated is packed every
STAFF TRAINING
ICU has a policy of employing stu-
dent staff wherever possible, thus
generating jobs for financially
embarrassed students, as well as a
lecture friendly job timetable. We are committed
to training all the students we employ, and many
have benefited from this by attending courses cov-
ering everything from first aid to customer care.
This years training and induction day was attend-
ed by around 150 students.
Of course it hasn't all been good news this year:
the loss of our book selling operation has tied our
finances closer to those of the college which - con
sidering the state of higher education funding - is
not a position we relish (in real terms our subven
tion from College was greatly reduced last year)
and the withdrawal of College funding for the
Commemoration Ball has placed the event in
jeopardy for the first time in 48 years. There are
also threats from College's plans for Beit Quad
(involving a big conference centre and a small
Union), and other plans that are under discussion
may impact on your life as a student.
Fortunately (this is the cheerful bit) you have us
to fight on your behalf, and in perfect honesty (and
even if we do say so ourselves) our Union is one
of the best in the country, and an ego like that
needs support and nurturing.

