F E L I X W E D N E S D A Y 19TH M A R C H FANTASY SABBATICAL LEAGUE 9
Now that the Sabbatical
Elections are (more-oMess) over,
it is time to announce the winner
of our Fantasy Sabbatical League
competition... and he is:
Jon Hall of Computing III
Congratulations!
Jon's team, Notvery Athletic, consisted Mo Dulloo beating A N Other for
President; Rob Clark pipping Duncan Tindall at the post for DP (F&S);
Sarah Thomas nipping in before anyone else for DP (C&S) and Jeremy
Thomson beating someone else for Felix Editor. He scored a total of 35
points: •
'
• ' •
In second place was Eleanor Rees of Materials II, who's team, The
Firm, scored 33 points.
To claim your prizes, you will need to come into the Felix Office in Beit
Quad. . "'; . . . ; " . . . i. .
Thank you to everyone who entered the Felix Fantasy Sabbatical League
Competition and a stiff finger to those who thought it was a hoax!
Felix Fantasy Sabbatical League concept by Robin,
additional labour by Alex. ©Felix 1997.
The Alternative London Fashion Week
If you want to feast your eyes on catwalk upon catwalk of beautiful women, men, and of course clothes; and socialise with the fashion jet set, then the
Alternative London Fashion Week is the place to be. It definitely has less snobbery value than its bigger counterpart (as it is free to the public) and the
designers are allowed more room for innovation and artistic expression. The fashion shows start at 1.15pm daily, when you will be able to feast your
eyes on some serious talents and spot the budding Westwoods, Gallianos and Casely-Hayfords.
There will be weird, wild and wonderful clothes from PVC bondage galore and androgyny by the designer labels Renegade and Spunk, to sensuous silks
and elegant feminine attire by bright hopes such as Martin McShane and Lynda Park.
There will also be menswear collections and the most daring club and street wear by designers such as Davina Hawthorne whose collections are described
as wet, techno and sexy!
All collections will be showing until 21st march 1997, at Old Spitalfields Market, Brushfield Street, London, E l (by Liverpool Street Station); and it is
a must for all fashion aficionados, culture vultures or even those who simply love beautiful people (the models are courtesy of Storm and Elite Premier).
For those who can't make it a review of the whole affair will be in the next issue of Felix.
The fashion week is sponsored by Salon Selectives who are also currently launching a feisty "Female DJ of The Year" competition, which gives the
girls a chance to penetrate the exclusively male domain of the clubland DJ with the main prize being a contract with a DJ agency; other prizes being the
obligatory Salon Selectives products.
Competition entry forms will be available from selected independent record shops nation wide or send a SAE to :-
Salon Selectives
Female DJ Competition
PO BOX 2249
London W1A 1SJ
The competition is only open to amateur female DJs over 18 and closes on 30th April 1997. See you there!
As you all know, the winners and
runners up in the Sabbatical
Elections were:
Jeremy Thomson for Felix Editor followed by New Election;
Smita Chaturvedi for Deputy President Clubs & Societies followed by
Sarah Thomas,
Robert Clark for Deputy President Finance & Services followed by
Duncan Tindall; and
New Election followed by Samantha Baker for President.

