SCIENCE
Editors: Philippa Skett,
Keir Little, Fiona
Hartley
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
10 FRIDAY 04 OCT
Skett’s science corner
Philippa Skett
Science Editor
Welcome to Felix Science! If this is your ﬁrst time
reading these pages then congratulations are in order;
managing to tear your eyes away from the centrefold
and pursuing something a bit more academic, and so
early on in the year too, is no mean feat. To all our
regular science enthusiasts (we know who you are,
all ten of you) welcome back - we are hoping to hit
harder than ever this year and make sure we deliver up
to date science with a minimum of one pun per title.
I’m Philippa and I make up a third of the science
editorial team alongside Keir, a charismatic chemist
and Fiona, a bubbling biologist like myself. If you are
a physicist, a mathematician or even an engineer,
get in touch and start writing for us! Otherwise it is
going to be articles alternating between the ecology
of guppies and scandals involving titration curves.
My top science story this week is that of the chemist
who was recently jailed for killing her husband. Akin
to the Breaking Bad storyline in that basically lab
supplies were stolen and someone then dies, Tianle Li
from New Jersey slowly poisoned computer engineer
Xiaoye Wang when their marriage disintegrated.
Unlike Breaking Bad, this chemical crime did not pay
oﬀ in thousands of dollars and hundreds of Emmy
nominations, but instead resulted in a life sentence for
the mother-of-one after a science-savvy nurse worked
out that his symptoms pointed to thallium exposure.
hallium ions are chemically similar in size to
potassium ions, rendering the cellular channels for
potassium useless in distinguishing between them both.
hallium is able to enter cells and disrupts the normal
ion movement of potassium, causing a whole host of
biochemical issues. Only one gram of thallium can kill
a human, and as it causes a large range of symptoms,
poisoning may not be diagnosed until it is too late.
Although Li pleaded not guilty, the research
she conducted with biopharmaceutical company
Bristol-Myers Squibb was centred on the eﬀect
of thallium on humans, so accessing the banned
substance would have been just too easy. hallium is
soluble in water, so administration would have been
straightforward, too: a slip of the wrist by seemingly
innocent Li would have been all it took to get the
substance into her husband’s drink with dinner.
Since it can be diﬃcult to diagnose, by the
time Xiaoye’s symptoms were linked to thallium
poison there was no time to get the rare antidote,
Prussian blue, and the damage was done.
So if writing about that latest pathogen pathway
doesn’t ﬂoat your boat, consider diving into the
decidedly dark side of science instead. Get in touch,
write about your favourite toxin and share your science
stories:anythingthatpacksapunchissuretobeprinted.
Blood, snot and students
Fiona Hartley tells us why scientists will soon be
adding a new weapon to our arsenal against flu
I’m sure several of you are suﬀering
with freshers’ ﬂu by now, as I am, be-
cause sharing your germs via sniffling
and/or coughing on your unfortunate
peers in lectures is akin to physical in-
timacy here at Imperial. You’d rather
be healthy, or at least in bed, as you
sip your Lemsip Max and wish that
you hadn’t shuffled through crowds
of virus-laden students in the QTR at
Freshers’ Fair.
While Freshers’ ﬂu is basically a bad
cold that makes us feel a bit shit right
when we want to be out on the town
enjoying ourselves the annual ﬂu epi-
demic is a much more serious aﬀair.
Inﬂuenza always poses a potentially
serious risk to our health and that re-
mains a fact despite sensationalised
news reports claiming the latest pan-
demic will kill millions of people. (I
do realise that I’m guilty of the same
thing, referring to war in the title
of this article – but how else do you
make a future ﬂu vaccine sound excit-
ing? Please tell me…)
A vaccine that is eﬀective against all
strains of ﬂu is described as the ‘Holy
Grail’ for inﬂuenza researchers. Last
week Imperial demonstrated its dedi-
cation to this goal when Professor Ajit
Lalvani and his team published their
conclusions from a two-year long
study of the health of 342 staﬀ and stu-
dent volunteers in Nature Medicine.
he study began in the autumn of
2009 when the swine ﬂu pandemic
was starting. Previous models had
suggested that T-cells, the little lym-
phocytes which are crucial in the cell-
mediated immune response, could
recognise core proteins within the in-
ﬂuenza virus and perhaps confer some
protection against symptoms of ﬂu.
he team used the pandemic to ex-
plore this theory. Once the volunteers
had donated blood samples and nasal
swabs, they were sent a health survey
ever three weeks and asked to donate
another nasal swab if they suﬀered
from any symptoms of inﬂuenza.
he group found that the volunteers
who suﬀered from milder symptoms
of ﬂu when infected had a greater
number of CD8+ T-cells in their
blood at the beginning of the study.
Professor Lalvani called the ﬁndings
a “blueprint” to guide future vaccine
development. heir study contains
precise information about the char-
acteristics of the protective T-cells
and this can be incorporated into the
testing of novel inﬂuenza vaccines, as
well as potentially leading to a vaccine
that stimulates a T-cell response large
enough to have the desired protective
eﬀect.
So your nasal secretions contain
more value than you might ﬁrst think.
And while I’d prefer a greater number
of volunteers to have been part of the
study, I think it’s great that students
were indirectly involved. Imagine be-
ing one of them, smug in the knowl-
edge that the disgusting river which
dribbled out of your nose four years
ago inﬂuenced the advancement of
science…
his is good news for the future of
ﬂu vaccination and our general health.
It will be many long years before inﬂu-
enza is a thing of the past, however; I
suppose it will be even longer before
we see the back of freshers’ ﬂu.
“It’s not an
inapt analogy
to compare
this to light
sabers”
New form of matter created from photons
Keir Little
Science Editor
he Harvard-MIT Center for
Ultracold Atoms has created
“photonic molecules” by binding
photons together, as published in
Nature last week.
he team, led by Harvard’s Professor
Mikhail Lukin and MIT’s Professor
Vladan Vuletic, ﬁrst cooled an
extremely rareﬁed gas of rubidium
atoms to a few degrees above absolute
zero, then used weak laser pulses to
ﬁre single photons into the gas.
In this medium, the photons are
slowed considerably by interacting
with and giving energy to the rubidium
atoms. “When the photon exits the
medium, its identity is preserved,”
Lukin said. “It’s the same eﬀect we see
with refraction of light in a water glass.
he light enters the water, it hands
oﬀ part of its energy to the medium,
and inside it exists as light and matter
coupled together, but when it exits, it’s
still light. he process that takes place
is the same, it’s just a bit more extreme
- the light is slowed considerably, and
a lot more energy is given away than
during refraction.”
When two photons are ﬁred in,
they exit joined together, as if in a
molecule. his is due to an eﬀect
called the Rydberg blockade, which
disallows atoms near to each other
being excited to the same state. When
two photons are in the rubidium
cloud, one must move forward after
exciting an atom so that the second
one can move in and excite other
atoms nearby. hus, the photons pull
or push on each other as they move
through the medium.
“It’s a photonic interaction that’s
mediated by the atomic interaction,”
Lukin said. “hat makes these two
photons behave like a molecule, and
when they exit the medium they’re
much more likely to do so together
than as single photons.
“We do this for fun, and because
we’re pushing the frontiers of science,
but it feeds into the bigger picture of
what we’re doing because photons
remain the best possible means to
carry quantum information. he
handicap, though, has been that
photons don’t interact with each
other.”
he eﬀect could be used to make
photonic switches or logic gates for
use in quantum computers, or for
laser cooling and information transfer
applications in current computers.
“It’s not an inapt analogy to compare
this to light sabers,” Lukin added.
“When these photons interact with
each other, they’re pushing against
and deﬂect each other. he physics of
what’s happening in these molecules is
similar to what we see in the movies.”
MIKHAIL LUKIN, VLADAN VULETIC/NATURE
Want to write for us?
Email to get involved:
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk

