11
FRIDAY 04 OCT
SCIENCE
@feliximperial
FelixScience
Phillipa Skett writes about the latest findings in HIV research
It is a drug whose users come from
across all walks of life; from traders in
the big cities to celebrities in the bath-
rooms, cocaine is a substance com-
monly associated with excess, conﬁ-
dence, and power. his week scientists
also drew links between this Class A
drug and something far less desirable;
research conducted by University of
California, Los Angeles (UCLA) has
found that cocaine use may increase
the possibility of successful HIV in-
fection, and not just due to lifestyle
choices alone.
he report, published by the Journal
of Leukocyte Biology, demonstrated
that CD4 T-Cells, key immune cells
found throughout the body, become
more susceptible to the Human Im-
munodeﬁciency Virus when in the
presence of cocaine. Because of the
overlapping lifestyles that can be as-
sociated with both cocaine use and
HIV infection, this is a particularly
worrying new piece of research, and
indicates that cocaine users are more
at risk than previously thought of con-
tracting the deadly disease.
Usually, HIV functions by infecting
CD4 Cells, which are a type of T help-
er cells. T helper cells are white blood
cells that, upon detecting infection,
activate other immune cells around
them by releasing chemical messen-
gers known as cytokines. hey trigger
a cascade of immunological activity,
bringing together other components
of the immune system to remove any
threat as efficiently and as successfully
as possible. hey “help” the immune
system in getting its act together, to
combine forces and tackle the infec-
tion head on.
HIV is so potent because it breaks
down the prime defence mechanism
the body has against infection, eﬀec-
tively bringing the enemy down from
the inside. HIV infects the CD4 T-
Cells, causing them to burst or be tar-
geted by other cells for degradation.
his causes the number of CD4
Cells to decrease, weakening the abil-
ity of the diﬀerent cells within the im-
mune system to join forces together
and ﬁght oﬀ future infections. his
is why HIV doesn’t kill patients di-
rectly Acquired Immunodeﬁciency
Syndrome (AIDS) is when the CD4
T-Cell count drops so low the patient
has, as the name suggests, a deﬁcient
immune system and cannot ﬁght oﬀ
infections. hese opportunistic infec-
tions can be caused by a whole host of
microorganisms, and lead to adverse
symptoms when there is no immune
system to stiﬂe them.
he scientists who conducted the
study collected blood from human
donors that were healthy, isolated the
CD4 T-Cells and then exposed them
to cocaine over a period of three days.
hen it was simply a case of watching
and waiting- the researchers moni-
tored the progression of the HIV life-
cycle, and saw that in cells bathed in a
cocaine-derived solution, there was a
signiﬁcant diﬀerence in infection rates
and subsequent new viral production
to those that remained cocaine free.
his may be facilitated by receptors
on the CD4 cells that are agonists for
cocaine, rendering cells more suscep-
tible to HIV infection, but as is the
case with many of these things, more
research is needed. Worryingly, these
receptors are agonists for a plethora
of other drugs too, and as of yet it is
unknown if these too may increase the
possibly of HIV infection for such es-
sential immunological cells.
DOI:10.1189/jlb.1112566
Link found between HIV and cocaine
The HIV virus.
FORCOLLEGEANDCOMMUNITY
ICRADIO.COM
IMPERIAL COLLEGE RADIO
Want to get involved? Email us! programming@icradio.com

