BOOKS
Editor: Maciej
Matuszewski, Eva
Rosenthal
books.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Maciej Matuszewski discusses an entertaining and interesting event
Soho Literary Festival
Rather embarrassingly for the editor of the books
section, I had never before been to a literary festival.
I therefore jumped at the opportunity to visit the Soho
Literary Festival, a small event being held, for the third
time in as many years, at the Soho heatre.
Having never really been that much into modern
literary ﬁction I stuck mainly with the more historical
and political talks – see the other side of the page for
more detailed reviews of the events that I attended. he
programme, however, had a far greater breadth – with
events ranging from Quentin Blake’s talk on he Uses
of Illustration to John Sweeny’s investigation into the
Church of Scientology.
I was greatly impressed by enthusiasm and eloquence
of all the speakers. Most of the events that I attended
were packed with people and seemed to go down well
with the audience – I found them all both engaging and
informative.
I am sure that the general atmosphere of this event
was very diﬀerent to that of larger literary festivals.
here were certainly fewer high proﬁle guests and
side events than at, say, Edinburgh or Hay-on-Wye.
An advantage, however, of being small is that Soho
Literary Festival was far friendlier and more intimate
than you would expect such an event to be. here was a
very refreshing air of informality and the speakers were
more than happy to mix with the audience in the bar
before and after the talks.
All in all, this was a very pleasant experience – one
that I would be very keen to repeat next year.
The Age of Profumo: Sex, Class
and Power
Panel Chair: Piers Brendon
Panelists: Richard Davenport-Hines and
Christopher Hampton
he Profumo Aﬀair is now regarded by
many as a little more than a historical foot-
note. However, when it broke, the scandal
had a profound and long lasting eﬀect on
the political establishment. In 1961 Brit-
ish War Secretary John Profumo began a
sexual relation with the socialite – and al-
leged mistress of the Soviet spy Yevgeny
Ivanov – Christine Keeler. Profumo would
later explicitly deny the relationship before
Parliament but when the truth came out he
was forced to resign and the public’s conﬁ-
dence in the Conservative government was
fatally wounded.
he panel discussion was a fascinating
look at the Aﬀair. All of the participants
were keen to stress its importance – not
only in helping to bring down the belea-
guered Conservative government, which
had already been weakened by the earlier
Suez Crisis – but also as a start of a new,
less deferential era towards the political
establishment. he discussion also pointed
out parallels to contemporary events – both
police corruption and press sensationalism
greatly helped to exacerbate the Aﬀair.
his was a fascinating panel – making an
event that took place long before I was born
seem fascinating and relevant.
The History of Syria
Dan Snow
Tragic recent events have turned the eyes
of the world on Syria. However, as histo-
rian Dan Snow – fresh from making a BBC
documentary on the country – explained,
the roots of the conﬂict are deep and com-
plicated.
Syria has always had an advantageous
geographic position. Boasting much fertile
land and located at the crossroads of several
trade routes made it, for several millennia,
an extremely rich land. However, this has
led many empires to see the region a valua-
ble prize – leading to much strife and politi-
cal instability. he region has been ruled by
countless powers but Snow traced the most
immediate cause of the recent problems to
the British and French colonial eﬀorts in
the Middle East. Both countries deliberate-
ly created unstable conditions in the region
to beneﬁt their own interests and, after de-
colonisation, Syria was left with no legacy
of self-governance or democracy – a recipe
for disaster.
his was a very complicated topic to cov-
er in an hour and, by his own admission,
Dan Snow is not an expert in the region.
However, in my opinion, he performed ad-
mirably. he talk covered, in a clear man-
ner, all the most important points of Syria’s
long history. It gave me a new perspective
on the current conﬂict and made me want
to learn more.
The Classics Quiz
Questionmaster: William Fitzgerald
Team Captains: Harry Mount and Rachel
Johnson
I was somewhat apprehensive going in to
this event – having not studied Classics for
over ﬁve years. And while it did turn out
that I had forgotten almost all of my GCSE
Latin it was still a lot of fun, and probably
the best event that I attended at the Festival.
he quiz consisted of two teams of four
answering questions on the Latin language
and ancient Roman history. It was, how-
ever, a very informal aﬀair with wit, both
on the part of the questioner as well as the
contestants, counting for at least as much
as the facts.
A particular highlight was the Latin
motto’s round, in which contestants were
asked to identify, among others, the motto
of Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wiz-
ardry; and in which I found out that the
motto of the Carlsberg Brewery is “labore-
mus pro patria” – “let us work for our
country”. Another highlight was the round
asking contestants to identify the unpleas-
ant means of death of Roman Emperors.
While Rachel Johnson was unable to pro-
vide the answer to which Roman Emperor
was eaten by worms she was able to give
the Ancient Greek for the phrase “eaten by
worms”.
his was a great event, reigniting, for one
hour at least, my passion in the Classics.
Want to see your name in print?
Send your book reviews to books.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Notes from my first
literary festival
18 FRIDAY 04 OCT

