FOOD - 30 CLUBS & SOCS - 32 PUZZLES - ?
Farmers Market Missing :(
Daas Kaluvan reviews the new
South Kensington Farmers’
Market on the Imperial campus
and cooks pan-seared pigeon
breast. Yum!
Our champion Chess Team
(who new we were British Uni
Champions) takes over the
American Chess scene in style
with their trusty steed.
Looking for some puzzle com-
manders with a cryptic gaze
and a love for mystery. Also,
why haven’t you solved last
week’s word search? Huh?
EDITOR’S PICKS
2 FRIDAY 04 OCT
LOLCAT OF TEH WEEK: I’ve been told to bring these back...
Joe Letts
Editor-in-Chief
First Week Back
S
o, who knew that prepar-
ing for the Freshers’ Fair
would only leave two days
to produce and send off a
newspaper? Certainly not
me, despite my Imperial education,
sometimes it makes you wonder what
I actually did.
There’s an interesting paper for you
to read this week with an update about
the Translation Studies Unit’s move
to UCL despite student campaigning
and the Unit’s profitable performance.
Additionally on the opposite page
there’s an interesting article about
the shocking conditions at Fisher
House. You would think that students
at such a highly regarded university
would be treated a bit better and at
the very least not be left to walk along
a corridor with exposed wiring, sur-
rounded by electrical equipment that
hasn’t passed safety tests in several
years and heaters that have the curi-
ous power of bring able to set off fire
alarms. There are some serious con-
cerns about student welfare that need
to be addressed by Campus Services,
regardless of whether these problems
have been fixed since the pictures
were taken in June.
However, this issue also contains
more pleasant content, live pictures
from the Mingle and the new Alter-
native Mingle. The Alternative Mingle
was a new concept developed by the
Union this year as a free alternative for
people who didn’t want (or were too
young) to drink during their first event
out for the year. The event was quite
successful (with music organised by
IC Radio), with over 500 attendees
and live performances from Jazz ‘n
Rock, Crystal X and a band composed
of wardens from Beit hall. However
Felix believes this has accompanied a
noticeable increase in vigilance by the
Union at events that contain alcohol,
especially in regards to events where
minors might show up. As it stands
the Union has released a new Alcohol
Code of Conduct for Clubs, Societies
& Projects this week that explicitly
states that a number of new under-
graduates are underage and warns
Club, Society and Project chairs that
they have a responsibility to ensure
that U18’s do not break the law during
CSP events.
We’ve also launched the new Ca-
reers section in this edition, go and
have a look, go on! We’ve managed
to get a guest column about effec-
tive networking from the helpful staff
at the Careers Service, an alumnus
profile (thanks Androula Alekou) and
an article by a former Imperial student
about the International Association for
the Exchange of Students for Techni-
cal Experience (IAESTE), an exchange
scheme celebrating it’s 65th anniver-
sary since it was founded by Imperial
in 1948. Since its start after World War
II as a way to encourage academic ex-
change between universities IAESTE
has gone on to host over 300,000
students in over 80 countries. For
those of you considering applying for
a Paid Summer internship you should
consider going to IAESTE’s London
welcome event this Sunday. You also
have until December 10th to register
for the scheme, so if you’re keen I’d
stop reading and do it now!
While you’re reading this issue, you
might see things that you think could
have been done better or viewpoints
we’ve completely missed out. That’s
great, we’re still looking for more
people to join the Felix team and if
you email in I won’t mind adding your
name to our mailing lists, it will seem
simple after I’ve upload the names
from the Freshers’ Fair this weekend.
Looking forward we hope to get
some more features in the paper, in-
cluding a look at College’s exciting
Horizons program for first and second
year undergraduates and some inter-
views of unsuspecting individuals I’ve
been planning for some time
Finally, as this is my second issue,
I should really thanks the people who
made it all possible, including Tim
Arbabzadah (who helped immensely
with Issue 1) and Rory Fenton the man
in the cat suit.
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB.
Email: felix@imperial.ac.uk. Tel: 020 7594 8072. Fax: 020 7594 8065.
Printed by Iliffe Print Cambridge, Winship Road, Cambridge.
Registered newspaper ISSN 1040-0711.
Copyright © Felix 2013.
TO YOU
THIS
WEEK
WAS
BROUGHT
BY
Editor-in-Chief Joe Letts News Editors Aemun Reza, Nida Mahmud Features Editors VACANT Business Editor James Tsim Science Editors Philippa Skett, Keir Little, Fiona Hartley Politics Editor Kartikeya Rana
Food Editors Carol Ann Cheah, Michael Chung Comment Editors Eoghan J. Totten, Tessa Davey Arts Editor Arianna Sorba Books Editors Maciej Matuszewski, Eva Rosenthal Music Editors Simon Hunter, Riaz Agahi,
Stuart Masson, William Stocker Television Editors John Park, Emily Fulham Film Editor John Park Games Editors Maximilian Eggl, Calum Skene, Imran Rashid Technology Editors Maximilian Eggl, Yong Wen Chua Travel
Editor Chris Richardson Sports Editors VACANT Online Editors Philip Kent, Annina Sartor, Stephen Ball Puzzles Commanders VACANT Copy Chief Annina Sartor Copy Editors Annina Sartor, Stephen Ball
USA! USA!
Erratum
Felix would like to apologise for an error in last week’s print edition. Due to a
mistake in the editing phase we accidentally printed a truncated title. What
was “As Hitler once said: Execute” we meant to print “As Hitler once said:
Execute Plan Z!” Felix would like to apologise for the mistake both to the
author our readers.
Mingle Moments
Are you a Fresher or someone who just wants to see Freshers’ being
slightly tipsy or silly? Have you seen the Mingle Moments videos? STOIC
(Student Television of Imperial College) filmed both nights of the Mingle
which can be seen on youtube, along with their previous productions like
last years televised “Big Elections Hustings”, the College vs. Medics Varsity
match and several episodes of IC News.
youtube.com/stoictv

