TELEVISION
@feliximperial
FelixImperial
A bewildering journey into Ancient Greece
With the demise of Merlin, the
BBC were clearly in the market for
a new family-friendly fantasy dra-
ma to fill the Saturday evening slot.
Enter Atlantis, a retelling of the
legend of Greek hero Jason, best
known as leader of the Argonauts
and slayer of the minotaur. Well,
‘retelling’ is perhaps a slight ex-
aggeration: in reality, Atlantis fea-
tures a bizarre mish-mash of Greek
mythology with real historical fig-
ures, with an extra dash of time
travel to keep things interesting.
If the above sounded confusing,
then welcome to my reaction as I
settled down to watch the first epi-
sode. We open in the present day,
with our young hero Jason pre-
paring to journey underwater in
search for his father, lost at sea in
a submarine accident. As the un-
derwater vehicles ventures into the
depths, Jason finds himself sucked
into an oracle (helpfully labelled
‘Oracle’) which is apparently a
portal to the ancient city of Atlan-
tis - before it sank into the sea, that
is. This portal has the additional
feature of stripping its user of all
clothes, leaving Jason washed up,
stark naked, on an empty beach.
Jason, although having a body
sculpted by angels, is apparently
not too bright, as upon enter-
ing Atlantis (now, unfortunately,
clothed) he manages to piss off a
two-headed lizard into chasing him
around the marketplace, leading to
much unnecessary destruction and
disruption. He’s finally rescued
by a young man his own age, who
introduces himself as Pythagoras.
It’s at this point that the show’s
decision to conflate the entirety of
Greek mythology with actual an-
cient history becomes jarring: I’m
completely on board with magic
underwater portals to legendary
cities, but Pythagoras was a real
historical figure born circa 560
BC, whereas the story of Jason
and the Argonauts is set around
1300 BC, a generation before the
Trojan war, and was already being
told as a bedtime story in 800 BC.
Any further semblance of adher-
ing to historical accuracy is thrown
out of the window when Pythago-
ras introduces his housemate, the
demi-god Hercules - now a washed
up, chubby alcoholic, played by
Game of Thrones’ Mark Addy.
Jason and Pythagoras become
best mates after a Hunger-Games-
style ceremony to select the an-
nual sacrifices to the local mino-
taur results in Jason volunteering
in the young mathematician’s
place. After slaying the minotaur
with some help from a beauti-
ful princess, Jason is accepted as
the hero and saviour of Atlantis,
showing remarkably little concern
with getting back to everyone he’s
left behind in the modern world.
Presumably, at some point the
show will build up to Jason’s epic
quest sailing around the Mediterra-
nean in search of the famed Golden
Fleece which will restore his right-
ful throne. Personally, I’d like to
see the episode where, according
to legend, Pythagoras goes men-
tal and kills a load of his follow-
ers because he can’t get his head
around irrational numbers (to be
fair, I struggled with the concept
as well), but I have a feeling that
this is another part of ancient Greek
history which will be shelved.
For anyone who watched Merlin,
the similarities are plain to see - lots
of talk about destiny, a vaguely ho-
moerotic friendship between two
young men from different walks
of life, some less than stellar CGI
monsters - and at times, Atlantis
does seem to be lacking in original-
ity. Perhaps I’m being too harsh on
what is, after all, the first episode
of a family show designed for light
entertainment; The Iliad it ain’t,
but Atlantis is entertaining enough,
if you’re prepared to throw logic
out of the window and go along
with the ride. For that reason, the
show may be worth sticking with
for a few more episodes to see if it
picks up; if nothing else, to see how
many other Greek mythological fig-
ures they can fit into the one show.
Emily Fulham reviews the latest fantasy offering from the BBC
A friendly conversation takes a sudden turn for the worst when Pythagoras gets asked to find the square root of two...
21
FRIDAY 04 OCT

