27
FRIDAY 04 OCT
GAMES
@felixgames
FelixImperial
European Bus S(t)imulator 2012
Being games editor is a new job for
me. Part of my expectations be-
fore agreeing to this role was that I
would get games given to me to re-
view. I didn’t mind which games, but
thought it would be nice to not have
to pay for every game I review. I ac-
cepted the role and on my ﬁrst trip to
the Felix oﬃce found the pile of free
games that could be reviewed. To
my surprise, I had not heard of even
one of these games, but this is prob-
ably because I have never played a
Simulator game before. I didn’t know
codes and passwords, select a route
and which direction you will drive it
in, partake in the complex setup of
turning on the engine and on board
circuitry, take the parking breaks oﬀ,
change gear and drive oﬀ… Sadly this
is where I met my ﬁrst diﬃculties. For
half an hour I sat, refusing to open
the detailed 30 page pdf that comes
with the game. Why wouldn’t my bus
drive oﬀ? After all, I had completed
the in-game instructions, which cur-
rently told me to accelerate. I had a
look around my bus and eventually
realised the door was open. OK, I say,
all I need to do is close the door, that’s
num pad 1, which my laptop does not
have. So I change the binding to left
click as there seems no other key that
isn’t bound to a control in the bus.
Only later would I realise that when-
ever I clicked on a button in my bus
the doors would open. Nevertheless,
doors closed, I drive my bus away,
which I have chosen to be a school
bus. After driving around the Ger-
man town I run into more diﬃculties.
I can’t seem to ﬁnd any children or
anyone in the game that will in fact
get on my bus. his problem took
a signiﬁcant amount of time to ﬁx;
however, 2 hours into the game, and
no longer a school bus, I was ready
for my ﬁrst route as a bus driver.
As you might be able to tell, every
detail to do with the bus can be con-
trolled, down to the air conditioning
which needs careful control so the
windows don’t fog up. I didn’t know
much about bus driving before this
game but I’ve come away feeling edu-
cated. Driving around my route and
picking up passengers while wearing
my pyjamas (in real life), gives me a
sense of achievement. European Bus
Simulator is a relaxing game once you
get the hang of it, but is not without
some pretty major faults. he ﬁrst
glaring mistake for me is that you can
choose your name, your age and your
gender, but once the game starts my
character really doesn’t strike me as a
1 year old girl called Frank Schmidt.
In fact I look like a 40 year old man.
While driving the bus I got points
oﬀ for being early, and also points
oﬀ later on for being delayed, but I
didn’t get points oﬀ for running over
my passengers, driving on the wrong
side of the road, ﬂipping over a car in
a pretty severe car crash, charging my
passengers the wrong amount or giv-
ing no change from 20 Euros. I would
have thought a game which relies
on accurate simulation would have
payed close attention to these details.
Also it’s a German town and so all the
console controls are in German, but
all the passengers speak perfect Eng-
lish to me. Since when did German
people say “Good Evening Sir”? Since
when were bus customers so polite?
Overall all I can say is,
it’s been an experience.
that there was a demand for games
such as Chemical Spillage Simula-
tor, Stone Quarry Simulator or Truck
Simulator. Keen to dive in to this new
world of Simulator games, I picked
up European Bus Simulator 2012
and began my educational journey.
he premise of European Bus Simu-
lator is that you are a bus driver in a
large German town. his game suc-
ceeds at being a Simulator as every-
thing to do with the bus is very real-
istic. You’ll be required to walk over
to it in the garage, type in your driver
Dazed, Mary decides to call the police after the bus driver refused to give her a ticket
A low drone sounds. “Dadddy,
daddy, please don’t kill me.”
Children begin to sing and a
great machine starts up. “Daddy!
Daddy!”… You awake in your bed,
and go oﬀ in search of your children.
hus begins the 5-6 hour horror
experience that is Amnesia: A
This world is a Machine. A Machine for Pigs. Fit only for the slaughtering of Pigs.
Machine for Pigs, an indirect sequel to
Frictional Games he Dark Descent.
After a short period in which you learn
the games only controls; crouching,
picking up items, opening doors
and running (which you will do if
crouching fails), you are immediately
thrust into a world of terror. Unlike
the original this game is developed by
he Chinese Room (who previously
did Dear Esther). his is probably
responsible for the diﬀerence between
the two games. Many of my favourite
game mechanics from the original
are not present in the new one. Even
mechanics that I thought made he
Dark Descent the great game it is!
A Machine for Pigs oﬀers very little
in terms of puzzles and gameplay.
Gone are he Dark Descent days of
having to light candles, and ﬁll up
your lantern to keep your sanity levels
up. Your inventory is gone, and now
you must carry around various items
much like you would in Portal. You
can even use your lantern as much as
you want without worrying about it
running out (although you will want
to turn it oﬀ nearly as much as you
want it on!) A Machine for Pigs does
not satisfy my needs for another he
Dark Descent, but it does provide a
gripping interactive horror story that
will keep you entertained, terriﬁed
and, at times, a little disgusted.
his game handles very smoothly,
which is important for a game
that relies almost solely on you
experiencing the world. Everything
from opening doors, to turning wheels
and picking up fuses feels intuitive and
simple. here is even has controller
support should you want to use it. he
world is as beautiful as it is horrifying
which keeps you immersed and keeps
you with a feeling of unease. Not once
in this game did I feel safe. I was always
expecting things to jump out at me but
was never ready for them when they
did. You will jump and more than once!
Nearly everything about this game is
terrifying, down to the amazing music
which suited the game perfectly. From
creepy orchestral music, to children
singing nursery rhymes, the organ in
the chapel and the sounds of the great
machine (which you spend most of the
game interacting with), it all adds to
the experience. hroughout the game
you travel through many locations;
your house, the attic, the roads of
Victorian London, and then the meat
processing factory that hides a terrible
secret as you descend into it and come
to meet the machine. he story is told
through voice acting, which is superb,
and hidden diary entries which slowly
illuminate you to the terrible things
you’ve done but can’t remember…
A Machine for Pigs is a very story
driven game. None of it is particularly
hard gameplay wise, but when you
are scared it’s very easy to panic and
make mistakes. he story is excellent
and alone is enough to make you
want to play on despite the challenge.
For one play through the price of
£12.99 is good, although I’m sure
most people will play through it more
than once which makes the price
even better. I would get this game
if you are a fan of horror, and like
the idea of an interactive terrifying
experience. From a gameplay point
of view, this game isn’t challenging at
all. If you are looking for a challenge
I would recommend the original,
which also has user made stories
and the mini expansion Justine.
I’ve forgotten why I like Amnesia...
Calum Skene
Games Editor
Did you brave Amnesia without
screaming? Then contact games.
felix@imperial.ac.uk and tell us
how much of a badass you are!
Calum Skene learns the differences between GTA and real life
My dear chap, There seems to be something wrong with your barbeque!

