29
FRIDAY 04 OCT
Editor: Maximilian
Eggl, Yong Wen Chua
technology.felix@imperial.
ac.uk
TECHNOLOGY
Max Eggl ruminates on the repercussion of our device addiction
his is a very interesting question
I found myself talking about with
a friend recently. Is technology
really making us weaker, mentally
and physically? If you consider that
technology is part of the human
condition, then you would disagree
and I would be on your side. All the
brilliant things that humans have
invented really do make everything
better (or do they? Sorry just had to
put that cliché in). However if we only
consider the human as the biological
entity that makes him, is there a
diﬀerent story?
Anytime new technology has come
along, it has eased the segment of lives
it aﬀects, otherwise it would not really
have been invented. hrough making
pretty much everything easier and
doable, some people say that it has
expanded the human border as well
as enhanced the every day persons
capabilities. Airplanes and cars have
revolutionised travel, Internet has
changed the way we communicate
and exchange information and
tablets have changed the way we
interact with media. hese are just
a few examples of how certain areas
that are a fundamental part of the
average human life have been aﬀected
radically. In fact most of these eﬀects
have been very positive, giving us
the possibilities to travel, talk and
do things that would not have been
possible in such scale even 50 years
ago.
he big question I always have in
mind though is that, has technology
on its own made the human being
fundamentally weaker, more
dependent on the devices and
machines that surround them?
Probably one of the most obvious
ones is probably the eﬀect that cars
have had on the human body on
the whole. here have been some
interesting studies that seem to show
a link between driving and obesity.
Overlaying a map of obese adults
in the US as well as the map of the
percentage of commuters that drive,
shows some striking trends. Is it
then that perhaps due to the ease and
speed of driving a car, that exercise
(e.g. biking, walking) is shunned and
this leads to a negative impact on the
human body? I think that most of
you would agree. However driving
cannot be solely credited with causing
obesity. Other factors also often
linked with obesity like eating habits
and lifestyle. However there also other
technology factors that I could have
mentioned instead, which would have
shown similar trends!
Given that nomophobia, a now
recognised phobia that can lead to
stress and anxiety in those that are
without their phones, was prevalent in
roughly half the population sampled
by YouGov, implies a interesting
trend, since the smartphone as such
only really exists only about 10 years.
he smartphone has become such a
useful appendage that, even though
it really does not add anything new to
our lives, the lack of it is very apparent.
Another interesting aspect of the
smartphone with respect to our
dependency on tech and perceived
resulting weakness is related to how
easily everything is accessible from
literally everywhere. Some studies
claim to show that this leads to a
lower attention span. When you have
instant access to anything you want,
games, blogs, facebook proﬁles etc., as
well as it being short and snappy, then
when you really have to concentrate
on something that may not be done
in a similar manner may be very oﬀ
putting.
he last thing I would like to point
out is the eﬀect that the internet,
and its easy sharing has had on our
communication skills. Firstly, due
to a rise of text speak, which I know
all of us use, this current generation
is more accustomed to using these
abbreviations than the correct
English. I have stopped counting how
many times I actually had to correct
my “you’s” from “u’s” in proper emails
etc. . Maybe this is just the evolution
of the English language, but it does
seem to be leading to a weakening
of the beautiful vocabulary that each
language possesses. Another aspect of
being on the internet permanently, is
the fact that avoiding confrontations,
is so much easier. If you want to escape
a ﬁght you just leave the site. his
can lead to an erosion of real conﬂict
The crippling effect of Technology
The News Bubble
Maximilian Eggl
Yong Wen Chua
Technology Editors
After several unsuccessful attempts, BlackBerry has ﬁnally bitten to
the bullet to the glee of this editor. On the 23rd September this failed
technology giant announced that it will be bought by a consortium of
investors at a value of $4.7 billion. Considering that at its all time high
this Canadian company was once worth $84 billion, this is rather cheap.
he only thing that still remains up Blackberry’s sleeve is its wealth of
patents, which it could use to potentially use to either license or sell on
in a bid to remain relevant. However one thing that seems sure, the hey
day of this once powerful manufacturer seems to absolutely grounded.
solving skills, I mean if you never
actually have to resolve anything, why
would you ever learn how to?
In contrast to confrontation, also
normal conservations seem to have
suﬀered. Recently I haven’t had
a single conservation that wasn’t
interrupted at some point by a text,
tweet or facebook notiﬁcation. I
mean, its a form of comfort zone
when you are sitting at a party on the
General news from around the tech world, so you can keep up to
datewith thenewest,weirdestandmostfuturisticthingsaround
BlackBerry goes private!
Shocking! Lighting powers phone
ResearchersatSouthamptonwithNokiaengineershavemanagedtocharge
atelephoneusinglightning.SimilartocreationofthemonsterFrankenstein
and powering of the DeLorean in Back to the Future, the scientists created
a lightning bolt at the telephone. Surprisingly enough the phones battery
manage to do something with the high voltage, and was charged! Lets hope
this electrifying discovery will actually come to some use in the future.
Left we have Obesity Rates in the US, on the right we have amount of drivers
couch, no one talks to you, and you
pull out your phone. However how
much is that really going to help you
socialize? Without even trying, you
are never going to learn anything!
All these points are unstudied or
at least unproven, and yet when I
look at them they do seem to have
some ring of truth. Even if they are
not true, what would be the problem
with putting your devices and gadgets
once in a while? Do something that
our ancestors have managed over
thousands of years!
What I am not saying is that we
should do away with technology
completely. Technology itself is a very
useful tool that really does help. It
has enabled humans to do so much.
However the tool itself is not intrinsic
good or bad, it is only as good as the
purpose that it is used for and therefor
what the human intends to do with it.
In our society of instant gratiﬁcation,
humanity has fuelled its addiction
for pleasure with the easy way out.
However as always humans do it
without any kind of restraint. As the
saying goes, too much of anything is
never a good thing

