31
FRIDAY 04 OCT
FOOD
@feliximperial
FelixImperial
Carol Ann Cheah got the answer through the post
It’s not everyday that the Felix Food
crew gets to review something that
was featured and acclaimed on BBC’s
Dragons’ Den. Back in August I was
trawling through FEAST at Batter-
sea Park with the just-as-much-of-a-
foodie (if not more) boyfriend (in fact
Battersea was his idea, I was busy re-
vising for resits and UROP-ing at the
time to think of Food-related press.)
Prior to that we’d heard of Gousto
being mentioned on the interwebs a
few times, and decided to drop by the
stall to leave our contact details. hey
soon got in touch, and we agreed to a
review box - not long after, we were
watching Duncan Bannatyne display
his cooking prowess with one of the
recipes we’d picked. Talk about strik-
ing gold, we say!
Food delivery boxes - be they snacks
a’la Graze or fresh fruit/veg/meat
boxes by the Riverford crew - seem to
be gaining quite a bit of traction with
us Brits. Now I really should use “us”
loosely, not being actual Brit myself;
but I digress - when you’ve lost count
of the number of friends using such
services (a former Food editor be-
ing a Riverford customer, and a bajil-
lion mates including your housemate
being massive Graze fans), it’s hard
to not pay attention to this concept
mushrooming about.
Gousto (pronounced goo-stow) is
one such company, but instead of just
giving you a ton of purely fresh pro-
duce like Riverford, they’ve gone the
extra mile of portioning it up with
other ingredients/seasonings - and
giving you recipes to cook it with. he
best part? Little to no food waste, so
good for those of you who are clueless
on portion sizes and need a bit of hand
holding (new fresher cooks, I’m look-
ing at you.) You don’t need to provide
much apart from salt, oil, pepper and
maybe a bit of milk/butter depending
on the recipe, but they’ll tell you if you
need to have anything extra (and it
won’t be a huge ingredient.) It’s quite
simple - you go on their website, or-
der your box by picking your 3 recipes
for the week (they list ingredients so if
you don’t eat meat/ﬁsh you can avoid
those) and Bob’s your uncle - just wait
for your box. Like Graze, you can
pause deliveries if you’re away, or stop
altogether whenever you feel like it.
It seemed after that Dragon’s Den
episode the excitement over our box’s
arrival was infectious - when we col-
lected our box from the Felix office,
it was already open...a certain Union
staﬀ member had been too eager to
see what was inside that she got our
ed-in-chief to open it and let her have
a peek. Nevertheless the packaging
was impeccable - produce and ingre-
dients arrived pretty much intact, all
the fresh stuﬀ stayed nicely chilled un-
til I managed to fridge it up, and we
all agreed it looked fantastic. It was
only after bringing the box home that
I’d noticed one of the Dijon mustard
mini-containers had somehow come
apart and left some mustard inside
one of the ingredient bags (boo!), but
it wasn’t the end of the world. Every-
thing came nicely labelled (with the
odd bit of wit, not unlike Innocent
juices), so there was no reason to goof
up with the wrong ingredient - or
wrong portion sizes for recipe, as two
of our recipes shared a few ingredients
like potatoes.
We had a 2-person box and picked
three recipes: Bavarian Fleischpﬂanz-
erl (fancy way of saying meatballs)
with sauteed rosemary potatoes,
rump steak with roasted potato wedg-
es and Italian gremolata, and *that*
famous honey mustard glazed trout
ﬁllet with summer salad, a’la Duncan
Bannatyne/BBC. All the portioned-up
grub came with their corresponding
recipes in the form of lovely cards,
which can be kept and re-used should
you like the recipes enough.
On day 1 I was alone, so I made the
trout salad in one go and decided to
test how well it kept the next day. Sure
enough Duncan and the fellow Drag-
ons weren’t amiss when they lapped
up the salad, and I discovered with
this recipe that I actually like beet-
root (having never tried it before,
how odd!) hat and Dijon mustard
- the recipe broke whatever miscon-
ceptions I had about crappy yellow
mustard, as I didn’t like it much when
younger. It should also be said that the
salad tasted just as great (if not bet-
ter) the next day, as the ﬂavours had
more time to mingle - I had fridged it
and brought it with me to get through
my UROP lunch hour. he salad itself
was fresh, zingy and appetising, full of
yummy stuﬀ to hit your 5-a-day with-
out making you feel like a wannabe
WAG pushing a lone leaf about on
a plate. It’s actually a salad for salad-
haters.
A few days after we test-drove the
Bavarian Fleischpﬂanzerl, with my
housemate Phil as a willing guinea
pig. Now Phil eats a bit more than I
do (and I can eat quite a bit), but we’re
happy to report that the portion sizes
were just nice. I do wonder how they’d
cater for customers who are bottom-
less pits of huge appetites, but I sup-
pose these customers have their ways!
We’re not too sure what we could’ve
done about the meatballs falling apart
a bit, but they were still yummy - and
the recipe did get you making them
from scratch, which is a nice thera-
peutic plus.
Not too long after we had the ﬁnal
meal of the pack - rump steak with
gremolata. Phil likes his cooked a bit
more towards medium/medium well,
but I like mine medium rare or rare;
the instructions only covered cooking
till medium rare. Luckily this wasn’t
quite my ﬁrst steak, and I do cook
quite a bit of it with my boyfriend
(well he cooks it more), but it would’ve
been nice to see a bit more detail on
getting diﬀerent levels of steak done-
ness. Can’t however fault this being a
great recipe to introduce steak virgins
to cooking and prepping it.
All in all we did come away with a
good impression of Gousto, and we
think it’s a great product - but it might
not be for everyone in our readership
due to cost (students, I’m looking at
you.) Some of us would also like to see
some one-person boxes happen in the
future, though personally as a “cook
ahead and eat leftovers for lunch”
person (and because cooking for one
produces just as much mess) I’m not
sure how feasible that might be. Be-
low we’ve made a bit of a pros and
cons list/recap, but it’s up to you. We’d
love to see where the Gousto boys -
Timo and James - take this concept
to...g’luck, chaps!
What we loved
- Little to no food waste. It’s probably
the key selling point here.
- Quality produce and ingredients.
hey just speak for themselves - I’m
not a food snob, I’d happily eat not-
quite-organic/free-range produce (I
know my budget, but I buy as local
and as not-chemically-laced as I can);
but this is a major plus.
- Great balanced recipes that change
with the season - extremely well-
written, concise, but doesn’t skimp on
detail like prep/cooking time + back-
ground info to help you plan ahead.
- Nothing crazily fussy, so they’re not
forcing you to use insane cheﬀy tech-
niques or spend hours in the kitchen
(30-40 mins most from start to ﬁn-
ish, then however long you take to
eat). Just the kind of food that’s simple
enough to get you cooking regularly,
yet great tasting to keep you from a
rut.
- Good way to try something new,
be it an ingredient or recipe or tech-
nique. here’s always something new
to learn!
What we didn’t dig
- You only get 3 meals for 2 people (6
portions) per week (there’s a 4-person
option though) - though if you’re will-
ing to fork out a bit more, you can pri-
vately arrange for a 5-meal box
- It’s 42 quid a week for the above box
(vegetarian boxes cost 3 quid less),
which comes up to 7 quid a meal -
quite a hefty tag, though the premium
is because all the ingredients are or-
ganic/free-range and you’re also pay-
ing for someone to do the legwork of
portioning/thinking what to cook for
you.
- It’s not as spontaneous (Kelly Hop-
pen, you read my mind) - you have
to decide by Wednesday night what
you want for the next Tuesday, which
doesn’t help if you then change your
mind - but it’s only because they need
time to source and prepare ingre-
dients. Understandable, but if there
were some way to reduce how far
ahead people need to decide (even if it
was a few days less), it would be even
better. You can’t have it all though,
which is fair.
- Not every recipe is next-day-friendly,
but they’re operating on the impres-
sion that you’re cooking for two and
eating it all there and then! However if
you’re buying the box just for yourself,
that’s the only thing you can do atm.
hey’re hoping to oﬀer single-person
boxes though, so watch this space…
General verdict
Would heartily recommend, but not
for everyone. Perhaps ideal for busy
Imperial staﬀ who don’t like thinking
about food shopping or portioning
things up, but still want to cook. For
students, maybe a once-in-a-blue-
moon thing only because of budgetary
reasons (it’s cheaper to do your own
food shop and put a bit more fore-
thought/learning) - Carol will how-
ever certainly be on the lookout to see
if something unique comes up on the
weekly recipe rotation...
Dislaimer: Gousto sent us a com-
plimentary box back in Sept 03 for
review and consideration - special
thanks to Aidan Willcocks at Gousto
for arranging this for us! All opinions
however are our own - our duty is to
you, the reader.
Learn more: www.gousto.co.uk
What does Gousto mean?
Extra points for environmental friendly box and the lovely message!

