CLUBS & SOCS
32 FRIDAY 04 OCT
Volunteering @ Imperial
Ben Fernando
Charity Editor
So no doubt you’ve been accosted by various charities
at the Freshers’ fair. If, like me, you signed up to all
their mailing lists and are completely lost as to who
does what and can’t decide what to do because you’re
not sure what they do and don’t do, then this is article
is for you.
Broadly speaking, there are three types of not-for
proﬁt work that go on at Imperial. I have about 400
words left to describe them all so apologies if I miss
anyone out!
1) RAG
RAG is the largest student group at the
union – you’re all members! (we don’t give you a
choice - we just sign you up, muhahahaha). We’re
responsible for the fundraising at the Imperial. We do
this through the traditional pounce-on-you-in-the-
street-until-you-beg-for-mercy-and-give-us-your-
change method, but most of our funds come from our
events like the Freshers’ Ball, the Bungee Jump, Rubix
Cube party and so on. We also take care of a number
of smaller groups on campus like Save the Children
and UNICEF, and the challenges abroad (like Kili).
If you’re interested in what we call FUN-raising then
drop us a line at rag@imperial.ac.uk.
2) CAG
Community Action Group is responsible for
the volunteering at Imperial, that is, things that don’t
explicitly involve raising money. You can volunteer to
do just about anything through one of their projects -
from gardening, teaching, helping refugees, teaching
kids to code to building schools and designing
solutions to environmental problems. Lots of their
activities are similar to the Imperial Hub’s, so contact
either of them at iccag@imperial.ac.uk or president@
imperialhub.org
3) Everything else!
here are a huge number of miscellaneous
not-for-proﬁt activities that go on at Imperial. Some
are run by departments (i.e. Physics’s ‘Communicating
Physics’ course); others by faith groups (Islamic Society
are insanely good at raising money!) and a few are run
by random individuals. We’re planning to put together
a full database of these programs in the coming year.
In short you can do just about anything. he various
groups help people from all over the world, ranging
from Kensington to Kenya and from El Salvador to
East London. If you ﬁnd that something that isn’t
supported, no worries! Anyone can set up a society
or project at Imperial, and there is funding to help
worthwhile causes.
I suspect that many of you have got to the end of this
and have decided that it sounds really cool but you’re
just too busy. Or not! You can’t get away that easily!
Both RAG and CAG can take people for shorter
volunteering stints, from half an hour a week for the
super-busy up to about ﬁfteen hours a week (yes, that’s
how long I was spending on RAG in the run-up to
RAG week!).
Next week I’ll go through some of the reasons why
it’s worth joining in the volunteering at Imperial, but
until then email me if you have any questions! rag.
treasurer@imperial.ac.uk – I promise I don’t bite.
here’s a brief guide to charity at Imperial in 529
words. Do get involved!
“Are you a
part of a club
or society?
Or do you go
clubbing? Are
you sociable?
Do you like
projects? Yes,
Yes, Yes? Then
write in with
something
interesting
about your
club, like a two
page report
on a Chess
Tour! Who
knew these
guys were so
good?”
A
fter a very successful
year dominating Brit-
ish chess, the British
Uni and London Uni
Champions (your resi-
dent chess team) decided that they
needed a new challenge. So when ex-
President Sam “Sporter” Porter began
organizing the trip to the US, a lot of
excitement and anticipation started to
arise. With big names like Princeton
and Columbia on the menu, Impe-
rial Chess was really looking forward
to making a name for themselves out
there in the land of opportunity. In
fact we set out with a very strong team
with big ambitions, including our
own FIDE Master (FM) Ryan Grif-
ﬁths and El Presidente Arijit Gupta.
he night before was spent in
preparation, with a gathering of half
the team: Sporter, Baron Luke Bar-
ron, FM Ryan and myself playing ex-
change (a very enjoyable variation of
chess which allows even the weak-
est players to beat extremely strong
players) and drinking in the Union,
and generally just bouncing strate-
gies oﬀ each other that we would use
to destroy our opposition. However
since our ﬂight was relatively early
on the next day, we decided to call it
a day and reconvene in the airport.
he next day dawned rainy and
cloudy, however that did not damp-
en the spirits of the Chess team as
we all arrived early (or perhaps not
so early in some cases) and without
much hassle we all boarded the plane.
Soon the inﬂight entertainment sys-
tem was discovered, with its option
of multiplayer chess and movies,
and the ﬂight was soon played away.
Once we arrived in the US things
quickly became more complicated.
Due to a very absent-minded border
security guard, Sporter, El Presidente,
Aditya (Adi) Gupta and Akshaya Ahu-
ja all took at least 30 minutes to pass
through, while the rest of the team
slowly got more and more worried that
they had all been interrogated. How-
ever after that slight complication,
(plus a few more), we ﬁnally made it to
our monster of a minibus which was
subsequently named the Knight Rider.
With some trepidation we approached
the twelve seat, 4 meter beast, and, as
I was the one who had to drive it, with
a lot of fear. A lot of trouble was had
getting out of the parking lot, however
once all the start-stop crap had been
overcome it was as smooth as a pawns
top. hus the knight riders were born!
We duly arrived in Princeton, after
having our ﬁrst real American meal,
namely McDonald’s, and were met
by Austin and George, two members
of the Princeton chess club. We were
put into diﬀerent dorms of various
hosts, as well as the house of one of
the student’s chess tutors Johnny (who
turned out to be an absolute legend).
he morning after, still inﬂuenced
by severe jetlag (at least some of us),
we found each other and recounted
of our nights escapades, for me this
included a surprisingly comfort-
able evening spent next to Luke,
who went as far as calling it roman-
tic, on a sofa bed. We spent the day
chilling, chilling Princeton style. A
breakfast of pancakes (which were
amazing), a visit to Walmart, as well
as some games of footie and chess
on the beautiful Princeton campus
were all used as welcome relaxation
and were drumming up quite a lot
of local interest. After a rather ﬁll-
ing burrito and an introduction to
the triangle game (which to my abso-
lute delight has still not been solved
by some), we once again separated
to return to our beds/sleeping bags.
he second day saw the Knight Rid-
ers take on New York. After some
initial diﬃculty parking the Knight
Rider (resulting in a $115 ﬁne,
YOLO), we started our tour of Man-
hattan. We did do the obligatory walk
through Central park, however the
two things that were on every Chess
geek’s mind were: 1) Chess Hustlers
of Washington Square and 2) he
Marshall Chess Club. herefore with-
out much further ado (and with the
cliché panorama picture), we made
our way to the Chess Hustlers. What
we saw there did not disappoint. We
were pretty much overwhelmed by
a circle of Chess tables with various
people in diﬀerent states of disar-
ray sitting at these tables crying out:
“Chess Plaayyyyers, 3 Dollars a game,
5 for 2!” nicely complemented by some
soft jazz playing in the background.
So with quiet conﬁdence FM Ryan
sat down and destroyed his opponent,
upon whose face you could slowly see
the dawning realisation that he had
absolutely no chance. Next Baron
Luke decided to give a chess hustler
a try. While his win was less asser-
tive (he was shaking and with less
than 30 seconds on the clock) he
nonetheless managed to beat his op-
ponent. However once El Presidente
tried to win some actual money, his
chosen opponent decided to medi-
tate instead of lose his money! What
an outrage! Another beneﬁt of our
stay at Washington Square was the
fact that Alex (Gandalﬁano) Galli-
ano (our second board) managed to
join us. Without any hesitation he sat
down at one of the tables and superb-
ly checkmated one of the hustlers.
Afterourdominatingdisplay,noneof
the hustlers wanted to play the Knight
Riders anymore, so it seemed like the
time to leave. Luckily Baron Luke had
met and talked to (as he does with eve-
ry stranger) the president of the Mar-
shall chess club, who luckily enough
invited us to a tournament there.
he Marshall is a world famous club
which boasts several famous person-
ages throughout its illustrious history,
including Stanley Kubrick, Hikaro
Nakamura and Bobbie Fischer. In fact
it is also the location where Fischer
contested the game of the century!
Sadly we were not able to make the
beginning of the tournament itself,
after failing to park the Knight rider
in the busy New York streets. How-
ever we did manage to see the last
two rounds, and in fact there were 4
Grand Masters in attendance, so we
were not disappointed! Since it was
getting late though, Princeton was a
bit of a drive and the fact that we were
going to play the current Ivy League
champions, the big match of the tour,
the next day led to the decision that
the knight riders should call it a day.
And without much further ado (how-
ever a stop for greasy New York pizza
was included), we made our way back
to Princeton and split up once again.
he next day arrived duly, and even
though some people (Adi and El Pres-
idente) had problems getting up, the
Hardcore Pawn: IC Ches
Max Eggl tells the tale of Imperial Chess He
RAG Treasurer
ICU CHESS
Did I ever tell you about the time I was arrested in the USA for grafﬁti?

