33
FRIDAY 04 OCT
CLUBS & SOCS
@feliximperial
FelixImperial
The Knight Rider stands tall as the Chess Champions destroy American Chess step by step. Well, mostly.
DAVID PHILLIPS
rest of the team was up bright and early
to face the day. After being given a tour
of Princeton, attending a BioChem
lecture and pretty much stealing eve-
rything possible at a careers fair (I am
looking at you Alex Gandalﬁano), we
then made our way to Philadelphia to
meet our ﬁrst adversaries. Overcom-
ing traﬃc and parking diﬃculties we
ﬁnally met the president of the UPenn
Chess club as well as Anup, one of our
team mates and old ex-presidents of
the clubs, who was living on his own
in New York, and commenced out
ﬁrst game of the tour. In a very tense
match with a very strange time control
(1 hour plus 5 seconds for each move),
Imperial managed to edge out the Ivy
League champs 5-4. Highlights of this
match include Gandalﬁano “grind-
ing down his opponent, until he was
in an utter desperate and hopeless
mess”; Sporter coming from com-
pletely lost with a few pawns down,
to swindling himself up a rook and
winning the game in the end and Luke
beating his opponent in 18 moves,
saying: ‘she basically couldn’t play’.
he general consensus after the
game was that we had been domi-
nating, and in fact should have won
pretty much on all boards. his con-
clusion and the fact that we were
now North Atlantic Chess champi-
ons allowed us a heightened sense
of achievement and were looking
forward to our next opponents.
Since our game took quite a bit of
time we arrived returned rather late
to Princeton and missed out on their
club night! However this was no big-
gie, as we would be meeting them the
next day in the match that was billed
as the one to end all Chess problems.
After a good night’s rest, and a ho-
agie (an absolutely better version of
a subway sandwich) we were ready
to play Princeton. However it seems
we became overconﬁdent. Losing
something embarrassing like 12-6
over two matches, we were quite
down after this episode. When asked
about their games Baron Luke re-
marked: “Not enough time to press
home an attack against the ‘thug
lyfe’ ” and Adi attributed his loss
to “he women’s charm”... ohh Adi!
However we quickly had to prepare
ourselves for a bigger loss, because it
was time not only to leave Princeton,
but also to give up the Knight Rider.
Our big baby couldn’t and wouldn’t ﬁt
into the New York parking spots, and
so with some reluctance we gave the
Knight Rider back to Hertz, and then
made our way to Columbia Univer-
sity, for our second stage of the tour.
Very well organised and friendly,
we were met by Matthew, the Colum-
bia Chess President, at the Columbia
ss Takes the Americas by storm
erosʼ campaign in the land of Freedom. Ah, ʻMurica
Cafe, and then were split up once
again. he Guptas (El Presidente and
Adi) stayed together, and the rest all
slept in Matthew’s Dorm. Before we
hit the hay, we had a pretty amaz-
ing time chilling and playing Chess.
he ﬁrst thing on the agenda on the
next day was waiting for the Guptas
to ﬁnally wake up. Once they did we
had a very enjoyable breakfast con-
sisting of pizza provided by Colum-
bia before we commenced our game
with two time Ivy League champions
Columbia. Sadly we lost 7-2 yet, how-
ever given the nature of the games, we
can say we actually did rather well. I
myself was playing a much higher
rated player, and, until I started hav-
ing time problems had him very
well contained. All our resident FM
would say though is: “Banter right...?”,
which pretty much sums up his game.
After this somewhat disappoint-
ing loss, where the result belied the
actual performances, we rushed over
to Washington Square to play NYU.
However on the train, Sporter got
a message that they could not get a
team together, and thus conceded
defeat against the superior British
opposition! In actuality this was a
blessing in disguise as we were still
knackered from the previous match
so we made our way to Times Square
to do some good-old fashioned site
seeing! Congratulations should go
to Alex and Luke for remaining un-
beaten throughout the whole tour.
Times Square, while very impres-
sive, was extremely packed for some
festival, so after a quick stroll and peak
around the area we decided to vacate it
and look at other things. At this point
Sporter (actually the Chess club) was
feeling very generous, so it was decid-
ed that $10 would be subsidized to eve-
ry player for their dinner. he chosen
venue was Applebee’s and we were not
disappointed! With pretty much the
entire table ordering the 1800 calorie
Mac and Cheese with bacon, as well
as another diabetes inducing dessert,
we were pretty much all very sated!
Since the next day would be our
last in the beautiful US of A, every-
one agreed that we should get up as
early as possible (AKA 8 O’clock),
so we could see as much as possible.
However that plan was shot, when
everyone decided that 8:00 was way
to early, and the Guptas decided that
in fact 10:30 itself would be too early
as well. After several threatening Fa-
cebook messages, as well as going oﬀ
without them, they managed to sprint
and catch up to us at the amazing
Bagel place we went to for breakfast.
hings we did on that day includ-
ed: Brooklyn bridge, Wall Street and
Ground Zero. However it was the
Staten Island Ferry (free by the way)
which stood out. However on the jour-
neyback,mostoftheteamdecidedthat
a game of Secret Queens was in order
(which Baron Luke won against Aksh-
aya) or some much needed nap time,
instead of having a second look at the
Statue of Liberty! What an outrage!!!
Anyway, after this really outstand-
ing, yet tiring day we had our last meal
in the US, which was none other but
some classic McDonalds yet again!
hereafter, we trudged over to New-
ark Airport once more. Without much
hassle we boarded the plane, and
commenced once again in using and
abusing the in-ﬂight entertainment!
Before you knew it, the Knight Riders
had touched down in Britain again!
Much thanks goes to Matthew, Aus-
tin, Johnny and all the other hosts and
organizers of the US Universities as
well as Stu from the Marshall chess
class! Lastly I would like to thank all
my brilliant tour mates, as well as Sam
Sporter Porter who did so much to
make this possible! Till next year folks!
Y
ou ﬁnd yourself in the
library; you have an exam/
deadline tomorrow that
has made your stress levels
reach a new high. Hyped up on pro
plus and red bull, a heavenly chorus
drifts in from Queens Tower and the
melodic chiming of the bells makes
everything seem alright… Who am I
kidding? Anybody with Facebook or
Twitter is accustomed to the tirade
of complaints about ‘noise pollution’
and their suddenly sensitive ears. But
ever wondered what is really going
on up there? What is change ringing
and who are the mythical bell ringers?
he ancient English art of
campanology involves bell ringers
pulling ropes. hese are attached
to wheels to turn bells through 360
degrees, not like the Mars advert.
his mechanism allows the ringers
to control the bell, allowing them to
ring the mathematical permutations
that form change ringing.
Most towers have 6 or 8 bells though
some, such as Queens Tower, have
10. hey are arranged from smallest
(‘the treble’) to largest (‘the tenor’),
usually in a diatonic scale. he more
bells you have, the possible changes
and methods grow exponentially;
as anyone who has done statistics
would know. his means that even
though bell ringing was started
in the 17th century there are new
methods discovered every day and
many, many more yet to be realised.
Founded in 1945, the University of
London Society of Change Ringers
(ULSCR) is the only bell ringing
society available for students in
London. And yes, even though it
is UoL, Imperial students can join.
We practice on a hursday evening
at the Church of St Olave’s, Tower
Hill, though there are constant
weekday and weekend quarter peals
organised throughout the year. If you
are wondering, a quarter-peal takes
approximately 45 minutes, 1260
changes to be precise, and is rung for
important occasions. A full peal is
5060 changes and is usually reserved
for very special moments, such as the
Royal Baby, due to the colossal stamina
required to concentrate for 3 hours.
However, it’s not all about ringing!
Practises are always followed by
visits to a variety of pubs (sometimes
consecutively) and Sunday morning
ringing is usually followed by a
‘Spoons breakfast and more drinking.
We also hold several ringing tours and
social events over the year, the climax
being the swanky annual dinner.
So do you ﬁnd ringing a-peal-ing?
Interested in learning the ropes? If
you like it, why not put a ring on it?
Okay, I’m all out of puns. For further
information about the society and
events please visit www.ulscr.org.uk
Oranges and Lemons say the bells of St. Clement’s
Sophie Middleton
University of London Society of
Change Ringers
David Phillips
TOM SIBLEY
MAXIMILIAN EGGL

