HANGMAN hangman.felix@imperial.ac.uk
34 FRIDAY 04 OCT
The Hangman’s Week
The Hangman
Hangman Editor
D
ammit! After my article last week it
seems as though the Editor is keeping
an eye on me this week. He let the kids
from “he Turnip take over and gave
my editorial to Captain Takeout. Also
I must take the time to pledge allegience to our all-
powerful President Godlsmith, may his rule reign
forever. Seriously, the dude is scary with a baseball bat!
Were you at the Freshers’ Fair this week? Did you see
the Felix stall? No? Good! It was kinda embarrassing,
we had these sweets that literally nobody wanted.
It was all OK in the end though, the Editor needed
dinner so I handed the sweets to him and told him
they were dieting pills. He lapped it up like a cat in a
milk factory. Let’s see if the Copy Editors spot that one!
So I also made it the Alternative Mingle last weekend
to see what the Union’s latest jaunt had to oﬀer. I can
see why it was “Alternative”, having an event with no
alcohol can only be seriously proposed if you’re high
on some kind of substance. Nevertheless despite my
misgivings it was pretty popular, even I got into the
mood and had a cracking time (no pun intended).
Surprisingly the “main” Mingle had a slow start
on the second day, must have sucked more than
(insert standard University of London reference
here, default: UCL) for the bands that performed
to an empty room. Well does the sound crew count?
Look, I’m sure you can tell I’m starting to get bored
with being bloody nice, I’m starting to get the shivers
and the dog in the corner is starting to laugh at me.
Instead of boring you with my tired ramblings as I try to
ﬁll up space so the Editor won’t try to take my guts for
garters I’ve instead decided to end my post with a meme
from the defunct Imperial Memes facebook group.
“Think you
can make
up a better
horoscope?
Email
hangman.
felix@imperial.
ac.uk and give
it a go!”
GUEST EDITORIAL
Captain Takeout
Hangman Guest Editor
MILEY CYRUS ENSURES FUTURE OF MTV
F
or centuries, groups of
people have gathered
together to sacriﬁce young
girls to Pagan gods in
order to ensure a good
harvest. his year was no diﬀerent,
as MTV thrust a dancing girl into the
centre of a baying, cheering crowd
in order to appease the ancient
Celtic god of attention, #Hashtag.
he girl, identiﬁed by many as
Miley Cyrus, was drunk on honey-
wine and dizzy from inhaling
the thick incense backstage in
the temple’s inner sanctum.
O
nly a few weeks
into his tenure as
Felix Editor, Joe
Letts (Pictured)
has been awarded
the Nobel Prize for Literature.
he awarding committee cited his
‘inspirational leadership in restoring
conﬁdence in student journalism’.
Mr Letts announced that he will
be using the entire 10 million
Within minutes, the world exploded
in a furious torrent of empty
words and poorly thought-out
opinions, as part of the greatest
attention harvest since the Beatles.
MTV Chair Akash, High
Priest of the All-Engrossing
One, made a public statement:
“We are delighted that the sacriﬁce
of Ms Cyrus has yielded so much
attention. With any luck, we
should be able to channel this
into an entirely new TV channel.
hisoneisjustgoingtobeaboutmusic.
For a while, at least. I hear there’s an
up and coming LA fashion designer
who’s just been arrested for assaulting
her husband, so naturally we’re going
to have to give her a slot in peak time”
Swedish kroner prize to pay down
the debts incurred by erstwhile
sabbatical officers over the past year.
In his speech Joe stated that he feels
“extremely surprised and deeply
humbled” and that this was a huge
part of his Bucket List checked oﬀ.
“Now all I have to do is get sued
for libel. Seriously, I won’t have
made it as a journalist without
a libel suit to pin on my lapels.
On that note, I would like to tell you
all that I was once spent a night with
Harry Styles. I think we both had a
fantastic time, I’ve even got some
picturesifyou’rewillingtopayenough.”
The Hangman
Hangman Editor
The Hangman
Hangman Editor
FRIDAY 04 OCT
Hello, my name is the Captain. I
eat twenty horses for dinner and ride
eggs every day before breakfast. After
writing an exclusive guest editorial in
an American newspaper the Hangman
took the liberty of inviting me to
discuss the plans for the upcoming
Homophobic Games that I’m hosting
in my domain. hat’s right, I said it out
loud, there’s nothing you can do about
it.
he theme for the Winter
Homophobic Games 2014 is of course
hatin’ on people with sexuality I just
can’t understand. Now don’t get me
wrong, I do enjoy a bit of Supermarket
Sweep and the Graham Norton Show
is simply divine, however I strongly
believe that we should make sure
that these people do not inﬂuence
our children while they are growing
up and developing. Instead I believe
the best policy is to give them strong
gender roles to learn from, which is
one of the reasons I like to publish
First black Felix Editor awarded Nobel Prize for Literature
BUSINESS INSIDER
topless pictures of myself doing very
stereotypical male things like riding
horses, chopping down trees and
ﬁshing.
In order to reinforce these
gender stereotypes I plan to release
new pictures of my topless body
surrounded by other men dressed
in the uniform of traditional male
workers, such as a police officer, a
cowboy and of course a construction
worker. In this way I plan to guide our
children towards a more “normal”
perception of human sexuality.
Eventually our children will grow to
understand to see a “harmless” male
couple holding hands as dangerous
while they will grow to look forward
to seeing bigger and better pictures
of me in various poses, occasionally
covered in oil.
I also had the opportunity to come
along to the Freshers’ Fair in your
institution (I have to admit the name
is fantastic, “Imperial” presents a very
strong presence) and I was surprised
to see some of my old Stonemason
friends. We had some great times,
I remember the time I visited their
Lode with a bottle of champagne, a
toothbrush and a sock. hey ran with
it and we ended up gallivanting around
the streets of London wrestling with
our muscles oiled and shining in the
city lights. Of course the next day once
I realised that they had tricked me
into spending the evening with some
actors they had hired I was annoyed,
but eventually I realised that they were
just playing around, the ultimate Lads!
It is unfortunate that the female
Lode couldn’t join us, but we still had
a lot of fun on our exciting adventures
around London. Seeing them again
made me realise how much my life
has changed in the last 15 years since
I stopped wearing my dungarees and
straw hat while going clubbing to
those specialist all-male clubs. It’s a
shame those times had to end, but it’s
all part of the experience I want for
the next generation: A strong sexual
identity and an ability have a lot of fun
with your peers, both in a physical and
emotional sense produces mentally
healthy adults who are able to engage
in fulﬁlling lives ﬂavoured with the
insecurity and sense of unease that
has helped me become the person I
am today. Oh, and I also believe that
your country is small and insigniﬁcant
so tell your boss to stop calling...
Scumbag fresher: Goes to Mingle, misses live music

