CAREERS Editors: VACANT
felix@imperial.ac.uk
36 FRIDAY 04 OCT
IAESTE - A journey without a
I
t was something as innocuous
as an online search where I
discovered the International
Association for the Exchange of
Students for Technical Experience
- or IAESTE (eye∙ee∙es∙ta) –during
my second year reading Chemistry at
Imperial College London. I’d already
considered a number of similar
schemes, all oﬀering undergrads
the opportunity to work abroad
for 6-12 weeks during the summer
(sometimes a year) with full pay,
but often only in business, language
assistance, the tourism industry or
with some other caveat or restriction.
IAESTE on the other hand, which
is run by the British Council in the
UK (the same folks who manage the
well-known ERASMUS) is focused
on science, technology and applied
arts placements i.e. exactly the kind
of work experience that is relevant to
me. IAESTE has been running for 65
years, operates in over 80 countries
and organises more than 4,000 student
internships every year at over 1,500
companies and institutions globally.
Manyoftheseorganisationsareleading
universities and industrial ﬁrms.
Fast forward a year, my plane is
departing from Copenhagen airport
and my eyes are glazed over thinking
about the summer I’ve just had. Two
months earlier I had started at the
Danish Technical University (DTU).
My project concerned molecular
modeling of the energetics of the
interaction between an enzyme and
a variety of lipid substrates. It was
my ﬁrst exposure to working in a
research group, to interdisciplinary
collaboration and to the challenges
posed by approaching a new
research ﬁeld. It introduced me to
Computational Chemistry, a ﬁeld
that I knew little about. I had the
opportunity to compare the British
university system with the Danish
one, to converse with local PhD
students about their motivation and
ambitions and to make friends with
students from around the world.
My accommodation was in the
university student halls, which were
conveniently located on campus. I
was surprised to ﬁnd that Danish
halls of residence provided every
kitchen utensil that a professional
chef could dream of. And that all
students enjoyed en suite rooms
for a very reasonable price.
One of the biggest challenges of
living abroad is the isolation one
can face upon arrival. I was certainly
disheartened during my ﬁrst couple
of days and I experienced culture
shock, but it was a challenge that
IAESTE helped me to overcome.
he Danish and UK IAESTE oﬃcers
were on hand for any occurrence
and every other international trainee
in Copenhagen was only alone for as
long as it took to discover one another.
In each major IAESTE city there
is a Local Committee (LC) made up
of local students, typically IAESTE
alumni, and Copenhagen was no
diﬀerent. Every Tuesday the DTU
LC organised a social event for the
20 international trainees to mingle
and meet with local students. Each
weekend involved a Danish-inspired
activity, ranging from a stroll through
the capital, making the most of the
ﬂat landscape to cycle or visiting the
museums around town. he rain
never stopped us from attending the
many festivals which Copenhagen is
famous for: we listened to everything
from live jazz to punk-rock beats,
learned how to dance to the rhythm
of salsa and stood silently before the
beauty of the moonlit Kronborg castle.
he person that landed back in
London was not the same one who had
left eight weeks earlier. his person
had a newfound understanding of
other cultures, a clearer idea of the
path they wanted their academic
career to take and the knowledge
that IAESTE could oﬀer even more.
My experience was unique, yet not
singular. I discovered that a group of
like-minded IAESTE alumni were
setting up a Local Committee in my
very own city. he group shared the
same IAESTE spirit and I’ve since
found myself carried away by the
ambitious project of setting up the
group in London, expanding it in
size and endeavoring to instill the
same IAESTE passion in UK students
and those international trainees
lucky enough to land on our shores.
If you’re interested in experiencing
a new culture and applying yourself,
then look out for us at your next
career’s fair or on our website. During
the autumn term we allow students to
register their interest on our website
before the December 10th deadline.
hen in February, we contact those
who have registered with a list of
available overseas job placements,
and applicants submit a complete,
formal application including CV and
references. Finally, those who succeed
in their application are helped with
any visa, travel and accommodation
issues and given pre-departure
training prior to their placements.
Local Committee: an experience
worth a thousand internships
I like to refer to my involvement
as a volunteer in the London Local
Committee as my IAESTE Plus
experience. My internship was the
tip of the iceberg; the organisation
itself holds an enormous amount of
potential for a person. he scope of the
LC is wide-ranging. Our immediate
role is as an ‘on-the-ground’ outpost
of the British Council IAESTE
oﬃce, being the faces and smiles of
IAESTE in welcoming new students
and preparing those who are leaving
to go abroad. During the summer,
we take care of the international
trainees resident in the UK, arranging
summer trips, weekly socials and
cultural events. For the remainder
of the year, you’ll ﬁnd us at careers
fairs promoting IAESTE, networking
with employers and institutions
trying to secure new placement
opportunities and working in
collaboration with the British Council.
Joining the LC is a ﬂexible
commitment. A big reason to be a
part of it is that committed members
are rewarded with a guaranteed
IAESTE internship the following
summer, which is signiﬁcant given
how competitive securing placements
can be. However, the majority of our
members are drawn to the LC simply
because the experience is fun: besides
beingrewarding,thespiritofthegroup
–the“IAESTEspirit”–isopenlysocial.
Last year the London LC organized
exchange trips (“twinnings”) with
Istanbul, Zagreb and Split; we held
barbecues, a New Year’s Eve party, a
Christmas dinner, attended festivals
and concerts and many more events.
The LC is ﬁrst and foremost a group
of friends that is open to everyone.
What’s more, the London LC is an
international organization. It has a
worldwide reputation and is proud
to attract members from other LCs
globally, giving all of its members
endless opportunities to experience
diﬀerent cultures, to challenge
stereotypes and to obtain ﬁrst-hand
global experience. his results in an
LC that is dynamic, rich in perspective
and ideas and a skills-enhancing,
international working environment.
Building a network, building skills
Part of the package that comes with
LC involvement is the gargantuan
number of international contacts
that one builds: from peer students
across many disciplines to IAESTE
alumni that are now leaders in
technical and non-technical ﬁelds;
from the British Council staﬀ to
many academics and industrial
employers around the globe. We
speak to people, we work with them,
we exchange ideas and build trust.
On top of that, those of us involved
in raising placement opportunities
gain valuable experience in selling
IAESTE to potential employers.
In the London LC we are heavily
committed to improving the skills of
our members. A training weekend is
held in October annually, introducing
attendees to the organisation of
IAESTE and the London LC and
teaching them how to communicate
with employers. Moreover, we
fund our members’ attendance at
international seminars throughout the
year – last April we were in beautiful
snowy Oslo courtesy of the Norwegian
IAESTE team and in September we’ll
be sunning ourselves in Malta. Aside
from the fun, cultural activities that
these trips involve, their purpose is
also to instruct attendees on how the
international organisation IAESTE is
run and to help foster international
relations. Upon returning from
these seminars, members are highly
energized and ready to get hands-on
experience building IT platforms,
promoting, marketing and raising
placements in a time and cost-eﬀective
manner, organizing large events,
budgeting, recruiting and selecting a
strong team of volunteers and so on.
he LC is a volunteer-led
organisation that is run professionally,
requiring a talented team comprising
a number of diﬀerent skillsets. Being
part of the LC leads to numerous
chances to practice public speaking
and presentation skills, it teaches
how to report and to draw statistics
based on one’s actions, how to
account for expenses and to plan
a budget. he LC uses modern IT
systems to exchange information,
plan meetings, keep records and
to communicate transparently.
Being a member of the LC isn’t
just about improving your internship
chances or ﬂeshing out your CV, we
are an ambitious group that does
real work that shapes our members
and their futures. Ultimately,
Enrico Fantoni
IAESTE London Vice-President
Imperial Chemistry Alumnus
IAESTE LONDON
Marc Sloan
IAESTE London
Sarah Thickett
IAESTE London

