SPORT
Editor: VACANT
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
ICU Snooker & Pool have an interesting array of jumpers. We really need a few sport editors, can you tell?
ICU SNOOKER
he 2012/13 season for ICU Snooker
and Pool, which brought about the
big name change from ICU Snooker,
sparked to life with our annual fun-
ﬁlled Freshers’ Pool Party at Rileys
Victoria.Manynewstarsburstontothe
scene including the ‘Shermanator’ (aka
Yi Xuan Zhang), for his ambidextrous
snooker prowess, and eventual
Internal League runner-up and proliﬁc
pool player Rob “Rob-ot” Speller.
After a tight team trial, our 8-ball
English team was sent to the ﬁrst
tournament of the season, the English
Universities Pool Championships
in Nottingham, where we improved
considerably on our debut
performance in the perpetually
competitive tournament. Although we
didn’t escape our group the club can
take heart from this showing when we
take part in the inaugural Southern
Universities tournament in October,
which this year we aim to win!
Cometh the ﬁrst major snooker
event of the season, Midlands
Snooker Championships 2012/13 in
Coventry, cometh the “Shermanator”.
he man from Shanghai took down
some of the most high proﬁle names,
including the now notorious Ben
Parslew (Manchester 2) who has
dismissed many of Imperial’s ﬁnest
stars in the past! Overall, it was a
strong showing from the team, with
Imperial 2 topping their group and
securing their progression to the
knock-out stages. Undoubtedly the
star of the weekend though was Mr
Speller who reached the semi-ﬁnals
of the Individual Championship
only to be beaten by the eventual
runner-up, Jin Foulger (Exeter 1).
Many of these star performers will
be returning for the coming season
so the team can take great conﬁdence
into next season’s competitions!
he same month brought a trip to a
bitterly cold Great Yarmouth with the
Vauxhall Holiday Park providing both
the venue and accommodation for the
8-ball team competing in the BUCS
8-ball English Pool Championships.
his proved to be a surprise-ﬁlled
weekend with the narrative of the
tournament dominated by missed
clearances, tactical errors and pot
luck. When the tale of the tournament
was ﬁnally told, Imperial had narrowly
missed out on a place in the knock-out
stages of the Team Shield, ﬁnishing 3rd
in their group. However, a young side
with a much improved performance
from the previous season gained
invaluable experience in the BUCS
format. For the guys involved, it was
an unforgettable experience (although
not necessarily for the right reasons!)
ﬁlled with great banter. his proved to
be a necessity to survive the freezing
cold caravans, as most of the team
cozied together by the warm ﬁre in
the living room, while only the elder
statesman of the club, Elwin Carlos,
braved the unheated bedroom!
Onto an enthralling weekend
in Leeds for BUCS Snooker
Championships where Max Chalmers,
making his snooker debut for Imperial
2, had the longest run of all Imperial
players in the individual event. His
eventualeliminationcameatthehands
of a player from Kent, a side who we
enjoy a good relationship with having
played a friendly against them at our
snooker room, in the Union building,
earlier in the year. his match proved
to be great practice in preparation
for BUCS - whilst the experience
was relished by both sides - Imperial
2 losing out to Kent 2 but Imperial 1
victorious over Kent 1. Sadly, neither
Imperial team carried this success into
their respective team events at BUCS
but, make no mistake, the club is in
a good position this coming season
to ensure that this is an anomaly.
Our continued investment in
beginners’ and advanced coaching
sessions for the 2013/14 season will
play a vital role in this. here are
many new and exciting opportunities
on the horizon including the usual
Freshers’ Party, where we will have
3-time European pool champion Rico
Diks teaching fun trick shots, along
with playing BOTH snooker and pool
and free food! An Imperial Women’s
8-ball English pool team may also be
formed this season and competing at
BUCS so watch out for that! If you’d
like to be a part of this exciting and
dynamic club, you can see our FREE
Freshers events at: union.ic.ac.uk/rcc/
snooker_billiards/events/calendar.php
BREAKING BAD: ICU
Snooker & Pool 2012-13
Cue sports club cooks up a storm at national tournaments
Max Chalmers
ICU Snooker & Pool
39
FRIDAY 04 OCT
O
n Saturday the 7th of
September twenty-
two members of the
Cross Country and
Athletics Team gath-
ered outside the Union to depart on
a week- long running adventure to
Pembroke. As a group of keen run-
ners, we naturally considered jogging
there, but soon decided to travel the
240 miles by minibus instead. he
van, eﬀortlessly navigated and driven
by Matt Douthwaite, was loaded up
with trainers, sports bags, games and
twenty odd obligatory contributions
of home baked goods.
Upon arrival we were welcomed by a
spacious, seven bedroom house; with
two sitting rooms and two kitchens,
attached to a backyard with a terrace,
a lawn and a pond. Not to mention the
pool, optimal for resistance training
and the hot tub, ideal for muscle re-
covery. All this and only minutes away
from coastal running paths!
Although the focus throughout the
week lay with running, we had many
activities unrelated to XC on oﬀer
too. Everyone was keen to contribute
in whatever way they could to ﬁll our
time with fun and new experiences.
Vicki Solly held an introductory yoga
class, in which she had us bending
and stretching in ways previously un-
known to many of us. As relaxing as it
was at the time, this session left most
of the participants sorer than after the
12 km run from the previous day -
proving to all sceptics that yoga is not
just posing as a sport.
James Ellis conducted hill reps and
Alwyn Elliot taught some basic Kung
Fu, as well as the vital skill of lighting a
log ﬁre. Sophie Kirk planned the din-
ner menu for each day of the week and
it goes without saying that we were
very well fed!
It is always fantastic to see the level
of commitment and enthusiasm that
goes into a club tour. Cross Country
and Athletics captain Chris Bannon,
who was unable to run, came along re-
gardless of his injury and his upcom-
ing exams. Harriet Nerva and Antoi-
nette Hardijzer, both also had other
important commitments that week,
but didn’t want to miss all of tour and
so ended up staying for half the time.
Despite having to make their way back
on their own, they are both insistent
that the long train journey was worth
it!
here was so much hype about this
tour, we even had triathlon committee
members, Siân Morgan and Ed Hallet,
join us. Peter Spence also deserves a
special mention here.
As our designated cameraman, he
was bold enough to take his camera
everywhere we went and even faced
runs along the steep, rocky coastal
paths, with only one free hand.
However we witnessed another type
of commitment on tour too, namely
the commitment to the sport. While
the rest of us were playing beach vol-
leyball; or in the case of Richard Ben-
nett, who was merrily letting himself
be buried in the sand, Liam Smith was
engaging in interval training along-
side the water. Similarly while some
of us were having a lie in and recov-
ering from a late night, Laurence Tse
and Matthias Knop were already tying
up their trainers and getting ready to
head out on a morning run.
In total six out of the twenty two
tour participants were freshmen. An-
dreas Ekholm and Duncan Ingram
both joined XC&A at the start of au-
tumn term 2012. Equally Harveen
Hayer, Oliver Ashe and I joined at this
time and have now all taken on com-
mittee positions. his goes to show
how quickly one feels integrated in
the club and just how welcoming the
members of XC&A are! Having said all
this, it would be great to see some new
faces at our runs. Give XC&A a go and
who knows, come next year, it may be
you eagerly putting down your name
for the XC&A Summer Tour 2014 sign
up.
Cross Country and
Athletics run around Wales
ICU CROSS COUNTRY & ATHLETICS
Isabel Holding
ICXC&A Social Secretary
ICXC&A grinning in the scorching Welsh summer sun.
Game to edit? Be Sports Editor, email felix@imperial.ac.uk

