“Keep the
Cat Free”
04/10/13
Issue 1554
felixonline.co.uk
SPORT
Want to edit the sport section? Help
an Editor out, yo!
he faﬄess foursome (Alby, Tom,
Reece and Patrick S.) had arrived in
Bovec at 2PM and had already pro-
ceeded to buy beers and paddling per-
mits, paddle a grade 3 river, and make
a start on the ﬁrst and certainly not
last conspicuous looking meal, just
in time for the minibus to arrive later
that night.
he next few days in the beautiful
Soca valley of Slovenia were savoured
by all, as they brought a real relaxa-
tion and joy to some of the kayaking
that would ensue. On day 2, a four
man mission to take on a section of
the river the locals regarded as deadly,
Canoe Club Summer Tour
travels to 3 countries
ICU CANOE CLUB
President Reece Blunt reveals all
gave us our ﬁrst chance to see what
these parts of Europe had to oﬀer, and
notably this early success had to have
repercussions, as only later that day, a
bandy group of wanderers went loco
and walked several kilometres down a
road, notably never heading towards
the river. When we had ﬁnally reunit-
ed, carnage commenced, and along-
side early face plants, we also man-
aged longs swims of rapids (Helen)
and not one but two losses of paddles,
which inevitably meant more swims
further down.
Before heading oﬀ on leg two of
our adventure, it has to be noted Jake
Reynolds had an awful time caught
on a branch underwater after he
swam, and our eﬀorts on rescuing him
seemed to cause more distress, until,
man of the hour, Alby Roseveare live
baited himself out to perform a res-
cue. I myself can’t wait for the GoPro
footage.
We left Slovenia with warmth in
our hearts, with its only setbacks the
language barrier, and its odd choice in
road signs. On arrival in the Isel val-
ley in Sud Tirol in Austria, a surreal
encounter with the campsite owner
who was clad in lederhosen, red faced
and stumbling around with alcohol
on his breath lead to a great camping
deal being struck. his also marked
the welcome arrival of the Clissold’s.
It was July the 4th, and an overly pa-
triotic Joe Bibby seemed to be the only
one in the party mood as his annual
celebrations began. Not forgetting his
Yeti costume. he next day can only be
described as one of the most exciting
of the tour for most people, since it
was their ﬁrst experience of the truly
big and bouncy white water that this
part of the world is known for.
After another day of boating and ad-
venture, the car of Alby, Ally, Rachel
and Rik, came across the minibus left
vulnerable to attack in the car park of
a Spar, seeing that the only sensible
thing to do would be to use their spare
keys to manoeuvre it to another more
suitable location, a marvellous joke
that left half the club in tatters, others
in stitches, and the local Police laugh-
ing and mocking us in their native
tongue, after it had eventually been
found. We moved to the Innsbruck
area to paddle the well-known section
of the Inn, the Imst gorge and other
tributaries, but left after two short
nights after ﬁnding it not very viable
for club paddling.
We drove to Switzerland where we
came to a crossroads in our journey,
with the minibus preparing for its ﬁ-
nal few days in the Alps, and Messrs,
Ralph Evins and Alex Robinson com-
ing out to meet us for the extra week
of gnarl that was set to follow.
Engadine, an area ﬁlled with gor-
geous gorges of diﬀering variety, was
the scene for the end of the trip, and
boy did it deliver. An epic adventure
down the 4+/5 graded Giarsun Gorge
set the mark for some of the most
committing rapids the country has to
oﬀer, followed by the S-Chamf Gorge
past the campsite, a stunningly scenic
gorge with technical rapids, and beau-
tiful overhead rocks, before our ﬁnal
section on the Schuls section of the
Inn. With some short grade 4 rapids
dotted throughout before a ﬁnal seri-
ous grade 4 rapid ‘against the wall’ that
demonstrated a real testament to club
paddling, and showed how ICCC once
again pushes the boundaries. A hugely
successful end to the trip and 12/13,
yet it opens the door for next year to
go one further.
Did I forget to mention Mo Farah?
© UBS 2013. All rights reserved.
8BOUBGVMÌMMJOHDBSFFSUIBUSFXBSET
energy and fresh thinking?
5IBU¾TXIBUXFXBOUUPP
-PPLJOHGPSBDBSFFSXIFSFZPVSJEFBTDPVMESFBMMZNBLFBEJšFSFODF 6#4ÁT(SBEVBUF
5SBJOJOH1SPHSBNBOEJOUFSOTIJQTBSFBDIBODFGPSZPVUPFYQFSJFODFGPSZPVSTFMGXIBUJUÁT
like to be part of a global team that rewards your input and believes in succeeding together.
5PŖOEPVUNPSFBCPVU6#4BOEIPXUPBQQMZUPPOFPGPVSQSPHSBNTDPNF
along to our skills and networking session, where you can put your questions
to UBS employees in a relaxed, enjoyable environment.
Investment banking – an introduction to life
as an analyst and transaction case studies
Time: 18.00
Date: Thursday, October 31, 2013
Location: Lecture Theatre 201,
Skemp Building, Imperial College
Application deadlines:
Graduate Training Program: Sunday, November 10, 2013
Summer Internship Program: Sunday, December 29, 2013
First Year Programs: Sunday, January 19, 2014
:PVDBOBMTPŖOEPVUNPSFBCPVUPVSQSPHSBNTWJBUIFXFCTJUFubs.com/graduates
UBS is proud to be an equal opportunities employer. We respect and seek to empower each
individual and the diverse cultures, perspectives, skills and experiences within our workforce.
Skills session and networking
Time: 18.00
Date: Monday, October 7, 2013
Location: Sir Alexander Fleming Room,
( *NQFSJBM$PMMFHF-POEPO

