W A R M I N G
S
T
U
D
E
N
T U
N
I
O
N
S I
N D
A
N
G
E
R
Your college student union is a self-governing community. Mrs.
Thatcher is considering measures which could make it impossible
for you to elect proper representatives and control your union's
affairs. Administration of your sports clubs, societies, bar,
newspaper and premises would be affected, as well as your
participation in college affairs. This initiative has arisen because
local authorities want to limit and safeguard the spending of
public money and some Conservative politicians do not like
student unions. These are the issues involved.
Should the union fee be compulsory?
The individual is required to pay a fee towards the cost of union
facilities whether he uses them extensively or not. Some suggest
that this is an unwarranted compulsion. NUS argues
1 I n any complex establishment, members pay for basic facilities
they do not necessarily use. The student through his academic
fees may contribute to the cost of the library but not use it.
Common sense dictates that he cannot claim a rebate
2 The element of compulsion is far outweighed by the benefit of
the facilities to the individual
3 If payment of fees were optional then the union would
effectively become a private members club. Elaborate checks
would be necessary to exclude non-members from the
facilities—including sometimes the principal canteen facilities.
Income would vary unpredictably, year by year. Financial
planning would be impossible. No security of tenure could be
offered to union staff. The future existence of the union could
not be predicted
4 If the college authorities provided the facilities they would
undoubtedly do so by charging a fee so that the element of
compulsion would remain, but the control by the student body
would be lost
Should membership of the Union be compulsory?
It has been suggested on the analogy of the trade union closed
shop that the student's automatic membership of his union is a
limitation of his freedom, and that membership should be
voluntary. NUS argues
1 Voluntary membership would destroy the union as a
representative body. Only a 100% franchise can make it
possible for students to elect representatives
2 Students need to express and defend their interests corporately.
They form an important section of any college community and
have definable interests in relation to the college—and indeed
to the State
3 Students would not be allowed to participate in college affairs
without the election of proper representatives. The Privy
Council has required Universities to ensure that student
representatives were fully representative before admitting
them to College Committees
4 Unlike a closed shop, student unions have no tight
disciplinary structure by which members may be penalised for
breach of rule, for instance, for failing to observe union policy
to strike. Almost the only rules laid down by a students union
enforceable upon ordinary student members relate to the
regulation of facilities and financial procedures
5 Voluntary membership would shatter the college as a
community. An inherent divisiveness would be generated by
the presence of individuals who were willing, or at least did
not object to receiving a great many benefits from the
existence of the student unions, from better facilities and
procedures, to grant increases—whilst refusing to meet the
inconsiderable burden of association with that student
organisation. More violent, unpredictable and chaotic clashes
could be expected to occur between some sections of the
student body and authorities if the government made it
impossible for acceptable representatives to be elected
Should a Registrar of Student Unions be appointed?
The Parliamentary Select Committee report on Student Relations
suggested the appointment of a Registrar of Student Unions to
protect public money by approving student unions'constitution
and accounts. NUS argues
1 A Registrar in unnecessary. Three mechanisms already exist
to protect public money.
i Union constitutions must be approved by the college
governing body
ii Any individual can take a union to court for acting
unconstitutionally
iii Student union accounts must be audited and presented to
an Annual General Meeting of the Union
2 The Registrar's powers would be so wide-ranging that union
self government could be changed or destroyed at any time in
the future
Why the fuss?
The rare and vigorously publicised decisions of two unions out of
700 to withhold recognition from a right wing political society has
led to the demand that all unions should be deprived of, or have
curtailed their power of sponsorship. The sponsorship involves
recognising athletic, religious, political and departmental
societies, checking their bona fides, rules and accounts, making a
money grant towards their activities, and providing facilities.
NUS argues
1 Political discrimination is deplored by the student body at
least as much as by its critics. NUS Conference on April 1971
overwhelmingly agreed, "Conference thus approves the
principle of academic freedom, namely that the expression of
any particular opinion, no matter how unorthodox,
distasteful or unpopular should not be inhibited by physical or
mental intimidation or in any other way"
2 The tiny number of unions that our critics, despite their
diligent searches have found to deviate from this principle
indicates its wide acceptance and practice by the student body
3 Persuasion by the student body has already caused one of the
two unions referred to above, to reverse its decision, and
recognise the political society
4 Crude legislative devices against discrimination would in these
circumstances be neither necessary nor particularly effective.
We believe it is best left to the pressure the student body
brings to bear
What to do
The Government has said it wants consultation and agreement
with the N U S. We await their proposals. Meanwhile it is imperative
that you
1 Write to the M. P. of your college constituency. Your union
president will advise on content
2 Ask your parents to write to their M.P. explaining the value of
the student union to college life.

