Thursday, November 4, 1971 FELIX Page 3
E D I T O R I A L
We are very pleased to announce in this issue the
beginning, after much ado about little, S.T.O.I.C. T.V.
news service. To this enthusiastic bunch of news pur-
veyors, the staff of Felix wish to, as another enthusiastic
bunch of news purveyors, extend their best wishes for
the future. They'll need them!
Imperial College is probably one of the biggest waste
paper producers in the country and the cunning trick
used to conceal this fact is the printing on the blasted
stuff. Broadsheet, Minesheet, Guildsheet, l.C. News etc.
and let us not forget the bumph sheet upon bumph
sheet which litters our lovely college are all rubbishy
journals supposed to give out news and succeed in
wasting money.
The Union now has its chance! Felix in conjunction
with S.T.O.I.C. can satisfy all its need. If Felix were
given the money to boost itself up to weekly produc-
tion, S.T.O.I.C. were given the money to boost itself up
to twice weekly production between the two we would
have 'The Newspaper of Imperial College' and 'The T.V.
News service of Imperial College', a completely ade-
quate news service, space in our waste paper bins,
and more money for everybody. Instead, I am sad to
say, many of you will have read the first sentence of
this paragraph and say the same old nauseating words.
'What about Felix then?' You now have my answer.
The IRA have arrived. The post-office tower has been
chosen as the first major target in Britain where yet
another bomb has been planted. How can anybody
(N.B. a certain body in this college) have sympathy for
such small mindedness. Is anything worth the ridicu-
lous tragedy that has sprung up in Ireland. If every Irish
man, woman and child were to be enslaved I doubt if I
could accept such stupidity as justified. We are all
aware of what has happened in Ireland over the past
few years. The only question that remains is one of
values. What value do you place on the life of a human
being? To my mind this value is infinite and until the
IRA realise the value of life, no man will be able to
justify to me any sympathy towards their cause.
Dear Sir,
The Queen of Jez competition is typical of the annual
events provided by the R.C.S. committee, designed to
welcome and inaugurate freshers into the rituals of
l.C. life. R.C.S. is proud to have the largest ratio of
women to men of all the constituent colleges; and to
show their eagerness to make the women feel at ease
they parade as many of the fresher women as they can
in front of a well attended R.C.S. union meeting.
This degrading exhibition not only obstructs the
natural integration of women into college society, but
by accentuating the lack of women helps to initiate
the men into the impotent beer-drinking circles which
are all too common in l.C.
The proportion of men to women here is one of I.C's.
many unfortunate characteristics which make this col-
lege a very difficult place to be at. The encouragement
of this kind of event can only distract from changing
the situation here.
Yours faithfully,
Jill Dare.
{ Felix, the newspaper of Imperial College is stillj
{edited by Dave Sugden, with much assistance from*
*Tony Upton, Oily Dowson, Dave Gribble, Andrew*
-tcMelvin, Colette Roberson, Ross McBeath, Bernard^
{Williams, and Ron Matthews. *
* *
* The features are by Tony Sims, and the reviews*
*are by John Bryan and Stephen Amor. The sportsj
{editor is Chris Potter. *
* Photographs are edited by Malcolm Bailey, and are*
-kby Colin McCall, Steve Heap, and Stuart Campbell.%
{Typing errors and special effects by "Baby Jane"*;
fCornish. *
{ *
-k The advertising agents are University Press Rep-J
presentation, Grand Buildings, Trafalgar Square, Lon-*
{don, WC2, the printers are F. Bailey and Son Ltd.,*
•KDursley, Gloucester. Felix is published by the editor*
behalf of Imperial College Union Publications^
*on oenait of Imperia.
{Board, London, SW7 2BB (01) 589 2963, Int 2881~*
*P.S. Business mismanagement by your own JohnJ
*Stares. $
LETTERS
J o b Lot?
Dear Sir,
Although this may seem unusual for a person of my
trade (more about that later) to be aware of and indeed
to read your publication, a college newspaper, I feel
I could perhaps offer some advice to your extremely in-
telligent and moreover secular circle of readers.
The advice concerns future employment. Your rea-
ders are, I am sure, aware of the lack of jobs that exist
today. Particularly those where a graduate may apply
his knowledge in the same discipline that he was study-
ing at University.
Now it stems from that, that the obvious mode of ob-
taining employment is to diversify into a career which
is more applicable to society at large. Furthermore, the
only way to obtain advancement in society is not take
a conventional job, but to find perhaps some industry
that is either new and has prospects of large expansion.
(Consider for instance the case IBM at the beginning
of the century. Who would have believed that a com-
pany selling sophisticated abacuses could have multi-
plied in size, with the aid of advances in technology, to
become one of the world's largest companies. Why one
pound invested in the company in the 1920's would
yield 6000 pounds now). Or, to seek out some profes-
sion that is extant but neither large or profitable due to
lack of technical expertise.
However, all this is known and I expect your readers
have conducted much research into this problem in
the manner that they have been taught. I suspect also
that a large proportion have considered my trade as
indeed I did when I fjrst entered it.
My profession is that of a collector of Unwanted Con-
sumer Articles, known in short to the public as a 'Rag
and Bone Man'.
How did I decide to make this my profession? Well I,
like you, ^worked through the possibilities of employ-
ment and finally arrived at the conclusion that this par-
ticular trade offered enormous chances for expansion,
improved efficiency and high salaries.
All this happened twenty years ago, unfortunately in
my youthful and somewhat naive approach I failed to
be aware of the other technological changes taking
place simultaneously in society, which were making
my profession, inherently obsolete. Let me give you an
indication of the present state of the industry to illus-
trate my point and serve as a guide-line to others.
When I first started in the trade it was possible to
pick up some quite impressive goods from house-
holders who were completely ignorant of their true
worth. Tables, chairs and sets of china proved to be the
most profitable lines. For instance, one could frequently
obtain chairs which could be sold for about £20 or £30.
However, with the increasing public awareness of the
value of antiques which grew up during the fifties and
sixties, our profits dipped while our costs have risen.
As regards profits, we find that our position as whole-
saler has been cut to a minimum and the public are
going direct to antique dealers. Costs, well you may be
surprised, but we still have to maintain our image with
the public by using the traditional method of transpor-
tation, that is to say the horse and cart. The cost of this
is so high now that most of the members of our profes-
sion prefer to hire horses and wagons, but even this can
cost £7 a week.
What of the traditional rags and bones? You might
ask. Well, rags these days consist mainly of artificial
fibres which of course are of no use in the pulping in-
dustry. Iron, the traditional call of the Rag and Bone
man, is virtually non-existent in the modern household.
Metals of any kind are down to a minimum, largely re-
placed by plastic which has no scrap value of course.
Rather than go into further details, let me just say that
I jumped into this situation without consideration of
possible changes that could take place in society and
as a result, suffered. Therefore let me take this oppor-
tunity to urge your readers to think very carefully
before they decide upon which area of society to de-
vote their energies.
Yours faithfully,
Johnny Craven.
Barclays Again
Dear Sir,
It has come to my attention that your publication is
encouraging, nay, exhorting innocent (sic) freshers to
place their money inside the vaults of a certain bank.
While I appreciate that this particular advertisement
brings in a substantial amount of revenue which you
cannot afford to ignore may I suggest that, beside
every such ad. be placed a notice to the effect that I
personally recommend the reader to bank elsewhere.
Yours, etc.,
Harry M. Government (2)
(Could this be a pseudonym?—Ed.)
What's
On
T H U R S D A Y , N O V . 4th
Joint STOIC-FELIX televis-
ion magazine programme.
College Block JCR 1.00
p.m.
FRIDAY 5th
Filmsoc La Femme Infid-
ele, Ned Kelly. Great Hall.
CARNIVAL Trafalgar
Square Collection meet
Union Lower Lounge 9.00
p.m.
Christian Union Folk Even-
ing with Graham Kendrick.
7.30 p.m. Physics Level 8.
S U N D A Y 7th
RCS Union EGM Speakers
Corner.
M O N D A Y 8th
Wellsoc lecture Biology
and Crime ME220. 7.30
p.m.
W E D N E S D A Y 10th
Folk Club AN Bain and
Mike Whellans OR Diz
Disley. 25p non-members;
15p members; 7.30 p.m.
M O N D A Y 15th
Wellsoc lecture Psychic
Photography ME220 7.30
p.m.
T U E S D A Y 16th
Film—All Quiet on the
Western Front—Chem Eng
Lecture Theatre 1 6.00
p.m.
Do you want to read books
by:-
Ernest Hemingway
James y^ldridge
Marghanita L a s
^ '
Alan Qrury
Margery gingham
Vladimir J^abokov
George gliot
Get them from the
H a l d a n e L i b r a r y
Level 2, Library Block
Open Mon. to Fri, 10 — 5.30
Small
Ads
Snoopy Dogs for sale, ties,
Kipper ties, Mrs. Johnson
G.9, Botany. Int. 2272.
Lifts offered. Frequent
journeys made to Mid-
lands (Birmingham) and
South (Portsmouth). J. B.
Stares, Linstead 332.
Wanted. Garrard SP25
Deck or similar. With or
without ceramic cartridge.
J. B. Stares, Linstead 332.
NIKON LENS FOR SALE
20/3.5 £100
43-8.6/3.5 £80
500/8 £180.
K. P. Tong (Mech. Eng. 1.
letter rack).
Wanted. Lift to Oxford or
Reading. Most weekends.
Share petrol costs. L. Kay
Nicholson, Physics 3.
SOUNDS SYSTEMS
Disco T, Tim Issac, 01-969-
7177.
Phoenix needs copy.
1963 — Triumph Vitesse
Convertible. £175. Allen
Larsen, c/o Union Bar.
1969—Velo-Solex Moped.
'Momo' Int. 3055.
Films. Processing, etc. P.
Stevenson, Tizard 613.
All notices on this Notice
Board should be no larger
than Post Card size.
Homeless Ex-Student des-
perately needs own room
in flat or house. £5 max.
possible rent. Preferably
Notting Hill/Fulham/Bat-
tersea distance from cen-
tral London. Contact Hea-
ther Swailes, Harpenden
(05827) 2934.
Lost. Address book and
diary. If found, please re-
turn to Ian, Linstead 331.
Revox Stereo Tape Deck
and Plinth. One week old.
£160 or more. J. Rodgers,
Int. 3151.

