Page 4 FELIX Thursday, November 4, 1971
F
I
G
H
T
I
N
G FOR
M
I
N
O
R
I
T
Y
RIGHTS
Ben Whitaker, the former Labour MP for Hampstead
and Junior Minister at the Ministry of Overseas Develop-
ment and now Director of the Minority Rights Group,
talks to Jim Talbot.
"If you look at the UN Charter, you'll find that it begins
'We the peoples of the World'. In practice, though, it's
come to mean 'We the Governments'. Until that contra-
diction is resolved the Minority Rights Group will have
a job to do".
Ben Whitaker took over as Director of the MRG after
the retirement of Laurence Gandar, the former Editor-
in-chief of the Rand Daily Mail. The brainchild of Obser-
ver Editor David Astor, the Group was formed in 1970
as an independent, non-Governmental research and
information unit to publicise the ill-treatment of ethnic,
religious and cultural minorities throughout the world.
Sponsors of the Group include Lady Butler, Milovan
Djilas, Gunnar Myrdal and Joseph Needham. Jo Grimond
is Chairman of the Group's Council.
"Basically we do for minority groups what Amnesty
does for individuals", Ben Whitaker explained, "and,
like Amnesty, we try to put ourselves above political
bias. Since we are an international body we mustn't
even hesitate to criticise this country. We've already
done this to some extent in Harold Jackson's Report
on Ireland, and Gratton Puxon's survey of the Gypsies
in Europe will probably annoy people here as well".
International Reports
Already the Minority Rights Group has published four
Reports — on the East African Asians, Religious Minor-
ities in the Soviet Union, the Burakumin in Japan and on
group tensions in Ireland — and future topics for study
include the Spanish Americans in the US, the Indians
in Latin America, the Basques, the Untouchables in
India, the Chinese in Indonesia and the European
Gypsies.
"Besides well-publicised minorities like the East Afri-
can Asians we also try to cover groups of people whom
the general public tends to hear much less about", he
emphasised. "We have already published Professor
George DeVos's Report on the two million Burakumin
in Japan, outcasts who are segregated in urban and
rural ghettoes. And we have deliberately chosen to focus
our attention on the Spanish Americans in the US rather
than the negros. Few people are even aware of the way
in which gypsies have been treated in Europe for many
year now—some 600,000 were systematically executed
by the Nazis, for example."
Reports are researched and written for the Group by
independent authorities on the subject, usually aca-
demics or journalists. The Report on Ireland was by
Guardian reporter Harold Jackson. "Since he'd had a
rib cracked by rioters, had been batoned by the police,
gassed by the British Army and considered himself an
agnostic, he could fairly claim to be neutral in his
approach to the situation ! "
Ulster
Harold Jackson's report was concerned with the Pro-
testant minority in the Republic as well as the more
topical discrimination practised against the Catholics of
Ulster. Of the former he concluded: "There are few in-
superable problems for the Protestants in the Republic
because they form only a twentieth of the whole and
because their general standard of wealth and social
position is unusually advanced." But he was less optim-
istic in his hopes for the larger Catholic minorities in the
North, living in the ghettoes of the Shankill and Falls
area of Belfast or the Bogside and Fountain districts of
Londonderry. Disorders, he said, are endemic in the
society. Long-overdue reforms, no matter at what rate
they could be brought in, would never come fast enough
for the deprived minority and would at the same time
present a growing and unacceptable threat to the privi-
leged. Improvement, he concluded, would only come
with a more open-handed programme of economic dev-
elopment and with the growth of inter-communal co-
operation. But both solutions, he was forced to admit,
would take time.
Despite its balanced analysis and careful argument,
few recommendations for immediate action to find a
solution emerged from Harold Jackson's Report. Ben
Whitaker agreed : "In a sense, Amnesty has an easier
task since people can identify much more with an indi-
vidual prisoner. It's also so much easier for a Govern-
ment to release one man from captivity than to do some-
thing about the sufferings of an under-privileged minor-
ity. And our resources are very small."
In contrast to Amnesty's well-publicised postcard cam-
paigns, the Minority Rights Group feels that it can be
more effective in educating public opinion by circulating
its Reports to newspapers throughout the world. Cover-
age in the Observer, Guardian and the New York Times
has been good but the Group are less sure about the
foreign language press since it's so much more difficult
to get hold of cuttings. Reports are also sent to experts
with opposing views on the subject and to the Govern-
ments concerned. In fact President Kaunda himself
asked for copies of the Report on the East African
Asians and a dozen copies of Harold Jackson's Report
went to Dublin and to Stormont.
Educational Charity
More direct campaigning is precluded by the Group's
status as an Educational Charity. "There is a very nar-
row borderline between the educational function we are
allowed to perform and direct political lobbying for
changes in the law", he explained. "Organisations like
Shelter and Oxfam suffer from this too. Most of our
money comes from Trusts like the Ford Foundation and
if we were to lose our charitable status they'd no longer
be able to give us anything at all. So we feel that the
best way to go about things is to act as the leaven in
the bread and to let public opinion do the rest."
But what about totalitarian states where the Minority
Rights Group is denied access to public opinion? "The
situation is worst where there is no free press", he
agreed, "and this even includes Singapore now. But Lee
Kuan Yew is at least approachable. And most totalitarian
states are more responsive to outside public pressure
than we often realise, especially when they're trying to
promote tourism".
Will the Group's research have any predictive value,
about the type of society most likely to be able to inte-
grate a minority successfully, for example? "It's really
too soon to tell", he answered. "But at the moment
almost every Government has some kind of skeleton in
its cupboard. We all tend to need a scapegoat, to draw
attention away from the less pleasant aspects of our-
selves".
"Ideally", he continued, "we should have a UN Com-
missioner for Human Rights. But since all Governments
represent majorities, very few of them would like to see
effective machinery set up to help minorities".
Where w e c o m e in . . .
Finally, is there any way in which students can help
the Minority Rights Group? "Unlike Amnesty, we have
no formal membership", he replied. "The help we need
is in selling our Reports — a group of students at
Oxford is doing that now in fact. We'd also like to hear
from people who'd be willing to do research work for us
in their vacations, either here in London or on their
trips abroad. But I'm afraid that we can't afford to pay
anyone ! "
The Minority Rights Group is based at Benjamin
Franklin House, 36 Craven Street, London, W.C.2.
C0LCUTT
A watery sun rises over the glass-bound complex that
is Imperial College. Pallid students, eyes sleep-gummed,
stagger zombie fashion to first lectures. Right hands
twitch spastically over virgin foolscap. Words, symbols
form on paper — soon to be forgotten. A leaden bore-
dom hangs over the College.
In Mech. Eng. 220 tiny, senile Professor Crutch is
explaining Rupture's Principle for the 985th time. His
inability to handle the English language masked only by
his stutter and Glaswegian accent, the ancient professor
turns to inscribe further illegibilities on the blackboard.
Eyes glaze over in the back row. A solitary paper dart
hangs motionless in a shaft of light. ZZWOK I! An eight
foot assegai hurtles from the back of the room and
buries itself, quivering, in the blackboard — inches
from the professor's outstretched hand. The chalk fails
from his nerveless fingers. There is a tiny moment of
calm. HOWL, ROAR, STAMP — it is gone forever as a
wave of Zulu warriors in full regalia sweep down the
steps, force Professor Crutch to remove his trousers,
and declaim Tennyson's 'Morte D'Arthur' whilst stand-
ing on one leg, in a bucket of Mooney's Brown Sauce.
The day is at hand. The revolution dawneth. A laugh-
ing, joking, singing revolution. The one thing I.C. can
neither stand nor understand. D. H. Lawrence, the fam-
ous rude author, has it:
' If you make a revolution, make it for fun
Don't make it in ghastly seriousness,
Don't do it in deadly earnest,
Do it for fun '.
How right he was, despite his huge feet, which he
never allowed to stand in his way for a moment.
Meanwhile in the Fluids Laboratory, shy, stumbling
Mr. Drawers is peering hopefully up a Venturi Meter.
It is a device for measuring flows. To uninitiated first-
year Arnold Retch it looks more like a collection of
misshapen drain pipes and an old rusty dustbin — but
he is Vomit Champion of the Rugby Club, and bound
for higher things RURK! RURK I A klaxon cracks the
tedium. A Voice rings out, 'Abandon Laboratory! Zis
laboratory is to be scuppered. It vill not fall into enemy
hands. Zey will not take me alive.' Yes, it is fun-loving,
black-patched, demonic featured Amiral Enid Von
Trouserpress whose faithful sailors are even now open-
ing the main valves as water pours from every pipe. It
surges from walls, floors, ceilings — the Staff Lavatories
are inundated. Muttering formulae, professors are
carried off in the floods. All just another phase in the
fun revolution.
Everywhere I.C. students are being reborn. No more
Thermodynamics — Oh Goody! Clothes are thrown
aside in the warmer areas of college. 'Day-glo' orange
genitalia are suddenly in Vogue. Props, lecturers, tech-
nicians, students — the laughter line-in is for all. Break
down Imperial College primp properness with revelry
and raving. Gesticulate in public. Kiss your tutor. You
cannot lose ?
A historic meeting of the NUS trade union council
took place on Saturday, 23rd October at I.C. It was
the first time since the war that a TUC official has
addressed an NUS meeting and it was none other than
the prestigious Victor Feather himself.
The meeting was something of a forgive and forget
session with our friend Vic referring to the 'trade union-
ists of the future'.
Concerted action between the TUC and NUS could
become a very powerful political force—certainly food
for thought for Mrs. Margaret Thatcher.

