Thursday, November 4, 1971 FELIX Page 5
FOOD FOR THOUGHT
GAD!! What queues
IF IE lb D (
r e v i e w s t h e
l o c a l ' E a t s '
The Department of Higher Education
allows an undergraduate student pre-
cisely £465 to live on during his 31 week
academic year. Just two meals in one
week at any of the restaurants reviewed
would leave the student broke.
Living away from home may be a
novelty at first but eventually a large
proportion of people, and I think I am
one, become bored with their indepen-
dence in fact their very existence. Life
at university is a survival process, sur-
vival of the mind rather than the body.
FOOD is for the Body, eating is for the
mind.
To site a university in South Kensing-
ton is a particularly cruel piece of Gov-
ernment even if it was determined be-
fore the working classes reached out to
grasp higher education with the intro-
duction of compulsory L.E.A. grants. In
the majority students are financial
equals and to that end eating in South
Kensington if not chosen carefully can
become expensive.
There are numerous publications tell-
ing you where to find cheap food, cook
cheap meals, and drink cheap beers and
it is pointless for me to examine them
again. However what I set out to do
when investigating for this article was
to give ideas of where to eat occasion-
ally for enjoyment and entertainment all
within the student campus.
The Fulham Road at the present time
seems an extremely pleasant place to
eat (or live). Closest to College is Par-
sons, a simple mixture of Victorian draw-
ing room charm and American free rock.
Parsons was liberated early in the sum-
mer and you now find yourself talking
quite easily to the male waiters and fe-
male manageress and it is typical of the
new style restaurants that there are no
Inside the 'Pizza Resistance'
problems about what to wear or how to
address the staff. Be casual, be relaxed,
assume a designed scruffiness—it's ex-
pected of you! Decoration doesn't exist.
The walls are plain, insipid cream in
colour adorned only with a few badly
placed full length mirrors which show
embarrassing profiles of customers syp-
honing spaghetti. The floor is wood—
uncarpeted—and the tables and chairs
hard and round; not an honest atmos-
phere, but certainly fine for escaping.
I have only ever eaten the spaghetti
there, but then there are five choices.
Traditional is my own favourite with a
green salad, blue cheese, mayonnaise
and hot garlic bread—60p and seconds
are free if you ask for them. Mrs. Par-
sons Vegetarian Delight is absolutely
enormous and is guaranteed to prevent
the nasty scurvy of students from
relapsing.
Just 25 yards along the road is the
Great American Disaster—a gaudy,
noisy place which probably does little
to belie the name. I didn't like it—but
then hamburgers are boring anyway.
Possibly their greatest claim to fame
is their fresh unlimited coffee.
It's always worth taking in the Iced
Dream (distinguished by the fibre-glass
ice cream gnome—courtesy of 'Ink')
even if it is only for the singular atten-
tion you receive. Avoid the peanut
crunch—it isn't—but do try the rum and
butter—it is. Prices start at 18p to 48p
for a knickerbocker glory. Going further
down the Fulham Road is the Plastic
Pizza Palace (Pizza Express). Pizza ob-
viously seem to be the in thing to eat in
this area with both old and new eating
houses selling them. There is no doubt
that the pizza must be one of the most
over-rated foods around—easy to pre-
pare—most pizzas come ready-made
from Marchi-Zellar and just require top-
ping off to finish—no skill in cooking—
just straight into a microwave.
Aesthetic enjoyment and financial
bankruptcy do not necessarily go hand
in hand. Simple food more often seems
to give me personal pleasure. The Hot
Pot in the basement of the Mardis Court
Hotel, Hogarth Road serves excellent
food at rock-bottom prices. The atmos-
phere is certainly friendly (as well as
hot) and it's so dark it is often difficult
to see what you are eating. The Mines-
trone soup (which at 5p simply cannot
be beat), rich, thick and full of every-
thing else on the menu is the only way
to start although the corn on the cob at
13p is rumoured excellent. Main courses
are both well cooked and large portions.
Try the Moussaka at 23p for something
different. This is another restaurant that
serves excellent salads with mayonnaise
that is out of this world. It's one restau-
rant that really is worth tipping as the
food is good value. Service good and
friendly. In the same road are the Pot
and Golden Pot—both poor imitations
of the actual Hotpot.
In the same price range but better
surroundings are the Stockpot, (Stig-
pig), Basil Street, at the rear of Harrods
and the Chelsea Kitchen on the Kings
Road. One of the pleasures of eating at
the Stockpot is the proliferation of at-
tractive French waitresses—but watch
out for the greasy eunuch! Prices are
higher than the Hotpot but the menu is
virtually identical—small spaghetti fol-
lowed by large spaghetti for that sink-
ing feeling.
I can think of nothing pleasant to
say about the Chelsea Kitchen—the food
might be OK but the atmosphere is
frigid, the waitresses uncompromising
and the customers typical of the insin-
cerity of the whole Kings Road.
Gloucester Road is blanketed with
cafes and restaurants: for the most part
they are reasonable, but try them for
yourself or note the comments in the
USK handbook. It's worth going into
Frank's Sandwich Bar (next to the sta-
tion) which not only sells excellent sand-
wiches but good pasta, and at reason-
able prices. The attraction of the place
is the variety of people, from rich to
poor, that you tend to find. Frank (tall,
bald, Italian?) is the guy who guards the
till in the corner. A complete contrast
is Pizzaland across the road—possibly
the best crispy pizza in South Kensing-
ton.
Staying with pizzas it is worth moving
nearer to College and the Pizza Resis-
tance. Recently opened, it is worth con-
sidering, housed in the old Kensington
and Chelsea Post Office. The painted
orange brick walls are reminiscent of
some of the more avant-garde student
houses.
The kitchens are at street level and the
labarinthyium restaurant below it. I have
seen the cartoons on the walls some-
where before but can't remember where
—they don't really add anything to the
atmosphere except perhaps confuse the
hacksawed edge carpet and Tamla
background sound.
We tried the Quattro Stagioni and
weren't disappointed. It was an interest-
ing blend of Artichoke, mushrooms, ham,
olives, anchovy and mozarella, the
resulting taste was not as confused as it
may at first seem with the herbs coming
out pretty distinctively. Coffee was some
of the best we had tried with a large cup
of hot fresh real coffee complete with a
jug of cream for 7p.
In a way most of the restaurants re-
viewed so far seem to have an Italian
basis—probably due to the involvement
of the Continent with eating away from
home—it is a style which has been cop-
ied by most distinctive eating houses as
they generally serve French cuisine.
However, the other export leader (the
Americans) on the food market has not
been forgotten, their best example being
the Shangri-La Chinese Restaurant in
the Old Brompton Road.
Someone once said that American-
Chinese restaurants were a communist
plot to destroy them as everyone who
ate in a Chinese restaurant ate until
they were satisfied but 2 hours later
they were hungry again, consequently
the whole of the U.S. would starve to
death.
The cheaper upstairs area is designed
for midgets with voyeuristic tendencies,
still not very cheap but the good is gen-
really good quality. Waitresses vary from
glamour ones to real-life blue marines.
It's worth taking one of the window seats
just to look at the truncated bodies of
the passers-by through the divided win-
dow. Easily one of the best dishes there
is Subgum Noodles with gravy. I haven't
yet discovered what they are but they
seem a cross between pork, shrimps and
scallops.
In order to produce this article thanks
go to the Pizza Resistance for susten-
ance, Fiat for transport, Eros for relief
and Harpenden for inspiration.
If nausea should nudge your mind,
Then think, are you the honking kind?
If you are then don't dwell on it—
Purge it with a healthy vomit.
IMPOSSIBLE ?
. . . . n o t i f y o u b u y y o u r
d r a w i n g i n s t r u m e n t s
f r o m t h e
"l.C. BOOKSHOP"

