z
FELIX
Cammettt
The Cross-Country Club are to be con-
gratulated most heartily on their very fine
achievement in running from Lands End
to John 0'Groats in just over 99 hrs.
They are now one of the ten or so teams
which have completed the run, and their
time compares favourably with the record
when it is consiUered that Cambridge,
the holders, draw on a much larger stud-
ent body than do our club, and that their
runners were older and in the main more
experienced than ours. Lest any critics
should think that getting lost on the run
in inexcusable, it should be pointed out
that when it is dark, when both drivers
and runners are very tired, and when,
on top of this there are obscure diversions
due to road works to be negotiated, get-
ting lost is all too easy. We wish the Club
the best of luck in their next attempt on
the record.
Tonight is the start of Carnival Wee"k.
This is the college's effort to raise money
for a very good cause, the Oxford Com-
mittee for Famine Belief. It is your Car-
nival, and it is only by your efforts that
it will be a success. Elsewhere in this
issue are full details of all that is going
on during the Week, so take a rest from
work -and /9upportt youtr Carnival. Felix
wishes it every success.
Discerning readers will have noticed
that there are a larger number of photo-
graphs in this issue than average. This
is because you, our readers, did not write
sufficient articles. It is common at this
critical atagie in the academic [year tfor
some students to be so awed by the fact
that exams, are only ' 'n'' weeks away
(where " n " is a#small and rapidly de-
creasing number) that they go into hib-
ernation and only reappear, pale and
wan, on the Awful Day {itself, with a'
consequent dearth of Felix contributions.
We hope that you will postpone hibernat-
ion for a few weeks yet, and give us more
material.
Sillerari\
It seems appropriate to reprint this odd
fragment 6f our heritage, first published
iq 1950.
ODES TO SUMMER.
by Deby de Tees
'Twas summer and eggs-harmpul sheats
Were stacked in pyalls on ^
>
h
e flure
Full fortine labbryports and todo
And hydears ffure and ffure.
Attuch on ahowlder starkled me
And with musiok beezarr
The seven deadly don'ts stepped out
From Lassie Leigh's streetcar.
The first a sage undressed me thus
DON'T work miladd, but dooo
Support the Onion pray for eggzammes
In Coarse work u've no clew.
The second with cordbreeks so browne
A mishap wuss suss peeked
Don't slack, old man, no time to waste.
Is sheet ten, nine correct?
A gladsome trio hustled up
Don't fritter time up here —
Coffee at Queenie's is what you need,
We've all tutorial clear.
An old Centralion, spoke up next
Now don't neglect the Arts,
Do all your work, but row, dance, act.
Let Homer feed your hearts/
The Felix Editor was last
Don't fail to give support,
If you don't write a piece for us
It won't be what it ought.
' 'Twas summer and eggs-harmpul sheats
Were stacked in pyalls on the floor;
• Full fortirie labbryports todo
But this is all that came to mind.
CARNIVAL QUEEN NOMINATION
CAROLE BEDRINGFIELD
Proposed by
J. Porter and J.D/Nunnington
Take a good look at the photograph.
Now take another look, and I am sure
you will agree that, at last, we have a
perfect choice for Carnival Queen. In H
few lines it is impossible to do full justice
to this young lady's merits, but here, for
your perusal are a few iacts.
Carole is a first' year physicist with all
the qualifications needed to fill the de-
manding role of a succesful and attractive
Carnival Queen. During the short time
she has been at I.C. her charm has won
her many friends, and she has become
quite widely known among those who par-
ticipate in Union affairs.
Besides her obvious beauty and the sheen
of her crowning glory, Carole is endowned
with ,a sparkling personality, a delight-
ful sense of humour, a modest and
happy disposition and boundless vitality.
After almost a year in what is essentially a
male college she has lost none of her charm.
Indeed, she has a way of achieving things
which is not at all forceful, but equally
as efficient and typically feminine. The
eloquence she displays when under duress,
aided by subtle use of her eyelashes,
would sway the most hardened.
In adition to her social life, Carole
devotes much of her time and support to
I.C. sport. She regularly plays hockey for
I.C. and last term was also placed in a
U.L. team. Her tennis has positions m
B.C.S'. women's and mixed teams. Added
to this she is at the top of the ICWA
table tennis ladder, plays badminton and
on occasions has even been seen wielding
a cue in the snooker room.
Her versatility does not end there. As
an example of the "stunts to which she
graciously subjects herself, our- photo-
graph shows Carole riding a cow at the
base of the Albert Memorial.
There is surely no reasonable doubt os
to her suitability for Carnival Queen. If
you wish to prove the veracity of this
allegation, I humbly suggest you place
your vote with Carole IJedingfield and
your confidence will be well rewarded.
TERRY CLARKE
Carnival
Queen's
in Review
No, Felix is not trying to rival Spick
and Span in a rather prim way (what,
no Telephone Studies! No Towel Poses I
) ;
these are the ICWArians from which the
Carnival Queen will be chosen at this
evening's May Ball.
The Queen will be decided by a paner
of characters prior to the Ball and their
decision will be announced at the Ball.
BEVERLY BRADFORD
CAROLINE
JOYCE FOWLER M M GREGORY ROSEMARY KERFOOT
£etle>ta ta the Edita*
Sir,
While I do not usually agree with the
use of your columns for' inter-depart-
mental abuse, I feel one epistle in your
last issue (17th March) from a Mr. or
Mrs Mingo requires some comment.
Previous to the present session, the
population of the Union Snack Bar at
coffee and tea times was at least forty
percent 'Biologists'. However, since the
erection of the inverted packing case op-
posite the Union, the place has becdme
subject to invasions of Physicists
largely juveniles like your previous cor-
respondent — many of whom are quiet,
clean and respectable.
Some however, are infested,- with an
unreasonable irritability for the normal
conversation of those whose domain they
now share — even to the extent of wish-
ing to evict the inoffensive zoologists from
the Union and to replace their lively con-
versation by mumbling abusive remarks
about 'Coulombs' — which is a favourite
subject of theirs.
While wishing to correct the illusion
that mosquitos are inactive in warm
places in the early Spring, I should sug-
gest that the best line of action is the
one already taken.
It is a shame to contaminate good dis-
infectant, however, so I suggest the use
of 'Parazone' or 'Harpic' next time (but
not both together, since the chlorine gas
evolved might prove fatal to the other
inhabitants of your previous correspond-
ent's lair, web or roost).
Yours sincerely, Bill Elliot
Zoology II

