F E L I X
SPORTS SUMMARY
Tour of Cornwall
JEZ AT SILVERSTONE
On Saturday April 22nd, Jezebel set
off on her annual run jto the "Vintage
Sports Car Club rally at Silverstone. "^e
left the R.C.S. building at 8.00 a.m. with
jTezebel] resplapndesnt jaftter tjhe ptrevfious
day's polishing and repainting in preparat-
ion for the run. As usual we left London
by the Edgware Road and set off North,
via Aylesbury, stopping halfway for cof-
fee and arriving at the meeting at 12.00
a.m. in" time for the first race. After the
first race we parked Jezebel in the pad-t
dock car park in company with two other
vintage fire engines owned by Dennis
brothers. By now it had started to rain
and the vintage race cars continued
round the track in a cloud of spray. The
main event of the afternoon was the Italia
Trophy race featuring, among other vint-
age cars, a 190? Fiat of 21 litre capacity
rated at 260 b.h.p. This car proved dif-
ficult to hold on the track in the rain
and took to the grass on one of the cor-
ners. Despite the formidable opposition
the race was eventually won by a 1928
Bugatti. At 5.00 p.m. we set off on
Jezebel to have a sumptuous dinner at
a vicarage near Wickeh. Leaving (there
at 7.30 p.m. we set off home down the
A5 stopping for another 10 gallons of pet-
rol and refreshment for the party at a
pub nearby...
Returning down the Edgware Road,
we negotiated the back streets of London
and arived at the Union at 11.40 p.m.
with Jezebel somewhat bedraggled after
her 130 mile trip.
THIS' YEAR'S EXPEDITIONS
Malta Archaeological Group.
Malta has always been the centre of
traffic in the Mediterranean Sea. Organ-
ised by Underwater Club a group of
eight divers will search the island's coast-
. al waters for clues to its past history.
The team will be:
J.D. Woods — Leader
L.G. Irving
A.W. Smith
J.B. Matthews
O. Lloyd
C Wilkinson
P. Redfern
D. Alberry.
Arctic Norway
Four second year students are to carry
out a survey of a small ice-cap in Arctic
Norway. The members of the expedition
are:
H. Lovenbury -r- Leader
Mv- Baker
R. Nicholds
R. Schroter*
Jan Mayen Island
A group of four, lead by Peter Smith,
will from the basis of the Glaciological
party of a large Geological expedition dr*
ganised by Birckbeck College. An exten-
sive programme to supplement previous
work, will be undertaken high on the
Beerenberg Mountain. Other members of
the group are:
CM. Smith
J. Fraser
J. Booth.
W. Graves, C. Talbot, and D.Li
Lawrance will assist in the geological
field survey.
PROPOSED
EAST BALTISTAN EXPEDITION 1962
It is hoped to send an expedition to
the eastern Karakoram Mountains in the
summer of 1962. Provisional, (plans for
the expedition have been approved by the
Exploration Board and further details are
now being worked oub. The objects of
the expedition are:
1. To map the topography and geology of
a new area.
2. To attempt to climb the K 12 peak
?24,507 ft.).
The team will jonsist of 7 men and
applications for inclusion in the team are
now invited. Applicants should write to
the undersigned, stating the following in-
formation :
1. Name, age, department.
2. The aspect of the expedition which
they are interested m (e.g. surveying,
climbing, etc.).
3 Previous experience.
4. Whether they are prepared to pay
something towards the costs of the ex-
pedition — if so, how much.
5 Why they wish to go on the expedition.
As the result of their applications,
candidates may be required to attend for
interview at a later date.
Mining Geologv
A.W. Smith'
R.S.M. (3rd floor).
Firm! note on the
CARNIVAL
THE SATURDAY FETE
• *
Prince's Gardens is a big place and we
could still do with a few stalls to fill the
empty spaces on Saturday afternoon. If you
can think up any bright ideas to extract
money from people in a light-hearted way,
please see Jon Baresford (Room 88, Weeks
Hall), who will tell you whether somebody
j else has already thought up the idea,
j Remember, each stall can make £ 10 or
j more for Famine Relief. A few enjoyable
hours spent by a few people can reap
enormous benefit.
The fete is ending with an auction qf
, unwon prizes and other odds and ends.
We need anything that you can bring a-
long. So why not volunteer to clean out
your landlady's attic ? — you may find
something that will raise far more money
than it's worth!
Above all, we need a large number of
men on Saturday morning, to help set up
tables etc. in the Gardens, Whether or
not you are actually involved in a float
or a stall, please, if you possibly can,
, meet outside Weeks Hall at 10 o'clock.
SPORT FLASH
The newfy elected Athletics Chairman
of Bedford College who is a member of
Bedford's table tennis team was re-
soundigly beaten at table tennis ( 3 - 0 )
by a member of the I.C X.H. Group.
Tim's ijncident occured |on tthe Y.H.
Group Easter vac tour of Northumber-
land. It is. sincerely hoped that the above
mentioned young lady is returned safely
to Regents Park as she was last seen
catching the Carlisle train with a promin-
ent of I.C. Y.H. Group.
Rambler.
The tone of the tour was set even be-
fore the coach had left London, when a
member of the side brought a fried break-,
fast from Mooney's onto the coach and
finished it somewhere between Church
Street Kensington and Olympia. After
nearly a day on the coach it was a relief
to relax in the Penzance clubhouse and
chat with the members of the Pirates
Club. As one I.C. man summed it up,
"Contact was established with the natives,
appeared to be friendly in exchange for
a few beads.',
No-ome looked (forward to the match
against St. Ives the following day with
any great optimism in view of the strange
conditions, hostile crowd, stiffness from
the journey and a weakened XV. These
views could not have been more mislead-
ing because I.C. won 27-0. The news-
paper reports the following day gave glow-
ing accounts of the victory, among which
one said, "A fast and very fit College
side who played attractive open rugby.''
The forwards excelled themselves against
heavy opponents and every three-quarter
scored. After poor entertainment in the
St. Ives clubhouse after the match, the
party returned to Penzance, but not be-
fore putting to death by trampling the
first oggi of the tour.
By this time the Bontypool touring
team which included a number of Welsh
internationals and trialists had arrived in
the same hotel. At the local hop that
evening there was a great deal of com-
petition between I.C. and Pontypool for
the local talent. One I.C. man, quoted
above, relented in the face of strong op-
position from "Mr. Wales 1958".
Sunday began as a day of rest. Most of
the party spent the day at Lands End.
Liberman, always the exhibitionalist, found
his way to a perilous position above a
150 ft. drop into the sea, and remained
there struggling until he responded to re-
assuring words from nearby friends and
climbed to safety. The one experienced
climber of the party,Ekman, went climbing
with the local T.A. and was away for four
hours. He |urned up at the coach iust as \
our party was setting out to see if- he had •
been washed up by the tide. The evening
became noisier and eventually turned in-
to a riot. Small skirmishes developed on
the landing and bodies slumped ,to the
bottom of the stairs, until the Pontypool ,
men, who were trying to sleep, came out j
and threatened to take issue with us. '
The rot had set in. In spite of a sober
day and a quiet kmrriey to Cambourne
late on Monday afternoon," in which pot-
ato guns were used to shoot down wavside
travellers, signs of ttiredness showed up
in the side which played Cambourne in
the evening. The team made many mis-
takes in an attempt to live up to the re-
futation gained in the St. Ives game,
always trying to play open football. But
against a strong defence and without full-
back Edwards in the seconoPhaif, I.C.
lost 9 - 0. The entertainment after the
match was again poor, but the spirit of
the party was now such that no external
encouragement was necessary.
Tuesday was a day of recuperation in
preparation for the main match of the k
toUr against Penzance Pirates, Cornish'
champions. After n comparatively early
night the team had a light training ses-
sion on the Pirates ground on Wednesday
morning to get used to the conditions.
With a blustery wind sweeping the pitch
it was clear that both sides woul£ be liable
to make mistakes and the side which took
advantage of these would prooably win.
The I.C. tactics therefore were to follow
up absolutely everything. The first half
was played at a tremendous pace. The
I.C. side were faster in the loose and the
opposing backs were so crowded that
Johnson was able to intercept a hurried
pass and score between the posts. The
score at half time was 8 - 5 to Penzance.
In the second half, however, the
experienced home side exploited our
tiredness with skilful short kicks sup-
ported by good following up. Back on our
heels and with two injured men in the
backs, I.C. were reduced to chasing the
fast Penzance men, the final score being
36-5. One shrewd home spectator put his
finger on possibly one weakness when he
shouted, "Knock the beer out of 'em,
boys!"
The last evening of the tour was by trad-
ition the wildest. Milward, metioned and
quoted above, killed another oggi outside
the clubhouse, and Johnson and Connor
\ had their names taken in the town for
stealing signs. Thus the tour ended with
only one repercussion when the other day
a man from Chelsea O.I.D. approached
Gordon Margretts in connection with dis-
appearance of a Penzance coat - of - arms
during our stay. Nothing seems to be
known about it.
i N.B. Greaves
Y H A Group's
Canoeing Trip
During the Easter vacation, ten canoe-
ists from the Y.H.A. Group made a cruise
down the River Blackwater in Southern
Eire. A rough trip down a shallow tribut-
ary brought us on to the main river,
which in its upper reaches contained num-
erous easy rapids. The continuous rain and
occasional hazards such as iron stakes
projecting out of the river bed did not
improve conditions. However, and, in re-
trospect, we decided it was not advisable
to go down even an easy rapid broadside-
on. The step under Mallow bridge, des-
cribed in our river guide as unshootable
was in fact shot by two of our canoes.
From Mallow to Fermoy the river wound
through some magnificent scenery, lime-
stone cliffs towering above the water.
After a difficult portage at a steep weir,
we camped at Fermoy where rain for the
next two days and the drabness of the
beershops brought the trip to a premature
end... "water, water everywhere, and only
Guinness to drink." We arrive^, back in
WaleB at 3 a.m., ready to start hitch-
hiking, home.
Anyone interested in a canoe-campmg
cruise in Luxemburg next September will
find further deails on the Y.H.A. notice-
board outside the concert hall.
SOCCER CLUB
AGM
;The 1960-61 season was one of the most
successful in the club's history. The 1st
XI, after winning the U.L. Cup, narrow-
ly missed taking the leaugue champion-
ship. The U.L. Six-a-side Cup was also won
by I.C., while the 2nd XI took the U.L.
Reserve Cup.
At the end of last term the Club's
A.G.M. was held, and nearly sixty mem-
bers attended. Next seasons officials were
elected ; they are:
Dennis Harburn — Captain,
Dave Hunt — Vice-captain
Willie Gough — Secretary,
John Eoth — Fixture secretary
Bill Eiddell — Treasurer,
Mike Kev — Social secretary.
New full-colours were awarded to Hugh
Payne, Dennis Harburn and Pierre
Mousset - Jones, and new half - colours to
Dave Hunt, Eddie Olding, Mike Cox and
Dave Loftus.
Club members are reminded today is
the last day for ordering team photo-
graphs. On Wednesday May 10th a trip
to Wembley for tfee England v. Mexico
match has been organised.
Published by FELIX BOABD Imperial College, London, 8.W.7.
,JUstes & offset printing by WEST LONDON OFFSET.CO., 86, Lillie Roafl, London, 8.W.6. Teli: FUL 7969

