Union Page
Get ready for the Welcome Back Fair
Find out more about what the Union has to offer this term, grab some
freebies and learn about some great opportunities at the Welcome
Back Fair. We have some amazing organisations, as well as a selection
of your Clubs, Societies & Projects attending. Join us onWednesday 22
January, 11:00-16:00, in the Great Hall and Queen’s Tower Rooms. For
more information, go to imperialcollegeunion.org/wbf.
Some of our partners that will be attending are:
- Papa John’s (free pizza)
- Little Moons (free mochi balls)
- Contiki
-Target Jobs
- InterExchange Camp USA
-The Economist
- Pimlico Connections
Sabbs on Tour
Meet your Sabbatical Officers to discuss decisions that affect you and
how you can get involved.This is an excellent way to ensure that your
student experience is continually improving. Here are the dates and
locations for the upcoming tour:
Tuesday 14 January
South Kensington Campus
Thursday 30 January
Charing Cross Campus (Reynolds)
Wednesday 12 February
South Kensington Campus
Thursday 27 February
White City Campus
Think about standing
The Leadership Elections 2020 are fast approaching.This is our biggest
democratic exercise, where we choose the major student leadership
positions at Imperial for the next academic year.
Start thinking whether you could be the next Union President, one of
four Deputy Presidents, or even Felix Editor - there are plenty of roles
to choose from. More information will be released closer to the time,
or visit imperialcollegeunion.org/elections.
Here are the key dates for this year’s elections:
Nominations open - noon, Monday 3 February
Nominations close - noon, Friday 28 February
Voting opens - noon, Monday 9 March
Voting closes - 14:00,Thursday 12 March
How do you experience Imperial?
Have you completed the Student Experience Survey yet? This is your
chance to tell us about your experience at Imperial. Your responses
help give College and the Union a better idea on what we’re doing
well, how we can further enrich your student experience, and also
what we can do to improve.
Due to your responses in the past, we’ve been able to refurbish Ethos
and replace all the gym equipment, as well as improve ventilation and
aid cooling during the hot summer months in the library.
Whether you are a non-final year Undergraduate or a first year taught
Postgraduate student, we want to hear from you. Complete the survey
now and enter a prize draw to win one of the 22 vouchers up for grabs
at imperial.ac.uk/student-experience-survey.

