NUS
Abandoned
Aston University is to disaffiliate from the
National Union of Students (NUS), it was
decided at a Union meeting earlier this
month. The result of the meeting, which
took place on the 2nd May, was ratified
by a Council meeting, and is now going
ahead.
York University Students' Union (YUSU)
submitted a similar motion to their Union
Meeting, but this was not passed in its
original form. Instead, it was altered to
read that a decision should be taken to
reaffiliate every three years. If this is not
passed then York University will
automatically disaffiliate from the NUS.
The decision to remain affiliated for the
next three years was also taken. The
opinion of the meeting was that it was
better to stay in the NUS and reform it
form inside, than to leave at this time.
Campus
Cannabis
A rather unusual motion was passed at
York University last week. The motion
stated that, amongst other things, the
Union believed that Cannabis was
cheaper and less harmful than either
alcohol, or tobacco.
The motion therefore proposed that
their Internal Vice President launch 'an
awareness campaign about the
advantages of cannabis'. The external VP
to 'look into the Legalise Cannabis
campaign' and the Deputy President to
provide a report on the possibilities of
selling cannabis through the Union shop.
The President commented that although
the proposal had been passed by 'a large
majority', it would probably not be
implimented due to 'a small problem' of
law.
The President in turn was mandated to
write informing the York University's
Vice-chancellor of the advantages of 'Sex
(with a condom), Drugs, and Rock and
Roll.' He informed Felix that Union
meetings were generally well attended
with quorate meetings occuring about
twice a term assuring us that they dealt
with more serious matters too.
Ghandi
Killed
Ragivaratna Ghandi, Prime Minister of
India, was killed in an assassination last
Tuesday. Born on the 20th August 1944,
he received his school education in India,
but came to England to go to University.
While at Trinity College, Cambridge, he
met his wife to be, Sonia Maino, who he
married before coming to Imperial
College.
At IC, in 1965, he started an
Undergraduate course in Mechanical
Engineering. During his year of study, his
mother Indira, was elected Prime Minister
and, after taking his exams, he withdrew
from his course. It is not known whether
this was the reason for his withdrawing.
Professor Williams, of the Mechanical
Engineering department, is arranging for
a member of the department to go the
Indian High Commission, in India House,
to sign a book of condolement.
Jazzy
Winner
Bruce Hall, a Physics Second Year, was
the recipient of £10,000 last week, when
he won a competition on Jazz FM.
Although Felix was unable to contact
him, we have been informed that he is
currently unsure what to do with the
money (I've got a few ideas-News Ed),
but has stated that he intends to 'put it in
the bank and decide later.'
Appeal
Next Tuesday evening, the 28th May,
there will be a meeting in Linstead Hall
to discuss the large rent rises for the next
academic year along with other proposals
for the Hall. The meeting will occur after
dinner. All Linstead residents/Ex-
Linsteadians are strongly urged to attend,
Paul Shanley, ICU President has the facts.
Bar Manager
Also next Tuesday, Mr Andrew Flanagen
will become Imperial College Union Bars
Manager. Previously Goldsmith's College
Students Union Bar Manager, his
appointment follows the resignation of
John Riding just over one month ago.
John has successfully obtained the licence
of the Flounder & Firkin pub, Islington, a
venture in which we wish him luck.
Ice Cream
Queen's Tower snack bar will soon be
supplying 'an enormous range of high
quality ice creams', according to Mr
Simon Westerman, IC Refectories
Manager. Hopefully commencing on the
4th June, QT will stock Loseley ice cream
products along with other brand names.
Watch out for the special promotions
which will accompany the launch.
Crime
The total value of money and valuables
from the five thefts in Southside Halls of
Residence, last Thursday, was between
£300 and £400. Efforts to obtain a visual
description of any suspicious individuals
amounted to nothing and has led College
Authorities to conclude that an outsider
was probably responsible.
A wallet, left inside a jacket pocket,
was stolen from the seventh level of the
Huxley building. A male Afro-caribbean,
five foot eight inches tall, wearing a black
padded boiler-suit and baseball hat, is
suspected of the crime. A similar
description was given in connection with
a theft from the Management School the
week before.
Apology
Felix would like to apologise for an error
on the news pages last week in the
article about Imperial Colleges gas
suppliers. The quote from Mr Greaves
should have read that he did not 'want to
prop up other Universities', not that he
'did as stated by the article.

