In the wake of the recent storm. The Rector gives his answer to
the question
The College Day—Why Change?
The College day currently extends from
9.30am to 5.30pm. It has done so since
time immemorial. So why change? The
need to do so arises from a number of
different circumstances:
1. The increase in the number of students
The number of students has increased by
24% in the course of the last decade. The
number of lecture theatres and rooms has
remained constant. So, with minor
exceptions, has the provision of teaching
laboratories.
Are we using the facilities we have in
an optimal manner? I am sure that we
are not. We should, for example, stop
thinking of lecture spaces as 'belonging'
to particular departments. They should be
allocated according to need—by
computer—as has been the practice in
many American universities for a long
time. At the cost of more walking across
the College, this would half. Even so,
although as the Universities Funding
Council (UFC), by adding up all the seats,
tells us we have more than enough
lecture provision, in practice there are
very real difficulties in finding suitable
teaching spaces.
That problem becomes worse-when we
are concerned with specialist teaching
classrooms—such as those equipped for
computer aided teaching. And, of course,
laboratories can hardly be swapped
between different disciplines.
2. The increase in the variety and
complexity of course structures.
The accretion of new knowledge in most
sciences and engineering, proceeds at a
devastatingly fast pace. The wrong way
to deal with this is to cram more into
courses—the sentiment shared by all
members of the College. But one must
provide opportunity for students to make
contact with what is new. This suggests
courses which no longer insist on a single
path to salvation, but provide choices,
certainly in the later years of a course,
and where possible, also in the earlier
years. I believe that most of our
colleagues—student and staff—welcome
such developments. Once again it imposes
new pressures on the timetable.
3. The difficulty of preserving slots for
humanities and language teaching
When the timetable squeeze is on, the
temptation to reduce the opportunity for
humanities and language teaching is
strong and in some cases has proved to
be overwhelming. Yet this part of our
academic programme is growing more
rapidly than any other—particularly
language teaching. This is of course a
direct result of the perception that Europe
is for real; specifically it bears on the
emergence of a number of four-year
courses with one year to be spent outside
the UK. Reasonable proficiency in a
language is vital, not just to make best
use of academic opportunities, but to
allow a fully integrated life in another
society. It is probable that the demand for
language teaching will continue to
increase, both in total number and in the
range of languages covered.
4. The continuing financial squeeze by
government on the university system
Just over a decade ago the student staff
ratio at Imperial College was under 7; it
is now approaching 12. The reduced level
of funding is evident in just about all we
do. It is particularly apparent when we
embark on capital projects. So, for
example, we are about to turn the first
sod for Chemistry II. It will be a splendid
new laboratory—but significantly smaller
than the clearly identified needs of the
chemists. In the original design it included
new lecture spaces. The UFC flatly
refused to allow us to' include these. The
pressure on us to make more use of the
resources we have is evident.
Another example: we have a number of
classrooms equipped for computer aided
teaching. We would like more. The
recognition that there are some things
which are better illustrated on a screen,
manipulated by the student, than chalk
and talk, is growing. These facilities are
expensive. The capital equipment grant
that we recieve is under enormous
pressure. Yet one has to admit that these
computer equipped lecture theatres are
not used very many hours a year. A
modest extension of the usage would ease
the timetabling problem very
considerably.
5. The desire to introduce joint honours
courses
Some students know precisely what they
want to do—their aspirations match what
individual departments have to offer.
Others are attracted by a menu which
draws on offerings from two departments.
We have examples of such joint honours
courses right now, eg between Computing
and EE, between Chemistry and
Management. There is evidence that
there is a demand for more such courses.
We are currently making a preliminary
investigation of the possibility of joint
honours courses with our neighbours—the
Royal College of Music. We know that
there are a lot of students who have
found it difficult to decide between a
degree in science/engineering and going
to the RCM.
One can plan such options—but the
problem in adding anything new to our
fabric is, inevitably, the additional
difficulties of timetabling which it implies.
The Working Party who have looked at
the possibility of extending the College
Day have made some tentative
recommendations. They are presented in
the adjacent box. Adopting these
proposals would provide some very
helpful additional breathing space in the
timetable.
So why don't we do it? There are
difficulties of perception, as well as_
objective difficulties to be overcome. The
Working Party listed a number of these—
not all of equal weight. I do not, for
example, believe that there is a danger of
increasing the number of lectures per
course. All the pressures—students,
undergraduate studies committee,
individual academics—are working in the
opposite direction. There are no
significant increases in costs. I do not
believe that staff will object to a very
minor element of flexi-time in working
hours—all indications are that this is
welcomed.
But there are real problems:
1. A particular choice of options could
lead to an excessive number of lectures
on one day—very sparse timetabling on
the next. One is exhausting; the other
non-optimum use of time.
2. If there is to be a staggered lunch hour
(ie timetabling permitting lectures in some
departments 12-lpm and in others l-2pm)
it will stop some students participating in
meetings of clubs and societies.
3. Domestic difficulties: eg making
breakfast in some University Halls and a
9am class; dinner following a 5pm
lecture;"difficulty for staff and students
having responsibility for children.
These represent a real additional burden.
However it is important to see these
problems in a quantitative a» well as
qualitative manner. Not all departments
will need both the early and the late slot.
It is very unlikely that an individual
student, or an individual member of staff,
will have many 9am classes. It is unlikely
that a student will have many lunch time
clashes between classes and societies.
And after all, just occasionally, one can
skip a class—get a friend to take some
notes. Going to lectures is much to be
desired—but one can make just a few
exceptions. It has been done before....
The proposal is not grossly out of line
with what happens elsewhere in the
University. UCL 'normal' hours are 9am
to 5pm, but there are classes that start at
8.30am, and others that go on to 6pm.
RHBNC runs from 9am to 5pm—but they
are considering an extension of these
hours. QMW runs from 9am to 5pm, but
with some classes going on to 6pm. All
American universities that I have
encountered start at 8am.
The need for the proposed extension of
our 'normal' hours is real.
Eric A Ash.

