Mermaids
Why are there so many films
around at the moment that feature
women who are modelled after
Boadicea with a hangover ? Stroppy,
insensitive and blunt, they roam around
celluloid under the guise of being
liberated. And why does Cher play so
many of them ?
Thankfully, although this film does
boast a 'strong' (read 'boringly obvious')
woman, she doesn't stride around the
place being admired for being a bitch.
Mermaids actually charts the development
of Cher and her entourage from itinerant
ragamuffins (okay, not quite) into a nice
stable family unit. Again, not quite.
Mrs. Flax (Cher) is a roaming and
heavily unreliable mother with two
daughters of differing parentage. She
spends most of her time getting laid and
leaving small towns in an uproar. Her
daughters are a ten-year old with a
penchant for aqueous exploits and
Charlotte, fifteen, with a burning desire
for nunhood. Nunhood. There's a word
that isn't used enough. A bit like
'spelunking'.
Complications arise when Mrs. Flax falls
for the unlikely but likeable figure of Lou
(Bob Hoskins) and Charlotte (played by
the wonderful Winona Ryder, objectivity
be damned) topples with a heavy thud for
a gentleman named Joe with a dark past
and a lifetime of repentance. Bob
discovers that Cher is more possessive
than ..erm.. a very possessive thing
indeed.resenting his close relationship
with her daughters. Charlotte, having had
all the sex education of an eunuch in a
nunnery (and much the same frustrated
outlook on life as one), is convinced that
to kiss is to conceive.
This all goes on for quite a while,
which is a bit of a drag, until a bit of
tension rears its ugly head; Bob gets a
tad pissed off and Charlotte goes
spelunking. Actually, that's not strictly
true. She runs off in her mother's car.
Which is nearly the same.
All is eventually resolved more or less
happily (rather more than less) via the
obligatory Tragedy That Brings The
Family Together and ends with a song
and dance routine that reminds me with
immense force of the Muppet Show in
one of its less bizarre moments.
Cher is annoying but competent and
more secondary than the film than the
ads would have you believe; Ryder and
Hoskins between them probably carry the
best scenes in the movie in fumbling
seduction and family forbearance. A
cliche movie that does them well enough
for you not to care. It also has one good
song. No, not that one.
The Flying Gerbil
These Foolish Things
I Originally named as Daddy
Nostalgia, the scriptwriter, Colo
Tavernier O'Hagan, wrote the story
mainly about her parents. It was directed
by Bertrand Tavernier (Around Midnight)
in a reflective and contemplative mood,
as a tribute to his own father. But even
actress Jane Birkin played the part of the
screenwriter daughter of Caroline as if,
she was in a real family. This is why the
film is so real. One can feel he has heard
some dialogues somewhere before. (I
have!)
Of course, the film won't be that good
without the help of a strong cast. Other
than Miss Birkin, Odette Laure as French
wife Miche, who tries to express her love
to her husband by overprotecting him
and keeping him on a strict diet but is
repulsed, is excellent. But the star of the
film is still Daddy, played by Dirk
Bogarde (after a twelve year absence on
screen since Despair). Since Daddy hates
the strict lifestyle he has to carry on after
a serious operation, Caroline helps him to
find his way back to his favourite cafes
and places. Through their conversations,
Caroline begins to know her father more
because as a child, her parents are
always engaged in Bourgeois social
events. She also feels Daddy's dislike of
being old and fear of death, even though
Daddy tries to conceal. Although Caroline
has to go back to Paris for work and her
own family, the family relationship has
been strengthened a lot. However, Daddy
doesn't find his strength to wait for her
next visit one week after she has left
them.
One special thing about the film is the
third person narrator telling the story
other than the actors. Instead of an
ending that could have made the
audience searching for their Kleenex,
we've got the narrator mentioning
Daddy's death and Caroline's feelings as
she strolls along the street weeping. This
can be due to Tavernier's intention of
making the film light and natural, but yet
one can feel his love for the characters.
The film, which was shot in the
picturesque spots of the South of France,
stands miles ahead of other cheap soppy
dramas. These Foolish Things may not
make you cry, but it will certainly make
you reminisce.
D J S Su.
5

