A
C U B S
Easter Dive Trip
We arrived at Porthstock beach, in the
Lizard, and the novices attempted their
first tentative dives from the beach. The
following day we ended up at Porthkeris
beach after a brief tour of the local area,
involving a number of " U " turns and
several revisits to particularly interesting
road junctions.
The large rollers were breaking nicely
on the rocks so we decided against
launching the boat in the surf. After
several phone calls to find out what had
happened to our dive boat, which we had
hired, we found out it had turned back
and would meet us around by Mullion.
Our inflatable was then unpacked,
launched and used to ferry the first lot
out to the hired boat.
The surf was still quite big and there
were several unorthodox bits of boat-
handling during the day, including surfing
backwards onto the beach and filling the
boat up with water etc.
During the week we mainly used the
hired boat, launched from Falmouth, as it
was too rough for out inflatable. Even in
the hired boat it was still quite rough and
the fish saw a number of breakfasts
making a special re-appearance over the
side.
At the end of an enjoyable week of
diving, the annual awards were handed
out roughly as follows:
Best quote: "This looks fairly serious Rolf"
uttered Rudi, as the boat was about to be
swamped completely by a large wave.
Highest "Faff" factor (time wasted
preparing for a dive and longest dive
time): Cambridge dive club.
Best dive shop customer (ie lost most
gear): Hime.
Most Unorthodox Boat-handler: Steve
(hire boat skipper) for tearing off while
still tethered to the back of another boat.
Janshed Sethna award for stunt driving:
Sarah-Jane (for a 180 degree spin on the
way down).
Coke Cola fiz award for decompression
diving: Colin and Rhoda.
UAU Cricket
IC 2 n d v s C i t y
S u n d a y 19th M a y
Imperial won by three wickets
Going into this last group match Imperial
had to win to go through. City won the
toss and decided to bat, a big mistake it
turned out. Imperial fielded excellently
before lunch with City 79-7 by the break.
We let them get away after lunch, but by
the end of City's innings they had made
165 for 9 wickets. Both Rup Banerjee and
Paul Lewis were fined heavily after the
match for jug avoidance, getting 4
wickets each for IC.
City's innings was punctuated by two
hotly contested run outs, where City's
sporstmanship was found sadly lacking.
On both occasions their batsmen were
given out but the IC captain nobly, if
naively called them back. So City can be
thought lucky that they made as many
runs as they did. Had Imperial
consequently lost, the chances of the
captain being lynched by the rest of the
team were considered extremely high.
However justice was done. Gunni
Dhadyalla scoring a quickfire 38, Runil
Vitarana an assured and confident 60 and
Pete Sharpe a remarkable 32 were chiefly
responsible for IC getting the runs well
inside the allotted number of overs. Pete
Sharpes innings was especially
noteworthy since he hadn't played for
over a year and was only asked to play
on the morning of the match when IC
were a man short.
The 2nd XI now expect an away match
against Exeter to be played very shortly.
Please check the noticeboard regularly.

