Aquacise
Water
Exercises
Each Wednesday afternoon from 2.30pm
to 3.15pm an Aquacise class will be taken
by Mark Lawrence. Classes consist of
approximately 35 people and are held in
the Imperial College sports centre
swimming pool. Hand paddles are used to
create more resistance in the water and a
pulse check is taken at the start of the
class (resting pulse) and again 35 minutes
through the class (working pulse). The
class consists of wall exercises: stretching,
swimming, running and the cost to
Imperial College students is £1.50 (non-
students S2).
This type of exercise is designed for
overall fitness and is becoming
increasingly popular with top athletes.
Sign up NOW in the Sports Centre for
your first class.
Sailing Club
For the first time in several years (if
ever!) IC received an invitation to this
years World Dinghy Team Racing
Championship - otherwise known as The
Wilson Trophy. The event takes place
annually at Kirby Sailing Club on the
Wirral, and this year it was held on the
10th-12th May. The trophy is always
earnestly contested for in the Firefly
dinghies, with entrants this year from
Eire and the USA as well as the best of
the British teams.
Due to exam stress we were short on
numbers, but with the help of an IC old
boy and a couple of IC sailors, we
managed to reach Cheshire with a full
team of 6. (It should be mentioned that
the UL team had not been invited and
were feeling somewhat miffed!)
Arriving in good time on the Friday
night, we recovered from the journey and
then sorted out our accomodation. All 32
teams present were put up in local
households, and contrary to the norm of
sleeping bags on the floor, we all were
given beds in which to get some sleep.
This was a good thing as sleeping time
was scarce with a 7.45am Captains
breifing on the Saturday Morning!
Kick off was at 8.30 and our first race
was against a familiar United Hospitals
team. (Did we really go all that way just
to sail against them ?) After the first lap
we were in a winning combination, but
then the afforementioned old boy seemed
strangely attracted to one of the markers,
and couldn't get off it again! We managed
to hold first place (well done Liam!) but
lost overall after some good team racing.
Next on the agenda was Cambridge.
Despite their fast reputation, we managed
to make their 3rd helms bad day even
worse by adding 5 penalty points to their
score. This clinched us victory. The final
team in our league was USYRU - the
States national team. A very jammy move
by one of their boats gave them a 1,2,3
over the start, and they held it for the
rest of the race.
To decide the one qualifer from each
league, the teams sailed each other twice.
SOCS
USYRU convincingly beat everybody in
all the races, and so went through to the
quarter finals.
Sunday saw some very exciting sailing
between the league qualifiers, with the
bonus that the Marine lake at West Kirby
has an excellent grandstand viewing
position where we could observe how it
should be done!London rivalry aside, we
were pleased to see the ex UL
"Castaways" do well.
A plate race for non-qualifiers was run
as a flat race with one boat from each
team. Henry & Liam were determined to
do well. They seemed to be the only boat
to find a completely calm patch after the
start, and we thought that all was lost.
Amazingly though, they picked up a gust,
stormed back into the race, and were not
last over the line... the first time around.
The experience of the other boats proved
too much for them to overcome, but their
roll-tackling improved throughout the
race, and they got a cheer as they cross
the line.
"At the end of the weekend, we had to
acknowledge being beaten in the league,
being beaten in the plate race and even
beaten in the boat race on the Saturday
night! But we were THERE at The
Wilson, and we returned southwards
sunburnt, tired and beaten but happy!
We hope to return next year and, who
knows, we might even improve by then!
FELIX
needs
FEATURES!
which means that you have
got to write them!
So if you're bored with
revision
GET WRITING!

