CFEATURE:
P R O F I L E the Rector
As the Rector completes his final months of office at Imperial College, FELIX takes a
look back at his career, and looks to his future as Vice-Chancellor.
A large man with a clumsy gait, he manages
to look uncomfortable in any chair. He has a
peculiar ability not to seem 'at home' in any
surroundings. In his Queens Gate residence
he has the air of a tired but proud museum
curator; in his fifth-floor Sherfield office he
gives the impression of having arrived only a
week ago, and not having properly settled in.
But the Rector has been here for rather
more than a week. After twelve years at
Imperial College this 60 year old son of a
Welsh pastor is to become Vice-Chancellor
of the largest University in the country.
Early career
Flowers read Physics at Cambridge. After
his DSc at Birmingham he went to the
Atomic Energy Research Establishment at
Harwell. The head of the theoretical physics
division at that time was Klaus Fuchs, who
later turned out to be a spy for the Russians.
On his being apprehended by the police
other people who were senior to Flowers
were either not offered the job or did not
accept it. At the age of 28, therefore, Flowers
became head of the division, to the suprise of
many people, not the least himself.
He built up the division, which was
naturally in bad morale, to a very flourishing
affair. But the lure of academe was too
strong.
'I soon realised that the longer I stayed at
Harwell, the more administrative my role
would become. When I was offered the chair
of Theoretical Physics at Manchester, I
quickly accepted it.'
Within a year, the Head of Physics at
Manchester had left on a sabbatical leaving
Flowers in charge. In the event he never
came back, and Flowers found himself head
of one of the biggest Physics Departments in
the country.
'This led to me taking an interest in an
enormous range of things; other people's
work, things which were second-hand. Woe
befall any administrator who doesn't take
that second-hand experience seriously. You
become a pontificator over everything,
knowing nothing.'
Past peak
At about the age of 40, Flowers was
becoming recognized nationally in the policy-
forming world; he joined the predecessor of
the Science Research Council (now the
SERC) - and the Advisory Council for
Scientific Policy (now the ABRC). But there
were other reasons for his finally leaving
active academic work.
'I was becoming aware that I had achievec
all I was going to achieve in research. I have
seen people, only too often, past their
peak, becoming gradually more tetchy and
miserable, thinking it's other people's fault.
'I knew that I either had to give up my
policy-forming activities and get the external
stimuli that was needed or I had to give up the
idea of an intensive, front-line, research
career.'
He decided on the latter course, and so for
his six years as Chairman of the Science
Research Council, he was gradually running
down his research work.
This post took Flowers to the topmost
levels of science policy formation, dealing
with cabinet ministers and senior civil
servants. His ministers were Crossland,
Short, Margaret Thatcher and Shirley
Williams.
'In quite different ways the two ladies
shone most: I was on very good terms with
both of them on a personal basis, although I
agree much more with Shirley than I do with
Maggie.'
Imperial
From 1965 onwards, offers of vice-
chancellorships started to flood in. Flowers
doesn't like to say how many offers, but he
manages to convey the idea that there were
quite a few.
'I remember very well having lunch with
Shirley Williams one day. We were
discussing each other's futures. She said that
10 Friday 1 Fet
FEATURED
I should accept a vice-chancellorship. I said
that this was nonsense—terrible sort of job.'
An yet within two months Lord Sherfield
had offered, and Flowers had accepted, the
job of Rector at Imperial College.
'I suddenly realised that Imperial College
was exactly right for me. And gosh was I
right, because I've had the most marvellous
time here.'
Flowers had perceived that Imperial
College was 'supposed to be good, but was
not quite as good as it should have been'. He
felt that he had an ability to put such
institutions right.
'I did it at Harwell, I did it at Manchester, I
did it at the SRC and I think I've done it here.
The main thing wrong with IC was that it was
so convinced that it was tops, that it wasn't. It
didn't question itself enough.' And so
Flowers had to adopt the unpopular r6le of
forcing IC to face up to itself.
'I knew that until it had done that, the
College did not have any hope of improving
itself.'
When the Rector came to IC, Heads of
Department were appointed for life.
Researchers of ability were being held back
by these 'complacent old men'. He therefore
made headships five year appointments. He
raised the standard of staff appointments,
and of student admissions.
'We had all sorts of funny overseas
students who had no motivation to be here at
all.'
People point to the inception of the
interdisciplinary centres (environmental
technology, biotechnology, robotics, etc) as
being Flowers' most important innovation
whilst at IC.
'Problems of structure have always
interested me. Here at IC we had the
separate departments, divided up the way
they are for good reasons, and yet these
divisions create borderline problems.
'Having established any vertical structure
you promtly have to set up some
organisation, however flimsy, at 90 degrees.'
It was the lack of such a mechanism that
Flowers sought to put right.
'I had just done the Royal Commission on
Environmental Pollution and felt that there
was a great need, not for wishy-washy
environmental sciences^at undergrad level,
but for people of real professional
competence in different subjects to come
together and work on the environmental
problems.
'What people in industry often don't
realise is that a university can't respond to
the latest fad by setting up a whole
department. Just because of Sinclair
someone will doubtless suggest the setting
up of a Department of Electric Tricycles. But
this is wrong. A department is there to teach
what is known—a sound body of doctrine.
But at the same time a university such as this
must be in the swim, in the modern world. So
organised within the integrity of disciplines
we are trying to tackle problems which
respect no boundaries. The centres, then,
are the doing places and the departments are
teaching places'.
1985
London University—the future
In 1980 the Flowers Report was
published—a much criticized report which
suggested major changes in medical
education. It was said at the time that the
unpopularity of the report was responsible
for Flowers not being offered the vice-
chancellorship three years ago. But he still
stands by the findings of the report.
'Not only do I stand by them but they've
been accepted, almost aH of them. Not in
every detail, but the essence of it has been
accepted, and the logic of it is entirely being
put into effect now.
'The problems that the University faces
are again structural ones—the meaning of a
Federal University needs sorting out. At the
moment it's rather an ill-assorted collection
but with the Swinnerton-Dyer Report we are
seeing the formation of fewer, larger and
more comparable institutions.'
The Rector was made a peer in 1979. He is
an active member of the House of Lords
'when time allows', and is a passionate
supporter of its existence.
'One of the most fascinating experiences
of my life was to watch Ken Livingstone in the
public gallery at the House, listening to
speeches of support of the G L C from
members of arf institution that his party is
committed to abolish.'
Flowers has enjoyed his time at IC—he
has been able to indulge himself in his
passions for art and music at the same time
as heading a great institution. He says
'I have contrived to enjoy my life enormously
so far'. One gets the impression that he will
continue to do so at Senate House, just as
much as he did at Imperial.
11

