LZFEATURE:
Strange folk
So who are the strange folk, trying to monopolise your
time at IC next week? Difficult to answer that without
giving you an enormous dossier on the personal
background of eighteen or twenty persons from the
complete spectrum of society; old and young, Catholic
and Protestant, students and teachers, porters and
priests, from Edingburgh to Earl's Court. Just to give you
the flavour of this appetising recipe though, here are a
few of the people whom you might meet.
Fr Peter Bowes is a priest who has spent a year recently
in India, looking into their spirituality. However he also
has his feet firmly on the ground through his work
amongst young people in England.
Aliens
contact Imperial
Do you think Christians are all incredibly boring
religious fanatics who have no idea what it's like in
the 'real world'? If so, you've never met the
Chaplaincies. They are full of realpeople who are as
far removed from your average religious fanatic as
Attila the Hun is from Mother Theresa. During
'Contact Week' the Chaplaincies invite a team of
people from all walks of life to come into the college.
They will talk about their beliefs and experiences in
a series of events based around discussions
groups/workshops on a variety of topics of current
relevance to students. No one in the chaplaincies
claims to have all the answers about the meaning of
life (unlike some other brands) but if you ever
wondered why we're here or whether you should
give a damn about anyone else, why not come along
to one of the groups and air your views - you'll be
particularly welcome this week, whatever you
believe.
Bill Kirkpatrick has been described as an 'urban
hermit'. From his flat in Earl's Court he acts as a
counsellor and friend to anyone who needs him. His work
among people 'rejected' by our society has given him
unique insights into applying the Christian faith.
Sally Theakston was the president of East Anglia
University SU before taking up her present job with the
student Christian movement, so she will have a lot to say
about what students can do in following the the Gospel.
Although they come from various backgrounds, all of
the team have one thing in common — they are relating
their faith to the real-life situations in which they find
themselves. It is this experience of the world outside
student life and how they have come to terms with it
which should make the discussions and workshops an
unmissable event for any IC student looking beyond their
first pay cheque.
1
2 Friday 1 February 1985 FELIX

