FEATURF1
Cardinal Hume
Cardinal Basil Hume, the top man in the Roman Catholic church in England
will be speaking in Imperial College tomorrow evening. In what has been
described as 'a considerable coup for the Chaplaincies' the Archbishop of
Westminister will be taking part in the opening service of Contact Week, in
the Physics Common Room. This is just the start of a week-long series of
meetings in and around the West London colleges.
His Eminence Charles Basil Cardinal
Hume OSB, Archbishop of
Westminster
Imperial College is in the arch-diocese of
Westminister and therefore the local
bishop is Basil Hume. He succeeded
John Heenan in 1976 and was created
Cardinal in the same year by Paul VI.
Cardinals only exist in the Catholic
church and are not, as is commonly
supposed, the next rank up after bishop.
They need not be bishops but can be
priests or deacons — and are drawn from
around the world and many are stationed
permanently in Rome.
As a cardinal, Basil Hume forms part of
the College of Cardinals which acts as an
advisory body for the Pope and elects a
new Pope as the occasion arises. He may
also represent the Pontiff at ceremonial
functions.
As senior bishop in England and
W a l e s , B a s i l H u m e a c t s as a
spokesperson when an official church
opinion is required on any subject.
Through visits around the diocese (such
as to IC) and discussions with other
bishops he can advise the Pope on the
situation of the Church in this country.
Basil Hume was born in 1923, a distant
relation of the famous 18th century
atheist, sceptic, philosopher David
Hume. He was ordained in 1950 after
joining the Benedictine monastery at
Ampleforth (a R C public school). Whilst
there he was both abbot and headmaster.
Later he took on a number of senior posts
within his order and has lectured in
theology.
His visit to IC to start Contact Week
and to lead the ecumenical (ie non-
denominational) service is part of his
efforts to see an end to the divisions
which at present split the Christian
church.
PROGRAMME
12.30am M o n d a y / T u e s d a y Workshop
Thursday/Friday 12.30am
(Each Workshop runs for two lunchtimes, so you
can opt for any two workshops in any order. Lunch
is provided for a small charge. Just turn up on the
Monday or the Thursday and join in!).
•Prayer and Meditation Chaplains' Office (10
Princes' Gdns.)
•Evangelism and Mission Union Upper Lounge
(Monday/Tuesday) Elec Eng 207. (Thursday/Friday).
• Worship and Liturgy Chemistry 231
(Monday/Tuesday only).
•Social and Political Action Huxley 348.
•Sexuality and Relationships Huxley 410.
•Faith, The Bible and Theology Huxley 408.
•Dialogue with other Faiths Royal School of Mines,
B432.
•Careers and Vocations Chem Eng E400.
All Workshops begin at 12.30am. Monday and Friday:
finish at 1.30pm. Tuesday and Thursday: finish at 2.00
or 2.30pm.
February 2-8 1985
Saturday 2
7.30pm Physics Common Room level 8. Opening
worship with Cardinal Hume
Sunday 3
10.00am Consort Gallery, Sherfield. Service.
6.00pm More House, 53 Cromwell Road. Service.
Monday 4/Tuesday 5
Lunchtime Workshops (see opposite)
Wednesday 6
12.30am Fiead Theatre, Sherfield level 5. Meditation
on the life of Christ by Rev Michael Day.
7.30pm Botany Common Room, Beit. 'What is the
G o s p e l ? ' , an evening of exploration and
proclamation.
7.30pm More House. Film about Cardinal Sin's work
in the Philipines.
Thursday 7/Friday 8
Lunchtime Workshops (see opposite)
Friday 8
7.30pm More House Party and worship with Revue.
FELIX Friday 1 February 1985 13

