ECLUBS_
PHOTOSOC
More whingeing
For those of you who are waiting in eager
anticipation for the new colour enlarger to
arrive, we have some very disappointing
news. It is proving very difficult indeed to get
the money off the union. When our request
was submitted to the RCC Chairman a week
before the last UFC meeting, we were given
no indication that it would not be approved.
Then, at the meeting itself, he refused to put
our proposal to the committee unless we
could state exactly what was wrong with the
old enlarger and exactly how much it would
cost to repair, even though we were planning
to purchase a new enlarger irrespective of
whether or not the old one had broken.
(After all, when drawing up a 5-year plan, you
can't say exactly when something will need
replacing). In these days of financial belt-
tightening, however, it seems that this
argument is not valid, although it must have
been valid when the 5-year plan was drawn
up.
All this is symptomatic of the way
photosoc has always been treated by the
union. The club has been seriously
underfunded for a very long time, just so that
some so-called 'prestigious' clubs such as
gliding or ballooning can be cheaper for their
(comparatively few) members. Now that the
financial situation is very bad all clubs are
being asked to tighten their belts, but is it
really fair to ask everyone to tighten their
belts equally when some are already
suffering from malnutrion? There is no
reason why a well-equipped photographic
society shouldn't bring just as much prestige
to the union as a gliding club or ballooning
club.
And now, more whingeing! If you have
improperly labelled bottles of chemicals in
the darkrooms and you don't want them
throwing away, then please remove them
before Wednesday (5 Feb) otherwise they
will be. Also, if we find out who it was broke
the large masking frame and the contact
printer, he (or she) will be receiving a visit
from several large gentlemen from the
Karate club.
Finally, the good news! (we've saved the
best bit till last!) It may be possible for some
members to go along to press-calls at the
Royal Opera House in Convent Garden, but
numbers will be limited to one or two people
at a time, more detailslater. If anyone went to
the RSC press-call last term has developed
their pictures, please bring them to the j
committee meeting so we can all see them.
Lastly, there will be another slide show in our
'Great British Photographers' series in Elec
Eng 408 at 6.00pm on Tuesday 19 Feb, and it
promises to be really great, so come early to I
be sure of getting in!
QTSOC
There was a great wailing and a gnarling of
teeth and people rent their clothes (tuxedo's,
dinner jackets, etc). And it come to pass that
a multitude gathered in the meeting places,
for it was the time set for the gathering.
Behold there came a voice from on high: 'Yea
verily I say unto thee that Melvyn Bragg will
speak to this society on Feb 5'.
And the multitude were agog with the
wisdom and intelligence of the man and they
chanted in unison: 'All praise O Tall One!
Thou has fulfilled all thy promises, all praise!'.
Now amongst the people there was a lowly
serf who claimed to be secretary, and he
spoke up timidly — 'Ehm, I hate to spoil a
good plot but Mr Bragg will be overseas on
that date, to be more explicit, in sunny
Denmark!'.
The crowd were astounded by this feat
and they shouted in amazement — 'Yea, will
Melvyn not only speak to us on the date set
aside, but he will address us from Denmark!
All Praise! All Pra... hand on a minute'. The
scrowd became suddenly silent and gazed
upwards for guidance. The chairman's voice
boomed out with a distinct Northern accent:
'I have decided upon a number of options,
'and he described them in great detail.
lSend Melvyn a megaphone—cost £50.
2Buy two dozen return tickets to
Copenagen — cost £108 each from Dan-Air.
3Arrange for Melvyn to speak to a joint
QT/Humanities audence in the Read
Lecture theatre on Feb 21 — cost peanuts.
And it came to pass that the crowd voted
in line with tradation — with their wallets,
and the final option was chosen by a huge
majority of 2-0. There was great rejoicing and
dancing in the streets and they all lived
happily ever after, especially the 'very nice
boys'.
?soc
In a dark cobwebbed corner of the sprawling
complex, a video screen flickered dimly into
life. As a hand moved hesitantly across the
console, pressing a button here, adjusting a
control there, other screens sprang into
wakefulness. On some, faint squiggles and
hieroglyphics resolved themselves into pink
words on a putrid green background. With a
muttered oath, the one they called Char-man
(he liked tea) hurled himself at the colouriser
console and wrested with the homeostat on
the Anthrax Modulation Subsystem. After a
few frantic moments, the screen blazed forth
once again in the yellow-on-blue colours of
The Service.
The FELIX Hack shivered involuntarily.
Although he had volunteered for this
hazardous mission, indeed had suffered the
torments of hypno-surgery to dull his
responses to such noisome sights, his skin
crawled beneath his plasti-mask disguise. He
shuddered, and prayed be would not be
caught. The thought of inquisition by the
dread pair, the ones known only as RC and
RP, filled his mind with dread. Why did I ever
agree to try and find out what STOIC are
showing on Tuesday, he asked himself? Just
then, a shadow fell across him. He looked up,
startled, and a scream died to a gurgle in his
throat as he beheld the ravaged features
before him.
On struggling back to consciousness, our
Hero found himself manacled to the wall of
the dreaded Star Chamber. All hope drained
from him, as he hung limply against the cold
stone. Fighting to make his eyes obey his will,
he focussed on the opposite wall, where
someone had writtne 'Nigel Rees in
conversation on STOIC, OK' with a can of
spray paint. So that was it! This was the dark
secret of Tuesday's Transmission. The
master of graffiti himself! What irony that he
could not communicate this information
back to the office...(to be continued?).
14 Friday 1 February 1985 FELIX

