CLUBSZ]
SF SOC
Downing Street bunker
The Russian agent rechecked the plans.
'Yes,' he thought, 'this shaft leads down
towards the sewers, that would account for
the smell, now, one of these two should take
me to the bunker'. He consulted the
compass and chose the left hand one, being
careful not to tread in anything as he had a
while back. The continual smell of sewage
receded as the tunnel wound its way
upwards, and the air was getting warmer. He
looked at the map again. 'Not far to go now'.
A faint noise, behind him. There it was
again, definitely a footstep. Someone was
following. He carefully retraced his steps and
hid at the junction. Time check — only ten
munutes until the NATO conference begins.
'I must be there from the start. The Star
Wars plans have to reach Moscow'.
The footsteps were closer now. He
crouched into the shadows and waited for his
adversary -presumeably some security
guard. There he was - a head poking out of
the sewer tunnel. Aim the torch-right. Light
on. The target was fixed in the cone of light.
The Russian's arm flew through the air and
connected with the enemy's nose there was a
sharp crack and the man's body jerked with
fits and convulsions. Then he fell, back into
the sewer, with a faint sploth noise. The way
was clear.
As he continued up the tunnel the Russian
considered his foe. That was no NATO
guard, he was sure, but one of the Chinese.
This was going to be a popular meeting.
The end of the tunnel was in sight and the
spy emerged into a space beneath the steps
of a large theatre. A presentation was in
progress. He squinted at the screen. Men in
armour, swords, horses? -What was this? He
consulted his map. 'Oh No! I'm underneath
the wrong room. This is Imperial College, not
the Downing Street Bunker!'.
Join the Russian spys at the SF Soc film
showing of EXCALIBUR, John Boormans
superb Arthurian Epic. Starts at 6.30 in Mech
Eng 220 on Tuesday 5 Feb. If you want to
read some books come along to the Green
Committee Room on Thursday, 1.00pm
NEWS FLASH — The SF Soc-WIST
charades match last Thursday was a close
thing — final score SF 36 WIST 33, and a
good time was had by all.
RAG
Back from the Bogul Stroll
And so it came to pass that in the year of
our Lord, nineteen hundred and eighty four,
our gallant chairman went off in search of
intellectual enlightenment and a quiet
weekend in Blackpool with the NUS, leaving
two intrepid soc reps, who also happened to
be the rag mag editor and treasurer to
venture into other distant parts near the city
of much sunshine and Bogul Strollers
(Manchester) to attend the National Rag
Conference.
So far this year, though the money is still
rolling in, Rag week has made over £3000
which with the RCSU rag trip and tiddley
winks brings the grand total for this year up
to nearly £7000. Still to look forward to is Rag
Fete in the Summer term, however, to fill in
time till then we have started discussing the
organisation of next year's committee and
rag week events.
Since the return of the conference
delegates, a major revolt has occured — no
longer shall chairmen have to take the full
weight of organisation upon themselves. At
the conference presentation meeting last
week, a media manager and a marketing
manager were elected. Still needed are
people to take charge of Insurance,
Sponsorships and lots of letter writing for the
rest of this year. Anyone willing to be
involved — we have something for you to do!
The next meeting is on Thursday 7 in the
UDH at 12.45pm and — everyone is invited
— now is the time to get involved if you feel
that you can offer something for next year.
The agenda is lotteries, processions,
possible events and the committee
structure. Please come along if you have any
ideas for students or events or want to help in
the organisation — especially at Rag Fete or
next year's beer festival. If you have any
jokes or articles that you would like to See in
next years rag mag come along or drop a line
to Tony Spencer, Life Sci 1. All soc reps
should come, send apologies or face the
wrath of the hitsquad!
And so it came to pass that in the year of
our lord, nineteen hundred and eighty five,
our gallant treasurer turned his mind back
upon the spiritual meaning of the vorticity
tensor...
Biotech blasts off
BIOTECH BLASTS OFF
A lot of interest has been aroused by the new
College Biotechnology Society (CBS).
Combining the go-ahead aspects of
business, biology, and engineering it could
hardly fail. And no chance has been missed
to enjoy the tastier (well, alcoholic) products
biotechnology has to offer.
One such chance was the first CBS full
meeting. The evening was brisk and bright.
Four excellent speakers (Drs Palmer,
Langley, Stuckey and Cass) each gave the
'edited highlights' from their respective
fields: plant studies, the biotech business,
chem eng and biosensors. It was easy to
share the enthusiasm for such good
biotechnology-and it's all done here at IC!
So how will CBS follow the first success?
Much behind-the scenes work has been
done lining up a programme for the coming
year, and it looks very good. It would be a
good idea to get in on the act now as recruits
will soon have a chance to be on the
committee. Elections for the top posts
(President, Secretary, and Treasuer) and
others must be held this term. (Who cares
that it looks good on a CV-the CBS was set
up as a vehicle enjoyable for almost anyone!)
The person to contact is Jeremy Green-
the man who now runs CBS. Though a
postgrad he is determined that CBS should
remain an undergraduate-oriented club.
Bright and able students from anywhere in
college at all interested in CBS would do well
if they contacted him soon (Biochmistry
building room 217 or ext 4142
There will be an open CBS meeting at
5.30pm on Monday 4 Feb in 702 Biochem. It's
for discussion and you can join the
committee then.
FELIX Friday 1 February 1985 15

