•TITERS
Silwood Park
Dear Sir,
I feel your report in last week's FELIX (No
693), headed, 'Hendy in Silwood resignation
shocker', requires some further comment.
It has been Union policy for a number of
years to hold one Council meeting at the
College field station at Silwood Park.
Silwood is not only a place of full-time study
for many postgraduates and academic staff,
but is also frequently used for a variety of
undergraduate courses ranging from
Zoology field studies to Civil Engineering
surveying courses and Physics practicals
using the nuclear reactor. It also plays host to
a number of social functions, the RCS
Summer Ball, Orchestra rehearsal weekends
and joint PG parties to name a few.
Over recent years Silwood has become very
much detached from the main campus at
South Kensington and I, in conjunction with
the previous and present Silwood Park
Chairman, have done my best, I believe with
much success, to bring some cohesion and
understanding between the two.
These points along with the fact that
Silwood receives a sizeable grant from IC
Union should make it apparent that Silwood
and its residents are as much as part of ICU as
the buildings and students in South
Kensington. It did not seem unreasonable
therefore to expect the members of Council
to make a small effort to attend a meeting at
Silwood. After all, the Silwood Chairman
attends numerous meetings at South
Kensington.
Silwood is likely to undergo major changes
in the coming few years, not all of benefit to
the students. Without the backing of Union
as a whole, their views are unlikely to be
heard. To fail to go to Silwood for this
meeting would be a personal slight to all the
residents there. Who could blame them if
they look suspiciously on students attending
short courses?
I should also like to point out to Council
members and those that voted them to office,
that if they are unable to spare the time they
can always delegate their vote to somebody
else, better surely than being unrepresented.
I hope this letter explains my position and
that the majority of Council members take
their positions with a sufficently responsible
attitude to make my resignation unnecessary.
Yours sincerely,
Chris Hendy
IC Council Chairman
PG AAO 1984/85
2
Dear Sir,
I would like to offer my full support to
Chris Hendy over his threatened resignation
from his post as Council Chairman. Whilst
this may sound like petty hack wranglings to
many FELIX readers, Chris is one of the
most responsible members of Council, and
the principles involved are very important to
the future running of the Union.
Will all students reading this please go
along to the next UGM (yes I know they seem
boring, but £250,000 is a lot of money). And
if you have anything to complain about then
get off your backsides and tell your Dep Rep,
or your CCU President, or a sabbatical, but
don't just sit there and do nothing.
Chris Hendy is just trying to do his job, his
voluntary Union job, and up to now he has
been doing it well. If he should be forced to
quit then it will be a great loss, and I've got
the feeling that he will not be the last.
Thank you for reading this.
Graham Thorpe
IC Academic Affairs
Lounge, RIP off
Dear Sir,
I would like to bring to the attention of IC
students the mercenary activities of the
cowboy rip-off merchants purporting to be
Imperial College's Entertainments
Committee. The most recent of their
underhand dealings occurred after Friday
nights's Dinner and Dance, an event
attended by 300 people and costing an arm
and a leg. Ent's saw fit to cash in on the high
spirits of the occasion and the desire to go on
until the early hours.
The services they provided were
ridiculously overpriced. Their incompetence
manifested itself in their need to employ ten
groupies for the night.
We all appreciate that the Lounge is on its
last legs but we felt that some effort could
have been made to rid it of it's derelict
appearance. No efforts had been made to
decorate the room and there were an
inadequate number of chairs available and all
of two tables laid out.
All in all it was a real anti-climax to one ot
the best nights of the year and many people
left early extremely angry at being ripped-off
by fellow students and disatisfied with the
Ents services.
Those who did remain to the bitter end,
although few in number, were deprived of an
hour's 'fun' when the disco was shut down at
5 am (having been booked until 6) the Ents
Committtee charged £1 30 to cover the cost
of the unsociable hours but we estimate that
they made vast profits out of the exorbitant
prices. Who do Ents answer to for their
actions and who is checking where this
money goes to?
The Lounge is dead,
Ents RIP
Yours
Maribel Anderson
Friday 1 February 1985
FELIX
A time
for change
Michael Arthur's departure from the Student
Services Office is an ideal opportunity for a
fundamental re-organization of the way in
which that office runs.
There are irreconcilable conflicts of
interest between the efficient adminstration
of student halls of residence and the proper
provision of a welfare service. And yet the
student services office attempts to fulfill both
of these roles, often with an interchange of
staff between residence and welfare.
It is not difficult to imagine circumstances
under which a landlord would give a different
opinion or advice to a tenant than the
opinion or advice that a disinterested
counsellor would proffer.
Under those same circumstances, a
counsellor who works in the same office as
the landlord and looks to the landlord as the
superior, could hardly be expected to give
sound advice. But this is the situation that
prevails in the student services office today.
And while it prevails neither the Student
Services Officer nor the Welfare Adviser can
be expected to perform to the full potential of
their jobs.
The solution is to remove welfare
responsibilities from the student service
office and to leave it responsible for
administering College Halls and Houses. It
might well be called the Student Residence
Office.
An independent Welfare Office could then
be established, under Union control, and
preferably in the Union building.
In other words the solution is to refer to the
situation that prevailed at College in the late
70s.
Under those circumstances a Fremantle
resident could go to the Residence Office to
complain that his roof had fallen in. He could
then go to the Welfare Office to obtain
sdund, unbiased and independent advice on
what to do about it.
Acknowledgements: Particular thanks to
Hugh, who did the distribution last week,
Grenville, Ajay, Nigel, Pete, Dave Jones,
Richard, Absorbance, Finian, Luke, Jon,
John, Pete C, J, Tinker, Martin all the
collators and Rosemary and Tony.
Felix is published by the Editor for and on behalf of Imperial
College Union Publications Board and is printed by the Union Print
Unit, Imperial College, Prince Consort Road, London SW7.
Telephone 01-589 5111 Ext 3515
Editor: David Rowe, Business Manager: Martin Taylor,
Advertising Manager: Paul Belford.
Copyright FELIX 1985. ISSN 10140-0711.
FELIX

