CLETTERS
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR
Letters should be handed in before 12.30pm
on Wednesday. Early letters stand greater
chance of being published.
Unsigned letters will not be considered for
publication.
Tweedledee
Dear Sir,
The recent platform given to Sinn Fein by
the Socialist Society is a major affront to the
democratic values held by the majority of
students at IC and indicates the moral
degeneracy now afflicting the Labour Party.
The IRA is a terrorist organisation,
matched only by the ANC for its ability to kill
and maim. It is evil because it ranks the
armalite higher than the ballot box in
promoting its beliefs. And it is dangerous
because it will stop at nothing to meet its
sectarian ends.
I was at the Conservative Conference in
Brighton last October and the aftermath of
the Grand Hotel bombing filled me with
nausea, yet fuelled my determination to
defeat these animals through peaceful means
rather than resort to their methods. I
welcome the contribution made to political
debate by the wide range of speakers at IC,
but not for terrorist who have forfeited their
democratic rights by virtue of their actions.
Yours in anger and disgust,
Graham Brown
Conservative Society Chairman
Re-apps
Dear Sir,
Having been a re-applicant myself this year
the recent announcement of the reduction in
re-apps next year concerns me greatly. Re-
apps are essential for the social life of the hall,
especially in the first term, and a reduction in
the numbers of re-apps would only serve to
further overload the remaining re-apps, as
well as the wardens and subwardens.
The reason for this announcement as we all
know is the imminent closure of the
Fremantle Hotel. The closure of the hotel at
the end of the year has sadly resulted in the
total disregard of the 100 current residents
(myself included) by Student Services, in fact
Student Services are tending to support the
ridiculous claims of the owner, who blames
every fault, no matter how big, on the
residents. Consequently, over the last few
weeks the building has developed into an
awful state of disrepair. Ten roofs (at least)
have leaked since term began and the heating
has been off for the last two weeks, and
nothing at all has been done to help get the
place fixed.
The standard attitude at the moment is 'the
Fremantle is shutting in five months, why
should wefixit'? This could be understood if
the problems were small, but they are not,
and I can only hope that Student Services
realise that the residents of the Fremantle are
concerned about the total lack of assistance
from the people who supposedly help
students with accommodation problems.
Your sincerely,
K P Gardner
Clarification
Dear Sir,
The general response to the issue of human
rights in Northern Ireland highlighted in
College by the Catholic Society indicates that
some clarification of what we were actually
saying is necessary.
In a personal capacity, and as co-author of
the original article in FELIX I would
therefore like to make the following points:
1 The Catholic Society does not support
Sinn Fein. It condemns the violence of the
IRA, the INLA, the UVF—in effect the
violence of all paramilitary groups.
2 It therefore abhors all deaths and injuries
and family suffering caused by the conflict.
This includes the death of all security force
members. Such happenings are all contrary
to the teaching of Christ.
3 It re-interates its call of attention to what
are also serious issues of the conflict — the
Prevention of Terrorism Act, lethal mob
control weapons and unnecessary strip
searching of women.
It was the unfortunate consequence of the
limited space available for our article that it
may have appeared in some sense
unbalanced. It -anyone has any further
misgivings on the views we put forward then
please do not hesitate to get in touch with me
or any committee member. All dialogue will
be welcomed.
I would like to conclude by saying that, as a
Christian, I find that one of the most valuable
assets of my faith is that it teaches
unconditional love and respect. Hardly
surprisingly this is the most difficult value to
incorporate into one's daily life; but I am
convinced that unless we learn to take the risk
of showing love, fairness, respect to our
enemies then never are we going to see an end
to violence in this society.
Yours,
Stephen Curry
IC Cathsoc
Chairman
Pudding
Dear Sir,
With the falling pound, and higher interest
rates, Easter vacations abroad must now
seem quite unlikely for most students. There
can be no doubt this is all part of a capitalist
lacky running-dogs of Western imperialism
ploy to grind down proletariat students. We
must unite in the struggle for a higher pound.
I cannot have been the only one to notice
that Lord Flowers will be an excellent Vice-
Chancellor of the streamlined University of
London after his IC experience of three
constituent colleges.
Yours,
Till the cows come home,
Alan Pudding (Mr)
Tweedledum
Dear Sir,
I feel that I must respond to the article in
last week's FELIX and clear up a few points
about Socialist Society's meeting with a
speaker from Sinn Fein. Socialist Society is
currently organizing a number of events
around the topic of Northern Ireland, since
we feel that, as British people, we have a
particular responsibility to examine the
conflict in that region. For too long Northern
Ireland has been a 'taboo', with only repeated
condemnations of the IRA's violence being
echoed, in the almost total absence of serious
debate on the issue. One only needs to watch
the Party conferences each autumn to see
how the subject of Northern Ireland is simply
ignored. If anyone sincerely wishes to see
peace in Ireland, they must be prepared to
open up debate and discussion, and this must
include all the parties involved, however vile
one may find their ideas or actions.
During Human Rights Week Socialist
Society showed a film about the Prevention
of Terrorism Act and brought in an
exhibition on the use of plastic bullets. These
events passed with very low attendance, no
reports and little reaction. Later this term we
have a speaker from the SDLP (which is
incidentally diametrically opposed to Sinn
Fein) to talk about the New Ireland Forum,
and this too will pass by without incident or
controversy. What should by now be clear is
that our meeting in no way implied support
for Skin Fein or the IRA, amd must be seen in
the perspective of opening up serious
discussion of the issue.
As for the posters being displayed in view
of the public I wouldjust like to say that when
the first posters went up on Wednesday
morning we confined them to the Walkway
and inside departments, for precisely the
reason that they would not be on show to the
public. However, on the Thursday morning
less care was taken due to the fact that 50% of
those that went up on the Wednesday were
torn down by some people (whose belief in
Free Speech is apparently quite selective)
within a couple of hours.
I hope that this clears up any
misunderstandings, and I would like to invite
anyone with ideas on the subject to come
along an'd get involved in Soc-Soc's activities.
Yours sincerely,
Julian Bommer
Civ Eng 3
4 Friday 1 February 1985 FELIX

