O P I N I O N j
South Africa by IC Anti-Apartheid group
SOUTH AFRICA
South Africa is a country of immense
wealth and its white population,
accounting for 15.5% of the total
population, has one of the highest
standards of living in the world. Yet 25%
of black children die before they reach
the age of one, and many more are
permanently crippled by malnutrition
related illnesses. Education is
segregated and the black system is
openly designed to prepare blacks for
their second class role: even their
makeshift overcrowded classrooms give
most black children little more than
primary level schooling. Health careis
grossly inadequate, with consequent life
expectancy of 40-45 years for blacks
compared with 70 for whites. Black
workers are ruthlessly exploited—with a
wage gap of 12:1 in mining for example.
Their families, officially designated as
'non-productive Bantu', are often
forcibly removed to the barren wastes of
the Bantustans. The black community
has no political rights, their
organisations are outlawed and their
leaders are jailed—removing all
opportunity for them to change the
system in the ways open to democratic
societies.
wm
m
The Imperial Coiiege Anti-Apartheid Group
exists to make people aware of the injustices
of the Apartheid system in South Africa. The
society sees its main role within IC,. in
dissuading peoole from working in South
Africa, or in any way which directly helps the
conrinuatiou of Apartheid.
Recruitment
The South African economy has a
continual demand for skilled and
professional workers, which cannot be met
from the white population within the
country. At the same time, however, their is
a high level of unemployment within the
black community (21-24%). The system of
job reservation—which continues despite
recent statutory changes—prevents blacks
from taking these posts. Without this strict
racial demarcation in employment, black
workers would require proper education,
wage gaps would narrow, all peoples would
start to compete on equal terms and blacks
could even hold positions of seniority above
whites. Hence the apartheid system depends
upon whites being found to fill skilled and
professional jobs—and if those whites
cannot be found inside South Africa they are
sought outside.
Thus the recruitment of graduates from
Imperial College for work in South Africa
directly contributes to the frustration of
black aspirations, and to the continuance of
apartheid.
Within this College job opportunities in
South Africa are not available to all students.
Although for obvious reasons those
employers offering posts in South Africa do
not publicise racial barriers, such barriers do
exist. Only white graduates can successfully
apply for jobs in South Africa. It is deeply
offensive to the many black students within
this and other colleges, that the recruitment
for these jobs goes on here. Although
recruitment to employment outside the UK
is not covered by the Race Relations Act, it is
still, nevertheless, clearly racial
discrimination.
This College (particularly RSM) has strong
graduate employment, research, and even
educational links with South Africa and
Companies heavily involved in South Africa
and Namibia.
Namibia
South Africa's mandate over Namibia ended
in 1966, since then it has been occupying
Namibia illegally and enforcing apartheid
laws there. Hence working for a company in
Namibia also helps the continuance of
apartheid both in Namibia and South Africa.
In 1966 the General Assembly of the
United Nations terminated the mandate
exercised by South Africa over Namibia. The
commission concluded that South Africa's
continued occupation of Namibia was illegal.
The United Nations Decree for the
Protection of the Natural Resources of
Namibia, approved by the General
Assembly, forbids the kind of operations
undertaken by companies such as RTZ in
Namibia. It forbids the exploitation of the
natural resources of Namibia without the
consent and permission of the United
Nations Council for Namibia and invalidates
any 'permission, concession or licence' for
the exploitation of these resources granted
by the South African regime or any authority
purporting to act on its behalf.
On 11 February, a speaker from the
Namibia Support Committee will talk about
the Campaign against the Namibian
Uranium Contract (CANUC)— uranium
mined illegaly by RTZ in Namibia, for half of
Britain's civil and military uranium needs.
For further information, see the folder
Facts about South Africa and Namibia' in
the careers library, contact AAM, 13
Mandela Street, London NW1 ODW, and
come to our meeting.
Feb 11 — CANUC
Feb 18 — South Africa prisoners of
conscience
Feb 21 — Party — two live bands
March 4 — The Church in South Africa
FELIX Friday 1 February 1985

