For anyone considering a career in biologi-
cal or medical research, the old catchphrase
“Never work with children or animals” often
comes into play. Biological data never quite
does what you want it to. Sometimes a scien-
tist’s intuition, or even looking graphs of your
data, tells you that the trend you’re looking
for does exist. But now the question is, how
can one get the statistics to prove it to the rest
of the scientific world?
This dilemma has troubled many a biol-
ogy student over the course of time. There
is nothing worse than the feeling of despair,
after spending many weeks in the lab, or out
in the field in the heat, rain or cold, to come
to analysing your data and to discover that
the result is...nothing. But with biological or
medical data, this is often invariably the case.
There are many reasons for this. Firstly,
animals, plants and people are affected by a
multitude of complex factors that all interact
with each other. Even if you have an idea of
the main factors that may be affecting your
results, and you measure these, it is impos-
sible to measure every single factor, and ac-
count for every single bias. But statistics is
a wide field, and there are some interesting
statistical tests out there which can be very
useful to biologists.
Quantile regression is a test that can be
used when you have unequal variation in your
data. Biological data often has unequal varia-
tion. This is because if many factors are af-
fecting the variables you are measuring, this
means that there is often more than one rate
of change between one measured variable
and another, due to some of the unmeasured
factors. Biological data is also often subject
to limiting factors, where the minimum and
maximum responses measured may be under
quite different constraints. Quantile regres-
sion analysis allows you to estimate multiple
rates of change in your data, and using this
you can often find results that other regres-
sion methods may have missed out on.
Another problem biologists often face is
that of outliers that mess up their results. Why
couldn’t that one fish/fruit fly/mouse behave
like the others? Does it make sense to ignore
it, or is that bad science?
Robust regression is a method especially
developed to deal with influential outliers. If
Don’t regress into despair
FELIX
Friday 01 june 2012
12
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Science Editors: Kelly Oakes
Alexander Karapetian
SCIENCE
In brief
On the second anniversary of the Deepwater Ho-
rizon oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico, a new report
suggests that existing scientific models were
inadequate to deal with the disaster. The team,
based at the University of California, Santa Bar-
bara, have published the first comprehensive
study of what happened at the Deepwater oil
spill in 2010.
Releasing an estimated 206 million gallons of
oil at unprecedented depths, the spill was the
largest accidental marine spill in the history of
the petroleum industry.
Chemical dispersants, which are often used in
shallow-water and surface spills, were applied
to the spill to clean up and contain the oil.
“That model works well for pipeline breaks
and tanker ruptures,” explains co-author Sean
Anderson, an associate professor at California
State University Channel Islands, “but it is in-
adequate for this novel type of deep blowout.”
The study found that the majority of the oil is
retained at depth, rapidly emulsified and dis-
persed by the resulting action of the pressurised
oil jetting from the wellbore.
“We have generally hailed the use of (chemi-
cal) dispersants as helpful, but really are basing
this on the fact we seemed to have kept oil from
getting to the surface,” argues co-author Gary
Cherr, director of University of California, Davis’s
Bodega Marine Lab.
“The truth is much of this oil probably was
staying at depth, independent of the amount of
surfactants we dumped into the ocean. And we
dumped a lot of dispersants into the ocean—all
told, approximately one-third of the global sup-
ply.”
While the team have identified that the bulk
of the impact would have been in the mid-water
and deep ocean, very little is known about the
marine ecology at such depths. As a result of
these findings, the study calls for further inves-
tigation into the long-term effects of deep-water
oil spills.
Flora Malein
Shedding light on the Deepwater
Horizon oil spill
you’re getting really fancy, you can even sta-
tistically prove that something is an outlier,
by using tests such as the cook’s D statistic.
Robust regression does not ignore that one
annoying ant/shrub/patient in your data, but it
takes into account the fact that it is an outlier
and down-weights it accordingly, often help-
ing you to get more useful results.
So before your lack of results gets you
down and makes you wonder why you didn’t
go for that career in the City, remember that it
sometimes takes just a little bit more patience
to pull out your breakthrough scientific find-
ings.
Maya Kaushik
It’s been nearly sixty years since Marilyn
Monroe and Jane Russell told of the gen-
tleman’s penchant for blondes, but it has
recently come to light that mother nature
herself may feel the same way: blonde hair
evolved twice.
Now, I’m sure you were all aware that the
principal evolution of blonde hair occurred
in northern Europe about 11,000 years ago
as a result of a mutation of the hair colour
gene MC1R, right? Though you may not
have known of the prevalence of naturally
fair hair in Melanesia, a group of islands in
the Pacific Ocean, north-east of Australia,
where it is thought that around 10% of the
natives display the trait (thus making the
answer to the question posed in the title ap-
proximately one million). Despite possess-
ing the darkest skin pigmentation of any
non-African population, the Melanesians
account for the greatest incidence of the
blonde barnet outside of Europe.
It had long been the consensus of opinion
that this unusual follicular occurrence was
due to the seed-spreading of European colo-
nisers, yet research undertaken by Kenny et
al. (2012) confirms that its evolution is the
result of a mutation independent to that of
the aforementioned MC1R gene:
After comparing the genomes of blonde
and dark-haired Melanesians, Kenny and
his colleagues ascertained that the presence
of the former is instead caused by a muta-
tion of the TRYP1 gene, which is in turn
responsible for an enzyme that denotes hair
colour in various mammals. However, the
gene in question has no bearing on pigmen-
tation among European populations, mean-
ing that the two varieties of blonde hair
are completely unrelated in terms of their
genetic basis. Further evidence is provided
by the high likelihood that this particular
mutation of the TRYP1 gene is exclusive to
the Pacific Islands.
So how did this unusual physical charac-
teristic reach such abundance throughout
How many blondes in Melanesia?
the various isolated populations that consti-
tute Melanesia?
This is surely the question that Kenny
will now be asking himself, especially as
the blonde mutation is proven to be reces-
sive, meaning that it must be inherited from
both parents in order to acquire the golden
locks in question.
Perhaps said hair colour constitutes some
sort of advantage when it comes to attract-
ing mates, the same way it does in Europe
(as well as a certain film from the ‘50s).
Or maybe the mutation does not account
for all cases of blonde hair among Melane-
sians: some such instances may be related
to the relative age, gender or sun exposure
of individuals.
In what will be considered by many the
greatest anticlimax since the rapture of 21st
May 2011, I’m going to put forward the
theory that the high frequency of blonde
hair in Melanesia was the result of simple
chance.
DOI:10.1126/science.1217849
Robert Treasure
The BP oil rig ablaze
Regression analysis. Actually as simple as drawing a big arrow through some dots
U.S. Coast Guard

