SCIENCE
FELIX Friday 01 june 2012 13
Sugar and the brain
S
cientists have warned stu-
dents preparing for exams
that eating sugary desserts
makes you stupid.
Scientists have known
for a long time that sugar makes you
fat. But now a group of neuroscien-
tists in California believe that a sugary
diet also slackens the brain, harms the
mind’s ability to absorb knowledge
and disturbs memory.
The scientists believe that eating fish
and flaxseed oils can minimise this
damage, which is caused by a high
fructose diet.
Fructose is a simple sugar naturally
found in fruit. However, the type of
fructose found in fruit is not harmful
because of the high level of antioxi-
dants also found in fruit.
By contrast, the fructose found in
preservatives and sweeteners like High
Fructose Corn Syrup is often injected
into food and drink with no nutrients
or antioxidants, such as fizzy drinks,
condiments and other processed foods.
Many blame the introduction of
High Fructose Corn Syrup onto the
food market on President Richard Nix-
on, whose war on poverty led him to
seek cheaper, sweeter and more easily
transportable sugar than normal table
sugar.
Although a high fructose diet is well-
known for its harmful effects on the
body, leading to diabetes and obesity,
the Californian study is one of the first
to suggest that it may also harm learn-
ing and brain function.
Four groups of rodents were fed a
standard rat feed for one week prior to
the experiment, which was conducted
at the University of California and
published in The Journal of Physiol-
ogy in May.
The rodents were also trained to
navigate a complex maze that only had
one exit. The rats were able to locate
and remember the exit using a series
of visual cues or signposts scattered
throughout the labyrinth.
An ordinary rat will learn to locate
the exit, travelling directly there, after
four or five attempts.
After this initial training phase, the
researchers continued to feed one
group of rodents the normal rat feed.
Another group received the rat feed
but also received fish and flaxseed oils,
which are a source of omega-3-fatty
acids.
The final two groups of rodents were
given a high fructose diet. One of
these groups received additional ome-
ga-3-fatty acids along with their new
fructose-enhanced feed.
Six weeks later, all four groups were
returned to the maze. The rats that
were fed a high fructose diet fared the
worst, taking the longest to find their
way out of the maze. By contrast, those
who ate the normal rat feed that had
been supplemented with omega-3-fat-
ty acids navigated the maze faster than
any other group.
After the challenge, the scientists
Fructose, a sweetener used widely in processed food and drink, can also be found in fruits and High Fructose Corn Syrup. Antioxidants in fruits prevent their fructose from being harmful
topnews.in
dissected the rats’ brains to look at
the effects of the different diets on the
brain cells.
They found that the brains of the
rats that were fed a high fructose diet
displayed signs of insulin resistance, a
well-known culprit of obesity and dia-
betes. Again, this resistance was great-
est in rats that didn’t receive the fish
and flaxseed oils.
The neuroscientists who worked on
the Californian rat study advise stu-
dents gearing up for exams to skimp on
dessert to improve their brain’s ability
Zara Shubber looks at scientists’ warnings that high fructose diets may be detrimental to memory
D-Fructose (above). High-fructose corn syrup (HFCS) is a mixture of glucose and fructose as monosaccharides
to absorb knowledge.
But, if the temptation to eat sugar
proves too powerful, they also recom-
mend eating more omega-3 in order to
boost the brain’s function.
Gomez-Pinilla, the lead researcher,
recommends taking a gram per day of
omega-3 by eating fish, flaxseed oil or
fish oil supplements.
“It’s like saving money in the bank.
You want to build a reserve for your
brain to tap when it requires extra fuel
to fight off future diseases,” he said.

