Tips & Hacks
technology.felix@imperial.ac.uk
BlackBerry OS may be licensed
It’s not uncommon knowledge that RIM – the com-
pany behind the BlackBerry smartphones – aren’t
enjoying an easy ride in either the phone or tablet
sectors. In the last year we have seen them suffer
a large hit on their profits, the massive outage that
affected millions of users, and the two CEOs of the
company stepping down to try and ‘shake up’ the
firm. They have warned of a loss for this quarter,
and may have to make job cuts in order to survive.
It seems the physical keyboard and excellent email
system aren’t enough to keep existing customers
and attract new ones – RIM are going to have to
start bringing something new to the table. One defi-
nite plan is the release of BlackBerry 10 – a new
operating system that will, among other things, run
Android apps on the BlackBerry device. However,
some experts think this is ‘too little, too late’, and
that the company may have to resort to more ex-
treme measures, for example licensing their propri-
etary operating system to other phone manufactur-
ers. Only time will tell whether or not RIM can pull
themselves back into the land of profit.
The Kana: a mouse for all
FELIX
Friday 01 june 2012
15
Technology Editors: Chris Bowers
Feroz Salam
TECHNOLOGY
The Pirate Bay blocked by ISPs
At the end of last month, leading UK Internet Ser-
vice Providers were ordered by UK courts to pre-
vent their customers from accessing the popular
torrent site The Pirate Bay. Virgin Media began
their block just two days later, whereas BT have
asked for “a few more weeks to consider its posi-
tion”. This is something of a landmark occasion
for anti-piracy campaigning in the UK, as it is likely
any similar bans will pass through the courts with
some ease after this first occurrence. However,
The Pirate Bay themselves couldn’t care less. The
day following the ban, they claimed to have had
12 million visitors more than their previous record.
Along with advice on how to bypass the ban, they
are quoted as saying “We should write a thank you
note to the BPI” with regards to the extra traffic.
The problem with all this is almost all users of the
site will easily bypass the ban, supporters of a
completely open internet will be riled by the deci-
sion, and the copyright holders have – in effect
– gained nothing.
cursor/gun/whatever did it too, with no skips
or jumps.
My only minor (and it is minor) gripe with
the Kana is that the side buttons are almost a
little too easy to press. Sometimes when I put
my hand back on the mouse, I would acciden-
tally hit the button on the right-hand side. Cer-
tainly not the biggest deal in the world, but it
could be a nuisance if that button were mapped
to something important.
Other than that, I find it very difficult to
fault this mouse. It has great performance, and
ticks the boxes of both comfort and aesthetic
appeal. The software adds rather than detracts
to the package as well, allowing unlimited
profiles, easy button mapping, and even a heat
map of how much you press each button over
some time period. Oh, and did I mention the
scroll wheel is illuminated on each side (which
can have different brightness settings based on
the active profile)? How cool is that!
If you’re looking for a reliable, high-per-
formance gaming mouse for around £40, the
SteelSeries Kana may well be for you.
all manner of coiling and use, and promises to
be tangle-free.
So the mouse looks good, and feels good,
but how does it perform? I used it as my
mouse for a week, for general use as well as
gaming – including Call of Duty, where a slip
of the mouse can be the difference between
life and death. Regardless of the surface I was
playing on – be it my multi-coloured mouse
mat or the seat of the sofa – the Kana didn’t
miss a beat. The sensor within is evidently of
very high quality. Whatever my hand did, my
The SteelSeries Kana is a gaming mouse
promising a good specification but at a rea-
sonable price. Armed with a high resolution
sensor (3200dpi), two side buttons, two on-
board profiles and a resilient, braided cable, it
certainly looks good on paper. I’ve been using
it for the past week, so let’s take a look at how
it is in practice.
First impressions were good – the Kana is
certainly a striking mouse. Whichever colour
you choose (it’s available in white/black and
black/orange), the contrast looks great. How-
ever, the colour doesn’t really impact how
good the mouse is, but thankfully SteelSeries
hasn’t sacrificed in that department to deliver
on prettiness.
The Kana is an ambidextrous mouse – com-
pletely symmetrical. While this took a while
to get used to (I usually use an ergonomic
mouse), once over that bump the mouse is
comfortable, and you could definitely use
it for hours of continuous play. This design
means there’s a large button on each side of
the mouse, which can be mapped in-game or
using the SteelSeries Engine software.
The rest of the buttons are as you’d expect,
with the addition of a profile toggling button
– which allows you to switch between two
on-board sensitivity settings on the fly. This
all connects to your computer with a braided,
durable cord, which feels like it will survive
Chris Bowers
Who can resist an orange glowing scrollwheel?
A company has produced a new USB device,
dubbed Leap, that creates an interaction space
of 8 cubic feet in which hand gestures up to
an accuracy of 0.01 millimeters can be recog-
nised. The company, Leap Motion, uses tech-
nology which proves cheaper than the current
state of the art: Microsoft’s Kinect sensor.
The technology, predicted to work with ei-
ther a higher resolution camera or by using in-
frared Light Detection And Ranging (LIDAR),
is about ‘two-hundred times more accurate
than existing products and technologies on the
market’, reports the manufacturer.
The Leap device is expected to ship next year
for roughly $70, and the technical details be-
hind its operation are kept secret by Leap Mo-
tion, who only cite a ‘patented mathematical
approach’ in their methods. The methods used
in improving the device will start to emerge
in the public domain as developers eventually
get their hands on the Leap, and the company
looks set to take the direction of Microsoft
with their Kinect sensor, opening it up for the
masses to use to improve their wide variety of
applications - from research to leisure.
Leap’s use case extends to a plethora of
technological applications, including virtual
gesture based keyboards in mobile devices and
futuristic, accurate navigation in desktops. The
device gives rise to questions about the future
of touch and gesture based navigation in cur-
rent technology and has the potential to usher
in an era of Minority Report style computer
control.
Kana reasonably priced gaming mouse perform? THERE, I PUNNED
A big Leap for gesture control?
Alexander Karapetian
Is this box going to revolutionise how we control our technology?

