COMMENT
FELIX Friday 01 june 2012 19
COMMENT
FELIX
I
like the Green Party. I voted for
them in May, on all three bal-
lots, and I would vote for them
again if there were a General
Election tomorrow. But, as with
most friends, they often disappoint me.
While I was severely depressed by their
pledge to offer homeopathic “medi-
cine” on the NHS, and their plans to
implement a health service for pets, the
recent news about their opposition to
genetically modified crops has been the
most disappointing thing of all.
On Sunday, Jenny Jones, the Green
Mayoral candidate, appeared at Take
the Flour Back, a protest against experi-
ments with genetically modified wheat.
I say “protest”, but really it was vandal-
ism. The “protesters” attempted (and
failed) to “decontaminate” the country-
side by destroying the scientists’ plants.
And the Green Party, fools that they are,
mentioned the event on their website.
I’m all in favour of vandalism as a
form of protest, but the protest must be
legitimate – and destroying scientists’
work is about as illegitimate as it gets.
It reeks of the Catholic Church against
Galileo, or Evangelical Christians’ ha-
tred of Evolution. The Take the Flour
Back logo is a loaf of bread with the
head and legs of a cow. The whole af-
fair is scare-mongering with no basis in
fact, and a depressing sight for anyone
who previously thought of Jenny Jones
as the most science-friendly London
candidate.
But official Green Party policy on
the matter is entirely in favour of the
experiment. “While the Green party
is more sceptical about the way GM
crops and gene patenting has been ap-
plied by multinational corporations like
Monsanto, we are not opposed to GM
research itself,” according to Green
Party press officer Scott Redding. So
that’s nice.
Jenny Jones, on the other hand, is a
fool. Genetic modification of crops is,
along with the worldwide emancipation
Greens and GM: a scientist’s dilemma
of women, the only solution to famine
and constant poverty in the developing
world. Opposing it amounts to a kind of
pre-emptive murder, a bourgeois luxury
that only those with no chance of star-
vation could endorse.
That said, the protesters do have
something that vaguely resembles a
point. The research is publicly funded,
but the resulting strain will be sold to
an agro-chemicals company, and few
things are worse for social justice than
large, powerful companies. There are,
after all, no profits in helping penniless
East Africans.
It follows that protesting against
growing the crops is ridiculous, and
instead the group should campaign to
prevent the sale of the crop to a corpo-
ration. Of course, this is a very difficult
thing to protest against, but such is life;
destroying research is a cardinal sin,
and for scientists like myself (the Green
Party’s natural voter base) it is a huge
turn-off.
I have even heard a large number of
scientists and students claim that they
will never vote Green again, which,
though understandable, is actually quite
a curious position. I suspect that had
Ken Livingstone attended the event,
we wouldn’t hear the same people
thoroughly denounce the entire Labour
party.
Some scientists and students said they
would vote Liberal Democrat. That is
remarkable, because (as I explain in
this week’s Feature) no UK Govern-
ment has ever done more to diminish
academic independence than the cur-
rent one. Compared with the increase of
tuition fees, the privatisation of parts of
the NHS, and the aggressively pro-busi-
ness position of the Research Councils
since the 2010 review, the Green Party’s
opposition to GM seems minuscule.
Others said they would vote Labour.
That is also remarkable, because no UK
Government has done more to promote
privatisation in science and academia
than that of Tony Blair, the same man
who surged ahead with the Private Fi-
nance Initiative and introduced tuition
fees in the first place. Also remember
that, when asked, all Labour MPs refuse
to answer the question of whether they
will reduce tuition fees once in office.
So they won’t.
Small, left-wing parties are held to
impossibly high standards: one mistake
and people will dismiss them instantly.
One student told me he’d never vote for
the Respect Party because George Gal-
loway was an apologist for totalitarian-
ism, but he was happy to vote for Labour
or the Liberal Democrats. I pointed out
that Labour’s David Miliband had en-
gaged in business deals with Gaddaffi
in full knowledge of his use of torture
and suppression of democracy. I told
him that the Lib Dem Vince Cable had
spent years working for Shell, a com-
pany with a dreadful record of human
rights abuses in Nigeria.
By this point he had stopped listen-
ing, but I like to think I won the argu-
ment. If, as all these students and sci-
entists suggest, we can dismiss a whole
party on the behaviour of just one of its
members, then is there any party worth
voting for?
The fact is, with all three main parties
firmly in the right-authoritarian quarter
of the political compass, the Greens of-
fer the only genuine option for bring-
ing any kind of socialism to Britain,
short of a revolution. For a left-wing
person to vote Lib Dem or Labour at
this point in history (to use a horrible
cliché) amounts to cutting off your nose
to spite your face. Until people stop dis-
missing the Greens off-hand because of
single-issue qualms, I can see no way
out of this neoliberal mess. Yes, they’re
not perfect, but of four evils the Green
Party is the least by a long, long way.
Yes, they’re not
perfect, but of
four evils the
Green Party is
the least by a
long, long way
“
Yes, th
Yes, th
perfect
perfect
”
y a
y a
way
way
Stephen Smith
Don’t blame the genetic modification for Brain’s insanity
EXAMS. Just in case you had forgotten
Y
ou know when Facebook
has that dumb “what’s
on your mind” thing
on the status box, well
there’s been one thing on
my mind all term. Exams. Trouble is,
once you get old (I’m a 4th Year…) you
just stop being phased by the whole not-
being-able-to-answer-entire-sections-
of-exams thing. Maybe I’ve become au
fait with how exams at university work,
or maybe all us final years are just burnt
out and don’t care anymore, oddly at
the most crucial stage of our degree. To
be honest with you, final years have had
so many exams for so long that we’re
just bored of them now.
I like to think it’s the former. I hon-
estly feel sorry for this year’s freshers,
and next year’s lot too. They needed a
couple of A*s, not As. Even if you do
say ‘meh, exams were harder in my
day’ you still have to appreciate the er-
ror margin they have. 10% is not much
to work with: one mistake and you’re
like a screw on a construction site – to-
tally screwed (I have exams alright, I
couldn’t be bothered to think of a bet-
ter simile). Kids nowadays (uhoh, I am
old) are so used to needing 90% on an
exam that the adjustment to suddenly
not being able to know absolutely ev-
erything perfectly and never be phased
in an exam is just incredibly extreme.
Suddenly entire parts seem like they
can’t possibly have been on the sylla-
bus.
So here comes the advice paragraph.
Relax, a bit. Half of the battle is staying
calm under the pressure. If you let the
volume of content and short amount of
time get to you, you’ll spend 2 hours in
a panic trying to look over 20 things;
you could have spent that time prop-
erly looking over 10 different bits and
it would have made a real difference
to what you know, and makes you feel
confident you’re making – admittedly
slow – progress. Essentially, what I’m
saying is look that exam right in the eye
and say the following: fuck you, I’m a
total badass. Quick note though, don’t
say that if the exam is a viva; trust me,
they won’t appreciate it. Anyway, I’m
off to revise, calmly. Good luck with
exams and projects everyone!
Tim Arbabzadah

