FELIX
20
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Comment Editors: Tim Arbabzadah
Sam Horti
COMMENT
I
’ve got a problem. A problem
with you. And your friends. The
whole lot of you, in fact, and
the way in which you all spread
your ideas using social media.
Basically, over the past couple of years
social media has quickly evolved from
a novel way of keeping in touch into a
way for people to share their passions,
problems and grievances – and in do-
ing so I’m of the firm belief that it’s
become a useless, vapid place. People
seem to think they are making a differ-
ence when they click the ‘Like’ button
– but they are, unfortunately, kidding
themselves.
You may remember that earlier this
year Felix was accused of sexism – a
claim that was correct, in many ways.
Social media was partly responsible for
the resulting scandal, but what you must
really ask yourself is this: what’s re-
ally changed? Hangman got a revamp,
but it’ll be back to its old tricks soon
enough. That’s because the content in
Hangman is basically decided by the
person who writes for it. If Hangman is
sexist or racist or whatever other “-ist”
you’d like to pick, it’s probably because
the person who wrote it was too. The
author for that article may have got a
wrap on the knuckles, but who’s to say
that the writer who comes along next
won’t be just the same? Maybe not this
year, especially when the memory is
still fresh, but next year or the year after
when everyone’s moved on there’s not
really anything that can change to stop
it happening again. It’s a problem with
society itself that people have these
sorts of opinions, and it’s going to take
a lot more than a few angry people on
Twitter to change the opinions of a na-
tion.
There’s another problem. Given that
(following from last week’s sexism sur-
vey results) it was only a disgruntled
minority that kicked up a fuss, and the
majority of Imperialites don’t really
feel affected by sexism, was it even
correct to have paid attention to these
opinions? At the time, I remember ask-
ing various people what they thought,
Social media never achieves anything
and opinion was divided. Some thought
that it was indeed trivializing rape, and
others thought it was all a big fuss over
nothing. I’m not going to be so dumb
as to pass judgment on which camp I
think was right, but I think it’s fair to
say that what I saw was a lack of con-
sensus. Why, then, was this event a big
deal – big enough to make it into a na-
tional newspaper?
I believe that it’s basically because
everyone is listening to social media
too much. Governments and compa-
nies and even individuals seem to take
Twitter very seriously – way too seri-
ously given the percentage and par-
ticular demographic of the population
it represents. Whenever someone reads
some negative criticism on social me-
dia more often than not they seem to
freak out a little bit, and normally end
up making a far overblown response.
The problem here is with the social
medium itself – Twitter and Facebook
are so quick and instant that a couple
of hours without an official response is
like a lifetime. Compare this with good
old fashioned snail mail: the speed of
reply gives a lot more time to actually
think before blurting something out
into the public domain.
Fundamentally, social media is faddy.
People are always looking for what’s
new and what’s original, and they want
you to give it to them so that they don’t
have to find it themselves. The prob-
lem with this is that it’s hard to keep
people interested for longer then about
five minutes – longer than that and
they’ve moved on to the next big thing.
You may remember the huge outpour-
ing of emotion about the American bill
SOPA, which would curtail Internet
freedom. Wikipedia, Reddit, and per-
haps even Google if I remember cor-
rectly, all got behind the ‘Stop SOPA’
campaign by making their webpages
black or dark or whatever for just over
a day. With that much exposure the
message was got out to quite a number
of people, and at the time there was a
fair amount of public outcry about it –
so much so that it’s discussion in Con-
gress was postponed until ‘consensus’
could be reached. Do you remember
how that story ended? Unless you’re
well into your technology news, you
probably don’t. It turns out that whilst
SOPA may not be such an imminent
threat, there are still plenty of other ta-
bled bills that are just like SOPA under
a different name, but worse (go look up
CISPA if you’re interested).
So why aren’t we hearing about these
on social media? Because it’s old news!
Internet freedom is, like, so last month,
guys. The thing is, social networks have
gone from being a useful method of
communication to being more like a
game. No, game is too strong a word
– popularity contest. People post links,
statuses and tweets as a way of bulking
up their own self-esteem and they use
how many ‘likes’ or ‘retweets’ they get
as a measure of acceptance amongst
peers. In many ways this is a perfectly
natural thing to do – I don’t think that
it’d be controversial to say that seeking
acceptance is a big part of human nature
– but what it means is that all people are
interested in is scoring Internet points,
not actually making a difference.
The common defense is that social
media makes people aware of an issue -
We’ve pre-emptively deployed police to Felix Online’s cyberoffices to
control the surge of comments that this article will inevitably create
All people are
interested in is
scoring Internet
points, not
actually making a
difference
”
aking a
aking a
“
All peo
All peo
interes
interes
this argument was banded about quite a
bit when the campaign against Kony hit
the stage. But so what? More people are
aware, great. Now they can make even
more people aware! Wicked. But then
all we end up with is a lot of people who
are very aware. Awareness is only use-
ful if it translates into meaningful ac-
tion. Because social media is so casual
and so quick, people don’t get involved
and people don’t get active in whatever
cause they’re promoting this week, they
just get aware. Which, I might point out,
is entirely useless. The example which I
think is the climax of this was the fad of
changing profile pictures to children’s
TV and film characters in the name of
‘stopping child abuse’. For a while this
was a huge thing and a lot of users got
involved with it, but it had next to zero
actual effect in the real world and the
fallout from it was minimal.
So here’s a tip: next time you a find a
cause that you care about, and you want
to tell all your friends on Faceplace
about it, don’t. Instead, consider actu-
ally doing something about it. Write
to your MP, donate some money to a
charity, you know, things that actually
generate change in places other than
cyberspace.
Simon
Worthington
Cat got your tongue?
Wrote up some notes on Monday, took a past paper on Tuesday, I was
revising on Wednesday, and on Thursday and Friday and Saturday and
then wrote for Comment to complain about it on Sunday.
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 01 June 2012

