Lolcatz of teh week
FELIX
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB.
Email: felix@imperial.ac.uk. Tel: 020 7594 8072. Fax: 020 7594 8065.
Printed by Iliffe Print Cambridge, Winship Road, Cambridge.
Registered newspaper ISSN 1040-0711.
Copyright © Felix 2012.
Editor-in-Chief Matthew Colvin Editor-in-Prowling Tim Arbabzadah Deputy Editor Charles Betts News Editors Sophia David Alex Nowbar Reporters Alexander Karapetian Aemun Reza Features Editors
Katy Bettany Stephen Smith Sports Editor Indy Leclercq Sports Rookies Gabriel Oppetit Johnny Wong Science Editors Kelly Oakes Alexander Karapetian Business & Finance Editors Will Prince Deepka
Rana Politics Editors Rajat Jain Joseph Letts Technology Editors Chris Bowers Feroz Salam Comment Editors Tim Arbabzadah Samuel Horti Arts Editors Will Prince Eva Rosenthal Music Editors Mark
England Ross Gray Simon Hunter Íñigo Martínez De Rituerto Alex Ramadan Fashion Editors Saskia Verhagen Alice Yang Television Editors George Barnett James Simpson Film Editors John Park Lucy
Wiles Games Editor Laurence Pope Books Editor Maciej Matuszewski Food Editors Anastasia Eleftheriou Michael Krestas Travel Editors Dushi Arumuganesan Chris Richardson Online Editors Philip
Kent Jonathan Kim Puzzles Admiral James Hook Photo Editor Miles Robertson Copy Editors Carol Ann Cheah Philip Kent Jonathan Peek Annina Sartor
Queen’s Tower bells to
ring on Tuesday
HIGHLIGHTS
FELIX
Friday 01 june 2012
2
CLASSIFIEDS
Just so we’re clear, Felix accepts no responsibility
for unexpected marriages, cool? Cool.
Yep, still nothing. Summer is obviously driving
down classifieds fever. Buy and sell right here.
Classifieds to felix@imperial.ac.uk, it’s free!
From 10am-2pm, you might want
to avoid the library, unless loud
chiming gets you in the zone...
Apparently it’s the Queen’s Diamond Jubilee
super-mega-weekend or something, which
obviously means that the bells are being
brought forth for a mass ringing session
on Tuesday. If you’re working in the library,
bring industrial headphones.
Competition
Win a ticket to the brand
new music festival
Editor
We have a competition, hence, you know, the
header at the top of this column. What is this com-
petition, oh faceless person typing in this column?
We’ll keep you in suspense and you’ll find out in
the next paragraph...
You can win tickets to the Nova Festival of Arts
and Music (see below for the awesome lineup)
worth around £100 each. If you like music, or just
have a penchant for wearing wellies and neglect-
ing hygiene for a couple of days, then this one is
definitely for you.
Send in your best festival story in 20 words to
be in with a chance of winning one of the two tick-
ets on offer. It’s not like you have anything better
planned on the 5 – 8 of July. You do? Oh. Well,
cancel it and enter this instead.
Winners will be selected randomly in a precise
and scientific procedure *cough* we’ll have a read
in the office *cough* and will be announced in the
paper on Friday 8 June.

