music.felix@gmail.com
Music Editors: Íñigo Martínez de Rituerto
Ross Gray Mark England
MUSIC
FELIX Friday 01 june 2012 21
Alex Ramadan
Simon Hunter
O
ne lazy summer eve-
ning, I proposed to my
friends that we check
out a jazz bar just down
the street from our place,
but which we had never been to in two
years of living there. Le QuecumBar is
a 1930s inspired gypsy jazz bar which
hosts some of the best known players
of the style first performed by the now
legendary Jean “Django” Reinhardt.
Django (whose nickname means “I
awake” in Romani) was born in Bel-
gium in 1910 to Romanian parents, be-
fore moving to Paris where he learned
the banjo, and later the guitar, becom-
ing absorbed in the music of the time.
His virtuous, often said “hot”, guitar
playing laid the cornerstones for a style
which now reminds of silent movies
in fast forward or smoky alleys in the
deep Parisian night, drowned in gaiety
and inebriation.
A friend I met during my second year
at college had once told me about this
place. He played in the IC Big Band
and would often come to the Quecum-
Bar’s Tuesday jam sessions to burn
the night away. Gypsy jazz has always
seemed to me a very wholesome style,
not unlike Jamaican dub or even drum
& bass. Stylistically it does not need
great scope to do what it does. To the
novice ear, all the songs might sound
the same, perhaps somewhat like Dis-
ney’s Aristocats throwing a double
birthday party. It is a fiery music that
burns very brightly. The atmosphere is
immediate. I imagine it might go very
well in the summer with a coffee and
a croissant around 6am before an after-
party up Mont Martre. Though to un-
derstand why you might want a coffee
before closing a night out you will have
to listen for yourself.
As we walked in just shy of 8 o’clock,
there was one lady in long feline spec-
tacles sitting by the window and three
musicians warming up in a corner. We
were greeted by a waiter in piano key
suspenders offering dinner or drinks. In
the spirit of procrastination we opted
for liquid dinner of the gourmet kind.
Belgian blonde Leffe for my friend,
Czech Budvar for myself (that golden
pilsner our humble Union has so woe-
fully forgotten in favour of the Ameri-
A night at Le QuecumBar
Íñigo Martínez de Rituerto finds a passage to 1930s Paris down Battersea High Street
“Somewhat like
Disney’s Aristocats
throwing a double
birthday party”
can dribble). The only other people in
the place, a couple sat for dinner, were
presented with the evening’s menu on
a billboard over a metre high which –
when stood on the floor – was entirely
visible from behind the table.
After ordering, the three musicians
made their way to the stage in front of
us. Crammed atop it were four red vel-
vet chairs that could just about fit three
people. Behind them were plants of all
forms, all a deep green; a botanical sal-
ad analogous to the societal metaphor.
The wall behind them was the yellow of
a century gone by, lined with the golden
frames of photographs which bore wit-
ness to the scores of gypsy zealots who
had passed through this place. Among
them, innumerable portraits of Django
and a street sign that read “St. Germain
des Près”. By the stage was a disused
fireplace inside which sat a bouquet
of dry flowers, the sort that flourish in
droughts. Candles lined all corners of
the room, while chandeliers and fans
hung brazen from the ceiling.
As the music begun, a second guitar-
ist joined the group, perching his leg
up on the stage for want of room to sit.
Earlier I had overheard him speaking
with the feline dame, saying he was
Hungarian in somewhat broken Eng-
lish. It seemed somehow charming that
he had come here to play a century old
style of Romani-French music. As he
played along, the female violinists ex-
changed solos before handing over the
honours to the men’s curiously shaped
guitars. The music resembled courteous
small talk caught in a four-way flirt.
A slow shadow swept over my left
shoulder. Three seasoned ladies made
their way to the dining table closest
to the stage. The eldest marked a frail
figure beneath a hefty black coat. When
she reached the table and removed her
covering, the golden lights from the
ceiling reflected on the purple sequins
of her dress. She wore a silver necklace
and a spectacular turquoise ring. There
was a look of rejuvenation in her eyes.
Perhaps this music had been her pas-
sion in younger years. If it is so nostal-
gic to someone of our time, I can only
imagine how it might feel to someone
who lived it during its prime.
Soon thereafter, more people started
to arrive and the air filled with commo-
tion as the jam went on. Like the ladies
before, now a massive upright bass
crept past my left shoulder and joined
the song midway, suddenly giving it
new character. The smell of delicious
stew flew from the kitchen. The waiter
came back, “another Leffe, sir?” and
more musicians approached the stage.
After a couple of drinks, while
searching for the gents’ I discovered a
beer garden at the back. The walls were
worn and decorated with murals of art
nouveau. A straw hat that hung on one
of the walls had been converted into a
bird house. Later when I left I would
notice a banner outside announcing an
“exotic oasis and tropical patio”. This
must be the place.
The ambience was intoxicating, as
perhaps our dinner too. I felt an impulse
to write down what was happening on
the nearest piece of paper, as the beer
might later betray my memory. While
I wrote through another drink, half the
musicians had been replaced by twice
as many more. It seemed I had underes-
timated the gussed up stage.Athird gui-
tarist found a way to capitalize on the
fourth chair, while an accordion player
whose instrument read “Victoria” sat at
the front. One of the lady violinists was
now replaced by a lad in his late teens
with unkempt hair, wearing denim on
denim and Nikes that looked like Vans.
The bassist, whose curled goatee must
have been longer than my beer glass,
waved his hand in circles at a friend of-
fering to relay the rhythm section.
The musicianship on display that
night was as much an exhibition of
virtuosity as an exercise in endurance.
When one guitarist dropped his pick,
his absence was immediately notice-
able through the thicket of the six-
strong sound that reverberated from the
hollow bodied instruments. Everyone
played in unison at a dizzying speed. At
times the violins were strummed like
mandolins, making way to a frenzy of
six-stringed resonance.
After a few songs, the bassist put
his piece down, revealing an armful of
tattoos as he clutched his music book.
When the band resumed, they did so
with a more solemn sound, marking the
departure of the booming absentee. Af-
ter a moment of silence, the first guitar-
ist swung a sentimental tone reducing
the tempo to a fraction. For a moment
it felt like listening to the morning ra-
dio through the kitchen doorway and
as the beer ebbed through my corpus
I remembered this place was an island
in time. Decked in the décor of the era,
infused with the sound of nostalgia. An
exotic oasis as promised from the out-
side, right in the heart of Battersea.
One jam ended beautifully with the
two remaining violinists caught in a
soft duet which enthralled the others to
a rest. A burst of applause prefaced the
burning pace of the next song. Howls
came from the crowd and fists stomped
on the tables. The smell of coffee at ten
past ten. The room was on fire!
The music hardly stopped the whole
night. If anything, they just seemed
to play faster and faster as the hours
went on, squared off against the night
as if refusing sleep. The bearded bass-
ist slapped his strings, nearly snapping
them off. The others formed gangs,
three guitars ripping through one riff,
two violinists another, one lone ac-
cordion standing its ground. When the
flurry was over, the newest guitarist in
the group, the fourth that night, panted.
Breaking the pace, the group got
started on ‘Blue Drag’. This shot my
heart back a few strides. This was one
of the first songs I had heard of Django.
I remembered the mornings digging
through my father’s jazz collection dur-
ing breakfast, memories now infused
with the taste of toast and coffee.
I left the place having written on the
back of seven flyers, each advertis-
ing a seemingly unique performance
on nearly every night of the week. On
the 10th and 11th of June, the Mos-
cow Drug Club would blend “1930s
Berlin cabaret, hot club de France,
New Orleans funeral parade & gypsy
campfire songs”. Among numerous
Parisian cabaret performances would
pass the Kalotaszeg Trio from the Car-
pathian forests of Transilvania on the
14th. Come the 18th, The Boomtown
Swingalings would be bringing the
“sweet sounds of swing” to life down
the Battersea joint. Finally, on the 24th,
Paprika, a Balkan super-group “flying
the folk flag for a largely anonymous
code of music” would grace the stage
after having passed through Glaston-
bury festival, Edinburgh Fringe and
Royal Albert Hall.
Dinner is served from 6 until 10 and
judging by the amount of couples in the
audience, it seems like a perfect place
to surprise your better half. Cover costs
around £10 depending on the evening,
though of course the jam nights on
Tuesdays are free and open to anyone
with the spirit of Django.
42-44 Battersea High Street, SW11
3HX
“The music
resembled courteous
small talk caught in
a four-way flirt.”
Bohemian levels are currently through the roof

