FELIX
Friday 01 June 2012
22
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Film Editors: John Park
Lucy Wiles
FILM
Marilyn: missed b
1
June 1926 (exactly 86 years ago today) marked the birth of Norma Jeane
Mortenson, or better known as Marilyn Monroe, one of the most icon-
ic, celebrated faces of American cinema and culture. Many mourned
her sudden and tragic death, but her legacy and influences are still felt
even to this day. In her short but undeniably remarkable career, Monroe
achieved a wide range of repetoire and is often hailed as one of the top stars and
actresses of the Hollywood Golden Age. In honour of the actress’ birthday, as well
as the 50th anniversary of her mysterious death, Felix Film looks over the high-
lights of a distinguished career of a truly unique and great all-round entertainer.
1. Career Beginnings: The Asphalt Jungle (1950), All About Eve (1950)
After an initial period of struggle that included a couple of successful screen-tests, modellings, small parts,
a poorly reviewed film and an eventual termination of contract from Columbia, Monroe found her break-
through in The Asphalt Jungle, an MGM-financed drama in which she played a girlfriend of an old criminal.
Her performance caught the eye of Joseph Mankiewicz, a highly influential, talented director, producer and
writer who hired Monroe for a small comedic role in his Oscar-winning masterpiece All About Eve as a slightly
dim-witted aspiring actress. Monroe’s profound acting influence and aspiration came from the works of Lana
Turner and Jean Harlow whose films she extensively researched and studied.
2. Sex Symbol: Niagara (1953)
Following her initial success she signed a seven-year contract with 20th Century Fox. After a few moderately
successful films and a potential sex scandal during which a nude photo from her past was circulated, she
started receiving substantial supporting roles starring against huge names such as Barbara Stanwyck, Cary
Grant and Ginger Rogers. The most eye-catching, talked-about role in this period however, was her perfor-
mance in Niagara, in which she played a seductive femme-fatale plotting to murder her husband. Monroe’s
overtly sexual portrayal of her character attracted some criticism and outrage from the conservative audi-
ence at the time, although the press and interest surrounding the platinum-blonde, effortlessly sexy actress
kept the spotlight on her.

