FILM
FELIX Friday 01 JUNE 2012 23
but never forgotten
3. Dumb Blonde Comedies: Gentlemen Prefer Blondes (1953), How to Marry a Million-
aire (1953), The Seven Year Itch (1955)
Replacing Betty Grable in what would arguably become one of the most famous roles of her career, Monroe
was required not only to act, but to sing and dance in Gentlement Prefer Blondes, playing a gold-digging show-
girl. ‘Diamonds Are a Girl’s Best Friend’’s original performer was none other than Monroe (i.e. NOT Nicole
Kidman) and the film was a success both critically and commercially witht critics praising Monroe’s diversity
of talent. She followed this up with How to Marry a Millionaire, a light-weight comedy about three women
(Monroe, Betty Grable, Lauren Bacall) looking for rich men for them to settle down with. Her hugely popular
dumb blonde persona was further used with The Seven Year Itch, the film responsible for creating one of
Monroe’s most iconic movie shots, the skirt-blowing scene. And with this series of repeated successes she
was named one of the top ten money making stars.
4. Transition to Drama:
Bus Stop (1956)
In 1955 she was accepted to
study at the Actors Studio un-
der Lee Strasberg who agreed
to have her as a student. He
later commented that of all
the actors he had trained,
only two have truly stood out
from the rest. The first was
Marlon Brando, the second
being Monroe. Her dedication
to method acting and desire
to turn to more dramatic roles
landed her a role in Bus Stop,
as a saloon singer who falls
for a cowboy. The film won
rave reviews for Monroe, with
critics pleasantly surprised to
see the actress perform so
well in such an unexpected
genre. Although her perfor-
mance was campaigned for
an Oscar nomination, she
failed to receive one. She
was however, nominated for a
Golden Globe.
5. Declining Health: The Prince and the Showgirl (1957)
Throughout her career, Monroe was known for her shyness and stage
fright, which caused frequent delays to productions. Following per-
sonal struggles that stemmed from divorces and miscarriages, she
started relying heavily on alcohol and barbiturates, a combination
which started spiralling out of control even on film sets. During the
filming of The Prince and the Showgirl, her co-star and director Sir
Laurence Olivier clashed with Monroe, and the English acting royalty
found himself infuriated with the actress. She did however, win over
the critics and audience particularly of Europe with this performance,
winning a David di Donatello award (the Italian equivalent of the Os-
cars) as well as a nomination for a BAFTA.
6. Some Like it Hot (1959)
Paired up again with director Billy Wilder, he knew better than anyone else of Monroe’s erratic behaviour
having worked with her on The Seven Year Itch. During the production of Some Like it Hot, he noted how unpre-
dictable she had become, turning up to the set hours late, and often not at all, and her severe forgetfulness
that on one occasion required him to take over 50 shots for a simple scene. She failed to get along with her
co-star Tony Curtis and her behaviour grew hostile. Her uncooperative attitude has since become something
of a legendary folklore in the film industry, with some grossly exaggerated anecdotes, but what remains clear
is that this was not an easy process. The film nevertheless, was a resounding sucess. Monroe herself was
praised for her seductive performance, winning her only Golden Globe of her career.
7. Last Completed Film: The Misfits (1961)
Monroe’s health declined even further in 1960, during which the production for The Misfits had started. She
was frequently unable to perform, and ended up hospitalised for ten days. Monroe was not the only cast
member with struggling health. Montgomery Clift, a notorious alcohol and drug user, was in terrible shape,
and Clark Gable also became unwell, passing away before the film’s release, one of many factors that con-
tributed to her deterioration in psychological well-being. She was fired from the set of her next movie, Some-
thing’s Got to Give due to her inability to meet her schedule, only to be re-hired eventually. But the production
was permenantly ceased when Monroe was found dead at her home aged 36, 5 August 1962. Around 30
minutes of footage remains of Monroe in her uncompleted film.

