Long live the evil Queen 2012 Cannes
Film Festival
Winners
Palme d’Or (Best Film)
– Amour (dir. Michael
Haneke)
Grand Prix (Second
Best Film) – Reality (dir.
Matteo Garrone)
Best Director – Carlos
Reygadas (Post Tene-
bras Lux)
Best Screenplay – Cris-
tian Mungiu (Beyond the
Hills)
Best Actress – Cristina
Flutur and Cosmina
Stratan (Beyond the
Hills)
Best Actor – Mads Mik-
kelsen (The Hunt)
Jury Prize (Third Best
Film) – The Angels’
Share (dir. Ken Loach)
John Park
Director Rupert Sanders
Screenwriters Evan Daugherty, John
Lee Hancock, Hossein Amini
Cast Charlize Theron, Kristen
Stewart, Chris Hemsworth, Sam
Claflin
Snow White and the
Huntsman
When it comes to beauty, it is easy to
wonder just what Charlize Theron has
to worry about. She asks her magic
mirror the age-old question; “Who is
fairest of them all?” The mirror, which
turns into a magical gooey creature, in
its infinite wisdom and omniscience,
answers that it is Queen Ravenna
(Theron) who is the most beautiful in
the land. Not so surprising and hardly
difficult to believe, given how gob-
smackingly stunning she looks here.
She also puts on a devilishly sexy Eng-
lish accent, which all the more boosts
her appeal. But hold on, the mirror is
not finished. There is someone destined
to surpass her. And this is none other
than her stepdaughter, Snow White
(Stewart). If you pit one against the
other, it is obvious that both in terms
of talent and beauty, Theron thoroughly
outclasses the helpless young princess.
So don’t begrudge yourself for secretly
siding with the Queen throughout.
But it turns out the Queen is an evil
tyrant whose insecurity has driven to
do insane things. Her country is a war-
torn mess of a dump, and in order to
preserve her beauty, she sucks “youth”
out of many innocent young women.
When she hears her eternal beauty will
be maintained if she consumes Snow’s
heart, you know she will stop at noth-
ing to achieve exactly that. So imagine
her shrieking anger when Snow man-
ages to escape. The guard in charge,
her brother, deservedly gets a massive
slap, and in comes the scruffy but angry
and aggressive huntsman (Hemsworth).
And he is the unexpected hero of this
tale as he finds it in his heart to help
instead of hack the young girl. He goes
directly against the Queen’s explicit or-
ders, and decides to join Snow in her
quest to overthrow and reintroduce the
rightful heir to the throne, i.e. the young
princess herself.
Causing a slight kink in this poten-
tial love-line is William (Claflin), the
Prince Charming-type character who
was a close childhood friend of the
princess. When Ravenna murdered her
new husband the King and took over his
kingdom, William managed to escape
with his father the Duke, who now tries
to lead a resistance against the Queen,
whereas the young princess couldn’t
flee. Learning of her survival years
later, he vows to find her and never let
her go. He makes a rash decision to join
the enemy’s Snow White search party
in the hopes of finding his first and pos-
sibly only love of his life.
Already, there are plenty of charac-
ters to develop and juggle. And for the
most part, all the leads are given proper
attention to, with actors more than
merely looking the part. Oscar-winning
Theron steals the show whenever her
deliciously over-the-top, mentally un-
stable and dangerous Queen appears.
She represents anything and every-
thing related to death and decay, and
her darkly majestic presence is truly a
major casting highlight, which would
explain why Theron has taken centre
stage in much of the film’s advertising.
The film also provides a brief glimpse
into her past and the abuse she wit-
nessed as a child, which partly explains
her constant wrath and fiery impulses.
Although this undermines the evil stat-
ure of her character, the vulnerability
Theron brings out in someone who was
never expected to arouse an ounce of
sympathy is an impressive feat, and in-
troduces an interesting angle on a fasci-
nating villain.
Her only realistic nemesis and one
who can put an end to the wicked
Queen’s curse is Stewart. What she
may lack superficially in looks, she
makes up for by carrying innocence
and general goodness. It is told early
on that Snow possesses rare beauty…in
her heart, and that this will eventually
vanquish evil. It sounds all too cheesy
and childish, and the grown-up Stew-
art doesn’t exactly look like the poster
child of untainted purity, but it’s her
blossoming confidence and representa-
tion of “life” she carries that translates
well on the screen. The nervous, twitch-
ing looks Stewart cannot shake off in
any film she stars in do serve her well
here, as with these she can convincing-
ly look weak and worried.
Of the two men, coming out on top
is Hemsworth, who trades in his usual
weapon of choice, a Norse hammer, for
some axes, assisting the princess with
his macho charisma. He does also get
a crucial scene of sentimentality that
the actor handles with touching poise.
Sharing a little less screen time is Claf-
lin, last seen in Pirates of the Caribbe-
an: On Stranger Tides as the priest who
lost more and more clothing as the film
progressed. Here he’s given as little to
work with as he did in Rob Marshall’s
mediocre Pirates entry, and the single
memorable aspect about his character
is his considerable archery skills. Other
than that he has a small role to play in
the end, and his interaction with his
childhood sweetheart goes disappoint-
ingly unaddressed.
Staying loyal to the tale of Snow
White, the audience gets the meet the
dwarves as well as the infamous poi-
soned apple. The dwarves are the most
underdeveloped group of the lot, and
we just have to settle for watching them
as mild comic relief. But given the pre-
dominantly British talent involved (Ray
Winstone, Toby Jones, Nick Frost, Ed-
die Marsan etc), it must be said there
was a lot more potential to make some-
thing more out of these guys than to use
them for a few comic scenes involving
the sewer.
Focusing back and forth between the
Queen’s castle where she is plotting her
next move against her stepdaughter and
Snow White’s justice journey, first-time
director Sanders finds a simple yet ef-
fective way of weaving all the strands
together. He throws in a whole load
of extended shots of beautiful scenery
capturing all sorts of landscapes and
different weathers. It’s nothing inven-
tive or particularly original, but they
serve their purpose, offering smooth
transitions between scenes.
The action remains small-scale
throughout, and despite the disappoint-
ing final showdown with the Queen, the
rest of the pulse-racing action is filmed
with focus and energy. Whenever you
feel the narrative is slowing down
slightly, Sanders brings back the healthy
pace with bursts of energy stemming
from the well-choreographed, compact
action. It is long overall, with scenes
that could have worked just as well, if
not better in a shorter time period, but
along with all the cute furry animals
also making an appearance, this two-
hour long spectacle is well worth sit-
ting through, if not only for Theron’s
magnificently ferocious turn.
Theron a roll! Sorry, that caption attempt was a bit Grimm...
“For the most part,
the leads are given
proper attention”
“This two-hour long
spectacle is worth
sitting through”
FILM
FELIX Friday 01 JUNE 2012 25
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Film Editors: John Park
Lucy Wiles

