sect meat, projected to be in stores by
the year 2020. By then the Ento team
predict that the taboo would have
been softened to the point snacking
on fried woodlice at the cinema would
be seen as normal and not freakish.
So are we likely to see insect delis or
fast food beetle burgers anytime soon?
Probably not as soon as Ento predicts.
Western bug-eating taboo is likely to
prevail a little longer, though it will in-
evitably crumble under combined pres-
sure from Ento-like schemes and rising
food demand. Who knows? Maybe
in five years time future Felix read-
ers will be reading about how best to
grill tarantula meat or stew scorpions.
Such huge shifts in Western gas-
tronomy will by no means come eas-
ily. The Ento group will unfortunately
not be taking their ideas into the mar-
ket place themselves, but the frame-
work for enacting cultural change
certainly gives one food for thought.
If you’re interested in find-
ing out more about Ento visit:
www.cargocollective.com/ento.
Cue Ento, a project undertaken by
four Masters students at Imperial Col-
lege and the Royal College of Art. The
project lays out a roadmap of sorts
with the aim to soften Western taboo
in staggered steps, beginning with
festivals and markets. In such places,
peer pressure could be used to Ento’s
advantage to get people to try unusual
dishes they wouldn’t have touched
alone. From there comes novel start-up
restaurants and take-away services, of-
fering dishes presented as cubes of in-
sect meat, intended to stop people from
reeling away on the basis of sight alone.
Ready meals then pop onto the
scene, followed eventually by raw in-
FOOD
FELIX
Friday 01 june 2012
26
food.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Food Editors: Anastasia Eleftheriou
Michael Krestas
Discover a new taste at pan-asian Umami
“snacking on fried
woodlice at the cinema
would be seen as nor-
mal and not freakish”
There’s no way you can stand an-
other lunch at Queen’s Tower, or the
Library Cafe, or even the JCR after
your exams. It’s just unacceptable! If
you feel that life at Imperial has be-
come monotonic (and at the moment
your mind thinks of functions) then
you need a getaway. Today we’ll pres-
ent you with an alternative choice.
Umami is ideally located in the
middle of Cromwell Road and serves
a combination of Thai, Malaysian,
Vietnamese and Singaporean food. It
has opened very recently (in March
2012) so if you didn’t have the chance
to visit it yet, you should do so soon.
The award-winning chef Darren Kutty,
formerly Head Chef at both the Ramada
Hyde Park and The Washington Hotel
in Mayfair, promises to treat you well.
The menu includes meals in two
sizes, to taste or to share, and an ad-
equate variety of food to choose from;
a selection of salads, soups, noodles
and curries together with grilled and
pan or wok-fried dishes like Ped
Makham (pan seared duck with tama-
rind and mange tout) and Ikan Bakar
(grilled red snapper in banana leaf
served with sweet tamarind and chilli).
As Food Editors, and computing
students whose exams have already
finished (hang in there, everybody!)
we had the chance to pay a visit at
Umami for lunch last week. We began
our course with homemade vegetable
spring rolls, leaf-marinated chicken,
king prawns on scallops and a duck
salad with lettuce and green mango.
For the main, we had green curry
Grasshopper steak, anyone? If that
doesn’t tickle your fancy, how about
an ant lollipop? Though these ideas
may sound revolting, entomophagy,
the consumption of insects, may well
become more popular in the West-
ern world as fish stocks dwindle and
rising population reduces the space
available for traditional meat farming.
Insect cuisine is already popu-
lar in many parts of the world, in-
cluding South America, Oceania,
most of Africa and parts of Asia.
But why should we adopt their cui-
sine? What’s wrong with traditional
meat and fish-based dishes, already
stable, plentiful sources of protein?
The problem is that neither meat nor
fish will be able to support a grow-
ing planet. By most estimates, world
population will increase to nine billion
by 2050, putting an already stressed
Earth under more pressure to provide
– at the current time livestock occu-
pies nearly two-thirds of all farmland.
Unless intensive farming is extensive-
ly practiced (an abhorrent idea), the
amount of land available for rearing
livestock will have to be scaled back.
And as for fish? The situation isn’t
much better, with rampant overfishing
having caused numerous fish popula-
tions to crash. Even if strict catch quotas
are enacted and actually abided by it will
take years for stocks to recover to their
former levels, during which time the
world will scream out for meat. Worse
still, if we want fish stocks to stay stable
there’s no way we can fish as brutally
efficiently as we have done in the past.
The oceans will not be our saviours.
Cue insects. They are a far better
meat source, both environmentally and
nutritionally, than any animal regularly
eaten in the Western world. Simple
facts speak volumes – compared to
cattle, insects can produce nine times
more protein for the same amount of
feed, are quite happy eating the stuff
we don’t want to, are rich in vitamins
and minerals, and can be cultivated at
a much higher density when compared
to conventional livestock. Unfortu-
nately the matter isn’t nearly so simple;
if someone shoved a plate of fried pill
bugs under your nose and told you that
they’re “high in protein,” would you eat
it? Western taboo is the major barrier
preventing insects from featuring prom-
inently in restaurants and supermarkets.
Ped Makham: mange tout!
chicken with peas, aubergine and baby
corn, and soy-sauce sea bass. It could
have just been this particular selec-
tion of dishes we made, but every taste
was excitingly combined to form a
delicious meal. For trivia-lovers, ac-
cording to the Japanese, umami is one
of the five basic tastes and we would
like to think that we mastered it last
week! All dishes were fresh and very
tasty. The portions are just right, giv-
ing visitors the chance to try many dif-
ferent combinations.
Realising that not everyone has the
time – or the money – to indulge in a
long, leisurely lunch, Umami has in-
troduced an Express Lunch Menu; a
three-course feast which is priced at
an incredible £9.95 per person. Start-
ers comprise a choice of tom yam soup,
chicken toast or Thai beef salad, fol-
lowed by a trio of equally tempting
main courses: Malay chicken curry
with potatoes served with steamed
rice, Indonesian coconut and tamarind
fish stew with steamed rice, or wok-
fried tofu and seasonal vegetables with
basil leaf served with rice or noodles.
Umami 100 Cromwell Road, SW7
4ER. Open for lunch Monday to Fri-
day from 12pm to 3pm and for din-
ner Monday to Sunday from 5pm
to 10:30pm. For reservations, call
02073412320.
Cromwell Road’s Umami offers a unique and peaceful atmosphere
Has the time come to adopt insect cuisine?
Eeeewww... I hate radish! Insect cuisine ala gourmet!
Anastasia Eleftheriou
Michael Krestas
Laurence Pope
onechickennugget.com cargocollective.com/ento
“Neither meat nor fish
will be able to support
a growing planet”

