In Brief
Central Library for 24 hour
opening over Summer
For the first time in Imperial College history, the
Central Library will continue its 24-hour opening
times throughout the summer holidays. Imperial
College has decided to keep its library door open
to students who wish to use the library, starting
from 30 June through until 30 September.
In previous years, the 24-hour opening policy
would usually cease by the end of June. The new
opening hours this year means that students will
be able to use the library as they please, with the
library only closing at 11pm on a Friday night un-
til 10am on Saturday morning. The Library Café
will also remain open in accordance to the sum-
mer opening hours but will be closed on Sundays
throughout the holidays.
The main body of students intended to make
use of the extended opening hours will be post-
graduates who will be on campus over the holi-
days. Other targets include Master students,
MBA students from the Business School and any-
one who would potentially want to use the library
over the summer.
Postgraduate student Sajjad Jaffer was wary
of the new hours, telling Felix of his belief that
“there aren’t many moments when you have to
go to the library that late at night as a postgradu-
ate”. He also added that “everything is online
anyway like journals and books. You can use the
VPN network to connect your home computer to
the Imperial Network so you don’t need to go to
the Library to get anything done”.
Director of Library Services, Deborah Shorley,
told Felix instead of the benefits that she be-
lieves the scheme will bring, saying that library
staff were “particularly conscious because of
the Olympics and the disruption it would cause
across town.
“Students such as postgraduates will find it
hard to find a quiet place to work and so we are
going to offer them a haven to work in regardless
of the chaos that is happening outside.”
She continued: “what students want is a place
to sit, a place to work and a place with a comput-
er space. They don’t want complicated reference
support all the time. We believe it will be cost ef-
fective and since this is a pilot we cannot be sure
if it is really used or not until we try it – if it isn’t
then we won’t do it again.”
She also said that some postgraduates do not
use their offices to work: “we’ve learnt that stu-
dents want to work in different ways and our aim
is to give students as many different ways as we
can by offering options such as different spaces
in the library and quicker access to resources.”
She concluded: “When presented to the Stu-
dent’s Union, the response was overwhelmingly
positive. The Union has nominated us for the
“Outstanding Library Team” award for the Times
Higher Education Leadership and Management
Awards and we are very proud of this and how
much they appreciate our library hours.”
“It’s lovely to be nominated by the students.
That is very important to us because we only ex-
ist as a service; we think this is another step to
giving students more of what they want.”
Aemun Reza
NEWS
FELIX
Friday 01 June 2012
4
As excitement mounts for this year’s sporting
summer, and as career opportunities become
ever more uncertain given the unsteady fi-
nancial climate, a group of Imperial graduates
have been given the best of both worlds, with
the chance to work at the London 2012 Olym-
pics this summer as part of a one off graduate
programme introduced by BP.
Claire Madden, due to graduate in chemical
engineering this year, is one of six Imperial
graduates who will be taking advantage of the
programme.
BP’s incoming graduate recruits have been
given the chance, following an interview pro-
cess, to work with the London 2012 Organis-
ing Committee (LOCOG) before starting their
careers in September. During short-term sec-
ondments, the recruits will take responsibilities
in areas such as transport and main operations.
Claire admitted to Felix that the Olympics
had seemed an attractive prospect before she
was aware of the programme: “I wanted to go
to the Olympics anyway, either to try and get
tickets or try to get involved, so the fact that
this opportunity became available is something
that I was very keen to get involved with”.
Based in the transport sector at the media
hub in Bloomsbury, Claire will be tasked with
ensuring the media are sent exactly where they
need to go. Claire also holds the position of
team leader, and will ensure that everyone on
her team knows what needs to be done for the
day, making sure everyone is happy.
Claire explained how the new programme
was set apart from ‘normal’ progression into a
graduate scheme: “At university when you’re,
for example, working in teams and doing
projects you do develop certain skills but you
never get placed in such a fast paced situation
where you have to act immediately to make
sure things work. There’s a lot riding on the
success of the London 2012 Olympics but it’s
good to know that we’re being trusted with
certain responsibilities that many of our peers
would not get in their first role.”
As to whether she was excited to be leading
the way as much as this programme allows,
Claire said that “a lot of the graduates who had
just started in the last couple of years wished
that they could have been on the programme
as well.”
The graduates are currently being trained by
BP before they start their roles in the summer,
and will undertake further training by the Lon-
don 2012 Organising Committee.
“Having this experience behind us will give
us the confidence to know that we can manage
people and we’ve been given the chance to do
that on a massive scale.”
“the recruits will take re-
sponsibilities in a variety
of areas”
“this experience ... will
give us the confidence to
know that we can man-
age people”
Matthew Colvin
Imperial graduates jump at
chance to help at London 2012
New BP graduate scheme gives students an Olympic chance
BP graduates at the Olympic Stadium, including Claire Madden, but not including Kelly Holmes

