FEATURE
FELIX
Friday 01 JUNE 2012
8
features.felix@gmail.com
Features Editors: Katy Bettany
Stephen Smith
Privatisation: the Ministry in
In the first of a series of articles on the privatisation of our Universities, Stephen Smith discus
in mathematics (the means by which
postdoctoral researchers obtain funding
for their projects) are available only to
statisticians.
That is to say, all of pure and applied
mathematics will be excluded. Current
and future PhD students in Algebra,
Analysis, Geometry, Mathematical
Physics, Logic, and all of non-statisti-
cal mathematics will have to find other
ways to fund their research.
“This will force many of the UK’s
best PhD students to leave the coun-
try to get their first academic job, and
will prevent us from attracting the best
foreign postdoctoral researchers,” ac-
cording to Cambridge mathematician
Burt Totaro, “If EPSRC continues this
policy, British mathematics will face
mediocrity in a decade.”
This is not a question of austerity
and cuts. As I noted above, the EPSRC
budget has fallen only 3.7% since 2007,
but mathematics research grant funding
fell by 54% over the same period. It is
an attitude problem brought on by the
perception that pure and applied math-
ematics don’t have sufficient economic
“impact”. In other words, businesses
aren’t interested.
And it’s true, businesses aren’t inter-
ested in mathematics, because the re-
search tends to be quite far ahead of its
time: a theory developed now may not
be used in physics or engineering for
another 10 years. Businesses, however,
are by nature only interested in short-
term gains: try to convince your share-
holders that their falling share prices
will pick up again in a decade and they
will laugh in your face. And then sack
you. It should come as no surprise that
few companies want to invest in math-
ematics.
And here is the problem: the EPSRC
equates the value of a subject with busi-
ness interest in it. Governments love
this, of course, because the economy
will boom while they’re in office, and
crash after they’ve gone. But for the
UK it is self-evidently disastrous. So
how did this “business-impact” posi-
tion come about, and what can we do
about it?
A brief history of funding
The famous Haldane principle states
that decisions over how to allocate re-
search funding should be decided by a
council of researchers. This supposedly
keeps academia free from government
influence, or any outside interference.
The principle has generally been in use
since 1918, but a few decades ago Mar-
garet Thatcher decided to shake things
O
ur universities are being
privatised, or so many
on the Left would have
us believe. But how true
is it? And is it necessar-
ily a bad thing? In a series of features
over the next few weeks, I will be inves-
tigating several areas of privatisation at
Imperial and at universities across the
UK, areas where corporations are filling
a role that used to be public.
I’ll look at the Careers Services at
our Universities, to try to find out why
many students are dissatisfied with the
variety they offer. I’ll discuss Corporate
Partnership schemes, to see whether
academic-industry collaboration really
can be a good thing.
But this week I’ll look at every aca-
demic’s nightmare: the Research Coun-
cils.
A case study: the EPSRC
Far to the west of here, in beautiful
Swindon, you will find the head offices
of the Engineering and Physical Scienc-
es Research Council (EPSRC). They
are the organisation which decides how
to distribute the government’s £740
million Engineering and Physical Sci-
ences budget.
The EPSRC is remarkable mainly for
its inability to use words: it conveys no
meaning whatsoever in whole pages of
text. The three “high priorities”, for in-
stance, are “Delivering Impact. Shaping
Capability. Developing Leaders.” Like
all partisan political writing, the lan-
guage here is intended to deceive. “De-
livering Impact” in fact means “Fund-
ing only those areas which businesses
want us to”. “Developing Leaders” is
a euphemism for “Funding only those
researchers whom we have funded in
the past”. I confess, after weeks of re-
search, to have no idea what is meant by
“Shaping Capability”.
But in spite of (or, perhaps, because
of) its management-speak, the EPSRC
has done a good job of convincing the
Government to give it money. Indeed,
its budget has fallen only 3.7% in real
terms since 2007/2008, compared with
total research council cuts of 25.2%.
Regrettably, having money is only half
the battle, and the EPSRC’s new fund-
ing plan threatens to stall entire areas of
research.
Mathematics, for instance. The Queen
of the Sciences, according to mathema-
ticians (the slave of the sciences ac-
cording to everyone else), is currently
a victim of the new “Delivery Plan”.
Since July 2011, EPSRC fellowships
up a bit.
In the 1980s, Research Councils came
under the influence of a government
policy to “strengthen the links” be-
tween science and business. In his book
Captive State, George Monbiot ex-
plains that, “Britain [...] was renowned
for generating scientific breakthroughs,
but these seldom translated into eco-
nomic success, as our discoveries were
commercialised elsewhere.” Thatcher’s
Government thought this a wasted op-
portunity, and so decided to let busi-
nesses influence research.
In practice, this policy change result-
ed in “business leaders” being promot-
ed to Research Councils to “ensure that
the needs of firms are fully taken into
account in decisions on the direction,
nature and content of publicly funded
science and technology.”
In effect, large businesses would sug-
gest an area of research that would ben-
efit them, and the Research Councils
would fund it. As is now glaringly ob-
vious, this policy simply led to compa-
nies getting the Government to pay for
research which they would otherwise
have paid for themselves.
This was the first significant under-
mining of the Haldane principle, the
second came with the arrival of our cur-
rent government.
In December 2010, the Department
for Business, Innovation and Skills (it’s
telling, isn’t it, that business and sci-
ence funding are dealt with by the same
Government department) published
a document called the “Allocation of
Science and Research Funding” which
subtly reworded the Haldane Principle.
“The Haldane Principle means that
decisions on individual research pro-
posals are best taken by researchers
themselves,” but Governments can set
“key national strategic priorities,” and
“ask Research Councils to consider
how best they can contribute to these
priorities.”
In other words, Governments can-
not choose which individual proposals
to fund, but they can ask the Councils
not to fund anything in Pure or Applied
Mathematics.
Looking at the EPSRC in particular,
the document states: “During 2011-15
EPSRC will deliver increased impact
by engaging more strongly with busi-
ness,” and it will “act to improve further
the quality of PhDs it funds [...] so that
the skills base generated is most valu-
able to industry. ” It’s worth reading
that again: “[...] so that the skills base
generated is most valuable to industry.”
The document’s section on the Bio-
technology and Biological Sciences
Research Council (BBSRC) is even
more imposing on academic freedom:
“BBSRC will prioritise actions to aid
economic recovery, drive growth, and
influence public policy,” “BBSRC will
focus on extracting economic benefit,”
“BBSRC will provide [...] high-quality
PhD training to boost business critical
R&D.”
Back at the EPSRC, a very sinister
video for the 2011/2012 Delivery Plan
states, “While our Strategic Plan set
out how we will accelerate the pace
of change, our Delivery Plan sets out
a transformative agenda.” So far, so
remarkably uninformative. But listen
between the insufferable jargon and the
real agenda becomes apparent.
The Delivery Plan is “built around a
Sponsor model of Research Manage-
ment in which funding is viewed as a
strategic investment and not as a trans-
fer of funds without obligation.” The
EPSRC must remain “committed to
generating the fundamental knowledge
and the skilled people essential to Busi-
ness, Government and other research
organisations.” “A world class research
base is valuable only insofar as it gener-
ates economic and social value.” “Any-
thing that is excellent will have impact
if the pathways are right”.
Yes, “anything that is excellent will
David Delpy, CEO of the EPSRC and Gordon Brown. One of these men has been accused of of “central plan-
ning and micro management,” and “squandering British taxpayers’ money.” Can you guess which? (Clue: not
Gordon)

