FEATURE
FELIX Friday 01 JUNE 2012 9
nterfering at Hogwarts
sses the Government’s latest assault on academic freedom, through the Research Councils
have impact if the pathways are right”.
Make of that what you will.
What the future holds
The councils today look much
like you’d expect after 30 years of
“change”. In the EPSRC, for instance,
half of the council is made up of “in-
dustry representatives,” as the box
(right) shows.
Two weeks ago, nine Nobel laureates
sent an angry letter to the Telegraph
calling, stating that, “the EPSRC is
failing to maintain Britain’s global
research standing,” and (appealing to
the Telegraph’s natural readership)
accused it of “squandering British tax-
payers’ money.”
“Through manipulating the process-
es of peer review to meet policy ob-
jectives and establishing favouritism
schemes, where substantial funding
packages are given to a few selected
individuals identified by its own ad-
ministration, the EPSRC is no longer
allocating funds on a fair and transpar-
ent basis,” said the letter.
In other words, allowing business-
people and Government ministers to
decide what to fund leads to “favourit-
ism” and unfair distribution of fund-
ing. Should it come as any surprise that
business-people want to fund particu-
lar areas (their own areas) at the ex-
pense of others? Should it come as any
surprise that the Government’s agenda
doesn’t coincide with what is best for
the country?
In September 2011, twenty-five
high-profile mathematicians sent a
letter to the Prime Minister complain-
ing that the “EPSRC’s model is one of
central planning and micro-managing
research. Civil servants in an unac-
countable quango are picking winners,
deciding which science to fund based
on their perception of strategic priori-
ties. They call it Shaping Capability.”
The letter argued that the Council’s
refusal to consult actual scientists was
“likely to cause irreversible damage”
to science in Britain.
Professor Richard Thomas of Impe-
rial has also spoken out against the
Council. “EPSRC often measures the
quality of an area of mathematical re-
search, or of an individual researcher,
by the amount of EPSRC funding it
has received,” he said, in a letter to
the EPSRC. “There is a real risk of un-
fairly directing funding to those have
received EPSRC funding in the past.”
Ah yes, this is what the EPSRC calls
“developing leaders”.
Referring to Mathematics in particu-
lar, he laments that people who “have
no training in mathematics whatsoever,
are being forced to decide the level of
funding to areas of mathematics whose
names they can hardly understand.”
A general picture is emerging here
of a Government wanting to exercise
more control over universities, and to
let businesses profit while the country
suffers.
In true neo-liberal style, the idea that
universities (those pillars of civilisa-
tion) are sacred and should be exempt
from the flawed and hostile world of
short-termist money-making appears
to have not occurred to our dear Gov-
ernment. Indeed, the desire to prove
that Britain is “open for business”
threatens all academia, the one area
in which the UK really does lead the
world.
It is only appropriate, then, given the
significance of this matter, to end with
a remarkably apt quotation:
“Every headmaster and headmistress
of Hogwarts has brought something
new to the weighty task of governing
this historic school, and that is as it
should be, for without progress there
will be stagnation and decay. There
again, progress for progress’s sake
must be discouraged... A balance, then,
between old and new, between perma-
nence and change, between tradition
and innovation because some changes
will be for the better, while others will
come, in the fullness of time, to be rec-
ognised as errors of judgement,” said
Professor Umbridge.
“Meanwhile, some old habits will be
retained, and rightly so, whereas oth-
ers, outmoded and outworn, must be
abandoned. Let us move forward, then,
into a new era of openness, effective-
ness and accountability, intent on pre-
serving what ought to be preserved,
perfecting what needs to be perfected,
and pruning wherever we find practic-
es that ought to be prohibited.”
“There was some important stuff
hidden in the waffle,” said Hermione
grimly. “‘Progress for progress’s sake
must be discouraged...pruning wher-
ever we find practises that ought to be
prohibited.’ It means the Ministry’s in-
terfering at Hogwarts!” – Harry Potter
and the Order of the Phoenix
A fully referenced version of this arti-
cle is available at rustylight.blogspot.
com
Next week, I’ll be discussing the career
advice offered at Universities across
the UK, and exploring why so many
students claim to be unhappy with it.
“Industry representatives” on the EPSRC:
Paul Golby, former director of E.ON
Andrew Blake, MD of Microsoft Research
Jack Boyer, a general “entrepreneur”
Julia King, former Rolls Royce executive
Pierre-Louis Viollet, a Vice-President of EDF
David Watson, a director of IBM
Jeremy Watson, a director of Arup
Tony Wood, a head of Pfizer
Join Felix.
At the very least, you’ll get a place to kip at lunchtime
Kadhim Shubber

