JANE AND THE BELVEDERES
It must have been the shell-shock. Three
hundred persons feeling the urge to twitch a
big-toe after the initial impact of the colourful
support band, The Opposition', opened on a
lively number with lively lighting and lively
action - no sleeping bags on this set. The
tracks were not introduced by either band on •
this occasion, so I can't really recount any,
but the band were professional, very
competent and coupled with a smooth, easy
chat here and there this calm, untroubled air
flowed from stage to an almost spell-bound
audience. Best described as new-wave/mild
heavy metal, these successful four used,
quiet, pensive themes to great effect in even
very loud tracks with a style not dissimilar to
certain Zeppelin numbers.
Cheers persisted through to the end and an
encore was certainly demanded by a now
active and eager crowd. Encore.
Jane Aire at IC
Photo by Nigel Tooby
Now potentially nasty, sarcastic reviewers
like me like nothing better than a few flaws in
a show to play on, without which the reviews
tend to be boring. So now I'll have to be just
that, because Jane Aire deserves to be raved
about. Never in my two years at IC have I seen
a crowd as crazy as this one, nor for ten years
or more has such a good sound filled an IC
concert hall. Jane came on and took them by
the ecstasy chords and she and the band
played them up, up and up, until people were
mounting each other and bopping two high.
The tension escalated until near hysteria
broke out when the set ended, cheers for
encore were deafening and Jane Aire rose to
the occasion with a magnificent finale to a
truly excellent, musical original and above all
emotional set.
This time her music was free - next time
you'll have to pay through the nose for it, if
their performance here was anything to go by
because this act are bound for stardom.
Nigel Tooby
CHESS
CLUB
IC played their first game ofthe new season
in the premier division of the Middlesex
League against Wood Green 1 on Thursday,
11th October. The start was at 7:00pm, but
due to a misunderstanding, the opposition
arrived fifteen minutes late, claiming the start
was at 7:15pm. It turned out that we were right
and so they started the match with a time
disadvantage.
The match was over eight boards. On board
one, Philip Maguire had a bad opening and
lost quickly to a very strong opponent
(graded 225). On board two, Jon Freeman
had a quiet game and drew fairly easily. Due
to the misunderstanding over the start Pete
Anderson's opponent on board three, turned
up over half an hour late and so Pete won by
default. On board four, Tong had a
reasonable game until both players reached
time trouble and Tong blundered and
eventually lost.
On board five, I had a good opening
winning a pawn and achieving what should
have been a won position. Unfortunately, two
moves later, I dropped a rook for a bishop and
was eventually ground down to a lost
position, which was adjourned, but has now
been resigned. On board six, J. Bacon played
a passive game, obtaining no counter
chances on the queen side and lost to a
devastating king side attack, resigning on a
checkmate in one. On board seven, S.
Rouhani dropped a pawn early on in a
complicated combination, eventually
regaining it with good chances and then
agreed a draw. On board eight, Chris Callow
went into a combination on move eight and
realized on move eleven that it dropped a
piece for two pawns. He played on gallantly,
adjourning in a double-edged position, but
after some home analysis decided it was lost
and resigned, making the final score:
IC1 2, Wood Green 1 6
Bob Coles
No, we doirt stecL a b&k. on difficult
equations carted 'Quadrapherwo '
GO
CLUB
At a general meeting of the Recreational
Clubs Committee on Thursday, 11th
October, It was decided to declare the G O
Club as dormant; hence the club's grant has
been frozen and any financial transaction
made on the Club's behalf will not be
recognized by RCC.
However, anyone who wishes this club to
continue and Is prepared to take over Its
running is requested to contact the RCC Exec
(via letter rack In Vlnlon Office).
If no one Is prepared to take on
responsibility for this club, then a decision
may be made to close it down altogether at
one of the RCC meetings early next academic
year, but If someone Is prepared to take on
the responsibility then the club may be
declared active and Its grant will be unfrozen.
JOHN TIDY
RCC Chairman
ORIENTEERING
Several hundred orienteers descended on
the unsuspecting inhabitants of Hampstead
last Sunday morning, for the G L C
championships on Hampstead Heath. This
provoked considerable interest among those
enjoying more leisurely and traditional
pastimes. One man who was out walking his
dog, demanded, "What are you people
doing? You're not even all running in the
same directions!" A lady sunning herself on a
park bench was heard to remark, "I shall die
of curiosity in a minute: why is everybody
running about, holding those leaflets'?"
Members of the IC Orienteering Club
attempted courses of 5.0, 8.3 or 10.0km. The
tough 10km course was made even more
difficult, because some base person, or
maybe somebody's dog, removed one of the
controls. Despite being hindered by this, Ken
Warren clocked a respectable 75mki 41 sec.
This was the IC's first outing on a Sunday this
season, and generally speaking our times
reflected a lack of practice. In some cases
they also reflected the effects of Saturday
night parties. We look forward to improving
as the term goes on.
Nigel Ward
11

