CANOE CLUB TAKES ON THE ALPS
This summer in mid-July, IC Canoe Club
set off on its first ever trip to the French Alps.
It took the club two days to travel to the first
river to be paddled, the Isere. The club set up
camp next to the river at Bourg St Maurice,
where a slalom course is always available on
the river. This course provided a great deal of
excitement during the stay there, particularly
because of its closeness to the camp.
The club also paddled three down river
stretches on the Isere below Bourg St
M a u r i c e . T h e s e s e c t i o n s w e r e of
considerably varying difficulty and thus there
was water suitable for everyone on the trip.
The first section from Bourg St Maurice down
to Landry was of moderate difficulty and
thoroughly enjoyed by most of the club
members. The next section from Landry to
Bellentre was the easiest and was paddled by
all canoeists on the trip. The last section
between Bellentre and Aime was by far the
most difficult but was successfully completed
by t h e m o r e e x p e r i e n c e d p a d d l e r s .
After five days in Bourg St Maurice, the
club moved South to the Durance. This river
was paddled in two stages. The first from St
Crepin down to St Clement, was the easier of
the two. At St Clement, a change-over took
place and the second group carried on down
to the famous rapid, the Rabioux, near
Chateauroux. The canoeists who had not
paddled, then had their turn to follow the
others through the Rabioux. This rapid
engrossed the club for some time, with some
particularly spectacular looping by some
paddlers.
The next river attempted was by far the
most difficult encountered by the club. The
Ubaye was only attempted by the most
experienced paddlers, but even so, two
canoes were lost in a very short distance.
Television Licences
The question as to whether or not you need
to buy your own television licence if your
parents have already got one seems to be
shrouded in confusion. This confusion is
entirely due to the totally incomprehensible
gobbledegook printed on the application
form.
What the form is getting at is, that you DO
need a licence for all sets used other than in
your parents home except those which are
powered by one or more batteries contained
within the set. S o unless your set is battery
powered you need a licence.
After this and other difficulties, the club was
forced to abandon this river.
The club then crossed to the Massif
Central, where a day and a half Was spent
relaxing on the banks of the much quieter
Ardeche.
The club then travelled north to the Allier.
This river was paddled from Monistrol to
L a n g e a c . T h e r i v e r w a s r a t h e r a
disappointment, as there was very little water
flowing, but would have great potential as
there obviously had been earlier in the year.
This only left the two days travel back to
London.
Flat Agency Rip-Off
In the course of the mad scramble to find
somewhere to live, you may have paid money
to flat agencies.
If they didn't find you anywhere to live, then
you should be entitled to your money back.
Under the Accommodation Agencies Act
1953, a flat agency commits a criminal
offence if it takes your money without giving
y o u s o m e w h e r e to live i n r e t u r n .
If you would like more information on this
(or anything else for that matter), you can
always come up to the welfare centre, which
is situated on the third floor of the Union
Building and is open from 10:00am until
5:30pm every weekday.
Canoe club must give special thanks to Bill
Scurry, who did all the organizing for the trip.
Now, looking towards the future, canoe
club is open to anyone in college with an
interest in canoeing, regardless of ability. The
club meets regularly at the swimming pool
every Tuesday evening (6:30-8:00) and in
Stan's Bar at 8:30. The trips for this term have
been planned for the weekends of 10 and 11
November to the River Wye and 24 and 25
November to the River Usk. It is also hoped to
organize a surfing trip to Bude near the end of
term.
MET. ENV.
SOC.
the not strictly
relevant, but usually
topical club
No subscriptions! Free admission to
meetings! Free coffee and biscuits at every
meeting! Non-technical talks about anything
slightly relevant to e n v i r o n m e n t a n d
atmosphere - weather forecasters, experts on
planetary atmospheres, people to answer
q u e s t i o n s o n ( g o v e r n m e n t ) e n e r g y
policy....and many other topics! Cheese and
wine parties!
People from all departments are welcome
to our first meeting, which is being held on
Monday, 22nd October with probably ten to
fifteen meetings this year. C o m e along to
anything that interests you.
More information and applications for
membership cards are available from R
Brugge (Atmos Phys PG) or R Graham
(Phys U G ) via letter racks.
WELFARE
MICHAEL ARTHUR
WELFARE ADVISER
12

