r\AV D \f r\AV WRITTEN BY AFTAB GUJRAL
O J UM W 0 N BEHALF OF THE CINA
WEDNESDAY 10th
THORPE RETIRES
The former liberal leader Mr Jeremy
Thorpe announced that he would not be
standing for Parliament at the next election.
His decision, likely to be greeted with relief by
the party leadership, was met with 'deep
regrets' by the local liberals.
NEW DETENTION CENTRES
Mr Whitelaw named two detention centres
where a tougher regime will be introduced to
give young offenders a 'short, sharp, shock'
advocated by the conservative election
manifesto.
CHINESE STUDENTS PROTEST
Students of the People's University of
Peking took to the streets yesterday ,to
complain about their living conditions in the
latest example of the recent revival of
unofficial protest in China, shouting, "Give us
back our school." 2,500 students marched
from Democracy Wall to the headquarters of
the Communist party.
WALL STREET
Share prices plunged for the third session
in a row, in panic trading on Wall Street in the
heaviest volume of business ever at the New
York Stock Exchange. Since the Federal
Reserve Board announced increased interest
rate NY stock exchange has dropped 48.29
points and one broker commented: "The
atmosphere resembles restrained terror."
THURSDAY 11th
'WAR ON WASTE' CUTS
A report by Sir Derek Rayner, the
businessman appointed by Mrs Thatcher to
lead Whitehall's war on waste, is expected to
identify savings of £70miliion a year in the
civil service enterprises examined so far.
US ARMS WARNING
The American campaign to persuade its
N A T O partners to agree to modernize their
nuclear weapons in Europe was stepped up.
President Carter's national security adviser,
Mr Brezinski gave a warning that failure to do
so could lead to political intimidation by the
USSR and 'even war at the most'.
NOBEL PRIZE WINNER
Dr Godfrey Hounsfield inventor of EMI's
controversial body scanner, was named as
the winner of this year's Nobel prize for
m e d i c i n e . T h e invention has e a r n e d
£200million in exports.
CAMBODIAN REFUGEES
About 20,000 refugees have crossed the
border from Cambodia to Thailand since
T u e s d a y , f o l l o w i n g an a s s a u l t by
Vietnamese-backed troops. They are largely
underfed and ill civilians, but include
unarmed guerilla cadres.
FRIDAY 12th
MRS THATCHER'S APPEAL
• Mrs Thatcher made a personal appeal to
ordinary union members to put their families
and country first if called upon to strike this
winter. She urged everybody to see one
another's point of view, to widen the common
ground on which they stand. With the winter
round of pay claims coming up, she promised
the government would continue to talk to
unions and listen to views
EEC
The C o m m o n Market is to be told that
Britain cannot go on pouring cash into the
E E C at the present rate. At the E E C budget
talks in Dublin next month the government
will insist in a fairer system of contributions.
FLUORIDATION AND CANCER
Reports of a possible link between
fluoridated water and cancer have brought
requests from Dr Vaughan, for the experts to
take a new look at fluoridation. Dr Burk, an
American scientist has reported that cancer
deaths in US cities, where fluoridation of
water supplies had been introduced, have
been increasing in the last five years.
SATURDAY 13th
UK NUCLEAR PROGRAMME
The government is to announce a major
long-term nuclear programme next month
involving the building of up to twenty nuclear
reactors by the end of the century to meet
more than half of Britain's electricity needs.
The plan has the enthusiastic backing of the
PM.
FLUORIDATION
The government is preparing legislation to
force water authorities to add fluoride to
drinking water despite allegations that
cancer deaths in Birmingham rose after
fluoridation.
BL REDUNDANCY PLANS REJECTED
S h o p s t e w a r d s from B L rejected
overwhelmingly the redundancy programme
drawn up by Sir Michael Edwards. This
involves the loss of 25,000 jobs and the
closure or contraction of thirteen BL plants
over the next two years.
GRANTS AND OVERSEAS STUDENTS
Universities are likely to have their grants
cut in direct proportion to the number of
overseas students they admitted this year.
About 12% of university students are from
overseas. In the first year the plans mean a 3
or 4% cut, but would build up to 12% within
three or four years.
TORTURE OF CHILDREN
Torture is commonly practised on children
to obtain information about members of their
families, says a report by A m n e s t y
International. In twenty-one countries,
hundreds of children have been held as
political prisoners or massacred.
SUNDAY 14th
BR EFFICIENCY DEAL
BR and the three rail unions are to embark
on an efficiency deal which could lead to the
loss of 40,000 jobs, over the next four years.
This is in return for the'railway man's charter'
c o s t i n g t h e i n d u s t r y -£300m i 1
1 i o n.
ZIMBABWE/RHODESIA
The fate of the deadlocked Rhodesia
conference in London may be decided in the
next two days, after speculation about the
surprise arrival of the military commander
Lieut-Gen Peter Walls. General Walls flew in
from South Africa to join the Bishop
Muzorewa delegation apparently at the
Bishop's request. A spokesman said that the
general had been asked to come as a close
adviser in case the conference reached the
issues of ceasefire and interim security
arrangements before independence.
ARMS EXPENDITURE
W o r l d m i l i t a r y s p e n d i n g t o t a l l e d
$425,000million last year, according to a new
report by a US arms control specialist.
Spending on armaments has outpaced
inflation for the seventh successive year,
and is now 70% higher than in 1960.
MONDAY 15th
ZIMBABWE/RHODESIA TALKS
Lord Carrington barred the Patriotic Front
from any participation in talks until it accepts
the British constitutional proposal. He will
now move ahead with talks with the Bishop
on the implementation of the constitution.
IRA SURVEY
A major survey, carried out by a
government sponsored body in the Irish
Republic, shows that 20% of the population
support the provisional IRA's activities and
that 42% sympathize with the IRA'S motives.
TUESDAY 16th
BP HOLDINGS
T h e g o v e r n m e n t e n d e d M o n d a y ' s
speculation by publishing details of its
proposed £1 billion sale of state owned
assets, which includes revenue of £200-
300million from sale of 10% of B P shares.
LEYLAND CUTS
Leaders of B L u n i o n s d e c i d e d to
recommend acceptance of Sir Michael
Edward's plan to close thirteen plants and
shed more than 25,000 jobs. He will ask Mr
Michael that the ballot which B L intends to
conduct among the workforce be a joint affair
fun by both sides.
PAKISTAN ELECTIONS
General Zia ul-Haq has cancelled the
general elections promised for November
17th, banned all political parties and imposed
press censorship.
13

