FILM REVIEW
"BREAKING AWAY"
Reading through the production notes of
"Breaking Away" beforeseeing the screening
of this, 20th Century Fox's latest offering, I
noted with interest the return of Peter Yates,
who after his smashing success with the film,
"The Deep", ends up directing "Breaking-
Away". Now you may think that "The Deep"
was not smashing, and who am I to argue?
However, if 20th Century Fox think they are
on to a winner with this film, they are living in
a fantasy world.
It's another contemporary comedy about a
set of four break-away students and their
capers during their first year outside high
school. For one reason or another they have
not taken the opportunity to go to Indiana
University, but instead are content to go
swimming in a disused and flooded quarry,
and generally drive round town in a careless
fashion. The main star and subject of the plot
is blond and innocent-looking Dave, played
by Dennis Christopher. His ambition is to be
an Italian bike racing champion and so he
buys an Italian phrase book and drives his
'papa' and 'mama' up the wall. These antics
are carried further, to climax in a very funny
scene, as the father (quite a key figure in the
plot) and well acted by Paul Doodey, finds
Dave shaving his legs in the bathroom!
True story book fashion, he ends up
chasing after the good-looking Katherine
(played by Robyn Douglas) with a textbook
she has dropped off her scooter. He chats her
up, not in the conventional Indiana student
drawl, but in a heavy Italian accent. S h e
thinks he is Italian and in an excrutiatingly
funny scene of his later seranade to her
outside the halls of residence convinces her
he must be a mad boy from 'Napoli'.
Girls will be girls, and a jealous friend (with
friends like that who needs enemies?) rings
up her steady boyfriend and he arrives in the
Mercedes to proceed to beat up Cyril, the
guitar accompanyment. Revenge ensues in
the students union next day, as Cyril gets his
fingers stuck in a bowling ball (where isn't
there a student union without it's o w n
bowling alley?) and strikes with good effect
to skittle out the opposition just before the
cops arrive.
The result? A good all-American cycle race
to show who is boss - our likeable tearaways
or the king pins from college. Drama builds,
the thousands of supporters cheer, and the
film reviewer falls asleep, only to awaken to
the start of the 'Little 500' and the competing
thirty-three teams attempts for glory. Of
course Yates, famous for his direction of the
excellent car chase footage in Steve
McQueen's film "Bullitt" does a good job and
some of the incidents in the race are
excellently staged managed.
I'll leave you to see the film and thus the
result of the race. But like all bland American
'A' certificate films, a moral must at least he
attempted, and good old Dave starts college
the next session, and loses his Italian accent-
well the bottom has dropped out of the ice
cream business anyway - to chat up more
charming girls, this time in conventional
tones.
"Breaking Away" then is to'be released in
late November and is an amusing and likeable
film to take granny to see o n a wet
Wednesday afternoon, I'd count on the film to
sink without trace, and if it doesn't then the
British cinema goer loses all street credibility
and 20th Century Fox slyly laugh all the way
to the bank. Four out of ten to Peter Yates,
and I'm off to see the "Life of Brian".
Harvey Nadin
A L I E N
THE
BOOK
Would you like to imagine a tascinating
little alien delicately decapitating you? Far be
it f r o m m e t o e n c o u r a g e s u c h
dreams/nightmares/fantasies/fetishes, but
here is a review of 'Alien - the Book' anyway.
The 'novelization' is by Alan Dean Foster
(who?). Dan O'Bannon wrote the screenplay;
he also wrote part of the screenplay for J o h n
C a p e n t e r ' s h i l a r i o u s ' D a r k S t a r ' .
The story? Oh yes - I won't recount it as
you've probably heard it at least once by now.
It gets off to a slow and pretentious start, but
once you have waded through a few chapters,
the pace warms up quite nicely. Various
disturbing events serve to keep your nerves
on edge as the alien gets into the spaceship
and proceeds to make itself at home with
amazing efficiency.
I was pleasantly surprised by the efficiency
of the novel itself - one might expect that a
horror thriller such as this would lose a lot of
its effect without stunning visual impact, but
even t h e w o r d s are quite effective.
The 'alternative reality' of the ship's interior
is generally convincing, and the characters -
even that of the alien - are realistic too. I
resented the intrusion of the ship's cat - I had
horrible visions of the sentimental slush
which dragged down 'Battlestar Galactica' -
but even the cat, has its role in the tale.
Unfortunatley, the ending is a little ciiched -
you get the feeling of 'Hell, how do you stop
this novel?' - but this doesn't detract unduly
from a very good modern thriller, which I
certainly recommend.
On the Picadilly line, 626 commuters can
hear you scream....
Ken Strachan
15

