S P O R T S
SATURDAY
Both 1st and 2nd rugby teams won
convincing victories against Hayes at
Harlington.
Although the 1st football XI match was called
off, the 2nd and 4th teams won theirs.
Chris Trip was the winner of the freshers'
snooker tournament.
A soccer match between the 2nds and 3rds,
saw the 2nds winning 4-0.
WEDNESDAY
IC 1st rugby team lost 21-7 to QMC at
home. While, the 2nds played an aggressive
match, where a player was taken to hospital
with two gashes in his head and a Q M C player
dislocated his knee. ,
IC had two successful football matches,
when the 4ths won 4-3 and the 2nds beat
QMC 5-1. Sadly the 3rd lost to Royal
Holloway 2nds after a disputedjpenalty. The
5ths and 6ths also lost in their matches wiWi
Charing Cross.
Both RSM rugby Ist and 2nd teams won their'
matches. The scores were 25-8 and 21-6
respectively.
Gutterage Cup
Westfield College and the Royal Dental
Hospital were to have met on Wednesday to
decide a preliminary round in the Gutterage
Cup. But, due to the threatened rail strike, the
match was called off and has been
rescheduled for next Wednesday, the 24th of
October, when IC wereduetoplay the winner
of the match.
F O O T B A L L
C L U B
IC 4ths vs LSE Sths
IC 4ths took to the field this Saturday with a
near complete side and proceeded to
outclass and destroy the opposing team.
Most of the damage was done out on the left
wing by Ramsey Hawa (2 goals), ably
supported by Martin Flynn and Steve Kaye.
Paul Galvin on the right scored two fine
opportunist goals and the ever-running Bob
Dhillon also scored twice. Bob Mills scored a
fine goal from a perfectly weighted thirty yard
pass by Bob Dhillon, flicked on by Paul
Galvin.
Pride of place must go to Andy Hartland
who score five times showing excellent
finishing abilities. The defence controlled
LSE's attack well, with Neil Redmagre playing
another fine game at centre back. Steve Sims
kept the midfield tidy, turning in his usual
highly reliable performance. This promising
start augers well for the forthcoming season,
although it will take a few weeks yet to decide
on the regular side. I C R N ( S P O R T S )
FELIX is published by the Acting Editor, on behalf ol
the Imperial College Union Publications Board
FELIX is printed on the Union Premises in Prince
Consort Road, London SW7
Acting Editor: C R Palmer
FELIX ISSN 0140-0711. Registered at the Post
Office. Copyright FELIX 1979
Cross Country Club
After a promising intake of budding
athletes at the freshers' fair, the cross-
country club has made an excellent start, to
what could be a very successful season.
The first race on our calender was the
London University Trials, held at Parliament
Hill on Saturday, 7th October. Evan
Cameron, won the race easily, whilst Steve
Kirk showed good form in being fourth home
for UL, thus helping them to defeat a
Blackheath Harriers team.
The following Saturday, we returned to
Parliament Hill for the University College
Relay. Although the standard of the relay was
lower than in previous years, several IC
runners put up good performances, and
helped the 'A' and 'B' teams to finish third and
fifth respectively. The 'A' team, "who were
leading at the half-way stage, won medals for
their position.
ICRFC 1ST XV 29
D DIVISION 10
The rugby season started off for ICRFC 1st
XV with an away fixture against D division,
Metropolitan Police.
The weather was not conducive to fast,
open rugby, but IC eventually achieved a
comfortable win. 'Edwina' Budgen scored a
personal tally of 21 points and this included
two tries and two drop goals. His first try
came from a clever piece of play between Raym
Parkinson and himself in the first half. He
then added to the score with a drop goal after
Ray (Old Man) Parkinson himself had scored.
With the score standing at 16-0 at half-time
IC should have run out as easy winner, but
they allowed the police to come back into
they allowed the police to come back into the
game and they promptly scored two tries.
However IC replied with two opportunist
tries, with the second being a good individual
try from John Chandler. With the final score
resting at 29-10, both sides were pleased to
hear the final whistle and everybody
adjourned to the bar.
It was pleasing to see the new players in the
team fitting in well and kthe season promises
to be a successful one for IC Rugby.
ICRFC 1ST XV 19
HAYES 6
The weather again played a part in the
match on Saturday, when ICRFC 1st XV
entertained Hayes.
The newly purchased match ball was
likened to a 'lump of soap' and poor handling
from both sides turned the game into a very
scrappy affair.
Nevertheless the IC three-quarters looked
dangerous when they received good ball.
Consequently, in the first half both Ray
Parkinson and Pat Dunleavy scored well-
worked tries.
Halfway through the second half a forceful
run from Ray Parkinson led to a try from new-
comer James Austin. Eddy Budgen then
converted it to a goal.
Hayes were allowed to score a breakaway
try and eventually full-time was blown. It was
generally agreed that this match should be
forgotten quickly.
Robin Davies
T A B L E
T E N N I S
The.match which everyone (?) had been
waiting for since the seconds were promoted
to division four last season, took place last
Thursday evening - the 1st team vs the 2nds!
(fanfare, exultant trumpeting amidst a
cacophony of applause....fade to match
report).
The opening match, Pete (I'm a stoat!)
Rutherford against Farzin (Ayatollah)
Sobhanpanah, managed to warm up the ball,
but not the small off-putting group of IC
players/spectators. Pete won.
There then followed a display of fine hitting
and driving from Lakhani and Etheridge, the
match being closer than the straight game
result suggested. Lakhani won for the firsts,
making the match score 2-0.
In the third match, Kumar Singarajah (ex-
ist team captain) and Andy Tye (present 2nd
team captain) slotted neatly into their
respective roles as looper and blocker, the
former winning by two sets to love. When not
accusing the author of racist comments,
'Stingy' produced occasional glimpses of his
true genius (which was as much as he's ever
done).
In the fourth match, Rutherford, despite
displaying a total lack of smashing ability,
nevertheless produced play bordering on the
uncanny, when hitting the edge of the table
almost at will, enabling himself to win in
straight games against Etheridge.
The fifth match, Kumar vs Farzin - one word
- fast! Singalongarajah won in kthree games.
Match six was Captain Lakhani vs Captain
Tye. Andy won making the score 5-1, and
Kartik didn't swear once - not even in Greek!
Kumar reacted much the same as Lakhani,
in the previous match, to the fact that the
firsts had already won the tie, and lost easily
to Ga
Pete then lost to Andy and it was 5-3, with
the 2nds playing for a point, but the final
match saw Farzin against Kartik, who, at last
showing his form as IC's no. 1 player, proved
too good on that day for our amiable Iranian
Treasurer (hey, you're being complimented
Farzin, perhaps your prospective girlfriend
will see this!) and the final result was a 6-3 wm
for the first team.
The result was the second win for the first
team and the second defeat for the second
team (both teams played only two matches).
Only one other match last week as the 4th
team's opponents failed to appear - at their
own clubhouse!
The 3rds ate Sainsbury's 3 for breakfast,
the 8-1 scoreline being a poor reflection on
the merits of their dominant defence and
rampant attack....by Zeus, an end to this"
drivel!
Hewkules
We are arranging friendly mixed matches
against other colleges - we have some ladles
willing to play, but there is room for more. See
us any Wednesday afternoon in the TT Room
or most evenings. The first match is verses
Q M C - details not available yet.
The Heap

