U G M
R E P O R T
U G M 16TH O C T O B E R
One thing about Imperial College Union
meetings is that you can't accuse them of
being totaUy predictable. The one on
Tuesday was managing quite nicely (at being
predictable that is) until a rather interesting
sting in the tail, but more on that later.
At the start of the meeting the crowd had
mainly amassed to ensure that no undue
criticism of apartheid was made (after all it is
many miners bread and butter). But during
the debate on sporting links with South
Africa, the miners did make their true concern
felt for the oppression of blacks and
coloureds in S A by shouting " A h " whenever it
was referred to. Despite this, the final result
was deleting all union policy on South Africa.
The policy now reads that South Africa is a
place of equal merit to work or play rugby in
as anywhere else (except perhaps it's
sunnier!).
The next motion discussed, concerned the
'sick and blatantly racist' Rag Mag. After
revealing that once stamped with the name of
the printers the mags were in fact legal, the
meeting decided that raising money for
charity was more important than either the
image of Imperial College or the risk of
offending the disabled people that the cash is
for. S o the Rag M a g will be sold!
The most humorous part of the discussion
occurred after a heckler sited the I rish putting
bombs under people's cars as justifying Irish
racism. The speaker on the floor replied,
"Why then always make them out to be
stupid? After all it's pretty clever to put bombs
under some people's cars!"
The motion on education cuts and
occupation having been moved forward on
the agenda, two amendments were debated.
The first suggested occupying the House of
Commons in preference to the college. Sean
O'Boyle knocked that one on the head as he
highlighted how difficult it is to penetrate into
the House of Commons. He once had his rag
can taken off him as an illegal weapon when
attempting to enter!
The Conservative Association received a
rough ride from the crowd when they moved
the second amendment. However, Mark
Clegg, magnanimous as ever, admitted that
overseas students make some contribution to
education in Britain. In the end a wonderful
example of leadership by the executive
encouraged the remaining four hundred
people at just gone 2:30pm to vote in favour of
the motion, unamended. A n d off they rushed
to occupy the staff dining room!
Well at least it ensured that the only
disruption is to the cockroaches!
COMMEMORATION DAY
There will be a College half-holiday for
students on the afternoon of Thursday, 25th
October, so that they may take part in the
Commemoration Day celebration.
ALL LECTURES WILL CEASE AT 12:30.
SNOOKER CLUB
This year's freshers' tournament was won
by the number one seed, Chris Tripp (Maths
1). He defeated the number two seed, Shaun
Armstrong (Metallurgy 1) in the final. In fact,
he did not lose a single frame during the
whole tournament, and made several breaks
over twenty. I would like to thank everybody
who took part, especially Dave Simmonds
who sat patiently for five hours to play his first
frame, which was, unfortunately for him,
against Tripp. I would also like to thank Steve
Jeans, Alan Leclezio and Tom McClelland for
all their help.
The next competition is tomorrow. It is the
pot-luck doubles' tournament. In this
competition, doubles pairs will be drawn at
random, so if you do not have a partner, it
does not matter. Anybody wishing to take
part should be in the snooker lounge by
10:30am. Entrance fee is 25p members, 50p
non-members.
I am contemplating a snooker club outing
to Preston to see the U K professional
championship. This would take place at the
end of November, I would be grateful if any of
you who would like to go on this trip would let
me know by Wednesday, 24th October. I am
in the snooker lounge every lunchtime.
Finally, a reminder that ourfirst lessons will
be on Monday at 5:30.
Rastus Adolf Napoleon Odinga Odinga
(Prez)
BRIBES
P R O B E
It has now been revealed that.earlier this
week, four members of IC's 'elite' 4th hockey
squad were accosted by a man acting on
behalf of a Surrey hockey club. This man,
obviously an expert, spotted the talent latent
In these four players and immediately Invited
them to join the club. Among Inducements
put forward were free beer, free transport and
the promise of plenty of girls. In addition, the
agent attempted to buy the foursome a pint of
REAL ale (I) and offered free transport to an
evening of "....free booze and women." No
fees were discussed for the players, but they
were told that the agent would contact them
and would (quote) "....make It worth your (the
players) while to play for this club."(Nudge,
nudge, say no more.)
One disturbing aspect of the affair was that
the agent seemed to feel that IC hockey
players were all 'beer-swilling louts' and so
could be bought for free beer and women
(not n e c e s s a r i l y in that o r d e r ) .
However, it Is expected that the players will
turn down the move, mainly on financial
grounds - it costs 80p return to Wimbledon
station, where the transport is laid on.
CYCLISTS
make it safe to leave a bike at
College. Come to a meeting at
1:00pm, Tuesday 23rd October, in
the Senior Dining Room and let's
CATCH THE THIEVES!
I N T E R E S T E D IN G O I N G O N A N
EXPEDITION?
Imagine the scene. It's late March, a party
of geologists are walking and squelching
through the mud-flats of the Wash in pouring
driving rain. Thoughts turn away from the
biomass of a mussel bank to dwell on the
thoughts of warmth and comfort, to ideas of
d o i n g s o m e t h i n g more e x c i t i n g than
counting sea-shells.
"How about....going to O m a n ? " G u y
suddenly asked me. I stopped contemplating
the pint of bitter I was going to murder that
evening and decided to humour him. Another
one of his weird and wonderful ideas, I
thought. "Where?"
"Oman. It's in Arabia - there's mountains
there and I'm told there are granites with
some fossils in them."
Oh well, Ithought, it seems more likely than
our previous idea of studying earthquakes in
Outer Mongolia.
From these improbable beginnings some
semblance of an expedition has emerged.
There are eight of us at the moment all
dedicated to getting out to Oman in
autumn of next year and, believe it or not, this
is not a glorified geologists' holiday. With the
assistance of a few eminent geologists we
have raised this project to the status of a
serious scientific expedition.
Now, we have a problem, it is our intention
to take two long wheel base four wheel drive
landrovers overland to Omen, drive them
around the mountains there and baring them
back again. A n estimated 10,000 miles. For
this we need a mechanic.
So, if you (or anybody you know) are
interested in going on an expedition from
November 1980 to January 1981 and you are
a good experienced mechanic capable of
maintaining these vehicles please contact
either Gary Nichols (Geology 3, Beit 129) or
LADIES HOCKEY
Last Wednesday, IC Ladies' Hockey team
had their first outing of the season. Resting
on their laurels from the seven-a-side
tournament success, the ladies were eagerly
looking forward to their first full length match
of the season.
It took a while for both teams to settle into
the game and after a lot of disorganized play,
Royal Holloway found the back of the net.
As the match settled down, IC began to use
the field more with some nice through balls
from Julia Towns, playing well at centre-half.
The defence played we|| together and the
halves were able to feed the forwards plenty
of goods. Unfortunately, the finishing power
upfront left a lot to be desired.
However, IC drew level just before half-
time, when Shirley Course took the ball up
the left wing and Carol Thomas picked up her
cross to score, despite the close marking of
the Holloway defence.
During the second half, both teams had
plenty of chances to score, but it was Royal
Holloway that made them count, and the final
score was 2-1 to the home team.
The IC team was: J u l i a T o w n s (Capt), Carol
Thomas, Shirley Course, Fay Hood, Hilary
Carter, Karen Jones, Dana Clark, Caroline
Brown, Catherine Crossley, Alex Burnip,
and Averl Horton. Alison Oversby was the
umpire.
Hay Food!
3

