C & G U N I O N
Another week gone and I still haven't
looked at a tutorial sheet. Why? Well, the pub
crawl on Tuesday was great fun with a gallant
band of Guildsmen and women making the
trip to Wandsworth to sample as much
Youngs as possible. Crawl was the right word
as Wandsworth High St had pubs every fifty
yards! Everybody made it back home,
although not as sober as when they set out.
(Wandsworth now knows the Boomalaka.)
The roadshow on Saturday was great with
lots of music and an almost packed J C R . A
big raspberry to all of you who forgot to
come. Now to what's going to happen.
Saturday 20th, is the annual Silly Sports
outside Harrods, where Guilds have a bit of
fun collecting money for rag and indulging in
some light amusement, such as three or more
legged, wheelbarrow, piggybank and camel
races and anything else Nab thinks of. Be at
the Guilds office at 9:30am to collect your bits
and pieces and then off to wake Southside
with a boomalaka.
Freshers' dinners; as you read this I will be
recovering from my own departments,
however there is still C C D on 29th October
and Mech Eng on 1st November, so hurry up
and buy your tickets.
Have fun!
Bryan
Guilds' Publicity Officer
ROYAL
SCHOOL
OF MINES
The term drags on and so did last week's
article, so this Is going to be a quickie.
Two freshers' dinners have been and gone;
the Ladles' and Geology. All those who went
to the Ladles' Dinner thoroughly enjoyed
themselves, but the Geology Dinner could
have been better supported. This leaves two
dinners, which are:-
FRI 19 OCT - MET & MAT SCI
FRI 26 OCT - MIN RES ENG
We meet In the Union Bar before going up
for the actual dinner at 7:30pm. Afterwards,
there Is a yard-drinking contest and at closing
time, we all adjourn upstairs for a couple of
beers and unusual games. Please bring a
change of clothing and stay for the after-
dinner activities, if only to see your friends
make arses of themselves.
At the election UGM yesterday, the
candidates for President, Vice President and
Hon Sec were unopposed and should have
been ratified. The posts are filled by Bernie
Pryor, Simon Cocker and Trev Fletcher
respectively.
Dates for your diary, back of envelope or
empty fag packet:-
25 Oct - Commemoration Day
31 Oct - Joint C C U Halloween Party In JCR
4 Nov - the Nottingham 6s and 7s have been
postponed.
9 Nov - Aussie Bamight in Union Bar
10 Nov - Lord Mayor's Procession (In which
we have a float)
14 Dec - Mines Ball. Tickets will be on sale
during the coming week.
Firstly, let me say that a great time was had
by everyone who went to the Chemistry
Dinner. The quality of the after-dinner
speaking was quite magnificent, in fact,
material provided by one of the speakers may
be used at the Smoking Concert. So, if you
missed that one, you'd better buy a ticket for
one of the other three. Once again the dates
are:
Maths tonight
Physics on 26th October
Life Sciences on 2nd November
The Rag Mag selling trips would have been
a rip-roaring success had Sussex University
not decided to ban the whole concept of Rag.
Even so, we managed to sell about two
hundred and fifty before the Sussex Union
rounded us up. There will be no more trips
u n t i l f u r t h e r n o t i c e d u e to m i n o r
technicalities preventing the sale of our
publication.
The inaugral meeting of the Rag Float
Building Rabble was unable to start building
the Rag float due to an acute lack of building
materials (i.e. cardboard). If you have any
spare boxes lying around doing nothing in
particular, please bring them to the R C S
U n i o n O f f i c e as s o o n as p o s s i b l e .
There will be a four-legged race down
Oxford Street tomorrow for Rag. Be in the
R C S U at 9:30, if you want to make a fool of
yourself for charity.
Yet another plea for help, in the way of
articles, Gestetnering, or just coffee-making,
for this coming edition of that well-known
publication 'Broadsheet', this Wednesday
afternoon.

