18 FRIDAY 06 JUN
TELEVISION
Editors: John Park,
Emily Fulham
television.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Long may she reign
Reign: Season 1
History buffs, look away now. Avert
your eyes and don’t be a buzzkill to
ruin television’s top guilty pleasure,
the CW’s interpretation of the life of
Mary, Queen of Scots. It must have
been a rather bold decision, choos-
ing to base an entire series around the
English period drama concept, focus-
ing on an individual who clearly is
not someone who comes up as a daily
conversation topic across the Atlantic,
let alone here in the U.K. And yet the
channel whose main audience target is
teenagers, has done remarkably well.
Giving the tale a suitable twist, Reign
is a deceptively well-polished drama
that makes it okay to have the well
worn-out storytelling mechanism of a
love triangle, because the stakes here
are not just about broken hearts and
hurting someone’s feelings, but it also
concerns whether someone’s head
gets chopped off or not.
The French Court is never a safe
place to be, and yet poor Mary (Ade-
laide Kane) has already been betrothed
to wed Francis (Toby Regbo), the fu-
ture King of France, from a very early
age. Love counts for very little around
here, as stable alliances between pow-
erful countries to stand united against
a threat are what every monarch is af-
ter. Mary, as her title suggests, is the
Queen of Scotland, although being of
such a young age, her mother Mary de
Guise (Amy Brenneman) rules as act-
ing regent in her place. Francis brings
with him France of course, and this
union is supposed to deter the English
army from getting too feisty.
But danger lurks around the many
corners of the palace, with every-
one up to something to further their
gains. The series opens with an assas-
sination attempt, and that is in no way
the last you’ll see of someone trying
desperately to end another’s life. The
current King Henry II of France not
only keeps his wife Queen Catherine
de’ Medici (Megan Follows) around,
but also his mistress, Diane de Poit-
iers (Anna Wolton), with whom he fa-
thered a bastard, Sebastian (Torrance
Coombs). Sexual tension runs high as
both Sebastian and Francis become
potential candidates for Mary, and the
two women surrounding Henry II are
ready to spill blood at any moment for
further control and power.
Treachery, plotting, scheming, are
all what you can expect from Reign.
Even for a CW show the series is not
without taking its risks, both in terms
of how much blood is shown but also
with how much flesh. Violence and
sex go hand in hand particularly in a
costume drama such as this one, and
while it may not be as raunchy as
some of the cable greats The Tudors
or Rome, it certainly gets its job done
in suggesting away. There was report-
edly a masturbation scene that had to
be trimmed for the fear of angering
concerned parents.
Mary is thrown into the deep end
from episode 1, having to deal with the
complexities of being a part of a roy-
al court, and how not to be killed by
one of the many, many who want her
Catholic head. She has support from
her four ladies in waiting, Lola (Anna
Popplewell), Greer (Celina Sinden),
Kenna (Caitlin Stasey) and Aylee (Je-
nessa Grant), all of whom are some-
what based on real-life counterparts.
Like most women in those days, their
number one priority is to become
someone’s wife - hopefully a man of
high standing, good income, and no-
ble background. Reign has a way of
skillfully juggling the highly soapy na-
ture of the plotlines, and once again,
the premise and medieval setting
helps enormously. These aren’t some
lovestruck high school girls looking
to get laid. Whether they get married
or not makes or breaks their lives, and
their future safety depends on it. They
can think of love later, affection can
be worked on, but their potential hus-
bands’ social standing? Not so much.
The performances are uniform-
ly outstanding. Kane, Regbo and
Coombs deliver their often corny
lines in regards to their love triangle
without flinching and backing them
all with serious emotion, an admira-
ble skill of course. And they excel too
exerting their authority - Mary in par-
ticular is the one having to undergo the
most significant change in personality
- at first she is just a shy, clueless girl,
but as the first season wraps up, there
are many scenes the audience is treat-
ed to the young Mary standing up for
her rights, fighting for her interests,
plotting and scheming for her benefit.
It’s a gradual change and maturation
shown well through Kane’s steadily di-
versifying performance, getting us all
excited for what she has to show in the
next season.
But the one performance that truly
stands out among everyone else is
Megan Follows as Queen Catherine
who is simply perfection in every
scene she is in. She out-acts everyone
just by standing in the frame, and it’s
game-over whenever she opens her
venomous mouth to speak, twist and
manipulate words to get her way. She
is loyal only to herself and her son, and
this means she makes lots of friends,
then enemies, then friends again, and
so on, throughout the series. It’s head-
spinning to try to keep up with where
everyone’s loyalty lies, and it’s safe to
assume that it’s a deadly game of free-
for-all, and the only person one can
truly trust is oneself.
Speaking of an older generation
actress out-acting everyone else in
the cast, the best episode of season
1 comes when the equally ruthless
and scheming Mary de Guise drops
by. Amy Brenneman only shows up
for one episode to play the mother of
the Queen of Scots, but she has a lot
of fun and stirs up a lot of trouble in
the designated 40-minute slot of her
single appearance. Here is hoping she
will be further utilised in the upcom-
ing season, although nothing has con-
firmed this yet.
Being a historical drama there is
heavy emphasis on what the char-
acters are wearing, where they are
standing, and what kind of grand
event they are attending. No female
character wears the same dress twice,
and the same can be said for the men
in a higher class. The exquisite range
of costumes on display here is an
amazing one, and although not all of
the shiny, over-the-top garments may
fit into the period this show is depict-
ing, it hardly matters as they all look
stunning in them.
When it comes to the soundtrack,
the series makes no apologies for
shamelessly using songs from the
charts, as many backing tracks are
from the likes of The Lumineers,
Bastille, London Grammar, Gabrielle
Aplin, there is even a string orches-
tra’s rendition of Lorde’s song Royals
subtly playing in the background of a
ballroom scene.
Human threats are not the only ones
that plague the palace. Dark, super-
natural forces that hide within the
deep, dark woods surrounding the
French Court also have a part to play,
further adding to the sense of para-
noia and unsettling fear.
Of course, it’s a show that is not sup-
posed to be taken too seriously, cer-
tainly not within the historical con-
text anyway. But it remains a highly
entertaining period romp, with some
killer performances to attract even the
snobbiest of viewers. Mary Queen of
Scots lived a complicated, colourful
life, this should provide more than
enough source material for the show.
Long may she reign indeed.
Bergerac
This 80s gem comes to us from the
scenic island of Jersey and stars good
old Cornish boy John Nettles (now
better known for top German TV hit,
Midsummer Murders) as recovering
alcoholic Jim Bergerac. Jersey na-
tive Bergerac rails against his island’s
transformation from a tight knit pas-
toral fishing community to the arch-
Thatcherite tax haven where Dave
Cameron’s dad hid all of his money, all
the time driving around in his trade-
mark vintage sports car solving the
palest of white collar crime.
Now, all good detectives have de-
mons, and Bergerac’s comes in the
classic form of a drink problem that
resulted in the break-up of his mar-
riage and a serious accident that is
partially revealed through flashbacks
in the course of the first series. Un-
like most TV detectives, Bergerac
beats his alcoholism, demonstrated
well by a particularly strong 3rd series
episode in which he is kidnapped and
forced to neck a bottle of whisky.
Bergerac is also joined by a host of
recurring characters, the most nota-
ble of which is his ex-father in law, the
delightfully dodgy tax exile Charlie
Hungerford, who manages to be in-
strumental in all but one of Bergerac’s
91 cases. We also meet a string of 80s-
haired girlfriends, the first of which he
seems to have stolen off his dead best
friend (best not judge); his annoying
ex-wife and adolescent daughter; and
his police colleagues, led by the com-
bative Inspector Crozier.
Bergerac’s cases, first as a Detec-
tive Sergeant of the absurdly titled
and completely fictional ‘bureau des
étrangers’ of the Jersey police and then
as a private detective, span the full 80s
gauntlet of shady financiers with gi-
ant beige computers, crooked arms
dealers supplying apartheid era South
Africa, the New York mafia (yes, they
make the Jersey/New Jersey joke, they
go there), shady sheikhs, and the usual
common villains.
Even though some of the storylines
may seem corny to the discerning 21st
century viewer (because they really
are), Nettles’ likeability and light com-
ic touch carries the series, and makes
Bergerac prime 80s TV viewing. Just
don’t let the sax nightmare of a theme
tune put you off!
Nicholas Farmer
Television Writer
John Park
Television Editor

