4 FRIDAY 06 JUN
NEWS
Editors: Nida Mahmud, Maciej
Matuszewski, Aamna Mohdin,
Aemun Reza, Kunal Wagle
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
I
mperial Innovations, a company based at
Imperial College, is planning to issue new
shares on the stock market in a bid to raise
up to £150 million. he irm, which is listed
on the AIM stock market (a sub market of the
LondonStockExchange),intendstousethemoney
to fund future investments in ledgling companies.
Innovations has close ties with Imperial College
London, Oxford, Cambridge and UCL, and has
arrangements in place with these universities that
allows it to invest in ledgling companies as they
start out.
Some of these ventures can prove very successful
– for example, earlier this year Circassia, a maker of
pet allergy treatments, made over £200 million at
the stock market. Innovations, who currently own
14% of the company, raised over £80 million from
the venture.
Imperial Innovations intends to split the money
that is raised between investing in companies
that it already owns a share in, and for investing
in new companies. Russell Cummings, the Chief
Executive, has already rubber stamped Veryan as a
company that could do with extra investment. he
business, which makes stents, needs £12 million to
gain regulatory approval in the US.
According to the press release from Imperial
Innovations, nearly 90% of shareholders have
already agreed to the additional placing. hey
have also agreed to the placing being “non-pre-
emptive”
, meaning that new investors can buy the
shares. he company says that the minimum price
for each share will be £4. he current price on the
AIM market is 442.50 - a rise of 6% the day after the
news was announced.
Martin Knight, the Chairman of Imperial
Innovations, said, “he Board believes that
strengthening the Group’s balance sheet through
the Placing would greatly enhance its ability to
attract high quality investment opportunities. It
would also improve the Group’s ability to support
portfolio companies from inception until their full
development, as illustrated by the recent successful
IPO of Circassia Pharmaceuticals.
“We have identiied opportunities to increase
the capital deployed in a number of our leading
portfolio companies, which, in aggregate, are
seeking to raise over £100 million from investors
over the next twelve months.
“It is gratifying that our core shareholders
have evidenced their support for this proposed
fundraising by giving irrevocable undertakings to
vote in favour of the resolutions needed to enable
the Placing to proceed.”
Last week Felix reported that Yoyo had secured
$5 million in funding, the majortiy coming from
Imperial Innovations.
I
mperial College have moved up four places
to 5th in the latest Guardian University
League Table. he college overtook
Universities such as Surrey, London
School of Economics, University College
London and Durham. he Guardian’s league
table is based on numerous factors, including
Student to staf ratio, average spending per
student, average grades required for attendance
and graduate prospects. he College’s graduate
prospects were ranked highest in the country,
but the College’s average student satisfaction
was lower than those of its closest rivals. he
College’s “average entry tarif”, which is a ranking
that the Guardian gives based on a university’s
average minimum exam grades for entry was
ranked as third in the country, behind Oxford
and Cambridge.
his new league table is the latest in a string of
tables that suggest that Cambridge has not only
consolidated,butisnowincreasingthegapbetween
it and the chasing pack. Cambridge registered irst,
with Oxford second and St Andrew’s third. Bath
jumped from seventh to fourth, whilst Surrey
(sixth), Warwick (ninth) and Lancaster (tenth) all
registeredimprovements.Durham(eighth)andthe
London School of Economics (seventh) fell in the
table. UCL was the biggest casualty in the list, as it
lost its top ten place and now sits in lowly eleventh
in the table, a drop of six places.
he annual Centre for Doctoral Training (CDT)
FestivalofSciencewillbehappeningonFriday13th
June 2014 in the SAF lecture theatres. It is a chance
for CDT students to come together to organise and
present a showcase of current science and scientiic
issues to the Imperial College London research
community.
he 2014 festival focuses on the theme of “Science
and the Media”
. Featuring speakers from a number
of disciplines and positions within the scientiic
world, we hope to bring you a range of perspectives
on working with the media and engaging the public
as a scientist.
he day is also an opportunity for the four
CDTs to communicate with each other and gain
a more detailed understanding of the work that
is carried out in each ield. his year we will have
presentations of the achievements and aspirations
of the outgoing cohorts of each CDT, this being the
graduation year of the irst cohort for many CDTs.
Speakers will include Johnjoe McFadden,
Brian Fuchs and Lewis Darnell. here is a poster
competition with a £250 prize for the best poster as
well as prizes for other entrants. Find out more at:
http://www.cdtfestival.co.uk
Imperial Innovations in bid to raise
£150 million via investment
Kunal Wagle
News Editor
On-line enrolment for current undergraduates entering their 2nd, 3rd
and 4th years in October 2014 will soon be open.
Find out more:
www.imperial.ac.uk/horizons
Enrolment for current 2nd and 3rd years opens on Monday 19 May 2014 at 14.00
Enrolment for current 1st years opens on Tuesday 10 June 2014 at 14.00
IMPERIAL HORIZONS 2014/15
College improves in
Guardian League
Tables
Centre for Doctoral
Training Festival of
Science next week
Nida Mahmud
News Editor

