K 1 «£* a t ~ J J l l S i
E L I X
for students from the polys around the area. The food is
unbelievable cheap with a deluxe full meal consisting of
salad, mixed vegetable curry, bean curry, dal, pilau rice,
chapatis, popadoms, chutney, a sweet plus a lassi to drink
all for £4.00!
UNDER £6.00
Texas Lone Star
154 Gloucester Road, SW7
7 days, Noon-11.30pm
Walking distance
This is a genuine TexMex restaurant owned by an exiled
Mexican and his sons. The best meals are the B B Q ribs
which come with a salad and a choice of potatoes.
Everything's guaranteed to add inches to your waistline.
Between 9pm and 11pm they usually have live Country
& Western music which competes with the numerous T V
sets showing ghastly spaghetti westerns.
South Ken Pasta Bar
60 Old Brompton Road, SW3
7 days, noon-3pm,
5.30pm-l 1.30pm
Walking distance
The garlic bread is quite delicious as are the mouth-
watering starters. They do extra large portions for £1.00 I
extra if you're feeling really piggish.
Henry J Bean's
54 Abingdon Road, W8
Mon-Sat, 11.30am-11.45pm
Sunday, Noon-10.30pm
Tube: High Street Ken
This is another American restaurant, perhaps even more
genuine than the Texas Lone Star, as it imported all the
pine fittings from Chicago! Y o u order your food at a
counter as you buy the drinks and then pick it up a few
minutes later. The food's great! The atmosphere is
definitely 'loud' American. There's also a sister restaurant
in King's Road, Chelsea, which maybe nearer for Evelyn
Gardens residents.
Seafresh Fish Bar
80-81 Wilton Road, SW1
Mon-Sat, noon-3pm, 5pm-llpm
Tube: Victoria
This place does sell very fresh fish unlike most of its
competitors. For just under £3.00 you get a huge piece
of plaice plus newly-cooked chips and all the tomato
ketchup you could wish for!
Daquise
20 Thurloe Street, SW7
7 days, lOam-midnight
Walking distance
You will either love or hate this little Polish restaurant.
The food is similar to German but does not appeal to many
English palettes. There is a large menu with glories such
as stuffed onions and boiled ox tongue. If you don't fancy
such meals then you must try it, if only for the delicious
continental pastries it serves.
Ambrosiana Creperie
194 Fulham Road, SW10
7 days, noon-midnight
Walking distance
A French Creperie with hot, wide and juicy crepes
featuring exotic fillings such as mozzarella & artichoke!
Astrix
329 Kings Road, SW3
7 days, noon-midnight
Walking distance
Slightly better than Ambrosiana's because all the
ingredients are fresh where possible. There are over twenty
different savoury fillings and many more desert pancakes
to choose from.
Fatso's Pasta Joint
13 Old Crompton Street, Wl
Sun, noon-10.30pm;
Mon-Thurs, noon-11.30pm;
Fri, Sat, noon-12.30am
Tube: Leicester Square
A n Italian restaurant that appeals to students who like to
eat and eat until they can't eat any more. For £2.60 you
can have pasta and one of their ten sauces and between
Monday and Thursday they keep on filling up your plate
at no extra cost! Consequently, this restaurant is very
popular. If you don't like queuing then try Fatso's in
Richmond or Queensway as their atmospheres are much
more pleasant.
Lidos
41 Gerrard Street, Wl
7 days, 4pm-4.30am
Tube: Leicester Square
If you ever feel peckish in the early hours of the morning
then just hop on a night bus to Soho and visit this
restaurant. It serves Cantonese food until 4 in the morning
and the portions are enormous. Watch out tor the type
of customer at that time in the morning though—we did
warn you.
Upstairs
8 Basil Street, SW3
Mon-Sat, noon-3pm
Walking distance
This restaurant is a bit up-market as it lies in the heart
of Knightsbridge. The best choice is the salad, which you
can pile onto your plate until it begins to fall off. Definitely
a place to practise your salad architecture.
Diwana Bhel Poori House
121 Drummond Street, NW1
7 days, noon-llpm
Tube: Euston Square or 73 bus
Another Indian vegetarian but one of the best in London.
It's very popular, so you'll have to queue at peak times.
Most snacks cost in the region of £1.25 and the
'Annapurna' includes a dessert for under £4.
FELIX Monday October 5th 1987 25

