V I a*
7e
A poor week for the telly-film. Highlight on the
Beeb is The Jerk (tonight, 9.00-10.30pm, BBC2)
with U S comedian Steve Martin's parody of the
American dream—the comedy makes up for the
plot.
Slightly better is Thames, with Julia (Monday,
10.30-12.40am), starring Jane Fonda and Vanessa
Redgrave i n academy award-winning
performances, and an early appearance from Meryl
Streep. The plot centres on one girl's experiences
resisting the Nazis in the 30s. Also, if you haven't
seen it yet, Buster Keaton's classic The General is
worth a look. Incidently this is based on The Great
Locomotive Chase, a true story from the U S Civil
War filmed 30 years later as a western. One film
to avoid is yet another showing of Raiders of the
Lost Ark (Thames, Tuesday 8.00-10.00pm).
Away from the movies we are still on the
ground—American Football makes Tuesday on C4
(10.00pm) and Marillion are in concert on Thursday
(BBC1, 11.30pm), and that's about it.
Radio ain't much better, apart from a
documentary on Woody Guthrie (BBC Radio 2,
8.30pm tonight), you might as well keep your
radios tuned to IC Radio (301m, 999Khz all week)
or twiddle your dial and try a few pirate stations.
Quite a poor week, all in all—not that many of
you will be sitting watching the box with all the
Freshers' carnivals and parties etc. Go on, get out
and enjoy yourselves.
The jerk
C D Wars: drastic price cutting CDs seems likely
at Christmas, with Wool worths currently selling
chart CDs at £9.99. None of the majors say they
want to see a price war, but' 'will respond to market
pressure".
The threat of a 1Op 'levy' on blank tapes because
of home taping seems to have receeded again. After
the last switch around at the Dept of Trade and
Industry, Lord Young the new minister appears to
think that the levy will be a licence payment for
unbridled home taping and piracy and unpopular
with young voters.
Japanese giants Sony are looking to buy U S
record major CBS. The holding company CBS Inc
have acknowledged " a further expression of
interest".
The B B C Top-40 is to come out on Sundays from
now on, in an effort to compete with the Network
Chart put out by the independent radio and T V
stations. The new chart will be first aired by the
Top-40 run-down on Sunday evenings on Radio 1.
Good news for fans of the Thunderbirds, the
soundtrack album of Thunderbirds are Go is
expected to be released soon.
Dr and the Medics have a new album out, / Keep
Thinking it's Tuesday, and a U K tour that began
on 1st October.
Hot off the press!
The all-new
FELLX T-shirts
(s, m, 1, xl, y ^ * ^ -
get yours at the FELIX
Office, Beit Quad or
at Freshers' Fair
Poems are still alive
- A r u n (RSM)
Poems are still alive!
In a rare summer-day of pouring rain,
I discovered, poems are still alive
above all the din and bustle
of this torrid material-city.
When I walked through the park,
I read poems in the hemispherical bubbles
on shallow rain water,
caused by the oozing drops
from the drenched lime trees.
When I reached home,
I read poems in the changing clouds
in the square of the sky
framed by the window
of my cosy den on sixth floor.
I read poems in the reflection
of the swaying lofty plane tree,
on the mute T V screen.
I read poems in black and brown bark
cracking all over the tree,
exposing the fair skin
in the yearly cycle.
(I smile stupidly at the human race.)
When I went to bed at midnight,
I listened to poems in the rain drops
pattering on the window pane.
I heard poems in the gusty wind,
flapping the curtain and
revealing a patch offluorescentsky.
I listened to poems in the murmur of leaves;
perhaps their reluctance to fall
(who wants?) in the ensuing fall
I lost the chain of all my promises,
in the abyss of a cosmic wonder,
or was it a mystic thought?
I was lulled. I slept with my great wonder
grown but left unsolved,
till next morning when I woke up again
in this meaningless meaningful world.
C O N T R I B U T I O N S
F O R P H O E N I X
Poetry, prose, photography or other
artwork are very welcome, and
should be given to Liz Holford via
FELIX, Dramsoc or Life Sci
pigeonholes.
The full Phoenix magazine will be
produced 5 times this academic
year.
26 Monday October 5th 1987 FELIX

