R
a
d
i
o G
a
-
G
a
When compared to the relative scarcity of radio
stations elsewhere in the country, the choice in
London is almost overwhelming. However, it can
be surprisingly difficult to find something worth
listening to.
London's radio stations can be divided into three
main categories—BBC stations, independent
stations and pirates.
The B B C stations are the most well known, and
most people will be familiar with the four national
stations. There are also two London-based
commercial stations, Capital and L B C , plus several
which can be picked up from the Home Counties.
There is an ever-increasing number of pirate
radio stations and it is almost impossible to keep
track of them all. Most are concerned chiefly with
music, though there are some that cater for specific
ethnic groups, such as London Greek Radio. Some
of the stations, such as L G R or Kiss F M are quite
well known and of reasonably high quality, but a
large number appear only sporadically and suffer
badly from poor presentation or poor facilities.
Most of the London pirate stations are on V H F ,
and the best way to find them is by slowly turning
across the whole band. Even the established stations
change their frequency from time to time.
Radio One's output consists almost entirely of
music, with news at half-past most hours, and a
fifteen minute fast-moving programme called
'Newsbeat' at 12.30pm and 5.30pm. The daytime
programmes are mostly orientated towards popular
music, with the evenings having a few more
specialist shows. The B B C chart show is broadcast
each Sunday between 5pm and 7pm.
Radio Two broadcasts twenty-four hours a day;
mostly 'easy listening' music with news on the hour
and a sports round-up at 8.50am. The station shares
its V H F / F M frequency with Radio 1, so it may not
always be possible to hear what you want on
V H F / F M .
Radio Three is well known for its classical music
programmes, but it also broadcasts plays and
discussions, as well as some Open University
programmes. Overseas students will be glad to
know that they can hear the world service news at
9am and 5pm, with reception considerably better
than the World Service medium wave transmitter.
There is more to Radio Four than just the
Archers. It is easily the most informative radio
station on the air at the moment. Each day there
are four main news programmes, plays,
documentaries, magazine programmes and some of
the best radio comedy available.
Radio London is the BBC's local station for the
London area, with a high music content featuring
a wide range of musical styles, including Tony
Blackburn's soul music programme. Radio London
also provides a very good travel information service
and some programmes for London's ethnic
minorities. When it is not putting out its own
programmes it relays either Radio 1 or Radio 2
depending on which is using the shared V H F / F M
frequency.
Overseas students may be familiar with the B B C
through World Service broadcasts to their own
countries. The medium wave service in England
is broadcast almost entirely in English, and is
largely 'speech-based'. The news bulletins give
detailed reports from all round the world. A l l the
programmes on the World Service use G M T , so
you have to make allowances for this during British
Summer Time.
Capital Radio, which is the most popular
independent station, puts out a lot of high quality
music, but has been criticised as being too
'housewife orientated'. Besides music, there are
some comedy programmes, and a fair amount of
news is broadcast. On top of this, Capital Radio
publishes a flat-share list and gives information on
the availability o f student standby tickets for
London theatres. The Network Chart comes from
Capital Radio each Sunday, between 5pm and 7pm.
LBC provides London with a very
comprehensive news and information service, and
following a recent revamp now has more music than
it used to. However, the bulk of its output is still
speech-orientated, with plenty of phone-ins and
discussions. Sport is well represented with a four
hour programme at 2pm on Saturday. Geet Mala
at 9pm each Saturday caters for the Asian
community, with an Afro-Carribean news
programme at 9.30pm on Sundays.
Radio Luxembourg is the oldest and largest
commercial station in Europe. The English service,
which has been running for more than fifty years,
broadcasts from 7pm to 3am each night, though the
times sometimes vary, especially on Sunday
evenings. The station output consists almost entirely
of current popular music, with quite a few phone-
in competitions, though be warned that these
involve making international calls! Unfortunately,
reception is not always as good as some of the other
stations.
Imperial College Radio broadcasts to the
Southside halls on medium wave, and by cable to
many other places. Programmes consist mostly of
specialist programmes together with news and
features. The exact style of programmes depends
a lot upon who's presenting them. The station is
run entirely by students, and definitely has a
character of its own.
Of course this is only a very brief guide to some
of the stations you can discover on your radio in
the London area. If you are new to London it is
probably a good idea to turn you dial across the
whole range of frquencies until you find a station
which suits your taste. Remember that one of the
joys of radio is, discovering it for yourself.
Radio Station VHF/FM AM (Medium Wave)
(MHz) kHz/metres
Radio 1 89.1* 1089/275
Radio 2 89.1* 909/330
Radio 3 91.3 1215/247
Radio 4 93.5 720/417
B B C World Service - 648/463
B B C Radio London 94.9 1458/206
Capital Radio 95.8 1548/194
L B C 97.3 1152/261
Radio Luxembourg - 1440/208
IC Radio 999/301
Laser - 576/521
Radio Caroline 558/538
*Denotes a shared frequency.
FELIX Monday October 5th 1987 27

