L e t t e r
S m a l l A d s
A N N O U N C E M E N T S
• Y H A Club —weekly meetings
from 8/10/87. 12.30pm in
Southside Upper Lounge or see
0 J Vaughan (Chem PG, Room
431 extn 4664).
• Disco hire for clubs, etc. £25
a night. Contact Ian Morris, Ents
Hon Sec, via the Union Office.
• For the best disco, hire solar
winds, special rates for student
events, contact Vince Roper
through Civ Eng or phone 381
5388.
• Another series of confused
ramblings of drunken hippy
amidst excellent rock and roll,
jazz and folk, plus new music
from USA. Another City, IC
Radio, Wednesday 11pm-1am
• Curry Soc wishes to
announce that it is alive and
kicking. Because of internal
wrangling between the SCC
Chairman and himself we may
not be able to hold a store at
Freshers' Fair. Anyone interested
in joining therefore whould
contact Richard Wiles or Bill
Goodwin via the Mech Eng I
I
I
pigeon holes. We look forward to
seeing you!
• Weekly FELIX staff meetings
every Friday lunchtime at
12.45pm in the FELIX Office.
Anybody is welcome to attend
ACCOMMODATION
• 1 male wanted to share a 6
person flat in West Kensington
from beginning of October 87.
Rent £34/week (rent rebate
available). Please ring Paul on
589 5111 ext 9498 or 589 5111
ext 3439.
• Accommodation available for
1 person (male) literally 2 mins
from College. For further details
phone Margi 584 6893.
• Student needed to share
mixed flat for five in West
Kensington. Single room. Non-
smoker preferred. Contact
Suzanne Astington, Geol lll/Ava
Engineer, Life Sci I
I
I via the
pigeonholes.
PERSONAL
• Play it again ICR!
CHESS PLAYERS WANTED
Chess Club of International Students
House, in central London, opposite
Great Portland Street tube station have
vacancies for league players. Chess
playing facilities available every single
day of the year until late in the evening.
Contact Tom Vanderpuye 631 3223
office hours
Please send all letters to Judith Hackney, Editor, FELIX,
Imperial College Union.
Wasted opportunities
Dear Miss Hackney
As I am sure you are aware, F E L I X performs a very
important function in the life of Imperial College. We all
look forward to Friday mornings, because F E L I X is the
only place where we can find out what is going on in
College at the human level.
Because Imperial College is so large, F E L I X provides
whatever there is of a College spirit. Naturally this comes
initially from individuals like the Rector, the Students'
Union President and so on, who have a role to play, and
from those members of College who have ideas which they
have expressed publicly or in the form of reviews or
articles in your columns.
In my opinion this admittedly elusive spirit is worth a
great deal more than all the spirit you find in the College
bars. It is the only antidote we have for the depression
that the universities are subjected to these days. And you
are its custodian. So please do not waste your golden
opportunities to help Imperial College by playing silly
games. B y all means publish the truth, so that real
incompetence will be exposed, academic shortcomings put
right, and administrative errors corrected, but please spare
us the excesses of your 'libel' page, as in your first issue
of 14 August, 1987. (Is it a coincidence that no mention
was made of the Phalix Editor, Miss Hack?) The Baron
of Cheapskate was often very funny but its successor
simply left a bad taste.
Which, if you will permit, brings me to my last point.
As Chairman of the Students' Residence Committee for
the last three years, I have worked closely with Michael
Arthur, and have come to respect his ability and
commitment for the College's good. It has therefore been
a matter of great surprise to me that Michael persistently
gets such a bad press. Ian Howgate was gracious enough
to say some kind things in the last F E L I X about me as
Chairman of SRC. In my turn, I would like to say that
Imperial College is lucky to have such a competent and
dedicated administrator as Michael Arthur.
Yours sincerely
Richard H Clarke
Electrical Engineering Department
Warden of Linstead Hall
For those of you who didn't catch the Postgraduate issue
of FELIX, the Libel page consisted of several gossipy
anecdotes, each having at least two different sources. It
contained a piece on the President's bad taste in clothing,
several Evelyn Gardens stories and one regarding Mr
Arthur's failure to add VAT on the cost of renting rooms
for the Summer Letting Scheme. I consider the last of these
to be genuine incompetence. Perhaps the 'excess' you refer
to was the obviouslyfictionalstory we printed on the same
page. Please do not make the mistake of confusing fact
with fiction.
President's ignorance
Dear Judith,
Howgate's Half Hour (Issue No. 777) was read with
almost as much humour as Hancock's original 30 minutes.
His comments concerning the University of London's
Management Audit Offices draft report on the
intercollegiate halls are extremely short-sighted and he is
obviously subject to the same ignorant and blinkered
impressions of the intercollegiate halls as are many IC
students.
Some o f the report's recommendations are
commendable—centralisation e f purchasing certain
adminstrational duties particularly—however there are also
some proposals that will prove extremely detrimental to
the life of students in the halls.
There is a plan to merge all three halls of Cartwright
Gardens into one hall, more than twice the size of the
whole of Southside. To introduce first year students into
a hall with no identity smaller than 1000 students would
be disastrous. Experience has shown that large halls do
not work well for the student. I am not aware that any
of the seven intercollegiate halls shut for half the summer.
Grants continue to be cut and halls live on the breadline.
The proposals also put the decision-making in the hands
of the bursars rather than the part-time wardens who
generally disgard the more dangerous proposals from the
University. The Bursars do not do this and put in a position
of power would exercise a general disregard for student
affairs.
A l l the halls should not be tarred with the same brush.
It is true, some are inefficient and wasteful but in my
experience the majority are still better run than we are
led to believe most Imperial halls are.
In short, Howgate, how about checking the views of
some of the students involved before mouthing off in the
magnaminous manner for which you are well known.
Look at the problems of our own halls before you start
branching out to the University as a whole—or is this part
of your campaign to become U L U President?
Yours,
Jon Wurr
Useful tip
Dear Judith
Here is a useful tip for your readers. I have discovered
that many of the letters I send through the College internal
mail do not reach their destination. I have solved this
problem by writing the name of the person to whom I wish
to send the letter on the envelope. This useful technique
has saved me hours of wasted time.
Yours
Bill Goodwin
Wealth jeopardised
Dear Judith
I am shocked and appalled at London Regional
Transport's latest decision to ban eating and drinking on
the tube. What will students do? The Circle Line Party,
an annual event of note at College, is in jeopardy. Many
students will arrive in College without breakfast, which
they would normally have eaten On the tube. The resulting,
dangerously low blood sugar levels will seriously effect
students' academic performance and hence the wealth of
the nation. Might I suggest that L R T install buffet cars
on all trains.
Yours sincerely
Ashley Niblock
For and on behalfofthe LRT Food Action Consortium
FELIX Monday October 5th 1987 35

