N e w s F e a t u r e
T H E F I F T H C O L U M N
If you take an underground train from
Leopoldplatz in West Berlin and head
towards Alt-Mariendorf, you might
be surprised to see armed guards
patrolling a string of derelict stations
as the train drives slowly by. At one
of the stations, known as Friedrich
Strasse the train will stop and looking
out onto the platform you might notice
a number of duty free shops. Four
passport checks later and you could
be enjoying a surprisingly cheap
shopping spree in East Berlin (if you
don't mind queueing that is).
To the citizens of Berlin the
division between the Eastern and
Western halves of the city is a fact of
life. The Berlin wall for the most part
goes unnoticed except by fascinated
tourists. Yet it remains a symbol of
the tremendous political and
economic division between the
Communist East and the Conservative
West. To the Federal Republic of
Germany (FDR), the wall is a barrier
designed to keep the East Germans in.
For the Democratic Republic (FDR),
the wall is an 'Anti-Fascist Protection
Barrier', designed to keep the West
Germans out.
Since its construction in 1961 the
wall has progressed through four
generations. Starting life as a barbed
wire barricade it developed into a
crude breezeblock wall, before
reaching its current incarnation—a
prefabricated concrete structure some
111km in length. A s the years
progressed defences along the wall
were gradually improved with the aim
of reducing the steady trickle of East
Germans defecting to the West. A
'death strip' containing alarms, trip
wires and bunkers was established.
Dog runs and anti-vehicle ditches
were constructed and 295 watch
towers were erected. Until 1982 when
they were removed because of
international protests, the death strip
contained 54,€00 shrapnel firing
devices. These devices, each packed
with explosive were triggered by a
series of trip wires and launched 110
steel cubes in the general direction of
the victim. The injuries produced by
the shrapnel were invariably horrific
and at least eleven people are known
to have died because of these
machines.
The political climate which led to
the construction of the wall has its
origins in recent history.
Nineteen eighty-seven is a historic year for Berlin. In the midst of the
city's ?S0tfe anniversary celebrations, and for tine first time since the
division of the country after the war. the East German leader Erich
Honmtker has been offldaM? received by the West German ChaaceSor.
During a week of negotiations, Mr Homseeker gave assurances that
East Germany would relax its restrictions on travel to the West.
"The day will come when the borders will not separate as but unite
us, as the border between the DDR ami Poland unites" be said.
Chancellor Hold's response was cool and guarded as be reminded
bis audience that Socialism and Capitalism were as separate as fire
Significantly both politician's speeches were gives unedited TV and
newspaper coverage in the East. Yet inspite of the concessions offered
by both sides it seems unlikely that Boon Is any closer to its dream
of a united Germany. The fact that Mr Bonneckcr—until no*
unrecognised by the FDR—was received at all underlines the division
between the two Germasies. The German Press are also sceptical. Mr
Honnecker's desire that the East-West border should one day emamiate
the "peace boundary' between Poland and the DDR is less optimistic
tban it appears, according to Stern magazine. Ever since the uprising
of the Solidarity Trade Union, travel between the DDR and Poland
has been heavily restricted and immigrants are expected to prove, to
the satisfaction of the police, that they save bees invited into the
country. The border itself is marked by a meter high fence equipped
with observation towers and warning signs which state "Stop. State
boundary
The fate of Germany after the
Second W o r l d W a r had been
determined by the Foreign Ministers
Conference, held in Moscow in 1943.
Germany was to be divided into
occupation zones controlled by the
British, Russians and Americans.
When France was later given a share
in the division, it became apparent
that Berlin would be left stranded
within the Russian zone.
It was agreed that the city itself
would also be divided into occupation
zones and governed jointly by the
Allied commandants. Although it was
decided to establish three air corridors
through the Russian zone, for the
most part reliance was placed on
Allied goodwill for the rights of
passage to Berlin. This, as it was to
turn out was the Western Allies' first
mistake.
On June 24th 1948 the Russians
closed off the road and rail links
between Berlin and West Germany.
Their intention—to cut off West
Berlin's food supply and win the
economic battle by offering cheap
East German supplies to the West
Berliners. The Allies responded with
an airlift on a massive scale. For ten
months aircraft landed in Berlin's
main airports at ninety second
intervals to supply the city with the
12,000 tons of goods it required each
day. Meanwhile the West Berliners
stoically resisted the offers of cut
price food from the East.
By May 1941 the Russians had
accepted defeat and the blockade was
lifted. Because of labour shortages in
the Western half of the city a large
number of East Germans commuted
from East B e r l i n . T o the
embarassment o f the newly
recognised German Democratic
Republic (DDR) the border crossers,
known as the Grenzganger, were paid
in D-Marks and were thus able to
enjoy cheap rents in the East whilst
still being able to purchase luxury
Western goods. Things came to a
head in 1953 when the Kremlin
ordered the establishment o f
'Collective Farms'. Soon afterwards
food supplies in the East dwindled and
a steady stream of refugees began to
leave for the West. The combined
effects of food shortages and demands
for a 10% increase in workers'
productivity sparked a general strike
in July of that year. Throughout the
D D R the strikers demanded free
elections and the resignation of the
Government. Soviet troops managed
to quell the demonstrations, though
three hundred people were killed and
thousands injured in the process.
The increasing unrest led to more
and more refugees crossing the
border. In an effort to put a stop to
this the D D R placed fortifications
along the border between East and
West Germany. Berlin, however,
remained unrestricted and by 1961
two thousand refugees were arriving
in reception centers in the Western
half of the city each day.
Amid increasing tension the head
of the East German Socialist Unity
Party (SED), Walter U l b r i c h ,
reassured the West that 'nobody had
any intention of building a wall'. Less
than a month later, under the auspices
of the Secretary for National Security,
Erich Honecker, twenty thousand
troops of the New People's Army
entered Berlin. Under the cover of
darkness, coils of barbed wire were
placed over the crossing points
between East and West and the
interconnecting roads were dug up,
underground stations were padlocked
and guards were placed at strategic
points. The wall had arrived.
Families and friends were separated
overnight, workers and managers
were unable to turn up to work and
the lecture theatres in Berlin's
university were half empty.
It was therefore left to the
individuals affected to cope as best
they could; ever since the first strands
of barbed wire were laid there had
been a steady trickle of refugees
escaping over, under or through the
wall. In the early days, wall hopping
was relatively easy and often took
place on the spur of the moment. A
number of East German guards
simply lifted up the barbed wire and
walked to freedom in the West.
Others swam across the canals which
marked the East-West border or
strapped themselves to the underside
of Western bound trains. Inevitably,
8 Monday October 5th 1987 FELIX

