Union Page
imperialcollegeunion.org
Friday 1 December
A.C.T Now! Rock ‘n Roll Christmas!
ICXP
UNDER PRESSURE
Join ACT Now for an evening of inspirational talks from student an alumni
entrepreneurs working in the field of social enterprise.
We’ll be hearing from Imperial entrepreneurs about their journeys and
the challenges they have overcome in setting up an enterprise whilst at
university.
Talks will be followed by a drinks reception and networking session.
Find out more online: www.imperialcollegeunion.org/social-action/
social-enterprise/inspire/entrepreneurial-insights
Under Pressure 2017 is taking place Monday 4 — Friday 8
December.
ImperialCollegeUnionunderstandsthatsometimesstressisunavoidable.
The Under Pressure campaign aims to give you strategies for coping
during periods of heightened stress. Check out our calendar of events
from Monday 4 December - Friday 8 December.
Come and find us at the JCR between 12:00 – 14:00 throughout the
week (except Thursday when we will be at Charing Cross campus). We
have events running every day during the week, so take and break and
come and relax with Imperial College Union!
ICXP is a way for Clubs, Societies & Projects to be recognised and
rewarded by the Union for their successes. The scheme also provides
a clear pathway for clubs to develop for the benefit of their members
(that’s you!).
Clubs will receive points for the completion of a series of goals which
will add up to give an overall level of achievement. Each level will unlock
rewards, from expert-led training and priority access to an awards night
in the spring.
If your club would like to sign up, please complete the form on our
website: www.imperialcollegeunion.org/activities/running-a-club-
society-or-project/icxp
Celebrate your last day of term in style at the s 1950s Rock ’n Roll
themed Winter Carnival! Speak to anyone who’s been to a Union
Carnival before and you’ll soon be thinking twice about booking an early
train home.
We’ve got incredibly exciting acts soon to be announced and 1950s
decor that will rock your quiff off.
First wave tickets end this weekend, it will be your last chance to
get yours at the special price of £3 - the price will rise on Monday 4
December. Get yours now! imperialcollegeunion.org/winter-carnival

