Page 13
Benefits and Vacation Help from the Welfare Centre
How to Pass Exams
By courtesy of the Doctors in the Health Centre, the Welfare Centre
now has a stock of leaflets on 'Exam Strategy!', 'Learning Techniques'
and also 'Health and Travel' which are freely available from the Weflare
Centre.
Letting your room over the vacation
If you are going away this vacation and need someone to pay the rent,
you can leave details at the Welfare Centre and I will try to match you up
with someone who wants a room for that period.
Luggage Store
The Union will be operating a luggage store during the vacation,
where you can leave anything that you don't want to take home with
you. Contact the Welfare Centre for details.
Supplementary Benefit
If you are getting a grant or if your parents are supposed to be
contributing to your grant, you won't be eligible for the Supplementary
Benefit living allowance this vacation, although you will in the Summer.
If you are not getting a grant, because, for example, you are repeating a
year, then you will be able to claim. Overseas students who are here on a
visa are not entitled to claim and a claim in such circumstances could
mean that your visa won't be renewed, if the Home Office find out.
Even if you are not entitled to the living allowance, because of the
Vacation element in the grant, you may be able to claim for the rent that
you are paying over the vacation. To do this, however, you will have to
sign on in London and then sign on here each week. Theoretically it is
possible to get a 'holiday form' if you want to go home but this practice is
frowned upon by the Supplementary Benefit Commission when it is
simply a way of getting round the provisions for not paying students
who go home during the vacation. If you sign on at home for the rent you
are paying in London you should get a £2 retainer, which hardly pays
the bus fare to get to the office to sign on!
How much can you get?
To work out your entitlement, they add the living allowance to which
you are entitled and the Rent (up to a certain level which varies from
area to area, usually £10 - £15) and subtract the vacation element.
There are three different rates for single people's living allowances.
Householder Rate: - If you are responsible for the outgoings etc of the
place you live in, the rate is £12.45 per week.
Sharer Rate: - This is £12.45 plus the difference between the
householder rate and non-householder rate (£3.10) divided by the
number of sharers.
Lodging rate : - It is not clear whether bed and breakfast
accommodation counts as lodgings. The rate is £5.05 per week plus
about 80 pence for any meal which is not provided. If you live in a hotel
where you don't get breakfast, you will get the lodgings rate and 60 p for
each breakfast.
Examples: 1) Fred is on a grant and shares a flat with three others,
paying £17 per week, rent. If he signs on in London he will get £12.45
plus a quarter of £3.10 which comes to £13.22. Supposing the rent limit
in his area is £12 per week, he will get £13.22 plus £12 less £13.90
(vacation element of the grant) which leaves £11.22.
2) Archie is on a grant and lives in bed and breakfast accommodation,
paying £12 per week. If he is treated as a non-householder, he will get
£12.45 plus £12 rent (though this depends on the area he lives in -see
above) less £13.90 which gives him £10.55 per week. If he is treated as a
lodger, he will get £5.50 plus 14 meals at 80 p. which comes to £11.20
plus the £12 rent less £13.90 which comes to £14.80, which is quite a bit
higher than the £10.55 so its worth doing the calculations before you try
to convince the D.H.S.S. as to which category you fall into.
Unemployment Benefit
If you claimed Unemployment Benefit at Christmas and got it, then
you will get the same amount this Easter. If you claimed at Christmas
and didn't get it, or claimed Supplementary Benefit and didn't get any
Unemployment Benefit, you won't get it at Easter either. This is
because of the 13 week rule which treats two clairrts made within
thirteen weeks of each other as the same claim. Tpe thirteen week
period starts from the end of the first claim.
If you are starting afresh, the tax year in which you have to have paid
the requisite number of National Insurance contributions is the one
ending April 1978. To be entitled to the full benefit rate, you would have
to have paid contributions on earnings of £750 during that tax year. If
you earned over half that amount, you will be entitled to half the full rate
and there is also a three quarter rate. The full rate is £15.75 per week.
How to Claim
You can claim Unemployment Benefit at home or in London but you
have to claim Supplementary Benefit from the office which is local to
your term time address. If your Unemployment Benefit entitlement
exceeds your Supplementary Benefit entitlement, there is no point in
claiming supplementary benefit, as the latter simply operates to top up
what you get from other sources. The procedure for claiming
Supplementary Benefit is to look in the 'phone book under Health and
Social Security, and find the office nearest to your term time address,
ring them, check whether they deal with your address and make an
appointment for the first day of the vacation or as soon after as you can.
Ask them which is the nearest Unemployment Benefit office (also listed
under Employment, Department of, in the 'phone book) and ask
whether there is a job centre that you have to g o t o first. Visit the offices
in the order 1) J o b centre if there is one, 2) Unemployment Benefit
Office, 3) Social Security Office, getting the first two done in time for
your interview. For your interview, you will have to take with you, to
show the interviewer, proof of earnings and savings and that you are a
student. YojJ will also need your Rent Book or your tenancy
agreement/licence. If you don't have any of these you should try and get
a letter from your landlord on headed notepaper confirming that you are
paying rent over the vacation. If you can't get any of these, tell the
interviewer that this is the case and, with 'our landlord's permission,
give them your landlord's 'phone number and insist that they ring the
landlord for confirmation. They will usually do this in the end although
they sometimes need a lot of persuading.
To claim Unemployment Benefit you simply go along to the J o b
Centre - where you have to pretend to look for a job - and then to the
Unemployment Benefit Office and it doesn't matter which one you go
to.
If this all seems incredibly complicated clarification can be obtained
from the Welfare Centre on the third floor of the Union Building.
Michael Arthur
Welfare Adviser
Accommodation for next Session
The University of London Accommodation Office is now under new
management. Miss Pyle-Howard, the new Accommodation Officer at
the Malet Street Branch is proposing to make two important changes
which will affect students seeking their services next session. Firstly,
second and third year students will no longer be excluded from their
help for the first few weeks of the session and also they now have a
noticeboard where vacancies are advertised which should make life a
lot easier for everyone.
It is not yet clear how far these changes will affect the procedure at the
Princes Gardens Branch.
Below is the text of a circular issued , by the University
Accommodation office regarding procedure for next session.
Accommodation for the next session - Procedure for current students
Single Students Rooms
Those seeking single or double rooms for September/October should
call at the Accommodation Office in late May/early June allowing
themselves a few free days to look at the accommodation. (Flats for one
person, ie room and kitchen or more, are included here, but they are
very difficult to find and expensive). A retaining fee does not have to be
paid for this type of accommodation when it is booked in advance. After
the end of term priority is given to students who will be new to London.
Current students who have not found accommodation by then,
however, consult the notice board in the Accommodation Office.
Single students Flats
Any accommodation larger than one room with cooking facilities is
considered a flat. Only very few owners of such property will take a
booking for the next session without charging full rent during the
vacation. Unless the group is able to pay rent from late June/early July it
is unlikely that a flat will be found before the end of term, but enquiries
can be made from late May onwards. Otherwise, the search should start
about four weeks before the rent can be paid and the earlier in
September this is the better. It is advisable to allow at least a few days to
find a flat; in September it is often possible to book temporary
accommodation in the Halls of Residence whilst seeking a flat for the
term.
Married students
Current students requiring accommodation for a couple or family are
advised to try and find it in July or August rather than leave it until
September. It is generally fruitless to start looking more than four weeks
before the rent can first be paid. Addresses cannot be sent out of
London and the mailing list service is generally suspended in late July.

