Page 7
Day B y Day
ROUND-UP OF LAST W E E K ' S NEWS
Wednesday 7th
Nurses quietly fight for more pay
Nurses representing the Royal College of
Nurses launched a silent vigil outside
Parliament yesterday. The Tory spokesman
for health, Dr. Gerard Vaughan, signed their
petition for more pay and told them:
"If society asks you not to strike, then it is
society's duty to see that you get enough
money to live on".
David Ennals, the Health Service Secretary,
said: "They need a substantial increase but it
must be done the right way .... through a pay
inquiry."
Official enquiry into loo paper
After a report in Which? magazine
destroying the myth that hard loo paper is
cheaper than the soft stuff ....officials are
reconsidering the allocation of hard loo
paper in public buildings and British Rail
trains. The average family uses about ninety
rolls per year ...about two miles of paper.
Motorway madness?
A report published today describes odd
events that have occurred on Britain's
motorways. In one case two little old ladies
couldn't face joining other motorists on the
M1. S o they decided to drive along the hard
shoulder. They told police that the hard
shoulder was far less dangerous than the
motorway although they did complain that
the surface was too rough.
It appears that they left the motorway at
every exit. They explained that they followed
the hard shoulder off at each intersection,
drove round the roundabout and then
rejoined the motorway.
The report goes on to describe the incident
of a Rolls-Royce driver who was found
changing a wheel late at night on the M1 - in
the fast lane.
Thursday 8th
Tory 'no confidence' in pay body
More than 70 Conservative M P ' s have
signed a commons motion of 'no confidence'
in the appointments to the Government's
Standing Commission on Pay Comparability,
which will be chaired by Prof. H u g h C l e g g of
Warwick University.
World record for dead drinker
A man found dead in his flat had almost
double the world record amount of alcohol in
human blood, a Merseyside inquest was told.
The man had more than 15 times the 80 mg of
alcohol per 100 ml of blood legal limit for
drivers in his blood.
Breathless sleepers may die younger
According to researchers in Florida,
healthy men often stop breathing for several
seconds when they are asleep, and this may
account for the fact that men generally have
more heart attacks than women, and die
younger. It is thought that the female
h o r m o n e p r o g e s t e r o n e , a r e s p i r a t o r y
stimulant, may help to prevent irregular
breathing in women.
Friday 9th
New galaxy discovered
A giant spiral galaxy of approximately two
trillion stars has been discovered. It is the
largest and most massive object yet identified
in the universe. T h e galaxy is shaped like a
Catherine wheel and has a diameter of
600,000 light-years. It is six times as large as
the Milky Way and 10 times as massive.
The galaxy, known as N G C 1961, was first
catalogued in the last century by Sir John
Herschel, the British Astronomer, but only
now has it been possible to observe its
dimensions closely, using both radio
astronomy and a 160-inch optical telescope
at Kitt Peak, Arizona. Its distance from Earth
is 250 million light-years and is only visible to
large telescopes.
Saturday 10th
Demo's in Teheran
Tens of thousands of women converged on
Teheran University and marched to the
Justice Ministry to protest against wearing
the head-to-toe c l o t h i n g o r d e r e d by
Ayatollah Khomeini. They were joined by
h u n d r e d s of girls from offices w h o
confronted the revolutionaries, armed with
sub-machine guns and rifles.
Israelis guard Carter
When President Carter arrived in Israel on
the second stage of his peace-seeking
mission, he found the country tensed in
expectation of fresh attacks by Palestinian
terrorists. He was guarded by more than ten
thousand troops, border guards and police.
BBC loses OB programmes
Last Thursday " A S o n g for Europe" was
blacked out due to a dispute following the
dismissal of a rigger-driver alleged to have
assaulted a B B C transport officer at Acton on
March 1.
Several outside broadcasts were blacked
out, today, including "Match of the Day".
Sunday 11th
RUC accused of torture
A committee of enquiry has been set up to
investigate police interrogations of terrorist
suspects. It has been alleged by Amnesty
International that some members of the Royal
Ulster Constabulary have resorted to
brutality in order to obtain confessions.
Lightning on Jupiter
Over the weekend, bolts of lightning on the
dark side of Jupiter were seen from a distance
of more than four million miles. The American
spacecraft Voyager I recorded flashes nearly
20,000 miles long as it left Jupiter on its
journey to Saturn.
Little green pea is Tibetan birth control pill
The mystery of Tibetan Women's relatively
low fertility has been solved by a World
jHealth Organisation research team studying
the roles that herbal preparations can play in
improving health worldwide.
A green pea which forms an .important part
of the Tibetan diet contains the chemical M -
Xylohyoroquiaone - this affects the fertility of
the women who eat it.
Monday 12th
Callaghan warns EEC
The Prime Minister warned the C o m m o n
Market that unless there was a halt in
agricultural spending it could find itself faced
by a taxpayers' revolt in a few years' time. Mr.
Callaghan said that by 1980 Britain would be
the largest conttiL Jtor to the E E C budget. He
said that the time had come for a drastic
switch of C o m m o n Market resources away
from agriculture and towards solving the
chronic social and unemployment problems
caused by industrial recession in all nine
member countries.
Mickey Mouse - the Fleet Street temp.
It has been a famous Fleet Street scandal
for some time that casual printing workers
evade taxation by receiving wages under
pseudonyms such as "Mickey Mouse of
Sunset Boulevard." A deal has been offered
by the Inland Revenue under which workers
who declare their earnings for the last two
years will enjoy a tax amnesty for earlier
years.
Casual weekend workers have refused to
turn up at newspaper offices and many
newspapers are suffering cuts in production.
Tuesday 13th
Carter announces Egypt-Israel agreement
President Carter was confident, tonight,
that he had achieved a major diplomatic
victory. Egypt and Israel are on the verge of a
Sinai peace settlement. It is predicted by both
sides that an agreement will be signed in
about 10 days.
Circulation increase in notes and silver
Britain has a massive circulation of bank
notes and coins. The Treasury Minister,
Denzil Davies, said today that over £9,509
million were in circulation.
Man dismissed over Graffiti
A n industrial tribunal decided that a firm
was justified in dismissing a man suspected
of writing graffiti on the walls of a lavatory at
their factory because they had posted written
warnings on the same walls.
The writer of the graffiti was identified after
the firm, G K N Woodscrews Division, of
Smethwick, West Midlands, called in an
international handwriting expert to examine
the walls in the men's lavatory.
The personnel director said: "We knew that
the writer had seen the warnings put up on
the lavatory walls because in a graffiti relating
to the parentage of the works manager, he
had written "If he thinks he is going to catch
\me he has got another think coming" '.

