Page 8
IMPERIAL COLLEGE DANCING CLUB
Page 11
I.C.D.C. at
Cambridge
This year, on 17th February, saw the first Southern Universities'
Annual (hopefully) Ball, hosted by Cambridge University Dancing Club
and held near Cambridge in a very pleasant Civic Hall at St. Ives. I.C.
Dancing Club and five other university clubs attended the event,
including Oxford, Exeter and Southampton, I.C.D.C. provided more
than a full team of competitors and a large crowd of supporters all of
whom enjoyed a most successful evening of dancing and
entertainment.
There has been a growing interest in the need for a Southern
Universities' Ball in order to complement the Northern Universities' Ball,
held exclusively for clubs north of Birmingham each year. It has always
been held a few weeks before the Inter-Varsity Dancing Competition
and has provided a valuable'warm-up' event for the northern clubs and
a chance for them to eye up some of the opposition before the national
competition - an opportunity much missed by the southern universities.
Cambridge finally took the initiative and announced their plans to hold
the first Southern Universities' Ball this last February.
The main object of the evening was to provide plenty of dancing and
entertainment for everybody to enjoy. The organisers fulfilled this
intention admirably and a large part of the evening was devoted to
general dancing, including Gay Gordens, Barn dances, etc., which
heightened the atmosphere of the event. J a n and Bernard Reilly, world
professional exhibition champions, gave a demonstration which,
although skilfully performed and well presented, lost a little of the
character of one or two latin dances and lacked a certain sparkle one
might expect from international champions. Oxford and Cambridge
each provided a few minutes' amusement in the form of offbeat
sketches. Cambridge 'took the micky' out of Saturday Night Fever
dancing by acting out a game of cricket in time to music by the Bee Gees
using 'fever' dance steps. Oxford also included some 'fever' steps and
some clever jive steps in their version of 'West Side Story'. This included
some very imaginative choreography and excellent team dancing by
over thirty people, resulting in Oxford being judged the better offbeat
team by a very small margin.
The main team competition consisted of two rounds of waltz,
quickstep, cha-cha and jive for which each university could enter one or
two couples per dance. There was a total of ten couples for each dance.
Cambridge dominated the competition with their first and second
teams, but I.C. made a good attempt to establish themselves as strong
opposition to Cambridge. Rosalind Baker and A n d y Hall (waltz) came
4th, Sally Barton and John Molero (quickstep) came 4th, Sue Walker
and Stan Julien (cha-cha) came 5th and Sarah Melley and Mark Slater
(jive) came 2nd in their respective dances placing the team third overall.
Sue Smart and James Newton (jive), the only representatives of our
second team, were unfortunately eliminated after the first round.
Marion Hill, Vincent Tarn's (cha-cha) partner, injured her knee shortly
before the Ball and so they were, sadly, unable to represent the first
team in the competition. The club's other notable success was in the
individual novice waltz competition in which Colin Lewis, despite
loosing his partner at the last moment due to illness, danced with Laura
Pymont and, to everyone's delight, came second out of well over twenty
couples.
MEATHEAD
TAKES
A PHEW!
I.C.D.C. at Home
A great dancer once said "It Is better to be able to, and not want to, than want to and not be able to". This is true of most activities of man, so if you
want to be one of those who is able to and also a cut above the other 'socialites', you could begin by reading about the activities of one ofthe largest
and most active clubs at Imperial College.
There are various reasons for the great interest shown in what might appear to b e a n out-of-date hobby. Firstly, of course, there are those who
simply want to dance, either because they enjoy it, or because they regard it as a necessary social grace (or in the case of some of the men, more an
asset than a grace!). Some come to meet girls (I?) or to make friends in general. Some come out of curiosity, or because they enjoy music, and
others come for the shear hell of it. Whatever the reasons for coming, however, all our members appear to enjoy themselves.
Besides the basic ballroom and Latin-American dances which are taught first (namely, social Foxtrot, Waltz, Quickstep and C h a - C h a - C h a , Jive,
Rumba) a fair number of "party" dances are taught: Gay Gordons, D.W.S., Bossa Nova, the Trombone Dance etc. Dances such as the slow Foxtrot,
Tango, Samba and Paso Doble are far more difficult to master and are not usually introduced at beginners' level. In addition to these, one or two
dances from "Grease" and "Saturday Night Fever" have been introduced this year such as the Hand-Jive, but the interest for this type of Disco'
dancing is limited.
Of course, once the dances have been learnt, the idea is to practise them, and the club provides ample opportunity for this. The class lesson is
from 7.30 - 9.00, and from 9.00 to 10.00 each evening music is played for "general" dancing.
It is all very well learning to dance but many of our members want the chance to practise the steps in a 'real' atmosphere. The Christmas Dinner
and dance, where a live band provides the music, gives ample opportunity for this. For similar reasons, visits to Kensington Town Hall, The Cafe de
Paris in Leicester Square, and Hammersmith Palais are arranged at reduced rates. There are also other "dancing evenings" during the year when
the dancing is complemented by refreshments both liquid and solid.
The dancing classes are taken by Christine and Bernadette on 3 nights a week (Mon., Tues., Wed.). Christine teaches dancing full-time and has
been coming to IC for 15 years. Bernadette works in a travel agency during the day, but spares an evening a week to guide confused feet around the
floor. Before the main classes begin at 7.30, Christine and Bernadette take medal classes - bronze, silver and gold in ballroom and Latin-American
dances. These classes vary from 4 to 16 people and have a high exam pass success rate. Last Sunday, for example, saw about 25 members all
passing their medal exams in the J.C.R., many with honours and commendations.
Dancing Club, therefore, not only offers the opportunity to learn to dance and practise but also an active social life. If you would like more details
of our activities next year and next term, look out for our posters or contact A . M . G . Hall, Elec. Eng. III.
Hill and Vincent Tam in the Cha-Cha-Cha The team making their entrance at Lancaster
I.C.D.C. at
Lancaster
On Friday 9th March, 47 members of Imperial College Dancing Club
boarded a coach destined for The University of Lancaster. The Prospect
of a 5 hour journey was hardly inviting, but much of the times was spent
playing intelligent games such as bridge, l-spy and animal snap.
After a short visit to the city of Lancaster (Royalty Rules O.K.), we
arrived at the University campus and prepared ourselves for the 'big
event' of the* student dancers' year, namely, the Intervarsity Dancing
Association (I.V.D.A.) Ball and Competitions.
There were 18 University teams from all parts of the country
competing in the four dance team competitions, six clubs also entering
the off-beat competition.
After some general dancing, the competitive events started, with Ros
Baker and Andy Hall giving a good display of waltz. This was followed
by Sally Barton and John Molero competantly representing I.C. at the
quickstep. Our two Latin American couples were not to be out-done
however, and Marion Hill dancing with Vincent Tam provided a lively
cha-cha. Our biggest hopefulls, Sarah Melley & Mark Slater, were I.C.'s
last couple to dance the first round, and they stepped confidently on to
the floor (after their second place at the Southern Ball) to display their
obvious talent for the jive.
Over the next couple of hours, the competitors had to sweat it out as
couples were eliminated following each round. Each couple from
Imperial reached the final, which was an admirable feat in itself.
Rosalind and Andy came 7th in the waltz, Sally and John did
exceptionally well, coming 4th in the quickstep, and Marion and Vincent
were pleased to come 6th in the cha-cha, despite the fact that Marion
was in the Health Centre a week previously with a serious knee injury.
Finally, the club would like to congratulate Sarah and Mark for
achieving second place in the jive - an excellent performance. These
results placed the Imperial College team third overall, only to be beaten
into first and second places by Cambridge and Liverpool respectively.
After the finals, the off-beat competition was held. This is a
competition designed so that club members, not involved with the team,
could still compete by giving a small 5 minute show, the prize going to
the most original and, above all, most entertaining entry. In a close
battle with Oxford's "West Side Story", the I.C. team's "A Dancing M e n u "
came out top. A marvellous achievement by all members, especially to
Colin Lewis who was the team choreographer. This is the first time the
club has won this event.
A demonstration in Ballroom Dancing was given by Ian and Christine
Stephenson (Scottish Professional Modern Champions). This gave our
members an opportunity to "see how it really should be done".
All in all, a most successful and enjoyable evening to all concerned.
The Journey Home compared well to the celebrations of the Welsh XV
winning The Triple Crown, and the goings on on the coach made
Marjorie Proop's Gossip C o l u m n read like the Noddy Album 1977.
Those involved:
Ros Baker Mark Slater
Andy Hall Sue Smart
Sally Barton James Newton
John Malero Marian Hill
Sue Walker Vincent Tam
Stan Julien Colin Lewis
Sarah Melley Laura Pymont
Sarah Melley and Mark Slater Ros Baker and Andy Hall in the Waltz
The committee and team of I.C.D.C. would like to thank all the members of the Club for the support they have given this year.

