10 felix Friday 7 December 2007
even with our sub-par organs, we can
still see comfortably.
The second argument states that
something is false until proven true (or
vice versa), and corroborated by the
big, impossible numbers of before. I
would like to perform an experiment:
take a pack of 52 cards, and shuffle it
thoroughly. Look at the order the cards
are now in. This is but one combina-
tion out of the 52! different ones that
could have arisen. If every person on
earth shuffled and dealt a pack of cards
every second, you would be sure to get
the same combination only in an in-
sanely huge amount of years. And yet,
you got that very specific order. Is that
because god moved the cards for you?
Because your superior intelligence
compared to the dumb cards put them
in a specific position? No. Simply, one
of the combinations had to come out.
Similarly, life on earth was one of the
possibilities: one of the many combi-
nations of atoms and molecules in the
primordial ooze that, in the end, gave
existence to us. It could have been
no life at all, it could have been com-
pletely different from what we know
now. An example was that the chance
of a specific 500-aminoacid protein to
come into existence from a soup of all
amino acids in equal proportions is so
tiny it could never arise spontaneously.
First of all, any biologist will tell you
than not all of those 500 amino acids
are fundamental: some make the im-
portant bit (functional group) and the
rest is merely ballast, which can be any
amino acid in any order, since it is ir-
relevant to the function of the protein
itself. Second, what would be the big
deal if the important amino acids were
different? Okay, there is a big chance it
wouldn’t work, but also that it would
work just as well, or better, or worse.
Again, creationists seem to think that
our very specific life requirements are
the only ones possible. It is out of their
grasp that there are intermediates be-
tween our life and no life at all, and
even possibilities that could actually be
better.
In conclusion, the lecture was bad,
the arguments worse and the justifi-
cation for them atrocious. I’ve tried
to look at them here, but I have still
skipped such spurious claims as “there
are no intermediate fossils that show
the evolution of a species” (just look
at the horse’s evolutionary history),
“life only arises from life” (Miller’s ex-
periment then is just false, I presume),
“Australopithecus was an ape” (first of
all, the Australopithecus was a genus,
not a species, and second of all, no),
“it is not possible to recreate soft tis-
sue from bones” (forensic facial recon-
struction. Look it up on Wikipedia)
and others I can’t remember, due to
their sheer volume. It saddens me to
see people who uphold arguments like
these and judge the inevitably wrong
consequences as true.
But, alas, not all is lost. If nothing
else, it has proven to me that people
who do seek the truth exist, and that
they are vocal and passionate about
this issue. Roars at irrationality, laugh-
ter at ridiculousness and coldness at
nonsense greeted the speaker through-
out the speech. The sensible, logical
people outnumbered and outweighed
their opponents, and showed how such
idiocy is not appreciated here. Despite
claims to the contrary, creationism is
declining, and today’s audience was
the living proof. Let’s keep it up.
“Creationism
is declining;
today’s audience
was living proof.
Keep it up”
Atlas of Creation: the true meaning
Azfarul Islam cuts a swathe through the meandering and experiences something quite astounding
A
ccusing Charles Dar-
win of being somehow
intrinsically linked to
multiple counts of fas-
cism, communism, rac-
ism and genocide could only be, at the
very least, an interesting way to com-
mence the major tenor of the “Atlas of
Creation”.
It was an hour filled with fervent
censure of Darwin’s famous (or infa-
mous, depending upon your perspec-
tive) “theory” of evolution, unveiled
mutterings against propaganda and
uncomfortable finger-pointing all in-
terspersed with quotes from the Holy
Qur’an. That in itself was a cocktail
for fostering controversy and discord.
Anyone watching the audience can
easily attest to this as applause broke
out relevant to the points being ar-
gued. A clear schism was formed – di-
viding the audience into believers and
non-believers - but this wasn’t due to
ignorance or the talk itself. The rather
self-aware speaker Dr Babuna seemed
to forget where he was delivering his
speech; he was hardly converting any-
one that day. Rather, his bombastic
and often parochial statements would
only widen the gap and reinforce past
prejudices and the ironclad faiths that
materialise in such debates. Interest-
ingly, despite quoting verses from the
Holy Qur’an, the religious undertones
were merely that. There seemed to be
no ulterior motive other than his own
obdurate opinion as it collided with
the cool, agnostic logic of science.
As the seminar continued, one thing
seemed to be evident: this man had a
dream and he didn’t want to share it.
He wished to establish it as de rigueur.
In tandem, his examples further relied
upon the juxtaposition of arbitrar-
ily “large” magnitudes to express the
improbability of random chance. And
eventually, the age-old argument was
aroused anew. Does the human truly
descend from the simian?
As a Muslim, I was taught otherwise
and, as part of my faith, I maintain
such knowledge as a personal truth.
However, I was also raised to keep an
open mind and after shaking my head
constantly during the higher crescen-
dos of his messages, I shifted gears
into a neutral drive. And then, I saw it.
There was clearly more to this man’s
inanities. There were certain strings
amidst this admittedly messy presen-
tation that would wind with each other
to coalesce into something far greater,
something truly holistic.
It was during the finale that this
hand was revealed. Hidden behind a
brusquely arrogant personal agenda
there was a delicate transmutation
into a wholesome message of secular-
ism and tolerance. This was clearly
evident when people left the Clore
lecture theatre at least two hours af-
ter the man’s conclusion. During that
time, the entire theatre had turned into
a primordial soup of new, exciting and
personal discussions. It’s not difficult
to imagine that each person’s contribu-
tion to the several peer groups would
foster further awareness and thought.
To me that was what made the event
special; almost transcendental, if you
will. Despite being subject to what
many would call bigoted foolishness,
there was a seed planted. This was
the kind of seed that rarely exists in
our age of impuissant acceptance and
schematised information; the kind
that inspired scientists of old. It was
the seed of thought, and of intelligent
questioning.
The phrase “Atlas of Creation” seems
to have been chosen with a lot more
prescience than was initially apparent.
The ever-recurring face of Darwinism? Or is it merely simple fascism Apparently Mao’s groundwork for China had some base in Darwinism
Claim to fame: doesn’t believe in God, so he wrote a book about that
Atlas, tolerance incarnate, has a lesson or two to teach us all

