Comment, Opinion
& Letters
11
Friday 7 December 2007 felix
Why teddy bears should be in the Koran
“S
o there was this teach-
er, right? She was in
Sudan, and, well, al-
lowed a teddy bear in
her class to be named
after a pupil, and now she’s locked
up with a crowd outside baying for
blood!”
“Whoa man, that’s unreal. Hey,
do you wanna see some cool Danish
drawings?”
I admit, I almost laughed when the
story first broke. After checking the
calender for April Fool’s, and staying
sober for 24 hours before rereading
the story, it finally sunk in that yes, an
English teacher faced 40 lashings and
90 days behind bars for allowing her
class to call a teddy bear Muhammed.
Charged with insulting Islam and the
Prophet, Gillian Gibbons now faces a
jail term in a concealed location for her
own safety.
That such a tiny, minuscule thing can
get blown up to such proportions beg-
gars belief. Manic crowds demanded
her execution by firing squad. Govern-
ment officials wanted a personal apol-
ogy from Gordon Brown. Many linked
her ‘blasphemy’ with a Western plot to
overthrow the countries of Islam, one
fluffy bear at a time. Reminders of last
year’s cartoon scandal circled the in-
ternet feeding frenzy, woven together
with references to the Satanic Verses,
Israeli secret services and a fuzzy pic-
ture of a one-armed man entering a
London subway.
For although the insanity in Sudan
may seem to be on a different planet,
there are some uncomfortable home
truths about Islam in Britain today. A
survey back in 2005 showed that the
majority of British Muslims were in fa-
vour of introducing Sharia law (the one
where atheism is a capital offence). Let
us not forget that a court in Saudi Ara-
bia recently sentenced a woman to be
lashed. She had been beaten and raped
by a gang of 7 men. Her crime? Sitting
with a man, not related to her, in a car.
More alarming still are the 65% of
Muslims who believe that the 7/7
bombings in London were faked, set
up by MI5 and framing innocent, law-
abiding students of Islam as the perpe-
trators. This dangerous myth is based
on a grainy CCTV picture of one of the
bombers with his left arm behind his
rucksack. Of course, the fact that the
picture appeared on the net several
days after the event, during which time
anybody could have edited certain
features, barely dents the conspiracy
theorists. Similarly, the argument that
the most sophisticated cover-up in his-
tory was exposed by one missing limb
on a grainy picture falls flat on its face,
especially in the light of the security
services’ blunders with terrorist sus-
pects and Iraq’s “15-minute WMD’s”.
Although it is easier to get carried
away in such charged debates, there
are fortunately those who stand up for
Islam for the peaceful philosophy it is
meant to be. The reaction of the Mus-
lim Council of Britain over the teddy
bear rage has been positive, backing
Mrs Gibbons and campaigning for
a pardon. Also, despite the protests
around the country, many Sudanese
are sympathetic and even supportive
of a teacher who desired to help chil-
dren in an economically ravaged coun-
try gain a footing in life. We ourselves
cannot let the incident fuel the fires
of Islamophobia, nor further provoke
extremism. The Islamic students of
Imperial should stand together with
the whole college to promote tolerance
and understanding, both on campus
and in all countries of the world.
Scorpio
Pakistan, forever without God
Omar Hashmi
W
hat failures we have
become. What a
shame to cast over
our sullen faces.
Pakistan has now
the most insulting of honours. She
is the first nation in modern history
where a leader has performed not one,
but two coups to stay in power. Aston-
ishingly, the second one was against his
own government, judicial courts and
the very systems he helped set up for
the last eight years. All just to grapple
on to power. Suicide? President Pervez
Musharraf was not saving Pakistan
from suicide, he has been helping it
along. He has schemed and overpow-
ered his way to become America’s only
Godchild in the region.
Suicide? Pakistan has been killing
itself since its very inception. It used
to be the case that we saw new faces,
but the same old corruption. Now it is
the same faces and the same corrup-
tion! The fascist BNP alliance (by that I
mean Benezir Butto, Nawaz Sharif and
Pervez Musharraf, my God, even Nick
Griffin as President is a Godsend com-
pared to that lot) have bled the country
dry. All of us hate all of them. Any rem-
nant of loyalty comes from the corrupt
bank role or the backward ties of tribal
nepotism.
Bhutto looks half as young as the
Queen, but has estimated assets of
1.5 billion dollars of Pakistan’s money.
That is the Muslim Ummah’s (nation)
laundered money - double the Queen’s
riches stolen. Corrupt Nawaz not only
severely weakened the national mili-
tary, but sold off large amounts of the
nation’s assets to foreign companies.
While the fat cats fattened, the poor
could not even afford a staple diet, nor
get access to clean water and energy.
All of them have raised the amount of
interest re-payments to the IMF and
World Bank, yet in Islam Mohammed
(pbuh) said that this was tantamount
to war with Allah! Fitting, then, for all
of the leaders have pledged to fight the
War on Terror harder – it seems they
all enjoy the needless spilling of Mus-
lim blood in this American crusade to
shove a foreign Western mind-set and
government down the throats of Mus-
lim countries. Ahem, sorry, I meant
Liberal Interventionism.
I do not blame these leaders. I blame
the system. Democracy in Pakistan is
the system that has allowed us to throw
the Qur’an behind our backs and legis-
late according to whatever we feel. Our
leaders hold no Islamic policies. They
only wish to sell out to foreign invest-
ment, drown in forbidden interest,
sell the country’s military and nuclear
independence and stand by at the kill-
ing of fellow Muslim nations, all in the
name of “modernism” and globalisa-
tion. Nay, this is not progressive, it is
tantamount to treason.
It is time for change! It is time to
bring God, the Qur’an and the masses
back into the running of a once great
part of the Nation. Yes, part. For Paki-
stan is not a nation, it is a Wilayat – a
state within a Country. From Indone-
sia to Spain there was once a unified
government, before the modern West-
ern powers artificially divided it. The
chant was not Freedom or Liberty, it
was something far better and more ac-
cepted by the people – La illa ha Ill Al-
lah Mohammedan Rasul Allah – There
is nothing worthy of worship but Allah
and Mohammed (pbuh) is his Final
Messenger.
If there is a God, does it not seem
strange that he would not tell us who
he is and how to live our lives? He did!
And the Khilafah system, Islamic Law,
was how he told us to run a govern-
ment and society. When implemented,
this ruling system was the most just. It
had a religiously obligatory independ-
ent judiciary of Islamic scholars. An
obligation of Shura (consultation of
the elected leaders of the people) and a
Khaleef – a leader bound at the neck by
the rules of Islam that he must follow.
The poor had a fair distribution of re-
sources, religious minorities were pro-
tected, and the safety of the people was
paramount. Then this system decayed
and we found injustices everywhere.
Then it was broken.
Now we have Godless corruption,
tyranny, dictators, thieves, murderers
and hypocrites! No wonder Pakistani
soldiers raped and killed Bangladeshi
Muslims in the Bangladesh Liberation
War. What dogs we have become! In
Pakistan, a petty thief is brutally pun-
ished, but the greatest ones hold the
country to ransom.
No more! I cannot stand by without
shouting from the hilltops. The obliga-
tion is clear!
For a country that so proudly boasts
of its Islam, now is the time to imple-
ment it! An Islamic government for
Pakistan, a unified Islamic government
for all the Muslim nations! This is the
only way to secure the running of the
country. In a land where nobody can
even queue, it is the Adhan (Islamic
call to prayer) that calls entire society
to stand in rows.
Each and every Muslim, if he cares
about his people, must raise the call
for this goal. It is a religious obligation
to believe in Allah, to obey him, and to
rule by what he has revealed. Each and
every Muslim at Imperial must rally to
this call. It is a religious obligation! And
if those in the West want to see how
a country should really be run, then
open your eyes, ears and hearts. Talk
to us, allow us to show you, and we will
gladly and warmly calm your unjusti-
fied fears and apprehensions. God will-
ing, you will find how just and liberat-
ing a true Islamic system can be.
“
Now we
have Godless
corruption,
tyranny,
dictators,
thieves,
murderers and
hypocrites.
What dogs
we have
become!
Bush and Musharraf: America’s only godchild in the region.
Islamic nation: Best way forward for Pakistan
Let us know your views: comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Letters may be edited for length and grammar purposes
Views on these pages are not representative of Felix

