12 felix Friday 7 December 2007
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Comment
Actually, let’s not talk about God
T
empting though it is to
wade into the sloths-wres-
tling-in-excrement show
that is the Felix Comment
Page God debate, I’m go-
ing to rise above it this week and hope
that the magic of the Christmas break
will bring a time of goodwill and peace
where Matty and Richard can come
together and just shut the fuck up.
I will point out, though, that if I had
to choose sides I certainly wouldn’t
want to be shoulder-to-shoulder with
the blithering arsehole that wrote in
last week, barely audible from seventy
feet up on his arithmetical high horse.
Dick.
No, instead I want to talk about the
tossers I spent the week running into.
The ones that use words like ‘head-
hunt’ and ‘reputation’ with entirely
straight faces. You know who you are.
If you’re reading this and you’re not one
of these people, then I don’t know how
you got this copy of Felix, but if you’re
ever in London then feel free to drop
into Imperial and say hello. If you’re an
Don’t call them CV monkeys!
Batul Kaj
D
espite its crudeness,
James Wang’s article
from a couple of weeks
ago did flag up some
truths. Yes, year rep
elections are a popularity contest and
yes, manifestos are often quite similar
between candidates. But, if you ask me,
neither is a bad thing, especially when
it comes to year rep elections.
Firstly, how many of you actually
know what a year rep’s job is? James,
do you? I’m guessing not, because if
you did, you would have realised that
in fact being ‘approachable’ and ‘able
to address concerns’ are possibly the
A. Geek
Imperial student, then please don’t lie
to yourself. You’re a smug tosser who’s
lapped up recent events.
You see, I managed to avoid covering
our THES promotion a few weeks back
by screwing my eyes shut and travel-
ling to my happy place in Smurfland.
This was made considerably harder by
my gimp of a lecturer stumbling into
a morning talk with the kind of “fuck
you” smugness I normally associate
with Jeremy Kyle or the United Na-
tions Security Council. The sarcas-
tic joke that “we don’t care about the
ratings, of course” made it even more
skin-crawling.
Because the truth is that it’s all you
care about, and it’s something I’ve al-
ways found a little weird. When we
thought Britney Spears was attractive
and spent Friday evenings at house
parties listening to Franz Ferdinand
and pretending we were somewhere
else, things like THES were moder-
ately important because applying to a
shit university would gain you very lit-
tle. In theory. I’ve got some bad news
for you, though. See, it turns out that
if you decide to stay as a childish laya-
bout fuckwit whilst at university, you’ll
actually still be one when you graduate.
You’re at Imperial now, everyone. Time
to wake up and smell the inadequacy.
Not long after the aforementioned
senior tutor pantomime, a friend of
mine related the story of a “Skills
Workshop” she had attended that she
promised me was a “head hunt”. Why
else would they stage it at Imperial. Of
course. The “head hunting” day had
been open to all years, mind you, and
largely involved sitting through Pow-
erPoint lectures, presumably the kind
that makes you want to gnaw off vari-
ous extremities.
I’m not sure what skills were leant,
but I do know that there haven’t been
any job offers yet; I can only assume
this is because the attendees were ex-
actly the kind of idiots that think an
activity day is an interview in disguise,
leaving the organisers to fend off the
shambling, overeager gits with free
pens .
My point – if there’s one still left after
ten weeks of ridiculous courseworks,
this bloody comment section and spats
of high blood pressure – is this: Impe-
rial is not a genius factory. Its ranking
was obtained by a small minority work-
ing extremely hard, and another small
minority manipulating statistics with
twice as much effort. If you are coming
to the close of your first term here hav-
ing done nothing and not caring, then
don’t expect to graduate at the same
level as everyone else. You didn’t win
the big number five rating – the build-
ings, faculties and facilities did.
The good news is that it means you
have plenty of room to become genu-
inely good graduates. But if you think
PowerPoint-giving suits are going to
assume you’re competent as-is, think
again, because employers do look past
the university section on a CV, and
AAB at A-Level won’t be enough to
convince them you’re a worthy addi-
tion to the human race.
Merry Christmas, everyone. Don’t
work too hard this holiday.
two most important qualities a year
rep candidate should possess. Sure,
you could argue that if someone writes
those things in a manifesto, it doesn’t
make them true… but then I guess the
only way to get around that would be
to know the person. Do you agree that
popularity is a measure of how many
people know you?
And yes, the manifestos all looked
the same… but all of the candidates
were standing for the same position,
i.e. they were all trying to prove them-
selves ideal for the same role. Any
one of them could have made prom-
ises about new vending machines and
Queen’s Tower-related adventures, but
they would have been totally irrelevant
and would in fact have demonstrated
a complete lack of understanding of
what the job entails.
What I really must object to though,
is the use of the phrase ‘CV monkeys’.
People are so quick to accuse candi-
dates of ‘only doing it for the CV’ but
that’s like saying ‘you’re only doing
Medicine at Imperial so that you can
get a job’. It’s daft. If someone wants
to run for a position, let them – even if
they’re doing it for CV points, they still
might be good at it, and as a voter, that
should be the most important thing.
If you’re worried about them getting
ahead of you in the CV game, nobody’s
stopping you from standing yourself.
To really make these elections worth-
while, the ball is in the voters’ court. If
you want to make the right decision,
make the effort to find out what it
means to be a year rep and then make
the effort to find out which candidates
really can deliver what they say they
will. (Or else, don’t cry about spam-
ming when they try to tell you about it
themselves.)
And please, for God’s sake, demon-
strate how well we’ve evolved by avoid-
ing the ‘She pretty. Me vote’ strategy.
T
his is in reply to Stefan
Olsson Robbie`s Let`s talk
about God, some more.
Trying to explain the bla-
tantly obvious ‘cause and
effect’ resulting from regular rituals
with your lab partner, girlfriend and
friends etcetera is definitely not the
way to justify the impact you have on
your life, because firstly the common-
placeness of these rituals gives them
zero weightage.
Secondly, unless you believe in self-
worth as defined only by the ability to
make juvenile yet caustic comments
like “heard of Pythagoras?” or emu-
late a dead, albeit famous mathemati-
cian from a bygone era (and in either
or both of these cases you are a lost
cause and may not continue reading)
your ability to send a rebuttal in a self-
consciously victorious manner to Ri-
chard realizes the existence of an En-
tity outside the confines of time, space
and all forms of human reasoning as
well as spatial and temporal existence
as we know them. This is because your
ability to reason is not ultimately your
doing. Time started for you only after
you were miraculously fashioned from
the ‘discharge’ of your parents and later
on became specialized enough to rea-
son about everything. And that in itself
should suffice to toss out any Darwin/
Evolution hogwash that might have en-
tered your thoughts.
God made you, and your mother and
father were just a means. Nothing after
time is self-triggered except God, who
exists before time and is a part of the
past, future and present at the same
moment in ‘time’ as we see it. He con-
trols everything that you can possibly
imagine as well as things beyond your
imagination. And this holistic ‘cause
and effect’, unlike your simplistic ex-
amples, is the real ‘cause and effect’
that people like yourself don’t under-
stand. That is what is actually implied
by “life is pointless without God”. It’s
pointless in the holistic sense, and not
in the immediate sense as you have
considered it.
Also, an obvious implication of “big
dude in the sky” or “He will appreci-
ate that you like Him, tried to create!“
is that you believe, however little, that
there may be a certain entity out there.
And that just means that at a certain
level, even you are a believer.
Final word on the
God debate. Maybe
Hadeed Khalid
Letter to Felix
8 months on and
the ‘temporary’
marquee is still
there
Dear Felix,
Last year there was a bit of a hoo-hah
about College trying to build semi-per-
manent offices on a third of Queen’s
Lawn and trying to slip it through
planning permission without us notic-
ing. This was obviously stopped with
the help of Felix, but then in April we
were given a huge tent which covers
95% of the Lawn. In case anyone hasn’t
noticed, it is still there. Queen’s Lawn
should really be renamed seeing as the
grass is by now slightly dead and will
need to be completely returfed if the
tent ever leaves.
We expect to see giant marquees for
a few weeks over the year for Summer
Balls, Fresher’s events, Careers fairs
etc; but for 8 months solid and with no
end in sight? I don’t remember being
given a referendum on this issue like
on the NUS, and I certainly don’t un-
derstand why College thinks it can get
away with it, considering the backlash
over previous plans. They had original-
ly planned on having one third of the
Lawn taken up with offices, so where
had they thought to put this marquee?
If the plans hadn’t included the tent
before, why did they immediately after
the planning rejection?
French students by now would prob-
ably have torched the Rector’s house
and joined with the transport unions to
bring down the city in wildcat strikes,
but we just sit on the benches under
the Queen’s Tower and comment on
the lack of view towards the library.
Yours Faithfully,
Tom Culley
The Editor, Tom Roberts, responds:
In case you missed it somehow, you’ll
see that on page 2 there’s a short pic-
ture story about this very topic. Thank-
fully the marquee will finally be coming
down in the next few weeks.
Excuse me whilst I deviate from the
topic slightly, but whilst I’ve got your
attention it’s time to say Happy Christ-
mas from everyone at Felix and we’ll
see you in the New Year!

