comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
13
Friday 7 December 2007 felix
Comment
Dawkins’ approach to Christmas
Boyang Xia
I
n a few weeks time the most sa-
cred holiday of Western capital-
ism will take place: Christmas.
For Christians and Muslims
to whom this pagan festival is
unknown: Christmas celebrates the
birth of Baby Jesus (distinctly differ-
ent from the crucified God Jesus in
hair, eye and skin colour, race, gender
and texture). Its origin is shrouded in
clouds of mystery and tax-free donat-
ed televangelism.
Dawkins, using the same arguments
as in his book The God Delusion,
points out that Christmas is not reli-
gious as no holy books prescribe the
celebration of this special day, in the
same way as our morality is not derived
from religions as our modern day ethi-
cal standards differs vastly from those
in the Biblical/Koranic times.
In chapter 7, Dawkins points out, that
“we do not – even the religious among
us – ground our morality Christmas in
holy books.” (What appears to be far-
fetchedly confusing, makes a hell of a
lot more sense after being brainwashed
by the anteceding chapters).
Well, how can we then understand
the origins of Christmas without the
religious context which we are brought
up by our evil indoctrinating parents
to believe in?
I suppose we might be able to find
the answer after careful studies of
holidays in general. Holidays seem to
be globally widespread and a common
trait of human societies. Their main
function is to make people rest and
do nothing, an inactivity which social
mammals spend a great share of their
time on.
They prefer to do so in groups which
enhances the unproductivity of this
useless idleness far more than a single
individual is able to. For this purpose
they waste huge amounts of resources
on building and decorating decadent
architecture, like churches, in which
they celebrate holidays. Churches, by
the way, are not religious institutions,
as Dawkins powerfully demonstrated,
because their modern form and func-
tion differs too much from the Biblical
context.
So, what is the final conclusion from
our reasoning? Christmas – the climax
in a perpetual boring ritual of doing
nothing? Well, that’s its primary Na-
ture-intended function. Therefore, if
you are experiencing shopping stress
now and preparing yourself mentally
for the pain of meeting people and ac-
tually being nice to them because some
theologians and parents told you to do
so, think about Christmas’ genuine
meaning.
Take some time, sit down in a silent
place, make yourself comfortable, day-
dream and if you are pretentious, con-
template the meaninglessness of your
life.
Sometime you’ll die, heading into
the darkest nothingness beyond the
borders of the universe and leaving the
world as a decomposing body; unless
you donate it to science, in which case
you end up as pickled slices in collec-
tions or as toys in the hands of medics
(visualise that at dinner). But before
that happens, you live. And have a
happy life.
Merry Christmas.
The columnist is the last of the
Mohists (pun intended). He
believes in a personal God, in
universal love and peace.
Prof. Richard Dawkins never
gave his approval to the opinions
expressed in this article, although
he admitted privately (without
authenticity) the logical fallacies
I point out here. He also said he
will deny this fiercely in public
(again, without authenticity).
Consistency in the use of a typewriter
T
oday, I am writing to you
from a typewriter. An off-
off-grey, heavy, noisy, A3-
sized electrical typewriter
with badly-labelled keys
and an electrical safety sticker that is
worryingly out of date. I found this
plastic monstrosity out on the street
the other day, and, sucker that I am
for anything second-hand (practical-
ity and condition are not factors that
influence me in the slightest), brought
it home. I was able to get it to work
without too much effort, and, highly
pleased with myself, promptly stuck it
under my bed. Not wanting to admit
to myself that the whole experience
was a total waste of effort, I brought it
out and decided to write something on
it. And this seemed as good a thing as
any.
It is a weird sensation, typing on a
typewriter – one I’ve had often before,
and, which I have to admit, I like enor-
mously. It is hard though. Very hard.
Not because of any purely mechanical
difficulties, but rather due to consider-
able mental ones. We are all so used to
the immense reformatting powers of
Microsoft Word that it is almost im-
possible to write more than two con-
secutive coherent sentences without
makingsometerriblemistake.Anysen-
tence on a word processor is, for me, a
terrifying linguistic adventure – I have
no idea where the nearest verb will be,
whether or not I will be able to work
that polysyllabic adjective in before the
comma, or if the sentence will run out
of steam before I can get to the end.
More importantly, of course, it doesn’t
matter. Should I make a mistake, it can
be corrected in less time than it took
to write the thing in the first place. Not
the case with a typewriter.
Coherence of thought is essential if
you want to produce a neat-looking
document at the end (and let’s face it,
a roll of paper sticking out of a type-
writer, much as is happening to me
now, is cool. Or not, of course; as you
wish), and that is a skill that I seem to
have lost. I now speak like I type on
the computer. I launch myself into sen-
tences having no earthly idea how they
will finish, being used to the safety net
a computer always affords.
It has taken me more time to write
this than it would usually. As a matter
of fact, it hasn’t. I thought it would, as
the time needed between sentences
to map out those coming up is far, far
longer. At the same time, though, the
inability to go back spurs you onwards,
much like Cortez’s burning of his
ships forced his men deeper into un-
explored territory. My thoughts have
now become more coherent. Granted,
they may well be less interesting; less
eloquent; less amusing; less relevant;
but they are more refreshing to write.
I think everyone should be forced to
write on a typewriter once in a while; if
only to prove to them their dependence
on the backspace key and a mouse, but
more fundamentally, to give to their
thought processes and their speech a
consistency which is gradually being
lost.
Teddy bears and extremists
Ammar Waraich
I
am so tired of teddy bears,
cartoons and a handful of ex-
tremists always having the ul-
timate say about the faith and
identity of a third of the world’s
population.
Now, I don’t want to get into another
one of Felix’s annual ‘debates’ on Islam
or religion, nor do I want to prance
around making arguments about free-
dom of speech or naming teddy bears.
As we all know, a kind and friendly
teacher who wanted only good things
for Sudan and its people listened to
some kids and named a teddy bear
Muhammad… BIG DEAL!
It is pretty obvious that the Sudanese
are in the wrong in this farce and if
you honestly think that they have the
support of any more than 0.0001% of
the Muslim population then you must
genuinely think that we are insane (and
even that support is probably from po-
litically motivated, frustrated people
who blame the West for everything –
e.g. the small crowds who protested in
Sudan). Additionally, it is evident that
this whole incident seemed to Khar-
toum to be a once-in-a-blue-moon
golden opportunity to get its own back
for the criticism in Darfur, whilst also
trying to get the sympathy of other
Muslim countries across the Middle
East against ‘the West’ by using their
religion as the rallying call. Sadly for
Sudan though, they failed miserably on
both accounts and hugely embarrassed
themselves!
It saddens me no end to actually have
to state that as a Muslim, I was not in
the least bit offended by Mrs Gibbons.
But to be honest, if by now you have
not been able to see past the media’s
cherry-picked reporting then no mat-
ter what I say, it probably won’t make
any difference to you. However, I am
frustrated by not having a positive
voice for my beliefs on campus or in
society. To this end, I have decided to
actively make myself available to any-
one who wants to talk to me to about
why I believe that there is only one un-
seen God, why I believe that Muham-
mad was the final messenger of God,
and hence why I believe that Islam is
the final divine revelation, the ultimate
truth. Therefore, if you genuinely want
to learn about Islam, get in touch with
me (aaw204@ic.ac.uk) and depend-
ing on your enthusiasm, I may invite
you to a free lunch where we can go
through the noble Quran together, the
final word of God. Otherwise, look out
for the Islamic Awareness stall I will be
starting next term where a few of us
will be available to take any questions
you may have; which will hopefully be
a weekly endeavour.
A glorious typewriter moments before spewing out glorious literature
Gilead Amit

