politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
14 felix Friday 7 December 2007
Politics
Politics Editor – Li-Teck Lau
Li-Teck Lau
Politics Editor
W
ith the comments
and politics sec-
tions of this paper
filled with discus-
sions and debates
about the USA, Iraq, Afghanistan,
Middle East worries, religion and likes
of such, I thought that this paper could
use a new issue to debate about, and
given the composition of the university
population, I can see potential in bring-
ing up an issue close to many people’s
heart. The Taiwan-China issue.
There I said it. The poignant point
that some of us are careful to tread
around, and also an issue that most are
blatantly ignorant and unaware about.
Consider the following issues: are you
aware that on the other side of this
planet, there is an informal war that
has dragged on for more than 50 years,
other than North and South Korea,
and has been evaluated to be a poten-
tial trigger point for World War III?
Did you know that your countries’
leaders (Bush, Brown, Sarkozy, Putin)
don’t recognize Taiwan as a country
(as much as Palestine), despite the gen-
eral public identifying the Taiwan as a
‘country’?
Ever wondered why in the interna-
tional events, like the Olympics and
World Baseball Cup, there’s a team
named “Chinese Taipei”?
Why there is such a big fuss on Fa-
cebook with names like “Fuck! There is
only one CHINA, Taiwan will be one
part of CHINA forever”
These ridiculous facts come from a
intriguing incident on what happened
to China after the second world war,
which has been overshadowed in the
West by the Cold War. Ok let me set
the scene here for you. It’s 1945, the
Republic of China, just crawled it’s way
out of the ravages which the Japanese
brought on in Asia, the economy’s in
a disastrous state, the government can
only console themselves with having
stuck with the winning side of the War,
in which Japan ceded/returned the is-
land of Taiwan back to the Chinese.
The government now has a prominent
permanent seat on the UN, which it
founded.
However, there is change going on
inside China, the government is los-
ing touch with the peasant commu-
nity, who are gradually looking toward
Communism as a solution to their dis-
astrous state (eight years of war, plus
widening wealth gap and bad govern-
ment). From there starts another war
– the Chinese civil war, which results
in the National government receding
to the island of Taiwan with the lead of
Chiang Kai-shek. Chiang Kai-shek re-
locates the government temporarily in
Taipei, vowing to liberate the Mainland
in the future. Meanwhile Mao Zhe-
dong establishes the People’s Republic
of China, vowing to liberate Taiwan in
the future. This is 1949.
Politically the deadlock has been
there since, now Communist China
states that Taiwan is a rebel province
that it will reunify in the future by all
means, hence the 800 or so missiles
pointing at Taipei. And the constitu-
tion of the Republic of China (now on,
and commonly referred as, Taiwan)
still claims it’s boundaries to include
the Mainland, with Nanjing as it’s capi-
tal. The independence camp on Tai-
wan would like that change to reflect
the reality, but China states that would
be seen as an act of the declaration of
independence which will trigger war.
So the saber-rattling goes on.
An anonymous commentary on Taiwan’s place in the international community
Taiwan: not quite a country
President Hu of the Peoples’ Republic of China is committed to a one
China
China threatens that any declaration of independance by the rogue province of Taiwan will lead to military intervention
The Taiwanese population doesn’t
want war. But they don’t want to be
‘part of China’ – communism or the
governing style in China just doesn’t
appeal to the democracy indulged
Taiwanese. Despite being ethnically
Chinese, they feel a detachment to the
China across the straits, with a differ-
ent writing system, and culture revolu-
tion, and most prominently the hostile
threats and bullying that China issues
on a regularly basis. Last Olympics, the
Chinese Taipei Team (naming forced
upon the IOC by China) won their first
gold medal, but they weren’t allowed
to play nor display their ‘national’ flag
nor anthem. The 23 million people of
Taiwan (greater than the population
of Australia) aren’t affiliated to the
World Health Organization, so dur-
ing the SARS influenza, were outside
the WHO monitoring system. And of
course they’re not represented in the
UN.
Since 1979, when Nixon normalised
relations with China to ‘help ease in-
ternational tensions’ (Big market? Iraq
and oil is only a repetition of history),
countries willing to recognise China,
had to un-recognise the Republic of
China on Taiwan, basically saying,
“you can only be friends with me or
him, not both - if you are not with us
you’re against us”. Hence UK doesn’t
officially see Taiwan independent enti-
ty, where many of us would understand
differently.
As the economic importance and
military muscle of China grows, it
would be interesting to see how this
thorny issue is resolved. As the nation-
alism sentiment grows with the econ-
omy of China, most Chinese will fer-
vently defend China’s claim of Taiwan,
as fiercely as they claim Tibet. Ask any
Chinese person around you to get their
view! Or a Taiwanese for that matter!
“Taiwan is an inalienable part of
China’s territory. The greatest threat
to peace in the Taiwan Straits is from
the separatist activities by the “Taiwan
independence” forces.” Chinese Presi-
dent Hu Jintao, 2003.
T
here’s a whole Jonswop
spectrum of news filling
these two pages this week,
from domestic debates
over freedom of speech at
university unions to anonymous com-
mentary on the history of the Taiwan
straits issue, to, well, blasphemy in
Africa.
The White House looked red faced
as the government in Iran welcomed a
new American Intelligence report con-
cluding not only that there is no evi-
dence the Middle Eastern nation has
intentions of developing nuclear weap-
ons, but that it would be able to do so
until at least 2010. This runs contra-
dictory to the President’s line that Iran
poses a very real and present danger to
international security.
16 people have been killed in clash-
es in Kenya running up to December
elections in Africa’s largest economy.
President Mwai Kibaki is seeking re-
election but is neck and neck in the
polls with rival Raila Odinga. Party ral-
lies have been marred by violence.
Eight were shot dead in the Ameri-
can state of Nebraska in a busy shop-
ping mall as the festive shopping sea-
son gets truly underway. The 19 year
old gunman rampaged through the
isles wounding five others before turn-
ing the gun on himself. This is the third
high profile gun mass murder in the
country this year.
President Vladimir Putin of the Rus-
sian Federation has an approval rating
of 70% according to a new independent
opinion poll. Putin, who is unable to
run for a third term as president, will
instead lead the United Russia Party
by standing in the coming elections
for the role of Prime Minister. 22% of
those surveyed felt it would be a posi-
tive move should Mr Putin attempt to
change the constitution.
Finally, Knut, the celebrity polar bear
and most famous resident of Berlin
Zoo, celebrated his first birthday this
week. The little fur ball had received
death threats from animal rights cam-
paigners who claimed that he should
not have survived when his mother
was killed in natural circumstances.
However the old time dimension
things works, where I am, it’s re-
ally early in the morning, so good bye
from Felix Politics and merry secular
Christmas.
Knut the polar bear is 1 year old

