politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
15
Friday 7 December 2007 felix
Politics
The limits of freedom of speech
Two controversial speakers’ at the Oxford Union spark protests, mud slinging and finger pointing
If we believe the media, in the past few
weeks Britain has been embroiled in
a great debate on freedom of speech.
The Oxford Union, holding a forum
on just this issue decided to invite BNP
leader Nick Griffin and Holocaust-de-
nying historian David Irving to speak.
According to proponents of this deci-
sion, allowing these men to speak de-
spite protests was itself promotion of
free speech. For its detractors it was
legitimising the views of two dangerous
men, capable of causing great damage
in the minds of the public.
Both arguments are, of course, lu-
dicrous. Worse, the actual question
of freedom of speech was completely
ignored. The Oxford Union was not
championing freedom of speech or
even trying to have an informed de-
bate on it; it was purposefully courting
controversy for publicity’s sake. While
both men have endured attempts by
others to limit their freedom of expres-
sion, this does not make them experts
on the topic any more than OJ Simp-
son is an expert on the American judi-
cial system.
Furthermore, freedom of speech is
distinct from provision of platform
and so the very invitation itself was
not really an ideological promotion of
the cause at all. Just because we ac-
cept these men’s right to say what they
want does not mean we have to listen
or hand them a megaphone. The pro-
testers, on the other hand mistook an
invitation to speak at a forum for an
endorsement, reasoning that a sensible
person, who previously found racism
and anti-Semitism repugnant, would
be converted to a St. George’s flag-
waving skinhead because the Oxford
Union invited a couple of old bigots
to an event where they were basically
subjected to being called moronic by
kids a fraction of their age. Rather,
the most effective promotion for their
views came on the night when a mod-
ern-day lynch mob of Oxford students
called for the death – I kid you not,
death – of the head of the Oxford Un-
ion. By comparison, Griffin and Irvin
could not help but look like a pair of
reasonable chaps.
This was all very entertaining but
actual questions about an individual’s
freedom to let their views be known
without fear of repercussion were
neither asked nor answered. We live
in a country where people can still be
prosecuted for certain views and ut-
terances, and as a libertarian I find this
worthy, perhaps, of at least a little bit of
David Irving, the historian who questions the facts of the Holocaust in Germany, was invited to speak at the
Oxford Union
Kadhim Shubber
public discourse. Within Britain you
are allowed to speak your mind pro-
vided you are not saying certain things;
inciting certain types of hatred (some
forms of “hatred” are more acceptable
than others, you see), defamation and
“encouragement of terrorism” are a
few. Of course, some limitations will
always be necessary to keep order, the
Kadhim on Gillian Gibbons and that teddy
It seems that wherever I look, I cannot
escape conflict between Westerners
and persons of Muslim faith.
Again the world’s beady eyes are on
Sudan but instead of focusing on the
dreadful humanitarian crisis that is
still ongoing, I find that our gaze is be-
ing shifted from Darfur to Khartoum,
where Liverpudlian Gillian Gibbons
has been jailed for insulting the Mus-
lim faith.
She allowed her primary school class
to name a teddy bear Muhammad. This
was interpreted as an insult against Is-
lam and the court recognizing the im-
material nature of this insult sentenced
her to 15 days in prison followed by
deportation. Soon after the convic-
tion, there were angry demonstrations
in the capital Khartoum calling for her
execution.
Certainly the demonstrations were
organized by extremists in a very suc-
cessful attempt to whip up anti-West-
ern sentiment. However the views of
the mob are certainly not consistent
with the general opinions of Sudanese
people, the lenient sentencing (the
maximum is 6 months in prison, 40
lashes and a fine) and the protection
given to Gillian Gibbons (she was held
in a secret location until her term, was
completed) serve as evidence of this.
There is no doubt that Gillian Gib-
bons did not intend to cause offence to
anybody and she must be commended
for her charitable work in Sudan, how-
ever she certainly should not have al-
lowed her class to name the bear Mu-
hammad. It displays a lack of foresight
that is dangerous in the 21st century,
as we’ve seen from these events.What
is most interesting about this situa-
tion is the inability of Western nations
to respect the sovereignty of African
nations or the independence of their
judiciary. An independent judiciary is
one of the pillars of democracy that
Western nations attempt to spread
around the world, yet we are so quick
to trample upon this independence.
The actions of Conservatives Sayeeda
Warsi and Nazir Ahmed are hypocriti-
cal at best and at worst an attempt to
use the misery of a British citizen for
publicity.
By traveling to Sudan in an effort
to circumvent the legal process there,
these two peers have displayed an ar-
rogant disregard for the laws of inde-
pendent nations but also they have
shown that scoring political points is
textbook example being not allowing
a person to shout “fire” in a crowded
theatre. However, these limitations
should be constrained to speech that
has less to do with expression of opin-
ion and more to do with purposeful
attempts to cause illegal events. This
would do away with the absurd “hate
speech” laws that have dogged Griffin
and Irving and also limit the definition
of “encouragement of terrorism” to
direct instructions or requests for il-
legal acts rather than mere expression
of support for terrorists (see: Samina
Malik).
It all comes down to the definition
of liberty of speech and why it is im-
portant. First it is not about freedom
of speech per se, but rather the free-
dom to state one’s opinion. To limit
this, in any way, is not just unforgiv-
ably depriving a person of liberty but
a dangerous slippery slope to a state of
thought control where the government
gets to decide which opinions are bad
and which are good.
As countries go, however, the UK
is no China. Most of Europe is much
worse, with Holocaust-denying laws,
limitations on criticism of government
and treason laws being commonly
found. The United States, guided by
their constitution can often be a shin-
ing beacon of light on this topic; their
ACLU defends everyone from neo-Na-
zis to paedophile-rights groups. How-
ever, one questions the fair application
of the freedom principle when consid-
eration is made of Joe McCarthy’s anti-
communist drive and recent talk of ille-
galising burning the Stars and Stripes.
Indeed, my libertarian rant must be
tempered in recognition of Britain’s
relative progress, but nonetheless I
cannot help but wish for a more intelli-
gent discussion than meaningless pos-
turing over an even-more meaningless
event at the Oxford Union.
more important than bringing peace to
Darfur. After writing this article, Gil-
lian Gibbons was released.
She had spent 8 days in detention
however she did not in fact spend any
time inside a jail. Her experience was
described as ‘a shock’ but she was well
treated. Correspondents are describ-
ing the outcome as leaving President
al-Bashir of Sudan red-faced and
embarrassed.
I feel that it is we in the UK who
should be embarrassed, at our seem-
ing inability to treat the African con-
tinent with anything but Imperialistic
arrogance.
Abioye Oyetunji
Ms Gibbons was released from custody after a week long fiasco involving blasphemy, cuddly toys and the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom

