20 felix Friday 7 December 2007
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Arts
London gets the leftovers again
Emily Wilson strikes again. This time, she tears apart the Turner Prize: Retrospective exhibition at the Tate
Britain. The curating was rubbish, but the art wasn’t too bad. (Those pictures are making me hungry)
T
he notorious Turner Prize
is awarded annually to a
young British conceptual
artist by the Tate Gallery.
Every year the shortlisted
artists’ work are shown in Tate Britain,
the exception to the rule, of course, be-
ing this year. This year the Turner Prize
has been shipped off to Tate Liverpool,
since Liverpool is the so-called “Euro-
pean Capital of Culture” for 2008. So
why is the 2007 Turner Prize in Liver-
pool and not the 2008 Turner Prize?
God only knows. But to make up for
the London absence of Turner Prize-
osity, the good people at Tate offer us
Turner Prize: A Retrospective. This is
an exciting opportunity to see some of
the works that have earned their art-
ists the Turner Prize in previous years.
Hurrah!
I will tell you right now that you need
to have some background knowledge
of the Turner Prize before you walk
through the door, because Tate Britain
isn’t going to help you. Once you’ve
forked out £6 to get into the exhibi-
tion, you’re given an awkwardly-sized
newspaper guide. This isn’t much help,
I’m afraid. There’s no explanation of
how the prize is judged and awarded.
It wasn’t until I was half-way round the
exhibition that I grasped the Turner
Prize is awarded to an artist and not
their art specifically. I had expected a
simple gallery of paintings and sculp-
tures that won the prize, but actually
it’s just a messy selection of art by the
artists that won, and some of the artists
that didn’t win. This confused me as
well – there is little differentiation be-
tween who won and who didn’t, unless
you pay close attention to the labels and
your bundled up fist of newspaper.
The layout of the exhibition doesn’t
help. The first room is the worst, caus-
ing you to start your visit in a state
of total bafflement. It’s arranged in
chronological order, but only if you
psychically know which way to walk
around each room. The most infuriat-
ing thing to me was how there is one
label per artist, not one label per piece
of art. So if one artist has two pieces
displayed, you have to trudge back
and forth across the room to compare
each piece to its description. “For those
who have ears #2” is a lovely, looping,
wooden structure in the first room that
reminds me of Möbius strips, but you
can’t find out who made it or what it’s
called unless you realise it’s paired with
a less attractive steel structure 25m
away, where the label is. Then once
you’ve found this elusive label, you still
have little idea whether the piece’s art-
ist won the prize or was just nominat-
ed. This constant game of matching the
art to the artist to the year significantly
ruined my enjoyment of the visit.
Turner Prize art is all controversial
stuff. The little old ladies you walk past
in the Millais exhibition downstairs
are absent, presumably scared away by
the sex and guts. In fact the main cli-
entèle was the sixth-form art student,
armed with sketchbook, whinging “can
we go shopping now?”. To ward off any
old dears who wandered in by mis-
take, there’s a monumentally massive
Gilbert and George that smacks you
in the face right at the beginning. The
two tweed-clad fellows, who won in
1986, are flying about in garish colour
with their leather-clad East London
gay youth chums in “Drunk with God”
(1983). There are some big sexy flow-
ers mixed in there, in case you didn’t
quite get the subtlety of all the rampant
homoeroticism.
Anish Kapoor won in 1990, and his
contribution to the exhibition was
“Untitled 1990” – three deep-blue,
hollow half-spheres that take up an en-
tire room. Staring into them gives you
a spectacular sense of infinity- before
making your eyes go funny. Art gallery
etiquette prevents you yelling at them,
but I’m fairly sure they’d produce a
very satisfying booming echo.
I’m less impressed by the adjacent
contribution by Antony Gormley,
who won in 1994. He did so by taking
a cast of his body in a bent-over posi-
tion, then sticking five copies about
the room in what seem like random
places but is probably an exploration of
shape, angle and space. My borderline-
offensive newspaper guide informs me
his main subject matter was the violent
conflict in his native Northern Ireland,
which I imagine is why they gave him
the prize. The question I’m asking: did
he manipulate the castings to make his
penis bigger? If you’re interested in the
mysterious matter of how they recre-
ate the spacing and angling of mod-
ern sculpture every time they move
it, I refer you to “Sharp” by Grenville
Davey. These four pieces of shaped,
cream-coloured steel are reconfigured
every time the sculpture appears in a
new gallery, to best suit the room it is
placed in.
And now we get to the artist eve-
rybody came for: Damien Hirst. Yes,
his formaldehyde half-cows are there.
“Mother and Child Divided” (1993) is
fascinating to look at, from an anatomi-
cal perspective. You can pick out all the
different cuts of beef available, includ-
ing a really juicy looking rump steak.
I really don’t find any of it disgusting
– it’s like being back in a school biol-
ogy classroom, looking at the shelves
of tapeworms and dissected rats in
jars. But then I am a biologist. I’d like
to point out to you that the cows ex-
hibited today are only modern copies
of the 1993 originals, just to disappoint
you in advance. Also present is Hirst’s
“Arginosuccinic Acid” (1995). Hirst’s
sheets of coloured dots are a particu-
lar favourite of mine. But bear in mind
that he didn’t even colour in dots him-
self – he had slavey artistic assistants to
do it for him, including Lauren Child,
author and illustrator of “Charlie and
Lola”, and the “Clarice Bean” series.
I find it quite interesting that often
a Turner artist can offer two very dif-
ferent pieces of art. Damien Hirst has
his cross-section ruminants and his
coloured dots. Rachel Whitbread of-
fers “Untitled (floor)” (1994-5) which is
an ugly block of nothing-in-particular
on the floor, but also “House” (1993),
which is a series of quite pleasing black
and white photographs of a very im-
pressive casting of an old terraced
house.
I’m not into those little arty films
they show in darkened cupboards, so
I won’t dwell on those. But I will men-
tion “60 minute silence” (1996) by Gil-
lian Wearing. This is a film of a group
of policemen being made to sit in to-
tal silence for 60 minutes. Obviously I
didn’t stick around to witness the whole
film, but apparently it all climaxes in a
sudden cry of relief at the end.
I did like the room full of photo-
graphs by Wolfgang Tillmans, who
won in 2000. They include a man hav-
ing a conversation with a deer, a win-
dow-box garden, people traveling on
the tube, and a squirting nipple. In the
next room, I found it quite it quite dif-
ficult to make notes of Martin Creed’s
“Work no. 227: lights going on and off”
because the lights kept going on and
off.
There are a few mentionables in the
final room. Keith Tyson’s studio wall
drawings are like a visualisation of a
train of thought, scrawled and doo-
dled and filled with colour. You get the
impression that while he’s a talented
British artist, he’s also just some guy
messing about and enjoying himself.
Grayson Perry’s earthenware pots are
beautiful – if they were sold in shops,
I’d buy one. I’m somewhat disconcert-
ed by the fact that one has my Dad’s
name written on it in red, but since
there are many other names, including
Alan Yentob, it probably isn’t anything
to get paranoid about.
To conclude, I think the Tate could
have put a bit more effort into this one,
particularly if they’re charging stu-
dents a whopping £6 to see it. The art
ranges from the appalling crap, to the
moderately pleasing, to the excellently
delightful, but the organisation and la-
belling is dire. Give me a forklift truck,
Wikipedia and a spare afternoon and I
probably could have done a better job.
In fact, if you do go, ignore the idiotic
arrangement as well as all the blurb
and just wander round looking at the
art, which I don’t think this exhibition
has done justice.
I’m hungry. Anyone for steak?
The exhibition ends on January
6th! Schoot! Get yourself down
there ASAP
.
The writers at Felix decide to give Yoga a go... what they didn’t realise was that they had come on the night of the ‘Fans of Right Angles’ class
Would you like your steak with peppercorn sauce or formaldehyde, sir?
© DAMIEN HURST “MOTHER AND CHILD DIVIDED”
© ANTONY GORMLEY

