arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 7 December 2007 felix
Arts
Revue 2007: it’s bean-flicking good
Sarah Broadhurst reviews the MTsoc Winter Revue: The Rise and Fall of David Sullivan. It was OK
I
was told to go in to this year’s
Revue with low expectations –
the direction was going to be
lacklustre, some singing cringe
worthy and the dancing poor.
However, the programme promised me
“Our most ambitious Revue yet”. The
fact that the auditorium was packed to
the rafters was obviously a good sign
so I decided to let go of any bias and sit
down to enjoy the show.
MTsoc’s Revue is an annual event
which compromises of a slight plot and
tonnes of popular musical numbers.
This year’s ‘The Rise and Fall of David
Sullivan’ was a satire on the supposed
rivalry between the techies and per-
formers. The plot starts out with this
theme in mind but quickly looses it in
favour of lesbians and transsexuals.
Although Paul Dingwall’s suspender
wearing, chest-baring Scottish techie
transsexual was hilarious, I felt his
newly lesbian girlfriend, Sandra (Han-
nah Bundock) got a bit too much stage
time. I thought she was brilliantly en-
ergetic but more time should have
been spared for other more entertain-
ing plotlines, like the one promised to
us in the title of the show!
Lesbian Super-Slag, Maureen (Alicia
Blunt) was fantastic as Sandra’s preda-
tor. Her rendition of The Wild Party’s
‘Old Fashioned [Lesbian] Love Story’
was fantastic! Every ‘bush’ and ‘bean’
reference was announced with such
relish we couldn’t help but pee our-
selves quietly in the back!
Head-techie, Dave Sullivan (Matt
Woods) and the ‘Starlet of the Show’,
Rhapsody (Emily May) really stole
the show for me. Their story was FAR
more interesting and funny than any of
the others. Emily May was suitably diva
but she showed a soft side to the classic
‘Diva Bitch’ we often see in theatre.
Matt Wood’s hair got us all talking
afterwards. I was going to dedicate half
this review to his hairstyle - his glossy,
wavy locks were always going to make
it to the stage – but that wouldn’t really
give him credit for his talents on stage.
Matt and Emily’s joint numbers were
by far the best in the whole show – ‘We
Both Reached For The Gun’ (Chicago)
and ‘Anything You Can Do’ (Annie Get
Your Gun).
The chorus was brilliant though and
I wish they had been utilised more.
There were some brilliant numbers,
such as ‘I Hope I Get It’ (Chorus Line)
and the finale; ‘We’re All In This To-
gether’ (High School Musical). These
really showed the hard work that had
gone into the show. On the other hand,
‘La Vie Boheme’ (Rent) was messy,
unpolished and hard to follow. For
some reason the choreographer had a
large part in this [over] long number.
I thought he could have stuck to his
choreography duties and definitely
moved aside for a different member of
the chorus.
The whole Revue was much longer
than last year’s. I felt it dragged slightly
at the end where yet more lesbian-relat-
ed numbers were squeezed in but there
was a twist in the plot, which I enjoyed.
They couldn’t possibly have killed off
the title character so they went back
in time and everything turned out fine
– finale was sung, cast applauded and
distinctly average comments made.
In summary, I thought the cast did
brilliantly. A few more cheesy grins
might have been in order but they
weren’t to blame at all for the poor
distribution of songs and plot. More
Is this really what theatre is like?
Lucy Harrold likes the Southbank. Lucy Harrold likes caffine. Lucy Harrold doesn’t like this exhibiton
I
do like the Southbank - it’s so
eclectic! You’ve got the BFI Mu-
seum, the National Theatre and
loads of bookstalls along the
river. Plus there’s all this amaz-
ing modern architecture like the OXO
Tower and the London Eye, some fan-
tastic older architecture like the Globe
Theatre and then you’ve got the Tate
Modern- a huge mass of power station
blandness.
However, the interior of the Tate
Modern is a bit of disappointment –it’s
just more concrete, minimalism and
“cool” signage that’s rather difficult to
follow. The signs told me that the ex-
hibition and tickets were on the fourth
floor and so off I trooped, taking the
stairs as the lifts at the Tate Modern
are tiny, infrequent and full of buggies.
I reached the fourth floor to find that
my ticket was actually on the first floor
in some random information room at
the back. The turbine hall also hap-
pened to be on the first floor, so I had a
little peek at “The Crack”. Yes it is just a
big crack - you can even see the chick-
en wire where they reinforced it.
So, again, back up to the fourth floor,
where I finally got to the exhibition.
Giving my ticket to the woman, she
says “How many more will they find?”,
I just thought “What the fuck?” at this
random outburst until I found out this
was actually part of the exhibition. Ap-
parently, Tino Sehgal’s contribution to
the exhibition is getting random peo-
ple to say random crap to other ran-
dom people within the exhibition.
Remember to take the booklet they
offer you. It tells you what the artists
have actually done, and more impor-
tantly, gives a map of the exhibition.
Although the pieces are numbered on
the map, unfortunately there are no
numbers by the actual pieces.
The point of The World as a Stage
is to show the relationship between
visual art and theatre. It took me quite
a while to figure out how some of the
pieces connected to this theme! In
fact, very little of the exhibition had
anything to do with the theatre or the
stage! Especially guilty of this were the
two “performance art” videos. The
first, “The Chittendens: The Resuscita-
tion of Uplifting” by Catherine Sullivan
was just a film of people in strange cos-
tumes making pointless gestures. Oh
ha-ha, very funny- that’s what theatre’s
always like!? The other, “Luna”, was by
Cezary Bodzianowski which consisted
of a video of himself with a roller-skate
on one hand and one foot trying to get
up within a rotating drum. Why?
Strangely I liked Bodzianowski’s oth-
er piece, “Flying Helmet”, in which he
measured the dimensions of the Globe
Theatre so he could compare them to
the dimensions of the Earth. This was
supposed to show the literal analysis
of the relationship between the stage
and the world that Shakespeare gives.
It was kind of fun and kooky to see this
rather chubby guy walking around the
Globe Theatre with a measuring tape.
One piece I completely did not get
was “The Redwood and The Raven”
by Trisha Donnelly. For a start, it was
hardly anything spectacular to look
at; just a single small black and white
photo of a woman dancing in front of
a tree. The booklet informed me that
each day this picture changes to build
up a sequence of this old lady dancing
to Edgar Allen Poe’s poem The Raven.
Sorry Mr Tate, I’m not paying the £5.50
student concession every day for a
month just so I can see how the dancer
moves in 31 separate photographs.
There were a few pieces that I did en-
joy alot. Roman Ondák’s , “I’m just act-
ing in it”, was clever. The premise was
that he described himself to a group of
regular gallery-goers and got them to
draw their perception of him walking
around the empty gallery. The results
were varied but all showed the artist a
singular, lonely person looking rather
glum which seemed universally relat-
able to.
Also receiving an honourable men-
tion is Rita McBride’s “Arena”, just be-
cause it’s so bloody huge! “Arena” is a
huge seating structure made of fibre-
glass sections slotted together like a big
jigsaw.
And so to the one piece that made
the trip worthwhile, even though it had
very little do with the theme of linking
visual art and theatre. I don’t think any
of us students are quite old enough to
remember the Miner’s Strike of 1984-5.
There was a violent clash between po-
lice and the angry miners on strike in
South Yorkshire, which is now notori-
ous as the ‘Battle of Orgreave’. In “The
Battle of Orgreave Archive (an Injury
to One is an Injury to All)”, Jeremy
Deller (one of the few British artists in
the exhibition) has documented his at-
tempts to re-enact the battle, similar in
style to those civil war re-enactments
that always seem to be at county fairs,
mainly consisting of fat, bearded men
with muskets. Deller’s piece comes in
two parts. The first is a room of memo-
rabilia and artefacts from the time and
from general re-enactments, a time-
line of the strike surrounds the wall
to give the reader all the information
they need for the second part- the film
of the re-enactment itself. I could have
stayed for the whole 62 minutes of film
if it hadn’t been for all the people that
were there before me leaving- and then
all the people that were there after me
going too.
The documentary was enthralling;
interspersing clips on the preparations
for the battle were views on the history
from both former miners and police-
men. Many of the people involved in
the strike itself had returned to re-live
it for art!
After all this arty-farty stuff and sens-
ing cold and wet weather outside in the
real world, I headed towards the Tate
Café to take in some sort of caffeinated
substance. Here’s a tip: don’t bother.
Just nip down the road to Starbucks
instead. The café itself had a massive
queue outside and appeared to be
geared more towards “contemporary”
families having a late lunch than cof-
fee deprived students. In conclusion,
don’t bother with this exhibition un-
less you’re really into performance art
or modern art in general and happen
to be on the Southbank with nothing
to do. And if you still insist on going,
take a thermos!
O Come All Ye Art Lovers,
It closes on New Years’ Day
So Hark your Herald skates on!
As demonstrated by this Health and Safety Official at the Tate Modern, some viewers may find some
images at this exhibition shocking and disturbing. Be warned, enthusiastic art lover
© THE ARTIST
COURTESY GALERIE CATHERINE BASTIDE, BRUSSELS AND METRO PICTURES, NEW YORK
techie-performer rivalry and less muff
would have made this Revue perfect!
The Rise and Fall of David Sul-
livan ran from the 2nd to 3rd
December. Missed out? Tough
poopy. Only joking! You can catch
more MTsoc revelry in the Easter
Term with their Spring show,
How to Succeed in Business
Without Really Trying. Maybe all
you wannabe bankers should go
along to that.
We’re flying without wings!
21

