22 felix Friday 7 December 2007
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Arts
Lee Miller: Queen of Surrealism
Caz Knight reviews Lee Miller at the V&A. You’ve seen all the posters in the tube – now go and see it!
L
ee Miller – there never was,
or has been since, anyone
quite like her. Model-turned
artist-turned-journalist, it
appears as though she lived
multiple lives defined by the meander-
ings of her artistic life. Like most great
artists, it was not until long after her
death that she gained praise and recog-
nition. It was upon the publication of
the book, The Lives of Lee Miller (1985)
written by her son Anthony Penrose,
that she came to the attention of a cer-
tain Jane Livingston who was carrying
out research for exhibitions on surreal-
ism and war-time art.
This year is a perfect year for the
V&A to house a collection of her
works, commemorating both her 100th
birthday and also the 30th anniversary
of her death. Her works are presented
in chronology of the distinct segments
of her life which also structured her
work; through this organisation we get
to know Lee in an abstract way and see
how her experiences coloured what
she produced.
Born in Ploughkeepsie, New York,
Miller was an only child and at the
age of seven was raped and contract-
ed gonorrhea. There is no doubt that
this tragic event had a great influence
on who she was and her strength in
later life, as well as, perhaps, helping
to turn her into the surrealist that she
became.
Already a professional when it came
to being photographed (her father cap-
tured her in photos endlessly through-
out her youth, often in the nude) she
rose to being the most sought after
model by 1926. The first set of pho-
tographs in the exhibition are those
taken by other notable photographers
of the time and what strikes one first
is her beauty – an archetypal woman
of the twenties and thirties – and most
certainly on a par with Grace Kelly.
Her coming-of-age as a photogra-
pher was aided by Man Ray. He was
considered one of the most influen-
tial artists of the 20th century; he was
a Dada, Surrealist photographer and
painter. She sought him out in Paris in
1929, becoming his apprentice, muse
and lover. Surrealism’s true meaning
should be ‘super-realism’ – it has been
mistranslated from the French, ‘sur-
réalisme’. So, with ‘super-realism’ and
its plight to liberate the imagination
and revolutionise human experience
in its heyday, Miller was able to throw
herself whole-heartedly into produc-
ing some of the highly interesting and
original pieces seen on display.
Her subject is nearly always captured
close up although subject matter, pho-
tographic finish, size and atmosphere
created varies enormously. Due to her
own experience as a model, portraiture
was an ideal pursuit for her as she was
unafraid to bring the camera close to
her subjects. People, street life, nature,
inanimate objects and animals are all
captured beautifully. One gets a taste
of surrealism in the form of a severed
breast (from a radical mastectomy) on
a plate. Salvador Dali and his infamous
‘belle Gala’ are on display, as is her own
self-portrait where we are reminded of
her beauty as well as being introduced
to her obvious talent as a photographer
and artist.
In the next stage of her life, Lee Miller
sojourned to New York in 1932, where
she kept up her modelling as well as
continuing her photographic career.
Here we see more emphasis on por-
traiture although none of her surrealist
nature or variety of effects has evapo-
rated. The grainy image of the blown
up condom, resembling a glassmaker’s
orb, with a hand through it, demon-
strates just this, as well as the bizarre
portrait of artist Joseph Cornell. Her
adopted technique of solarisation,
whereby an image is wholly or partially
reversed in tone, is put to use in many
instances. The solarised model piano
is a fine example, with the tone of the
wood resembling something closer
to that of mercury. Another beautiful
example is the portrait of the English
– born, German-famed actress Lillian
Harvey, sporting a phenomenal dress.
One thing Miller manages to achieve
in all her portraits, is to flatter the sub-
ject tremendously.
One of the highlights in the exhibi-
tion is her time in Egypt, which reignit-
ed her passion for photography which
had dwindled in New York due to the
constraints she experienced in com-
mercial photography. At this point,
Miller was living the life of an Egyptian
woman, now betrothed to Aziz Elou
Bey. In these photos, one can see the
departure from capturing people, and
the arrival at portraying what she saw
in Egypt in a beautiful and very origi-
nal way. What Miller does goes against
what was, and still is, the cliché way in
which Egypt is perceived and captured
on film; panoramic, expansive views of
miles of desert, majestic pictures of the
Pyramids with the occasional camel
train. Nature, earth forms, architec-
ture, light and shadows are important
here. The Procession taken at the Red
Sea is a tiny beauty which displays
forms in the sand. From the Top of the
Great Pyramid is the view directly un-
der said structure, but with the pyram-
idal shadow perfectly portrayed.
The second delight is what Miller has
been most famed for: her work for Brit-
ish Vogue during the war as a photo-
essayist. Miller took many photographs
in London and as well as in Germany,
where she visited both ends of the
spectrum; from Hitler’s apartment to
the camps at Buchenwald and Dachau.
Although several decades on from her
foray in surrealist Paris with Man Ray,
the surrealist lived on in Miller during
these war days. The unexpected juxta-
positions in her work reflects this. The
photographs of the SS guard dead in a
canal and the ‘suicided’ Bergermeister
daughter are as much fashion shoot as
they are horrific war time portrayals.
One can clearly see that Miller came
into her own during this period and
really honed her style which, up until
that point, had been a lot more hap-
hazard and unpredictable.
As is often the case with war pho-
tographers who found themselves war
– junkies by 1945, Lee Miller’s interest
in photography evaporated and was
replaced by an obsession with cooking,
alcohol and depression. Her previous
works did not reach the fame they have
now, due to her lack of self-promotion
and refusal to exhibit.
No one captures the essence of her
life better than her, describing it “like
a water soaked jigsaw puzzle: drunken
bits that don’t match in shape or size.”
Perhaps this is the reason for being un-
able to attribute a genre to her work
due to her whimsical and unpredictable
way of choosing subject matter. Miller
obviously revelled in this freedom and
became a sort of pioneer, unafraid to
take risks with what she captured. As
was the case in the first pieces in this
exhibition, the last is a portrait of her
by another – Picasso.
He succeeds in personifying her;
colourful, vibrant, abstract and ludi-
crously different to everything else in
the gallery!
Ding dong merrily on high,
Do go along before it closes!
Ding dong merrily the sky...
It’s only £4.75 for a student ticket.
LEE
MILLER,
SELF-PORTRAIT
IN
HEADBAND,
PUBLISHED
1933
©
LEE
MILLER
ARCHIVES,
ENGLAND
2007.
ALL
RIGHTS
RESERVED.
DEAD SS GUARD IN THE CANAL, DACHAU, GERMANY, 1945
© LEE MILLER ARCHIVES, ENGLAND 2007. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
LEE MILLER, WOMEN WITH FIRE MASKS, 1941
© LEE MILLER ARCHIVES, ENGLAND 2007. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.

