arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 7 December 2007 felix
Arts
No Sex, no Christmas and no fun
Rosie Grayburn reviews the Renaissance Siena exhibition at the National Gallery and is disappointed for
the above reasons, if you hadn’t already noticed that. However, if you like virgins, you’ll like this
The leaflet advertis-
ing the Renaissance Siena
exhibition at the NG was
very inviting. A rosy-
cheeked saintly-type wore a very fetch-
ing gold halo and she smiled meekly
down at me, making a nice, warm
Christmassy feeling well up inside…
much like mulled wine. So I decided to
investigate.
Before I start ranting, I ought to en-
lighten you geographically-challenged
people out there: Siena is in Tuscany,
Italy. It is a very, beautiful city and ex-
tremely well-preserved from the Ren-
aissance due to its status as a World
Heritage Site - sounds lovely. Advertis-
ing over, let’s return to the review.
This major exhibition, which has tak-
en the place of the very popular (and
FREE, might I add) Monet to Picasso
exhibition, celebrates Renaissance art
from Siena during the politically vola-
tile last century of the Sienese Repub-
lic, from 1450-1536. It was a pretty cool
time in history, actually. Very wealthy
families ruled whole cities in Italy and
they weren’t the nicest of people at all
– scheming, power-hungry bastards…
Just like your average politician.
Even the Popes of this era were the
sons of these families – elected not
because of their saintly characters but
because Daddy would kill anyone who
opposed you. Unsurprisingly, lots of
people wanted them dead and many
succeeded, so lots of gruesome mur-
ders occurred throughout this time.
Armed with this exciting knowledge,
I threw myself with utmost optimism
into the exhibition. On entering Room
1, you are given a free booklet with
blurb on each individual painting. I
failed to notice the size of this guide at
first, and it was not until I left Room 1
with a “How much more can I take?!”
kind-of attitude that I flicked to the
back and counted 116 pieces. Siena
must have been stripped bare of all its
art to fuel this exhibition! I kept going
for your sake, reader.
I couldn’t have come at a worse time.
When I tried to enter the exhibition,
the passage was blocked for the largest
tour group I have ever seen. And they
were Italian - no doubt there to see a
little bit of home whilst on their Eng-
lish tour. Being Italian, they were talk-
ing very loudly and posing in front of a
statue of the Virgin Mary while camer-
as flashed all around. Thankfully they
left soon after and I was left to contem-
plate the first painting in peace.
The first painting sums up the ex-
hibition wonderfully. A giant Pope
Calixtus III and a gargantuan Virgin
Mary stand outside the gates of Siena
and chat to each other in Latin (Ren-
aissance speech bubbles included). Re-
ligion played a massive part in the
life of the Sienese and the fact
that their protector, the Pope,
is pictured here as a giant
figure shows his importance
and power over the lives
of the people who lived in
the city, 500 years ago. The
painting also shows the
Virgin Mary’s protection
over Siena. This theme
crops up again and again
throughout exhibition.
Mary is always at hand
to help in a crisis. In the first
room alone she is seen protect-
ing the city from an earthquake and
saving a ship from a storm - the Ren-
aissance equivalent of Superwoman.
At painting number five, I got stuck
moving round the room with two very
enthusiastic art experts. They seem to
have waited all their lives for Renais-
sance Siena to come to town! It was
quite sweet really. At each painting,
they pressed their noses up to the glass
and commented on things like lines
and specks. Some old ladies weren’t as
admiring as me and whispered vicious-
ly behind us. I got scared and moved
onto Room 2.
Even the most ignorant viewer could
notice the change in style of painting
between one room and the next. I
preferred these paintings instant-
ly, being much clearer and con-
taining more gold. Not only
this, but they were generally
much more interesting
paintings, containing
lots of religious sym-
bolism and
more varied
saints. Instead of just plain-old Virgin
Mary, she now is accompanied by a
rather dashing angel wearing very sexy
armour and she has a band of cherubs
playing Renaissance music around her
head. This is shiny, new and improved
Virgin Mary.
Perhaps I’m not really selling this to
you, but I convinced myself this ex-
hibition was just about worth stick-
ing around for when I came across
number 17 – a panel depicting
Saint Agatha and Saint Lucy. At
these points, your little book-
let is invaluable as it en-
lightens you with little
snippets about these
particular saints: “
The two women
are early
Christian martyrs: Agatha had her
breasts cut off during martyrdom; the
devout Lucy, in a response to a suitor
who admired her beautiful eyes, cut
them out and sent them to him.” Now
that, ladies, is dedication.
I breathe a sigh of relief when I reach
a room called ‘Narrative’. Apparently,
some time in the 1450’s, Sienese artists
began to tire of the constant demand
for Saints and Virgins and started
to paint stories, some of which were
based on Roman mythology. The style
of these narratives was quite amusing
to my simple self.
Not only are all the stories (from The
Nativity to Antony and Cleopatra) set
in a landscape not unlike Renaissance
Italy, but all the landscapes contain
such refined detail that I watch them
and not the action in the foreground,
in anticipation of a shepherd mooning
or a monk streaking across the Tuscan
Hills.
A couple of interesting pieces in this
section included a page from a Renais-
sance “Compendium of the Natural
World” which gave a much skewed
view of nature; unicorns, dragons and
Hercules.
Another was “Atlas”, the Roman leg-
end who was punished for his revolt
against Jupiter by being condemned
to holding up the heavens for eter-
nity. Poor chap. Still, on the plus side
you can see a slightly misshaped Brit-
ain labelled on the globe as ‘Britania’.
In Renaissance Italy, The British Isles
were a large blob, the size of Africa.
Fascinating.
A lot of the paintings were allegories,
most of which went along the lines of
“following the difficult path to virtue”.
I was captivated momentarily by a very
neat sketch of a young man in a loin-
cloth standing amongst some dramatic
rock formations. How nice, I thought,
naively. In fact, said my booklet, what
the artist was trying to show was that
this particular young man had cho-
sen the difficult path to virtue instead
of the easy path to Pleasureland. Lo
and behold, in the background was
a church that he was making his way
to… and I thought he was there for a
spot of rock-climbing.
The depiction of women in this ex-
hibition is an interesting one. One art-
ist states his favourite three kinds of
women in one painting; Virgin, Wife
and Widow, whilst another shows the
tale of Huon of Bordeaux who wins the
right to sleep with the daughter of King
Ivoryn, but only because she loses on
purpose. She invented Girl Power.
Amongst the scores of different art-
ists that contributed to this exhibition,
one really stood out for me – the anon-
ymous ‘Master of the Story of Griselda’.
The piece he is most famous for, hence
his title, is a trio of large, brightly col-
oured paintings depicting the Mar-
riage, Exile and Reunion of Griselda.
I stayed transfixed on these for ages.
They really are fascinating! The story
of Griselda and her twat of a husband
is scattered all over the canvas. The
‘chapters’ are displayed around the
scenes of preparation for the wedding
which these pictures were commis-
sioned for in the first place. You dodge
servants as you make your way to the
next scene in the drama.
I shall give you a very quick run-
through of the plot for this brilliant lit-
tle story; a rich man (a.k.a. twat) finds
Griselda (a peasant girl) while out
hunting and announces he will marry
her, after gaining her father’s consent
he publicly strips her (?!) and after
their marriage he pretends to have
their newborn children killed, stages
a fake divorce and publicly strips her
again. Griselda is exiled and becomes a
servant in her ‘ex’-husband’s house; he
tells Griselda to prepare the wedding
for his ‘new’ bride which turns out to
be her long-lost daughter; the twat says
Griselda has proved herself worthy to
be his wife and they make up. If only
Neighbours was as gripping as this.
The anonymous artist also excels
himself in the Room called ‘Heroes
and Heroines’. He shows Alexander the
Great look extremely camp and tells us
the story of Joseph (of Andrew Lloyd
Webber fame).
After this highlight I did grow tired
of the slightly repetitive nature of the
exhibition. Renaissance Siena is defi-
nitely a history lesson and there are
some real gems in this exhibition, but
I still can’t decide whether the trip is
worth the money. I’d rather go to Siena
and see them in their hometown with a
slice of pizza in one hand and a glass of
vino in the other.
“Jingle Bells, Jingle Bells,
This Exhibition’s going away!
You’ve got until mid January,
But it’s £4.50 you have to pay....
Hey!” (repeat)
If you fancy reviewing new ex-
hibitions next year, please get in
touch: arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
The first in the trilogy of The Story of Griselda. Are you stuggling to woo the woman of your dreams? Why
not publicly strip her and THEN propose. She won’t be able to resist your Renaissance charms!
© THE NATIONAL GALLERY, LONDON
This is the most ‘Christmas Cardy’ painting I saw. It doesn’t really have
much depth apart from Mary is looking tired because Jesus has been
up half the night wanting ‘bitty’ and Joesph is always out at the pub.
23

