fashion.felix@imperial.ac.uk
30 felix Friday 7 December 2007
Fashion
Fashion Editor – Sarah Skeete
Skinny jeans: tight, but yet so right
E
lvis shocked audiences
across America wearing
them and The Ramones
used them as part of their
signature image.
Skinny jeans are in.
There’s no doubting it. Everyone’s
wearing them; girls, boys, men, wom-
en, pensioners, everyone. The prob-
lem is that skinny jeans are not for
everyone. That’s why you see people
walking down the street looking like
they’ve got two overstuffed Sains-
bury’s Basics sausages as legs.
Here at Imperial you don’t see many
people in skinny jeans for two rea-
sons. Firstly, there’s nothing more
embarrassing than explaining to your
tutor you’re late because you fell down
the stairs and blacked out struggling
with your skinnys, and secondly, the
number of girls walking about is ap-
proximately equal to none.
The way your jeans are going to
look on you depend a lot on your leg
length. Tall or short, it’s all about get-
ting the right cut of skinnys. Taller
people can pull off skinnys to the way
they were designed; no folding from
waist to ankle.
Obviously, getting your exact leg
length is preferable. However, I’ve
found a lot of men’s skinny jeans come
in set leg lengths, and being a com-
plete shortarse, they’re always too
long. This probably doesn’t matter if
you have the right cut. Find the tight-
est (comfort permitting) cut of skin-
nys and length becomes irrelevant.A
length 34 will look perfectly fine even
if your real leg length is a 30. The jeans
will just crumple around your ankles,
but the leg opening will never drag on
the ground and get caught under your
shoes. So never ever trim or hem your
skinnys, but fold them inwards if you
have to. People also fold up their skin-
nys outwards as some sort of fashion
statement, but honestly, it just reeks
too much of being nine years old
again when all you ever wore was your
brother’s oversized hand-me-downs.
Avoid the ‘slouch’ style of skinny
jeans if you’re of the shorter nature.
The cut allows the arse-side to hang
much lower than usual, and without
longer legs to balance the slouch hang,
people will start wondering what is
wrong with your odd-shaped legs and
most probably offer you their seat on
the bus.
Whether you’re one for the fads, nu-
rave, emo, indie, space-age martian, I
don’t care, but coloured skinny jeans
will not and never will work for you,
or anyone for that matter. As soon
as Topman started stocking bright
red and blue skinny jeans, I thought
the local scene-kids in my town were
joining the circus (not that I thought
they didn’t deserve to be a travelling
freakshow anyway…). This is noth-
ing to do with the fact the jeans are
skinny, its just a simple rule of thumb
that all men should never break unless
they’re going for the annoying-tour-
ist-asking-where-the-V&A-is-when-
he’s-right-in-front-of-it look.Jeans in
colours other than the usual shades
of demin, black or grey are a big no-
no. People’s attention is immediately
diverted towards your legs and away
from your top half (the slightly more
important half in most respects), and
plus, having another guy frowning
at anything beyond your waistline is
never going to end that well.
As a guy, if you’re constantly grab-
bing your crotch every three seconds
just to “rearrange” your jangly bits,
firstly, you look like a pervert. Stop it.
There are mothers screaming in ab-
horrentdisgustastheirkidswatchyou.
It’s because you’re wearing girls jeans,
or skinnys two sizes too small for you.
Come on, man up! Do you want to be
known as the town fiddler?
Some people can’t help having love
handles, but you’ll be wearing skinny
jeans at your own peril. Whether they
make your thighs look slimmer or
your calves shapelier, it’s only because
everything has been shifted upwards
and skywards into a lovely looking
overspill called your belly... and back
to the overstuffed sausage analogy we
go.
Cigarette pants, drainpipes, peg leg
pants, pencil pants, slimjims, skinny
jeans; whatever you choose them,
A badly needed style guide for those with a prediliction for the more restrictive trouser by Daniel Wan
they’re in, and they’re probably here
to stay for quite a while. They’re like
Marmite, you either love them or hate
them, but they’re for your legs; not
spreading on your toast.
You know that you grew up in the 90’s if...
...you like totally committed these truly heinous crimes against fashion!
Or any necklace from the goldmine that is Claire’s
Accessories. Worn as a bunch of three for extra
cool points.
hion!
Slapping these on was strangly satis-
fying. Now banned because they’re a
‘safety hazard’. Kids today don’t bleed
enough.
Jelly bracelets
Side ponytails
Bumbags
Demin jackets
Slap bracelets
Scrunchies
Ying yang necklaces
Nike trainers
Adidas
The only trainers to have. My mother as
a cruel and unusual punishment bought
me Hi-Teks. Lame. So lame.
The anti-glasses, in that it does appear to low-
er your IQ.
Worn most stylishly by Deb in Napoleon
Dynamite.
Don’t even try the two stripe knock-off track-
suit. The only highly flammable shellsuit to
wear was Adidas. Worn by you as a child, and
made by children. Ironic.
The perfect example of a jarring
abyss between form and function.
Apparently each colour indicates what sexual
acts you are willing to perform. Um...I was in
primary school when this happened and not
being groomed by a pedophile, so I have en-
tirely innocent memories.
So 90’s that at some point they’re inevitably
going to come back. And you’ll have to live
through the depressing moment of having lived
a trend the the first time round. You’re old.
Sadly now more often now seen
used to hold a croyden facelift.
Ouch. How the hell do you even get in trousers that tight?

