film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
32 felix Friday 7 December 2007
Film
Film Editor – Alex Casey
Chabrol takes the ICA on a power trip with brains
Elegant it may be, but that top is going to itch like hell
Compass tale still seems lost
What is wrong with the name North-
ern Lights exactly? One possible sug-
gestion is that, after making The Gold-
en Compass, Chris Weitz decided the
original title might require some expla-
nation and perhaps plot, a feature that
isn’t particularly prevalent in this limp
children’s adventure. Whilst not having
read the book, I was under the impres-
sion that the whole appeal, at least for
an older audience, was that it worked
on both adult and child levels. The film
sadly sacrifices the first of these for the
second and so lays itself wide open to
criticism of dumbing down and gen-
eral laziness.
But all of these complaints will be
known to Phillip Pullman fans already.
For those uninitiated in the world that
Philip Pullman created in the His Dark
Materials trilogy, this is the story of
the orphan Lyra who lives in a world
where everyone’s soul walks alongside
them in animal form, known as a dae-
mon. When the mardy youngster tries
to venture away from her home in an
Oxford college however, she is given a
golden compass capable of answering
any question. This doesn’t sit well with
the Magisterium, the all-controlling or-
ganisation which is desperately trying
to ensure scientific truth doesn’t edge
out the beliefs they feed to the world.
Whilst the books frame this as an al-
legory for religion, the film decided to
No amount of literary guidance is enough to show The Golden Compass the way
move away from that angle to avoid the
associated controversy but you don’t
have to be an Imperial student to draw
parallels between them.
It’s hard to set up a fantasy land in
a manner that is both succinct enough
to allow room for plot whilst still invit-
ing wonder from an audience, and it is
Inspired by the famous scandal of
corruption and embezzlement in a
French state-owned company, Elf
Aquitaine, and by the ballsy female
judge that discovered and investigated
the case, Claude Chabrol has directed
a movie in which he tries to examine
the psychological state of the people
involved in such an affair. The direc-
tor’s attempt is only achieved thanks
to the opportune decision to entrust
the lead role of the fiery judge (Jeanne
Charmant-Killman) to Isabelle Hup-
pert, a French actress with whom
Chabrol has already collaborated with
six times in the past.
It is due to this actress that the film
doesn’t simply stay a boring story
about the procedures of prosecuting
upper echelon crooks but turns into
a captivating study of character. Not
only does Jeanne Charmant-Killman
fight against the debauched business-
men, but also with the surprisingly
chauvinistic world of law and politics
and even the general public.
As her investigation starts probing
ever higher levels of the company and
the government, Jeanne’s exhilaration
with power flourishes. Meanwhile,
her marriage and personal life become
the victims of the addictive race for
more authority, a pursuance which
she doesn’t stop even when her life is
threatened.
Isabelle Huppert is striking in her
part. She has created a character that is
impossible to ‘crack open’ while being
perfectly transparent at the same time;
we never know what Jeanne is think-
ing, but we always know what is driv-
ing her and exactly what she wants.
This gives the movie a certain quality
of inscrutability which effectively rubs
out the sense of blandness evoked by
the lack of action in the story.
The rather dark air of the film is
seamlesslydeepenedbyEudardoSerra’s
cinematography. The high-ceilinged,
spacious apartment of Jeanne and
Monsieur Jeanne Charmant-Killman
(the sarcastic name given to the judge’s
husband by his colleagues), is always
shown in shades of blue and grey and
is one of the more uninviting places
I have seen. The scenes in this cold
Sether
N
ow that we’ve got the
Christmas blockbuster
(The Golden Compass)
out of the way for the
year, we can officially
herald the beginning of the festive
season. In place of the much loved but
sadly departed ‘Holidays are Coming’
Coca-Cola ads that used to mark the
beginning of this happy time, we now
get another CGI heavy fantasy yarn
chucked to the salivating fanboys (and
girls) that signals the rest of us can now
legally occupy ourselves with endless
rounds of Fairytale of New York and Do
They Know It’s Christmas, mountains
of mince pies and lashings of mulled
wine.
For film fans, this may mean another
year of being made to sit in front of
Jimmy Stewart classic It’s a Wonderful
Life so that the family can share in the
joy of life. Let’s not forget this a story
about a man who wants to kill himself
however, and so for those who don’t
fancy a side of suicide with their tur-
key, I’d personally recommend festive
doses of German terrorism, house sit-
ting and house swapping.
Firstly, I am of course referring to the
wonderful charm of Die Hard. This
is the same sort of medication as the
Christmas Day double bill of EastEnd-
ers when you realise that your family
squabbles aren’t such an issue com-
pared to having either the Mitchells
or a gun-toting Alan Rickman around
to share the stuffing. Hence, why not
tune in for a fix of Bruce that will keep
all the family wide awake until boxing
Day?
Alternatively, there’s the option of
stepping back in time to an era in
which Michael Jackson was still known
for touching children’s hearts and not
their privates, and his mate Macauley
Caulkin wasn’t some washed up has-
been with more than adverts for Or-
ange sparsely populating his CV. It is
of course Home Alone time and whilst
Christmas may be complete without it,
it certainly needn’t be. Kids film? Per-
haps. But it certainly is a lot more ap-
pealing than most of the CGI guff that
kids lap up now. Not in my day I tell
you...
As a third option I’ve decided to be
somewhat more controversial and sug-
gest last years The Holiday. Admitting
this feels like some sort of public self-
flagellation, but a healthy one. After all,
despite its failings at originality, it was
handled with a sweetness that is hard
to scoff at. At least at Christmas. With
Kate Winslett leading the cast, and
Jude Law close behind, it even manages
to pull up the lowly Cameron Diaz and
Jack Black who all come off as incred-
ibly likeable. Strangely so, and so much
so that by the end I was even support-
ing Diaz rather than wanting her to slip
on the ice and smash her never-been-
the-same-since-The Mask face in.
Okay, I probably haven’t convinced
you fully, but at least there’s a bit of
inspiration to reach for something
other than poor Jimmy or Love Actu-
ally. Chances are the three above will
impress more than the DVD your gran
got you because she still thought you
liked the Disney ones.
Alex Casey
Film Editor
under this heavy weight that The Gold-
en Compass finds itself. The outset is
good, and a quick tour of this magical
world courtesy of Eva Green in the first
couple of minutes, sets the stage well
before you expect to get into the meat
of the story. Sadly there’s more meat to
be found on Nicole Kidman than in the
story here and so we’re left with pretty
slim pickings for fans of plot.
Perhaps this sounds overly critical.
The film, after all, is perfectly watch-
able but the time and emotion I was
expected to invest in a drunken polar
bear was poorly judged, even if it did
speak in Ian McKellen’s thespian tones.
There is a child-kidnapping story that
goes from something just dropped
into conversation near the begin-
ning of the film to the wobbly pivot
on which the story turns, and I found
myself in strangely foreign cinema ter-
ritory when I realised I was impatiently
awaiting the return of the normally ir-
ritating Nicole Kidman.
It is great to watch Kidman sinking
her teeth into the role of the wicked
Mrs Coulter and her scenes soar above
the others in terms of enjoyability. The
other star names seem pretty minimal-
ly used here but I assume that will be
rectified in later episodes. Eva Green,
especially, seems pretty unsure how to
play her role, going for a horribly over-
done smouldering that equipped her
well in Casino Royale but seems slight-
ly unnecessary here when she walks up
to the ten-year old heroine and makes
her guess who her former lover is.
Said ten year old, Lyra, is handled
with more suitable conviction by new-
comer Dakota Blue Richards which is
just as well considering awkward chil-
dren in lead roles have a tendency to
make me queasy. Her haughty attitude
does seem to rise and wane every sec-
ond but I can imagine she will gener-
ally come out of the trilogy better than
some other members of the cast.
When all is said and done however,
this is still a film that people will flock
to. The issues hinted at provide a talk-
ing point amongst adults I suppose, but
even with such highly regarded books
for guidance, Compass ends up lost.
The Golden Compass ★★✫✫✫
Director: Chris Weitz
Writer: Chris Weitz
Phillip Pullman
Cast: Nicole Kidman,
Daniel Craig,
Eva Green
Alex Casey
A Comedy of Power ★★★★✫
Director: Claude Chabrol
Writer: Odile Barsky
Cast: Isabelle Huppert
François Berléand
apartment automatically reveal the
true relationship between husband and
wife, strongly reinforcing the feelings
of solitude and distance conveyed by
Isabelle Huppert and Robin Renucci.
Simultaneously, the repetitive scenery
of office, apartment and office again,
correlates nicely with the vicious circle
of interrogation and custody, which
seems to lead nowhere.
Ultimately, Claude Chabrol clearly
gives up on filming an engrossing po-
litical action thriller in favour of an ar-
resting psychological drama and, with
the cast at hand, it turns out to be a
great call. Isabelle Huppert is too in-
triguing throughout the whole film to
ever leave you wishing for more action.
A nice note of realism, rarely found in
Hollywood movies, is that all the char-
acters are flawed and they stay imper-
fect until the very end, an end which,
by resolving nothing, is the perfect
conclusion.
A happy Huppert

