film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
33
Friday 7 December 2007 felix
Film
The Assassination of Jesse James plods along until its heavenly finale
Magorium: Why kids enjoy cinema
Hollywood is able to deliver the big-
gest blockbusters, the best shoot-outs,
the most dangerous and mind-numb-
ing action scenes, great humour, and,
if they really try, Hollywood can even
do ambitious and serious, for ten hours
straight- of course. Very rarely do we
actually get the chance to come across
a movie whose sole purpose is to make
you feel good. Well, now I’ve discov-
ered that those films are played in the
cinema before 12 o’clock and the mean
age of the audience is 10. That is, if Mr.
Magorium’s Wonder Emporium is any-
thing to go by, although I am sadly dis-
posed to believe that this may just be
a special exception due to its fantastic
cast.
Dustin Hoffman becomes the 243
year-old Mr. Magorium in this story of
a magical toy store that rebels against
being passed on to Molly Mahoney, the
young manager played by Natalie Port-
man. Things only seem to get worse
when Mr. Magorium hires a sceptical
accountant called Henry (Jason Bate-
man) to determine the value of the 114
year-old ‘emporium’. After Magorium’s
death, both Molly and Henry need the
help of a young, friendless kid (Zach
Mills) to find the source of magic in-
side themselves, and to bring the shop
back to life.
The movie could not have had a more
clichéd tale to tell. How many films
have there been made about the power
of belief or about never giving up the
inner child in all of us? How many
wonderfully eccentric, slightly childish
characters have we been presented to?
Mr. Magorium’s Wonder Emporium is,
on the surface, no different. But where
the other films just reek of rehashed
ideas, this one actually manages to
convey the magic effectively. Seeing
the store come to life on the big screen
and watching each toy start moving;
bouncing, singing, dancing, whirl-
ing or flying according to its nature is
more than enchanting, and every kid
will desperately wish that Hamley’s
had such power. You start envying the
little tykes for still being young and al-
lowed to fully enjoy scenes like that.
The cinematographer’s vibrant use of
colour (‘colourful’ doesn’t do it justice)
mirrors the all-embracing sense of op-
timism that permeates throughout the
whole movie and is so typical of Zach
Helm’s scripts.
However, the most noteworthy fea-
ture is the cast. Dustin Hoffman com-
mented on the fact that he was not
characterised to look old, that “if I can
believe that [Magorium] believes [that
he is 234 years old] then I have solved
it”. Natalie Portman and Jason Bateman
also understood that the key to making
the story plausible was not by acting in
as realistic and ‘down-to-earth’ manner
as possible, but by embracing the mag-
ic of the tale and focussing on convey-
ing their character’s belief in the reality
of the events. At the same time though,
serious themes like death, unfulfilled
expectations and loneliness are dealt
Mr Magorium’s ★★★✫✫
Wonder Emporium
Director: Zach Helm
Writer: Zach Helm
Cast: Dustin Hoffman,
Natalie Portman
Sether
with seriously (Magorium even refers
to Shakespeare’s King Lear). These
themes are not made light of for the
children’s sake, neither for that matter,
is the vocabulary and language made
any simpler. Some of the words heard
here had me reaching for a dictionary
upon leaving the cinema.
In a period of cinema when children’s
movies like Shrek and Ice Age have
been popular with all the demograph-
ics because of their fairly sophisticated
humour and irony never before found
in films aimed at the young, it is a nice
surprise to find a movie which, instead
of teaching rudeness and sarcasm,
tries to stir the imagination. The movie
lacks an appropriately developed end-
ing which is clearly rushed to fit the
expected 90 minutes and the story is
also relatively predictable with mini-
mal emotional impact. I doubt these
are causes for concern to the average
ten year old though, and the magic that
is there is unique enough. Especially at
Christmas.
The Assassination ★★★✫✫
of Jesse James by
the Coward Robert Ford
Director: Andrew Dominik
Writer: Andrew Dominik
Cast: Brad Pitt,
Casey Affleck
Alex Casey
The Western died out when Clint
Eastwood decided he wanted to
move behind the camera, and,
whilst personal opinion would view
this as one evil simply taking the
form of another, I concede that the
death of the Western is the better
news of the two. The odd rebel out
there still tries to put new spins
on them however, so much so that
these aren’t in fact “Westerns” but
just films set in the ‘West’, the Mid-
west being more accurate probably.
Jesse is of this breed, as was the ac-
claimed Brokeback Mountain, yet
both manage to maintain the cen-
tral characteristic of their skewed
genre – boredom.
As Jesse traipses around the
wintry Midwest following the de-
parture of his brother Frank from
the James boys’ gang, he meets
the young Robert Ford, a 19 year
old who, if this were now, would
have big posters of Jesse on his
wall while he played with the action
figure, ate JJ candy and smoked JJ
-brand cigarettes. The star-struck
Ford sets about trying to impress,
but while the trailer would have you
believe this is the central thread to
the story, it wavers so much that
it’s surprising it didn’t get lost down
some Missouri river. Beyond this,
if you know the title, you can see
where it’s going and the character
development takes centre stage
without any saloon set-pieces.
Brad Pitt has the same problem
stepping into the shoes of Jesse as
he has with every role post-Fight
Club, in that his face is so recognis-
able (albeit slightly haggered in the
age of Jolie) that he’s hard to ac-
cept as a believable character. It’s
a particularly menopausal James
that he evokes here, over the hill
career-wise with a full set of mood
swings and facial ticks that he’s got
down to a tee. Peculiar, however, is
that he seems to have ignored the
excessive blinking that the narrator
endows him with in the opening and
replaced it with a weird tongue point
that looks suited to a particularly
strange session of cunnilingus.
Casey Affleck, on the other hand,
is perfect as Ford, conjuring up this
childlike image of hero-worship
that seems to border on a Bro-
keback-style yearning at various
points; perhaps there’s something
in the water in them there hills.
The nuance with which he acts puts
bonehead brother Ben to shame,
and the allegation of cowardice in
both historical judgement and the
film’s title is twisted into the only
thing that really lifts Jesse out of
the doldrums.
The beauty of Affleck’s perform-
ance is brightest in the film’s de-
nouement and never, in recent
memory at least, has the end of a
film provided such a fitting justi-
fication for particularly mediocre
means. The film length is in propor-
tion with its title, and feels all the
longer for the seeming lack of di-
rection it takes throughout, yet the
final act succeeds to be enthralling
in spite of the wavering lead up and
the spoiler being right there in the
title. Whilst two hours in to the film
you may be shouting “Just bloody
shoot him!”, the last half hour finds
firm standing away from the earlier
cinematography that, whilst beau-
tiful in places, frequently segues
(intentionally) into that blurred
shot resembling the view through
condensation covered glasses worn
fresh out the shower.
The film is a gamble: if you think
you can stick out the rough begin-
nings (and be glad it isn’t in the orig-
inal four hour edit), then it might
pay off. What remains is certainly
This Christmas, Mr Magorium inspires finding time to delve back into the treasure chest of your inner child
not a piece of groundbreaking cin-
ema, but a story of real character,
one that goes beyond the legends of
the title. The narrator at one point
professes that no books or eulogies
were ever written for Robert Ford,
but in essence that is exactly what
we have here. Tragically, its realism
isn’t too arresting.
A wonderful man: Mr Magorium, no less
Great, I spend two and a half hours just waiting to get assassinated. Trade anyone?

