South Island, which is wine-producing
country, and where all backpackers
end up if they want a job. This I did,
but after working for two weeks in the
baking hot January sun picking grapes
on barely £3/hour I thought it would
be better to spend my hard-earned
money there and work harder back in
the UK for better wages.
The next few weeks involved bussing
it down the West Coast, which is ba-
sically a road that stretches for 500km
around the mountains without any op-
tion of turning off and with a popula-
tion of around 1,000 spread out over
the many small villages. I spent a while
in the wonderfully named Punakaiki,
which consists of the Pancake Rocks
and miles of pristine beach, but this
also coincided with an excruciating
pain in my hand from a cut I had re-
ceived a few days earlier. For several
days I thought that some exotic in-
sect had laid its eggs in my hand and
that they were slowly hatching and
devouring me because of the various
substances that seemed to be oozing
from under my skin, but when you are
several hours from the nearest doctor
and the buses only come a few times a
week, you just have to wait for nature
to take its course.
Eventually I arrived in Hokitika
where a medical student decided to
operate on my hand and removed large
amounts of gunk from my hand. The
anaesthetic hurt far more than the pro-
cedure itself, so let that be a lesson to
you; don’t trust medics.
I climbed the Fox Glacier (not named
after the mints) with an experienced
tour guide with a group of Japanese
tourists, but that didn’t stop us get-
ting lost and spending an hour cutting
our way out of the ice. Luckily I didn’t
know at the time about the man who
had died the day before from falling
into a crevasse, otherwise I may have
been a little more worried.
The Milford Track is the most popu-
lar walking track in NZ, and bookings
for it are like gold dust, but I managed
to get one by sheer luck. This track is a
four-day hike through the mountains,
starting with a boat ride across Lake
Te Anau to the starting point, with
basic huts in strategic places along the
way. The first two days were pretty un-
eventful, until we arrived at the second
hut and the skies opened. We were told
not to leave the hut as the bridges had
been washed away and the weather
was too bad for the helicopters to res-
cue us. We spent two days in that hut
and by the time the weather cleared we
were quite happy to move on. Just as
we arrived at the third hut, the rains
came again and we were stranded for
another day, but once we persuaded
the rescue teams that we had no food
left we were given a short ride over the
floods in a little helicopter almost to
the end of the track. Once at the end
of the track we found out that two of
our party had died on the track while
we were there.
After that ordeal I wanted a few quiet
nights in, but I went to Queenstown,
the aptly-named Adventure Capital of
felix@imperial.ac.uk
Travel
Travel Editors – Ahran Arnold and Nadine Richards
There and back again: A GAP Tale
Tom Culley takes us on a journey to the heart of Middle Earth itself, New Zealand, to tell us about his gap
year experience there. If you didn’t take a gap year, and regret it: this is what you missed out on. Unlucky!
T
he country is full of rolling
hills, rugged coastlines,
farmland, beaches and
lots of small mining towns
far from civilisation. Eng-
lish is the official language, but a sig-
nificant number of people speak their
own native tongue. The fields are full of
sheep (44 million in fact) and the place
names are mostly incomprehensible.
No, this is not Wales. It is in fact
the furthest place from Wales without
leaving Earth. We are, in fact, in New
Zealand.
Two years before coming to Imperial
I decided that I was tired of staying at
home in a boring, lonely village in the
far north of England and that I wanted
to get as far away from it as possible.
NZ is almost exactly opposite the
UK, and yet I am still amazed at how
similar the two countries are. It almost
looks like someone stole all of the most
interesting landscapes of Britain, stuck
them together like a jigsaw, and added
a few volcanoes just for a laugh. They
even drive on the left and celebrate the
Queen’s Birthday (they take a four day
holiday over it as well, more British
than we are...).
One article simply is not enough to
describe all that NZ has to offer, so I
will have to do my best at picking out
the most important parts.
I arrived just in time for Christmas,
which I spent with some distant rela-
tions who lived in Auckland. Sunbath-
ing and barbecues aren’t the first things
I would choose to do on Christmas
Day, but what else would you do in the
circumstances?
I took the Overlander train to the
capital, Wellington, for the New Year
celebrations, but I seriously underes-
timated the size of the country. Auck-
land-Wellington took 13 hours (and
that’s only the North Island), but once
there, I loved the place. It’s one of the
smallest capital cities in the world, with
a population of 180,000 in the city it-
self, but all the houses are just squashed
into any space they could find. Many
of the more expensive buildings are on
cliff faces, and have cable cars that lead
to the front door.
Next on my trip was Blenheim, on the
“No, this is not
Wales. It is, in
fact, the furthest
place from
Wales without
leaving Earth”
the World, and it certainly deserves the
title. Some of the world’s largest bun-
gee jumps are around Queenstown,
but I went one better and went on the
Canyon Swing: a 119m freefall into a
gorge, hoping that the rope attached
to your waist will kick in and your life
won’t end on the rocks below. It was
the single most frightening experience
of my life, especially as I have a mor-
bid fear of heights. Until I did it again,
which was even scarier because they
made me do it backwards. I will admit
that I screamed. Very loud. And I’d do
it again.
Back on the North Island, I ended
up in a small village called National
Park, from where I hoped to walk the
Tongariro Crossing; a gruelling 10-
hour hike over two active volcanoes.
Unfortunately a huge blizzard started,
which trapped me in the hostel for sev-
eral more days. I eventually tackled the
track, and it was most certainly gru-
elling, but definitely rewarding, with
awesome views from the top of Mt
Ngaurohoe, a.k.a. Mt Doom.
OnawhimseveraldayslaterIjumped
out of a plane over Lake Taupo. I was
attached to a man and a parachute, but
that didn’t make it any less worrying.
From 12,000ft we were pushed out and
freefell most of the way to the ground
before releasing the canopy, but after
the Canyon Swing it was surprisingly
not as scary as I had expected. Still, for
£50 you could do worse for a day out.
Now, an article about NZ would not
be complete without a mention of the
single biggest boost to tourism the
country has seen in recent years; the
Lord of the Rings Trilogy. Many of the
filming sites are easily accessible and
you can even pay people a lot of money
to take you on a guided tour of these
places, where you can take photos to
show your family and friends that you
have in fact stood on the very spot
from which Orlando Bloom fired his
arrow at the Wargs. Even though he
lives next door to Imperial College and
you will probably meet him in the flesh
in the SAF, but never mind about that.
The town of Matamata has certainly
taken the opportunity to make a few
dollars, and provide tours to Hobbiton,
which was built on a sheep-farm a few
miles into the countryside. The own-
ers thought that it may be slightly more
profitable to let thousands of tourists
pay them to walk on their fields than
to actually farm sheep on it, and who
am I to argue?
If you ever go to New Zealand; spend
at least three months there. If you
haven’t already taken a gap year, then
when you graduate and are unem-
ployed you will have all the time in the
world to find more interesting things
to do with yourself. If you have taken
a gap year; take another one. You won’t
regret it. Promise.
Anyone recognise this? Majestic landscapes are a big draw to New Zealand, making it a popular travel destination
36 felix Friday 7 December 2007

