On Monday 3rd of December, Gillian
Gibbons returned home after spend-
ing 8 days in a the notorious Omdur-
man women’s prison in Sudan. This is
nothing in comparison to the 40 public
lashes that were going to be her fate.
This could be understood if she was
caught selling drugs or even selling her
body, but this lady was found guilty of
naming a teddy bear the “M word”!!!
At face value, Sudan is a Muslim state
that has exercised its laws on a British
citizen for insulting its religion. This
is ludicrous; the government of Sudan
represents its people neither culturally
nor religiously. It has succeeded since
taking power via a coup in 1989 to mix
religion and politics to form a con-
coction that serves its political views
whilst hiding behind the impenetrable
shield of people’s fear of religion. Po-
litically since the world “discovered”
the atrocities in Darfur (which by pure
chance coincided with the destabili-
sation of one of the main areas of pe-
troleum), the British government and
the international community has been
leaning on Sudan to review its human
rights infringements. The government,
having an Arab mentality, has used
Mrs Gibbons as a political tool to send
a message to the British government
that they are not to be trifled with.
To understand Sudan, one needs to
look at its history, it only achieved in-
dependence from the British Empire in
1956 and has since experienced a total
of only nine years of democracy. The
rest of the time Sudan has only known
dictatorships, from Communist to
Fundamental Islamic Sharia’ and any-
thing in between. Islam entered Sudan
via trade as opposed to wars, and so
Sufism is the prevailing practice among
the country’s Muslim population. Islam
accounts for 80% of the country’s faith,
felix@imperial.ac.uk Travel
“Roll up, roll up – you sir – fancy a
punt?”
“Not really, no”
“Oh come on sir, only two pennies a
go – win a prize!”
“Actually how did you even get in
here?”
“Flower for the lady?”
“Ok, I don’t even know how you got
into my office but you are going to have
to leave, I’m going to call security.”
This week we are revisiting Ridge-
way Park. What’s that I hear you cry?
“We’ve already been there!” “Write
about something new!” To you people
I say no. The thing is, Ridgeway Park
is so absolutely unbelievably strange.
Firstly you need to gain access to the
park, this in itself is quite a mission.
The park’s opening time is subject to
Travels without my aunt part 5: Ridgeway Park
Amin Elmubarak
the whims of the park-keeper who him-
self is wildly influenced by such factors
as the luminescence of the moon, the
state of the England football team and
whether his piles are playing up. If the
park gates are open, you are not neces-
sarily in luck. Next you must negotiate
hordes of teenagers who chillax in the
vicinity of most entrances. This can
be achieved however though use of a
“Trojan Horse” or the local Mr Whippy
van as others refer to it. Simply bribe
the nice ice cream flavoured man with
cherry flavoured ASBOs and you are
in; it is best to keep a low profile for a
while when inside as the squirrels can
be particularly savage when provoked
by human contact or the gurgle of a
small baby.
In the park you will find that there
are a plethora of activities that await
your eager quivering bodies. Firstly,
let’s play Tennis. You will need a tennis
racket, balls and industrial amounts of
concrete with which to relay the court.
Indeed, such is the state of the courts
in Ridgeway Park that it is proposed
that they could also double as a multi-
purpose dirt-bike course between sets.
In retrospect allowing the “Chingford
and Generic Area 7b Annual Plough-
ing Championships” to take place on
the tennis courts has now been deemed
less than successful.
Once you are all shagged out from
those topspin lobs, it’s time to relax.
Luckily Ridgeway Park boasts a quirky
and unique feature – a model railway
that you can ride on! Never before has
so much fun been had as you wait ex-
pectantly at the track wondering when
the little steam engine will arrive (it
will arrive shortly, the track is a mere
5 metres long).
Tom Culley Once on, balance is key to your sur-
vival as our family learnt the hard way
when my dad, thrill-seeking as ever,
leant slightly too hard to the left as we
rounded a corner causing whole car-
riages to derail off the track and innu-
merable little children to be flung onto
grassy verges around us; the charges
were later dropped.
As the sun hazily retreats behind
the local waste disposal complex, it’s
time to head home son, gather up your
baseball gloves and let’s leave the park
for home-made sausage, egg and chips.
Unfortunately the park is now closed
as the park-keeper has noticed that
there is an unexpected repeat of “Dick
and Dom in da Bungalo” on UKTV bi-
tesize and so has locked up early. You
forage in the bushes for dinner and un-
expectedly find a Dairy Lee Duncable.
Result. Dick and Dom cause early closure
Bear with me for a moment, please
Christianity accounts for 19% and 1%
pagan. It’s unique in that its people are
a mix of Arabs from the Middle East
and Africans that was instigated many
centuries ago, so much so that they re-
semble neither Arabs nor Africans.
But to really understand this, the
geographically largest country in Af-
rica, is to immerse yourself amongst its
people with this quote from a promi-
nent Sufi man during the instigation
of the Sharia’ Law in September 1984:
“Sudan is a country of giants ruled by
dwarves”. The people of Sudan may be
poor and simple, but the majority are
surprisingly well-educated and well-
read, incredibly accommodating, and
kind. Geographically it’s very rich: it
has the deep blue Nile and the shallow,
crocodile-rich white Nile that meet in
the centre of the capital city Khartoum.
In the east coast, in a city called Port
Sudan, there is the largest concentra-
tion of hammerhead sharks in the red
sea – perfect for scuba diving. In the
west there is Jabal Mara, a most pe-
culiar mountain that has almost every
different type of climate as you ascend
it.
The food and drink is an assault on
the senses, the markets are vibrant and
the people are friendly and although
it’s a Muslim country they have a pecu-
liar beer made from dates that, I have
on good authority, is pretty amazing
(just don’t get caught!)
Shamefully the government has
spent most of its money on itself and
on its civil war against the south of
Sudan from 1984-2005 to work on its
tourism, but it’s all there for the discov-
ery if one chooses to go for it.
Upon returning, much to the sur-
prise of many, including myself, Mrs
Gibbons stated: “The Sudanese people
I found to be extremely kind and gener-
ous and until this happened I only had
a good experience … I wouldn’t like to
put anyone off going to Sudan.” Person-
ally I was relieved that she was able to
differentiate between the government
and the people of Sudan. So go on, get
your shots, change your money (the
exchange rate is awesome!), buy your
visa and go visit this poor country of
gentle giants that is waiting to be dis-
covered. Just don’t talk to anyone with
a uniform for longer than you have to.
The Felix travel section gets a little bit political as Amin Elmubarak describes Sudan to us, which has
recently been under the media spotlight due to the allegedly inappropriate naming of a teddy bear.
Sudan’s markets are bustling... usually
37
Friday 7 December 2007 felix
“The food and
drink is an
assault on the
senses.”

