games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
38 felix Friday 7 December 2007
Games
Games Editors – Azfarul Islam and Sebastian Nordgren
Azfarul “Az” Islam
Games Editor
Many apologies are in order this week
for the rather incomplete and to be
honest, unpolished, countenance of
the Games section this week. I was
pepping up for a nice big issue to fin-
ish the term with - only to find out that
this is the last issue for the term. So,
basically this meant that there was lit-
tle to no time to arrange the better por-
tions and so they were left out, sadly.
Ouch.
At any rate, this hopefully means
that the New Year can start off with a
bit of a bang. A few new sections are
under construction (and under wraps)
and we’re sorting out a nice bumper is-
sue to kickstart 2008’s run. We’ve got
quite a few games to cover, so feel free
to drop us a line if you wish to write
about any particular game that’s rel-
evant. So basically you can expect
the Felix Games touch for Assassin’s
Creed, Ratchet & Clank Future: Tools
of Destruction, Call of Duty 4: Modern
Warfare, Mass Effect and others that
we will lovingly trudge through dur-
ing the cold winter months. After that
you can expect plenty of hype as we
prepare ourselves for the likes of Su-
per Smash Brothers Brawl, Devil May
Cry 4, Alan Wake, Burnout Paradise,
Killzone II and of course, the one and
only (sorry, had to) Metal Gear Solid 4:
Guns of the Patriots. These games will
slowly trickle in throughout a year that
will attempt to best 2007 which in itself
was a most impressive show for the in-
teractive medium.
Thus, myriad questions pop up. With
pretty much the important releases
completed, what can we expect from
the Xbox 360? Perhaps the whisperings
of its successor (yes, MicroSoft can be
quite daft at times)? Will the PlaySta-
tion 3 actually pick up steam or forever
remain relegated as a brilliant media
that also-plays-games-by-the-way?
And what of the Wii? Surely we can ex-
pect its inexplicable levels of success to
waver... naaah. Whatever it is, it’s quite
an interesting and maybe even turbu-
lent time that lies in wait for the world
of gamers. We at Felix Games hope
to be at the forefront of this storm of
eclecticism and offer our honest, per-
sonal opinions as always.
Oh, poop there’s still many more
lines left. I suppose I should talk about
this week’s issue in general. Our Mario
bonanza last week has spurred the
Angry Geek into a furore of bitter,
bitter hatred towards the plump Ital-
ian plumber. Deep down inside, he’s
counting down the number of stars
required to collect in order to fill the
heavenly coffers of Galaxy. Also, wit-
ness my rusty attempts to draw mug-
shots of Mario to attach to his criminal
records, the dirty scoundrel. To nicely
round off the term’s last issue, I asked
the student body what they thought of
Felix Games for this term. Some of the
more senior students were avid readers
of the previous iteration so it was nice
to hear their opinions on the transition
as well. We also present the Reader Ri-
poste regarding the IC Gaming Club.
Well, that’s all for now folks! Have an
awesome holiday: Eid, Xmas, et al!
This
Week
...pleased? Find out
Peeved or...
You wanna fight, eh? You whored out to ads?
Flamebait: SMG, STFU
The Angry Geek discovers a leak and ends up calling the wrong plumber
I
have had enough of you. All of
you. Every single bastard one of
you that had the audacity to ded-
icate four whole pages of Felix,
along with every sodding inter-
net messageboard and half of YouTube,
to Super Mario Galaxy. You’re all going
to die at the hands of my gaming revo-
lution, speared through the neck with
copies of Europa Universalis 3. And
then I’ll probably get Warren Spector
to urinate on you or something equally
de.
It’s not merely the fact that it’s Nin-
tendo fanboyism. Because on its own,
that would just be mildly amusing and
easy to ignore, like a bogey hanging
out of Her Majesty’s nose during her
address to the nation. No, what’s re-
ally biting at my knackers is the way it’s
being sold; in particular, the most sick-
ening, word-of-mouth, self-obsessed,
pseudo orgy I’ve ever seen. VideoGaid-
en, which relaunched recently with a
disappointing first episode, said this
- ‘Nintendo have come storming into
the greatest year that gaming’s ever
had, and taken the gold right at the end’.
GamePro said that SMG ‘raises the bar
in terms of what can be achieved on
the Wii’. Play Magazine described it as
‘transcendental’. And every other fuck-
ing media outlet made a reference to
Mario64.
Let’s assess these, shall we? First of
all, it’s been a relatively good year for
gaming. PC had some good releases, as
well as crippling disappointments. The
PS3and360continuetounderperform,
and for some reason no-one’s bored of
Wii Sports yet. I guess you can call that
good. To say that Mario Galaxy ‘takes
the gold’, however, is both bizarre and
entirely unfair. Let’s actually assume
that SMG is worth the abhorrent 97%
average it’s garnered on MetaCritic.
com. To say that it’s a better game than,
say, Team Fortress 2 or Call of Duty 4
is like saying you prefer Red Leicester
over an evening with Gordon Brown.
There is no ‘gold’ in gaming.
Unless you’re fucking Nintendo, ap-
parently. Thanks, GamePro, for the
encouraging news on the Wii. Raising
the bar for what can be achieved with it
wouldn’t be particularly hard, though,
would it? Seeing as the most innova-
tive release so far has been along the
lines of, “Swing the remote. Imagine
you were swinging a sword, guys! Go
on!” Fuck me. It’s not so much of a bar
as it is a steel line embedded into the
ground. Mario Galaxy could have had
a minigame where you just fist your-
self with the nunchuk for an hour and
it’d still have beaten the shit out of the
Goblet of Fire game.
But that’s before we get anywhere
near the New Games Journalism shits.
I mean, the guys I’ve described so
far were just enthusiastic, but that’s
nothing compared to the likes of Play
Magazine, and Edge who had the gall
to use the word ‘bravura’ to describe
it. ‘Transcendental’? What the fuck
does that even mean in the context of
a game? You still look like a lobotomy
outpatient swatting a fly when you play
the game, and at the end of the day it’s
still the same git-faced Italian plumber.
It’s not a meditative experience, you
morons, it’s a videogame.
And here’s the kicker - it’s not ex-
actly that great, is it? Really, I mean. I
mean, forget for the minute that you
feel honour-bound to be supportive
every time Miyamoto so much as farts
in public. Let’s put that aside for a sec-
ond. It’s not really that great. Most of
the reviews describe how pretty it is,
and then begin to beat the shit out
of games that are far, far prettier and
far, far more visually pleasing. Klonoa
2, which was mentioned last issue,
bombed when it was released in this
country. It’s one of the most beautiful
games I’ve ever played. Just because it
didn’t have a gurning Mediterranean
midget on the front, doesn’t mean it’s
not worth supporting.
He flies between worlds. Guys, we
know. We saw the videos. It’s just a
glorified loading screen, though, isn’t
it? I don’t want you to tell me that it’s
‘jaw-droppingly beautiful’, because
so is Assassin’s Creed. Unfortunately,
Assassin’s Creed is a pile of shite and
was rightly torn apart by the media.
Oh look! Spherical worlds! Damn, they
were impressive back on the Playsta-
tion 2, weren’t they? Impressive, and
extremely frustrating. Oh look, col-
lecting things! That... that’s kind of
good. And... yeah, Bowser, I guess that’s
good. Oh, Peach. She’s... she’s still alive,
huh? Too bad.
The problem with SMG - we’ve seen
the basic idea before. The icing on the
cake is delicious, but the cake is bor-
ing and overdone. We want new base
concepts - and no, the Wiimote does
not count - we want new base con-
cepts, and then you can start to say
a game is good because of its “feel”.
Look at LittleBigPlanet. That’s going
to be huge - not just because it has a
‘fun’ and friendly feel to it. But because
it’s got a new, and solid, design back-
ing it. Nintendo are complacent. They
brought out the Wii. They dared to use
the Wiimote properly with Galaxy. But
they can’t get away from their intellec-
tual properties, they’re ultimately too
afraid to make the biggest leap and ac-
tually show a genuinely new concept.
Zelda, Mario, Smash Brothers. Then
that’ll be it until the next console.
Which is fine by me. Because at least
now I know I’m safe from the hyper-
bole for another few years.
Subject Name: Mario Mario
Social Security Number: M4R10
Date of Birth: XX/XX/1981
Charged with:
Possession of highly-hallucinogenic fungi, violent
behavior towards non-human beings, inciting rampant
fanboyism across more than twelve countries, posses-
sion of illegal metallic wrench, libidinous behav-
iour towards sentient mushrooms, rape

