games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
39
Friday 7 December 2007 felix
Games
Reader Riposte: Level 1 Complete
felix
“Now you’ve gone and said it!” exclaims Azfarul Islam. These are the comments that really matter: yours
Imperial College Gaming Club (ICGC)
“They can make [the sessions] longer, have more machines and more screens.”
- Alex, 1st Year, Mech Eng
“No more movie sessions!”
- Michael, 1st Year, Chem
“If anyone has Unreal Tournament 2004, then get down here! I would rather die than play Halo 3!”
- Andy, 1st Year, CompSci
“Intense!”
- Jun, 1st Year, BioChem
“Needs more girls.”
- Boris, 1st Year, Chem
“If you’re interested they’re here, if you’re not, they’re not. Simple.”
- Andrew Lim, 2nd Year, CompSci
“We’ve had some very good response. The Fresher’s Fair was the turning point for us. About five hundred
(500) people signed up for the mailing list and that resulted in close to one hundred (100) members. We had
about eighty (80) of them show up to the first session and after that we’ve averaged about thirty (30). Last
year, there were five (5) people in the sessions.”
- David Fernandez
Imperial College Gaming Club Co-Founder
Felix Games
“It’s one of my regular haunts.”
- Jun, 1st Year, BioChem
“The subsections are good and have much variety. Overall, it’s very
good.”
- David Fernandez, 3rd Year, EEEng
“After checking the games section weekly now for my time at Imperial
its always been the only section I actually get the paper for. Its always
accurate with the only con being that it makes me waste money on
games when I should be budgeting.”
- James Finnerty, 2nd Year, CompSci
“It’s a different feel from last year. Apart from that, [I have] no com-
plaints. I do like the new approaches.”
- Yew Chooi, 4th Year, EEEng
“The Mario spread was quite good.”
- Stephen, 1st Year, Mech Eng
“Hey! SM64 is not the best game ever! I don’t have a ‘best. game.
ever!’ but out of them SM64 is not the best. Don’t get me wrong: it’s
not bad but it’s hardly the best.”
- Andrew Lim, 2nd Year, CompSci
“The stuff [you] write is okay. But do write about newer games.”
- Chong, 4th Year, EEEng
“Definitely very informative. The reviews on niche games are pretty
cool and I certainly appreciate the use of gaming slang!”
- Eric Park, 1st Year, Mech Eng
“Definitely better and different than last year’s. Clearly a lot more col-
ourful, as well.”
- Nimalen, 4th Year, EEEng
“I must admit that I do not read it fully but I do look at it sometimes.
From that, I notice that the layout is quite nice and there must be a lot
of hard work put into it. I hope that [Felix Games] gets more writers.”
- Andreas Frenzel, 4th Year, Aero Eng
“Never ever review a game [Re: Portal] that’s part of a whole set with-
out reviewing the entire set. That’s just bad practice!”
- Andrew Lim, 2nd Year, CompSci
“Felix Games represents the interests of many Imperial students. It
is written by very articulate people and is an engaging read. It’s also
very thoughtful and good fun too!”
- Benjamin Toomer, 1st Year, EEEng
“Most colourful page in Felix fo’ sho’. Though only at Imperial could
we devote two pages weekly to the world of virtual reality.”
- Li-Teck Lau, Politics Editor
“Always a comic read. Pretty pictures. Needs more lensflare and
f.p.s.”
- Andrew Somerville, News Editor
“I’m quite enjoying the games section of Felix this year, and not just
because Azfar publishes my useless comments. While the articles are
still far too long and don’t have enough pictures, it’s relevant to the
games I play and what I want to see.”
- Samir Talwar, 2nd Year, CompSci
“I’m proud that no one’s properly whinged about us yet. Well, not to
our faces. Come on out. If there’s a way Felix Games can kick further
ass, then do offer your criticism. We promise we won’t pwn you. Too
hard. Besides that, I also need to comment on the rubbish presenta-
tion for this week. Seriously, wtf? Felix Games needs to plan a bit fur-
ther ahead so it can avoid these pitfalls. Granted this is sort of the first
time, but I certainly hope it’ll be the last. At any rate, it’s time to say
farewell for the time being as we enter the Christmas break or as the
College really wants to put it as: extra revision time. Have fun catch-
ing up on the studies you missed because of gaming and the gaming
you missed because of studies. Happy Holidays all!”
- Azfarul Islam
Games Editor
FIND OUT MORE AT A LAW ‘TASTER’ WORKSHOP FOR
NON-LAW STUDENTS INTERESTED IN A CAREER IN LAW
Tuesday 11 December 2007 • 6:45 pm – 9:00 pm
Imperial College, South Kensington Campus
Room 301,The Skempton Building
If you are interested in finding out more about the law then this stimulating workshop is for you!
By way of a short quiz, a negotiation role-play and a law 'taster' session led by qualified solicitors
/tutors from The College of Law this interactive workshop will give you the opportunity to:
• match your skills to those required by firms and chambers
• experience a real taster which replicates the learning experience on
The College of Law's conversion course (the GDL)
• find out about the next steps you need to take in order to pursue a career in law
You can also hear about the Graduate Diploma in Law – the law conversion course for non-law
students – and find out about the unique features that makeThe College of Law’s course different
from other providers. If you are seriously considering law then don’t miss out on this opportunity
– you can add it to your CV thus demonstrating your commitment to law!
REFRESHMENTS WILL BE PROVIDED.
Graduates in science/engineering can become lawyers!
Please book your place by e-mailing the
Imperial College Law Society at lawsoc@imperial.ac.uk

