4 felix Friday 7 December 2007
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
News
One year and two weeks after Impe-
rial College Union voted to affiliate to
the National Union of Students (NUS),
the national organisation has voted
in favour of one of the most dramatic
reforms that it has ever seen. The Ex-
traordinary Conference held on Tues-
day controversially decided to accept
the motion to delete its constitution in
its entirety, and totally replace the cur-
rent structure.
The emergency conference was con-
vened solely to debate this reform,
backed by Student Unions across the
country (including ICU) who have be-
come frustrated and disenfranchised
by the National union’s perceived lack
of relevance, disorganisation, bureauc-
racy, and nonsensical radicalism. It
faced fierce opposition from those
who feared the restructuring would:
“corporatise” the NUS, prevent de-
mocracy, reduce diversity, and destroy
its student focus.
This radical reform is of particu-
lar relevance to IC students since last
year’s referendum decision to affiliate
was closely fought and full of contro-
versy, and ICU has been one of the
strongest voices calling for change.
ICU has had a rocky relationship with
the NUS since its formation. A Found-
ing Member in 1922, it left the national
union only a year after its birth, and
since then has briefly rejoined then
abruptly left at least twice.
Following the departure from the
University of London Union (ULU),
IC students last year voted 53% to 47%
in favour of re-affiliating: an extremely
slim majority. Felix’s recent investi-
gation into student opinion showed
that the effects of joining have passed
largely unnoticed, and that uptake
of the NUS Extra Card has been ex-
tremely low amongst both freshers and
students who were eligible to vote last
year: only 5% of the total student body
have purchased the £10 card.
Many students questioned the value
for money of our £44,000 per annum
affiliation costs last November, and
have continued to do so since the
referendum.
ICU therefore threatened yet an-
other disaffiliation if radical changes to
the NUS were not made, a threat also
made by several other student unions
such as King’s College London Union
(KCLU). Due to this widespread dis-
satisfaction in the NUS, a far-reaching
“Governance Review” was ordered at
2007’s annual NUS Conference. The
review suggested that a complete over-
haul of the entire NUS constitution
was necessary, and recommended a
new constitution, and a new govern-
ance structure almost identical to the
model adopted by ICU and KCLU,
with a board of trustees acting as a le-
gal and financial overseer.
These new measures have outraged
many of the more radical elements of
the national union.
Rob Owen, a member of the NUS’
National Executive Committee (NEC),
has stated that the proposals would
mean the: “removing of the NUS’ own
democratic structures,” which would:
“receive far less independent scrutiny.”
Whilst the majority of the 27 NEC
members were happy with the changes
that had been drafted.
The president of Imperial College
Union, Stephen Brown, spoke in gen-
eral defence of the motion in a speech
that was brutally honest, and provoca-
tive. “Isn’t it ironic that the self-styled
‘radicals’ of the student movement
are steadfast in their determination
not to change anything, ever, with re-
gards to NUS governance?” he began,
continuing to say that the image of the
NUS “presented to the public is one of
rebels without a clue, squabbling about
whether the revolution should come
on Thursday, or whether it would be
better to wait until the next full moon.”
It was a call to arms for those whose
patience with the current NUS had
come to an end.
It took six hours of heated debate
over amendments to the new consti-
tution, including multiple attempts to
tear up the proposal and start all over
again, until the Extraordinary Confer-
ence tired of waiting and voted 383 to
181 in favour of an immediate vote on
the whole document.
The vote for the change came quickly
and was overwhelmingly in favour, but
was taken twice to appease those who
remained unhappy with the restruc-
turing, and the meeting as a whole (a
vote of no-confidence in the Chair was
swiftly swept aside prior to the vote).
After years of attempting reform at
all levels in order to remain relevant
to the students that it represents, the
NUS finally reached a consensus that
The Extraordinary Conference:
Opinions of the News Editor
I
had never attended any event even remotely tied to the NUS, but I had
heard much argument over the national union’s various strengths and
weaknesses since last autumn. I thought that with that experience, and
my open-minded but well informed approach to the Extraordinary
Conference, would prepare me for a “non-stop governance debate
fest,” in the UK’s foremost political organisation for students. How wrong
I was.
Prior to the event, it was easy for me to add a pinch of salt to any opinions
that I heard from members of our own Union, the most vocal of which have
always been from those with significant political interests: various people
with significantly right, or left-leaning views. I had always assumed that
these peoples accusations of “ridiculous far-laft factionism,” political inad-
equacies, and “comedy sideshow”-ism were exaggerated by frustrations with
political views that were not their own. Again, I found myself to be the naive
party. I tried to leave my own political views at the door in order to report the
proceedings totally without bias. I failed.
Before I had even left the minibus, I read clauses in the new constitution,
a constitution that has been accused of being “undemocratic,” and “a signifi-
cant lurch to the right,” that made me so angry that I was tempted to address
the conference myself in one of the many “free” speeches on offer to anyone
who raised their hand. A response was provoked that required me to physi-
cally sit on my hands and fume in incandescent rage, as I watched whilst the
vast majority of the conference gave standing ovations to odious rhetoric that
used strong emotions to overwhelm well-reasoned debate. The issue that I
speak of is important, but as it involves the BNP, freedom of speech, and
philosophical debate, I won’t subject readers to more comment on these re-
cently saturated subjects.
The incident, however, was symbolic for me. The rest of the day was filled
with petty personal vendettas, childish squabbling, sly manipulation and
brief, rare, but extremely welcome outbursts of genuine debate over the fu-
ture of an organisation that should be important.
Even in its moment of reform and frustrated consensus, the NUS managed
to be hamstrung for most of the proceedings by its own members (on both
sides of the current debate), who believe they are saving the institution from
evil, but are in fact delivering it further into the hands of irrelevance with
each minute of ill-reasoned speech. The only reason that any progress was
made in the end, was because the majority of delegates wanted to go home,
and the leadership’s determination and sly tactics galvanised the conference’s
need for more action and less talk.
To my eyes, the rumours are all true. The NUS is in severe trouble, with an
alienated student body, and a general loss of confidence in the movement. If
the new measures work, a new dawn is imminent. If they do not, the course
of salvation is even harder to see. It really seems as simple as that.
Huge NUS reforms; divided opinion
Felix attends the Extraordinary General Conference, and perhaps witnesses the birth of a new kind of NUS
Andrew Somerville
News Editor
allows it to radically change the way
that it operates. It now can either ratify
this constitution at the Congress in
April, or reject it and begin the proc-
ess again.
Observing whether the current re-
forms improve, damage, or fail to ef-
fectively alter the NUS will be a crucial
point of interest for all students in the
UK and Ireland over the next few years,
during which they will face issues such
as the student funding debate, devalu-
ing degrees, increases in top-up fees,
and the continuing influence of busi-
ness over education in general.
The NUS will have to return to
strength in order to effectively voice
student opinion to the government,
media and major organisations. These
will be the acid tests for the NUS, de-
ciding whether IC students decide to
stay NUS-affiliated, and governing the
fates of all UK and Irish students in
general.
The next NUS Annual Congress
will be held in Blackpool from 1-3
April 2008. If you wish to attend,
elections to ICU’s delegation will
be held next term
One of the all important voting cards which helped bring forward the
NUS’ latest radical reformation at Tuesday’s Extraordinary Conference
Annual Congress
Deciphering the NUS Senate
Liberation Nations Social Policy Zones
Board
Steering
The NUS represents roughly 5 Million students in the UK
•
and Ireland, and has around 600 independent student
unions affiliated to it. This is approximately 98% of
students over the age of 16.
Most of the NUS decision-making happens at Annual
•
Congress, during which it also elects its officers.
The annual membership fee that ICU pays is £44,000.
•
The NUS has an important history of fighting for student
•
rights and democracy in general, and many politicians
start out as members of the union.
In recent years, the NUS is seen as having lost direction
•
and failed its members. The complete restructuring
(pictured) is designed to combat this decline.

