sport.felix@Imperial.ac.uk
Friday 7 December 2007
felix
Sport
44
The Men’s Volleyball team have made
further progress in their BUSA first
division title run. They are just back
from a long day of volleyball in Read-
ing, where the 2nd BUSA league event
was set. IC defeated in straight sets
current league champions ULU (who
were UK champions 2 years ago) af-
ter dismissing our friends at UCL and
Sussex with the same result. All in one
day – that is how the BUSA S/E league
is organised: matches are concentrated
in 3 weekend events held in different
venues.
It all started with the usual early rise.
The team was amazingly spot on time
at the minivan park (even the Greeks!!).
After the ritual driver name calling the
team overcame the first obstacle – the
nefarious back-windscreen wiper was
on (most of the time as someone care-
fully pointed out). With some resolve
our safe pair of hands Bruno turned it
off and swiftly drove into the Cromwell
Rd/A4/ M4/Reading there we go. First
on the spot and ready to warm-up for
the first game scheduled for the day.
In the meanwhile the coach’s incred-
ibly expensive sat-nav was going crazy
and taking him into the wilderness
(which is not too far from Reading Uni
– where gulls and local basketball team
cheerleaders coexist peacefully).
IC displayed a convincing first set
and dealt heavy blow to the UCL side.
No mistakes in reception meant that
our basic attack combinations proved
extremely effective. Our red-devil libe-
ro player Christoph showed his usual
confidence in leading the IC defence.
The spiker Joao showed top form –
surely due to his chaste demeanour
the night before in the face of un-
precedented Goodenough college de-
bauchery (fil dental!). Setter Julio kept
on feeding our outside, middle and op-
posite (a disciplined and lethal Nicos)
attack options and soon the second
set was over. 2-0 for IC and end of the
undefeated spell for UCL (up to then 3
wins in a row).
The following long break somewhat
dented the team’s concentration ahead
of the Sussex game. Or maybe it was
the goats cheese, Italian salami and to-
mato sandwiches on black bread that
proved too hard to digest for the substi-
tute player in the starting 6. You could
tell that the coach Donald was not
pleased with an unconvincing though
victorious first set against bottom-of-
the-league Sussex. The team lacked
the neatness and resolve to sweep the
opposition away as it should have and
put-purred towards a close win in the
second set. This was useful score-wise
though a clear warning bell for the
team. Donald quickly summoned the
team and got IC to refocus on their
motivation, skills and teamwork. The
team charged up against the forth-
coming challenge against ULU. Players
kept on talking to each other discuss-
ing ways to improve the game. Some
ventured into the Reading wilderness
for a quick breath of fresh air – some
went for the team’s pastime of playing
volleyball in a squash court (don’t try
this at home!)
And that’s when it all happened. IC
got on to a cool start against ULU. Our
middle players Konrad and Seb kept on
blocking and blocking the opposition’s
spikes. And hitting deadly fast spikes
across court in the 3metres line. You
could tell ULU were wondering what
was going on (see photo: mens_cel-
ebration). Our captain Panos did not
miss a single hit and his confidence
was soon inspiring newcomer Erik too,
who was denting the ULU defence.
Throughout the game a bewildered au-
dience could hear a madman from the
IC bench shouting a mantra towards
the players. Something like be humble,
be hungry. This fortunately seemed to
distract the opposition more than IC –
possibly better accustomed to the club
chairman’s antics. The first set was
over soon and IC closed it off comfort-
ably. Needless to say, the team looked
completely different from what seen
in the previous match. The second set
was a slightly closer race. As in the first
set, halfway through IC took the lead
and drove home a result which last
Volleyball
Imperial Men’s 1st 2
UCL Men’s 1st 0
Volleyball
Imperial Men’s 1st 2
Sussex Men’s 1st 0
Volleyball
Imperial Men’s 1st 2
ULU Men’s 1st 0
The Women’s Volleyball team have
had a great start to the season. The
team was reignited by the new coach
Barbora and by a healthy mix of old
guard and fresh recruits. Training
work is paying off by an undefeated
strike in the BUSA second division
league, where they compete against
other South East Universities. As this
is a double match report we will look at
both the last home and away fixtures.
Two weeks ago IC played their home
fixture against top-rated LSE. The en-
thusiasm was palpable as our full first
women’s team of 12 outnumbered the
LSE fashionably-hairdoed opposition.
The competition was strong and Im-
perial took the first set authoritatively.
A key moment in the initial set was
when IC showed LSE that in volleyball
it does not matter how high you wear
your hair but how high you jump. Alana
proved the point by delivering the first
of a few blocks in the match (see photo:
womens_block) and the IC lead in the
set extended to a crucial 17-14. That’s
why in the men’s team those lucky (or
silly) enough to have long hair are not
allowed to wear it up (French guys ex-
cluded). Anyway, from then on it was
downhill to the close of set (25-18).
The second set followed suit. High
spirits and high jumps such as those
displayed by Karin (see photo: wom-
ens_hitKarin) and Chichi both spiking
and digging (see photo: womens_dig)
made sure IC blasted the LSE court
with tremendous hits which left the
opposition in disarray. Everyone was
thus expecting a straight sets win.
Home or away, volleyball just keep on winning
Volleyball
Imperial Women’s 1st 3
LSE Women’s 1st 2
Volleyball
Imperial Women’s 1st 3
Essex Women’s 1st 1
Meanwhile the women were dominating
While IC was trying to clinch what
would have been a final 3rd set, the
concentration level slipped somewhat.
It turned out that LSE weren’t going to
give up that easy and fought back to
win the two next sets. Assistant coach
Julio (aka “Coolia”) took countermeas-
ures by giving some players a rest and
bringing in fresh forces – Liz’s con-
tribution was noticeable. This meant
that the match was to be decided by a
final fifth set – which is played up to 15
points only.
IC was determined to win and the
girls’ determination was shining as
they proceeded to get to half-set and
swap ends on a cool score of 8-3 up.
Team spirit was prominent: substituted
Chichi was exemplary off court as on
court - standing on the bench shouting
support throughout the deciding set.
IC then finished the job by leaving LSE
just one more point and took the final
set 15-4, claiming their third victory of
the season.
Last week saw the Imperial women
travel to Essex University on a mind-
numbing array of forms of transport.
Everything but a Heathrow-Stansted
direct flight (Richard Branson hasn’t
thought of that yet!) and waterways
was tried. The team made it to Col-
chester in perfect time and was ready
for action. Having already beaten Essex
at home the team were feeling quite
confident. This was shown from a con-
fident first set, where the training work
practising positions on court and rota-
tions gave the team a clear 10 points
lead. Second set was somehow mixed
up as distraction and some interest-
ing refereeing decisions from the other
teams coach meant that the set was
slipped into the hands of Essex! After
year would have been unthinkable: IC
2 - ULU 0.
After that, all that was missing was
one volleyball (stuck on the ceiling of
a squash court – retrieved, otherwise
Nicos would not be alive as you read
this), one useless Venezuelan minivan
navigator, one Reading council which
dislikes the idea of putting London on
signals.. and one more BUSA event
where the final 4 league matches will
take place.. see you in Bethnal Green.
that, captain Katerina marshalled the
team through two victorious sets to
conclude with a neat 3-1 for IC. Most
notably the defence from Valentina
and Nadia was strong. This allowed a
smooth flow of receptions which were
turned into some great sets from Ashly
(see photo: womens_set) and hits from
Emily (see photo: womens_hitEmily)
and Natalia.
These victories have enabled the
Imperial Women’s to be top of their
league so far. If this record is main-
tained this will give them good chances
to get a good path through to the Tro-
phy finals.
That’s what I call digging
A fine specimen of attack from the middle
Fine block
Bruno Basalisco
Konrad Kieling

