45
felix
Friday 7 December 2007
sport.felix@Imperial.ac.uk Sport
Football ladies do it again with only 9 players
The IC women’s football met at the
union on a chilly Wednesday after-
noon. With only five of them having
showed up on time, the people present
started feeling a little bit uncomfort-
able. Thankfully, a few more arrived,
just in time to catch the bus to Har-
lington. The opposition team was Sus-
sex 2nd and once again, the IC women
were short of players. They came out
onto the pitch, the thirteen opposition
players pointing and grinning at the
eight of them at the thought of an easy
victory.
The above could be the start of any
Wednesday match report, as the IC
women have so far been playing the
majority of their Wednesday BUSA
games short of players. This, however,
has not stopped them from winning
three and drawing two games out of a
total six played; and from being second
of their BUSA group, tagging to the top
team rather closely. But let us go back
to the actual game. Although I should
not really spoil the ending, I will say
that having thirteen players did not
bring much luck to the Sussex women!
Despite their win, the start of the
game had not begun well for the IC
Chloe Joyeux
Football
Imperial Women’s 1st 3
Sussex Women’s 2nds 1
THE LINKS CLUB
1926
Links Award
The Links Club of the City and Guilds of
London, would like to announce their award
for any student within the City and Guilds
College who is an active member within the
Guilds or who has excelled on the sporting
front.
The award is a bursary of £250 and will
be presented to the eventual winner at The
Links Club annual dinner in June 2008.
Candidates must submit an application no
longer than 300 words, either by email to
honsec@linksclub.org or hand it in to the
CGCU office in a sealed envelope by 1st
May 2008. Entrants must outline why they
believe they deserve the award.
women. Eight players made it to Har-
lington on time, with a ninth, Gools,
supposed to arrive as soon as possi-
ble. IC kicked-off but lost the ball very
quickly. In fact, so quickly that a Sussex
goal was scored within the first 10 to
11 seconds. The team was taken aback.
Either the Sussex confidence was at
maximum level or IC was clearly half
asleep. Ether way, the IC team quickly
regained their senses and started do-
ing what they do best, playing football!
They still struggled to keep the ball in
the Sussex half and a free kick, meters
from the goal, was luckily saved by
Emily. Twenty minutes after kick-off,
however, the miracle happened and the
girls saw Gools running towards them.
She changed at lightning speed and ap-
peared on the pitch. The super Gools
had made it and was the inspiration
the IC Ladies were waiting for. IC was
able to push forward more confidently.
Nothing spectacular happened for the
rest of this half except for a ridiculous
foul on Chloe, sending her flying 2 me-
ters forward, and Pav the beast, fight-
ing against 6 Sussex players at a time.
The second half is therefore where
all happened. Emma decided to change
the team formation from a 4:3:1 to a
3:4:1 and this made all the difference!
While Steph, Chloe, and Pav had been
struggling to keep the ball in the Sus-
sex half during the first part of the
game, it seemed unbelievably easy
with the help of Kate on the left. Pav
and Lily were therefore free to fire at
the Sussex goal wildly. All IC players
had a go at shooting, even Emma from
the half way line. Despite all her goals
been on target, however, she was not
able to secure the ball to the back of
the net. The first goal originated with
a pass from Steph from the right at the
55th minute. Pav jogged comfortably
towards the box and her powerful kick
did the rest. Not wanting to stop here,
Pav secured the win another ten min-
utes later with a pass from Kate this
time. The solid defence led by Emma,
Gools, and Cheryl enabled the rest of
the team to push forward comfort-
ably, still creating more chances and
opening. The Sussex ladies continued
running after the ball, trying to play
aggressively but not having enough
players to bend the IC team. Emily’s
only real threat during this second half
seems to have been their number 14.
Suddenly inspired, she broke from the
half-way line and sprinted towards the
goal. Luckily, Emily won this battle and
14 came back with her tail between
her legs. Lilly pushed the Sussex girls
around, getting a few warning from
Richie P. (although denied by Lilly). IC
was able to win a few corners, although
none ended up in the back of the net.
The final goal and blow to Sussex came
minutes from the end (43rd minute),
with a pass from Pav to Lilly. Lilly put
in a perfectly clean shot which passed
the Sussex keeper, at uncontrollable
speed, therefore sealing the IC victory.
This successful day ended with Steph
having received no beef and with the
Sussex coach praising the IC efforts
and courage. The IC ladies are now of-
ficially the best team to win with miss-
ing players.
The inaugural Inter-University Tai Chi
competition in the UK took place on
Saturday 1st December 2007 in Man-
chester with Imperial College Wushu
Society taking three gold medals.
Shaopeng Li and Allan Martin, both
members of the Wushu Society, gave
very impressive performances, dem-
onstrating Tai Chi 42 Step Hand Form,
Straight Sword and Sabre forms and
easily attaining the top podium posi-
tions for each respective category. Fur-
thermore, both Shaopeng and Allan
achieved the highest scores of the day,
placing themselves far ahead of the
other competitors from Bath, Cam-
Imperial Wushu take gold at
Tai Chi nationals
Eugene Chang bridge, Manchester and Leeds.
Shaopeng and Allan have been train-
ing as part of the Society’s Demo Team,
a group dedicated to performing and
competing in Chinese Martial Arts.
The Demo Team will be performing
in the upcoming Chinese New Year
celebrations at the Victoria and Albert
Museum, ArtsFest ´08 and East Meets
West ´08. On top of this, we are look-
ing to host the first inter-university
wushu competition in Ethos sometime
next year where our members will be
competing – watch this space!
Further details of the Society, its
classes and its Demo Team can be
found on the Society’s website, www.
union.ic.ac.uk/wushu.
The guy in the middle really isn’t getting into the team spirit!
“Take it quickly, they’re trying to have a match behind us!”

