sport.felix@Imperial.ac.uk
46 Friday 7 December 2007
felix
Sport
Imperial Team of the Week
This week, Sports Partnership along
with Felix Sport have chosen the
Hockey Men’s 1st team as their
‘Team of the Week’.
The team has had a promising
start to the season, losing only one
game so far and comfortably win-
ning the rest of them. This contin-
ued with the game on Wednesday
aginst Hertforshire, where the final
score was 4 – 1 to Imperial.
Well done lads, let’s hope you can
keep this winning streak going into
the next term.
Hockey Men’s 1st
IC Ladies lose gracefully
Hockey
Imperial Women’s 2nd 0
Portsmouth Women’s 2nd 7
Chris Baker-Brian
Ok, so the score-line wasn’t great, but
it has to be noted that the Portsmouth
Ladies were pretty damn hot (apart
from 27).
Unicycle did well by using her big
hit to almost clean up a defender and
Easy Jet almost looked mobile in goal.
IC worked hard in defence with a good
clearance by Thombelina. IC weath-
ered the intense pressure from Port-
smouth but eventually conceded the
opening goal. And then another. How-
ever once again IC were working well,
especially Thombelina to win a free hit
on the left and then a short corner.
There was a great chance from
Ghostbuster to create a chance which
was narrowly missed on the left. IC
started to have more possession and
got another free hit and was played
well by Brownie. This was probably
due to the great support from the side
line, especially D.R. in his foil dress.
The Portsmouth short was bravely
defended by Unicycle, which we used
to gain a short but Portsmouth literally
broke IC down with 3 Times a Lady be-
ing injured by Portsmouth number 10
“the Tank” which led to goal number
3. Thombelina showed some Scottish
determination but no luck, they scored
again through some good passing. The
half time talk was once again taken
over by the occasional team manager
P. Fi and thanks to Dominator for pro-
viding the oranges.
D.R. and Mountie got too involved in
rescuingthematchballfromthedepths
of the back of the pitch to concentrate
on the game. Dominator at this time
denies Portsmouth a goal but gives
away a short which they capitalise on.
IC get angry and Portsmouth get hit
by the Mystery Sniper. The crowd take
time out to work out who was hot or
not on the Portsmouth side. Hot were
4, 30 (but she was a bit skinny), 47 and
59. Not were 1 (the keeper should have
kept her kit on), 10 (too much fake tan,
looked like a pig and clearly on ster-
oids), 13 and 27.
This reporter can’t feel his feet at this
point. Clearly it was very cold at Har-
lington. “Pigface” ruts on Ghostbuster
in a tackle, IC are lacking penetration
of the ring. IC finally win a short cor-
ner but this was saved by the keeper,
then IC make stick tackle number 347;
a new record. Easy Jet keeps her legs
closed for the longest period since the
beginning of term and despite it being
-5ºC the girls do very little running.
The “Tank” was finally taken down as
she was twatted by Jess but then they
score again. The stick tackle count goes
up to 511. The umpire decides that he
has had enough and after not giving
any cards but 7 yellows in the previous
match its finally time for Dominator to
be tossed off. She is clearly very unhap-
py. The final whistle blew shortly after
to end a long game for the girls.
Hopefully the girls fortunes will turn
next week and they can get back to
winning ways.
Rugby
Oxford Brookes Men’s 1st 21
Imperial Medicals 1st 27
Last Wednesday, on a muddy pitch in
Oxford, Imperial Medicals 1st XV got
their BUSA campaign back on track
with an impressive 27-21 win over Ox-
ford Brookes.
Having been on the receiving end of
a 33-5 beating in the first home game
of the season against a well-drilled and
clinical Brookes side, some may have
thought that the away fixture would
prove to be much the same. Starting
the first half into the wind up the slope
the Medicals began confidently and
shocked a laid-back Brookes side by
dominating early on, despite having to
fight the conditions. However, it was
Brookes who opened the scoring, rath-
er against the run of play, when stand
-in captain Simon Bellringer slipped
as he attempted to clear to touch from
his own twenty two, gifting the home
side’s fly-half the opening score and
subsequent conversion.
Unperturbed by their misfortune,
the Medicals bounced back straight
from the kick-off. Following a turn
over from the re-start, the visitors se-
cured good field positions and forced
the Brookes pack to concede a pen-
alty in front of the posts. Dan Neville
duly obliged with a well-struck kick to
cut the Brookes’ lead to just 4 points.
The first half continued to be close,
but Brookes, despite the wind, did not
threaten the Medicals’ hearty defence.
It was the Medicals, indeed, who struck
next when a superb turnover and swift
distribution by Neville and Nightingale
saw Harry Thompson (freshly returned
from elective) free on the wing to ex-
pertly run in a try from the 10 metre
line, which put the Medicals 8-7 up at
half time.
After a rousing team talk from Coach
Keith Green, the Medicals set about the
task of building on their first half lead
and put pressure on Brookes straight
away. Astute kicking from Neville and a
solid platform from the forwards, both
in the loose and at the set piece, put the
Medicals in great attacking field posi-
tions, that saw the visitors come close
to scoring on several occasions. The
pressure began to tell, and when an al-
most certain try was stopped by a des-
perate Brookes prop, who was carded
for his sins, the Medicals pack put the
weary Brookes forwards to the sword
with a superbly controlled push over
try from a scrum, scored by James Saf-
fin at No.8. Neville again obliged with
the conversion.
The Medicals used their new-found
confidence to bully the Brookes pack
yet further, forcing them back onto
their own line where, with quick feet,
Neville snuck over the line to claim the
third Medicals try of the game, which
he then converted. Brookes, now
with the full compliment of forwards,
fought back and stole a try against the
run of play through their fullback, who
went over under the posts to make
for an easy conversion. The Medicals
pack, clearly furious at the cheek of
the Brookes side, executed a well-con-
trolled line out and drive to push the
Brookes pack back at a rate of knots!
In their desperation and exhaustion
the hosts left gaps at the fringes of the
maul, which an ever alert Tom May-
nard seized upon. Breaking from the
back of the maul, scrum-half Maynard
beautifully stepped the fullback and
winger and outpaced the covering de-
fenders to dive over in the corner for
what proved to be the winning try.
The pugnacious Brookes team, aided
by the sin binning of Medicals 2nd row
Rob Anderson, again advanced and,
despite some hearty defence from the
visitors, forced their way over to make
the score 27-21. However, with only 1
minute on the clock the try was imma-
terial and the Medicals had triumphed!
The Great Escape starts here...
Medics winning ways return
Simon Bellringer
Iliotibial Band Syndrome
The ITB emerges from the tensor fas-
cia lata (TFL) which runs down the
outside thigh just below the hip. The
upper portion of the band ascends ver-
tically to attach at the top of the hip
(hence the name ilio), whilst the lower
portion runs all the way down the side
of the thigh before attaching to the
outside of the tibia, just below the knee
(hence the name tibial).
So in effect the TFL and ITB are very
closely interlinked and therefore signs
and symptoms, as well as treatment
should focus on both rather than one
or the other. However as the entire
musculoskeletal structure is interwo-
ven rehabilitation would need to take
into account the effects on the sur-
rounding muscles as well.
Symptoms of the ITBS frequently
include tenderness, aching and/or
pain just below the knee on the outer
edge, but pain or irritation can also be
present much further up in the TFL
itself or in its tendinous connection
with the hip. The pain may occur while
running, while walking downstairs
and sometimes during weight bearing
activities.
Usually pain will not be identifiable
until you are a few miles into a run.
However once it starts it tends to be
persistent if you keep running through
it, and frequently gets worse during
downhill running and while walking
down steps. The discomfort can radi-
ate up and down the leg, but will often
almost disappear if you stop running
and begin to walk slowly and shorten
your stride.
The key source of ITB syndrome
disorders is actually a lack of flexibility
in the ITB, which impacts the biome-
chanics of the body. A tight ITB basi-
cally pulls other structures out of their
true alignment causing muscular im-
balance. This alteration can then cre-
ate a pain response.
There are a number of reasons why
this lack of flexibility occurs: Running
on a track or on crowned roads can
create a muscular imbalance as the
outside leg takes in more force during
running. A leg length discrepancy, as
the shorter leg receives greater stress
as it falls a greater distance before
the foot makes actual impact with the
ground.
Having bow legs, excessive leg mus-
cle tightness, or very pronounced foot
pronation can all increase the risk of
ITBS.This syndrome also appears to be
related to weak hip abductors, so the
gluteal complex and the TFL may re-
quire strength training.
If you are concerned about this par-
ticular type of injury, feel free to come
and speak to an Energia instructor who
can advise on preventative measures,
treatment and active rehabilitation.
Hannah Barr
Temper temper Anderson, you don’t want to get sin-binned. Oh wait!

