felix sport Send in your sport reports:
sport.felix@Imperial.ac.uk
High resolution photos only
Jovan Nedić
Sports Editor
So the last issue of term, finally made
it, and I must say that I’ve been im-
pressed with the number of clubs and
societies out there that have got in con-
tact with me.
Admittedly I have made mistakes,
it’s bound to happen; some have been
minor that the editor hasn’t noticed,
some that only the people who wrote
the article would notice, sorry again
to those people whose names I’ve got
wrong. Some mistakes have been more
obvious; like putting in the wrong
score or even getting them the wrong
way round, which has definitely got
people annoyed - especially if it’s been
an IC versus medics match.
After one such mistake I received
a rather angry e-mail from a certain
medic who virtually accused me of
purposefully putting the results in the
wrong way round, and also of not car-
ing about the medical sports clubs.
The fact of the matter is that until re-
cently I have not received any articles
from medics, so how can I purpose-
fully leave out medic reports if I don’t
receive them. Felix Sport is here to
cover all aspects of Imperial sports, so
medics, don’t complain that Felix is be-
ing biased towards IC when you don’t
write in (the rugby club is the excep-
tion as they actually have been submit-
ting reports!).
From next term, I will increase the
size of the league table to encompass
the medics, so that we can truly see
which teams are the best in college. So
please, the medics and IC teams out
there, make sure your results are in
on time and if you truly feel that your
team has done something amazing that
week that you want everyone to know,
send me your match report.
Smack!
Volleyball report on a very succesfull weekend, for both the
men and the women, see page 44
Imperial’s boat club win all across the country
Last weekend the boatclub saw its
strongest performance since the start
of term, with wins in three separate
events around the country. Almost
all of Imperial College’s rowers raced
over the course of two days, once again
showing rowing to be arguably Impe-
rial’s most successful sport.
Saturday brought an historic win for
IC sculler George Whittaker in the
‘Sculler’s Head’ against over 400 other
competitors, including many of Brit-
ain’s top scullers. The Sculler’s Head
is raced on the Thames from Chiswick
to Putney Bridge and is one of the pre-
mier events on the rowing calendar
– a win in such a high quality event
is a tremendous achievement. Strong
performances were also recorded by
several other IC scullers, with Sam
Hutchinson and Piers Barnes in par-
ticular, placing highly. On the same
day, a large number of the senior squad
travelled to Nottingham to race in the
BUSA Small Boats Head. Universities
Iain Palmer from around the country competed,
and IC stamped its mark on the event
with a stronger performance than all
other universities in attendance. Med-
als were obtained in almost all events
entered, with gold being won in 5 of
the 12 events; the double, lightweight
double, lightweight single, women’s
lightweight pair and the coxless four.
Crucially, all-important (in the eyes
of Sport Imperial) BUSA points were
obtained. Prior to Saturday, Imperial
College (as a whole) had obtained 5
points; the achievements of the boat
club added 92 points to this total. This
catapults IC from 36th in the BUSA
Overall Points Table to deep within
the top 10 overall, confirming the boat
club as (one of) Imperial’s top sports
team(s).
Finally, on Sunday, the ICBC Novice
squadbravedthetorrentialraintocom-
pete in the Allom Cup regatta against
university boatclubs from across Lon-
don. The women’s novice squad raced
courageously to reach the final of their
event, to be narrowly beaten by a more
experienced opposition. The men’s
novices, however, managed a string of
great wins to win their event very con-
vincingly, underlining Imperial’s repu-
tation for quickly taking its beginners
to levels of high athletic performance
within a matter of months.
Following this great set of results, the
boatclub is looking to maintain its mo-
mentum through the Christmas period
and into the New Year with a squad of
quality and depth in abundance.
Taken from the internet you say, what makes you think that!

