O
n Monday, I attended
the Imperial College
Ahlul Bayt (Islamic) So-
ciety’s conference about
Evolution, an event
which aimed at exposing the theory as
a lie, as a statistical impossibility and
as a diversion from the real cause of all
things – god.
The speaker was introduced with
the claim that the society wanted to
promote an exchange of ideas; he
can’t have been listening, because he
then proceeded with what can only be
described as single-minded, bigoted
propaganda. It was rather difficult
to follow the lecture, as I was either
chuckling at the extreme illogicality of
some of the facts that had been said, or
cringing before such display of igno-
rance. Sometimes a chorus of dissent
from the crowd would cover the speak-
er’s voice, and sometimes the brutal ir-
rationality of those words was simply
too much to bear. But nonetheless, I
was able to get the gist of the lecture as
a whole, simply because I have heard it
repeated over again by the same kind
of people, under different religions.
It started with a claim that Darwin-
ism and the theory of evolution have
been behind such great evils as anar-
chism, racism, communism, atheism,
fascism and nazism. The “law of the
jungle” had apparently killed some-
where in the region of 180 million. It
followed with well-known creationist
tricks, such as irreducible complex-
ity and argument by ignorance, and a
point by point refutation of the theory
as a whole, by “proving” that mutations
are only harmful, that intermediate
species don’t exist, and that science is
always correcting itself and therefore
wrong. Everything was served with a
large dose of Qur’an, added here and
there to give a credible option, and
an equally large portion of quotations
from works of prominent evolutionar-
ies and atheists, who all seem to doubt
the theory greatly, but still support it
8 felix Friday 7 December 2007
About 180m dead: Darwin accused
Pietro Aronica gives his opinion on Monday night’s lecture that dared to dispute Darwin’s salient theory
out of what appears to be a psychologi-
cal illness.
I’ve rarely heard such an immense
number of absurd claims, spurious
links between facts, such an obstinate
refusal to open one’s eyes to reality
and such blatant disregard for some
evidence while overestimating other
proofs on a totally arbitrary basis. After
five minutes, I had already lost count of
the questionable facts that I would have
asked him to prove, the inconsisten-
cies that I wanted to point out and the
evident idiocies that were just begging
to be exposed. Apart from the social-
evils-of-evolution bit, everything else
was just a repeat on the same formula:
say a really big number, claim it’s im-
possible, and disprove the theory. The
quantity of data given was overwhelm-
ing, but it had to be: it was just mean-
ingless calculations, oversimplified to
the point they had no connection to
reality and made in a biased manner.
Most of the logical connections were
a result of blind loyalty to the cause of
creation, as they completely ignored
facts and jumped to an immediate con-
clusion without even thinking about it;
some of them were simply wrong from
a biological, not even rational, point of
view, and could be easily identified by
a youngster with nothing more than an
A-Level in biology (such as myself) let
alone by experts in the field.
The Q&A session vented the slith-
ering unrest that had been going on
during the lecture in the form of gig-
gles and sighs, and the speaker found
himself covered by questions that ex-
posed the logical fallacies and inexact
claims in his arguments; rather than
trying to have a rational confrontation,
he merely repeated the same old facts
all over again, with minor changes.
Hard pressed, he blatantly avoided the
central area (where the newly-founded
AASoc had positioned themselves and
were springing with new questions
every minute) to favour the sides and
back, filled with middle-eastern look-
ing people, all faith-abiding Muslims in
his eyes. The plan backfired when even
girls in hijab confronted him on the
ridiculousness of his theories. As the
event ended, many questions were still
unanswered, and a general feeling was
present that the speaker was just trying
to weasel out of the debate.
One thing I did not appreciate,
among the others, was the absolute
lack of balance in the lecture: it was a
one-way talk, with no opposition and
no proof that undermined his theory.
Everything that could have been used
against him was carefully avoided, and
he never raised a single shadow upon
his questionable arguments. Also, eve-
rything was presented in a way a for-
tune teller would try to sell a potion:
with lots of big Latin- and scientific-
sounding words to add non-existent
credibility, a thing he then claimed his
opponents were doing as well.
The argument for Darwinism being
the root of all evil was just bad, with
no other word required. Maybe you are
familiar with the reductio ad Hitlerum,
an impressive sounding Latin phrase of
the kind I mentioned before: basically,
if Hitler liked X, X must be evil; other
common variants are Nazis or Stalin
instead of Hitler. Anybody can spot the
fallacy in it, by putting as X something
that is not considered unethical and
still was supported by Hitler, like dogs,
or paintings. But the lecturer went fur-
ther, as he claimed that Darwinism was
the cause of nazism, fascism, atheism,
communism, racism and anarchism.
It’s a simple thing to forget, I guess,
that anti-Semitism existed for millen-
nia before Darwin was even born, that
Hitler liked playing the blame game in
a depression-ravaged hunger-stricken
Germany, that Socrates had already
questioned the existence of the gods,
and that racism is old as humanity
itself. And how can he say that com-
“It followed
with well-known
creationist
tricks such
as irreducible
complexity.”
“Using Latin-
sounding
words to add
non-existent
credibility.”
The man himself, Charles Darwin, was at the centre of some passionate debate. Posthumously, of course.
This is Darwin’s theory of evolution as envisioned by Dr Babuna. We decided to name the pig ‘Napolean’ by the way

