9
Friday 7 December 2007 felix
jpmorgan.com/careers
JPMorgan is a marketing name of JPMorgan Chase & Co. and its subsidiaries worldwide. ©2007 JPMorgan Chase & Co. All rights reserved. JPMorgan is an equal opportunities employer.
Internship application deadline: January 13, 2008
NEXT YEAR,
JANUARY
SUMMER
STARTS ON
13.
That’s official. It may be cold and wet, but January 13 is the hottest date of 2008. That’s when applications
are due for our summer internship programme. So hurry. And as the majority of our summer interns
receive full-time offers, the outlook’s bright, even if the weather isn’t. This is where you need to be.
munism stems from evolution, when it
advocates that all men are born equal
and that the state should take care of
them? Similar arguments can be made
for anarchism, which is in fact a politi-
cal theory and not a state of chaos, as
he seems to have understood.
Other logical inaccuracies plagued
the lecture, but it’s difficult to re-
member them all. One that was hard
to forget, though, is the idea that if an
important scientist had doubts about
the theory, it should be discarded alto-
gether. That’s just poppycock. I guess
that religious people can’t grasp the
concept that there are no “holy lead-
ers” in science, and that no one’s word
is considered as law. One might be the
greatest asshole on this planet, but if
he makes a clever point, the point will
be taken on its own merits. Further re-
tractions count for nothing, if not sup-
ported by hard evidence. The opposite
happens in religion, where contradict-
ing statements made by the same au-
thority are regarded as law, ignoring
their own validity in favor of the insti-
tution’s infallibility.
Speaking of which, I must emphasize
that science’s fallibility and ability to
constantly disprove and renew itself
are not weaknesses; rather, they a re-
strengths, showing how new evidence
can and often will conflict with what we
thought as true, a concept that religion
is not familiar with. Clinging to the
same old idea is not something science
does, if there are is evidence to move to
somewhere else. I felt offended when
we were told that evolution was mind-
less dogma, and we defended it a pri-
ori (same Latin-phrase sort of thing),
taking it as truth and never departing
from it. It felt even more insulting as it
was said by someone who unquestion-
ably believes in a seventh century book
by an illiterate merchant which has
never been changed in its existence,
and which is mostly hearsay, oral tra-
dition and copies from previous works
(I’ll probably earn a fatwa for this, but
having been condemned to hell already
by the catholic and anglican faiths, it
can hardly do any worse).
Finally, the last points I want to tack-
le are irreducible complexity and argu-
ment by ignorance. The first states that
there is a point where you get to a bio-
logical structure that can not be sim-
plified further, because if you remove
even a single part from it, it breaks
apart (an example is the human eye).
Therefore, such a structure must have
been created, because evolution says
that complex things come out of sim-
pler ones. That’s double poppycock.
They are assuming that being able to
see badly is worse than not being able
to see at all: but malfunctioning eyes
are still better than no eyes. If the lens
is missing, for example, I won’t im-
mediately go blind: I’ll see just badly
(and maybe lose my sight but that’s not
certain). Will it be optimal? No. Will it
be better than no eye at all? Yes. You
can understand the inaccuracy behind
the irreducible complexity argument
even better if you examine other ani-
mals: squids, cats and even some crus-
taceans have better eyes than us. But
“Science’s
fallibility and
ability to
constantly renew
itself are not
weaknesses.”
Can something so utterly adorable be the impetus for a scientific debate that has yet to be concluded?

