4 F E L I X 7 F E B R U A R Y 1968
CEDITOR'S
o m m e n t
1 find it difficult to write this comment this week, not because
there is nothing to comment upon, indeed there is all too much, the
latest Council rumblings, the continuing Ents turmoil, the proposed
constitutional changes, the grants cut. The difficulty ;
< that this has,
due to the vagaries of the printing profession, to b. vritten almost
a week before most people will read it. In that one .veek th re is
a Union meeting, which could change the circumstances of any of
these subjects.
Assuming nothing unexpected happens two motions presented
to the Union meeting were, to have a ballot throughout the Union
for the President, and to lower the quorum at Union meetings.
Like the " shall-we-or-shan't-we-join-NUS " debate, the election
of a President from the body of the Union rather than, as now, by
Council, is a hardy perennial and arouses a lot of feeling, mostly irra-
tional. A lot of red herrings are strewn about; in this case the chief
one is presented by the " Democracy at any Price " brigade. Demo-
cracy is not an end in itself, purely a means to the end of getting
a good President. Assuming it was passed yesterday then you have
another chance to vote on the matter at the next Union meeting. The
issue at stake is whether Council, most of whose members know the
candidate personally, is better equipped to choose a President than
the whole Union.
It seems to me that lowering the quorum of Union meetings is
attacking the problem from the wrong end. The emphasis should be
on attracung people, not on reducing the quorum to fit the number
attending.
The quorum of Union meetings is there to protect you, the mem-
bers of the Union, from small groups of people taking advantage of
the rest of the Union. Lower it at your peril.
The public image of students is, if not at an all-time low, then
something approaching it. The reasons for this are two-fold. Firstly,
we suffer from the ill-informed attitude that we lead an easy life, rein-
forced by the fact that many students do lead such a life. However,
most students probably work harder than their contemporaries in
employment. The fact that he has been working until 2 a.m. is
not obvious to anyone seeing a bleary-eyed student at il o'clock
in the morning. The only thought to enter the mind of the genera!
public is that everyone else has to be at work at 8 o'clock and the
lazy student isn't even out of bed. The second, and more rational,
reason is that in the public's view students are irresponsible, and
many are. In the last few months 450 plastic parking cones, a large
number of parking meter covers and at least one complete meter have
been stolen, probably by I.C. students. If you add to this the nuisance
caused to-the general public at such times as Morphy Day and the!
regular chaos emanating from the Union Bar at closing time. ;
s it
surprising we are not the best-loved section of the community ':
All this, of course, puts us in a weak bargaining position, since,
whether we think of it as such or not, the grant is not given us as a
right and if we really do waste vast quantities of other people's money,
those people have the unquestionable prerogative of withdrawing their
support. If we are, as a whole, irresponsible, then obviouslv no one
\\ ill give us power and respDnsibility.
1 do not think that we do waste vast amounts of money, nor
that students are irresponsible as a body, but those elements of the
student body who are not tesponsible are those who are noticed.
Which brings me to the question of the proposed cut in the grants
rise. Are we being irresponsible in objecting to it ? I don't think
so. However, there are some points which must be considered. The
country, of which most of my readers are a part, is in an economic
mess; the causes of this are irrelevant here, the responsibility for
getting back to a healthy economy is as much ours as it is that of
everyone else in the country. One of the methods the Government
has decided to use is a cut in the standard of living. Clearly a cut
in everyone else's living standards accompanied by a rise in our own
is just ri-diculouus. Most students are not poverty-stricken, anyway,
although many are having great difficulty in making ends meet. It
would be difficult to find a similar sized group of people of com-
parable age who are as widely travelled as students, for instance,
although in general this is achieved with the aid of large student reduc-
tions.
No, the reason why the cuts are unacceptable in their present
form is because, as I mentioned above, some students arc suffering
grave financial difficulties. There can be few students in the College
who manage solely on their LEA grants and vacation earnings. Most
of us rely to some extent on our parents for free or cheap accom-
modation in the vacations, some clothing or just hard cash. Not
everyone's parents can afford to subsidise them like this and these
are the ones who lose out.
The long-term solution is obviously a raising of grants to a level
where students can be completely self-supporting with the abolition
of the means test. No one over the age of 1
8 should have to be par-
tially dependent on his parents. A short-term solution in line with
the economic situation of the country is difficult to find, but perhaps
an acceptance of the cuts, providing a guarantee of a review in a year,
rather than the normal three years, coupled with a " means test in
reverse " to selectively increase the grants of those who would be
unable to live on the new rate is reasonable.
F H X Imperial College
London, S.W.7
Internal 2881
Tel. KEN 2963
Editor : DAVID COOPER
Asst. Editor : John Mullah
News Editor : Paul Heath
Features Editor: John Summer
Sports Editor : Phil Hopwood
Business Manager: Mary Ford
Late News Editor: Dick Reeves
Advertising Manager:
John Probst
Sales Manager: Chris Slee
Production Manager :
Pete Chapman
Photographic Editor :
Colin Broad
What's On : Dick Middleton
Cartoonist: Stuart Senior
Duplicating Service : Paul Miller
With: Colcutt, Ken Simpson.
Anne Wheatley, John Rodger,
Pat Shanahan, Rory Red-
mayne, Patrick Rotherham,
Caroline and Patsy.
The H. G. Wells Society, the largest club in the college, hat just
had its 100th meeting. To mark this occasion FELIX asked Sinclair
Goodlad, President of Wells Soc, since its inception, for his view
of the society.
M O N D A Y
N I G H T I S . . . .
Wells Soc Night! And so it has been every Monday night of the
Autumn and Spring Terms since 7th October, 1963. Since Sinclair
Goodlad and some Touchstone srgucrs dreamed the society up, 100
plenary meetings have been addressed by a gallimaufry of the weird
and wonderful ranging from Phil Haskell the only undergraduate
to have addressed the society-—to the President of the Royal Society.
Prof. Blackett was not only the 20th member of the college to speak,
but also the 14th Fellow of the Royal Society.
Average attendance at meetings has been 100—the lowest ever
being 6 for a talk on the problem of force in politics, the highest (500
plus) for live demonstrations of explosions and hypnotism. (Moral?)
The talks alone represent some 10,000 man-hours of edification and
enjoyment, to say nothing of the many hours of questioning, discus-
sion, eating, drinking, experimenting, etc. What's it all about?
Sinclair Goodlad
Advertising Agency :
Educational Publicity (Partners)
Ltd. CHA 6081
Fe a £ u re s of
the f u t u r e now
Wellsoc tries to provide a live
equivalent of " New Scientist " or
" Scientific American," a forum
for the discussion of subjects of
general scientific interest, where
botanists can hear about lasers
and engineers can hear about
tropica! disease, physicists hear
about sewage disposal in the
effluent society and civils hear
about fundamental particles,
(which abound in sewage, of
course). Wellsoc tries to keep
ahead of the pop press—the
Times, Guardian etc.—by pump-
ing science journalists for ad-
vance news on " in " science. Be-
cause someone has decided to
major in one .oject, he should
not have to a jandon interest in
- !
1 other subjects. Indeed, with
• creasing cross-fertilisation be-
tween disciplines, it is essential to
be aware of major developments
in fields of activity other than
one's own.
On t a p o r
o n t o p ?
Churchill wanted his scientists
on tap but not on top; Wells
dreamed of Utopia governed by
engineers—the homogenised so-
ciety with salvation through air-
conditioning. Wellsoc holds nei-
ther such extreme doctrine, but
believes that science and engine-
ering are of compelling interest
when directly linked with the
satisfaction of human needs.
Some of these needs can be
readily identified-artificial foods;
problem of ageing; land use;
population control; etc. Others
are the subject of economic/poli-
tical debate—how to forecast for
technology; how much of the
country's resources to spend on
R & D ; the technological gap be-
tween rich Jand poor countries;
etc. Still other needs can only be
identified -by the direct study of
motivations—through anthropo-
logy, sociology, psycho-analysis,
psychiatry, psychology, (neuro-
physiology. Wellsoc has persis-
tently tried to relate the enjoy-
ment of science and technology
as mind-stretching activities to
the purposes they exist for.
L a p s e s
into L u n a c y
Science is most challenging
when up against the most difficult
subjects; that's also where science
encounters the lunatic fringe!
Wells more or less invented
British Science Fiction; by con-
trast Wellsoc is getting a national
reputation for sympathetic de-
bunking in the shadow-world be-
tween science-fiction and science-
fact-LNM; mediumship; ghosts;
flying saucers—trying to distin-
guish the genuine from the crack-
pot. The only University Vice-
Chancellor to talk to Wellsoc
(Leggett of Surrey) did so on the
fascinating subject of Re-incarna-
tion. Members punching com-
puter cards on UFO reports;
hstening for poltergeists in East
Anglia; drawing sketches to test
telepathic television; peering into
the Dartmoor sky . . . keep up
the ceaseless battle against fraud,
delusion, etc. etc. etc. tie. . .
joined—i.e. 1 in 4. This makes
economic sense because pub-
licity is a minor expense.
There's no point having a de-
cent speaker if you keep it secret
Our posters haven't been up to
much this year; but it seems
that the hard-core membership
of lively minds prefer facts to
psychedelic sex stimuli.
S w e l l S o c ?
Depends on what you want,
there's terrific room for improve-
ment :
1. i.C. is too parochial. It would
be a terrific stimulus if meet-
ings could be shared with other
colleges and students (male and
female) of the social sciences,
philosophy, etc. Is there a
I fnion oolicv on this?
Fungoid Growth hi Maoneyville ? Psychaedelic Plastic Pasta
No—just what happcaad at a Wellsoc Manifestation.
2. We haven't succeeded in mak-
ing attractive the very impor-
tant meetings on the cost of
science, technological gap, etc.
In fact, attendances at meet-
ings are almost inversely pro-
portional to the political im-
portance of the subject. If I.C.
graduates aren't informed and
concerned about such matters,
God only knows who is.
3. Serious study groups need to
be developed more fully. The
IC 2000 group attracts less in-
terest at present than the one
on UFOs. Lord Ritchie-
Calder on problems for tech-
nologists in the Year 2000 drew
only 30 at an open meeting—
less than 1 per cent of the stu-
dent population land 0.5 per
cent of the staff. These are the
subjects where one would ex-
pect vigorous dialogue between
staff and students.
4. More social contact needed
between members. The com-
mittee is working on this and
trying to avoid the exhausted
lapse into beer-sodden caco-
phony f/here any intellectual
exchange is systematically
drowned »by decibelligerence.
Maybe 100 meetings represents
achievement. But it's only take-
off. More. Bigger. Better.
Faster. Furiouser. As Wilde said,
Nothing succeeds like excess.
S u c c e s s
S e e r e t ?
No room for complacency;
only 25 per cent of the college
come to any meetings at all. But
some items of deliberate policy
may help:
1. Subjects for discussion which
are not dehydrated and dessi-
cated for iron-ration text-books
where the lively mind can
make original suggestions jby
penetrating questioning;
2. Meetings every week—not ir-
regularly—at the same time
and (usually) in the same place.
The whiz-kids and firebrands
keep Monday nights free!
3. Decentralisation : approxi-
mately 35 separate operations
go into the mounting of a meet-
ing. Large and active commit-
tee with clearly-defined respon-
sibilities ensures smooth
running—usually(!) The guy
who keeps the coffee hot is as
important as the chairman who
comforts the speaker.
4. Massive investment in detailed
publicity. Wellsoc statistics
show that 1 in 4 of those who
received detailed programmes
in 1966 joined; in October
1967, everyone in the college
got a programme and 800 have
THIS IS YOUR C H A N C E
TO BUY T H O S E BOOKS
YOU'VE ALWAYS WANTED
Giant Sale at the Bookstall
12th-26th Feb

