10 FEATURE 28th November 1997
IMPOSSIBLE MINDS
MWLMlil
Prof Aleksander with
MAGNUS, his neural net-
work software.
|T: First of all, what's the book
about?
IA: Ohhh... you'll have to buy the
book to find out! It's really about trying to
understand what consciousness is from a
mechanistic point of view. It's a very con-
troversial subject, that, because you have
philosophers who will tell you there's no
such thing as mechanistic point of view
on consciousness. Then you have neuro-
biologists who actually measure levels of
consciousness in the brain, they know
roughly what the different elements of
consciousness are, so where engineers
come in (I'm an engineer, obviously), is
to try and model what neuro-biologists
have. What I've tried to do in the book is
to explain in layman's terms what it is
that you're likely to find in the brain when
you're looking for consciousness, in
terms of very, very simple ideas about
neural networks. I've also brought in a lot
of the philosophy of consciousness
which tells us why it is that people are so
sensitive about the topic, so the book is
a kind of primer on consciousness, if you
like.
JT: So, what is consciousness?
IA: Well, one of the dangers is trying
to define it too closely. It's a lot of things.
That's what causes all the trouble. You
start off with the ability to perceive. Our
brains reconstruct a world; what we see
with our eyes, what happens at the back
of the eyeball, is a jumble of signals.
Firstly, what the brain does is reconstruct
that; it gives us the feeling that we live in
a coherent world, so there's a sort of per-
ceptual aspect of consciousness, or visu-
al awareness, if you like. Now, there are
a whole lot of things associated with that,
without which we wouldn't have a great
deal of consciousness, but it's not only to
do with vision: it's to do with all the other
senses as well.
With human beings, it's a lot to do
with being able to talk about our con-
sciousness, being able to describe what's
in our heads...
consciousness.
Then you have the relationship
between the things that are in our heads
and our unconscious, which is also a
part. You find out in the book that all
these various aspects of consciousness
are listed. Consciousness is everything
we can think of. Everything we do; it has
to do with our consciousness.
JT: Do you have any detractors - are
you every seen as mad scientist?
IA: I certainly have detractors, but I'm
not sure I'm seen as a mad scientist. I
think some detractors ask the question
'Consciousness is every-
thing we can think of."
JT: Like Descartes?
IA: Yes, well, I think you've got to be
careful with Descartes. Language comes
in to it with humans, but that doesn't
mean that animals that don't have lan-
guage aren't conscious in some way or
another.
There's [also] the ability to know
where we've been, to know where we are
now, and the ability to plan into the
future. These are all things that are going
on in our heads, and they're all part of
"What the blazes is an engineer doing in
this business? Engineers are supposed to
fix washing machines. Why is he getting
mixed up with consciousness?". Well, the
answer is pretty straight forward; one
thing engineers, particularly electrical
engineers, learn to handle are very com-
plex systems. Now, the brain is a com-
plex system, and in fact the kind of
models that neuro-biologists come up
with are really at times simple-minded.
They're not stupid, but they just don't

