28th November 1997 FEATURE 1 1
IMPOSSIBLE MINDS
IC's guru of mechanical brains, Igor Aleksander, talks to
Jon Trout about his book. Robots and mad scientists.
have the sophistication that an engineer
can add. That's why I'm in this business.
JT: How did you get started?
IA: I'd been working on neural nets
for the best part of thirty years. Now,
neural nets are models of the brain. The
brain is a very different thing from a con-
ventional computer; the way it learns, the
way it has its own way of doing things.
My background has really been in com-
puters, so I've been puzzled by the dif-
ference. The more you work with neural
nets, the more you're looking for sophis-
ticated behaviour in the nets, and even-
tually you hit upon consciousness. I
believe that we have an artificial con-
sciousness program in my laboratory in
Electrical Engineering.
the actual consciousness have a loca-
tion?
IA: [general hilarity] Magnus is a vir-
tual machine so whatever happens in it is
something that takes place in the com-
puter. Now, Magnus itself is not con-
scious, but it's a tool that enables you to
study consciousness. Now, the confusion
comes in here because you could put
Magnus-like machinery into a robot. I
would argue that, at that point, the robot,
in a very artificial way, becomes con-
scious. It may become aware of the
world it lives in, it may be able to have a
natural-language conversation with a
human being, so it's got its own con-
sciousness. However, because the
robot's made of silicon and mechanical
'I believe that we have an artificial
consciousness program in my
laboratory."
JT: Is there any way of measuring or
quantising the level of consciousness
or intelligence?
IA: You've got to be very very careful
about the relationship between intelli-
gence and consciousness. I actually find
intelligence a much harder concept to
think about. Obviously, you must be con-
scious in order to be intelligent, but the
way you measure models of conscious-
ness is just to ask them.
JT: Tell me about Magnus; what is
it?
IA: Magnus is a piece of software
which you can download from the
Internet. It's a neural network system
that enables us to do the kind of experi-
ments that appear in the book. It's a
development system; if you're interested
in artificial consciousness its a tool that
will allow you to do research in that area.
I find it extraordinarily useful as it runs on
my PC, so 1 can do research anywhere.
It's like a Mechano kit for putting togeth-
er models that are a bit like the modules
of the brain. We can put them together
and test whether our ideas of how the
brain works are right or wrong.
JT: Is there just a spark and some
sort of essence comes into being? Does
parts and so on, that's still a very artificial
sort of consciousness. So there's many
forms of consciousness. That of a human
being and that of a robot are completely
different. But if the robot behaves in such
a way that requires its actions to be
underpinned by a form of consciousness
then you have your answer.
JT: Why is human consciousness so
different?
IA: It is very closely related to what
you're made of, because that determines
your needs, aspirations and what you do
in the world. Consciousness grows
according to these needs. Now, the
robots, if they are conscious at all, will be
conscious of their own difference from
human beings. If one were to have a con-
versation with a human being, and the
human said "Well, when are you lot going
to take over the world?", the robot
should come back and say "Don't be stu-
pid, I have no need to take over the
world, that's a human ambition."
JT: Hopefully! I know this is science
fiction, but how far are we from devel-
oping androids such as Star Trek's
Data?
IA: In the book I've used forty years,
because that's actually a very very long
time in the development of technology. I
think that by that time we will have enti-
ties that humans will accept as conscious
but they won't be quite as interesting as
we see in science fiction, having rather
defined roles without their own personal-
ities. In the old days some people would
have seen the Internet connected PC as a
thinking machine.
JT: Do you think there's an ethical
question?
IA: People say there is, but I think it's
a mistaken link between consciousness
and ethical questions. At the moment we
have ethical questions which arise with all
entities in the world which we know to be
conscious, not necessarily because
they're conscious, but because they're
alive. I know that a robot can survive any
conscious thing on earth so discussions
of its life come down to questions of
human investment. You might think of
"do I kill a conscious machine" in the
same terms as do 1 want to destroy an
aeroplane or some such. Does a robot
have a desire to maintain it's existence?
Well, no, not necessarily - it depends on
it's purpose. It may be much happier to
end it's existence if it thinks it's purpose
has been fulfilled - and
that's where science
fiction comes in. The
machine may not be
happy, whereas the
operator may feel that
it's job has been done,
and that's what hap-
pened with HAL and all
those fictional robots.
But in reality, the
relationship is much
more like that between
a conventional com-
puter and it's software.
At present, the com-
puter will defend
against someone com-
ing along and wanting
to destroy it's memory or a virus - and
it's much more like that with artificial
intelligence. Once a machine receives an
order in it's programming to defend a
part of itself, then it will defend it. It's
simply a question of which sections you
decide need defending.
Igor Aleksander will be sign-
ing copies of
"Impossible at
VVaterstone's Bookshop. Ipm
on Ts. er.
The book
back or £17 for the deluxe
hardback. It is published by
to p-.
lent Chrii:.'
would make.

