28 November 1997 MUSIC 13
A Collection of 10 Acid House Anthems * * * *
ALBUMS
ACID BRASS
W
e've all had them. Those
pub ideas. You have an
interesting concept that
you share with a few friends that
soon escalates into drunken stu-
pidity. We all say how great it would
be if this idea could really happen,
knowing full well that it never will.
This is one of the few that have actu-
ally come into fruition: 'to get a tra-
ditional brass band to play a selec-
tion of Acid House anthems.'
The concept was, er, concepted
during the summer of last year, by
cult artist Jeremy Deller. He con-
vinced the Williams Fairey Brass
Band ('the world's leading brass
band' - from Stockport) that his
idea was a good one and a Liverpool
concert was soon arranged. The
concert (held last March) attracted
mass interest, most notably from Bill
Drummond of ex-KLF fame, who
was intrigued by the prospect of
hearing a brass rendition of his
house anthem What Time Is Love?
On seeing the concert, he was
blown away and, whilst watching
the performance of his song,
phoned fellow ex-KLF member
Jimmy Cauty to let him listen. It
fired Drummond's imagination so
much that he went to meet the
band later and talked about a musi-
cal collaboration that would bring
the KLF out of their 5-year retire-
ment.
You can probably guess the rest:
The KLF reformed (as 2K) this Sep-
tember for their '23 minute spec-
tacular' where they performed a
revamped version of What Time Is
Love? called Fuck The Millennium.
Joining them in their performance
were the brass band and Deller. So
you could say that this album is the
brainchild behind the most infamous
musical performance in history. Or
you could say it is a load of boring
Northern horn players trying des-
perately to look cool. I'd go for the
first - listening to this album is just
so enjoyable. It's even possible to
dance to, especially such uplifting
anthems as 808 State's Pacific 202
and Can U Dance? by DJ Fast Eddie.
But the standout track has to be The
KLF's What Time Is Love? with its
trombone Mu-Mu's and strangely
psychedelic Fast-Show style jazz
solo.
There are a few occasions dur-
ing these 10 tracks where the songs
resemble second rate James Bond
themes (1 think Sheryl Crow knows
what I mean). Even so, this album
is the most innovative, weird and
hilarious to be released this year. So
whatever you do, listen to the songs
on this album, preferably when in an
altered state of mind. They are crazy
songs but they'll make you shine.
CI Ed
ROBERT MILES
23 am * * *
A
fter his first foray into the
British music scene with
Children, anything Robert
Miles does from now on is going to
have to be something special to get
noticed. And I must say, 'hats off
to our Bob', because this really is a
pretty good attempt.
If drawing parallels to night-
clubs, this is definitely more of an
Equinox than a Ministry, but as
Equinox claims to be the biggest
club in the world, this really can't be
a bad thing, however, I would like to
point out that size isn't everything.
In-depth track analysis really isn't
worth going into because this is
pretty much all along the same lines
as Children when it comes down to
the musical composition of each
piece. A very out of character intro-
duction gets 23 am underway, but
soon you get what you'd expect,
decent if somewhat commercial
dance music and maybe the surprise
of some well sung lyrics. But in all
truth, not many genuine club
anthems have or will originate from
a man who will no doubt be seen in
coming weeks on Top of the Pops
as a lonely on stage figure with his
PC and keyboard tapping away to his
screaming teenage fans.
There is quite a European flavour
to 23 am, and occasionally it
descends into a mellow state. This
variety does lend itself to being able
to be played from start to finish and
being appreciated more as a per-
son's own expression than many
other dance albums. Hints of Bev-
erley Hills Cop's Axel F, and maybe
even a bit of Olive are evident, and
they complement the overall sound
well.
This isn't going to appeal to
well-seasoned, single-minded club-
bers, with their definite ideas on
how dance music should be, but
then they don't need warning, as the
name Robert Miles will alert them
straight away. However, if your
tastes are varied, and the depress-
ing guitar scene is getting a bit much,
this comes recommended.
EH Derek
THA BOMB!
Hey, what up to all the fly people, what's goin'
on, hope everything fine. First up I got a cou-
ple of things to promote; number one is the
International Tamil Society's annual cultural
show. On show will be a variety of entertain-
ment, from ancient Tamil art forms up to a
modern dance, the show is on tonight
(28/11/97) at the Great Hall in Sherfield
Building. Next up is an event that I haven't
been asked to write about but I'm gonna any-
way - The ACS Nubian Jam. Its on the Friday
5th December at Grays Inn (nearest tube
Chancery Lane) and will be running from
10pm to 5am, for a cheap (from £4) bangin'
night out, be there.
There ani't really much goin' on in the
world of R&B and hip hop, so this week y'all
got a run down of the killer LPs and singles at
the moment.
THA BOMB! - CURRENT TOP TEN KILLERS
1. 'Nothin But the Party' - Truce -
Reviewed last week this party tune is wicked,
its bad and British and number one.
2. 'When Disaster Strikes' - Busta Rhymes
- Hip Hop album of the year and there ani't no
doubt about it. Its packed full of star names
and star tracks, if you need confirmation just
check ' Put Your Hands Where My Eyes Can
See', 'Dangerous' or the current smash 'One'
featuring Erykah Badu.
3. 'You Make Me Wanna' - Usher - This is
all that and more, number one in US (RnB
charts) for weeks and still goin' strong. Phat
piece of R&B, this is a must have.
4. 'Harlem World' - Mase - Bad boy bin
blowin' up the whole universe, now its Mases'
turn to cut an album and this doesn't disap-
point. Puffy does his usually shit on produc-
tion, and the huge number of guests' do their
part. The album is pretty much feel good
music, as previewed by the first single off it
'Feel So Good'.
5. 'Phenomenon' - LL Cool j - The old man
of hip hop is back with this, the title track of
his much hyped album, for me the album ani't
all that, but this single is definitely a must
have.
6. 'FirmBiz' - The Firm - Taken from the
album 'The Firm', made up of Foxy, Nas,
Nature & AZ and with production from Dr
Dre, add to this Dawn (from En Vogue) on
chorus duty and you got another killer.
7. 'My Dream' - Yvette Michelle - This LP
has been out for an age but sales have not
really taken off, which is a shame because
this is full of phat head nod R&B. After being
showcased on the Flexx mix tapes this young
lady has not looked back and now is certainly
staking a claim to Mary's crown.
8. 'Sexy Cinderella' - Lyden David Hall -
Phat Nu Soul on a British tip, this talented
young man has made a single that is smooth
and has the sign of quality all over it.
9. 'Mourn U Till 1 join' - Naught By Nature
- The party boys of hip hop do their thang on
this long awaited tribute to Tupac
10. 'London' - D'lnflence - This is the third
set from D'inflence is certain the best yet,
every track is an A class gem. Why this is not
number one in the album charts is beyond
me. This is pure gold soul, acquire.
Much Love To ALL. Milen

