18
REVIEWS
FILM 28 November 1997
KEEP THE ASPIDISTRA FLYING
Starring: Richard E Grant, Helena Bonham Carter
Director: Robert Bierman
R
ichard E Grant may be an extremely competent actor, but he
appears to have fallen into the trap, much frequented by Michael
Caine and Robert de Niro, of playing the same part every time he
acts. In this adaptation of George Orwell's classic Keep the Aspidistra
Flying he stars with Bonham Carter as a quirky 1930's couple with very
modern ideas. He plays Comstock, who walks out on a secure job to fol-
low a "career" as a poet and inadvertently discovers life along the way.
He relies on his friends to bail him out when the finances go down the
drain while he just recites wonderful poetry, swears and moans about not
getting into Oxford. Things seriously go pear-shaped when he makes his
spectacularly tolerant "lady friend" pregnant, which makes him all the
more determined to escape the dreaded "middle-class respectability".
The film is blessed with some beautiful camera work and more
recognisable, though alas un-nameable, British faces than you would
think possible. Should you be looking for an unchallenging stab at one of
Orwell's lesser-known works you will do no wrong in seeing this. U
Alun Hart
THE TANGO LESSON
Starring: Sally Porter, Pablo Veron
Director: Sally Porter
T
he Tango Lesson is about a
film-maker struggling with
script writing who decides to
take some tango lessons from a
professional dancer (Pablo Veron).
As the film develops, the situation
becomes more complex,
incorporating love, love-in-work
and leadership. She wants to be a
tango dancer, he wants to be a
movie star. Do they have real love
or are they just using one another.
Can each learn how to follow when
both are leaders?
Shot almost entirely in black
and white, this true film shows how
Sally Potter (playing herself)
struggled with writing a decent
script after her acclaimed Orlando.
It sets a strong mood from start to
finish and seems ready to induce
empathy from its viewers.
Sadly it fails chronically. Far
from being anything close to
engrossing, it excels in tedium and
is incredibly inane. The dialogue is
restricted to one or two lines about
issues such as leadership and
feminism while the audience
expects far more. Unfortunately
the scenes of spontaneous crying
or the two lovers interacting also
fail to effect the desired reaction
from viewers. However, although
most screen time is dedicated to
the two leads doing it in every sin-
gle public place imaginable, (the
tango that is) it is filmed with
plenty of style and control and a
never-ending soundtrack which
almost redeems matters.
To the film's credit, however, it
is never at any instance confused,
it is a rare film in that it allows you
a peak inside the mind of the
director as if you were chatting
directly to Sally Potter. This
therefore probably explains why
the film stubbornly persists in
shunning entertainment in favour
of more analysis of the director.
At the end of the day, people
will walk away with one of only two
possible opinions. Absolutely
fascinating or an utter waste of
time. I'm afraid I can't see many
people vying for the former. Q
Tesfaye Asfaw
ICU CINEMA - SUNDAY 30TH NOVEMBER AT 6:00
LA DOLCE VITA
Starring: Marcello Mastroianni, Anita Ekberg
DirectonFrederico Fellini
A
rguably the best film ever
made, La Dolce Vita boasts a
wonderful story line, the
amazing setting of 1960's Rome, a
beautiful female and a gorgeous
male lead.
Directed by Italy's premier film-
maker, this deals with a journalist's
struggle to find morality in the
seedy Italian capital. He feels that
he is an outsider and apart from the
world he cynically observes.
However, his very cynicism pre-
vents him from realising that he is,
in fact, drawn towards and into the
life he pretends to despise.
Marcello Mastroianni stars as
Marcello Rubini, who travels
around Rome in company with
Paparazzo, played by Walter
Santesso. This film gave rise to the
term paparazzi, which has come a
long way from this foolish, bum-
bling photographer. Anita Ekberg
is fantastic as Sylvia, a beautiful
Swedish actress, who jumps into
the fountains in Rome and provides
one of the most memorable
moments of the film.
I highly recommend this film
to those who wants to know more
about the art of film-making, as
well as anyone who enjoys tales of
decadence and immorality, where
sex and alcohol are the driving
forces and the only escape is
death. Although it's in Italian, it has
subtitles, and really is something
special. It's showing this Sunday at
ICU Cinema, providing a rare
chance to see it on the big screen.
Go on, treat yourself. O Julia
FILER C O l P I f l T O i
i m mmmmmimWimm w i t h WMm
a s BON
KENSINGTON
WIN TICKETS FOR
The Odeon Kensington are giving you the chance to win one of five
pairs of tickets to see Alien Resurrection. They are also throwing in an
impressive film poster for each winner.
To enter, simply e-mail the answer to the following question to
felix@ic.ac.uk:
Who directed the original Alien?
Last week we were giving away tickets and posters for Welcome to
Sarajevo, the true story of an ITV reporter's mission to rescue an orphan
from war-torn Bosnia. The winners knew that Martin Bell is the MP who
was shot while filming there last year.
They are:
Haavard j Haugen
Daniel Thuysbaert
Katharine Stenlake
Stephen Tarlton
Alistair Fox

