imperialcollegeunion.org
Union Page
Part of a Club, Society or Project or an Academic Rep?
Then we have training for you!
Are you part of a Club, Society or Project? Are you an Academic Rep? Then we have a
range of training coming up to help you in your role.
Our new Club, Society and Project training covers topics that you told us were the
most important, such as planning a successful event, publicity, and managing your
group’s money. Click here to see what sessions are running and to sign up. If you’re
a Rep, our skills based sessions are all there to help you develop in your role in your
department.
You only need to attend one session, and all Reps from all years are welcome. To see
all of the sessions for our Academic Rep Training go to imperialcollegeunion.org/
academic-representative-events
Want a cheap bike or some parts? We’ve rounded up all bikes that have been left at
Imperial and are auctioning them off on the cheap!
On the 3rd November 12:00-14:00 by the Queen’s Tower we’ll have the auction and Dr.
Bikes to help you have a quick fix of your new ride and security will be selling D-locks
for half price. Bikes are sold to the highest bidder, and what you see is what you get
- usually a bargain. All proceeds go to charity (RAG) and improving cycling at Imperial
(ICBUG) who work to improve cycling.
WHEN? Tuesday 3 November
WHERE? Queens Tower if the weather is good, Metric if the weather is bad
WHAT TIME? 12:00 - 14:00
Your Rep & Council Elections - the results!
A massive 25.96% of Imperial students have taken part in the 2015 Your Rep
& Council Elections - meaning Imperial College Union has kept its record of
having the highest turnout in the UK for these volunteer positions.
Over the past four days, 4513 students cast 13182 votes, electing 127 Academic
Representatives, 16 Council Members, the Graduate Students’ Union Executive
Committee, and our new Ethics & Environment Officer.
This nation-leading turnout gives our Postgraduate and Undergraduate student leaders
a powerful mandate for change, ensuring that when they speak to departments and
faculties on your behalf, your voice is heard.
Go to imperialcollegeunion.org/news/your-rep-council-elections-results to find out who
your Academic Representatives are.
Thank you to all the candidates, and congratulations to the winners!
The Annual Bike Auction is back - come and grab a bargain!

