IWELFARE SUPPLEMENT
AREAS WITH REPORTED RESISTANT MALARIA
Epidemiological assessment of status of malaria, June 1982
Areas from which chloroquine-resistant P falciparum is reported:
Central and South America- Brazil, Colombia. Ecuador. French
Guiana, Guyana, Panama, Surinam, Venezuela. Bolivia (suspected).
Asia- Bangladesh (north and east), Burma, China (Hainan Is and
southern provinces), India (NE—Orissa State and Assam plus
Uttar, Andhra & Madhya Pradesh), Indonesia (Kalimantan, Irian
Jaya, Java, Sumatra), Kampuchea, Laos, Malaysia (Pennisular and
Sabah & Sarawak), Nicobar & Andaman Is, Nepal (Makwanpur
Dist), Philippines, Thailand, Vietnam.
Oceania- Papua New Guinea, Solomon Islands (West), Vanuatu.
Africa- Kenya, Sudan, Tanzania, Uganda, Zambia, Comoro Is,
Madagascar, Zanzibar.
Areas from which Fansidar resistance is reported (suspected):
Brazil, Indonesia, Kenya, Papua New Guinea, Thailand.
Areas from which Maloprim resistance is reported: Kenya,
Tanzania (especially Dar es Salaam).
PHLS Malaria Reference Laboratory. London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine
Tips for health care while
abroad
Food and drink Always boil tap water or use
sterilising tablets. Never drink unpasteurised
or unboiled milk. Peel or well wash in boiled
or bottled water all uncooked fruit,
vegetables and salad. Have very small
helpings of food new to you. If necessary
drink bottled water. These recommendations
are made because diarrhoea is a common
problem for the traveller and is due to
physical or chemical properties in the food
or due to infection. Immunisation against
cholera and typhoid do not give complete
immunity from these diseases.
Skin care
Make sure that your feet are adequately
cared for and that you have well-fitting
shoes. Blisters which may become infected
severely limit your mobility.
Make sure you are adequately covered
against bright sun and use a suntan lotion.
Over-exposure can lead to quite profound
illness at the beginning of a holiday.
Personal hygiene
Always wash your hands before eating or
handling food, particularly if you are
camping.
Heat Exhaustion
If you sweat a lot your body will lose both
fluid and salt. This can lead you to feel
unwell with headaches, dizziness and
nausea. You should therefore drink plenty
of fluid and take extra salt.
Diarrhoea
If you develop diarrhoea do not eat solid
food initially and take some anti-diarrhoea
preparation. Make sure that your fluid
intake is high. Remember you are losing
fluids in sweat and in diarrhoea and must
make up this loss as well as maintain your
normal fluid intake. Ten or twelve pints in
24 hours is not excessive. The same advice is
given for vomiting.
On your return to the UK
1. Remember to continue taking your
anti-malarial tablets.
2. If you become ill remember to tell your
doctor that you have been abroad and which
countries you have visited. Malaria, for
example, may occur up to fifteen months
after leaving a malaria area.
For further information contact a doctor
or a nurse at the Health Centre or come in
and collect leaflet SA35 entitled Protect your
health abroad of which a large number of
copies have been ordered.
Thanks are due to the Malaria Reference
Library at the Institute of Hygiene and
Tropical Medicine for permission to
reproduce the map showing the incidence of
malaria.
Tessa Addenbrooke
Page101 June 3,1983 FELIX

