ILFARE SUPPLEMENT!
to be available there
(b) I prefer some drink to be available there
(c) I don't really enjoy it unless some drink is going to be
available ,
(d) I will only attend if I know drink will be available there
8. After I have had a few drinks:
(a) I never pretend that I've had less to drink than I really
have
(b) I occasionally do pretend that
(c) I often pretend that
(d) I sometimes declare one more drink than I've actually
had
9. When it gets towards closing time:
(a) I find I've had enough to drink
(b) I tend to double my final order or buy some to take
home with me
10. In the course of everyday conversation my friends:
(a) seldom talk about drinking
(b) quite often talk about drinking
// you answered 'yes' to (b) then please also answer the
following:
I have noticed that my friends usually:
(c) joke about it
(d) offer some kind of advice to me
(e) talk about drinking much more than me
Add up your .score as follows:
1. (a) =1, (b) =1, (0 "
2. (a) = 1. (b) =3, (c) •
3. (a) =1, (b) =1, (c) =
4. (a) =2, (b) =1, (c) "
5. (a) =4. (b) =3, (c) =
6. (a) =1, (b) =2, (c)
7. (a) =1, (b) =2, (c) «
8. (a) =1, (b) =3. (c) •
9. (a) =1, (b) =3.
10. (a) = 1, (b) • 2, (c)
The truth about drinking
If you scored 1
7 or under, that gives you A. If you scored 1
8 to
24 that counts as B. If you scored 25 to30 that equals C. Arid if
you scored over 31, that equals D.
You should now have two scores of A, B, C or D. They are
both meant to help you understand what kind of drinker you
are. Everybody who drinks can get into difficulties because of
their drinking. In other words everybody is vulnerable to
drinking problems. The first quiz helped you to measure your
vulnerability in terms of the amount you are drinking. The
second quiz helped you to measure your vulnerability in terms
of the extent to which you are dependent on drink.
If you scored the same letter on both quizzes, then read the
description of that letter printed below. I
f you scored two
different letters, read both descriptions but pay particular
attention to the higher scoring letter. Think about
how you can modify either the quantity you drink or the
way you drink it, in order to reduce the higher score.
A-Non-dependent drinking
If you are included in this category, you have no reason for
immediate concern about your drinking. Remember, however,
that drinking behaviour is not a static phenomenon and that
you cannot assume with certainty that you will always be
included in this category.
B-Mildly Vulnerable Drinking
This category comprises those people who may drink regularly
but whose total consumption is not likely to be very high. Some
people will be suffering harm themselves or causing difficulties
for others from time to time. Individuals in this category may
experience a need to drink, but this is likely to be something
which happens only occasionally or which is not particularly
strong.
You should maintain a careful watch on your drinking
behaviour, since you have already entered the vulnerable area.
Vulnerability occurs on a sliding scale and category B drinkers
are, therefore, at the early points of that sliding scale. Ifyou are
included in this category, you should be particularly on guard
for any changes in your drinking behaviour which would lead
you further along the sliding scale of vulnerability, you should
watch how much and how often you drink with particular care
and also pay attention to the way in which other people view
your drinking.
C-More vulnerable drinking
In this category are those people who drink regularly and
frequently. They are likely to be harming themselves or others
andmaynot evenrealisetheyhave problemscausedbydrinking
The need to drink may not be recognised because regular
drinking prevents them from noticing it.
You should make a definite attempt to decrease both the
amount and frequency of your drinking, since you have en-
tered an area of significant danger. Do not deceive yourself.
Everybody who is included in category C is running a very high
risk of developing an accelerating number of drink problems.
••Dependent drinking
In this category are those people who cannot live easily without
alcohol. I
f they stop drinking altogether or decrease their
intake significantly, they are likely to suffer unpleasant physical
and emotional symptoms. These can include trembling hands,
agitation, sweating, confusion, moodiness, depression and
hallucinations. This is altogether different from the more usual
experience of a hangover, which relates to a single drinking
episode. These individuals are certainly harming themselves
physically, psychologically and socially and are likely to be
causing suffering to other people. They will also be requiring
increasing doses of alcohol to be certain of achieving the same
effects as were previously attained by smaller amounts.
If you are included in this category, you should seek further
help. Contact:
The National Council of Alcoholism
3 Grosvenor Crescent
London SW1X 7EL
Telephone: 01-235 4182
The Scottish Council of Alcoholism
47-49 York Place
Edinburgh EH1 3JD
Telephone: 031-556 0459
Alcoholics Anonymous (AA)
PO Box 451
1
1 Radcliffe Gardens
London SW10
Telephone: 01-352 9779
London Council on Alcholism
146 Queen Victoria Street
London EC4V 4BX
Telephone: 01-236 9770
Remember, finally, that if you wish to look more carefully at
your drinking and to learn how to make sensible healthy
choices, you can do no better than to watch the BBC pro-
grammes and read the BBC publication What's Your Poison?
Mm* 3,1983 ^ ^ H H H H B H B H M i ^ H H B l F l U X

