WALKA80UT-
LOOKSEE
by mobile Optics Inc.
Botanist or artist?
An Englishman's passion for his rose garden is
reflected in his choice of rose-patterned
Sanderson chintz for his curtains and framed
reproductions of Redoute's roses for his
bedroom walls.
There is something quite classless and
universally appealing about a beautiful flower.
Similarly, a botanical drawing is enjoyed by a
very wide public, attracted by the beauty of the
flower or by the naturalistic, sometimes almost
photographic way in which it is represented.
The botanist makes rather different demands
of a botanical drawing: he requires it
accurately to illustrate the essential
characteristics of a plant, the features of the
flower, fruit, etc, which distinguish it from
other closely related species, allowing a
P I N C C C H I C
Election Special!
This week, I have a transcript of a show that
may never be seen. It consists of an interview
between ace interviewer and friend of Bow-
Tie; Sir Robin D Rich, and the leaders of the
three main parties: for the Conservatories
Margaret 'Maggie' Zeen; for the Belaboured
'Sir' Antony Chippendale Benn, and for the
Antisocial Democrats, David Steel-Goolies (no
relation). The show was cut because,
assuming everybody was telling the truth,
someone let slip who was going to win the next
election. Who is going to win?
Sir Robin D Rich: Tony—your comments on
how the press has handled this election,
please.
Sir Antony Benn: Well, Robin, I read in the
paper this morning, and I'm not going to
comment on its veracity, that if both
Belaboured win and unemployment comes
down then the Conservatories will come
second and ice creams will cost less. Well, if
this is true, and I'm not saying that it is, then
if it is true that a General Strike will occur if
and only if there is mass privatisation then
both industry will collapse and lollipops
will cost more.
Sir Robin: David—anything to reply to that?
•drawings by Georg Dionysius Ehret, friend of
Linnaeus whose 'Linnaean' system of
classification and nomenclature was first
published in 1735; almost edible apples,
painted by Thomas Hardcastle in the mid 19th
Century.
Also on show are paintings, with a distinctly
oriental flavour, by Cantonese artists
patronised and instructed by European
botanists. Sir James Brabazon Urmston,
President of the East India Company in China,
commissioned ten watercolours as a present
for his daughter in 1811. They include a
mouthwatering, rosy-pink watermelon and a
bunch of Manila hemp 'bananas' (Musa
textiiis).
This is a super exhibition and I recommend
it without reservation, to botanists and
engineers alike!
specimen from the field to be identified
unambiguously. If the drawing is sufficiently
clear and detailed, it will replace many lines of
written description. Pierre Jean Francois
Turpin, a self-taught draughtsman and follower
of Redoute, gave an insight into the value of
botanical illustrations in his 'Essai d'une
iconographie elementaire et philosophique des
Vegetaux' (1820) when he said: 'The writer's
pen and the artist's brush are the two essential
tools available to describe anything. The
botanist who uses only the former will miss the
more expressive of the two'. And yet, to do its
job, the illustration itself need not be beautiful.
The mark of a botanical artist, as opposed to
an observant botanist, is the fusion of science
and art in a botanical drawing which becomes
Art with a capital 'A'.
The discovery of nature
Currently on show at Eyre and Hobhouse is an
exhibition of botanical drawings from Europe
and Asia. Its theme is the development of the
artist as natural historian. There are 17th
Century Dutch watercolours, commissioned
by nurserymen who wanted to advertise their
tulips and carnations; exquisitely detailed
JMp , Jijflf
Where? When? £?
The Discovery of Nature: Botanical Drawings
from Europe and Asia 1650-1850, is at Eyre
and Hobhouse, 39 Duke St, St James', until
June 17. The exhibition is open Mon to Fri
10:00am-6:00pm, Sat 10:00am-1:00pm and it's
free.
David Steel-Goolies: I read the papers this
morning, and again, I don't want to say how
true it is, but one of the main newspapers said
that if it is true that if Belaboured come to
power then it will be with a small majority then
both industry will collapse and lollipops will
cost more. What I would like to say is this; if
that is true, then since a large majority in the
house will mean a decrease in the price of ice
creams, then the Antisocial Democrats will win
if and only if the retail price index goes down.
Sir Robin: Margaret?
Maggie Zeen: The retail price index, Robin,
will go down whether or not the Antisocial
Democrats win.
Sir Robin: Thank you all very much for that
most enlightening interview.
Solutions, comments, criticisms, votes to
me in the FELIX Office by 1:00pm Wednesday
please. £5 from Mend-a-Bike for a randomly
selected correct entry. Absolutely no
correspondence will be entered into!
I hope somebody takes the time to sort out
this puzzle, as it's not in fact very difficult once
you've got it down to the basics. Sorting it out
in logical symbols will make it simple. To clear
up any misunderstanding, when I say 'if A then
B' or 'A means B' or whatever, then this is false
only if A is true and B is false. When I say 'A if
and only if B', then, if this is true, either both A
and B are true, or both A and B are false.
Good luck!
Last Week's Solution
The Art of Subtle Reproduction
No one gave me a correct solution this
week, so I'm running the puzzle again. The
solution shown below was one of the most
common given in, but it is not the best. This
gives the greatest distance as 7.07 units, but
this makes the centre Gestetner superfluous.
Nick Pyne has beaten this, but again is
suffering from one misconception—there
needn't be a Gestetner in the centre of the
square
Try again, folks!
• =,_3nco^eet position ^£^&*te^T
FELIX is published b
y the Editor for and on behalf of Imperial College Union Publications Board, and is printed b
y the Union Print Unit. Prince Consort Road. London SW7 2BB.
Tel. 01-589 5111 Ext 1048 or Internal 2881. Editor: Martin S Taylor; Business Munager: Peter A Rodgers. Advertising Manager: Nick Thexton. Copyright FELIX 1983

