Cocktail of
Fantasy
Rampant
Ramblings
Once upon a time, long before colour telly or
Listermint, there was a little huddle of mud
huts, deep in the heart of fashionable stone age
Britain (just north of Chelsea).
And the leader of this village was a big butch
lettuce farmer called Oglebong the poorly
named. He was one of those men you saw
throwing concrete pizzas about in the
gymnasium and jogging round Hyde Park on
two fingers, you know the type.
Oglebong used to protect the village from
marauding tribes of insurance salesmen and
religious minorities, so he was very popular
with locals.
But one day an itinerant ethnic minority
came tramping around the village trying to sell
clothes pegs and effigies of Margaret Thatcher.
Oglebong was duly called to perform his
highly diplomatic 'get thee behind me Satan'
bit whereupon things started to hot up a bit.
The itinerant, realising the sales patter was
falling short of adequate, switched to all out
confrontation tactics and threatened to put a
curse on the village. Oglebong's reply was
somewhat less verbose with the result that our
salesmen ended up sampling the local mud
patch orally, some way outside the village. Not
wishing to appear foolish she immediately
uttered the curse '...And during the summer
months, gremlins shall rise from the earth and
there shall be a great cacophony of sound that
will ruin reception of Radio One and render all
thought impossible.' And then she vanished in a
cloud of pique.
Sure enough, that summer, the gremlin rose
from the ground and started putting together
quite a passable cacophony, and try as he
might Oglebong just could not communicate
with these people.
Then time went past, and the mud huts
changed to brick, and somebody invented
Listermint and colour tellys and urban scrawl
and the whole place just got swallowed up.
Then one day somebody decided to build a
Hall of Residence, and it just so happened that
this Hall of Residence was over the exact spot
where the village was. And it just so happened
as they dug the foundations down, all these
gremlins who had been having a great party for
some 2,000 years decided it was a good time to
get back to work.
So every summer they dress up in funny
blue boiler suits, get out their hammers and
power drills and put together a reasonable
cacophony. So if you ever wondered who to
blame, blame Oglebong.
Rhyno
The long-awaited The Hunger (directed by
Tony Scott) has arrived in London at the same
time as its star, David Bowie, starts his concert
tour. Fans unable to afford or obtain a ticket to
the concerts and tempted to see the film
instead should consider whether they want to
see their hero playing the cello (a tolerable
mime) and aging to 300 in the space of a day or
two.
The film begins with John (David Bowie) and
Miriam (Catherine Deneuve) at a disco. They
pick up a young couple and tempt them back
to their home, only to murder them and drink
their blood. Miriam is a vampire, capable of
living forever (although not immortal) and
possessed of a rather unfeminine degree of
brute strength. She preys on humankind, not
only for physical sustenance, but for love. She
is apparently able to seduce man or woman
with equal ease and doesn't seem to care
which. She promises her loves eternal life and
eternal youth. In that, she lies, for her mate will
only stay young for 300 years and then a
sudden and terrifying aging process takes
place. This is the fate of John, Miriam's
present lover. Miriam is touchingly portrayed
as a sorrowful, human individual (apart from
the grisly requirements of the vampire way of
life!) genuinely in love with John and his
predecessors and deeply distressed at their
fate. She tries to enlist the help of Sarah
(Susan Sarandon) a doctor researching
premature aging. However, she is forced to lay
John to rest and hopes to console herself with
Sarah as her new mate.
The film is a potent cocktail of fantasy and
nightmare, but suffers the fate of nightmares in
that it becomes more and more unbelievable
until sanity intervenes and the horrific climax
of the film draws grim laughs rather than
gasps.
Despite this, The Hunger is beautifully
made. The gruesome vampire scenes
portray a fight for survival rather than
gratuitous violence. (But why couldn't they
just go to a blood bank and make a
withdrawal?) Miriam's modern-day vampire
chateau in New York's clean, wholesome and
beautiful, and yet lit to produce a feeling of
antiquity and mystery. Touches of black
humour are evident too—John (apparently
aged forty) goes to see the doctor, Sarah, and
she promises to be with him in fifteen minutes.
However, taking him for a crank, she leaves
him alone and two hours later he has aged to
apparently ninety in her waiting room. Later,
Sarah explains the gift of a golden ankh from
Miriam, whom she hardly knows, by saying
that she's European.
And so to the verdict. I enjoyed The Hunger
immensely (but it is well known that I am fond
of vampire stories). I think tales of vampires
can never have a very credible plot and this
one not only does well most of the time, but
actually has some structure and the correct
twist is achieved at the end, if by rather
contrived means.
Watch out for Bauhaus singing 'Bela Lugosi
is Dead' at the beginning—this group aren't
exactly Bowie-clones but the connections are
there. And finally, I think David Bowie must be
the only actor to be carried out of lifts twice by
a woman in separate films. (Remember The
Man Who Fell To Earth?).
Diane Love
Malaysian Kitchen
234 Old Brompton Road, London SW5
Tel: 370 2421
Open: Mon-Thurs 6:00-ll:30pm; Fri and Sat
6:00-12:00pm; Sun 12:00-2:30pm and 6:00-
11:00pm.
What on earth did Shakespeare mean by
'Shall I compare thee to a summer's day?'
Perhaps the object of his affections was a
princess who was always about to reign, but
what about the connotations of hornets,
horseflies and hay fever not to mention heat
rash and 'It's a Knockout'. Surely no harridan
could merit such remorseless condemnation.
Now, if the Bard had penned 'Shall I
compare thee to a deep fried wun tun' the
resulting image would have been clear and
unambiguous. A delectable morsel, light and
exhuberant in constant danger of being
devoured by swooping gods.
The junction of Old Brompton Road and
Earls Court Road is not the likeliest location
for gastronomic revelations but once you have
eaten at the Malaysian Kitchen you will
wonder what you ever saw in a hamburger.
Eat here with others, not so much for the
sake of human variety as for the variety of
dishes that can then be ordered. Everyone
has a bit of everything, one dish at a time.
Start with Satay (£2.05)—tiny delicate
skewers of meat served with a peanut sauce
dip — cubes of cucumber and onion are
provided so that not a scrape of the delicious
sauce need be wasted. Not as weighty as the
name suggests the aforementioned Deep Fried
Wun Tun (£1.95) is the other compulsive
starter. The light crispy covering encloses a
ball of minced pork and prawns and comes
with a dark piquant sauce.
Choosing the main course is agonising 'If
only there were enough of us to order
everything,' only the price (£4.15) wrenched
the eye past Asam Udang—marinated fried
prawns in tamarind sauce—and Sambal
Sotong (£2.65)—squid in sambal sauce—was
hard to resist.
If the decision making gets too difficult you
can always opt for the 10 course meal (£9.50)
which gives you the opportunity to sample ten
different dishes.
Our choice of Nonya Curry Chicken (£2.85)
and Tau U Bak—Pork in Soya sauce
(£2.85)—was interesting in that it illustrated
the similarity of Malaysian cuisine to Indian
and Chinese food. Yet the curry was very
different from anything you might find in an
Indian restaurant and the pork was a far'cry
from the standard Chinese restaurant offering
of unrecognisable lumps of protein swilling
around in monosodium glutomate.
Egg fried rice (£1.00) and Oriental fried rice
(£1.55) were also sampled although the only
perceivable difference between the two was
the 55p.
As a side dish we tried Ikan Bilis (£1.05)
which consists of match stick sized fish fried in
a slightly sweet coating.
For puddings try the Ice Kachang (£1.25).
Although ice with syrup, red beans, grass jelly,
pineapple, corn, lychees and ice cream sounds
marginally less alluring that a summer's day, it
really is incredible. For the less adventurous
the mixture of kiwi fruit and mango sorbet
(£1.15) affords the only mango sorbet I have
ever eaten which actually tastes like mangoes.
If you have ever chewed sugar cane, the
sugar cane drink (50p) will bring back
memories, otherwise it will probably remind
you of water with sugar in it. However, the
house wine at £2.95 for half a litre was
reasonable and they do cocktails (two) at
£2.45.
You can expect to pay between £7 and £10 a
head for 3 courses without drinks and it's
worth every penny.
Page 4 June 3,1983 FELIX

