IWELFARE SUPPLEMENT
Keeping healthy and
dealing with minor
illnesses
When Jon Barnett suggested that the Health Centre should
contribute to the special welfare supplement of FELIX that
he had negotiated with the Editor we leaped at the
opportunity. The fact is that one's health-in the broad World
Health Organisation sense of physical, mental and social
well-being-is to a considerable extent under one's own
control, at least in the affluent West. For example avoidance
of excessive smoking, excessive alcohol, and excessive
eating immediately reduces drastically one's chances of ill-
health and premature death. There is some evidence that
regular exercise, a balanced diet with a high proportion of
vegetable fibre and a relatively low proportion of saturated
(approximately equivalent to animal) fats, and an overall
intake which keeps one at one's 'ideal' weight, will reduce
one's chances of ill-health. Similarly, there is evidence that
For everyone who has survived this year at College, the
Union and the Health Centre have got it together to
give some tips on how to survive next year and the
intervening holidays.
left-Dr Gillon, Health Service Director
below-Jacqueline Faridian and Gay Challands
development of a lifestyle which avoids regular stresses, and
which copes with unavoidable stress so as to minimise its
effects also promotes health and reduces ill-health. ,
Of course a lot of illness is beyond our control, but once
again much of that can be dealt with perfectly well by the
individual independently. The large majority of coughs, colds,'
sore throats and flu-like illnesses are caused by viruses for
which by and large there are no medical treatments.
Moreover the large majority get better on their own thanks to
the remarkable powers of the human body to combat them.
For these conditions rest and symptomatic treatment
available at the chemist are all that is usually necessary. In
the information that follows we have tried to help people sort
out what they can reasonably expect to deal with themselves
and when it would be more sensible to consult a doctor or
nurse. None of this however is done in order to discourage
people from consulting us at the Health Centre if they don't
know what to do. Every member of Imperial College is
welcome at the Health Centre. But we do know that many
people prefer to deal with problems and potential problems
on their own where they can and part of this supplement is
designed to help them to do so.
The other part is designed to remind people of the facilities
we do offer at the Health Centre and to encourage readers to
use them if they need them.
Raanan Gillon
FELIX June 3,1983 Page 5

