IWELFARE SUPPLEMENT!
Colds* and
Coughs
I A cold is the most common infection that we
see in the surgery. It can be caused by a wide
range of viruses, and complete immunity is
difficult to achieve, hence having several
colds in the course of one year is not
unusual. Again, because of the different
viruses involved, symptoms will vary from
person to person and from cold to cold.
However all cold infections are self-limiting,
the body's immune system clearing the virus
from infected cells after a week or so. Being
a viral infection, antibiotics are ineffective
and therefore treatment is aimed at
alleviating symptoms.
Generally, a cold starts with a vague
feeling of being unwell, sometimes accom-
panied by aching muscles and a headache, or
just a 'muzzy' head. It is usual to have a
fever up to 39° at this stage. The sufferer
then goes on to develop a runny nose, which
after a couple of days becomes blocked with
thicker white or yellow mucus.
A cough usually starts with irritation at
the back of the throat, and as the sufferer's
nose becomes more stuffy, the cough will
become productive and 'chesty'. A sore
throat is a fairly frequent accompaniment of
a cold, or may arise on its own, but usually
settles without treatment after a few days.
For the relief of aches and pains and to
reduce temperature, aspirin or paracetamol
tablets, taken in a dose of up to two every
four hours, are usually effective. If a sore
throat is prominent, gargling with two
soluble aspirin, dissolved in warm water (or
Stomach
Upsets
Most stomach upsets are short-lived
complaints, settling within a few days with
simple treatment, without recourse to
medicines. Vomiting may be due to eating
badly cooked or contaminated foods, to
drinking too much alcohol, especially on an
empty stomach, or as part of some other
systemic illness.
Diarrhoea, which is usually accompanied
by spasmodic painful stomach cramps, often
temporarily relieved by going to the toilet,
may occur on its own, or along with
vomiting. It is most frequently due to viral
infections, which may be contagious, or to
eating contaminated food or water.
Travellers' diarrhoea is often due to
contamination of food and water by germs
to which the traveller has no resistance
orange juice to disguise the taste), will ease
the inflammation and soreness.
With a runny nose, a supply of handker-
chiefs is the first line of defence. If a stuffy
nose is keeping you awake at night a steam
inhalation will clear your nose for a short
time and enable you to get off to sleep—fill a
bowl with water just off the boil and lean
over this, covering your head with a towel to
trap the steam. Breathe the steam in and out
through your nose for ten minutes. A
teaspoonful of vapour rub. such as Vicks.
will increase the inhalation's effectiveness.
Coughing is a protective mechanism,
designed to prevent the windpipe becoming
blocked with secretions, and therefore
suppressing a chesty cough with cough
medicines is not advisable. However, should
a dry cough be very troublesome, such as
when it keeps you awake at night, or
upsets your favourite lecturer, it may be
helped by a steam inhalation, or cough
medicine can be bought, without a
prescription, at a chemists.
A cold normally gets better within seven
to ten days, although a runny nose often
takes a bit longer to come back to normal. It
is worth seeing the doctor if a fever persists
longer than 48 hours, or if a sore throat lasts
more than four days; some other infection
may be the cause of your symptoms. If you
start coughing up large quantities of green
or yellow phlegm, oflf your cough persists
for more than one week after your other
symptoms have cleared, these may be signs
of bronchitis and seeing the doctor would,
again, be worthwhile.
Alan Swann
Rubella
(German Measles)
Many of you will have had German Measles
and some may even believe that they have
had it several times. Others may have had it
but so mildly that they were unaware of it.
Rubella or German Measles is a viral disease
which affects people of any age. One attack
confers a high degree, if not total immunity
against further attacks. The importance of
the disease is its effect on the baby of a
woman who develops it in the first fourteen
weeks of pregnancy. The risk is high for such
a baby to be born with congenital
malformations of the heart, ears and eyes.
In many schools immunisation against
rubella is offered to all girls around the age
of thirteen. Such immunisation probably
provides as high a degree of immunity as
does having the actual disease.
Immunisation against rubella can be done
in the Health Centre. A blood test can be
done to test for the presence of rubella
antibodies. If these are not present the
person is at risk of developing the illness. All
women who intend to have children are
strongly advised to ensure that they are
immune to rubella and, if they are not, to
have the immunisation. Immunisation
should be done when a woman stands no
chance of becoming pregnant since a baby
conceived within three months of its
mother's immunisation is at a similar risk to
a baby being born to a mother who develops
the disease in early pregnancy.
Why not attend the Health Centre nowfor
advice on rubella immunisation?
Tessa Addenbrooke
Page61
(unlike the locals who have developed
immunity and are therefore unaffected).
Vomiting will usually settle if you stop
eating and take small amount of fluid
regularly every couple of hours. Once it has
settled, you can start to take semi-solid
foods: soup, bread, dry biscuits and cereals,
gradually returning to a normal diet over
one or two days.
If the vomiting should persist for over 24
hours, or be accompanied by continuous
stomach pain it is worth seeing the
doctor—either at the surgery or in your
room, depending on how bad you feel.
Taking aspirin or an aspirin-containing
medicine for an upset stomach is not
advisable—it will probably only upset your
stomach more (and Alka-Seltzer contains
aspirin!).
If you have diarrhoea, you should again
stop eating, and drink plenty of clear fluids
to replace the fluid that is being lost in the
diarrhoea, and to make up for the large
amounts of fluid that will be sloshing about
in your intestines—half the misery of a bout
of diarrhoea is due to dehydration. Water,
fruit juices or soft drinks that have been
allowed to go 'flat' are ideal—milk should
be avoided as it occasionally exacerbates a
H H H B June 3,1983 OHBMH
bout of diarrhoea.
If you wish, you can buy some kaolin
mixture from the chemist—a tablespoon
(15ml| of this every time you go to the toilet
will help slow things up.
As the attack settles, you can start eating
again, starting with the same sort of food as
advised with vomiting and returning to a
normal diet over one or two days.
Should the diarrhoea persist for more
than two days, if you can see blood when
you go to the toilet, or if the diarrhoea is
accompanied by continuous pain rather
than the more usual cramps, again it would
be worth being seen by the doctor to ensure
that nothing more serious is going on.
Stomach upsets can largely be avoided by
being sensible with food. Meat and dairy
products should not be left where flies can
crawl on them—keep cool in a refrigerator if
possible. Vegetables and fruit should be
washed before eating—this is especially
important when abroad. As we currently are
all aware, if there is any doubt about the
purity of your water supply, water should be
boiled for ten minutes before use, and water
purifying tablets—which can be bought
cheaply at chemists—should be used.
Alan Swann
H H H H « H H H i F E U X

