IWELFARE SUPPLEMENT!
In-patient
Service
To digress from health education, advice,
medical knowledge etc, here are a few words
on a not so well known part of the College
health service: the sick bay.
This is a small unit at the Health Centre.
It is not particularly clinical in its setting and
there is no Matron In Charge, but it is well
equipped enough to house a few patients.
Opened during termtime it is available to
students — undergraduates and post-
graduates.
Eligibility
All students, covered or not covered by a
health insurance scheme (though if you're
not covered there will be a small charge).
What you get
2 double room, 1 single room
2 toilet/bathroom
central heating
TV
3 cooked meals a day ('TV dinners' prepared
specially, and I mean specially, by IC
Kitchen)
No restriction on visitors (no overnight stay,
sorry)
24hr room service, of a sort. Medical and
nursing attention.
Criteria for entry
You feel very ill and incapable of fending for
yourself, and alas, there are no nearby
parents to run home to, or a good pal in
your corridor to lean on
The doctor or nurse thinks you arc ill and
probably incapable of fending for yourself.
You require a degree of medical and
nursing supervision and further investiga-
tion. Eg: 'a bad virus' or 'running a high
temperature'.
You have something quite catching, such
as chicken pox, and it is best for many that
you are not too mobile and readily
spreading your bugs!
In a nutshell, you, or at least your health,
might be better off by being with us rather
than by being wherever you would otherwise
be.
Naturally, we hope you need never have
to experience the sick bay, or come
anywhere near it! Should you however
(unfortunately) need to come and 'stay
with us a while' here is an advance welcome.
Ms Sew Ee
Contraception
It's impossible to discuss adequately here the
various methods of contraception available
but remember that they are available for
those who want them, and that confidential
advice can be sought at the Health Centre. A
pregnancy at College would be disastrous
for many, but is avoidable if precautions are
laken.
One method that has recently become
available is the 'morning after' pill—a
'rescue' method that can be used when you
have failed to take precautions or when
something has gone wrong with your chosen
method of contraception—for example if a
pill is missed or a sheath has split.
The morning after pill is fairly effective up
to 72 hours after intercourse. If you think
that you are at risk of pregnancy and you see
us within 72 hours—and that's always,
possible—we have clinics where you can be
seen without an appointment every day
before 11:00am—a morning afer pill has a
reasonable chance of stopping you from
becoming pregnant. Don't wait to see
whether your period comes on or not—by
then pregnancy may have started.
If you want to find out more about this or
any other method feel free to come and sec
us before you start a sexual relationship
rather than alter.
Alan Swiiiin
Sprains, strains
and RICE
Monday morning clinics at the Health
Centre tend to be busy with sprains and
strains from the weekend's sporting
activities. The majority of injuries we see are
relatively simple 'soft tissue' injuries —
injuries to the muscles, tendons and
ligaments around joints, rather than injuries
to the bones and joints themselves. The
majo'ty of these injuries will get better
given time, but early, simple treatment,
which can be carried out without involving
doctors or first aiders, will help minimise the
injury, and help obtain recovery in the
shortest possible time.
In soft tissue injuries some of the fibres of
muscles or ligaments are torn, with resulting
bleeding and swelling as fluid leaks from
bruised blood vessels. Early treatment is
aimed at preventing further damage, and
minimising bleeding and swelling of the
injured part, to reduce pain and speed up
healing. The treatment can be conveniently
' remembered by the mnemonic RICE—Rest,
| Ice, Compression, Elevation.
Continuing to use an injured muscle or
ligament will only increase the internal
bruising and hence increase the damage to
the tissues. Resting the injured part—not
continuing to play on, or walk unnecessarily
on a sprained ankle will minimise the effect
of the sprain and maximise the rate of
recovery. Witu
a bad sprain, it may be worth
resting it in bed for the first 24-48 hours.
Cooling the skin overlying the injured
t;art will lessen the pain of the injury, and by
reducing the circulation in the area, will
reduce the leakage of fluid from damaged
blood vessels, and hence lessen the degree of
swelling that would otherwise occur. The
best way of cooling the skin is with an ice
pack—ice cubes in a plastic bag. or wrapped
up in a towel or sock, being laid over the
injured area for 10-15 minutes. If ice is not
available, a towel soaked in cold water is
nearly as effective. This treatment can be
repeated every few hours in the first day.
Compression Wrapping a crepe bandage
around the injury will help reduce swelling,
and, by splinting the area will make it less
painful and help prevent further damage. To
be really effective, the bandaging should
extend some way on either side of the injury,
to splint the muscles acting on the injured
area—an effective bandage for an injured
ankle, for example, should run from the toes
to just below the knee.
The bandage should be worn for some
time after the injury has occurred—until all
the swelling has subsided. It may be taken
off at nigh;, but reapplied before getting out
of bed in the morning—when the swelling is
at its least.
I he fourth part of the early treatment is
e/cvation-v. ith injuries of the lovi'er leg much
of the swelling can be reduced by keeping-
the injured part elevated—above the level of
the vv.nst it possible, to allow gravity to
assist in dispersal ol the blood and thud that
collects around the injury. When silting
down for any length of time, eg for a lecture,
an injured ankle should always be propped
up to prevent the accumulation ol fluid
around the injury
By the third or fourth day alter the injury .
when most of the acute pain and swelling
has subsided, the injured area should he
exercised to prevent it stiffening up. and to
rebuild us strength. The main aim is to put
the injured part through its lull range of
movement, but not to induce pain—if an
exercise hurts, you're doing too much too
soon. Start off with passive exercises—where
ihe movements are done without force or
weighibearing. and gradually progress to
exercises where the movements are done
against resistance. With the average ankle
injury it is usual to be able to start jogging
after one week, providing you have carried
out the initial RICE treatment.
Alan Swann
FELIXI I June 3,19831 I Page7

