IWELFARE SUPPLEMENT!
. STUDY AND
EXAMINATION STRESS
Learning strategies
Everyone who has had to work for exams
knows about this. A surprising number
however seem to know little about how to
cut down the anxieties associated with
learning and examinations. There are many
useful books available including Learn how-
to study by Derek Rowntree (£1.25 in the
College Bookshop). A list of several other
titles appears at the end of this article. The
Health Centre also has a a leaflet with very
brief notes about learning and examination
strategies, which are summarised in what
follows. The first thing to realise is that there
is reasonable evidence from psychological
experiments that one can only learn for
about five hours in every 24 hours and that
within that five hours learning is made most
efficient if it is broken up into periods of 20
to 40 minutes with short rests in between.
Thus it is much more efficient to plan one's
work on the basis of five efficient hours a
day than to do nothing for weeks and then
to start to stare at books until the dawn
chorus kidding oneself that one is learning.
Moreover, a lot of students fail to realise
that it is impossible to read all the books that
every lecturer recommends—there simply
isn't enough time. Thus, one of the vital
preludes to efficient learning is efficient
allocation of one's available time between
the competing subjects. Another miscon-
ception is that a book on a reading list
necessarily has to be read from cover to
cover. Often it is far more efficient, from the
point of view of learning, to 'plunder' the
book in order to tackle a specific problem.
Finally, so far as learning is concerned, short
periods of 'memory-jogging', the day after
one has learned something and then a week
after, and then a month after, and then every
three to six months, helps to embed
information in one's long-term memory.
Examination strategies
It is remarkable how many students coming
up to finals haven't developed strategies for
taking examinations. People have offered
different approaches but the following is a
fairly standard one.
Arrive a few minutes early. Coming in a
few minutes late almost inevitably increases
one's anxiety and decreases one's efficiency.
Opening strategies
Spend up to 15 minutes for a three-hour
exam preparing your answers by reading the
questions carefully and choosing the ones
you'll answer. Write yourself a timetable for
each question and make quick notes about
salient facts you want to use for each. As
you remember more facts add them to your
list. Re-read the examination instructions
and the precise wording of the questons you
intend to answer.
encourages you and the answer will
encourage the examiner to think 'ah—a
good paper'. Follow with a favourite
question that you hoped would appear and
have prepared and can answer well (again, if
it's there).
Finally, answer more difficult questions.
Even if they appear difficult, you can usually
get some marks simply by doing what you
can. You must always answer all the questions
required. The first 50% marks for any
question is much easier to obtain than the
next 50%.
Planning
It sometimes helps to spend a minute or two
on each question jotting down your plan for
answering it. This will help you organise
yourself and show the examiner that you
have done so, even if you haven't finished
the question. Cross out with one line the
plan when you have finished the question to
show that it is not part of your answer.
Strategies if things go wrong
1. If you run out of time, use notes, explain
that you ran out of time and that the notes
indicate the points you would have gone on
to discuss or the way you would have solved
the problem.
2. Getting stuck. Allocate a short time to try
and remember or puzzle out the answer. If at
the end of that time you still are stuck go
onto the next question and alter your
timetable so that you make sure you answer
the necessary number of questions.
3. Panic/blackout/terror. The best thing for
this is to anticipate it long before the exam
and discuss it with people at the Health
Centre who can help you to 'desensitise'
yourself to this problem, which is usually of
long-standing. If it does happen in the exam
try and 'switch off. Close your eyes and try
to think of something pleasant and relaxing,
and do nothing for five minutes. Then try
and see how you would explain the problem
in front of you to someone who knows very
little about the subject—a school child for
example. If that doesn't work, try the
'scribble strategy' in which you write out
words related to the subject which
sometimes lead to other words...and other
words...and get your mind thinking again.
If none of this works tell the invigilator
immediately. It is sometimes possible to be
seen at the Health Centre and for the
examination to continue there after
appropriate treatment. However, more
importantly, if you have had severe
problems with examinations previously,
come and discuss this at the Health Centre
well beforehand. All the doctors are
interested and a variety of ways of dealing
with such problems are available.
Raanan Gillon
A few other titles
Open University-Preparing to Study £2.50
The student's guide to efficient study - D
James' £2.65
How to study effectively - Dr Chris Parsons
£1.25
The student's guide to success - W Fisher,
Lassie £2.95
Order of questions
Start with the 'gift' question- -if it's there. It
Page 81 I June 3,1983 FELIX

