IWELFARE SUPPLEMENT!
Health and Travel Abroad
Whether you are going abroad for holiday
or work, a brief conference or a more
protracted posting, on an expedition of
exploration or to visit family and friends,
advice on health matters and specifically on
protection against disease can be obtained
from the Health Centre. Immunisation
clinics are held on Monday, Wednesday and
Fridays from 2:30 to 3:30pm, no appoint-
ment is needed, no charge is made and any
member of Imperial College or the Royal
College of Music may attend. At these
clinics advice may be obtained not only
about immunisation but also about any
health questions related to your travel.
General Advice
1. Plan well ahead. Some immunisation
schedules require eight weeks to be
effectively completed but if less time is
available some protection can still be
offered.
2. Find out about the health risks in the
country/countries to which you are going.
Friends or colleagues already there,
embassies and travel agents as well as
doctors and nurses in the Health Centre can
help you.
3. Consult your doctor about any medical
condition which requires continuous
medication. Make sure that you have
adequate supplies of medication for the
journey and first few weeks at least abroad.
Make sure also that there is a source of
supply in the country to which you are
going—a lost suitcase containing your
insulin or oral contraceptives or any other
regular form of medication is often more
than a mere embarrassment.
4. Consult your doctor also about any
medical symptoms you may have and allow
enough time, if this is possible, to have any
necessary examination and special investiga-
tions done. Glandular fever in a Land Rovei
is very uncomfortable!
5. Have a dental check-up before going
abroad for more than a short time or if you
have any doubts about your teeth.
6. If you are going to Bulgaria, Poland,
Romania, Iceland, Hong Kong, and in some
cases Austria, take your National Health
Service card with you. You may require it to
obtain treatment.
7. Take a simple first aid kit containing at
least an anti-diarrhoea preparation, an
antiseptic cream, dressings, a supply of
aspirin or paracetamol, water-purifying
tablets and insect repellants. Sun-screen
preparations may be as necessary in Iceland
as in India.
Special disease protection (ie immunisation or
vaccination)
Immunisation is possible against the
following diseases: polio, typhoid, yellow
fever, tuberculosis, tetanus, cholera, rabies,
hepatitis.
Immunisation against all except yellow
fever, rabies and tuberculosis can be done at
thet Health Centre. Notice is needed for
injection of gamma globulin against
hepatitis but otherwise all vaccines are held
in stock. Yellow fever and rabies injections
are available at the British Airways
Immunisation Centre, 75 Regent Street,
London W l , telephone 01-439 9584 from
8:30 to 16:30 on Mondays to Fridays.
Charges are made by British Airways for all
immunisations they give.
Some countries require evidence of
immunisation against cholera and/or yellow
fever. It is always wise to ask for a yellow-
fever certificate since the injection lasts for
ten years and even if the certificate is not
presently a legal requirement for the country
to which you are going it may become so
within the next ten years.
When attending the immunisation clinic
remember to tell the nurse or doctor if you
are unwell, if you have any allergies, regular
medication or if you are pregnant.
The Immunisations
1. Polio. An oral vaccine usually
administered on a sugar lump. A primary
course is offered to all babies in the UK and
in many other countries. This consists of
three doses at six-weekly intervals.
Thereafter a booster dose at five yearly
intervals is recommended for people of any
age travelling to an endemic area. A full
FELIXI [June 3,19831
primary course should be taken if you have
not had one before.
2. Tetanus. This again is offered to all
infants in the U K . It is given as an injection
combined with diptheria and often
whooping cough (DPT or Triple Vaccine)
and in this form has been offered since the
late 1950s. A person who has had a primary
course consisting of three injections at
intervals of six to twelve weeks between the
first two and six to twelve months between
the second two needs a booster of one
injection at ten-yearly intervals.
3. Typhoid. Immunisation is advised for
those travelling overland or intending to
spend considerable periods of time in areas
where hygiene or sanitation standards are
low. Two injections at a four to six week
interval constitute a course. Thereafter a
single booster at three-yearly intervals is
recommended.
4. Cholera. This is now a widespread
disease to which at least partial protection is
given by immunisation. This consists of a
single injection and the immunity given lasts
for six months.
5. Yellow Fever. This occurs in Central
Africa and South America. A single
injection is given and it is often recom-
mended that it be the first injection of a
comprehensive immunisation schedule.
6. Rabies. Immunisation against this
disease, which is contracted following a bite
from an infected animal, is available as a
course of two injections at an interval of
four weeks. It is not usually recommended
routinely for travellers going overseas except
for those who, from the nature of their
work, are at special risk of contracting the
disease eg agricultural, veterinary and
scientific staff.
7. Hepatitis A and gamma globulin.
Hepatitis A is common in countries with
poor sanitation and those intending to travel
overland or to camp are advised to have
gamma globulin. This provides some
immunity for three to six months.
8. Tuberculosis. People who have not had
a BCG injection (usually given in the UK at
school at the age of 11 to 13) are advised to
be skin-tested to ascertain whether they have
immunity to tuberculosis. This test can be
done at the Health Centre. If you are not
immune a B C G vaccination can be
arranged.
9. Malaria prevention. Malaria is
endemic in many parts of the world as is
shown on the accompanying map. One bite
from an infected mosquito during a single
overnight stop in a malarial area can lead to
the disease. Prevention is partly achieved by
taking anti-malarial drugs appropriate to
the area. Advice about the drugs to be taken
should be obtained from the Health Centre
since the malaria parasite is becoming
resistant in different areas to different drugs.
The anti-malarial drug is taken regularly
starting one week before departure, while in
the malarial area and for six weeks after
leaving the area. Many preparations need
only be taken once a week.
Other measures such as the use of a
mosquito-net, wearing adequate clothing to
cover arms, legs as well as trunk and the use
of insect repellants should also be taken.
Tessa Addenbrooke j
• • • H H ^ H Page 9

