X:
XXyyyAAy
X:X.
nation.! ,11
0171 928 22>2 snmhhtnk
bfeu; rt'inembered hills
^'.^ftiif
•iSstifrlcribii•••i
MZ''MM:/3:
-:§M
{w/e]j students £.5.^0
... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . , .. ..
|hge.i/7 tgton
Ipt&firii ..if erimeSp
l l l l l l l f t l i l fri;7i!Mp|tp||il|
lyric iKininiciMinih 0181
§§! '
IhffilistiifS .
07.51T
apnlle \Jp%,
ft^^^^^fc
criterion theatre W 7] 369
:tip7Sp:l|p
ipfltlpsi|;
'%Wi:
Itit-sapprri
standby h i • one! £10
play: resurrection -
maureen lawrence,,,
'Resurrection' is an
exairiination oi the rela-
tionship between two
men: Dr Samuel
Johnson and his black
servant Francis Barber.
Playing like a film-noir,
it explores the intricate
relationship between
two extremes: white /
black, life / death, dom-
ination / submission,
past / nature.
Essentially it revolves around a covert strug-
gleforindependance between the two men. The
dynamically loving but platonic relationship is
portrayed through role-reversals and role-switch-
ing particularly during the second act, when
Barber is on his death-bed and is haunted by his
visually real conscience. This is contrasted with
thefirst-halfwhich chronicles a feverish Johnson
stumbling and mumbling in his hours of darkness
and this is juxtaposed with thematically linked
flashbacks. The coherence of the recurring
themes create a compelling dramatic focus.
Malcolm Rennie is
superb as the haughty
and humanitarian
Johnson, and amazingly
deft as various charac-
ters emanating from
Barber's conscience.
Almost as good is
Tyrone Huggins as the
servant who tolerates
the impetuous child-
like whims of Johnson
with compassion and
without complaint, while also emotes volumes
of suffering as the tortured soul at the end.
Writer Maureen Lawrence has borrowed
her dramatic tools from Dickens' 'A Christmas
Carol' and Bernard Shaw's 'St Joan', but this
isn't overt plagiarism. 'Resurrection' is an innova-
tive exploration touching on oft-used but inter-
esting themes that makes thoroughly good the-
atre.
play: blue remembered
hills - dermis potter^j
a
s
s
s
e
k
In light of the somewhat mixed reception of
"Karaoke", it's timely that the National should
revive one of Dennis Potter's best-loved pieces
the 1979 "Blue Remembered Hills". Potter had
developed a reputation for what could be
termed uncompromising drama, mostlyfortele-
vision - "Brimstone and Treacle", "Pennies From
Heaven", "The Singing Detective" - famous for
explicit sex scenes, and a tendencyforhaving his
characters burst into song, seemingly at random.
Neither feature here. Instead, we are returned to
consider a recurring Potter theme - that of his
own childhood in the south-west of England,
sometime during the last war - and the discov-
ery that the world is indeed a dark and sinister
place.
We are in the company of seven seven-year
olds in afickle,fidgetingworld of false bravado,
Best Friends and that curiously twisted child-
hood reasoning. Are children in some way cru-
eller than the adults they become? "It is not the
adult world writ small, childhood is the adult
world writ large" explains Potter, and so the twist
here is that the characters of the children are
played by adults - a device which is at first pure-
ly comic, but becomes increasingly unsettling.
There's the bully, Peter, and hisfriendand
sometime victim, Willie (played by Steve
Coogan, aka Alan Partridge), thoughtful John
and stuttering cowboy Raymond, galloping
behind but never quite keeping up. The girls are
less subtly drawn - Angela, the pretty one
(already using this to her advantage), and
Audrey, the plain one (seeing how this works
against her). That just leaves tragic Donald, the
outsider, playing with his matches...
The transformation of the stage into rolling
hills and endless blue sky is itself childlike in exe-
cution, and provides humorous touches. The
cast handle difficult roles generally well, and
there are some genuinely hilarious moments.
But you just know Something Bad is going
to happen.
play: dangerous play -
andrew loudondrian ttmrston-gordon
This is probably the closest most of us will get to
hear a sensible discussion on the meaning of life
as we know it. Man A (Nigel Langstone) and
Man B (Ben Lemel) are well cast, and Andrew
Loudon's carefully planned and thoughtful script
make the play seem more improvised than it
actually is.
The actors start out discussing topics such as
atheism, political correctness, heaven and hell,
proof of God and a variety of mind-stretching
topics of conversation, gradually highlighting the
differences between their two approaches to life.
Music and song lighten the plights of the angelic
Man A and the satanic Man B to such an extent
that they begin to really talk to each other in a
meaningful way, out of mutual respect for their
respective adversorial roles.
The beautifully lit and simple design (Tim
Clark) sets the play in an indefinable living room.
It could even be a publ
Director Lucille O'Llanagan is usually more
at home directing larger-than-life characters in a
spectacular fashion, but this excursion into the
seedier side of acting is dealt with highly cre-
atively with her supremely deadly technique, the
shock factor! You really find it quite hard to tell
where the play starts and where it finishes
because, like life, this play is full of surprises,
some pleasant and some not!

