FEATURE FELIX FRIDAY 1 7TH MAY 1 9 9 6 . SEVENTEEN
When Saturdays
MUiimgiim Urn t'mn m jmm$ wm.
In an ancient City a temple
stands high above all other
constructions. It is a place of
ardent worship. Visible from
almost anywhere, the people in
the streets below this Citadel
talk mainly of the battles that
are fought each week inside the
gates, where only a few
privileged may watch. St. James'
Park, Newcastle, home of the
team that came second in the
Premiership, has more parallels
with the Parthenon than you
may think.
In other cities, particularly
Manchester, football has become a
tradeable commodity - the
activities on the pitch with Messrs
Giggs, Cantona et al are only one
part of the entity that is
Manchester United pic. The day
cannot be far when their financial 1
performance inspires Nick
Leeson's, as much as their sporting
performance inspired George Best's.
Their continued success is not, a;
everyone seems to think, a
measure of their philosophy of
investing in young local talent.
^ anything, Alex Ferguson is quicker on
the the draw with the company credit
card than..Kevin Keegan and, as witnessed
by his goading of the Leeds players
following their match with United, a
cunning manipulator. Moreover in the
North West, City and United vye for
attention, with City winning on credibility
because of their association with Oasis.
Manchester is home of The soap and The
failed Olympic bid. Manchester also has its
music, which in the last fifteen years has
provided acts like The Smiths, Take That
and of course, Oasis. In Newcastle there is,
a beer and quite literally, only O N E
Newcastle United.
The difference between the two clubs
is also matter of philosophy. In Newcastle,
Sir John Hall has been successful because
he realised that football is not a sport,
but a religion. People conduct their
lives in the shadow of St. James'
Park. It is the cause of debate and worship
here. It's a life source, part of the substance
that flows through every Geordie. Little
else matters. Economic fortunes are tied to
the Club's success - the bars of the Bigg
Market were conspicuously empty on he
night of the famous 4-3 defeat at Anfield
earlier this year. Debate and argument the
following day brought the City alive again.
A quarter of a million philosphers sought
out a priori reasons for that defeat, and
then applied the fundamentals of
empiricism in a vain attempt to reason the
future. Alex Ferguson plays to realise a
profit margin. His North Eastern nemesis
apparently lays bare his soul every Saturday
to fight for a way of life which he believes
in passionately. Kevin Keegan is both hero
and anti-hero. A maverick tempted off the
golf course by John Hall, he may not be the
most experienced person to manage a
Premiership Club but experience
doesn't matter in religion. Jesus was
a carpenter, and Kevin Keegan's
legendary status made him the
ideal person to guide this club.
One of the few players whose
existence in the physical world is
disproportional to the effect they
have in it. He is metaphysical. Like
George Best he has successfully
transcended our world to become
not a person, but a symbol in our
minds, of success, waste, sheer talent and
hope. His physical embodiment is necessary
only to communicate with his players and
the media; otherwise he may as well exist as
a disembodied being in a spatial and
temporal existence beyond our conventional
dimensions. We are in no position to argue
with such a man. We cannot see what he
sees. We cannot reason as he does. He
knows more than us mortals can
comprehend. We wailed when he sold
Andrew Cole. We gnashed our
teeth when £8 million left the
coffers for Faustino Asprilla.
And we will toy with failure if
we even attempt to comprehend
why he played the entirety ol
this season without a detence.
Keegan is committed to his
attacking game. The game, which has
been a joy to watch; that has made
the Premiership the most exciting
division in Europe; that will surely
make the conventional but insipid
| 'long ball' and 'pass, move and
defend' ideas think again. Flair
and passion have been evident,
especially in away games, where
me sensed the zeal of prosletyzing
missionaries. Despite the failure of
the team to win anything, his
philosophy has surely won? Newcastle's
physical loss was immediately apparent. A
tragedy that was surely portentous in this
City given its Greek parallels? But such
things matter less here than in the
boardrooms of Anfield and Old Trafford.
Geordies know, as their Hellenic, equally
hedonistic and opulent, but slightly more
effete ancestors did, that physical victory is
transient and irrelevant. Real victory comes
in the immortalisation of ideas and thoughts
that affect generations beyond our own.
Over time the influence of thoughts are
multiplied until embodied in
subsequent actions. History tells us
that the metaphysical scoreline was
' Greeks 2 Romans 0. Time will tell if
their North Eastern descendants are
qually persuasive with their
philosophy. Either way, the fate of this
club is written:
"Whatever may happen to you was
prepared for you from all eternity" - Marcus
Aurelius.

