FEATURE FELIX FRIDAY 1 7TH MAY 1 9 9 5
7
>
<
?to^a)AlbertGho
Ifyour staffwere refusing to work late at night because they were afraid of ghosts,
who would you call? B e n Wilkins talks to one of Brtains real ghostbusters
When Andrew Green arrived at The Royal
Albert Hall early one evening, he brought
his tape recorder with him. His task was,
to say the least, unusual. If your building is infested
with rats you call the exterminator; if your pipes are
lealdng, you call the plumber. But if your staff are
being seriously spooked by ghostly apparitions, you
call Andrew Green - Britains top psychic investiga-
tor. Six weeks ago the management asked Green if
he would come to The Royal Albert Hall and inves-
tigate some haunting problems they have been hav-
ing. I arranged to meet him there last week to find
out what he had discovered.
When I got to the Royal Albert Hall I was
taken up to the Royal box and told to wait. From the
best seats in the house, I scanned the Hall's cav-
ernous interior hoping to see a paranormal
patron. There were none. Then two film
crews from C N N and CBS arrived along
with some other reporters and photogra-
phers. At this point I began to have my
doubts about being there. I wondered if this flffl
whole thing was just a bizzare invention by
the press office to give The Royal Albert
Hall some extra media attention.
But Green sounded genuine enough.
He is a member of is a member of The
Society for Psychical Research (SPR) and
since 1944 he has been investigating para-
normal phenomena at a scientific level. He
was once a scientist but has had a varied car-
reer, from lecturer to lifegaurd. At 68, he
now spends his time lecturing on psychic
phenomena and solving other people's para-
normal problems. Green has been ghost-
busting all over the country and has written
several books on the subject. Some of the
more famous sites he has visited include The Old
Bailey, and Hampton Court Palace.
While I was waiting for Green I got talking to
Ian Blackburn, the Building director.
"There have been ghost stories for as long as the
Hall has been here, but there is always a flurry of
activity whenever there is building work going on. I
first became aware of it when contractors started
refusing to work in the basement late at night, com-
plaining they had 'seen things'." Mr Blackburn did-
n't seem too taken in by this spooky activity but he
did seem to know all the ghost stories.
He told me about Father Willis who con-
structed the original grand organ .in the ninteenth
century. The organ was revoked in the 1920s but
in the course ofthe alterations workman ran scream-
ing from the Hall, frightened away by Willis, a
stooped figure in a black skull cap. Then there are
the two giggling Victorian girls, often seen skipping
through corridors late at night. The area they appear
in is thought to be the ffomer site of Gore House ,
where Count D'Orsay lived with his mistress Lady
Blessington. One theory is that the two girls are her
nieces - who had a reputation for cavorting in the
basement. And during one of Jasper Carrot's per-
formances the stage manager noticed a figure drift
across the stage. The incident was logged in the duty
manager's report but the identity of the mystery
person was never established.
Back in the Royal box, Green had arrived, out
of breath from climbing the stairs, with his wife
Alan Green believes the Royal Albert Hall is Haunted
Nora - they are Britain's real life equivalent to
Mulder and Scully. Green was certainly was not the
crackpot I had half expected. Something about him
suggests he is very quick witted. He has an enthusi-
astic personality and he obviously enjoys talking
about his work. I asked him if it is possible to detect
and record a ghost.
"With a bit of difficulty" he says, "The alledged
phenomena are usually visual. But it's impossible to
produce a camera that will take a photograph of
visual apparitions at the drop of a hat. Therefore one
has to rely on electronic response units to detect
other forms of paranonriality. In other words, drops
in temperature, concentration of electronic dispare-
ments, that sort of phenomena."
One of his most important instruments is a
magnetic tape recorder. Green was involved in
developed a magnetic tape system when he was
working as a chemist and this is when he realized the
potential for these materials to pick up static. He
also uses a sensitive digital thermometer, and an
ultra high frequency sound detector. Armed with
his equipment and a keen eye for the eerie, our
ghostbusting hero patrols haunted sites around
Britain. Most of the cases he investigates are
accountable but he says in about 25 per cent of cases
things just don't add up.
"If one builds up a picture of the general con-
centration of malfunctions one can say well, OK,
there is something possibly happening."
Andrew Green spent the night of 30th May
patrolling The Royal Albert Hall, record-
ing a mnning commentary as he went
along. But when he played the tape back
. he realized that in the area below door six
here the two girls were seen) the stat-
ic electricity was so intense that it had
completely obliterated the sound record-
ing. "A concentration of electricity for no
apparent reason" was how he put it - and
I think that was the closest he was going
to get to saying 'ghost'.
On the same night, Green also recorded
a remarkable change in temperature.
According to his thermometer, it sud-
denly rose by 8 degrees Celsius in 10 sec-
onds. This was in a small area on the
fourth floor of the building. Right above
the grand organ.
Green seems fairly convinced that there
are some unexplained phenomena occur-
ing at the Royal Albert Hall. In his report
to the Cheif Executive he willl be saying as much.
What they do about it is up to them, he says.
Green's investigations will not convinve every-
body of the existance of paranormal activity. True,
his objectivity may be slightly deficient and his
results have never been formally checked out, but at
least he is making a competent attempt to measure
psychic phenomena. His approach is rational and he
often discusses his results with other scientific col-
leagues - many of them University Professors who
attend SPR meetings in their spare time.
Did he convince me? Well he did invite me to
go and visit him in Sussex. He said he wanted to
show me all the haunted sites in his village. Perhaps
I will go. Just out of curiousity.

