simon baker
Student wealth is, along witia
Military Intelligence and
College Catering, high on the
list of All Time Biggest
Oxymorons. You get your
grant/loan/money-f or-the-
kidney and before you're
halfway through a loaf of
bread from Southside Shop
(those of you who can afford such extravagance
in the first place], the handle has been pulled on
the fiscal toilet and it's gone round the U bend.
But even though your bank statements contain
more red ink than an essay on relativity by
Gazza, spare a thought for poor old Dame
Shirley Porter and her former colleagues at
Westminster Council, who have just been sur-
charged for £31 million in the 'homes for votes'
affair. Call me an old cynic, but it strikes me that
her biggest crime was documenting what she did
and doing it blatantly. It is widely acknowledged
that Labour ran a campaign to 'build the Tories
out of London' during the sixties, situating high
rise, low quality housing to dilute the
Conservative vote. The only difference, save for
the much greater scale and subsequent social cat-
astrophe, was that they never wrote down their
actions. Porter's actions, if proved in the appeal,
were undoubtedly wrong, but to suggest that
this is the greatest misdemeanour in Local
Government histoiy is plainly ridiculous. I see
that one of last week's lottery winners, Karl
Compton, with £11 million in the bank, is look-
ing for Miss Right. Shirley, he lives in Blackpool...
Last week's editorial on the state of IC's
staff was both interesting and brave (God help
you if you ever lose your swipe card, Rachel!)
and links nicely with something that I have been
meaning to say for a few weeks. Although the
staff in Chemistry are genuinely a very cheerful
and helpful bunch, despite some of the really
dodgy undergraduates clogging up the place,
there are some who are very rude and insolent.
Some of the security staff (mainly those in the
library) are very jovial, but others make you won-
der if those grey uniforms are really faded black
1942 Stormtrooper outfits from the V&A col-
lection.
One explanation for the apparent misery of
the staff which can be immediately discounted is
loneliness, at least in Sherfield. A week or so ago,
twelve people were spotted in the Admissions
Registry, a room the size of Wembley arena. Bad
enough, you think, but when you see what they
are actually doing, you lose all sympathy for the
College in its treatment by the Government. A
good number of Imperial students stay on to do
postgraduate studies, for which one obviously
has to fill in an application form. Naturally, we fill
in a different form from outsiders, since they
need to give more information. You might think
it silly to have to write your A-Level grades on an
internal application, and madness to name the
institute where you expected to study. Au con-
traire, my friends, for if you want to do a PhD or
MSc at Imperial, you will
be asked exacdy that.
The temptation to write
Particle Physics with
Crochet-ing at the
Barnsley Institute of
Advanced Needlework
was nearly impossible to
resist.
Having filled in this form,
I received a letter from Registry a week later ask-
ing for references, which I don't need, and ten
days from submission, this piece of paper had
failed to make the short journey across the lawn
to Chemistry. This unnecessary paper shifting,
telling people who do not need to know infor-
mation they already have, is a scandalous waste
of time and money and symptomatic of the
sheer pointlessness of huge swathes of Sherfield.
I look forward to hearing the views of Registrar
Nigel Wheatley on how he justifies the unneces-
sary use of College resources which merely
serves to clog up a busy system. There are multi-
nationals with smaller head offices than
Sherfield and I dare say they run things better. If
it were to be built now on the same scale, it
would be so far down the government priority
list that it would be competing with the plan to
establish a Ministry of Silly Walks.
As most of you will now realise, the gates
near Biochemistry are now locked at 1 lpm. The
reason for this, we are told, is security, and I for
one remember the huge gangs of armed raiders
who have nightly terrorised the campus since the
1850s up until this new measure. Correct me if
I am wrong, but most of the break-ins at
Imperial have been in places where the closure
of these gates would have not made a blind bit of
difference, such as the enormous spate of com-
puter thefts from the Huxley building. The
major consequence of this action has been to
force people who leave Southside wishing to get
to Gloucester Road to trek along Prince Consort
Road. If you must lock them, why not do it at
midnight when most people will have left
College, or soon you will end up with students
impaled on the railings as they make a bid for
freedom. And while I'm on the subject of these
gates, I must take this opportunity to thank Ian
Caldwell for the helpful signs now adorning said
ironwork which state 'This is a temporary gate.'
You have excelled yourself. This ranks as the
most pointless sign, and hence greatest waste of
money, I have ever seen. When is the This is a
temporary sign' sign going up?
It is a shame that this week's column has
been so negative about IC, but it's nice to report
that one facet of the old girl consistently func-
tions perfectly. I refer, of course, to Southside
Bar, home to the finest and broadest range ofales
in Christendom (and if that doesn't get me a free
pint, nothing will). I have to report unacceptable
behaviour by one of the punters, who asked for
'a pint of bitter'. Do you, when buying a car, ask
for 'a red one? You have sinned. May God have
mercy on your wretched soul.

