P a g e 5
Day By Day
A ROUND-UP OF LAST W E E K ' S NEWS
Wednesday 14th
Seven thousand mile journey to avoid school
Twelve-year old Vincent Kelly did not want
to go away to boarding school, so he ignored
customs, immigration and ticket checks and
flew 7,000 miles from Johannesburg to
London.
America's first women in space
Six women, dubbed "Chris's Angels", (after
Christopher Kraft - the director ofthe Lyndon
Johnson Space Centre), will be trained for
America's space shuttle. The six were chosen
from 8,079 applicants to train as "mission
specialists" for America's next 'galactic'
a d v e n t u r e p l a c i n g , s e r v i c i n g , a n d
maintaining space satellites.
Albert Einstein
100 years ago saw the birth of Albert
Einstein.
To-day's scientists talk about Einstein
almost as if he was a god .... but despite his
wide knowledge he still said before he died
"He who can no longer pause and wonder, or
stand wrapt in awe, he is already half dead.
His eyes are shut."
Thursday 15th
Volunteers needed in hospitals
It was announced by the Health and Social
Services Secretary, Mr. David Ennals, that
volunteers are to be asked to help out in
hospitals during periods of serious industrial
action.
Sugarberg to feed bees
A mixture of white sugar, charcoal and
powdered garlic is to be offered cut-price to
Britain's bees. T h e sugar comes from the
C o m m o n Market department of surpluses
(also in charge of butter mountains and wine
lakes). It is 'dematured' to make it repellent to
humans - "The garlic puts people off all
right", said the Intervention Board for
Agricultural Produce, "But it also gives the
bees indigestion, so they add charcoal to sort
that out."
Friday 16th
Ayatollah halts Iran executions
Pressure from the government and the
Prime Minister has forced the Ayatollah
Khomeini to ban further political executions.
The revolutionary courts will be suspended
until new regulations c a n be worked out.
Carrots can damage your health
Carrots have been found to contain
carotatoxin, a potent nerve poison, not to
mention myristicin, a hallucinogen. It also
has isoflavones - they show strogenic effects,
which means that they imitate one of the
female sex hormones. Onions, olives, ham,
melons, potatoes, wine and many other
natural foods contain similar harmful
substances - the Food Manufacturers
Federation's national conference was told.
The managing director said of natural foods:
"We apply safety standards we dare not apply
to major ingredients, or we would have
virtually nothing to eat."
Concorde in "near-miss" incident
Controversy broke out today over the
safety of the skies around Kennedy Airport
after a British Airways pilot's complaint that
his supersonic Concorde airliner was
involved in a "near-miss" with a private plane.
Commercial airlines have been growing
increasingly angry in recent months about
the rising number of private planes using the
air space near Kennedy Airport, one of the
busiest in the United States and the major
American gateway to Europe.
Saturday 17th
Wales 27, England 3
Wales won their Rugby Union international
against England by scoring five tries. Wales
were leading by only 7-3 but in the last 21
minutes of the game they scored 20 points.
One of the oddest features of the match was
the poor standard of placekicking (3
successes in 18 attempts). The Welsh
captain, J P R Williams, in his 52nd and final
international, was forced to miss the last
quarter of the game & had eight stitches put
in a wound in his calf.
France 21, Scotland 17
Scotland found themselves at the bottom of
the international table after an entertaining
performance against France. Just one point
above them is England and then Ireland with
Wales beating France by I point to carry off
the championship for the fourth time in five
years.
Nottingham Forest 3, Southampton 2
The League C u p final recaptured the
competition's early days at Wembley. A Day
By Day reporter noted that the crowd came
away talking about the variety of goals and
the strong individual qualities that lay behind
the result. Gone was the violence that can be
seen so regularly at Saturday's league
matches ....this was replaced by good-
humoured rivalry among the supporters who
carried giant red teddy bears, waved yellow
flags or simply wore their team's colours.
Oxford win boat race
The 125th boat race between Oxford and
Cambridge was the closest for a number of
years with Oxford winning by 3 and-a-half
lengths. Cambridge suffered a severe
psychological shock before they put their
boat into the water. They had to change the
seating order of their crew and bring in a
substitute from their reserve crew, Goldie, to
replace their unfit stroke. Oxford's win was a
comfortable one achieved by leading all the
way on calm water.
Sunday 18th
Golborne colliery explosion
Three men were killed and eight seriously
burned in an underground explosion at
Golborrie colliery, near Wigan in Lancashire.
National Coal Board investigations into the
cause of the explosion, believed to be of
methane gas, will take several days.
Still more snow
Eight inches of snow fell in some parts of
northern Britain over the weekend and road
conditions particularly in the North-east
remained hazardous. Thousands of schools
face closure because of the chaotic state of
the roads.
Monday 19th
Young TV star dies
Richard Beckinsale, the 31 year old actor,
who played Ronnie Barker's cell-mate in the
c o m e d y series P o r r i d g e , d i e d today.
Beckinsale appeared in a string of TV
successes. In Porridge and its successor,
Going Straight, he played Lenny Godber. In
Rising Damp, with Leonard Rossiter, he was
Alan the lodger.
Richard is believed to have died of a heart
attack, although recent medical checks
showed that he was in good health.
Monkeys trained to help the handicapped
American scientists are experimenting with
intelligent monkeys in an ambitious attempt
to provide servants for paralysed invalids. A
monkey called Crystal has shown that
preparing sandwiches and putting L P s on
record players are not impossible tasks. If
further training shows the same success then
monkeys might end up as the biggest victims
of all in man's exploitation of animals.
Tuesday 20th
Civil Service strike threatens Budget
The Government was warned that if it does
not produce realistic pay proposals by the
end of the week Civil Service Unions will
make it impossible for any new measures in
Mr. Healey's Budget to be introduced. A n
independent Pay Research Unit looking at
comparisons has indicated that rises of 20
and 30 per cent are needed for some grades
of civil servants to bring them into line with
the private sector.
Unemployment falls
A welcome fall of 49.623 to a total of
1.402,254 people unemployed in the United
Kingdom has given the Government hope in
their fight against unemployment. The
improvement was borne out by seasonally
adjusted figures which show the biggest
March drop for 20 vears.
Export licences for 'modern' paintings
Masterpieces by artists such as Picasso,
Cezanne and Van G o g h will now need export
licences if their owners wish to take or sell
them abroad, under changes to the export
system.
The announcement by the Department of
Education and Science means that many
more major works of art are temporarily
stopped from export to give museums a
chance to purchase them. Before the new
rules were passed only works of art over 100
years old needed a licence. Now all works of
art over 50 years old will need a licence,
e m b r a c i n g s u c h artists as the late
Impressionists and the early 20th-century
abstract artists.

