Page 6
Mary Mutters- about Refectories
Uppermost in most F E L I X readers' minds must be the
subject of the refectory boycott. Just in case you aren't
convinced enough that this action is necessary I thought I'd
better include an account of the Great Refectory Pricing Saga.
The story really starts, from my point of view, back in December
1978, when it was recommended by the Refectory Committee there
should be a 2% price increase in the refectories. Prior to that us students
had been revolting (not half as much as the food), and complaining
about the high price for the quality. U n i o n policy had been passed that
the U n i o n representatives on the Refectory Committee should accept
no price increases until the quality ofthe food was improved. So, we
started to complain and a rather brilliant paper was presented to the
Rector about the proposed price increase. It was then that we realised
that there was something very much up with the regulator. According
to the minutes ofthe Refectory Committee and Governing Body the
regulator was only supposed to cover food cost increases and yet, the
entirety ofthe financial Times Grocery Index increase was added on to
our food prices every month. This seems strange considering that food
only constitutes approximately 56% of cost to the Refectory account.
We used it as one part ofthe argument against the proposed 2% termly
review increase to go on from the lst January, and on that occasion we
won and no extra increase was incurred that month.
It seems now that this was just one small move to fob off students from
complaining too much. Unfortunately, from the College point of view,
it did not succeed. We wanted a discussion on the use ofthe regulator
and tried to push lor one at Refectory Committee. However, Professor
Eilon. who doesn't like the idea of consumers having any say in pricing
in the refectories whatsoever, refused to allow a discussion actually at
Refectory Committee and instigated instead a discussion at Refectory
Finance Sub-committee and then, presumably in an attempt to go over
the heads of'the Committee altogether referred it to the Rector, which
led to the discussion at the Finance and Executive Committees ofthe
College. At Finance and Executive Committees we put our case
forward that the regulator was only ever meant to cover food cost
increases and it had, in fact, been misapplied in the past. We argued
that the regulator could only be sensibly used to cover food cost
increases and further more we had to argue against a move, proposed to
that Committee, that all pricing control should be taken out of the
hands of the Refectory Committee. Such a move would have been the
end of any possibility of democratic say for students. T h e proposals
coming out of that Committee were not too bad. They were that the
Refectory Committee should have a discussion upon the type of
regulator to be used, but that the regulator should cover food cost
increases and other regular increases to the Refectory account. This
would be in association with proper termlv reviews of refectory prices.
The understanding being that it was possible for refectory prices to go
down as well as up in such reviews.
Being naive, the student representatives on the Refectory Committee
expected that there would be a full discussion on the use of the regulator
held at Refectory Committee. We should have realised there was
something up Professor Eilon's sleeve. He allowed us to support the
proposal to have two parts ofthe regulator. A two-tier regulator seemed
more sensible to us. as we'd been told by F'inance and Executive
Committees that wages had to be taken into account, as one could have
one section to account for food price increases and another part to
account for wage increases which could be based on current
expectations. A vote was taken at the Committee as to whether we
should have the old regulator based on the full increase ofthe Financial
Times Grocery Index or whether we should have the new regulator
which would be 60% of the Financial Times Grocery Index plus a
constant element to take account of wage cost increases. We voted for
the second naturally assuming that any clement to take account of wage
cost increases would only be a small one. That was when Professor Eilon
pulled the final rabbit out of his hat and said that it was not up to us to
decide what the wages element should be, that was just administrative
action. He then announced, verbally only, a long argument on how he
proposed to justify a 1% prices increase per month on top ofthe food
element increase to the refectory prices. We were astounded and
amazed, realising that this could lead to something near a 10% increase
in prices by the end of this financial year. Eilon was obviously
overjoyed, believing that he'd won the final battle to put down any
opposition to his views. The final insult came when he then proposed
that he would not suggest any increase in the termly review that term.
This was not particularly surprising, seeing as how he had just ensured
that the refectory account would certainly end with a vast profit for this
session.
We didn't panic immediately (much) because we believed that no
way could the Rector possibly agree to this scheme. I went to see the
Rector and also quickly prepared a paper which would take into
account an 8% expected wage rise during the year (which is what the
University Grants Committee had allowed for as an estimate for this
year). I adjusted my paper because I realised that initially I had not
taken into account that there are two things that you need to cover in
terms of refectory income and refectory prices. The income is needed to
cover the overall increased costs during the year and the price is needed
to match up to the current costs ofthe meal at the end of any particular
year. It is therefore very difficult to take account of a discreet rise in cost
which comes about on the date ofa wage settlement. I proposed that a
0. 2 . increase per month, with an adjustment o f a 1.3% increase at the
beginning ofthe financial year would totally cover an 8% increase in
wages cost (assuming that wages in fact account for 43% of refectory
costs). As you can see from this calculation even a 16% wage increase
could be accounted by a 0.4% increase in refectory cost per month.
Despite this well-argued case that has been put forward. College is
sticking to the idea that there is going to be a 20% increase in labour
costs, which can only be accounted for by this 1% increase per month.
T h e 20% increase in labour costs is based on the total increase in labour
cost over last year's account, and does not take into account that there
has been a 16% increase in cash turnover in that period. The argument
being put forward is rather similar to that of saying that if the amount of
chips bought by the refectory doubles then the cost of chips should be
doubled to take account of the increased chip cost to the refectory
account.
As if all this had not been enough not only was the new regulator
approved by the Rector but it has also been backdated to take account
of the J a n u a r y increase in the Financial Times Grocery Index and to
add on 1% for each ofthe months of February and M a r c h . This means
that there was a 4% increase in refectory prices on M a r c h 15th.
Following is an outline ofthe increases we have met this year so far.
1. A 4% increase on the lst August, 1978.
2. A 1.9% increase on the lst December, 1978 (to take account ofthe
total of the Financial Times Grocery Index increase during November).
3. A 1.4% increase on the lst January, 1979 (to take account ofthe total
Financial Times Gorcery Index increase during December).
4. A 4% increase on the 15th M a r c h , 1979 (broken down as follows - 60%
of the Financial Times Grocery Index increase during January equals
60% x 3.3 which equals 2% plus 1% wages element increase for that
month plus 60% of Financial Times Grocery Index increase for
February, which was only 0.1 % so they ignored it plus 1 % wages element
increase lor February.
I think everyone must agree that price increases have been excessive
this year and that we cannot accept increases that go on in this way. As
any other consumer group we have the right to voice a protest and this
we are doing by boycotting the refectories. The U n i o n Meeting on the
15th M a r c h decided by an overwhelming majority to carry on with an
all-out boycott ol the refectories from the beginning of next term. Please
support the boycott.
The other decision made was to pull out ol " M e e t Imperial College'
il the Executive so decided. Because the voting on this was relatively
close, (something like 170 to 130 votes), I felt we should have another
discussion on this issue, before finally taking the step, which we will do
on Thursday, 26th A p r i l , at a U n i o n meeting to be held in the
Concert H a l l . Meanwhile, keep on boycotting. Sec you next term.
M a r y Attenborough,
President
Imperial College Union
term.
The club officers lor this session
are: myself (Captain), Simon
M i d d l e b o e , C i v . E n g . II
(Secretary), Julia Towns, Zoo II
(Ladies Capt.) and G u y Buckley,
C h e m II (Treasurer).
If anyone has any points to raise
or questions to ask, please ask one
of the above. II anybody wishes to
join the Tennis C l u b could they
please contact the treasurer or me
(via U n i o n Office).
B a r r y Witts (Maths III)
PS: I didn't mention a certain
book nor a certain operation.
Dear Sir, - I would like to point
out some information which I
think will be of interest to F E L I X
readers.
The Prince's Garden's tennis
courts are situated b e h i n d
Linstead H a l l . These tennis
courts are for the use ol Imperial
College L a w n Tennis C l u b
members only. Membership is
one pound, which is good value
considering public courts cost fifty
pence per hour to hire.
The nets and posts are in
excellent condition and the lines
will be repainted soon. A booking
scheme will be introduced next

