Page 7
" E v e n Serpents Shine"
Only Ones (CBS).
The
Considering that 1979 is
popularly supposed to be " T h e
Year of the Disco", and that this
album is little more suited to
Disco play than is Dvorak's N e w
W o r l d Symphony, it is hardly
surprising that the music critics
love it.
Nevertheless, " E v e n Serpents
Shine" is a record very worthy of
being Imperial College Radio's
A l b u m of the Week this week. It is
not light entertainment, but
definitely needs to be sat down
and listened to. That's not to say
that it won't set your feet tapping,
fingers strumming, head nodding,
shoulders rolling, or whatever
appreciative body movement
happens to be your own personal
perference.
The most obvious strength of
the album is the drumming,
which comes from M i k e Kellie
who played for Spooky Tooth in
the late sixties and early seventies.
This carries you through every
track, keeping the beat, steady yet
with infinite variations, in perfect
time with the bass player A l a n
M a i r . Together they lay down an
intense and tight rhythm, out of
which naturally grow the riffs
from J o h n Perry's lead guitar,
which ride alongside, and blend
into the basic rythm, rather than
being awkward additions to the
tunc, slapped on to show off the
dexterity of the guitar player, as
so often seems to happen.
The greatest weakness of the
group must be Peter Perrett's
voice, and although he admirably
succeeds in creating the most
gloomy and morbid of moods,
which matches the depressing
lyrical content of his songs
perfectly, (this is largely because
his voice sounds as though he has
recently swallowed a cheese-
grater) singing is not M r . Perrett's
forte. T h e range of notes that he
appears to find easily attainable is
limited to about three, although
when he does attempt to exceed
this range it tends to put your
teeth on edge. H a v i n g said that,
the effect of Mr.Perrett's singing is
greatly enhanced when some
pleasing, though occasional,
harmonies are introduced.
II you ever heard the O n l y
Ones' last single - " Y o u ' v e got to
pay".- don't be put oil'; it must be
the weakest track on the album,
and why it was ever chosen is a
mystery as there is one particular
track - " O u t there in the night" -
which just screams out to be the
next single.
Although "Serpents" is by no
means a Classic it is well worth
trying to get hold of a copy and
playing it through a couple ol
times.
Chris Watts
P.S. It grows on you.
"Travesties" by Tom Stoppard
Imperial College Dramatic Society
Tom Stoppard's plays, with their
techniques of pastiche, controlled absurdity
and intricate double entendre are ideal
material for Dramsoc, and well suited to a
college audience. Ross Darling's production
of "Travesties" illustrates this perfectly. Its
small, well-rehearsed cast makes this one of
the best Dramsoc plays I have seen.
The play is a collage of distorted scraps
from the memory of Henry Wilfred Carr.
Invalided out of war service in 1917 by a
gaping wound in his otherwise immaculate
attire, Carr had recuperated in Zurich under
the auspices of the British Consulate.
Obsessed by sartorial trivia he now recounts
his meetings, real and imagined, with James
Joyce, Tristan Tzara and Lenin.
This framework presents a vehicle for one
of T o m Stoppard's favourite devices;
repeating sections of dialogue almost in
entirety, but with subtle differences. In
"Travesties" the idea is taken further. These
are branching-points in the narrative,
particular lines which act as common
beginni ngs for many totally different versions
of the same scene. It is soon impossible to say
which versions are true (if any), and which are
projections of Carr's own imagination or
desires. The story is unfolded using a wide
range of methods including farce, striptease,
m o c k - S h a k e s p e a r i a n d r a m a , l i m e r i c k s ,
doggerel and even a "Mastermind" type quiz.
The whole production was rather stylish
without being over-elaborate. Music was
from sources as diverse as Beethoven, Hoist
and The Temperence Seven. The slide
Projector which caused such drastic bathos
in " M a c b e t h " , D r a m s o c ' s p r e v i o u s
production, was here used efficiently to
provide film-style opening credits. Cast,
lighting and sound effects were all really well-
rehearsed, the occasional stumble in the
dialogue being the only slight criticism. The
cavorting dance towards the end was
absolutely hilarious and must have taken a lot
of practice.
Graham Brand as Henry Carr made a
basically good job of a hard role. It must be
daunting for a student to portray old age in
the absence of latex makeup, but apart from a
few distracting hand and eye movements and
nervous gestures. Graham's Henry Carr
passed from senility to youth with, at times,
startling effect. Bennett, the supercilious and
secretly radical butler was portrayed with
suitable emotionless, lofty indifference by
Mark Hope, Mark Wiszewaty gave a really
funny p e r f o r m a n c e as J a m e s J o y c e ,
e q u i p p e d with a c o n s i s t e n t but not
e x a g g e r a t e d Irish accent. T h e rigid
dialectical approach of Lenin (Mike O' Brien)
was well contrasted with the extravagant
randomness of the Dadaist, Tzara (Mark
Robinson - well acted). Isobel Beames as
Gwendolen acted with her usual skill, and
Karen Webb as Cecily survived her ageing
process beautifully. Nadya (Victoria Scott)
narrated her section clearly.
The audience (which enjoyed the show as
much as the cast seemed to) was adequate,
but s h o u l d have been m u c h larger,
considering the quality of the production and
the low price of 75 p.
"77?e clever people try to impose a design
on the world and when it goes calamitously
wrong they call it fate. In point of fact,
everything is chance, including design
the causes we know everything about depend
on causes we know absolutely nothing about.
And it is the duty of the artist to jeer and howl
and belch at the delusion that infinite
generations of real effects can be inferred
from the gross expression ot apparent
cause".
- Tristan Tzara From "Travesties" by Tom
Stoppard.
Paul Williams Physics II

