union talk
Viva El Presidente!
The Union is listening
Following a lot of comments about the
Union services, I hosted an open meeting
last week to look at entertainments pro-
vided by the Union and how we can
improve things. It proved very useful in
getting, first hand, some of the views of
students using the Union and I thought I
would share some of them here.
One of the key themes that came from
the meeting is the desire for more Cheese.
Although I am not a great lover of cheese it
seems that is what students want. There
also appears to be confusion between the
different nights at the Union. Students did
not know what was happening. There was
a strong call for a singularly themed Friday
and Wednesday nights. This would mean
that there would be the same basic format
for all Wednesday and Friday evenings.
This would allow more specialist nights
such as School Disco or band nights to
happen on a monthly basis. This would
also allow the union to target more
resources towards these specialist nights.
Another key topic that was brought up
was bar promotions. There was a desire to
have more offers at the bar on a greater
variety of drinks. The Union has a limited
number of drink promotions, the £l-a-pint
on Wednesday night being the most popu-
lar. There were suggestions to extend it to
have a happy hour or promotions on select-
ed lines of beer and "alcopops".
Most people seemed happy with the
prices the Union charges for entry. We are
after all one of the cheapest Unions in
London and some even suggested increas-
ing it to allow for more bar promotions and
specialised nights.
If you agree or disagree with any of this,
or have any other views or suggestions,
please email feedback@ic.ac.uk. So what
is the next step? The Union will take these
recommendations and hope to have things
in place soon. Following its success, I plan
to expand these open meetings and apply
it to other areas of the Union.
This is the start of a wider process to
ensure that the Union starts listening to its
members and delivers the services they
want. Shortly we hope to have online
anonymous feedback forms. There will
also be a series of market research initia-
tives and development of a strategy to
ensure that we continue to meet the needs
of our members.
Sen Ganesh
Editorial Rantings
I found this picture, and I look so cheeky, I
thought I'd give myself an editorial just so
I can publish pictures of my own mug.
Arrogant, you might say, and you could be
right. But that's not what I brought you
here to talk about. Well it was, actually, but
I've already run out of steam on that sub-
ject, so I'll move onto another.
What is going on in the Union? Is it just
me, or has the entire thing just degenerat-
ed into a bitch-slapping, bodice-ripping,
mud-wrestling, ego-wank-fest?
I think that was the best sentence ever
written.
Let's look at the evidence. Elections. Oh
dear. They go all wrong, and from what I
can gather, instead of anyone really caring,
there seems to be two camps. Those who
don't think it was really that bad, and
those who want to bitch-slap David
Francis, who was the returning officer. I
fully agree that it was all done rather hap-
hazardly, but the main aim seems now not
to make sure it doesn't happen again, but
just to publicly humiliate David. I can
understand that desire, because he can be
quite an arse (sorry David), but surely the
plan should be to make the Union a better
place, and better run.
Maybe I'm being a bit naive. After all, do
you see me running for President to sort it
all out? No, because I'm not a nutter, and I
don't want to have to go through all this
type of shit myself, but I think there is
something wrong with the system if peo-
ple use the power given to them by you
(apparently, but from the inside you see it's
quite a nepotistic regime) just to take out
personal grudges. N o w maybe I'm being a
cynic. It is certainly possible that some
people truly believe that the election was
undemocratic, but if we re-run these elec-
tions, no-one will vote. Everyone knows
this. We have enough trouble with voting
in the first place. So we re-run the elec-
tions, and only one department votes,
because the rest of College is so disillu-
sioned by the whole farce that they reckon
what's the point. A n d I'm inclined to
agree, because I am guilty of abusing that
system myself. I certainly had an unfair
advantage this year, because through my
job I have met the 'movers and shakers' of
the Union, who are the people who then
'advise' their friends, and their friends,
how to vote. M y point?
Democracy my big fat arse, frankly.
will

