talk felix
Inkwell: Tanaka's Gift
Inkwell is back (after a brief period in that
barren landscape known as "catching up
with school work") and my quill today
takes me to the very front gates of this fine
institution where work has begun on the
Prestigious New Entrance that Imperial
College is soon to have.
The Exhibition Road entrance is now lit-
tle more than a monstrous pile of brick,
rubble and unsightly heavy-duty machin-
ery. All part of the lovely 25 million pound
package from IC alumnus and millionaire
philanthropist Dr. Gary Tanaka.
Now, on paper it all seems swell and
honky dory. Oh how wonderful, how very
benevolent of an Imperial alumni to spread
the seeds of his success on his academic
roots. After all, with continuous threats
from the higher education funding council
towards substantially cutting funding for
University Departments, an extra £25mil-
lion quid in the bank isn't that bad. Or is it?
You see naturally the question-O-meter
in my head has again risen to critical point
and a few issues have continued to oscil-
late to and fro within the inner walls of the
ol' Nate Evuarherhe cranium.
First Quesch: Does Imperial College real-
ly need a "Prestigious New Entrance"? In
what way does a PNE facilitate the
Imperial College quest to gain global
recognition as a world-class institution?
My answer, none what so ever.
There exists a fine line between spend-
ing for a useful purpose and squandering
millions on what appears on the surface to
be a fine investment but is little more than
a display of sound and fury signifying
nothing. After all, even the least percep-
tive of us will notice that there are numer-
ous other areas of far greater importance
that are desperately in need of funding.
Every year for instance, hundreds of sec-
ond year students (like my humble self) are
disgorged from the relative comfort of
Halls of Residence into a city that empties
the old student coffer quicker than you can
say TANAKA! Would an investment
towards the provision of more halls of resi-
dence not serve a more useful purpose?
The planned refurbishment of South-side
Halls, the re-construction of the Beit Halls,
and the grand feature of architectural wiz-
ardry that is the Bio-medical Science build-
ing are all worthy of praise, for these have
proved to be world class facilities that
serve to enhance the IC position as a top
flight institution both at home and abroad.
A n entrance, on the other hand is sim-
ply. .. an entrance. It's rather like a design-
er shirt. It's pretty. It's expensive. But what
does it say about the true nature of the
wearer's character? Nothing at all! A visi-
tor to IC, or a passer-by might say, "Oh
what a prestigious new entrance they've
got". But apart from that what purpose
does it serve?
It won't make student life any less diffi-
cult than it already is. It won't improve the
teaching quality of our lecturers. And it
certainly won't shoot Imperial College
three places up the league table. So why is
the exhibition road entrance looking the
way it is now?
It seems to me to be another sad case of
The Golden Rule. i.e. He who has the gold
makes the rule!
Gary Tanaka's gift is appreciated and
very much welcome. I do however think all
the money could have been better spent
on something more important and less
superficial that a Prestigious New
Entrance.
Nate Evuarherhe

