music reviews
Busta Rhymes
Genesis
Out now on J records
Like almost all hip-hop albums these
days, with the honourable exception of
Jay-Z's The Blueprint, this new release
from Busta Rhymes is w a y too long. A s
this is pretty much endemic to the genre,
I find it best to review each album as a
compilation. On this level, you're free to
simply pick and choose between the
tracks, and suddenly Genesis becomes
much more admirable.
There's Dre's excellent Break Ya Neck,
featuring a typically frenetic vocal from
Rhymes ("Break ya fuckin' neck, bitch-
es!"), and Bounce (Let Me See Ya Throw
It) with some great stabbing strings and
a rumbling bass.
The Neptunes turn in a couple of excel-
lent joints - As I Come Back sounds like
Busta literally growling over the best
bass-driven Neptunes production I've
heard in quite a while, and What It Is fea-
tures Kelis on the last verse.
The title track is also worthy of a men-
tion, with the kind of spare background
usually associated w i t h early R Z A
efforts. Then there's Shut 'Em Down
2002, Pete Rock's reworking of the Public
Enemy classic, which has Busta rapping
away over the top. This track is Rhymes
at his best, the stripped-down backing
contrasting with his larger than life per-
sona.
It's easy to judge an album like Genesis
by its guest appearances, and to concen-
trate on the production over the sup-
posed star of the show. Busta, with his
sheer force of personality, manages to
avoid this, and the result is one of the
best rap albums of the last couple of
years.
Vex Red
Start With A...
Out now on Virgin records
[The full title is Start With A Strong And
Persistent Desire]
Vex Red are from Aldershot. That's not
very rock 'n' roll, is it? What is rock 'n' roll
is the way they were signed - Ross
Robinson (who produces Slipknot, Korn,
At The Drive-in and Amen) called the
boys up one day while they were watch-
ing a video, and signed them after hear-
ing one demo tape. Vex Red must be a bit
special, then, as must Start With A
Strong And Persistent Desire, the debut
album from this delightfully charismatic
and charming band.
At its best, this album is amazing.
Tracks which spring to mind as master-
pieces include the recent single Can't
Smile, with its gritty, low-pitched sam-
pling and amazing guitar riff, and the
slow, smooth Untitled.
Sadly, some of the other tracks on the
album are found wanting. In particular,
Clone Jesus and The Closest sound
strangely empty, despite the fact that
they are both quite rocky, with heavy gui-
tar riffs and drum beats.
That said, fans of Vex Red will be
pleased with this debut effort. The five
have sidestepped the temptation to sim-
ply make a collection of excellent tracks,
and have chosen instead to make an
album which flows well, like a piece of
poetry or a good story.
Start with a strong and persistent
desire? Vex Red certainly seem to have
done just that, and good luck to them.
Not that they need it - how many other
bands can you name that got signed and
got this far on the basis of one cheap
demo tape?
Biffy Clyro
Blackened Sky
Out now on Beggars Banquet records
This Kilmarnock-based trio are going to
be very important - they not only take
rock to places that rock hasn't been
before, but they take it first class on Con-
corde, complete with champagne and
caviar and those little screens in the
backs of the seats.
Every single member of the band
sings, meaning that there is no apparent
"front man", but as all the boys seem to
have similar voices, this doesn't detract
at all from the music.
The opening track is the pleasantly
functional Joy. Discovery. Invention,
which begins with a quiet twelve-note
guitar riff and finishes with an all-out
rocking chorus. Justboy and the rather
brilliantly titled Kill The Old, Torture
Their Young follow, both combining some
of the best aspects of Muse and At The
Drive-in.
It's hard to pick out the outstanding
tracks on this CD, because there are so
many instantly memorable, completely
singable rock anthems. But Scary Mary
is probably the best track, a sweet,
melancholy, heartfelt collection of
thoughts about a broken relationship:
"You made patterns in my face, you
painted pictures with my tears".
Unfortunately, there's a problem with
the album. The clean-cut sound of Biffy
Clyro is sometimes slightly masked with
feedback and other little niggly sounds
that were blatantly added in post-pro-
duction. Someone should find whoever
produced this and convince him to take
up a new career as a Buddhist monk in
Tibet. Then maybe we can listen to Biffy
Clyro, perfect and unmarred, in peace.
Toby G Jess Jess

