reviews music
Sahara Hotnights
Jennie Bomb
Remy Zero
The Golden Hum
HAMMONDfSl
STREET NWS
mm. ^dteTiy i' .
Various
Hammond Street
Out now on RCA records Out now on Eastwest/Electra records Out now on Acid Jazz records
To quote the band's publicity material,
Sahara Hotnights were formed in
Northern Sweden when "four [female]
friends, united by a mutual love for
Nirvana, coupled with the boredom that
a small town existence inspires, decided
to pool their collective musical talents
into chasing the rock 'n' roll dream". I'd
guess that they still like Nirvana, and
that they're still chasing that rock 'n' roll
dream. But now they're the ones inspir-
ing boredom.
Sahara Hotnights are a "proper, good
old-fashioned" band, in the sense that
North By Northwest is a "proper" film,
and the Eton Wall Game is a "good old-
fashioned" sport. There are no frills and
no messing about. On Jennie Bomb, their
second album, the guitars have only got
one setting (punk-heavy), the drummer
only plays one beat (punk-heavy) and the
largely uninspiring lyrics can only be
described as, er, punk and heavy.
However, I must admit that what they
do, they do well. Maria Andersson's
voice is faultless, and with song titles
like Alright Alright (Here's My Fist
Where's The Fight?), you know that their
hearts are in the right place. A n d they've
been nominated for a couple of Swedish
Grammy awards too, so maybe up in
Scandinavia they appreciate good punk a
little more than I do.
But I'm going to stand by my conclu-
sion. The Hotnights are clearly influ-
enced by most of the great punk acts,
plus of course the Nirvana method of
writing songs around one good hook. The
problem is, if the hooks aren't much
good, then neither is the band.
Remy Zero - a strange name, but I like it.
In fact, without much knowledge of their
music, it's the main reason why I decid-
ed to review this album, and I'm pleased
I went with my gut feeling.
The first track is one of those intros
that make you forget you've put some
music on at all. It's long and quiet, but
picks up eventually and gradually builds
up into The Golden Hum, which has a
nice lead guitar piece and a catchy cho-
rus. The album continues with the same
vibrant feeling, changing the pace, slip-
ping off into melodic moments of harmo-
ny, and then coming back with choruses
that have you singing along and playing
air guitar.
With more than the occasional refer-
ence to Travis and Semisonic, this album
may not be particularly novel, but it's a
good listen nonetheless.
I instantly recognise track six as the
theme from the TV series Smallville - a
song that I like at the moment, but will
begin to hate with venom as soon as it's
overplayed. Later songs include I'm Not
Afraid, which will feature in the next
series of Dawson's Creek, and the faster,
more upbeat Impossibility. There is a hid-
den track too, but it's nothing special.
Having noticed a web address on the
album sampler, I discovered that Remy
Zero were hand-picked by Radiohead to
open their latter OK Computer shows,
and that they've toured with Semisonic
and Travis (which had no effect on their
musical style whatsoever of course).
Overall, a good third album, and I
expect to hear a lot more from Remy Zero
in the future.
What exactly is "acid jazz"? I guess it
means, roughly, music that is a bit like
jazz in the sense that it may contain
some improvisation and use similar
instruments, but has a steadier, rockier
beat and is intended to be danceable.
There's nothing wrong with having jazz
records that you can dance to, but much
of what is labelled "acid jazz" can often
be bland and uninteresting.
So it is with several of the tracks on
this compilation, all of which feature the
Hammond organ. Personally, I'm a fan of
the Hammond, but it is an instrument
capable of producing both a cool, excit-
ing sound and a very corny sound.
Unfortunately, much of this record falls
into the latter category.
Nearly all of the tracks are very recent,
with a couple of oldies thrown in cour-
tesy of Reuben Wilson and Jimmy
McGriff. These seem to stand out above
the dross, particularly Wilson's track,
which is much more "straight-ahead"
than the rest of the bunch. Of the newer
tracks, the Sugarman Three effort stands
out for its simplicity: a solid groove and
messy organ over a repeated sax riff and
sampled bar crowd sounds. The James
Taylor track also chugs away at a fairly
rocky pace. Unfortunately, that's about it
- the rest of the tracks tend to lack any
real substance or groove.
The truth is that there is a lot of great
Hammond-based music out there, in
many different styles. Potential
Hammond fans would perhaps be better
spending their hard-earned loan on the
music of Jimmy Smith, Michael Brecker
or Medeski, Martin and Wood.
Derek ID Toby B Russ

