INTERVIEW with Didz from
The Cooper Temple Clause
You know as well as I do that The Cooper Temple Clause are the
Next Big Thing, M
. Their music captures the best aspects of elec-
tronica, grunge, rock and indie, puts them in a blender and
makes the tastiest musical smoothie you'll drink this year.
Unfortunately, there's no guarantee that any of the informa-
tion in this interview is correct - the band are well known for
attempting to spread rumours about themselves that are, quite
frankly, false. A n d considering that this interview was conduct-
ed by 'phone, well, there's no telling...
FELIX: So, your new single hit the top twenty last week - how
does that feel?
DIDZ: It was good, the nicest part of it was being able to do
music shows on the telly, playing for all those kids who like A l
and stuff. It's not like I've got something against A l , it's just
that they were on right before us on Top Of The Pops.
Can you give us a good reason to buy your album?
I think because we're not really like anything else out there. I
mean, some people say we're like Muse, but that's because
they're not afraid to experiment with sounds either.
What inspires your lyrics?
A lot of it is just unoriginal stuff, like boy meets girl kind of
thing, and that's really important, it's a good thing to write
about. But some of it is just about personal or emotional situa-
tions, events, scenarios, contemplating suicide, you know.
What kind of stuff did you listen to as a kid?
Well, we all listened to grunge and brit-pop, but after a while
we realised there wasn't anything new out there that we want-
ed to listen to, so we decided to get together and make our own.
What do you listen to now?
Quite a lot of stuff, I think if you listen to our album you can get
quite a good idea. Quite a lot of electronica and indie stuff, Muse
and Radiohead.
People say you're quite similar to Radiohead - do you take
that as a compliment?
Well, Radiohead are a great band. They're probably one of our
favourite bands, collectively. Definitely in the top... three. So
yeah, definitely a compliment.
Who did you want to w i n Pop Idol?
I don't care, it's shit. It's really stupid, it's like dangling a carrot
under the kids' noses to give them something new to drool over.
I suppose Darius has got a bit of talent. We played football
against him once, I think he was in goal. He was rubbish.
Have you been to any good gigs recently?
Yeah, we went to a good gig a couple of days ago, we went to
see ...Trail Of Dead at the Astoria, that was absolutely incredi-
ble. In fact, me and Tom, when we go to a gig with a decent
band and a decent-sized venue, we always go down the front
and try a bit of crowd-surfing.
Jess
There's loads more to this, but I just couldn't fit it all in. Go to
www.union.ic.ac.uk/felix for the full interview. You'll also find full
versions of several other interviews we've done recently. Dave
music reviews
LIVE: The Charlatans +
The Cooper Temple Clause
+ Minuteman @ Astoria
It seemed, from the size of the crowd this evening, that
Minuteman are not a particularly well-known band. The four-
piece launched into a pretty indiscriminate indie-guitar set,
which was entirely forgettable apart from a haunting feeling
that someone had just done a cover version of Radiohead's True
Love Waits. Which, strangely enough, nobody had.
As always, The Cooper Temple Clause (pic above) were on top
form. They played through the whole range of emotions - from
the crazed stalker (Film Maker) to the lonely, suicidal man
(Murder Song). Didz, as is customary, waltzed on two minutes
late, and Ben managed to break at least two tambourines by the
end of the forty-minute set. Nothing new there, then.
This band are completely in love with music, and all they're
doing is allowing other people to appreciate that. Perhaps that's
something that the hundred or so heckling Charlatans fans
should have thought about.
If you get a chance to see the Coopers, then do. They're well
worth it, time and time again, for the sheer amount of energy
that this Reading six-piece can unleash is simply amazing.
I'm sorry. The Charlatans were completely upstaged by their
support. After hearing The Cooper Temple Clause play their set,
we could only manage four Charlatans songs before walking
out in disgust at the lack of anything even remotely interesting.
A few of the more intelligent people in the crowd followed suit.
We pieced together the information we had, and decided that
they'd definitely played their best song, Love Is The Key, first.
As people poured out of the Astoria, we heard tales of Tim
Burgess juggling and the set being good. Believe what you will.
Jess

