reviews music
LIVE: Kosheen
@ Pacha
This was quite simply unbelievable. Think of going to a gig at a
five star hotel. Think of a fantastic band, playing ten tracks of
the finest live dance music you've heard in a long, long time.
You're not even close.
Pacha, located a mere stone's throw from Victoria tube sta-
tion, is well worth a visit, although one suspects that it's usual-
ly fairly pricey if you don't have the luxury of a press pass. I real-
ly don't exaggerate when I compare it with a hotel - there were
chandeliers, plants, leather sofas, wood panelling, and people
walking around with trays of wine glasses. We were even treat-
ed to some free food courtesy of Poseidon.
Kosheen, arriving on stage a mere half-hour late, were
absolutely superb, playing tracks from their debut album Resist
and grabbing our attention from the off with (Slip & Slide)
Suicide. Sian Evans' distinctive powerful vocals were comple-
mented perfectly by guitar, bass, drums, keyboards and a guy
playing a sort of electronic 'cello.
Playing live, Kosheen manage to add extra energy and emo-
tion to their music without losing the polished feel of the album.
The central theme was drum 'n' bass, of course, but the
changes in mood, style, rhythm and speed were more than
effective.
Kosheen are now used to playing the big arenas, and so it
was a real privilege to be part of an audience of only around 200,
especially at such a classy venue. We stood right at the front,
making eye contact with the performers, and the only real low
point was when the hour-long set came to its conclusion and
the band left the stage.
B
8
B
S
B Dave
COMPETITION WINNER
The winner of the Alicia Keys competition from Issue 1230 is
the gloriously named Anthony Jude Rodrigues of EEE 4. He
wins the album Songs In A Minor and the single A Woman's
Worth. Alicia Keys was nominated for two Brit awards - Best
International Female and Best International Album.
OUT THIS WEEK
A L B U M S
BUSTA RHYMES - Genesis
CAPITOL K - Island Row
DESERT HEARTS - Let's Get Worse
R E M Y ZERO - The Golden Hum
THE STREETS - Original Pirate Material
SINGLES
ENGERICA - My Demise
GEORGE M I C H A E L - Freeek!
RIVAL SCHOOLS - Used For Glue
SEAFOOD - Western Battle
SI FUTURES - Eurostar
Singles
Roundup
RIVAL SCHOOLS - Used For Glue
Rival Schools prove that it is possible to be deadly serious
whilst also being fun to listen to, and this is probably the best
cut from their mostly excellent debut album. The pounding cen-
tral riff makes Used For Glue a genuinely adrenalising track. Oh,
and the chorus is bigger than the Earth - fact! Buy three copies.
S B B B B Kunal
SEAFOOD - Western Battle
This up-to-date rock song is another strong offering from
Seafood. It has a more serious sound than their previous single,
the excellent Splinter, but it's not quite as good. That's not to
say it isn't catchy - some parts of the song are very memorable,
especially the chorus.
Robin
ALFIE - A Word In Your Ear
A smart and clever pop song. Quiet guitars, percussion and
sweet vocals combine on this beautiful track which ends by
adding several instruments (keyboards, strings, chorus) but
still staying under control. Definitely the best song they've ever
done. I look forward to the next album.
09988 Frangois
M O Q S H A - Moksha The Destroyer vs Dubzilla
Moqsha are four blokes out of college who like twiddling
knobs and a girl who can just about hit the notes. This, their
debut release, is a "mini-album", available for the price of a sin-
gle. The first four tracks, remixes of the title track and of Super
Massive Black Holes, are uninspired Bristol scene bandwago-
nism. Respite comes with Judas, a dark, broody atmospheric
track, and, to a lesser extent, with Inspector Morse, which drags
out the idea a bit too much.
98DDO Robert

