clubbing reviews
London Xpress
93 Feet East
London Xpress once again puts on a line-
up that is just that little bit different.
With headline sets from Rob Birch of
Stereo M C s fame and Richard Thair, for-
merly of Red Snapper, this is definitely a
night that stands out from the rest on the
clubbing calendar.
The crowd is rather different from the
usual menagerie of posers, pillheads and
beerboys that you might expect at a club
in London. There is an air of sophistica-
tion about the place, an air of culture, of
self-knowing cool. But that doesn't mean
they don't enjoy a little boogie. Indeed,
there are three whole rooms to shake
your thang to: the dark and slightly
industrial main room is perfectly compli-
mented by the casual, party-esque side
bar and the smart and stylish loft bar
with adjoining terrace.
The side bar is like a decompression
chamber - sitting here and chatting
whlist listening to the Nuphonic label's
very own Jools Butterfield allowed me to
release all that inner city madness and
get ready for the main room.
Richard Thair's heavy-duty mix of
jazzy, soulful bass and tribal drums
brought hints of the Red Snapper sound,
but also indicated his new musical direc-
tion. This intense and heady set certain-
ly got my approval, and now that Thair
has moved to Bristol, I can only look for-
ward to the next time he plays London.
Due to an unfortunate cold, I didn't
make it to closing time, or even to the
Rob Birch set. Damn.
Ordinarily, I find that this club seems to
finish too early, closing its doors at 2am.
But I guess it is always better to go out
on a high.
Every 4th Saturday Doors open at 8pm.
INTERVIEW with
Red Snapper
Red Snapper are Richard Thair, A l i Friend
and David Ayers. They came together in
the early nineties to produce their calling
card blend of jazz, funk and hip-hop.
After seven years, they have recently
announced that Red Snapper is to come
to an end.
FELIX: As you are all here together, I
guess the end of Red Snapper has been
quite an amicable one?
Richard: Yes, we're all really good
friends, so we never let it get to a situa-
tion where we all fall out - we're really
not that sort of people. Our motivation
had always been to write and perform
unusual music, and maybe we had just
gone as far as we could as a threesome
A n d in what ways are you each going
to do your own thing?
Richard: I'm DJing quite a lot and I've
started a band called Toob, I'll be doing
the live drums for that. It's much more
electronic than Snapper - we didn't ever
use a lot of percussion in Snapper, so
there's quite a lot of that.
Ali: I'm working with Ted Barnes: the
two of us write with Beth Orton. We've
done some stuff for her new album as
well as setting up our own thing which
will hopefully turn out to be a live band.
It's going to be a lot more melody-based.
David: I have a studio that I run along-
side my partners Felix Todd - he's a pro-
ducer - and Alan McGee, and the three of
us have just started up a venture called
Creation studios. So in addition to my
own stuff, I'll be producing up and com-
ing bands and artists.
Well that's the future, but in your time
as Snapper, do you feel that you did
everything you wanted to do?
Richard: We didn't start out with a plan,
so everything that happened was a com-
plete surprise.
Ali: It was like "Whoa, it's another
album!"
David: I'm proud of all the albums we
made. We made music that we are really
proud of and we got to play a lot of great
gigs, see some of the world and have a
good time.
So is there any chance that you guys
are going to collaborate again on any
future projects?
Richard: Personally, I'm sure of it. There'll
always be bits of music that each of us
will do that'll need some guitar or some-
thing - in that way we can collaborate on
things...
David: It's just that it might not be called
Red Snapper. These guys are still the
best musicians I know so I would defi-
nitely want to work with them.
Ali: The whole point with us is that we
do different things - that's what Snapper
was all about. Hopefully that's what
we're all about as individuals.
Bed Snapper's final EP, Heavy Petting,
is out this week on Nuphonic.
Patrick Patrick

