reviews clubbing
Mixmag
@ Cargo
Cargo is one of the new-ish clubs that
have sprung up in the trendy area east of
Old Street. Set in a railway arch, it does-
n't look too glam from the outside, but as
you approach, you notice the arty graffiti
and the glass doors and realise that this
is full-on Hoxton.
Once past the snooty door staff, the
interior is decked out in wood and
leather, with cute design features
whipped out of the pages of Wallpaper.
There are large screens around the venue
displaying trrppy visuals. Cargo isn't
huge, so it retains some cosiness and
makes it easy to find friends that have
wandered off. It also describes itself as a
"zero tolerance" venue, so keep those
bifters subtle or you'll be out.
Back to the evening. Agent Sumo
played some funky house which was
bearable but nothing special. A friend
absolutely loved it though, so what do I
know? Lisa Lashes was up next with a
banging, eclectic set, playing everything
from breakbeat to electro, through hard
house and hip-hop. This got the dance
floor heaving, with many a punter trying
to get a better look at Lisa's decks.
Lashes was the highlight for me (and if
you care, the low point was probably
clubbing editor Alex puking, at a bus stop
at 2am).
The last D J was Judge "won't budge"
Jules, taking a bit of a diversion from his
usual hard trance style with some funki-
er house after midnight.
The sound system was great - big and
bassy, without getting too muffled and
with no dead spots either. If you are a
house fan or you just like to look cool,
then this night is for you.
Every third Wednesday. 7pm - lam. £5.
TomX
Heaven Scent
@ Po Na Na
This night is run in conjunction with
Roehampton Students' Union.
Roehampton, I hear you cry, never heard
of it. Well Roehampton, while not exactly
famed as a hotbed for great intellectuals,
seems to have a fairly impressive number
of students of the fairer sex, making a
welcome change from IC.
The event was, in fact, a school disco.
I'm sure most of you have been to one by
now, and if not then you'll probably be
familiar with the concept. It's on once a
month, but there are different themes
every Tuesday including dressing up as
movie stars and the infamous Shag Tag
nights.
While many may feel that the School
Disco phenomenon has moved rather
rapidly from cult to cliche, it is definitely
all the better for being a student night.
Obviously it's cheaper, at just £3, and you
get away from any dreaded 30-some-
thing office party ambience.
I could talk about the music, but
there's no point really with this sort of
night - you know full well that come l a m
you'll be dancing like a muppet to Come
On Eileen next to some young girl in
stockings and suspenders. After all,
that's why one attends such wonderful
events. Or if you're the esteemed club-
bing editor, you'll nip behind the
metaphorical bike sheds with a real ten-
pinter.
But enough of such frivolity, for what
remains is a word for the venue. It is
colossal, big enough even for the largest
of congas, and better still, it was
absolutely rammed come midnight.
So if you want a fun, cheesy and inex-
pensive night out anytime soon, there
can't be many better than this.
B B B B B Rocco Siffredi
Bedrock
@ Heaven
Headlining at Bedrock is usually John
Digweed (sometimes accompanied by
his chum Sasha), ably supported by Phil
Thompson, with randoms in the other
rooms.
The main room plays progressive
house, the first floor room plays break-
beat and drum 'n' bass, and the mezza-
nine room plays harder house. We were
some of the first in there, so the atmos-
phere was muted, but you could feel ten-
sion building underneath the low rhythm
of Thompson's set. There were some fan-
tasic violence/reaction sociology study
visuals that stayed in tune with the
music.
The Bedrock crowd were relaxed and
casual, with a "here to dance" attitude
and none of the well-documented lack of
atmosphere that typifies most other
London clubs.
A quick tour of the other rooms turned
up some fairly good stuff, but we soon
tired of this and returned to the large
room for Digweed's set. The crowd was
heaving, and the man didn't disappoint.
The basslines were hard and funky, and
during the breakdowns when we didn't
think he could come back with anything
better, Digweed pulled another stormer
out of the bag. The strobe lights were out
in force, the noise was deafening, the
rhythm was pulsating, and the experi-
ence was awesome.
We rocked 'til the early hours, and the
dance floor was packed until the final
tune. The crowd bayed for more, and
were rewarded with a grand finale of a
Come With Us remix. Tired but content,
we joined the bun-fight for the cloakroom
and crawled out of the club.
Every first Thursday of the month.
B B B B B Tom F

