film reviews
Monty Python & the Holy Grail 24 Hour Party People
DVD release 4th March released 5th April 2002
We Were Soldiers is the latest Vietninterpretation from the man
who wrote screenplay for the likes of the historically inaccurate
Braveheart (1995) and the award-winning Pearl Harbour (2001).
Randall Wallace directs the story of one of the most savage bat-
tles m U.S. history, when 400 brave Americans were surround-
ed by 2,037 North Vietnamese soldiers. They fought for freedom,
and to free the free world... This is just silly.
The wise King Arthur and his most trustworthy servant Patsy
set out on a quest ordained upon them by almighty God to find
the exultant Holy Grail. A n d soforth on their way they join
forces with Sir Lancelot "The Brave", Sir Robin "The Not-Quite-
So-Brave-as-Sir Lancelot", Sir Galahad "The Pure", Sir Gawain,
and Sir Bedevere. Their adventures are chronicled in legendary
Monty Python And The Holy Grail (1975).
These were the days when British comedy was funny and
Monty Python ruled the Earth. Terry Gilliam, Terry Jones, John
Cleese, Eric Idle, Michael Palin, and Graham Chapman, were
the funniest people on the planet. They went on to make The
Life Of Brian (1979), but their greatest achievement has to be
the movie they made on a shoestring budget of £150,000. Most
of their other work often seems to Palin comparison.
The DVD is a must for all fans and non-fans. In fact, every-
body. There is no perceivable reason for not buying this, except
if you have no sense of humour, no DVD player, or if you think
that DVDs are too expensive - which is w h y I'm not buying it.
But I'm getting my mate, Recho, to thief it from Budget Records,
Camden High Street.
The extras feature a fifty-minute documentary where Terry
Jones and Michael Palin go back to Holy Grail set location and
nostalgiasise, or perhaps more accurately, reminisce about the
making of the movie. There's also a short Monty Python in Lego
animation made by a couple of geeks. There are subtitles in
English, French, German, Spanish, and for Those-Who-Don't-
Like-The-Film. Animated menus. A n 18-minute behind-the-
scenes report by the BBC from 1974. A n d Loads of other funny
stuff. A l l adding up to make an terrific DVD package.
Manchester 1976. Tony Wilson, the future co-founder of factory
records, owner of the notorious Hacienda nightclub, and
Granada TV presenter, is attending an early Sex Pistols gig.
There are no more than 42 people attending an event that
changes the course of British music forever. Sitting at the front
in the audience, Bernard Sumner and Peter Hook, soon to
become Warsaw, then Joy Division, and finally N e w Order. The
quiet little ginger-nut in the corner, that's Mick Hucknall. A n d
there's a stretford school kid, Morissey.
These are the opening scenes of a movie that tells the story of
the biggest pop culture explosions in recent music history.
Movements which owe a great deal to the creative vibrancy and
energy of Manchester. We have in this movie the birth of Punk,
the explosion onto the scene of rave-culture, and the history of
the legendary Hacienda nightclub.
24 Hour Party People is told from the perspective of the afore-
mentioned Tony Wilson, who was there throughout. He is
played brilliantly and at times hilariously by the best character-
comedian in the world, Steve Coogan. Forget The Parole Officer,
this is Coogan's element. There's a memorable scene where
Tony Wilson is presenting a second-rate Granada TV feature
about canals, which is just pure Tm Alan Partridge.
The director, Michael Winterbottom, maker of the Palm D'Or
nominated Welcome To Sarajevo (1997), chose to shoot the
movie entirely on hand-held DV camera. But his main achieve-
• ment has been to bring to life larger-than-life characters like the
Happy Monday's Ryder brothers, Bez, Ian Curtis, and Martin
Hannet. Characters who contributed to the music that tried to
turn the rest of the world into Mad-chester.
Coogan's performance is just one of the highlights of a movie
which impresses in almost every department. It is funny, at
times touching, informative, and very entertaining. The only
drawback being the music scenes, which will tend to gravitate
to fans of the music as opposed to your average viewer. Setting
that aside, 24 hour party people is a very ambitious film which
in the end succeeds.
Darius

