reviews film
2001: A Space Odyssey
at the Bfi I MAX
The Royal Tenenbaums
released 15th March
Don't read this expecting me to explain what it's is all about.
Because I haven't a clue. Is it about the existence of an extra-ter-
restrial creator? Is it about the irresolvable conflict between sci-
ence and religion? Or mankind's timeless aspiration to self-over-
coming and the unattainable?
All you and I know is that anybody who claims to know what
it's all about is a liar. Its genius is in that it is a question-provoking
philosophical trip into the pre-history and future of mankind.
Some, perhaps, most people claim that it is utterly meaningless
and like its maker, intellectually vain and pretentious. But I would
say otherwise. What it means is what you make of it, the meaning
you give to it. If you don't, then from the momentous start to the
unfathomable finale, you will tell yourself that it is meaningless.
Then there's 2001: A Space Odyssey (1968). Partly based on
Arthur C. Clarke's short story, The Sentinal. Co-written and direct-
ed by the late Stanley Kubrick. Arguably, the greatest movie of all-
time, way ahead of its time, and without a shadow of a monolith,
a masterpiece.
As an audio-visual experience it set a landmark in the film
industry. It resonated in the era of psychedelic drugs, counter-cul-
ture, and all-round confusion; and still continues to amaze our
twenty-first century audiences. Most of us have watched it on TV
but 2001 is one of those films you have to watch in the cinema to
appreciate Kubrick's audio-visuals.
Even though it is over thirty years old it looks more authentic
than most of today's sci-fi. Every penny of the £6m budget was
spent in giving the viewer an experience as close as possible to
actually being in space. In every moment of 2001: A Space
Odyssey you're sampling the wonder of the space age.
The best works of art are those which don't fill in the gaps in
your knowledge. They open up new arenas for thought. Give you
a different perspective. As I sat there, watching 2001: A Space
Odyssey, I asked myself several questions: Will mankind ever find
a purpose? Is the answer out there in the vast expanse of the uni-
verse? Will the local KFC still be open after this? If not, what about
the Kebab King? I'm quite hungry.
Starring: Gene Hackman, Ben Stiller, Anjelica Huston, Luke W i l -
son, Gwyneth Paltrow, Danny Glover, and Bill Murray. Co-writ-
ten and directed by Wes Anderson, who is most famous for the
excellent Rushmore (1998).
Royal Tenenbaum (Hackman) and his wife Etheline (Huston)
had three children, Chas (Stiller), Richie (Wilson), and Margot
(Paltrow), all child prodigies. Chas was a real estate and finance
genius. Margot was an award-winning playwright. Richie was
a junior champion tennis player.
Two decades of betrayal, failure, and disaster subsequently
erased all memory of the young Tenenbaums brilliance. Most of
this was generally considered to be their father's fault. The
Royal Tenenbaums is the story of the family's sudden, unex-
pected reunion one recent winter.
It is about success and failure, taking responsibilty for your
life, growing-up; all universal themes that will strike a chord
with everyone, partly explaining the film's popularity amongst
critics and audiences alike in the U.S..
Highly original and witty The Royal Tenebaums is guaranteed
to be one of the better films this year. BflBBBO
Darius
2001 COMPETITION
This week's Felix On Film competition gives you an exclusive
opportunity to OBTAIN!!! tickets to see Stanley Kubrick's 2001:
A Space Odyssey on the big screen. Not just any big screen. The
Bfi's IMAX theatre boasts the largest screen in Europe. We have
two tickets for a screening at 9pm on Sunday 24th March. You
can be there if you answer the following question correctly:
In which country was Arthur C. Clarke born?
a) England b) United States c) Australia
Answers to film.felix@ic.ac.uk
2001: A Space Odyssey will be shown at the Bfi IMAX, Waterloo,
on Friday 22nd, Saturday 23rd, Sunday 24th March, at 21:00.
For information and booking call: 020 7902 1234

