spring LEQ
LEQs - The Spring Edition
What is the Spring Term LEQ?
This is the opportunity for undergradu-
ates to evaluate the lecturers who taught
them during the past term by completing
a web based questionnaire on each
course attended.
When is the Spring Term L E Q open?
From the 18 March 2002 to 31 March 200
What password do students use to
access the L E Q web site?
For the Autumn term LEQ, an individual
password was emailed to each student.
This was a temporary but unsatisfactory
expedient and for this term's LEQ, the
password will be the student's CID num-
ber. The next update of the O R A C L E soft-
ware which underpins the L E Q will per-
mit a student's normal College password
to be used but the software will not be
installed in time for this term's survey. It
will be ready for the survey due in the
autumn term 2002.
Note that students can change their
password from their CID number to one of
their choosing once they have logged on.
What about the other problems w i t h
last electronic LEQ?
Those problems reported to the L E Q proj-
ect team involved students forgetting or
losing their passwords, finding no cours-
es to evaluate or having access problems
to the site itself. Virtually all the problems
reported were rapidly solved.
There are also three students, as I type,
attacking the system; giving constructive
feedback.
Is the L E Q site accessible from any-
where?
The site is not currently accessible from
outside the College but should be acces-
sible from anywhere within the College
including other campuses and most halls
of residence. Unfortunately, it is not
accessible from PCs w h i c h have the
Konqueror browser thojight to be particu-
larly popular in the Computing
Department.
W h y should students complete the
LEQ?
This is an important opportunity for stu-
dents to make their voice heard and tell
the Departments how good their good
lecturers are and how bad their bad lec-
turers are. The more students complete
the L E Q the more Departments take
notice. Departments do actually welcome
constructive feedback and encourage stu-
dents to provide this. The student partic-
ipation rate across the College for the
autumn term was a disappointing 20%
overall though some Departments man-
aged 30 + %. However some Departments
were as low as 9% and both the USC and
ICU wish to encourage students to dra-
matically improve this participation rate.
Departments will take more notice of stu-
dent's comments in this survey, the
greater the number of participants.
Are the results anonymous?
Yes, only statistical results are released to
Directors of Undergraduate Studies and
Departmental Student Representatives,
who will have no idea which students
have responded.
What about the free form textual
comments that students can add to
each LEQ?
These also remain anonymous and are
released, collated in anonymised form
and linked to the relevant lecturer, to
Directors of Undergraduate Studies and
Dep reps with the statistical results.
Why not use paper?
Paper based L E Q are labour intensive,
environmentally unfriendly, completed
only by those present at the lecture when
distributed and can pass through several
hands before the results are publicised.
The USC and ICU have determined that
electronic LEQ's are the way forward as
they have the following advantages over
papere
• A l l students have the opportunity to
respond not just those that happen to
be attending the particular lecture
when a paper-based L E Q is offered.
• Students have sufficient time to con-
tribute constructive textual comments.
• Less work required by the
Departmental and College staff.
• No involvement of academic staff from a
student's home department in the
process therefore greater anonymity for
student.
• Quick turn-around of the responses
thus enabling prompt action by
Departments if necessary.
• Quick and accurate turn-around of the
textual comments made by students.
• Excellent flexibility: once established it
will be possible to customise the ques-
tions and arrange for the survey to be
carried out at a convenient time for any
section of the College.
Are the L E Q questions old fashioned?
Some of the questions are old fashioned
and this is the last survey in which the
questions will be used in the current for-
mat. A USC working party will be review-
ing and revising the questions for future
incarnations.
When w i l l the results be available?
The results are released simultaneously
to DUG's and Dep reps shortly after the
closure of the survey period.
Is there an incentive for participating?
There are 10 prizes of £25.00 each for stu-
dents who participate in the L E Q and
who opt to be included in the prize draw.
Individual Departments may also provide
local incentives.
Are there any changes to the L E Q
since the a u t u m n term?
There have been some cosmetic changes
responding to student comments and the
system has been road tested by a few stu-
dent volunteers.
Who is eligible to complete the LEQ?
All undergraduates except those in the
School of Medicine. We hope to extend
the survey to include medical students by
the autumn.

