Alien Sex Fiend investigates sex, violence and social prejudice... oh, and comics.
F E A T U R E S Kids Stuff... or are they?
Zap!... Pow!... Khzammm!
'Take that, evil fiend! Your plans to
rule the world are no more!'
A n d another muscle-bound idiot in a
silly costume puts paid to another
scheming evil mastermind, only to find
that the baddie has escaped, and the
whole pointless charade will be re-
enacted next issue.
W h e n most people think of comics, this
is the kind of scenario that runs through
their mind, or maybe a fond
remembrance of the childhood days of
The Beano or Bunty. It's hardly
surprising: W e live in a society that
regards the comic as a childish medium,
and are thus brought up w i t h this attitude
towards them.
But w h y is this? Comics did not, as
most people think, start out being aimed
at children, but at the same age groups as
most popular fiction. Superman, the figure
that arguably started it all, was created in
the early Forties. At this time the strip
was avidly read by a wide variety of the
A m e r i c a n people, from children to
teenagers, to college students and
beyond. Batman began as a m u c h darker,
mature figure than he later became in the
public eye.
So what changed? Well, that's the
problem: we did, and they (the comics)
didn't. The w o r l d we live in has been
changing at an evei increasing rate. W i t h
the advent of information technology, and
the growth of the media industry, people
began to see more of the world they
lived in, and to understand a little more
of its workings. A s we have become more
aware and educated, our understanding
of ourselves a n d our society was affected.
This has lead to us placing different
demands on the arts and entertainments
that are meant to be relevant to the
fluctuating world in which we live.
This is the reason that past fictional
works, of any medium, can lose some of
their appeal. They become less believable
and credible when viewed with our
greater understanding. This is not to say
that they are not enjoyable, but in a
different way, and often w i t h a sense of
nostalgia, thus making it very hard to
suspend our disbelief. This suspension of
disbelief is vital if a work of fiction is to
hold our attention and have an impact
upon us.
Television was one of the main forces
behind these changes, transferring a huge
amount of information to first hundreds,
then thousands, and now millions of
people. A s such it was able to keep up
with the transformation of people's
demands. (Although it could be said that
it was forced to by its very nature). The
fields of cinema and literature have dealt
INTD f* fflAJCm
with the phenomenon with differing
levels of success, but have generally
managed to keep up, so to speak.
Then of course, we come to comics.
W h y have they not been able to change
along with other forms of fiction? The
main reason can be traced back to the
McCarthy era of A m e r i c a n history. In this
paranoid frenzy of investigations all
producers of fictional work were heavily
scrutinized, and a huge amount of
pressure put upo n them. The comic book
industry was all but destroyed by a group
of senate house committee hearings,
w h i c h amounted to a witch hunt on
comic book creators. The m a i n focus of
these purges was E C Comics, the original
masters of the horror comic, but in their
almost ecclesiastical zeal the whole
Elektra: Assassin
industry was subjected to a concentrated
attack. Companies went out of business,
and some of the best artists and writers
were forced to find employment in other
fields, and even began denying that they
had ever been involved in comics. So
much for the 1st Amendment.
The remaining companies were faced
with a choice (?): Clean up or close down.
In order to survive they formed the
Comic Code, a self-regulating body whose
job was (and still is) to make sure that the
American youth only read comic books
that were pure and wholesome. Violence
was reduced to a bare m i n i m u m , and sex
(previously unheard of) became totally
taboo.
The consequences of this are still with
us today. Comic books (especially
Marvel's output) became nice and clean
and wholesome. A n d bland, and silly, and
simple minded, and boring. At the same
time the information technology and
media boom got under way. This lead to
a change in the readership of the books.
The older readers, becoming more aware
of their society and themselves,
demanded more than the comic books
were giving, a n d thus stopped reading
them. Thus the average age of the
readership fell. As the readership became
younger the writers were forced to aim
the comics at this age group, or risk
falling sales. Then there was the abysmal
Batman T V series, which made a farce of
one of the biggest comic heroes in the
public's eye. A l l of this led to society's
perception of comics becoming that
which is typical today: Comics are for
kids.
But things have changed. It began as
early as the late sixties. Some writers
became slightly more ambitious. They
R t € * f f
cms ui TMS
mn € * e r mu
The Dark
Knight Returns
I (Frank Miller)
was the
catalyst for a
revolution in
the comic
book industry.
began to produce slightly more mature
stories, and managed to get them past the
(by then) slightly more relaxed Comic
Code. This happened in various titles, but
mainly those produced by Detective
Comics (the producers of Batman,
Superman, Wonder Woman, et al). It was
by no means consistent, and there were
many periods where stories got silly
again, but the spark was there.
Then came the Eighties, and with them
a man called Frank Miller. Miller was
something of a wild card, coming out of
(apparently) nowhere, w o r k i n g as an
independent, and producinghis first major
release, a graphic novel called Ronin,
virtually single-handedly (ie he wrote and
drew it himself). He then w o r k e d his way
through various characters from various
companies, redefining them with a far
more modern, mature and complex
viewpoint. His work quickly became very
popular within the small group of comic
enthusiasts, those die-hard fans that
hadn't left their comics w i t h their romper
suits. At the same time several other
writers and artists had begun
experimenting with more ambitious ideas.
Marvel Comics had introduced a
character, Wolverine, who by his very
nature was a killer (a first for the
company), and various other titles were
becoming more serious.
But the turning point for the whole
industry came with Miller, and Batman.
After having gained a large amount of
respect and following in the industry after
his work on Marvel's Daredevil, Detective
Comics let him go ahead with a Batman
story. The result was a four-part limited
series, now reprinted as a graphic novel,
called The Dark Knight Returns. It caused
a storm. Miller had taken one of the most
famous comic heroes of all time, who was
both engraved o n the minds of comic
fans worldwide, and who epitomized the
essential silliness of comics to the general
public (due largely to the T V series), and
totally redefined him into a modern hero,
without contradicting any of the work
that had been done before. By doing this
he dramatically demonstrated not only
that comics aren't limited to dealing with
childish stories, but also that one of the
most 'silly' characters wasn't very silly
after all.
The Batman had been portrayed over
the years in various ways, originally as a
darker, revenge driven vigilante, and
then for most of the Sixties a n d Seventies
as a rich, concerned do-gooder. In Miller's
hands he retained both these aspects, but
Wolverine
became something far more. B y
incorporating these elements, and his
o w n interpretations, Miller showed us a
far more complex character than had
been seen before in a comic. He
combined this with another ground-
breaking concept in comics: Time. The
Dark Knight Returns is the story of the
Batman's future, of his old age. B y
making the Batman's character complex,
Miller transformed him from a hero to a
man, and with the addition of time, into a
legend.
The Dark Knight Returns was the
catalyst for a revolution in the comic
book industry. Its sales were huge, it
crossed the age boundaries set almost
three decades before, and in it's graphic
novel form entered the Times best sellers
list, the first to do so. It was an modern,
adult story in every sense of the word.
D C immediately took steps to bring the
regular Batman titles in line with Miller's
vision. More and more titles from all
comic companies followed suit. W i t h this
more modern, adult approach there was a
demand for better writers a n d artists, and
the quality of the comics went up
accordingly. People began to realise the
true potential of the comic as an art
form. Indeed, it has been hailed as the
medium of the future. Comics cross
theboundaries between traditional novels
and the visual fields of cinema and art. It
is possible to combine the visual impact
of the latter w i t h the depth of
characterisation and narrative techniques
of the former. Artists such as Bill
Sienkiewicz have been at the forefront of
this work, in both regular series like
Moon Knight, and graphic novels like
Elektra: Assassin.
This new w a v e has lead to a new
emphasis in comics. The heroics have
become secondary to the characterisation
and relationships of the heroes. They are
becoming more human, more real, and
less like two dimensional cardboard
cutouts spouting inane comment at not
very threatening bad guys. Marvel
Comic's X-Men and related 'Mutant' titles
have dealt very well with this area.
Detective's Green Arrow has spent two
years investigating he role of the victim
in modern crime. The list continues to
grow.
The implications of this are finally
beginning to filter through to the public
at large. The massive coverage of the
Batman movie helped a great deal. Very
soon we may find ourselves living in a
society that has realised that comics
aren't just for kids...
Next Week: A review of the major
comic shops in London, and of the
best titles available at the moment...
12 13

