ENVIRO
Chris Riley looks at industry's attitude to the environment
Problems and Pollutions
W i t h the w o r l d population spiralling
towards seven billion, it is unrealistic to
revert to the stone age technology called
for by some of the more radical 'anti-
progress' pressure groups. ' W e cannot
look solely to the use of the land a n d
windmills to support us in the future'
explains Shell's public affairs officer, M r
Wyberry. 'Since the Second W o r l d W a r
there has been a five fold increase in
consumption of energy. This demand has
been met primarily by o i l , coal and gas.
Today, the w o r l d (excluding the
communist countries) consumes 53 million
barrels of oil a day. It is, however, only
in the last five years that we have
become aware of the corresponding
increase in C 0 2 w h i c h has accompanied
the increase in use of fossil fuels.'
Shell sees the global w a r m i n g a n d
climatic changes as a challenge to be met
by improvements in technology. Waste
handling, air quality...etc...can all be
solved by technology if we spend enough
money', explains BP's public relations
officer, M r B r o w n . 'However a technical
solution is not a solution unless it is
economically viable.'
'Europe has set itself the task of
bringing C 0 2 levels down to 1988 levels
by the year 2005. W e must switch from
coal and oil to natural gas and ultimately
to non-fossil fuels. 'For decades gas has
been the Cinderella of the oil industry—a
useless by-product, not readily
transportable a n d instead, flared off from
oil rigs. But w i t h increases in technology
its importance is increasing. Gas turbine
technology is 6 0 % more efficient than
conventional turbines. Forty per cent of
the world's proven gas reserves come
from the USSR a n d Siberia, Iran a n d the
Middle East. T h e potential to link the
derelict Russian economy with an
environmentally-conscious gas-hungry
west is enormous.'
'It is o n the fuel consumption side that
the potential for saving energy exists',
argues Shell. 'The gas used b y western
Europe equals that lost by leaking pipes
worldwide. Simply by replacing an old
fridge with n e w equipment, the best that's
available, 7 0 % improvements in energy
efficiency can be achieved. Take a typical
pump: simply by choosing the right pump
for the right application energy efficiency
can be improved by 6 0 % ' .
Despite these caring claims, when Shell
were approached about the Petromiser,
(reported in Issue 891) they were not
interested. What it boils d o w n to is that
cuts in public consumption of energy
mean cuts in business and profit for the
major energy companies.
Shell are full of suggestions such as
'biomass electricity generation', (growing
of fuel in fields for gasification to fuel gas
turbines), but when approached about
their o w n alternative energy research
they have very little to boast about.
Energy companies should not be
fighting to preserve a n d promote the
present levels of energy consumption, but
to diversify into alternative energy
sources—to plan for the future. These so-
called 'alternatives' will one day be our
only choice, w h e n fossil fuels are no
longer an alternative.
W h e n questioned about their
investments i n the future their excuse is
always that long term predictions cannot
be made in the oil industry. Shell cannot
see far enough ahead to the point when
there is no more oil or, more importantly,
when the consequences of burning more
oil are fatal. They argue that fifteen years
ago, the North Sea fields were only going
to support us into the 1990s. Since then
exploration has shown them to be
capable for fuelling us for the 'foreseeable
The simple incentive
of saving the
planet is not enough.
future'. T h e foreseeable future, like
tomorrow, never comes.
BP, whilst prepared to discuss
improvements in energy efficiency, are
adamant that these goals are not pursued
at the exclusion of exploration, their life
blood. 'Continued exploration for
expendable fuels a n d the preservation of
the environment are not mutually
exclusive goals'. Sadly though, as long as
there is still the temptation of fossil fuels
to be extracted a n d utilised, it seems that
the 'alternatives' (renewable energy
sources) will not be sought with any
conviction. B P , like any commercial
venture needs a financial incentive to
diversify. T h e simple incentive of saving
the planet is not enough. For n o w
though, increasing production costs to
clean up the industry does not make
business sense. Until the political impetus
to change this is supplied, industry will
continue to generate their big profits at
the expense of the environment.
Spokesmen for both B P a n d Shell stress
that any environmental legislation must
be implemented on an international basis.
Each country should have its o w n high
environmental standards governed by
local law but based on international
concepts. Whilst environmental policy in
industry is still very m u c h a voluntary
action, few companies are prepared to
follow BP's exemplary style. 'Many
companies take advantage of the low
safety standards and non-existent
environmental laws of the
underdeveloped countries to keep their
costs to a m i n i m u m and to maximise
their profits. Without c o m m o n generic
standards this will always happen, and
those companies w h o are first to make an
effort to cut pollution will be punished
financially. Consequently, no company is
at present prepared to make the first
move, and although our hopes a n d
aspiration for the future are different we
are all tarred w i t h the same 'dirty' brush.'
But w h o then is to pay for this mass
clean-up of the industrial b a d guys? B P is
resolute that any cleaning up of industry
should be funded by the public in the
form of taxes. 'The environment is for the
public good. Costs should be shared by all
beneficiaries—a fair share of the costs is
vital.' Passing the cost to the customer in
this w a y is all very well in the first world
but it seems that such methods are not
applicable to a third world country that
cannot even afford to feed its o w n
population.
Even within the 'black triangle' of
eastern Europe, where Greenpeace
workers are perceived as 'rich kids with
nothing better to do', care for the
environment is considered an expensive
luxury. 'Perhaps it is ' argues Peter
Tickle, eastern block consultant to
Greenpeace. 'Greenpeace have been
accused of depriving seal hunters of a
way of life. The fossil-fuel-free future that
we fight for is ultimately suffocating
mining communities. However if y o u
consider the long term costs of chronic
air pollution to public health, it seems
sensible to stop the pollution before it
happens. In Czechoslovakia some four
million people live in the most heavily
Leaving a window
open at night results
in throbbing
headaches...
contaminated areas. During the winter,
when continuous smog conditions prevail
for weeks, children are forbidden to
indulge in strenuous activity. Leaving a
window open at night results in throbbing
headaches the next day. In Bratislava, the
capital of Slovakia, air pollution has
degraded the physical landscape and the
human environment to the point where
the suicide rate is the highest in Europe.'
BP m a y be more prepared than most
for tougher environmental legislation
which it calls for, but it will require more
commercial evolution than just a change
of logo to survive into the 21st Century.
Ironically those w h o will dictate and
implement any future environmental law
are also the guardian angels of industry.
It is in their o w n interests to nurture such
companies pruning them annually for
their taxes. T h e question is will this
symbiosis finally suffocate the animals?
14

