The Slow Moving Snail invites you to celebrate words.
Books for Living
In all the debate about literacy and our
schools one small blue document, costing
only £2.50, was overlooked. This is sad as
it examines the very heart of the issue. It
is also heavily ironic, as it is,
unbelievably, the product of Her Majesty's
Inspectorate from the Department of
Education and Science. It is a delightful
book that aims to persuade teachers that
'poetry matters and that its teaching
should not be relegated to the end of the
day, the week, or the term'. W h y review
it here, you may be thinking. Because
Teaching Poetry in the Secondary School
not only answers the question w h y we
don't read poetry after school, it actually
inspires a desire to start reading it!
Words
The arguments are nearly poetic in
their clarity and enthusiasm. In looking
for quotes I wanted to reprint the whole
booklet. As perpetual students of life all
of us should have a copy. More
importantly w e should ensure that all
parents and English teachers buy it. Here
is a small taste of the excitement of the
book:
'Poetry matters because it is a central
example of the use human beings make
of words to explore and understand. Like
other forms of writing we value, it lends
shape and meaning to our experiences
and helps us to move with confidence in
the world we know and then step beyond
it, to respond to the generation of
meaning through significant, memorable
and deliberate kinds of language. It is an
activity to which we are drawn because
in its range and rigour we feel both the
presence and the pressure of human
experience. Poetry embodies delight in
expression, stretched between thought,
feeling and form. As we become aware of
the 'true soundings' of poetry so we
become aware of what we ourselves
might do with language.'
As George Orwell illustrates in the
newspeak of 1984, it is language that
gives us the power for our thoughts,
extend language and you widen the
horizon of our ideas and freedoms. This
booklet is front-line ammunition in the
struggle against the forces of ignorance
and bigotry that feed Big Brother. It is a
small step in promoting our species' sense
of humanity.
A celebration of these steps, told
through the history of h u m a n knowledge
and science, has recently been re-
published in paperback by the B B C . A s
part of their new Classics Series they
have brought out Jacob Bronowski's book
Ascent of Man. If you have lost your
primary school inquisitiveness and
creativity, your sense of wonder at
human knowledge because of the soulless
nature of the secondary school and
college curriculum; if learning has now
become solely work to achieve a degree
and job - then you need this book. It will
infect you with Bronowski's personal
enthusiasm and optimism. It will
challenge you with science that has a
human soul.
Bronowski is one of those scientists,
poets, playwrights, historians and
philosophers w h o celebrates the values
and unity found in science and art. As he
expresses in a second book, Science and
Human Values, that should be reprinted
and sent to all undergraduates before
they start here - it might lessen the
inhumanity of this place:
'In science and in art and in self-
knowledge we explore and move
constantly by turning to the world of
sense to ask, is this so? This is the habit
of truth, always minute yet always
urgent, which for four hundred years has
entered every action of ours; and has
made our society and the value it sets on
man, as surely as it had made the
linotype machine and the scout knife, and
King Lear and the Origin of the Species
and Leonardo's Lady with a Stoat.'
Glorious
Miroslav Holub, the Czech poet and
scientist, w h e n he spoke here in
November about Science, Art and Ethics
quoted Bronowski. There is no better
way of expressing such thoughts.
Holub expresses in his poetry ways of
seeing the w o r l d through the turbulence
of a society suppressed by Stalinism, in
which truth is corrupted into power. The
poems explore meanings with a sense
that they give us the world, and yet,
there is the cutting edge of the final lines
that tell of loss. Are facts real? Do they
relate to why? How can w e k n o w
something in a society in w h i c h a fact is
a fact through fear? This fear and sadness
gives Holub's w o r k a vitality and
significance. Here is the pen as sword,
science as liberator.
Holub is a poet published by Bloodaxe
Books, a company set-up due to the
anger of Neil Astley at the insult poetry
was given by commercial publishers. He
has published a compilation of the works
of 56 poets, writers who have been
encouraged and supported in their work
by Bloodaxe. Poetry With an Edge is an
introduction to contemporary poetry for
those of us w h o don't know where to
begin. Holub is there, as is Jo Shapcott.
Her book Electroplating the Baby is a
, series of personal images, funny,
romantic, everyday, macabre, with an
underlying sense of discovery. Her
inspiration comes from a range of objects
and events, as varied as a bookstand in a
railway station to articles in Victorian
science magazines to a mug.
O n Valentines Day Jo aroused her
audience with sex and science, the
exploration of atomic particles became an
erotic massage of her body. Using weird
characters such as T o m the Cat, Marilyn
Monroe and a c o w with B S E , she turned
her audience into anarchic w o r d
destroyers, body language physicists and
scientists with an insane stare and a
tendancy for the shakes. The Haldane
Library vibrated with words.
Two professional psychologists got
together to publish a collection of
quotations called In a Dark Time. This is
constructed into a thought journey from
shock to depression to the joy of hope, as
it travels through the insanity of war. If
you are depressed by the i n h u m a n
bigotry expressed in the present gung-ho
attitude to the Gulf war this book will
turn your depression into tears of hope,
for 'In a dark time the eye begins to see'.
A l l the books reviewed here express
the vital h u m a n need to read. B y turning
their pages, turning their words into our
images and concepts, we are expressing
and expanding our humanity. Sadly being
human, apart from recognition for
communication, avoidance or sex, is not
a valued or well understood concept at
Imperial. There are a few places here
that do represent hope of higher things;
the Haldane Library - sadly not the
Humanities Department - and most
importantly, in the Physics Department
there is the Blackett Bookshop, just
opposite the general office on level 3,
open every lunchtime from 12:30 to 2:30.
Words
Here you can buy second-hand books
that smell like human thought and
imagination.
Long may the human spirit struggle to
survive here and eventually tear down
the present monstrosity that sacrifices
science to the politics of financial
management, utility and marketing.
A l l the Bloodaxe Books mentioned can be
bought from the Union Bookstore. Ascent
of Man from Dillons in the Science
Museum. Teaching Poetry in the
Secondary School can be ordered from
H M S O tel: 622 3316. In a Dark Time
edited by Nicolas Humphrey and Robert
Jay Lifton is published by Faber and
Faber and can be ordered from any good
bookshop.
15

