Picocon
It's back! The annual Imperial College
Science Fiction convention is set to
invade the U n i o n Building for a whole
day of transmuting, transfering,
transporting and maybe even translating.
We've got D o n Abnett from Marvel
comics (co-writer of the Knights of
Pendragon, editor of Strip a n d contributor
to the Comic Relief Comic) giving a talk
and A l e x Stewart (writer, editor) doing
some, along with stalls, the real
Hitchhikers Guide to the Galaxy
(Archimedes owners bring disks), big quiz
games, songs, dance, hopscotch, torture,
alien impressions, videos and the bar is
open A L L D A Y ! ! The relevants (big grey
things with trunks) are as follows:
1. It's on Saturday March 2.
2. It costs £4 on the day, £3.50 advance.
3. There's Dan Abnett.
4. There's A l e x Stewart.
5. There's no 'R' in Picocon.
6. There's A L L D A Y BEER.
7. It starts at 10am and dies from
exhaustion, alcohol poisoning, satisfaction,
brain damage and bowel relapse at 1
Whether it's because you believe in
klingons, think you're a xenomorph, think
Barbarella is horny, want to see the size
of the collars in Blake's Seven, have
anything even close to an imagination,
you want to see an artist's ideas about
science or y o u just want to talk a load of
crap and have someone who'll listen to
you. You'll miss Jim'll F i x It, Blind Date
and Paul Daniels and still be back for
T w i n Peaks. Be seeing you.
H y d e P a r k R e l a y
u i i i '
it*' illltll
Five months of begging, borrowing and
stealing culminated on Saturday in the
43rd running of the Hyde Park Relays.
Fifteen hundred students from all over
Europe descended on Imperial College to
take part in the biggest race of its kind in
the world. This year the event was
sponsored by the local Natwest Bank and
also New Balance.
The event resembled the London
Marathon in its professionalism; sponsors,
3A's officials, video cameras, official
photographers a n d marshals all gathered
to witness the mass start. 150 men and
53 w o m e n surged around the Serpentine
at a time. IC Cross-Country Club relied on
tactics of a pre-race night spent on the
floor in Southside gym to ward off the
foreign competition.
Predictably, Loughborough won both
the ladies and men's races, however
Imperial runners used their advantage in
knowing the course to all run well. The
hero of the day being Frank who ran 3
legs, each for a different team. G B
international, Simon Mugglestone, w o n
the men's individual prize.
Thanks to Alex's wizardry, a
computerised results service allowed the
magnificent trophies to be presented to
the winners whilst the hungry runners
wre still devouring the feast prepared
Socs
5-A-Side
IC Randoms: Top of Group
IC lsts and 2nds: Out of Running
Five o'clock last Sunday morning, 15 of
the toughest sped off in the 'hard seated,
petro-powered conveyance mechanism:
destination Southampton University via
Fleet motorway services for overpriced
coffee, muesli and tea.
Having earlier been robbed in the
cafeteria, the lsts and 2nds couldn't
beleive that it could happen a second
time losing to teams in their groups. It
was down to the mighty 3rds to carry the
IC flag. Against all odds and a partisan
home crowd, they fought like wounded
animals and twatted Southampton lsts
2-0, A n n a n passing the ball at least twice
in the w a r m up. A climax had been set
up, a 2nds versus 3rds crunch match in
which blood was spilt and the game was
drawn. IC Misfits, winning their group
and the support of the crowd went on to
lose rather unconvincingly to Sussex,
Nelson deftly slotting an o w n goal at the
second attempt past keeper, Chris
Collison.
By the end of the day we had ridden
our luck too far. This became apparent
when the mini-bus ground to a halt at
Barons Court.
delicately the nigh before, using
previously hidden culinary talents of the
IC Trogans. Fashion conscious athletes
purchased designer T-Shirts, of which
there are a limited number remaining.
There will be an opportunity to buy these
and some of last year's memorabilia in
the J C R on Tuesday between 11.30 and
2.30pm.
The event was an unparallelled success
which couldn't have happened without
the help of most of the club members,
particularly Dave and Duncan. Thanks
also to a brave F E L I X photographer who
stuck it out until the end.
17

