H i N a t u r a l S e l e c t i o n
St Mary's psychology department has sent
out questionnaires to all applicants for St
Mary's Hospital Medical School and four
other medical schools in the country.
Press reports, originating from a recent
article in the Times Educational
Supplement, implied that the completion
of the questionnaire was i n some way
linked to the success of an application.
Chris McManus, head of the research
group w h i c h produced the questionnaires,
dismissed the allegations, stating that
completion of the questionnaire was
entirely voluntary. He added that the
only applications received by medical
schools were U C C A forms and that the
list of applicants were merely used to
target the mailshot. No information
passed between the medical school's
application department and his research
group, he said.
Concerning privacy, Mr McManus said
that information gathered from the
questionnaire is entirely secure. The data
resides on a computer that is not
networked, and is separated from the
medical school.
The questionnaire is part of an ongoing
project to determine the attributes of a
successful applicant, what makes a
successful doctor and whether particular
types of people choose particular career
paths. The first questionnaire, sent out
ten years ago, was followed by further
information gathering, including final
results and careers after medical school.
According to M r McManus one of the
aims of the project is to ensure that the
public is treated by the very best doctors.
If the character traits that lead to a
student developing into a good doctor
can be identifiied, and the information
incorporated into the selection process,
this should result in the right candidates
being selected. Mr McManus does not see
this as a discriminatory procedure but
rather as part of a more refined selection
process.
He said that previous w o r k by his
research team had shown that the
ranking policy employed by U C C A
discriminated against some students.
Departments rejected applicants simply
because of where their institution
appeared on the list; Bristol university
was among the most blatant offender.
U C C A have n o w since abolished the
ranking system.
The team's monitoring of applicants from
ethnic minorities revealed a significant
level of discrmination. U C C A has now set
up its o w n monitoring scheme as a direct
result of the team's work.
Mr McManus felt that the work of his
team had been misrepresented in the
press and has written a letter to one of
the newspapers concerned. Dr George
Tate, St. Mary's Admissions Tutor,
confirmed Mr McManus's statement,
saying that the only information St Mary's
receive about applicants is that w h i c h is
stated on the U C C A form.
CCU Election Time!
Next week sees the voting for both Royal
College of Science and City and Guilds
Union non-sabbatical posts.
There are three candidates for the post
of City and Guilds President; T i m Proctor,
John Sears a n d Ajit Medtia. The following
are standing for other posts: Steve
Farrant and Lucia Clipstowe for Vice-
President; Robert Evans and Niall Davies
for Honorary Secretary; Steven
Holbrough and Mark Jackson for
Entertainments Officer.
Mark Payne, Chris Browne, Sarah
Welsh and James Shaw are all unopposed
for the posts of Academic Affairs Officer,
Old Centralian's rep, Publicity Officer and
Guild Sheet Editor respectively.
In the Royal College of Science
elections Angela Creissen and Louise
Rafferty are standing for the post of
President with Flemming Heino and
Richard Murray and standing for the post
of Vice-President. For the post of
Honorary Junior Treasurer Robert
Leamon and Richard Thaiss and both
standing with Simon Gibbons and Chris
Field the only candidates for the posts of
Honorary Secretary and A c a d e m i c Affairs
Officer respectively.
The hustings for the RCS candidates
were held in the Union Dining Hall on
Thursday with the elections being held on
Monday next week. The elections for the
City and Guilds posts will be on Tuesday.
Candidates for the Royal School of
Mines elections will not be k n o w n until
next week.
2

