The Story So Far...
I'm back. Sorry; no clever little intro this
week. I can't think of one.
The E n d
Last week Felix received a letter from a
woman who had actually had an
abortion. Out of respect for her and her
feelings, and those of any other person at
college in a similar position, I am drawing
a close to the abortion debate. The
opinion article written by IC Pro-Life Soc
was only printed this week as it had been
arranged before this letter was received.
The discussion has been raging for
several weeks, and clearly it is a very
emotive issue, about w h i c h people have
very strong personal feelings. It is also
going nowhere. Both sides have had their
say many times over, and thus I feel that
to continue w o u l d merely cause more
unnecessary pain to people who have had
personal experiences with the subject.
Meanwhile, back at the Batcave...
A s I've already stated, I'm back (bit
obvious by now, really). T h e evil
masterminds of the Brotherhood of
Examiners gave me their worst, and I
lived to tell the tale, although my degree
may not have done. (Only joking, M u m .
Honest). Thus you are once again the
proud owner of a big, chunky, twenty
four pager. However, at this point I must
say a huge ' T H A N K Y O U ! ' to the rest of
the Felix staff for single-handedly (well,
there are several of them, but you k n o w
what I mean...) producing the Valentine's
issue last week, and more importantly for
not saying anything really horrible about
me in their editorial. It's okay, you can
point the gun somewhere else now,
guys...
A s you may already know, next week
is the (drum roll, trumpet fanfare...)
Travel Special!!! W h i c h means the whole
of Felix is going to be jam-packed with
articles written by people who have been
to really nice hot places, and are very
smug about it. If you haven't yet
submitted (ooo-er) an article, then it's not
too late (well, not quite). The final
deadline is Monday, so get scribbling.
Next issue is also the penultimate one
before the Imperial College Union
elections. A s such it will contain mugshots
of all the candidates for the various
sabbatical positions (President, Deputy
President, H o n Sec (Events), and of
course, the most important one: Felix
Editor). More importantly it will also
present their manifestoes.
So, if you're a candidate, bear this in
mind: The deadline is Monday, 25th
February, 12.30 p m sharp. A l l
manifestoes must be 300 words or less. If
they are longer they will be cut at the
300th word, even if in mid-sentence.
Sorry, but it's the only way to ensure that
no one candidate gains an advantage
over any other.
If you're not a candidate, then it's going
to be your first chance to see who's who,
so read carefully. The people you vote in
will be in charge of the Union for the
next year. Too many people here
complain about the Union; that it doesn't
do enough for us; it doesn't do the things
you want; you never know what's going
on; etc, etc. If y o u don't m a k e the effort
to find out about the candidates, you
won't k n o w w h o you're voting for, and
you won't be able to vote for the right
person. Not voting at all is even worse.
This is the biggest chance we get to
make sure things are how we want them.
The Union is there for us, but if we don't
make the effort and get involved then
we've no right to complain. Apathy never
achieves anything, and neither does
winging when it's too late. Right, rant
over. But make sure you V O T E !
What will our heroes do next?
Well, we've got a couple of new things
coming up (no, I'm not going to use the
same joke twice in on issue. Next week,
though...). T h e first is a regular diary
column, written by a student here, and
detailing his life in the previous week.
I've already seen a sample, w h i c h he
swears is true. T h e easily shocked need
not read, but the names will be changed
to protect the innocent (guilty?).
Next comes the 'Boring Lecture Forum'.
Have you ever been stuck in a boring
lecture? Have you ever whiled away the
time by producing an exquisite work of
literature or art? Do bears do various
naughty things in the woods? Does the
Pope like the taste of concrete? If so
(well, mainly if the second one...), then
Felix wants you. Or rather, Felix wants
your creations, whatever they may be.
The only requirement is that it was
produced in a boring lecture. So go for it:
Show the world that not all students are
time wasters! Drop your stuff off at the
Felix office.
Also c o m i n g soon: A one off special set
of interviews with the Sab candidates,
asking them the kind of questions that
they don't want to be asked, but that y o u
want to k n o w the answers to. This will
be in the issue after next. A N D a special
post election round-up, in the issue after
that. Yes, you are going to V O T E ,
whether you like it or not...
The heroes triumphant (ie, the end!)
Well, that's about it for now. W i t h any
luck the new cartoon will be regular (or a
certain new cartoonist will be in trouble).
You'll all be glad (?) to k n o w that
everyone's (?) favourite cat will be back
next week, complete with high body-
count (or a certain editor/cartoonist/part-
time biologist/alien sex fiend will be in
trouble). A n d remember that the C & G
and RCS C C U elections are o n Monday.
Think of them as a warm-up to the ICU
ones. IE: VOTE!!!!!!
Staff Meeting: Monday 12.30pm
The Super Team
Printing and Typesetting: InkMan and
QuickFinger (aka A n d y and Rose)
News Editor: T o k e n W o m a n (aka Anna)
Arts Editor: Idiotically Dedicated M a n
(aka Adam)
Music Editor: SuperRaver (aka John)
Books Editor: Wonder Bigot (aka
Michael)
Photo Editor: Flas^Man (aka Richard)
Features Editor: SuperSyntax (aka
Roland)
Cartoonist: SillyPlotMan (aka Ian Cairns)
The SideKicks: ToneBoy (Stef), DataKid
(James), Ian the B o y Blunder, E c o L a d
(Chris R.), the GerbilKids (Arts Reviewers),
the Groovy Tunes (Music Reviewers) and
P r o - L i f e .
The Innocent Bystanders: Steven, Yasir,
Karen, Indy, Nick, Mike, Simon, Parantha,
Stefano, Clare, N o r a (SuperRaver's L o v e
Interest), Julia, Ruth, Wheezy, Rebecca,
Rob, Sam, Frank, and The Rebel Alliance.
Felix is produced for and on behalf of the Imperial
College Union Publications Board and is printed at
the Imperial College Union Print Unit, Prince Consort
Road, London SW7 2BB (Tel 071-225 8672).
Editor: Andrew Butcher, Manager: Chris Stapleton,
Business Manager: Jeremy Burnell. Copyright Felix
1991 ISSN 1040-0711.

