Hub Explained
According to a college source Imperial's
Hub office is about to advertise two
clerical positions in 'The Guardian' media
pages. Hub costs were not listed on last
year's college accounts and this has led to
confusion and suspicion about Hub's brief.
According to Lady Clare A s h , in overall
charge of the office, Hub's activities are
manifold. One of her main responsibilities
is the pastoral care of long-term academic
visitors and their dependants. Lady A s h
and her assistant are particularly
concerned with the welfare of non-
English speaking dependants; help can
range from finding part-time jobs for
visitors and their families to finding
schools for visitors' children. Lady A s h
pointed out that the Union is the official
caretaker of student welfare at Imperial
and that, apart from the H u b office, there
is no parallel organisation for academic
visitors.
The Hub office is also responsible for
organising the Christmas Caper and
Summer Fair. Hub also organises a series
a dinners throughout the year for new
academic visitors and new members of
staff.
The Lost Youth Theatre, 450 Fulham
Road, is holding two fundraising nights
this weekend. The theatre has suffered
funding cuts following the disbandment of
the Inner L o n d o n Education Authority
and is struggling to make ends meet. Lost
is always keen to attract not just
audiences but new members; situated in
King's College mascot, Reggie, is soon to
be reunited with his genitalia, say King's
College Union (KQCU). The Mascot, a
male lion made of concrete filled bronze,
was taken by City and Guilds College
Union (C&GU) in the spring of 1989. His
wedding tackle were then removed,
allegedly with a tin opener.
W h e n ransomed back to K Q C U for
£100, his genitalia were not returned.
Instead of which, they were hung behind
the bar in our Union Building (Beit Quad).
At about 8.00pm on Saturday K Q C U ,
having occupied the bar and cleared an
escape route out of the quad, removed
Reggie's wedding tackle from behind the
Lady A s h disclosed that there has been
some discussion about the creation of a
new administrative post in the Hub office
with an accomodation brief. Lady A s h
said that she was unaware that the
personnel department had made a
decision to advertise any posts related tc
the Hub Office. Miss Cox, personnel
officer for Hub was unavailable for
comment yesterday.
the heart of F u l h a m it is v e r y accessible
to IC students.
The weekend's entertainment opens
tonight with 'The Blue D y e ' an up and
coming band from California, followed on
Saturday by an evening of cabaret and
improvisation. Both evenings start at
9.30pm, nearest tube Fulham Broadway,
entry £2.50.
bar and ran from the quad.
Several members of IC Rag attempted
to stop them, but were unsuccessful.
Steve Farrant, Rag chairman, was flung
against one of the benches in the quad,
fracturing a rib. Commenting that one of
the assailants had been in his grasp, he
said,'I had three darts in m y hand, but I
couldn't bring myself to use them.'
Although King's may now be
considering declaring Reggie's testacies a
separate violate mascot, it seems more
likely that they will be reattached to him
replacing the temporary set he is
currently wearing.
False Arrest
A man was arrested in Garden Hall by a
plainclothes policeman on Sunday 17
February for attempting to sell a bicycle.
The bike was believed to be one stolen
from a Garden Hall resident earlier this
year. The man, who failed to identify
himself as a student, was later released
when the police could not prove the
bicycle was stolen property.
Earlier that day, the same man had
entered the hall and offered to sell a
bicycle to one of the residents for £10.
The student accepted and paid a £2
deposit. However, the student was
suspicious of the man's intentions and
contacted the warden, Ian Metcalfe. M r
Metcalf immediately informed the police,
who sent a plainclothes officer along to
the scene. Later that afternoon, when the
man returned with a racing bike to the
hall, he was met by the officer and
arrested.
The man was later released and given a
warning for trespassing on private
property. The student concerned, C H
Wong, a P G student in Mechanical
Engineering said; 'Well, it's a good deal.
Cheap for just £10. The police couldn't
prove it was stolen, so w h y not?'
The same m a n has been seen within
the College grounds on other occasions.
Another resident of the hall, Jean-Phillipe
Carchano, recalled, 'Yes, this is not the
first time I have seen this man, last time
he tried to sell a T V for £5.' At around
8pm on Sunday evening, the man was
seen again on College grounds, having a
pizza in Belushi's.
H A I R D R E S S E R S
15A H A R R I N G T O N R O A D ,
S O U T H K E N S I N G T O N
071-823 8968
W e have a fantastic offer for all y o u
students, a cut wash and blowdry
by our top stylist
(which normally costs around £21)
F o r only £11 M e n £12 W o m e n
C h e c k us out !
3
Cock-up!! Deadline for
manifestoes is actually 12.30pm,
Friday 1st March, not as
mentioned in the editorial...ASF
Lost Theatre
New Balls Please!

