OPINION
IC ProLife Society give their viewpoint on the current letters page debate
'Did I Kick Too
The Status Quo
In 1967, David Steel's Abortion Act made
abortion a reality in Great Britain,
ostensibly for 'hard' cases, ie rape,
handicap, danger to the health of the
mother. But such was the wording of the
act that in practice, by extending the
meaning of 'medical reason' to include
emotional distress or inconvenience, it -
could be interpreted as allowing abortion
on demand. Of the 183,000-plus abortions
carried out in Britain in 1989, fewer than
10% were for 'hard' cases, yet it is by
citing this small minority of cases that
most of those who support abortion
attempt to justify the remainder. The
recent letter in F E L I X from Athena was a
typical example of using circumstances
involving perhaps a few hundred cases to
justify the remaining hundreds of
thousands of cases. It is important to
realise that the vast majority of abortions
are for far less grave reasons, such as
career disruption, financial difficulty and
Why Pro-Life?
The difference between those who are
pro-life and those who are pro-abortion,
and the reason for all the antagonism
between them, is that their reasoning
stems from entirely different bases. Pro-
lifers are not unaware of the arguments
for abortion. They realise that great
difficulty is often faced by the mother,
and that the child may not always be
brought up in ideal surroundings but they
believe that the right of every human
being to life is paramount, and that in no
case can the prospect of hardship for one
person justify the denial of life to another.
However, the same concern for h u m a n
life that prompts these beliefs means that
most pro-lifers would not wish simply to
ban abortion, but also to change the
circumstances in which the decision is
made to favour the pro-life option. If, for
example, adoption had enjoyed the same
good publicity afforded to- abortion, and
DSS provision for the family was
improved, abortion might seem less
appealing.
Three areas of particular concern at the
moment are Post Abortion Syndrome, the
RU486 'abortion pill', and abortion and
the handicapped.
Post Abortion Syndrome
It is unsurprising that w o m e n often feel
emotionally disturbed as a result of an
abortion, but in recent years evidence has
been increasing that would suggest that
the magnitude of the trauma is far
greater than is commonly recognised.
Many women, perhaps years after having
an abortion, experience feelings of guilt
and regret of such a degree that their
mental health is threatened.
The medical establishment has yet to
recognise what is becoming k n o w n as
Post Abortion Syndrome, and the health
service and abortion agencies offer little
help to the w o m e n to w h o m they so
readily provide abortions. These women
are, after the unborn child, the second
victims of abortion. They deserve no
resentment for having been pushed by
circumstances into having an abortion,
but only help and understanding in
coming to terms with what they have
been through. It is with the support of
the major pro-life organisations that
groups have been rapidly expanding that
offer help and counselling to such
women, often run by w o m e n who have
experienced abortion themselves.
R U 4 8 6
The RU486 'Abortion Pill', already in use
in France, is heading for Britain. Medical
trials have begun, and a license has been
applied for.
There are many worrying points
associated with RU486, and even many of
those who support abortion in general
will have cause for concern.
The motivation behind the speed with
which the French, and soon our
government have licensed the drug may
A Woman's Right?
'A Woman's Right to Choose'
This is a phrase w h i c h never fails to
come up in any abortion debate. One
thing the pro-abortion lobby have been
most successful in over the past years is
to make it a feminist issue.
Well, speaking as a w o m a n , I'm all for
sexual equality. M y rights to equal
education and career opportunities are
things I feel very strongly about; but I a m
also pro-life. This is not a contradiction—I
just don't see this 'right to choose' as a
right at all.
In the first place, abortion is not a legal
right. The 1967 Abortion Act removed
the criminal penalties for performing
abortions in certain circumstances. It
conferred no rights on anyone.
Secondly, this choice ultimately comes
d o w n to whether the unborn child in the
w o m b lives or dies. For all m y feminist
beliefs, I don't accord myself absolute
power over the life and death of anyone.
'A w o m a n has the right to do what she
likes with her o w n body.'
Absolutely true, but is the foetus really
just part of the mother's body? I have not
yet heard a convincing argument against
life beginning at conception.
The Warnock Committee stated in their
report that, '...once the process has
begun, there is no particular part of the
development process that is more
important than another. A l l are part of a
continuous process...'
There is no point at w h i c h the 'blob of
cells' in a woman's uterus suddenly
becomes a human being. This event took
place at the beginning, w h e n the sperm
impregnated the egg to give the full
genetic complement of the new
individual. The unborn child is genetically
distinct from both parents. Far from being
another part of its mother's body, it is a
different, distinct human being. If it were
just the woman's body involved, then the
'her body and her choice' argument
might hold up, but there are two bodies
involved, and in dealing with one it is
surely not acceptable to destroy the
other.
A l l this having been said, the immense
difficulties raised w h e n faced with an
unplanned pregnancy can of course seem
overwhelming. Whatever a woman may
have believed before, the shock of finding
herself pregnant may cause her to
consider an abortion. The disruption of
her studies, her career, the stigma of
illegitimacy, the problems of being a
single parent, and the worst thing
possible, pregnancy as a result of rape,
are pressures that must not be
underestimated.
However, the central fact remains. The
child is a h u m a n being. No matter how it
came into being, it is there, and has the
same right to life as anyone else.
A l l too often, the only real option
offered to a w o m a n in an unplanned
pregnancy is abortion. Other avenues are
simply not explored. The child is assumed
to be a burden that the mother wishes to
dispose of as soon as possible. A n
abortion is offered, carried out, and the
w o m a n is then left to carry on with her
life as though nothing had happened. This
is simply not acceptable. All the possible
alternatives must be considered.
Pregnancy need not mean the end of life
as we know it. A great fear is that a girl's
parents will reject her if they find she is
pregnant. Although this is regrettably true
in some cases, many will, after the initial
shock, offer the support that the mother
needs—it is after all their grandchild.
Even when the mother is disowned, there
is substantial support available from other
sources. Pro-life groups such as LIFE offer
both counselling and practical help,
including help with claiming DHSS grants,
guidance on employment protection and
maternity payments, baby clothing and
equipment, and accommodation both
before and after the birth.
Pregnancy is a wholly natural
occurence. A woman's whole lifestyle
needn't be changed because she is
about abortion
Hard?'
not be entirely honourable. Just as
governments are keen on abortion as a
means of relieving pressure on
underfunded health and social services,
they are keen on RU486 because it is an
outpatient method of abortion, lowering
demand for beds. RU486 has been
promoted as a leap forward in women's
rights, with the image of swallowing the
pill and 'solving the problem'. The reality
is less appealing. At least three
appointments are required over a period
of around ten days, to administer the
drug and kill the embryo, then to
OPINION
administer prostaglandin to expel the
embryo, and finally to check abortion is
complete. Severe pain and heavy
bleeding is c o m m o n , sometimes requiring
a transfusion. The w o m a n is more likely
to see her aborted embryo, adding to the
trauma already increased b y the far
longer procedure as compared with
surgical methods. In 5% of cases, RU486
fails to abort, making surgical abortion
necessary as well, heightening the
psychological pressure on the woman.
RU486 is still an experimental drug,
with nothing k n o w n about long term
A Woman Speaks...
pregnant. W i t h support she can carry on
with her w o r k or education.
During the course of the pregnancy,
many women find that the unwanted
child is very m u c h wanted indeed.
However, for those who still can't cope
with a baby, the choice of adoption is
there.
Admittedly adoption can be
traumatic—'giving up' a child is not easy,
but what is abortion if not 'giving up'?
W i t h adoption, y o u giving are giving your
child parents for w h o m a child is m u c h
longed for. A n aborted child can give no
one joy or happiness.
In fact, abortion can be far more
traumatic than adoption. It can be
physically damaging to the woman's
reproductive system, and in very many
cases the w o m a n is emotionally scarred.
Post-abortion trauma is extremely
common, and a very neglected condition.
A w o m a n can be pressurised into having
an abortion, and then discharged only to
suffer regret and confusion, with no back-
up support. Here, surprisingly enough,
pro-life groups such as L I F E and S P U C
come into their own. Recently the pro-life
movement has suffered a great deal from
a small number of people standing
outside abortion clinics hurling abuse and
even debris at frightened young w o m e n
entering and leaving. These people are
no more a part of the mainstream pro-life
movement than the terrorists who bomb
the homes of scientists are part of a
charity like A n i m a l A i d . Both the
aforementioned groups recognise the
considerable social pressure that leads to
so many abortions, and while never
accepting that abortion can be right, offer
counselling and support to w o m e n who
have had abortions, to help them come to
terms with their loss.
Of course, the hardest question to deal
with is that of rape. Rape is almost
certainly the most traumatic experience a
w o m a n can suffer, and it is argued that
pregnancy can only c o m p o u n d this—a
constant reminder to the w o m a n of her
ordeal. Should then this be considered as
a special case? Any w o m a n must feel a
horror at the thought of rape resulting in
pregnancy. It was the most difficult
problem I faced when coming to m y pro-
life beliefs. H o w would I feel if it were to
happen to me?
However the crucial fact cannot be
altered. A n unborn child is still a child. A
separate, unique life has begun. There
can be no 'special case' w h e n it comes to
the killing of a human being, wholly
innocent of any crimes committed leading
to his or her conception.
O n the practical side, studies have
shown that pregnancy following rape is
very rare. The swift administration of
drugs after the rape can prevent
ovulation and therefore fertilisation. (This
is not the same as the 'morning after' pill,
which is an abortifacient.)
If the worst were to happen, and the
raped w o m a n became pregnant, then the
support and practical help outlined above
is available, along with the extra care
and counselling a w o m a n in that dreadful
situation requires.
To sum up then, abortion is not, and
can never be, the 'right' of a woman. A n
unborn child is not part of a woman's
body, but genetically distinct—a unique
individual—and therefore a w o m a n
cannot have the right to decide whether
it should live or die as part of her rights
over her body. Abortion causes emotional
and sometimes physical damage to a
woman, with post-abortion trauma often
being left undealt with. A truly free
w o m a n is one w h o recognises the
humanity of her child and can come
through the social pressures of abortion,
either to bring up the child for herself, or
giving it through adoption to a couple
who want it very m u c h a n d can give it
the love it deserves.
A s a w o m a n who believes in freedom
from any submission and equal rights for
all human beings, I cannot be other than
pro-life.
effects on fertility or health or the
consequences of repeated use, yet it
seems likely that it will be licensed
perhaps as early as this spring. We should
question w h y the government is so keen
to introduce an unproven drug w h i c h is
more oppressive to the w o m e n that will
use it than current methods of abortion.
The long term aim for RU486 is the
colossal potential markets of the Third
World. A s operating theatres and blood
transfusion facilities are thought essential
precautions for British use, attempts to
use the drug in areas where medical
facilities are lacking could be disastrous
for the w o m e n of the developing
countries, as well as the worrying
prospect that a convenient method of
abortion might divert attention for
methods of population control that do not
involve the killing of the excess populace
before birth. It w o u l d not be ridiculous to
suggest that the support the drug is
getting from western governments is not
unconnected to a wish to reduce their
responsibility towards the developing
world.
Rights for the Handicapped
It's encouraging to see how m u c h is being
done to help the handicapped in today's
society. For example m u c h is being done
to ensure that, w h e n applying for jobs,
their rights to 'equal opportunities' are
recognised. O n the practical side, no new
building is planned without taking into
account their special needs. A n d yet, the
same society that welcomes these
changes calmly requires that, whenever
possible, the handicapped are killed
before they are born.
It doesn't m a k e sense. I can only think
of one argument that would allow this
double-think. However, rather than being
an attempt to help the handicapped, it
merely aims to keep the rest of us happy.
It goes like this.... 'It must be a miserable
life, and it's awful living side by side with
misery. So, let's do all we can to make
their life more pleasant—so we feel less
uncomfortable—but get rid of all those
who are coming up.'
Such a point of view is not very
appealing. Not only does it stink of
selfishness, but, far more important, it
denies the very humanity of the
handicapped. W e will all happily say that
all persons are equal—that means we
exclude the handicapped. A n d so, the
argument goes, what's to stop us killing
them after birth? A n d the follow-on from
that is—what constitutes a handicap?
Okay, it may sound far fetched, but it is
the logical conclusion.
To sort things out, we need to go back
to square one. The handicapped are
human beings—noone argues with that.
This gives them the right to life itself,
which urges us to help them live it, not
kill them.

