Miller's
Crossing
This is a film by Joel and Ethan
Coen (Raising Arizona and Blood
Simple) so you are probably entitled
to expect something very good indeed.
This time the Coens have gone for the
mob/mafia film, borrowing heavily from
(or playing homage to?) the genre, as
they did in Blood Simple.
The conscience of the film is the
principal character, T o m (Gabriel Byrne).
T o m is the brains behind the muscle of
Leo (played by a slightly uncomfortable
Albert Finney), the local boss.
Unfortunately T o m and Leo fall for the
same dame, Verna. T o m then leaves
Leo's 'establishment' and joins up with a
rival, Johnny Caspar (Jon Polito laps up
the role of the deranged ape, Johnny). A
gang war follows.
The Coen's have tried to create the
kind of modern tragedy that has become
fashionable in Hollywood—prime
examples being Coppola's Godfather films
or Scorcese's Raging Bull. T i m is the man
behind the man, he's the guy with all the
'angles'. But where's his conscience? This
is the question the film tries to answer
but never really comes to terms with.
Ther's a lot of action, too m u c h plot and
not nearly enough reflection—although
there are moments of insight—the scenes
at Miller's Crossing (a majestic forest on
the edges of the city where the hoodlums
gun down their victims), for example, are
indescribably beautiful.
The cinematographer is also from the
two previous Coen films, Barry
Sonnenfield. Raising Arizona would not
have been half as funny were it not for
the highly original and rather crazy
camerawork. In Miller's Crossing,
however, Sonenfield hasn't quite
produced the same kind of authenticity,
but nevertheless the quality of the picture
has the moody, dark feel w h i c h works
well with the film.
I.H.
— F i l m
—Comic/Plug
— O p e r a
The Field
This is a film, not surprisingly,
about a field. It's a lovely field, all
green and lush, and a delight for all
the cattle that graze thereon. Its
prosperity is due to the toil of Bull
McCabe (Richard Harris) and his son
Tadgh (Sean Bean) who gather seaweed
and carry it a fair distance to add 12
vitamins and minerals to their impressive
turf. A l l the village know that the field is
the Bull's, due to his love and labour,
even though it is owned by the young
widow (Frances Tomelty) from w h o m he
rents it, so w h e n the widow puts the field
up for auction no-one will bid against
him. Cue the American (Tom Platoon
Beringer) , who has come to Ireland to
find his roots, w h o has piles (Oh No!) of
cash (Phew!) and outbids the Bull. This is
the crux that causes much trouble to the
Bull, who has a right to the field, by the
law of the land, but no legal claim. The
bad feelings get worse and things get
very out of hand with McCabe's fight for
the field threatening to lose him his son,
wife, freedom and sanity.
It is a captivating story of Irish life in
the 1930's and all the characters are true
individuals. John Hurt's simple Bird
O'Donnel (no chestbursters here) giggles a
lot, grins near toothlessly, causes m u c h
mischief and carries a lamb, given half a
chance. Richard Harris is excellent in his
first film role for 10 years, giving us a
proud man w h o lived for the land and is
still torn from his first son's death in the
famine. Beringer, just k n o w n as 'the
American', emphasises the difference
between the community and the outside
and shows us a future that could destroy
this way of life.
This is the second film by J i m Sheridan:
the director of My Left Foot. It is
beautifully shot and at times is
reminiscent of Pertwee's Die Kroppe. The
portrayal of a slower life and village
happenings is captured in full, with the
petty squabbles, small romances and
donkey murder, better than any current
soap (save Lifebuoy). It's Big, it's clever
and it's got a good beat! Go and see it
because it's smashing.
The Amazing Machine (Sans Gerbil)
C o m i c Relief C o m i c
F r o m those lovable rogues who
brought you thos bulbous post
office red olfactory enhancers
comes a comic from the hearts, minds
and loins of the best writers and artists,
that this misunderstood little piece of life
can offer. It's a tale of joys, woes and
heartaches. Lenny Henry, Johathan Ross
and Griff Rhys-Jones collect money little
knowing that Griff has been replaced by
a house-head double and that if only one
person fails to donate to Comic Relief
then the househeads will take over the
world. To add to the dilemma a present-
day Blackadder must be convinced into
donating by being shown all the places
Comic Relief money goes to work. Extra
sideplots turn up with giant Ben Elton
and Dawn French slogging it out over
London, The Turtles' approach to Red
Nose Day and the inclusion of virtually
every major comic hero (including Dennis
the Menace (and Wolverine—Pendragon)
(and Batman—ASF)).
The selection of artists and writers is
incredible with new people w o r k i n g on
just about every page (great mix of
styles). It's a unique team up of Marvel,
DC, IPC and numerous independents.
Which hero has the biggest chin? What
are the Viz characters up to on Red Nose
Day? It's great fun and at times simply
excellent. It's only SI.50 and all the
money goes to Comic Relief. If you're
into comics then it's a must. If not, buy it
anyway.
The Amazing Machine.

