O P I N I O N
The Third World countries face huge debts.
A Good Deal for th
W h y is the w o r l d in the state it is? W h y
do some people starve, others wallow in
plenty? A r e things gradually improving?
A n d are we i n the West really helping to
bring about a change for the better in the
lot of the poor nations?
There has always been a feeling in the
West that the developing nations need
our help. If only they could learn from
what we have to teach them they would
not be so desperately poor. This was
exactly the thinking w h i c h helped to
justify the European empires in Latin
America, Africa and Asia. Today, of
course, this kind of moral validation of
the European presence in these
continents cannot stand up to any kind of
scrutiny. It is quite apparent that the
relationship between Britain and India,
say was somewhat less than a symbiotic
one—Britain was in India to exploit her
resources and any gain on India's part
was minimal and incidental. However, I
would suggest that this argument is not
very far from the one used today in
order to justify Western actions, or rather
interference, in developing countries
today.
Let us start with the questions 'What is
aid?', 'What does aid really involve?' If we
look at the context in w h i c h financial
help (be it loans or donations) is offered
to developing nations, it becomes clear
that the intentions of the West are not
entirely benevolent. One of the prime
lenders of financial aid today is the W o r l d
Bank. The W o r l d Bank was set up by the
U S A and the major Western powers after
W o r l d W a r Two, with the aim of
rebuilding war-torn Europe and Japan,
and after that to promote financial
stability, economic growth and a
cooperation w i t h the member states.
Today there are 151 countries w h i c h are
members of the W o r l d Bank—most of the
countries except Warsaw Pact signatories.
A condition of membership is that each
country must contribute a certain
percentage of its Gross National Product
(GNP) for the Bank's use.
Much criticism has been made by the
poorer members concerning the
conditions w h i c h the W o r l d Bank sets
before releasing loans to developing
countries. The undemocratic nature of the
Bank means that developing nations are
almost powerless to implement policies of
their o w n choice: it is assumed that the
West knows more about the problems in
Mexico, for example, than the Mexicans
themselves. There seems to have been no
change in Western attitudes since colonial
times. What determines the voting rights
of countries i n the W o r l d Bank is the size
of their pocket. Thus the USA, Japan and
all the industrialised countries have the
majority of the voting power—the U S A
exercises 18.5% of the votes, while China
has only 2.5% despite the fact that its
population is four times larger than that
of the USA.
What all this means is that the W o r l d
Bank in effect acts upon policies laid out
by the U S A and other industrialised
nations.
The poor nations have very little say
how the w o r l d economy should be run.
This has had a devastating effect upon
them. Over the last decade or so W o r l d
Bank policies have been deeply
unpopular in many countries.
Unfortunately they are powerless to do
anything—they have been denied a voice.
It is generally agreed that the 1980's
were an appalling decade for the poor
nations of the world. M a n y people also
argue that the W o r l d Bank helped make
things worse rather than alleviate the
squalor of the poor. The crisis was
brought about during the 1970s through
the massive borrowing by the
governments of developing nations from
banks in the West w h i c h were
overflowing with oil dollars from O P E C
countries. These commercial banks (which
of course include our friendly high street
chums in this country) w e r e very 'liberal'
with their lending policies. The interest
repayments were set at commercial rates,
w h i c h seemed reasonable to both parties
at the time. This was a period of
economic buoyancy and it seemed that
the developing nations might at long last
break the vicious cycles of poverty.
However this mood of optimism was not
to last very long. During the late
seventies, the West was set for a
downward slide into recession. This
brought with it very high interest rates
which meant that debt servicing
repayments by the poor to the rich
nations were massively increased.
However, high interest rates are not the
only problem. T h e fundamental problem
the developing countries face today is
that of inequality in the w o r l d markets
imposed by the West. The system is
rigged up in such a way that the value of
manufactured goods far exceeds the value
of raw materials (excepting oil of course).
In the 1980s there was a sharp drop in
raw material prices w h i c h meant that the
West would have even cheaper access to
them, whereas the value of manufactured
goods has steadily risen. So it is apparent
that the West is making a healthy (but
sick) profit from the way the markets are
structured. As one economist put it:
'The challenge for us is to eliminate the
senseless dichotomy w h i c h makes us
wholesale exporters of raw materials, and
wholesale importers of finished goods,
under terms determined entirely by the
industrialised countries, terms that compel
us to increasingly produce a n d sell more
of our raw materials in order to afford
less of their products.' (Simba Maknoni,
1989.)
So what solutions has the W o r l d Bank
proposed? During the mid-eighties it came
up with a gem called S A P s (Structural
Adjustment Programmes). The Bank will
only allow governments to borrow if they
agree to run their economies (and thus
the whole political structure of that
country) the way the Bank dictates. (We
might recall the furore caused in this
country by possible economic
intervention of the European
Community—it would seem that some
sovereignties are very m u c h more
precious than others). Structural
Adjustment Programmes involve
liberalisation of trade policies (i.e.
reduction or even elimination of import
8
e West?
tariffs), increase in production of cash-
crops, and cuts in public spending (i.e.
reduction of expenditure o n health,
education, removal of subsidies on food,
travel and so on). A s a result of these
policies, the condition of the poorest
sections of these communities have
suffered the most, and in several
countries there have been 'food riots'
w h e n the strain has become unbearable.
The economies of these countries have
experienced a great step backwards
thanks to the policies of the W o r l d Bank
which is interested more i n maintaining
or 'looking after' the interests of the
financial system set up by the
industrialised nations than improving
conditions in the developing nations. The
W o r l d Bank insists that any country
borrowing directly from or seeking its
approval (without w h i c h countries are
unable to borrow from anyone) must
maintain its (crippling) interest payments
on loans borrowed in the seventies. Thus
these countries must earn lots of hard
currency by selling as m u c h raw material
as possible to the west and then return it
straightaway in the form of interest
repayments. Unfortunately, since the
Bank has told m a n y other poor countries
to do the same, there has been a glut in
the commodities markets, resulting in
prices going through the floor. So these
countries have ended up being m u c h
worse off today than they had been
before the W o r l d Bank intervened.
At 'Third W o r l d First' w e recognise that
the industrialised world has taken enough
from the poorest countries in this w o r l d
and it is time for the process to stop. If
we are too selfish and greedy to put
anything back (and let's not k i d ourselves
that we do) we should leave these
countries alone so that they themselves
can decide what kind of development it is
that they want to pursue.
Third W o r l d First aims to increase
awareness of issues concerning the
developing countries. At Imperial College
we regularly invite representatives from
various groups (banks, charities, campaign
groups, etc) to hold talks, debates and
discussions w h i c h will hopefully motivate
people to take positive action (however
small) both now and after they leave
College. These meetings are held almost
every Thursday at lunchtime—look out
for posters in the JCR and around
College. W e shall also have stands in the
JCR during this term, so c o m e up and
talk to us if y o u are interested.
Iftikhar Hussain.
An Introduction to
Welfare Week M S
The student lifestyle can be highly
demanding on your health. H o w often do
you consider combating the stress caused
by work? Or stop to think about your
alcohol intake or diet?
Next Monday will be the start of
'Survival Week'. The week focuses on
healthy lifestyles, covering topics such as
drinking, smoking, stress, exercise and
healthy eating.
Here is a brief introduction to what will
be happening during the week.
T w o Stress Seminars have been
arranged for Tuesday 26 February, l-2pm
and Thursday 28 February, 5-6pm both in
the SCR in the Union Building. These will
be run by the local health authority and
will offer practical ways of dealing with
stress.
There will also be a seminar offering
help with giving up smoking. This will be
on Friday 1 M a r c h , 3-4pm, SCR in the
Union Building.
If you w o u l d like to attend any of the
above seminars please sign up in the
Union Office.
A health fair has also been organised
where there will be the opportunity to
check your heart rate w h e n exercising,
your carbon monoxide levels and blood
pressure, and a chance to analyse the
effect of your alcohol intake on both your
body and wallet.
O n a more light-hearted note the
Contagious Performance Co will be
visiting on Tuesday 26 with their show
'Scoring'. The show is described as a
'Chrage through the blood stream that
blasts alcohol and drug abuse into
insignificance with a buzz that is
unforgettable'. Tickets are available now
for SI in the Union Office. The show is
heavily subsidised.
More information about the week will
be available in a special F E L I X w h i c h will
be out next Tuesday.
H Blacker,
Welfare Officer.
Voluntary Service
Overseas
V S O (Voluntary Service Overseas) is an
unusual charity. By most yardsticks it
does not conform to the stereotype of a
'third world' agency. No aid, no disaster
relief. Its work is more intangible,
perhaps more far reaching. It sends
people—skilled men and w o m e n aged
anything between 20 ad 70 to work
alongside local people in 48 developing
countries around the world.
A n d last year it topped its o w n record
with over 1,300 professionals working
overseas in Africa, Asia, the Caribbean
and Pacific. The people V S O n o w needs
are drawn from an immense diversity of
backgrounds. They range from
accountants to builders, computer
programmers to doctors, engineers
through to zoologists and even the
occasionally beekeeper.
One of the 1,300 currently overseas is
former Imperial College graduate Philip
Churn who is now w o r k i n g as an
electrical lecturer at Ramat Polytechnic in
northern Nigeria. As well as classroom
teaching, Philip is renovating workshop
machinery and passing on practical skills
to local colleagues.
'It's hard work, but good fun,' he says.
'After nine months here I'm finally
settling down. The two years will
disappear so fast though.'
A l l V S O jobs are for a m i n i m u m of two
years with pay based on local rates. Most
involve a strong training element. Post
qualification experience is also very
important, although V S O always takes
into account practical work undertaken as
part of a degree course and relevant
vacation work.
If you'd like more information, please
contact the Enquiries Unit, V S O , 317
Putney Bridge Road, London SW15 2 P N
or telephone 081-780 1331.
9

