Carter USM
-30 Something LP QqcLS Acre
Jim Bob and Fruitbat return to wreak
revenge on v i n y l with their second album
'30 Something'. A r m e d with the musical
equivalent of two 15 pound
sledgehammers they set about destroying
everything in their wake. A n y o n e who
has the balls to start an album off with a
mindless football chant ' Y o u fat
bastard...You fat bastard..' (Surfin' USM)
has got to have something up their
collective sleeves. Don't they?
'Bloodsport For A H ' their latest, m u c h
publicised and 'banned' single is one of
the best tracks o n the album:
'Suffer in silence said Brigadier General
Holmes/or change your name to Smith or
Jones/Learn to live with all the death
threat notes/the big bananas and the
racist jokes'
Heavy stuff. Just reading through the
inner sleeve notes you get an idea of
some overriding sadness that drives them
to do what they do, but they wrap it up
in fun pop songs and their meaning could
almost pass you by. Witty titles like
'Sealed with a Glasgow kiss' raise an
initial laugh but the joke goes a bit stale
after a while.
The album is steeped in cynicism but
when it comes to 'Falling o n a bruise'. I'm
sorry but I can't beleive they're not
taking the piss.I could see them as the
scene opens, Jim Bob and Fruitbat lying
in the middle of the road, a ford Cortina
stopped in front of them, its windscreen
cracked and covered in blood. Looking
around a c r o w d starts to gather and the
ambulance siren can be heard in the
distance. Then J i m (Fruitbat?) opens his
eyes and as the ambulance stretchers
them away the words come tumbling out:
'You win some and you lose some
and I've lost the will to lose...'
O h its so comically sad! M i x i n g in a
dash of Red Dwarf, Michael Caine and
lots of attitude Carter U S M have made an
album that kicks out in all directions but
it never lose its sense of fun! Definitely
recommended.
Harry Cross
Trip the Light Fantastic
This band recently played two
underpublicised gigs in College, in
Southside and the Union Lounge bar. This
is a shame because they are one of the
cleanest sounding and listenable groups
that I've heard in a long time.
The music, apart from a few covers, is
a sort of fusion of early Talking Heads
and strangely enough U2. Lyrically
meaningful the singer/rhythm guitarist's
agile voice is backed up by an excellent
bassist (on a hofner acoustic a la Paul
McCartney) and drummer giving a very
clean crisp sound.
Despite the lack of numbers at the gigs
they managed to get the audience up and
dancing and apparently went down very
well on both occasions, watch out for
them around College again, well worth a
listen!
Sid.
A l l this from a man who manages the
band—M. E d .
•Ten Gospel Greats LP
God's Acre—the name may not
immediately spring to mind but those in
the k n o w have been following the band,
through its beginning as a solo project in
'87 w h i c h gradually gathered members.
F r o m other no name bands in the
Chicago area, awaiting with eager
anticipation, this their debut LP.
Imagine Jane's Addiction's hippy glam
sound processed by Iain Burgess of Big
Black and Naked Raygun fame. The
resulting meandering wobble through the
domain of 'sub-pop soft-core is a bit
smooth for m y taste but does provide
some excellent tunes.
The album is full of contrasts. The
sweetest guitar sound on rolling drum
beats is followed closely by deep flower
grooves all covered by deep throaty
vocals. The accompanying tempo changes
are welcome and sudden leaving little
time to catch your breath. Addictive and
catchy tunes make comparisons with
Nirvana's Sliver easy. But the vocals do
seem to be added as an after-thought and
are in most cases indecipherable.
There are two songs of epic
proportions. T h e Jane's Addiction come
Big Black sound really comes to the fore
and if they were the only two good
tracks on the album it would still
recommend y o u borrow it.
Seb
INTERESTED
in reviewing an album/gig?
See F E L I X Office
for details
10

