Killing Joke—the rock of legend and
music of insanity. A s they continued their
conquest of uncompromising
determination and gut ideology , The
Astoria was expectant at the dawn of a
new war against itself. Terror through
anticipation ebbed and rose in the hard-
cutting newsreel quotes, cut from the last
few days of turmoil in the Gulf — another
S C U D missile attack on Riyadh, more
threats of chemical retaliation, pain,
distrust and anguish. Then came the
horror of A m e r i c a n meat advertising. The
shear flippancy of the greed after the
starvation just heard was pure irony.
Through this backdrop — our world
today — arise Killing Joke to shock us
brutally from our satisfied apathy.
Killing Joke are a legacy, a constant
reminder of what we should be. Only
they could incite a riot, start massacres
but instead they rip at hearts with their
pounding chants. Their music is bare
rhythm and beauty. They played and the
earth changed. Now returned from
diversification with bands such as
Ministry, they have returned with new
sounds, founded by vocalist Jaz Coleman,
Guitarist Geordie, drummer Martin Atkins
Yabby You
and rejoined by their original bassist Paul
Raven. God, these men should be
immortalised.
Killing Joke made us care. The
onslaught began with the single Money Is
Not Our God and regressed via classic
anthems Wardance, Empire Song and
Requiem. They proved that their original
insights and ideals are still true, and that
their original visions are all the more
valid now. The Astoria lept and punched
triumph at the roofs. A l l the while, the
visions of hardship, depravation and
horror complemented the charged-up
purity flung at us. Rock music has
become the only way of reaching the
ears of such a self-centred society, by
kicking and biting its way out from inside
their very bodies.
The final conquest came in the final
encore. Exhausted onlookers were
dragged back to the eerily obsessive Love
Like Blood, dedicated to 'all those who
are going to die in the Gulf.' As the lines
'As we move towards no end we learn to
die, Red tears are shed on grey'
resounded, m y heart bled. These men
demand to be listened to.
SJH
—Beware Dub
So you've never heard of Yabby You? To
be honest niether had we, but stick with
us as we take you (with enthusiastic
abandon) deep into the heart of, err, dub
reggae.
Yabby has ben around for quite a while
and has done most of his recording in the
late seventies. This album was actually
recorded in 78/79 and has been
r e - r e l e a s e d due to it being 'a m u c h
sought after collectors item ever since it's
release'. He does more or less everything
East Village
—Circles 12"
East Village have been around for about
two years a n d have released a few
singles on Sub A q u a , as well as
supporting House of Love. They are n o w
signed to the Heavenly label, home to the
Manic Street Preachers (and
um....Flowered Up). A fairly typical indie
guitar band—they sound similar to early
Primal Scream, but unlike B o b b y and Co
they have so far shunned any dance
influences. In fact the similarities don't
stop there—have a look at the bloke on
the right of the cover—does he remind
you of anyone? Their latest offering
Circles is mellow, but monotonous—a
tune waiting for a song to happen. The B-
side Here it Comes is m u c h more lively,
but would score no points for originality.
Other bands have been here before, only
they have done it m u c h better.
Egor, Hedgehog and the Bastard
Allsort.
bar play on his album (which sounds kind
of strange but he is credited with
composing, producing and some of the
singing on Beware Dub.
Deep, even bass underpins all the songs
and a ' j u s t - a d d - w a t e r ' r y t h m guitar
gives each track the usual reggae sound.
It's a very spacey album and we think it
would be improved if you listened to it
whilst being stoned, otherwise forget it.
Debaser and Pop Kid
11

