Tuesday, March 13th, 1973 F E L I X
Entertainments
Once again, for most of this year,
one of the popular pastimes of both
union members and college administra-
tion has been the " k n o c k i n g " of I.C.
Ents Committee. The time has arrived,
spurred on by the introduction of
S C A B , for the committee to answer
some of these comments. In this ar-
ticle we hope to present a much greater
statement of our policy, aims, method
of running, reasons, etc. than we be-
lieve have been actually printed at any
one time before.
During the course of this year, Ents
has run what it regards as one of the
most successful scries of concerts ever
run at IC. In this series an attempt
has been made to cater for all tastes.
We have had folk artists (Fairport Con-
vention), heavy rock (Beck, Bogert, A p -
pice), good "old - fashioned" dance
bands (Brett Marvin), ultra-progressive
( A m o n Duul) and all other shades and
types of music between. It has been
argued that we ought to have more
folk and jazz artists because l . C . stu-
dents prefer this type of music. This
is all very well but such artists don't
exist ad infinitum.
R a l p h M c T e l l was booked for this
term but pulled out. W e are trying to
arrange a return date for next term.
W e had a chance of T o m Paxton
(which we were going to accept) but he
has decided that he doesn't want to do
any L o n d o n dates at the moment. Des-
pite people's insistence that folk and
jazz are what the committee should pro-
mote this does not appear to be the
case. R.C.S. ran a folk carnival a short
time ago with some of the best known
artists on the folk scene at the present
time. This was advertised all over L o n -
don and yet it still only managed to
draw about 250 people, of which prob-
ably only half were from I.C., and made
a loss of about £200. If Ents. ran on
this basis over a period of 20 weeks
we would lose £4,000 which I'm sure
would not be popular with anyone. Nei-
ther folk or jazz club, to our knowledge,
are exactly overwhelmed with the num-
ber of people clamouring to join them.
We would hope that with the formation
of S C A B that next year folk club (who
this year have worked on a total allow-
ance of £97) and jazz club would be in
a position to present more ambitious
programmes than they would other-
wise be able to afford. T o do this it
would be neccessary for the Ents com-
mittee to be in a position to be able to
finance them. It is hoped that Ents
would continue to put on the big names
who are obviously beyond the capa-
bility of folk or jazz club, with the clubs
presenting better names than at present
and on a more regular basis.
A large number of complaints con-
cern the fact that non-students attend
Ents concerts in large numbers. We
have said all along that this is neces-
sary from a financial point of view and
this will be even more the case if Ents
are to be expected to be the main fin-
ance providers for S C A B . However,
now that we have such popular groups
o n it is neccessary to alter our policy
so that I.C. students get by far the bet-
ter chance of obtaining tickets to Ents
functions. It is only since we have had
this long series of sell-out concerts that
the problem of outsiders receiving tick-
ets for I.C. students has arisen. For fu-
ture concerts the following proceedure
will be adopted. Publicity for coming
dates will be given firstly to I.C. stu-
dents only (e.g. Felix, notice boards,
etc.). We would hope that when I.C.
students get in touch with the com-
mittee about tickets for a concert, wc
wi! 1 know definitely when tickets will be
on sale but the date cannot be guaran-
teed because we are at the mercy of
the printers. When tickets are on sale
the following pricing will apply. A l l
concerts will have three stated ticket
prices. The lowest of these will be the
price to I.C. students of the first two
tickets they buy. The reduction will be
given on the production of a college
registration card. There will be some-
one selling tickets in the R o o m A t The
Top every week-day dinner time (this
cut-price will not be available at the
bookshop). The reduction will take ef-
fect on tickets for concerts held next
term and future concerts. Please notice
that it is also limited to two per regis-
tration card. The second price will be
that for all subsequent tickets and also
the advance price for non I.C, students.
The third price will be the price of all
tickets sold on the door. The difference
in price of the first two prices will al-
ways be at least 1 Op and likewise for
the second and third price. It may, how-
ever, be more. Typical price structures
could be £1.00, £1.30, £1.50 for an
expensive concert or 60p, 70p, 80p,
for a cheaper concert. I.C. students
could therefore save up to 50p on the
door price.
There are further points arising from
the' admittance of non-IC students or
even non-students. A t present N.U.S.
is running a grants campaign. One of
the ways in which they are trying to
win public support is by involving the
general public in their cause. Surely
the student age group of the general
public is as important as the older
•members of the country. They can
after all vote nowadays. Therefore, why
not extend some of our facilities to
non-students. So long as students are
allowed to have special facilities purely
for their own use it is going to make
the case for higher grants that much
harder. Conversely, if non-students are
allowed to participate in functions such
as Ents concerts then they will be more
inclined to support our campaign.
A t any given concert there will be
a certain number of IC students. W e
estimate that the average number is in
the region of 400 but that it will vary
from 200 up to I.C. students only. This
may not seem to be a very large per-
centage of the audience but surely we
should provide them with the entertain-
ment they want and then ensure that it
is financially viable by allowing non IC
students to attend rather than not run
anything at all. IC students do at-
tend our functions. Should we stop
them just because there are not enough
of them?
During the last year an extension
has been built in the lower lounge of
the union. This is to enable the union
to cater for larger crowds of people.
This situation only arises on a regular
basis when the Ents committee has a
function. A l l this term the Ents com-
mittee members have been giving direc-
tions to the Queens public house rather
than the union bar. It appears, how-
ever, that the ordinary I.C. student (who
are the people on behalf of whom at
least one member of this college believes
he is actively fighting) have been giving
directions to the union bar. Further-
more, it is not only on the nights that
Ents has a function that outsiders fre-
quent the bars. It has been reported
that the landlord of the Ennismore pub-
lic house knows that alcohol at I.C. is
cheap and that he has been losing cus-
tom to our bars. It will be interesting
to see how much the bar profit will
start to fall now that card checks are
being enforced. The takings in the
J.C.R. bar in college block used to be
regularly in the £400 region on the
night of an Ents function. The loss in
takings then, since the bar has been
closed, will be in the region of £4,000.
It was also reported that the brewery
were threatening to stop supplying the
college block bars because it was not
economically viable for them to con-
tinue doing so.
W i t h the introduction of V . A . T . our
prices will have to go up. Very simply,
V A T will affect Ents in that one-
eleventh of all money it receives (from
ticket sales or any other source) will
have to be paid in tax. O n this year's
showing this would approximately
equal this year's profit as it stands at
present. The average I C student will not
be able to fully afford the increase that
will be necessary in ticket prices, and we
will have to pass as much of this as
possible on to non IC students. Finan-
cially this year the committee has done
very well. The profit stands, at present,
at £1,650 and the forecast for dates re-
maining and next terms as well is that
this figure will increase by the end of
the academic year. A t last council it
was officially agreed to record the Ents
account as having to make £1.000
rather than breaking even. This £1,000
a'ong with a similar sum from reserves
will be used to buy a complete new set
of chairs for the union concert hall and
a new carpet for the southside lounges,
practical proof that the profit from
Ents has enabled the union to purchase
articles that they may have otherwise
been unable to afford. Compared with
other colleges, the financial situation of
IC Ents is excellent. Places like Leeds
Po'v are at present running at a deficit
of £4.500 this year alone (information
from Leed's official college newspaper).
Numerous colleges in London are los-
ing up to £1,500 with the average be-
ing about £700 (these two figures come
from a survey of London's colleges' en-
tertainments committees done prior to
a meeting of London social secretaries
organised by IC Ents chairman Paul
Wadsworth). We are the only London
college to our knowledge to be making
such a large orofit and this is in face of
competition from places like the R a i n -
bow, the Sundown, the Festival H a l l
and all the other large promotors. With
the introduction of S C A B it will be
necessary for TC Ents to make a profit
to ensure the financial feasibility of the
board. T o ensure this we need to con-
tinue to promote the largest named
bands that our hall will allow us to.
The subject of large names brings us
on to the Elton John concert which,
by the time you read this, will have
already been held. W e would like to
clear up some of the misunderstandings
that seem to have arisen from the ticket
selling for this concert. The E l t o n John
date was not advertised outside college
at all until after it had sold out. The
tickets went on sale on a Thursday and
had completely so'd out by the fo'low-
ing Tuesday lunchtime. The first men-
tion in the music press of the date was
on the afternoon that the concert sold
out. It has been said that an inadequate
union card check was done while the
tickets were being sold. If outside people
did not know about it how could they
have bought tickets? While we don't
admit that not one single N o n IC stu-
dent bought a ticket the number of
tickets sold to non IC students were
minimal. Also, surely the people that
regularly support our concerts are en-
titled to attend all of our concerts if
they so wish.
Staying with the subject of large
name bands some people seem to think
that it is possible to obtain large name
bands on an irregular basis. It is only
because we run on a regular basis that
we are able to get big named bands.
T o get these people to work for you,
you don't only need a hall and an
ability to pay their price, you also need
to be able to assure them that yours
is a date that is going to improve their
ruputation or which will live up to the
standard that their fans expect to be
able to see them in. I C Ents is in the
position where it is able to get a good
range of top name bands. People who
have played here in the past have nor-
mally been very pleased at the recep-
tion they have been given both by the
audience and by our own committee,
often complimenting us on a well run
concert. This year's committee has built
up IC to be one of the prestige dates
to do on a London tour. This can only
be done by the regular booking of
large names.
S C A B has been mentioned at vari-
ous points in this article. The setting
up of this board is welcomed by the
Ents committee. A t last a working com-
mittee has been set up that will be able
to co-ordindte all entertainments with-
in the college. Our committee has no
intention of taking over film soc or any
other of the committees and societies
that form S C A B . The confusion over
film society arose at the preliminary
meeting held to discuss the formation of
S C A B , where it was said by the film
soc representative that they did not
want to show popular films next year.
Our committee realised that this would
leave a gap in the type of entertainment
provided to IC students and so offered
to fill this gap by showing popular
fi'ms. Later that week the rumour
started that Ents were trying to take
over from film soc but this is not the
case. F i l m soc are having the first
choice of films that they want to show
next year, but there will, however, at
their own choosing, only be a few of the
type of film that they have been show-
ing this year. The Ents committee will
be providing those films that the film
soc don't want to include in their pro-
gramme. We will start with a trial run
next term for four weeks (see list at
end of article). One of these dates is
actually a film soc date which has al-
ready come about as a result of co-
operation between us and film soc.
Formation of S C A B will enable profits
from Ents to be used to support the
other, smaller clubs represented on the
board.
This has been an attempt to iron out
any of the difficulties and complaints
that have been levelled at our com-
mittee. We would appeal for active
practical criticisms, advice, ideas or
any other comments that people wou'd
like to make about the committee and
the way it is running at present. With
the reduction in the price of tickets
for IC students wc would hope to see
an even greater number of you at our
concerts. If you wou'd like to ask
about any problems regarding Ents
there is always an Ents executive mem-
ber in the R o o m A t The Top at dinner
times and they will be only too grate-
ful to sit you down, listen to you and
then get involved in a discussion with
you. Finally, here is a list of the films
that we will be showing next term.
They will all be in M E 220 and the
price of entry for the Ents run ones
will be lOp.
Friday M a y 4th Dirty Harry
Friday M a y 11th Carnal Knowledge
Friday M a y 18th Brewster M c C l o u d
(film soc)"
Friday M a y 25th Every Home Should
Have One
P. A . W A D S W O R T H
I.C. Ents chairman
for and on behalf of Imperial College
U n i o n Entertainments Committee.

