Page 8 F E L I X Tuesday, M a r c h 13th, 1973
the sports p a g e
rapid rambles rowing hockey
Ask any cross country runner where he went on the
first Saturday in M a r c h and he'll say "to the Nation-
als." A s k him whether he ran and he'll most probably
u m m and ahh and mumble something about not be-
ing fit. That just about sums up the annual circus
that goes under the name of the English National cross
country championships, ft is a grand race to watch,
but an awful race to run in.
This year this event took place on Saturday, 3rd
M a r c h at Parliament H i l l Fields, North London and
the course was surprisingly dry for the time of year—
quite different from its usual state where one walks
around up to the knees in muck (and bullets???!), f'm
sure the organisers must have slipped up and didn't
order the mud in time. The Championships consist of
three races, youths, juniors and seniors and, surprise,
surprise IC had runners in all three and actually fin-
ished a team (of four) in the Junior event. R. Allinson
.(I'm sure he's not still under 18) represented us in the
4 mile youth event. The six mile Junior event got un-
derway at 2.30 and the I.C. team consisting of D .
Payne, J . Kalivay, P. Johnson, and P. Donnelly surged
away to a good start . . . and then slowed to a nice easy
jog—as all I.C. runners do.* Pad and Pete eventually
returned home at about 3.15 just i n time to see the
main event of the afternoon begin—the 9 mile senior
event.
The procedure for starting this race is to fire a
maroon (loud bang) 5 minutes before the start and
then fire another one five minutes later to start the
race. This year there were 1200 starters, including
Dave Bedford, a New Zealand team (who we
shall hear more about later) & two runners from I.C.
When the second bang went off we all shot off up the
hill at a pace that would do any 4 minute miler
proud, minding any rubbish bins, park benches, trees
etc. that happened to get in the way. A n d that is about
all I remember of the race—the rest being rather a blur
except for the rest of the I.C. team and our captain
tv/ho incidentally didn't run because he'd forgotten his
shoes — a likely story) shouting (and laughing) at us
as we did the three laps of the course.
The results of the race (as told to me—I missed it,
I still had another 2 miles to go) was R. D i x o n of New
Zealand 1st, beating Dave Bedford by about 13 sees.,
S. Littlewood and S. W e b b of I.C. 763 and 766 res-
pectively. This New Zealander caused untold confu-
sion as he was not supposed to be there anyway but was
just a guest—so Dave Bedford won after all, but he
didn't really, or did he? I don't know it was all too
confusing for me.
So a tired little band of I.C. runners returned to a
certain house of refreshment at South Kensington,
consoled, by the thought that on the Wednesday fol-
lowing was a league race and we would once again be
running against athletes of our own class. Little did
we know . . . .
O n Wednesday the last league race was held at I.C's.
home course at Richmond Park. Three of the Interna-
tional New Zealand team came, taking the first three
places, the winner breaking the course record by 30s.
to make it 25m. 33s. (for 5J miles) I.C. was there with
the usual team of varied talents R o b Parker made his
comeback? Almost beating Paul Clarke, but neither
were quick enough to beat R o b A l l i n s o n who was
first back for I.C. in 26th place with 29-48. Dave Payne
and Stuart Littlewood were not far behind (43rd and
48th) than J . Kaliray (knowbody knows his christian
name) and Dave Jones (72nd and 76th). Pete John-
son and Pad Donnelly also ran in this race and achiev-
ed the usual good placings with 95th and 96th.
Anyone looking over the parapet of Putney Bridge
on Wednesday would have seen, besides the odd oil
slick and lump of driftwood, 20 college boats and the
dynamic Tyrian (U.L. II), marshalling for the start
of the U . L . Head of the River Race. For non-rowing
readers, a Head race is one in which the crews set off
at approximately 10 second intervals and are timed
over a set distance, in this case the Boat Race course
from Putney to Mortlake (4£ miles), the winner
being the crew returning the fastest time. The race.is
split up into divisions (in this case, Open, Junior and
Novice) with the crews' starting order determined by
the previous years results.
Tyrian, although not officially part of the race (not
being a college), duly lined up in front of the field for
their annual ego trip. Just behind them were the I.C. 1st
V I I I , having won the event last year. I.C.'s recent rise
to prominence had obviously got around and the open
division was sadly lacking in numbers. (Although
there were some surprisingly fast Junior crews).
The race finally got underway with I.C. chasing Tyr-
ian. The water was quite rough for the first mile
throughout which the I.C. cox kept yelling something
about Tyrian having only 6ft. of clear water. Hav-
ing heard it all before, the rest of the crew decided that
Tyrian must be disappearing under Hammersmith
Bridge. It was with great surprise that, on reaching the
calmer water above the M i l e Post and risking a quick
glance over their shoulders, the rest of the crew found
the cox was telling the truth. The two crews were
level by Harrods and stayed like that for the next
mile. During this period both crews gave everything
they had and in between giving tens and answering
the others tens, all one had time to do was to decide
which side of the boat to be sick over next. This in-
tensive rowing could not continue, and just as the Ty-
rian cox was telling his crew that I.C. were going to
blow up, his own crew began to drop back. I.C. got \\.
in one of their tens and after that, soon broke contact.
F r o m this point on, I.C. slowly went away from Tyrian
although they did hit a half submerged railway sleeper
and a nasty wash from a string of barges.
The final positions put I.C. 21 seconds in front of
Tyrian and an enormous l m . 53sec. i n front of the
third crew, St. Thomas's Hospital.
The 2nd V I I I , rowing in the Junior division came
second behind U . C . The other star performance was
by the I V t h V I I I . This crew was made up of fresher
novices who have only been rowing since September. In
one of the best rows ever by an I.C. fresher novice crew
they won the Novice division by almost 2 minutes over
several much more experienced crews. If this crew
stays together and improves as it should, they should
have little difficulty in picking up their Novices in the
Summer.
A s for the 1st V I I I , their performance was excep-
tional. F o r the first time in years all the winter train-
ing and ground work had been done, due in part to
I.C's. National Squad members. They go to Bedford
on Saturday to try and win the colleges pennant but
the example set and encouragement given by some of
their main hopes must lie in the Summer regattas.
P h o t o : T h e O b s e r v e r , 4 M a r c h , 1973
K O D A K 1, L C . 1st X I 2
This was I.C.'s final league match of the season
played at Kodak's ground in Harrow. A g a i n John Ant-
ley took a chance and travelled alone by scooter, fin-
ally arriving with some minutes of the match having
been played. H i s explanation is that his clutch cable
broke or something like that, but we know he got lost
again.
During the match one of Kodak's players was
ordered off the field for five minutes for trying to
strangle Heineken Downs — better luck next time.
Kodak.
I.C. 2, P R E S I D E N T ' S X I 1
O n Sunday, the 1st X I completed the weekend dou-
ble with a very shaky win over the President's X I at
Harlington. Before the match the I.C. team went
through its usual trials and tribulations. Heineken
booked a coach for 1.30 which arrived at 11.30 a.m.
and left because nobody was ready to leave. So the
match started half-an-hour late after a trip via H o u n -
slow West.
The first half was completely dominated by the Pre-
sident's X I . Although they peppered the goal from all
angles, most of the shots were hastily taken and easily
cleared. The goal I.C. scored in the first half was our
only direct shot of that half. Jag Gahir broke through
on a solo run, and with the goal at his mercy Jules
Sargeant clobbered him giving away a penalty flick,
which Jag somewhat luckily converted.
The second half was more even and Colin Townsley
had a little more to keep him warm in the President's
goal. I.C.'s second goal—one of our best movements
of the season — came after ten minutes of this half.
Jag G a h i r picked up the ball on the President's twenty-
five, went to the right and gave a reverse stick pass to
the top of the circle where Chris Gankroger immedia-
tely passed it out to the right of the D for Heineken to
crack in first time.
Predictably this encouraged the President's X I to
pick up their game and they nearly scored after a
movement on the right led to a shot by Jules Sargeant
at least four feet off the ground. However, after it easily
beat Sid Boulton, R i c h a r d Cameron made a fine save
on the line. The President's goal finally came from a
low hard shot by Colin Ringrase from their one short
corner.
T e a m s : — Sid Boulton; Simon Tyrrell, Richard
Cameron; G r a h a m Popple, A l a n Brown, D i c k Whitt-
ington; Heineken Downs, Chris Gankroger, Jag Gahir,
Dave Richman, John Astley.
C o l i n Townsly, M i c k Burt, R o n Palmer; M a r t i n
Field, Julian Sargeant, C o l i n Ringrese; John Manning,
Ian Tasney, Pete Bates, James Comyn, Dave Richards.
Umpires: Dave Browne, E d Castell.
I.C. M I X E D X I vs H E S T O N M I X E D X I
I.C. 3, Hestoh 1
Despite having their ranks depleted by the call of
the first team, I.C. M i x e d team soldiered on to yet
another victory. Although they deserved to win, I.C.
never really dominated a match which was spoilt by
the pettiness of some of the Heston players. The first
half was very one-sided with I.C. on the attack almost
continuously. However, half-time arrived with the score
still 0—0. After a dynamic pep-talk during the inter-
val I.C. started the second half in a much more reso-
lute manner and very quickly opened the scoring. A
run by W B 2 ended with Chris Brown putting the ball
in the back of the net. Shortly after this W B 2 added a
second with a devastatingly solo effort. I.C. continued
to apply all the pressure but the next goal was scored
by Heston following a quick breakaway, which split the
I.C. defence and left the goalkeeper with no chance.
Heston never really looked like scoring again and when
W B 2 added a third goal the final score became more
representative of the overall play.
Team: Jerry Heffer; Pete Foxton, Julie ( O A P ) ;
Jacqui Buzzard, T i m Hansen, A n n e Purvis; Blossom,
W B 2 , Chris Brown, A d r i a n Evans, Geraldine Bowden.
See Felix diary for this week's coming events.

