Page 2 F E L I X Thursday, May 11th, >972
I E N T S j
Far from slackening off
its activities, as is usual in
the summer term, the Ents.
committee has organised
no less than eight concerts
in the first five weeks of
this term.
Already we have seen
two excellent concerts by
Country J o e McDonald,
who had the whole audi-
ence laughing, clapping
and singing along from his
first song. Apparently he
enjoyed the concerts as
much as the audiences for
he has offered to play an-
other concert here free,
the proceeds going to
charity. Details have not
been settled yet, but the
date will probably be Mon-
day, May 15th. If you miss-
ed seeing him last time
round, see him now; those
who have seen him once
don't need urging to go
again—they'll be there.
Friday, M A Y 12th sees
the only London appear-
ance of one of America's
biggest bands — T H E
DOORS. They have not
been seen in this country
since the Isle of Wight fes-
tival in 1970, since when
Jim Morrison, the lead
singer has died. Morrison
was the unwilling figure-
head of the group; before
his death he had virtually
opted out of the role forc-
ed on him. He never
wanted to be a pop star.
Now the rest of the band
are producing their own
musical ideas, and the
same brilliant playing en-
sures that few DOORS fans
will be disappointed.
Tickets for this concert are
£1 in advance and £1.20
on the door.
The usual Saturday con-
cert on May 13th features
two bands. FLASH are an
excellent new band — this
is one of their first London
gigs — whose music has
been likened to that of
YES. (Indeed, their lead
guitarist, Pete Banks, was
once with Y E S ) . Also ap-
pearing is the Roy Young
Band? — no pretensions,
just good stomping rock.
Admission: 50p in advance,
60p on the door.
Spencer Davis has form-
ed a new band and pro-
duced a new album
recently. Their debut per-
formance in this country
will be in the Great Hall
on May 20th, accompanied
by Amazing Blondel, who
not only play a truly amaz-
ing number of instruments,
but who also have a repu-
tation for telling obscene
jokes.
EST, DRINK & DON T
FORQET y O U R . . .
REFECTORIES—A DREAM COME TRUE
The Rectory Account has 4 components which
make up the eventual surplus, balance or loss, namely:
The Bar Account
The Cellar Account—likely to make the usual £2000-
£3000 profit this year
The Catering Account
The Shop Account—likely to break even this year.
The Union over the past few years, has very strongly
pressed the point that the 2 main Accounts (Bar and
Catering) should be considered as separate, i.e. Bar
profits should not be used to subsidise Refectory
losses, but this year no major battle of words looks
likely to be fought on this issue as both of these
accounts look like ending up well in the black.
BAR PROFITS MEAN 2 NEW BARS
The Bar Account had a net surplus of £6000 by Janu-
ary and thus a price decrease was decided upon:—this
never happened, because the main breweries increased
their prices by 1p per pint and instead this increase
was not passed on. Still, the end of the year surplus
figure on the account is likely to be in the region of
£2000.
Far from being misers though, the Bar Committee
(the only major College Committee to have a Student
Chairman — Pete Earl), besides promising no price
rises for next year, decided this was a golden oppor-
tunity to make some improvements around the place.
Thus, this Summer, 2 major schemes are being under-
taken.
Firstly a new bar in College Block is being built—the
connecting wall between the J C R and committee room
216 is being knocked down and a bar the size of the
Southside one is being constructed along the northern
wall of this new annexe to the JCR.
Secondly, in the Union, the present very meagre bar
in the Lower Lounge, which has become very popular
this year, is to be re-vamped, extended along the East
wall (where the Juke Box is) to the doors and properly
shuttered, so that Brendan doesn't have to carry out
elaborate stocking and unstocking arrangements every
night.
AND A NEW LOWER REFECTORY
Whilst talking about Refectory developments, a major
facelift is to be given to the Union Lower Refectory.
If an application to the University Grants Committee
for a loan for redevelopment of the archaic area is
accepted, then the whole of the present furniture and
equipment is to be chucked out and a brand new Refec-
tory is to be built from scratch. The Union has an
investigating team preparing ideas at the moment and
any comments to them via Dave Amos or John
McCullough (both to be found in the Union Office) will
be welcome.
If the U G C application is not successful, then at the
very least a new coat of paint and new furniture are
promised.
BUT WHAT ABOUT PRICES?
The most important annual problem is always prices
for next year. Two years ago the Catering account made
a thundering £28,000 loss. Last year it was £3,500 down.
In both cases big price increases followed. This year,
however, with increased Conference bookings (which
help to stem losses in the vacations) and increased
consumption (was the food better this year?), a pos-
sible surplus of about £8,000 is in the offing on a turn-
over of £250,000 (£35,000 up on last year). £6,500 of
this surplus is already committed to revamping/replace-
ment of crockery, cutlery and machinery, and it is hoped
that, starting with this amount this year, a fund can be
kept on an annual basis to help pay for capital equip-
ment expenditure, etc. Any surplus on top of this fund
money (maybe £1,500 this year?) will go towards an-
other pool, as contingency money to offset any future
losses.
IT'S A N A T U R A L
ONLY
£1.75
Inc. P. & P.
DELIVERY
IN
7 DAYS
K O L H A P U R I
THE WORLD FAMOUS WATER-BUFFALO HIDE
SANDALS HAND-MADE IN INDIA
UNISEX DESIGN IN DARK BROWN ONLY
To : FOLKCRAFT, 103, MUSWELL HILL ROAD,
LONDON, N.10.
NAME
ADDRESS
SIZE:
(Heel to Big Toe) (INCHES)
INSURANCE
Insurance for Tomorrow, Travel for Today
Don't forget these services this Summer term — apparently people are still
going to Euston Road to the NUS Travel Centre and to Southampton Row for
Insurance — you don't need to !
Excellent services operate here in IC. Both travel and insurance operate in the
vicinity of Committee Room 216, at the East End of the Junior Common Room
in College Block.
The Travel Service operates 2 lunch-times a week at present inside 216, Tues-
days and Thursdays 1.00-2.00. But with heavy business likely in the Summer
Term, watch out for notices — the time-table may expand. Pete Guthrie is your
Travel Officer this year and can be contacted for emergencies in Linstead Hall.
Geoff Tate is one of his assistants and Geoff will be taking over next year. Business
consists of giving out international Student Identity Cards and selling flights to
Europe, N. Africa and the Near East, and trains also to those destinations. Ship
travel and travel to N. America, Asia, Australia etc. is provided for by way of infor-
mation of the best place and way to fix up your trip. Bon Voyage!
The Endsleigh Insurance Service operates 5 lunchtimes a week (from about
12.30-2.30) either in 216 or just next to it in the J C R . Motor, Travel and Life Insur-
ance are 3 of the most popular services, but this is by no means a full list. Ask
for Gillian Metcalf and still make sure you get every bit as good a service in IC
as you would anywhere.
As a Student you have this privilege .
By making a modest invest- r~ZJ_~ ~T .~T „, , „
ment now you will command ' Students Financial Planning
when you need it, the funds ' J * ^ * * " S T T .
for buying a home, invest- I L ^ f ^ i ^ ? 1 , L o n a o n
ing in a business or pro- | NWd IXA
fession, or collateral for any I (no postage stamp required)
other purpose. I Tvravnp
S.F.P.D. can advise you I I N d m e
objectively as it is entirely | T e r m Address
independent of any Invest-
ment Institution or Insur- |
ance Company. Advice is of i
course free and involves you 1
T g l
'^o^uuerdetails complete ' Details' please' for a student
the coupon and return. I aged
MAKING A BIT OF EXTRA
Do you think you could
sell? What we want you to
sell is genuinely very sale-
able, but you have to meet
people and show them
what you have. Our main
product is a range of
quality jeans at below re-
tail prices, and we give
you 12}% commission on
what you sell. You don't
have to hold stock or send
us any money. If you think
selling is your game, then
contact us :
RICHARD HOULT
Manorplace Limited
27 Maddox Street
London, W.l.
01 493 6393

