Page 6 FELIX Thursday, May 11th, 1972
WHO
KILLED
STEPHEN
McCARTHY
REVIEWS
The story of the death of Stephen Mc Carthy is so bizarre that one would be
forgiven for thinking it was a Stanley Kubrick film.
Stephen died on the 26th January 1971...
The chronology of events is perhaps the most telling part of this grim tale:
1969
Stephen appeared at Old Street charged with taking and driving away.
Stephen sentenced to borstal training and sent to Wormwood Scrubs.
Stephen allocated to Guy's Marsh Borstal in Dorset.
Absconded from Guy's Marsh.
P.C. Leonard involved in fight with youths in Chapel Market. One of the youths
is said to have looked like Stephen.
Stephen arrested in Upper Street by P.C.'s Leonard and Kilshaw.
Stephen appeared at Old Street, looking very sick. He was committed to Inner
London Sessions.
McCarthy family wrote to the Governor of Wormwood Scrubs to enquire about
Stephen's condition as they were very worried.
McCarthy family wrote to "The Sun". The reply was that there was little chance
of success in a complaint as Stephen was a borstal boy.
Probation officer expressed concern at Stephen's condition.
Reply from Assistant-Governor of Wormwood Scrubs that Stephen was "fit and
cheerful".
McCarthy family received notification that Stephen had arrived at Dover Borstal
on 8th December.
McCarthy family wrote to the Daily Express, who, in their reply, advised them to
contact the N.C.C.L. The N.C.C.L. were sympathetic, but, so far, have made no
impact on the authorities.
McCarthy family visited Stephen at Dover. He was still not at all well, though
the doctor said that he was much improved..
25 November
10 December
1970
February
April
Mid-October
16 November
24 December
25 November
26 November
7 December
8 December
11 December
12 December
20 December
1971
10 January
14 January
15 January
16 January
22 January
26 January
29 January
2 February
3 February
19 February
25 February
15 March
20 March
May
3 July
24 July
August
September
8 & 9 October
28 October
"Who Killed
Stephen's sister and her boy-friend visited him and found his condition was very
poor indeed.
Stephen failed to appear at Inner London Sessions because of illness.
Telephone call from Governor of Dover that Stephen had been admitted to
Folkestone Hospital with a suspected mastoid.
Stephen transferred to Brook Hospital, Woolwich, a neurology hospital. Imme-
diately on his arrival, he was taken to the operating theatre. His family was told
that, the following day, he would be feeling much better. Later that night they
received an urgent message to return at once as Stephen had taken a turn for
the worse. Letter written to Home Office.
McCarthys made official complaint to Scotland Yard. Three police appeared at
Brook Hospital, where Stephen was in a coma. They demanded to see witnesses.
Newspapers, who enquired at Scotland Yard both on 22nd and 23rd of January,
were told that no complaint had been made.
Stephen died.
Inquest opened and adjourned until 19th February.
The newspapers finally took up the story.
Stephen's funeral, filmed by '24 Hours'.
Inquest. Verdict: "Death by natural causes."
John Grant, M.P., asked Home Secretary for public enquiry.
Public meeting at Islington Town Hall. Police attacked demonstrators, and
arrested 17, including 4 McCarthys. John McCarthy sent to hospital for treat-
ment of injuries received.
Richard Sharpies, M.P., on behalf of Maudling, finally replied to John Grant
attempting, in bureaucratic jargon, to explain away the need for an enquiry.
The Ombudsman was asked to investigate and agreed.
Chris, Derek and Dorothy McCarthy were all convicted by magistrate McElligott.
Derek got 6 months prison.
Benefit dance to raise cash for campaign.
Ombudsman decided not to continue his enquiry, because of McCarthys' intent
to sue the police and Home Office.
Thames Television programme on neglect in prison abandoned after Home
Office refusal to send a spokesman.
Joint benefit with Ian Purdie and Jake Prescott Defence Group.
Derek, Dorothy and Chris appeal to Inner London Sessions. They were black-
mailed by their lawyers into keeping quiet.
Stephen McCarthy?" is a small booklet price 10p from:
The McCarthy Committee,
50 Courteney Court,
Holloway,
London N7.
CROSS ROADS
One does not have to be particularly committed to the ideas and ideals of the
Moral ReArmament movement to have an interest in the life of its founder, Frank
Buchman. Any man who had such an influence over so many people deserves
attention.
Thus comes "Cross Road—The Frank Buchman Story" to the stage of the West-
minster Theatre. The play is presented in a cunning Mixed-Media form, with
action on stage interspersing sequences of still slides and live film. We are led from
Buchman's small town origins in Pennsylvania, through his work in six continents,
to his death in Germany in 1961. The young cast, eight of them from five con-
tinents, sing and talk of their own lives and experiences, as well as of Buchman
and his ideology. The effect is often almost that of watching a Television document-
ary, and that is my main criticism of this production—as a play—there is insuffi-
cient action on stage to balance the enormous amount of (excellent) projected
material.
But to criticize an M.R.A. play in conventional terms is like discarding the
Special Theory because of Einstein's shocking handwriting. It is the matter, and
not the form, that is important. Some of the acting is pretty awful, but, oddly enough,
this enhances the production, for it shows the absolute honesty of the cast, and
their belief in what they are saying. They are really not acting at all. Cynics may
sneer, but there is a genuineness here that is refreshing.
THE DOORS "OTHER VOICES" (Elektra)
Question: Why do so many Rock and Roll stars die? Answer: Because there are
so many Rock and Roll stars. There seems to be in people's minds a fundamen-
tal but imaginary difference between a musician leaving a group and carrying
on elsewhere, and a musician leaving the group to join the Grateful Dead (sorry).
In fact Canned Heat managed very well after the death of Alan Wilson (ask every-
one who saw them at the Albert Hall last year, except of course the Melody Maker
correspondent) and the Allman Brothers still boogie on with that macabre name
despite the death in October of Duane Allman. But wasn't Jim Morrison the only
member of the Doors—most people had only heard of him either when he whip-
ped it out on stage at Miami, or when he died and was buried at Pere Lachaise
cemetery in trendy Paris — near the grave of Moliere. Woudn't the names of
Robbie Krieger, John Densmore and Ray Manzarek have been forgotten if the
rest of the group had decided to call it a day?
No. Jim Morrison was
only a quarter of the Doors
with a flair for poetry, a
love of the Blues and a
sexy voice. The songs on
the early Doors albums
were always given joint
credits so people may not
realise that some of the
groups' more familiar num-
bers — "Light My Fire",
"Touch Me", "When the
Music's over" (We want
the world and we want it
now!) were written by Rob-
bie Krieger. And don't the
organ and guitar solos on
"Light My Fire" send a
shiver down your spine?
Of course Morrison gave
those songs a charisma
which will not be imitated
—don't expect the group
to play them this Friday—
but the faith in their ability
to write more good songs,
and in the record buying
public to remember that
ability (alas, not fulfilled—
the record did not make
the top thirty in the States,
DISCS
although it scored quite
well over here) must have
been what decided the
three to stay together. In
fact the Doors had almost
broken up before Mor-
rison's death and would
certainly not be playing at
Imperial College tomorrow
if he were still alive.
Now to "Other Voices".
It could be summed up as
a fairly logical progression
from "L.A. Woman" but
with Robbie and Ray do-
ing the singing. As such it
is not outstanding, falling
short of the classic first
album or "Strange Days"
but I'm enjoying it more
than I did "Waiting for the
S u n " or "Morrison Hotel".
Happily the two vocalists
do not make strenuous
attempts to sound like Jim
Morrison. Ray, whose
vocal debut on record was
"Close to Y o u " on the
"Absolutely Live" album,
sounds more at home on
the funky (yuk) rocking
numbers like "Hang on to
Your Life" and the incred-
ible "Tightrope Ride" than
on the softer numbers like
"Ships with Sails" where
a shadow seems to creep
over the music (guess
whose) notwithstanding
the fact that "Ships"
evokes an atmosphere
similar to "Riders on the
Storm". In the unhappy
"I'm Horny. I'm Stoned"
Robbie shows his vocal
talents too. Nice bit of
saloon bar piano on this
one.
I'm sure all Doors
freaks already have this
album. If you doubt its
quality, or think you don't
like it, try to forget it's the
Doors and think "This is a
funky little band". Failing
that, try to imagine Jim
singing these songs (it's
not difficult) and ponder
over what little difference
it makes. And try to see
them live.
YOU'D BE SURPRISED
WHO USES THE
I.C. BOOKSHOP

