Thursday, May 11th, 1972 FELIX Page 7
S P O R T S F E L I X
S O C C E R
I.C.A.F.C. crowned yet another successful season, when the 1st XI won the
U.L.U. Challenge Cup at Motspur Park on Saturday, 11th March. A large number of
the Club supporters travelled with the team to Motspur Park and cheered them to a
5-0 victory.
Straight from the kick-off the I.C. team began to show their supremacy and ten
minutes into the game the Q.E.C. defence failed to clear a J . Kelly corner and M.
Pearson was left with the easiest of tasks to put I.C. one up. This raised the confid-
ence of the team and they continued to dominate the play. The I.C. defence had
complete control of the Q.E.C. attack and this seemed to inspire the rest of the team
to play some imaginative and rewarding football. I.C. increased the lead when B.
Milne beat the Q.E.C. 'keeper with a header from a C. Willcock free kick. By half
time the lead had been increased to 3 goals to nil. B. Smith had endorsed the
I.C. superiority, when following a fluid move down the left flank, N. Fryer pulled
the ball back across the Q.E.C. goal for Smith to head just inside the far post.
The second half was more even with the I.C. team relaxing a little and allowing
Q.E.C. more possession of the ball. However, they did not have the ability to break
through a solid I.C. defence, and although I.C. were not playing with the same attack-
ing flair as they did in the first half they added yet another goal scored by B.
Milne. With the ground now becoming rather cut up, and the Q.E.C. team resigned
to defeat, the I.C. team re-asserted their superiority. They began to push the ball
around the pitch, and dictate the pattern of play. The final goal came from P. Wor-
thington, who overlapped from his normal full back position to see the opposing de-
fence open up before him, and his shot left the Q.E.C. 'keeper with no chance.
This was a great finish to a good season, and after the final whistle the achieve-
ment of retaining the trophy for the second successive season was celebrated by
team and suporters alike.
Team: M. Whitham, P. Worthington, P. Maslin, S. Wells, M. Pearson, N. Fryer,
B. Smith, C. Willcock (capt.), B. Milne, J . Kelly, I. Rodgers, P. Bartlett.
B A D M I N T O N
Best Ever Year
In the three years I have been at I.C. the season has been by far the most suc-
cessful of all.
Previously main achievements were primarily restricted to 1st team efforts.
This season, however, has seen every team do more than just pull its weight as the
league table shows.
Mens I 1st We tried to win them all but didn't quite
Mens II 1st manage it. The IV mens incidentally lost the
Mens III 1st league by 1 game. The ladies, though start-
Mens IV 2nd ing off badly, really showed what they could
Mixed I 1st do towards the end of the season. The
Mixed II 1st tragic game against Q.M.C. cost them the
Ladies 2nd league. Ah well, that's life !
Undoubtedly the Great Hall has been the reason for the Club's success, and
hopefully the Club next season will be even more successful as far as extending
its facilities to non-team members. Club play will be one of the main points that
next year's committee will try and promote, so I hope that people will take advan-
tage of this. Moving on:—
The B.U.S.F. championships were held in Edinburgh this year. The team includ-
ed 4 selections from I.C., Stu Donald, George Georgiou and Dave Ward, Sue
Thompson as reserves. Georgiou and Donald have all 3 medals now. Gold, Silver
and Bronze, never mind, eh!
The U.L.U. Championships:
Mens Doubles — Donald — Georgiou I.C.
Mixed Doubles — Miss Hilary Rowson — Georgiou I.C.
Mens Singles — Closing finalist S. Donald I.C.
A mention must be made of the ladies doubles (Sue Thompson, Hilary Row-
son) who did well to get to the semi-finals but unfortunately lost to the even-
tual winners.
Our annual singles championships was won this year by G. Georgiou in one of
the closest finals to say the least. 18-17, 12-15, 18-17; 4 rackets were broken in the
process of this game which added to the excitement of the game and the despair
of Georgiou (they were his). The men's handicap has now, ! think, become as
traditional as the men's singles. It was won this year by Georgiou and Donald
against a very steady pair (except for rightat the end of the game) Ward and
Palmer 21-19, 21-19.
The last achievement by the Club was the winning of the U.L.U. knockout
tournament. Thanks go to Hilary Rowson, Brenda Dilly, Sue Thompson 'Souki'
Dave Ward, Stu Donald and George Georgiou. I should end for fear of getting this
edited with a final thank-you to the committee, Chris Gaukroger, Dick Thompson,
John Powell, Steve Sanderton, for all their co-operation and enthusiasm. The de-
lectable Hilary must also be thanked for doing an excellent job of captaining the
ladies and demonstrating her very strong objections at the committee meetings.
Bradford
Barrel
Goes To
IC
Every year, Bradford
University Sailing Club
holds an inter-University
Team Racing Tournament
in Firefly dinghies, to
which a selection of the
best British teams are in-
vited. Last year I.C. came
second, being beaten by
Trinity College Dublin
only on the result of a pro-
test, so we were deter-
mined to win this year. The
tournament is half-Ameri-
can (each team sails all
the others once), the win-
ner being the team winning
the most races, or by
points in the case of a
draw.
Saturday's courses were
short, so that good posi-
tions at the start line
meant more than team tac-
tics during the race, and
the results served to show
I.C. that their starts could
do with some improve-
ment. We did not get all
the 1st three positions in
any of the races, but man-
aged to beat every team
we sailed against, except
Bangor. The races were
generally friendly, although
the race against T.C.D.
caused us to protest
for some pretty dirty tac-
tics, but with proverbial
Irish blarney they got away
with it at the hearing.
Sunday left us two races
to sail. Some good team
racing gave us our first
1,2,3 against Bradford, and
a further win against Not-
ingham (revenge!) meant
the trophy was ours.
Team:
Helms: Ed Hyams, Alan
Curran, Derek Clark.
Crews: Peter Waite, Gra-
ham Eastwood, Mike Mar-
tin.
Results:
Against:
Leeds 14-6|, St. And-
rews 15-6f, Reading 16-7f,
Bangor 8f-12, T.C.D. 12-
8f, Southampton 12-8J,
Aston 11-9|, Manchester
13-7f, Bradford 15-5f, Not-
tingham 14-6f.
Graham Eastwood.
EDITORIAL
A great year for I.C.! Almost every club has won a
major trophy which leaves us far and away the best
college on the field of sport. In fact I hope some of
the other colleges in ULU read this so that next
year they will be able to arrange some acceptable
opposition.
We have taken the "big three", that is the ULU
Football, Rugby and Hockey Cups which was last
achieved by I.C. (who else!) in the early sixties.
Mr. Georgiou's badminton club has again been
as boring as ever, winning everything in sight. His
demands for space have not gone un-noticed but
his command of English does seem to be excessive.
This term, sport still functions in I.C. in the form
of the Cricket and Tennis clubs whose support must
come from P.G.'s and undergraduates with sense.
The Tennis club, having lost heavily in the first
game, expect to improve during the season.
Russ Smith has an easier job because at least 3 or 4
freshers have looked good enough to fill the vacant positions
in the cricket 1st XI. There is enough experience to see the
cricket club to their third win in succession — in the ULU
Cup although there is still a lack of really good fast bowlers.
The year has proved a successful one for all clubs; the
impression that has been gained by the editor is that whilst
first teams have been consistently good, all members of the
clubs have had a chance to compete and gain enjoyment
from their sport
In the last issue of FELIX, I should like to wish everybody
the best of luck with exams, and I hope to see you all lining
up for the first games of next year.
Castaways Cup Victory!
For the fourth year in succession I.C. won Castaways'
Cup—the U.L. intercollege Team Racing Champion-
ships—at the Welsh Harp.
Originally 3 teams were entered from I.C. in this
knockout competition. Each round of the competition
consisted of two races—the teams changing boats
between races.
The third team won their preliminary round but were
unlucky to be eliminated in the first round in Saturday's
blustery conditions.
The other two teams fought their way eventually to
meet in the semi-final. This proved to be a very exciting
match with the second team sailing very well to con-
tain the first team to a very narrow win in the first race
10 to f. However in the light winds of Sunday afternoon,
the first team had an easy victory 5 f to 15—total score
15f to 25f.
The first team then met Guy's Hospital in the final.
The first race started with I.C. in a disastrous position
4,5,6, but close fought tactics eventually found the team
2,4,5 on the finish line—losing by 1J points 11 to 9f.
The second race however saw a much better start with
l.C. eventually finishing 1,2,6—8f to 12 taking the tro-
phy by the narrow margin of 19f to 21f.
I.C. I I.C. II
N. Martin (Capt.) N. Charlwood S
A. Curran (Capt.)
E. Hyams D. Law A
M. Martin S. Cambell
G. Eastwood B. Hollins
P. Waite K. Frampton
P. Dunning
I.C. Ill
Briscoe
(Capt.)
A. Russell
R. Mason
D. Hobman
R. Lyn
P. Chaplin

