politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
10 felix Friday 26 October 2007
Politics
Politics Editor – Li-Teck Lau
Turkey gears itself for war
With chaos in Iraq, Kurds on the boarder with Turkey threaten independence
Kadhim Shubber
Sometimes you’ve just got to feel sorry
for the nation of Iraq. It’s been invaded
by the world’s only superpower, occu-
pied by foreign troops and now while it
struggles to ward off all out civil war;
it could be invaded again. Not by G.I.
Joes but instead invaders from the
north, the Turkish.
But why, I hear you ask. Why on earth
would Turkey want to invade Iraq?
Well here’s the story. There are Kurd-
ish people living in the north of Iraq
but also in the south of Turkey. Some
of the Kurdish people wish to live in
a state consisting of Southern Turkey
and Northern Iraq, which would be
called Kurdistan or something like that.
Essentially it’s a case of separatism and
the terrorist group which heads the
Kurdish separatist movement is called
the PKK or the Kurdish Workers Party.
So let’s wrap up the situation; today in
2007 Turkey accuses the Kurdish peo-
ple and the Iraqi government of allow-
ing PKK fighters to use Northern Iraq
as a base for attacks across the border
in Turkey. Not only this, the Turk-
ish Government has passed a motion
through parliament allowing a military
invasion of northern Iraq to attack PKK
bases and camps. After the attacks last
weekend, the Turkish government re-
leased a statement saying “Although
it respects Iraq’s territorial integrity,
Turkey will not tolerate that terrorism
be aided and abetted and will not be
afraid to pay whatever cost to protect
its rights, its indivisible unity and its
citizens,”. In other words, if the attacks
don’t stop, we’re coming in.
Of course the President of the Kurd-
ish region in the North of Iraq, Mas-
soud Barzani, has denied that his
government provides assistance and
shelter for the PKK and stated that any
Turkish troops in northern Iraq will be
fought off.
PKK fighters have been making
cross-border raids into Turkey; the
most recent attacks last weekend re-
sulted in the deaths of 12 Turkish sol-
diers and 33 PKK fighters. It should
be noted that this is an ongoing con-
flict, and that the PKK does in fact use
northern Iraq as a base. There are an
estimated 3,000 PKK fighters currently
in northern Iraq, and they do continue
to wage war against Turkey.
However this alone does not justify
the immediate use of military force.
What compels Turkey to use force
is the lack of action from the US and
the Iraqi government. Confusingly the
U.S., which supported Israel against
Hezbollah in a similar situation, has
not attempted to help its Turkish ally
even though it has military forces in
the area (by the end of the year around
200,000). Turkey has repeatedly asked
U.S. troops to root out PKK fighters in
the north but the US has refused to do
so because it does not wish to desta-
bilize the relatively peaceful Kurdish
north of Iraq. Double standards are
simply screaming out here and the
thought ‘you had no problem destabi-
lizing Lebanon’ jumps to the forefront
of my mind.
The Iraqi government has similarly
done little to prevent attacks into Tur-
key. Reasons for this range from the
lack of authority in the Kurdish north
of Iraq to simply the fact that it lacks
the political and military stability to at-
tempt any action against the PKK. To
put it more frankly, the Iraqi govern-
ment has more pressing concerns, like
its own survival.
There is another player in this situ-
ation and that is the Kurdish semi-au-
tonomous government itself. However
again they have not moved against the
PKK. This is firstly because the Turk-
ish government has not asked them
to; it feels that any direct talks with
the Kurdish people signals approval
of their independence. And secondly
because the Kurdish government is
more interested in securing economic
development and avoiding conflict in a
relatively peaceful area of Iraq, so deal-
ing with an armed group that does not
threaten them is not high on their list
of priorities.
While I have shown that there cer-
tainly seems to be little choice for
Turkey ther than to take matters into
its own hands, this will certainly not
be beneficial to itself, much less the
Kurdish people. The largest non-
human casualty of conflict would be
economic ties between Kurdish people
and Turkey. The threat of military ac-
tion has tended to overshadow the fact
that economic ties between Turks and
Kurds have been growing at a strong
pace of late. Trade between Turkey and
Iraq (much of it with Kurds in North-
ern Iraq) reached $3 billion in 2006
and could top $5 billion at the end of
2007. An invasion would certainly put
an end to this lucrative relationship.
From a political perspective, an inva-
sion would be the equivalent of Turkey
shooting itself in the foot. This whole
series of events shows the Iraqi gov-
ernment in Baghdad’s inability to re-
ally do anything in the north of Iraq.
An invasion would further remove the
Kurdish people from Iraqi government
control and give the Kurdish people a
banner for independence i.e. the Iraqi
government can’t protect us so we
need to protect ourselves. The aim of
the invasion is to crackdown on the
PKK and simultaneously attack Kurd-
ish separatism. However, the real result
may in fact be increased independence
for the Kurds and an ever more cred-
ible independent Kurdish state.
We’re getting to the end of my ar-
ticle and maybe some of you are ex-
pecting a solution. Unfortunately, it
isn’t coming. I can tell you why – the
failure of the US, with over 160,000
troops to deal with one of the few ter-
rorist organizations actually linked to
Iraq. I can also tell you the effects of
conflict, which in truth don’t require
a genius to figure out. Unfortunately
for the Kurdish people, Turkey is more
interested in its border security than
the economic stability of Kurdish Iraq.
Add to this the growing pressure from
the Turkish public to respond strongly
and the passing of the motion allowing
invasion in the Turkish parliament and
it begins to seem all but inevitable that
we will soon see another set of armed
forces in Iraq.
Li-Teck Lau
Politics Editor
A map of the region showing Kurdish presence in red
Warfare from afar; Turkish forces prepare to engage the rising threat of Kurdish independance
B
ecause the world is getting
smaller, news in Yemen is
news in the UK. But due
to physical limitations, the
whole of last week can only
be fitted into a column by means of
snappy paragraphs.
BB returns to elation and death
threats
Since returning to Pakistan after 8
years of self imposed exile in the UK,
Benazir Bhutto, the country’s former
prime minister, has been under intense
protection having received numer-
ous death threats. A bomb last week
aimed at killing Ms Bhutto instead
took the lives of 139 civilians and body
guards. Her return could mark a new
power sharing relationship with Gen-
eral Musharraf, who took power in a
coup in 1999. Musharraf now wishes
to be democratically elected and plans
to resign his position of general. How-
ever, tensions remain as many of her
supporters are suspicious of the cur-
rent government’s intentions and even
point the finger of blame for the devas-
tating explosions on the secret service.
Latest release
Al Qaeda leader, Osama Bin Laden
released a new audio tape on Monday
which was aired on TV network Al
Jazeera. The world’s most wanted man
urged Muslims in the Middle East to
jointhebattleagainstUSinvaders,even
declaring Holy War on peace keepers
in the troubled northern regions of the
Sudan. The US has confirmed the au-
thenticity of the recording.
Double standards in Central
America
Ecuador’s President Rafael Correa re-
quested that the US allow an Ecuado-
rian base in Miami as a condition for
renewing a lease for an American air
base in the Central American state. “If
there’s no problem having foreign sol-
diers on a country’s soil, surely they’ll
let us have an Ecuadorean base in the
United States” he said. The US em-
bassy insists Washington’s presence in
Ecuador is to combat the fervent nar-
cotics trade.
More of the same in China
Hu Jin Tao will remain the head of the
nine-member Political Bureau Stand-
ing Committee of the Central Com-
mittee of the Communist Party of
China, the country’s central governing
body, after Sunday’s ballot of congress.
Jiang Ze Min, who Mr Hu succeeded
in 2002, and was often seen as a behind
the scenes power broker, was absent
from official portraits and photo-
graphs in the media, marking the end
of power held by original revolution-
ary leaders. Wen Jia Bao also kept his
position of Premier, but there are now
four new members of the China’s most
powerful cabinet. The Communist
Party derives much of its legitimacy
from economic success and the raising
of living standards.

