Email Nigel on advice@imperial.ac.uk
Email Kirsty on dpew@imperial.ac.uk
Welfare
Welfare Editors – Nigel Cooke and Kirsty Patterson
11
Friday 26 October 2007 felix
The importance of being vaccinated
Another article on mumps to inform those of you still afraid of needles and directions to our new location
Tips on how to stay safe on and around the university campus
There are several reasons why I have
to be extremely careful about writing
about mumps. For starters, if I nag you
more about the need for your vaccina-
tions, I’ll get lynched – by the Editor,
for a start. But you really DO need to
get vaccinated…
Secondly, I don’t want to incite mass
panic about symptoms which almost
everyone will get this term to some
degree, but which are not mumps. The
problem is that mumps in the early
stages mimics “Fresher’s Flu”, which
in the vast majority of cases does not
need to be seen by a doctor. I would
suggest that the NHS direct helpline
on 0845 4647 or their self-help guid-
ance at www.nhsdirect.nhs.uk is a
good place to start. The Health Centre
support health (and other!) education
and are of course happy to see anyone
who feels they need to be seen.
So the symptoms of mumps, like
Fresher’s Flu, begin with a headache
and fever for a day or two before the
disease is characterised by swelling
of the parotid gland. The parotid is a
salivary gland which lies in the neck
and cheek just in front of the ear, so
patients with mumps look a bit like
hamsters with stuffed pouches. It can
affect one side or both. If you have flu-
like symptoms with cheek swelling like
this there is no need to panic, but it is
best to book an appointment to see us,
or come to our emergency clinic 08.30-
10.00 Mon-Fri. The time between ex-
posure and symptoms is 2-3 weeks.
More often than not, there are no
other features. As mumps is a self-
limiting viral illness treatment is for
alleviation of symptoms, again rather
like Fresher’s Flu. However mumps is
a notifiable disease, which means that
the doctors have a legal responsibility
to report cases to the Health Protec-
tion Agency (HPA), who monitor out-
breaks of infectious disease in the UK.
So if most people get better on their
own, why bother? Well in a minority
of cases there can be complications.
These include inflammation of the lin-
ing of the brain (viral meningitis- NOT
the life-threatening form), deafness
(which usually recovers fully) and or-
chitis. Orchitis is inflammation of the
testicle(s), which tends to only occur
in males, of course. It is probably the
most famous complication of mumps
infection, I expect because of the dis-
comfort it can cause. The equivalent
oophritis (inflammation of the ovary)
in females is not usually noticed so
easily. It is widely thought that orchitis
and oophritis can have an effect on fu-
ture fertility, but in fact the data on this
is questionable.
The HPA found that mumps was oc-
curring in 3 yearly cycles of epidemics
in young children. In response to these
the government introduced a vaccina-
tion for mumps, which was launched
in 1988 combined with the pre-exist-
ing jabs for measles and rubella (at one
time only for girls), as the MMR. This
halted the epidemics in young children,
but resulted in an increase in mumps
in teenagers, who of course hadn’t re-
ceived the vaccinations. Indeed, most
people born before 1990 i.e. the major-
ity of College intake, will not have rou-
tinely received the recommended two
doses of MMR.
So, take:
• One large group of teenagers, born
before 1990, many of whom haven’t
had two MMRs;
• Add a few people from abroad, say
for example a country where there is
no MMR programme;
• Mix in a confined space, say for ex-
ample College Halls;
• Shake well in a Fresher’s Week so-
cial with a few glasses of alcohol and
a splash of saliva (in say, an “intimate
kiss”).
• Wait 2 weeks
and enjoy a fresh Mumps Outbreak.
It’s that simple.
We do our best to avoid such an
outbreak in our student population.
We need to see those who think they
have it to diagnose it properly and
take appropriate action. You need to
have had two MMR vaccinations, after
which you are extremely unlikely to get
mumps.
Once again, and perhaps not for the
last time: MMR (and meningitis C)
vaccination is free to the under 25s,
and is available from the Health Cen-
tre. See the grey box-out to the left for
details on our new location, where you
can get said vaccination.
If you hadn’t noticed that the Health Centre is in a temporary build-
ing, you wouldn’t be the first. The Porta-cabins in SW7 can hardly
be described as “huts”. We’ve been here just over 2 years now and
although we love it, we are looking forward to moving into our fan-
tastic, brand new, purpose-built premises at our old location in South-
side, under Tizard Hall.
The move is over the weekend of 3rd and 4th November. We will be
providing EMERGENCY services only on Friday 2nd and Monday 5th
November, and open for business as usual (amongst the removals
boxes) on Tuesday 6th November.
Our address and telephone numbers (Reception: 02075846301) will
remain the same.
Please request any repeat prescriptions before Tues 30th Oct and as
usual allow 2 working days for these to be processed.
At this time of year things can start to
get on top of you, the days and nights
are colder, work has now started to pile
up and deadlines need to be met, how-
ever also at this time of year the clocks
go back.
This means that the nights will start
to get dark at 4pm, therefore many of
you will be walking home in the dark
from lectures or from your social activ-
ities, making it easier for people wish-
ing to do wrong as people’s awareness
is often clouded because the darkness.
Your personal safety is paramount
around this time and it is important
that you are aware of your personal
surroundings and of the steps you can
take if you find yourself in times of
difficulty.
The Information and Advice Cen-
tre can help if you have any concerns
regarding personal safety and we also
give out free personal attack alarms
and give free booklets to students
which can give you common sense ad-
vice when walking the streets at night.
Below are a few quick tips for you to
take on board:
• If you are going out make sure you
know where you are going and you
have a planned route, it is sometimes
good to tell people where you are going
if you are travelling on your own.
• When walking around look confi-
dent, be purposeful and alert to your
surroundings. People who look confi-
dent are less likely to be attacked.
• Try to avoid taking shortcuts
through dark alleys or parks, as this
will increase the amount of risk you
will be in as it will often be dark and
hard to see what is around you.
• Try not to draw attention to your
valuables especially at night. Keep
things like mobile phones and iPods
well hidden from people.
• Avoid walking passed parked cars
with their engines running and people
sitting in them.
• If you are travelling by bus try to sit
near the driver or if by train, try to sit
in a busy carriage.
It’s also important to be aware that
when you’re travelling home late at
night you consider the type of the
transport you are getting into. Lon-
don has quite a big problem with unli-
censed mini-cabs
• If you’re stranded somewhere and
need to take a taxi ensure that you use
a licensed mini-cab or black taxi.
• It is always better to book a taxi in
advance rather than trying to hail one
late at night.
• If you can, try to share a cab home
with friends.
• Confirm the details of the cab driv-
er before entering the car to ensure it
actually is your cab.
• Make sure you sit in the back if you
are on your own and ensure that you
leave all doors unlocked.
If you do happen to be the victim of
IC Health Centre is moving
crime it is important that you contact
the police to report this or if it occurs
on campus then to contact college
security.
Obviously being a victim of crime
can also affect you afterwards in your
daily life and can often make you nerv-
ous of people and of going about your
daily business. If you are feeling quite
anxious after being a victim of crime
there is help out there in the form of
victim support, their contact details
are: 0845 30 30 900
For more advice on staying safe
around campus please call 020
7594 8067 or you can send an
email to us at advice@imperial.
ac.uk
A very smart lady getting vaccinated
Nigel Cooke
Student Adviser
David Hayton
IC Health Centre Assistant GP

