A big thanks must go to all the users of
imperialcollegeunion.org for making the first
three weeks of term a huge success. With massive
increases of the number of visitors to the site and
in turn many more Club and Society memberships
being purchased, we thought we would detail
some of these achievements whilst looking ahead
to our new Club & Society focused functionality.
Last October we began our first full academic year
of selling our Club and Society memberships online.
We were pleasantly surprised by the number of Clubs
and Societies that embraced this new system and
actively encouraged their prospective members to
join online. Joining online not only made it easier and
more convenient for the want to be member, but
also saved the Club and Society Officers time and
the problem of carrying around large sums of money.
During October 2006 we sold 2123 memberships
online and overall last academic year 7234. Sales
of all products during last October was just over
£40,000.
This year we have seen a huge jump in the number of
transactions, products and memberships sold. Only
24 days into the month, we have already sold 3151
memberships online a rise of 67% on this time last
year, a figure which we expect to rise to almost 85%.
This is great news for all our Clubs & Societies as
they continue to increase their levels of involvement
year on year. Indeed, we are already well past the
halfway mark to beating last year’s number of Club &
Society Memberships for the whole academic year.
Visits to the site have also seen a rise of over 65%
from last year up to around 25,000 pages served per
day. This follows on from a very strong summer of
visits to the site from returning and new students
alike.
Overall sales are also up by 64% to over £60,000
with the number of Freshers’ events and balls being
sold online accounting for much of the increases.
The success of online sales on imperialcollegeunion.
org have clearly come from the acceptance and
use of the system of online payments from our
Clubs and Societies and their members. As such,
over the summer, we have been working with our
Web Developers to come up with an easier way for
our Clubs & Societies to get their products online.
By streamlining the process even further we are
confident that even more activities, trips and clothing
will become available online.
In the next few weeks we will be soft-launching our
new Club & Society Admin pages of the website.
This functionality will enable Club & Society
Administrators to:
• Put their products online including; events, trips,
club clothing, electronic donations and more, using
simple step-by-step wizards
• Check and download live reports for the sales of
any of the Club or Societies’ online products
• See all the members of their Club or Society and
selected details for them
• Easily email all the members of your Club or Society
• Register all their activities and attendees online with
recurring destinations and addresses.
• Continue to edit their web spaces on
imperialcollegeunion.org
We will be trialling this with a few clubs first to
iron out any issues and hope to have all Club and
Societies using this functionality very soon and hope
that you will all enjoy this new functionality both as
Club and Society officers and members.
unionpage
Imperial College Union, Beit Quadrangle, Prince Consort
Road, London SW7 2BB
Tel: 020 7594 8060
imperialcollegeunion.org
Record Breaking Start to theT
erm for theWebsite!
Entertainments Card 2007/08
imperialcollegeunion.org/ents
Entertainments Card
forename
surname
CID
This card entitles the bearer to 20% of all Union
Entertainments for the period marked below.
valid until
• Fast-track entry for cardholder plus one guest.
• 20% discount on ents, notably end of term
carnivals and Summer Ball.
• Free entry on Wednesdays.
• Nightly drinks offers for the
year include:
Carlsberg/Tetleys £1.60
Snakebite £1.40
Blackcurrant add 20p
Blackthorn £1.30
Blackcurrant add 20p
Pepsi/Diet Pepsi/Lemonade 75p
plus alcopops & ale of the week.
Fast-track entry only guaranteed until the venue is filled. Drinks offer
limited to card holder and 4 drinks per round. Carnival and Summer
Ball discounts only available on paper tickets.
buy now from imperialcollegeunion.org
bigger!better!
£35
only

