Clubs & Socs win!
Clubs & Socs win!
Round 1 Round 1 Round 1 Round 1 Round 1 Round 1 Round 1 Round 1 Round 1 Round 1 Round 1
The Sabbs were wounded and it was
time for revenge. Both competitors
were strong, easily gobbling down the
first three chillies. The fairness of the
contest was momentarily brought into
question by the baying audience as it
was discovered that Jov was eating
chewing gum with his chillies. Nev-
ertheless, the contestants arrived at
the final chilli and nothing seemed to
be able to stop them. The Chillies Of
Death™ were consumed by both con-
testants and the round was declared a
draw with neither person particularly
keen on eating more fire.
This progress by the Sabbs' would be
built upon in the next round by Ally
"The Firebreather" Cott. Fearlessly,
Ally gulped down the first chilli as his
opponent Umar Patel was still picking
off the stalk. Ally breezed through the
following two rounds and by now the
audience was gob smacked at his chilli
eating prowess. Claims were made that
his beard had something to do with
this success, but these remain totally
unfounded. Inevitably, and rather un-
fortunately for Umar, Ally easily swal-
lowed the final chilli. Umar couldn't
take the heat and with tears beginning
to stream down his face, he gave in.
1-1.
It was going to come right down
to the wire. Kirsty Patterson was up
against Nicole Ahmed to decide who
would win the first round of Challenge
the Sabbs. The contestants took their
seats and slowly began to munch on
the first chillies. Strangely enough, the
first chilli was actually hotter than the
second, but both contestants managed
it. However, during the second round
Nicole set the pace, quickly biting
through chunks of chilli going against
the wishes of her watering eyes. Kirsty
was clearly not enjoying the jalapenos
from hell. A verbal battering was com-
ing down upon her from her opponent
and it all became too much. Kirsty con-
ceded defeat and that was it; the Sabbs
lost. Hands were shaken, Islamic So-
ciety was declared victorious winning
2-1 and much milk was drunk to settle
the stomachs and prevent the chillies
from rearing their ugly heads in di-
gested form.
The two teams gathered together for
a final photo, but the Sabbs were miss-
ing one team member in the form of
Jov. Unfortunately, the Felix Sport Edi-
tor had had to dash to the nearest toilet
to bring up the ice-cream which was
originally intended as a cooling agent.
The afternoon was punishing on
stomachs, with many suffering the
consequences of their consumption
way after the event had finished. Yet it
was a fantastic opener to the Challenge
the Sabbs season. The two teams were
ultra-competitive, but the banter never
slipped beyond cheeky digs.
This writer would like to thank Is-
lamic Society for helping organise a
fun, action packed event, for providing
the chillies and necessary fire quench-
ing ice cream and milk.
The next challenge will not result in
Sabb defeat. Bring it on!
Tom Roberts
If you'd like to challenge the
Sabbs, email Tom Roberts on
felix@imperial.ac.uk. Let us
know who you are, what you
think you can beat us at, where
you suggest the event will take
place and how many Sabbatical
Officers you'll need for the fight
to go ahead. We look forward to
receiving your challenges and any
mild death threats you want to
send our way.
“Ally gulped
down the first
chilli as Umar
was still picking
off the stalk”
“Hands were
shaken, Islamic
Society was
declared
victorious... 2-1”
Deputy President (Clubs & Societies), Ally stares out his opposition Felix Sport Editor, Jov, wishes he hadn't come to the office today
The last round's Chillies Of Death™
"Succulent, juicy... Mmm. More! More!"
The Islamic Society's team and the Sabb team (minus Jov – toilet!)
Thani Ithnain gets down to it
THANKS TO FAIZAL FATHIL FOR HIS CAMERA!

