felix@imperial.ac.uk
16 felix Friday 26 October 2007
Travel
Travel Editors – Ahran Arnold and Nadine Richards
Guinea pig: the other white meat
Whether being experimented on or eaten, guinea pigs seem to have a rough time of it. If you have ever kept
one as a pet or you are generally of the ‘meat is murder’ persuasion then read on at your own risk
Ahran Arnold
Travel Editor
The country: Peru. The city: Lima. The
critter on the menu: ‘Cavia Porcellus’
otherwise known as the humble guinea
pig. It was nearing the end of my jaunt
in South America when it dawned on
my fellow traveller, Strachan, that there
was one thing missing from our Peru-
vian experience. We’d tried some of the
popular dishes such as ‘Ceviche,’ which
is essentially raw seafood marinated
with chilli and lime served up with
some potato and potato-like alterna-
tives. There was one dish, though, that
had eluded us: ‘Cuy,’ the Peruvian name
for Guinea Pig.
We donned our sleuth-
ing outfits (remarkably similar to our
backpacker outfits) ready to do some
serious detective work to find out
where we could eat some Cuy, which
is not actually found abundantly in
coastal Lima. It is better represented in
Cuzco and other cities and towns more
inland. After about an hour of fruitless
search we caved and consulted the Bi-
ble (otherwise known as Lonely Plan-
et), which directed us straight towards
a market in the historic centre.
Understandable, really; relying on
the traveller’s bible since I speak very
little Spanish so asking people would
not have helped massively. In fact, I’ll
tell you, in Spanish, exactly how much
Spanish I can speak: ‘un poquito.’ It
supposedly means ‘a little’ or ‘very lit-
tle.’ That’s all well and good, but if you
ask any traveller in Spanish speaking
countries (I’m currently trying to coin
the term ‘Spancophone’) if they speak
Spanish they will, 100% of the time,
reply ‘un poquito.’ I heard it from peo-
ple who had been travelling in South
America for a year, having studied
Spanish in school for years and at uni-
versity, and I also heard it from people
whose Spanish vocabulary consisted of
the words ‘un poquito.’ After a while I
stopped asking. Rant over.
We approached our task with some
hesitation. The reviews we had heard
from other people who had tried Cuy
were not, on the whole, positive. One
that sticks out in my mind is “Imagine
really fatty, raw bacon with tiny, irritat-
ing bones.” I can just see that descrip-
tion appearing on a menu at the Ivy.
We weren’t deterred, though, as no
trip to Peru is complete with out try-
ing Guinea Pig; it’s actually considered
quite the delicacy.
Strachan, whose ‘un poquito’ of
Spanish was considerably greater than
my own, asked around the restaurant
area if any of the chefs served up Cuy.
The answer was a resounding no. The
final ‘no’ we received was accompanied
by squeaking and the tiny pitter-patter
of footsteps. No, it wasn’t bring-your-
toddlers-to-work day at the market nor
had Strachan fell into one of his ‘turns.’
We had, in fact, stumbled across a ven-
dor of live guinea pigs. Lady Luck truly
smiled on us that day. I turned to Stra-
chan and waited, expectantly, for the
same idea to appear in his head. This
took a few minutes, he can be quite
slow.
What followed was surreal for a
number of reasons. First of all once the
sombre woman who sold the guinea
pig to us agreed a reasonable price she
snapped open her cage and grabbed a,
supposedly, tasty looking guinea pig
by the scruff of the neck. The podgy
brown-and-white creature started
squealing its head off almost as if it was
aware of the grizzly fate that awaited it.
She then, suddenly, took off towards
a deserted area of the market, under-
ground and beckoned us to follow. Her
face was just as impassive as before but
the spring in her step told us that she
lived for this moment.
She handed the critter over to some-
one else who had the grim task of kill-
ing and de-furring the poor little guy.
The actual moment of death was the
biggest anti-climax of all. She causally
strolled through the kitchen holding
the squirming, squealing guinea pig
by its hind legs and, with a flick of the
wrist, she unceremoniously banged the
struggling animal’s head against a work
Our friendly guinea pig vendor
Could you bring yourself to eat this little fella?
Guinea pig with all the trimmings. Just like momma used to make..
surface. Needless to say, the guinea
pig stopped wriggling instantly. So the
deed was done and unaffected butcher
went on to dunk the dead animal into
boiling hot water and literally ripped
out its fur. As a dutiful tourist I cap-
tured the whole thing on camera.
We then brought the corpse to one
of the aforementioned chefs who was
more than happy to fry up the little fel-
lowandminuteslaterwewere‘enjoying’
Cuy with a side salad of lettuce and red
onion. The meat was extremely fatty;
even fattier than I had imagined when I
heard the earlier review. It also almost
adhered to cliché in so much that it at
least resembled chicken in texture if
not taste. The bones were rather an-
noying, and to be honest there was not
a huge amount of meat on the bones.
That said, it actually wasn’t too bad.
Not something I would order again but
beyond the taste there was something
complete and organic about having
watched our meal transform from a
living, breathing, scurrying rodent to
something that resembled a very small
fried chicken. I was also given pause
to think about the journey that all my
other meaty meals underwent to arrive
at my plate; only a slight pause, though,
that was interrupted by the mixed grill
I had for dinner.
Next week, Papua New Guinea and
stepping up the ‘strange meats’ from
rodent to human…

