18 felix Friday 26 October 2007
Slipping the surly bonds of Earth
F
lying gliders is one of the re-
laxing and unrestrictive, not
to mention cheapest, ways of
learning to fly. It’s also statis-
tically one of the safest ways.
But, gliding is not just about launching,
circuit and landing; gliding is about fly-
ing up to 750km across the UK, from
York to Bath to Oxford and back in one
flight,asquicklyaspossible.Anaverage
speed of 100km/hr (60mph) is about
average, with high speeds exceeding
120mph. Racing to finish, gliders can
regularly exceed 170mph at heights
below 100ft. Gliding is about flying up-
side down along the airfield and loop-
ing and rolling around clouds, almost
reaching out and touching their soft,
puffy faces. A young pilot in WW2,
John Gillespie Magee, described it as
being able to “put out my hand and
The Imperial College Gliding Club, icGC, introduces the exhilerating sport of gliding and describes their
summer tour to Finland. Sally Longstaff reports and recommends a poem that everyone should enjoy
High Flight
Oh! I have slipped the surly bonds of Earth
And danced the skies on laughter-silvered wings;
Sunward I’ve climbed and joined the tumbling mirth
of sun-split clouds,- and done a hundred things
You have not dreamed of- wheeled and soared and swung
High in the sunlit silence. Hov’ring there,
I’ve chased the shouting wind along, and flung
My eager craft through footless falls of air...
Up, up the long, delirious, burning blue
I’ve topped the wind-swept heights with easy grace
Where never lark, or ever eagle flew-
And, while with silent lifting mind I’ve trod
The high, untrespassed sanctity of space,
Put out my hand and touched the face of God.
John Gillespie Magee
touch the face of God”, and when you
are flying silently you have “slipped the
surly bonds of earth”; it really feels like
an almost spiritual experience.
A glider flies by basically convert-
ing its potential energy in the form of
height into kinetic energy in the form
of speed. It can be thought of as a bicy-
cle freewheeling down a hill. A glider
can “drop” at a very slow rate, and at
a very shallow angle, sometimes in ex-
cess of 40:1 (meaning that for every 1ft
in height, the glider can glide 40ft for-
wards). At the top of the average launch
(about 1500ft) a glider can fly for about
5-8 minutes. To top up the energy, the
glider can use rising columns of air, or
thermals, to gain height, and therefore
prolong the flight. As you can imagine,
it is therefore a constant battle flying
cross country to keep the glider in the
air.
I’ve heard people say that gliding isn’t
a sport. Yes, it’s not all that physical, ex-
cept for rigging the gliders (the wings
weigh about 80kg each), and then de
rigging them again in the evening.
But it is amazingly competitive and
flipping hard work. How many other
sports have races that last for 10 hours,
where you concentrate every second,
and requires you to map read, spot
clouds, think tactically, avoid airspace,
whilst flying on your own at speeds ap-
proaching 120mph in a cockpit which
can heat up to 50 degrees of heat? In
my opinion, this is enough to make it
an exciting and incredibly intricate
sport.
icGC, which is one of the four
founder gliding clubs in the country,
and one of the oldest Imperial College
clubs, aims to teach students to fly, and
progress through to championship lev-
els. In recent years our members have
competed in national and international
levels. Great Britain dominates gliding,
having four current World Champi-
ons and one European Champion and
have been the most successful gliding
team in the world for almost a dec-
ade. Every year the club goes on three
tours: the Christmas tour is usually to
a club which uses different skills than
our usual club, Lasham. This is usu-
ally in Scotland or Wales, using hill
lift; the Easter tour is a training tour,
which usually involves intensive fly-
ing to progress members who joined
in October, hopefully to solo; the
Summer tour is a month long and in
the last years have been to Spain, the
Czech Republic, Germany, Slovakia,
and Slovenia.
The 2007 tour was to Rayskala in
southern Finland for the month of July.
Armed with the three club gliders, the
Grob 103C, a Discus, and an ASW-24,
and plenty of Red Bull, icGC left the
UK with the hope of getting a little slice
“Racing to
finish, gliders
can regularly
exceed 170mph
at heights below
100ft.”

