22 felix Friday 26 October 2007
Culture &
The Arts
Arts Editors – Mike Cook, Rosie Grayburn, Caz Knight and David Paw
Budding culture vulture? Write for us
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Michael Cook
Arts Editor
S
o. Racism, then. I’ve been try-
ing to think of ways to sub-
tly bring up the topic in this
week’s editorial, but it turns
out that shoehorning racism
into everyday conversation is a bit like
trying to crowbar a cow into another,
slightly smaller cow. But enough about
this year’s Turner Prize.
Hoho! That reminds me, I’ve yet to
put in this week’s bar joke.
Yes, racism seems to be flavour of
the week from where I’m standing. I
was saved the embarrassment of be-
ing unable to procure tickets to a sold
out talk at the Science Museum this
week by having the speaker in ques-
tion cancelled after a very public race
row. Whilst it means you’ll never get to
see our article on James Watson, at the
very least you won’t have to see his big-
oted, wrinkly face anymore either.
Naturally, we like free speech. In fact,
being arts-lovers and therefore only a
beret and a fake moustache away from
signing up to the socialist party, we like
free speech enough to say that James
Watson, whilst being bigoted and wrin-
kly, was allowed to say what he said.
But then there’s Time Out, which
this week carries a headline about the
London art scene being dominated by
white people, and we begin to wonder
whether ‘free speech’ inevitably leads
to broom-sweeping, carpet-lifting and
lots of bad things collecting some-
where unseen.
I like to think that creativity means
creativity, and that the ‘arts scene’ -
which is a phrase I hope never to have
to use again - is exempt from such wor-
ries because it has no targets to meet in
terms of ethnic makeup. If there wasn’t
a white face in the entire of the West
End, or if they were entirely dominated
by pasty-faced southerners such as
mystel, it is there to be seen, absorbed
and considered. You can’t force equal-
ity onto something designed for open
expression, and nor should you at-
tempt to.
That’s easy to say, of course, because
I’m a pasty-faced southerner. Perhaps
if the theatres were less white, I’d be
complaining about things that tend
to make up Daily Mail headlines. But
I like to think not, because I consider
myself part of a generation - and in-
deed, part of a segment of a generation
- that was freed from prejudice and the
like by major advances and events in
the world.
This week, I turn twenty. Next week,
I start writing this year’s novel as part
of the National Novel Writing Month.
Creativity to me is less hard-won than
it was for those that saw the Cold War,
apartheid or the Second World War.
But it still means something to me, and
it’s still something that should remain
free, no matter how worried we may be
by trends or opinions.
Oh, crap. Run out of space for a sum-
mary. Uh... okay, this week - mysogyny
and songs about racism.
Wait a second...
Hey there! I’m a Philistine!
Jordi Brown finds romance, revenge and twists in this week’s classic
A
book that has had over
30 screen adaptations
may sound like it means
business. Many of you
would have probably
even watched one of them, or at least
have heard of the author, Alexandre
Dumas. So if it has had such an appar-
ent success on the big screen then why
read it? Well, I’ll tell you...
For sure we all love going
down to the cinema with our oversized
and overpriced popcorn and drink, you
sit down and stare absentmindedly at
the seemingly everlasting adverts and
eventually watch the film you came
to see. More often than not it will be
a mindless action thriller with way too
many explosions, guns, over the top
clichés and cheesy lines. Or perhaps
it’s a cheap chic flick with the same old
stars playing the same old characters
in increasingly ridiculous plots. But
wait, how can I be saying all this, I love
those films, they bring laughter and
joy to millions. I can do so because I
have read this book. It exceeds any ex-
pectations or generic misconceptions;
it’s truly a novel for anyone, jammed
packed with adventure, mystery and
revenge for the guys, and glamour, ex-
travagance and romance for the girls. A
masterpiece in literature and yet acces-
sible, readable and flowing, the reader
travels with the hero and watches from
the sidelines as if there. It’s hard to not
get carried away here but so tempting,
you can only begin to imagine what it’s
like, so gripping and awe-inspiring.
So what is it about? Our tale
starts with the young and naïve Ed-
mond Dantès. He is a sailor arriving
back in Marseilles and about to marry
his fiancée, the beautiful Catalan Mer-
cédès. His trip aboard the Pharaon
has taken him to the exiled Emperor
Napoléon Bonaparte who gives him a
letter to deliver to France. The ship’s
captain dies on the return journey, and
on arrival Edmond is promoted to this
position. This angers his friend Dan-
glars and sparks off a plan to ruin him.
Danglars, having learned of the let-
ter given to Dantès, collaborates with
Fernand Mondego (another ‘friend’) in
writing a letter to the crown prosecu-
tor, Villefort, in which it incriminates
him as a Bonapartist. Upon Dantès’
wedding day and coincidently on
Villefort’s betrothal, he is arrested and
brought forth to Villefort. The latter
finds Bonaparte’s letter but believes
Dantès’ plea of innocence. However all
is lost when he is asked who he was to
deliver the letter to, a Noirtier de Ville-
fort, a well known Bonapartist and the
father of Villefort. Edmond is hastily
sentenced to life imprisonment on the
dreaded island prison of Châteaux d’If.
It is here that Edmond spends the next
14 years of his life, gravitating between
devastation and madness. Eventually,
he hears digging under the floor of his
dungeon and begins a tunnel to inves-
tigate it. It turns out to be made by an
old Italian priest, Abbé Faria, who in
trying to dig for freedom headed in the
wrong direction. The two are quick to
befriend each other and interchange
between their rooms through the use
of the tunnel. The priest educates the
sailor in languages, history, econom-
ics, philosophy and mathematics. He
is taught the customs of high society,
manners and sophistication. In turn he
tells the priest the events leading up to
I don’t care how good the book is, I still want to punch this man’s face
his arrest and together they uncover
the plot made by his friends against
him. Edmond swears to wreak revenge
upon them; however the priest has
shows him otherwise, telling him to
use his brain as well as his heart to get
back at them. After years of digging a
new tunnel, events turn sour and the
priest dies. Nonetheless he has time to
tell Edmond the location of a fantastic
amount of treasure, enough to make
him the richest man alive. Not to spoil
one of literatures greatest escapes, we
go on to follow Dantès in his quest to
find the treasure and then on to Paris,
where he finds that his former friends
have now all gone on to be successful
and wealthy. This does not deter him
and he uses his knowledge of their
weaknesses to bring them to justice in
exceptionalfashionandpanache.Along
the way he bumps into pirates, villains
and crooks, acquires a many new im-
ages and creates wonders beyond your
wildest dreams. Many find his tale a
forerunner of modern celebrity.
Such a book doesn’t come so
easy, notching up some 1000 or so pag-
es. Only a fool however, would let this
put them off as every page is as grip-
ping as the next. The story weaves here
and there, throwing in new characters
and plots that converge on a spectacu-
lar finale. It is, however, only too easy
to get lost and somewhat baffled in the
beginning with the huge number of
primary characters and plot lines. But
this just adds to the brilliance of the
storytelling and as you quickly become
fixed upon finding out what happens
to everyone, the pages rapidly pass in
excitement and intrigue.
Dumas, quite cunningly,
drops in the characteristic lessons of
life along the way, adding depth to the
novel. Written over 150 years ago it has
hardly lost its edge, the style is capti-
vating, refreshing even, but most of all
daring. Ideals and social conformities
are swept aside and the doors opened
to taboo subjects- you could be forgiv-
en thinking that this is a modern novel
set in a period piece. To the common
eye the book is, quite simply, a story of
revenge and does not need to be read
in detail if the reader doesn’t feel up
to it. Such is the magic of this author’s
narrative.
Dramatic, romantic, adven-
turous, deceitful and cunning; its going
to take a little more than a shrug of the
shoulders to write this novel off.
Quotable
“I maintain my pride in the face of
men, but I abandon it before God,
who drew me out of nothingness to
make me what I am.”

