arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
23
Friday 26 October 2007 felix
Arts
A trip down the wrong Avenue Q
Caz Knight goes to see ‘Avenue Q’, and is reminded why avenues are more of an American thing
H
aving heard outstand-
ing reviews of ‘Avenue
Q’ from friends and the
media, I couldn’t wait
to go and see it- even
though it was a musical. However, my
last experience of musical theatre at
‘Parade’ had near converted me to one
who loves spontaneous song and dance
on stage, and so I went in optimistic.
Such is the show’s notoriety that any-
one having difficulty locating the thea-
tre on exiting Leicester Square tube,
will have their way guided by huge yel-
low signs to the Noel Coward- equally
yellow and eye catching.
At first, I really did wonder at how
much I would enjoy the show when
the first actor runs onto the stage with
a large Muppet on his hand and starts
singing and moving the puppet accord-
ingly- not even bothering with any sort
of ventriloquism. I knew full well ‘Av-
enue Q’ was the Muppet musical, but
had never until then given any thought
as to how they would actualise it. I had
my answer. Being sure that this previ-
ously unseen style of conceptualisation
would grow on me, I didn’t let it taint
the rest of the show.
The musical follows Princeton, fresh
out of college, ready for anything the
world has to throw at him, as he moves
to Avenue Q- one of New York’s less
prestigious areas. There he encounters
a group of quirky, yet lovable friends
and inevitably falls for Kate Monster-
the single teacher. Princeton’s appar-
ent purpose and priority is to find his
purpose… in life. The musical takes
us through love, puppet sex, absinthe
cocktails, born again virgins and closet
gays. A gem of the production is the
“Bad idea bears”, two irresistibly cute-
seemingly-innocent bears who come
along at the worst time to coax you
into making the most irresponsible
decision- hence absinthe cocktails and
rampant Muppet sex.
The lewdly and crudely anticipated
humour I was expecting kicked off im-
mediately to my delight and the songs
“Everyone’s a little bit racist” and “The
Internet is for Porn” have you laughing
in no time. Light-hearted and slapstick,
I found my interest waning at times as
the humour overall is a little patchy
and a bit too obvious (clearly I am used
to dry, sarcastic British wit), with a lot
of the jokes relevant to American cul-
ture and so possibly wasted on a lot of
the audience. Do you know who Gary
Coleman is?!
Musically, the songs are exactly as I
expected from all commercial musi-
cals- no reflection on the musicians
themselves- so I was left neither disap-
pointed or impressed. Where I was im-
pressed was the stunning voice of Julie
Atherton who took on the role of Kate
Monster. Indeed, all the cast were well-
endowed vocally.
For some reason unknown to me,
I was expecting a larger cast but the
six actors managed to carry out many
more characters seamlessly and with
great enthusiasm and energy. The task
of bringing an inanimate puppet to
life could be a recipe for disaster if the
people executing it are not proficient
enough however no such disaster en-
sued and the choreography that went
into co-ordinating the movement of
Trekkie monster, for example, was out-
standing, especially when undertaken
by two people manipulating one arm
each.
A lot of effort went into set design
and creating a good atmosphere, with
some spectacular and highly novel ide-
as- I particularly liked the fountain of
bubbles erupting from the building top
during Rod’s dream.
If you love musicals and pantomimes,
then you are guaranteed a great time.
But if musicals rank rather lower in
your books, you won’t be missing out
on an experience of a lifetime if you
don’t rush off and see it now. Maybe
I have transformed into a theatrical
snob since being promoted to the high
profile position of one-of-four arts edi-
tors, but nowadays I look for more in a
dramatic escapade than a slightly vacu-
ous storyline and less than impression-
able musical score. Hmmm, I feel I
have been too harsh- there is a lot right
about ‘Avenue Q’, and if “deep thea-
tre” does not captivate you then do go
along, shits and giggles are promised! “Look over there, Jimothy! Is it... yes! It’s my career in serious film and theatre, cannoning into the sunset!”

