arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
24 Friday 26 October 2007
felix
Arts
This week, Blake suggests Jesus lived in England. It was the 1810’s, everyone was taking a lot of drugs
Stanzas for Students – Poem of the Week time
B
ut Jesus is meant to be
from Israel…. Is Blake be-
ing metaphoric, figurative
or is there any truth in the
words of this iconic poem?
Christians amongst you will recog-
nise the words from the much-loved
hymn ‘Jerusalem’. According to one
source, there is a whole lot of truth in
Blake’s poem and that Christianity was
brought to England, by Christ- Gildas
the wise, not Jesus. Not only is there
no evidence of Nazareth (Jesus’ birth
place) in Jewish writings, but the King
of England gave Joseph and Mary land
free of tax when they arrived in Eng-
land. The assumption is that a suppos-
edly pagan king would not lavish assets
on Mary and Joseph, two refugees,
for no good reason. If Christianity
And did those feet in ancient time
walk upon England’s mountains green?
And was the holy Lamb of God
on England’s pleasant pastures seen?
And did the countenance divine
shine forth upon our clouded hills?
And was Jerusalem builded here
among these dark Satanic Mills?
Bring me my bow of burning gold!
Bring me my arrows of desire!
Bring me my spear! O clouds, unfold!
Bring me my chariot of fire!
I will not cease from mental fight,
nor shall my sword sleep in my hand,
till we have built Jerusalem
In England’s green and pleasant Land.
had been thought up in England, then
how would Maz and Joe be Christian
enough to be favoured by the King??
It’s lovely to think that God’s repre-
senative on Earth came from Blighty
but the facts don’t quite add up…. Who
knows, the poem is absolutely beauti-
ful like all Blake’s other work and re-
gardless of faith, you should be able to
appreciate the imagery here.
And did these feet
William Blake
HELLO READER, MY NAME IS MICHAEL COOK AND I HAVE A PROPOSITION FOR YOU
Ignore this book review at your peril, Reader
The Internet, seconds before the invention of email
T
he Internet is a wonderful
and yet terrifying place.
On the one hand, I am
now less than three clicks
away from reams of Harry
Potter slash fiction. That’s something
that’s good to know, provided that you
know what three clicks it is so that you
can avoid them.
On the other hand, my inbox is fre-
quently in tatters from ‘Greetings
in the Name Of God’s and ‘What is
CIALIS?’s. I don’t know what CIALIS
is to this day, despite having been sent
countless emails about it. That’s be-
cause, whatever gmail doesn’t pick up
for me, I just delete straight off.
But one man was made of sterner
stuff than that. His name was Bob
Servant, and thanks to the incredible
work of Neil Forsyth, you can now read
the results of his exploits.
Admittedly, Bob Servant’s true ex-
istence is debated. But the transcripts
contained within Forsyth’s Delete This
At Your Peril are entirely genuine. Bob
Servant – or perhaps Forsyth... – re-
sponded to get-rich-quick schemes,
promises of love, claims of excitement
in Nigeria, and although no money
ever changes hands, the emails are
priceless.
They work on a tried and tested for-
mula – someone’s trying to con money
out of Bob Servant. We’ve all read the
emails, but hopefully not replied. For-
syth outlines the basic scams at the be-
ginning of the book – all have a similar
conclusion, that Bob manages to avoid
in spectacular style.
The book alternates between the
correspondents and reads relatively
quickly, but it’s so well composed that
you’re almost envious of the fun that
was evidently had in making it. Some
sections come particularly close to the
bone – once you realise that those on
the other end of Bob’s emails are ly-
ing through their teeth, their stories
of love, betrayal and wealth become
quite saddening. But it always deliv-
ers laughs, most incredulous, at how
or perhaps why the discussions were
allowed to go on for so long. Dozens
of emails are exchanged in each chap-
ter, and all end in the same conclusion
– lots of work by the spammer, but no
money won.
One particularly brilliant exchange
actually ends in a partial admission by
Bob that he’s in the process of writ-
ing a book and that he’d been string-
ing the guy along. This moment reads
brilliantly, as both sides admit to their
deception and the book takes on a new
side.
Forsyth’s other book, Other People’s
Money, strides a similar line between
humour and quite a gripping fascina-
tion which we have with real crime,
following as it does one of the most
notorious credit card fraudsters of
recent times – Felix will be reviewing
this soon too.
But Delete This At Your Peril stands
alone as a genuinely fascinating piece
of e-entertainment that hits on some-
thing we’ve all intimately experienced,
and answers the question we’ve all
wondered – who exactly is on the oth-
er end of the line?
Whether or not you normally go
for light humour such as this – and it
does feel like a stocking filler rather
than a real, sit-down-and-absorb kind
of book– it’s highly recommended.
Painfully funny in the same line as
Phonejacker or The Office and a little
disturbing in a similar way, it’s unlike
anything I’ve ever read before– which
is probably a good thing because if this
book reminds you of anything, it’s that
there’s a good reason why the first thing
you do is reach for the delete button.
We’ll be “book-crossing” our copy
later this week.
Delete This At Your Peril is
available in shops now. Find
out more by heading online to
http://www.neilforsyth.com

