arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
25
Friday 26 October 2007 felix
Arts
That Bitch versus The Angry Geek
Felix’s very own Angry Geek goes in search of the only two people on Earth angrier than he is
I
’m not an angry man. I realise
that the name is a bit mislead-
ing, and the fact that the only
pieces I’ve had in Felix thus far
have involved generally laying
into people, and that in this particu-
lar issue of Felix I refer to women as a
horde of malevolent bitches. However,
in general, when I’m just your com-
mon-or-garden student taking notes in
Generic Module III, I’m cheery.
I write angry things. I realise this. As I
mentioned, this week I am angry about
women. But I write angrily about stuff
all the time. I complained to the BBC
when they allowed John Humphries to
retire from The Today Programme, so
any ladies offended by this issue’s col-
umn should probably take comments
with a pinch of salt, or at least accept
that they’re a horrendous gender full of
spite and hypocrisy. Whichever.
Anyway, however tongue-in-cheek
you believe me to be, I’m fairly sure
that I wink at and nudge you more than
Roy and Mary, the authors of That
Bitch, do in their book.
Sorry, ‘book’.
The Felix Arts team thought I might
like to look at this ‘book’, which they
initially described to me as “like your
column, during a hissy fit”, and tell you
all whether you should rush out and
buy it.
Short answer for those of you who
aren’t interested in seven hundred
words of me tearing into the liter-
ary excrement of two retards – good
Christ no, you most definitely should
not buy this ‘book’.
If you think you might actually like
to read this pile of tripe, it would prob-
ably be better for everyone if you just
gave me the ridiculous twelve pounds
ninety-five that it costs and just let me
flash pictures of Hitler and Marilyn
Monroe at you for five hours, whilst
asking you to recount every break-up
with every girlfriend you’ve ever had
and spitting at you.
The ‘book’ is about That Bitch which,
apparently, everyone has in their lives,
and why they’re conspiring against
you to steal your genitals and usurp
oil reserves in Canada, or something.
If you’re a man, presumably you’re
supposed to think of the last girl who
dumped you, and instead of putting
it down to you being a complete jerk
when she introduced you to her par-
ents, you instead convince yourself that
she was really just buttering you up for
a divorce seven years from now.
But ladies, don’t feel left out! The
book helpfully states that, “reasonable
women do not have a problem with
our book because they know it is NOT
about them.” So that means you either
agree with the suggestions made in this
book, or are That Bitch yourself. Inter-
ested now? Of course you are.
According to Google Images, this is a photo of some bitches. Just looks like an ugly dude and the cast of a very cheap porno to me, though
Let’s backtrack a little. The authors,
Roy Sheppard and Mary Cleary, have
a mixed relavancy to the topic. Roy is
an ex-journalist for the Beeb and the
writer of vague pseudo-business books
with titles such as “Network To Win”
and similar-sounding rubbish. Mary’s
a nurse-turned-male-saviour after
seeing so many examples of domestic
abuse against men, spurring her to set
up Amen, a support group.
A high-flying journalist with a taste
for hyperbole and a nurse who’s seen a
lot of very similar cases, leading her to
assume that it’s a worldwide epidemic.
It’s already shaping up to be a well-
rounded and reasonable book, right? It
gets better.
For some reason, they’re absolutely
foaming at the mouth about women
who appear to manipulate others for
personal gain. Fanatically so.
It’s quite disturbing at times, as they
raise dozens of suggestions that would
fill entire sociology courses at some
Universities, positing all manner of
gems ranging from their list of tell-tale
signs you may have been a victim (Did
you ever break up with someone and
then hate them a bit? They’re probably
manipulative. That’s science, folks)
to suggestions of how to go about di-
vorcing one (“If she ever asks whether
you’re planning a divorce, don’t tell
her. Never be seen to leave your chil-
dren. Don’t keep money at home, she
may find it and keep it.”) I only wish I
could make up such brilliant stuff for
the Comment section.
And it just goes on, really. I thought
the Internet was supposed to soak up
bile like this into weblogs that no-one
read, but somehow it’s got into paper
form and even managed to make Load-
ed magazine – who bizarrely termed
Roy Sheppard “the world’s best agony
uncle”. There’s a chapter where they
speak in funny German accents and
grow beards to discuss “the psycholo-
gy” of being a bitch, which involves lots
of good words that no-one really un-
derstands but sound good like “socio-
path” and “misanthrope”. Then there’s
a chapter about how children are used
as “Weapons of Male Destruction”, and
it sort of just goes on and on and even-
tually they stop writing and just appear
to copy-paste in chunks of a thirteen
year-old’s diary, discussing about how
tough life is, how girls are mean and
need to be defended against, and how
they wish everyone could be happy.
But the worst part – and I mean,
aboveandbeyondthebullcrappsychol-
ogy and generalisations that would look
out of place in Patrick Kielty’s stand-
up show – is by far the fact that it toys
with the reader to a far greater extent
than the bitches it claims to describe.
The way it ekes your greatest fears and
paranoias, plays on them, fuels them
and eventually perhaps even tricks
you into acting upon them, is beyond
despicable. There are horrible women
out there, without a doubt. But there
are also a lot of fine women, in healthy
relationships with insecure or uneasy
men. And these men are going to read
a book like this and be very quickly
pushed into doing something utterly
retarded and totally irreversible.
When I write a column and say nasty
things about people, I expect you to
just swear at the paper, write an angry
email or at the very least just turn the
page and move on. I’m not honestly
expecting you to start following my
bitter, curse-stained trail up the slopes
of Mount Middle-Age. But this kind of
book goes the wrong side of that. It’s
playing a tune that rings quite sympa-
thetically in a lot of ears, but it’s leading
you up a path you can’t easily backtrack
down.
When I first read the press release for
That Bitch, I thought it was a fiction
book, or one of those joke things you
buy for those friends who you like, but
don’t know well enough to get them
anything meaningful at Christmas.
When I received a straight-faced, mid-
dle-finger-waving piece of misgynistic
claptrap, I realised that the reason I
was given this to review wasn’t because
it would be amusing to see an angry
person be angry about a silly book. It’s
because the only way you can defuse
something as dangerous and horrific
as this is to put it on the ground and
kick it until it’s dead.
That Bitch is appalling. If anyone’s
unfortunate enough to find it when it
gets BookCrossed, please just do eve-
ryone a favour and throw it away. Men
claim to be martyrs enough as it is,
without convincing them that “women
with no conscience prey on men with
too much.”
No shit. I hear Z-list journalists do a
similar thing with people that have too
many worries.
If you’d still like to get your hands
on a copy, despite The Angry
Geek’s feelings, find us on www.
bookcrossing.com under the
felixarts username to see when
we’ll release our copy, or pop into
your local high street bookstore
or www.thatbitch.com – That
Bitch is £12.95 and is available
now
“Felix Arts
thought I might
like to look at
this book and tell
you whether you
should buy it.
Short answer –
good Christ no”

