arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
27
Friday 26 October 2007 felix
Arts
Win! Books!
Thanks to the rather lovely people
at Picador publishing, we’ve got
our hands on copies of the entire
Otori series, including a hardcover
version of the latest book Heaven’s
Net Is Wide.
Instead of Bookcrossing these as
we might normally find ourselves
doing, we’ve decided to go the
whole hog and give this rather spe-
cial prize the competition treat-
ment, and in the spirit of all things
oriental, we’d like you to write us
a Haiku.
Haikus are poems with strict
rules – three lines long, five sylla-
bles on the first and last lines, sev-
en syllables in the middle. Make us
laugh, and you win all five books.
Easy.
Email your poetic masterpieces
to arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk with
the subject line “Haikus are easy/
But sometimes they don’t make
sense/Refrigerator” and we’ll no-
tify the lovely winner before No-
vember 2nd.
Mysteries from the Far East...ish
Lords, ladies and latent supernatural abilities. Michael Cook promises you won’t have seen it all before
T
here’s a particular kind
of fiction book on shop
shelves at the moment
that’s undergone some-
thing of an identity crisis
over the last decade or so. It’s identi-
fiable by a few telling factors – firstly,
there’s a young protagonist, probably
hormonally challenged. There’s nor-
mally the discovery of some unbeliev-
able skill, which will help overcome
some great evil and the whole thing’s
usually wrapped up in an extended
metaphor the size of the author’s ego
(I’m looking at you, Philip Pullman),
perhaps lightly dusted with hopes for
a film licence.
The identity crisis comes because
no-one’s sure who’s supposed to read
them. It took adult readers a good few
years to realise that Harry Potter was
readable fun. Booksellers spent ages
selling the first two books of the Dark
Materials trilogy to eleven year-olds,
only for the last book to be released and
read like
the bas-
tard off-
spring
of Ni-
etzsche
and Woody Allen. It all whirls together
to make the “teen fiction” shelf of Wa-
terstones a minefield of generic fantasy
and high-brow meta-meta-philiosophy
that most would rather not touch.
Tales Of The Otori is a book series
stranded at the centre of this genre.
But fortunately, it’s well worth braving
the explosions to pluck out.
The books are written by Lian Hearn,
a pen name for children’s author Gillian
Rubinstein, who travelled and studied
Japanese culture extensively during her
life, before settling down to write the
five-book series that now draws to an
end with its latest release.
Interestingly, they’re not actually
set in Japan, rather taking place in a
strangely generic far-eastern penin-
sula, in a medieval/feudal-like period.
From Hearn’s point of view, it allows
for much-needed flexibility in terms of
major events, and from your point of
view it’s probably just as well as if your
knowledge of medieval Japan is any-
thing like mine, you’d be lost.
The lack of specification about the
setting doesn’t detract from the detail,
though; the world is very real, and even
features a twee is-it-just-me-or-is-this-
a-bit-much map at the start of each
book. The customs, reli-
gions and beliefs are all equatable –
many exactly so – to similar ones in
‘real’ Japan, and as the characters travel
through locations again and again over
the series’ many decades, the layers of
life are built up very smoothly.
So,theauthor’sexperienced,thewrit-
ing is rich, where’s the catch and why
does Harry Potter feature in the open-
ing paragraph? Well, here’s a summary
of the first part of Across The Nightin-
gale Floor, Hearn’s first book:- whilst in
hiding from persecution, a young boy
witnesses his family’s murder at the
hands of an evil warrior, runs away and
is saved by a kindly-yet-aging man who
recognises his unrivalled special abili-
ties and promptly takes him off to be
trained.
Now, admittedly, it gets a bit more
varied after that. Takeo, as the boy is
known, grows up to be the successor to
his saviour, Lord Shigeru, and we fol-
low the politics, war, romance and phi-
losophy of Takeo’s life as he wrestles
to unite the clans of the surrounding
lands. But the problem is that the book
feels very bland at first touch. The boy
has superpowers. He falls in love with
a princess. You can’t sell that easily to
people who would already have turned
it down just from the shelf it was on.
It’s made worse by the length of the
books. The first three – Across The
Nightingale Floor, Grass For His Pillow
and Brilliance Of The Moon – are all
reasonably sized, charting Takeo’s un-
ion of the clans. The Harsh Cry Of The
Heron, written to close up the story, is
almost the same size as the last three
put together, and this last book, a pre-
quel to all four others, is even larger.
Though Heaven’s Net Is Wide is a good
piece of fiction that ties up the series
well, it’s a marathon for casual readers-
especially those who can’t remember
the complex and long lists of family
members, clans and battles.
So it’s a bit generic, really long and
originally written for people younger
than you. Why are you going to bother
with it? It’s because Hearn’s writing
style manages something very special,
and rarely seen in books for her target
market – Tales Of The Otori is epic.
Yes, Harry Potter was seven books but
it was too tied down to the school – so
much was hinted at but never explored.
Yes, his Dark Materials covered, well,
multiple universes, God and the en-
tirety of existence but Pullman breezed
through it all so quickly that you saw
virtually nothing of it.
Hearn’s world is intricate and beauti-
ful. Every journey is a mammoth
excursion, every off-hand allusion to
something is followed up by another
character or chapter. The Otori clan’s
many alliances and betrayals, as well
as Takeo’s battle with the source of his
extraordinary skills, allows for a wide
range of plot arcs, that covers a wide
range of storytelling traditions. The
cast of reluctant warriors, ruthless fe-
male rulers, clandestine monks, pious
heretics, faithful outcasts, loyal warri-
ors – each deserving of a story of their
own – are all given that story here.
There are no secondary characters in
these books, and it’s this that makes
them so strong.
You’re not going to walk away from
them feeling you’ve read a ground-
breaking piece of fiction. But it’s solid,
powerful, and above all else excit-
ing. Hearn’s original trilogy should be
considered a must-read, and the two
recent follow-ups are probably worth-
while for the fans too. It’s time to learn
lessons from a decade of Rowling, and
start opening our eyes to the cookie-
cutter crime thrillers and predictable
yuppy romance stories currently on
three-for-two; Tales of the Otori is
rich winter reading, irregardless of
preconceptions.
All of the books in the Tales Of
The Otori series are out now,
published by Picador. The first
three novels can be bought in
a box set for around £9.99 on
Amazon. Heaven’s Net Is Wide is
now in Hardback for £12.99.

