film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Film
Film Editor – Alex Casey
David Cronenberg: From body horror to auteur
Darkness falls across the land...
Few events leave one as perplexed as
listening to David Cronenberg speak.
Any research done on this man and
his body of work over the past thirty
years suggests that caution should be
exercised in dealing with a person who
revels in darkness as much as this. A
man who describes the AIDS virus as
a triumph in disease evolution rather
than the scourge of the world, I await
a similar intensity in his demeanour
as he walks into our conference in the
basement of the Soho Hotel.
Then something happens that seems
to catch everyone in the room off
guard. He takes his seat next to a rath-
er nervous Naomi Watts and the more
comfortable Vincent Cassel, stars of
his latest film Eastern Promises, and
rolls off some quip about the mountain
of dictaphones under his microphone.
Nothing too special there to consider,
but in an instant the image of this mor-
bid goremonger vanishes and the ex-
pectation of the crowd is flattened.
This leaves a gulf that is filled with
inane questions about Naomi’s recent
pregnancy or the motorbike that she
has to ride during the film and it seems
that Cronenberg’s humour has left him
sadly human. But as the course runs,
a deeper sense of character emerges,
unforced and with the fluidity of blood
emerging from a wound (a metaphor
he would no doubt approve of) as the
oft-cited king of “body horror” blends
discussion of beheadings with babies,
slavery with cinema and truth with
terror.
For the uninitiated, Cronenberg first
came to prominence in the seventies
with a number of films that would later
come to be known under the genre
umbrella of “body horror”, a subgenre
in which the body undergoes some
sort of transformation or infection,
with Cronenberg famously stating that
he wanted to show films from the point
of view of the disease. The idea of a for-
eign organism crippling the sanctuary
of the body from within was explored
in Rabid, in which he cast a porn star
as a crash victim who undergoes a skin
graft that leaves him with anomalies
resembling an anus and a phallus in
her armpit, and his more commercially
successful remake of the old Vincent
Price B-movie, The Fly. Chances are
there was a time at school when you
heard of his film Crash as well, where
autoeroticism derives new meaning as
a group of thrill seekers take to caus-
ing car crashes to arouse themselves.
Chances are there were a few red faces
when people went out to rent the latest
His works leave little room for laughs, but there’s more to David Cronenberg than his oeuvre may suggest
Paul Haggis film of the same name and
didn’t read the back of the box care-
fully enough...
So is it all just controversy for the
sake of controversy? Why is there such
a darkness in his works and yet such
joviality in his personal demeanour?
He doesn’t hesitate in his response to
this question: “It’s a kind of a balanc-
ing thing. Most artists are interested in
exploring places that are not normally
explored. It’s a matter of curiosity for
one thing and I think there’s always this
feeling that you will discover some-
thing really significant or profound
Alex Casey
Film Editor
Great performances mean that festival opener delivers on its Promises
Eastern Promises is getting a very
early release here for a film that only
premiered at the London Film Festival
last week, but given the adulation it re-
ceived there and it’s recent reception
at the Toronto, where it won the main
prize, could it be that it is relying only
on word of mouth to make it a success?
Well, whilst this is obviously a factor,
Eastern Promises is more than just fes-
tival fodder.
The story of Eastern Promises begins
with nurse Anna (Naomi Watts) trying
to hunt out a family for a baby born in
her ward to a mother who died during
childbirth. She takes the girl’s diary,
written in Russian, and tries to track
down any relative with the help of her
uncle (who conveniently happens to be
an old Russian relic of the KGB days),
but her search takes her deep into the
world of people trafficking, child pros-
titution and murder, all overseen by a
Russian mafia family, headed by Armin
Mueller Stahl and with Viggo Morten-
son and Vincent Cassel running the
operations from the street. With in-
timidation from all sides, how far is
Anna willing to go to secure a home
for the baby?
Realism and true motivation seem to
take a backseat in this journey through
Alex Casey
Eastern Promises ★★★★✫
Director: David Cronenberg
Writer: Steve Knight
Cast: Naomi Watts,
Viggo Mortensen,
Vincent Cassel
a seedy London underworld that most
of us are happy to bypass. Whilst I’m
sure Anna is a very nice person, there
are few people who would take the
wellbeing of a new born child as rea-
son enough to go messing with the
mafia when social services would be a
(slightly) more reliable bet.
The dynamics of the family itself pro-
vide a more intriguing character study.
Whilst Mortensen plays a driver to the
family rather than a blood member, his
inclusion into the inner circle at the
expense of the true son, played by Cas-
sel, explores the connections of family
and loyalty in a manner similar to The
Godfather.
Besides plot however, the cinema-
tography of Promises gives a stunning
evocation of an immigrant commu-
nity establishing itself in London. The
richness of the family’s restaurant base
feels as though it activates more senses
than simple sight and hearing and Cro-
nenberg’s calm direction gives it all the
more time to be savoured.
The true gem here however is the
acting, with Viggo Mortensen putting
Aragorn well and truly behind him.
His immersion in the role here is genu-
inely enchanting and his scenes are the
best in the film.
Watts and Cassel add to the accent
soup, with Watts doing her English
rose best and Cassel navigating Eng-
lish in a Russian accent from his native
“Mortenson’s
immersion in
the role here
is genuinely
enchanting”
French, but neither hit the same highs
as Viggo.
Whilstthefilmitselfmaynotreachits
full potential, there is definitely some-
thing here that is worth the buzz it has
generated. And with the Litvinenko
case directly interrupting the filming,
this is a topical interpretation of Rus-
sian influence in the post-Soviet era.
“Weren’t you in Lord of the Rings?”
about human nature, about yourself,
about the human condition, if you go
to those places as opposed to the more
mundane everyday places that we all
know. I think an artist has a desire to
uncover things that are hidden and you
don’t want things to be hidden. You
want to uncover what’s going on and so
you dig after what’s really going on and
that’s what leads you into dark places
because when there’s no light, things
happen that are hidden.”
Cronenberg’s latest two offerings, A
History of Violence and Eastern Prom-
ises, are not in quite the same visceral
vein as many of his previous works,
yet when viewed as a diptych prove to
be a fascinating study of the violence
that underpins society in various ways.
Viggo Mortensen leads both pieces
and acts as a visual link between the
pair but Cronenberg’s directorial style
leaves no doubt the two are connected
more intrinsically. His framing of dra-
matic scenes is more tailored to obser-
vation than involvement or exaggera-
tion as is commonplace with so many
directors.
This feature of his films makes mar-
keting tough, especially when the com-
petition try to make trailers as dra-
matic as possible. The subject matter
of Cronenberg’s film makes it easy to
sensationalise them: A family man who
foils an armed robbery and is then pur-
sued by an organised crime unit forms
the crux of History. But with the focus
on story rather than dramatics, recent
Cronenberg can be a disappointment
for those who fancy a fast paced ac-
tion flick. Italian arthouse master Fel-
lini once proclaimed that his own style
told “realistic stories in an unrealistic
way”. Cronenberg, in this sense, is the
opposite.
The intrigue of his character match-
es that of his stories, however. Hearing
him discuss the intimacy of a knife kill-
ing sends chills down your spine and
his unapologetic frankness in compar-
ing beheadings and bombings aligns
his self-projection with that of his cin-
ema. Until he makes another joke and
we’re back to square one.
It is no surprise that someone so be-
guiling has been chosen to front the
opening of London’s prestigious film
festival. His eye for detail is truly ar-
tistic and when he speaks of his work,
he does so with an authenticity that
would place him above many of his
contemporaries.
This isn’t the voice of a beginner try-
ing to justify themselves through dis-
cussion of their “process”. Instead it is
the voice of consummate professional-
ism. A voice with more sides to it than
even his films can achieve.
28 felix Friday 26 October 2007

