million kids walking about with it plas-
tered across their weedy torsos. The
“I Hate Nu Rave” print seems rather
ironic too, since half of Topman’s re-
cent stock is based upon the sudden
and heart-stoppingly annoying in-
flux of this said popular music trend.
Day-glo pink will never be cool again.
The 1990s used it and abused it, and
it should be left right back there in the
LSD trip you had at a rave in ’93.
It has got to the point where Top-
man is no longer following musically
sourced trends, but are now creating
their own trends for the drones to fol-
low. Credit to their business acumen
though; they’re now telling susceptible
Indie kids what to buy, rather than let-
ting them choose what to wear. How-
ever, these new ‘trends’ they put out
every couple of months are, down to a
level, identical or just a simple variation
on an otherwise generic bit of clothing.
The “white shirt” campaign featured
several high-end fashion designers cre-
ating a series of white shirts for Top-
man’s “Design” range. A white shirt is a
white shirt. Even if you did spend £200
on one, who’s going to notice?
fashion.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Fashion
Fashion Editor – Sarah Skeete
Has fashion lost its flair?
There came a point when I just looked
down at myself, looked up again, and
within view there was someone wear-
ing at least one, if not more, of the same
things as me. I neurotically buttoned
up my jacket to avoid awkwardness
and embarrassment, only to realise
there was someone next to me wearing
an identical one too. I would’ve been
better off naked, rather than standing
there looking like a couple of rejects
from the Topman modelling agency.
I’m not just about to slag Topman
and their styles off, mind. Far from it,
I think Topman is kitting out the youth
of today in clothes that make us look
just about presentable. Affordable,
good quality and stylish clothing make
what used to be just another bloke’s
clothes shop, into an Indie kid’s wet
dream.
It’s not Topman’s fault that everyone
wants to wear their clothes. I doubt
the Head Office cares if we all look like
generic monkeys, not with the amount
of revenue they rake in everyday. The
opinion of Topman is so low that
Fashion has always been a major part
of culture; when you learnt about the
ancient Greeks or Romans, what they
wore was a crucial part of study. Each
major development in history has a
corresponding advance in fashion. The
most inspiring example is the women
of the early twentieth century who
changed fashion in order to become
part of the war effort. Throughout his-
tory, fashion has defined culture. How-
ever, in recent years, fashion has not so
much ‘defined’ a generation, as become
a stagnant representation of celebrity.
Our idea of fashion has been devel-
oped over the last few decades with the
development of ‘mass media’. Once just
for the elite, runway shows have been
brought to the masses through maga-
zines, newspapers and television. Our
obsession with fashion has become so
intense that we even have an award
winning television series about the
cut-throat world of fashion journal-
ism. Modern fashion has broken down
the ability to define class purely on the
clothes we wear. With celebrities such
as Sienna Miller being spotted shop-
ping in Primark and Kate Moss launch-
ing her line at Topshop, it has become
virtually impossible to claim that the
rich are still the reigning fashionistas.
But with this increasing accessibility
to runway fashion trends, has fashion
lost its credibility and innovation? Even
in the early twentieth century, every
era had a defining style; the twenties
and the flapper dress, the forties and
big, glamorous red lips, the fifties and
the prom dress. What defines the early
part of the new millennium, a mere re-
vival of the last century?
This autumn/winter we’re being en-
couraged to wear metallic eye makeup
as seen on the catwalks at Matthew
Williamson and Donna Karen, but I
can’t remember the last season metal-
lic eye shadows weren’t in. Big in the
seventies and eighties, they hadn’t been
most designer’s first choice in a long
time, until now. For the last few years,
metallics have been huge and I can’t
see them disappearing for a long while.
Another example of the stagnant na-
ture of modern fashion is the revival of
the fringe after Kate Moss was spotted
at Swarovski’s Fashion Rocks sporting
a blunt fringe. The fringe has never
been unpopular, Mischa Barton was
seen with one throughout her time on
The OC, yet if someone else wears it,
we take it as a new trend.
If we were to define our generation,
I’d use the term “modern”. Whenever
you hear anyone describe almost any-
thing remotely linked to fashion they
always call it “very modern”. Most run-
way shows now either exhibit a new
take on an old idea or something that
could’ve been out of a space age movie.
“Modern” trends include metallics,
patent accessories, feathers, which if
you wore together would look rather
ridiculous.
However, if you walk down the street,
it’s unlikely you’ll see anyone wearing a
silver bubble dress with plastic, trans-
The new ‘Clones’ range by Topman
lucent platforms. The modern fashion-
ista seems to prefer comfort over Nao-
mi Campbell platforms. That’s not to
say they completely dismiss glamour,
they just sometimes appreciate boots
with jeans or woolly tight, the kind
popular with five year old girls coun-
trywide. Fashion has become more
personal than it once was. Someone
can be “fashionable” without changing
their wardrobe every season, which
would just be silly anyway as it’ll prob-
ably be back next year!
Celebrities such as Kate Moss and
Sienna Miller are critically acclaimed
by the fashion media for their easy-to-
do style. Both celebrities wear clothes
that us normal people can easily incor-
porate into our current wardrobe. Kate
Moss’s autumn line, recently launched
at Topshop, showcased a basic ward-
robe of shirts, waistcoats, t-shirts and
jeans. Her undeniable style comes from
her ability to flit between comfortable
yet inspired day-to-day clothing, and
evening glamour.
It’s with this rise of comfortable chic
that the flair in fashion has started to
subside. We no longer want to be told
how to dress so that we become clones
of a designer; on the contrary we want
to be our own designers every day. We
want inspiration to pick out a few key
pieces in shops; perhaps a waistcoat
one year, silver skirts another, but we
want to put it together ourselves. We
want to be able to wear UGG boots
with a vintage dress, it would probably
be more comfortable, or heels with
jeans, if it’s cold when you get outside.
It’s as though as day-to-day wear be-
comes more sensible, designers play
with old styles more and more, almost
to the point of absurdity. It’s high street
shops which take these pieces and pro-
duce them for the general public.
It’s the combination of the obses-
sion with celebrity and the accessibil-
ity of high end fashion which provides
us with the necessary inspiration, but
ultimately we all dress ourselves, style
comes from within.
even their Marketing Director, David
Shepard announced unhesitently to
the world that the only reason anyone
would ever buy a Topman suit would
be for their ‘first courtcase’, because
we’re all Pete Doherty wannabes at
heart. Just a quick tip too; if you abso-
lutely have to get embroiled in a law-
suit, don’t turn up to court in a trilby.
I’ll personally come down there and
mock you myself. In fact, I’ll take the
stand and give evidence against you.
Just to spite you further.
Topman produces clones. It’s undeni-
able. There is evidence everywhere you
look. Literally. There are people prid-
ing themselves on the fact everything
they buy and own is from Topman.
It’s like the issue of hooligans priding
themselves on the fact they have an
ASBO. They think it’s cool, but it just
deems them a menace to society.
T-shirts with oh-so profound mes-
sages of the “Frankie Says Relax” style
have become horrendously popular
recently. The pseudo-political mes-
sage, such as “Make Music Not Mis-
siles” has now just become a worthless
and meaningless phrase, thanks to the
Thin as a statement
Introducing the new WoW diet:
play so much that you don’t eat,
lose weight. Don’t kid yourself into
thinking that a large size t-shirt
will make you manly. It will make
you look anorexic. Buy clothes
that fit you.
Shirts with long sleeved tops
A.k.a. Seth from the OC. I’m
thinking of a thin striped or
checked shirt, neutral colour with
dark long sleeved top underneath.
Any man can pull this off. Some
will even look good.
Socks and sandals
No no no no no no no no no no
no *takes deep breath* no no no
no no. Despite the fashion world
and, indeed, anyone with any
semblance of taste taking this and
making it into a geek fashion cli-
ché, there are still people with an
unwavering belief that it is ok to
wear this combination of foot-
wear. It is not.
Black
Black clothing, particularly t-
shirts, makes anyone without a
slight tan look like they’ve spent
the past year and a half in an un-
derground computing lab. Oh,
you have? Let’s try and not make
this situation any worse than it al-
ready is.
Short sleeved shirts
With a tie? Without a tie? Doesn’t
matter; looks awful.
T-Shirts with formulae on
them
OK, so the SciFi Soc t-shirt pro-
claims your unwavering allegiance
to reading dense, often poorly
written works of fiction, and even
I have to admit at being impressed
at the use of Greek (psi and phi,
anyone?) but as a fashion state-
ment, it just doesn’t work. Espe-
cially not when teamed with un-
washed jeans and trainers.
Francesca Buckland
Don’t get me wrong, you can look
pretty sharp if you buy an entire outfit
from Topman; but only if there’s no-
one else in a 500 metre radius. How-
ever, Topshop doesn’t seem to have the
same detrimental affect on general civ-
ilisation. But I suppose when you have
a 20 ft stick insect such as Kate Moss
plastered across the shop window, eve-
ryone is too busy trying not to gag out-
side to even enter the stores anymore.
My humble advice would be to
choose items selectively from Top-
man. Topman always has and always
will stock some more subtler items
amongst the latest fashion craze. At
the moment, it’d probably be the vari-
ety of plain ‘baseball’ collared T-shirts;
simple basics that adds that stylish
Topman twist to an otherwise generic
T-shirt and jeans combo.
Good and moderately priced ‘alter-
native’ clothing is hard to come by in
the UK, and as students, its hard to
resist the temptation of inexpensively
keeping up with the trends that Top-
man sets for us. However, it comes at
the cost of individuality. We were all
created uniquely; express it.
Daniel Wan
Sasha Nicoletti
Geek chic
101101001
Kate Moss’s autumn line up is at a Topshop near you now, but has fashion’s credibility declined?
29
Friday 26 October 2007 felix

