games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
30 felix Friday 26 October 2007
Games
Games Editors – Azfarul Islam and Sebastian Nordgren
Azfarul “Az” Islam
Games Editor
I
t’s about 3AM in the morning
as I put the finishing touches to
this week’s issue of Felix Games.
What possessed me to feature
an all-sports issue during the
week of spooks and scares, I know not.
Perhaps the pumpkins reminded me of
basketballs, but that would be a lie. Or
not.
The thing is, Hallowe’en issues are
just way too ubiquitous at this time of
the year. The Internet is saturated with
recommendations of spooky, creepy
and otherwise downright scary titles.
You know – the usual suspects. Expect
stuff like Resident Evil 4, Doom 3, Fa-
tal Frame II (known as Project Zero II
here), F.E.A.R., and Silent Hill 3 (I like
it better than 4). Fresh blood into the
list will probably involve the atmos-
pheric BioShock and action-centric
Clive Barker’s Jericho.
When considering such lists you’ll
notice that the methods for express-
ing the horror factor vary about two
main points. Western-style titles tend
to offer palpable atmospheres with-
in new environments and plenty of
shock moments whereas games from
the East offer a false sense of secu-
rity by placing the player in surround-
ings that are meant to be familiar and
secular but then contort everything
holy into something grotesque. Such
has been the case for quite some time
now, but recent titles have broken the
mould now and then. Resident Evil 4
has an interesting formula. It’s not an
explicitly scary game, but the way it’s
been designed will make you palpitate
throughout your play time. This is be-
cause the enemies you face present a
genuine threat to your survival due to
brilliantly programmed A.I.
Of course, not all freaky moments
emanate from games with a horror
stamp pasted on. One of the creepiest
moments I’ve ever experienced comes
from the wonderfully eclectic Katama-
ri Damacy. An early tutorial sees you
learning the nuances of rolling the
titular katamari. During this exer-
cise, you have the opportunity to pan
the camera around to scope out your
surroundings. If you ever make the
mistake of looking upwards, you will
scream out in shock. A humongous,
moustached, purple face happens to be
staring down at you with his eyes twin-
kling with a sense of voyeuristic and/
or paedophilic pleasure. You decide.
This stranger happens to be the King
of All Cosmos whose role in the game,
besides setting you missions, is to
spurt out an incessant barrage of inani-
ties that will either make you laugh... or
shudder. Creeeeeepy.
Ooh, look at the time... I need to
wrap up now. This week’s focus lands
on a collection of some of the most en-
ticing Flash-based sports games online
whereas on the other end of the spread,
I discuss the status quo of the sports
genre in videogames and consider the
reasons as to why they’re a breed that
will never die out.
By the way, if you’re still looking for
your Hallowe’en issue, you might want
to read this section one more time.
Cheeky, I know.
This
Week
Stick Sports – take a bough
Stick Cricket Stick Football
Armchair Athletes Stick Baseball
Azfarul Islam discovers that being malnourished doesn’t make you a lesser player
A
n addicting compilation
of Flash-based sports
titles, Stick Sports is de-
fined by its caricaturised
graphics and arcade-
like gameplay. There are a surprising
number of options and the communal
aspects are quite brilliant. Once regis-
tered, you’re able to log your statistics
and watch yourself traverse worldwide
tables. It’s easily one of the true succes-
sors to cabinet gaming.
Stick Cricket
The problem with cricket games is that
they often fail to capture the delicate
nuances that govern the ebb and flow
of real matches. In the case of the ema-
ciated edition, it’s a godsend. I mean,
everyone really just wants to bat in
cricket; bowling is so tedious. Stripping
away complex shot intricacies, Stick
Cricket drops you down to the very ba-
sics of batting: hitting the ball in what-
ever direction you fancy. However, it’s
upto the player to be observant and
pick out the pitch, swing and bounce
of the ball. Normally, you’ll get away
with standard cuts, drives and pull-
shots when facing pure pacers. They
bowl linearly and any tap can send the
ball flying. The next step after that are
the swing bowlers; unlike pacers their
pitches will change direction mid-
flight, requiring you to make some late
shots. Pushing this further is the bane
of all amateur batsmen: the spinners.
They require constant attention and
pretty good reflexes to keep up with.
There are other permutations of bowl-
ing tactics as well, so the game doesn’t
lack depth. Fortunately, each bowler is
preceded by a card displaying his name
and attack style so that you are offered
some semblance of preparation.
The All Star Slog mode is basically a
by-the-overs cricket match. T2 Super
8 is a lot more exciting in that you play
a series of matches in 2-over bursts
with the final goal being the coveted
victor of the ‘Stick Cricket World Cup’.
The Challenge mode is my personal
favourite though. Here, you’ll choose
a club team and then attempt to score
as many runs as possible from ten de-
liveries. Each boundary gives you an
extra ball so theoretically you can keep
going on. Getting out, however, costs a
hefty five points. There’s a Head2Head
standing table that’s updated to reflect
the performance of the virtual teams.
It’s probably the only time I’ll ever see
my own team (Bangladesh) in the top
three. Minnow? Stick Cricket begs to
differ in its own zany way.
www.stickcricket.com
Stick Baseball
Ah, baseball. Assumedly created when
overzealous Americans couldn’t figure
out the intricacies of cricket. The Stick
edition of this Yankee pastime does
away with the rigours and team strata-
gems in lieu of the “Smack That” tactics
laid down by Dr Akon in collaboration
with Prof Eminem of Rhythmic Ebon-
ics fame. This game is limited to the
four direction keys but don’t let that
fool you. In true arcade fashion, these
simple controls take time to master, re-
quiring vision, timing and occasionally,
a bit of luck. There’s a guiding box that
players will use to gauge the apparent
direction of pitched deliveries. Once
you’ve decided your swing, tap the
appropriate key at the right moment.
Initially, you’ll be fooled easily because
the pitches often don’t go where you
expect them to, but that’s where the
challenge comes into play. With time,
you’ll refine your technique, pick out
the swing and smack that ball into the
crowds.
The game offers quite a few modes.
There’s the standard training mode
that gets you used to the controls in the
guise of playing the role of rookie look-
ing to get into a real team. The All Star
Slug is a standard match whereas the
Home Run Derby is a challenge where-
in you attempt you hit the highest
number of home-runs. The number hit
alongside the longest streak is recorded
so that you may attempt to break into
the Hall of Fame. The most involving
mode, however, is World Domination.
It’s a ladder-style tournament where
you start by playing the team at the
bottom of the rankings and then build
your way up to the very top. Passwords
are offered after every match so that
you can continue your blitzkrieg.
Stick Football
If you’re going to have a sports com-
pilation it’s a mortal sin to forego the
greatest game of them all: football.
Wii Sports’ only failing is Stick Sports’
triumph. Channelling the simple
two-button energy of ancient arcade
football, Stick Football is quite a chal-
lenging, peppy title. You’re limited to
eight-directional motion, a shoot and a
pass/tackle button but that’s perfectly
fine, since you really need no more
than that to truly enjoy the game (…
and that was the sound of all the PES
players just exploding right about
now). The gameplay in general is fast-
paced and frenetic as each team rushes
to score before the whistle is blown.
In an inspired touch that evaded clas-
sic football games, you’re able to apply
curl or height to your shots by hold-
ing the corresponding direction after
booting the ball. Stick Football can be a
bit of a challenge to play if you’re used
to modern football games, but it’s still
good fun. Once you start scoring goals,
it’s plain awesome.
The best aspect of this game is the
persistent league table that’s updated
every match day. When playing in the
Premier League mode, you can directly
affect the standings of your sports war-
riors by winning, losing or drawing. In
the ubiquitous All Stars mode, you
take on a star-studded team with any
other group of your choice. Since the
game was intended to be run along-
side the 2006 FIFA World Cup, there’s
an eponymous mode where you take
on national teams to win gold. For the
EU-oriented, there’s the Champions
League. Unfortunately, other national
leagues are absent.
www.stickfootball.com
www.stickbaseball.com

