news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
3
Friday 26 October 2007 felix
News
A mystery to many undergraduates,
and most frequently viewed as a wel-
come day-off, Commemoration Day is
a ceremony full of pomp and tradition
that brings students back to College in
their thousands, eager to attend with
their families despite the cost.
Wednesday’s Centenary Commemo-
ration Day saw the greatest number of
graduating students in the history of
the college, and marks a key point in
the path of Imperial College: its cente-
nary, coinciding with the last genera-
tion of 100% University of London de-
grees before the first Imperial College
degrees are awarded to undergraduates
next year. The day remains an impor-
tant date in the College’s calendar for
students and staff alike.
In 1945, King George VI and the
Queen Mother visited Imperial Col-
lege to commemorate the 100th an-
niversary of the founding of the Royal
College of Chemistry, the oldest of the
institutions that were amalgamated
into Imperial College in 1907. It was
decided that this royal visit would be
commemorated annually, and it is this
ceremony, held in the Royal Albert
Hall, at which Imperial undergraduate
students celebrate graduation.
To attend this ceremony costs the av-
erage student between £120 and £150,
covering the hire of robes, ceremony
tickets for themselves and two guests,
and a professional portrait to record
the occasion. This is a price that most
are willing to pay for their “big day,”
although many students surveyed by
Felix voiced concern at the high price
charged for simple robe hire, and felt
that the £30 charged for a portrait of the
student alone was “far too expensive”.
“College can charge what they like
for graduation, and they know we’ll pay
it,” said one student, “the Royal Albert
Hall is worth the price, but everything
else is a bit of a rip-off.”
Felix spoke to graduating students,
most of whom were broadly positive
about their time here at Imperial. The
Commemoration Day to remember
Felix was there to quiz the graduates, listen intently to the Rector’s speech and soak up the atmosphere
Andrew Somerville
News Editor
oft-imparted advice to other students
was to “get involved in clubs and socie-
ties. Pick one to be involved with for
the rest of your university career, and
work hard,” and to “use London, it’s on
your doorstep so don’t just talk about
doing stuff, actually do it.”
The overwhelmingly positive atmos-
phere was doubtlessly influenced by
the combined factors of elation follow-
ing the culmination of three or more
years of hard work, and a genuinely in-
spirational speech from the Rector, Sir
Richard Sykes, in his last Commemo-
ration day address before Sir Roy An-
derson succeeds him next summer.
Speaking about the number of stu-
dents graduating on the day, he quoted
Woody Allen in saying that “80% of
success is just showing up,” leaving
some wondering whether it’s been too
long since Sir Richard sat an exam. He
also discussed his impending depar-
ture from College, and followed by
stating that he is now certain that Im-
perial’s education is “ensuring the eco-
nomic competitiveness and security of
nations.” He then shrugged off criti-
cisms of College’s alleged lack of care
for its students and its businesslike and
corporate attitudes, saying: “Our stu-
dents are the greatest achievement of
the College.”
However, the most interesting parts
Lord Browne
In a controversial decision, one of
the three honorary degrees award-
ed on Wednesday was a doctorate
given to Lord Browne of Mading-
ly, the ex-CEO of BP whose stellar
career came to an end in May as
he resigned in disgrace.
Lord Browne was widely tipped
within College circles to be the
prime candidate for the position
of Rector as Sir Richard Sykes’
successor until he was forced to
resign from BP earlier this year:
19 months before his planned re-
tirement date. His rapid departure
was caused by the discovery that
he had lied in court over press
allegations surrounding his rela-
tionship with Jeff Chevalier, a gay
escort. Lord Browne was one of
the most successful homosexual
men in business, but preferring
to keep his personal life private:
he attempted, in January, to block
press allegations that he met his
lover through an online escort
agency, claiming in court that they
had met elsewhere. He was sub-
sequently found to have lied, and
potentially faced a perjury charge.
Soon after his resignation, it be-
came clear that he would not be
offered the position as Rector. In-
stead, Roy Anderson was named
as the next Rector of Imperial Col-
lege late this summer. It is thought
that Lord Browne’s honorary
doctorate could be considered as
a “consolation prize” after being
excluded from the running.
Singapore
Graduation
Imperial College is to hold a sepa-
rate graduation ceremony for stu-
dents in Asia in late November “to
celebrate the College’s relation-
ship with Asia and its Centenary
year.” Imperial currently has ap-
proximately 2500 students from
countries across Asia, and this
graduation ceremony is being
held in Singapore in an unprec-
edented change to its celebratory
traditions.
When asked for comment, stu-
dents found this a strange deci-
sion, but understandable in gen-
eral. One overseas student from
Shanghai said that he “definitely
preferred coming to England [to
graduate],” and several home stu-
dents posed the question: “Why
doesn’t the College do some-
thing special over here [for the
Centenary]?”
Whilst not ostensibly a sinis-
ter decision, worries have been
voiced from several quarters that
in an increasingly divided student
population, some of the overseas
students might become divorced
from the traditions of Imperial
College entirely if the arrange-
ment becomes permanent, ex-
cluding them from the one event
that is intended to bring all gradu-
ates together under one roof for a
single grandiose event.
of the speech came as he imparted
some genuine advice to the new gradu-
ates before him.
“You will spend most of your life
working. Make sure that you do some-
thing that you believe in,” he said, be-
fore he clarified his position in the ed-
ucation debate, saying, “You can have
many careers. I never dreamt, when I
entered industry, that in years to come
the qualities which I would gain would
be the same ones that Imperial would
be looking for in a Rector,” encouraging
those whose careers will have little in
common with their degree titles, and
those whose idealism still has the lead
over pragmatism.
Sir Richard Sykes makes his last Commemoration Day speech as Rector
The Royal Albert Hall was at full capacity with a sea of graduates
This portrait only cost the couple £9.99 including postage
PHOTOGRAPHS
BY
VITALI
LAZURENKO

