games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
31
Friday 26 October 2007 felix
Games
Armchair athletes, fantasy leagues
Azfarul Islam tightens his ‘laces, stretches his fingers and kisses the controller before the virtual kick-off
A
mistimed challenge
causes the ball to lazily
drift towards you. You
gingerly scoop it in front
of you and scan your
surroundings: your striking partner is
still trying to catch up, the defenders
are thundering towards you... what do
you do? In a leap of faith, you make the
mad dash towards fame, glory and ex-
ultation. A deft flip-flap here. A light
touch there. And the goalie himself is
now charging you down. This is it. This
is your game.
And you manage to flump and hit the
bar.
The opposing players cheer while
your partner groans; that was the third
miss in a row. But hey, you can afford
to try again since you’re only playing a
videogame.
In a broad sense of the word, gaming
itself is much like a sport. It can be a
challenging pastime, especially those
titles bred under the “easy to learn,
tough to master” mantra. The true
haecceity of a game comes into play,
however, when others are involved.
The need to dominate and show off ef-
fuses from every pore and before long,
you’re engrossed with one goal in mind
(pun intended). This level of pervasion
is perfectly juxtaposed with the ac-
tual fervour and furore of a real world
physical activity to present to you one
of the most ubiquitous and rightfully
popular genres in the gaming world:
sports videogames.
The most interesting aspect of this
genre of game is that it’s the one of the
most appealing overall, a true main-
stream proponent, trailed loosely by
franchise titles. Like the old death-
and-taxes routine goes, every recent
year has enjoyed / suffered (take your
pick) a slew of sports titles.
Despite the creep of increasing en-
nui and ever diminishing returns, the
sheer organic, ephemeral nature of the
sports game just begs for inexplicable
levels of popularity and more impor-
tantly: playability.
The most salient issue involves play-
er congregation and social aspects.
These games aren’t usually meant to
be played on your lonesome. Yes, you
can spend ungodly hours touching
upon the career modes, but are you
really getting the most out of them?
Increasing the difficulty only makes
the opponent more clinical and precise
with victories being hard-fought and
glorious, but only for so long: are you
It’s flip-flap time... That came outta nowhere...
...but evading him may be painful
Clearly waiting for streakers
...or, y’know, from the next frame
sad enough to claim superiority over a
piece of plastic?
Enter your friends and family.
This is where things get heated, in-
tense and plain and simply random. It’s
a battle of wits, will and skills really as
you use a mélange of tactics to outdo
your peer(s). You can take him or her
on with pure gameplay or perhaps
spice things up with a few underhand
tricks. Changing the channel before a
key moment? Pausing to fiddle with
your line-up? Or perhaps even an or-
dinary foul – be it a shove, push or a
bouncer straight at the chin. The pos-
sibilities are endless. Games that breed
natural showboating such as skate- and
snow-boarding are great for challenges
of bravado. It can lead to some spec-
tacular stuff and it’s not hard to involve
even the non-gamers out there.
The ease of controls and general par-
ity is another magnanimous feature
on offer. This allows more than the
oft shallow cesspool of hardcore gam-
ers to get drawn in, and rather deep
at that. The embarrassing geek factor
associated with videogames in general
is usually exempt on most occasions.
Despite being a game, this is still based
on an actual sport and with advances,
however little they may seem, the dif-
ference between the virtual and the real
starts to blur. Even before the advent
of the Wii, games like Tiger Wood’s
Golf and Fight Night (boxing) offered
intuitive control systems that tried of-
fer as organic experiences as possible
so that you’re in full control of every
putt, sidestep and haymaker. Playing
a round of football, cricket or basket-
ball and passing around the controllers
offers a pretty social outlook in that it
combines two fervent topics of inter-
ests into a tasty package.
With time, these little games have
also evolved into something a whole
lot more omnipresent. They are rep-
resentative of many memetic values
endemic to our time. From being the
focus of cash-incentive tournaments
to serving as random predictors, these
games are so much more; fantasy on-
line leagues included. They’re key
proponents of merchandising as well,
particularly due to the inextricable
linkage of largely lucrative franchises.
EA knew what it was doing when it
spent millions to attain exclusivity of
the NFL banner. Whenever a water-
shed tournament is underway, you can
be sure that a cavalcade of sports titles
will follow.
This near-seamless integration of
sport and game has lead to intrigu-
ing outcomes. The first and foremost
would be the promulgation of the
sports themselves, and with time, the
stars of the shows: the players. There
were times, quite a few years ago,
when I wondered as to how many of
my friends were keeping so up-to-date
with football players despite the lim-
ited TV showings and lack of Inter-
net prevalence in Bangladesh. Upon
investigation, one answer rose above
the others: FIFA, EA’s footballing be-
hemoth. If I weren’t mistaken later on,
not only were these games telling fans
about the players, but they were teach-
ing something far greater. People were
actually learning about the sports and
experimenting. While ubiquitous ac-
tivities like football have persevered
for ages, things like skateboarding have
yet to break into the casual crowd.
Yet here we have people understand-
ing the fine nuances of a manual trick
from the comfort of their armchair. A
few bumps and bruises may follow the
next week, but someone will have at-
tempted to break new ground.
Speaking of bumps, the Wii melds
physicality into the noble art of arm-
chair athleticism. When you get in-
volved in a normal sports game, your
body language expresses such. A goal
in Pro Evo 6 is juxtaposed with a jump
for joy whereas smacking a full-on ace
in Top Spin leads you to swinging your
controller just a bit to appreciate the
harmony of such motion. Now what
if that same body language, in sync
with adrenaline-charged emotions,
actually translated into gameplay? If a
wild swing of your right hand claims
you a 40-Love victory… if a violent jab
knocks out your relentlessly dodging
opponent… that’s entertainment at a
whole new level. The gap between the
player and the game grows ever nar-
rower since you realise that you have
more control; there’s more of you in
the game.
So all this excitement begs the ques-
tion: SSX 3 or real-life snowboarding?
I’m more than inclined to try the latter
any day now... once I’ve mastered the
game iteration.

