sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Sport
England’s Rugby World Cup 2007
September the 8th started promis-
ingly enough. Dave and I had driven
2 hours east of Calais to Lens for Eng-
land’s opening match of their world
cup campaign against the USA. With
the sun blazing overhead England
kicked off the defence of the William
Webb Ellis trophy to the enthusias-
tic roar of Swing Low Sweet Chariot.
How quickly the mood changed, after
80 minutes of rugby England had been
written off, despite that fact that they
had won. The match against South Af-
rica only seemed to confirm our deep-
est fears, England may not even escape
the group…..
Fast forward one week and again
Dave and I were in Lens, this time
for the South Africa vs Tonga match.
Once again the sun was shining, but
this time we were in for a real treat.
The South Pacific Islanders were mag-
nificent providing big hits and fantas-
tic breaks, it seemed that South Africa
were about to be on the receiving end
of one of rugby’s biggest upsets. The
big guns were brought on to steady the
Springbok ship, and that they did. But
it could have been so different if the
ball had bounced the other way in the
final play of the match. We had been
privy to one of the matches of the tour-
nament with an atmosphere the like of
which I hadn’t seen before.
We rushed quickly to the nearest bar
to catch the England Samoa match,
knowing that victory was needed to
set up the group decider with Tonga.
Despite some hairy moments England
pulled through, and we set off into
Lens city centre with some South Af-
rican fans for a night of drinking and
debauchery.
England beat Tonga the following
week setting up a quarter final with
Australia, but I had already abandoned
hope of seeing them in the final, the
general consensus being that France or
New Zealand would meet South Africa
in the Stade de France on the 20th of
October.
Then the impossible happened,
inspired by the monstrous Andrew
Sheridan the England scrimmaged,
mauled and rucked the Wallabies into
the ground, setting up an unlikely semi
final with France who had come from
behind to shock the All Blacks. Would
we see the white of England in the fi-
nal? Of course we would, I was never in
doubt! Another bruising affair saw the
English chariot roll on after a narrow
victory against Les Bleus, thanks in
part to the magnificent boot of Jonny.
So, early on the morning of the 20th
of October, Dave and I once more
made our way to France. This time
the destination for us and thousands
of other English supporters was Paris.
The atmosphere in the city was elec-
tric, thousands of singing fans, the
French, who had been amazing sup-
porters throughout the whole tourna-
ment, joining in. There was a real belief
we could do it.
And we nearly did. If only that try
had been given, if only those kicks had
gone over, if only. To be brutally hon-
est the best team throughout the tour-
nament won, and our boys had been
magnificent on their comeback from
the thrashing they received only one
month earlier.
And so to the after party, Dave and I
headed into the city centre to sample
the delights Paris had to offer. Surpris-
ingly there was no mood of dejection
amongst the English fans, after all the
boys had surpassed all expectation.
And the cup was only on loan to the
Boks, we’ll get it back in four years.
Daniel Lindsley
Meanwhile in London...
Over in the glorious country of France...
Daniel Lindsley and David Griffiths having a bevvy in Paris
Tadpole realising that he’s running out of beer A picture from Stadé de France itself, the Rugby World Cup Final
A picture from dB’s itself, the Rugby World Cup Final
Jovan Nedić
Sports Editor
There was no doubt that when the rug-
by club decided to host a special World
Cup Final event in dB’s, that England
would not be in it, but yet there we all
were about to watch them play against
South Africa. Clearly we were not the
only ones who couldn’t believe it as
the Union decided to put on an extra
screen in the quad as well as the ones
that will be showing it in Da Vinci’s.
The night was an undoubtable suc-
cess, with all three venues being
packed with eager fans cheering on
the England side, however the match
itself didn’t go our way. Footballers,
hockey players, netballers, rugby fans
and generally any fans that appreciated
an English team being in the final of a
world cup could be seen throughout
the union rooms watching the final.
Cries of disagreement could be heard
throughout the country when the ref-
eree decided to not award the Cueto
try, a try that could have led to an even
more nail biting finish.
However the best team of the tour-
nament did win, like Dan mentions in
his article, and the English fans should
be proud of how their boys managed
to pull it all together when it really
mattered.
So despite the fact the England didn’t
win the final, and on a quick side note
Hamilton also failed to win the F1
championship, people were not deject-
ed and the night carried on, with many
staying in the Union until closing. Of
course the South Africans that turned
up were doing their best to reminded
everyone who won, but don’t you wor-
ry, we’ll get it back!
35
felix
Friday 26 October 2007

