37
felix
Friday 26 October 2007
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk Sport
The match started in a rush with the
Virgins arriving fifteen minutes before
kick off, the delay being due to the fact
that Writtle, for those of you who don’t
know, is an agricultural college in Es-
sex (i.e. chav farmers).
The Virgin’s were faced with a daunt-
ing task as they arrived on the pitch to
meet an opposition twice its size and
just as mean-looking. However this did
not faze them and five minutes into the
first half, the first try was scored by Sa-
mantha Pemberton. Followed closely
by Roxanne Crossley, Courtney Bur-
tenshaw and Jess Alcena bringing the
total at the end of the first half to 32-0
with conversions being scored by Vice
Captain Roxanne Crossley.
The second half began with the Vir-
gins being pre warned by Coach John
Sykes and Captain Elena Bailey against
complacency, ready to defend against
the sheer ferocity of the opposition,
who were fueled by frustration from
the first half. The Virgins responded
with skill, with both the backs and
the forwards performing as a cohesive
unit, recycling the ball and using the
full width of the pitch to gain advan-
tage. However the game began to slow
down, constantly interrupted by injury
on the opposition’s side and mistakes
being made on both sides, including
naked frog ploughing into the referee
and knocking him over in an attempt
to tackle the opposition. This worked
in the Virgins favour as the opposition’s
belching number two was no match for
Theresa Wright the hooker (and for-
ward of the match) who stole the ball
time and time again and passed to the
backs, who dodged, dashed and ran
circles around the opposition. Writtle
eventually scored their only try of the
match mostly due to laziness on our
part, The First Lady herself even quot-
ing that ‘she wasn’t tired but couldn’t
be arsed running any more’. But the
Virgins responded with more tries
bringing the final total to 50-5. More
trys being scored by Louisa Stokes,
Courtney Burtenshaw and Jess Alcena
(back of the match).
Special mention goes to the three
Virgin newbie’s Grace Cairns, Helen
Warren and Emilie Macé and one re-
turned Virgin Rebecca Harrison who
played a great match, marking her re-
turn from injury.
Virgins whittle
down Writtle
Ann Sara Sheikh
Rugby
Writtle Women’s 1st XV 5
Imperial Women’s 1st XV 50
So you have been reading this article
week in, week out, and with your own
hard work and dedication you have
seen some nice changes in yourself of
late. Good for you I say, as will oth-
ers I’m sure. However there is another
side…
I was reading through some fan mail
recently and I came across some mes-
sages which can generally be read as
follows:
Dearest Mr Muscle, I have been
reading your article in recent weeks
and must say I am very impressed by
your desire to help those who may ben-
efit from your gym expertise. I too am
impressed by your immortal mass and
unparalleled definition, which is only
matched by your quick turn of word
and adept use of the English language,
to provide a thoroughly enjoyable read.
However, as is my inane nature, I find
it necessary to hate on your success. I
must hate on your training techniques.
Granted these are the very techniques
that have helped you attain an Olympi-
an physique, and, had I been bothered
to research, I would find that they are
also based on the workouts of some of
the most successful bodybuilders such
as 8 time Mr Olympia, Ronnie Cole-
man and furthermore backed up by
world renowned exercise institutes.
However you are unqualified as per pa-
per qualifications, and therefore I must
look past any evidence of their success
as it gives me an opportunity to hate on
you. I have never stepped into a gym,
preferring the docile environment be-
hind the computer from which I send
you this message, and as such have no
idea what good training technique in-
volves, but seeing your success inspires
my hate. True, I wish not get bigger,
but as I watch you excel in this field I
feel the need to besmirch your name.
I understand I will be depriving Im-
perial College this great commodity,
but I think only for myself, and to put
you down will satisfy me more than
any women/ man could.
Love and kisses your number 1 play-
er hater.
Obviously this is just an excerpt but
you get the picture. Usually I don’t pay
attention to this sort of hate mail, but
I thought it important to warn all my
budding gym enthusiasts as to what
the future holds. Sure a vast majority
of people will commend the fruits of
your labour in the gym, but a few se-
lect haters will not be happy to see you
thrive. They will try and put you down,
pitying their own lack of definition,
and hope to knock your confidence. To
these haters I give thanks, as your hate
confirms the success of others. With-
out darkness there is no light, and the
light at the end of your tunnel of dark
hate is confirmation of excellence.
The best way of responding to hate
is by doing your thing and being a suc-
cess, be like Gandhi and practice non
violence. 9 out of 10 haters will never
say anything to your face, underlying
the weakness in character. I can respect
a person that steps to me as a man and
challenges my techniques, with good
arguments. Simply saying that my
techniques are rubbish is whack, be-
cause I have 8kg of lean muscle over 3
years that tells me otherwise. So bring
your hate, because I’m still going to do
my thing and write to entertain. Read-
ers, you keep doing your thing, revel
in the hate because hate is the inbred
cousin of admiration.
Some things, unlike Victoria Beck-
ham’s bra size, will never change. Hat-
ers are going to hate. Just carry on
gyming and being the person you want
to be. I believe Energia are offering new
workouts, check it out it may be good
stuff. But I’m still here to entertain and
motivate the masses and keep you hat-
ers in check.
Believe that!
Chiraush Patel
Mr. Muscle
Hater mail for Mr. Muscle
Rugby 1st halt Hertfordshire
Jovan Nedić
Sports Editor
Rugby
Imperial Men’s 1st XV 20
Hertforshire Men’s 1st XV 19
After last weeks disappointing per-
formance against Brunel, the 1st XV
were ready to make amends. The ma-
jority of the changes to the side for this
weeks fixture were made in the backs,
with most of the positions being filled
by debutantes.
Today’s match was against Hert-
fordshire, who have slowly been work-
ing their way up the league tables,
a progress which was undoubtedly
helped by the Saracens academy. How-
ever their progressive climb through
the league tables was going to come to
an end as the 1st team had something
to prove.
The first half was, for lack of a better
word, sensational; forwards and backs
were working in complete harmony
and our discipline was unparalleled.
Within the first 10 minutes, Imperial
had managed to secure a penalty, which
the hooker Alex Johnstone easily con-
verted. The forwards then decided to
flex their muscles a bit and orchestrat-
ed a well trained rolling maul off a lin-
eout, which Alex Johnstone scored. It
was then the turn of the backs to show
their skills, which they did magnifi-
cently off a scrum where Rob Phillipps
scored the try which was converted.
Hertfordshire were given no chance
to do anything useful, and as such the
score was 15 - 0 at half time.
After the great morale boosting per-
formance of the first half, things went
a little downhill. Hertfordshire began
to show signs of why they have been
working their way up the leagues, and
things weren’t helped by Imperial’s
captain Andrew Jasudasen being sin
binned for killing the ball. In the brief
10 minutes that he was off, Hertford-
shire managed to score 19 points, leav-
ing Imperial on the back foot.
However, once the captain, and Twat
of the Match, came back on the pitch,
the team rallied together and scored
another rolling maul try, this time with
Tom Zeal putting the ball over the try
line. Hertfordshire again increased the
intensity, and managed to get a pen-
alty in the last play of the game, which
luckily for Imperial went wide of the
posts and gave them a very narrow 20
- 19 win.
Special mention has to go to Man
of the Match Alex Johnstone for his
all round performance, as well as the
debutantes Giles Mumford and Max
Joachim.
Imperial setting up a solid defensive line against Hertfordshire

