sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
38 Friday 26 October 2007
felix
Sport
IC arrived at the fortress in sterling
readiness for an absolutely spiffing af-
ternoon of jolly hockeysticks and per-
haps the chance to quaff a beverage or
two post game.
After a confidence-building warm
up accompanied by the MC stylings
of DJ Date Rape, IC took to the field
in buoyant style. Good early pressure
paid off with a supremely taken goal by
Jumanji within the first 2mins. RUM’s
managed to fight their way into the
game with some gutsy play in a match
that was becoming increasingly physi-
cal. IC however proved themselves the
stronger team with some more classic
manoeuvres and a touch a good for-
tune. By half time the lead had been
stretched to 4-0.
The second half began at the same
furious pace as the first had ended.
Excellent effort and commitment from
the midfield trio of Krusty, Princess and
Paedo all but neutralised RUM’s two
most threatening players. Any attacks
Owen Connick
which did manage to sneak through
were cleaned up and thrown out by the
solid back four of Mountie, Shipman,
Date Rape and Foetus, while Plug had
a fairly quiet game in goal. As legs be-
gan to tire, IC introduced some fresh
legs in the form of Nugget Porn and
Ass Rape who both showed great skill.
More good work from the forwards
saw Sid grab a couple and Jumanji get-
ting a double hattrick. Stumpy failed to
make the score sheet but was central to
every attack and made a major contri-
bution to the game.
IC ended the game tired and showing
signs of the fray but proud and pleased
to register their first win of the season.
Hockey men’s 1st
contain Rums
Hockey
Imperial Men’s 1st XI 8
RUMs Men’s 1st XI 1
Man of the hour Jumanji
Students from both Imperial Col-
lege Union Hockey Club and Imperial
Medics Hockey Club gathered at their
brand new hockey pitch on Friday 5
October as part of its official opening
by England Hockey International, Jen-
nie Bimson.
The event was also attended by
Professor Rees Rawlings and his wife,
Anne. Professor Rawlings, who re-
cently retired from his position as Pro
Rector for Educational Quality, has
been heavily involved in the College’s
sporting matters for a number of years
and was delighted to see the new pitch
in place.
The surface is the first of its kind to
be installed anywhere in the UK. The
Tiger Turf WETT system is designed
to offer hockey players the perfect sur-
face to perform their skills. The dense
fibres, with inbuilt ‘wet feel’, provides
a durable playing surface, which can
be used in wet or dry conditions. This
surface, the most advanced in world
hockey, meets the International Hock-
ey Federation’s highest test standards
and can also be used for other sports
including football and tennis.
The event kicked off at midday with
Jennie Bimson, who has 165 caps for
England under her belt, cutting the
ribbon and officially opening the pitch.
Jennie kindly donated a signed shirt
from the England Women’s Hockey
Squad and took a 45 minute train-
ing session with about 20 Imperial
students.
The students were really put through
their paces during the session and
learnt a few new tricks from their expe-
rienced coach. Even Union President,
Stephen Brown, could not resist taking
part. Stephen, a footballer for the Col-
lege whilst studying, was dressed in the
necessary attire and put in goal for the
session managing to please the crowd
with some amazing saves.
Professor Rawlings said a few words
over lunch in the ground’s pavilion,
commenting on the “superb quality”
of the new pitch and also advising stu-
dents to make the most of their time
at university by taking part in as much
sport as possible.
Neil Mosley, Head of Sport Impe-
rial, added: “We are delighted with our
new pitch. The quality of the advanced
pitch system demonstrates our com-
mitment to developing our facilities
for the benefit of our students and the
local community, as well as strength-
ening our partnership with QPR FC.
Now that the academic year has begun,
we will be able to see this new pitch be-
ing used to its full potential by Imperial
hockey players.”
Leena Bharadia
Sport Imperial
Hockey get state of the art pitch
England hockey international and Imperial students launch a
new hockey pitch at Harlington Sports Ground
Netball on a winning streak
We got our season off to a start with
a trip to Holland Park on the 17/10/07
for our first BUSA game. After discus-
sion between us, Holland Park and IC
tennis (who still haven’t come to claim
the drinks we said we would buy them
every Wednesday in the union!), we
finally managed to get on the court.
Missing our GS we dragged in Rachel
Dilley to play (usually a GD) and by the
end of the first half it was obvious the
game was in the bag! With attack, Jess
Marley and Jen Lang working the ball
around the goal third and Sara Willis
and Rachel never missing a shot, it was
38-12 to us by the end of the first half.
We stepped up the game in the second
half with defence Candy Fisher, Alex
Godlee and Kate Chapman owning
their goal third and only letting them
score 7 goals! We ended our first match
63-19. Man of the Match was Sara Wil-
lis, IC player of the match was Jen
Land and Candy Fisher got Twat of the
match for sitting in bird poo and get-
ting it absolutely everywhere.
Our second game was a ULU match
against St Georges Medics 2nd team in
Ethos. Again we got off to a good start
and at the end of the first half it was
22-4 to IC. Despite us all sweating like
a nun’s minge in a whore house (Ethos
needs air con!) and sliding around on
the freshly polished floor we had an-
other convincing win 48-7. Man of the
Match was Sara Willis, IC player of the
match was Alex Godlee and Twat of
the match went to Jess Marley for the
most shocking pass in the history of
Netball
Imperial 1sts 63
Greenwhich 1st 19
Netball
Imperial 1sts 48
St. George’s 1st 7
Netball
Royal Vets 1st 24
Imperials 1sts 54
Kate Chapman
All England Netball.
Then it was off to the country to play
Royal Vets 1st who had been relegated
from the league above. We ‘thought’
they were going to be good going on
previous encounters (losing heavily)
with this ‘team of giants’. We fought
hard and were up at the end of the first
half despite a couple of bloody injuries
(Candy gauging her knee whilst tying
her shoe laces). We kept fighting and
the end score was 54-24 to us, another
amazing score from the girls in blue!
Man of the Match once again was
given to Sara Willis, IC player of the
match was Lauren Anderson-Dring for
her first game in IC colours and once
again Twat of the match went to Candy
Fisher for her unfortunate incident and
brilliant First Aid skills. I’d like to say
thanks to all the team for their contin-
ued commitment and determination
on court.
Lets keep it up girls!!!
ICU and Medic hockey players pose for a photo with Jennie Bimson Union President Steve Brown with Jennie Bimson (ain’t she small)
Imperial going for the net

