felix sport Send in your sport reports:
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
High resolution photos only
Rugby
Essex Men’s 3rd XV 0
Imperial Men’s 3rd XV 31
ICURFC 3rd XV didn’t have the great-
est of starts to the day as they man-
aged to leave behind their kit; never-
theless the day produced an exciting
encounter.
Kick-off was promptly taken after a
display of what can only be described
as IC efficiency from the 3rd XV. Es-
sex 2nds received the kick-off to find
themselves swept away by the IC for-
wards, who turned the ball over. The
scrum half (Lucky) sent the ball flying
to the backs, who in a display of cham-
pagne rugby ran the ball avoiding tack-
les and was only stopped from scoring
a try by an unfortunate knock-on. The
scrum was placed and both packs met,
with IC emerging victorious in this
clash of titans and proving who the real
men were.
After a few phases the backs were
again given a run and they proved to
be deadly, this time with Brian scoring
the first try of the match. The try was
well converted by Fly-half Borja Sordo,
and IC found themselves leading the
Borja Sordo de la pena
match.
The rugby got a bit scrappy for a
while and after a missed penalty from
Essex, IC got back into shape and ex-
ecuted some brilliant back moves to
once again put one past Essex via flank-
er Adam Baldwin who broke through
the Essex line to put the ball down.
Half-time arrived and IC led by 12-0.
After an inspiring speech from captain
Ollie ‘‘I like to swear in my speeches,
a lot’’ Bevis, the IC players felt obliged
to score at least three more tries in the
second half.
The second half resembled a bit
like the match where France lost all
hopes of winning the world cup, and
IC found themselves leading all over
the pitch. The Forwards dominated in
what proved to be a display of sheer
power and with their support, the
backs just kept running the ball into
space. With Essex on the back foot, IC
found it relatively comfortable to play
some beautiful moves and tries were
scored by outside centre Tom, wing
Max “coolest name on the planet” Steel
and other wing Josh. Two of these were
converted to result in a 31-0 score.
Overall a triumphant day for the IC
3rd XV who duly celebrated on the bus
journey back with a few fresher songs,
some baby jokes and the presentation
of the Man of the Match Trophy (cour-
tesy of Pete Lee and Orlando) to Mick.
IC 3rd XV shut out Essex
Back again for its fifth year, the in-
famous wakeboarding beach party
kicked off the 2007 year.
For the uneducated amongst us
wakeboarding is a combination of
snowboarding and waterskiing. It can
be done behind a boat, using the wake
to throw yourself in the air, or for the
poorer folk it can be done on a large
circle cable. More advanced riders can
use jumps and rails (kickers and sliders
in our lingo) to throw some big tricks,
or land on their head!
The beach party is an opportunity for
50 newbies to come and have a go, en-
joy a BBQ and watch some pro riders
show them how it’s done. They start off
on kneeboards (large foam tea-trays)
to get used to the cable and progress
onto wakeboards. This year we had a
particularly lively bunch of newbies.
They dealt with the cold with elegance,
and kept smiling and bouncing all af-
ternoon. Although this was the first
time for many some guys stood up and
got all the way round, and others strug-
gled to get off the dock. As someone
who spent 6 weeks trying to get round
the first corner I can tell you persever-
ance is the key..and its well worth it! All
the more advanced members are really
keen to help everyone progress, and we
run termly weekend tours to give you
some more intense coaching.
Big thanks to Relentless for provid-
ing us with crates of free drink to keep
us all pumping, and to all the guys at
JBs for keeping the tunes pumping and
the cable running.
If you’re interested in coming wake-
boarding with us then email our club
President, John Hawkins on jh806@
ic.ac.uk or go on our club page for
more details: www.imperialcollege-
union.org. We hope to hear from you
soon.
Jon Watkins
Wakeboarding beach party
Netball girls dominate
The netball girls report on their amazing start to the season, see page 38
Raley Backroll

