4 felix Friday 26 October 2007
Elections 2007
Union Council and Trustee Board
Elections and manifestos explained
ENGINEERING
John James
John O’Neill
I am a Civil Engineering Student and
have been at Imperial since 2004. I
have taken an active part in the Union
both in club/society activity, but also in
governance. I attended Council several
times as an observer in my first year
and then as a voting member in my
second year.
During my first year I was elected
Chairman of RCS Motor Club and
gained experience in encouraging vol-
unteersandarrangingevents.Ihavethe
advantage of seeing the Union from an
employees perspective having helped
maintain the Union minibuses. I held
positions in RAG and CGCU, and have
been an active member of Yacht Club,
Railway Society and a founder member
of Cheese Society.
I support the values of Imperial Col-
lege Union and wish to maintain and
improve upon the representation of
our members, the services and ac-
tivities we provide and the support we
give our staff.
I am running for the position of Un-
dergraduate Engineering Councillor
because I would like to see Imperial
College Union remain an accountable
and democratic institution and if elect-
ed I would take the position that Im-
perial College Union should spend its
time dealing with issues which directly
affect students or a sizable minority
feel strongly about, examples of this
include the NUS debate or Fair-trade
products being stocked in the Union
shops. The same applies to our activ-
ity within the NUS, I believe that we
should not get involved in supporting
minority interest groups whose activi-
ties have no relevance to most students
and stick to trying to maximize our in-
fluence within the NUS.
I am currently serving as Matsoc
Secretary aswell as sitting on other
committees.
Matthew Taylor and Rosie Smithells are also running for this position,
but failed to submit a manifesto.
Undergraduate Councillors
Postgraduate Councillors
I am a third year PhD student and have
been on Council for the past two years.
I will continue to project a strong post-
graduate voice into what is a predomi-
nantly undergraduate union.
Unlike some I have not sat quietly
watching while I believed poor deci-
sions were being made: I will question
anything which looks untoward while
offering a voice of experience.
The future of higher education fund-
ing will rear its head again this year,
along with the threat of reductions in
spending and the Union’s new trustee
board. All three things will require
close scrutiny and thought and I be-
lieve my experience will be a great help
when considering the decisions to be
made.
Ashley Brown
Only one person is running for
the position of Postgraduate
Engineering Councillor! Another
postgraduate engineer is required
to sit on Council. This could be you.
Come to the 2nd Council Meeting of
term on 29th October, in the Union
Dining Hall and stand for election
The Union Dining Hall or Council HQ. You decide who is worthy
enough to sit around the hallowed blue-clothed tables
T
he faces you see spread
across the following three
pages want you to do
something for them. They
want you to vote for them.
Either because they want to sit on the
Union Council or the Union’s new
Trustee Board.
The Trustee Board is the new, over-
seeing committee at the top of the Un-
ion. Big decisions may have to be made
here, but less frequently. These deci-
sions may well be ones that Council
couldn’t quite decide upon.
Council is one of the most important
committees within the Union as the
decisions made by it affect every stu-
dent on campus. Most importantly, the
Members of the Council are given the
power to vote on decisions brought to
the Council. Giving this power to the
wrong person could potentially have
adverse consequences, even if I am be-
ing mildly melodramatic.
Councillors meet roughly once a
month to discuss the overall direction
the Union is going in. Recently for ex-
ample, the Union announced that it is
revising its Higher Education Policy
and that there will be a referendum
to get this change made. The people
throughout these pages will have to
give their views on this decision as well
as many other important ones.
Chances are(n’t) you may have seen
and heard the candidates give speeches
in the Junior Common Room yesterday,
at Hustings. Here are their manifestos,
ready for your analysis. Read each one
and decide whether you like what they
have to say, whether you agree with
them and ultimately, whether they rep-
resent your views.
If you’re not happy with any of them,
you can vote RON (re-open nomina-
tions). If RON wins, the Union will run
the elections procedure again.
If you didn’t know that the elections
were even taking place, you might still
be able to stand. Some of the faculties
still have outstanding positions to fill,
so get involved.
Once you’ve decided who you like or
don’t like, head to www.imperialcol-
legeunion.org/vote and cast your vote.
You’ll only be able to vote for those
people in your faculty. Have fun.

