5
Friday 26 October 2007 felix
MEDICINE
Olivia Kenyon
Alex Walls
Hi everyone. I’m a 5th year medic (and
an IC post-grad) and I want your vote
as one of the Undergraduate Medicine
Councillors in the upcoming elections.
This is my third year on the medical
school Students’ Union, this year cul-
minating in Deputy President.
In holding a position on our faculty
union I think it shows my existing
commitment to dealing with all issues
concerning students within ICSM,
from welfare, to education to main-
taining our own identity within the
university. Being in the role of Deputy
President of ICSM this year leaves me
uniquely experienced to know what is
going on both within our faculty union
and currently to a certain extent within
IC union.
I promise to represent you all to the
best of my knowledge and ability so
please vote for me as the best candi-
date to represent ALL students within
our medical school on ICU Council.
Abubakar Mohammed and Amir Sepehripour are also running for
this position, but failed to submit a manifesto.
Undergraduate Councillors
Mark Chamberlain
Tiffany Munroe-gray
James Dearden
Monal Patel
Saras Chauhan
Nimesh Patel Aneesha Verma
To sit on Union Council in a role to rep-
resent the views of medics would be a
great privilege, one I feel uniquely well
placed to undertake. Over my last 3
years at Imperial, I have been involved
in many ways with the Medics’ Union,
and so a move to somewhere where I
can express the views of our students
in a constructive way would allow me
to contribute fully to the Students’ Un-
ion, and especially the students whom
I would be delegate for.
Having spent last year as Faculty Un-
ion Treasurer, I feel I am placed ide-
ally with the knowledge of workings of
both ICU and the medical school, and
with a wealth of skills and abilities to
engage students and the insight to help
press on important issues. If elected
– I would work hard with the other
members of Council, and especially
those from my faculty, to ensure our
students’ interests are best voiced and
demonstrated.
The medics – who are they? Where do
they disappear to? What do they really
do?
Believe it or not, the medics and the
non medics are all part of Imperial
College. That’s where I’d be involved
– helping represent ICSM on the IC
Council.
We are all faced with the similar is-
sues at university whether it be trav-
elling to campus or hospitals using
the ‘cheap’ Oyster, being homeless at
the start of term, or making IC social
events and sports suitable for all. Aca-
demically, we are also need of more
resources and interactive learning
to make sure IC Medics become the
country’s best doctors!
If you want your opinions heard and
changes made, choose Saras – the ap-
proachable and chatty (possibly bar-
my) candidate who gets things done!
She can be found at all good ICSM/IC
parties!
My name is James Dearden, and at
the moment I am a 5th year. Being in
the 5th year I have experience of both
the clinical and non-clinical aspects of
our course and the problems that arise
within them. Consequently I feel that
I can suitably represent the academic
interests of the ICSM within the Union
Council.
I am also well connected to most of
the sports clubs and societies within
the faculty and am keen to see the Un-
ion continue to support and fund them
while maintaining the individuality of
the medic clubs.
Since I was the Reynolds Bar Manag-
er last year, I believe I have both good
organisation and management skills,
as well as a strong desire to see the
Reynolds and the social aspect of the
medical school remain a central hub of
medic activity!
Please vote for me! I won’t
disappoint!
Currently in my 4th year at medical
school, I realise that we, the students,
need to take control of our university
and make it work for us. We are fortu-
nate that our Union is autonomous and
that College are tightly constrained on
where they can intervene. I believe that
we should not be complacent about us-
ing this power to ensure that this uni-
versity is a well rounded, well-funded
institution and a supportive environ-
ment, especially for medics, as we are
here for the longest in the IC student
body.
I have gained the expertise for this
role through being involved in sev-
eral clubs and societies. As director
of Light Opera I am familiar with the
administrative hurdles involved. I am
also currently running for Year Rep-
resentative to help maintain our aca-
demic standards.
I should be the voice for medics be-
cause I am proactive, tenacious and
committed.
I’m Monal Patel and I would like to
be your Undergraduate Medicine
Councillor.
The Council is the most powerful
committee in ICU and the democratic
voice of our student body. It’s vital that
you have someone representing you
who understands what is important to
us, the students, and has the convic-
tion to make that heard and happen. I
believe I am that person.
I’ll ensure the views of undergraduate
medics are taken into account when it
comes to passing policies and taking
positions on issues such as top-up fees,
clubs and societies funding, welfare
and a host of other issues.
I am approachable, diplomatic and
have a wealth of experience of commit-
tees/politics from college to university
level, which I will use to work along-
side the other medic representatives
to do my level best for our med school
and the union as a whole so please vote
for me!
As a member of Imperial College Un-
ion Council, I would represent under-
graduate medicine to the best of my
ability.
The Council has a great impact on
policy, rules and regulations for the
College and ensures the students are
served well. As a council member, I
would have impact on these policies,
which affect all students; hence it is a
vital role.
If voted, I would allocate time, ener-
gy, enthusiasm and knowledge into my
duty to help make the changes that will
benefit all the students.
It is important to make certain that
student voices are heard, and that
they are well represented in all deci-
sion making, which will be a priority
of mine.
As well as fulfilling a duty, there is
always opportunity to develop and uti-
lise new skills in a positive manner.
So please, make sure you vote for me,
thanks!
I’m Aneesha, a final year medical stu-
dent, and I want to get involved in the
Council so that I can voice the ideas,
concerns and expectations (!!) of med-
ics when decisions that affect us are
being made. Joking aside, I would
dedicate myself to this role as it is an
important one, which I will use to en-
sure that our best interests are served
by the Union at all times.
Being a final year will stand me in
good stead, because my 6 (almost!)
years at Imperial mean that I can
identify with all of you at every stage
of medical school, so allowing me to
better understand and represent your
interests.
I have worked with the Union (as
captain of IC Women’s 1st tennis team
last year), so this experience will serve
me well in carrying out the role of Un-
ion Council Member. So, vote for me!
Do you know how many decisions ICU
Council make about issues affecting us
medical students? They make loads!
We need to be there to represent med-
ics at ICU Council otherwise loads of
these choices will be made on our be-
half without any of our say, especially
since medics are an under-represented
part of the Imperial student body.
As a member of ICU Council I would
make sure that the ICSM point of view
is always heard. I would constantly be
in touch with our students and SU so
that I can do what is best for medics at
ICU Council. I’d take time to listen to
different points of view to ensure that
I’m representing what people want.
I am passionate about Imperial and
helping us grow stronger. I will aim to
maximise the ICSM influence and im-
prove our standing in ICU to get some
great results in the forthcoming year.
Nobody is running for the position of Postgraduate Medicine Councillor! You can get involved by
attending the 2nd Council Meeting of term on 29th October, in the Union Dining Hall

