6 felix Friday 26 October 2007
NATURAL
SCIENCES
TRUSTEE
BOARD
José Videira Shray Amar Ali Al-Hussaini
Today's students are the leaders of the
future. University is the time where we
discover who we truly are and who we
will become. Students face the toughest
of environments now, especially at Im-
perial, and the Student Union should
be here to support all the needs of all
the students and develop their inter-
ests into true passions, turning the tal-
ent we already have into real success.
I'm friendly, approachable with good
communication skills and will go out of
my way to help others as I have a deep
dedication to the work I’m charged
with, while always striving to maintain
a positive attitude.
I want to make sure we have the very
best environment and student commu-
nity that we could possibly have. I want
to be at the forefront of the positive
development of Imperial College and
ensure it stays strong and continues to
deliver to all students.
Having spent five years at Imperial I
feel almost like a father-figure. Some-
one who has been here long enough to
know the nitty-gritty workings of the
system. But also someone who genu-
inely cares.
I care about you. That is why I am
running for this position. I want to en-
sure that the Union is run fairly for the
benefit of all students. That the Union
is regulated, operates efficiently and
has clear goals for the betterment of
student life at Imperial.
I believe that I am the right person
for the job. I have been President of Im-
perial College Iraqi Society in 2004/5
and attained the Millenium Volunteers
Award of Excellence by the Secretary
of State for setting up and running the
Wembley Youth Football Club in 2006.
Furthermore, I have organised a highly
successful OSCE course to help third
year medics at Imperial last year.
I am committed and organised. Te-
nacious and meticulous. But most im-
portantly I care and want to do well for
you.
Amir Sepehripour is also running for this position, but failed to submit
a manifesto.
One Postgraduate and two Undergraduate Natural
Sciences Councillors are still required to stand! Come to
Council on 29th October and get democratic
I consider myself to be a friendly, so-
ciable and an approachable person,
with two ears willing to listen. These
are just some qualities I feel I can bring
to the table and be a good representa-
tive and voice for the Natural Sciences
Undergraduates.
For undergraduates there are many
issues and challenges that we will face
in the next few years. For most people,
the undergraduate years will be the
most crucial, and with the aid of the
Student Council, I aim to help you face
these challenges head on and provide
full support for each and every one of
you.
With good inter-personal skills and a
passionate belief in the student coun-
cil I can offer unique ideas and a posi-
tive, ‘never-give up’ attitude. I’d like to
think I remain cool under pressure and
hence will enjoy the challenges that
await – but only if you vote for me!
Undergraduate Councillors
RE-OPEN
NOMINATIONS
RON Weasley
Hi! I’m Ron. Ron Weasley to be pre-
cise. Look at my wand. Isn’t it straight?
Speaking of straight, I’m going to cut
straight through the nonsense spewed
onto these pages and get to the point.
These candidates are clearly not up to
scratch and it’s my job to convince you
this is the truth.
Quite frankly, it’s appalling that these
students can’t even ‘magic up’ a door-
mat made out of frogspawn. If you vote
RON, I’ll find someone that can not
only do this but they’ll be able create
beer from sawdust and make it taste at
least as good as Carling, if not Stella.
The Weasley won’t stop there though;
the policy passing this revolutionary
change to the Union’s bars will read it-
self out to you when you come to look
at the report.
So, vote RON Weasley if you have
any sense. Save Council. Save the Un-
ion. Save the world.
You’ve read the manifestos,
now vote!
imperialcollegeunion.org/vote

