comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
9
Friday 26 October 2007 felix
Comment
Comment
Letters to the Editor
Dear Felix,
What on earth is happening to Impe-
rial? When I came here 4 years ago
the place was not a building site, had
some of the best CAMRA bars and we
even had grass areas where we could
sit and drink beer or simply enjoy the
sunshine. We even had a functioning
library, (Heaven forbid you would ac-
The Imperial
College garbage
bin, luminous
plastic and a
giant ashtray.
tually want to go in there, especially
now).
Now the students’ perfect univer-
sity world has been shattered by a guy
called Bob and his jackhammer. Not a
stone seems to have gone unturned in
the latest battle to turn everything at
Imperial into a heavy neon monstros-
ity; vile shades of lime green, orange,
pink to name but a few (whoever the
architect is should be put up against
the wall and shot!). I also feel incred-
ibly sorry for Southside residents
paying £155 per week for unfinished
bathrooms, no curtains and a marquee
common room. That’s more than the
student loan!
Our lovely Rector has taken our uni-
versity a step too far; in bringing in the
majority of the world’s foreign students
into our walls he is using the money to
do what exactly?
Dear Felix,
I am writing to complain about the
recent disorganisation of the Humani-
Humanities
timetable
debacle
ties department. This year I elected to
study Spanish during lunchtimes. The
Humanities website currently states
under the information about timeta-
bling of foreign language courses (and
has done since the beginning of Sep-
tember at the very least): “Students
who have registered for these courses
will be emailed a timetable at the start
of the autumn term. All courses start
the week commencing Monday 8 Oc-
tober 2007”.
So I therefore waited for the timeta-
ble to arrive. On Friday 5th of October
I still had not received a timetable, and
so first thing on Monday I emailed Ms
Catherine Chapouton, the Language
Support Administrator, to ask about
the situation, or who to see. I received
no reply to my email. Having checked
with other friends who had enrolled on
the same course, I ascertained that no
one had received a timetable. I there-
fore assumed that the course must be-
gin later in the week.
On Tuesday I received a message
from a friend saying that the timeta-
bles were being displayed on the wall
in the humanities department. I went
up quickly, and found that I had a lec-
ture that day at 12 (which fortunately
I was able to make) and had missed a
lecture on the Monday, also at 12.
I went to the woman who was man-
ning the Humanities information desk
and complained that I had missed a
class because I was waiting for the
timetable, as instructed on the inter-
net. She did not apologise and in my
opinion did not even appear to be par-
ticularly interested. I expressed my dis-
may at the departmental administra-
tion, but she barely acknowledged me.
Upon my arrival at the lecture, I
apologised for missing the previous
class, only to find that the teacher was
very understanding, and that I was
not the only one. I then had to try and
catch up with the others who had made
it the previous day, which was tough,
as I had never studied Spanish before,
and so the pronunciation which was
studied the previous day was difficult
to go through on my own.
After my lesson, I returned to my de-
partment and checked my emails. At
13:17 I received an email, again from
Ms Catherine Chapouton stating the
following (quoted):
“Your first lesson will be at 1200-1300
in EE 403B on Monday, 8 October
Lesson 1 is at 1200-1300 on Mondays
in EE 403B
Lesson 2 is at 1200-1300 on Tuesdays
in EE 403B
Lesson 3 is at 1200-1300 on Thursdays
in EE 403B”
This email was received 25 hours after
the course had started, in which case
2 lectures would have been missed if
my friends and I had not visited the
department directly. This was the case
for some of the class who did indeed
miss two lectures.
I am very disappointed that the Hu-
manities Department did not bother to
email the timetables out in time for the
beginning of term. If this was impos-
sible, then the department or perhaps
Ms Catherine Chapouton could have
surely have sent a one line email say-
ing to come to the department? I was
also very disappointed with the way
in which I was ignored and did not re-
ceive an apology or acknowledgment
of my dismay at missing a lecture.
This is my final year at Imperial, and
my courses count a lot towards my fi-
nal degree. In short, this is very impor-
tant for me, and to be having to play
catch up from the very beginning is
very undesirable.
The College expects students to be
courteous to all staff. It is disappointing
that the Humanities Department does
not extend this respect to its students.
Sally Longstaff
Aero Year 4
Interestingly, although many build-
ings are going up, other things are be-
ing removed! For example, outside the
RSM building there used to be a smok-
ers bin, now this has inexplicably been
removed, and replaced with nothing.
Is this supposed to stop smoking, be-
cause it doesn’t and now the entire
alcove has turned into a giant ashtray
(and it doesn’t smell good). What do
people think the smokers are stubbing
out on? Yup, Imperial College… Maybe
that’s all it is good for now.
I was under the impression that Im-
perial was a “green” university; a con-
scientious one that cares about the
environment and wants to reduce its
carbon footprint. Fat chance, perfectly
ordinary light bulbs have been replaced
with neon dancing floors, giant bauble
lights, lights in the walkway, pretty
much everywhere, and they never get
turned off! Not just this but a startling
absence of hand driers (in the new
“improved” facilities) is causing paper
towels to find a home on the floor.
Alongside the chronic disappearance
of ladies’ sanitary bins, this doesn’t
make for good reading. All this money
from foreign investment, and it’s being
wasted on luminous plastic that even
Zebedee would have been proud of!
So I pose the question, what the hell
is going on? Imperial needs to stop
knocking down buildings, and think
about it’s students once more. This is a
university not a business!
A pissed off student!
ICGA – Imperial College Giant Ashtray
The Global Health Forum meets
weekly to discuss issues relating to
health and medicine in the world in
which we live. On Tuesday 30th Octo-
ber, at 6.30 in the SAF building we con-
sider the growing the obesity epidemic
and discuss some radical solutions to
it – “Fat tax: should it be £ for lb?”
Reports published this week confirm
that the rise in obesity is truly a global
phenomenon, and one which the UK is
taking an active (or rather sedentary)
part. Although it may be tempting to
mock the Americans and how fat they
are, Britain has chosen to obediently
follow in their footsteps. Earlier this
month the government published the
Foresight report; a major study of Brit-
ain’s obesity epidemic. Their conclu-
sion, being an expletive, can’t be pub-
lished in these pages, but essentially
this is a huge and growing problem in
proportion to the diameter of its sub-
jects. Other data released this month
claim that almost one in four adults are
obese. We truly are the fat man of Eu-
rope – the obesity rate in this country is
almost twice that in Germany (12.9 per
cent) and two and a half times that in
France (9.4 per cent.) Unsurprisingly,
predictions for the future are dire: half
the population will be obese within 25
years and by 2050, obesity will cost the
Obesity: Should it be £ for lb?
country £45bn a year, half the current
NHS budget.
The scale of the problem has led the
health secretary, Alan Johnson to de-
scribe obesity as a “potential crisis on
the scale of climate change.”
The government’s response to the lat-
est raft of reports has been timid. Alan
Johnson is believed to be considering
informing parents weight measure-
ments of their children at ages 5 and
10. Monitoring the demise in health of
the nation’s children is like timing how
fast the ship is sinking, and doesn’t
really address anything. No, what we
need is radical thinking, and fast.
Professor Le Grant, chair of Health
England committee, has one such sug-
gestion addressing not just obesity,
but unhealthy living in general. Dis-
missing as nihilistic the conclusions
of the Foresight report who refer to
an “obesegenic” culture within society,
Le Grant feels we should reverse our
thinking of “choosing healthy lifestyle”
and instead make that the default. His
policies would include having to apply
for a permit to smoke cigarettes, strict
restrictions for salt in preprocessed
foods, enforcing employers to provide
free fruit and time allocated during
the day for exercise. Cigarette permits
could be issued annually requiring in-
dividuals to “opt-in” each year to being
a smoker, rather than “opting out” by
choosing to give up. Defending accusa-
tions that this is these are the actions of
an overbearing state, Le Grant points
out that if people wished to continue
to live unhealthily, they were perfectly
entitled to, but would have to apply to
smoke, add their own salt to food, and
opt out of exercise at work.
This is radical thinking, and some
would argue, an unworkable proposi-
tion. I’m inclined, however, to have
sympathy with it. But perhaps we
should go further – some have argued
charging those who “self inflict” illness
should have to pay for their indiscre-
tions. True, we all suffer through those
who “indulge” in unhealthy practices
and drain public resources; has the
time come for punitive financial meas-
ures?
Joe Ward &
Stephen Mullin
Fat tax: Solution to Britain’s obesity crisis?
“
Within 25
years, obesity
will cost the
country half of
the current NHS
budget
”

