science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
10 felix Friday 30 May 2008
Science
Science Editor – Ed Henley
Chemistry provides many examples of involuntary self-experimentation. But this doesn't always lead to the
next wunder-compound: Andrew Turley explores the flip side of finding unlooked-for formulae
I
magine the following scenario.
You are a diligent young re-
search chemist (they do exist)
working alone in the lab late one
night. Glancing at the clock you
decide you’ve done enough for the day
so you make some final notes in your
lab book, put away the chemicals and
wash up the dirty glassware.
As you walk towards the door you
peel off the latex gloves you are wear-
ing, being careful to roll them inside
each other more out of habit than any
conviction it helps with safety. Then
you take off your safety specs and your
lab coat, but in doing so you notice
something oily on your fingertips.
Casually inspecting your lab coat you
discover a small but unfamiliar stain. A
quiet pang of anxiety gives you cause
to consider the many compounds used
since the morning but this reflective
mood passes quickly and after washing
your hands a little more carefully than
usual the incident is forgotten.
What happens next? Probably noth-
ing – the oily compound is most likely
nothing more than a little vacuum
grease you think, transferred to your
lab coat whilst you fiddled with the
line. But, small though it may be,
there is a chance it is something more
significant.
A few weeks ago Albert Hofmann,
the Swiss chemist who first synthe-
sised LSD, died at the grand old age of
102. He famously discovered the psy-
chotropic effects of the drug by acci-
dent, after getting some on his finger-
tips – it passed through his skin and
into his blood. His discovery brought
him widespread acclaim as ‘the father
of LSD’ and a highly successful career
as a research chemist during which he
published over 100 scientific articles
before his retirement in 1971.
Such stories of serendipity are com-
mon in science and highlight some-
thing fundamental about the nature of
scientific discovery and progress. Many
have become extremely well-known
even outside the scientific community
and have acquired an almost mythical
status. Everyone knows, for instance,
the story of the apple which fell on
Newton’s head and inspired his mus-
ings on gravity, even though it seems
doubtful the event actually happened.
Penicillin, x-rays and the smallpox vac-
cine, to name but a few, all provide fur-
ther examples of discoveries made by
accident. Together, these stories form
a kind of scientific folklore in which
serendipity correlates with fame and
fortune.
But the Hofmann story has one as-
pect that sets it apart: involuntary
self-experimentation. This type of ser-
endipitous misadventure is not new
and seems most common in chemis-
try. The sweet taste of saccharin, for
instance, was discovered by a young
chemist who simply failed to wash his
hands before eating lunch. Constantine
Fahlberg had been working on coal tar
derivatives at Johns Hopkins Univer-
sity when in 1879 his carelessness led
to success. After quickly patenting the
compound he went on to reap consid-
erable financial rewards.
Falberg and Hofmann both benefited
from their mistakes, but others have
not been so fortunate. In 1996 Karen
Wetterhahn, a chemistry professor
at Dartmouth College, died several
months after spilling a few drops of
dimethylmercury on her gloved hand.
The compound permeated the latex
barrier and reached her skin, where, as
in the case of Hofmann, it entered her
blood. But unlike Hofmann's, Wetter-
hahn’s story ended in terrifying trage-
dy. She deteriorated over several weeks
experiencing nausea, weight loss, loss
of balance, and slurred speech before
finally falling into a coma and dying of
mercury poisoning aged 48.
The remarkable similarities between
the stories of Hofmann and Wetter-
hahn – both researchers who were
completely unaware they had ingested
the compounds under investigation
until they started experiencing symp-
toms – contrasted with their startling
different outcomes highlights the ca-
pricious nature of accidental discovery
in chemistry.
It is often said that chemistry does
not warrant its reputation for being the
most hazardous of sciences – such su-
perstition harks back to a bygone era.
Whether or not this is true, the im-
perfect nature of any safety precaution
means accidents will occur from time
to time – it is the nature of the beast,
however well the risks are managed.
But we should be wary of allowing ben-
eficial accidents, such as Hofmann’s, to
slip surreptitiously into our collective
conception of what science involves in
practice.
Bedtime stories of serendipity are
fine for captivating young minds with
the thrill of discovery, but when safety
is compromised the distinction should
be clear.
What's up his sleeves? Well, hopefully not the contents of that test-
tube in a second: no telling what that might do...
Accidents will happen: serendipity versus safety
Three times more numerous than the
human inhabitants of the Australian
capital, Canberra, kangaroos are now
being culled by the Ministry of De-
fence. Eastern grey kangaroos, Mac-
ropus giganteus, have provoked the
authorities with their overgrazing of
Canberra’s outskirts, leaving no grass
for the other wild species which live
there.
These species include the endan-
gered golden sun moth, Synemon pla-
na, and the grassland earless dragon,
Tympanocryptis pinguicolla, a tiny liz-
ard once thought to be extinct. Over-
grazing by large numbers of kangaroos
exacerbates the effects of droughts in
Australia and diminishes numbers of
other animals, especially invertebrates,
say researchers from the Institute for
Applied Ecology at the University of
CanberraandfromLeipzig'sHelmholtz
Centre for Environmental Research.
Human settlement and agriculture
in the last 200 years led to fragmenta-
tion of natural grassland habitats and
endangering of this fragile ecosystem,
yet kangaroos adapted to this change
better than other animals. With their
main natural predator – dingoes – ab-
sent their populations go unchecked.
Kangaroos that would once die from
droughts now find waterholes installed
for cattle and thrive in this human-al-
tered environment. This leads to popu-
lations too dense to be sustainable and
calls for human control of kangaroo
numbers.
In February 2008 when the local gov-
ernment declined the Ministry of De-
fence’s proposals for translocation of
kangaroos, due to high costs, the cull-
ing strategy had to be adopted to pre-
vent further damage to the grasslands.
However, culling of thousands of kan-
garoosjustoutsidethecapitalprovoked
animal rights activists who called the
kangaroo shootings ‘barbaric’.
Yet the Ministry of Defence claims
the culls are carried out humanely:
kangaroos are tranquilised from a dis-
tance and then captured while sedated
to avoid stress and pain. The animals
are then euthanized with a lethal
injection.
A number of people were arrested
for trespassing at the site of the culls,
the former Belconnen Naval Transmis-
sion Station. This did not stop some of
the protesters from cutting the fence
and releasing six still partly-sedated
kangaroos from the site. Mary Hayes,
of local campaign group Animal Lib-
eration, told the BBC "It is a very cruel,
violent way to treat animals – on a par
to just treating them as if they were
weeds to be mown or pulled out". An-
other wildlife campaigner added that
the cull plan was "just an excuse to kill
them". Defence spokesman Brigadier
Nikolic called for protesters to “act in a
When a national animal becomes a public enemy: Oz's kangaroo culling
Mico Tatalovic
Incoming Science Editor
peaceful and law-abiding way”.
And while the kangaroo culling is
hotly debated not only in Australia but
in the media worldwide, another Aus-
tralian wildlife icon, the Tasmanian
devil, has just last week been listed
as endangered. Contagious cancer
disease has hit the populations of the
devils hard and many are now worried
for their survival. Canberra Post calls
this the “Australian dilemma: too many
kangaroos, too few devils”.
Ain't life a beach. Canberra's not on the coast, but its kangaroos have been left high and dry, facing a
controversial cull, brought on by their overgrazing of grassland habitats surrounding the city

