science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
11
Friday 30 May 2008 felix
Science
One foot after the other, it advances,
blue lights flashing, down the hall-
way. Its blank, steely face stares blind-
ly ahead of it as it marches steadily
onwards.
Is this the trailer for the next episode
of Doctor Who? No, this is a video clip
of Flame: 1.3 meters tall, 15 kg, and the
hottest thing in the world of robotics.
Flame is the brainchild of PhD stu-
dent Daan Hobbelen of the Delft
University of Technology in the Neth-
erlands. Walking robots are often de-
signed using industrial engineering
techniques, but Hobbelen has taken a
slightly different approach. "This type
of robotics research is mainly focused
on trying to mimic the human motion
system," he says. "If you look at the ro-
botics world, that's something that's
not often done"
Flame uses algorithms to stabilise
itself, ensuring that the next step is
placed in a way that prevents it from
falling. Mirroring the way children
learn to walk, Flame walks by falling
forward in a controlled fashion and
righting itself using a built-in compu-
ter. The result looks disconcertingly
human.
As well as learning to walk like a hu-
man, Flame could provide further in-
sights into how people walk. "We know
that the stiffness of the ankle joint in-
fluences the stability of walking," ex-
plains Hobbelen. "With these robots,
we can actually change the stiffness
value to make it higher or lower, and
see what the result is".
Studies like these will help scientists
understand more about how the ankle
works, so people with walking difficul-
ties could benefit.
What's more, people who are miss-
ing a limb altogether could be lent a
helping hand – or leg – from the likes
of Flame. Hobbelen explains how his
research could improve the design of
leg prostheses for amputees. "If you
understand better the actual func-
tion and working of the joints, you
can make a much better replacement,"
he says. "They could just walk as they
would typically have done before they
had an amputation and they wouldn't
have to use extra energy".
Hobbelen hopes that in the future
walking robots like Flame might be
useful for assisting with dangerous as-
signments, such as carrying out tasks
in nuclear plants. And they might also
be handy round the home to help out
with the housework. But Flame's true
moment of glory will come later this
week when it is presented as part of the
Dutch RoboCup team that will play in
this summer's RoboCup Soccer cham-
pionship in China.
It might look like one of Doctor
Who's Cybermen, but Flame's poten-
tial to provide insights into walking, to
brave nuclear plants and even do the
vacuuming sounds far from threaten-
ing. And who knows, one day Flame
might even give David Beckham a run
for his money.
Robot to the rescue: Hobbelen's no-hobble bot
Daan Hobbelen's robot Flame learned to walk like a child does, and might help people with disabilities
There is a question that has long fas-
cinated mankind. Most people have
gazed up at the stars at some point and
wondered: Are we alone? This week
a spacecraft completes its ten-month
flight to Mars, and we may soon be
closer to knowing whether life exists
on another planet.
A good way to begin the hunt for
Martian life is to look for what living
things need – such as water. “We’ve
never been in a position to look for
water,” explained Dr Tom Pike, from
Imperial College London. He leads a
research team that has developed sili-
con discs with a finely etched surface
for holding Martian soil samples. “The
water on Mars is below the surface, it’s
not on top. And nobody has dug down
to any great depth.”
But on the 26th of May, NASA’s
Phoenix spacecraft will land on Mars
and its central mission will be the
search for water at the planet’s north
pole. A robotic arm will dig for ice that
has already been detected under the
red planet’s surface by NASA’s Mars
Odyssey.
Dr Pike’s team will work at mission
control at the University of Arizona to
study microscope images of the Mar-
tian soil. The images are capable of
showing features one thousandth the
width of a human hair – the highest
resolution ever used on soil from an-
other planet.
Once Phoenix returns its data, the
researchers will be among the first
people to conduct the most detailed
analysis of Martian soil and dust sam-
ples. They can then look at questions
about the history of the ice: was it once
part of an ancient ocean? Is it the re-
mains of a retreating ice sheet?
This may tell us more about the
climate cycles on Mars, for instance
Nicely done, especially in perspective. In fact, Phoenix passed 20 km in front of Heimdall crater, and landed successfully just days ago, beating
the best efforts of the "great galactic ghoul", which has claimed so many previous Mars missions., including both of Phoenix's progenitors. In
other news, if you've not spotted, the BBC is running a diary from Imperial's Dr. Tom Pike – well worth a read!
Mission to Mars: Phoenix examines soil using Imperial technology
Tamsin Osborne
whether the ice occasionally melts. If
so, microbes may be able to live in the
melted ice, provided that other factors
are right. NASA’s Phoenix will also
search for these other features, such as
compounds containing carbon. These
carbon-based compounds include the
chemical building blocks of life and
substances used as an energy source.
However, Phoenix is unlikely to show
that life definitely exists on Mars, “un-
less we see a little bug crawl across the
substrate under the microscope – we’re
not expecting that,” says Pike. But a fu-
ture European mission, ExoMars, will
search specifically and thoroughly for
signs of Martian life.
For now, the scientists hope to find
out whether anything could live on
Mars. “We are going to be able say
whether Mars is a potential home for
life, rather than directly answer the
question of whether there is life on
Mars.”
Katrina Pavelin
NASA/JPL-CALTECH/UNIVERSITY
OF
ARIZONA
Flame in action – by falling in a controlled fashion, before righting itself, the robot mimics the way children
learn to walk. Those hamstrings must help it on the RoboCup pitch – as must its sure-footedness
For more on Flame, including
movies, follow the "Walking like a
human" link through from
http://home.tudelft.nl/en/
Apology: The spruce mentioned
last week is found in Dalarna
province, not Darlana, as
reported. Sorry.

