Emily Wilson
Arts Editor
12 felix Friday 30 May 2008
Culture &
The Arts
Arts Editors – Rosie Grayburn, Caz Knight, David Paw and Emily Wilson
Budding culture vulture? Write for us
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
H
ello my little arty friends.
I’m writing this over the
Bank Holiday weekend,
and the weather’s awful.
Rain on a Bank Holiday
weekend? Not acceptable. Mind you,
it’s not like we’re able to enjoy our-
selves in the sun at the moment, what
with exams and miscellaneous other
tortures. I have spent my rainy week-
end camped out in the library, lovingly
crafting (read: hurriedly botching to-
gether) an essay about fungus (such is
the glamour of biology). I hope you’ve
been doing something more fun.
Here at Felix, we don’t let exams stop
us.Nosir!We’vebeenturningourbacks
on our expensive educations to bring
you some more lovely articles. This
week we have some controversial views
on Pygmalion, a delve into the valley of
delights that is Radio Four (featuring
David Mitchell – can I just say that the
last episode of Peep Show was excel-
lent? Best thing on TV), and a review
of Marguerite by Lucy Harrold (you’ve
been treated to a lot of Lucy recently –
we’ve been working our favourite jour-
nalistic slavey person hard).
Before you get stuck into all that, I’ve
got some hot tips for you. Now, part of
my job as an editor is emailing press of-
fices and PR people to beg for free tick-
ets and pretty pictures. Some are more
helpful than others, and sometimes
they get a bit overexcited and pelt us
with information about all the obscure
events they’re promoting. Mostly we
hit the delete button, but this week I’ve
received news of two potentially nifty
events I think you might be interested
in.
Firstly: Dirty Dancing. Film from the
eternal genre that is “boy meets girl,
boy and girl get caught up in gritty is-
sues, but gritty issues are resolved by
having a bit of a dance”. But it’s also a
West End musical! To honour the fa-
mous line from the film “I carried a
watermelon??”, the first 20 people who
turn up with a watermelon at the Ald-
wych Theatre at 10am on August 4th
will win top notch tickets to see the
show that night. Do you know what
August 4th is? National Watermelon
Day. No, I’m not making this up.
Secondly: MEDICS, LOOK HERE.
In the next few weeks I’ll be treating
you to a review of the Hunterian Mu-
seum at the Royal College of Surgeons
(aka Museum of Medical Oddities
in Jars). But in case you can’t wait for
that, they’ve got a fancy lecture com-
ing up on 12th June at 7pm. The title
is “Anatomical dissection: is it still rel-
evant to surgical training?”. Tickets are
apparently free to all medical students
(you might want to book though – go
look at their nice website for details),
and just think of all the flashy surgeons
you could meet! A prime opportunity
for some networking, I reckon.
Don’t say I don’t keep you informed.
Remember, there are always dozens of
other exciting artistic things happen-
ing in London, and we can send you
for free (all we ask in return is a few
words…). Say hello via arts.felix@im-
perial.ac.uk.
Moral of story: sex with
Nazis never works out well
Lucy Harrold goes to see a brand new musical with everything – sex, Nazis, Jewish
musicians and good, old, French sauciness. But has it all been done before?
M
arguerite, with music
by Michel Legrand
and book by Boublil
andSchönberg(ofLes
Mis and Miss Saigon
fame), has just opened at the Theatre
Royal Haymarket, The Theatre Royal
Haymarket looks huge and impressive
from the outside but it’s tiny from the
inside hence you’ll need to get further
back seats than you usually would.
What’s the bonus of this? Cheaper
tickets!! The theatre also boasts gallery
seats, the only theatre in the West End
still to do so, at a bargainalicious £25.
Margeurite is the latest in a long se-
ries of artistic pieces to based on Alex-
andre Dumas’ La Dame aux Camélias,
a supposedly autobiographical piece
about his love affair with Rose Alphon-
sine Plessis (later renaming herself
Marie Du Plessis). Du Plessis was a no-
torious seductress, mistress and pos-
sible whore in mid-nineteenth century
France. She eventually settled with an
eighty year-old Russian diplomat only
to have an affair behind his back with
the penniless writer Dumas. She died
of tuberculosis aged 23, impoverished
and alone. Hmm… that story sounds
familiar. Why it’s just Moulin Rouge…
oh, and of course Verdi’s opera La Tra-
viata, the 1936 film Camille and Mar-
got Fonteyn vehicle Marguerite and
Armand.
This version is set in the occupied
France of World War II, amongst the
upper classes who see the war as a big
inconvenience- having to hold one’s
dinner party in the cellar and finishing
before curfew. Just like Moulin Rouge,
Margeurite starts at the end of the
story. We are addressed by a solemn
chorus telling the audience to “Come
One, Come All” and hear the tale of
Marguerite as the negligee-clad girl is
battered and dragged around the stage.
This made for a promising start as I’m
a fan of the Baz Luhrmann-style of re-
versed story telling. I also like deep,
gritty musicals; which this looked like
it would be, considering the subject
matter. I was wrong.
Half of the first act is situated at
Marguerite’s fortieth birthday party at
Begoetterung IX, acylic on paper (1979)
Don’t play with Nazis, children. Particularly if you’re planning to fall in love with a Jewish musician later
her lavish house owned and paid for
by Otto, Marguerite’s rich Nazi hus-
band from whom she gets whatever
she wants, be it new clothes or petrol
tokens for her friends. During this a
Marguerite is another one of those musicals full of raunch and sex. We get a lot of that in the arts pages. Not that we’re complaining

