arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
13
Friday 30 May 2008 felix
Arts
bomb goes off, leading to an extreme
case of love at first sight as Marguerite
falls for Armand, a penniless musician
(hmm, familiar?!). The rest of the first
half is spent with the two lovers pin-
ing over each other. The introduction
of a subplot adds a welcome break; also
in Armand’s jazz band are his sister
Annette and her Jewish lover Lucien,
who get caught up in a resistance ring
whilst Lucien is trying to leave for the
Independent South of France. I felt
this storyline was much worthier and
the chemistry more genuine than the
Marguerite and Armand story, which
seemed fleeting and meaningless.
The Annette/Lucien storyline de-
veloped further in the second act with
Annette being taken and tortured by
the Gestapo, but somehow managing
to escape thanks to Marguerite’s ma-
nipulation of Otto. Here the storyline
just seems to stop, with Annette and
Lucien only appearing at the end for
their bows. I really wished this sto-
ryline had been developed further as it
was a glimpse of what the show could
have been. So, back to the main plot.
Marguerite spends the second act do-
ing just what she did in the first act,
falling in and out of love with Armand
and Otto and eventually being forced
to dump Armand in exchange for his
family not being hurt. This scene was
done much better in Moulin Rouge
with the heartbreaking ‘Tango de Rox-
anne’ and its ensuing scenes. Then
suddenly the atmosphere changes with
the finale reverting back to a chilling
reprise of “Come One, Come All” com-
plete with more beating up, removal
of clothes and cutting of Marguerite’s
hair, making for a harrowing finale. I
left the theatre feeling satisfied… until
about the tube journey home, when I
realised I was satisfied by only half-an
-hour of a two hour show.
The best thing about Marguerite was
Michel Lagrand’s spellbinding music.
But the mixture was not quite right;
there were too many love songs and
You can’t tell in this picture, but they’re doing that up against a piano. Wouldn’t that hurt? In case you wondered, that young man all over
Marguerite is Armand the nice young Jewish musician who steals her heart. He’s played by Julien Ovenden
only one exposition setting song (“Day
by Day”), although this was cleverly
split into four parts to move the plot
along at particularly slow points. For
me, stand-out songs were “Intoxica-
tion”- a strong, well-executed con-
trapuntal number between Margue-
rite, Armand and Otto, “Take Good
Care of Yourself”- the Act One finale
much in the style of “One Day More”,
the Act One finale from Boublil and
Schönberg’s biggest hit, Les Misera-
bles, with overlapping motifs and a
revolving stage (yep, you can’t have a
Boublil and Schoenberg without a re-
volve), And “The Face I See”- the best
of Marguerite’s ‘yearning for love’ type
songs. The set was also magnificent,
with a faded grandeur of marble and
elegant architecture. It was cleverly de-
signed so that the actors could be ter-
ribly lazy and never just walk off stage
– everything was brought on and off
automatically.
Although they gave competent per-
formances, the three leads – Ruthie
Henshall (Marguerite), Julien Oven-
den (Armand) and Alexander Han-
son (Otto) – seemed slightly miscast.
Marguerite is supposed be celebrating
her fortieth birthday yet Henshall ap-
pears much younger and Armand is
the ‘young musician’ roughly twenty
years her junior but seems older. This
made the relationship between the pair
difficult to justify and detracted from
the believability of the story. The sup-
porting cast did well with the material
they had, especially Armand’s friends
Lucien (Simon Thomas), Annette (An-
nalene Beechey) and Pierrot (Matt
Cross) who gave tender, heartbreaking
performances.
The failings of Marguerite lie largely
in its book, which doesn’t stand up to
the sombre setting of Occupied France
and the reputation of the “filles aux bo-
ches” (women who slept with Germans
during the war). The storyline is basic
and shallow, with only the Lucien/An-
nette subplot to satisfy anyone wishing
for a serious musical about the politics
of upper-class France in World War
II. The pacing was also patchy, noth-
ing would happen for a long time and
then suddenly the plot would move at a
tremendous pace. The characters were
underdeveloped caricatures; the Ger-
man is boring and serious whilst the
French are flirty and sexy. This makes
it difficult for the cast to truly shine.
If you want a nice love story that hap-
pens to be set in France in the forties
see Marguerite, if you want a serious
piece about World War II, go see Cab-
aret instead.
Marguerite is on until 1st
November 2008 at Theatre Royal
Haymarket, so you’ve got plenty
of time to go see it!
Here is Marguerite, the star of the show. Played by Ruthie Henshall. Whore or heroine? Watch the show and make your judgement

