14 felix Friday 30 May 2008
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
15
Friday 30 May 2008 felix
Arts
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Arts
Coffee, Cake and Kink
The one and only of its kind in London and nationally: kinky art gallery, shop and café. Even if it were just
a café it would it be worth the visit for its delicious selection of cakes and extensive range of coffees. (And
for those who do not appreciate coffee, they make an excellent pot of tea which is a hard thing to come by
these days). The ground floor of CCK is a shop selling a well chosen array of comics, photography, ficti-
tious and non-fictitious books on many fetishes and other, not so deviant, sexy subjects (all tastes catered
for). The more prudish among you, please do not be put off: if one had no idea CCK was in any way kinky
it would be perfectly possible to visit the café and spend at least the first part of your visit blissfully una-
ware of what the shelves hold! The walls belie this fact, living up to the kinky nature of the establishment
with gorgeous art from a new artist each month; prints of past and present work are available for sale at a
reasonable price, too.
What makes CCK such a delightful place to bring a friend or spend an idle afternoon, are the friendly
owners, unique atmosphere and the ability to read the books while enjoying your cake and coffee without
having to purchase them! Portfolios of previous exhibitions are also put out next to the tables. Another
bonus of CCK is that after 6pm you can bring your own wine (small corkage fee applies). I recommend the
chocolate fudge cake: ridiculously indulgent served up with dollops of fudge sauce and ice cream although
you will not be disappointed by any of the cakes or your visit there.
The Troubadour
“The best eatery West of Big Ben” according to one review of this 50’s coffee house on Old Brompton Road. I
stumbled across this delightful establishment before a play at the neighbouring Finborough theatre, and was drawn
in by its relaxed atmosphere and wooden interior which set it apart from the generic chain restaurants nearby. It
reminded me of something you would find the other side of the Channel, perhaps in France. Indeed, that is from
where the tradition of the Troubadour sprung. Composer and performer of songs, the Troubadours emerged from
11th Century France and sung mainly of chivalry (since extinct) and courtly love. This café opened in 1954 as part
of the second coffee house revolution to hit London. These cafes became places of rebellion, new music and meet-
ing places for groups such as the Black Panthers. Other claims to fame include being the first place where the Pri-
vate Eye was distributed. Not just a café serving delicious food, cocktails and more, the venue has a club downstairs
(where Paul Simon, Jimi Hendrix, Led Zep and Bob Dylan have all jammed away) with events on every night of the
week, an art gallery, a deli and also The Garret: a secret hideaway luxury suite. This is an ideal place to come for a
unique environment with a bit of history thrown in for good measure, too.
Curzon, Soho
The Curzon is a small chain of independent cinemas with branches in Mayfair, Chelsea and Rich-
mond, but the Soho branch is particularly special for its adjoining café and bar. Situated on Shafts-
bury Avenue, the cinema is a blessing for fans of those interesting, ‘limited release’ films directed
by random people and starring unheard-of actors, that are not often shown at standard cinemas.
Those who enjoy foreign films should keep an eye on the listings. Currently on is Argentine film
XXY, black and white cartoon Persepolis, Joy Division and an array of films celebrating the 1968
season. Every Friday at 11.30pm is the ‘Midnight Movies’ bringing the best in “cult classics, trash
beauties and art-house jaw droppers” and this week the film is Skidoo. To enjoy the Curzon prop-
erly it is wise to arrive an hour or so before the film starts to allow time for a drink in the bar or
food in the café upstairs. The food here is predominantly devilishly tempting sweets made by the
bakers Konditor and Cook (utterly genius) but there is also a small array of sandwiches. The Lem-
on Chiffon cake goes down a treat; believe me, although you might want to add an extra ten min-
utes for ‘decision time’! Equally tempting is the large selection of DVDs available for purchase.
Camden Arts Centre, cafe and garden
According to the Evening Standard this is London’s best contemporary art space and, despite my comparative
lack of knowledge on contemporary art spaces, I would have to agree. With three gallery rooms, a reading room
and a drawing room, it is rather small compared to a lot of museums but this only adds to its charm and makes
for a very relaxed and personal experience.
The interior alone is something beautiful to behold. Wooden floorboards, high ceilings, tall windows which let
in a breeze, all make you wish you were rich enough to buy the place and convert it into a private house, com-
plete with extensive personal art collection. Currently on show is a sculptural installation by Claire Barclay and
the exuberant large-scale paintings and etchings by Israeli/Danish artist, Tal R.
What makes this space so special is the café and garden. Set on two levels, the garden provides outside seating
as well as some art of its own in the form of interesting benches and the odd sculpture. It truly is something
different to be in such a quaint and isolated green space in the middle of the city. The café itself serves the best
coffee in north London, according to one source (I am not a coffee fan so can not comment, I am afraid) as well
as cakes (yay), homemade hummus and flowering teas.
The Ritzy
The independent Ritzy cinema is a different kind of cultural offering amid an already cultur-
ally colourful borough. If you are used to seeing the more “down market” side of Brixton, it is
easy to forget where one is once inside the Ritzy and you would be forgiven for thinking you
were back in Soho. The film showings change weekly, unlike larger cinema chains, but the
variety of films on will match an Odeon or Vue. As well as providing for the ‘masses’, the Ritzy
will show limited release films, foreign films and even films that premier at the picture house.
The latest example of this was “H.R. Giger Revealed”, a documentary and 3D animation of
the artist’s work with question and answer session with its director. There is a very intimate
feel about seeing a film here, not dissimilar to the feeling one gets when seeing a play at the
theatre: feeling as if we are taking part in a unique experience. The Ritzy bar allows you to
take alcohol and soft drinks into your film and upstairs is a very pleasant café selling a glori-
ously smelling array of healthy (and not so healthy!) snack and light meals. Live music is put
on at the cinema bar, too, and on Friday 30 May the cinema is celebrating the advent of Sex
and the City to British screens with Cosmopolitans in the bar and guests dressing up as their
favourite character.
My Village
Although My Village is “just” an organic café/shop, its proximity to Camden Town in all its ec-
lectic glory warrants it a place in this week’s tube map. Quite a contrast to the rest of Camden in
atmosphere, this wonderful organic haven sells delicious cakes, freshly prepared cold food as well as
making amazing juices and the best hot chocolate you will taste (this coming from a hot chocolate
snob!). It is owned by two Kurdish brothers who clearly love and take great pride in their job and
this is evident by the warm welcome you will receive every time you drop by: a breath of fresh air
when you are lucky to get a smile from a nameless barista in Starbucks. The décor is also absolutely
beautiful. Designed by one of the brothers himself, the wooden interior resembles Moroccan tea
room fused with French farmhouse and tables are available outside if one feels the urge to watch the
ebb and flow of interesting folk passing through Chalk Farm Road. The perfect oasis to refuel mid or
post-shopping and to escape the market dust.
Pulkra
Pulkra is the height of health and before you shudder at the thought of dry Ryvita and oil-free salad, take a look at what
Pulkra offers. A clean and airy feel will welcome you and your stomach will growl when beholding the array of freshly pre-
pared home-made foods out on display. Pulkra is also a yoga studio, feeding your mind and soul as well as your body, and
its location on Fulham Road is perfect for those at Imperial wanting an escape from college life or Ethos, or somewhere
which offers a huge number of daily classes to choose from.
Being Italian run, it is therefore no surprise that the quality of the food and the delicious home-made gelato and sorbets
are magnificent. They are all made the “artisan way” with the finest ingredients, fresh whole milk and unrefined sugar.
The sorbets are completely free of dairy, great news for the lactose intolerant or anyone watching their figures with the
swimsuit season fast approaching, or for anyone who just loves good food such as myself. Self-confessed cake junkie, I
was definitely not let down by their cakes which are all homemade and also wheat free, although wheat tolerant persons
should not be put off by that fact. Pulkra in the Park is another branch on Eel Brook Common (a short walk from Fulham
Broadway), which is quieter and allows you to enjoy your food on the grass, in the sunshine (fingers crossed).
Written by Caz Knight, designed by Rosie Grayburn
The Great Culture Crawl
Chapter Eleven – Not your average cafés...

