The plot of the series revolves around
the character Pip Bin and his various
friends and relatives, including the evil
Mr. Gently Benevolent, brought back
from the dead in a Frankenstein-style
manner, and played by Anthony Head
(the Prime Minister in Little Britain
and the clever one out of Buffy the
Vampire Slayer). A favourite character
of mine was Harry Biscuit, son of the
inventor of the biscuit and apparently a
parody Herbert Pocket of Great Expec-
tations. His actions included being too
preoccupied by having missed lunch to
remember to look for his kidnapped
wife and saving the day by eating his
way out of a train tunnel made of food-
truly a man after my own pie-loving
heart.
As a first experience of being part
of the audience of a show, I was smit-
ten. Unfortunately, my fantasy route
to stardom was crushed as it seems
about half of the small audience had
my idea of ‘use-an-individual-laugh-
to-get-heard-on-the-radio’, with many
chortles, cackles and whoops being
heard. Or maybe that’s just what Ra-
dio 4 listeners sound like, who knows?
Metaphors using pots of brewing tea,
incidents with horses and balloons
and jokes about teenage boys being
rendered blind by the sight of a full-
grown woman added to the arche-
typically British style of comedy. The
balance between slapstick and dry wit
reminded me a bit of Blackadder, and
thanks to this brilliant show I am now
officially a Radio 4 convert (especially
the comedy bits, although I did listen
to half of The Archers the other night),
and proud.
Sian saw part of Series Two of
Bleak Expectations, recorded on
18th May. This means it should be
coming out of your radio box very
soon, so listen out for it!
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
16 Friday 30 May 2008
felix
Arts
Radio Four treats us to “Charles
Dickens after too much gin”
Sian Williams heads over to the Beeb to witness the recording of a new Dickensian radio comedy
H
aving never actually
voluntarily listened to
Radio 4, I wasn’t sure
what to expect when
a friend offered me a
free ticket to be part of the audience
for one of their comedy series. Luck-
ily, Bleak Expectations, described by
the BBC as “A Victorian Epic of evil
un-dead guardians, very rotten bor-
oughs and a railway built of beef and
pastry, in the style of Charles Dickens
after too much gin,” definitely hit the
funny-spot.
First of all, I feel I have to say that
watching a radio show being recorded
is a bit weird. Warm-up sessions (for
the audience, not the cast), re-takes
and a little green light going on when-
ever someone was supposed to speak
definitely set the whole ex-
perience apart from a usual trip to the
theatre. Getting into the Radio 4 thea-
tre at the BBC Broadcasting House is a
bit like getting through security at an
airport; we were even ushered into a
waiting area before being shown to our
seats. Much to my friends and my de-
light “That Guy Off The Peep Show”,
David Mitchell, was sitting about three
metres away from us, looking slightly
dishevelled and unshaven. Even if the
show had been absolutely rubbish I
would still have been ridiculously smug
about the evening.
My limited knowledge of Dickens
(just the obligatory reading of Great
Expectations in Year 8 and a school
trip to Rochester) meant that I didn’t
get some of the parodies. However
this didn’t interfere with the humour
of the show as the
general gist gets
through to even the
biggest Dickensian
simpleton like me.
Department of Clinical Neuroscience.
We are looking for a talented and enthusiastic computer
programmer with experience in LabVIEW to work on a
project modelling neural systems. We will use be using the
new 3D capabilities of LabVIEW to provide a graphical output
to a computational neural network of eye movement.
The contract will be for 6 months, starting in June. The hours
are flexible and the work can be done both in our lab at
Charing Cross Hospital and at home. This would suit a
student looking to supplement their income.
Part-time programming opportunity.
For more information or to apply for the position,
please write to Stephen Hicks < s.hicks@imperial.ac.uk >
Please provide a description of any relevant programming
experiences. Experienceinneuralnetworkswouldbeanadvantage.
Ol’ Charlie, back in his prime before he was, y’know, dead
In case you didn’t get the title, Bleak House + Great Expectations...
Anthony Head stars as “the evil Mr Gently Benevolent”

