Thanks for all the songs I’m winnin’
Gene splicing music and video-games finally comes up with the goods, as Michael Cook discovers
M
usic has never been
a huge part of my
life. Since the age of
around seventeen,
I’ve had bands that
I like and listen to, yes. But someone
who genuinely loves music – and there
are plenty at any university – get a
much more complex kick from it that
I can never understand.
Now, this may make you a bit suspi-
cious of my writing for this section – I
did once own an Avril Lavigne album
– and if you’re one of the people who
go into anaphylactic shock upon con-
tact with a video-game then this article
may be fatal. However, I need to do it,
because if music is your religion then
Audiosurf could well become your vir-
tual rosary beads.
Let’s get straight down to it – Au-
diosurf is a game about Music. It’s not
about guns, or strategy, no-one ever
uses the word “grind” when discussing
it, and there are no Americans unless
you listen to Neil Diamond a lot. The
game is here to make your music inter-
active, and that’s exactly what it does.
Give Audiosurf a piece of audio
– usually music – and it’ll number
crunch the noise into a three-dimen-
sional racetrack that rises, twists and
curls in time with the music. You can
then race along the track in a variety
of modes, grabbing colours blocks that
appear in time with the music.
If it sounds basic, then that’s because
it is. Audiosurf is just five pounds or
thereabouts, and there is nearly zero
included content – everything comes
from the files already on your hard
drive. But describing it doesn’t do
justice to just how clever the number
crunching actually is.
Pop on some rock or pop and the gui-
tar thrashing causes huge downward
surges in the track, with flurries of
high-scoring reds shooting up towards
you. Stick on some heavy-bass music
and the track bounds up and down in
time with the line, tossing groups of
colours as each instrument kicks in.
Of course, the algorithm isn’t per-
fect and so the best results come from
something with noise, rhythm, or a bit
of variety in its instruments. My cur-
rent love, The Divine Comedy, reacts
well to Audiosurf in most places, but
the mournful piano of Regina Spektor
is too tame to produce anything worth
playing in most cases.
Everyone has something playable,
though, and what’s really fun about Au-
diosurf is this social aspect. You’ll spend
lots of time telling people the really
good songs you’ve raced on, and thanks
to recent updates it even scrobbles the
tracks you ride to Last. FM too.
Most important, however, are the
scoreboards. Each track has its own
ranking system on the Audiosurf serv-
ers, and as you play your high scores
are uploaded to compete against other
players nationally, internationally, and
just amongst your friends. It’s just as
much fun to discover you’re the only
person to have ever played a song
(made obvious by being the only one
on the scoreboard) as it is to top out
a high scoreboard for your favourite
song. It’ll even email you to tell you
when friends beat you, or when you’re
knocked off of that elusive top spot.
For a measly ten dollars, Audiosurf
is a great piece of kit – barely even a
game. It’s got a visualisation mode
which is great for parties, social bits
and pieces that make it great with
friends, and in general is a unique way
to experience music.
There is one downside – you need
to install another program, Steam, to
play it – but it’s relatively unobtru-
sive nowadays and allows the game
to update itself automatically, which
is handy. Once you’ve played your fa-
vourite album at one in the morning
with the lights off and your best head-
phones on, you’ll never look back. Suck
up those gaming phobias, and get into
the best thing to happen to music since
the mp3.
The Audiosurf Ear Buffet
The Postal Service
Brand New Colony
http://tinyurl.com/62bx4y
Belle And Sebastian
Le Pastie De La Bourgeoisie
http://tinyurl.com/5zw6rw
Steve Ouilmette
Devil Went Down To Georgia
http://tinyurl.com/6e7wtw
J.S. Bach
Toccata And Fugue In D Minor
http://tinyurl.com/5l9qde
music.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Music
Music Editors – Peter Sinclair and Susan Yu
18 felix Friday 30 May 2008

