20 felix Friday 30 May 2008
A girl, here? On the Internet? Then the hour has finally arrived. Prepare the inappropriate comments and overcompensating co-operation!
Lisa and The Masked Balls
T
he difficulty with running
a student paper is that
you don’t always get the
big exclusives. Imagine
my surprise, then, when
we were approached by Rockstar last
week to test drive their latest addition
to the GTA IV franchise.
We obviously leapt at the offer and
have got our first thoughts just over
the page for you to take in, mull over
and reflect upon.
On an unrelated – and possibly more
truthful – note, it looks like the next
love of my gaming life will be severely
delayed this year, as Left 4 Dead seems
destined to not make it onto Steam be-
fore the next Imperial year begins.
However, that’s probably not both-
ering many of you, as 2008 looks to
be a stonking year for gaming. We’ve
still got big hitters like Spore to come,
Metal Gear Solid IV has probably been
post-it-noted by Playstation owners on
everything they own, and some non-
sense about Gears of War is going on
in Winter too. I guess.
Look, Gears of War is fine, it’s just
very brown. Most of my gaming time
these days is spread across Team For-
tress 2 – which is the gaming equiva-
lent of being shotgunned in the face
with Skittles – and Company of He-
roes – which, whilst being brown, also
includes sweary British people in red
berets, and therefore is ten times as
good.
The gaming industry has good years
and bad ones. Sometimes you get a
lot of disappointments and a lacklus-
tre Christmas season. This year is the
opposite – a lot of the key franchises
have come full circle to release again,
and the next-gen consoles have really
found their feet which means people
can actually admit to owning one with-
out sounding like they’ve got too much
money to spend sensibly.
If you didn’t make it to the Games
and Media Event a few weeks ago, you
missed out on some thought-provok-
ing stuff. Some of the talks were so far
away from what we think of as gaming
today that they seemed sci-fi; there was
talk of AI sophisticated enough to read
the player’s mind, or solve problems by
being shown the kind of solution the
player wants.
That makes this year’s release sched-
ule look a bit tamer. We’ve had a few
quantum leaps in recent years – the Wii
revolutionised how we thought about
console interaction, and the other two
key consoles have really pushed the
graphics fidelity. But GaME reminded
me of all the things that gaming doesn’t
really concentrate on any more.
A good year in gaming is one with
more than just a higher polycount.
Keep an eye on STALKER’s prequel,
the latest Total War game, and Spore
for an indication of where the other
side of games are going. Short answer
– impressively far.
Michael Cook would like you introduce you to his lady friend. Have you met?
S
o Lisa, you a girl?”
Okay. You’re completely pre-
pared for this, and it’s per-
fectly okay to lie. All the good
journalists have pretended to
be a woman on the internet at some
point in their lives. It’s culture. It’s how
the world works nowadays. It’s edgy.
“The hell does it matter, exactly?”
Yeah. That’s exactly what a girl would
say in this situation. Well done. That’s
smooth.
For the record, I didn’t do this for
weird kicks. The problem is that I don’t
believe most of what I’m told about
gaming. When I strayed onto the in-
ternet yet again to research a piece on
Pink Gaming, I found so much sensa-
tionalist claptrap being written, that I
decided to see what it was like being a
gaming girl. What follows is my per-
sonal experience only. I could well be
wrong in my conclusions.
The game is Company of Heroes, and
despite hypothesising that the com-
munity would treat ‘LisaFinn’ more
humanely than the testosterone-filled
world of first-person shooters, this ac-
tually proves to be incorrect. Waiting
in the lobby to start an eight-man game
(or rather, a seven-man, one-woman
game, wink-wink), the chat finally
strays towards me, with the line I used
to open the article.
I stare at my response and consider
whether it was as subtle as it sounded
in my head, but they don’t seem to
care.
“ok, ok, cool. but are you?”
There’s a ‘lol’ or two, and then he tells
me he’s joking. And that’s it. That’s the
extent of the abuse. We start the game
up, and within ten minutes they’re
quite rightly abusing me for playing
the game on a computer so ancient it
probably saw action in World War 2
first-hand.
The weird thing is, it’s like this pretty
much everywhere. I concede, someone
added me to their friends list with es-
sentially no interaction whatsoever,
but I put that down to high spirits and
the fact that he was trying to convince
everyone that 9/11 was a plot by the
US Government.
I moved onto the raging man-fest
that is Team Fortress 2, and here my
presence barely registered. I was rub-
bish at the game, was occasionally ridi-
culed for it, and just went on playing.
It got to the point where I forgot I was
using a female pseudonym at all.
I tried more. Gaming chat rooms
– nothing. CounterStrike – nothing.
Failure after failure after failure until
I just gave up. It’s been done so many
times before, those extended features,
confessions of journalists who dove
deep into enemy territory and tricked
dozens before escaping, cover story
intact.
By contrast, all I found was complete
apathy. Either I’d stumbled onto the
Asexual United Clan’s private server,
or the girl gaming story wasn’t what it
was cracked up to be.
I think it’s partly a question of per-
ception – at the end of the day, I’m
not a girl (apologies to my fans), and
so maybe I don’t pick up on the slights
and prejudices as they might. It’s true
that if I asked for a game setting to be
changed, it generally was without ques-
tion. But the story of the oppressed girl
gamers isn’t one of over-the-top help
and assistance. Where were the insults?
The patronising offers of explanation?
The request for ‘pics plz’?
I’d imagine there’s more to the idea of
being a girl in the online arena than can
be gleaned from changing your name
to Lisa for the day. But I think the idea
that gamers are naturally sexist, that
the world of videogames is one that is
dominated by penis-wielding maniacs
and entirely shut off to anyone of the
fairer sex, is something that’s going to
go out of the window along with in-
citement to violence, decline in motor
skills, and a lust for animé boobs.
The only barrier left now is the term
itself – ‘girl gamer’ now conjures up
bizarre images of the gaudy blogs that
treat themselves like revolutionaries
fighting for liberation, or the atrocious
attempts to promote girl gaming as a
sexy occupation.
Once that’s all out of the way we can
get back to the real issues facing gam-
ing – why do some people insist on
using control-groups zero and nine
for anything other than artillery? Now
that’s prejudice I can get behind.
Girl gamers – being taken seriously since the 21st Century. Unless there’s stuff to be sold to guys
Michael Cook
Smooth Operator
games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Games
Games Editors – Azfarul Islam and Sebastian Nordgren

