felix@imperial.ac.uk
Travel
Travel Editors – Ahran Arnold, Nadine Richards and Ammar Waraich
Touching down in the Olympic city
Nadine Richards ventures to the Land of the Rising Sun to battle with angry taxi drivers and her
guidebook. But will she ever find her friend and make it out of the airport alive? Read on to find out...
I
defy anybody to classify Japan
and China as being the same
generic category of Oriental.
Having spent nearly a month
in Japan, my two-hour plane
journey from Osaka left me in an en-
tirely different world of Oriental – or
so it felt, having reached Beijing. I had
decided to take advantage of both Air
China´s free stopover, and the fact that
my close friend was on a University
exchange there, and could thus act as
my personal guide during my five-day
visit. I found, in fact, that five days was
not nearly enough time to come to
grips with this hugely overwhelming
city, but I hope to at least to get a taste
of what’s on offer.
These days, nobody can hear of the
place Beijing without instantly associ-
ating it with the Olympics. Or Tibet.
Or both simultaneously. In a similar
way, nobody can visit Beijing without
becoming aware that the Olympics
are being held there in a matter of
months – and that would include even
the most ignorant child, blind person,
deaf, alcoholic or otherwise incapaci-
tated person. For the kids, there are the
somewhat uncharismatic new Olym-
pic mascots – BeiBei, JingJing, Huan-
huan, YingYing and NiNi. I do like
their names – taking the first syllables
of each, they end up reading Bei Jing
Huan Ying Ni -- Welcome to Beijing. I
would love to see Boris attempt some-
thing similar with the English language
in for London 2010.
Inanattemptto‘Westernise’thecity’s
residents in preparation for the hoards
of people who will descend upon Bei-
jing in August, there are the sounds of
announcements running throughout
the city trying to ´re-educate´ them
and encouraging them to stop the age-
old tradition of spitting in the streets. A
shame really, as the odd game of ´dodge
the spit´ never goes amiss. Then there
are the huge boards which have been
erected on every street corner, with a
glaring electronic countdown being
shown to the precise second. (Having
come back to England, I´ve noted that
these are a particularly popular choice
of background for BBC news present-
ers on anything Olympic related. To
be honest, I realise that´s a rather dull
fact....) For the alcoholics, there is the
new Olympic Cocktail, which I can
22 felix Friday 30 May 2008
ply not seeming to act as a deterrent.
I meekly pulled out my Lonely Planet
and flipped to the Language section,
only to realise that like in most situa-
tions abroad, phrases such as “I need
a mechanic” or even “could you repeat
that please” were not particularly go-
ing to help me out. I like to think he
was giving me a personal tour for the
journey. Upon arriving at my destina-
tion, he refused to hand over my lug-
gage until he had found some English
speakers who could translate – “why
are you going to this station?” and
“why do you want to be driven here?”
The fact that I was meeting my friend
seemed to satisfy him – otherwise, I
assume he would have held my luggage
hostage until I agreed to be driven to
wherever my train was supposed to
take me. Either way, I was then left
tell you nothing about, either because
it was unmemorable or because I had
already had a few too many for it to be
memorable. Not to mention that vast
number of construction sites that are
currently taking over the city, that are
all to be completed before the Olym-
pics, or the fact that my friend on ex-
change with Beijing University informs
me that all her Chinese conversation
classes now centre around... wait for
it... the Olympics.
My first day and first proper encoun-
ter with a true Beijing-ian was the taxi
driver who drove me from the airport
to the station, where I was to meet my
friend. I wasn´t sure if I aggravated him
by having a bad hair day, but he pro-
ceeded to shout at me for the entirety
of the trip in Chinese, with my obvious
lack of understanding of Chinese or re-
with my luggage on the sidewalk, won-
dering how the hell I was supposed to
locate my friend in this mad environ-
ment, where cars were racing past me
as though they were on the M25, and
people were crushing past me on all
sides as though I was at Glastonbury.
Nevertheless, after a painful half hour
of navigating myself with two suitcases
(I hate Japan for being such a shop-
ping mecca) past all the human traffic,
I managed to locate a phone and then
cursed myself a thousand times whilst
waiting for my friend. Never again
would I tell her not to bother skipping
class to greet me at the airport, or even
worse, not bother arranging to meet in
an exact place. It felt similar to a mis-
sion of trying to re-locate someone at
Glastonbury without having a mobile.
The sight of the head that bobbed a
good twenty centimetres above the
rest of the Chinese crowd as I caught
sight of her walking towards me, is one
that remains one of the most beautiful
visions during my trip in Beijing.
The next day, I experienced a whole
other type of beauty. The Summer
Palace was to be my first tourist des-
tination. The UNESCO world heritage
describes it as being an “outstanding
expression of the creative art of Chi-
nese landscape garden design, incor-
porating the works of humankind and
nature in a harmonious whole” which
I´m not fully certain I can decipher,
but I´m certain that the gardens there
were some of the most stunning I had
ever seen, as well as being the largest. It
appeared that the crowds had decided
to visit en masse at the same time as
me, but I quickly adjusted to the fact
that in Beijing, hoardes of tourists were
the norm, with there being probably at
least ten times as many as I was used
to in a particular attraction. Consider-
ing its huge population and the vast
amount of culture to be seen within
China, this isn´t actually surprising.
Having said this, I found that it was
difficult for anything to retract from its
beauty. The walk to the hill on which
The Summer Palace itself stands is in-
credibly rewarding. After climbing the
never-ending steps with ornamental
detail rivalling that within the Vatican,
you’re then greeted with a breathtak-
ing view across the vast Lake Kunming.
Suddenly, the rest of the world was for-
gotten and it left me imagining myself
being transported back to the time of
Empress Cixi and the 19th century.
...and more on Beijing to come soon.
Biazarrely enough, I find myself writ-
ing from an internet cafe in Buenos
Aires, with my time about to cut off at
the internet cafe. So apologies for the
abrupt ending.
One of the entrances to the Summer Palace in Beijing. The climb to the top is not to be taken lightly
The traffic in Beijing stretches as far as the eye can see Friendlies! China’s cuddly Olympic mascots

