sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
26 Friday 30 May 2008
felix
Sport
The BUSA 500m Sprints, held at Key-
nes Country Park, Cotswold Water
Park on Sunday April 12th was very
successful for the Imperial College
Boat Club, winning 33 gold medals,
19 silver and 4 bronze. These sprints,
however, were a mere warm-up for the
more serious 2,000m BUSA University
Championships. Over forty Universi-
ties from across the UK descended on
Strathclyde in Glasgow over the Bank
Holiday weekend from May 3rd - 5th.
Sport Imperial acknowledged their
heavy reliance on ICBC to account
for the lion’s share of Imperial’s BUSA
points and with this in mind, Sport Im-
perial provided generous funding for
all squads to make the journey north to
Scotland during the busy exam period.
Organisation of entry details, flights,
hotels and boat-loading seemed an
epic and never-ending chore, taking
their toll on Head Coach Steve Trap-
more in the lead up to the competition.
With entrants in 27 different catego-
ries, flights and accommodation were
arranged to suit each individual in
order to get students back to London
for exams as quickly as possible. Most
rowers were racing on Saturday and
had flights booked for Friday night.
Others would join us later depending
on their event and race schedule.
After a disappointing last minute
pull-out from the WJ4+ entry due to
a double-entry regulation, the novice
women had no race scheduled until
Sunday. This left Saturday open for a
practice session on the lake and a per-
fectly good excuse to purchase some
rosé at the Duty Free. After a short
flight to Glasgow International Airport
from Heathrow and an annoyingly
longer wait for our bags, we were met
by Steve and Nigel Atkins. Two mini
buses were hired and those instruct-
ed to bring licenses stepped forward
while the rest of us piled around the
buses. Then John Dick informed us he
had never driven in the UK before, or
used manual drive. The queue for his
bus made a swift bee-line for the other
one. ICBC pensioners Claire Water-
worth and Clarice Chung were eligible
for insurance and accepted the daunt-
ing task of driving the squads around
for the weekend.
The Menzies hotel in Glasgow City
and the Alona hotel adjacent to the
racing grounds in Motherwell would
be our home for the next few days. The
four star accommodation courtesy of
Sport Imperial was greatly appreciated
allowing squads a decent night’s sleep
and a chance for revision. It was late
on Friday when we arrived, slowed by
the argumentative gear box in Clarice’s
bus, so it was bed early for racing crews
the next day.
Keen for our free buffet breakfast,
Clarice and I were prompt in dressing
and making our way into the dining
room for 8 am before our scheduled
departure for the park at 9:15. It was
another forty-five minutes before any-
one else appeared. Clarice was weigh-
ing in for lightweight on Sunday so I
generously picked up the calorie slack
on her behalf. Alex McLaren initiated a
mass food smuggle and crew members
waddled out of the breakfast room
with bananas and yoghurts stuffed into
all available orifices. Various strate-
gies were tried with newspaper folding
proving a popular choice. While most
of us attempted some form of subtlety
Tom Sutherland requested more bread
from the waiter to prepare his sand-
wiches for later. With time pressing on
we headed for the bus leaving a trail of
Nutella packets and filo pastry behind
us; well foddered for the first day of
competitive racing.
A somewhat disappointing open-
ing day for Imperial on Saturday with
the MC2x, MCL2-, MC4+, MC4- un-
able to make it into the finals, whilst
the MJ2x came fourth in a straight fi-
nal. The MN8+ were more successful
cruising past the first heat, making it
past a tougher semi-final only to lose
out on a medal position by one place in
the final. Ending the day on a positive
note and setting the standard for the
rest of the crews, the WC4+ composed
of Jenny Forrester at stroke, Erica
Thompson at 3, Claire Waterworth at
2, Clarice Chung at bow and coxed by
Connie Pidoux dominated their heats
resulting in gold in the final race.
At the end of a tiring opening day the
WC4+ medals were collected and we
trundled back to the bus and headed
to the hotel. Clarice followed Steve’s
questionable navigational skills and we
eventually got back on the right route.
Clarice’s driving skills and quick reac-
tions were put to the test when a car
veered across our lane in front of the
bus to take a left turn off the rounda-
bout. Minor damaged resulted, mostly
to the ego of the other driver.
Safely back at the hotel we showered
and met in the lobby. With lightweight
weigh-in now less than 24 hours away,
Clarice heroically opted for a run in-
stead of dinner. The rest of us took
our grumbling stomachs into the city
of Glasgow for some hot, Italian food.
Service was slow with Jenny Forrester
seconds from releasing the twins and
requesting faster service. Soon the
plates of steaming pasta and loaded
pizzas came out and all hungry rowers
were fed.
The evening was rounded off with
a quick trip to the local Tesco and we
stocked up on Nutri-grain bars, Frostie
cereal bars, bananas and malt loaves.
I settled on multiple packets of fruit
gums; the fuel of athletes.
It was an early start the next morn-
ing; too early to avail of the buffet
breakfast so we decided to order room
service. With an admittedly long re-
quest list Anna was cut-off in mid
flow. Refusing to forego the toast and
jam she redialled and responded to the
good morning message with ‘That’s
not all!’ Soon our bowls of corn flakes,
croissants and bananas arrived and we
packed up and headed down to the bus
for another day’s racing.
The weather had been predominant-
ly dry but a strong wind caused choppy
water and bad racing conditions on day
two. Sunday was a big day for the nov-
ice women racing in the WN4+ com-
posed of stroke siders Selina Graham
and Mackenzie Clavin while Anna
and I took bow side. Having only one
race to compete in over the weekend,
we had our eyes firmly fixed on gold.
There were 47 boats in our category
and we had to compete in a time trial
to weed out the deadwood before the
heats could begin.
Time trials were occurring all morn-
ing for several of the races and Steve
had been informed that we could do
our trial at any time within the allotted
period. Eager to race we headed out in
first only to be told by the marshall at
the start line that all men’s boats had to
race before a women’s boat could start.
This meant sitting for a good forty five
minutes in the cold as the men’s crews’
paddled past us. Steve officially slapped
the marshall with his gold medal and
they consequently apologised for the
misinformation.
Despite the long wait we powered
through the time trial. Our heats were
spaced throughout the day and we fell
into a pattern of eat, race, eat, sleep,
eat, race which proved a successful for-
IC Boat Club bring home the bacon at BUSA
Christina Duffy
mula. The windy conditions exposed
the less-experienced crews unable to
steer and maintain their boats in the
correct lanes. Cox Nicola Quinn Pyatt
strategically coxed us into position and
kept our focus in the boat. Our tide-
way training stood us in good stead for
the rough conditions and we made up
most water in these patches. We domi-
nated the first heat with similar results
for the semi-final. The final was closer
but we edged into the lead from the off
and maintained this position, breaking
away from the pack in our final push
for home. My first rowing medal… so
proud! Weigh-in for lightweights was
in the afternoon and Clarice was leav-
ing nothing to chance spending much
of the day wrapped in bin liners, multi-
ple layers of lycra and a woolly hat for
sweat runs up and down the lakeside.
Others lay about the shore skimming
stones and terrorising local dogs.
The MN4+ of John Dick at stroke,
Adam Mayall, Andy Forester and
Michael Zammit coxed by Connie also
claimed gold in an exciting final race.
Further victory ensued for the ML4x of
Ben Newland, Ole Tietz, Andrew Gor-
don and Oli Mahony defeating Dur-
ham by over four seconds. However
Durham was the thorn in Imperial’s
side taking gold from silver medallists
Richard Winchester and Will McFar-
land in the MJ-2 and Jenny Forrester
and Erica Thompson in the WC2-.
Durham again narrowly claimed gold
over Imperial’s WLC4x entry of Claire
Waterworth, Rachael Davies, Clarice
Chung and Cynthia Mynhardt by a
mere 0.59ths of a second. Oli Mahony
collected his second medal of the day
coming third in the CL1x final.
The sun broke out for the final day’s
racing for Monday and further glory
was in store for remaining Imperial
crews. Gold medals were awarded to
Erica Thompson in the WN1x category
and Andrew Gordon and Ole Tietz for
their performance in the ML2x. Silver
went to Ben Newland, Richard Win-
chester, Sam Lindsay and Will McFar-
land in the MJ4x, whilst bronze medals
were taken home by Rachael Davies
and Claire Waterworth in the WL2x
and by Jenny Forrester in the WC1x.
Overall Imperial came third out of
42 universities with an impressive 573
points, behind Durham and Newcastle
in the Victor Ludurum Trophy. Impe-
rial was only beaten through the sheer
volume of entrants by the other com-
petitors. ICBC also qualified 4 boats for
the European Universities Champion-
ships in Zagreb this summer. This was
an incredible performance by all crews
and shows the dedication ICBC crews
and coaches put into training. Well
done to all involved and a big thanks to
Sport Imperial for their support.
Richard Winchester showing off his winning pose Andrew Gordon and Ole Tietz warm-up for the ML2x race
Erica Thompson and Jenny Forrester flex for the camera
“33 golds, 19
silvers and 4
bronze medals at
BUSA sprints”
“Minor damage
resulted, mostly
to the ego of the
other driver”

