felix sport Send in your sport reports:
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
High resolution photos only
BUSA Championships
Imperial College Boat Club report on their exploits at BUSA, see page 26
Two weekends ago the Imperial Col-
lege Boat Club Senior Women’s squad
packed up their lycra and hopped
on the Eurostar to Ghent. Ghent is a
beautiful city in Belgium, boasting all
the usual Belgian delights of waffles,
ice cream and fine chocolates, as well
as a multitude of scantily clad women
prancing around in sand. A beach vol-
leyball tournament happened to be
taking place in the centre of town that
weekend - shame our Men’s squad was
vomiting into its shoes in Poland at the
time and hence not there to enjoy the
toned thighs of Belgium’s finest.
We made the trip across the Channel
to compete in the International Belgian
Championships and Ghent Interna-
tional Regatta, both of which are elite
regattas attracting crews from across
Europe and even some from further
a field. The competition was stiff and
with back-to-back races on both days,
our crews had to work extremely hard
but the squad performed well across
the board competing in singles, pairs,
quads and an eight.
Racing kicked off bright and early
with the first races coming down the
course before the clock struck eight.
We had a mixed bag of results across
the weekend, with our eight missing
out on the final by a tenth of a sec-
ond. Our greatest triumph, however,
was achieved by one of our quads who
won their division on Saturday, fight-
ing off strong opposition to attain the
gold medal, earning themselves, and
Imperial, international recognition as
a high performance club. All our boats
held strong races against exceptional
crews, but four was obviously the lucky
number for the weekend, as another
of the quads finished in bronze posi-
tion on the Sunday, losing by a hair’s
breadth to two crews with substantial
international experience after a tense
initial heat involving a snapped foot-
plate and a near disqualification.
All in all a highly successful weekend
with some fantastic racing, beautiful
sunshine and much amusement at the
expense of the commentator’s thick
Flemish accent! We hope to repeat this
success at other regattas across the
country over the coming weeks, cul-
minating in our main goal, the Henley
Women’s Regatta at the end of June.
Boat Club’s Senior women’s squad enjoy
waffles, ice-cream, chocolate and sweet victory
Helen Waller
Mun Kee keeps a close eye on the boats

