news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
3
Friday 30 May 2008 felix
News
Imperial College to support Council Tax
exemption for writing-up PhD students
Q: Should I stay or should I go now?
A: The choice is yours. After one year of NUS membership, the Union has called for another referendum
Tom Roberts
Editor-in-Chief
Last week, Imperial College Union
(ICU) confirmed that a referendum
on NUS (National Union of Students)
membership will take place at the end
of this term. The decision was con-
firmed after ICU Council voted almost
unanimously for the referendum, with
24 committee members voting yes,
one voting no, and the final person
abstaining.
The referendum has been pencilled
in for the last two weeks of term, tak-
ing place from 17th to 23rd June. The
entire student body is eligible to vote
and the question posed to them will be:
“Should Imperial College Union disaf-
fliate from the NUS?” to which they
must vote ‘yes’ or ‘no’.
The last referendum was called only
18 months ago. At that time students
were asked to consider if the Union
should join the NUS or not. A slight
majority of 53% favoured rejoining,
leading to ICU reaffiliating for the
fourth time in its long and protracted
history with the NUS. But after a year of
NUS membership fraught with farcical
conferences and few tangible benefits
to the main student populace, ICU has
decided that spending £44,000 per year
on membership is a waste of money.
Calls for a referendum began cir-
culating soon after April’s NUS An-
nual Conference 2008. Major reforms
that the NUS had been striving for
throughout this academic year were
met with even fiercer opposition at
the conference than before, leading to
their rejection, much to ICU’s distress.
Ultimately, the prospect of undergo-
ing another year of fruitless attempts
at reformation has triggered this year’s
referendum. The Union is now press-
ing to leave the NUS before the end of
term, otherwise it will have to shell out
another £44,000 for a further year of
affiliation.
ICU has been criticised for its tim-
ing of the referendum by last year’s
President, John Collins, who told Felix
that although he understands the “ra-
tionale” behind the review, he doesn’t
“think the timing of the vote is particu-
larly fair.”
Indeed, the timing of the voting pe-
riod is key to this year’s referendum.
15% of the student body (approxi-
mately 1,800) is required to vote for
the referendum to be valid, but with
many students still undergoing exams,
there are fears within the Union that
the minimum number of voters might
not be obtained, regardless of the over-
all result. Mr Collins is quick to point
this out stating that: “Voter turnout
in the summer term has historically
been very poor so I would be surprised
Left, current ICU President, Steve Brown gives a speech during April’s NUS Annual Conference 2008. With 25 more votes in favour of some ma-
jor reformations, ICU probably wouldn’t be calling for a referendum. Right, the front cover of Felix when the result of last year’s referendum was
announced. John Collins (second from left) “loses his cool” as Steve Brown (far right) “expresses his dissatisfaction.” My, how it’s all changed...
if more than a few hundred students
vote.”
To put the situation in context, 1,800
votes is on a par with the very high
turnout in last term’s Sabbatical elec-
tions, however, the target was easily
surpassed in the previous NUS refer-
endum during Autumn 2006 when
over 4,000 students voted.
This year’s Sabbatical Officers have
a drastically different stance on the
NUS compared to their counterparts
of last year. Deputy President Educa-
tion & Welfare (DPEW), Kirsty Patter-
son, will be fronting the disaffiliation
campaign, aided by current President,
Steve Brown, who led last year’s anti-
NUS campaign and is famed for slating
the institution as a “comedy sideshow.”
Both of their predecessors led the pro-
NUS party to victory during the last
referendum, however, this year’s team
is still in the embryonic stages of devel-
opment; the pro-NUS group has only
just recently appointed a campaign
leader and is currently in the process
of expanding its team.
Once again, Felix will be teaming-up
with Imperial College news website
Live! (live.cgcu.net) over the coming
weeks to bring you discussion about
the NUS, what it provides students
with, and arguments for and against
disafilliation from both campaign
teams. In issue 1,407, we will be col-
lating everyone’s views in time for the
start of voting.
Felix reiterates what it said last year
on the subject of the NUS: please think
carefully about the ramifications that
disaffiliation may have upon the Union
before voting in June, and that such a
decision should not be made lightly.
The pro-NUS team is sorely
lacking in members. If you want
to join their campaign team, or
help with the NUS disaffiliation
group, get in contact with the
referendum’s Returning Officer,
Alistair Cott, on dpcs@imperial.
ac.uk.
If you want your views on the
NUS to be published in Felix and
on Live! contact comment.felix@
imperial.ac.uk or editor@cgcu.net
respectively.
numbers, this means more than
4,000 students voted.
Though many around the Union
had been predicting a landslide ei-
ther way, the final result came very
close, with only 261 votes separat-
ing the two camps.
A th lt d
Students say yes to NUS
Imperial College Union will affiliate
to the National Union of Students
(NUS), pending approval by the
NUS conference, after the refer-
d lt d l t
The student newspaper
of Imperial College
No. 1,365 • Friday •
24 November 2006 •
felixonline.co.uk
felix
felix
Andy Sykes
Editor-in-chief
John Collins, Union President,
said he was “delighted [with] what
has become the largest union
democratic exercise ever to take
place at Imperial”. Collins also had
words of praise for both camps: “I
would like to thank both Alex Guite
d J F k f i i b il
followers in the national student
movement. We ran a clean and
positive campaign, over the last
two weeks we’ve put up hundreds
of posters and spoken to thousands
of students. Thanks to all those who
voted yes to discounts and yes to a
t I i l C ll U i
our students have spoken, so our
sabbatical officers must work hard
to get value for money from the
NUS and push for the reform they
have agreed it needs.”
The Union has never affiliated to
the NUS for more than 12 months
t ti ith ffili ti ti
Left to right: Jon Matthews (Returning Officer) announces the result; John Collins (Union President and Yes supporter) loses his cool; Gemma Tumelty (NUS President) letting
those back at NUS HQ know the result; Alex Guite (leader of the Yes campaign) embraces Ms Tumelty; and Stephen Brown, vocal No campaigner, expresses his dissatisfaction
ELIZABETH HYDE – LIVE.CGCU.NET
Tom Roberts
Editor-in-Chief
Imperial College has said that it will
“support” the notion that PhD students
should be exempt from paying Coun-
cil Tax once they enter the writing-up
phase of their doctorate. The approval
came this week during a presentation
to College’s Strategic Education Com-
mittee (SEC) made by Officers from
the Union.
Currently, Imperial’s PhD students
are defined as ‘full-time’ for the first
three years of their doctorate. Most
students are then granted ‘writing-up’
status for six months whilst they com-
plete their thesis; however, they lose
various privileges such as access to
the library, swipe card access around
campus and full-time status. The lat-
ter means they are also required to pay
Council Tax.
The situation varies throughout the
country, with different rules for stu-
dents depending on the institution they
attend. Ultimately, the privileges given
to a writing-up student are decided
by their university, and over the com-
ing months Imperial’s academic staff
will be revising their own criteria. It’s
currently unclear the extent to which
writing-up postgraduates at Imperial
will be classed as full-time students,
since some of the existing restrictions
placed upon them will likely remain.
However, those students can expect
to be exempt from paying Council Tax
when the classification of a writing-up
student is eventually redefined and put
into effect.
“We now have the committee’s [SEC]
support,” commented Imperial College
Union President, Steve Brown, “and
hopefully the revisions will be in place
for the next academic year.”
Seemingly, the revisions are very
unlikely to help students, such as Mat-
thew Yong (issue 1,404), who are cur-
rently battling with their local Coun-
cils over unpaid Council Tax. If Mr
Yong was declared a full-time student
during his writing-up period, it would
potentially pave the way for numerous
other ex-postgraduates to claim Coun-
cil Tax exemption for the duration of
their writing-up phases.
College will revise its definition of a writing-up student
Poorest students restricted
to six hours work per week?
Tom Roberts
Editor-in-Chief
Students who receive a bursary should
be working no longer than six hours
per week, that’s according to regula-
tions imposed by College’s Payroll de-
partment. The restriction has been in
place for many years now, though it was
seemingly dormant.
Recently, however, College has begun
to impose the regulations more strin-
gently; specifically when Payroll told
Deputy President Finance & Services
(DPFS), Chris Larvin, that the Union
shouldn’t be paying numerous mem-
bers of their casual staff (ie: bar staff and
stewards) who are exceeding the limit.
Study Support Bursaries are sums
of money awarded to Home students
every year, and the amount depends on
their family’s income. They range from
£50 to £3,000, and are intending to
cover “maintenance and study related
costs.”
The exact reason why the six hour
working restriction exists is “uncertain”
according to Mr Larvin, which raises
the question of why they are even nec-
essary in the first place.
Bursaries are intended to be given to
the poorest undergraduates, and de-
spite student loans being inflated for
those based in London, many students
still find it very difficult to live off just
their loan and bursary. Potentially, this
leaves students affected by the six hour
working limit left in a quandary where
they can’t afford not to work, but if they
do, they will be violating the Bursary
contact.
It’s believed that many students are
unknowingly breaching this rule, how-
ever, as long as they are working fewer
than 48 hours per week, they are not
breaking the law.
There are further complications when
students who do not receive a bursary
are involved, since they can work in ex-
cess of 20 hours per week, depending
on visa requirements; something Mr
Larvin feels is a “double standard” in
terms of students’ welfare.
Presently, the Deputy President Edu-
cation & Welfare, Kirsty Patterson, is
in communication with College staff
and hopes the issues will be ironed out
soon.

