4 felix Friday 30 May 2008
politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
International
Headlines from around the globe
The world beyond College walls...
Mass Flooding
Colombia
Flooding has left over 100,000 people homeless in
Colombia after weeks of rain finally caused the country’s
principal river to break its banks. 80% of the country is
severely affected by the disaster, with villages isolated,
roads no longer navigable, and thousands of houses
under water. Current Red Cross stocks are unlikely to
last the week, and the rain is not expected to stop any
time soon. The combination of appalling weather, lack
of emergency supplies and poor hygiene are devastating
the country, where a state of national emergency may
soon be called.
Amnesty Report
England
Amnesty International’s annual report was released
earlier this week, reporting on human rights legislation
and abuses around the world. This is the organization’s
sixtieth such report, and is as outspoken as it has ever
been, referring to a world ‘riven by inequality, scarred by
discrimination and distorted by political repression.’ The
US, China and Zimbabwe all pass under the microscope,
with numerous criticisms of Guantanamo Bay, ethnic
persecution in China, and the ‘deplorable conditions’ in
Zimbabwe. The 398 page report, as always, compares
figures on issues such as torture, unfair trials and
freedom of speech in countries around the world, and is
available online.
I
t’s a comparatively up-
beat double page this time
round, with murderers be-
ing convicted, peace sum-
mitsbeingheld,monarchies
being dissolved and the occasional
election taking place. The only real
cloud over the general festivities
is the continued flooding in Co-
lombia, which has recently taken
a significant turn for the worse.
Oh well; we couldn’t really take
our news seriously unless some-
one somewhere was suffering.
But just look at what’s happening
in Nepal – a country with regions
compared by some to a Dark Age
Europe. A dictatorial monarchy
was first relieved of all power,
and has now been abolished.
Celebrations in the street, no re-
ported violence; a new republic
has peacefully been brought into
the world. It’s a touching sight.
The former Marxist dictator
of Ethiopia, who has been liv-
ing in comfort chez Mugabe for
the past seventeen years, has
just been awarded the death sen-
tence in absentia. I find it deeply
unsettling that the nightmarish
rule of Mengistu Haile Mariam
is so little is mentioned in the
Western world. Still, we’ve got
better, right? We would know
and care more if people were be-
ing murdered in Africa today.
On a bittersweet note, Amnesty
International has published its an-
nual report. The world is a place
where terrible things can still hap-
pen, but fortunately fewer pass
unnoticed. I suggest you at least
read a summary of AI’s report; I’m
not their biggest fan, but they have
a lot of important things to say.
Ethiopian Dictator
Ethiopia
Mengistu Haile Mariam, Ethiopia’s former President,
has been sentenced to death in absentia by a court in his
home country. Mengistu was forced to leave Ethiopia
in 1991, ending a 17-year term described as employing
‘one of the most systematic uses of mass murder by
a state ever witnessed in Africa.’ The ‘Red Terror’ of
1977-8 is believed to be the seventh worst genocide in
human history, killing hundreds of thousands of men,
women and children. Mengistu has since been living in
Zimbabwe, and is unlikely to be extradited while Mugabe
remains in power.
Gilead Amit

