politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
5
Friday 30 May 2008 felix
International
Summit Held
China
Last week’s election of Ma ying-jeou as President of Taiwan
bodes well for an easing of tensions between Taiwan and
China. Significantly less independence-minded than his
predecessor, relations with the mainland are set to improve
dramatically under his leadership. This was made particularly
obvious this week, when the head of Taiwan’s ruling party (the
nationalist Kuomintang) met Chinese President Hu Jintao in
Beijing’s ‘Great Hall of the People’ . This is the highest-level
encounter between the two parties since the split in 1949, and
the second such major meeting arranged by the Kuomintang.
New Republic
Nepal
After more than two centuries of existence, Nepal’s
monarchy has been abolished by the newly-elected national
assembly. King Gyanendra famously came to power in tragic
circumstances in 2001 after his nephew’s drunken murder of
most of the royal family. He went on to reign for five years
as head of government before being forced to return power
to parliament in 2006. Since then, the ancient monarchy has
held a purely ceremonial status in Nepal, a status no longer
accorded it. Under the new legislation, the entire royal family
must leave the palace within 15 days, though they will be
allowed to remain in the country.
‘Ogre of the Ardennes’
France
A French court has sentenced Michel Fourniret to life
imprisonment for the murder of seven girls and young women
between 1987 and 2001. Fourniret’s wife, Monique Olivier,
has been awarded a similar sentence for complicity in the
murders, the largest serial killing spree in recent French history.
Known as the ‘Ogre of the Ardennes’, Fourniret would get the
unsuspecting women into his car, where his wife’s presence
would foster a feeling of security. After being kidnapped, the
girls were usually raped by Fourniret, who would later dump
their body somewhere in the area. The man was finally arrested
in 2003 while attempting to kidnap a 13-year old Belgian girl.
Although Fourniret has confessed to most of the murders, he
has been markedly uncooperative in the court’s proceedings.
Designed by Gilead Amit & Kadhim Shubber
New Speaker
Iran
Former nuclear negotiator Ali Larijani has recently been elected as
the speaker of the Iranian parliament. The post, to which Mr. Larijani
was elected by a large majority, effectively makes him the leader of the
opposition to current President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad. Speculation
indicates that Larijani may prove a welcome alternative to the current
regime, providing a more pragmatic stance on economics, combined
with the same popular conservatism. Larijani’s pragmatism has not
endeared him to the government, however, as his preference for
practicality over ideology led to greater collaboration with the IAEA
and helped end the crisis over captured British sailors in 2007. This
mindset contributed to his losing his job as chief nuclear negotiator.
His return as one of the most powerful figures in Iran, with the support
of kingmaker Ayatollah Khomeini, may well allow him to provide a
challenge to the presidency in the 2009 elections.,

