comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Comment
Gilead Amit
Feminism – are we right to laugh?
“
Do we
still need an
anachronous
equal rights
movement
in today’s
enlightened
society? Yes, I
believe so
”
A
s I write this, it occurs to
me that I’m very much
out-on-a-limbing myself.
I’m far from being an
expert on issues of gen-
der – even less of an expert on issues
of sex, might I add facetiously – and
God knows I lack the necessary quali-
fications to discuss feminism from the
right side of the playing field. Never-
theless, I like to think of myself as an
intelligent, open-minded male mem-
ber of society, and I believe that gives
me some right to deal with a topic that
affects us all mentally, morally, emo-
tionally and sociologically.
In my limited personal experience,
I’ve heard a great deal of exasperated
denunciation of feminism. Both men
and women of my generation seem fed
up of hearing provocative talk of equal
opportunities and glass ceilings. I don’t
doubtthatrepresentativesofothergen-
erations feel the same way; I just imag-
ine they feel less comfortable saying so.
When pressed, however, the majority
of people admit that the fundamen-
tal message of equality is a valid one.
What they object to is the ‘unnecessary
extremism’. Extremism in the way peo-
ple feel the message is being rammed
down their throats, and unnecessary
in that people believe the main goal of
feminism has been granted, and that
the persistence of the movement itself
is a redundant left-over from a more
oppressive period.
As a result, the obvious questions
pour forth: is there any more work
left to do? Does our society need to
get any better? Do we still need an
anachronous equal rights movement
in today’s enlightened society? These
questions are a little blunt for me. I do
not have the statistics or, as I never tire
of telling you, the personal experience
to say if today’s society is an equal one.
But, I hasten to add, I doubt it. I am as
certain as I can be without bothering to
do serious research that there is still a
long way to go for practical equality to
be reached. In any case, that’s not the
area that interests me. What interests
me is if such practical equality is even
possible, let alone within our reach.
There is no escaping the fact that the
differences between the genders are
and always have been an intrinsic part
of our society. Whether it be in our
choice of pronouns, our perception of
a family’s principal breadwinner, or the
choice of careers one feels comfortable
in pursuing, the weight of historical
prejudice inevitably piles up on our
shoulders.
Take a look around you, if you hap-
pen to be at College, and work out the
female:male ratio. If it’s greater than 1:2
I’m sure that somebody will be happy
to pay ready cash to know where you’re
sitting. Those of us who are aware of
the gender bias at Imperial are willing
to make light of it, but it nonetheless
exists – and more significantly, it’s not
considered surprising.
Society has come to accept the dif-
ferences between men and women,
and extrapolates what it believes to
be necessary differences in their cor-
responding lifestyles. The physical and
emotional rollercoaster of pregnancy
remains the defining element in the
imbalance, and helps to explain away
almost all of the differences in the way
the genders are treated. But does it still
have to be that way? Medical alterna-
tives to in utero aside, there are ele-
ments of the male perception of wom-
en that rest uneasy.
The use of gender-inclusive nouns is
still sometimes seen as a target of ridi-
cule: another useless invention of the
political correctness squad. It seems
to me that such critics are missing the
point. The evolution of our language
explains away its inherent chauvinism,
but it doesn’t do anything to justify it.
Half of the users of our language – a
more educated half, by recent figures –
are female. Half of the users of our lan-
guage are made to feel as though they
are not represented by it. Some women
have no objection, that’s fine, but they
are more than entitled to have one. A
language that refers to the male of our
species by the same word as used to
describe the collective, that treats offi-
cials as masculine as a matter of course,
does nothing to advance ideas of equal-
ity. No tremendous fuss need be made
over this topic anymore: what remains
the key issue is what people think and
not what they say. If a man talks about
“policemen” and “chairmen”, the only
real objection to have is if it does not
occur to him that a woman could fulfil
those roles with as much success as a
man could. Precision of speech is no
indicator of precision of thought, and a
sanitized tongue is likely to be the most
in need of cleaning.
This battle can be said to be won, for
even if the linguistic bias remains, the
motivation for it is disappearing. The
same enlightened spirit that purged
our dictionary pages of “jewing” and
“gypping” as synonyms for theft will
gnaw at our consciences as much for
“Man” and “Mankind”. But what about
our thoughts? What about our percep-
tions and preferences? Are they inher-
ently sexist as well? Yes, I believe so.
Centuries of art, literature and cinema
influence our reactions in every con-
ceivable way, and that certainly applies
to questions of gender. Our image of
family life, to take an obvious exam-
ple, is fraught with stereotypes – roles
we naturally attribute to either gender.
While it is now perfectly acceptable for
a woman to be a major earner in any
household, the idea of her being the
principal breadwinner is uncomfort-
able for some. In addition to which,
who takes care of the children? Who
takes care of the household? Should
the wife be the one who prepares the
meals? The more questions I ask, the
more inconsistencies I perceive in my
knee-jerk responses.
We do think in a gender-based way,
which is perfectly acceptable. We
should not, however, allow this to lead
us to irrational conclusions based on
non-existent differences. Yes, it is dif-
ficult – both difficult and uncomfort-
able – to shake off some of these more
resilient stereotypes. Much as our lan-
guage risked becoming more burden-
some with the partial elimination of
gender, our society seems ready to fall
apart at the seams if we reject the tra-
ditional male/female roles. Neverthe-
less; apart from the theoretical moral
considerations, it is only possible to
achieve real balance if the scales un-
dergo recalibration.
And I have hope in the recalibration
process. The prejudices of generations
unfamiliar with the concept of women
in charge have faded to an astounding
degree. By continuous exposure to ca-
pable women, fictional and real, we no
longer find it unusual for women to be
accomplished at things previously the
prerogative of men. If we change the
paradigm enough in our lifetime, then
future generations will, in their turn,
grow up without even the most per-
sistent of our cultural hang-ups.
Jellybean
A lesson from Norman
F
or the price you pay, you
half expect Sainsbury’s basic
onions not to be onions at
all, so it brings some solace
when you need a whole box
of Kleenex just to stay the tears gen-
erated when making a simple curry.
Of course the peeling and slicing op-
eration will take until next Tuesday be-
cause they are so darn small, but hey,
you saved a good 30p. (Incidentally, in
case you are the budget type you might
be interested to hear that you can get
an entire jar of Basics curry for a mere
5 English pence. Don’t ask me how
that works out in terms of profit gen-
eration, just keep your will up to date
and roll with it.) I have recently grown
emotionally attached to a Sainsbury’s
basic onion on a less superficial level;
whilst Norman has not made me cry,
I have experienced perhaps a glimpse
of some of the joys of parenthood in
watching him grow. I would describe
the feeling as one akin to the satisfac-
tion of taking in an abandoned puppy.
Left to die in a cupboard with the rest
of his litter Norman stood little chance
before I came along.
“Who put the onions here? We never
put them here, we don’t even use this
cupboard. Woah! Look at them grow-
ing… wait… what does an onion plant
look like?” Google could easily have
answered me and Norman may never
have been, but I was determined to
find out the hard way. I took him in,
gave him a place to sleep, even bought
flower food for him at one stage. It
was an emotional roller coaster as he
struggled to grow up and fulfill his
dreams. But yes, Basics onions can
grow long lush green leaves. They can
escape their upbringing and be who
they were made to be if you just give
them the chance. The cheapness and
GM-ness of them doesn’t take away the
fact that amazingly they are still living
and still more complex than anything
that mankind has managed to make. If
Apple made an onion, or even for that
matter an apple, you would have to sell
off both your kidneys and get a mort-
gage to get hold of one. People would
finally stop choosing to deck out their
cars in white, black and chrome so that
they look like iPods but would take to
wrapping them in layers of brown pa-
per. Stylish.
So Norman is a success story from
humble beginnings, a role-model for
many of us. His old life was somewhat
analogous to the lives of IC bioengi-
neers, who despite having ‘bio’ in their
name have dwelt until now in perhaps
the most lifeless and dark pit on cam-
pus; the MechEng basement. Even
you my friends, have a future. Don’t
let your surroundings define you. Of
course the same goes to the CivEng’ers,
who are forced to study in the least ar-
chitecturally inspiring building owned
by Imperial. That said, I’m afraid even
the national phone book is against you.
See Exhibit A.
Say hello to Norman, nurtured
from poor health and now
exuberant with life
Exhibit A
Sexism: Germaine Greer thinks it’s naughty
8 felix Friday 30 May 2008

