10 Clubs and Societies
Olya's Story Football - ULU Sixes
This is a survivor's dramatic account of the
persecution of Baha'fs in revolutionary Iran. In
the 1980s, hundreds of Baha'fs were arrested,
imprisoned and executed at the hands of the
Iranian revolutionary government. Olya
Roohizadegan was one woman who got away
and now, ten years later, she has written the first
eye-witness account of the events that shocked
the world.
Olya's account of her own imprisonment,
trial and sentencing is also the story of ten
women who did not survive and with whom she
shared her ordeal. The women's resilience to the
harsh conditions of prison life is all the more
remarkable in view of the intense psychological
and - in some cases physical - torture to which
they were subjected on a daily basis. It is felt
that their executions may have been part of a
macabre drive against women's liberation, for
the Baha'f Faith is the first world religion to
promote the equality and men and women.
The persecution still goes on. The Baha'f
Faith is not recognised under the constitution of
Iran, leaving Baha'fs to suffer discrimination at
every level.
Olya Roohizadegan worked for the Iranian
Oil Company until her arrest and imprisonment.
After a dramatic overland escape to Pakistan,
with her husband and three-year-old son, she
came to Britain, where she now lives.
Olya's story has raised much interest in the
media, with major features in The Times, The
Daily Mirror, C N N T V and The Scotsman,
numerous radio interviews including LBC, GLR
and Woman's Hour, in addition to considerable
local newspaper and radio coverage during the
author's ongoing nationwide tour.
Olya Roohizadegan will be speaking at IC on
Saturday 19th March, 7.30pm, Union Dining
Hall, 1st Floor, Union Building.
Tournament
The Imperial College Football Club entered one
team to the U L U Sixes tournament held last
weekend at Motspur Park. This is not a
competition for the faint-hearted. It involves
playing a number of consecutive six-a-side
matches on a full-sized football pitch as well as
waking up at an unearthly hour on a Sunday
morning, usually following an evening of
intense student social intercourse. Thus, when
all seven members of IC's random laid-back
squad turned up at Motspur by 10.15 am, the
battle was half won.
Imperial were pitched into a tough qualifying
group, with Royals, both Free and New, as well
as the Orientals and Africans. The first match
against Royal Holloway College 1st XI proved
to be an eye-opener for IC, who played in- an
orderly fashion, but succumbed to the opposition
by one goal. In the next three group matches
Imperial grew in confidence and mesmerised
spectators and opponents alike with their
random laid-back style of stroking the ball
around. Indeed, the boys from South Kensington
achieved three consecutive victories against
Royal Free Hospital, SOAS and Royal
Holloway thirds respectively.
Chris Evdemon pulled off spectacular saves
in goal, whilst Roddy Herris controlled the left
flank of the pitch with authority. Meanwhile at
the back, Andy Fenton covered with composure
for everyone, especially for Skipper Rakesh
Muthoo, who was the most laid-back of the
randoms. Rob Franolic deceived many with his
demonic pace, unlike Billal Al-Khatib, who
nevertheless scored a number of interesting
goals. The only other goal scorer was, Ben
Willis, who used his famous forward thrusting
technique in order to penetrate rival defences.
The semi-final, against the Royal Holloway
2nd XI, was a display of Imperial's talent and
flair, as they kept possession for most of the
game and produced numerous goal scoring
opportunities. However, it also exposed their
shortcomings, as IC were unable to score during
the sanctioned period of time, the outcome of
the clash had to be decided on the basis of a
nerve wrecking penalty shoot-out. Here the
cunning Evdemon raised the stakes by using the
left-side diving method. He eventually stopped
an opposition penalty at the sudden death stage,
heroically sending his side into the final against
Royal Holloway 1st XI.
"Once bitten, twice shy," goes the saying, but
IC were unperturbed by their previous defeat to
Holloway in the opening match. Having come
full circle, Imperial were fully confident as they
recalled Germany's upset against Hungary in the
1954 World Cup Final. In fact, IC dominated the
game with a spider-web passing style
reminiscent of Cruyff's 1974 total football side
and yet again created several goal scoring
opportunities. However, unable to capitalise on
their superiority, the Imperial players started to
tire, mentally and physically.
The only exception was Willis, ULU's rising
star, who continued to thrust forwards and
backwards but he too failed to score. Instead it
was Holloway who struck thirty seconds from
the end, following Murphy's law and bringing
tears to IC supporters. The final whistle was
blown shortly afterwards and there was nothing
left to do but collect the Runners-up medals,
shower and drive to the nearest curry house. It
was a very good day.
Let's Face The Music, And...
Last year, Imperial College hosted the 30th
InterVarsity Dancing Competition at the
Grosvenor House Hotel, Park Lane. There, we
won both team trophies, stretching our
dominance of that competition to three years.
Last Saturday, Liverpool University hosted this
year's event; twenty other universities were after
blood (specifically ours!).
The trauma actually started the night before.
Half of the team was suckered into going to
Uxbridge, while the minibus was really in
Greenford. One and a half hours later than
planned, we collected the minibus and rescued
the Uxbridge group - all we needed was a team
trainer and we could head for the frozen North.
Vicki was discovered huddled outside a cafe in
Oxford (where else?) - the "We're going to be a
little late" message had not been delivered. Our
other trainer, Dorothy, had wisely fled the
country. While Vicki thawed, lead and Andrew
(the only two ancient enough to be allowed to
drive), began the ultimate 'white knuckle ride'
North.
After spending the night in Blackburn, we
eventually reached the venue the Kirkby Civic
Suite, Liverpool. As befits the defending
champions, we had been seated in a back corner,
as far as possible from the dance floor. The
doors opened at 10.30am, a subtle ploy to ensure
that the southern universities would be asleep by
the Team Match at 7pm. We and Oxford had
opted for staying in the vicinity overnight;
neither of us relished the 4.45am start suffered
by Cambridge.
The afternoon programme saw some
creditable individual performances in the Open
Competitions, as well as some surprises. The
best of the bunch were Nevil and Laura, who
won the Beginner's Cha Cha.
Following the walk-on (in which we were
introduced as 'The University of Imperial'
...hmmm!) the Team Match began. All of our
couples made their respective finals unfor-
tunately the same was pretty much true for
Oxford, Cambridge, Bristol and Sheffield. The
final results would be very close. Tragedy struck
a strong Liverpool A Team when their jive
couple withdrew through injury.
The results - we retained both the A and B
Team trophies, in each case pushing Oxford into
second place. This rounded off our second year
of winning every team title at each of the three
main competitions.
At half past midnight we finally started the
long drive South, the drivers fully charged on
adrenaline and high-octane caffeine. The
passengers partied and then slept, while the
drivers philosophised on life's mysteries.
Our thanks to our trainers, Victoria Cunniffe
and Dorothy Charlton and all who have helped
to make this year so successful.
A team; Bryan Crotaz & Sarah Cutmore;
Paul Skjold & Zoe Antoniou;
lead Rezek & Patricia Donnesteanu;
Satin Gungah (capt) & Mani Amin.
B team: Andrew Smith & Elaine Hornby;
Tuang Liang Lim & Lye Yet Tien;
Peter Purdie & Sian Rowsell;
Kerwyn James & Ruth Schuster.
An article on transendental meditation is on pages 6 & 7

