Clubs and Societies 11
Football - IC Second XI
goals; Ritch Craig played with zeal and
distinction, both at full-back and in the middle;
and Captain Rakesh Muthoo inspired and
entertained the team in equal measure. Billal al-
Khatib scored regularly and provided good
support up front, as well as an excellent
chauffeur service to matches, whereas the
versatile Mubarak 'Mugsy' Choudhry fared
equally well in all the positions that he played.
There are many others who have competed
for IC seconds this year and their contribution
has been significant. However, the players
mentioned above are the regular ones who
ultimately crystallised to form the close-knit
crew known as the Corinthians. Their
commitment, discipline and good
sportsmanship, along with the display of good
quality possession football, have been a saving
grace in an otherwise disastrous season.
On the face of it, this has been a bitter season for
the Imperial College 2nd XI football team. IC
seconds were eliminated from the U A U
tournament in the qualifying round and from the
U L U Upper Reserves Cup competition in their
first tie. Following an initial string of fourteen
consecutive defeats, there was a change in
management and composition of the team, but
this was not enough to avoid relegation from
Division One of the U L U league for the first
time in seven years.
However, the mid-season restructuring of the
team has lead to a considerable amount of
positive consequences. The seconds have played
some good passing football, with an emphasis
on teamwork and possession. They have had a
number of wins and displayed some
commendable performances, such as when the
league champions U C L II struggled to a goalless
draw against them. Above all, Imperial seconds
are a side of Corinthian values, with good team
spirit and high team morale.
Chris Evdemon provided sound and, at times,
spectacular goal keeping throughout the season,
whereas the reliable Matteo Farina has been the
most consistent player of the team. Playing
alongside him, Rob Franolic was solid and quick
in the middle of defence, and the youthful
Roddy Herris tackled with determination and
attacked with passion. In the middle of the field,
Abs Said distinguished himself for his stubble
and his hard-hitting goals, whilst Issam Morris
will be remembered as the man who came in
from the cold with excellent crosses.
The Frenchman Anthony Clerc contributed
greatly to the midfield and only scored difficult
Women Win!
The Imperial Women's 1st Eight took the
rowing world by surprise last weekend when
they stormed to a highly impressive 9th place
overall in the Women's Head of the River Race.
They won the Senior 2 divison, finishing only
one tenth of a second behind the University of
London women, winners of the Universities'
Pennant, over the nineteen minute 'Boat Race'
course. This marks a dramatic improvement in
the standard of women's rowing at IC, as they
were placed twenty-fourth in the same race last
year. This win follows closely behind their
success at the Reading Head two weeks ago,
where they also won the senior 2 division, and
were the third fastest women's crew, finishing
only four seconds behind the Cambridge
womens Blue Boat.
The IC Women's 2nd Eight, a mix of novice
and experienced oarswomen, also performed
way above expectation, finishing 53rd out of the
200 strong entry. (These results should spell
good news for the St Mary's Women's crew in
the bumps later this year, as some of them train
and row in the IC crews.) The improvement is as
a combined result of the steadily expanding
numbers of the Women's boat club, the
technical expertise of their coach Nick Wilde,
and the intense (but highly effective) training
programs of the Boathouse Guru, Bill Mason.
The success was recognised by the national
press earlier this week, which rarely features
minority sports such as women's rowing. The
women's crew now take a short break for Easter,
before returning to prepare for the summer
Regattas. Imperial will now be favoured to
provide a strong entry for the college eights at
Women's Henley.
The Boat Club Men's crews have also been
enjoying success recently, placing 2nd and 4th
overall at the Reading Head, where the Oxford
Blue Boat won by five seconds. It is rumoured
that the IC 1st eight will race Oxford again this
weekend to help them prepare for the Eights
Head of the River and The Boat Race
(respectively) which happen on the same day
this year. Both races will be covered on
Grandstand next Saturday (26th March),
including an interview with a member of the IC
fifth eight, who will be the last crew to start this
year. It is hoped that our crews will continue the
success of recent years, winning no less than
four of the six events entered.
IC In Final Of
Gutteridge Cup
IC lst 26 - 5 QMW
Last Wednesday Imperial College lst X V
Rugby team beat Queen Mary & Westfield
College ( Q M W ) in the Gutteridge Cup
semi-finals. Despite the harsh rugby conditions
(ankle deep mud), IC turned on the pressure at
Q M W and came away with a well earned
victory.
The first quarter on the match was spent
camped on the Q M W try-line, with IC
controlling the game. Steve Townsend put the
first points on the board with a storming drive
from a maul in front of the posts.
The second try was scored by Andrew
Montgomery, who dived into a retreating QMW
scrummage, as the ball crossed the line.
Q M W replied early in the second-half with
an un-converted try, but the match was sealed
by Tim Oldham (interception and 70 yard sprint
to the corner-flag).
Sustained forward pressure resulted in a
penalty try as Q M W came off-side to prevent a
push-over try.
Next Week: Felix Easter Special

