14 Reviews
The Bacchae The Flag
The women of Thebes have broken their bonds.
Possessed by the god Dionysus (also called
Bacchus - the Bacchae being his devotees) they
cavort half-naked around the mountain slopes,
communing with the birds and the beasts. King
Pentheus is outraged by the immorality of these
goings-on - his own mother and aunts in the
lead - started by this new 'god' and his wine-
induced ecstasies. The truth is that Dionysus
himself is in Thebes, come for revenge against
the royal family of his mortal mother (Zeus
being his father) who will not honour his god-
hood.
The role of Pentheus can be played different
ways, ranging between cruel, repressive ruler
keeping 'moral' order by force, or, as in this
production, a young, inexperienced king
destroyed by the wrath of a 'young and
inexperienced' god whose lust for revenge is not
worthy of a god. Either way, Pentheus cannot
resist the invitation of Dionysus to take a peep
at the Bacchic rites that may not be seen by
outsiders...You can guess some of the rest. This
is, after all, Greek Tragedy. But the sheer
inhumanity of the god's revenge has an
undiminished power to shock.
The theatre is a tiny in-the-round space,
allowing only minimal 'production', which is a
great relief. Classical Greek theatre is not drama
in the modern sense: it relies on the text and the
efficacy of its delivery. The ever-present
Chorus, commenting on and (unlike other
classical plays) participating in the action, is
perhaps the crux of a successful production of
this play,and it was played quite well; I hope it
will improve with more performances. I would
questions, though, the Godspell-like singing of
the Chorus, which is out of context: the rites of
Dionysus have little in common with the
meekness of Christianity.
Plinthos
The Courtyard Theatre, 10 York Way. 071 833
0870. Tube: Kings Cross. Tickets £6.50 (Cones
£5) plus 50p membership. Tue-Sun, 8pm. Until
25th March.
Tonight is the launch of Corin and Vanessa
Redgrave's Moving Theatre venture. This foray
into fringe is opened with Alex Ferguson's The
Flag and appropriately cropped dramatic
production of Robert Shaw's novel.
Set in the fictional East-Anglican town of
Eastwold, a newly-appointed left-wing vicar,
John Calvin, starts to work on preaching his
revolutionary ideas. But the conservative
community are resistant to change and the
inevitable conflict occurs; he is besieged both at
home and from within the church. Timewise, it
is set in 1926 and the echo from the General
Strike is felt through Calvin. Ultimately it is
tragic, but interestingly this has more symbolic
significance than melodramatic implication.
Corin Redgrave, as the ironically named
Christian Socialist (cf. Jean Calvin), is slightly
disappointing; though expressing a range of
emotion, it is perhaps understated and lacks the
zealous fervour of the man-with-a-mission.
Contributing to the occasionally lewd and
bawdy atmosphere, war-torn minds of the
homeless are brought in and give the play the
edge of social realism; Stewart Howson,
particularly, as the aptly-named Screever is
awesome; dripping confused menace, his knife-
wielding antics are memorable.
Alongside other moments of supreme sobriety
and seriousness, the touches of satire are comic
and entertaining, especially Jennifer Hilary's
confident and exhilarating performance as the
sexually charged Lady Cynthia Cleeve. Dressed
as if to do the Charleston, she adds vital colour to
the wooden beams of the minimalist set.
Overall Corin Redgrave and Gillian
Hambleton's direction is excellent and gets a
thumbs up from a converted music scribe.
Camille
Bridge Lane Theatre, Bridge Lane SW11. 071
228 8828. Train: Clapham Junction BR. Tickets
£10 (Cones £7). Ends 2nd April.
Waiting for Godot
When entering the Lyric Studio for a production
of Waiting for Godot, one must leave behind
one's yearning for definitions. In order to revel
in the elemental experience of Samuel Beckett's
stage-world.
The tension between a recognition of the
futility of life and a desperate writhing in the
shadow of this knowledge enables the characters
to endure in their senseless vigil. However,
diversion in the hands of so great a dramatist
assumes chilling poetic significance.
It is this constant, disquieting comment that
seemed insufficiently suggested in this
presentation by Efendz Productions. However,
this does not prevent enjoyment of dynamic
performances with delicious comic insight and,
in the case of Lucky, a brilliant creation of
appallingly pathetic human frailty.
Setting the play amid sound enshrouded
plains lent something to the mysticism of the
nightly visits - exquisitely done here - but,
besides this, the play refused to be limited by
geography.
Thus, fired by the evening's experience, one
can burrow its significance at leisure or forget
all about it. Either way, time continues to spill
noiselessly away.
iqqy
Lyric Theatre, Kings St, W6 081 471 8701.
Tube: Hammersmith. Cones £5 (Ihr before
show).
IlllilJII
The Doctor and the Devils
Ah, the economics of the health service. In the
1840s, when the hangman couldn't meet
anatomy's demand for bodies, the
'resurrectionists' went to work with shovel and
spade. Except that Doctors preferred fresh
specimens. Enter the real life story of Burke and
Hare; gravediggers working their way up to
coffin fillers. Dylan Thomas dramatised the
story and Dramsoc have brought the whole
heaving mass to your doorstep.
The play is enclosed in moralistic tones: Do
the medical ends justify the means? In the gin
palaces, the talk is of gravediggers and easy
money. At the table of the prestigious and
outspoken anatomist Dr Rock, the talk is of bad
marriages and snubs of society. But the two
worlds need each other. As the bodycount of
Broom and Fallon (the Burke and Hare
characters) for Dr Rock's cutting board begins to
mount, so does the guilt and hatred.
Slowly the fragmented community sees its
weak and lonely disappear. In a Macbethian
scene even Fallon struggles with his 'devil hands'.
The play finishes as it began, with Dr Rock.
He has become a haunted figure. Tell me we
don't have the same medical nightmares today.
Genetic engineering, embryo research,
euthanasia. Get along to see it before they nail
you into a rough wooden box.
Tintin
Last performance tonight at 8pm in the Concert
Hall, Union Building. Tickets £3 (Cones £2)
available on the door.
Your last chance to see The Doctor and the Devils is tonight

