Reviews 15
There's a time towards the end of term when I
desire to head out over the water to a bigger,
better life. So lasso your stetsons as we take a
view of the latest releases from Stateside bands.
Red Red Meat sound as raw as the ribs they
take their name from. Inhabiting the stomping
ground of the southern boogie rodeos, they
might have recorded 'Jimmywine Majestic' in a
garage but more likely it was a barbecue. With
titles as nonsensical as 'Gorshin', 'Cillamange'
and 'Smokey Mountain dbl. D i p ' , the songs
themselves are so relaxed that on occasions they
seem to fall over through lack of momentum.
But sometimes you need to listen to music
which is made just because the band have it in
their blood, not because they have anything
particular to say. The xeroxed lyric sheet is
without punctuation, the cover artistically
weary; this will be a well loved album. (8)
Another juicy morsel is Flop's 'Whenever
You're Ready'. Their gig is reviewed so I won't
say too much about them, the album's still only
available on import. Yet it crackles with a heart
and heads into places that are presently
unreached, Pavement having gone straight. (7)
Camille goes all philosophical about the
Golden Palominos' new album. " A dreamy
snapshot of existential uncertainty, 'This is How
it Feels' is crystallised with the most
imaginative of beats. Imprinted on this is Loni
Carson's siren-like vocals but rather than
leading gullible seamen to destruction, it tempts
towards transcendence. This isn't purely about
abandoning the sensual for the spiritual; no way.
'Prison of the Rhythm' explicitly revels in those
most unrestrained of moments and also alludes
to those times when mind and body come to
disturbingly different conclusions." (7)
M r Happy is smiling about Common
Language's 'Flesh Impact'. The band who "go
every morning to their local diner...the one used
in Twin Peaks." Another case of some damn
fine pie. "Considering they come from Seattle,
this is remarkably original. They are one of the
few all women bands who haven't jumped on
the grunge or foxcore bandwagon." (7)
Before we go there are some singles to tickle
your anvils. Like Madder Rose and 'Panic On'.
Although by no means an obvious single,
guitars still manage to puncture the light headed
action, as ever. Of better worth is Jale. Their
'Promise/3 Days' sees incessant guitars gear up
and down as the girls reign in over the top. This
is a neat entrance. Swell are telling us to 'Forget
about Jesus'. "Deep, melodic and powerful - a
must for anyone seriously interested in decent
indie" says an irreligious Pear. And finally
Natacha Atlas and 'Dub Yulla' brings us home.
" A journey through Middle-Eastern and Asian
cultures to stunning effect. Global fusion is
becoming a very interesting prospect." Camille.
Goodbye dear friends. Until next week. Tintin
• • • •
Elvis Costello
Brutal Youth
Always knew it. We're all living in the past.
Obvious, but true. If it isn't Primal Scream and
their turgid Rolling Stones wannabe then it's
S M A S H feigning the Buzzcocks (without
having either syllable). And now Elvis Costello
coaxes the Attractions back into the studio. Hey
Presto! it's 1977 and Virginia's won Wimbledon.
Not content to rest there, he calls the album
'Brutal Youth'. Yeah, it was my youth and I feel
beaten and bruised. A l l the milestones of my
post-pubescent angst have been rewritten, if not
in name then nature, for another generation of
which I am not a part.
A N D , A N D , AND...the worst thing is I'm
going to love and treasure this album as much as
I do the rest of my Costello collection, which is
a sad indictment of me and the rest of us who
will be queuing on the steps of the Albert Hall
hoping to recapture that which was lost.
Maybe Elvis has decided to rekindle this old
flame before somebody creates 'Oliver's Barmy
Army', a Costello tribute band. I hope so and I
hope he's not just playing on people's nostalgic
propensities; too much of that stuff around. But
as I was saying, always knew it. We're all living
in the past. Pass me the knife before I turn into
Karen Carpenter. (8) Davros C. Dick
1
tinIV.
1
1
Morrissey
Vauxhall and I
'Vauxhall and I' is a record that almost jangles
with smugness. Gone is the polemic barracking
and the anthemic sloganising that characterises
the body of Morrissey's previous work.
Chanting his words of wisdom to his minions of
bequiffed sycophants obviously holds less of a
thrill for him than it once did. He appears to
have grasped the concept that playing to the
gallery is all very well in itself, but any intention
to move out from beneath the shadow of 'This
Charming Man' will take a little more than
literary masturbation. This he achieved to some
extent with 'Your Arsenal' and so could
approach 'Vauxhall and I' with a certain glow
that only appears when the world is not only
expectant but at your feet.
This is commercial, accessible and user
friendly. A pop product that should be all things
to all people...but then I have always been
something of a bequiffed sycophant. Pass the
Daffs, David! (8) Steven Patrick Glyph
o
m
Flop, Magnapop and the Posies
London Astoria 2
For a band who have tracks titled; 'En Route to
the Final Unified Field Theory' and 'Mendel's
Whitetrash Laboratory', Flop are an Imperial
muso's dream. On the stage, the lads crank up
and let rip with false endings built into heavy
chord whippings. Unfortunately the more
delicate vocal tendrils of their album weren't
seen in the mosh but there's night and day.
Then Magnapop bounce onto play. They're
going to enjoy themselves if it means forcing us
all to enjoy ourselves too. When the bassist loses
his noise, he gets on down too. The night's only
stage-diver and he's going in the wrong direction.
Maybe they're a bit hit and miss, but friendly
Americans who join in their own show, change
their set list at the drop of a heckle, then hand
out the now redundant lists to the crowd are
something not to be taken lightly.
Yes, I know that the Posies aren't cool. And
yes, I know that they're being sold over here as
some Uncle Sam version of Teenage Fanclub.
So how come I like them so much?
Well maybe it's got something to do with
their anti-rock star demeanour and the general 'I
actually want to be here' expression on their
beaming faces. Then again, it could be because
lead singer Jon seems to have finally realised
that he's a Posie rather than a poseur and instead
leaves pop delicacies like 'Dream A l l Day' to
speak for themselves. And the fact that they
eschew the pretence of encore-dom to jam until
the L A 2 management gets twitchy probably
helps too, right? Vik - Posies, Tintin - the rest.
I don't mind being blind so long as someone out there can see

