16 Reviews
Cookery Corner:
Dahl and Rice
Here's a simple recipe which gives you a nutritious and healthy meal
in half an hour and is so simple to cook!
Ingredients:
• Lentils
Red are the best as they are the quickest to
cook, but try others if you want varying the
cooking time accordingly.
• Fresh garlic, ginger and small green chillies.
• Spices:
Some Garam Masala, Turmeric, Red chilli
powder.
• Garnish: fresh coriander (optional but
essential to make it perfect)
• Oil, salt & pepper.
• Basmati rice (no other will do)
Most of these ingredients can be bought from
your favourate supermarkets, but I'd recommend
buying all the ingredients from an Asian shop
where the prices are much cheaper and the
spices are likely to be fresh.
I'm going to give you a recipe that will feed
two but if you eat like me, I'd double the
quantity.
Method:
1. First thing, wash the lentils (a cupful should
be about two helpings). You never know
where they have been and the cheapest
varieties often have small stones which are
not fun to chew. The best way is to put them
into the pan you intend cooking them in and
rinse by pouring water over them until
they're covered and draining. I'd rinse them
three or four times at least.
2. Boil up the lentils until they're cooked, this
takes about 15 minutes.
3. In a separate small pan, heat 2 tablespoons
oil. Crush up 2 cloves of garlic and a small
cube of ginger and chop up several green
chillies (1 for mild and 4 for hot). Throw
these into the hot oil and brown as you smell
that delicious aroma!
4. Throw the browned chillies, ginger and garlic
onto the cooked lentils and stir. Then add the
spices: a couple of teaspoons of Garam
masala, half a teaspoon each of turmeric and
red chilli.
5. A d d salt and pepper to taste, and finally
garnish with the fresh coriander.
Serve with plain rice (see Delia Smith for that
one) and yoghurt. Hmmm!
Hints:
Try fryng whole cumin or mustard seeds in the
oil before you add the garlic etc.
Eat, Drink And Be Merry
The Vegetarian Cottage
Vegetarians tend to avoid Chinese when they eat
out, unless they can stomach endless amounts of
tofu. Not even Chinatown, with its multitude of
restaurants, can a decent full veggie meal be
found. So, when a friend mentioned to me that
she had come across a good Chinese-veggie, I
was very interested - my flatmate, being a
veggie, was even more so!
The Restaurant
It is in Belsize Park, easily accessible by the
tube, and a great area to stroll around in. The
inside reflects the area, looking quite classy, but
cramped.
The Meal
There is soup or other starters to be eaten
initially, all costing around £2. The Crispy Deep
Fried Milk is worth a try, so is the Vegetarian
Sesame Toast. I prefer starting though with a
soup, the Winter Melon and Beancurd or
Cottage House seemed to be the best choices.
The Main Course. A delight of Chinese
vegetarian choices - obvious I know, but oh so
rare. Without doubt M y Favourite Tofu
(Beancurd with Sesame and Peanut Sauce) must
be ordered. Another 'must' is the Sweet and
Sour Fish, which only looks like a fish, but is
made of yam and has a crispy outer layer. We
were all positively drooling. Other dishes I wish
I had tried were Vegetarian Duckling (deep fried
layers of Soya Bean sheets) Cottage Special, or
the Vegetarian Gold Cups. Happily they all cost
under £5.
For those of you who cannot get by on
vegetables alone, there are a few seafood dishes,
which I feel spoil the essence of the restaurant,
after all why come to a veggie place to eat your
standard fare? There are rice and noodles of
various flavours to go with the meal.
The Dessert. I recommend the Walnut
Pudding, I loved it. Walnuts are ground, and
made into a warm paste, ending up eventually
like a soup. The ice-cream deserves a mention,
because it is made from soya milk. Avoid the
lychees, you can buy a whole tin for a third of
the price from Sainsburys. The cost is under £2
for them all.
Chinese Tea costs 50p per person, and there
is coconut milk for £1.50 for something different
from coke and juice. There are two set menus,
and special Sunday lunch menus. A full meal of
three courses will come to £10 per head, very
reasonable, but a bit pricey for vegetables.
The Service
Good. Cantonese is not essential for
communication, but can be a bit slow. Booking
certainly helps, but there are some tables
downstairs. You can smoke anywhere and there
is no dress-code.
I definetly recommend this place if you are a
veggie, and still go if you are not. I award
Vegetarian Cottage 8 out of 10.
Nainish B
91 Haverstock Hill, NW3
071 586 1257
Tube: Belsize Park or Chalk Farm
If you've got any recipe ideas drop them into the Felix Office

