Reviews 17
tlMMMmrii
T H E E A R L Y Y E A R S
Genius or charlatan? Dali on trial. Salvador Dalf
was the moustachioed master of unforgotten
dreams, he was the psychologist of your fears
and loves. His posters adorn a frightening
number of student walls; and not just posters of
the art, but also of the man himself. Dalf's self-
styled eccentricities foreshadow every one of his
works, the waxed curls of his sub-nasal growth
stride forth before his art like the motorcycle
outriders on Kennedy's motorcade. Unlike
Kennedy however, the eyes are not on the
splattered brains of Dalf's paintings but on the
man himself. Was he really a genius? To
celebrate the Hayward Gallery's celebration of
Dalf's early life, we put the 'artist' on trial.
By the age of 23, Dali had become known
throughout the art world, but not as a surrealist. In
fact he was painting in every style but surrealism.
He could sketch with the skill of the Renaissance
masters, he understood the colourful swirls of the
impressionists, he was even a greater cubist than
Picasso when he wished. In fact he had the
technical ability to paint in any style he wanted -
but he had set out to be a genius, so he needed a
style of his own. Even during these early years,
Dalf's personality burned through his works - self
portraits abound and personal symbols are
everywhere (he even appropriated Picasso's
guitars and violins, only to violate and abuse them
in mock deference to his mediocre compatriot).
All of a sudden, things
started to change. Dali
discovered a new tool by
which to express his
personality: surrealism.
With his incomparable
technical ability and
perverse imagination he
started to create the
complex metamorphic
images for which he is
famed. Each of his early
surrealist works was a
complex inter-play of
dream, biography and idea,
with objects dissolving
into landscapes or into
each other. Grotesque
sexuality and putrefaction
are recurrent themes, along ยง
with the distorted image of
the artist, portrayed as
'The Great Masturbator'.
At this point, Dalf's
personality was finally
overtaken by his skill as a
painter - people were
looking at the art and not at
him. He was still there on
the canvasses, but was
trapped within a complex visual code of symbols
which echo through his pictures, a code which no-
one could dare hope to solve. Ants, keys, fingers
and sexual organs, lions and tigers and bears, oh
my. It seems Dali did not style his personality to
market his paintings but the other way around; his
art was merely a tool to sell his soul. He lost out
in the end simply because his paintings were too
good. People kept the art and forgot about him.
Was Dali a genius? Who cares. He set out to
A detail from 'The Font' by Salvador Dali.
convince the world that he was and he
succeeded. Whether there is a charlatan behind
the myth doesn't matter, because the man died
and only the myth remains. Go see it while you
can.
M A
Hayward Gallery, South Bank. Tube: Waterloo.
ยฃ3.50 students (Also admits you to 'Unbound -
New Possibilities in Painting') Runs until 30th
May.
Murder, Mud and the Millenium
After a disappointing Rigoletto last month, the
Royal Opera's revival of Verdi's Un Ballo in
Maschera is a welcome success; a team effort
without a weak link in the cast.
The Italian censors objected to the first
version of Verdi's plot, fearing that an opera
about the assassination of royalty might give
ideas to the republicans. King Gustavus III
therefore had to become the Governor of Boston.
The original setting, restored here as is now
common, is 18th century Sweden, although the
story of love, honour and vendetta is typically
Italian. Daniele Gatti conducts with care for his
singers, but pulls no punches at the big
moments.
Also at the Royal Opera, there's still time to
catch Janacek's Katya Kabanovd on the 22nd
and 25th March. Maria Bj0rnson's swirled-mud
set is perfect for the surreal and tragic third act,
but for financial, or perhaps technical, reasons
we have to put up with it for the first two acts as
well. Bernard Haitink draws playing of great
sensuousness from his orchestra.
It seems that as the Towards the Millenium
series moves further into unknown territory,
audience interest is beginning to wane. Standby
tickets were being offered for last week's City of
Birmingham Symphony Orchestra (CBSO)
concert at the Royal Festival Hall, but the large
swathes of empty seats deemed unavailable by
the box office suggest that someone is lashing
out unwanted complementaries like there's no
tomorrow. Growing indifference from the press
is perhaps due to the fact that there is little else
to do but heap praise on Simon Rattle and his
extraordinarily fine orchestra. After a slightly
saccharine account of Berg's Violin Concerto,
Rattle and the C B S O gave a performance of
Shostakovich's Fourth Symphony that matched
anything I've ever heard for precision and
gripping intensity. Catch them next Friday in
Stravinsky and Walton.
And talking of the Millenium series, I was at
Andrew Davis's performance of Lulu last
Sunday in Birmingham's Symphony Hall. Just
for the record, it was tremendous.
Patrick Wood
Royal Opera House. Tube: Covent Garden.
071 240 1066.
Royal Festival Hall. Tube: Embankment.
071 928 8800.
An article on IC's arts magazine Phoenix is on page 8

