18 Union
Hidden Killers In Your Home
Do you have
any of these
water heaters
in your home?
A
A \
1
0
1
1 &
o
^ ^ ^ ^ ^
Officially, 'the killer' has caused the death of
five students and it is feared that many others
are at risk. The killer is carbon monoxide, a
highly poisonous gas which has no colour and
no smell.
It is produced when gas and coal appliances
are used, such as gas heaters. If there is
insufficient air for the gas to escape (e.g. if the
chimney or flue is obstructed or blocked), the
carbon monoxide can become dangerous.
The Danger Signs
If your appliances (gas heaters, water heaters
etc.) have stains, soot or discolouring and/or
they produce yellow or orange flames, don't use
them.
What Should You Do?
Tell your landlord or landlady that the appliance
is faulty. (They have a legal duty to provide you
with safe accommodation.)
The appliance needs to be serviced at least once
a year. It is the responsibility of your landlord or
landlady to arrange this. The check must be
carried out by a qualified person. Corgi (0256
708133) can be contacted for details of local
qualified gas installers.
In the meantime ensure that any air vents are
not blocked so that the gas can escape.
You can obtain further advice from Minever
Kavlak, Union Adviser in the Students Union.
She operates a telephone service on ext 3507,
Tuesdays from 10.30am-lpm and on Thursdays
from 2pm-5pm. Information can also be
obtained from any British Gas office. Check
phone book for details of local office.
Don't put yourself at risk of carbon monoxide
poisoning. Pick up a free leaflet on carbon
monoxidefrom the Student Union Office orfrom
British Gas.
British Gas have issued these rules
for safely using water heaters:
• Make sure your bathroom is well ventilated.
Never block or obstruct air vents.
• Always open the bathroom door or window
when you are running water.
• Turn the water heater off before you get in
the bath. Never run more water once you are
in the bath.
• Do not run an unflued instantaneous water
heater for longer than five minutes at a time.
They are not intended to be used for filling
baths, showers or washing machines.
• If you are concerned in any way about the
appliance, stop using it immediately and
seek help.
You are at risk of carbon monoxide poisoning
if you continue to use faulty appliances.
The Eurpoean Economic Area
Agreement (EEA)
This agreement came into force on 1st January
1994. It affects people from Austria, Finland,
Iceland, Norway and Sweden who ratified the
agreement.
What does the agreement mean for students
of those countries?
• Minimal immigration control, visas not
required to enter Britain.
• The right to work.
• The right to bring families (EEA nationality)
to Britain.
• 'Migrant Workers' from EEA countries have
the same entitlement as European nationals to
mandatory awards and student loans (not fees,
only awards).
• EEA migrant workers also have the right to
claim home fees if 'ordinarily resident' in the
UK.
'Overseas' students do not have these rights.
Further advice is available from the UK Council
for Overseas Students Affairs on 071 354 5210
or from Minever Kavlak, Union Adviser who
can be contacted on 071 589 5111 ext 3507.
Regulation
Changes For
Benefits
New regulations have introduced 'Residence
Tests' for people who intend to claim benefits.
It is essential that advice is obtained before a
benefit is claimed so that possible entitlements
and immigration consequences can be
discussed.
Advice can be obtained from the Union
Adviser on ext 3507 (Tue 10.30am-lpm or Thur
2pm-5pm) or from the Citizens Advice Bureau
- check the telephone book for your local office
or call 071 251 2000.
Minever Kavlak, the Union Adviser can be contacted on ext 3507

