Union 19
You Can Help Run The Union
Are you interested in the Union, be it as a
member of a club or society, a part of Ents or
Rag or maybe even academic affairs? Do you
want to help run part of the Union? Do you
think you could run an existing activity better?
Is there something you would like to change?
There's a chance coming up soon...
Imperial College Union needs strong student
officers to serve the student body properly and
effectively. The sabbatical officers work with a
number of other student officers who help to run
and organise all the Union's activities.
A list of the positions available and a bit
about what each of them involves can be found
in the box next to this article. These student
officers are elected at a General Meeting of the
Union. The next one of these will be held on the
last day of this term, 25th March at lpm in the
Ents Lounge, ground floor of the Union
Building.
If you want to know any more about any of
these nine posts, simply contact the Union
Office, first floor of the Union Building and ask
to speak to any of the sabbaticals. They'll be
happy to fill you in on what the post entails.
If you want to stand for election, you have to
get yourself nominated. For this, you need a
proposer and ten seconders. The nomination
papers are put on the board opposite the Union
Office.
Just to remind you, the elections will take
place at the Union General Meeting, lpm, 25th
March, in the Ents Lounge.
Academic Affairs Officer
This officer has the responsibility of coordinating the academic affairs activities within the Union.
By working with the Academic Affairs Officers of the CCUs and the Dep Reps, you help solve
students problems and bring to the Union's attention problems that departments may be facing.
Accommodation Officer
The Accommodation Officer works to improve the accommodation facilities of Imperial students,
both inside and outside of College. You come into contact with staff from College Residences
who value the views of the students who you represent.
Entertainments Chair
The Ents Chair is in charge of organising the events hosted in the Union. Working with the Ents
Committee, you can organise discos, club nights, comedy evenings, carnivals, the choice is yours.
Rag Chair
The Rag Chair and the Rag Committee organise the year's rag events from collections to Tiddly-
winks, from rag raids to Rag Week. Rag raises thousands of pounds. Can you improve on this?
Union General Meeting Chair
This officer chairs all the General Meetings of the Union - one of the most important meetings of
the Union. Good communications skills is needed as well as a spot of diplomacy at times!
Welfare Officer
The Welfare Officer represents student interests on welfare issues. The post also involves
researching problems that students experience while at College, working to find solutions,
bringing them to the attention of the Union and College so that they can be resolved.
Women's Officer
The Women's Officer exists to further the interests of female students at Imperial College.
Community Action Group Chair
This posts runs the Community Action Group of Imperial College Union.
A Safe Way Home For All
Are you fed up having to take a taxi home after kicking-out time at the
Union? Then maybe the Union has a solution . ..
If you live in Southside then you are lucky, at
least as far as getting home after a late Union
event is concerned. Even for residents of Evelyn
Gardens it isn't too much of a problem - there
are usually several people going the same way,
and it's not too far - it's a surmountable distance
even when you've indulged in the goodies of the
bar. However, especially for female students
living further afield, there is often no option than
to take a taxi home after the tube has closed.
Because of this there has been a free minibus
service for women after certain Union events.
The cost of this service has meant that it does not
run very often and is not available for men, even
for those prone to being molested, for whatever
reason.
Now, the idea is to set up a minibus service
available to all members of the Union after
Union events lasting past midnight. Users of the
service will be charged an affordable fee to
maintain the service (to help cover payment of
the driver and petrol costs). People would sign
up during the evening, giving their destination.
The minibus will deliver single female
passengers to the door and wait until they are
safely inside. Other users (including
accompanied women) will be dropped close to
home, at locations which take the other
destinations into account. Depending on how
complicated it becomes, this service might be
restricted to areas more highly populated with
students.
The price of this service will probably depend
on the distance, i.e. if you live further away you
will have to pay more. At present it is not yet
known exactly how the costs will be split up.
For the rest of the year, starting from the end-
of-term carnival next week, a trial minibus
service will be run on Fridays and any deficits
will be covered by the Women's Officer budget.
This will give us an idea of how to run such a
service. If the scheme is successful, we might be
able to extend it to include Wednesday nights.
ICU's Postgraduate Affairs Officer, Margie
Bell, told me about the 'walk-home' service she
supervised in her final year at Queen's
University (Kingston, Ontario). I outlined the
scheme in the last Women's Officer report; it
seems to be highly successful (it had been
running for five years when Margie managed it).
However, considering the low female
percentage, the early library closing times, the
relative safety of South Kensington and the
infamous apathy of Imperial College students, it
seems rather idealistic to set up a similar system
here.
If you think that there is a safety problem,
please do contact me. Until then;
Look outfor the first run of the minibus
service at the Carnival next Friday!
Kristine J Vaaler, ICU Women's Officer
There is a UGM on Friday 25th March, 1pm in the Ents Lounge

