Opinion 21
Media Matters
Dear Cat,
Oh deary, deary us; M r James Handley does
seem to have his knickers in a 'bit of a twist'.
We are, of course, referring to his rather
splendid effort of yesterweek - 'Aerial Views'.
What a joy it was to behold, and it did, indeed,
give us the utmost pleasure to read such acid
toned prose. Magnificent, well done Sir.
However, we are deeply saddened to discover
that Mr J. Handley 'et castera', were not amused
by our comment that television requires a
greater production effort than radio. Well James,
let us try and explain, and attempt to diffuse
some of your little perplexities and
misconceptions. Firstly, we stand by our
'offhand' comment, having both had personal
experience of the professional Television and
Radio media industries. Hence, after considered
meditation on the matter, we have come to the
resolute conclusion that T V waves do require a
more concerted effort in their origin, than their
radio 'counterparts'. This is but a simple fact
and after all 'a picture does tell a thousand
words', eh Bee? No jingoistic glee or
ostentatiousnous is taken in this reality and it
concerns us in the extreme that it does not
concur with your sentiments.
The reason for ourselves not joining the
orgasmically exciting ICR, is that for us, STOIC
has an added dimension that makes it quite
distinct from other media forms at Imperial. This
comes in the guise of film production, a media
Dear Felix,
I do not believe that Jon Jordan inhabits
reality. Anyone who sports a goatee as pointed
as his and who spends his entire waking hours
listening to the witless spewings of Indie music
cannot honestly lay claim to more than a tenuous
link with the real world. I do not, however,
believe that he is a "bigot" or a "fascist" and if
Sagar Das really holds this opinion then he too
must be living out a fantasy. Mr Jordan merely
stated that it would be naively optimistic to think
that Nationalism could be overcome. I totally
agree with him - when I originally wrote
"nationalism is a dangerous absurdity and the
only sensible way forward is internationalism" I
was not being optimistic, but merely stating the
facts. I personally hold little faith in the future of
the world and do not dream for a minute that
Nationalism can be destroyed at the drop of a
hat. This does not make me a fascist any more
than M r Jordan's pessimism does. If M r Das
wants to dispute the opinion that Nationalism
(and its modern extension, which could for want
of a better word be called ethnicism), is one of
the most powerful political forces, then he
should remove his blinkers and look around him.
Look for instance at Bosnia, look at Northern
Ireland. Look, if you will, at the burgeoning
dispute between the Sri Lankans and the Tamils
at our very own College! I cannot pretend to
form that gives a creative outlet which is largely
peculiar to moving visual media, by the fact that
it is not inherently documentary. Thus, as a
result of our experiences with Radio and
Television, we feel that television and film
production offers a much greater diversity than
radio. This then, being the main reason for us
not joining the ICR society - or maybe we're
just too damn good looking. However, being the
liberalists that we are, maybe we should join
ICR to gain a greater understanding of the Radio
proletariat. Perhaps Mr J. Handley would care to
do the same thing with regards to STOIC? That
is, if he's not too busy....
Onwards and upwards, to matters of a much
greater importance and urgency. Further to our
previous letter (Felix 992) and to the matter of a
'live link up T V show'. This would be between
the major London colleges and the aim would be
to inject some much needed rivalry, back into
the U L U scene. It would be held during freshers'
week, with the emphasis on 'wayout' fun and
competition. We have spoken to various college
union presidents and they are in agreement that
such an event has tremendous potential. All we
need now is some enthusiasm to help organise
the whole thing. So, anybody with showbiz
ideas or organisational tendencies, are urged to
get involved by contacting us, ASAP.
Good day to you all,
Anthony Waite, Elec Eng 2.
James Harrow, Elec Eng 2.
know much about their situation but it seems to
me that both sides are guilty of shameful
atrocities. The Sri Lankan situation seems to be
largely an accident of history and one that would
be very hard to resolve; but glorifying the
violence in inflammatory articles can do nothing
to calm the situation and will only increase the
friction between the two groups. It would be
much better if we could see the Tamils and Sri
Lankans of this College shaking hands and
settling their disputes, but will they do that? I
doubt it. Such is the power of Nationalism.
Yours,
Marcus Alexander.
International
Nite Thanks
Dear Felix,
I just wish to write a small note with a big
T H A N K Y O U to Mustafa and everyone
involved in the International Nite for producing
a wonderful evening, enjoyed by all.
Yours,
Minever Kavlak.
Cold Shoulder
Dear Felix,
The High Commissioner of Malaysia,
addressing IC students last Wednesday, was
fond of metaphors. So am I. Try this one: A
young, average-looking girl who blossoms into
an attractive, voluptuous young woman who
finds herself surrounded by suitors asking for
her hand. That girl is Malaysia, though many
other names will soon fit as economic puberty
arrives in S.E. Asia.
Like the popular girl, Malaysia realises her
power to call the shots. The recent events are not
about shady deals, corruption, poor project
choices and certainly not about one newspaper's
ability to mortally dishonour one of the region's
shrewdest politicians. Malaysia took action
simply because she can. This is behaviour
learned from the developed world, and Malaysia
is just flaunting a bit, such high-profile ruffling
of western feathers plays superbly at home,
where elections are coming soon.
So let all the actors (of which the British
media is one) play out their roles. Soon
someone else will get the gentle reminder of
who's in charge. Australia has felt it and even
the US has received the cold shoulder as
Malaysia twice rebuffed personal invitations to
join other Pacific nations in Seattle last year.
Regardless of what 'reasons' are offered,
remember these events are really just growing
pains of a blossoming nation.
Kevin Wellenos, Civ Eng 3.
Dead Ground
Dear Felix,
I feel compelled to write in response to the
review of The Pear's concerning On Deadly
Ground starring Steven Seagal and Michael Caine.
In light of watching the film I tentatively re-
read the review given on the 11th March (Issue
993) in search of any possible irony, sarcasm or
quite frankly, piss take! It is true on closer
scrutiny such phrases as "compassionate-but-
hard status", "re-cycled the plot" and
"unforgivable dialogue" did set alarm bells
ringing, and a quick check to ensure that April
lst was not too distant.
However, be this review a send-up or not I
fear the issue goes far beyond this, for this film
is awful. Neigh atrocious. The plot, the script,
the acting, the continuity, etc, etc suck!
Please all people who read last week's
review and even remotely considered paying £6
to see the film in questions - don't, give it to
charity, or even the Mormon Church, they look
in need of a few bob.
I feel that I should attempt to verify my
response as genuine. I have seen Predator,
Terminator even Steven Seagal's previous
movie Under Siege, all of which I enjoyed.
Albeit that the latter required a few beers
beforehand. But this feeble effort I did not.
So please, please, please, please....don't!
Mr Daren U Lacasex(Ian Hawes, Mech Eng).
Destructive Forces
The deadline for letters is 6pm on the Monday before publication

