22 Opinion
Editorial
Election Coverage.
The coverage of the sabbatical elections may
seem a little smaller than it should have been
this week. The reason for this is that there will
be more extensive coverage in next week's
issue. What we are hoping to do is present you
with facts and conclusions on what people
thought, rather than just theories on why things
happened.
Election Observations Letter.
'Keep The Cat Free' has been, still is and will
hopefully remain the motto of Felix. With
regards to the elections, I feel that it is wrong for
the media to be biased towards any candidate
during an election and, in this respect, I agreed
with our President's request not to publicise
New Election above any other candidate.
With hindsight, maybe Felix should have
promoted New Election more than it did, but
doing this and remaining unbiased isn't easy. It
is ultimately the job of the Returning Officer and
the Elections Committee to publicise all this.
Surely New Election should have had posters up
like each of the other candidates. It's been done
in the past. The Committee has a budget with
which to do it.
Felix certainly isn't M r Wensley's propa-
ganda machine - we are there to report on what
is going on. We are not biased towards the
Union - if sabbaticals screw up, we'll tell you
about it. We refer to ourselves as the student
newspaper of Imperial College, not of Imperial
College Union. The only guidelines we will
operate within are the publishing industry code
of practice. Apart from that, Felix will not be
Credits
Typesetter: Features:
Rose Atkins Owain Bennallack
Printer: Cinema:
Andy Thompson Joe McFadden
Business Managers: Music:
Simon Govier Jon Jordan
Steve Newhouse
Collators Last
Layout & Proofing: Week:
Kin Wei Lee Mike Ingram
Jon Jordan
Puzzles: Penguin
Sphinx Simon Shaw
Tim St Clair
News:
Mike Ingram Election Flyer:
Lynn Bravey Declan Curry
Andrew Tseng Mike Ingram
Declan Curry Mike Chamberlain
Distribution:
Photography: Kin Wei Lee
Ivan Chan Ivan Chan
Diana Harrison Penguin
Mike Chamberlain
dictated to by the Union and certainly won't be
its propaganda machine.
Tamil/Sri Lanka Letters.
I think I need to set things straight about the
Negative Images letter in last week's Felix. The
Chair of the Sri Lankan Society confirmed with
me last week that signing the letter as being the
views of the Sri Lankan Society was OK. I did
check this on more than one occasion during the
conversation. I did not, however, ask whether
the letter had been checked with the entire of the
Sri Lanka Society committee.
I assume that the Chair of a society has
enough common sense to check with the
necessary people before agreeing to something
on behalf of a society. I do not have the time to
make sure a letter has been checked with every
member of a society's committee before
accepting it.
As for the general Sri Lanka/Tamil debate
which is occupying part of the letters pages, I
hope that this doesn't reach the extent of the
Islam debate. As Marcus put in his letter, "it
would be much better if we could see the Tamils
and Sri Lankans of this College shaking hands
and settling their disputes...", but what seems to
be happening is more letters and the arguments
going round and round in circles.
I am not against debate on the letters page, I
just don't want the same groups disagreeing
over the same points every week. It gets tedious
and people lose interest. Why not just sit down
together and sort it our between yourselves and
let us know the result, instead.
A n s w e r s t o l a s t w e e k ' s
Elimination
a Iron Curtain 8,32
b Dipper, Brother 24,31
c Periodic Table 36,21
d Buy, Purchase 3,38
e Just About 9,15
f Kiss, Window 10,30
g Air-Mail 1,12
h Listen, Silent 25,29
i Interest Rate 35,13
j Ate, Eight 2,16
k Little Toe 26,5
1 Piercing, Cauliflower 37,41
m Packed Lunch 27,18
n Get Away 4,6
0 Charge Down 23,7
P Union, Frost 22,17
q Wronged, Remember 34,39
r Pepper, Saffron 28,33
s Leap Year 11,14
t Refer, Malayalam 19,40
The word left over was: Spell
S M A L L A D S
Minibus Drivers Wanted for minibus service
on Friday nights after lam. Rates not yet fixed.
Contact Kristine (Women's Officer), c/o the
Union Office, ext 3500.
Rollerblading Society Meeting - Monday 21st
March, lpm in Southside Lounge. All welcome.
Kensington Singers Concert of Sacred Music.
Wednesday 23rd March, 7.30pm, Holy Trinity
Church, Prince Consort Road. £3 (£1 cones).
Staff Needed for the Easter Vacation by the
Conference Office. If you are interested, phone
ext 3181.
Urgent! Tuition Required in C-programming
(over Easter holidays). Good hourly rates.
Lessons in Kensington area. Tel: Chris, 071 603
9382.
Lent '94
Lunch Time Series
Where do we go from here?
by Dr John Wyatt
Consultant Paediatrician, U C L
Tuesday 22nd March, lpm
Biology W2 (under Beit Arch)
Lunch available from 12.30pm
Union Stewards Required
For general stewarding duties at Union events.
Reasonable amount of work available. Good
pay. Must be able to work next academic year,
available during term time and possibly
holidays and be easily contactable. Good
character, confidence and ability to work with
people essential. Must be able to attend
training on Sat 23rd April (first Saturday
before Summer term). Interviews Wed 23rd
March. Contact Michelle in the Union Office
ext 8670 or 071 225 8670 to get a place.
Crossword News
This week is the last week of the
Cracking Cryptic Crosswords course by
SphinX. If you are missing any pages,
photocopies of them can be picked up in
FELiX to help you with next week's 3D
Crossword.
Coming Next Week:
3D Crossword II ~ 15x15x15 in a special
centre page pull-out section. Chambers
Dictionaries and Thesauruses to be won.
Includes a separate Clue Writing
Competition with prizes.
When submitting a letter, please bring your swipe card

