Opinion 23
The Hebron Massacre
Dear Ed,
On Friday 25th February Israeli settlers killed
over fifty Palestinians during their early morning
prayer at the al-Ibrahimi mosque in al-
Khalil/Hebron in the occupied West Bank. The
Israeli authorities claimed the killer was a lone
deranged man. This comes as one incident
amongst many such 'lone incidents' committed
by 'lone deranged people'.
Upon hearing the news of the massacre, the
Palestinian populace under occupation poured into
the streets in an expression of anger and protest.
The Israeli army responded with opening fire on
the outraged protesters killing at least seven more
Dear Felix
On behalf of the International Tamil Society
(ITS), I hereby make a formal complaint to the
president of the Sri Lankan Society (SLS) for
the article written in Felix (11th March), titled
'Negative Images'. It was stated that the article
represented the views of S L S , yet when
approached the SLS president stated that those
were the views of an individual but not the
society's. Ironically the vice president of SLS
was not even made aware of the existence of
such an article.
This article was a damaging attack on ITS for
our recent photographic exhibition in which we
were merely exercising our right to display our
culture and also to reveal how our culture is
being slowly destroyed. The article begins by
stating that the "importance was obviously being
placed on a set of photographs depicting
suffering in Sri Lanka". This shows the true
ignorance of the author as this was one of our
aims in the first place. We dispute the claim that
the exhibition was used as a "vehicle for
propaganda" as the video that was shown to the
Dear Felix,
Having read last week's Felix (11th March
1994), one particular sentence alarmed me
considerably: "I've been told by the President
that Felix is not allowed to 'champion the cause
of new election'..."
This raises two very important questions;
firstly, since when has our 'honourable'
President been able to dictate editorial policy in
Felix? I was led to believe that Felix was a
journal dedicated to student issues, student news
and student representation, not a personal
propaganda machine for Mr Wensley. Clearly,
the much vaunted phrase 'Keep the cat free' has
not yet worked its way into the presidential
ivory tower.
Secondly, and perhaps most importantly, why
exactly has Mr Wensley decided to conceal the
right to vote for New Election? Whilst his aims
people. Since then, twenty more people were shot
dead by the Israeli army. Curfew was also
imposed on the whole of occupied Palestine and
the army patrolled the area, while the settlers went
on with life as normal.
The very existence of the settlements is illegal
by international law and the fourth Geneva
convention. A number of U N resolutions have
already been passed urging Israel to dismantle
the settlements, though none were implemented.
Settlers pose a direct threat to the lives and
security of the Palestinian people under
occupation. Until the steps for their removal
from the West Bank and Gaza Strip become
public was an indepedent and unbiassed report
by Australian TV on the plight of Tamils.
Since its formation ITS has been very
successful in having organised many social and
cultural events including a major cultural show
'Shankarabharanam' depicting our rich Tamil
culture.
ITS members feel under obligation to express
the suffering of the Tamil people anywhere in
the world. However, it is only in Sri Lanka
where they are being reportedly persecuted,
which led us mainly to expose the sufferings in
North and East of the island. The ITS
understands, regrettably, that the Sri Lankans in
this college feel uncomfortable with their
country's precious image being tarnished, but it
is our duty as true Tamils to show the world the
harsh reality facing us.
The author finally concludes by asking the
Social Clubs Committee (SCC) to think
carefully before authorising such displays, but
one actually wonders if displaying the sufferings
of innocent people is an offence?
S.Kirupakaran, President of the ITS.
are usually hard to comprehend at the best of
times, this seems unbelievable.
Sadly, it is impossible to find out exactly
what the President thinks he is playing at, and
speculation is rarely productive, so the only
recourse is to vote in the elections, and hope for
the best for next year. This I intend to do (or,
will have done by the time this is printed), and
unless I am radically impressed by certain
candidates, New Election will doubtless receive
some votes from me - but my confidence in the
returning officer and the elections is severely
undermined when it is revealed that he is
making a concerted effort to conceal one the
most important aspects of the Union's
democratic election process.
Yours,
Tim Walls, DoC 1.
affected, the settlers must immediately be
disarmed, and international protection provided
for the Palestinians at risk.
The withdrawal of the Israeli troops and the
end of the military occupation of the West Bank
and Gaza Strip constitute the only way to ensure
the safety of the Palestinian population currently
under occupation.
I believe that the world should support the call
of the Palestinian people for the end of
occupation, the immediate removal of settlers
from the area and the provision of International
protection for the unarmed Palestinian population.
Saibri Saidam, Elec Eng.
Wrong Images
Dear Felix,
I am writing to you on behalf of the
committee of the Sri Lankan Society of Imperial
College, regarding the article titled 'Negative
Images' which was printed in the Felix of
March 1994. The article was ended with the
statement 'These are the views of the Sri
Lankan Society of Imperial College'. We wish
to make it clear to everyone concerned that this
article was printed without the knowledge of our
committee. Therefore in no way does anything
stated in the article represent the view of the Sri
Lankan Society of Imperial College.
The Sri Lankan Society is devoted to raising
awareness of Sri Lankan culture within Imperial
College, as well as to provide all those
interested in Sri Lanka with a chance to meet
each other. As a result our society consists of
people of various nationalities, races, religions
and opinions. Therefore to represent the many
views of our members in one article as the view
of the Sri Lankan Society is impractical and we
would not attempt to do so. We also object very
strongly to anyone else doing so, without the
permission of the committee of the Sri Lankan
Society.
Yours sincerely,
Shane De Zilwa, Secretary, Sri Lankan Soc.
C A R E E R S INFORMATION
Milkround. Don't panic if you're too late to
apply for the Milkround. We are writing to several
hundred employers in May. You can apply for
their remaining vacancies after your finals.
Summer Vacation Training Opportunities are
available on the new Careers Office Database.
Apply to UROP for research opportunities.
Penultimate Years. Start thinking about your
future. If you don't know what you want to do,
come to the Careers Office and try PROSPECT
- our computer-aided guidance system.
For F u r t h e r Information - come to the
Careers Office, Room 310 Sherfield, open from
10am to 5:15pm, Mon to Fri. A Duty Careers
Adviser is available for quick queries from lpm
to 2pm daily this term.
Damage Limitation?
Election Observations
You can place Small Ads in Felix free of charge

