24 Puzzle Page
Elimination by sphinx
Eliminate two words from the right hand columns for each clue on the left.
Which word is left over?
a Approximate 1 Ash 22 Faced
b Two synonyms 2 Cut 23 House
c s-<aX 3 Off 24 Human
d Two palindromes 4 Pop 25 Light
e 5 Bomb 26 Maxim
f Two trees 6 Door 27 Round
g is a dying " (S A Shaw) 7 Face 28 Short
h Two homophones 8 Flee 29 Solos
i Reflect on Wall Street, perhaps 9 Lamb 30 Stock
j Two going with two 10 List 31 Value
k How we ran away from the other primates? 11 Moon 32 Across
1 Two anagrams 12 Pine 33 Cancer
m A long way to go in the dark 13 Race 34 Crafty
n Two going with chop 14 Slay 35 Dynamo
0 The select few 15 Step 36 Escape
p Two suggesting Crown 16 Suey 37 Jewels
q S ^rs 17 Take 38 Monday
r Two with full 18 Time 39 Sleigh
s £© 19 Year 40 Aquarius
t Two words with front 20 Bench 41 Integrity
21 Court
Cracking Cryptic Crosswords
Lesson 15. The &Lit Clue
Coined by Ximenes (see later), the &Lit clue is
one which can be read in two quite different
ways. Firstly, it indicates the answer using any
one of the methods previously described (or
more likely a combination) and secondly, it can
also be read to be the straightforward definition
of the answer. A common example is the
'anagram &Lit' clue:
When unshapely models are employed (6)
The anagram of 'models' is SELDOM telling
us that unshapely models are seldom employed.
1. How I will be when I find more out (8)
The next is a 'last letter &Lit' clue.
2. Finishes last so keep endings (5)
The &Lit clue is not very common but semi-
&Lit clues are possible providing they are well
constructed and not too obscure.
Last Words
And so we come to the end of the lessons.
The fifteen lessons have covered the main
points to be aware of when clue solving but
they are not in order of importance. Glancing
through a daily papers' crosswords you should
Cracking Cryptic Crosswords
at least be able to recognise how a clue should
be interpreted if not immediately get the answer.
In case you've seen quotations in clues I
had better give them a mention. Clues
consisting of simple blanks in a quotation, in
my opinion, suck. They don't demand any form
of deduction and either require memory or a
book to be solved. Thankfully they are dying out.
At the risk of labouring a point, many clues
are an amalgamation of the techniques that have
been discussed in the lessons. For example, a
word might be divided into an anagram and an
abbreviation:
3. A dish for the stray pet around the American
city (5)
or instead of an abbreviation, a quirky
definition for a letter (or group of letters)
4. After midnight, Claire replaced the cold
sheet(7)
5. To be indebted to get married after love (4)
The Chambers Dictionary contains the best
(most obscure) definitions and words and has
therefore been adopted as the official crossword
dictionary amongst setters and solvers.
If your curiosity has been aroused, I would
recommend three books for further reading:
•Crosswords. How to Solve Them. Ruth Crisp,
Hodder & Stonghton.
•Chambers Crossword Manual. D S Manley.
•Ximenes on the Art of the Crossword. D S
Macnutt, Methuen & Co Ltd.
The first in this list is a handy but very basic
reference to cryptic crossword puzzling. The
second is an in-depth look at clue compiling
and solving and contains just about all you
might ever need or want to know about cryptic
crosswords. It's a good read but is not efficient
as a reference manual.
The last book in the list is a piece of history.
I mentioned Ximenes earlier. He set the first
standards in cryptic clue setting and his book
(1966) is a fascinating read for the crossword
enthusiast. He established what he considered
to be rules of fair-play and most crossword
compilers have since conformed to these rules.
This book is in the Haldane Library, bless it.
Most people think of the national
newspapers when they think of crosswords and
certainly the U K ' s press is responsible for
popularising cryptic crosswords. The standard
of puzzle does vary between papers but, at the
same time, one compiler will write for various
different papers so it is difficult to tell them
apart. If you want quality, stick to the
broadsheets.
Nuff respect and thanks to all at Felix.
© SjULoX. 1994
•p3«-0S :»IOTI-O> ;
w-VTdC :sdois7 :p3uuojiqi :sj3MSuy
Page 8
FELiX
The Student Newspaper of Imperial College
Felix is produced for and on behalf of Imperial College Union Publications Board and is printed by the Imperial College
Union Print Unit, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB (Tel: 071 225 8672).
Editor: Rebecca Land, Business Managers: Simon Govier, Steven Newhouse.
Copyright Felix 1994. ISSN 1040-0711

