I Feature
John walked slowly along Queen's Gate,
pondering the many basic questions of life; why
are we here? Is there life after death? And, above
all, what on Earth was he doing trekking to the
Huxley Building at 9 o'clock in the morning?
He noticed little as he walked robotically
towards the entrance. The unusual preponderance
of tourists was not in itself surprising - someone
was probably just selling the Americans real IC
Union sausage rolls with Union Jacks stuck on
them. The blood which was gently seeping out of
the windows and down the walls, however, may
have made a more weak-willed student
suspicious.
Not even John's almost legendary lack of
observational skills could deny that something
was definitely wrong when he entered the
building. As alarm bells made a noise
somewhere between an evacuate signal and the
hallelujah chorus, his first instinct was,
naturally, to jump for the lift. Which he did. (As
every good student knows, safety regulations
were invented by communist dictators who
wanted to suppress the masses and probably
studied economics.) At this point something
eerily unnatural happened - the lift was already
on his floor! Curiosity aroused, he entered (or
rather fell in) and pressed the button marked ten.
"Bloody physicists," he muttered.
Now, whilst it is perfectly normal to blame
physicists for anything from the price of lager to
the price of bitter with little apparent reason, in
this case John was correct. What he didn't know
was that, due to a rather dangerous experiment
conducted by a physics professor (involving a
tweed jacket and an attempt to tell a joke), a
massive temporal anomaly had occurred on floor
6M. This resulted both in the death of everyone
in the building and (slightly more seriously) the
destruction of the nice shiny 'Conference
Centre' signs that had just been installed.
More by luck than judgement, John had, in
fact, chosen the perfect place to hide; not many
people know this, but lifts already exist in an
alternative plane of reality (Huxley's lifts are
about one foot below ours) and are thus immune
from temporal anomalies on other planes.
The lift creaked and screeched as it dragged
its way up the shaft, giving John a sense of
familiar security. As the doors slid open four
feet below the relevant floor, it was as if nothing
had changed. He scrambled up the lift shaft and
stood panting in the corridor. After a few
seconds, he realised this was not his floor.
"Oh, Bugger," he said, which was, perhaps,
not the most original thought, but it did seem to
sum things up. John noticed that all the crimson
streams of blood in this corridor appeared to be
flowing in a similar direction. So (through one
of those strange deductive processes that also
cause people to enter the basement armed with a
penknife when there is a lunatic wielding a
hatchet down there) John decided to follow it.
Towards the end of the corridor a river of
blood slowed and began to congeal, forming a
soup Linstead Hall would've been proud to
serve. The soup gently lapped against a closed
door which was marked 'WARNING: CLASS 1
BORE' and 'Physicists do it with accelerators'.
John tentatively placed his hand on the door
handle, and turned...
At this point, it is probably worth explaining
exactly what had caused the temporal anomaly.
Whilst sitting in his office poring over a
particularly poor student's paper, the tweed
jacketed professor (who shall remain nameless
in the interests of the reputation of the College,
not to mention the tailors) thought of, what can
only be described as, a hilarious joke (seemingly
a first for a physicist). Pausing only to develop a
new unit (and symbol) for humour, be dragged
his beleaguered PhD student into the room.
"What," he said, "do you get when you cross
a physicist with a biologist?"
At this point Reality was already showing the
signs of stress associated with a physicist (an IC
professor, no less) attempting to tell a joke. " A
biophysicist?" ventured the student.
At this point, Reality decided it would be best
if it had a quiet sit down in a darkened room.
"No, you fool," (professors always have the
utmost respect for their students). "It's...oh sod
it! Now where did I write it down..."
Reality, which had put up with more than its
fair share of trouble lately, decided that its only
recourse was a couple of Valium and a quick dose
of shock treatment. The pile of paperwork that
passed for a filing system immediately concluded
that the biggest shock it could muster would be
to turn into a black hole. This was almost entirely
at odds with the fact that the pile, although
copious, weighed only about one kilogram.
Nevertheless, it made a pretty good effort and
managed, by dint of Reality's impromptu
holiday, to create not a black hole but more of a
black rip. In the absence of anyone to repair the
rip, this would have to suffice.
A l l was not entirely well, however; with
Reality having decided it needed a holiday, Time
was getting itchy feet as well. Now, as legal
eagles will know, Time is contractually obliged
to carry on working. After some examination of
the small print in the contract, Time realised that
nowhere did it mention which direction it had to
go in. After a bit of thought (and a few attempts
at going sideways) it decided that backwards
was as good a way to unwind as any.
Anyway, John's hand had by now more or
less completely turned the door handle. He
pulled and was confronted by something more
dreadful than anything else he had ever seen!
Could it possibly be...Jimmy Tarbuck! Clearly,
the extent to which Time and Reality were in
trouble had been underestimated by all.
Confronted by anything as terrifying as
Jimmy Tarbuck, many students would run to
their nearest Neo-Marxists For Chicken Rights
Society for refuge. John, however, was a
computing student made of sterner stuff, and
thus devastatingly bad taste was normal for him.
Clearly, the situation demanded action. The
first action which came to John's mind was
purchasing a stiff drink (in situations like these,
even the Union bar is appealing). John had to
face the fact that drowning in alcohol wasn't
going to rid the world of Tarby, so something a
little more substantial was going to be required.
Curiously, Tarby appeared to be stuck in an
infinite loop, reciting "What do you get when
you cross a physicist..." over and over again. In
a sudden flash of inspiration, it occurred to John
that if he could provide a punchline for the joke,
the anomaly would be resolved and the world (or
Huxley building) would be saved.
Whilst simple in principle, this would
normally have been something of a problem for
John. As has been mentioned, John was a
computing student and computing students only
recognise jokes that have been circulating on the
networks for two or three years at least. Luckily,
physicists suffer from a similar lack of
imagination. The joke which the professor
claimed to have invented was thus one which
John had heard before. Taking a deep breath, he
uttered the magic words...
At this point, Reality gradually came round
and wondered groggily what in God's name it
had done in the void which constituted its
memory of the past few hours and prayed that if
it didn't know, no one else did either. Time
realised that, however dull its life may have
been, nothing was bad enough to warrant
resurrecting Tarbuck and concluded that maybe
the old days were in fact better after all. (This is
the kind of conclusion that only Time itself can
reach with any sort of authority.)
...The shimmery image of Tarby immediately
imploded, drawing a vast wave of normality into
its place. The rivers of blood swirled around and
were sucked into the rip which then sealed itself
in a flash of near blinding light.
Looking slightly bewildered, John walked
back to the lift and pressed the 'down' button.
After five minutes, the lift finally arrived and he
fell into the lift (which was, typically, one foot
below floor level). Things were back to normal.
"Bloody physicists..."
Tim Walls
If you've got anything suitable for Cat's Tale, please let us know

