Feature
Global Peace In One Easy Step!
Another new drug? A nuclear bomb? Why not consider a new solution?
Maharishi Effect: Reduced Conflict in Lebanon
and Improved Quality of Life in Israel
TM-Sidhi Program Participants
Figure 6. This figure illustrates the covariation between the number of TM-Sidhi participants
(dashes) and a composite index of quality of life in a study conducted in Israel during August and Sep-
tember of 1983. The composite index was the arithmetic average of standardized scores for crime
rate, traffic accidents, fires, stock market, national mood, and a measure of war intensity in Lebanon.
The sociological parameters employed in this study were lodged in advance of the experiment with an
independent review board of scientists in the United States and Israel. Transfer function analysis indi-
cated that change in the number of TM-Sidhi participants led change in the composite index b\ one
day (t(51) = 2.18, p = .017) and by six days (t(51) = 1.80, p = .039, one-tailed testsl supporting the
hypothesis that the TM-Sidhi program caused the reduction in fighting and improved quality of life.
Yes folks! You can create world peace in one
easy step! That's right, we're talking real world
peace - no more wars (hot or cold), no arms
races, no exploitation, no political tensions, no
natural disasters, no crime, accidents or diseases,
in short, the big Utopia, Heaven on Earth!
Ladies and gentlemen we're talking about an
end to all suffering of any kind, for our
generation and all our future generations! And
all you have to do is meditatel
Now I have your attention, I urge you to
temporarily suspend your disbelief and to read
on. I'll start again.
This article discusses a radical claim. Before
presenting it, bear in mind that this claim has
been extensively and scientifically verified and
accepted by a growing number of independent
academics and journals. It is as follows: if 1% of
the population of a community were to practice a
particular type of meditation (called the
Transcendental Meditation technique or T M for
short) or if the square root of 1% were to
regularly practice the related T M - S i d h i
programme then 'well-being' will increase, with
time, in that community. I use 'well-being' in
the broadest possible sense (eg. reduction in
crime, suicides, wars etc). 'Community' here
means anything from a village to the world.
"Myfirst reaction to work in this tradition was
total disbelief...the technique already has a
sounder basis than many less exotic
approaches...iffavourable results keep coming,
we should not shrink from using them..." (Ken
Pease, Professor of Criminology, Manchester
University and Board Member of the Home
Office National Board for Crime Prevention)
This, I admit, is a bold claim. I have only
been able to take this claim seriously because
careful scrutiny of the studies supporting this
claim has led to its acceptance by many
academics unconnected with the T M movement
and to the publication of these studies in a
number of widely-respected journals. I think
those of us who want to become scientists
should have an open mind. In the words of Dr.
John Hassard of the Physics Dept. (with whom I
discussed this claim), "... it is irritating and sad
that the knee-jerk reaction of most scientists will
be to dismiss these claims without thought, let
alone experiment. It's a great indictment of the
scientific approach we're all taught".
I will argue below, that if this claim were true
then it would be far more than an intellectual
curiosity: it would be by far the best way, if not
the only way, to save ourselves and the whole
world (so it is indeed a very important claim, the
truth of which should be examined).
Before I go on to explain this claim, I should
describe T M and the TM-Sidhi program. It is
practised whilst sitting comfortably with the
eyes closed for 20 minutes, twice a day, by
millions of people worldwide.
Don't you have to be a vegan-monk-hermit?
Practising T M involves no change in lifestyle or
beliefs (atheists, agnostics and people from all
the major religions practice TM). Unlike many
meditation techniques, it requires no effort or
concentration whatsoever, so it is enjoyable and
can be practised by anybody who has thoughts
of any kind (i.e. everyone reading this article).
Sounds like airy-fairy-60s-nippy-junk!
Over 500 studies carried out at 210 universities
and research institutions and published in many
academic journals have shown that T M
improves the quality of life of it's practitioners.
These studies have been collected together in a
number of volumes titled Scientific Research on
Maharishi's Transcendental Meditation and
TM-Sidhi Programme - anybody interested in
reading these please contact TMSoc.
There is a large body of evidence which
shows that T M is very effective in improving
academic ability, dealing with high blood
pressure, high cholesterol, hypertension, asthma,
diabetes, insomnia, angina, weight problems,
drug-dependency (booze, fags, illegal and
medical drugs), psychiatric illnesses, anxiety,
depression, rehabilitation for prisoners and many
other 'illnesses'. More importantly T M is very
effective at preventing illness in later life (it has
also been recommended by the Health Centre).
The TM-Sidhi program is a more advanced
technique that can be learnt any time after the
first two months of being a meditator. Its effects
are similar to those of T M , but they work in a
more profound way.
You can't blind me with pseudoscience!
If you want more rigour, then look at the
hundreds of experiments carried out and
published in many leading academic journals
(which have been collected in the volumes
mentioned above).
What's all this got to do with Peace?
I think everyone will agree that there is a lot of
suffering in the world (eg. third world debt,
fascism and civil war, millions are starving and
dying of disease, my friend lost his favourite pen
... the list could go on and on...). Whatever we
do to try to alleviate it, comparatively little
changes overall. The suffering goes on and on. A
few people nobly carry on at any cost, with little
success, but most people, because of
hopelessness and apathy do very little.
"The peer-reviewed literature provides
statistically highly significant supportfor the
claim ... These results, which are so completely
contrary to one's expectations and yet
potentially so important, should be approached
with an open mind, and further studies by
independent researchers should be supported to
check and explore the effect." (James Lawton,
Visiting Professor of Chemical Engineering,
Imperial College)
Until they find out about the Maharishi
Effect. This phenomenon, named after Maharishi
who predicted it some 30 years ago, has been
studied extensively for the past two decades.
Journals including Yale University's Journal of
This week's Restaurant Reviews are on page 4

