Feature 1
Conflict Resolution (reputedly the world's
leading journal in the field of peace studies) and
Social Indicators Research (one of the most
statistically rigorous journals in the social
sciences) have published studies showing that
the Maharishi Effect works. Not surprisingly, the
juries from these journals were very sceptical of
the research. Despite this, fourteen studies have
been accepted to date, either at conferences or in
journals. It is the only technique for creating
'well-being' that has been reproduced with
100% success in widely varying environments.
It is very easy, very cheap and very peaceful to
execute.
"...the claim can be plausibly made that the
potential impact of this research exceeds that of
any other on-going social or psychological
research programme. The research has survived
a broader array of statistical tests than most
research in the field of conflict resolution... "
(David Edwards, Professor ofGovernment,
Texas University)
Studies show that there are reductions in
crime, war deaths, terrorism, traffic fatalities, air
traffic fatalities, infectious diseases, unemploy-
ment, and inflation at local, national and inter-
national levels. The statistical probability that
the results of all these studies taken together are
just a coincidence and not related to T M has
been calculated to be 10 (assuming that all the
studies are independent of one another).
So what?
So what? Take crime. The government spends
hundreds of millions of pounds on different
schemes, and crime is still on the increase. It is
completely illogical to expect those schemes
which have consistently failed in the past to
suddenly be successful now. The Maharishi
Effect has been consistently successful in
reversing crime increases, and the cost of its
implementation for the whole of Britain is
negligible.
What's it got to do with met
Anyone who thinks "I'm alright Jack!" may be
'alright' now, but what about the future? The
world is changing fast. In just the last decade the
Cold War ended faster than most people
expected. Who knows what will happen next?
Just because we've had it 'easy' in Britain it
doesn't mean it'll carry on being that way. If
anyone cares for no one except themselves, then
they should try to create peace, for their own
sake. Perhaps Britain should look to
Mozambique, where the army was recently
trained in the TM-Sidhi programme in order to
combat civil war and where, interestingly
enough, the civil war quickly ended.
I'm still very sceptical
I hope that I've convinced the reader of how
important it is to investigate the claims of the
TM-movement. It is very hard to believe in these
claims because they seem ridiculous. However,
one cannot ignore the very compelling empirical
results. Also, it is worth remembering that all
revolutions in thought are hard to accept (it
seems obvious to us that the Sun is at the centre
of the Solar System, but it took a very long time
for people to accept this). Finally, part of the
claim is that if enough people all over the world
do meditate in large enough groups (and it really
isn't that many people) then in a very real sense,
they will create real and lasting world peace.
This would be the most significant event in
recorded human history.
If you want to find out more about the 'how
and why' of the Maharishi Effect, then please
come to Mech Eng Rm 220 on Mon 21st March
at lpm, where Charles Cunningham, a qualified
T M instructor, will give a talk on T M and the
Maharishi Effect. For more information about
TMSoc you can contact the secretary, Yasir
Hassan (that's me), Physics UG4 through my
pigeon hole or by email on Y.Hassan®
ph.ic.ac.uk.
I'd like to thank Dr. John Hassard and I'd also
like to thank everyone who read this for their
helpful advice. Naturally, I take full
responsibility for the opinions and facts
presented. Finally, I'd also like to thank Felix
for printing this article.
Maharishi Effect: Decreased Crime in U.S. Cities
Immediate Crime Rate Change
in 1973
p<.002
Change in Crime Rate Trend
From 1967-1972
vs. 1972-1977
<.02
1 % Cities
N = 24
Control Cities
N = 24
Figure 1. Cities in which 1
% of the population had been instructed in the Transcendental Meditation
program by 1972 displayed decreased crime rate during the next year (1973) and decreased crime rate
trend during the subsequent years (1972-1977 in comparison to 1967-1972) in contrast to control
cities matched for geographic region, population, college population, and crime rate.
Research Review on the Maharishi Effect
• In 24 cities where 1% of the population had
begun the basic T M technique (practising T M
singly in their own homes), as compared to 24
control cities, crime rate fell in the year after
the 1% threshold was reached. The trend to
reduce crime continued for the next five years.
The study was statistically controlled for
population density, median years education,
percentage employed and other factors that
usually affect crime. (Journal of Crime and
Justice, 4, 25-45.)
• A day-by-day study of a two-month T M -
Sidhi assembly in Israel showed that, on days
of high attendance, war deaths in neighbouring
Lebanon dropped by 76%. At the same time,
crime, traffic accidents and fires all declined in
Israel. Other possible causes (week-ends,
holidays, weather, etc) were statistically
controlled. (The Journal of Conflict
Resolution, 32, 776-812.)
• Statistics provided by the Rand Corporation
showed that, during the three largest TM-Sidhi
assemblies ever held (approaching or
exceeding 7,000 participants, the square root of
1% of the world's population), worldwide
terrorism dropped by 72%. At the same time,
all international conflict reduced by more than
30%. (Presented to the American Political
Science Association.)
• A comprehensive Quality of Life index for
the U.S. (crime rate, hospital admissions rate,
alcohol consumption rate, gross national
product per capita, etc) declined steadily from
1960 to 1981, with a total drop of 10%. After
the TM-Sidhi group in Fairfield, Iowa, reached
the square root of 1% of the U.S. population,
the Quality of Life index suddenly moved
upwards, regaining the entire two-decades drop
of 10% in just three years. (Social Science
Perspectives Journal, 2(4), 127-146)
• Since 1987, when approximately 100 people
began practising the TM-Sidhi programme in a
T M village near Merseyside, the crime rate for
Merseyside fell by 60% when compared with
the rest of the country, taking it from having
the third highest crime rate in Britain to the
lowest for a metropolitan area. (Presented to
the Annual Conference of the British
Psychological Society on Criminal and Legal
Psychology, 1-3, March 1993.)

