Clubs and Societies S
The 1st Loxbridge Windsurfing Challenge
sailing was fast and furious on both days and the
three leagues all provided some very close
racing. In the final results three of the top four in
the London team were inevitably from Imperial.
Although London fielded a strong team attack
we were narrowly beaten due to some
exceptional sailing by two members of the
Cambridge team.
All in all a storming time was had by all. The
event was superbly organised with an
impromptu M C in the form of Paul 'censored'
Cooper (incidentally also from Imperial).
Thanks again to everyone involved. We'll get
them next year!
Finally if anyone is interested in representing
the College or fancies a stormin' good social
weekend in May, the Bic National Windsurfing
Championships is the event you have been
waiting for. It's going to be H U G E ! Contact
James Mayhew Mech Eng III or meet us in
Southside Upper Lounge Tuesdays 12.30pm for
more details.
Why? Why did we do it? Why did 24
supposedly sensible, modern men of the nineties
choose to pit their wits against the elements? At
Datchet of all places!! Was it the rubber suits?
Was it the thought of being surrounded by
sanitary waste (London's drinking water) or was
it just that it was time that the University of
London gave Oxford and Cambridge a run for
their money?
The Event: The first (ever) Loxbridge Wind-
surfing Challenge
The Venue: Queen Mother Reservoir, Datchet
The Sponsor: Bic Sport
The Date: Friday 4th and Saturday 5th
March (the first windy weekend)
We met at dawn and loaded our equipment (onto
our cars) before heading west for the showdown.
The Oxbridge teams had arrived before us,
obviously scared and trying to establish their
territory.
Our equipment was quickly superseded by
that supplied by Bic and despite our attempts at
sabotage and blatant neglect, all the boards
managed to survive unscathed. Quite a relief for
Bic, considering all the equipment was brand
new and the boards were a new design that had
never been sailed in the world before.
Unfortunately the sails weren't as resilient and
four were given a merry send off to the great
reservoir in the sky. (I guess Bic booms weren't
designed to survive a forward loop!!)
The London Team consisted of nine people
of which five were from Imperial College. The
Esoteric
Alpinism
On Thursday 24th March, Nick Lewis will give
a talk entitled Esoteric Alpinism. Nick, an
experienced mountaineer, has travelled widely
around the world and has spent two years
guiding in the Antarctic. He will talk about his
climbs up some of the less well known
mountain ranges of the world, such as the Tien
Shan, Alaska, and the Polish Tatra.
This lecture should be interesting not only to
climbers, but to anyone interested in travelling
to and trekking around obscure, tourist-free
mountain areas. If you are wondering what to do
this summer then maybe Nick's lecture will give
you a few ideas. He will also be available after
the lecture (in the bar - he's a mountaineer!) to
answer any questions on the best way to travel
freely in strange places like Poland and Russia,
and what places to visit.
The lecture will be in the Clore Lecture
Theatre in Mathematics (Queensgate entrance)
at 6pm. Entrance is free for members of the
Exploration Society, £1 for non-members, or
£2.50 for membership.
For further details contact David Edwards,
Management III, or see us in Southside Upper
Lounge on Tuesday Lunchtimes.
All The World's
A Stage?
Drama enthusiasts may have noticed that
Dramsoc is staging three plays this term. What
may not have been spotted is a fourth play being
broadcast on IC Radio this Saturday at 7pm.
The Dog It Was That Died is Tom Stoppard's
greatest radio play and concerns the chaotic
aftermath of the attempted suicide of a spy. (He
throws himself off a bridge at high tide but
lands on a passing dog which breaks his fall.)
The play is a parody of the espionage genre as
portrayed by Deighton and Le Carre.
Dramsoc hasn't attempted a radio play for
some years and we were forced to rediscover
some basic recording techniques. But there is no
doubt that the result is worth the effort.
Radio plays have several advantages over
stage plays: no costumes, props or complicated
sets; the actors don't have to memorise their
lines and new actors, who might be intimidated
by the stage, can have a go. Of course radio
plays will not replace the stage, but expect to
see (and hear) many more next term and next
year.
Anyone wishing to act in or direct a radio
play can contact DramSoc on ext 8719 or IC
Radio on ext 8710.
Virgins, Angels
and Wolves
This Monday, ICSF presents a fantasy double
bill starting at 6pm in Chem Eng LT1.
The Princess Bride is a sweet little fairy tale
about true love which takes a tongue in cheek
look at the usual quest story. Cary Elwes is
excellent as the dashing hero, aided and abetted
by his travelling companions the giant and the
Spanish swordsman.
The Company of Wolves, is a dark fable of
Freudian sexuality, its stories revealing the
literal beasts within us. The film's best aspects
are its design (Anton 'Batman' Furst and
direction (Neil 'The Crying Game' Jordan)
along with some eerie transformation scenes
from man to wolf. An entertaining frightener.
Both films are free to ICSF members.
Membership is £3 and allows you to borrow
over 3,000 books, videos and graphic novels
along with reduced entry to our 35mm
presentations, including your first film free.
Tuesday was supposed to be Dune on film,
but we've had to push it back to week two of
next term. Instead we present The Omen and
Angel Heart in the STOIC studios (top floor of
the Union Building) which was cancelled due to
STOIC's coverage of the Sabbatical Hustings.
Entry is free to ICSF and STOIC members.
The Amazing 15 x 15 x 15 3D Crossword in next week's Felix

