South Korea comes to IC
The President of South Korea, Mr Roh Tae Woo, visited Imperial College on Thursday. The visit was instigated by GEC-
Marconi, who collaborate with IC on a number of projects, including robotics.
During the visit he met the Rector, Professor Eric Ash, who later told Felix that Imperial College's connections with
South Korea had proved extremely fruitful.
Hall rents go up again
The proposed rents for college student
halls next year have been released. They
include a rise of 4.5% to £46 per week
(excluding food) for Linstead, Southside,
Weeks and Fisher halls single rooms, and
no change for double and triple rooms
(details in the Union page).
Both the Student Residence Committee
(SRC) and Imperial College Student Union
have recommended that the rents should
not be increased any further as the limit
students can afford has been reached. Mr
John Smith, who was the College
Secretary last year, put forward these
proposals despite the SRC
recommendation. He told Felix that the
'SRC was, as is often the case, unable to
reach a unanimous decision' and that he
had 'orders to reduce the college deficit'.
He recognised that high rents were
detrimental to recruitment, and for that
reason had decided on a compromise. He
added that the rents would not be finally
decided until the value of the student grant
for next year had been published, which
would probably be in February or March.
Professor Ash said he was 'happy to
agree with this recommendation'. He told
Felix that according to the law of this
country, public funds could not be used
to subsidise rents. 'It's not as if we can
decide rent in an arbitrary way' he added.
Mr Smith's decision to set rents after
a divided meeting of SRC could mean the
end of the Committee's advisory powers
on rents. Mr Smith has advised the Rector
that the College's new business manager
may 'have views about the committee
structure and the need for managers to
manage.'
NUS loans march success
Students fom all over the United Kingdom
marched through central Glasgow last
Tuesday. The action was the latest attempt
by the National Union of Students (NUS)
to gain public support against the
Government's Student Loans Bill. Twenty
thousand students were estimated to have
been addressed by Members of Parliament
and Education Union leaders. The venue,
Glasgow, was decided because the central
administration of the Student Loan
Company is to be based there.
Representatives of most of the
opposition parties spoke at the rally,
including Ms Diana Warwick, leader of
the Association of University Teachers
(AUT), Mr. Tony Worthington M P , the
shadow spokesperson on education and
Mr. Archie Kirkwood M P , of the
Democrats.
An NUS spokesperson told Felix that
the march was 'without doubt very
successful' and that there was a 'mood of
determination, although it was good
humoured'. There was one arrest during
the march and the spokesperson added that
the media coverage had been poor
throughout the country except Scotland.
The NUS are still deciding their next
step against student loans, though they say
they are optimistic about their chances of
success if students and student unions are
energetic in their opposition. According
to a recent NUS opinion poll sixty percent
of the population of the United Kingdom
does not support the student loans
proposals.
Issue 852
Friday 1st December

