Dominic Strowbridge tells the story ofthe 1989 London University..
Expedition to Ecuador
There was a complete uproar around the packed
galleries, as Ailister, Dominic and Lynn entered the bull
ring and made their way to its centre. The swaying
crowd of Indians, dressed in their colourful ponchos,
went wild at the prospect of some Gringo blood. The
other amateur toreadors drew back, leaving the
trembling three standing in a triangle, no more than
ten yards apart; the snorting bull at their centre. It was
going to charge at one of them...but which one?
This was just one of the interesting situations that
we got ourselves into as members of the 1989 London
University Ecuador Expedition last summer. The team
of eight undergraduates came from different colleges
of the University of London. From Imperial were
expedition leaders Dominic Strowbridge and Basil
Heaney; Lynn Hughes, a physicist, and Mark
Pickersgill and Alister Clarke, from Chemical
Engineering. We were joined by Emma Medcalf and
Janet Dearden from King's College, and Magnum
Patrick, from UCL
We set the expedition three main aims.
• Our primary reason for going was to undertake
a domestic energy survey for the Ecuadorian
government in a small indian village, high up in the
mountainous central region.
• Closely linked to the energy survey was a project
to make a film of our experiences for the BBC as an
entry to the Mick Burke Award. If all goes well, this
should be hitting your screens sometime next spring.
• And once all the work was over, we set about
climbing some of the highest volcanoes in the world.
We reached the tops of three, the greatest being
Chimborazo, a 6310m giant, whose summit retains
the distinction of being the point furthest from the
centre of the earth.
Our journey to South America actually started back
in November of 1988, when Basil and Dominic put a
small ad in FELIX, inviting people to apply for places
on the proposed expedition. Within a few weeks, we
had a team of eight, and, together, we set about
developing our plans, making contact with the
government and universities of Ecuador, and trying to
raise the £12,000 necessary to get the project off the
ground.
We arrived in Quito, the capital of Ecuador, at the
beginning of July. The old colonial city lies at almost
10,000 feet, surrounded by snow capped volcanoes.
The thinner atmosphere at this height left us
constantly tired, but this gave us a good excuse to
acclimatise in any one of the many street cafes. We
were given a more personal introduction to the city
by the students of the EPN, the Escuela Politecnica
Nacional, the equivalent of Imperial in Ecuador.
After five days of final preparations with the
National Institute of Energy IINEI for whom we were
working, we set off for Mercedes Cadena, in the
province of Chimborazo, the village where we were
to conduct our studies. The village was made up of
about 100 families, all of them indigenous indians.
They eked out an existence from the dusty fields
surrounding the village. Constructed mainly of mud
and straw their homes were primitive, though most
were connected to the electricity supply and had
access to a clean water tap.
Page 10
On arrival we were met by the parish priest, Padre
Balseca, who turned out to be the uncle of our contact
at INE. This greatly helped our acceptance into the
community. He showed us our home for the next five
weeks: the communal hut, a drafty construction,
which we were to share with a prolific family of mice.
Sanitation facilities were basic too. Our only washing
facility was a concrete trough standing on the other
side of the village square. Bathtimes proved to be very
popular amongst the villagers, attracting quite large
crowds. On our first night, the whole village
assembled, and we had to present ourselves before
a mini-inquisition in the village chapel. Luckily they
accepted us and gave the go ahead for our work.
The Energy Survey
Our main purpose for staying in Mercedes Cadena was
to undertake the domestic energy survey. Initially, we
aimed to find out what types, and what qualities, of
fuels the villagers were currently using for cooking,
heating and lighting.
We began by conducting interviews with five,
different families, to see if we could improve the
structure of the questionnaires that we had designed
back in England. Once any questions had been
reworded, we began completing questionnaires in
earnest, interviewing half the population of the village
in the five weeks of the study period.
Despite receiving the go-ahead for the survey work
at the first night's inquisition in front of the whole
village, individual families were, at times, reluctant to
cooperate. Rumours had developed, claiming that we
were a special team of tax inspectors, brought over
from a foreign country to investigate their affairs.
They were especially suspicious of how we insisted
on knowing how many guinea pigs they owned!
However, through our help to the community in other
ways, such as providing free medical clinics, we were
soon trusted by the majority of the people and the
survey ran smoothly.
The language barrier, perhaps, provided the greatest
obstacle to our work. Three of the team spoke fluent

