Spanish, which was a great help. Although most of
the male members of Mercedes Cadena also spoke
Spanish, they did so as a second language; their first
language, and that of the rest of the community, being
Quechua. We were also restricted in the times when
we could conduct the survey. With families leaving
for their fields at about 5am, the morning had to be
discounted. They tended to return between four and
six o'clock in the evening. This was when we had to
catch them, before darkness descended making a
venture around the village too difficult a task.
As far as the energy survey went, we found that
almost all homes burnt wood, cacti or straw on an
open fire for cooking.
Together with the students from the EPN, we
looked closely for opportunities in which appropriate
technology could benefit the community. We
identified two areas: agricultural tools, such as
threshing machinery; and developments in the home,
such as more efficient wood burning stoves or simple
chimneys.
The results of our involvement in the medical
aspects of life in Mercedes Cadena uncovered a basic
lack of knowledge about personal hygiene and health
care. We began to address this problem by holding
medical clinics and by giving evening classes in
elementary First Aid. We particularly stressed the
importance of preventative medicine. In an effort to
continue this work, we trained two men from the
community in First Aid. They, along with the students
from the EPN, should now be continuing with the
medical clinics that we initiated this summer.
Lastly, on a more personal level, there was Hector,
the team's favourite villager and expedition film star.
Hector has been profoundly deaf and dumb since
birth. Whilst we were in Ecuador, we took Hector to
a hearing specialist in Quito, an incredible experience
for him. The specialist recommended that rather than
fitting him with a suitable hearing aid, which would
be difficult to maintain and might result in cultural
difficulties for the six year old boy, he should attend
Bathtime for Alister in the village trough
a special school in Riobamba some fifty miles away.
At this school Hector would learn to express himself
more clearly and communicate with others using sign
language. We set up a small fund to provide the
money required for the schooling and travel, and Padre
Balseca, the parish priest, kindly agreed to manage
the programme after we left Ecuador. At the beginning
of November we heard from Padre Balseca that Hector
had started school and was progressing very well.
It was during our last weekend in Mercedes Cadena
that we came across the bulls. The annual fiesta in
Guamote coincided with our last weekend in the area,
a justifiable excuse for a special party. The fiesta
lasted from Friday until Sunday; three days of eating,
drinking, music making, dancing and bullfighting. The
latter did not take the same form as the well known
Spanish sport. Rather than the bulls being killed, the
local, amateur toreadors are the ones who often end
Hector has a go at filming
up being hurt, usually after overindulgence in another
aspect of the fiesta!
As the three team members stood trembling in the
centre of the ring, the bull made its move. It went for
Lynn, who did the natural thing most amateurs would
do in the same situation. He turned to run, but
promptly fell over. A few adrenalin filled moments
followed as he disappeared in a cloud of dust and
charging hooves. The bull then turned and made for
Dominic, whose Iberian blodd saved him, and the bull
charged off to another part of the ring. Lynn was
thankfully unhrt, though covered in dust. In the eyes
of the crowd he was the hero of the day.
The events of that afternoon convinced even the
most sceptical locals that we were really humans, just
like them. Three weeks later, as Emma and Dominic
were travelling to the mountain refuge on Chimborzo,
over fifty miles away, their driver turned to them and
said: 'Weren't you the bullfighters at the Guamote
festival?'. We had made quite an impression.
Climbing the volcanos
Our main climbing objectives were ascents of two of
the world's highest volcanoes, Cotopaxi and
Chimborazo. We also climbed a third peak for some
preliminary training. Before we could begin, though,
we said good-bye to two of the team, Janet and Mark,
who had to return to England for academic and work
related reasons.
After some initial reconnaisance, we chose
Tungurahua, an active 5016m volcano, as our training
peak. The first part of our ascent was an arduous trek
up to 3200m. The trek took us through natural tunnels
to spectacular views of the jungle thousands of feet
below.
We started the final climb at 3am the next morning.
The weather was appalling. We were soon the only
party climbing that day as the other group, a team of
Germans, gave up. The six of us carried on as the
conditions grew worse; freezing rain turning into a
blizzard above the snowline. We arrived at the summit
in near zero visibility and stayed there for only a few
minutes before making a hasty retreat.
Our second climb was up Cotopaxi (5850m), the
highest active volcano in the world. It's recorded
activity dates back to 1534, when the Spanish
Conquistadors ventured into this area. Several
destructive and spectacular eruptions occurred; the
biggest being in 1877, when rivers of mud from the
eruption reached the Pacific ocean, 250km away.
We were joined for this climb by Javier Cabrera, a
student from the EPN and one of Ecuador's best
climbers. His knowledge of the mountains (he had
been up Cotopaxi more than thirty times) and his
unflagging enthusiasm kept us going towards the
Continued overleaf
Page 11

