summit. After spending the evening at the mountain's
refuge at 4800m, we began to climb at 2am. The
slopes were steep, but the snow conditions were
excellent at this time.
Dawn was an incredible sight, the huge shadow of
Cotopaxi sketched out over a billowing carpet of cloud
below us. Soon the wind picked up, causing a big drop
in temperature and lifting up this carpet to envelope
us. We arrived at the top in zero-visibility, but the
feeling of elation at reaching the summit of such a high
peak made up for the lack of view. This feeling turned
to awe after ten minutes when the cloud suddenly
cleared and revealed a most spectacular scene. The
dark, active crater of Cotopaxi became visible below
us, as did the many peaks on the horizon. We could
clearly see Chimborazo over one hundred miles away.
It looked formidable.
Chimborazo was our ultimate goal. It's summit has
the distinction of being the furthest point on the globe
away from its centre, due to the earth's asymmetry.
We spent three days in the refuge on Chimborazo at
5000m acclimatising, relaxing and practicing ice
climbing techniques. Javier had kindly agreed to
accompany us up this peak as well. On the fourth day
we began to climb at 1am to make the most of the
good snow conditions. The reality of our awesome
objective was made clear to us as a nearby avalanche
threw up a chilling cloud of snow around us. At the
foot of the massive serac cliff, which guards the last
500m to the summit, the team split into two groups.
Dominic, Alister and Magnum made the more usual
traverse under the seracs to reach the summit around
the north side of the mountain; while Lynn and Basil
took an unconventional direct route. Both groups
made it to the summit. Javier and Emma made their
own attempt the next day, reaching the summit and
descending in a grueling twelve hour marathon. For
all six of the remaining team to successfully reach the
summit of this daunting mountain at their first attempt
was an incredible achievement. It had defeated many
better but, perhaps less enthusiastic, climbers before.
We felt good!
Following the end of the mountaineering, the
expedition's field activities grew to a close. The
remaining team divided into two groups for the return
to England: Alister, Emma, Lynn and Magnum spent
a couple more weeks in Ecuador, exploring the jungle,
swinging on liana vines and catching pirana fish, and
also finding time to relax on the Pacific coast; Dominic
and Basil went off in seach of more South American
adventures, making their way back to Old Blighty via
Colombia, Venezuela and a rather hurricane damaged
Caribbean. By the end of September, everyone was
home.
Thanks
None of this would have been possible without the
generous support of many people. We would
especially like to thank Panasonic, Broadcast Europe,
Vinten Broadcast, The University of London, French
Protestant Church of London, British Petroleum, Sir
Frederic Snow and Partners, Phillips Communications
and all those fashion victims who bought expedition
T-shirts!
BEAN'S
C L U B
Xmas Dinner
Friday 8th December
Meet at Holbein House, 7pm
The 1989
London University
Ecuador Expedition
If you would like to organise
your own expedition and
would like to know more
about this year's expedition,
and have a sneak preview of
the film, the team will be
giving a presentation on
Tuesday December 12th at
lpm in Lecture Theatre 220
Mechanical Engineering.
CITY & GUILDS C O L L E G E UNION
38th
DINNER & DANCE
9th F E B R U A R Y , 1990
cocktail reception * 4 course dinner
* wine * port * coffee & petits
fours * band * magician
£75 D O U B L E T I C K E T
W A L D O R F H O T E L
Tickets from Guilds Office o n sale 9am, Tuesday 5th December
BE ON TIME-THEY SELL OUT VERY QUICKLY

