More Cyprus Mary's reply Horrific
Dear Dave,
We were moved by the vigour of the letters in the
previous issue of FELIX about Northern Cyprus.
However, the anonymous authors, unfortunately
appear to be the victims of the thriving Turkish
propaganda. To restore the truth, we want to clarify
the following points:
Ever since the Declaration of Independence of
Cyprus in 1960, Greece, Turkey and Britain have
maintained their forces in Cyprus as guarantors. Greek
armed forces have to be present on the island to
ensure that the agreement is honoured, at least in the
part that remains independent, and to protect the
population against another incident. To say that these
forces are occupying Cyprus, implies that British
forces are occupying Cyprus too, which, of course,
is not true.
The claim that the Turkish-Cypriots have now finally
found peace in N. Cyprus away from the 'Greek
tyranny' does not really explain why many Turkish
Cypriots have stayed in S. Cyprus, while many others
flee there to find the so-called 'oppression and
suffering'. It is also worth noting that Ozgier Ozgour,
the leader of a Turkish-Cypriot party recently asked
the Turkish Government in Ankara to withdraw all
Turkish troops from N. Cyprus for peace to be finally
restored among the Cypriots. This statement was
quickly covered by the Turkish government.
Every informed person knows which country is
ruled by a military regime under which human rights
are despised, as is repeatedly pointed out by Amnesty
International.
As for the 'breathtaking historical monuments' that
were advertised in these letters, it is needless to say
which of the two civilisations created them.
The United Nations consider Cyprus as a country
under invasion and partial occupation; their decision
is that Cyprus is a self-determined country. It is
distressing that the Turkish government with its
Unilateral Declaration of Independence of N. Cyprus
is clearly attempting to perpetuate the division of
Cyprus and its people at a time when in Europe walls
are being torn down.
We wish to invite the authors of the letters in the
previous issue to meet us to debate on this subject.
We believe that open-minded people, as students are,
will soon arrive to a conclusion which is acceptable
for both sides and not tarnished by prejudice.
Yours sincerely,
The Committee of the Hellenic Society of Imperial
College.
Turd in pool
Dear FELIX,
Just when you thought it was safe to go into the
water...
As a regular visitor to the IC Sports Centre, I wish
to complain about the state of the pool.
Most people swim on the surface and they are
spared the horrors of the deep end. The amount of
hair, hairbands and earrings is appalling but I suppose
not surprising. Even marbles and golfballs can be seen
by anyone diving down to the deep end, but coming
face to face with a killer turd? I dread to think how
this revolting object came to be on the bottom of the
pool but all you swimming without goggles, beware
stay off the bottom or you might come in contact with
the objects of the deep.
Name withheld by request.
Page 14
Dear Editor,
I felt that it was necessary to comment on the
controversy surrounding the Dean of St Mary's
binning of FELIX, Issue 850, November 17, 1989.
The pictures accompanying the article were
degrading and irrelevant to the somewhat 'scanty'
content of the article. You obviously misunderstood
the reasons behind the Dean's actions. I am confident
that his reasons were sound and now firmly believe
that FELIX are inexperienced in approaching a
controversial subject such as pornography in a
professional manner. Spending some time with
patients in sexually transmitted disease clinics would
alter your viewpoints. You should also consider the
whole of the Dean's memorandum.
Secondly, in reply to the letter headed 'Mary's
Whitehouse', this further underlines the ignorance of
Imperial College students regarding the way St Mary's
works and the position of the 'students' already in a
semi-professional role. The Students' Union is an
integral part of our Medical School but maintains its
own principles and ideas. I feel the arrogant
assumption that decisions are made for us is
unjustified and misinformed.
Finally, I note the anonymity of the letter. This is
hypocritical, as a student should 'feel free to say and
print their opinions of him and his actions' without the
fear of getting bad references from the college.
Yours sincerely,
Andrew Klava,
Vice President, SMH Students' Union.
Kurds & why
Dear Dave,
It is encouraging to see the friends of Northern
Cyprus condemn human rights violations, but their
concern and cries of outrage seem to diminish
whenever the subject changes to Turkey's oppression
of its Kurdish minority, which incidentally numbers
well over 12 million. To say the least, the Kurdish
language, folklore or any sympathies are still forbidden
and are punishable offences in a country which seeks
membership to the EC and which to this day does not
officially recognise its Kurds as a minority group. No
wonder they would rather burn alive than return there.
Evidence on this matter and plenty of it is available
from Amnesty, an organisation whose reputation only
an ignorant bigot would challenge.
As for the 'disreputable record', the authors might
have been wiser to leave this phrase out, as it only
serves to disrepute the Turks or at least their
governments. History speaks for itself, so clearly there
is no need to remind our dear friends of certain sad
and terrible events earlier in this century, as it will not
help in any way to solve current problems.
Surely the friends of Northern Cyprus would
condemn all violations of human rights anywhere in
the world including Turkey's, if they were sincere.
And it would be shocking to hear any excuses
explaining these injustices or brushing them aside.
Instead they should sit with their fellow Greek Cypriot
students and work towards peace and a solution to
their problems, (and the Kurdish problem with the
Kurds) instead of haggling about who started it.
After all, we have the key to the future.
Yours sincerely,
DAH Sherif.
Dear Dave,
'My cellmate was taken to the courtyard. They
stripped his chest bare, forced him to lie, his back on
the ground, and placed a heavy stone on to his chest.
The heat was almost unbearable. He died after a few
hours, probably after repeated heart attacks, which
was the official cause of death.'
This is an account of what happened to a Prisoner
of War in Turkey, a couple of years ago. About 1,700
Greek (including many Greek Cypriot) POW's went
missing after the invasion of Cyprus in 1974. Very
few of them have been seen again. This is an answer
to allegations, in last week's FELIX, that the Turkish
Army invaded Cyprus to 'protect human rights'.
The Turkish dictatorships have, in this respect,
undergone some progress: in the 1920s, Suyma's
(TS?) Greek area was burned together with its
inhabitants. Some had the time to throw themselves
into the sea. Most had their arms chopped off as they
tried to climb onto ships. The grandchildren of some
of the others are amongst us.
Although the Turkish Army certainly doesn't nail
people to trees, through their stomachs, or induce
them with honey to be eaten by insects anymore,
torture described in the beginning of the letter is bad
enough.
Thousands of Cypriots found one day that they
would never go back to their houses. Some of them
are members of ICU and they can't sunbathe on their-
'unspoiled beaches with crystal clear seas'. They
would just pray to be admitted in their hometown and
villages for a couple of hours, to fill a jar with earth
from the fatherland, to have something to soak up
their tears.
Enosis-Union with the Hellenic Motherland-now
and forever, is for Cyprus the only guarantee of Peace,
which we all ardently desire. This letter is not a
provocation, I don't want to have an argument with
anyone, nor is it a product of hatred which I do not
have for anyone. Just bitterness, that sorrow of so
many humans is drowned by the 'crystal clear seas'
and the 'Turkish delights' that the anonymous authors
of last week's FELIX advertised.
Emmanuel Saradakis, Physics 2.
Dean support
Dear Mr Smedley,
I am a medical student at St Mary's Hospital
Medical School and am writing to you to express my
whole hearted support for our Dean, Professor
Richards. My experience of reading FELIX in the past
is that it is not partularly stimulating, informative or
serious in its nature. Indeed the attitude of the Editor
and some of the correspondents in this issue is
incredibly childish, short-sighted and irresponsible, as
was the publication of explicit, pornographic material.
Apart form the possible exposure to patients to that
material and the damage to their sensibilities, in
Paddington we are exposed to the sex industry day
in and day out we do not need it plastered over a
student magazine as well. I would like to end with an
appeal to the Editor of FELIX to realise that some of
us live in a harsh and very real world of human
suffering and that it is irresponsible for students to
increase that suffering by gratuitous and mindless
actions. Next time THINK about the consequences of
your actions.
Yours sincerely,
Sarah Dunkley.

