Satanist! Annosis Statistics
Dear Dave,
Men and women concerned about their personal
rights should stand up and say NO! to IC Christian
Union Committee. Their letter in last week's FELIX
was frightening enough to make all moral rights
junkies piss their pants.
They've credited us with the mental age of fifteen
year olds who get Jekyll and Hyde symptoms when
they see a bit of rumpy pumpy on the telly.
They think they know the difference between sex
and love, well I think they can't know much about love
if they want to 'reserve' sex until after marriage, like
a business appointment. And as for marriage being
'specially stable', I wonder how long your marriage
is going to last when you realise that your partner
doesn't turn you on just as much as you had
anticipated-don't self-righteously push sex under the
carpet or save it like a box of chocolates, it's a very
important and enjoyable part of loving someone. So
how dare they tell me that my sexuality is God-given,
what it's for and when to use it.
It is frightening that people with blinkered views can
assume responsibility for the moral standards of
others because they think they can do better. A very
real example of this is the current tide of rerigious fever
in America bringing about the possibility of abortion
being banned: 'Sixteen years old? Poor? Pregnant?
Well, UNCLE SAM say you'll have to get married 'cos
we ASSUMED you would want a baby and be happy
all the time, there are no such things as battered
children, murdered wives and barbaric religious laws.'
Don't you find that scary?
Even more terrifying is religion itself—a constant
reminder of the imposed reality in which we exist (like
Tie Rack, McDonalds and battery hens)-and the hold
it has on people to the extent that you can't reason
with them (yes, shock-horror, a direct attack on
religion). When will they realise that Jesus probably
died for his own sins and I don't even know God so
how can he love me? (How do they know anyway??)
And did you see the letter by that yawling potato
chip Richard Marett? He stresses that all pornography
comes from Satan, the evil one, God's enemy; he
ALSO reckons that Jesus paid for my sins. Don't
worry, Richard, Heaven's just like Disneyland, and as
long as you're a good boy, sing loudly in church and
don't get laid before you marry, you can have your
place there guaranteed (well that's what it's all about
isn't it??...).
Fancy a dictatorship under Runcietollah? Relax and
watch it happen...
Yours sincerely,
Rupert Seldon.
Bantoff
Dear Dave,
Never one to claim praise where it isn't due (what?),
I must reluctantly point ot that the mascotry article
in last week's issue was not actually my work, but
that of Chas Randies (RCSU VP) with Paul Errington
(RCSU TO). I merely supplied the photos which you
didn't use.
Surely having experienced my literary efforts in old
Broadsheets, you can't have mistaken this well
reasoned lament of RSMU for my usual drivel?
Humbly yours,
Simon Banton.
Dear Dave,
The Tumor of Annosis.
I do personally believe that (and I am sure anybody
in his/her right mind will agree with me) the solution
to the Cyprus problem lies at the delicate hands of the
surgeon who is capable of removing completely,
without leaving any trace behind, the tumor of
Annosis from the minds of people living on the west
side of the Aegean Sea. The surgeon is called 'the
wisdom of seeing the reality'. The rest is nothing more
than the buzz of a fly.
Yours Cyprusfully,
Dr Sedat Ozbilen.
History
Dear Dave,
After reading the letters on Cyprus in last week's
FELIX we feel that a brief account of the recnet history
fo Cyprus is essential, as the so-called friends of
'Northern Cyprus' have grossly distorted it.
In 1960 Cyprus became an independent republic.
According to the constitution the 18% Turkish Cypriot
community was given cultural and religious
autonomy, 30% of the posts in the Civil Service, and
40% in the police. The Turksih Cypriots elected the
Vice President, who could veto any presidential
decision and appointed 3 out of 10 ministers. In
parliament 15 out of the 50 seats were reserved for
Turkish Cypriots, a separate majority required for a
Bill to become law.
In 1963 the President of the Republic suggested
amendments to the constitution to the Turkish Cypriot
leadership. Turkey rejected them on their behalf and
engineered an intercommunal crisis. Turkish Cypriot
leadership withdrew from 1960 constitution
institutions and set up Turkish military enclaves in
Nicosia leading the Turkish Cypriots into isolation and
promoting partition. In 1964 Turkish air-foce
bombarded Cyrpus, stirring up intercommunal trouble
that caused deaths and casualties among both
communities.
On 20 July 1974 Turkey invaded Cyprus, in an
opeartion code named by the Turkish army as 'Attila'
after the infamous barbarina, using as a pretext the
coup against the Cyprus Government organised by the
Greek junta. An act in violation of the UN Charter,
international law, and human rights. On 23 July the
Greek junta fell and on 28 July constitutional order
was restored in Cyprus. Turkey nevertheless
continued the aggression and on 14 August mounted
a second attack. As a result 37% of Cyprus is still
occupied, 40% of the Greek Cypriot population are
still refugees, and 1,619 people are sill missing. Today
65,000 settlers have been transplanted from Turkey
to the occupied Cyprus, while cultural heritage in the
occupied areas is systematically destroyed as reported
by the Council of Europe.
What the Government and people of Cyprus want
and have proposed, is that the occupation army
leaves, Cyprus is demilitarised, and all Cypriots are left
alone to live peacefully together in a federal Republic.
Unfortunately at a time that Europe is coming
together, Cyprus is kept divided, by the Turkish army,
against the will of all Cypriots.
The Cypriot Society,
{Friends of the whole of Cyprus!. .
Dear Dave,
Following last week's letters from the so-called
'Friends of Northern Cyprus' may I note that none of
them actually comes from Cyprus since they would
have known that:
a) The only official census of 1960 showed that the
then population of Cyprus was approximately
660,000 of which 82% were Greek Cypriots and
18% were Turkish Cypriots.
b) Turkey invaded Cyprus in 1974 with the pretext
of restoring constitutional order in Cyprus after a coup
d'etat staged by the then Greek Military Junta. Instead
they occupied 37% of the northern part of the island,
which ironically had a less percentage of Turkish
Cypriots than the South, purely for strategic reasons,
and forced 200,000 Greek Cypriots out of their
homeland (equivalent to the UK is about 20 million).
c) In order to change the demography of Cyprus to
what the 'Friends of Northern Cyprus' make now
30%, Turkey transplanted 65,000 Turkish Anatolian
settlers to the occupied area. The settlers together
with the occupation troops (35,000) will soon
outnumber the indigenous Turkish Cypriot population,
and they certainly impose their political view to the
Cypriots want the unification of the island.
d) The position of the democratically elected Cypriot
Government ever since independence, was never that
of 'Enosis' (Unification with Greece). 'Enosis' is just
the vision of Turkish expansionism who would like to
incorporate Northern Cyprus to Turkey.
Finally a plea to the prospective holiday maker. The
majority of the land, homes and hotels in Northern
Cyprus belong to people who are not allowed to visit
them and are forcefully and illegally (by international
law) deprived of.
By visiting Northern Cyprus you are granting
approval to an unjust situation, and you are making
our struggle for a united, just and free Cyprus that
more difficult.
Kypros Pilakoutas,
IRefugee from Northern Cyprus)
Earthquake Engineering, Civ Eng Dept.
Personal
Dear Dave,
In response to Mark Page's letter in the last issue
of FELIX there are some issues I would like to put
straight on the matter of Nicky Fox's resignation as
Conservative Society Chairman and what she
did/didn't tell FELIX. I was the person who interviewed
Nicky for the article printed 3/11/89 during which she
mentioned the personal and political reasons why she
had stepped down. The article was submitted and, as
with most news items, was edited down to the space
allowed. In a letter 17/11/89 Nicky mentioned that
she had told of her personal reasons. I would like to
ask what more Mr Page requests; that Nicky reveal
in detail what her personal reasons were?
As someone who is most definitely outside of
ConSoc I would find the volley of retaliating letters
amusing if it were not for the underlying facts that
Nicky didn't resign purely on political grounds and that
she has a right to privacy on personal matters.
I hope that this has gone some way to clarifying the
matter.
Yours sincerely,
Andrew Waller.
Page 15

