What a load of shish Edited
Dear Dave,
Referring back to the letters published in the last
three issues of FELIX, on the subject of Cyprus, the
unfair pressure put on STA not to advertise holidays
to Northern Cyprus by a few Greeks, but ill-informing
them, is totally unjustified.
It is unfortunate that there are hardly any Turkish
Cypriots from the Republic of Northern Cyprus in
Imperial College who can make their voices heard. The
Greek Cypriots repudiated the 1960 agreements,
which formed the legal basis of the Republic of
Cyprus, by their conduct from 1963 to 1974. They
cannot possibly be regarded today as the lawful
government of the Republic, which was by its very
Come on
Dear Dave,
I would like to respond to a couple of points raised
last week concerning the quality of FELIX.
Last year FELIX was an excellent newspaper. It was
intersting, informative and often amusing. It was a
delight to read, and was extremely popular.
This year I have been extremely disappointed with
FELIX. Issue 851 was the first I actually enjoyed,
though this was more due to the readers' letters than
any particular effort on your behalf. FELIX is padded
out with monotonous ball-by-baH football
commentaries, uninformative record and concert
reviews, recycled 'Film '89' film reviews and boring
nature a bi-communal state. The Turkish Cypriots had
no choice but to establish their own state. British
troops, United Nations troops and 'guarantees' having
failed to protect the Turkish Cypriots from 1963 to
1974, they are justified in regarding Turkish troops
on the ground in Cyprus as the only reliable guarantee
to their existence. The Turkish Cypriots accepted the
1986 UN plan, which both the British government and
the Secretary General endorsed as a good basis for
a settlement, but the Greek Cypriots rejected it and
still hold out for 'better terms'.
Yours sincerely,
Friends of the Republic of Northern Cyprus.
Names withheld by request.
Dave!
interviews.
John Patterson last week suggested you should
reduce news coverage to save paper. I don't think that
is possible. ICU's 20 page newspaper has two pages
of news, relegated to the front and back covers. You
should increase news coverage, and cut out the
above-mentioned dross.
Oh, and bring back the Baron.
Yours sincerely,
Ultan McCarthy, Physics 2.
PS. Please confirm that the UGM on Thursday 7 will
be at 6pm. This seems a very silly time to hold it, even
by ICU standards.
Dear Dave,
Has Mark Page considered the possibility that FELIX
may not have printed the whole of the interview
conducted with Miss N J Fox about her reasons for
resigning as the Chairman of the Conservative
Society. It is not unheard of to cut certain news items
in order to make way for others deemed more
interesting to the average Imperial student.
Yours sincerely,
Anita de la Motre, Chemistry PG.
Hand it
over
Dear Dave,
Following the article in last week's FELIX
concerning Mascotry, a meeting took place between
the two Unions concerned. At the meeting everyone
realised that there had been several
misunderstandings which lead to the article. We now
feel that its content was ill-considered.
We decided that our Unions will now communicate
and cooperate on the handover of Davy.
We hope that this will lead to more understanding
between the members of the two Unions, and we
hope to have the handover early next term.
Yours sincerely,
Anne Rothwell, Vice President RSM.
CHR Randies, Vice President RCS.
Alumnus Day
Before I started working at Imperial College, I always
thought that the Alumnus Office was a fausty
backroom full of files collecting layers of dust. I was
wrong. It is in fact an office of hectic bustle and
hi-tech.
The word Alumnus derives from the Latin Alma
Mater meaning Educational Mother. Alumnus being
the child of the Alma Mater/University body.
Alumni Relations is currently one of the fastest
growth areas in UK universities with Imperial at the
forefront. Although Imperial has long kept in touch
with its Alumni through the Old Student Association,
the Alumnus Office (part of the Development Office)
has only been in existence in its present form since
1986. It was established to promote and enhance the
relationship the College has with its Alumni and now
has a database of 72,000 names and 36,000
addresses worldwide. This is continually being
updated by an enthusiastic crowd of students
employed by the office.
Alumni are kept in touch by a minimum of two
Page 16
mailings a year. A magazine is planned and other
major projects are underway. The Imperial College
Address Book is imminent and will be published in
three volumes reflecting the three colleges, beginning
with City and Guilds.
Imperial has just launched its Telethon campaign,
the third to do so after Edinburgh and Oxford.
Designed to bring Alumni into closer contact with the
College, a team of students phone Alumni giving them
the opportunity to air their views on Imperial, Alumni
Relations and to donate to the Imperial College Fund,
the proceeds of which go to new student
accommodation and young lectureships. All the signs
show that it will be very successful. Each campaign
will be regional culminating with a social event. The
present campaign is centered on London with the
London Alumni Reception at the finish.
This reception is being held on Friday December 8th
as part of Alumnus Day-the climax of the Alumni
calendar. All Alumni have been invited to return.The
departments will open at 2pm with displays and
laboratory demonstrations. In the Sherfield Building
there will also be displays from Archives, Press Office,
Continuing Education, Alumni Fund as well as the
OSA Hospitality Suite. The Queens Tower will also
be open especially for the day.
As this is the first year that this event is being held
during term, Alumni will be able to meet current
students and we hope they will receive a warm
welcome.
Alumnus Day, Friday December 8th.
A summary of the day's events:
2.00pm Departments open
2.00pm Queens Tower opens
4.00pm Departmental Reunions
5.15pm Rector's Address
6.00pm London Alumni Reception
6.00pm Buffet Supper
8.00pm Imperial College Choir Concert

