The Delator Column
By Paul Shanley
This week's column is a slight departure from the
norm. Instead of opining endlessly on some topic or
other, I'd like to present an alternative hypothesis to
why natural phenomena occur.
One part of the Queen's Speech last week, set a
stream of consciousness going. From reading about
research using embryos, I digressed to thinking about
the whole concept of nature in general.
My original thought concerned recent discoveries
in the field of medicine. The breakthroughs being
made with the onset of new ideas occur because
methods are evolving to solve old problems. This year
saw our race coming a step closer to fighting cancer.
In the future, maybe 20-30 years time, we will be near
to finding a vaccination against and maybe a cure for
AIDS. Advances in DNA research may find changes
being made to our genetic make-up to make some
handicaps a thing of the past. Spinabifida, Cerebral
Palsy etc will belong in history books.
The question I asked myself is; are these changes
desirable?
Firstly, some history. There exists in geographical
economics, a rule called Malthus' Theory. This
hypothesis, controversial when first introduced in the
1770s, states that population will increase until there
is no longer enough food to sustain life. The remedy,
says Malthus, is to curb population growth artificially.
One theory that springs to mind-and it is probably
not unique-is that such curbs already exist in an
intrinsically occurring form. They emerge as natural
phenomena such as earthquakes, famine, flood and
the like. These tragedies are not freaks or accidents.
They appear by design.
Life is being prolonged in many forms. Heart
transplants, new drugs etc. By prolonging human life
in this way, we are breaking some of the laws of
nature. This is often illustrated very dramatically in
books or on film by The Great Book. The Great Book
is a huge tome with details of how long everyone
should live for, what the future has in store for them.
Everyone's destiny is contained within The Great
Book.
Well, I wouldn't be quite so dramatic as that.
Assuming the existence of an 'Encyclopedia of
Mankind' infers a belief in some form of deity. I'm not
so sure about this. Instead I suggest, that there are
set laws of nature which could quite easily be
committed to paper. These do not control an
individual's destiny, but they do place some form of
restriction on a planet's growth-what
mathematicians would call an upper limit. The basic
law goes something like this:
• The total population of a species in any planet is
bounded by a set figure.
• When this figure is approached, measures are taken
to reduce it. These can be in the form of any type of
natural phenomema.
• These measures may occur in an area distanced
from the vicinity of population build-up.
This last condition is important. If there is a population
explosion in one area, say China, the law may curb
growth in another area, such as an earthquake in San
Francisco.
Life prolonging schemes violate these laws. There
are two remedies:
The first is to cease any research into medicine that
extends human life. This is an extremely grey area.
Where does one draw the line? Are heart transplants
to be stopped? Is a block to be put on further research
into presently incurable diseases such as cancer or
AIDS? To take matters to extremes, do we put a stop
on use of donated blood, as this is also an artificial
way to prolong life? Any blood donors, like myself,
would be horrified by the idea. However, the Jehova's
Witnesses-one of the more public pressure groups-
have been saying this for years.
No, the answer is not with the first solution. Any
mother whose baby daughter needs a life-saving
operation, anyone who is carrying the HIV virus,
anyone afflicted with Parkinson's Disease or
Asbestosis or Herpes would agree.
The second solution—the favourable one-is to
accept the consequences. Life-saving research must
continue but it must do so at a cost of not knowing
what is around the corner. When another Ethiopia or
San Francisco occurs, it must be accepted as Mother
Nature's way of tipping the scales back into balance.
These ramblings are just another hypothesis. The
long-standing religions would argue the case for
ultimate control of our planet and others alike resting
in the hands of some higher force. Others, the atheists
of this world, assume that life is made up of what we
see and nothing more. My scenario is no less probable
than that of the Christian or the Jew or the Muslim.
The unanswered question remains-how can we tell
which one of us is right?
Calling all
Postgrads
I am currently researching an article into postgraduate
life at Imperial. Recently, I've spoken to a number of
PGs who are in some way hacked off with the College.
The message, however, appears to be not only what
the College can do for them but also ways in which
the Union can help. Recent grouses include:
• Theft of research work by supervisors who
subsequently publish under their own name.
• Isolation for new arrivals to college, particularly
foreign students.
• Not enough social events organised for them.
Despite its very high ratio of PGs, Imperial seems to
revolve its leisure pursuits around undergraduates.
• Poor academic representation.
If any postgraduates have similar complaints or some
new ones, please write to me at FELIX. Obviously, all
correspondence is confidential.

