MacMascot Goodwin lost? Pool turd
IC Union President, Neil McCluskey, was slave for
a day to the Royal College of Science Union
yesterday. Tied to a pole, he was used as a mascot
at their U G M
Power cut
Most of the West End of London lost power for an
hour yesterday, when a 66,000 volt cable was sheared
by construction work at Lodge Rd Substation in St
John's Wood. 660 MegaWatts were lost as secondary
faults occured leading to a failure spreading from
Hampstead to Carnaby Street.
Egg winners
The winners of the City and Gulids 'Great Egg Race'
were the Civil Engineering team, comprising of
Alison Pickles, Edward Norton, Jonathan Saunby.and
Jeremy Sneddon. Their task was to build the tallest,
lightest tower possible out of everyday materials. It
was noted that if Civil Engineering had not won this
task it would have been extremely embarassing for
them.
SPORTS RESULTS
IC 4th—2
IC 1st X I - 1
IC 3rds-2
IC 5th—2
IC—10
IC 2nds- -32
IC 2nds-l
IC 3rds-l
Football
UC 4th—7
Kings—2
Kings 2nd—2
LSE 5th—3
Rugby
St Thomas-21
St Thomas 2nds—4
Hockey
St Barts lsts—1
R S M - 0
St Barts-1
IC 2nds-3
Ladies Hockey
IC—1
QMC 2nds-0
Last year's Felix Editor, William Goodwin, has been
refused permission to appeal against the court ruling
that he was in contempt of court after refusing to hand
over documents or reveal his sources.
Mr Chris Barrie, of 'The Engineer', the magazine
for which Mr Goodwin was working, said that his
last chance was in the appeal that the company that
owned the magazine, 'Morgan Grampian', hopes to
make against the judgement passed on them.
No furniture for
Evelyn
Students at Imperial College are expected to live in
sub standard accommodation in Evelyn gardens
because the college is not willing to fund the
residences any further.
A resident of Holbein house explained that
furnishing within the house was minimal and that the
showers were not in a fit state to be used. Mr. K.
Young, warden of Southwell house said that Mr. Peter
Leeson, superintendent at Evelyn Gardens, ought to
be fighting for more money from Mr. Peter
Hallworth, Manager of Student Residences, and that
'not enough pressure was being put on the college'.
He revealed his irritation with the administration in
that they felt unable to act despite the fact that cookers
did not function fully, that there were not enough
fridges and that the residents had to watch television
sitting on the floor. M r Hallworth responded by saying
that he had no report of this. He also said that he was
putting constant pressure on the college for more
funding and there 'would be more furniture when
we've got the money'.
Students say they live in totally unacceptable
conditions in some halls, and are getting frustrated
at the nonexistence of cooperation between wardens
and the residence manager. Dr. Murphy, Warden of
Fisher Hall, where there is very little furniture after
the recent refurbishment, commented 'we're getting
there—rather like British Rail'.
Antidrugs
scheme
The Westminster Borough Council is launching a new
'Anti-Drugs Ribbon Award Scheme' for 1990. The
entrants are to complete a project diary in one of six
prescribed activities.
Prizes will include money and equipment. Those
interested should contact 'One Stop Services',
Westminster City Hall, tel. 01 798 3100
Competition
winner
The winner of last week's Motorquip rally
competition was J. Lauder of Maths 3. The prize
tickets can be picked up from the FELIX Office any
time today.
A small pile of excrement was discovered at the
bottom of Imperial College's swimming pool on
Tuesday 21st November. M r E C Spooner,
superintendent of the sports centre, said that this
happened occaisionally at all pools. 'Its not exactly
common', he said,'but it's not unknown'.
After a protracted argument he conceded that the
offending animal byproduct did not necessarily have
to be human—it was suggested that a wacky student
may have taken in a dog's doings concealed in a
lunchbox. He explained that it would be rather
difficult to ascertain the origin of the offending article
once the water had made it expand.
Be on radio
The BBC Radio Science Unit is to hold a 'science
retrospective' quiz in the Union Concert hall on 14th
December. The quiz will look back at the last ten
years of science by getting its competitors to try to
identify obscure pieces of scientific apparatus.
The competition will be between two teams. On
the academic side will be Professor John Albery, Dr
Harry Rosenberg and Sheila Anderson. Representing
Radio Four's Science Unit will be Dr Geoff Watts,
Georgina Ferry and Peter Evans. The competition will
be presented by Alun Lewis, and will be broadcast
sometime after Christmas.
It will be held at 7:30 pm on Thursday 14th
December and tickets are available from the IC union
office. Mr Alun Lewis told Felix that hecklers would
be encouraged to offer tips and suggestions to the
teams.
Vandalism!
The office of the Royal College of Science Union
(RCSU) has had its door vandalised, following the
recovery of their stolen trandem, 'Jane'. A
spokesperson from the RCSU said that the door had
been attacked with a Stanley knife last Saturday
Evening.
The vandal left 'Horace was here' carved in the
door, and is estimated to have caused £1000 worth
of damage.
The RCSU pointed out that Jane is an inviolate
mascot, and as such cannot be stolen. They added
they were following their own line of enquries.
Silwood sellout
Part of the science park at Imperial College's Silwood
Park is going on the market. The 'fully equiped
research facility' has a 25 year lease on it, previously
owned by BP Nutrition. The condition attached to the
leaseholder is that they work in conjunction with
Imperial College—BP had previously built
greenhouses which had been used by the Biology
department.

