G
h
o
s
t
b
u
s
t
e
r
sII
It's four years since the Ghostbusters saved New York
City from the evil 'gatekeeper'. Since then their lives
have taken a downward turn as the cost-conscious
city, faced with cleaning up the marshamallow, has
slapped the heros with a judicial restraining order
preventing them from ghosbusting.
When Dana Barrett (Sigourney Weaver) first met Dr
Peter Venkman in Ghostbusters I, she told him 'You
don't act like a scientist...you're more like a
gameshow host'. Unfortunately, she was right!
Venkman (Bill Murray) has now been relegated to
hosting a cable chat show on the paranormal.
Dana Barrett's relationship with Venkman fell apart.
She married another man, but that too fell apart,
leaving her as a single parent with an eight month old
boy, Oscar (played by the twins William T and Henry
J Deutshendorf). She is working at the Manhattan
Museum of Art with the distinctly odd Janosz Poha
(Peter MacNicol).
Former Ghostbusters Dr Ray Stantz (Dan Aykroyd)
and Winston Zeddemore (Ernie Hudson) have not
fared well either. They're now entertaining at
children's parties. Only Dr Egon Spengler (Harold
Ramis) has retained his integrity. He is continuing his
research into the effect of human emotion on the
psychomagnetic energy field. This is central to the
story as it is the hate and anger of the city dwellers
that is causing a surge in supernatural energy.
First to be affected is Dana when Oscar's pram
takes off on it's own-straight into the oncoming
traffic. She manages to save Oscar, but who's she
gonna call?
Of course the Ghostbusers, along with their fearless
accountant, Louis (Rick Moranis), and their ever
patient secretary, Janine (Annie Potts), reform to help
Dana. They find the source of the disturbances, a river
of slime, but fall foul of the law and end up in a mental
institution. Who, or what, is going to save the city
now?
I thoroughly enjoyed this film, though I thought the
plot was a little thinner than in Ghostbusters I.
Aykroyd, co-writing with Ramis, has concentrated
more on human behaviour this time, which means that
although there are still some excellent special effects,
the quantity of ghosts is a little disappointing.
Talking of ghosts, I was surprised to see Slimer, the
friendly ghost in The Real Ghostbusters cartoon,
appearing on the Ghostbuster's side. This is odd, as
in the first film, Slimer was aggressive, and was
captured by the Ghostbusters. It means that this film
does not follow directly on from the first movie, but
if you haven't seen the cartoon don't worry, as this
is a minor detail and won't spoil your enjoyment.
The film has some very funny moments, with
Murray still delivering some excellent one liners.
Sigourney Weaver is still as stunning as ever, but the
stars of the show have to be the twins playing Oscar.
I wonder how they got them to fly like that?
I left the cinema humming the theme tune (re-
recorded by Run-DMC) and wishing that I too could
blast some ghosts. I just had to see Ghostbusters I
again and I can't wait until Ghostbusters II comes out
on video.
Toby Jones.
When Harry Met Sally
When Harry Met Sally..As a romance out of the classic
Hollywood mould. The ground rules may be different,
the time scale a little longer (11 years), but the result
is never in doubt. The tale opens on the pair's first
encounter, aged 21 and fresh out of college. They part
after several hours and do not meet up until five years
later. By this time each is well down the road to
marriage (to someone else). But worry not, we'll just
take a short break, and be back after the divorce. Their
next meeting is a further five years on, and both
marriages are conveniently in ruins. Harry and Sally
finally admit to being friends and the story plods on.
The film is loosely based on the experiences of the
director Rob Reiner forced back into 'the Dating
Game' by a recent divorce. It seemingly poses us with
two questions: Can a man and a woman stay friends
if they don't have sex? Can they stay friends if they
do? In divorce torn 80's America these are worthy and
perhaps timely questions, but this film does not really
deal with them adequately. In defence it's funny, and
at times hilarious. Billy Crystal {ex-Soap) gives an
excellent performance as Harry, sardonic, detached,
and yet still sympathetic. Meg Ryan's portrayal of
Sally is a little more soggy, although she does have
her moments. The climax comes (dare I say it) when
Sally, trying to persuade Harry of the prevalence of
faked female orgasms, stops eating her lunch to give
an impromptu demonstration (watched in amazement
by fellow diners), and then quietly resumes her meal.
By the time the film grinds its way to its self-
imposed anti-climax, 'I love you because...' to
choruses of 'Auld lang syne' you feel that it has
already dragged on too long. It is interesting to note
the quote from ELLE was, 'Two hours of pure joy'.
The film is only 1 V2 hours long. I am sure that When
Harry Met Sally... will be a commercial hit, not least
because of its royal premier on Thursday, and its
Christmas release, but there are better things to do
with your money.
Matthew G Johnson.
Dead Calm
Here is yet another film with a bit of sex, some
violence and a happy ending for all.
Well, for everyone except the ship's dog and the
psychopathic killer (Billy Zane). Oh, didn't I mention
him before? He comes into the story when naval
captain John (Sam Neil) and his wife Ray (Nicole
Kidman) discover an apparently deserted schooner
which is rapidly sinking.
Zane rows to the couple's yacht and tells them that
the crew and passengers have died of food poisoning.
Being a typical gung-ho all conquering hero, and
generally nosey git, John decides to go and
investigate, after locking our psycho friend in a cabin
with a pretty ineffectual door.
Of course while John is busy finding dead bodies
(food poisoning was definitely not the cause of death)
and soft porn videos aboard the other ship, Zane
wakes up and is slightly narked about being locked
in a cabin. So, after an attempt at subtle persuasion,
he kicks the door down and, when he finds out where
John has gone, decides to commandeer the yacht
leaving John stranded to sink with the schooner.
The rest of the film is just a glorified chase, but it
must be said that there are some tense (if predictable)
moments. The acting is good, particularly the scenes
in which the crazed killer tries to befriend Ray. Philip
Noyce's direction is careful and precise, but why did
he include a shot of the ship's dog harpooned through
its neck to a door when Dead Calm was only a 15
certificate? Worth a look, but don't go out of your way
to see it.
DAN.
Page 3

