I do not know when you will receive this issue. This
week has been the worst yet. Not only have I and
some of the staff come down with the flu bug, some
twit managed to cut through a 66,000 volt cable
yesterday afternoon, removing our power for an hour
or so. Such is life I guess.
Loans
The bug I have picked up has caused some extremely
odd and feverish dreams. At the beginning of the
week, everything began to take on a strange tinge of
blue. I slowly started to realise how foolish I had been
to complain about loans. After all, I won't have to take
one out and I always received an income from my
parents when I was here. Why should I care, I
thought?
That was when I realised that everybody else was
wearing the same blue tinted glasses. Why should I
be bothered for the students at IC when all that they
were concerned for was themselves? That is why I
am supporting Neil McCluskey in the UGM motion in
favour of loans.
Of course, you could always prove us wrong.
Rents
Rents have inevitably risen again this year. As
Professor Ash has said, this was unavoidable. At least
the increases are less than inflation. Although Neil
must be feeling pretty sore, since he promised to hold
rents static, he must be more worried by the ulterior
issues at stake. Their is clearly a strong move towards
removing the rent advisory side of Student Residences
Committee. This is the only point at which students
are represented by the Union President on the
question of rents. If SRC becomes a body which just
advises the Rector on the ratio of men to women in
halls and what colour we should paint the window
sills, then it will be pointless.
I hope that the College does not decide to follow
this route. Although committees can be cumbersome
they are the only way of offering proper
representation.
Credits
Paul Shanley, Chris Stapleton, Liz Warren, Adam
Harrington, Jason Lander, Ian Hodge, Adam Tinworth,
Toby Jones, Dominic Strowbridge, DAN, Neil
McCluskey, Dave Millard, Simon, Hal Calamvokis, Ben
Turner, Matthew G Johnson, Jeremy Burnell, Rose
Atkins, Andy Thomson and the collators from last
week: Ian Pexton, Chris Adams, Stu Hendy, Vo Ward,
Tom Coombes, Liz Holmes, John Hufford, Simon
Hawkins, Jeff Burnett, Nick Danson, Ian Hodge,
Jonathan King, Angela Creissen, John Antoniader,
Rony Douek, Paul Douek, Jim Lucy.
FELIX is published by the editor for and on behalf of Imperial College Union
Publications Board- and is printed by the Imperial College Union Print Unit,
Prince Consort Road, London, SW7 2BB (Tel. 01-589 5111 ext 3515].
Editor: Dave Smedley. Business Manager: Stef Smith. Advertising Manager:
Ramin Nakisa. Copyright FELIX 1989. ISSN 1040-0711
S m a l l A d s
ANNOUNCMENTS
• Keep-Fit Club: Anyone wishing to join should
come to Southside Gym during a lesson. Details of
classes in What's On guide. (Trial lessons
available.)
• Interested in Competitive Cycling? Contact Rob
Harwood, Life Sci III. Beginners welcome.
• Cyril's Surreal Cerebral Entertainments presents
The Ariels, Dawson, The Keatons and Stitch live
at the Lady Owen Arms, 285 Goswell Road,
Islington, Saturday 9th December, 8pm. Get there
early.
• Many thanks to everyone who helped at the
Guilds Carnival-Claire & Cathy.
• Boozy trip to Boulogne. Thursday 14th
December. If you're interested phone Rose or
Dave at FELIX ext 3515.
LOST & FOUND
• Lost-Near Sherfield bike rack, Wednesday
22nd-Red cycle goggles. Contact Mark Taylor
c/o Dave Edmondson ext 5085.
FOR SALE
• Peugeot racing bike, 10 gears, quick release
wheels, 2 lamps, spare 10 gear rear wheel and
other bike extras. Original paintwork, great
condition. £55. Contact Silvano Sbicca on 231
1083 or via Maths 1 pigeonholes.
• PC Ditto and disk drive. PC Ditto is software
that converts Atari ST computers into an IBM
compatible computer. 3.5" disk, instructions,
boxed as new. 5.25", 40/80 switchable, 360k.
Both in immaculate condition, will sell for £95.
Contact Silvano Sbicca on 231 1083 or via Maths
1 pigeonholes.
1*SNACK B A R * !
- M E N U —
4th-8th December
8.30am-3.00pm & 5.00pm-7.00pm
Monday: Sweet & Sour vegetables with
Fusili, or
Corned beef hash and pasta
salad.
Tuesday: Vegetable loaf with couscous, or j
Lamb potage and bread
Wednesday: Mixed bean hot pot and garlic
bread, or Bo-bottie.
Thursday: Millet casserole or Sausage and
leek casserole
Friday: Buckwheat spaghetti with
mushrooms, dill and sour cream,
or Scotch pie with chips &
beans. 1
ULU TRAV
• L o w cost w o r l d w i d e flights • Special fares for students
• Expert advice for independent travellers
• Tours, short breaks b s k i holidays • G r o u p b o o k i n g s
* Over 70 offices w o r l d w i d e
from
ULU Travel
Sherfield Building
Imperial College ^ _ ™ _
London SW7 3
Z E3
01-581 1022 Interconfinental
01-581 8233 European
ULU TRAVEL

