Michael Carlile investigates the link between the early years of
biochemistry, horse chestnuts and the first president of the Jewish State.
Conkers, Cordite and
The State of Israel
Prime Minister: 'Dr Weizmann, you have saved your
country! Name your reward! A knighthood perhaps?'
Dr Chaim Weizmann: 'A national Home in Palestine
for the Jewish People'
That is one version of the story, resembling that
subsequently told by Lloyd George, the Prime Minister
in question. That version is surely a myth: top people,
especially experienced politicians, do not behave that
way. But the myth, like many myths, is based on
truth. What did happen? The participants all told
slightly different tales but the broad outline of the
story is clear.
Some time between 1906 and 1913, Chaim
Weizmann, working at the University of Manchester,
discovered the acetone-butanol fermentation. This is
a process in which a bacterium, now known as
Clostridium Acetobutylicum, converts starch or sugar
to acetone and butanol. Weizmann, as well as being
a gifted chemist, biochemist and microbiologist, was
a leading figure in Zionist politics, encouraging the
emigration of Jews to Palestine with the ultimate aim
of establishing a Jewish State.
1914 saw the outbreak of The First World War.
Soon Britain was faced with a desperate shortage of
acetone, needed as the solvent for making cordite, the
explosive used for firing shells from naval guns and
heavy artillery. Acetone was then made by the
. pyrolysis of wood, dry distillation of wood in the
absence of air, with 100 tons of wood giving one ton
of acetone. The main producer was Germany, and
even if plants had been built in Britain, enormous
amounts of timber would have had to be imported.
With shipping shortages and the blockade, this would
not have been feasible.
In 1915, Weizmann was asked by Winston
Churchill, First Lord of the Admiralty, if he could make
30,000 tons of acetone. Weizmann, who had
previously made a few hundred grams in the
laboratory, undertook the million-fold scale-up that
was needed. Biotechnology was born. The first pilot
plant was set up at Nicholson's gin factory at Bromley-
by-Bow, which had both fermentation and distillation
facilities.
The project worked, but it soon became clear that
the necessary raw material, half-a-million tons of
maize, was not to be had in war-time Britain, nor was
there a surplus of any other grain or of sugar. Boy
scouts collected horse-chestnuts, rich in starch, but
wars are not won with conkers. Eventually, as
happened with penicillin 25 years later, large scale
production was transferred to the USA. Meanwhile,
Balfour had succeeded Churchill at the Admiralty, and
Lloyd George had become Minister of Munitions.
By 1917, Balfour had become Foreign Minister and
Lloyd George, Prime Minister. In November, the
document that became known as the Balfour
Declaration was issued. It stated that the British
Government would use their best endeavours to
facilitate the establishment in Palestine of a National
Home for Jewish People. The Declaration is regarded
by historians as a crucial step towards the
establishment of the State of Israel, as it permitted
Jewish emigration to Palestine on a much larger scale.
The conversion of acetone-butanol fermentation
from a laboratory experiment to an industrial process
in about a year was a remarkable achievement. It was
the first time that sterile culture had been practised
on an industrial scale and, in this respect, the process
was the precursor of the industrial fermentations that
now yield antibiotics, enzymes and an increasing
range of other products.
It is unlikely that the Balfour declaration was a direct
reward for Weizmann's services to Britain. His
achievements must, however, have convinced Balfour
and Lloyd George that they were dealing with a
practical man of the very highest ability, and that the
ideas of Zionism were not merely the fantasies of
eccentric visionaries.
Weizmann received no civil honour from the British
Government. He did, however, receive ten shillings
(50p) for every ton of acetone made by his process
during the war. The resulting £10,000, perhaps
equivalent to half a million pounds of today's money,
enabled him to devote himself full-time to Zionist
activities.
Weizmann's acetone-butanol fermentation process
was much more efficient than its predecessors,
yielding about 10 tons of acetone and a similar
amount of butanol from 100 tons of raw material. It
was, however, soon superceded. From 1920 to 1960
it was gradually replaced by catalytic processes using
petrochemical feedstocks. It still survives, for
strategic reasons, in South Africa, which does not
wish to be dependent on imported petrochemicals, the
supply of which is'vulnerable to sanctions.
What became of the human participants in the
story? Balfour, who was getting old, retired from
politics. Lloyd George's political fortunes declined
with those erf the Liberal Party, and in his old age he
wrote his unreliable memoirs. Churchill continued his
turbulent career, which culminated in his role as
Britain's leader in the Second World War. In 1948,
Weizmann became the first president of Israel.
Research using human embryos is, by its very nature,
an emotive subject. Few people would disagree that
this research needs regulating and, after years of
carefully avoiding the issue, the Government has
decided to act. The embryo-research bill, shortly to
be put before Parliament, will come in two versions,
one including clauses limiting experiments to fourteen
days after fertilisation, the other banning such
experiments altogether. MPs will be given a free vote,
independant of party political pressures, on which
version of the bill to accept. It is, after all, a matter
of principle.
This is where the problem lies. Politicians and their
ilk like principles. On a matter of principle, something
can be either right or wrong, good or evil, black or
white-there are no shades of grey. Whether or not
embryo research should be allowed becomes a simple
matter of belief, so obvious that it does not even need
thinking about.
The issue has already become entangled with other
matters of principle. The anti-abortion lobby is already
out in force. Womens' groups are complaining that the
bill ignores the rights of the mother. These groups and
others, equally convinced of the rightness of their
causes, see the bill as nothing more than a convenient
weapon.
Amid all this din, the true purpose of the bill could
easily be forgotten. The important issues of medical
ethics and the guidelines contained within it will not
be discussed. They will become irritating 'problems'
associated with allowing research to continue. The
politicians will be faced with a choice, either to make
one 'simple' decision and ban research entirely or to
face a plethora of complicated technical problems.
The vote-hungry always take the easy way out.
This has already happened in Germany where
embryo research is now illegal. Similarly, the American
Government has refused to fund such research for the
past year and has recently confirmed that this ban will
continue indefininitely. On the other hand, countries
such as Japan are supporting and even encouraging
embryo experimentation, albeit within tight ethical-
guidelines.
It could be said that embryo research will continue
whether Britain bans it or not: German biotechnology •
companies have not stopped their work but merely
moved it to French laboratories.
Our Parliament will spend the next few weeks
arguing over an issue with no answer. In this televisual
age we will even be able to see them doing so and
the honourable members will no doubt get especially
irate for the cameras. But what will they have
acheived at the end? Embryo research will not stop.
It may continue here, it will definitely continue
elsewhere.
I hope that Britain continues in the field. Nobody can
tell what any research may bring and embryo research
has already given infertile couples the chance to have
children. It may help cure the victims of Parkinson's
disease. There are even researchers who believe that
it could help control AIDS. What is not in doubt is that
if the anti-research lobby have their way, we will have
acheived a grand total of sod all.
Jason Lander
Page 5

