Ladies hockey
IC ladies 11-6 Barts II—0
Saturday's performance was absolutely outstanding.
Despite being three players short, the game produced
some excellent action!! Umpire, Sydney Harbour-
Bridge coped well with the complaints from the Barts
captain, who kept insisting that we delay the start
until her team arrived!! How unreasonable can you
get!! Fortunately, with the astro only booked until 3pm
we had to start without them. With the return of
Jackie Wilderhaber to goal, the captain was forced out
of her usual position, onto the pitch. Despite the break
of three weeks she bulldozed through the Barts
defence on three separate occasions, to claim her first
hat-trick for IC and her first goals of the season.
Forward Wendy Kite and demon hitter Lisa Kiwi got
some serious hockey together with Lisa powering the
ball through the whole of the Bart's defence to
Wendy, leaving her 30 yards headstart and two
people between her and the goal. Although failing to
score on this occasion she did manage to put two
other goals in the back of the net, one played brilliantly
off the back line by right wing Laura Betteridge. The
final goal was scored by Centre forward Jackie Scott,
who smashed it through the defence from the back
of the circle, just as the defence thouv,,,i they had it
cleared. With some brilliant play from the IC defence,
stopping everything Barts attempted to get through
them, the future is certainly looking good for the
seconds, and promotion is in sight already!!
IC Ladies 11-1 Sussex Ladies II—0
On Wednesday IC ladies seconds secured themselves
a place in the next round of the UAU competition. A
brilliantly taken free hit by centre half Jane Bunch left
Jackie Scott clear to slip the ball in under the
goalkeeper in the opening minutes. Unfortunately,
despite IC having the ball for nearly the rest of the
game, the forwards failed to produce anything
inspirational. Halfbacks Jane, Diana Hill and Anna
Gray played brilliantly, stopping Sussex every time our
Forwards gave them the ball, and returning it up the
pitch for us to try again!! Oona and Hazel saw very
little of the ball, but tackled well when called upon.
Star of the match, in her return to goal, was captain
Alison Franklin, who didn't touch the ball once!
(Thanks to the IC defence) With three wins, one draw
and one loss we now expect a day trip to Bristol or
Bath to further our UAU careers!!
Football
IC 11-2(0) QMC 11-1(0)
Ha! 'It only takes a second to score a goal' and 'the
game isn't over until the final whistle' were well used
cliches by the time IC got to the bar. Trailing to an
undeserved QMC goal shortly after half time, IC left
it late to stamp their complete dominance on the game
and steal the point. There should have been at least
seven goals produced by an IC onslaught in the
second half, but chance after chance was wasted.
Goals by R Martinez and J Fordham in the 88th and
89th minutes were enough to win the game and
relieve the team's frustration.
IC 11-1(1) Sussex-3(0)
The IC II bandwaggon broke its rear axle in this one.
Form book predictions were for an impressive victory
and triumphant march into the next round. History
sucks! A penalty miss in the first minutes of the game
by E Coates, the IC captain, didn't help the team's
confidence. This was temporarily restored by a well
taken goal from A Jalan. However, the appalling
referee kept stopping the game and IC never found
their rhythm. Sussex were much better at playing
badly than IC and stole their goals in the second half.
IC sought sollace in the Hammersmith pub crawl after
the match, with Pip Peel being the winner.
Page 6
Kings College-2 IC 1sts-1
The referee set himself up as the Robin Hood of
football, stealing the game from richly talented IC and
handing it to our rivals Kings. Two goals in the first
ten minutes of the second half, the first from a
dubious penalty that Kings didn't even appeaLfor, and
the second from a through-ball which found three
Kings players offside. To his credit, the referee gave
IC an equally dodgy penalty later on but Pat Fancock
lent back too far and sent the ball soaring over the bar.
IC had the better of the first half, Tone de Lyon
hitting the underside of the bar with a swerving free
kick, and several efforts were only just scrambled
away. Kings looked menacing from a series of corners,
with Pip Peel, playing an unaccustomed defensive
role, hooking a dangerous ball away and Si Holden
performing an acrobatic reverse dunk over the bar to
avoidertding up in the net with the ball. Mike Patton's
persistent hustling finally brought IC a goal just before
half-time, forcing an own goal out of their defence.
IC return to Berrylands in the quarter finals of the
Cup in ten days time and Kings should expect to get
their arses kicked then.
IC VI-2 LSE IV-3
IC battled hard against an onslaught of opposition
winging and mad, head-butting pitch invaders in this
exciting two-sided match.
In the first half Jem Ellis superbly equalised after
Damon Thomas had managed to head Mike Potter's
leg (instead of the balls), to let in their striker.
The second half submitted to some of IC's finest
football, but LSE still managed to befuddle the Pinky
and Rupert defence combination, to knock in two half
chances, leaving only ten lonely minutes left.
But did the team surrender? Nay, I hear you moan,
as some good work from our new striker and other
onlookers let Jem in to slip in his second, suggesting
an exciting finish.
And what a finish it was! A lanky loony decided to
head-butt our goalie to steal the match ball thirty
seconds before we could score two goals, to steal
victory.
All round shocked looks ensued, before the happy-
go-lucky referee decided to prematurely ejaculate the
players from the field. And what a loss it was!

