Hockey Squash
IC 1
1
1
—
6 UCH II—0
Fresh from recent triumphs, IC went into
Wednesday's game in a confident mood. A crowd of
thousands packed the Harlington stadium to see if the
,team, which had won all its UAU games without
conceding a goal, could continue their remarkable run
by beating a strong UCH team. However, as the teams
ran out onto the pitch it was clear to all in the crowd
that this was a much changed IC team. Gone was IC's
star centre forward, Indiana McGovern, replaced by
the virtually unknown Dave Millard. Also missing from
the line-up were Adam Pritchard, Rob Powell and
James Larkins, replaced by newcomers, Scott
Hipkins, Kevin Williams and Mike Marshal. But, by far
the biggest shock and disappointment to the crowd
was the relegation of Nigel to the substitutes bench.
The game started with a deafening roar of
anticipation from the crowd. They were not to be
disappointed as IC soon stamped their superiority on
Boat Club
•
the game with Kevin Hill converting a well executed
short corner routine after just ten minutes. The huge
territorial advantage enjoyed by IC did not however,
bring another goal until a minute before the end of the
first half when Jon Briggs' shot was stopped on the
line by a foot. A flick awarded, Jon himself stepped
up to slot the ball home for a 2-0 lead at half time.
As the military band left the pitch, the second half
got underway. IC continued where they had left off,
quickly making the score 3-0, Mike Marshal finishing
off a goal mouth scramble. Three more goals were to
follow; a tap-in by Dave Millard, a second for Kevin
Hill-again from a short corner, and another for Mike
Marshal-a superb shot from the edge of the 'D'.
It seemed inevitable that more goals would follow
but it was not to be so, as the final whistle was blown
to signify a 6-0 victory, the players left the pitch to
a standing ovation and the crowd went home talking
of the goals that might have been.
IC-
IC-
Sussex-1
Barts-0
••'V'
Last Sunday heralded the first competition for this
year's novice intake, in the University of London
Regatta-the Allom Cup.
The men's eight was knocked out by an
experienced Hospital crew, but fortunately the men's
four had more success and reached the final. They led
off the start only to lose due to equipment damaged
on river debris.
The women's four reached their final without
difficulty and won despite an unwelcome bath
afforded by a passing launch. The women's eight won
their first heat by 5 lengths, but whilst in the lead in
the second round suffered a collision and were
unjustly not awarded a re-row.
It is a promising start to the racing season for the
club's new oarsmen and women and it looks good for
the development of the novice squad during the year
starting as they have done from scratch. We hope to
see their training and dedication pay off as they strive
for greater heights.
The ladies squash team maintained their undefeated
record last Wednesday afternoon with a win against
Sussex. This fifth and final UAU group fixture turned
out to be the decider between the only two
undefeated teams in the London/SW area. The
afternoon started at one minute past twelve with a
confident win for Liz Parkin, the team's number one
player. The number two, Alison Smith, had a hard
struggle and eventually succumbed to the opposition.
This left the remaining three members, Toni Perrott,
Han-Bing Cheong and Jenny Jolliffe, anxious for at
least 2 more victories to secure pole position in the
section and home tie in the next round. But the
worries were uncalled for and they all secured easy
3-0 wins.
Hot on the heels of this victory came another on
Monday evening in the London league fixture against
St Bartholemew's Hospital when Imperial secured an
impressive 4-0 overall victory.
X-country
Developed in Sweden, the Ledin Diet advocates a
lean, mean and hungry approach to cross-country
racing. That the IC boys have been following this
approach assiduously was clear for all to see last
Wednesday at the London Colleges League. Despite
severe depletion due to injury, the team salvaged
second place to maintain their overall lead in the
league.
The course was a testing five miles at Wimbledon
Common. A surprising leader at the quarter mile stage
was Dan McQueen. However, he didn't close, and slid
down to finish 72nd. Better pace judgement was
shown by Paul Northrop, who ran a storming second
half to finish a strong second. Alex made it two in the
top ten for IC, and Dave Ngugi put in another Stirling
effort, although he later said he needed a DIC to surge
past.
Hero of the B team was Jim Watson who improved
32 places on his last run. True Harrier spirit was also
shown by Steve Beverley, making the top 100 for the
second time. He denied any involvement in the
mysterious disappearance of the ladies team, but
referred instead to a certain E Gaskell from computing.
Ten Pin
Over the last two weeks we have played two
matches, neither of which have been very
spectacular. The first, against Brunei, we won 6-4.
It was a very close match and both the ladies and B
team played very well with Roddy Winter in the B's
scoring his highest ever of 211. Both the A's and C's
came very close, both within 6 pins of an overall win.
The second match was against Kent University at
home. Unfortunately they managed to beat us by 8-2
partly due to the absence of one of our best ladies.
Although there was a valiant effort by the A team who
won all their games, with a special mention to Phil
Wren who played a 587 series with two games over
200. Overall we have managed to beat Kent in the
league.
7

