Bendover Turnip's boredom
The first round of College Athletic Committee and sub-
committees have come and gone, and the result, I
feel, is a 1-1 draw. Boathouse committee-well, no
drastic changes there. Everything ticking along nicely,
no major issues proposed which would affect, to any
extent, the students using the facilities or the long-
term future of the Boathouse.
South Kensington Sports Committee-As a result
of the income element of the Sports Centre's
operations and financial targets set on this committee
by Athletic Committee, discussion continues to be
dominated by money. A few points raised about the
'Development of the Sports Centre'-an extension to
the ladies changing rooms and the multi-gym, which
have now been completed. Viewpoints are very short-
and middle-term. Where has that proposed multi-
million pound sports complex gone? Thrown out of
Westminster City Council and lost. But I hear talk of
a practical, scaled-down proposal for a sports hall. I
feel further discussion and nurturing of this rather
good idea coming on during the year.
Of course, the main issues on the table at the
moment concern Harlington, the remit of Athletic
Ground Committee. The good news-the Harlington
Trust, set up to administer the funds provided from
the gravel extraction, will be making its first
contribution towards student sport at Imperial
College. The Astroturf pitch is now on its way, to be
installed in the summer term along with necessary
floodlighting and our own generator to provide the
electricity. Discussions centred on the exact
positioning of the pitch are detailed in Neil
McCluskey's report in this issue of FELIX.
Further good news-there is around £1.6 million
already in the Trust, being invested for us by Kleinwort
Benson, with a projected total of about £3.5 million.
The bad news—the extraction is behind schedule,
the pitches on the Clubhouse (North) side of the road
will not all be ready for use for rugby and football until
October 1991. The problem that they would not be
suitable for hockey for five years has been alleviated
by the promise of the Astroturf. Streeters, the
contractors, want to start work on the pitches on the
South side of the road as soon as the North side has
been relaid (October 1990), but before the pitches are
ready for use. They obviously will not be digging up
all the pitches on the South side at once but will dig
one strip at a time-the first strip will take three
pitches from us. Neil McCluskey and I recommended
a year's pause in the extraction to allow the North
pitches to catch up in the reinstatement process.
However, this is difficult because Streeters would
then take their extraction equipment to another site
and would not guarantee a return to Harlington. They
are prepared to scale down their operations so that
this first strip worked on the South side would take
twice as long. It seems that this is the option which
we must accept because, although negotiations are
underway to pause operation for a year and guarantee
a return to the site, we must be sceptical about how
successful these will be.
Benjamin Turner, ACC Chairman.
IZIT another ents report?
You are so lucky. Yes, you! Whatever you had planned
for tonight, cancel it. You won't be disappointed.
Come to the Union Lounge and see IZIT, the finest,
funkiest jazz band in this fair city. With a smokin'
single at number 56, climbing up the charts, and a
sound which makes you wish you could dance like
James Brown, IZIT have originality, where many others
simply re-hash standard grooves. Sitting still is not an
option. Every note, every beat makes you want to get
up and get down; believe me, I've seen them.
If you thought that jazz is for old men, and that funk
is a strong foreign lager, come along tonight, and all
such thoughts will be blown sky high.
Doors open at 9pm, disco till 2am and late bar.
Tickets are £2 in advance from the Union Office.
Satisfaction guaranteed.
Get your diaries out, next Friday, the 8th, The
Milltown Brothers will be playing live in the Union for
a showcase concert (lots of record company spies on
the guest list) as they are currently trying to secure
a major record deal. As the old cliche goes-see them
at IC before they go pan-galactic.
Seven days later, on the last Friday of term (15th),
a Christmas extravaganza will grace our humble
stage. The Energy Orchard have just signed up to
MCA for lots of wonga, and are playing at College
before a European tour to promote their debut album.
They played a storming gig here last year, we couldn't
get them off the stage! Hard rockin' boys with bundles
of energy (sic), and a bluesy melancholy remeniscent
of Van the man. They love playing, you'll have a great
night.
Well that's what we have lined up for you, do
yourself a favour, BUY that ticket!
Rufus Isaacs, Ents Publicity.
Rag week was a success
While exactly how much money Rag Week '89 raised
has not yet been extracted from the melee of events,
it looks as though this year was one of the most
successful on record. By November 19th IC Rag
centrally had raised more money than the whole of
last year-well done all.
The Beer Festival (8th Nov) was very well attended
and made over £2,000. 1,200 people managed to
drink as much beer as last year before 9.30pm, which
was a bit of an undersight on our behalf. The Rocky
Horror Disco was well attended, with a lot of audience
participation during the film. If you didn't go you
missed Millan Lester (as Transport Officer) being the
motorbike in the Eddie scene.
The Hypnosis Lecture (10th Nov) was incredibly
well attended. A good night was had by all and we
made £1,300, sorry for not opening the doors earlier.
The Poppy Day Collection was poorly attended but
those who went raised a lot of money-thanks to
Cath for driving. Sci Fi Marathon went well but while
all the acts at the SACB Night were very good, the
event needs a few changes so that it can make more
money in the future.
The Raft Race (Sunday 11th) was an absolute
Page 8
wheeze. Firstly I'd like to say thanks to Rob Rowe who
was the only miner to turn up (which makes-a three-
way tug-o-war a bit difficult). Then came the race at
a leisurely pace which RCS won. Then the police
turned up and asked some rather awkward questions
that the people in charge couldn't answer properly (I
had been delayed on the tube from Islington). Anyway
the police have so far said nothing, probably because
they found out that our telephone request to the DoE
had been processed wrongly—a bit of a balls-up on
our behalf.
The Comedy Night was well attended, but
unfortunately not quite well enough as we made a
loss. Thanks to James and James for organising it,
next year a different format will probably be tried. The
Slave Auction (14th) went brilliantly, £1,063 was
made-2y2 times last year's takings. At the Exec
Initiative that afternoon everybody cheated lots (can
I have all the cans back please). The Dirty Disco was
the storming do it always is.
Hit the Hit Squad was badly affected by the
weather. Everyone enjoyed the Bar Quiz which went
very well and we'll probably do another one soon.
The Smoking Concert broke-even and RCS will be
trying a different format next year.
£15 was made by AeroSoc darts. Not many people
tortured the members of the Exec who didn't wimp
out (Carol Luscombe, Rob Rowe, Chris Home and
Rachel Smith) and not enough people turned up for
the monster boat race so all the free beer went
begging which was a bit pathetic,
I'd like to say thank you to everyone who helped
with the Guilds Carnival, we don't know exactly how
much we made. I'd also like to say thank you to
everyone in Dance Club who raised squidoodles of
dosh for Children in Need.
The only event to start on the final Saturday was
the sponsored nude Kamikazi Parachute Jump in
which three very brave people raised £750 for
Children in Need in seven minutes of glory-that's the
spirit.
So that was Rag Week-the next Rag event is a Rag
Raid to Canterbury tomorrow, fancy dress is optional,
meet at 10.30 in the Union van park. For further
details please come to the Union Lounge this
lunchtime.
Love and Vodaphones,
Hal Calamvokis, Rag Chair 89-90.

