President'spiece
External Affairs
Loans
After talking to more MPs, people from industry,
members of Governing Body, some lecturers and
judging by the lack of student interest in the whole
affair I've decided that most students think that losing
their rights to benefits and receiving top-up loans
instead is a good idea. To reflect this feeling I think
IC Union policy should change, hence my motion to
the UGM to be held at 6pm on Thursday in the JCR
(see motionl.
NUS
Various repersentatives of NUS (National not London)
came to talk to the sabbaticals last Friday. These
people were very informative and left us with lots of
information packs that NUS produce each year. I
would now like to see debate open on the subject of
re-affiliation to the NUS. I would particularly
encourage Union Officers to find out how they and
their members would benefit and then put across their
viewpoint at Council, UGMs and in FELIX. The first
motion on the NUS will be coming up at next
Thursday's UGM.
Present Rent Residence/Room type Rent 1990-91
£44.00 Linstead, Southside, Weeks and Fisher single rooms £46.00
£32.40 Linstead and Fisher double rooms £32.40
£37.70 Old Beit, single rooms £38.50
£40.90 New Beit, single rooms £41.70
£41.00 Montpelier, upgraded singles £41.80
£35.00 Montpelier, non-upgraded singles £35.70
£37.00 Garden Hall and Evelyn Gardens, single rooms £37.50
£28.00 Garden Hall and Evelyn Gardens, double rooms £28.00
£24.00 Triple rooms anywhere £24.00
For Wilson House, where the tradition is to charge
according to status rather than room (although all are
singles)
Present rent Student status Rent 1990-91
£35.70 Pre-clinical £37.50
£34.65 Clinical £36.50
£44.00 Other IC students £46.00
£49.00 Other students £52.50
£105.00 Non-students £112.00
Accommodation
Early next term there will be a survey of all students
to find out their predicament as regards
accommodation. The survey will take two formats:
one to cover halls of residence, the other to cover
students in the private rented sector. The surveys will
serve two purposes: firstly the survey on halls of
residences will settle exactly how the students feel
about their halls; eg price, comfort, facilities,
administration. Secondly, the information gathered
from students in the private rented sector will provide
the basis for starting up a letting agency so that
students find it easier, quicker and cheaper to find
accommodation. These two surveys are essential as
I feel accommodation is the single most important
factor when caring for the welfare of students.
Halls of residence rents
Despite representations at College Finance and
Executive Committee, despite the majority of feelings
at Wardens Sub-Committe and despite the mood ol
the College Students Residence Committee (SRC),
John Smith, College Secretary, who chaired SRC,
wrote to the Rector advocating that rents be raised
for next year by up to 4.5% in some halls (see figures
below)
Feelings within the Union are that any kind of increase
on this year's rents is going to affect the student
intake for the worse. In order to confirm or deny these
feelings, I need some kind of feedback from you, the
students. The perfect forum for this is a Union General
Meeting. Next Thursday at 6pm in the JCR discussion
will take place on this subject, if you have any feelings
at all on this subject turn up and say so. If insufficient
people attend then you weaken my position when
trying to represent you to College. If you can't attend
the UGM then write to me!!!
Athletics
At last the plans for an astroturf hockey pitch at
Harlington are to go ahead in 1990. Plans have been
altered slightly. Floodlights would be essential for
generating external revenue to help subsidise students
playing there. Floodlights also enable several hockey
teams to play in the one day. Comments were made
at the College Athletics Committee to state that last
year the lawn tennis courts were used only three times
for matches, yet had to be maintained for twelve full
months. It was decided that in order to get round the
problem of planning permission for floodlights and to
create a space sufficient in size for future
developments then the lawn tennis courts would be
removed and the astroturf placed there.
Welfare
The next welfare campaign is on alcohol awareness.
Over Thursday and Friday (7th/8th December). Come
along and find out what you're doing to yourself. Shed
the social pressure to get drunk and simply say no!
Motions to the Union General Meeting on
Thursday 7th December
Motion on Loans 1
Proposed by: Neil McCluskey
Seconded by: David Smedley
That IC Union supports government proposals on top-
up loans. Furthermore, IC Union supports the removal
of students from the benefit system, as detailed in the
Student Loans Bill.
Motion on UGM policy
Proposed by: Paul Shanley
Seconded by: Chris Stapleton
That policy made by a UGM, lapse after three years
unless reviewed.
Motion on Loans No. 2
Proposed by: Paul Shanley
Seconded by: Christ Stapleton
That an effective boycott of banks participating in the
loans scheme be introduced. That the College be
called upon to remove Nat West from the campus.
Motion of previous UGM policy
Proposed by: Paul Shanley
Seconded by: Chris Stapleton
That the abbve motion on UGM policy be made
retrospective.
Motion on NUS reaffiliation ballot
Proposed by: Ashley Unitt
Seconded by: Jonathan David Griffiths
That the regulations governing a ballot for NUS
reaffiliation be changed.
Page 9

