MANIFESTOS
PRESIDENT Nigel D Baker, proposed by John Noble
I believe that the job of ICU President is to represent
each and every student at Imperial College, not just
those who choose to visit the Union Office.
Therefore one of my main aims next year is to
integrate the Overseas Students more into college
life, especially in the area of entertainments.
Since the issue of accommodation affects all
students I intend to examine the present residency
system with a view to implementing any changes
deemed necessary. Having lived in the Fremantle,
Linstead and Hughes Parry halls I have seen a
variety of accommodation and this will help in the
study. I feel that a fresh, independent approach is
required.
During my second year I was Bar Manager of
Hughes Parry Hall and as well as dealing with a
£30,000 turnover I was responsible for the
employees that worked in the bar. This experience
will be invaluable next year since the President has
overall responsibility for the Union Permanent staff.
As this year's Rag Chairman I have sat on Union
Council and seen the way the Union works. The
Union reorganisation that took place in January was
absolutely necessary and it is something I
wholeheartedly supported. This support is essential
since it will be up to next year's Executive to ensure
that the new system operates effectively.
Imperial College has always had a reputation for
sportsmen of a high standard and this should be
maintained. However Union funding must be for
all standards of sportsmen, beginners and
internationals alike, and this is something I wish
to ensure next year.
Hit it with your best shot and vote for experience
and dedication.
Vote Nigel D Baker for ICU President.
PRESIDENT Brendan O'Brien, proposed by Adrian M. Bourne
Brendan is the ideal candidate for ICU president.
He is a pleasant, 2nd year physicist with relevant
work and societies experience. He has been fixtures
secretary for IC Cricket Club and during last
summer he worked on a building site as a navvy.
Brendan's gentle Irish accent, his bald patch and
his sense of humour are legendary. He has had me
literally stuck to my seat on occasions!
I urge you to vote for Brendan O'Brien, the Eddie
Edwards of IC!
Adrian M. Bourne.
Brendan's Dozen
As ICU President, I intend to do the following:
1) Fight the introduction of LECTURE
VOUCHER—coz I won't get any!
2) Free pint of beer for everyone who says they
voted for me, whether they did or not.
3) Kick out lecturers who display red noses
without actually putting one on in the morning.
4) Double IC Rugby Club's budget.
5) Refuse Miss PG Halls the right to live in
Weeks Hall next year, whoever she is.
6) Declare South Kensington as the Peoples'
Republic of Cheapskate and keep out loud
Americans with fat wives and checked trousers.
7) Get me a job as a nuclear power station stoker
or an astronautical rubbish collector in
Astrophysics.
8) Get ICU to support all outbursts by English
cricketers in Pakistan, and bring Shakoor Rana on
from the City End.
9) Send relief to Ireland for the Potato Famine.
10) Annexe Ireland as a colony of Cheapskate.
11) To promote public awareness of the Irish
Potato Famine by organising a College-wide strike
so that the lecturers are free to go and distribute
baked potatoes outside the Houses of Parliament.
12) To make FELIX sell the litho and use potato
printing instead.
13) At Commemoration Day, dispense with
traditional robes and wear Batman suits instead.
Brendan O'.
DEPUTY PRESIDENT Charles Brereton, proposed by Amin El-Kholy
Having known Chas since last June, I have seen
how well he is motivated to helping students. As
Academic Affairs Officer he has taken on a heavy
workload. Through this he has shown his
commitment to students and his ability to motivate
those working with him. Chas also has a great deal
of experience dealing with College administrators
through committees. He is approachable, easy to
get on with and I am convinced he can take on the
considerable responsibility of the post of DP.
Amin El-Kholy,
Computing Dep Rep.
There are 3 basic parts to the new DP's job:
Finance and Administration: I want to rationalise
the Union's accounting procedures in co-operation
with the Union Finance Officer so that the
production of Estimates can be made easier.
Services: The Union's trading outlets need
rejuvenating so that they can be run profitably yet
providing a better service for students. I want to
expand by taking over Southside Shop in the coming
year because at present it does not provide a good,
cheap service for students. The Union Building is
also in desperate need of refurbishment; I support
the introduction of a Union Manager with whom
I will work to make the Union Building the best
in College—the place that students will want to go
to eat, drink or socialise. The resulting increased
revenue can be used to improve facilities.
Representation: I intend to take responsibility for
Academic Affairs and either or both of Postgraduate
and Overseas students representation. My
experience in dealing with senior academics on
College committees will be useful here.
To sum up, I am standing for DP because I
believe I am the only candidate with the experience
and motivation to do the job properly.
So VOTE CHARLES BRERETON.
10 Friday March 4th 1988 FELIX

