J V I A INI I F E S T O
DEPUTY PRESIDENT Steve Mercer, proposed by Max Kallios
The Candidate
My 2 V
2 years at IC have been crammed with new
experiences, exciting challenges and rewarding
achievements:
This January saw me wresde the National Student
Rock 'n' Roll title from our very own Neil
McCluskey, I have trained the Ladies Rugby Team,
D. J'ed professionally and for ICR flown for the
first time (without landing!), experienced the tedium
of ICU Council and, was the highest single-handed
collector in last year's Tiddly-winks!
Externally my activities have been equally wide:
I help epileptics and handicapped children swim
in safety, I am currently revitalising a National
drugs education organisation in conjunction with
a founding member and more recently, I am in
discussion with Famine Relief over an attempt to
organise an Nationwide event.
The job
Under the new job descriptions, a lot of the
Sabatical Officers work (with the exception of the
Felix Editor) is still somewhat vague and so to some
extent next years officers will be guinea-pigs trying
out all the various complexities and intricacies of
their jobs.
As Deputy President I would continue to be
basically an Administrations Manager sitting on
every committee in existence. But I would try to
concentrate more time on those College based issues
such as Admissions, Academic & Welfare
Committees which benefit all students alike.
I would also like to see the Union bar run like
an ordinary public house—for instance, when an
assault is made on a publican the police are called
and the assailant is usually banned for life and
possibly prosecuted—for the Union Bar it would
seem that a fine is quite sufficient punishment for
what has been described as high spirits and not
criminal intent.
In a brief 300 words I cannot begin to describe
my plans for next year if elected Deputy President
but I
(cut at the 300th word)
HON SECRETARY (Events) Rodger Houghton, proposed by Chris Stapleton
The new position of Hon Sec (Events) has the
greatest scope to improve the profile and social
image of ICU and requires imagination and a kick-
ass attitude to get things done.
At the moment, the Union building is completely
underused. It needs to be turned into the focal point
of social activity within college. The Union snack
bar should be transformed from a place akin to an
aircraft hanger into a pub/cafe. This can be achieved
by the use of a lowered ceiling; creative lighting
and knocking the outside wall through with french
windows leading onto a lawn in Beit Quad.
Norman's would be made into a quality pub-style
food outlet, catering for all tastes. The rest of the
building needs developing either by union or private
funds.
London has an abundance of small bands as any
reader of the gigs guide in NME will testify. These
could be attracted to IC on a regular basis.
We need more events similar to Monopoly rag
more frequently. More emphasis needs to be placed
on events which get money off the public instead
of underfunded students.
I intend to issue Union affiliation cards to the
many local colleges so that cardholders have use
of ICU entertainment facilities i.e. entrance to gigs,
bars, etc. An example is Queen Alexander Hall
which is literally a stones throw away from the ICU
building houses students who attend many local
colleges.
There needs to be close liaisons with the FELIX
editor in order to promote union events, parties,
UGMs etc.
Finally, I am always approachable for a chat
whether it be in the office, bars, JCR or refectories.
Rodger Houghton.
Do you want an Hon Sec who faces the issues or
who issues the faeces? Bullsh*t aside, vote
Houghton on March 7th/8th.
Chris Stapleton.
HON SECRETARY (Events) Ian Morris, proposed by Alan Hepper
Ian is one of the most influential people in the
management of IC Entertainments and is not afraid
of saying what he thinks is right. It is this skill,
along with his excellent judgement and cheerfulness
that has enabled Ents to be so successful and make
Imperial one of the best venues for up and coming
bands in London.
With the new job description for Honorary
Secretary there will be changes over the
forthcoming year which incorporate some of the
work of Ents. With his understanding of IC Union,
Ents, Rag, and CCU's and major sub-committees,
I can confidently predict that Ian Morris is the best
candidate for the job with determination, dedication
and experience.
Alan Hepper, Guilds Hon Sec.
As a result of the job description changes, the
Honorary Secretary now requires relevant
experience in the organisation of people and
premises, the production and distribution of
publicity and in working with people outside
College.
In my capacity as Entertainments Honorary
Secretary this year and Guildsheet Editor in
1985/86,1 have gained valuable experience in all
these areas and have the ability to coordinate events
at a College-wide level.
My intentions are:
1. To develop the Union Snack Bar and Lounge
to an extent that will rival Southside.
2. To work closely with Union officers to create
a balanced social calendar.
3. To liase with officers at St Marys to facilitate
an effective merger on a social basis and to promote
interaction with other London colleges and
institutes.
I am not a last minute candidate. I read the new
job descriptions seven weeks ago and decided to
stand when they were passed at Council. Please vote
sensibly by realising that I am the only candidate
with sufficient experience and enthusiasm for the
post.
Ian Morris.
FELIX Friday March 4th 1988 11

