Letters
Tizard PervSoc in
biting-the-pillow
shocker
Dear Judith,
May your press turn limp and your paper supplies turn
yellow in the sun.
Perhaps my insults should be directed to the awful author
of Kensington Gore, who a fortnight ago seemed to
confuse Tizard Surveillance Soc with some other perverts
in Southside. As far as I can recall no one actually in the
Soc possesses a pair of binoculars. I think this rather mops
up the Gore's drivel. So are our innocent activities
(innocent?) being superceded by some much more perverse
people?
To accuse us of making abusive phonecalls is a load
of Gore garbage. So far we haven't grasped the Neolithic
interna] phone system! I mean, what's this black thing with
the plastic dial full of holes? Perhaps it's a spare bowling
ball.
Accurate Linstead sources have it that these calls were
happening before all this started. If anyone has any
knowledge of Linstead they realise Linstead residents bug
each other all the time!
Yours putting the record straightingly,
N Hump, Vice Pres of Vices, SurvSoc.
PS. Why was a small teddy parachuting off the top of
Linstead with a bin-liner?
Call to the 400
Dear FELDC,
I would like to make a request to all the gay people at
IC who, for whatever reason(s), still find it difficult to
admit to their sexuality. Please in the next two months
tell somebody about it. Because of the prevailing climate
of the moment it obviously isn't an easy time to 'come
out' for anyone, but it isn't impossible and will literally
change your life (for the better). Whilst at College is a
singularly good time to confront and accept yourself for
what you are. If you cannot think of anyone who you feel
you could talk to don't hesitate to contact James Papa
(Mech Eng II), the Lesbian & Gay Welfare Officer.
Statistically there must be about 400 gay people at
College so please stop living your life for other people
but live it for yourself. Don't be straight in '88.
Yours,
Ian Healy, Elec Eng PG II.
Letter from
St Mary's
This year, for the first time in recent
years, a trip to Paris has been part of
the Rag events. Teams of two
attempted to travel between London
and Paris in the shortest time possible.
Various forms of transport were
employed by the resourceful students
as means to the end.
The most daring and adverturous
method is the traditional travel form,
hitch-hiking. Not satisfied by merely
'thumbing a lift' the participants
increased their lift chances and the
potential for collecting cash in the
boxes provided, by dressing up, the
common themes being evening wear
Dear friends—if you're thinking of coming to see us on the
above date, please cut out the dragon below and hand it
in at the door, this ensures that we get some money rather
than it all going to the Greyhound! Thanks.
5 T R B E F R 1 E H T
THE G R E Y H O U N D ,
F U L H A M 175 Fulham Palace ltd, W6
15 Mar. £ 2 . 0 0
(black tie etc) and theatre (?—rose)
dress—eg greens. Apparently, with
the weather for the weekend being
very cold, evening wear is not the
ideal dress for sleeping rough in
France.
All those that travelled had been
sponsored beforehand as one of the
mechanisms for raising cash. As
stated above, collecting boxes and
Rag Mags were also taken by those
who could, to increase revenue.
The planning of the event was
commendable, with check out/check
in points manned extensively. Each
participant had a list of cheap
accommodation in Paris, a French
road map and an inter-city map of
Paris. Also available were cheap fares
kindly provided by Sealink UK Ltd.
The most original method of travel to
Paris has to be the three intrepid
explorers who cycled the whole
distance to Paris. This is no mean feat
for those who have little experience
of long distance cycling, and who had
to borrow bicycles. Though they
arrived later than the other
competitors their contribution was
essential to the event.
On Saturday evening, the Mary's
contingent in Paris took over the
basement of a restaurant and
proceeded to have a merry evening
with much eating, drinking and
singing of traditional Mary's songs.
Such a fine sight that must be repeated
next year.
Initial projections indicate that this
event alone will raise over £2,000 for
the charity concerned. I don't think
there can be a better way to raise
money for charity. Full marks to all
those involved!
S
m
a
l
l Ads
ANNOUNCEMENTS
• Muscadet, Pouille Fure and Sancere-they
are all going to be there, are you? Union SCR,
6pm, Tuesday.
t Surplus small change? Why not invest in a
rare book or new shirt (well, nearly newl,
today at the IC Nursery jumble sale, Consort
Gallery, Sherfield Building, 10am-1pm.
• Indsoc: Visit to Shell Oil Refinery, March
9th. This is the last visit of the season.
Contact C Keener IChem Eng 3) for details.
• Stagefright are playing at the Greyhound,
Fulham Palace Road, March 15th.
• Members required for 'Hassles appreciation
society'. Contact Amin El-Kholy (DoC 2).
• Interested in providing serious hassles and
not-so-serious hassles. See Amin El-Kholy (DoC
2).
• Guild's May Ball tickets are on sale from
March 1.
• City & Guilds plus Fullers present the rugby
seven-a-side competition. This is your last
chance to sign up your team in the Guilds
Office To be held at Hariington on Sunday
March 6. All teams must be signed up by
March 2 if they wish to compete
ACCOMMODATION
• Double Room in Heme Hill, phone Jaz on
internal 4033.
PERSONAL
• Watch out Miss Shining Example—your feet
really turn him on.
• Beware of he who goes thump in the night.
• Does MS shrivel in the morning sunlight?
We'll never know.
• AAOs have feelings tool Hie
• Q . Why does he hate YHA?
• If it's I am it must be for 82.
• Ifran get off your butt!
• Visit Alcatraz new wing in Beit Quad.
• The wacky phantom t-bag has struck again.
• Beit Hall announce the resurrection of Otto
the Beit Hall magazine.
• Otto wants hot sexll
• We want articles and illustrations, scandal
and news—pigeon hole XYZ, Beit Hall.
• A poem: 'tis true that roses are red; stained
so, when my heart bled. Woe is my heart,
cruelly shattered by Cupid's arrow. Have fear
you rascal, for like the Phoenix it shall rise A
virtuoso in bed I may be, but, what only
Aphrodite knoweth, only she may reveal.
YISHU. OK you bastard, either fuck off or
match my poem with at least a limerick of
your own—none of these two line small ads
please
• Q. Why are Tizard girls single
• A. Because they are ungrateful when you
send them flowers.
•Wsnkey-come into my dreams, I have so
much love to show you.
• Seriously folks, Amnesty is about as left-
wing as my dog is!!
• Love the blue shoes—gotcha!
• Dixie, how did you enjoy your Welsh
Rabbit? Oooooeeeer! 34 MG.
18 Friday March 4th 1988 FELIX

