^ 7
Letters
Small Ads
• What's Irish, green and a danger to
women? 652 T.H.
• Menage a trois-652, Helen & Ruth.
• Rich, just because Tracey isn't going for
RCS HJT.
• John, permission to land.
• Helen, why does Sean make fewer noises
now?
• Wanted: Fifty people to drink forty pints and
ten bowls of chilli each. Apply Mining House
Beachwear Party.
• Steve Liverpudlian Mech Enger, wishes big
breasted chemist to sit on his face Southside,
Sat night 7pm.
• C N Hunter—Man can't live by glycolysis
alone!
• Thankyou for the happiest 156 days; or
3744 hours; or 224640 minutes; or
13478400 seconds; that averages 70 bonks at
3 bonks per week.
• Q. What is the probability of a paper dart
hitting the EE2 Maths lecturer.
• A. Who cares—it's statistics.
• Q. What's the loudest thing in College?
• A. 1st Floor, 18 Ongar Road.
• No 37—Where are you? Replies on a
postcard to Box 7/14.
• Rachel, when is it going to be my turn? —
No. 38!!
• How many was it this week, Rachel?—RHM
• When did you last see your...trousers,
Gordon?
• PK for LLO?
• Is it against election rules to mention Dai
Wlliams' name? The Penthouse Club.
• Dai Williams—half vice, half haircut, all
codpiece
• Gordon, next time you show at our flat you
will be most welcome This time I am lying.
Andy, the Penthouse Club.
• Wanted: Fat, greasy fascist dictator baskets.
Apply G Brignall.
• PK's guide to driving: speed, brake, fine,
fume
•What position was that, Gordon?
• Beware! Big Brignall is watching you!
• John, Saturday 20th was definitely not
overrated!
• John, if the Laura Brannigan treatment
doesn't work, I'll always be around.
• To my favourite milkman—don't cancel my
milk too often—your bored housewife
• Dear Admiree, are you looking for Anon
Handbag? Computing pigeonholes.
• Mommy-kins, it would make me the
happiest man on earth (I'm sure it's really
quite nice). Love, Daddy-kins.
• To the beautiful blonde in LT213; you make
my heart burn! Love from the mush-caller!
• Keswick too cold for you Ken? 34 Mad
Gardeners.
• Tony, Ken, Del, don't blame it on the burgers
you drunkards! 34 M G.
• Where do you get your grease BA. 34 MG.
• So sad, the way he makes love to his pool
cue! 34 MG.
Don't just bitch
Dear Judith,
Just a quick letter in answer to Tony Spencer's letter
in FELIX. I can't see the point in all these people moaning
about how boring FELIX is, and what a tyrant you are—if
they want a different sort of article why don't they turn
up and write for FELIX themselves? As for staff drifting
off—I thought you were doing great at encouraging people
(eg me, Phil Young, etc, etc) to come and write for you.
Personally, I like FELIX this year. I do think it can be
anti-Howgate (oops no! Sydney Harbour-Bridge now!! I
keep forgetting) but that is your opinion and as you keep
pointing out, the editorial is for you to air your opinion!
My advice to everyone out there is—go to the FELIX
Office, speak to Judith (she doesn't bite! Well, don't go
too near her, especially if you're wearing a hat and your
hair is flat underneath), and write the kind of article you
would like to see in FELIX. A bit more productive than
just bitching, don't you think?
Love and kisses,
James Papa, Mech Eng 2.
Shocked & surprised
Dear Judith,
As the Editor of the 1988-1989 PG Prospectus, it was
with great surprise that I read the letter from Mr T Spencer
in last week's edition of FELIX (No 795).
In his letter Mr Spencer states that the Print Unit had
'botched' the job of producing the cover of the prospectus.
I would like to point out to all who may be interested that
despite an initial hiccup, the Print Unit produced, at
extremely low cost, a splendid cover, as indeed they did
the rest of the booklet. I am sure anyone who reads this
year's PG Prospectus will agree with me.
Alan Barnett, PG Prospectus Editor.
Pompous ****—a
better title than
'Print Unit Trouble'?
Dear Judith,
We refer to our letter of last week, printed under the
title 'Print Unit Trouble'. We felt it represented a
legitimate complaint over a bill we received for printing
which was so unsatisfactory as to be of no use.
Instead of being receptive to the complaint and
attempting to redress the balance, FELIX, as usual, turned
defensive in the face of a perfectly reasonably criticism.
The excuses that were printed in your reply were, frankly,
offensive.
Mopsoc and Astrosoc have now ceased to be
sympathetic to the Print Unit's difficulties. If you could
not provide the service you claimed to offer, you should
not have accepted the order in the first place. The entire
sob story about how pressed you were is of no interest
to your dissatisifed customers.
And no wonder we are dissatisfied. How are we
supposed to believe your excuses for charging us twice
the estimate when, a paragraph later, you sum up by saying
you would charge us double given the chance? And why?
For wasting the Print Unit's time! I think you'll find it
was our time, and money, that was wasted because you
took an order that you were clearly incapable of carrying
out. And you also wasted the time of your own Business
Manager, Chris Martin, when he went needlessly debt
collecting after you had failed to inform him that the goods
had not been delivered. The apology he seeks is not from
us.
Indeed, why should we apologise at all? We made a
perfectly reasonable request of the Print Unit and in return
have received nothing but trouble. I understand,
furthermore, that we are not alone in this and that is why
I feel our letter is of interest to others. Others, that is,
who would not dare criticise the Print Unit Manager for
fear that she would withdraw those services that FELIX
does have a monopoly over.
If any apology is to be made, it is to RCSU, for we
have wasted its money attempting to enlist the services
of an unreliable Print Unit instead of spending more and
going elsewhere.
In future we will do so. You have done nothing but
create bad feeling with your attitude that the customer does
not matter. We remain highly unsatisfied with the
treatment we have received.
Dan Salmons, Mopsoc President,
Nick Wood, Astrosoc Chairman.
Complete satisfaction
Dear Miss Hackney,
Recently, The Penthouse Club had cause to require the
Print Unit to provide us with some business cards.
Unfortunately, we feel quite unable to start a long-running
controversy in the letter's column of that esteemed
publication, FELIX, because we were entirely satisfied
with the work.
Yours sincerely,
The Penthouse Club.
(names supplied, but couldn't read all of them).
RCSU Honorary Sexy
shocker!
Dear Judith,
What a con these RCS Hon Sees are! Last Friday night,
we had just returned from a long night's sharking and were
just about to go to bed.
Imagine my surprise when I heard a loud thumping at
our front door. Talk about the power of advertising! When
I opened the front door, who should be standing outside
but Gordon Brignall himself! Without any further
prompting he launched into the classic KGB 'guess what?
I'm going to search your flat' mode and stormed the
stronghold of his arch-enemy Dai Rocking. We felt this
was a little unwise as Dai shares a room with Mike 'insane
axe-wielding psychopath' Evans who is a part-time insane
axe-wielding psychopath, and doesn't really like being
woken at 3am by a 'where are my trousers you bastard'
type interrogation.
Apparently Gordon was so eager to converse with our
alcohol sampling member that he had crossed London on
a stolen three-seater bicycle, presumably also in stolen
trousers.
Luckily, we saw the funny side of it and threw him out
of the flat.
The Penthouse Club.
FELIX Friday March 4th 1988 19

