News
Majority support strike
In one of the biggest protests ever by
ICU, some 2,250 students out of a
total of 3,400 supported last
Tuesday's strike. Thirty-one of the
classes polled were in favour of
striking. Of the exceptions, Mining
Engineering stayed in because of a
visit by the University Grants
Committee (UGC) to the department,
while Mech Eng 2 had split labs.
Some 70 ICU students also attended
the AUT/TUC lobby at the Houses of
Parliament and were able to speak to
local MPs, Mr Peter Brooke and Sir
Brandon Rhys-Williams.
Union President, Sydney Harbour-
Bridge described this as a positive
contact, which he hoped could be
followed up later. He has expressed
all his thanks to those who supported
the action, and in particular staff for
re-arranging lectures and the Pro-
NUS Society for putting up posters,
and Neil Motteram, Amin El-Kohly
and Alan Rose for carrying out the
ballots.
Mr Harbour-Bridge was, however,
concerned to hear that Life Sciences
1 were under the impression that they
would be docked marks for an
assessed lab, if they went out on
strike. Though FELIX has now
received assurance from the
department that this will not happen.
Mr Harbour-Bridge also regretted not
having time to clear up some
confusion in Aero 2, where the
Academic Rep considered the voting
to have been carried out
unsatisfactorily. In the event,
however, the lecture was cancelled in
accordance to the original result.
Mr Harbour-Bridge hopes to follow
the strike up with a letter writing
campaign by students to their local
MP. The main points to be covered
being; the implications of contract
funding on research; the safety of
non-cost effective departments, that
are nonetheless valued by industry,
and the future of apolitical students
unions for the entertainment, social
education and representation.
NUS demo
A demonstration organised by the
National Union of Students against
the Government's Education Reform
Bill was held in London last Saturday.
A handful of Imperial students
attended the rally in Hyde Park to
hear speeches from NUS President
Vicky Phillips and TUC leader
Norman Willis. Over 10,000 students
were reported to have attended the
protest from all over the United
Kingdom. Other speakers included
John Griffiths, Vice Chancellor of
Manchester University and Peter
Tatchell. The NUS considered the
event a success.
C&G posts Election fever grips IC
The papers for the City & Guilds
Union Executive came down on
Monday. The only contested post is
that of Vice President, where the
candidates are Hilary Hughes (Civ
Eng 1) proposed by Kevin MacCann
(Chem Eng 1) and Max Kallios
(Mech Eng 1) proposed by Nigel D
Baker (Chem Eng 4).
Neil Smith (Mech Eng 2) proposed
by Ken Pendlebury (Mech Eng 2) for
President stands unopposed, after
Chris Stapleton (Aero 2) pulled out.
Also unopposed is Murray
Williamson (Mech Eng 2) standing
for Honorary Secretary, also
proposed by Ken Pendlebury (Mech
Eng 2).
The elections will take place at a
City and Guilds Union General
Meeting next Tuesday at 1pm.
ULU posts
Elections for the three University of
London Union sabbatical posts of
President, Vice President (Finance
and Admin) Vice President (Services)
will be held at a GUC on March 20th.
Any IC member is eligible to stand
for any post for the GUC Exec posts.
The deadline for nominations is
Saturday March 5, and Friday March
4 for the senate posts. Information on
these posts and nomination papers are
available from Neil Motteram
(External Affairs Officer)..
Yesterday the annual Imperial
College Union Hustings General
Meeting took place in the Great Hall.
Candidates for the posts of ICU
President, Deputy President,
Honorary Secretary (Events) and
FELIX Editor (Print Unit Manager)
were given 3 minutes each to
persuade the 300-odd people present
to vote for them. After speeches, each
candidate was grilled by the Elections
Committee using questions provided
by the audience.
During questions to the FELIX
Editor, one of the candidates called
quorum. Chairman Alistair Seymour
ruled that the meeting was quorate
and the candidate then went on to
challenge his ruling. Eventually the
Chair was handed to Recreational
Clubs Committee Chairman Neil
McCluskey who aske'd the candidate
to withdraw his challenge, which he
did. The meeting was then able to
continue.
The Presidential candidates were
questioned on a diverse range of
subjects including that of the recent
Union re-organisation. FELIX Editor
candidates answered questions on
their proposed content and bias of
next year's FELIX.
The candidates for President are
Nigel Baker proposed by John Noble
and Brendan O'Brien proposed by
Adrian Bourne. The candidates for
Deputy President are Charles
Brereton proposed by Amin El-Kholy
and Steve Mercer proposed by Max
Kallios. The candidates for Honorary
Secretary are Rodger Houghton
proposed by Chris Stapleton and Ian
Morris proposed by Alan Hepper.
The candidates for FELIX Editor are
Bill Goodwin proposed by Dave
Burns, Chris Martin proposed by Liz
Holford and Martyn Peck proposed
by Sumeet Ghaie. The elections will
take place next Monday and Tuesday
and each candidate's manifesto is
printed in the centre pages of this
FELIX.
FELIX is published by the Editor for and on behalf of Imperial College Union Publication Board and is printed by the Imperial College
Union Print Unit, Prince Consort Road, London, SW7 2BB (Tel 01-589 5111 ext 3515). Editor: Judith Hackney. Business Manager: Chris
Martin. Copyright FELIX 1988 ISSN 1040-0711.
20 Friday March 4th 1988 FELIX

