• FIRST AN APOLOGY to
Naughty Nigel Whitfield. Due to an
unreliable source I thought that it was
Nigel who reported the Mercury
phone fiasco and was threatened with
blackmail. It was not. It was in fact
our very own Internal Services
Officer A l Birch!
• C A U G H T ! two sabbatical
candidates putting posters up for one
another. £5 to me by midday or I'll
publish.
• M Y SPIES AT the Old Centralians
Dinner tell me that Dr Bob, the Union
Bar licencee, was very indiscrete in
his advances to City and Guilds Vice
President Tanya Maule. My spies
used the words 'very obvious' but
they are undecided as to whether he
got anywhere. Perhaps he'd been
studying our very own 'Body
Language' guide in last week's
FELIX!
• SHOCKING REVELATIONS
have been coming out from Michael
Arthur's office recently. Michael has
told the Student Accommodation
Office that they should allocate 110%
of rooms available for next academic
year and that rooms will be given out
on a 'first-come-first-served' basis.
Wardens throughout Imperial have
thrown their arms up in horror.
Southside, in particular, has always
prided itself on putting like-minded
students on the same landing. This
will no longer happen as students are
piled high on the first weekend of
term. And horror of horrors, what
happens if all the students should turn
up this year? Well, Michael is
confident that this will not happen,
and if it does I suppose the
unfortunate late-comers will get
pushed down to Hamlet Gardens like
this year's poor unfortunates did.
• SOUTHSIDE DOESN'T seem to
be the safest of places to eat nowaday.
Several people have gone down with
mild food poisoning recently after
eating tuna pizzas in Belushis.
Meanwhile there was another case of
FP after City & Guilds mega-
successful trip to Eat Fatsos Bare.
Obviously student guts aren't what
they used to be!
>
0
Judith Largeamounts sat in her chair
in the corner of the Phallix Office as
the day's post arrived with lots of
letters. She opened the first one and
read:
Dear Largeamounts,
Last term we had some
membership cards printed by you.
When we got them back they were
a load of rubbish: too small and all
smudged. Not being the normal
arrogant type of Cheapskate
citizens we didn't complain, but we
didn't pay either.
However, we now find that you
have nicked the money direct from
the Fundamentalswsofnature-
testers and we don't like this.
Give us our money back!
Yours scroogingly,
Dan Bignose, Flopsoc President,
Dan's roommate, Stargazzysoc Chairman.
PS. This really does need to go in the Phallix letters page because everyone
is interested in it.
'Oh dear', thought largeamounts 'I hope the others are nice fan letters, Let's
try this one'.
Dear Largeamounts,
Why are there no photos in Phallix and where have all the staff gone?
Yours ghost-writingly,
A random list year whojust happens to share a flat in Yorrick Gardens with
two ex-Phallix photographers).
'This is terrible, if I publish these then people will realise what's really going
on here, if I don't then I will be accused of censorship. What can I do!'
While Largeamounts was thinking she opened another letter and read:
Dear Miss Largeamounts,
Congratulations! Your name has been selected from a list of literally
thousands by our computer and you have been awarded six lucky numbers
in the Readers' Digestivebiscuit £100,000 draw. Yes, you, Miss Judith
Largeamounts ofSelspock Dormitory, Cheapskate, could win £100,000. All
you have to do is buy a six album set of Des 0'Condom records and a vegetarian
cookery book...
'What a load of rubbish, how on earth did they get my name-it's worse
than being on the Chi-Rho mailing list!
Judith returned to the next fan letter:
Dear Largeamounts,
You are useless and Phallix is even worse, you always slag off Sydney
Spanker when in fact he is jolly nice really. Why don't you stop trying to be
like the Stun and aim for the Grauniad instead.
Yours lovingly,
Tony, ex-Fundamentallawsofnaturtesters hack.
'Phew, hot stuff gasped Largeamounts. 'I need someone to write me a nice
fan letter.' She looked around the office, but couldn't see anyone so she called
to her two loyal slaves in the print room, 'hey, you two, stop snogging and
come and write me some fan mail'.
After a few minutes thinking, an acceptable letter had been conceived:
Dear Judith,
You are great and so is Phallix and the print shop. If people want smiling,
jovial staff then they shouldn't come here 'cos we'll just tell them to piss off
and leave us alone.
Yours obediently,
A Slave.
'That's better—a lovely fan letter—we'll publish that'. Largeamounts breathed
a sign of relief and threw the nasty letters in the bin.
Just then Mr P K Spin-drive-crash-burn of the Mayfair Club arrived to place
his usual quota of silly small ads. He also had a fan letter for Largeamounts:
Dear Largeamounts,
We, the Mayfair Club, had some cards printed by you and they were great.
Yours lustfully,
The Mayfair Club.
PS. Will you be our page 3 girl next week?
Will Largeamounts be a page 3 girl?
Will Mr P K Spin-dive-crash-burn get the girls (or will they get him first)?
What has happened to the Cheapskate elections?
• THE TIMES got it wrong again
this week when they reported on
Monday's Old Centralians dinner
held at Fishmongers' Hall. They
stated that the dinner was attended by
the Dean of Imperial College of
Science and Technology. It was infact
id Centralians
The Hon Peter Brooke, Chair-
man of the Conservative Party,
was the principal guest and
speaker at the annual dinner of
the Old Centralians held last
night at Fishmongers' Hall.
Professor Peter Grootenhuis,
president, was in the chair.
Among those present were:
Sir Matthew Fairer, the Master of the
Engineers' Company, the Director-
General of the City and Guilds of
London Institute and the Dean of
Imperial College of Science and
hnology.
Bruce McA Sayers, Dean of City and
Guilds College who attended. Sources
say that Bruce would welcome the
new appointment.
• I T ' S BEEN fascinating to see all
the bitching that has gone on about
FELIX In the letters page. I found a
little gem from a few years back
which is now sellotaped to the
Editor's wall:
Dear Martin,
Thank you very much for your
recent reminder for invoice P259, of
27.1.86.
The Social Cultural and
Amusement Board always appreciates
its mail; I look forward to the
mornings and lunchtimes when I can
dash up to the Union Office and see
what exciting bits of paper have
arrived which demand my immediate
attention. Regrettably, all too often,
I find that it's another circular or
minutes of a committee meeting. I am
therefore always pleased to see an
invoice from FELIX; the excitement
can be almost too much to bear! This
year, you have excelled yourself—
so many bills, so much paperwork!
You deserve Social Colours for such
dedication!
However, on this occasion, I fear
your desire to please has led to a
desperate situation where this invoice
has already been paid. I appreciate the
thought, a kind one that it is, but only
letters and bills I have not seen before
provide that extra special thrill.
Nice try though.
With kindest regards,
Nicholas Shackley,
Chairman, Social Cultural &
Amusement Board, 13.6.86.
PS: Invoice P259, of 27.1.86 paid on
6.3.86, SCAB Cheque Number 651.
Bank Statements indicate the cheque
for £280.16 has been cashed by ICU
Publications Board.
Chris Jones
FELIX Friday March 4th 1988 5

