unionpage
Nominations are now open for 19
positions in a three week democratic
process which will complete the Union for
2010/11 and allow the students to make
the changes they want to see.
Whether you are a final year PhD student
or a first year Undergraduate, you can
stand for a position. The majority of
positions are to be ordinary members
of Union Council, the policy and
accountability body of the Union. You sit
in monthly Council meetings and decide
the policy and political direction of the
Union. Other positions are for the Welfare
Campaign Officer positions in charge of
Gender Equality and the S.H.A.G (Sexual
Health and Guidance) weeks, a position
for a first-year student on the Ents
Committee looking at what we put on in
the nightclub Metric, and Court Advocate,
someone who will be the link between
Autumn Elections 2010
imperialcollegeunion.org
TheAdvice Centre
The Advice Centre on Level 2M of the
Union building is the main source of
general help for students on campus. The
centre offers free, qualified, confidential,
impartial advice from our Student Adviser
Nigel Cooke on a wide range of issues
including accommodation, academic
issues, money worries, sexual health,
personal safety and more. Now you can
post your questions to Nigel anytime on
The Advice Centre Facebook page. Ask
any question, big or small and the Nigel
will post back to you via Facebook or can
email or phone you. The page also has
the contact details for the Centre should
you want to phone or email instead.
Go to imperialcollegeunion.org/advice for
more information.
Union Court and the students.
For more information on how to stand
for election and which positions you are
eligible for, download the Candidates’
Pack below. Nominations close on
17 October so you have plenty of
time to think about how you can
contribute. You can stand and vote at
imperialcollegeunion.org/vote
Most importantly, persuade fellow
students to vote when the time comes.
The Union only works as a representative
body for students because students run
its democracy.
Go to imperialcollegeunion.org/elections
for the full candidates pack. If you have
any questions email the Returning Officer,
Alex Kendall at elections@imperial.ac.uk.
Stand for a Union position and help to shape the future of your Students’
Union, through Policy, Entertainment, or Welfare Campaigns.
Autumn Elections 2010
Higher Education Funding Survey
The Union is running a survey on the Browne
Review and we need to hear what you have
to say! The review will recommend changes
to how higher education (HE) is funded,
to guarantee that UK institutions remain
world-class and internationally competitive.
What this could mean for students are much
higher fees, the introduction of higher taxes
once you graduate, higher rates of interest
on your loans, or a myriad of other scenarios.
The findings will be published next week.
The idea behind the survey is both to gather
your opinions on the issue, as well as to
inform you about what exactly could be
changing in the near future in regards to
how you pay your tuition fees, and how high
these could (potentially) increase by. It will
only take a few minutes to complete, and as
an incentive we are offering 5 gift voucher
prizes for our Union Shop worth £20 each!
You can find our survey on the Union
webpage imperialcollegeunion.org.
Alex Dahinten
Deputy President (Education)
Now on Facebook!
Charlotte Ivison
Deputy President (Welfare)
Freshers’ Fair
Thanks to everyone involved
Heather Jones
Deputy President (Clubs & Societies)
Every year the Freshers’ Fair just gets
better and better! On Tuesday almost 300
Clubs, Societies & Projects were joined
by external companies to make-up our
largest Freshers’ Fair ever.
I hope you all had a great time at the
Fair. It was, as always, great to see the
full range of the great activities going
on around campus. However the event
wouldn’t be possible without the help of
hundreds of volunteers, Club Officers and
Management Group chairs. A massive
thank-you from me for all their hard work
and enthusiasm that helped us get the
campus set-up and more importantly
returned to normal!
If you have any photos or videos of the
Fair please upload them to YouTube or
Flickr with the tag IMP150.
what’s on
what’s on
We have launched a great new online
calendar that is designed to showcase
all the events that are happening on
campus that are open for anyone to
attend. Clubs, Societies & Projects
can add their taster sessions and
performances. We will be putting on all
of the Union’s events as well as our full
entertainments calendar for Metric.
The best bit; you can choose which
sort of events you are interested in and
change the view so you can only see
them. You can also subscribe to that
selection of events in your calendar
program at the click of a button. If an
event changes it will automatically update
in your calendar too.
Have a look imperialcollegeunion.org/whats-on
Our new online calendar.

