POLITICS
FELIX
Friday 08 October 2010
12
Politics Editors: Hassan Joudi
James Lees
politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
It ain’t all numbers
Politics is alive and kicking at Imperial, and so are
world leaders from science and engineering backgrounds
One downside to life at Imperial is the lack of
variety of students you meet. You won’t find
any undergraduates studying full degrees in
English Literature, Languages, Law, History or
any other excuse to spend three years writing
essays.
We’re all here at this “technical” university
to study our very technical subjects. But you’ll
find many with an avid interest in non-techni-
cal subjects like politics, history or philosophy,
who love talking about it, sharing their ideas
and following recent developments. Around
South Kensington there is still plenty to feed
your appetite for intellectual discussion on
these issues.
There is the PPS (Political Philosophy Soci-
ety), the newly formed Philosophy Soc, not to
mention MUN (Model United Nations), His-
tory and Debating. Students active in the Con-
servative and Labour parties have even set up
their own societies, and the numerous religious
societies may delve into some politics in their
events at times. Whether it’s weekly discussion
circles or just one-off events, these societies are
at the core of political discussion and debate
happening in South Kensington campus.
For a more academic route there is a Politics
course offered by the Humanities Department
for credit or non-credit, as well as history and
philosophy related courses too. And lastly there
is this, the Politics pages of Felix.
Read alongside the Business, Arts & Culture
and other sections, it’s your weekly dose of
stuff beyond just numbers, equations, chemi-
cal reactions, charts and all other features of
knowledge in the realms of science, engineer-
ing and medicine. Because frankly, life is not
always about these things, although it may
seem like it come exam time.
Beyond Imperial, it is certainly possible to
pursue a career in politics after graduating. In
Britain, Margaret Thatcher graduated with a
BSc in Chemistry of all subjects, before be-
coming known as the Iron Lady for her gov-
ernment’s hard-line conservative policies in the
Cold War era.
There is a host of other current government
leaders who have risen to the top after an ini-
tial education in a science or engineering dis-
cipline. Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, President of
Iran, studied civil engineering and has a PhD
from Iran University of Science & Technol-
ogy. Before the Berlin Wall came down An-
gela Merkel, current German Chancellor, was
Hassan Joudi
Angela Merkel with ESA astronauts, making use of her degree in Physics
a Physicist. Hu Jintao, President of China, was
trained as an engineer at Tsinghua University,
Beijing - often referred to as China’s MIT – as
are many leading individuals in the Chinese
Communist Party.
Asian or ‘Eastern’ countries tend to have
more technocrats, politicians who have come
from a technical background or education, as
opposed to ‘Western’ nations whose politicians
tend to be filled from the ranks of law, busi-
ness and history graduates. It naturally begs the
question, is there a different style to the way
they govern?
The stereotype is that people from a tech-
nical background may be more rigid in their
thinking, relying on quantitative data to justify
their arguments or splitting everything into a
problem-analysis-solution, but of course none
of this can completely generalised.
Whilst holding office, technocrats may place
more importance on engineering and industry
when deciding policy. China is an oft-cited
example of a nation focussed on science &
technology development, devoting significant
portions of government spending on R&D
(Research & Development), and likewise are
South Korea and Japan, for example.
Or, they are perhaps more reasonable or
trusting towards expert advice from scientific
bodies about their policies. In the UK there is
sometimes controversy when the government
‘ignores’ advice, such as the case of illegal
Mahmoud Ahmadinejad
studied civil engineering
and has a PhD
drugs and Professor David Nutt from Imperial
College in October 2009.
On the other hand, technocrats may not nec-
essarily draw heavily on their training as sci-
entists or engineers, and perhaps other factors
influence them more such as the culture of the
organisations and people around them. After
all, only a true hardcore reductionist would
view society as nothing more than one big sys-
tem with input and output variables to control.
We hope the Politics section of Felix can be a
great forum for discussion and debate on politi-
cal issues of all kinds. To use a cliche, Felix is
by students for students, so your contributions
can be sent anytime to politics.felix@imperial.
ac.uk. From there, the editorial team will lay it
out and get it published for you.
Only with contributions from students like
you, who are interested enough to read to the
end of this article, can this section be successful.
The world beyond
College walls
By Kenneth Lee
Nepal has failed for the 10th time to
elect a Prime Minister, rivalling Belgium and Iraq in
its inability to form a government.
Nepal has been leaderless since former Prime Min-
ister Madhav Kumar Nepal resigned on 30 June
2010. Ram Chandra Poudel from the Nepali Con-
gress party was the only candidate to run for the
post in the most recent attempt to elect a new
Prime Minister. Nepal has been in the process of
forming a new constitution after 10 years of civil war
but has been mired in political infighting, leaving the
institutions of the Nepali state weaker as the politi-
cal impasse drags on.
Nepal
Ecuador has extended
the state of emergency
in force until the end
of this week in the
wake of attacks on the
President.
The decree was prompt-
ed by protests by police
officers in front of the National Assembly. The state
of emergency was initially declared last Thursday,
after a police revolt which saw President Correa
physically attacked by the police and left several
others dead in clashes between the police and the
military. The revolt was prompted by a new law which
cuts public sector benefits.
The emergency decree allows the military to be in
charge of securing the country instead of the police
and has been denounced by opposition members
who claim that the revolt was planned by President
Correa in order to hide extreme corruption and pov-
erty. The security minister, however, denies this and
said efforts were underway to identify the police of-
ficers who attacked President Correa.
Ecuador
Yemen
Yemen has delayed voting on proposals to raise the
minimum age for marriage to 17.
Parliament was scheduled to vote on numerous
laws including an election reform bill but dis-
putes over the election law led to an opposition
boycott of the vote.
This delay marks the latest setback in the
Government’s attempt to reform the marriage
situation in Yemen. Poor parents sometimes
marry their children off as minors so that they
have some form of financial security.
MusicTech at Ministry of Sound
Free entry for society members
Tuesday 12th October.
Call Adam for tickets
07891390923
EVENTS

