POLITICS
FELIX Friday 08 October 2010 13
The recommendations made by
this man will change universities
in this country forever.
But who is he? And what is the
BROWNE
REVIEW?
T
he Browne Review is an as-
sessment of Higher Educa-
tion Funding launched last
year in order to revamp the
current systems used in Uni-
versity tuition fees. Lord Browne, former
CEO of BP chairs, instigated the inde-
pendent review to explore various avail-
able options by taking submissions from
the Russell Group and other representa-
tive bodies into account.
In May 2010 the review had proposed
that fees should rise by £1000 every year
from 2013 in order to sustain the contin-
ually increasing proportions of students
who go to University. This would result
in increases to fees of science degrees in
particular would increase to £14,000.
There are two realistic options the
government can take. One is to intro-
duce a Graduate Tax, where University
graduates would pay back a sum in pro-
portion to their earnings. The other is
to lift the cap on tuition fees and allow
Universities to charge what they want.
David Willetts, of the Conservatives,
said that “students were a burden on
the taxpayer that had to be tackled’’,
and have confirmed they will consider
the outcome of the review “carefully’’,
while Liberal Democrats in government
have agreed as part of the coalition to
abstain on a vote to increase fees, de-
spite many of their MPs signing a pledge
to vote against such an increase. Vince
Cable has, however, been “seriously
considering’’ a graduate tax, although
the Conservatives are reportedly scep-
tical this would be likely to happen.
The Liberal Democrats have tradition-
ally supported free higher education and
have promised to abolish tuition fees
over the next six years.
Lord Browne is considering raising
fees to £7000 per year, with an option
of a further £3000. The National Union
of Students has called this increase
“unviable’’. Since the political back-
ground has changed since the start of the
Browne Review, Labour’s new leader
Ed Miliband has aligned against the rise
in tuition fees and has backed a graduate
tax to replace them.
The Russell Group commented that
“an increase in graduate contributions is
the fairest and only viable option for ad-
dressing the funding shortfall’’, setting
out how tuition fees could rise to over
£9000, a move which students have de-
scribed as a “nightmare scenario’’. The
National Union of Students (NUS) has
slammed proposals to lift the cap on tu-
ition fees, forecasting “mortgage-style
debts’’ of more than £40,000.
Science, Technology and Medicine
courses (STEM) are considered “strate-
gically important’’, and it has also been
proposed that “the level of public funding
for a student should be a factor of the cost
of providing the course, the private return
and public return, so that no student is
deterred from taking courses like STEM
which are expensive to provide.’’ The
proposal to increase the teaching grant
for STEM subjects is considered by the
Imperial College Union a “sensible sug-
gestion’’, since Imperial is unable to sub-
sidise lab based teaching with the profits
from cheaper classroom based subjects.
The graduate tax would be imple-
mented in the way that high cost sub-
jects considered of strategic importance
to the country would receive more in
state funds and cost students less. The
Russell Group justified the increases by
explaining that “if graduates were asked
to pay steeper fees, they would value
their degrees more highly and be careful
about and committed to the choices they
made.’’ The group denied that the move
would deter students from poor and un-
privileged backgrounds from applying
to University.
Research figures uncovered by the Re-
view showed that graduates earn an es-
timated £160,000 more than non-grad-
uates over their lifetimes, £3000 more
per year with greater job satisfaction if
they were from a Russell Group Univer-
sity. ‘’The taxpayer continues to foot the
majority of the costs of undergraduate
degrees and this is unfair’’ it reported.
Sally Hunt, general secretary of the
University and College Union, said
“we desperately need to overhaul how
Universities are funded and move away
from the idea that the current review of
student funding is merely a question of
how much student fees go up by.’’
Aaron Porter, the president-elect of
the NUS has opposed removal of the cap
on fees and has said that this would “ex-
pose students and their families to the
huge risks and potential calamities of
the market, abandoning them to sink or
swim’’. The Browne review will report
its findings next week.
By Alex Karapetian
What are the options?
Graduate Tax
Lifting the cap on fees entirely
Although the outcome of the Browne Review could be a fudged compromise,
the debate about higher education funding comes down to these proposals:
Who backs it?
How much will you pay?
Who backs it?
How much will you pay?
The Graduate Tax system requires a
portion of the graduate’s salary to
be paid back after their degree. This
allows the degree to be taught free
and may raise more money for Uni-
versities over long term than capped
tuition fees. This tax is only levied
on graduates, so students will not
need to pay fees while studying. This
may, however, incentivise movement
away from the UK or not graduating.
Tuition fees are currently capped at
£3,290, but lifting this could result
in them rising to £7000 or higher.
One benefit is that students will
place more value in their education
and their degrees, but also allows
Universities to charge how much
they need. This may, however, cre-
ate a price market for degrees, de-
creasing the amount of applicants to
Universities who choose to ask for
higher amounts.
NUS, UCU, Aldwych Group,
Labour, Liberal Democrats
Imperial College London,
Russell Group,
The Conservatives
Varying - 0.3 - 0.5% of income
£7,000 - £14,000 per year

