BUSINESS
FELIX
Friday 08 October 2010
14
Business Editors: Sina Atherian
Afonso Campos
business.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Being at one of the world’s top universi-
ties has its perks when it comes to get-
ting employed. You are lucky enough
that companies actively want to give
you the chance to shine through a sum-
mer internship which could hopefully
lead to the holy grail; the offer of a full-
time job after your graduation. The op-
portunity to do well is yours to throw
away. The internship does not need to
be the seven-headed monster that it is
sometimes made out to be.
If you take the time to understand
what a summer internship is, the chanc-
es are that you will be able navigate the
maze of applications and interviews
much better than someone who thinks it
is just something you do at the end of
your penultimate year of university be-
cause of the zeitgeist.
This article chiefly aims to get you
thinking along the right tracks, and is
not necessarily heavy on practical ad-
vice as the information you are able to
find online will be far superior to any-
thing we could condense into this paper.
Being in the right frame of mind to
think about internships in the right man-
ner means that what you really need to
do is become familiar with what an in-
ternship is at its very core, what it means
for the company and what it means for
you. This is absolutely paramount and
something most students tend to over-
look.
Let’s begin by thinking about what the
internship means for a company. Some
firms take on hundreds of interns ev-
ery summer, paying each of them up to
£1,000 a week for a period of roughly
two months. It does not take much arith-
metic genius to figure out that this can
easily add up to millions of pounds over
the summer, not even taking into account
the the salaries paid to the usually very
efficient campus recruitment teams that
spend literally thousands of man-hours
trying to find you. First and foremost
then, the internship is a talent seeking
exercise on the company’s part and an
investment to find the best people they
can. It also gives firms a very long time
to make a decision of whether or not to
employ a candidate full-time without
having to rely exclusively on rushed in-
terviews. If you understand this and the
company’s motivation, you are halfway
towards being a fantastic applicant.
For yourself the internship is an un-
missable chance to find out for real what
it’s like to, a) work at the firm from
which you have received and accepted
an offer, and b) work in the industry you
have chosen.
If you think you will find out about
the work itself by adding an immense
amount of value in the work you do,
or creating revolutionary solutions to
the firm’s problems, you may be in for
somewhat of a disappointment. While
the work you will be doing can often be
interesting, it is likely that it will not be
as challenging or important as the tasks
being carried out by full-time employ-
ees. This can be for regulatory and legal
reasons, or simply because you do not
yet have the knowledge required. The
main idea for you therefore, is to find
out as much as possible about the real
Bagging the elephant internship is not all about ticking the right boxes; the right way of thinking goes a long way
“Remember: be personable, be
hungry, be intelligent and be
humble”
The summer
begins right now
If you are looking for an internship for next summer, it
pays to start thinking about it as early as possible
Afonso Campos
Read this article
online at
felixonline.co.uk
Summer internship tips
Psychometric tests
These tests are many times the gatekeepers of
the recruitment system. If you do not perform well
in them, you are out. The numerical test seems to
put even the most mathematically able students in a
somewhat uncomfortable position.
The mathematics is basic, usually at GCSE level or
below, but the time constraints throw many people
off. With usually less than 1 minute per question, the
trick is not to spend very long on any one problem.
Applications
Companies sometimes get over two hundred appli-
cations per place. With this kind of competition they
are almost looking for reasons to put your CV in the
bin. Do not give them any excuse to do that.
You do this by ensuring that your spelling and gram-
mar are perfect and that you tailor your application
to the individual company. Make sure that you ref-
erence company specifics whenever possible and
avoid generic answers and cover letters.
Another oftentimes overlooked tactic is timing. Un-
less a company specifies that they do not look at
applications until after the deadline, chances are
that they are looked at on a rolling basis, so apply
as soon as you are able to have a solid application.
DO NOT apply close to the deadline if you can at all
avoid it.
Interviews
There are two different kinds of questions you will be
asked at interview; competency and technical.
Competency questions, as the word suggests, look
for evidence that you have the skills the job requires
you to have. These include teamwork, leadership, or-
ganisation, confidence, etc...
Make sure that you support all your answers with
anecdotal evidence.
The technical questions are more job specific and
really require you to brush up on some of the details
of the job you are applying for. For internships, these
do not tend to be too in depth and the focus is on
cultural fit and competencies.
Online resources
www.efinancialcareers.co.uk – Lots of advice from
various professional sources as well as practice nu-
merical tests.
www.milkround.com – One of the most comprehen-
sive lists of internships and graduate jobs online.
www.wikijob.co.uk – Forums full of first hand infor-
mation from job seekers and more practice numeri-
cal tests.

