“ ”
COMMENT
FELIX
Friday 08 October 2010
16
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Beard optional...
...but dedication is compulsory for a career in science.
We’re not here to be valued, we’re here to work shit out
Angry Geek
“There’s a
presumption that all
is fair in science and
technology. It’s a nice
idea. It’s also very
naïve”
W
elcome to Impe-
rial, home of the
insert obvious geek
joke. You’re either
returning, or start-
ing for the first time, as a scientist, en-
gineer, or failed-medic-in-training, and
congratulations to you. If you want to,
you can shape the future of the world by
improving our understanding and refin-
ing our control over the world we live
in. Alternatively, you can do sweet Fred
Astaire for four years, drag your sorry
arse across the Royal Albert Hall stage,
and sod off to the world of finance/law/
international superstardom. As long as
neither of the two paths lead to my sup-
ply of New Forest fudge being cut off, I
could care less.
The Student Union, as I’ve mentioned,
is also on the list of things I couldn’t
give a bishop’s nipple about. Their re-
cent campaign, fuelled by the news that
Plant Science is being cut from Impe-
rial’s official remit, is just a wonderful
example of everything that is wrong
with letting students have an opinion.
“Education suffers as Plant Science is
abandoned” reads the headline, presum-
ably describing two separate, uncon-
nected events. I’m not picking on this
point of view because Plant Science
sounds humourously useless. That’s just
a coincidence. I’m picking on it because
there’s a presumption here that all is fair
in science and technology, and that you
can’t chop and change study areas just
because there’s money involved. This is
a nice idea. It’s also very naïve.
The day after this article goes out, a
bunch of well-meaning people - led by
everyone’s favourite games-advice-
dispensing disembodied head Patrick
Moore – will be marching on HM Trea-
sury, standing outside for a bit look-
ing unhappy, and then marching home
again. Why? Well it’s hard to find good
reasons from an evolutionary biology
point of view, but they claim on their
website, ‘Science Is Vital’, that ‘de-
structive levels of cuts’ are planned for
science in this country. This is probably
true, and protesting is always a good
idea. But we’re missing something.
I found myself in Birmingham a few
weekends back, having a discussion
with my lady about the nature of sci-
ence, whilst expertly smearing a pizza
all over a new shirt. I argued that as
scientists we have one role – to work
shit out. Sometimes that shit requires
peer review. Sometimes the shit has
far-reaching consequences, affecting
other metaphorically-related faecal mat-
ter. But our primary concern is the shit
itself. We function as a public good to
society, discovering and developing
things that are offered up to everyone
in the world, for their benefit. That’s it.
Our worth can’t be measured in annual
outputs, as both the government and the
protesters are trying to do. Our effect
on the world is seen over the course of
decades, centuries even. It’s glacial in
progress terms.
And so budgets get cut, and students,
researchers and so on suffer. We protest
because, firstly, we have the right to and
secondly, where else can we use those
witty anti-government jokes and puns
we think up on the commute. But it’s
important not to lose sight of the fact
that our job is not to convince the world
of our worth. That’s a Herculean task.
Our job is simply our job. Work shit out.
My point then, is this - you’re back at
Imperial again/for the first time. Maybe
you’ve got the Captain Chuckles thing
going on and you find anyone with an
ounce of genuine interest in their field
hilarious. That’s fine. I can actually han-
dle that. But if you’re on the other side,
and you’re interested, and intrigued, and
want to spend time in science long af-
ter your graduation, remind yourself of
this – no-one wants you here. You’re a
service. So if you plan on staying, stay
for one reason and one reason only - be-
cause you really love this stuff.
Comment on
this article
online at
felixonline.co.uk
Keep searching, mate, you’ll sooner find proof of God than gratitude for your efforts
FELIX
How will the cuts in the
Life Sciences Department
be affecting you?
There is no question that the proposed restruc-
ture will adversely affect the students in the short-
term. Academics will have to adapt themselves to
new areas of research or be let go, researchers in
the plant sciences will be less able to follow pro-
grammes here, and the breadth of an undergradu-
ate biology degree will be under threat.
In such circumstances it is the Union’s duty to
speak up for its members, and we applaud its
strong stance in their defence. Nevertheless, the
Union’s refusal to accept the College’s financial po-
sition leaves it open to accusations of shortsight-
edness.
The department in question has been running
a deficit of almost £750,000 for the past three
years. Of the five sections under its jurisdiction,
it considers two to be underperforming from the
point of view of research quality and profitability.
The debate over whether the department is right
to pinpoint these two sections has been long and
ultimately uninspiring. The figures in question have
been interpreted in two radically different ways,
with the correspondence between the Union and
the Life Sciences department abounding in discus-
sions of means, medians, box plots and statistical
outliers.
However the figures are interpreted, we believe
Dr. Ian Owens is justified in refusing to ‘insult’ his
“academics by telling them that their jobs were de-
pendent on a statistical line in the sand.”
By far the more interesting question is not wheth-
er these two sections are underperforming, but
why. The Union’s stance on this issue is very clear.
These are the sections which devote the most time
to teaching – an activity which they feel the depart-
ment views as an unnecessary luxury permitted
only to profitable research groups.
The response given by the department is unques-
tionably more financially hard-nosed than we at Fe-
lix would have liked, but there is no reason for the
Union to level accusations of malice or deception.
The department has set commitment to teaching
as one of its essential criteria for staff retention,
takes great pride in excellent tuition, and constant-
ly emphasises the equivalent teaching burden
spread across its staff.
While the perennial debate over the relative im-
portance of research and teaching is essential to
the ensured safety of both, it must be conducted
in its proper context.
As will be made painfully clear to all who read
through the news pages of this issue, science
funding in this country will not be spared the aus-
terity measures meted out to all areas of public
spending. Cuts will have to be made. And if the
College is to preserve its reputation as a centre of
scientific excellence in a country where science is
set to take a plunge in the national priority list, it
needs to prioritise those activities which allow it to
keep its head above the water.
“If you plan on staying, stay for
one reason and one reason only
– stay because you really love
this stuff”

