COMMENT
FELIX Friday 08 October 2010 17
What’s wrong with camping? Everything...
I
don’t know what you got up to
with your summer. Maybe you
went home, met up with some old
friends and took it easy. Maybe
you took off around the world in
a glamorous jet-set holiday. Maybe you
engaged in a whirlwind fling of summer
romance (like a forest-fire, it was short-
lived but passionate and not the least bit
legal). I don’t know; I’m just guessing.
As for me, I went camping.
This might not sound exciting but a
week spent in a field can be entertaining,
enlightening and occasionally death-de-
fying – everything you could want from
a holiday at home.
Now admittedly, the week can start on
a pretty grim note as you realise exactly
why the wilderness is so-called. More
experienced adventurers will laugh at
your vain attempts to get a wi-fi signal
halfway up a tree and the number of
plants you try and plug a phone-charger
into. If the end of the world happened
while you were camping, you can be
sure you wouldn’t hear about it until you
rejoin the M5.
Things don’t improve drastically
when, on an exploratory walk-about,
you get your first glimpse of the bath-
room facilities – that is, if there are any.
One look at those anachronistic mon-
strosities of iron and porcelain and your
buttocks will seal shut for no less than a
week. I’ve heard that on longer sojourns,
they’ve actually healed over completely.
The only exception to this being the one
night you have curry. When this hap-
pens, make sure you have a clear plan of
all available exits; you will need them.
The British weather being what it is, if
you go camping during the summer, you
will certainly need a good set of water-
proof clothing. All waterproofs are wa-
terproof. The million-dollar question is
for how long? The nemesis of all camp-
ers is a sky so black even emos forego
the colour in wallpaper swatches on the
grounds that it is too depressing. How-
ever, remain ever vigilant for the oppo-
site. Without a doubt, the most glorious
sight on a camp-site is the first ray of
sunlight and blue sky after a
storm. Many have sought
this vision; few have wit-
nessed it.
If you decide to
invite your friends
along on a camp-
ing holiday, the
opportunities
for pranks
are limitless. Remember, sleeping in
the same tent as someone is as inti-
mate as having sex with them, with
the same capacity for betrayal. Pranks
can range from the simple, the stan-
dard, like drawing on their face with a
sharpie or toothpaste on the eyebrows,
to the daring, like dragging their sleep-
ing bag out into the middle of the field
at night (bonus points if it’s raining), to
the borderline-psychopathic, like leav-
ing a sheep’s head in their sleeping bag.
However, be aware that you are vulner-
able to retribution and retaliation. If you
prank someone on the first night, don’t
expect to get much sleep for the rest of
the week – sleeping with one eye open
is tiring work.
And that’s just the fun you can have
in the field. Just wait until you get out
and ex- plore the local attractions.
Of course, you won’t be
staying near anywhere
big – that’s why it’s
the countryside –
and because of the
lack of any serious
tourism, any at-
tractions nearby
won’t rate
much above
Dear Jane Neary,
I started my PhD in February, and have
often frequented the SCR for lunch de-
spite only terrible experiences. As you
are Head of Catering, I wish to express
my grievances concerning the quality
of the food and propose some urgent
changes. I am a reasonable person, yet
this has gone too far, and I cannot go on
without raising my frustrations.
You must be aware us students work
hard, and encounter difficult steps in our
studies. Nothing helps someone through
the day like a hearty lunch (call it brain
fuel). Yet the SCR food is best de-
scribed as horrendous - if a brain is like
an engine, would you put super leaded
into it or sewage? The vegetables are
overcooked, and flavourless. The sole
saviour is a dollop of tartar sauce from
the cutlery counter - simply desperate
times screaming for desperate measures.
Since when did lasagne get served with
potatoes or sweetcorn?? Who thought
of that?? I mean REALLY?!? Would
you send my Gran on a bus holiday to
Ibiza?!? I would have hoped your chefs
understood food combinations. What
next? Fried chicken with a side portion
of plums?
I am amazed people eat at the SCR; it
must be due to the convenience of the
location. I have stopped going and now
walk to Bute Street where there are fresh
sandwiches with the best ingredients at
a cost comparable to the sludge that is
the SCR Roast and Yorkshire pudding,
which resembles some sort of genital
wart. It’s an example any economics
professor would love to use to demon-
strate the benefits of vibrant competition
in the market place.
I appreciate the food needs to be
cheap, but there’s no need to compro-
mise with quality. As the saying goes,
you are what you eat and eating is one of
life’s great pleasures. The key to a good,
cheap meal is keep it simple. Don’t do a
roast, or lamb - these are things which
only work when the best produce is cho-
sen, which would cost too much. If you
couldn’t afford a Ferrari, you wouldn’t
just take a Fiat Panda, paint it red, and
chuck a horse in the back seat. You need
fresh ingredients and people who enjoy
cooking. Pasta can be the most wonder-
ful dish in the world, but only if cooked
for the right amount of time! Overcook
it, and it’ll be as disastrous as the SCR
broccoli.
Your website further aggravates my
concerns. To quote, “the menu includes
‘bistro style’ hot meals, gourmet salad
bar, and a delicious selection of des-
serts.” Never in my life have I read such
an exaggeration of the word GOUR-
MET! Gourmet is a cultural ideal asso-
ciated with fine food and drink - you are
mad if you think the SCR gets close to
this ideal… if the ideal is Kiera Knight-
ley, the SCR is John Prescott. I won’t
even get started on the liberal use of the
word delicious… and BISTRO? A word
associated with the hustle and bustle of
restaurants that lie on picturesque Pari-
sian street corners… imagine your part-
ner saying, ‘darling, fancy some delight-
ful bistro food?’ and then being taken to
the SCR! I only hope the website uses
the words in jest.
Jemma, do not mistake my tone; I
am deadly serious. I genuinely cannot
urge you enough to start radicalising
the SCR. I had enough of liquidised
Rhys Davies
“All waterproofs
are waterproof.
The million-dollar
question is for how
long?”
two stars. On the plus side, by the time
you’ve seen the Agatha Christie Mu-
seum, your waterlogged camp-site will
look positively inviting!
Let me summarise all this. You can
almost guarantee that the weather and
the facilities will be crap, the only thing
standing between you and a watery
grave is a thin sheet of canvas, you will
discover that all your friends are closet
sociopaths and by definition, there will
be nothing within a reasonable radius
to see or do. And yet I still maintain
that there is something nice, something
quintessentially pure, about getting out
of the city, leaving Facebook and Twit-
ter behind. It’s not provincial and it’s not
nostalgia for a lost age but it just feels
good to be...unattached.
When you go camping, you don’t have
to worry about bills and rent, news and
celebrities, friends and family even (de-
pending on who you’ve brought along).
None of that matters since you’re not in
a position to do anything about them. In
a world the size of a field, your concerns
dwindle to food, dry (not necessarily
clean) clothing and a few vagaries about
rope and canvas.
And if this still doesn’t sound like your
cup of tea, there’s always Lanzarote.
peas and lumpy mashed potato weeks
ago, and I won’t be the last. I have the
support of numerous students and staff
- some do say the food has recently im-
proved, though you can’t polish a turd.
Your website states “SCR meals are pro-
duced by award winning chefs from the
2009 TUCO University Chef of the Year
contest.” You must be joking?!? I have
never heard of that contest, but put your
chefs on Professional Masterchef and
let’s see how they do - I’ll eat my hat
Letters
An open letter
to Jane Neary,
the Head of
Catering
if they even get an audition. Why don’t
they make fresh pesto from scratch?
Why do they always overcook the meat?
Perhaps the award was merely a case of
the mediocre beating the horrific?
I don’t have much hope - change never
comes easily. I had to express my grum-
blings and I hope you listen and take ac-
tion.
Best regards,
Charles Betts

