HIGHLIGHTS
FELIX
Friday 08 October 2010
2
FELIX
Editor-in-Chief Kadhim Shubber Deputy Editor Gilead Amit Chief Copy Editor Lizzy Griffiths Assistant Editor Dan Wan News Editor Alex Karapetian Matt Colvin Sports Editor Jovan
Nedic David Wilson Science Editors Katya-yani Vyas James Goldsack Business Editors Sina Ataherian Afonso Campos Politics Editors Hassan Joudi James Lees Technology
Editor Samuel Gibbs Arts Editor Rox Middleton Music Editors Greg Power Christopher Walmsley Luke Turner Film Editors Matt Allinson Jade Hoffman Ed Knock Fashion Editor
Saskia Verhagen Games Editor Simon Worthington Online Editors Ravi Pall Chris Birkett International Editor Tom Greany Puzzles Captain Sean Farres Photography Thomas
Welch Jonathan Silver Alex Karapetian Travel Editor Dylan Lowe
Special thanks to all the Copy Editors this week :)
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB.
Email: felix@imperial.ac.uk. Tel: 020 7594 8072. Fax: 020 7594 8065.
Printed by The Harmsworth Printing Ltd, 17 Brest Road, Derriford, Plym-
outh. Registered newspaper ISSN 1040-0711.
Copyright © Felix 2010.
Lolcat of teh week
EDITOR’S PICK
The Best of Felix This Week
It’s time to start thinking
about summer internships
It’s no shameful secret that
many Imperial students are lining
themselves up for a career in the city.
Business Editor Afonso Campos’ guide
to getting yourself into a summer
internship is therefore, in my opinion,
an invaluable asset to all finance-
minded students. I hope that they
will feel a renewed sense of purpose
after reading his feature But I must
also commend Food Editor Dana Li
and Arts Editor Rox Middleton for
their content this week as well as their
layout.
Page 14
On campus
Hybrid Vehicle Network
The Electric and Hybrid Vehicle Network is bringing
together the expertise of 8 departments at Impe-
rial with the research activities ranging from fuel
cells and electric motors to IC engines and vehicle
architecture. Speakers include Prof Nigel Brandon
- Director of the Energy Futures Lab, Dr Ricardo
Martinez-Botas, Chris Walsh and Miguel Fragoso.
220 Mechanical Engineering
12 October 17:00-19:00
Low Carbon Energy
These lectures will
take place in the virtu-
al world and will share
information about the
future of energy. There
will be 5 talks in Sec-
ond Life in collabora-
tion with the Nature
Publishing Group in Oc-
tober 2010, covering
topics like “Fuel Cells”
or “Global Oil Deple-
tion”.
Second Life Virtual World
12-21 October 4:30-5:30PM
Junior Research Fellows
The event provides an opportunity to meet the sec-
ond cohort of Junior Research Fellows (JRF) from
Imperial as they begin fellowships. Attendants can
also talk with academic champions and scheme
supporters. The JRF scheme was created by the
college to designate a new community of the best
researchers. It has so far attracted high quality ap-
plications from around the world.
Great Hall, Sherfield Building
11 October 10:00-16:00
Union Elections
Elections for a wide variety of positions
in the Union are now open. You can
stand at:
www.imperialcollegeunion.org/vote
These include a position on the Ents
Committee, which means you’ll be
looking at the events put on in the new
club, Metric.
Getting involved in the Union as an
elected officer is fun and challenging
and you meet a lot of nice people. So
why not consider serving your fellow
students?

