ARTS
FELIX
Friday 08 October 2010
20
Arts Editor: Rox Middleton
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
If you read nothing else
this week...
As the current Joint President of Impe-
rial College’s fine arts society ‘Leonar-
do’, I am frequently in touch with some
of those more creative individuals who
wash up from the proverbial sea of sci-
entists that form the basis of this univer-
sity. These are the people who tire from
time to time of the constant prodding,
poking and general abuse given to the
fabric of reality. Some of these people,
however, see it as a full-time job to give
the fabric of reality a bit of a miss and
live in a world without boundaries or
rules, sticking with just the imagination.
One of these people is artist, curator
and general go-getter Mindy Lee, who
works as the curator of Imperial’s only
art gallery ‘The Blyth Gallery’. I decid-
ed to corner her for a bit of a chat and
see what’s swinging at the moment in
the world of Imperial art.
How long have you held the role of cu-
rator of the Blyth Gallery?
6 years in December.
Longest I’ve ever worked is seven
weeks… So in all that time have you
ever held an exhibition that really
stood out from the rest? If so what
was it?
I think the most unusual show was
‘Where the wild Things Are’ by Tessa
Farmer and Laura Youngson Coll in
2006. It was an exhibition of very deli-
cate and miniature sculptures. When you
first entered the gallery, it looked almost
empty and then an intriguing miniature
world of strange and beautiful monstros-
ities revealed themselves. If the viewer
did not have a curious investigative
nature, you could almost walk through
the gallery and think it was completely
empty.
Any disaster stories?
I think one of the most worrying mo-
ments was installing a sculptural piece
of work made by Jodie Carey, which
was largely made out of icing. As soon
as it was installed in the gallery, the
piece started to sweat under the heat of
the lights. Luckily we relit the space,
and the sculpture survived.
Mmm sounds tasty! As an artist, do
you have a favoured medium (other
than icing)?
I am essentially a painter, who also
works with collage and drawing.
Being in the art field for so long have
you ever crossed paths with any fa-
mous artists?
Cornelia Parker and Banksy are prob-
ably the two most well known artists I
have met.
Nice! I’m sure there’s a lot of very
jealous people out there, me included!
How about your work though, do you
frequently get to exhibit your own
stuff?
I exhibit reasonably frequently. I am
about to show a painting and collage
piece as a part of the Double Trouble
exhibition. I have also just exhibited a
solo collage and painting installation in
the Jerwood Project Space titled: Spat-
ter Platter. Installation was a new area
for me to work in and it took me over six
months to make something that would
be seen site-specifically and read as one
piece. It is good to test your artistic prac-
tice by making new and ambitious work
you are unfamiliar or uncomfortable
with. This is how your creative practice
develops.
Ok, so if I happened to have a big bag
of money would I be able to buy of
some of your work from the upcom-
ing ‘Double Trouble’ exhibition?
Most pieces of work in the Double Trou-
ble exhibition are for sale.
Well I don’t have a big bag of money,
but it’s good to know.
Moving on a bit, do you think there
should be more art work around Im-
perial?
Yes more art work around Imperial
would be beneficial, as well as more ex-
posure into reading art. This would help
viewers of the work move beyond think-
ing about art in terms of an aesthetic
eye candy and move towards a deeper
understanding of visual communication.
I do give regular talks on reading art in
an exhibition, so if anyone is interested,
please keep your eyes peeled on the fol-
lowing web-link: http://www3.imperial.
ac.uk/arts/visualart/artworkshops.
Bit of subtle advertising there, I com-
mend that. Most importantly though,
what’s your favourite colour?
Red.
So there you have it: Mindy Lee, suc-
cessful artist, dynamite curator and with
a good solid favourite colour at that.
If you’d like to know more about the
Blyth Gallery and what goes on there,
you can check it out online at http://
www.imperial.ac.uk/arts/visualart or
subscribe to the gallery mailing list by
emailing gallery@imperial.ac.uk from
your Imperial email.
Mindy Lee, Blyth gallery curator with Double Trouble which opened on Tuesday
Chris Clarke
Gilead Amit, Deputy Editor, kicks off
our new feature with his favourite
work of literature.
We quiz Mindy Lee,
Curator of Imperial’s
Blyth Gallery
Double Trouble
in the Blyth Gal-
lery on 5th floor
of the Sherfield
building runs
until 5th Nov.
Tell us about your favourite book in 300-400 words
and send it to arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Our own Artist
Gosh. Cripes. Blimey. What a responsibility. I have
just been asked by the delightful new Arts editor
to inaugurate this column by writing a short, pithy
piece on my favourite book. Publicity whore that I
am, I couldn’t bring myself to refuse.
But, though gratified to have been offered this
privileged position, I cannot suppress a twinge of
guilt. Should I really be the one writing this column?
That would imply that I have a favourite book I would
like to talk about. But rack my brains as I might, the
fortune cookie of my mind sadly reveals itself to be
empty. Or rather, it appears to be embarrassingly
full of questions.
What is a favourite book, anyway? What does it
feel like when you read it? When you turn the last
page and read the final paragraph, knowing you will
never again have the delight of reading it for the
first time? What does it feel like to be so assured
about your emotional bond with a work of art that
you can say, without a hint of pretension, that it is
your ‘favourite’?
I’m afraid that once the spigot opens, the torrent
of questions can’t be stopped. What criteria do we
use to classify a favourite book? Are we talking form
or content? The unread first edition hardback that
gives you a secret thrill of pleasure each time you
see it on your shelf, or the masterpiece you’d still
happily read in evanescent e-book form?
So far, as I’m sure you’ll agree, there have been
too many questions and too few answers. So let’s
stop flagellating around the shrubbery and get to
the point: What is my favourite book?
The simple answer? I can’t tell you. I’m not being
coy or intentionally contrarian, I just genuinely don’t
know. What I can tell you, though, is which book I
will round this piece off by recommending: the stag-
gering De Profundis by Oscar Fingal O’Flahertie
Wills Wilde. It’s an odd choice, but that’s only to be
expected from an odd individual.
In all of its impeccably chosen 50,000 or so
words, it is as far removed as it is possible to imag-
ine from the world of the adventure novel or the ac-
tion thriller. That’s probably owing to its nature as a
letter written behind bars by the imprisoned Oscar
Wilde to his former lover, Lord Alfred Douglas, bet-
ter known as ‘Bosie’. Hardly the sort of stuff that
Robert Downey Jr. blockbusters are made of.
Despite the rather kitschy description I seem to
have given it, the simple truth is that nothing I have
ever read has even come close to moving me in a
similar manner.
I could try to set down more of my thoughts here
on paper, but you’ll notice that I have craftily not
given myself enough space. That’s because I don’t
want you to waste your time reading what I have to
say about the book. I want you to read it. I want you
to read others. And then I want you to write in to
Felix and explain why I should be reading them too.
by
Oscar Wilde
De Profundis

