FELIX Friday 08 October 2010 21
ARTS
The Turner Prize disappoints again
The 2010 Turner prize opened on Mon-
day amidst the usual publicity circus,
highlights of which this year included
Tate Britain attempting to ban any pho-
tographers whose work may “result in
any adverse publicity” for the prize, and
Stuckist Charles Thompson leading his
traditional anti-prize protest colourfully
‘engaging’with director Nicholas Serota
on the steps of the gallery.
This year’s selection spans a wide va-
riety of practices, ranging across paint-
ing, sculpture, sound, text and video.
Arguably the best work is also the most
‘traditional’ that of painter Dexter Dal-
wood. Dalwood’s large paintings are
narrative snapshots, single scenes from
Jack Jelfs a larger story. Noticeably devoid of peo-
ple, the tale is told by the objects that re-
main and by their suggestive titles. The
most successful is ‘Death of David Kel-
ly’, in which the moon sags mournfully
in a deep blue night sky behind a single
tree. At its roots lies a vague form sug-
gestive of – what? A mound? A body?
It’s unclear, and the quiet lyricism of this
picture leaves a lasting impression. Al-
though not the greatest technical paint-
er, at best Dalwood’s work achieves a
dreamlike sense of poignancy and loss.
The work of The Otolith Group blurs
the distinction between curation and
creation. Both of their works on dis-
play here force the viewer to slow down
and enter a different mode of attention.
The former consists of thirteen televi-
sion monitors, each showing an episode
from Chris Marker’s 1989 documentary
series on Ancient Greece, ‘The Owl’s
Legacy’. The work is itself more a piece
of cultural archaeology - as the Group
themselves acknowledge - and harks
back to a ‘golden age’ of pre-digital
television broadcasting, in which genu-
ine scholarship and ‘high’ culture were
still occasionally to be found.
‘Otolith III’ is a 49-minute meditation
Interesting reflections in Hyde Park
Rox Middleton
Hyde Park is being turned upside down by Anish Kapoor’s latest exi-
bition. Four new sculptures have been put up in Kensington Gardens
in Hyde Park for the next six months, with round-the-clock security
guards to protect them against people and their grubby fingerprints.
The exibition is being put on by the Serpentine Gallery and Royal
Parks together and is entirely free; in short it’s the perfect way to
spend that spare hour between lectures.
Marcus du Sautoy (Simonyi professor for the public understanding
of science at Oxford) described Kapoor as “a modern-day Newton”.
Not because he, in common with arguably the greatest scientist ever,
really likes mirrors, but because he “[uses] art to give the viewer a
glimpse into the depths of the universe”. On that bombshell, which
probably says more about du Sautoy than Kapoor, I’d like to point
out that this exhibition in Hyde Park is actually just four nice shiny
mirrors. What is so nice, in fact, is the lack of need for bullshit ‘inter-
pretations’ of these impressive objects.
To see all four at once with minimal effort I suggest going to the
permanent Statue of Physical Energy – the one of the man on a horse.
The smaller red circle can then be seen peeping over the slope from
Round Pond, and opposite it is the enormous, satellite-dish-like con-
cave mirror. The symmetry is very pleasing, and then to the right and
left of the view of the red disc you can see between the trees the shiny
bits of sky reflected in the ‘C-curve’ and ‘non-object (spire)’.
All four sculptures are made of highly polished stainless steel. They
reflect the park, sky and the people but, being concave (from one side
at least...) everything is generally upside down. It’s fun to watch the
way the images warp as you move but it’s also actually lovely to see
because the open vistas of park and sky are condensed into the beauti-
ful shiny ‘hole’.
The reflections of the sky remind you just how much sky there is
visible already in Hyde Park and the sheer shininess of it is very sat-
isfying. Kapoor himself, who says he walks in Hyde Park frequently,
was keen to point out how much the sculptures will change with
weather and viewer. I went back on a different day and all four really
were transformed by the afternoon light and shifting clouds. They are
pieces to admire again and again.
Turning the World Upside Down runs until 13 March 2011
on themes of creativity and authorship.
Despite several moments of striking vi-
sual poetry, the film starts to drag fairly
quickly and, for this reviewer at least,
became boring after the first twenty
minutes or so.
The third shortlisted artist isAngela de
la Cruz, whose sawn-up and deformed
monochrome canvasses lie midway be-
tween painting and sculpture. Although
the games she plays with form are ini-
tially amusing, her work does not feel
realised enough to be truly interesting,
and at worst is reminiscent of the juve-
nilia one might find on any art founda-
tion course.
The final nominee is sound-artist
Susan Phillipsz. Her piece ‘Lowlands
Away’ originally consisted of loud-
speakers positioned under each of the
three bridges spanning the River Clyde
in her native Glasgow. Each speaker
played a version of a 16th Century Scot-
tish ballad, sung unaccompanied by
Phillipsz herself. Relocated to the white
emptiness of a gallery space, the effect
is delicately poetic, although one is left
wishing to experience the piece in its
original context.
So there you have it – four artists, a
collection of work ranging from ‘medio-
cre’ to ‘okay’, and one big load of hype.
Although this year’s exhibition contains
a few moments of genuine depth, it’s
hard to avoid the feeling that it’s all a
bit... underwhelming.
The Red Sky Mirror is at the centre of the Round Pond, so you can’t touch it. Looks like a glorified duck-house when local residents settle in. © 2010 Dave Morgan
Displayed until 3rd January at Tate
Britain. Tickets £8 (£6)
“...reminiscent of the
juvenilia one might
find on any art foun-
dation course”

