26
FILM
felix
FRIDAY 8 october 2010
Director of the much-acclaimed Ian Curtis
biopic Control, is back with a bang. Anton
Corbijn discards the guitar and picks up
the rifle in The American, a thriller about
a killer who discovers his soul. Adapted
from British novelist Martin Booth’s A
Very Private Gentleman (1990), the film
stars George Clooney as Jack, an assassin-
cum-weapons expert hiding in an ancient
Italian town after a botched attempt on his
life. There, he takes on one last job to pro-
duce a custom-made rifle for a client of his
boss and strikes up a few relationships that
may ultimately change him, or doom him.
The art of suspense is not showing too
much; think of the Coen brothers’ Oscar-
winning No Country for Old Men. For a
first endeavor in the thriller genre, Corbijn
does surprisingly well. With sparse music
through the movie and prolonged scenes of
anticipation, a paranoid atmosphere crack-
ling with tension is created, suitably fit-
ting the story of a hunter being hunted. At
times, the film even felt like a horror flick.
The action is quick and concise which, in
my opinion, makes the violence more un-
settling. Fight scenes are a battle of wits
rather than a series of extended Mexican
standoffs. The American excels due to
its elegant minimalism which allows the
weight of the acting and suspense to sur-
face and embed itself in the audience’s
mind. The backdrop of the scenic Italian
town of Castel Del Monte is aptly exploit-
ed, and imbues the movie with a hint of
noir.
George Clooney pulls off the character
of Jack with relative ease. Not surpris-
ingly of course – his Oscar applauds were
from roles similar to this in Michael Clay-
ton and Syriana. Forgoing his trademark
charisma, he transforms into a craggy
lone wolf struggling for his survival. It
marks a departure from the charming or
comic characters he played last year. In
The American, he is morbid and tense,
even in the presence of beautiful women;
a stoic demeanor replacing suave wit. Jack
kills cold-heartedly, without hesitation as
the wonderfully-executed opening scene
shocker proves. Like all movies of this
kind, the protagonist has a deep-seated
longing for the company of another human
being. Bouts of longing sneak out of Jack
subtly. Fortunately, this movie does not
tread down the clichéd path of redemption.
It is more selfish and base, which makes it
slightly fresh.
The plot, though it does not suffer from
being too predictable, is somewhat too
simplistic. Perhaps the focal point is in-
tended to be on the character and his de-
velopment. A repressed undercurrent of
insecurity permeates the film with Jack’s
deepening anxiety and relentless vigilance
and scores the film points for bringing to
life an assassin on the run. Corbijn also
does not shy away from gory violence and
explicit sexuality, but uses it to intensify
the emotional impact of the drama.
For a character-centric film, however,
Clooney’s character fails to carry suffi-
cient gravitas to warrant it a must-watch
film. The fault lies not with the acting
but in the dramatic arc of the protagonist
George Clooney:A
brooding Bond
which is not refined or complex enough to
draw the audience into it. Though it starts
off well-paced, it becomes rushed towards
the end. The antagonist felt a little two-di-
mensional, and peppering the relationship
between the antagonist and Jack with a lit-
tle complexity could be that pinch of spice
that makes all the difference between that
gourmet bolognaise and the off-the-shelf
microwave pasta.
Nevertheless, Corbijn deserves praise for
the meticulous attention invested in Jack
as an arms expert – weapon aficionados
would adore this film. Many scenes de-
pict in fine details the production of that
custom-made gun with “the firing capac-
ity of a sub-machine gun and the range of
a rifle” as demanded by his femme fatale
client. You get to marvel at the way Jack
improvises parts of the gun with tools
found in a car workshop. The movie is part
a study into the intricate art of gun-making
as we tag along with Maestro Jack.
The American is a brooding James Bond.
It chooses harsh reality over glamour, dra-
ma over grandeur. It is not a tour-de-force
of Anton Corbijn or George Clooney but
is, even so, worth watching during one of
those Friday nights when you’ve got noth-
ing else substantial to do.
“
flick.
ch, in
in
re un-
un-
f wits
f wits
xican
xican
ue to
ue to
ws the
s the
”
the end. T
he end.
mensiona
mensiona
between t
between t
tle comple
compl
that make
mak
gourmet b
gourm
microwav
mi
BFI London Film Festival
Wednesday 13th October sees the opening of
the annual BFI London Film Festival which runs
until the 28th, bringing together events occur-
ring in cinemas across London, including the
Natural History Museum and a talk with director
Darren Aronofsky (which, judging from his rant
last week on Requiem for a Dream, Matt might
do well to avoid...)
The London Film Festival is an excellent oppor-
tunity to catch the best films of British cinema
that may otherwise slip you by, and to get in
there early to see upcoming films before they
hit general release. The Opening Night Gala on
Wednesday sees the European premiere of Nev-
er Let Me Go, the film based on Kazuo Ishiguro’s
award-winning novel of the same title and star-
ring Keira Knightley, Carey Mulligan and Andrew
Garfield. As well as this, the festival is showcas-
ing several more films before they go on general
release in the UK such as Danny Boyle’s claus-
trophobic survival story 127 Hours, Mike Leigh’s
latest film Another Year, and - fans of Let The
Right One In should approach with caution - its
American remake, Let Me In, (it’s actually sup-
posed to be quite good).
Supporting the BFI’s festival this year is impor-
tant now more than ever in light of their huge cut
in funding following the abolishment of the UK
Film Council. British film hardly ever gets the in-
ternational attention that it deserves and money
is often scarce for small, independent filmmak-
ers. As well as supporting British cinema, the
BFI also shows a wide range of celebrated films
world cinema, classic films and shorts.
Clooney takes extreme measures to regain his title of Sexiest Man Alive
What’s On
Director Anton Corbijn
Screenwriter Rowan Joffe
Cast George Clooney, Irina
Björklund
The American
Guo Heng Chin
Films at Imperial
Whilst the BFI does consistently do decent dis-
counts, the prices for tickets to the big events and
premieres will be pretty expensive for the average
student. Cheaper alternatives, therefore, can be
found right here at Imperial (making it ideal for the
poor and the lazy). For starters there is FilmSoc -
who are showing a film from a different continent
each week of this term (starting this Thursday with
The Bird People In China), and CinemaSoc - who are
launching a new era of cinema at Imperial (did you
know there’s a cinema in the Union) on Tuesday
26th October with Inception, all for less than a fiver.
Plug, plug, plug.
For a first endeavour
into the thriller
genre, Corbijn does
surprisingy well
Film Editors: Jade Hoffman
Matt Allinson
Ed Knock
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk

