27
felix FRIDAY 8 october 2010
FILM
In case you didn’t know, Edgar Wright likes comic books...
Director Edgar Wright
Screenwriter Michael Bacall,
Edgar Wright
Cast Michael Cera, Mary Elizabeth
Winstead, Kieran Culkin, Anna
Kendrick
Scott Pilgrim vs.
The World
Grosse Pointe Blank. Back to the Fu-
ture. The Dark Knight. Three films that I
could watch on repeat – again and again.
I left Scott Pilgrim vs the World wanting
to go straight back in for another round.
The titular character, played by Michael
Cera, is a 23-year-old with no job, who
splits his time between playing bass in
the raw, energetic indie band Sex Bob-
omb (the music played by the actors
themselves), maintaining a U-rated rela-
tionship with a Canadian-Chinese high
school girl (the adorable Ellen Wong)
and mooching off his flatmate (Kieran
Culkin), with outrageously apt comic
timing and delivery.
It isn’t long before his quirky exist-
ence is disturbed by the arrival of the ex-
otic American Ramona Flowers who is
quite literally the girl of Scott’s dreams.
Their burgeoning relationship precipi-
tates in Scott having to battle in turn
with each one of her seven (yes, seven!)
evil exes who have banded together to
control Ramona’s romantic life.
If you have ever wondered what a
computer game version of real life
would look like then this movie smash-
es the answer through your brain with
an invigorating mix of the subtle and
slapstick. Those familiar with Edgar
Wright’s work will see the hallmark cul-
tural references and character interplay
that stood out in Shaun of the Dead and
Hot Fuzz. Whether you are a hardcore
gamer or not, many of the stylised bat-
tles will be immediately familiar as re-
sembling those of the popular games of
our youth.
Michael Cera has often been criticised
for allowing himself to be typecast as a
bit of a wet blanket, but he brings inner
Aditya Narayanan
steel to this role as Scott – an inoffen-
sive, amiable everyman who conceals a
cunning mind that skilfully manipulates
those who underestimate him. His love
interest, played by Mary Elizabeth Win-
stead, balances being effortlessly cool
with maintaining a girl-next-door-with-
oversized-sledgehammer-in-her-purse
image. The rest of the cast include sev-
eral ‘promising young things’ in steady
roles such as Anna Kendrick and a
scene-stealing Kieran Culkin as Scott’s
wry, gay, playboy flatmate – both are
terribly underused.
However, this film isn’t really about
the acting, which takes a backseat to
the outrageous, videogame action and
machine-gun dialogue. This is, in part,
supposedly due to the faithful adherence
to Bryan Lee O’Malley’s script – at least
according to friends who have read the
series. If, like me, you haven’t (damn
Waterstone’s and their slack delivery
service), fear not – though some of the
story does not transfer to the big screen
quite as well as one would hope, the film
does not suffer too much. The set pieces
and combat sequences are superbly cho-
reographed, such that the viewer feels
every hit or note within the movie, aided
by the excellent special effects on show.
And it goes without saying that watch-
ing this anywhere but the cinema is to
miss out.
Another area where the film really
stands out is in the soundtrack, which
is a perfect selection for the film, al-
lowing you to be immersed in the emo-
tional themes the film plays on. This is
in no way a backhanded compliment as
the music augments the quality of the
film. The only shame is that another
10-20 minutes to develop the story and
characters would have eased the transi-
tion between the two different media.
Nevertheless, this is a difficult feat for
anyone to perform and the film certain-
ly lives up to the stellar reputation of
the graphic novels. Scott Pilgrim vs the
World is an exhilarating rush of positiv-
ity – the perfect start to the new college
year.
How comic book geeks get girls: Exhibit A
© Ernst &Young 2010. Ernst &Young is an equal opportunities employer and welcomes applications from all sections of the community. The UK firm Ernst & Young LLP
is a limited liability partnership and a member firm of Ernst &Young Global Limited.
Ernst&Youngisoncampus!Meetourpeopleandfind
outmoreaboutgraduateandundergraduateopportunities
attheseevents:
ÉComeandplayTheStrengthsFactor—Monday11October2010
ÉMilkroundpresentation*—Tuesday12October2010
ÉRecruiterinResidence—Wednesday13October2010
ÉMockinterviews—Tuesday19October2010
ÉImperialUnionCareersFair—Wednesday27October2010
ÉAdvisoryConsultantProgrammeatErnst&Young—
Tuesday2November2010
ÉLunchtimeCareersTalk(CommercialAwareness)—
Thursday4November2010
ÉMockinterviews—Friday5November2010
ÉAccounting&ConsultancyForum—Thursday11November2010
Visitwww.ey.com/uk/careersforafullschedule
ofeventsandtosign-up.
*OurMilkroundpresentationwilltakeplaceatErnst&Young’soffices
at1MoreLondonPlace,SE12AF.
Go from strength
to strength

