Mario Testino pays homage to British icon
Kate Moss in limited edition book
FASHION
FELIX
Friday 08 October 2010
28
Fashion Editor: Saskia Verhagen
fashion.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Good news medic boys! Your favourite
sports night style staple and go-to firms-
wear has found itself on the hottest cat-
walks of London, Paris, Milan and New
York: yes, chinos are actually in vogue.
Admittedly, the modest chino is
somewhat underrated; it is the male
equivalent of the trusty black pencil
skirt: smart, easy to wear and to co-
ordinate. Only their very beige-ness
(both in colour and level of sartorial
captivation) makes them blur into ob-
scurity – you, in your chinos and blue
shirt, look exactly the same as your
firm buddy who is wearing ostensibly
the same thing. So how to make them
look new and interesting, whilst still
keeping them smart enough not to earn
a sneer from your cantankerous old
Mary’s consultant? Take a leaf out of
James Dean’s book, who immortalised
the classic cool of the chino in East of
Eden (right).
First, step out of the comfort zone of the
crisp blue shirt, and pull on a (gasp!)
small-collared shirt, in a wide navy
gingham perhaps. Then, take a crew
neck jumper, wonderfully cosy for win-
ter, in either a chunkier cable or a finer
gauge knit depending on your build, in
a warm maroon or grey. For the pièce
de résistance, a pair of brown brogues:
classic, timeless – a man’s staple. The
look is preppy American cool – Don
Draper on a casual Friday at the office:
a little outdoorsy yet traditional. This
makes a welcome change from the re-
liable, yet rather ordinary striped blue
shirt.
Saskia Verhagen
Renaissance of the Chino
The erstwhile rather bland staple of everyday menswear is
currently enjoying a welcome return to James Dean cool
Student Street Style
The 70’s are coming back in a big way for next sea-
son, and this NYU student I snapped in Central Park
during New York Fashion Week is way ahead of the
curve - with that perfectly faded mane, broderie an-
glaise shirt and John Lennon sunglasses, she could
have stepped right out of Woodstock. I’m always on
the lookout for the fashion eye-candy – I know you’re
out there – and will be out and around Imperial with
my camera at the ready to capture those rare mo-
ments of sartorial brilliance around college.
Diary of a Shopaholic
A personal favourite, this is a secret of my shop-
ping address book. An independent boutique-slash-
gallery showcasing the very best handpicked new
talent of the fashion world, Machine-A is a veritable
treasure trove for unique pieces to revitalise the
most dreary of wardrobes. The price point is mid-
to-high range, but definitely not up there with your
top-end designers - the idea here is to pick up some-
thing you didn’t know was missing from your closet,
something beautifully made which injects a little joy,
some avant-garde whimsy into your everyday style.
For example, if you lusted after the S&M studded
Alice Palmer leggings that strutted the runway at
Vauxhall Fashion Scout last season, but had no idea
where to find a stockist of such a young and fresh
talent – this is that spot, a hotpot of one-offs and
uncompromisingly innovative designs. Oh and whilst
you’re there, be sure to try on the enormous black
fur coat – its hood has black mink bunny ears!
Machine-A
60 Berwick Street, London W1F
8SU
BOOK REVIEW
When one of the most renowned
fashion photographers collabo-
rates with his muse, it came as no
surprise that Mario Testino and
Kate Moss should create the most
exclusive photographic tome
since Helmut Newton’s gargan-
tuan, and aptly named, Sumo. Kate
Moss by Mario Testino, printed in
extremely limited edition and re-
tailing at about £600, has become
an object of lust for fashionistas
everywhere. Not only does it contain
some of the most iconic work of a cre-
ative genius, but it also gives a glimpse
into the world of the inimitable Kate
Moss, from her early days backstage
at her first runway shows to her revolu-
tionary editorials, plus intimate private
shots between the two extraordinarily
close friends.
Says Testino of Moss: “I met Kate
very early on. Shortly after her first
Galliano show I went backstage to con-
gratulate her, only to find her crying:
she was disappointed that she had only
been given one outfit to model in the
show. My answer to her was this: ‘In
life there are perfumes and colognes.
You need to use lots of cologne as the
scent fades away; with a perfume you
just use a drop and it lasts all night.
You are a perfume, you will go on and
on.’ Little did I know just how true that
would become! And that I had made a
friend for life.”
This book is an tribute by one icon of
the fashion world to another: if only my
student loan would allow, a copy would
take pride of place on my coffee table!
Gabriella Yongue
James Dean likes his chinos like he likes his women: leaning against a post, looking pretty

