limiting its uses.”
The opening of FiveSixEight has
been pushed back primarily due to a
delay in the delivery of concrete for
the bar itself, which will be the longest
student bar in London when complet-
ed, as well as the necessity to remove
a water main and fire hydrant that had
been installed when the building was
first constructed. The Union said “The
delay in removing this has largely been
due to the nature of the water main and
the necessity for Thames Water to ac-
tion this removal which has taken an
unprecedented length of time.”
The Union has stated that the de-
lays are regrettable and disappointing,
though they have had no financial im-
pact on the Union over and above the
“The Union
commented that
the delays are
regrettable and
disappointing”
FELIX Friday 08 October 2010 3
Freshers make do with
marquee as bar and
club remain closed
The opening of the new Imperial Col-
lege Union venues FiveSixEight (can’t
they count?) and Metric has been de-
layed by 3 weeks and 1 month respec-
tively. Disappointed students will have
to wait until the 18th of October to ex-
perience the new bar FiveSixEight and
the 29th of October for the new club
Metric.
Construction on the club Metric was
hampered by a number of complications
including uncovering unknown base-
ments and voids during the removal of
the pillar that used to stand in the centre
of the club. Ravi Pall, Deputy President
(Finance & Services), stated that there is
no one reason why the Metric opening
date has shifted. Rather, the age of the
building has resulted in a combination
of delays including the removal of old
pipe work but the Union acknowledged
that Metric would almost certainly have
opened on time had it not been for the
removal of the pillar. However they did
add that “not removing it would have
heavily compromised the quality of the
venue and the user experience as well as
Charles Betts
Terror assault police officers to join
Babar Ahmed in jail?
A group of police officers accused of
attacking former employee of Impe-
rial College and terrorist suspect Babar
Ahmad appeared in court last month.
Police Constables Mark Jones, 43, Rod-
erick James-Bowen, 40, Nigel Cowley,
33, and Detective Constable John Dono-
hue, 36, appeared at City of Westminster
Magistrates’ Court, intending to plead
not guilty. The case has been committed
to Southwark Crown Court for October
29th.
Mr. Ahmad, 35, worked full-time as
an ICT Support Analyst supporting both
undergraduates and postgraduates until
he was arrested on December 2nd 2003.
Matt Colvin
original project costs.
The delayed opening of the two ven-
ues has not affected Welcome Week,
though major changes were forced to be
made including the erection of a trans-
parent marquee in Beit Quad, allowing
all to see the debauchery from within.
The Union bar is open as usual.
Opinion amongst Freshers has been
generally positive, with the acknowl-
edgment that construction projects typi-
cally face inevitable set-backs and that
the Union appears to have done enough
to address the situation, most impor-
tantly with plenty of cheap booze still
available.
Though perhaps Tarquin, a Science
Communication student, summed it up
best when saying “It really doesn’t mat-
ter when the club is ready- Crazy Larry’s
is still open and there’s nowhere better
to get sloshed, have a bloody good time,
and see oodles of skirts.”
He was accused of using websites and
e-mail in order to raise money to sup-
port terrorism in both Chechnya and Af-
ghanistan amongst other allegations re-
lating to handling US naval documents.
Following a pre-dawn raid in Tooting by
anti-terrorist officers, he was left with
over 70 physical injuries.
He was subsequently released six days
later but in August 2004 was re-arrested
under the controversial 2003 US-UK
Extradition Treaty. He has been held in
custody ever since without charge.De-
spite vehement pleas from Mr. Ahmad
to either charge or release him, along-
side those who claim that some of the
evidence that forms the basis of the case
is unsatisfactory, the US government
remains determined to see Mr. Ahmad
stand trial in their own country.
In March 2009, Mr. Ahmad was
awarded £60,000 compensation follow-
ing the admission of the anti-terrorist
police that, in the process of his arrest
in 2003, they subjected him to “grave
abuse, tantamount to torture”.
The latest news of the ongoing court
case is unlikely to come as any conso-
lation to Mr. Ahmad. While his extra-
dition to the US has been halted by the
European Court of Human Rights, he re-
mains in custody at Long Lartin Prison in
Worcestershire. In an interview with The
Independent he labelled his 6 years of im-
prisonment without charge or conviction
as “the equivalent of a 12-year sentence”.
These two guys were clearly having a ball of a time, despite the fact that
only one of the bars was open for Freshers’ Welcome Week
Recycle your clothes
and shoes at Imperial
Unforeseen construction problems delay opening
of Union venues until end of October
Two new TRAID (Textile Recycling
for Aid and International Development)
banks have been installed at the South
Kensington Campus at the Blackett
Building loading bay area and at the side
of Weeks Hall. Students and staff are
encouraged to give up their unwanted
clothes and shoes, thereby helping to re-
duce landfill waste and helping to fight
global poverty.
In 2009, TRAID first partnered with
Imperial, with recycling banks at Wil-
son House and at the Silwood Park
campus. Since then 500kg of reusable
textiles have been donated. TRAID
Chief Executive Maria Chenoweth-
Casey said, “TRAID is delighted to be
working alongside Imperial College
London. The funds raised by TRAID
from donated clothes and shoes are
spent on projects fighting global pov-
erty and establishing environmental
sustainability in some of the world’s
poorest communities.”
Textiles donated at TRAID banks
could also end up being refashioned
and remade as part of the charity in
house fashion label ‘TRAIDremade’.
Most recently, TRAID remade
launched its first ever capsule col-
lection of shoes made from recycled
textiles like vintage curtains and fab-
ric remnants, and trims like zips and
buttons. Their shops can be found all
around London, including Camden,
Brixton and Hammersmith.
How do you feel about the delayed bar
and club?
Write to felix@imperial.ac.uk

