GAMES
FELIX
Friday 08 October 2010
30
Games Editor: Simon Worthington
games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
For the first of our ‘sequels to recently released
games’ theme, Fallout: New Vegas was on
show this year at Eurogamer just weeks before
it comes out in the shops. Although not a direct
sequel to last year’s smash hit Fallout 3, as the
game takes place in an entirely new location
and with new characters, fans will recognise
the familiar Bethesda engine and game inter-
face.
The plot begins in the ‘Mojave Wasteland’,
similar in size to the ‘Capitol Wasteland’ only
now located in Nevada, with a courier for the
Mojave Express. Whilst delivering a package
the faceless, nameless protagonist is shot in the
head and left to die in a hole, only to be rescued
by a robot and taken to a doctor to be patched
up. From here we arrive at the usual character
creation screen and are shortly booted out into
the world to unravel the mystery of the attempt-
ed assassination.
First impressions of the game come with a
big wash of déjà vu as the core gameplay and
style remain very similar to Fallout 3. V.A.T.S.
is still very much present, karma is still a part
of gameplay and the inventory, perks and stats
system all still work the same way. The similar-
ities don’t stop there either, because although
the Wasteland has been given a bit more bright-
ness and colour and a bit of visual makeup, the
style is pretty much the same stuff we’ve seen
before. Same blasted concrete and same murky
skies, and in fact it’s all running on the same
engine. Fundamentally, in the time we spent
walking around the wasteland shooting ban-
dits and raiders, Fallout: New Vegas did little
to convince us that it was anything more than
a new story for a game we’ve played before.
There have been some changes and improve-
ments in the form of a new “infamy” system,
that tracks the players notoriety with different
factions. In a similar way to karma, this factor
affects how different factions within the world
will respond to you. Players also have the op-
portunity to permanently modify weapons
with scopes, silencers and other nice things. A
new ‘companion wheel’ also features, making
it much easier to control companions without
having to go through endless dialog, and all
weapons can now be aimed with a physical
crosshair.
‘Hardcore mode’ is also the title of a new
gameplay mode that aims to bring a fresh chal-
lenge to players. Although we didn’t get to play
it ourselves, a Bethesda minion filled us in on
the details: hardcore mode does exactly what it
says on the tin, making the game harder by giv-
ing stimpaks a time lag, adding sleep and water
deprivation effects and causing ammo to have
weight. It certainly does sound like it provides
a new way of thinking for experienced gamers,
but although the Bethesda minion insisted that
“it’s an entirely new way of playing the game,”
we remain unconvinced that the core Fallout
gameplay will be changed drastically.
If you played through Fallout 3 and still can’t
get enough, or have never played anything
like it at all, you should get New Vegas. It’s
the standard Fallout gameplay we saw last year
with a few tweaks and improvements, and if
that’s what you like then that’s fine. If, like us,
you were a little bit bored by the end of the last
game and were hoping for something new and
different, then New Vegas might not be the best
choice.
Assassin’s Creed:
Brotherhood
Fallout: New Vegas
Sequels aplenty at
Eurogamer Expo
Simon
Worthington
blagged entry to
this year’s event
at Earls Court and
got a chance to
preview some of
the titles that are
coming our way
this year and next
Web Games
Each week we’re going to bring you a selection of
fresh, free and fun web games that you can play right
away in your browser. Unless specifically mentioned
to the contary you’re going to need the Adobe Flash
Player plug-in which can be installed from http://get.
adobe.com/flashplayer/.
Nanaca Crash
tinyurl.com/nanaca
The first thing you should know about this game is
that it’s Japanese, which therefore means it’s been
liberally sprinkled with craziness. In this anime-style
game you control a girl on a bike whose main ob-
jective is to crash into a man, sending him flying,
and then to keep him in the air as long as possible
through a series of further carefully-timed aerial col-
lisions. Quite what the story is here is a mystery, as
all the instructions are also in Japanese.
So far, so easy, but the skill is really required when
you notice the passers-by on the ground below, on
which the flying man will occasionally bounce. Some
will slow you down and some will speed you up, so
it’s a constant battle to use crashes in the right place
to get boosts and avoid the girl that ends the game
early. There’s also immense satisfaction to be had
from landing ‘specials’, where an ordinary boost will
turn into a super crazy anime explosion. Addiction
is not a word to be used lightly but once you’ve got
into the game all that matters is beating the previous
distance record. Ours was over 10km by the way so if
you beat that then let us know!
Although they were authored at the turn of the mille-
nium, relatively few people seem to have encounted
this ever-growing series of games. All involve the titu-
lar yeti using clubs, snowballs or even flamingos to
hit penguins as fast as he can along beaches and up
icebergs. Our personal favourite is Yetisports 4: Alba-
tross Overload, although make sure to try the original
penguin-hitting classic. Penguin fans can also sleep
easy as all of the fluffy critters seem to be fine upon
landing. Experts should try the Ylympics Tournament!
You could be forgiven for feeling a peculiar
twitch of déjà vu upon hearing that the next
title to come at us from Ubisoft Montreal is
yet another Assassin’s Creed title, Assassin’s
Creed: Brotherhood. It hasn’t even been a full
year since its predecessor Assassin’s Creed
Yeti Sports
yetisports.org

