FELIX Friday 08 October 2010 31
GAMES
If there’s one thing people know id Soft-
ware for, it’s shooters. With such huge titles
as Wolfenstein, Doom and Quake under their
belts some might argue that id Software prac-
tically invented the first-person shooter genre
and it would be hard to argue against them.
Why then, with such big names with such es-
tablished fan bases, would they opt to create a
whole new game with a whole new feel?
We attended a developer session at Euroga-
mer for an exclusive working preview of their
upcoming title, RAGE. “We wanted to blow
up the experience,” says creative director Tim
Willits, who explained that the studio wanted to
build a game with “more vehicles, more char-
acters and more story,” – three elements not
particularly prevalent in previous games. Tim
assured us, however, that “there are no fears for
fans of id Software,” meaning that players can
look forward to RAGE being just as violent as
ever.
The story is certainly no revolution: follow-
ing an asteroid apocalypse a secret government
program called the ‘Eden Project’ is initiated,
placing citizens into secret underground bun-
kers called “arks” while those left on the sur-
face become mutants and bandits. With the
majority of the arks going wrong for some rea-
son, the unnamed player is booted out into the
wilderness to face a mysterious new govern-
ment known only as “The Authority”. Sound
familiar? It should, as it’s pretty much the exact
same story from the Fallout series of games.
Any similarities come to a pretty quick end
though once the game has started. With execu-
tive producer Jason Kim on the controller, he
slowly picks his way through some wreckage
in a way the Fallout engine would simply not
allow. Soon we are out in the wasteland but
here it’s bright and characterful and not bland
or monotonous. Very quickly we jump into a
vehicle and are zooming our way through can-
yons and across plains, stopping to show off the
vehicle mounted rocket launcher and machine
guns in an energetic skirmish with some scav-
engers.
When we enter one of the main settlements,
Wellspring, the visuals change style yet again
and we are met with a colourful, vibrant and
detailed town that brims over with character.
It’s also obvious that id Software is putting
quite a focus on vehicular gameplay with races,
shops and even special side quests for upgrad-
ing your vehicles. Being in a town also high-
lights another interesting design choice in the
fact that your weapons are simply not usable
whilst inside. “It’s not an RPG,” explains Tim.
There’s no morality system, no encumbrance
and hardly any focus on keeping the game open
plan. Although there’s less options and less
space for playing your own game than in Fall-
out, some of the more boring elements such as
endless wasteland trudging have been stripped
away to leave a much quicker-paced game un-
derneath, and there still seems to be enough go-
ing on to take a break from story missions if
you get bored.
There’s also clearly been a lot of thought put
into combat. Different enemies inhabit each
area you visit and will move around from time
to time, and each has their own strengths and
weaknesses – we saw both acrobatic enemies
that were particularly good at dodging bullets
and more classic thugs who charged at you
with pipes and bricks (who, interestingly, were
dressed in Union Flags and spoke with cockney
accents). The weapons are also classic id Soft-
ware, with the standard shotguns and rocket
launchers making an appearance along with
electric crossbows and robot spiders. How-
ever, in our preview the enemies did seem to
be dispatched with rather quickly which makes
us worry that they would be slightly underpow-
ered and easy to defeat in the final game. Ten-
sion also takes a hit in this instance, as without
fear driving the experience there’s not much
adrenaline to keep the game going.
Obviously there will always be some that
miss the classic RPG experience that is some-
what missing from RAGE, but we think that by
removing some of the more tedious elements
and forcing the player into first-person shoot-
ing RAGE brings a fresh experience to the
table that many will enjoy and it comes with
pretty and colourful visuals to boot. Certainly,
RAGE is going to be one of the big hits of 2011
and proof that even a company with such a fa-
miliar formula as id Software can still innovate
and produce a truly new gaming experience.
RAGE
LittleBigPlanet 2
“By removing some of the more
tedious elements and forcing the
player into first-person shooting,
RAGE brings a fresh experience to
the table”
“By removing
“By removing
tedious elem
tedious elem g
g
son shooting,
son shooting,
h experience to
experience to
With such critical acclaim for it’s predeces-
sor, it’s hard to think what Media Molecule
could do with LittleBigPlanet 2. Whatever it
was, it was going to need to big and it was go-
ing to need to be innovative. We got the chance
to play a late build of the game at Eurogamer
and see what had changed for ourselves.
The short answer: not much. Not to say that’s
a bad thing, as the gameplay remains largely
unchanged from the winning LittleBigPlanet
formula and is as good as ever. During our
short demo we encountered some new game-
play elements in the form of ‘Sackbots’; cute
little robots that follow you around when you
rescue them. These little guys do provide a new
edge as the player is encouraged to rescue as
many of them as possible. It’s unclear though
yet whether there will be any score bonus
or prizes up for grabs for getting them all to
safety. We also spotted some new ‘launchpads’
that can fire players in certain directions and
between layers.
The real innovation comes in improvements
to the level creation mode, which we unfortu-
nately did not get to preview. As well as stan-
dard 2.5D platforming levels, creators can now
create races, puzzles and role-playing style lev-
els, essentially opening the experience up and
allowing whole new games to be created. There
are also options for creating entire linked series
of levels, where players follow sequentially
from one level to the next. Sackbots will also
be available in creator levels with customisable
AI and appearance, and the creator now also
includes a music sequencer and sound effect re-
corder. Owners of the old game will be pleased
to know that any levels made for the original
will also work in LittleBigPlanet 2.
In addition to all that, the visuals and the
graphics engine have had a significant pol-
ish and are much improved over the original.
Smoke effects and much more vibrant lighting
populate the new levels, and the backgrounds
that were previously relatively simple have
had a touch-up as well. With the game looking
as pretty as ever and the same winning game-
play formula, it looks like LittleBigPlanet 2 is
shaping up to be another smash hit from Media
Molecule.
2 was released to the masses but already this
next installment will be gracing our supermar-
ket shelves in just under a month. “It’s been in
production for a while, in parallel with AC2,”
says the Ubisoft minion we cornered, which
explains how the next installment is ready so
quickly.
The game is a direct sequel with the single
player campaign featuring the familiar face of
Ezio Auditore as the primary protagonist. Sev-
eral years have passed since the events of the
last game and Ezio is now in Rome recruiting
citizens for places in his assassin brotherhood.
This is an element that players have direct con-
trol over with the recruiting happening during
the story and on side quests. “You’ll be able
to spend points on them, upgrading them and
their abilities,” chirps an employee manning
the stall.
There have been some minor changes to
gameplay, such as the ability to ride horses
through the city and the option to upgrade the
city in a similar way to Monteriggioni in the
previous game, but the main focus for gamers
is the new, long-awaited multiplayer mode,
one feature famously missing from AC2. Only
two game-types have been announced so far:
‘Wanted’, an every-man-for-himself game
where players pursue a target whilst being
chased themselves, and ‘Alliance’, a similar
game with three teams of two where players
must work co-operatively. We were told this
would be the closest thing Brotherhood would
have to co-op gameplay, which seems a shame
considering the obvious fun to be had in the
campaign with friends replacing AI brother-
hood members. Multiplayer will support sys-
tem link as well as the usual online capability.
At Eurogamer we got the opportunity to play
a few rounds of a ‘Wanted’match, which lasted
about five minutes each. With the familiar As-
sassin’s Creed control scheme it was easy to get
straight into a game and it wasn’t long before
we were running across rooftops and leaping
into haystacks just like in single player. The
primary challenge is finding your target in the
city, as every player blends in and looks just
like the ordinary civilians around them. The
game gives you a few hints in the form of a
general direction and whether they’re in sight
or not, but after that it’s up to you, and trying
to work out who your target is was both fun
and a real challenge. Psychology comes into
play here as your target is notified whenever
they come into your view and it’s their choice
(and, indeed, yours) whether or not they choose
to run and expose themselves or to hide in the
crowd. All too often an enemy gave themselves
away by bolting as soon as they came into view.
As we killed more and more players and (nat-
urally) moved our way up the scoreboard, the
game compensated by setting more players on
us to make it harder to pursue our own targets.
At certain points both assassin and victim are
presented with a countdown timer of about ten
seconds. If the target is in view it remains full
and red, but as soon as we escaped the timer
went yellow (like in single player) and started
to countdown to zero. During this time hiding
in hay carts or rooftop shacks sent the bar blue
and if the countdown reached zero the pursuer
had ‘lost the contract’ and we were safe. This
was a great way to bring the hiding mechanic
into multiplayer and use hiding skills that are
wasted on the single player guards, and it was
a real adrenaline-filled moment of tension as
we lay wondering whether our pursuer had
seen us. All in all the multiplayer was an in-
tense, enjoyable experience and there’s plenty
of room for some serious strategy and tactics in
amongst the running and knifing. The tension is
kept high by the knowledge that you could be
struck down at any moment by a pursuer. Our
only concern is whether or not the multiplayer
will remain popular once the novelty wears off,
so the challenge for Ubisoft will be to keep the
game fresh. Otherwise though, the multiplayer
seems to be the perfect extension for those who
have mastered single player and need a new
challenge.
Jazz and Rock’s Rocksplosion
6 Awesome Imperial Rock Bands
FREE
11th October. 19:00 - 23:00
Union Concert Hall
(Union - Floor 2)
EVENTS
Alternative Music Society Trip to
John Peel Concert
Buy Tickets From WeGotTickets
9th October 1pm
Meet in Union Bar then heading off
to Bloomsbury

