TRAVEL
FELIX
Friday 08 October 2010
32
Travel Editor: Dylan Lowe
travel.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Wishing You Were Here
Well hello, London
Behind the scenes of About.com London travel guide –
interview with Laura Porter, long-serving guru on how
best to relish the London vibe. By Dylan Lowe
L
aura pretty much determined,
packaged and set me up with the
Saturday’s itinerary. She takes
credit for being among the first
to publicise the Jermyn Street
Garden Party, which led to queues of palatal
delights and musing as to whether I can pull
off tweeds. She also penned a blog post about
the Morris dancing festival in Southbank – we
ended up making an impromptu attendance at
the premiere of Way of the Morris.
So much for I being the one who sent out the
invitation for an interview for Felix.
In the SMS, the description of her attire:
“wearing a dress and boots, look like a wartime
land lady”; how befitting that was when I found
her outside of Waterstone’s, intent on a reading
of Matilda. But there were those beyond plain
clothing that helped me identify Laura: the way
her fearlessness shone through her chuckle as
she chatted up a couple of strangers, the way
she emanated her aura-like exuberance.
No exaggeration, that: at least it was how my
expectations portrayed one of the most promi-
nent bloggers in London travel.
Laura Porter runs the About.com London
travel guide, delivering news of London’s lat-
est and finest entertainment options to visitors
and locals alike since 2006. The website also
offers an extensive databank of information,
recommendations and free-things-to-do lists –
no doubt the result of her continued dedication
– which are instrumental in inspiring many of
my excursions around the city I’m still so igno-
rant of, yet undeniably infatuated with.
“Don’t be afraid of Lon-
don – it has something
for everyone”
While many people have not much love lost
for their jobs, or the subjects of their occupa-
tional concerns, Laura’s affection for London
and travel is unquestionable.
And it all began during her band-chasing
days, which took her across the United States
as a youngster. A regular visitor of London her-
self – having lived in Essex through her teenage
years – with a brother residing in the capital,
her familiarity with the city didn’t necessarily
translate to passion. Upon returning from the
States, however, and newly reformed by expe-
riences as a seasoned traveller, her perception
of London changed.
Laura sipped her tea, shot me with an evoca-
tive grin, before summing up the turning point
of her life.
“Basically I landed in London, got myself a
flat, did my laundry, all within 24 hours!”
Her streak of serendipity didn’t end there.
When maternity leave brought her teaching job
– tutoring foreign students English – to a hia-
tus she found herself left with too much time
to spare. Introduced to About.com by a friend,
who runs the painting guide, she became aware
of the vacant position of London travel editor
and, encouraged by her experience as a free-
lance writer, bid for the job. A harsh selection
process later she came out on top.
According to Laura, running the blog at its
early stages wasn’t all money and glamour –
after all, it took over a year before the build-up
of content and internet traffic was sufficient to
earn her a sizeable income and the opportunity
to go full-time. And a huge part of her resil-
ience has to be attributed to her continued fas-
cination for her subject of choice.
What I could relate to her excited tone, glim-
mer in her eyes whenever London is men-
tioned, is a sense of adventure. Indeed, living
in London can be an adventure in itself – de-
pending on your attitude.
“I’ve lived in London more than half my life,
and I was only a short distance outside before,
and I can still find a new street in London that
I’ve never walked down, every day of my life.
How cool is that?”
How do you keep yourself up to date with
what’s happening in London, I asked. As a true
blogger she stressed the importance of social
media – after all, it was through twitter that
the pair of us met and arranged to meet up in
real life. She also suggested reading online
resources such as the Londonist, which is free
and regularly updated.
For a substantial number of Imperial students
arriving to live in London for the first time in
their lives – many of whom foreign students
who have never stepped foot on English soil –
unfamiliarity of the capital city is often what
daunted those fresh faces that traverse the cam-
pus. In fact, I was one of them. I asked Laura
for any advice on how to make the most out of
London.
“She imparted her wis-
dom in two memorable
words: be spontaneous”
“Don’t be afraid of London – it has some-
thing for everyone. I love the fact I can visit a
science museum in the morning, watch opera
in the afternoon, and comedy in the evening.
While sampling food from every country in the
world.
“And London has so much going on for free
that no one seems to hear about. Have you been
to the Cigar Museum or the Twining’s Tea Mu-
seum, or seen the over-stuffed walrus at Horni-
man Museum? Have you seen the pelicans
being fed in St James’s Park, or admired the
deer in Richmond Park? A walk on Hampstead
Heath makes you feel you are no longer in Lon-
don until you come down the hill and find a
great cafe or pub.”
Needing to escape from academic stud-
ies and student hall life? Want to explore
London and find its hidden gems but don’t
know where to start? Log on to Laura’s blog
(golondon.about.com) or follow her on twit-
ter @AboutLondon.
Who: Art of Backpacking is run by the dynamic duo
of avid travellers Michael Tieso and Teresa Gotay.
About: Backpacking, they say, is not only a way
to travel – it’s also a lifestyle. They hope to show
their readers the wonders of travel – culture, food,
nature, kindness – and encourage people to take
the leap of faith of quitting their daily routines and
go travelling.
Why: These guys offer solid advice not only on
budget travelling, but also dealing with different
issues of travel. Their adventurous spirits provide
absolute gems of anecdotal introductions to the
dangerous and the risky – a good starting point for
any perspective sandboarders and world’s-most-
dangerous-vindaloo tasters. Teresa also hosted
Meet, Plan, Go, a get-together of travel enthusiasts
aspiring to long-term travelling.
Recommended: Overcoming social travel awk-
wardness syndrome; Story of escaping the cubicle
corporate world; Travel confession: can one find love
abroad?
Link: http://www.artofbackpacking.com
Twitter: @artofbackpackin, @AOBteresa
Travel Blog of the Week
Brussels blanketed in snow by Dylan Lowe
Want to see your travel photograph featured here?
Send it to travel.felix@imperial.ac.uk.
Are you on twitter? Be sure to get in touch or tell
us what you’d like to see in Felix Travel by sending
your tweet under #FelixTravel.

