FELIX Friday 08 October 2010 33
TRAVEL
Seven Imperial medical students travelled to
Kenya with the Kenyan Orphan Project this
summer, and improved the lives of vulnerable
children and orphans. By Colleen McGregor
My Kenyan holiday with a difference
O
ur first three days were
spent in Kochogo, a rural
settlement near Kisumu,
the third largest city in
Kenya. Our first port-of-
call was the Kochogo Feeding Centre
which provides lunch and dinner to over
150 orphans, many of whom would have
otherwise suffered malnutrition and
eventual death. The feeding centre also
reaches out to the wider community by
supporting elderly widows, who are un-
able to cook for themselves. During our
time there, we helped prepare food (one
of the Imperial girls skinned a chicken!)
and washed dishes but the real joy of
working at the feeding centre were
the children. We served children their
meals, comprising staples such as rice
and beans and also ate with them, which
gave us our first taste of Kenyan food;
ugali in particular being very foreign to
us all – a dish made of just maize flour
and water with an ‘unusual’ consistency.
After lunch we would play with the
children, teaching them new games
whilst they would teach us their favou-
rite songs and entertain us with their
dancing. The children went crazy for
our cameras. They never tired of taking
photos of themselves with shouts of “me
ago, me ago (my go, my go).”
The walls of the feeding centre were
noticeably bland and boring; we were
tasked with designing and paint murals
that were educational and fun. Impe-
rial’s design (by Zainab) taught the chil-
dren what to eat as part of a balanced
diet. Other students continued with
murals teaching the alphabet and hand
hygiene; all of which made the feeding
centre brighter and more stimulating.
Later we went to the local health
centre, which consisted of a small
clinic that housed a two-bed observa-
tion ward, pharmacy and consultation
rooms run by a doctor-led team. While
we were there we had the opportunity
to clerk patients and conduct our own
consultations – diagnosing and plan-
ning treatment. It was inspiring to see
the doctors and nurses there delivering
fantastic care in such difficult circum-
stances, for example the centre had no
electricity and the fridge (which con-
tained vital vaccines) was run by gas
cylinders, at great cost to the centre.
Our final day in Kochogo was at the
local primary schools. We took it in
turns to teach a health related topic, such
as schistosomiasis or malaria. Many pu-
pils spoke fluent English as their mother
tongue was discouraged in school, so
language was hardly a barrier. Although
resources were lacking and classrooms
were frequently overcrowded, every pu-
pil was diligent and keen to learn – we
could barely keep up with all the ques-
tions they were asking!
From Kochogo we went to Alendu
where we were throughly outclassed
by the girls from the Alendu Secondary
School. They challenged us to a netball
match and though our team ranged in
ability, we were determined to win. With
only one goal post at either side but no
discernable lines to mark out the court –
the larger area of play tested our fitness.
While we had trainers, the barefooted
Alendu girls had the advantage of youth
and acclimatisation to the weather. By
half time it felt like we’d been playing
forever (15 minutes!). We were tired and
the Alendu girls were strong. Despite a
strong attack and defence, the bell rang
and the final score read Alendu 4: KOP
3.
We were in Alendu to help build a
school. For many of us building was a
new experience but despite the midday
heat and our mainly female team, we did
remarkably well. Whilst some us mixed
cement on the ground or fetched water
and bricks, a few braver team members
were up on the roof (via a wooden lad-
der and no scaffolding) laying bricks.
The final third module was based in
the large town Kismusu, where we visit-
ed local hospitals and more KOP project
partners. Our experiences in the two pub-
lic hospitals were certainly challenging.
Staff and resource shortages were major
issues, as was availability of beds. It was
not uncommon to see three men sharing
one hospital bed and up to 80% of pa-
tients were HIV positive, so HIV-related
conditions were common, as were ma-
laria, tuberculosis and other tropical dis-
eases. More emphasis was put on history
and examination of the patient, and the
staff were amazingly resourceful with
the little resources they had.
Finally we visited project partners
Vijana Maarufu Development Group
(VIMA) and Hope for Victoria Chil-
dren (HOVIC). VIMA supports under-
privileged children by sponsoring their
education, ensuring an adequate home
environment and providing for their
healthcare needs. Each university group
supports a project and this year Imperial
is backing VIMA. We visited the school
of one of the VIMA-supported children,
where we lead a Q&A session hosted by
the school’s health club. Whilst it was an
enjoyable experience, some of the ques-
tions were harrowing as they touched on
abuse and sexual exploitation. Thank-
fully we were able to answer the ques-
tions with sensitivity and point the stu-
dents in the direction of support groups
such as VIMA.
HOVIC is a centre for street children;
mainly home to boys from 10-18 years
old. The centre includes a dining hall,
classrooms, workshops, mini library
and a nurses’ room – keeping the boys
occupied throughout the day. The boys
are subject to a routine very much like
school and we were able to join them
during their sports session, debating
society and arts workshop where they
taught us to make sculptures out of soap-
stone.
One of the highlights of our trip was
the project party hosted by HOVIC. We
enjoyed food and entertainment put on
by the youth, from skits to dancing. At
one point all of the staff, students and
children were dancing together to tra-
ditional music under the night sky – a
wonderful experience I will never for-
get.
“Our experiences in the two public hospitals
were certainly challenging”
Spare time enjoyed by the waterfront... not much of a beach is it? “Green stripes... must remember to get green stripes...”
Grooving with the kids at HOVIC

