FOOD
FELIX
Friday 08 October 2010
34
Food Editor: Dana Li
food.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Can’t cook, won’t...
Standing in the kitchen, food in one hand, pan in the other
and the only problem is: you don’t know how to cook
Fresh faces, bright red lanyards hanging on
freshers’ necks and you know it’s the new aca-
demic year. Hello and welcome! I think this is
the special time of the year when I can safely
assume that alcohol replaces food entirely in
terms of calorie intake.
As Welcome Week comes to an end though,
the test for survival for many begins. Students
are stereotyped into this savage animal unable
to boil an egg, buying 50p Sainsbury’s Basics
pizzas and spending all their loans on drink.
It’s not a stereotype. It’s probably true. A lot of
students in their first year, including me, were
faced with the reality of being left alone to our
(lack of) culinary skills and a decision to either
embrace our inner Delia or rot with starvation.
Actually, there was also the option of heading
down to any restaurant within a 2 mile radius
and pay to be fed in swanky South Kensing-
ton. Nice for a while, until the student loan runs
painfully dry. The fact is though, you’ll learn to
cook. These tips will help make it a smoother
process:
1. Don’t buy your groceries from Whole
Foods. Okay maybe just once or twice, but def-
initely not all the time. Boasting to be the big-
gest retailer of natural and organic foods, you
can find freshly ground peanut butter, a cheese
cellar and a grocery section that stocks over a
dozen types of tomatoes. Did you even know
that that many existed? Hell no. There’s even a
dedicated trolley escalator. Definitely warrants
a visit to ogle at the marvelous selection of
foods you didn’t even know existed, however
I would not recommend a shopping spree here
unless you’re cooking for the Queen.
2. Learn from the experts. Delia Smith, Nige-
lla Lawson, Jamie Oliver. We all love them for
a reason. Delia even teaches you how to boil
an egg! Patronizing, I know. All at the click of
a mouse too! I mean touch pad - considering
we’re all students and decked out with shiny
new laptops. Just make sure the laptop doesn’t
get food spilled onto it. Before you know it,
the laptop you anticipated on using for the next
four years has lasted you a grand four days.
3. Cook dinner with friends. It’s great if you
can find a budding chef in your midst, maybe
you can sponge a meal or two from them. If
that fails, cooking with your newly-made
friends usually makes the daily ritual more
pleasant and dinner time in the kitchen far less
loner-esque.
4. Check out studentbeans.com for discounts.
This site is a godsend when you’re planning a
meal out. Offers at Pizza Express, La Tasca,
and GBK usually mean that the damage done is
only around a fiver. There’s no reason why you
should pay full price when you can reap the
benefits of your student status. Just remember
to bring a friend! I mean, why wouldn’t you…
5. And please, dear God, learn how to not set
the toaster on fire.
Dana Li
How do you know the soup is ready? When the can explodes
Malaysia Kitchen’s unexpected hellish
nightmare on Trafalgar Square
Last month, Trafalgar Square became home
to the biggest crowd of Malaysians I have ever
seen in London. ‘Malaysia Kitchen’ had been
advertised for a couple of weeks with posters
plastered over Underground walls and food
bloggers spreading the word like wildfire. I
couldn’t decide whether this was an event for
the tourists or a more authentic experience
for the locals. So on Friday 24th September,
I dropped by to see the square turn into quite
an impressive pasar malam (Malay for “night
market”) with Londoners gathering en masse.
It wasn’t quite Jalan Alor (a place famed for
Dana Li old-fashioned food stalls in Kuala Lumpur), but
counters representing the many Malaysian res-
taurants in London were selling the traditional
dishes such as Nasi Lemak and Roti Canai.
The event began with a stunning start when
I waited thirty minutes to be served five satay
skewers at Puji Puji. Why? Because they were
the only stall that night to have a resident grill,
due to Health and Safety being a spoilsport
and not allowing grills inside the tents. The
crowd looked more like a mosh pit than an in-
nocent queue for satay. Was it worth it? Sort of.
Personally I was expecting better food on the
night, considering these were restaurants that
normally charged over twenty quid per person.
I guess it’s unfair to judge the event because
the food was mass produced and the use of pa-
per bowls and plates whilst jostling around the
hordes of people made it hell on earth. At least
people dodged out the way for fear of Laksa
spilt on their Burberry bags. But street food,
typical of a pasar malam, was severely lacking.
What’s more? Food ran out at 7pm and led
to the hungry turning to nearby Chinatown for
an antidote.
There’s a silver lining however: Malaysia
Kitchen have a Dining Card that offers 20% off
at restaurants including Awana in South Kens-
ington and Kiasu in Bayswater so check it out
at www.malaysiakitchen.co.uk for details!
Your review
Yuki says:
“Tasty, Cheap, Genuine” Japanese food is relatively
hard to come by. You tend to find yourself in the
situation of compromising on at least one of the
above; take for example Wagamama, where you can
get reasonably cheap food, but you do have the no-
tion in your head that this isn’t Japanese food.
Usually, the Brewer street area is where you would
want to hit, and where I would usually head to is Ten
Ten Tei. It’s nothing special, but you do get food that
you can call Japanese. Portions are very reasonable
and you do feel that you have had a good meal.”
“Students are stereo-
typed into this savage
animal unable to boil an
egg, buying 50p Sains-
bury’s Basics pizzas...”
• extra virgin olive oil
• 2 cloves of garlic, peeled and finely sliced
• ½–1 fresh red chilli (halved, deseeded, finely
sliced)
• a small bunch of fresh basil, leaves picked
• 1 x 400g can good-quality chopped tomatoes
• 250g fresh lasagne sheets cut into strips
• freshly grated Parmesan cheese, to serve
Heat a good few lugs of olive oil. Fry the garlic and
chilli until lightly coloured, then add the basil and
chopped tomatoes. Bring to the boil and simmer for
about 5 minutes. Season with salt and pepper.
Bring a large pan of salted water to the boil. Add the
pasta and cook until al dente. Drain the pasta.
Stir the pasta into the warm sauce. Sprinkle with
freshly grated Parmesan cheese and the reserved
basil leaves and serve immediately.
Sikh Society Cha and Samosa Party
FREE FOOD
13th October. 2pm
Union First Floor Activity Rooms 1&2
National Chocolate Week
11-17 October
EVENTS
Quick home-made
pappardelle with
tomato sauce

