SexyOsama69
Barack_attack_l33thaxor
SUPERACEGORTHEROAR87
38 felix
FRIDAY 08 OCTOBER 2010
HANGMAN
Hangman loses
friends and
alienates himself...
but Felix is still shit
I
f you’re new to Imperial, you’re most cer-
tainly new to Felix. And of all the people
writing for Felix, I should definitely not be
the one trying to sell it as the esteemed and
cherished student newspaper it so wants to
be. But I’m still going to do it.
Firstly let’s give a brief overview of our new
Editor-in-chief, Kadhim Shubber. Well, that’s
enough about our Editor-in-Chief, so onto the
front page. This is here to remind you that Imperial
College has a union and that it fucks everything
up, whilst remaining agonisingly boring. Not to
worry though, if the uninspired headline fails to
draw your attention, there’s a column of mundane,
and frankly desperate, pull-quotes sitting next to a
photo of a sabbatical holding a small wad of cash
and looking anxious – because they’ve presumably
fucked everything up and it’s something to do with
money.
If you’re stupid enough to have opened up the
newspaper, you will probably see a picture of the
Editor-in-chief, Kadhim Shubber. I really don’t
think I need to say anything more about him, so
let’s just move on. Oh bloody hell, there’s a whole
double-page spread dedicated solely to the afore-
mentioned headline story. Small font, long words,
something about the rector – turn the page. Make
sure you do it fast and loud, whilst shaking your
head and tutting. It’s not a real newspaper, but you
can at least read it like one.
With a good deal of histrionic page-turning, you
should swiftly reach the comment section having
only read one word – Kadhim. The comment sec-
tion is now an established religion. You have the
venerated Gilead Amit, God of knowledge and
language; the misanthropic acrimonious prince of
darkness, Angry Geek; and then that crazy bearded
naked guy in the street screaming at passers-by
to repent their sins, whilst pissing on them; Rhys
Davies. Unfortunately the religion also comes with
its fair share of irritating preachers, or born-again
commentians, who are under the delusion that peo-
ple actually read their pieces. Comment is Free,
but your opinions are shit, so don’t bother.
Now you have the arduous task of sifting
through pages of more inflated opinion, but in spe-
cific fields of interest. World news - as long as it
doesn’t affect me, I don’t care; Science – I got my
place at Imperial so I don’t need to pretend to have
an extra-curricular interest in science anymore;
Politics – We have a deficit. This annoys people.
Oh, you can apparently write that with a lot more
words; Music – gig reviews of bands I’ve never
heard of and certainly won’t listen to – skip; Film
– out with the old pretentious critic and in with the
new – oh, a pretentious film critic - skip; CEN-
TREFOLD – THAT is our netball team!? Are you
serious? I thought pseudo-sports were invented for
the sole purpose of endorsing slutty attire and a
purely aesthetic-based recruiting system. Oh this is
just a shocking reminder that the human body can
truly be a hideous thing, skip, skip, skip – finally!
The puzzles!
Nothing makes me more uncomfortable than
watching Imperial students doing puzzles. It’s
their eyes, the intensity; the intimacy. It’s like they
see numbers on a grid, and want to fuck it. Harm-
less puzzles quickly evolve into sordid sex games.
‘What if I put my number eight there? Do you like
that baby? You want a three here? Well if you like
it filthy then why don’t I stick my number four in
– oh shit! I’m so sorry, I didn’t realise there was al-
ready a four in this column. Yeah, I know where to
put it ok!? This isn’t my first time! I’ve just never
done this with such a sexy Sudoku before.’
Yeah I tend to stay away from the puzzles, and the
people that do the puzzles. And pretty much every-
one does the puzzles, so what does that say about
me? Nice to meet you and welcome to Felix :D
A Warm
Welcome From
Hangman (and
a pledge to
end political
correctness!)
Twatter
SUPERACEGORTHEROAR87
FFS Cammy! wat u dun to the
welfare system?
Cameron_DA_Maneron!!!
lol. duno, just been clickin ran-
dom buttons on my laptop and
hopin for da best. Since wen hav
u cared bout welfare anyway?
SexyOsama69
since he’s been on da dole lol
I’m not on the dole, I’m on job-
seekers allowance. cba to work
though. gona exploit sum loop-
holes lol. Any1 for halo reach?
I’m not playin if Osie is just gona
keep throwin grenades at his feet
and shoutin ‘Allahu Akbar lol’.
lol
Humans, douchebags, nerds; welcome
to the sick and twisted world of Hang-
man. I use short sentences because I
want to seem punchy and melodramatic.
Actually it’s because I’m attached to a
ventilator. And I still use Primary school
guidelines for punctuation. Commas are
for short breaths. And full stops are for.
Are for. Are for. long. Long br-........
[BEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEP!]
I’m not really on a ventilator, but I
do fantasise about the idea - You’re ef-
fectively half man, half machine! Like
Robocop! Or that guy with the pros-
thetic leg who can play basketball! If
it means that I can be legally registered
as cyborg, I’ll collapse one of my lungs
right now! I might even be allowed to
take the Turing test, although they’d
probably catch me out with some cheap
trick question like ‘Are you a robot? No
means yes and yes means yes’.
Ventilators and cyborg basketball
players aside, I’ve set out this year to
clean up my act and take a more sophis-
ticiticat- sophisstica-sophi –a more good
approach to my writing. This is a new
year, a new editor and a new Hangman,
so let me assure you that I’m on no agen-
da to offend any Christians, lesbians or
Muslims. (Definitely not Muslims)
If, however, I do somehow manage
to commit libel, slander, harassment or
an attack against a minority group (e.g.
Dwarves or wheelchair people) then
Kadhim should go down for it and not
me. Please don’t hesitate to send him a
complaint at felix@imperial.ac.uk. I’m
a racist chauvinistic Nationalist far-right
Totalitarian far-left illegal immigrant/
part-time ballet teacher – he knew what
he was signing on for. And it wasn’t for
discount ballet lessons. Well actually it
was for discount ballet lessons.
Yehhh. I said it... Do your worst
“Oh this is just a shocking
reminder that the human
body is truly a hideous
thing, skip, skip, skip –
finally! The puzzles!”
Alryt love? I’ll do your crossword... eh? eh?
Yeah I know this is a shit caption, but it’s
fucking 4am in the morning...
Join the Felix Team!
Come to our Meet-and-Greet on
Tuesday 12th October
12:00 - 13:00
Student Activity Space
(first floor of the Union)
hangman.felix@imperial.ac.uk

