NEWS
FELIX
Friday 08 October 2010
4
The Department of Life Sciences proposes to ‘restructure’ its Plant Science units
Alex Kendall says the department’s message is: “if you
are an excellent teacher but not an ‘internationally com-
petitive’ researcher you have no reason to be here.”
Departmental cuts
The planned restructure of the Life Sciences department
puts the future of Plant Sciences at Imperial in question
Kadhim Shubber
Read this article
online at
felixonline.co.uk
In brief
Imperial occupies healthy position
in league tables
Last month, two university league tables were re-
leased that showed how Imperial fares against other
institutions.
Rankings by the careers advice company QS put
Imperial in 7th place behind Oxford, UCL and Cam-
bridge which, by their reckoning, is the top university
in the world. The rest of the top ten was populated
by American institutions. When calculating the rank-
ings, QS placed a lot of weight on the strength of
a university’s reputation, as well as other factors
such as staff/student ratio, employability and inter-
nationality.
However, the rankings released by Times Higher
Education make for less favourable reading. While
Cambridge and Oxford still score higher, in joint 6th
place, the top ten are dominated by American uni-
versities such as Harvard and MIT. Imperial sneaks
in at 9th place. UCL is the next highest ranked UK
university at 22nd. THE has a different focus to QS,
placing more weight on a university’s research influ-
ence and the quality of its teaching.
This is the first year that QS and THE have pro-
duced different league tables; previously, they had
compiled their rankings together. In 2009, they put
Imperial at 5th in the world, joint with Oxford.
While we must be careful not to read too much into
these statistics, some thoughts can be drawn from
them. According to QS, we go to a university that
is still worth bragging about but the lower ranking
by THE reflects the fact that we shouldn’t trade on
reputation alone.
Even though both league tables put Imperial lower
than in previous years, it is still a world-class in-
stitution. However, it will be interesting to see how
it performs in future rankings, especially at a time
when higher education funding and budgets are in
jeopardy of being cut.
Rhys Davies
News Editors: Matt Colvin
Alex Karapetian
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
an online statement, which also accused
the panel reviewing the restructure of a
conflict of interest – a claim the depart-
ment rigorously denies.
Head of the Life Sciences Department
Ian Owens rebutted the accusations.
“We are absolutely not closing down
Plant Sciences, we’re restructuring that
group because that group has some dif-
ficulties and instead we’re putting some-
thing else in its place.” He sought to re-
assure undergraduates in his department
in a recent email that said “Imperial’s
commitment to key fields of academic
activity remains as strong as before”. He
also pointed to plans to create a cross-
departmental unit of Plant Sciences
that would work across disciplines to
encourage research in Plant Sciences, a
plan that the Union called ‘vacuous’. He
admitted that no concrete plans for the
cross-departmental unit could be made
until the restructure had been completed.
Further concerns have been raised
about the impact that the loss of academ-
ics from the PMS and CBFG sections
would have on undergraduate teaching.
While at this stage of the restructure it
is unknown how many staff will keep or
lose their positions, the loss of staff, that
according to the Union takes on the ma-
jority of the teaching and administrative
work in the department, would be detri-
mental to teaching.
The Union President Alex Kendall ar-
gued that it was clear from teaching data
that the Plant Science and Cell Biology
academics do the bulk of the teaching in
the Life Sciences Department, in some
cases 50% more than academics from
other sections. Ian Owens disputed this
analysis pointing out that it did not in-
clude post-graduate teaching hours
which reduced the discrepancy and fur-
ther said that “the teaching and admin-
istrative activities of the two centres did
not satisfactorily counterbalance their
relatively low research competitive-
ness.”
The trigger of the restructure is the de-
partment’s precarious financial position.
It has been chipping away at a £12 mil-
lion operating deficit since 2006/2007
and had reduced the gap to around
£750,000 as of last year. However the
removal of parts of College funding (the
so-called flexibility margin) has undone
some of the department’s hard work. The
College said this about the removal of
the flexibility margin: “The ‘Flexibility
Continued from front page
Margin’ is designed to act as a buffer,
protecting faculties from fluctuations in
resource. It is not intended to provide
ongoing support; if it were so then this
would be at the expense of other aca-
demic areas of the College.”
The jobs of 28 academics are at risk
in the restructure, which is designed to
plug £1 million of the £1.5 million gap
(the other £0.5 million coming from
further cost-saving measures). The de-
partment has already taken significant
steps to address their financial issues,
which originate from the re-structure
of the then Faculty of Life Sciences in
2004/2005. These steps include increas-
ing the number of undergraduates to the
maximum allowed, increasing fees for
post-graduates and overseas students
and down-sizing the amount of space
used by the Department.
The Union President has taken a con-
troversial position on the department’s
financial difficulties, saying that the
restructure is an “easy way out” of the
department’s financial situation and fur-
ther declaring on his Union blog that
the College “has money to burn”. He
questioned the Department’s motives
saying that the re-structure sent the
message to academics that “if you are
an excellent teacher but not an ‘inter-
nationally competitive’ researcher you
have no reason to be here.” However
Ian Owens brushed away the notion that
he was rejecting individuals “I’m look-

