Felix Sport sponsered by
Feature: ICURFC Tour Report pages 24-25
SPORT
08.10.10
ISSUE 1468
Imperial
fencers
bring
home the
gold for
England
Gold and silver medals for Imperial
fencers at the Commonwealth
Championships
Jack Patten
Better
than all
the rest,
well in
London
at least
Jovan Nedic
This years British Universities and Col-
leges Sports (BUCS) Championships’
national ranking are out, with Imperial
climbing five places to become the 17th
best in the UK. Not only that, but this
rise to 17th place means that Imperial
was ranked the best sporting institution
in London, surpassing Brunel Univer-
sity.
It is no great secret that the Boat Club
bring in a boat load of points and it was
no surprise that yet again they managed
to bring in more points than all the other
teams combined. Some of the other
big winners have included snooker and
men’s volleyball who won gold at the
BUCS Championships, as well as sever-
al judo and fencers who won individual
gold medals.
Neil Mosley, Head of Sport Imperial
commented on the news, saying that:
“I’m really delighted with the continued
success we’ve had in BUCS competi-
tions. We are now competing success-
fully with massive universities who fo-
cus on sport. The pleasing thing is now
the range of sports that we are competi-
tive in. Our fencers proved we are the
number one university in that sport and
as well as continued high performance
in rowing, we have excelled in squash,
judo, water polo and volleyball to name
but a few.”
Photo by Geoff Webber
Imperial fencers Henry Gann and Maiyuran Ratneswaran (left) with their gold medals
Fencing club after their tremen-
dous performance at the BUCS
Championships last year
The Commonwealth Fencing Championships,
held in Melbourne, Australia this year, have got
off to an excellent start, particularly from Impe-
rial’s point of view.
Three Imperial fencers were chosen for vari-
ous national squads, and have been doing a fan-
tastic job against some stiff opposition. Fencing
epee for Wales, former Imperial Club President,
Emily Bottle, came in a respectable 23rd despite
having spent most of the year battling injuries,
making her the best Welsh epeeist. She did well
enough in her poule that she didn’t have to fence
the first round of direct elimination, but was
knocked out in the next round, with a 15/7 score
line, by English fencer Mary Cohen who ended
placed 7th.
There have been some impressive sabre vic-
tories for Imperial fencers. Henry Gann and
Maiyuran Ratneswaran were both selected for
the English side, and have been putting in some
excellent results. Henry was overall placed 27th
having, as Emily, done well enough in his pool
that he missed the first direct elimination round,
only to be knocked out in the next round, with a
15/13 score line, by fellow English team member
Gildas Braine, who finished in 7th place.
Maiyuran had an excellent competition, leav-
ing a trail of impressive fencers in his wake, win-
ning every match in his pool, and then setting
impressively one-sided scores in all of the direct
elimination matches, 15/6, 15/7, 15/10, 15/7. In
the final he faced off against team mate Anthony
Crutchett, losing by only one hit, 15/14, to gain
a silver medal.
In the team sabre event, the English team faced
off against India first, having not had to fight the
first round by having the highest seeding. The
team smashed India 45/27, meaning that all they
had to do was beat Australia, who had been put-
ting up almost as impressive scores, to be Com-
monwealth champions.
In the end it wasn’t even close, with the English
team winning 45/36, securing a gold medal for
both of Imperial’s fencers. Congratulations to all
our fencers, who have done spectacularly at this
event!

