FELIX Friday 08 October 2010 5
NEWS
Become a Rector’s Ambassador
T
his week the International
Office are seeking new vol-
unteers to take part in this
year’s Rector’s Ambassadors
scheme. Rector’s Ambassadors rep-
resent the College as a whole at Open
Days and campus-wide tours
Stephanie Mambo, an RA last year,
said; “Being a Rector’s Ambassador is
an honour. It’s an opportunity to gain
skills such as leadership, interpersonal,
communication skills and initiative
whilst showcasing Imperial positively.”
Stephanie has attended university fairs
in Cyprus and Kenya as an Ambassa-
dor, and has also participated in college
events such as the Post Graduate Open
Day
“The fair in Cyprus was a once in a
life time opportunity. I was able to share
my experiences and talk in depth about
my course to highly driven students.
“Being a Rector’s Ambassador is fun,
exciting and full of energy, and the am-
bassadors all come from a wide range of
courses and years. Everyone is outgoing
and the atmosphere is great. And it’s a
flexible programme that works really
well with everyone’s schedule.”
Solomon Zacharia, studying Civil
Engineering, is continuing the Rector’s
Ambassador experience this year. He
said “It’s been a fantastic experience
meeting other people and talking to new
students.
“When I’m taking tours, students are
engaging and enjoy every bit of the tour.
I’ve also helped out at careers fairs and
met lots of people from other universi-
ties. I’ve made good friends here: we all
come from different backgrounds and
it’s good to talk to other people and see
how they do things.”
You can apply for the Rector’sAmbas-
sador Scheme at http://www3.imperial.
ac.uk/international/students/rectorsam-
bassadors. The deadline for applications
is midnight on Friday 15th October.
student bloggers wanted!
Are you a keen and creative writer?
Maybe you always have a camera handy
to capture the moment? Simply send
us 600 words about your start of term
experience, whether you are a fresher or
a returning undergrad or postgrad.
Alternatively, submit a photo-
blog entry about Welcome Week
– don’t forget to add captions!
Send your submission by
Wednesday 20 October to
studentblogs@imperial.ac.uk
is this
you?
www.imperial.ac.uk/studentblogs
ing at this from a group perspective. I’ll
agree we don’t know exactly what in-
dividuals will be doing, but I think we
can be confident that we will be able to
deliver the full range of teaching. This is
the other area of the statement from the
Union that worries me the most, the idea
that we are closing down Plant Science’s
Whole Organism teaching. I’ve never
contemplated the department carrying
on as before but minus the 28 people i.e.
no group”
Plant and Microbial Sciences and Cell
Biology and Functional Genomics have
been targeted in the restructure due to
their poor research quality and input of
research funding in comparison to other
units within the department according to
the consultation document issued by the
department. However their use of data
has provoked an outcry from academics
in the PMS section and the Union. The
have vigorously disputed these claims
accusing the department of distorting
and misusing the data on research. They
claim that the PMS and CBFG sections
produce as good research as the other
units and that any difference in aver-
ages is due to “high-flying” academics
pulling the average of the group up. The
Head of the Life Sciences Department
Ian Owens responded by saying that he
did not want the restructure to be centred
on a statistical argument and “as Head
of my department, I would not be pre-
senting the data if I did not believe that
it was statistically significant.” When
challenged by the Union to provide fur-
ther data he said that he did not want to
“insult my academics by telling them
that their jobs were dependant on a sta-
tistical line in the sand.”
To further complicate the issue, the
section of Plant and Microbial Sciences
has only recently settled at the South
Kensington campus after a highly dis-
ruptive 6-year move from the former
campus at Wye (and Ian Owens admits
that there are still some niggling prob-
lems). This has been held up by the op-
position to the restructure as evidence
that the academics would bring in as
much funding as the other units if they
had more time to settle in. But the de-
partment contests this saying that there
have not been signs of a return to the
5* Research rating given in 2001 and
that some academics also left during the
Wye disruption (possibly hampering the
groups research potential).
In the name of fairness the Union has
urged the Department to consider a full
review of all units, saying that if dif-
ficult decisions have to be made then
they should be made in as fair a way
as possible. The suggestion is unlikely
to gain much traction with the Depart-
ment. The Head Ian Owens has spoken
of his fear of the negative impact on mo-
rale of restructures. “The other units are
performing pretty well, and you need a
wide range of individuals to form a good
team and so I don’t want to destroy re-
lationships all the way across the depart-
ment. We’ve identified key parameters
that you can measure unambiguously,
research citations, and from that we can
identify certain trends”
The question of whether teaching of
Plant Sciences will continue in the long
term is of course in the air as the De-
partment of Life Sciences are planning a
review of teaching.
Ian Owens reiterated his confidence
in the breadth of teaching options to be
made available to students next year.
“Plant sciences is no different from
any course next year. They’ll all get
thrown into the mix as it were, lots of
stuff will change, lots of stuff will stay
the same but there is absolutely no plan
at all to get rid of plant sciences.”
Union President Alex Kendall remains
sceptical and has been sure to condemn
these decisions made by College early
on in the new academic year. He sug-
gested the Department’s priorities may
be still misaligned.
“When College improve research,
they’ll get more money. But no mat-
Head of Department Ian Owens will not “in-
sult [his] academics by telling them their
jobs [are] dependent on a statistical line in
the sand.”
ter how much you improve teaching,
there’s no financial correlation.”
Write Felix a letter
about this issue
This story is about a debate
that is going on at your univer-
sity right now. It either affects
you directly or it will affect one
your friends directly. Be part of
this debate, join it and shape
it.
Write a letter (well an email)
to felix@imperial.ac.uk and
tell us your thoughts. Is the re-
structure necessary? Are you
worried about the effect it will
have on teaching?
After all, you pay to be at this
university. Your opinion mat-
ters and we want to hear it.

