NEWS
FELIX
Friday 08 October 2010
6
News Editors: Matt Colvin
Alex Karapetian
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Imperial College is set to open its first teach-
ing institution abroad - a medical school in
Singapore. The project is run alongside Nan-
yang Technological University (NTU), with the
College having been commissioned to develop
the curriculum. It is scheduled to admit its in-
augural intake of 50 students in 2013, eventu-
ally rising to 150 per year, and will be the third
medical school in the country.
Professor Martyn Partridge, Chair in Respi-
ratory Medicine at Imperial, will be senior vice
dean of the new school. Speaking about the ra-
tionale behind the collaboration, he told Felix:
“The Singapore Government came to us for
help with this project because they recognised
the quality of our medical course and because
they understood that Imperial 15 years ago had
remarkable similarities with NTU now, being a
college with fine Engineering and Technology
expertise but no Faculty of Medicine”.
The new partnership will allow more over-
seas students to be taught by Imperial Col-
lege, as there is a 7.5% cap on the proportion
of international students attending UK medi-
cal schools, and students at the new institution
will be awarded a joint Imperial-NTU degree.
Additionally, it is hoped that Imperial students
will benefit from the project, via exchange pro-
grammes with the new medical school and the
possibility of spending elective periods in its
associated hospitals. There will also be oppor-
tunities for staff at Imperial, by means of new
jobs and academic collaborations in Singapore.
However, a Singaporean medical student at
Imperial, who wished to remain anonymous, is
wary of the partnership.
“I would still have gone to Imperial College
London [...] because the standard of teaching
in London (as a whole and within the Col-
lege itself) is more established and recognised
worldwide. Imperial College has an interna-
tional reputation to protect, and I hope that the
College will make every effort to preserve the
high standard of teaching which it has become
synonymous with”
Imperial seems to be the ideal candidate for
the task of creating a new medical school, giv-
en its enviable rankings on both UK and world
league tables.
Medicine at Imperial was ranked 3rd in the
2011 Good University Guide, and it was ranked
5th in the world for clinical, pre-clinical and
health in the Times Higher Education World
University Rankings 2010-11. Furthermore,
although its School of Medicine has only been
around since 1997, Imperial has had a relatively
longstanding involvement in medical training,
dating back to 1988 when it acquired St Mary’s
Hospital Medical School, itself established in
1854. However, the results of the most recent
National Student Survey suggest that improve-
ment is due - although 91% of students were
overall satisfied with the Medicine course, only
58% agreed that they receive sufficient advice
and support with their studies. Similarly, the
General Medical Council’s latest Quality As-
surance report on the course found that both ca-
reers advice and feedback on student progress
were ‘variable’. However, Professor Partridge
feels that there have been “tremendous efforts
made in the last 18 months to improve stu-
dents’ perception of how much feedback they
receive”, and insists that NTU have chosen the
right partner.
“The Singaporean Government considered
all of the best Universities when selecting a
new partner for Nanyang Technological Uni-
versity and after due diligence they chose Im-
perial as offering the best course”.
The news of Imperial’s expansion brings it up
to speed with numerous other UK universities,
including Nottingham and UCL, who have al-
ready opened campuses abroad.
However, it should be noted that this will
not be the first overseas institution with Col-
lege branding: in 2006, the Imperial College
London Diabetes Centre opened in Abu Dhabi,
UAE, which was last month awarded JCI (Joint
Commission International) accreditation in
clinical care.
The Queen’s Tower would be a fine addition to the Singapore skyline, don’t you agree? You don’t? Oh....
Imperial opens Medical
campus in Singapore
Reynolds Bar given new lease of
life with summer refurbishment
Friends of Medicin Sans
Frontieres Freshers’ Social
FREE FOOD
10th October. 6:30pm
Reynolds Bar. CX R2/3
EVENTS
While a lot of attention has been focussed on the
refurbishment of Metric and FiveSixEight – as they
will soon be called – renovations have also been tak-
ing place in the Reynolds Bar, the spiritual home of
ICSM in Charing Cross Hospital.
Redecorating has been much gentler than at the
Union, with work consisting mostly of a fresh colour
scheme, as well as repairing or replacing damaged
furniture.
In recent years, the Reynolds has been roaring on
Bops and Sports Nights but has been mostly de-
serted during the day and on quieter evenings. In
order to remain financially viable, it was felt that this
worn, gloomy look should be replaced by a more in-
viting atmosphere where staff and students would
want to socialise.
ICSMSU President, David Smith, stated that his
hope was that the Reynolds feel, “more inviting,
modern, and suitable for relaxing post-lecture or at
lunchtime, yet still functioning well as a nightclub.”
The Reynolds officially reopened last Friday, ahead
of term, with the “Summer of Love” Bop, hosted by
the ICSM Summer Ball Committee.
Rhys Davies
Ali Hosin
In brief
Ethos Gym access restricted to
allow staff some alone-time
The Ethos Gym will be closed to students on Tues-
day and Thursday lunchtimes in a move designed
to allow staff, who pay for gym membership, easier
access to the busy facilities.
The gym will be closed to students from 12:00 – 13:30
on Tuesday and Thursday lunchtimes and also from
17:00 – 18:30 on Thursday evenings. To compensate for
the restricted availability students will be given free ac-
cess to Circuit Training from 12:00 to 13:00 on Tuesdays
and Kondi from 17:15 to 18:00 on Tuedsdays and 12:15
– 13:00 during Thursday lunchtimes.
This is due to staff, who pay a monthly membership
fee, being frustrated by having to wait to use machines in
a gym that is crowded with spotty-faced youths trying to
bench-press one another.
This situation, which arises from a sports centre that
is arguably too small to cater for the entire university
(undergraduates and postgraduates included), will be re-
viewed in December by Neil Mosley, head of Sports Im-
perial. Could Alton Towers style Fastrack tickets follow?
Charles Betts

