student bloggers wanted!
Are you a keen and creative writer?
Maybe you always have a camera handy
to capture the moment? Simply send
us 600 words about your start of term
experience, whether you are a fresher or
a returning undergrad or postgrad.
Alternatively, submit a photo-
blog entry about Welcome Week
– don’t forget to add captions!
Send your submission by
Wednesday 20 October to
studentblogs@imperial.ac.uk
is this
you?
www.imperial.ac.uk/studentblogs
NEWS
FELIX Friday 08 October 2010 7
The results of the latest National Stu-
dent Survey have led Imperial College
to announce a campaign to improve the
assessment of students’ work, with the
Rector becoming personally involved in
an attempt to lead a noted improvement
across all College departments.
Launched in 2005, the NSS collects
voluntary opinions from final year stu-
Professor Omar Matar, Director of Un-
dergraduate Studies for Chemical En-
gineering notes that “members of staff
have a finite amount of endurance and
certainly the students are in the same
sort of boat” in terms of the amount of
work that requires feedback. Professor
Julia Buckingham, Pro-Rector (Educa-
tion and Academic Services) agrees,
observing that “there has been a move
in some departments to actually reduce
the amount of coursework, and I think
that will help.”
But there is certainly an issue of mo-
tivating academics to take teaching
seriously. Dr. Tony Field, Director of
Undergraduate Studies for Computing,
explains why he believes that his de-
partment is instead nationally competi-
tive, “I think it’s possibly the mindset.
The academics take their work seriously
and if we tell them coursework has to
be marked properly and within 2 weeks
then by and large they do it. I get the im-
pression other departments find it harder
to get their academics to do that.”
Indeed, some departments have high-
lighted a certain culture that exists of
academics focussing on their research
rather than their teaching duties, often to
bring more money into the department.
Professor Matar believes that “(academ-
ics) have got a lot of research and some
administration to do as well as teaching.
It’s a fine balancing act.” But Professor
MacKinnon, Director of Undergraduate
Studies for Physics, went further, say-
ing that “Every university says teaching
and research have equal weighting. Few
academics actually believe that.”
Dr. Lorraine Craig, a senior member
of staff for Earth Science and Engineer-
ing is adamant that this reluctance on the
part of academics does not exist in her
department, firmly believing that “staff
want to see their students learn, prog-
ress and get very good jobs at the end
of their time here. They look after their
tutees and students that they’re supervis-
ing and there is that bond - that link.”
She also admits that the department is
relatively small in comparison to oth-
ers, acknowledging that, “what works
within this department might not work
in others.”
Despite the urgency of the Rector’s
letter and the aim of departments to im-
prove, many of those questioned claim
to already meet the target for a two week
feedback turnaround. Professor Berk-
shire outlines that, “we aim to have es-
sentially 12 days turn around. By and
large we achieve it” while Professor
MacKinnon reveals that “there are one
or two exercises we could probably do
faster than (two weeks).” Dr. Craig aims
to reduce the department’s turnaround
to one week instead, explaining that “if
we’ve got a deadline, we work to that
deadline. We just change the mindset.”
Further suggestions towards address-
ing the problems include a formal con-
tract between staff and students, cement-
ing the expectations that a student would
have of their department and equally
staff of their students. Mentioned last
year by the former Deputy President for
Education, Jonathan Silver, it has met
with some positive comments. Profes-
sor Matar suggests that “there needs to
be a contract between us and them” and
Professor MacKinnon is “not overly op-
posed” to the idea, but points out that
such a system may “lead to unnecessary
litigation”.
Add into this mix the impending gov-
ernment cuts and changes to Higher Ed-
ucation Funding and it’s quickly obvious
that improving teaching isn’t going to be
straight forward or quick. Julia Bucking-
ham was keen to emphasise that there
needs to be a cultural change at Imperial
which will take some time.
Students give damning
verdict on teaching standards
The College makes coursework feedback and marking a priority as Rector tells staff
he is “extremely disappointed” by the National Student Survey results
dents about both pastoral and academic
issues, leading to more detailed feed-
back on student satisfaction rather than
other league tables that place emphasis
on academic success.
The College has generally fared well
in the results, released in August, which
give Imperial an overall satisfaction rat-
ing of 85%, placing the university 43rd
nationally and 13th amongst Russell
Group universities. One of the more im-
pressive results is the rating of 90% for
satisfaction with the College’s learning
resources, well above the national aver-
age of 80%.
However, one particular area of con-
cern that the survey highlights is stu-
dent satisfaction with assessment and
feedback. Disquiet about this is not re-
stricted to final year students alone. Last
year, feedback from the College’s TOLE
(Tutorial Online Evaluation) undergrad-
uate survey highlighted concern in the
departments of Chemical Engineering
and Chemistry, while Civil Engineering
refused to cooperate and send feedback
to personal tutors.
Current Rector, Sir Keith O’Nions,
has made the issue a top priority, as evi-
denced by a strongly worded letter sent
to departments to highlight the problem.
He has advised that departments take
“strong and concerted action” and set a
timetable for when students can expect
to submit coursework and receive feed-
back. He has suggested that in certain
cases, departments should “consider
reducing the amount of coursework the
students are required to do” should they
“get maximum benefit from the feed-
back.” The question is whether the cur-
rent situation can be improved upon by
the next College surveys at the end of
term.
Can we solve a problem like teaching?
“Every university
says teaching and
research have equal
weighting. Few
academics actually
believe that.”
Improving teaching is going to be a slow process
Matt Colvin
Matt Colvin

