NEWS
FELIX
Friday 08 October 2010
8
MSci Student Chooses
Goat over iPod
Bomb scare disrupts
Freshers’ Fair
In brief
Former Rector Sir Richard Sykes
appointed Chairman of the Royal
Institute
Former Imperial Col-
lege Rector, Sir Rich-
ard Sykes, has been
appointed to the posi-
tion of new Chairman
of the Royal Institution
(Ri) to succeed former
Chairman Andrian de
Ferranti.
After unanimous
backing from Trustees
of the organisation, following Sir Richard’s nomi-
nation at a Ri Council meeting on 13th September
2010, his position as Chairman was announced only
three days later.
Chris Rofe, chief executive of the Ri had the fol-
lowing to say: “This appointment affirms the Royal
Institution’s commitment both to our members and
to the scientific community as a whole. Sir Richard’s
extensive experience and formidable reputation in
science, business and education means that he is
ideally placed to lead the organisation. I look for-
ward to his advice, support and leadership as we
continue to deliver our strategy.”
Sir Richard, also former chairman of pharmaceuti-
cals giant GlaxoSmithKine and current chairman of
the UK Stem Cell Foundation, issued a statement
saying “I am delighted to become Chairman at such
an important juncture in the history of the Royal In-
stitution. This is a crucial era for science in society
and our role as home for the promotion of science
is a critical one.” He added to this, “Adrian de Fer-
ranti has been an outstanding Chairman, we wish
him well and thank him for his valuable contribution
to the Ri. I am delighted to accept the role of Chair-
man and to work with the Council to represent the
interests of our members and to support the chief
executive and the management team to drive the
organisation forward.”
The Royal Institution is the oldest independent re-
search institute in the world, and has been associat-
ed with many scientific figures including Sir Humphry
Davy and Michael Faraday. Recent accounts filed to
the Charity Commission in July, however, show that
the Royal Institution is facing serious debt of more
than £2m. As new chairman, Sir Richard will now
be responsible for the administration of fundraising
of the organisation and its development. Sir Paul
Nurse, incoming president of the Royal Society,
believes Sir Richard will be able to relieve the long
standing financial stresses incurred, “This appoint-
ment will give strong leadership and much needed
stability to the Royal Institution. I wish him and the
institution well.”
Rosalyn Flowers
Union launches Higher Education
Funding Survey
The Union is formulating a policy on Higher Educa-
tion and it wants to know your views. Go to www.
imperialcollegeunion.org to register your opinions
An unorthodox prize draw
was run during Freshers’
Week by Student Life. The
prize? The choice between an
iPod Nano for themselves or
two goats for families in the
developing world.
The winner, Amad Naseer,
decided to donate the goats: “I
already have an iPod” he said.
Yes that’s right, the guy in the middle who won the prize draw has absolutely no idea what the hell is happening...
A
suspect package triggered a
bomb alert at last Tuesday’s
packed Freshers’ Fair. The
container, which was left out-
side the hoardings between the Sherfield
building and the gate on Prince Consort
Road, was first identified by police who
are on campus to give Freshers informa-
tion about personal safety.
After failing to confirm ownership
with the many contractors working
around campus the police called in a
bomb alert as a precaution due to the
large number of students who had come
to the Fair. The police no doubt were
on heightened alert due to the terror
warnings issued to American travellers
in London. The situation was defused
when the package was X-rayed by the
bomb squad and found to contain noth-
ing more than some power tools and
other construction equipment.
Head of Security Terry Branch warned
students to be “careful about where you
leave your belongings. Heightened se-
curity risks means they may cause dis-
ruption if left unattended.”
News Editors: Matt Colvin
Alex Karapetian
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk

