FELIX Friday 08 October 2010 9
FEATURE
SCIENTISTS RALLY TO
FIGHT FUNDING CUTS
O
n Saturday the 9th of
October, over 2,000 sci-
entists and science sup-
porters will rally at West-
minster to protect the
future of British science. Their aim is
to make the government reconsider any
spending cuts to be made in the fields
of research and development, cuts that
scientists fear could cause the country
long-term damage.
They are rapidly running out of time
to make their voices heard, however,
if they hope to influence Chancel-
lor George Osborne’s Governmental
Spending Review, which will be publi-
cally announced on the 20th. The cuts
detailed on that day will certainly be
draconian and decisive - but nobody as
yet knows where they will fall.
It is in this tense atmosphere that on
the 8th of September Lib Dem cabinet
member Vince Cable delivered a speech
at Queen Mary, University of London.
In it, the newly-appointed Secretary of
State for Business, Innovation and Skills
(BIS) made it clear that deep cuts in his
department were unavoidable.
Since the Chancellor’s emergency
budget was revealed in June of this year,
government departments have been ago-
nising over how best to apportion the
enormous spending cuts that need to be
made. In what Whitehall sources have
referred to as ‘a do-able nightmare’, the
Treasury hopes to cut public spending
by £6.2 billion over the coming year.
If the load were to be divided equally
among all 16 governmental depart-
ments, then each minister would need to
reduce their budget by around 15%. The
Coalition’s priorities, however, mean
that some departments are more heav-
ily hit than others. The NHS budget, for
instance, will be protected in full, and
some defence spending is also exempt.
This means that the reduction in
spending expected from departments
such as Vince Cable’s will rise to nearly
25% over a four-year period. And as Ca-
ble’s department bears responsibility for
science as well as for business, scientists
have been anxiously scrutinising his pri-
orities in an attempt to predict what lies
in store for them.
They got a glimpse of the answer when
he stepped up to speak at the Queen
Mary BioEnterprises Innovation Cen-
tre. In a speech more memorable for the
questions it left unanswered than for any
definite proposals it contained, Vince
Cable succeeded in sending shockwaves
through the scientific establishment.
Perhaps the most memorable phrase
(one of several leaked to the BBC and
the Guardian on the previous night)
came with his assertion that he supports
“top class ‘blue skies’research, but there
is no justification for taxpayers’ money
being used to support research which is
neither commercially useful nor theo-
retically outstanding.”
Science supporters across the board
have come out against this comment,
which they feel is indicative of a wor-
ryingly ‘short-termist’ view of the ben-
efits of scientific research. According
to a 2008 report by the Campaign for
Science and Engineering (CaSE), every
pound invested into medical research
yields an annual return of 30p in perpe-
tuity. This is a message echoed by the
2010 OECD report on innovation in
times of austerity, which stressed that
“cutting innovation provides short-term
relief but damages long-term growth.”
Others have criticised Vince Cable’s
description of 45% of publicly-funded
research as ‘mediocre’. Robert May,
formerly Chief Scientific Adviser to the
UK Government as well as President of
the Royal Society, points out that for a
country with barely 1% of the global
population to produce 8% of the scien-
tific publications and receive 12% of the
associated citations is no mean feat. In
relation to net wealth, the UK comes top
out of the G8 countries in terms of the
number of papers published annually.
The worry among scientists today is
that this privileged position at the fore-
front of international research may well
be slipping away. The Royal Society
made it clear in their submission to the
Treasury that any cut in funding made
today would ripple out and have a sig-
nificantly larger impact in the long term.
In their words, a cut of over 20% would
represent a ‘game over’ scenario.
The nightmare situation would see
Britain undergoing a ‘brain drain’, in
which all the leading researchers and
academics leave the country in search of
greener pastures abroad. As can be seen
from reports published by the UK’s top
six universities, this scenario is danger-
The Government’s Spending Review looms ever closer,
and UK science research is in peril. By Gilead Amit
ously close to materialising.
If the £3.5 billion science budget were
to drop by nearly a billion pounds, then
the UK would also need to reconsider its
commitments to expensive, large-scale
research projects. The Diamond Light
Source and Isis, two Oxfordshire-based
projects that respectively cost £28m
and £35m a year to run, would almost
certainly need to be put on hold. Profes-
sor Brian Cox, one of the UK’s better-
known science broadcasters, has com-
pared the mothballing of either of these
projects to acts of ‘vandalism’, which
“would irreparably damage physics in
the UK at all levels”.
In an attempt to protest against any
such drastic measures, a group of con-
cerned scientists and science supporters
have spent the last month setting up the
‘Science is Vital’ campaign. Led and
supported by a range of individuals from
former Imperial rector Sir Roy Ander-
son to renowned astronomer Sir Patrick
Moore, the group hopes to open the gov-
ernment’s eyes to the benefits associated
with investment in the sciences.
They cite the unprecedented funding
being awarded to research and devel-
opment by the governments of India,
China, France and Germany, many of
whom are doing so at times of national
stringency in other fields. France, for in-
stance, will be investing €35 billion in
research while at the same time cutting
defence spending by nearly €5 billion.
All this raises the legitimate question
as to whether or not the government
has set the country on the right course
to emerge from these difficult economic
times. To take an example from recent
history, both Finland and South Korea
used science investment as a powerful
engine to take them out of the perilous
waters of recession they had sailed into
in the 1990s.
On the 9th of October, the Science
is Vital campaigners will be meeting
in Westminster to protest outside the
Treasury building. Inside, Chancellor
George Osborne has been tasked with
cutting Britain’s deficit with the help of
the only governmental department that
has no scientific advisor.
If Osborne decides to come into work
on the Saturday in question, it might be
worth his while to open the window. The
advice he hears may prevent him from
making the biggest mistake of his career
- and it won’t cost him a thing.
Protest? Now? O.k. just give me a minute, I’ve almost discovered the Theory of Everything....
“There is no
justification for
taxpayers’ money
being used to
support research
which is neither
commercially useful
nor theoretically
outstanding.”
Vince Cable

