PAGE 15
felixonline.co.uk FRIDAY 17th
JUNE 2016
SCIENCE science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
This week’s science picture
Natasha Khaleeq
Writer
Bucky-ball. Photo Credit: Brian Jeffrey Beggerly
W
ith Euro 2016 in
full swing there is
no better time to
explore the science
of football. Why are some players
such as Cristiano Ronaldo naturally
gifted whereas others need to
work hard in nurturing their skill?
Dr. Manning, at the University
of Liverpool, published research
that suggests football skills may be
genetic. The ring to index finger
ratio might hold the genetic key.
Plyometrictrainingtargetingmuscle
and the nerve fibres controlling it is
required to enhance skill, because
it enables footballers to switch
between concentric contractions
that shorten muscles and eccentric
contractions that lengthen and hold
them under tension. Science is also
involved when it comes to scoring
goals. Bernoulli’s principle and the
Magnus enable a ball with the right
amount of power and spin to pass
the wall of defenders as it slows into
laminar flow before reaching the
goal keeper.
A
t Sh!t Sc!ence, we’ve
been trying to provide
evidence that the
scientific method that is
in place is an effective filter, and that
as such, there is no such thing as
‘shit science’. But as it is the end of
the year, and you might be going off
to glorious academic careers, here
are a few things you should know
to be able to judge a scientific paper
critically.
Scientists need to publish to
survive. A scientist’s worth is
evaluated depending on the number,
or the ‘quality’ of articles that he or
she publishes, and that influences
who the funding bodies are going to
chose to fund.
While scientists, on average, work
on a paper for publish for four
years, their work is condensed in
about 5000 words. That means that
scientists will have a tendency to
only present the most convincing
arguments to support their story,
and can be inclined not to publish
A fitting tribute to the wackiest of fictional scientists. Photo Credit: Heather
Paul
MARIANNE GUENOT
Sh!t Sc!ence
Sentimental columnists concludes all science is worthwhile science
the experiments that haven’t worked.
Peer-review is a fantastic and
necessary process.However,because
you have to ask people that are
in the field to comment on the
science, and because a specific field
in science can be very narrow, you
often ask people’s competitors to
judge the work, and it has been
shown that reviewers sabotage
their competitors’ work to make
their research publish before their
competitors’.
Journals are attributed an ‘impact
factor’ which is determined
according to how many people
read the content of the journal. The
higher the impact factor, the more
prestigious the journal is thought
to be, and the more scientists will
want to submit their articles to that
journal. However, to maintain that
traffic to their journal, editors might
be tempted to reject a perfectly
good article on the basis that it is
not ‘cutting-edge’ or trendy enough.
It is a system put in place by
humans and limited by human
envy. However, it is the best
system that we have, and all
in all, it ensures a high level of
integrity within the scientific
community.
I know that during this past
year, together we embarked on
a journey that looked at the
lighter side of science, packed
with sarcasm and a questionable
sense of humour.
But I honestly hope as this
final term draws to the end, that
you have been convinced that all
science is helpful, even though
it is a human-driven process,
and as such has its pitfalls.
So whether you’re reading
about the wobble of obese
penguins, the painfully difficult
Mario Bros stages, or the ability
of fish to hate, don’t raise your
eyebrows, don’t shake your
head. Instead marvel at how
it expanded our repository of
knowledge.
imperialcollegeunion.org
Union Page
This Summer Imperial College Union are teaming up with the Centre for
Academic English (CfAE) to support social events for their
pre-sessional English learners.
Join students from around the world in a range of social events and
activities and get everyone talking together. Students on the
pre-sessional course will be looking to improve their conversational
English and you can play a key role in their learning outside the
classroom.
The most important part of your role is to make students feel part of an Imperial community and grow in confidence when communicating in English.
Be the first to join a brand new team of volunteers and get involved this summer!
To find out more visit: imperialcollegeunion.org/summersocials
Volunteer at the Summer Language Socials
Monday 13 June was our Union Awards, our annual celebration of our
volunteers. The ceremony gave recognition of student volunteer’s hard
work and dedication.
Nominations were put forward by members of the Union who had
witnessed leadership and transformation of their community from their
peers. The nominations were then considered by students and they had
an extremely difficult decision to come up with the shortlist and winners
of the specialist categories.
Congratulations to the nominee, shortlistees and winners!
A Academic Rep Network PG Team of the Year
Winner: Chemical Engineering
A Academic Rep Network UG Team of the Year
Winner: Horizons
Shortlist: Biomed Science, Physics
A Academic Rep Network Rep of the Year
Winner: Rachael Shuttleworth
Runner Up: Abhijay Sood
A Community Connections Volunteer of the Year
Winner: Jia Wei Teh
Runner Up: Charlotte Chow
A huge congratulations to The Union Awards winners!
Departure Weekend - get involved!
Can you spare a few hours to lend a hand? We are joining up with Imperial Estates Department to collect all non-perishable food that is left behind
in Halls and donate it to Emmaus, a charity that works to end homelessness in the UK. Students have been asked to bag any clothes or goods they
don’t want to take with them which will be given to the British Heart Foundation and sold in stores across London.
With just a few hours to clear all Halls, we are looking for a team of enthusiastic volunteers who are willing to get stuck in to help collect as much
food and goods as possible for these worthwhile causes. Last year saw students collect 1.7 tonnes of unwanted food and 144kg of cutlery and over
five tonnes of goods for British Heart Foundation – can we beat this record?!
Join us on Saturday 25 June, 10:00 – 12:00 and see what difference you can make!
A Campaign of the Year
Winner: Circle Line Volunteering
Shortlist: Islamic Soc, ICSM Parent Group,
ICSMSU Study
Skills
A Club, Society or Project of the Year
Winner: Funkology
Shortlist: CivSoc, Malaysian, Cross Country,
DramSoc, Jazz and Rock
A Contribution to College Life
Winner: Nell Freeman
A Event of the Year
Winner: Circle Line Volunteering
Shortlist: slamic Society’s Mental Health
Awareness, MTSocs production of Sweeny
Todd, ICSMSU RAG Circle Line Volunteering
and PhySoc Festival of Bad Ad Hoc
Hypotheses
A Innovation and Enterprise Awards
Winner: Paul Beaumont
A Project of the Year
Winner: ICSM Parents Group
Shortlist: Circle Line Volunteering, ICSMU
Vision
For a full list of those who received Union Colours and Outstanding Service Awards can be found at: www.imperialcollegeunion.org/news/union-
awards-2016-night-celebrate

