Introversion
The fall and rise of
An interview with Mark Morris
You started at Imperial in the late nineties,
studying Computing. A lot has obviously changed
since then. How was your time here and how –
having revisited the department – have things
changed?
There was a big change that occurred in the department
about five or six years ago, and since then it doesn’t
seem to have changed much. When I first went to
Imperial for my walk around day (I didn’t have an
interview) it was just a sort of ‘come and have a look
at the university’, that would have been the Spring of
1997. At the time I wanted to do a Computer Science
degree, but I had this fascination with, or I thought I
had a fascination with, AI. In those days there were all
these old Sun SPARCstations with these huge monitors
and really crappy optical mice. I don’t know if you
even remember mice with balls in them but that was the
norm back then. In order for these mice to work you
had to have a little mousemat with a grid on it. Hardly
any of the mice worked, because the grid had faded
off. And there were these old dot matrix line printers
you could use; it was all pre-laser and no Wi-Fi, no
mobile phones. None of that kind of stuff.
I was in Weeks hall, and I remember one of the
reasons why I applied to Weeks hall was because it
was one of the few – it was the only hall actually –
that gave you a network connection. On a Computer
Science degree I knew I was going to be able to want to
work from home. I’m not sure broadband was around
to be honest; I think we were all on dial-up modems.
We were really at the back of the birth of the internet.
It was kind of an exciting time for Computing and
the internet but the department hadn’t really caught
up with that. So very quickly after leaving I felt quite
out of touch, despite being a very recent Computer
Science graduate. We’d done very little HTML, very
little JavaScript. We’d done no PHP.
They’re a bit odd, but that’s Imperial’s way. They give
you these problems, they give you the high level skills,
but none of that instantiation of web development was
covered at all. Which was quite different to classical
imperative programming which I was spending most of
my time doing. But I look back fondly on my days at
Imperial, I’m still friends with three of the other guys I
went to Imperial with.
Backthen,wasthereanysortofgamedevelopment
community?
None. There was nothing at all. Chris had written a
few games in his spare time. I think he’d written three
or four before coming to Imperial, and he came to
Imperial with a game called Shadows. I’d never even
considered game development but I’d been a gamer
up until going to university. There was no community
at all as far as we were aware. Chris had been telling
me in a pub of this game idea he had for a hacking
sim, which ultimately ended up being Uplink. And he
said: ‘you watch these films like Sneakers and Hackers
and Lawnmower Man, but no one’s ever really made
a game that simulates that’. I still don’t really have
the vision to keep up with Chris. Until I see it, I can’t
really deal with it. Even then I didn’t know what he was
talking about, I had no idea how he was going to make
this thing fun to play, or interesting.
He wrote Uplink when Tom and I were out drinking
– we were going out most nights and he was staying
in most nights coding. We’d get back at three in the
morning and he’d be up programming. Sure, he’d come
out occasionally but that was definitely his passion.
There was a competition in our final year run by the
business school for £10,000 for the best business plan.
And Tom, my Electrical Engineering buddy, had taken
all the corporate programmes. He was a lot more clued
up on the operation of companies.
I said to Tom and Chris: ‘Chris you’ve got a game
idea and Tom you’ve got the business knowledge,
should we just write this business plan’. We never
intended to run a business. We were going to do our
best to win and if we won we’d get ten grand, we’d
split it three ways and pay off a bit of student loan,
and that would be the end of it. We wrote the business
plan, but it became very clear to us quite quickly that
Imperial weren’t really interested in supporting that.
They were much more interested in new ideas and new
technology that they could exploit.
They wanted innovative technology that had broad
appeal, rather than a videogame. Everytime we went to
the meetings they were like: ‘rather than selling a game
you could sell the technology to make games’. We
stopped bothering going forward with the competition
but we had this business plan that said we were going
to make a few posts on a forum and we were going
to set up a website to take some credit card orders. It
took off relatively quickly, within a few months we were
able to order 3000 units of Uplink, which we shipped
around the world. That’s kind of how it began.
There was nobody else at Imperial making games,
and when we started launching the business properly
and going to trade shows it appeared to us at the time
that there was nobody else making games at the scale
we were. There were no other small, micro-studios.
Everybody that was making games, was like EA or
Frontier – the big studios. Subsequently it turned out
there were a few other developers around and making
money then, but we just didn’t know about them. There
certainly wasn’t the community that there is today.
Perhaps there were more on the West Coast; there’s
always been a nice burgeoning community there. The
internet was very new so it was difficult to track down
these groups of developers. We felt that we were
trailblazing to a certain extent.
So why do you think Uplink did well? Was it the
community you created online?
With video-games it’s 99% the game and 1% everything
else around it. That 1% is important as really good
games can get missed but fundamentally the game has
to be wonderful to be successful. And I think what we
did with Uplink was combine our technical knowledge
– or Chris’ technical knowledge – with a very emotive,
tense and well crafted mystery story. You were as close
to believing you were a hacker, choosing to support
or down this big organisation, than any other hacking
game that has been made. I think Uplink stands up
today. There’s a few tweaks that could be made but
fundamentally hacking is exactly the same as it was 15
years ago. Now there’s script kiddies but that’s about
the only difference. The actual principles of hacking
are pretty similar. There’s new stuff like jacking into
Wi-Fi that Uplink doesn’t simulate.
There’s a lot of technical people in the world that
like playing games, intelligent people like everyone at
Imperial, MIT and Oxford and Cambridge, that are a
little underserved by the mainstream media. Everything
– and it’s changing a bit now – tends to be dumbed
down to try and broaden the appeal. The problem
when you’re smart and you see dumbing down, is
that the suspension of disbelief is broken. Suddenly
you go ‘this is bollocks!’ if you ever watch a hacker
movie and see someone like this [Mark clatters on the
keyboard] you go ‘that’s bollocks!’ They’re not really
there, they’re not really doing that. The only time I’ve
seen it filmed well is Mr. Robot. You’re looking at the
commands they’re typing and it looks to me as if they’re
doing is pretty close to what they’d need to be doing.
A lot of people played Uplink and the community
definitely helped drive it – that’s the 1% I’m talking
about. The forum and things we set up, that was quite
new then. We did a little treasure hunt where you
actually had to hack our website; we brought Uplink into
the real world. The fact that Uplink had this branching
pathway fueled the discussions on the forum. People
were having radically different experiences which
added to this sense of mystery. X-Files was probably a
big touchstone for Uplink – a mystery where you don’t
really know what’s going on. I think those were the
factors that caused Uplink’s success. There was nothing
else like it. It was a young internet where everyone was
tech savvy. The audience came together well.
>>>
An Imperial Success Story
Words by Cale Tilford
5

