How did you get the game out there then?
Did you send it to games publications or
was it just through word-of-mouth on the
internet?
We were reviewed in PC Gamer. We sent copies of
it to every magazine out there – not just the gaming
magazines but also lifestyle magazines. I remember I’d
gone skiing with Tom and we got back and the Linux
Format review was the first review to hit. I thought the
Linux guys were going to love Uplink and the Linux
Format reviewer gave it 61%. I remember picking it
up in the newsagent at the airport and I was crushed.
We thought that this was the end of this adventure for
us. We didn’t think we would be able to pursue a 61%
game. About two weeks later, the PC Gamer review
came out. Now obviously PC Gamer is bigger than
Linux Format. The reviewer, Kieron Gillen, only gave
us have a page but it turned things around for us. After
that every score was 80% plus.
Then we asked ourselves, what’s the next step? At this
point we were selling it boxed online and the obvious
next step was getting it into the shops. In those days,
and still now, my thinking is to go back to first principles.
If I’m going to put a game into the shop, what are
they going to do to add value. They were just putting
games on shelves in front of a consumer. We went to a
distributor rather than a publisher and did a deal with
them. They charged about a quid a box, which sounded
reasonable to me. The indie game stores took it. Zavvi
refused it. Game refused it. HMV were the only major
store that carried Uplink. WHSmith’s wouldn’t carry
it, they said it was immoral. We made a bit of money
from this but not a lot. We’d done our UK retail deal so
then we looked to North America. Rather than working
with a distributor over there we knew we had to work
with a publisher, because we couldn’t do the marketing
ourselves. We went to a couple of trade shows and
eventually hooked up with a company called Strategy
First, a Canadian company. They were going to
advance us $50,000 dollars for distribution across the
United States with a ten percent royalty. We were only
three guys so we were quite happy with this. Strategy
First renamed it Uplink Hacker Elite – which Chris hates
– and redid the packaging. So, they distributed it and
we waited for our $50k cheque to come back and then
they declared Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in
Canada, which means they didn’t have to pay any of
their debts. So we didn’t see a penny of the sales over
there. I don’t think it did very well either.
So at this point you weren’t digitally
distributing the game on your website?
No. We actually padded the build size out with an
encrypted MP3 of Chris playing his guitar to something
that would take three hours to download over a 56k
modem. We determined that three hours we be too
long for pirates to share the game. There was no real
online distribution at this point but that was our novel
counter-piracy strategy. It didn’t work. Nothing works.
After Uplink, the next game you released
was Darwinia. Could you tell me more
about how that came about?
Chris had finished writing Uplink the day Tom and I got
involved in the business. We were desperately looking
at how we could make more money from it: a Linux
version, a Mac version, and all those distribution deals I
talked about. We even looked at Pocket PCs and PDAs.
But Chris had been on Uplink for two years and he was
finished with it so he went on to write Darwinia. There
was quite a lot of tension in the company at that point
because we wanted him working on Uplink. Darwinia
took him a long time to get finished. Uplink had been
developed at university in his spare time so we expected
the next game, a full-time project, to be delivered in
about a year. Ultimately, for various reasons Darwinia
took three years to make so we were well and truly
out of money after that period. We were broke, flat
broke. Tom and Chris were selling all their CDs and
signing on to benefits to try and keep things going.
Then we launched Darwinia. And Darwinia was a
tough old sell. Now we had a lot more experience and
our route to market was more open. The game reviewed
very strongly; it got 90% in PC Gamer. They loved
it. It went into the IGF Awards [Independent Games
Festival] and won three prizes that year because it was
like no other indie game. Independent games in those
days were much smaller. Darwinia was what Chris likes
to call triple-I. This was pre World of Goo.
People in the games industry were really excited and
wanted to see what would become of the indie game
scene. They were willing to look past Darwinia’s QA
problems and its control problems to see the game for
what it really was. But commercially it was a flop, we
struggled to make any money back.
Now, at that time Valve were just about to launch
their digital distribution platform called Steam and they
reached out to us (or we reached out to them) and we
had a big debate internally about whether we should
put Darwinia on Steam. We were looking at the sales
for our site, which were pretty small, and decided that
even if they did cannibalise our sales we were making
so little money it didn’t matter. The status quo was that
we were fucked. So, we did the deal with Steam. Which
was of course the best deal we’ve done in the history
of Introversion. Everything we’ve made, we’ve made
through Valve. Darwinia didn’t immediately pick up but
obviously Valve brought the audience and the sales did
eventually increase enough for us to get Defcon done.
Defcon was a really big moment for us. It was
massively popular, more popular than anything else
we’d ever seen. In those days you had to hire a physical
box, and our servers just died under the load. It took us
five or six hours to get them back up. I don’t know how
much money we lost in that time. Still, it was by far the
biggest commercial success we’d had up to that point.
But the perception was that Darwinia was the bigger
success. This is where things started to go wrong for
us. Microsoft, or an agent, reached out to us and said
that Darwinia had won all these awards and Microsoft
were launching the Xbox 360 and would be doing
digital downloads. Microsoft were very interested in
Darwinia and new IP. They wanted really cool indie
titles.
Even though Darwinia hadn’t been particularly
popular we then got involved into what turned out to
be a six or seven year mammoth project. They wanted
every game on XBLA to be multiplayer – that was
part of their strategy. Darwinia had originally been a
multiplayer game but ended up being singleplayer. We
thought it would be as simple as just reactivating the
multiplayer mode of the game. We tried to do that and
it just didn’t work. It was shit.
That ended up with Chris working on our fourth
game, Multiwinia. The company got sidetracked down
this multiplayer route that we had agreed to deliver
for Microsoft. And we had done so much work for this
multiplayer game. Even though it didn’t review well
and no one bought it, Multiwinia was still a brilliantly
fun game. We launched it on PC and nobody played
it. Everybody who had enjoyed Darwinia looked at
Multiwinia, which was a completely different gameplay
experience, and said ‘I don’t want to play this’. And
the rest of the world who had played Darwinia and
hated it didn’t want to play the sequel. We ended up
targeting a niche of a niche.
At conferences people still come up to us and tell
us that Uplink is the best game they’ve ever played,
that Darwinia is the best game they’ve ever played,
or that Defcon is the best game they’ve ever played.
And there have been more than ten people in the last
ten years that have said Multiwinia was the best game
they’d ever played. So we must have done something
right with it.
It was a big flop on PC but we were still working on
the console version of it. This was going to be a bigger,
shinier version of the game. Eventually we burned the
company into the ground – there was no money left.
We were going to launch Darwinia and Multiwinia
together on XBLA as Darwinia+ about six years after
we had intended to do that. And it flopped too. The day
after we launched we knew things hadn’t gone well. I
phoned everyone up and sacked them. I shut down
the office. We had quite a lot of debt that we’d taken
on, so I had to restructure all of that. I didn’t think that
was going to be easy. I wasn’t really a businessperson
at that time, I was just a person. And when you owe
someone money as a person you go to court and they
come round to your house and take your stuff. What I
didn’t realise was that companies aren’t quite like that.
With everyone I owed money to, we made a payment
plan over about a two year period. If anyone one of
them had rejected the payment plan they would all lose
all of it. Obviously, they all accepted it. After a little
while we suddenly realised that there was a reasonable
amount of money still dripping into Introversion from
the back catalogue on Steam. And to be fair, a little bit
coming in from Microsoft. All of these little trickles were
merging into a stream of money. That was enough to
keep me and Chris employed. That’s when Chris came
up with Prison Architect. At that point Humble Bundle
had just launched. They’d already done a Frozenbyte
bundle and we went out and asked if there was any
interest in an Introversion one. We would bundle our
games and give them other stuff like tech demos and
they liked this idea. Kieron Gillen was the first time the
company was saved and Humble Bundle, in my view,
was the second time. We made about three quarters
of a million from the ‘Humble Introversion Bundle’
and that just gave us enough cash to get to the alpha
version of Prison Architect. That takes us up to 2012.
Within three days of Prison Architect launching we’d
made $100,000 dollars. Now we’ve made about $22
million. Humble gave us just that little bit of resource to
get us to Prison Architect, which was our first mega-hit.
I remember buying that bundle at the
time, and that was the first time I had
ever heard of the company. Do you think
that the bundle’s success helped with
getting your name out there and played
a part in Prison Architect’s success?
One of the things that I learnt relatively early on was
that everyone else’s view of Introversion was not the
same as mine. I kind of assumed everyone knew all
of our games and knew we were the company behind
Uplink. I’d lived it. There was this natural assumption
that someone who had bought Uplink would buy
Darwinia. The reality is that it’s nothing like that at all.
You stand on each game separately. I’m quite big on
trying to push the Introversion brand. I want people
to say that they’re buying the next Introversion game
because they know it’s going to be good even if it
doesn’t review very well, like Tarantino. People go and
watch his movies because there hasn’t really been a
bad one. There’s been great ones and mediocre ones
but they have never been awful. So I think the Humble
Bundle brought a new audience to us and Prison
Architect built a new audience on top of that.
>>>
From Uplink to Darwinia
Uplink.
Kieron
Gillen was
the first
time the
company
was saved
and Humble
Bundle, in
my view,
was the
second time
7
6

