Beyond Prison Architect
Where did the name Introversion come
from?
We’d just learnt at university about Myers–Briggs’
personality test. It’s basically a model to codify
different personality types into one of 16 categories.
Both Chris and I were intrigued that this was possible.
Both of us, when we learnt about the personality test,
had resonated quite a lot with the categories we ended
up in.
When Chris wrote the opening sequence for Uplink
it flashed through all of the Myers–Briggs indicators,
ending on introversion. We named the company when
we wrote the business plan, and when we asked Chris
what to call it he suggested Introversion Software.
We thought it sounded pretty cool. Nowadays, we’d
probably have to call ourselves something like “Bing
Bang” or some fucking nonsense word, or put a monkey
in it. Game Gibbon?
With the financial success of Prison
Architect, what’s next for Introversion?
Are you looking to expand?
No, we’re not going to expand. We like our size. Well,
we’ll expand slowly at our own rate. We take interns
from Imperial and we’ve had about three now. I’m
trying to make that process, which in the past has been
a bit ad hoc, more formal.
This was the first year that we had advertised for an
intern and we selected one recently who’s going to
come and work for us. If our interns are very strong,
and they want to work for us, there will probably
be a place. That’s how we will expand, rather than
aggressively thinking we need to hire loads of coders.
Each game project has its own unique requirements.
Because of the indie revolution, the ecosystem now is
much richer than it once was. The guy who did all the
art for Prison Architect, a very talented man called
Ryan Sumo, had been the artist on Spacechem. Chris
knew roughly what sort of talent he wanted for Prison
Architect. Now Ryan lives in the Philippines but after
a few emails and contracts, suddenly we had a world
class artist working with us. Now that the game has
come to an end, Ryan’s doing his next thing. That’s
important because the next game from Introversion
doesn’t require a 2D top-down art style.
Short-term for Introversion we have Prison Architect
coming out on Xbox One, Xbox 360, and PS4. We’re
not doing that work yourself. I like to describe the team
porting a game as like a car tuning company; they
take a really well crafted core game experience on
PC and turn it into an outstanding console experience.
They rework every interface, the control mechanisms,
fix annoying bugs, and add in support to make the
progression a little more gentle for the console
audience. They don’t dumb the game down; that’s
wrong. They make the ramp into the game less steep
than it is for the PC audience.
We’ve got some other platforms in development
but we want to move away from Prison Architect this
year. Internally, we’re working on some new ideas that
we’re going to be showing at Rezzed. With these new
prototypes we want to do a market test and see which
prototype players resonate with the most. We can then
use that information to feed into what we’re doing for
the rest of the year.
Prison Architect is a simulator. What do
you think makes a good simulator? How
do you balance the complexity with a
game actually simple and fun to play?
Balance is the key word. There are a lot of factors
that you have to get right. The player has to be able
to understand action and consequence. That was
something we always worked really hard on with
Prison Architect.
We could simulate everything but the player has to
know why that prisoner just died. If it’s too covert then
there’s no fun in that situation. There might be a degree
of fun in trying to figure it out but you have to get the
balance right.
A really good example of this is the contraband
screen. When you find contraband it backtracks through
the contraband flow into your prison. There’s a deadly
fight and you have a dead prisoner on your hands.
Now you need to know that one of the prisoners used a
screwdriver to kill the guy and you need to understand
where that screwdriver came from. Then you need to
know what you can do to prevent that from happening
in the future.
If you make that process too easy, then people are
not interested in playing because there’s no challenge
to it. If you make it too hard, you’ll lose players quickly
because they won’t understand why all this shit’s going
on. So a lot of the work we did was about trying to
manage that.
What worked well was the alpha process, being
able to drop in new systems on a monthly basis and
to see whether that system worked or not. Rather than
dropping the entire complexity bomb out there at once,
which would have been a QA nightmare, we were able
iteratively add new systems like contraband distribution
via the laundry system.
We’d then look to see if we had broken the game. If
not we could then move forward and layer something
else in. There were some features we’d add in that
would ruin the game, and then we would backtrack.
>>>
You released Prison Architect in “early
access” on Steam. The process you have
described is what many in software
development would call agile. Do you
think you’d develop a game in that way
again?
I think that it applies to some games more than others.
That development methodology particularly worked
for Prison Architect but it also had a massive impact
on our ability to market the game. Chris and I made
monthly update videos, and we’ve built an audience
now that expect a monthly update from us. And we’ll
attempt to continue with that.
As we move onto different projects we’ll see a drop
off but we don’t know yet how big that will be. We
hope that Chris and I will be able to transition Prison
Architect fans into core Introversion fans – fans that
want to understand about game development and
enjoy the banter between Chris and I in the videos. We
want to give people an insight into what we’re doing
but always backed up with something that they can
play now. It’s an exciting time.
Prison Architect.
Darwinia.
We want to give people
an insight into what we’re
doing but always backed
up with something that
they can play now
9
8

