W
hen I was 13, for Christmas I
asked for Valve’s The Orange
Box, a collection of games
which are now commonplace
in most gamers’ Steam libraries: Team Fortress
2, Portal, and – last but not least – Half-Life
2. While my brother and sister played with
their new festive gifts, I went straight to the
family computer, put in the disk, and left it to
download during Christmas lunch. And the
typical Christmas evening television began, I
began my journey into the dystopian world of
Gordon Freeman.
Half-Life 2 is, unsurprisingly, the successor to
the 1998 game Half-Life, which saw Gordon
Freeman, the employee of the 1970s-era
Research Facility known as Black Mesa, take
part in an experiment which went horribly
wrong. As far as it goes, opening a hole in
the fabric of space, allowing hostile beings to
charge through and attack the facility, was
probably the worst outcome imaginable. Dr
Freeman charges his way through the facility,
defending himself against threats, terrestrial
and otherwise, until a mysterious figure offers
him an even more mysterious job. Cut to
darkness, and Half-Life ends.
Half-Life 2 begins in the same way its
predecessor begins: on a train. However,
over the next few minutes Valve sets a scene
slightly more ominous than your average
South Kensington tube station. The train stops
at a drab, worn down platform, guarded and
controlled by mask-wearing police officers,
and you soon see several of these officers
attacking a civilian in an alleyway – the final
evidence of the dire situation you’re in. It
emerges you’ve found yourself several years
after the original Half-Life, where an invading
force known as the Combine has taken over
the planet.
It feels unnerving to start in such a hostile
environment with no weapons, but soon you
are equipped with many, including an ordinary
crowbar, shotgun, a rocket launcher, and a
zero-point energy field manipulator (fondly
nicknamed the gravity gun) . With these tools,
you shall carve a rebellion into the face of this
dystopian world, one click at a time.
The physics engine is one of a kind. There
are many puzzle-like parts earlier on in the
game which highlight this, and unlike current
games which possess physics gameplay
that mainly facilitates fantastic and chaotic
destruction, the physics engine from Half-Life
2 is shown off as a means to solving problems
throughout the game. There is a part in the
sewers below City 17 where a beam lies
across a big lump of concrete like a seesaw;
like a caveman learning how to use tools, the
player slowly works out that the breezeblocks
in the surrounding area can be used to weigh
down one side of the beam, to allow access to
a pipe higher up in the room. The capability
of this engine led to the infamous sandbox
game Garry’s Mod, which uses the physics
and assets from Half-Life 2.
On the other hand, sometimes the physics
made the combat feel slightly awkward.
When you encounter an enemy they show no
visible reaction or distress when attacked, and
when their health is completely drained they
immediately become a ragdoll at the drop of
a hat. Bungie’s Halo 2 was released seven
days prior to Half-Life 2, and another Valve
game, Counter-Strike: Source was released
eight days prior to this. In Halo, you can blaze
your way through an army of invading hostile
aliens, wielding nothing but a battle rifle on
a militarized quad-bike, whereas in Counter-
Strike you and your team must carefully
prevent bombings and hostage situations
using modern weaponry. Both franchises,
although focusing on totally different styles
of combat, are renowned for their excellent
shooting mechanics. In comparison, Half-Life’s
strengths lie in the plot and other aspects of
gameplay.
I returned to Half-Life 2 during the long
summer before my first year at Imperial
started. There are some great achievements
in the game, specifically one which I pursued
in the final episode: Little Rocket Man, which
asks the player to carry a garden gnome for
over half of the game, and send it off into
space. Simple, right? Not so simple when you
have to drive a beaten down truck across the
baron wasteland, with nothing to hold your
new ceramic friend in place but a ridiculously
unstable passenger seat. It took me three days
to get that achievement, but it was fantastically
rewarding. The second episode ends with
Gordon Freeman and his partner in crime,
Alyx Vance, about to head off to a research
facility (or more accurately, accidentally
teleported freighter) in a frozen wasteland.
The epic tale concludes with Alyx’s father,
Eli, being attacked and mortally wounded by
one of the alien overlords, his fate unknown.
With this inconclusive ending, people craved
a third episode which could sate their desire
to put crowbar to hand, and apply crowbar
to enemy. However, Valve moved onto Left
4 Dead 2, Portal 2, and many other brilliant
games. While fans have found hints of Half-
Life 3 in Dota 2 code, and suggestions of a
virtual reality game, Valve have remained
silent about anything involving a possible
third episode.
Personally, I hope that there is no Half-life 3.
Of course, based on Valve’s track record, the
gameplay would be fantastic and innovative,
but that is not the point. Half-Life 2 is a classic,
one of the first games I played, so naturally
there’s a sense of nostalgia which I don’t
think a reboot could live up to. Reboots in
any media format can be remarkable; Star
Wars: The Force Awakens made one billion
dollars in the first twelve days of release, the
fastest movie to ever reach that that feat. This
was achieved because of an army of writers,
actors, fans and supporting crew understood
what Star Wars is all about. The problem with
returning to ‘old’ franchises is that companies
change and the people working for them do
to. Marc Laidlaw, the main writer of Half-Life
2 and its expansions, no longer works for
Valve; since the plot and writing were core
to Half-Life 2’s critical success, the absence of
Laidlaw could put a sequel (or reboot) on thin
ice. Of course, much like The Force Awakens,
another instalment of Gordon Freeman could
be a masterpiece, but only time (and Valve)
will tell.
Half-Life 2 Revisited
Words by Harry Mitchell
The tale of a scientist and his crowbar
Through a computer
screen darkly
Interpreting The Sims
Words by Fred Fyles
Images by Indira Mallik
T
he fire started in the kitchen. First
shooting up from the cooker, it
soon spread across the wooden
countertops and engulfed the
refrigerator, which began to darken and burn.
There wasn’t much furniture in the house – the
family had only just moved in after all – but
there was enough. Bella, who was home at
the time, saw the wisps of smoke and went
running into the kitchen; upon seeing the
flames she panicked, and, rooted to the spot,
she could do nothing as the fire consumed
her. The children came home from school to
find the kitchen reduced to a pile of dust; their
mother’s ashes contained in a gleaming metal
urn.
This is my clearest recollection of The Sims
by far. The fires may have just been a pattern
of pixels – looking at screenshots now, they
retain a subtle menace; their artificiality,
their ludicrous orange hue, only heighten
the intuition that they should be feared –
but to 7-year-old me they seemed very real.
I immediately exited the game, threw down
my headphones, and did not approach it for
at least a week. But I did return. I returned
to The Sims, and to its numerous expansion
packs; I returned to The Sims 2, released a
few years later, and have vivid memories of
going to a friend’s for Easter lunch, only to
spend the whole time playing it upstairs; and
I returned to The Sims 3, which is still installed
on my parents’ computer back home.
What I am trying to say, really, is that for
my entire gaming life, The Sims has formed
an indelible backdrop. It was the first game I
really played seriously, and even today, when
I go back home for the holidays I may find
myself tempted to load it up, slipping back
into the comforting reminders of childhood.
Between then and now there have been
countless hours spent on the Xbox, a fleeting
fraternisation with Nintendo, and an even
briefer month or two of MMORPGs, but The
Sims occupies a special place in my heart.
Originally this essay was meant to involve me
revisiting my favourite childhood game, but
as I read up on the origins of The Sims, and
more of my early memories were unearthed,
I began to realise just how complex the game
actually is. In trying to replicate our own
existence, the creators of The Sims actually
created a great work of art; and like any
great work of art, The Sims cries out to be
analysed, deconstructed, and critiqued.
But why interrogate a game, something that
>>>
13

