is traditionally associated with light fun? The
word ‘game’ itself stems from the Old English
‘gamen’, which means ‘amusement’, locating
itself as radically opposed to the serious act
of analysis. In her masterful essay Against
Interpretation, Susan Sontag laments the
destructive power of the modern interpreting
gaze. She argues that interpretation
is constricting – a way of making art
‘manageable’ by taming the nervous anxiety
it can provoke in the viewer. “In place of a
hermeneutics,” she writes, “we need an
erotics of art”.
Videogames seem different, however.
The game designer is only limited by her
imagination, and current technological
developments; by generating the code and
algorithms responsible for our experience,
developers are able control every aspect
of a virtual world. While many other forms
of art allow the makers to reflect the world,
game design allows artists to create a world.
As media academic Gonzalo Frasca writes,
“simulator authors are not only creators, but
also legislators, because they decide which
rules will apply to their systems”. As such,
videogames demand interpretation, but The
Sims goes one further: where a work aims to
straightforwardly reproduce life, examining
the aspects of the simulacrum that make us feel
uneasy can provide us with important lessons.
Lived reality may provide the inspiration for
The Sims, but The Sims can provide us with
insights into our own existence. In the words
of Frasca: “videogames could become a
mirror where players could look for answers
to the problems of their lives”. The fact that
the MoMA included The Sims in the original
14 videogames acquired as part of their
Architecture and Design Collection, only
speaks to the importance of The Sims to the
wider world. And this is why I believe it is
important to critically interrogate The Sims; to
interpret it, and locate it within a conceptual
framework, allowing us to identify what the
game is trying to say, and what we are able
to hear as players.
§
T
he fact that my clearest memory of
The Sims is of a fire seems fitting,
since it was a fire that provided the
impetus for designer Will Wright
to create the game. In 1991, a firestorm
raged across the hillsides of Oakland, central
California. A combination of dry, hot weather,
and brisk gusts of wind – a type of weather
characteristic of the area; Joan Didion
wrote of it: “the wind shows us how close to
the edge we are” – lead to a wildfire that
destroyed an area twice the size of the City
of London, before being brought under. More
than three thousand homes were destroyed in
the fire, among them Wright’s. At the time,
Wright was a successful game designer and
co-founder of the studio Maxis. His breakout
game, SimCity, was released in 1989. A
simulation game that put the player in charge
of designing a metropolis, kick-started the city-
building game, and was an instant success.
Followingthelossofhishouse,Wrightneeded
to rebuild, and this provided the inspiration for
a home-design simulation game; initially titled
Doll House, the game was a straightforward
building simulation, an architect’s toolbox.
Somewhere along the line, Wright realised
that it would be more interesting for people
to control the building’s inhabitants, and thus
The Sims was born. Released on 4th
February
2000 to rave reviews, it quickly became one
of the best-selling PC game of all time, shifting
a total of 11.24 million units. Expansion packs
followed, such as The Sims: Unleashed,
which introduced pets, and The Sims: Hot
Date, which added a ‘downtown’ area to
the neighbourhood. A sequel was released
in 2004, then another in 2010, and the most
recent iteration, The Sims 4, hit the shelves
three years ago – all have been resounding
successes for Maxis, but none have come
close to the innovation and success of the first
iteration.
The Sims sits uneasily among the canon of
videogame classics. Typically, the experience
the game developer aims to provide is one
that acts as a radical departure from our
normal lives, from the exploration of ancient
ruins in Lara Croft, to running and gunning in
Grand Theft Auto. Even in the earliest games,
players were thrust into improbable scenarios,
whether it be the earth-defence mission of
Space Invaders, or the hallucinatory endless
labyrinths of Pac-Man. In sharp contrast, The
Sims simply aims to replicate the player’s
life. We are able to create little avatars of
ourselves, and spend our downtime watching
them live out lives similar to our owns; in a
meta-twist, The Sims 4 allows sims to play
The Sims on their own computers. The Sims
therefore provides us with that most mundane
and complex of fantasies: real life.
The central theme of The Sims is work.
Once your family has been created, they are
provided with the arbitrary sum of 20,000
simoleons (§), the in-game currency, with
which to buy a property. Presumably, the
simoleon was used as a stand in for any
real life currency, but given the fact that the
neighbourhood consists of archetypes of
American vernacular architecture set against
an isometric suburbia, you’d be forgiven for
merely viewing it as a pseudonym for the
dollar. §20,000 isn’t much – just enough to
purchase the house and furnish it with the
most basic of necessities.
Upon opening ‘Buy Mode’, pausing the game
and initiating catchy music, you are presented
with a selection of different objects, ranging
from cheap plastic flamingos and lawn chairs
to modern sculptures and plush sofas. Those
items that you cannot afford are visible, but
covered in a forbidding red filter – like in all
consumerist societies, the objects you need,
or are told you need, are dangled just out of
your reach. Since the cheapest objects impact
negatively on your sims’ ‘Room’ mood score,
and generally fail to efficiently satisfy their
needs, The Sims forces the player to adopt an
aspirational mind-set, wherein they pine for
flat screen TVs and matching dining sets. Add
to this the fact that utility bills continually pile
up, and the player is left with no other option
than to force their sims to work.
While some areas of The Sims are close
approximations to reality, other aspects are
beguiling. One such feature is the lack of
weekendsortimeoff:foryoursims,everysingle
day is a working day, and any relaxation must
be done in the period between clocking off
from the job and going to bed, preparing for
another day of labour. The seven expansion
packs to the game added in Frankenstein
monsters and genies, magic spells and movie
superstars, but did not include the concept of
‘retirement’. The sims must work every day
of their lives, which – provided there are no
accidents, are endless. A lifetime of work
without end stretches out before us like a Kafka-
esque nightmare. The closest comparison
in the world of videogames I can think of is
Molleindustria’s Every Day The Same Dream,
a short art-house game in which you control a
faceless individual navigating a grey world of
repetitive work, and disenchanted by modern
alienation of labour. It makes its point in a
radically different way to The Sims, but both
share a deep sense of unease.
The Sims itself doesn’t have victory
conditions; there is no actual ‘end’ to the
game, which can continue as long as the
player’s attention-span allows. However,
it is possible to reach the ‘end’ of a career,
past which point your sim will no longer be
promoted. Promotions are achieved through
increases in both the number of friends a sim
has, and their relevant skills – a hearts and
minds approach to career development, if you
will. The ‘Politics’ career path, for example,
requires high levels of charisma, as well as
huge numbers of friends – in The Sims, as in
real life, it’s all a popularity contest. The result
of this mechanism is to transform features of
life like friendship and knowledge, which are
traditionally viewed as intrinsically valuable,
into things possessing mere instrumental
value. Friends are only used to secure your
next promotion; knowledge is a means of
increasing your sim’s labour value.
The centrality of work to The Sims can be seen
in the etymological myth that has surrounded
the company. Although untrue, many believe
that ‘Maxis’ refers to 6 AM spelt backwards, a
legend actively encouraged by the easter egg
in SimCity 3000 that stated “Do you know that
Maxis spelled backwards is Six AM?” 6 AM
is, in Western society, heavily associated with
the beginning of the working day; the shrill
tone of an alarm going off at such an early
hour is, across a variety of media, indelibly
linked to the beginning of work. In The Sims,
it is the time that your sims will naturally wake
themselves, ready to begin another day in
their endless life of labour.
§
A
nother key theme in The Sims is
that of simplification, which is
understandable, given the vast
diversity of human life and the
limited processing power of computers.
Your sim’s personality is shrunk down to
five main characteristics: neatness, niceness,
outgoingness, playfulness, and activeness.
The entire diversity of human temperament
in The Sims is reduced to a balance, or
imbalance, of these five factors. Similarly, the
realm of possible knowledge is represented
by 6 different ‘skills’, which can be improved
by interaction with objects; for example, a sim
may increase their logic skill by playing chess
until the bar above their head fills up. Some
have criticised this as being far too simplistic,
such as Janet Murray, the seminal digital
media scholar, who said that humans were far
more complex than that. While undoubtedly
true, one only has to look at the continuing
popularity of psychometric tests, such as the
Myers-Briggs classification, to see how many
of us yearn to be reduced down to simpler
individuals.
While The Sims may represent a radical
departure from the goal-orientated action-
based games of the 1990s, it has a number of
featuresincommonwiththeRolePlayingGame
(RPG) genre. Like RPGs, simulation games are
centred around an open-ended state of play,
one in which the ‘end’ is relative, and often set
by the player. The Sims also shares with RPGs
an emphasis on ‘grinding’ – an engagement
in repetitive mechanical tasks in order to
progress to a new level. While traditionally
associated with MMORPGs, such as World of
Warcraft and Runescape, The Sims uses the
career path algorithm to encourage players
to force their sims to repetitively work on their
skills, in order to gain the points needed for
career progression.
So far, so innocuous, but where the
grinding aspect in The Sims becomes more
questionable is in social interactions. The
relationship between two different sims may
be measured using the relationship bar, which
spans from -100 (indicating mortal enemies)
to 100 (indicating best friends); clicking on
another sim will open up a number of different
possible interactions, which may be friendly,
romantic, or mean. In order to increase your
relationship with another sim (an indirect form
of ‘levelling up’, as it were), you will need to
repeat particular social interactions over and
over again, ensuring that your conversational
partner does not get bored. In real life,
telling someone seven jokes in a row will earn
you a bemused look, but in The Sims such
practice is actively encouraged. By reducing
human interaction, something so nuanced,
so complex, to a series of grinding tasks,
The Sims encourages us to see relationships
Figure 4: If your sims happen to perish, they will
recieve a visit from the Grim Reaper. They are given
the opportunity to “cheat death” by playing Rock-
Paper-Scissors, but if they fail they are removed
from the game, leaving behind ashes in an urn,
and a mourning family.
Figure 1: The Sims allows the player to create
virtual avatars, who can represent any number of
real-life individuals. Above is Bella Goth, a member
of one of the premade families available to play
from the start of the game.
Figure 2: The “plumbob” indicates which sim you
are currently controlling. Originally intended to
be a placeholder before the designers created
something else, it has gone down in gaming design
history.
Figure 3: Players are faced with three different
game options: Live, Buy, and Build. Acting as a
vast catalogue, the Buy Mode shows players all
the things they could purchase, once they begin to
work and earn money
>>>
15
14

