as mere algorithms – kind interactions in, an
increase in the number of friends out – which
in turn lead to further career progression.
But not all of us play the game in such a
straight-forward RPG style. Some stay true
to the architectural origins of The Sims, and
attempt to build luxurious dwellings, filled with
expensive, yet tasteful, furniture. Whether
or not the player chooses this method, or
focuses on career progression, the end result
is largely the same: a manor house filled with
the trappings of wealth, and all that a sim
could desire. But what then? What happens to
the game once this endgame of the American
dream has been reached?
For me, it is at this point that the game begins
to lose interest. Where a sim family is rich
enough that no object in the Buy catalogue
is out of their reach, we begin to enter a
sense of listless purposelessness – once we
have attained all the possessions (a limit
quantified by need, not by supply – in the sim-
world, resources are infinite), the goal of our
sims’ lives is removed. The Sims centres itself
around work, and as such seems to clearly
reflect entrenched capitalism, where we can
only find meaning through cycles of labour
and consumption. Once our virtual avatars
have attained enough wealth, we are faced
with an existential crisis out of which there are
two escapes: starting over, or death.
§
T
he original base-game of The Sims
provides us with only four possible
deaths: electrocution, starvation,
fire, and drowning. Later iterations
and expansion packs added in a myriad
of other creative ways for us to torture and
dispose of our sims, but there is an attractive
simplicity to these original four methods
of death: they remind me of the points of a
compass, or perhaps the four humours – fixed
and exact (and exacting). Sims are not only
unable to die from old age, but seem immune
from the aging process altogether: child sims
do not turn into adults, and – just as adults
are stuck in a cycle of work – children must
go to school every day (it is worth pointing
out that the penalties of breaking out of this
cycle are more severe for children – they will
be sent off to military school, never to be seen
again).
The striking result of this is to transform all
instances of death in The Sims into a personal
failing on the part of the player. While in the
real world death can be seen as a chance
of misfortune – blameless, although certainly
not victimless; by eliminating deaths from
illness, or crime, or old age, The Sims confers
an enormous responsibility. As it says in the
manual, “if they die, it is your responsibility
alone”. If your sim starves, it is because you
haven’t provided them with enough food;
if they burn, it is because you lacked the
foresight to install fire alarms. As such, despite
the fact that you can turn on ‘autonomy’ in
the settings, The Sims embraces a form of
determinism in which the ultimate decisions –
those of life and death – are controlled by
the player, who is raised to the status of a
miniature God.
There is a deep undercurrent of unease that
runs through The Sims, one that is reinforced
by the glee with which some players torture
their sims. In my instruction manual for The
Sims, the language used tends to encourage
players to experiment in making their sims’
lives as miserable as possible: it speaks of
“mismanagement” of their affairs, of how you
can “ruin their lives”. The internet is littered
with innumerable videos of players torturing
their sims in a number of ways, typically by
placing them in a small room with no exit,
and watching as they slowly starve. The Sims
highlights the delight which which we inflict
cruelty, albeit virtual, giving credence to the
Nietzschian idea of an instinct for cruelty.
So does The Sims – with its emphasis on
endless consumption, its bland presentation
of modern suburbia, its endless cycle of work
and rest – represent a parody of modern
capitalist culture? Wright certainly intended
for it to be read as a satire of society: “If you
sit there and build a big mansion that’s all full
of stuff…you realise that all these objects end
up sucking up all your time…and it’s actually
kind of a parody of consumerism, in which
at some point your stuff takes over your life”
However, others disagree: Frasca writes that
while The Sims may poke fun at consumerism,
‘since it rewards the player every time she
buys new stuff, I do not think this could be
considered parody’. For Frasca, the more
important ideological claim made by The Sims
is merely that life can be simulated.
While the nature of videogames, whose
designers legislate algorithmic laws, make
them ripe for interpretation, I believe that The
Sims functions as neither a parody nor a tacit
endorsement of consumer society. As Frasca
writes, “the author does not set the meaning
of a simulation, but it is rather interpreted
by the player” – regardless of what Will
Wright intended, once The Sims has been
downloaded onto our computers, it takes on
a life of its own. In some sense, when we play
The Sims, there occurs a cybernetic version of
Roland Barthes’ ‘death of the author’, where
the programmer’s intentions do not carry over
to her creation – this is a feature exacerbated
by allowing the player to take screenshots
and establish a ‘family album’, encouraging
the player to form their own narrative.
What The Sims is doing, therefore, moves
past parody. It is fruitful to bear in mind
the distinction expressed by post-modern
theorist Frederik Jameson between parody
and pastiche: while both involve a sense
of mimicry, pastiche is a neutral mimicry,
“without parody’s ulterior motive, without
the satirical impulse, without laughter”. In
this sense The Sims is nothing more than a
mere ‘blank parody’. In its recreation of
human life, The Sims does not express an
opinion; it is emotionally blank. All it does
is reflect our existence, allowing us to be the
judges. Whether we read it as a parody or
an endorsement of consumerism says more
about ourselves than the game.
§
M
y own reading of The Sims is that it
works as a videogame version of a
security blanket, shielding us from
social, economic, and political
worries. The Sims replicates real life, but with
all the rough edges smoothed off, rendering
it hospitable and welcoming. Consider things
like racism: in a nod to diversity, the game
allows you to alter the skin tone of your
avatars, but these are nothing more than lines
of code, and make absolutely no effect to
what happens in game; even the skin colour of
your sims’ offspring is decided on randomly,
eliminating any ideas of race. Similarly,
same-sex relationships are possible within the
game, but they do not provoke any reaction
from your sims’ friends and neighbours; and
anything women sims can do, male ones
can do too, bar getting pregnant. The Sims,
therefore, provides us with the idealised
utopia of a world that is post-gender, post-
sexuality, and post-race; logging on allows us
to forget that bigotry exists in the real world,
even if only for a couple of hours.
As well as looking forward to this utopia,
The Sims allows players to look back. While
the buy catalogue is large enough to cover
a number of different eras, the relentless
optimism and endless consumption reminds
me of the 1950s and 60s – that period of
American dominance, regularly referred to as
a ‘simpler time’, when, with the benefit of rose-
tinted glasses, all was right with the world. The
game also takes us back to the specific time
of its release, which occurred seven months
before the events of 9/11, and the ushering in
of a terror-obsessed panoptic world. As terms
like ‘war on terror’ and ‘Patriot Act’ become
more and more commonplace, people in
Western society began to experience a sense
of unease, and the emancipatory vision of
the computer as a means of social liberation
disintegrated, to be replaced with NSA
monitoring, ‘Big Brother’ society, and mass
data surveillance. To play The Sims allows
us to forget that politics exists – the closest
The Sims comes to a political statement is in
forcing all players to buy their homes, making
society based around property, but nothing
else forces the player to look at political
quandaries.
When we play The Sims, therefore, we are
soothed by this lack of economic and political
turbulence. The Sims, while it is supposedly
modelled on the world, removes anything
from the world that could be provoking or
challenging: the family we create does not
need to worry about whether or not they
will be able to get a job, they do not need
to worry about Brexit, or the Middle East, or
the presidential election. The Sims provides
a pancea for our modern sense of alienation
and confusion, taking us to a world before it
was made difficult.
I believe that The Sims will continue to carry
this kind of nostalgia with it, but in the coming
years it will also begin to accrue another
kind of appeal. In their book, Inventing the
Future, left-wing writers Nick Srnicek and
Alex Williams make the case that increasingly
sophisticated technology, coupled with an
increase in automation, could usher in a
post-capitalist age. As the neoliberal project
begins to falter, evidenced by the financial
crisis and the lurch towards austerity, Srnicek
and Williams put forward a new vision of the
future, one in which working hours will be cut
and a universal basic income implemented.
Whether or not this will actually occur, their
prediction that our burgeoning technological
power will undercut the need for raw labour
seems to be sound, and in the future it is
likely that – unless things rapidly change –
we may be facing a world without work. In
such a world, The Sims may provide us with a
different kind of attraction: with its emphasis
on the centrality of labour, the ease with
which your sims can find and keep jobs, The
Sims can serve as a throwback to a time when
work was a reality. In The Sims there will be
no technological revolution. There will be no
post-capitalism. And so when we plug in, The
Sims can provide us with a nostalgic look back
to before the world was automated.
As we have seen, The Sims leaves itself open
to a multitude of interpretations: the neutral
isometric world of pixilated suburbia allows us
to read it in any number of ways. The Sims may
be an anti-consumerist parody of American
life, a soma-esque escape from the problems
of the real world, or a nostalgic amusement
in a post-capitalist future. In attempting to
replicate life, The Sims’ innate blankness
holds a mirror up to our society. Astonishingly
advanced for its time, and ground-breaking in
the videogame world, The Sims provides us
with much more than an opportunity to play
God: it offers us the chance to take a deep
look into our own human nature, and come
out the other side enriched.
Figure 5: Alongside electrocution, immolation, and starvation, the final method of death in The Sims is
drowning, which players typically achieve by placing their sim in a swimming pool and removing the ladder.
Unable to exit the pool, your sim will instead flounder around until they tire, before sinking to the bottom of
the pool. Many players have strong memories of doing such an act as soon as they had a copy of the game.
Figure 6: In The Sims, it is possible to pause, fastforward, and “superspeed” the game. This reduces the
mundanity of watching your sim sleep, or waiting for your sim to get back from work, but doesn’t change the
fact that you’re actually just spending your free time living the lives of others. While The Sims may allows the
player to act as a God by speeding up time, it doesn’t allow us to rewind it – when we make a mistake, the
mistake is forever (unless you’ve got a save backed-up).
17
16

