V
ideogames tell stories – not just
through their images, text and sound,
but also through their interactivity.
The first commercially successful
videogame that began defining the medium
was Pong in 1972. In the 40 years since we
have created an industry that handles more
money than the entirety of the music and film
industry combined, and tells tales that are
equally compelling. How did we get here?
How did storytelling develop from fake ping
pong paddles to crying over Aerith’s death in
Final Fantasy VII and beyond?
In the early days, games were all about
mechanics: game creators did not bother with
immersive plotlines. Hardware could barely
run anything, constraining game design. And
most arcade games were seen as technological
feats of their time, with the ability to play with
a machine enough of a novelty on its own.
Much like the early days of cinema, the first
true games displayed their mechanics through
a shallow plot that could barely be regarded
as a story, much less part of a bigger ‘lore’.
The aim of Space Invaders was not to make
you feel like the last line of defense against an
alien invasion, and when Jumpman (Mario´s
original name) came out, all of its narrative
was laid out in the accompanying manual,
with very little development to the story itself
playing out on-screen – not an uncommon
practice at the time.
By the mid 80s, a change to the way
experiences were delivered had emerged.
The Legend of Zelda was released in 1986,
introducing a save system. This opened the
fourth dimension to game design, as each
game session did not have to start from the
beginning of the game, and was subsequently
adopted by the vast majority of game genres
with a few exceptions. The state of the game
could be stored, stopped, and resumed. Open
worlds became possible, and the concept of
playing through a story was born. Instead
of revealing a game through mechanics, the
interaction of these mechanics with the world
– the stages and levels – became the focus
of attention, plot development, and game
exposition. This also meant that a larger set
of game features could be expanded upon:
Link could not only slash his sword, he could
spin, shoot arrows, plant bombs, and acquire
new items, creating a sense of achievement
and progression that previous games were
severely lacking.
As time progressed, tales began to be told
outside of the playable mechanics. Mirroring
the success of the film industry, a whole branch
of games were born. The Secret of Monkey
Island (1990) gave a critically acclaimed start
to graphic adventures. And even today, titles
like Heavy Rain (2010) or Until Dawn (2015)
keep refining the interactive movie scene,
allowing you to step into your favourite generic
American teenage horror movie. A personal
favourite is the innovative ‘environmental
narrative’: this emphasises storytelling
through map layout, enemy location, item
drops, music, and much more. FromSoftware,
creators of the Dark Souls franchise, do a
wonderful job of it. For example, the player
can deduce a connection between a boss, and
two previous bosses in the first Dark Souls title
through the incorporation of musical motifs of
the characters from the original game in the
theme of the new boss.
The games that started the industry, those
interested in engaging mechanics with
little focus on a storyline, also evolved and
improved over time. From Tron (1982),
Super Mario Bros (1985), all the way to the
modern age with titles such as Skate (2007)
or Mirror’s Edge (2008). While you might not
think the latter two fall into this category, try
to imagine Tony Hawk’s without any skating
mechanics, or Portal without, well, portals.
Beautiful things happen when this method
meets storytelling. The Hotline Miami saga
(2012-2015) makes its mechanics, and how
the player feels about them, a major piece of
its storytelling. And Undertale owes part of its
might to how every battle is tailored to each
enemy, with personalised combat mechanics
for each encounter. These tell you more about
the world you’re playing in, and what you’re
fighting for and against.
In the end, videogames differentiate
themselves from other mediums because they
allow players to play a story, to be part of
it, to shape it to their own liking. Literature,
film, performing, painting, cannot deliver
this. Of course, this is not an easy task. Even
when a game’s story is well written and its
mechanics are compelling, there may not
necessarily be coherence between the two.
This is known as ludonarrative dissonance:
the conflict between a game’s narrative and
its gameplay. Take for instance the newly
By the mid
80s a change
to the way
experiences
were
delivered
had emerged
The History of
Storytelling in
Videogames
Words by Dani Hernandez Perez
released Uncharted 4: its story pivots around
the idea that Nathan, the main protagonist,
wants to leave his adventurous live behind,
and thus ending all the maddening slaughter
that has been the focus of the whole saga.
Yet somehow the game manages to make you
go through endless stages of cover based
shooting, entirely defeating the point that
the game is trying to make. In fact, if you
stick around enough to kill a 1000 enemies,
you will be rewarded with a trophy named
‘Ludonarrative dissonance’.
Space Invaders. Taito
The Secret of Monkey Island. LucasArts
Even when
a game’s
story is well
written and
its mechanics
are
compelling,
there
may not
necessarily
be
coherence
between the
two
The Legend of Zelda. Nintendo
19

