PAGE 40 PAGE 41
FRIDAY 17th
JUNE 2016 felixonline.co.uk felixonline.co.uk FRIDAY 17th
JUNE 2016
THE STUDENT NEWSPAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
ARTS arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
ARTS
The Editors’ picks of the past year...
Frank Auerbach
Absent
Site responsive performance is certainly something of an artistic niche. While I had occasionally come across the genre
before, I had never really given the field a full and fair consideration nor was I particularly aware of any particular artist
practicing it. Dreamthinkspeak’s Absent changed that for me. Probably best described as a walk-through experience like
one might find at the London dungeon (but with none of the cheap fake blood or lack of merit), the time and effort
devoted to site responsive work based in the Shoreditch Town Hall must have been truly staggering. A
real revelation in what is artistically possible, Absent might not have been the best example of this
surprising art form, but its individuality and its skill in totally enveloping the viewer left me feeling
both genuinely enlightened and impressed which, given my usual cynicism, makes it my stand-
out show of the past year. MF
This sharp and biting retrospective from one of this country’s most revered and wonderful artists wowed from October to
March at the often underappreciated Tate Britain. With work spanning from Auerbach’s early self-portraits to the landscapes
from his Mornington Crescent studio, the vivid use of colour and strong textured canvasses strike home as truly unique in
today’s cluttered world of contemporary art. In the same class as the revered Lucian Freud and Francis Bacon,
Auerbach truly is one of today’s great living artists and this exhibition powerfully and convincingly justifies
his legendary status. MF
Painting the Modern Garden
Firmly in the Impressionism wheelhouse it may have been,and staid and comfortable compared to some of the modern art
exhibitions on show this year, but no less joyfully exuberant for being so. It featured the greatest hits from Matisse, John
Singer Sargent, Van Gogh, and more, and exhibited the greatest collection of Monets I have had the pleasure of seeing. It
brought the sunshine of French and Spanish gardens to a gloomy February.It was the perfect exhibition save for the actual
experience of going to see it; I missed the press view and went on another day with seemingly all of London, and their
uncle.Even on a Tuesday afternoon,big name exhibitions can inspire the sort of crush that Oxford Street dreams
of. All of which is to remind of two important lessons: a) never pass up an exhibition of Monets, no matter
how many times you’ve seen a reproduction, seeing the paintings up close can be an experience, and b)
if you want to go see a big-time exhibition, seriously, go to the press preview with your free ticket
courtesy of FELIX Arts, no need to slum it with the hoi polloi, ain’t nobody got time for that. IM
Electronic Superhighway
This exhibition brought together 50 years of artists exploring the internet. It wove together sculpture, video, more painterly
techniques, featuring everything from Pac-Man to internet spam karaoke. Showing the work of artists produced at the the
birth of the internet to artists working now, it displayed our love affair with the world wide web, exploring its evolution from the
romanticism of a hyperconnected world, to the Orwellian near-dystopia of constant surveillance, dipping into the evolution of
video games, and the intricacies of internet chat rooms along the way. Like the internet itself, it was by turns
compelling, confusing, fun, and ever so slightly creepy all rolled into one; an exhibition worthy of one of
the greatest inventions of the modern age. IM
The year’s worst... Consensual
It is rare that any show can anger me so much that the thought of it still makes me queasy the next morning. But, as
I write this article, it is only the National Youth Theatre’s production of Consensual which has consistently infuriated
and upset me on an almost weekly basis since I saw it all the way back in October. Had it been a fully professional
production by a (poorly) paid cast, the anger and disappointment would have been enough already. However, as the
flagship production to show off the best from the National Youth Theatre,this production both embarrasses this institution
to which I had proudly called myself a member, and completely scandalises the interest and intellect of today’s young
people. Displaying London’s youth as selfish, stupid and sex-crazed, many other publications lauded what they called a
powerful and “provocative” production. However, not wanting to step on their toes, I can happily say that this must have
been the singly worst show I have ever seen. MF
The Serpentine Pavilion
The Serpentine Gallery’s Pavilion, a mere stone’s throw from the South Ken campus, is perhaps one the best places to amp up
the culture factor on a sunny summer’s day. It’s free, it’s outside (bang in the middle of Hyde Park), and it houses a caf. The
Pavilion project was created to showcase the best in architecture and design, last year, was a kaleidoscope of bright colours, like
stepping into a futuristic deconstructed stained glass window. This year, it’s gone monochrome; the Bjarke Ingels Group has
created an ‘unzipped wall’.What seems like a straight tower flares out in a spiralling three dimensional space; a pyramid that’s
been put through spin cycle.It’s built from stacked fibreglass bricks creating a structure that is surprisingly fluid and beautifully
undulating. It’s functional too; the Park Nights programme is housed there which will showcase a line up of musicians, writers
and performance artists. IM
Mary Heilmann
Mary Heilmann is that rare breed; a female abstract artist. Now in her seventies, she’s recently begun to find the
big-time art world fame that eluded her for most of her career. In this retrospective at the Whitechapel Gallery,
her first full exhibition in the UK since 2001, Heilmann brings to London the colour, and effortless cool of the
American West Coast. Her work, ranging from paintings, furniture, and ceramics is based on grids,
architectural shapes filled with riotous, sunny colour. Each piece is autobiographical in some way,
referencing everything and anything from her grandmother’s house in 1940s San Francisco,
to surfing, doing acid trips, The Sex Pistols, and the mid century New Yorks arts scene. IM
Shakespeare 400 Events
This marks the 400th
anniversary since Shakespeare’s death, in celebration of his work, events have been going on throughout
2016. You may already have seen A Midsummer’s Night Dream as staged by Doctor Who’s Russell T Davies, or the Hollow
Crown, as starring the culturally omnipresent Benedict Cumberbatch on TV. Unsurprisingly, the Globe Theatre is leading
the vanguard for events in London. A Midsummer’s Night Dream, Macbeth, and the Taming of the Shrew are all being staged
in the summer. Additionally, Shakespeare’s Globe will be running a series of lectures, workshops , and
other educational events exploring the work of Shakespeare in greater detail. There’s a great breadth of
options, so if their website is well worth visiting. IM 						
In The Heights
Musicals may not be high art (in the case of Hamilton, this editor would vehemently disagree) but they are fun, and it
would be hard to more fun than this. In the Heights is Lin Manuel Miranda’s (he of Hamilton fame) lesser known musical,
essentially based around a love story set in the Washington Height’s, a rough area of New York, it’s a colourful,
its music an eclectic mix of salsa, soul, hip-hop and R&B. Its feel-good, punchy grooves earned it three
Olivier awards earlier this year, and a Tony award for Best Score during its Broadway run. As well as
being a great night out in and of itself, it’s the perfect preparation for Hamilton’s arrival to the West
End in October next year. IM
Photo Credit: Monet
Photo Credit: DreamThinkSpeak
Photo Credit: Frank Auerbach
Photo Credit: NYT
Photo Credit: Smithsonian American Art Museum
...and our picks for the summer!
Tate Modern Extension
After 16 years at Bankside power station, the Tate Modern has become one of the leading global arts venues attracting over
five million visitors in the last year and making it the world’s seventh most popular museum. Having started on the original
conversion with the renowned architects Herzog & de Meuron in 1995, this latest extension by the same architects has created
(what I hope to be) a wonderful new space to house the vast unseen collections of the Tate.With more works in their vaults than
could possibly fill their walls,this new extension gives the public a real chance to appreciate a breadth and quality of art otherwise
only seen by the priviledged few.While the extension’s success is still to be seen, the devotion of more space to the arts can surely
be nothing but a good thing. MF 							
Photo Credit: Iwan Baan
Photo Credit: Joe Gaffney
Photo Credit: Johan Persson
Photo Credit: Robert Workman
Photo Credit: Hayes Davidson and Herzog & de Meuron

