album: u2 and brian eno - -
passengers: original sound-
tracks Lan
Brian Eno's work has influenced many bands and
is hugely responsible for the shift in U2's musical
direction from a typical guitar based sound to
something with a greater musical depth and vari-
ety. This soundtrack is a compilation of music and
songs from a wide variety of movies that most of
us are unlikely to see. A word of warning: the
music here will make little impact without the
notes on the respective movies in the C D sleeve.
The opening track, 'United Colours', is the
setting for a Japanese movie about a man who falls
asleep and dreams while travelling on a bullet
train. The dream descends into a nightmare and
the whole shift of emotions from calmness to
uneasiness and finally chaos is captured musically.
Bono's voice starts the second track and he
still manages to convey the faint image of a man
reminiscing about a certain event. Pavarotti's voice
rings out on the poignant 'Miss Sarajevo' from the
documentary of the same name about a beauty
contest run under mortar fire.
Although the theme of the song itself may
sound cliched, lines like "...is there a time to be a
beauty queen?" show the dark humour behind
the difficult conditions. It also moves the focus
below: U2 i n wintry days o f yore
away from the complexity of the problems
involved (hopefully solved) to that of actually liv-
ing a life under those depressing conditions.
Howie B and Bono provide some raw energy
on 'Elvis Ate America' which is one the highlights
of the album. The simple music mix comple-
ments the vocals beautifully, giving both singers
ample room to roam about.
U2 appear individually on the credits because
this is not a U2 album. It is Brian Eno's genius that
is on display here. This is an album to delve into
once a while when things become too simplistic
for your liking. The music often stays on a differ-
ent plane but it does invite you in for a visit. (8)
gig: grant hart,
Armed with only a guitar, Grant Hart comes on
with laconic candour, oblivious to the almost
obsessive adulation of some of the crowd here
tonight. Playing a long set of stark, naked songs he
really gets the audience going. In between songs
he tugs audaciously on his bottle of whisky and
tries to break the world record for the number of
puffs taken from a cigarette. No wonder his
slightly gravelly and intensely emotional voice is so
good - he has obviously lived life.
There are some moments of poignant sensi-
tivity. 'Brown Eyes', for example, is captivatingly
beautiful. Also acknowledging requests, he plays
'2541' (no doubt about his ex-band mate Bob
Mould) and 'Admiral of the Sea' tojoyous fervour.
From where I'm standing he has an uncanny
resemblance to Lou Reed (especially with that
beret) and my mate reckons that his lyrical con-
cerns on one of his songs is similar too.
Though his current album is a live one, there
is a rawness lingering in the air tonight that can
never be captured on compact disc. It's a shame.
Interestingly, the C D (Ecce Homo) only came
about because after an intra-band disagreement,
rather than cancelling an advertised Nova Mob
gig, Grant Hart decided to do an acoustic show.
It's a good job he did. He's definitely worth
going to see live.
album: sidi bou said
entertain*
I feel kind of lucky. Five hundred copies of this
live mini-LP are available by mail order only and
Felixhas been sent one. Okay, so you've never
heard of them (unless you remember their
appearance a couple of years ago at that most hal-
lowed of musical venues, the Ents Lounge), but
it's a rarity, nonetheless. Who knows, one day it
could be worth something...
So, is it any good? Well, considering the lim-
ited quantities and the fact that it's supposed to
be a thank you to the people who have seen them
live this year, (i.e. only the most zealous Said-sters
people are going to buy this) that's almost a
redundant question.
Still, for what it's worth, this is an authentic
ride through their live show, as they crash through
melodic, punky numbers ('Buzz'), distinctly lewd
anthems ('Slitty Gap'), and punningly titled,
rhythmic affairs ('Big Yellow Taxidermist'). Sidi
Bou Said may be over-strict adherents to the soft-
loud-soft school of limted musical creativity but
there's an endearing quality to their B52s meets
Babes in Toyland attitude.
Maybe the Ents Lounge should get them
back... (6)
l i s t i n g s
matt bianco 13-14 dec • J
3
z
z
joyrider - 13 dec - brixton
academy - £10
felt + dissident prophet
earthiing 13 dec- subterania
13 dec - borderline - £5
man almond 13-14 dec
shep bush empire - i 10
13 dec - forum - £13.50
14-15 dec - wembley arena -
s
~ ' ' i ! i i K
popes • 15 dec • shep bush
the stronglers - 15 dec - clapham
black grape - 16 dec • brixton
academy -£12
bjoru again - I h. 17 dec - -.hop
grand - £12
suiipjyred • 18-20 dec t25
p.j. h
a
r
v
e
v - 19 dec - brixton
academy - £10
jools hdland - 20, 21 dec -
prodigy + < h
e
m
i
c al broth-
l l l i l l i ^ ^ R r ^ ^ ^ ^ H K S i l - /
•IS i l l s ^ S ^ ^ ^ ' S WPP
coolio - 4 jan - clapham giand -
lis;;; I M S ^ i ^ ^ ^ H S i l : IsfSl s:
;; -""
^••^pi^^Kr'-ass-v
c o m p e t i t o n :
B^s;
s^B^ii^^®-&iv^^B-:
sK.s<^«ffliSi?litl;feM^^R:
£
^ i l ^ ^ B s s ^ ^ B s S s ^ S l f f i ; v
Well, just name two of die
i l ; T ^
Ilk l l l l i s a l WBM^&^MVMi
Christian on 0171 S23 8457.

