1 }
r r 1
Mary was
sitting ner-
vously in the
room. By her
side was the
trough that
was once
used for animal fodder but was
now serving as a makeshift cot.
Joseph walked in and a chill
swept through the room. He
looked at Mary, sitting there
expectantly and looking a bit
fretful, and said, "Oh, cheer up
love, it's Christmas."
Unfortunately, this is how
many people feel during the so-
called festive season. Whether
it's due to S.A.D. (Seasonal
Affective Disorder), the Santa
Claus-trophobia caused by
droves of people out shopping
and items in shop windows cry-
ing, 'Try me, buy me!", or just
due to the endless re-runs of
Moonraker and The Great
Escape on television, we can
always find sometiring to moan
about.
Of course, there are many
of us who take the purely hedo-
nistic approach (and not just at
Christmas) and eat, drink, be
merry and drink some more.
But the sad fact is that more
relationships break up over
Christmas and New Year than at
any other time of the year.
Intoxication can breed infidelity. It would be
churlish to try to make out that Christmas is all
doom and gloom but, with all the commercial
hype, the artificial merriment and the very real
depression that is around at this time of year, it
begs the question: "Have we missed the point of
Christmas?"
Undoubtedly, the answer is yes. For the
most part this is a conscious decision due to peo-
ple's unwillingness to associate themselves with
what they see as a fairy story about a baby being
bom in a bam. Fact is often difficult to separate
from fable but in this case it is easy to judge in
favour of the former. That Jesus was bom and
lived is not in question because of the historical
evidence, both from the Bible and other sources.
In fact, historians and theologians agree that
there is more independent evidence for Jesus' life
than for Julius Caesar's invasion of England and
wouldn't give you the time of day if you suggest-
ed otherwise. So, is that the point of Christmas?
A baby boy called Jesus. So what? How did
something seemingly so insignificant result in
something which is celebrated in hundreds of
nations across the globe? Well, contrary to popu-
lar belief, the marketing man can't take all the
credit. The answer lies with who Jesus said he
was.
To pull no punches, Jesus said that he was
God. Moreover, he was killed by the Jews of the
time for saying so. He claimed that he come to
save people from their sins. Put simply, no
human being, he claimed, was good enough to
earn themselves a way into heaven by doing
'good deeds'. Everybody crosses their conscience.
If we can't live up to our own moral standards
how do we expect to be able to live up to God's?
Jesus said that he would die in place of us to pay
the penalty for our wrong-doings, on a par with a
judge who finds someone guilty of a crime but
because he loves the criminal so much he choos-
es to serve the jail term himself. But, because he
was God he said that he would rise from the
dead and that we could then have a relationship
with him where we would be free from guilt and
shame and could have "life to the full".
Now, these are pretty staggering claims.
Given this, it's hard to understand how anyone
can claim that he was just "a good bloke". Any
man who claims to be God is either a liar, a
lunatic, a legend or the Lord himself. As C.S.
Lewis put it: "A man who was merely a man and
said the sort of things Jesus said wouldn't be a
great moral teacher; he would either be a lunatic
on a level with a man who says he is a poached
egg - or else he would be the devil of hell. You
must make your choice. Either this man was and
is the Son of God, or else a madman or some-
thing worse... but don't let's come up with any
patronising nonsense about his being a great
human teacher. He hasn't left that open to us.
He didn't intend to."
And so to the point of Christmas. If Jesus
was God and he died for us and he rose from the
dead and God loves us so much that he suffered
for us, then that's definitely something worth cel-
ebrating. Obviously there were many people
who believed this two thousand years ago and
many more who believe that today.
Perhaps most striking is the fact that none of
Jesus' friends believed that he was God and
deserted him when he was about to be put to
death. Soon after, those same people, who had
once been so fearful for their lives, claimed that
they had seen Jesus, and that he was God, and
they were eventually put to death for saying so.
Vikrant Bansal
christmas: fairy story or presentsor God krant bansal W
insight: unusual christmas gifts,at barb and. lien wilkins W—-—————
column: simon baker •
album: madonna - something to remember.
Caroline
album: bruce Springsteen - the ghost of torn joad
gig/interview: dubstar,™.trout ®-
gig: bush
album: aztec camera - frestoniamax*
album: mc
almont & butler - the sound of...
album: u2 and brian eno - passengersan«—
gig: grant hart
album: sidi bou said - entertain,.vikl
veryone
reviews: the year's very best albums,
films: the shooter^ & dr jekyll and ms hyde™
films: seven agpe & the swan princess™^,*

