simon b a k e r
Well, here we are, the end of the
term. Time certainly flies when
you're having fun, and also when
you're so snowed under with work
that you don't have time to keep up
with the latest alcoholic offerings in
Southside. OK, it isn't quite that
bad; current favourite in that temple
to the beer god is Sun Stroke, a truly
awesome pint. My lords and masters
tell me that this week's Felix is in the style of
loaded and this column is no exception. So here
we go. Birds, booze, fags, drugs. Ferrunism?
Bunch of arse! Honestly, I'm not taking the piss,
loaded is brilliant. Take the December issue,
which was lying around chez moi. It's the first
issue I have read, and I cannot recommend it
highly enough. Frank Spencer, an interview with
Beth, erstwhile Neighbours crumpet, and to top
it all, some delightful shots of Emma Noble, the
drop dead gorgeous babe from Bruce's Price is
Right. Nice to see you, to see you nice.
Now I've had a cold shower, I shall return to
more slightly more serious matters, with the
news that Rag really cannot organise a piss up in
a brewery. I find it amazing that a beer festival at
a university that, we are told, is solely populated
by alcoholics, can result in only half the ale being
sold. Although the situation was undoubtedly
not helped by the infamous 'Rag-gate' business
earlier in the term, the problems that have lead
to the most pathetic Rag Week in living memo-
ry are more fundamental (I wonder how long it
will be before they blame the National Lottery).
It must be clear to all the Rag Exec that the per-
ception of them by the rest of IC is not a partic-
ularly favourable one. People are tired of the
same old silly antics trotted out each year that
are beyond embarrassing, rapidly approaching
pathetic. Rag Mags are produced where shock
tactics are employed as a substitute for humour
(admittedly slightly less so this year), displaying
a mentality similar to primary school children
leaking up rude words in a dictionary. Don't get
me wrong, I am not suggesting that their motives
are in any way suspect. Some very worthy caus-
es are supported each year and a lot of money is
raised. But its methods, which even the RSMU
criticised, have resulted in its near total alienation
from the rest of the College to the
detriment of the charities they seek
to help. We aren't a particularly
mean-minded lot here, but people
understandably do not have much
time for events like the Slave
Auction. Rag is rather like middle
aged parents dancing at a disco. You
dearly love them, but just wish they
would sit down and stop embarrass-
ing you.
One subject that I have been mean-
ing to cover since the start of the term is the
behaviour of ConSoc. I would never dream of
laying bare my political affiliations, but the more
astute among you may appreciate that I identify-
more closely with them than the Socialist
Workers. It is for this reason that I have held
back a rant about their actions of late. But no
more. The childish bickering of Ian Bayley and
latterly Geoff Boon is utterly disgraceful.
Constant jibes about the press coverage, epito-
mised by Ian Davey in issue 1042, are not only
in most cases unfounded but highly counter-pro-
ductive, opening the party up to ridicule. A litde
less time spent jamming the letters page of Felix
would allow you to promote the party success-
fully at a crucial time. I fear that the only way
that the Press Officer can control these waring
factions is to put them one by one in a room with
a revolver. Even then, one fears that most of the
bullets would end up lodged in their feet.
ConSoc do not have the monopoly on ropey
PR. The letter from Prof New, obviously a grad-
uate of the Bernard Manning Charm School,
concerning a request for information on discipli-
nary procedures is one that I am sure he will
come to regret. While everyone would agree
that the RCSU can be a tad annoying at times,
this was not an example of the way a member of
this College's staff should'fcehave. Whether Julia
Knight was acting outside her remit or not, the
'total misapprehension about discipline at IC' is
not hers; halls do have systems offinesin lieu of
legal action, as exemplified by Linstead. Minor
drugs offences are often dealt with internally,
rather than by the Police, where a caution would
be issued. To sneer at a polite request for infor-
mation is not becoming of a man in his position,
and one I suspect he would not suffer gladly
from one of his residents or students.
Subwardenship in Southwell Hall
The deadline for the above position has been extended to Friday 15th December.
We are hoping to appoint a postgraduate student who is planning to remain at college for at least
18 months. The position is available from early January.
Application forms are available from the accommodation office and should be
returned to Ken Young, Department of Chemistry.
NB. Southwell is a lively undergraduate Hall, people requiring
sleep are advised not to apply.

