unionpage
Imperial College Union, Beit Quadrangle, Prince Consort
Road, London SW7 2BB
Tel: 020 7594 8060
Centenary Ball 2007
imperialcollegeunion.org
The Imperial College and
ICU Centenary
Imperial College Union was
founded in 1907, the same
time as Imperial College was
formed by the City and Guilds
College, the Royal College of
Science and the Royal School
of Mines coming together to
form this great institution.
Next year will be the Collegeʼs
and the Unionʼs 100th
anniversary and this is clearly
a superb occasion to celebrate and publicise.
The centenary is not only a brilliant opportunity to raise
the proﬁle of both the Union and the College with our
alumni; it is also a chance to raise money for student
projects such as the hardship fund, the Beit Building
project, and any initiatives that our clubs, societies or
faculty unions may wish to publicise. ICU is working
closely with the College to ensure that we make the most
of this once-in-a-lifetime opportunity and create a legacy
that we can all be proud of.
Traditional College-wide Union events such as the
Summer Ball, East Meets West and Artsfest will adopt a
centenary theme this year and whilst large events will
form an important part of our events programme, it is
equally essential that our faculty unions and as many
clubs and societies as possible organise their own
centenary activities throughout the year. It is also vital
that we coordinate this plethora of celebratory activities
in a sensible fashion and in order to achieve this we will
be distributing centenary advice packs to all of our clubs,
societies and faculty union committees detailing how to
run centenary branded events in the very near future.
Preparations for the Summer Ball, which is being branded
as the “Centenary Ball” this year, are now underway and
Jon Matthews (Deputy President for Finance & Services)
is presently recruiting students who may be interested
in joining our working group. If you or any of your
friends may be interested in helping us with this event
then please contact Jon (dpfs@imperial.ac.uk). If you are
interested in any other aspect of the centenary project
then please feel free to email me (president@imperial.
ac.uk) or the centenary project manager and Medic
President, sometimes aﬀectionately referred to as DPMC
(Deputy President for Medics & Centenary), Shiv Chopra
(shiv.chopra@imperial.ac.uk).
Remember; centenaries only happen once every 100
years! This is your one and only chance to get yourself
or your club or society involved in this great occasion.
So, if you are even remotely interested in organising a
centenary activity this year then please get in touch with
us as soon as possible.
And finally - PLEASE VOTE!
Please do not forget to vote! The polls have just opened
and can be accessed by logging on to our website:
www.imperialcollegeunion.org/vote. Voting closes at
23:59 on Tuesday 31st and the results will be announced
in Da Vinciʼs at 12:30 on Thursday 2nd November.
John Collins
President
president@imperial.ac.uk
Update
from the President
Get involved with the biggest party in the
College, EVER!
We need volunteers to help in our Centenary Ball
team. If you think you can help then get in contact
with Jon Matthews, Deputy President (Finance &
Services), dpfs@imperial.ac.uk.
On Friday the 13th November, a petition containing signatures
of over 5% of the Full Members of this Union was submitted
calling for a referendum on whether or not Imperial should
aﬃliate to the National Union of Students. What does this
mean? Well, in short, a hell of a lot of people have said that
after ﬁve years, itʼs time you had your say. How many people is
this really? Think about every undergrad in Aero, then double
them, or the whole of EEE if double Aero is a bit too scary for
you, then add a few and youʼll be just about there.
So what? Well, Iʼm not going to go into any of the arguments,
thatʼs not my job, but this is a big deal. You have the biggest,
ʻbestestʼ and probably only chance (unless you end up hanging
around here as long as I have) to change the way the Union is
represented and seen on the national stage, or not. Thatʼs the
scale of what we are talking about.
So what about the good, the bad and the ugly? Well, the Pro-
camp will be more than happy to tell you about the good, the
Anti-camp about the bad, and Iʼm here in case it all gets ugly.
Itʼs your say that counts, you have a voice and we are listening.
The biggest decision this Union can ever take is going to be
made over ﬁve days in November. Teams of people are going
to be trying to inﬂuence you and persuade you one way or
another, they will both have good arguments, they will both
be sure that they are right. Which of them are? Thatʼs your
decision.
For the next three weeks, you are not going to be able to hide
from the debate, those three little letters are going to become
the biggest thing to hit campus since Facebook.
Live!, Felix and stoic tv will be featuring debates and
discussions, the walkway will become a gauntlet of ﬂierers to
put Oxford Streetʼs chuggers to shame, there will be public
debates between the two camps.
Is this a good thing? Should you be allowed to just carry on
with your lunch or your mad dash to that lecture that started
ﬁve minutes ago? Why should you vote? Iʼm not going to
answer those questions, but I will answer a diﬀerent one:
Who doesnʼt need to vote? If your life is an Utopia to make
Sir Thomas Moore green with envy; if every evening you stroll
back from your lectures along a coral beach into a sunset under
which everyone dances together holding hands; if you truly,
genuinely live an untroubled existence of perfection in which
nothing can change, then you donʼt need to vote. Everyone
else, this vote will aﬀect you.
Like the NUS or not, want to be
a part of it or would rather sever
vital parts of your anatomy with
a blunt piece of cutlery, this vote
will aﬀect you. Things are going
to change for us all next year, you
get to inﬂuence how. The good
old IC apathy is well known by the
older hands amongst us, weʼve
seen it all before, some of us have
even had this debate before. So
what has changed? Weʼre in a
whole new ball-game now, weʼre
leaving ULU, Imperial is becoming
a University in its own right, tuition fees are changing. The old
debate is no longer valid, most of us here for the last one have
left. We need to see that the situation has changed and a new
debate is needed on both sides. Those of you who have joined
Imperial since the last referendum deserve your own say. There
are people whom have joined Imperial since the last referendum
yet graduated two days ago. A whole series of members have
passed through, we have moved on and so must the debate.
So, how can you get involved? You can contact the leaders of
either camp if you want more information or have already made
your mind up and want to help with the campaign. You can
turn up to the public debates but most of all, you can vote.
Listen, think, vote. Please. Remember, our future is in your
hands, that may sound melodramatic, but it really is…
Jon Matthews
Deputy President (Finance and Services)
Returning Oﬃcer, NUS referendum.
Jon Matthews
Deputy President
(Finance & Services)
dpfs@imperial.ac.uk
NUS – Good, Bad, or just plain Ugly?
Only you can decide…
To contact the pro-campaign
email nus.yes@imperial.ac.uk
To contact the anti-campaign
email nus.not@imperial.ac.uk
To contact the Returning Officer
email elections@imperial.ac.uk

