Win The
Omen!
The Departed blasts into box offices
A well-written script can transform
its setting from a mere location into
a fully-fledged character in its own
right, doubly so in the hands of a
gifted director. Few would argue
that Vienna is any less important to
The Third Man than Harry Lime.
Martin Scorcese, however, tran-
scends mere geographical nice-
ties; in his works, time becomes a
character itself. Whilst there has
been a lot made of his decision to
repeatedly collaborate with Leon-
ardo DiCaprio, his commitment to
using time in each and every one of
Just in time for Halloween, Felix
has three copies of The Omen to be
given away.
The Omen (2006) is available to
buy and rent on DVD on 23rd Octo-
ber 2006. The Omen 30th Anniver-
sary Edition, digitally remastered
versions of The Omen sequels and
The Omen Pentalogy containing all
5 films are released to buy on DVD
on the same date. Twentieth Cen-
tury Fox Home Entertainment.
In order to win tell me, how many
versions of The Omen have been
made in film history? And also,
who was the director of The Omen
(1976).
Email the answer to
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk now!
Scream! The Grudge returns again
Alex Casey ventures to the cinema in search of a decent sequel and albino spirits but finds familar territory
Referencing Scream seems clichéd
nowadays when discussing hor-
ror films, but there is a sequel rule
that secretly worries everyone no
matter how much they enjoyed the
original ie: they are generally crap.
Ten years on and Hollywood still
cashes in with remakes, a low artis-
tic merit, high profit margin culture.
So can a film that ticks both boxes
ever make an entertaining hit? The
Ring 2, possibly the closest relative
to The Grudge 2, left audiences di-
vided. Unfortunately, The Grudge 2
will struggle to do that.
It suffers primarily from leaving
behind the claustrophobic nature of
being stuck in a foreign country in
a haunted house and trying (as did
The Ring sequel) to make a more
omnipresent fear. It also relies
heavily on coincidence: in Tokyo
there will always be a helpful Eng-
lish speaking stranger (even the
mother of murderous ghosts from
an isolated village…) so you never
believe the characters are as bewil-
dered as those of the first film.
The opening is reminiscent of the
prequel so depending on your view
of this, you may already be making
your way back past the ticket coun-
ter, but if that’s the case, why did
you buy the ticket? The ghosts/de-
mons/bluey-pale corpses with the
creaky throats are back and the
rest of the original permeates the
sequel through flashbacks, strange
time-blurring frame splicing and
the necessary Sarah Michelle Gel-
lar segment to aid continuity.
Thestorypicksupshortlyafterthe
first one left off, although the heavy
exposition throughout means you
can get the gist of its predecessor
without sitting through it (though I
recommend that you should).
Here the story has three separate
strands where we meet fairly two-
dimensional characters that fail to
development throughout. One in-
volving a schoolgirl daring to enter
the original haunted house, one cen-
tred on the sister of Gellar’s charac-
ter finding out the truth about her
sister’s ordeal, and one concerning
a family in Chicago (Why? Who
knows…) and their encounter with
the Japanese curse. The lact of plot
conclusion and warped chronology
leave a sour taste.
Not caring for the main charac-
ter or anyone else, means Jennifer
Beals still has Flashdance on top
of her resumé and Gellar will omit
it altogether, whilst Amber Tam-
blyn (yes, of The Sisterhood of the
Travelling Pants) still hasn’t got a
big break. But, the actors do alright
with the little they have to work
with. While Oscar won’t be calling
any time soon, they’re watchable
despite moments of mandatory
melodrama.
But the main question: Is it scary?
Well, no. Shocks are in short supply,
the croaky voice grew old in the first
one and the death scenes generally
flatline. The horror genre is again
in need of resuscitation as, at this
rate, Kayako is killing more than
just hapless American immigrants.
Hell hath no fury like a ghost that can hold a grudge. Takashi Shimizu returns for a fourth outing with
The Grudge 2. No, really, a fourth time
his films suggests an inseparable
bond.
Although time plays a slightly
smaller role in The Departed than
it did in Scorcese’s previous feat of
endurance, The Aviator, it is per-
haps a more important one. Whilst
in the earlier work it displayed the
deterioration of the mind with age,
the latter is more bleak - time rep-
resents death.
Though the juxtaposition is never
made explicit, The Departed is un-
arguably about death - for all its
themes of loyalty and deception, at
the end of the day. And also, it con-
tains the passage of a great deal
of time both on- and off-screen.
Two decades pass in the first ten
minutes, though Scorcese sensibly
refrains from allowing the rest of
the film to continue at this pace, or
its narrative would end in the late
twenty-third century. However,
most striking is the time experi-
enced by the audience; there can
be few to leave the cinema without
realising that they are considerably
closer to their own death than they
were on entering.
That it does so without lead-
ing to intense boredom cannot
fail to be noted as a remarkable
achievement.
Hugh A D
Leonardo DiCaprio stars alongside Jack Nicholson and Matt Damon in Martin Scorcese’s Infernal Affairs remake, The Departed
The dreadful backache from sit-
ting in a cinema seat for three hours
only makes itself felt as the credits
roll, as does the need to nip to the
gents during a pivotal scene, and
naturally every scene is pivotal.
Barely a second of the screen
time is wasted: hammering home
quite how inappropriate it was for
the cinema to stick an extra-long
half hour of adverts and trailers
at the beginning, knowing full well
what proportion of daylight hours
would be taken up by it already.
In short, where Scorcese is con-
cerned, The Departed really is very
good.
14 felix Friday 27 October 2006
FILM film.felix@imperial.ac.uk

