minutes after the ambulance left, I real-
ised that I shouldn’t have taken that and
let my friend go to the hospital alone.
It turned out that my friend hadn’t
been take to St Mary’s. The error
caused us distress and confusion for a
good half an hour, as we ran around the
city, trying to locate our friend. After
about two hours, the nurses dispatched
us, telling my friend to rest and that
nothing major was wrong.
The pain continued till Monday, when
my friend returned to his home country
in Europe. From what his father told us
that evening, my friend was diagnosed
with a frontal spontaneous epidural
haematoma for the medics, and for the
rest of us ‘a leaking vein’, and clotting
blood was trapped under the skull sup-
pressing the nerves around his brain.
He was in the operating theatre within
three hours of his plane landing in his
home city. A surgery to his skull was
peformed, without which he would have
been dead within a week, according to
his doctor. By the time he was back in
university again, all was well as before,
except for a scar.
The reason I am publicising the inci-
dent is that I want everybody to know
about how you could be treated when
you call the ambulance, and be pre-
pared if this happens. I also want to tell
the ambulance service of the unimagi-
nable attitude of their staff. I don’t think
that we should have been treated the
way we were, given the circumstances.
Health is a priority as a student. Per-
haps this article will prompt improve-
ments in the future, make wardens in
the halls be aware that this happened
or alternatively I’m just making a fool
of myself by calling the ambulance
when I shouldn’t. Whichever one it is,
I will be glad if either one of us learns
something.
Journos of the
world unite
I
f you have been reading our esteemed publica-
tion over the past few weeks you will be aware
that student journalists are being persecuted by
high-minded, arrogant sabbatical officers across
the country. We had the dubious pleasure of enter-
taining some of them last week when the Union Presi-
dents of The Aldwych Group came all the way to South
Ken to have a chit-chat and a fairly uninspiring picnic.
Our editor Andy attempted to discuss issues surround-
ing freedom of the press in their constituencies. Unsur-
prisingly the few that he approached did not seem too
enthusiastic to discuss these matters with ULU Presi-
dent Vicki Slater becoming particularly defensive when
asked about the future of London Student.
Who on earth these people think they are and why they
should be protected from lowly newspaper columnists is
beyond me. What is important though is that the student
press remains united in the face of such brazen hostility
from bruised political egos. Imperial College has a long
and proud history of a free press. In addition to Felix
we have our own television channel, radio station and a
thriving news server, Live (live.cgcu.net), run by City &
Guilds College Union. As you have probably noticed the
upcoming referendum on NUS affiliation has sparked a
fierce debate which continue to be fought through these
pages and Live contains several well-informed articles
on this subject, amongst others. This is why I am very
pleased that Live and Felix are now working more close-
ly than ever before, with Felix now “syndicating” contri-
butions to their website which will now also link to arti-
cles that have appeared on these hallowed pages. Live
are in the process of setting up a webpage that will give
both sides of the debate with contributions from both the
“No” campaign team and the Imperial College Union
Labour Supporters Network, or the “Yes” campaign, as
they prefer to be known. If you are interested in the de-
bate on the NUS and how much it will cost our clubs and
societies I would recommend that you have a look.
Along similar lines, I find the following information
rather curious. Both a senior Union source and a promi-
nent member of the Yes campaign have stated that NUS
activists who are invited to campaign in favour of joining
will be “screened”. This is because they are aware that
the typical NUS activist (a highly political, loony left Poly-
versity arts student) will not go down too well with your
average Imperial student (apathetic, studies a “proper”
degree, will be able to obtain gainful employment). If we
are talking about joining an organisation then surely we
should have the honour of seeing a wide cross section of
its activists and not just the ones least likely to piss us
off? What is even more startling is that those in favour
of joining are so aware the negative aspects of the NUS
that they have to plan their campaign to minimise their
impact. Sounds a bit shifty to me.
In reply, about the veil
R
ecently, a friend of mine
in halls came down with a
headache that his doctor di-
agnosed as an eye infection,
saying he shouldn’t worry
about it. Three days later the pain in-
creased, and the hospital told him that
it was probably sinusitis. Then, on Sat-
urday, I found him moaning in pain and
incapable of doing anything due to the
throbbing pain in his head. As a result,
he had not eaten or slept for more than
three days. The situation continued into
the evening, when a friend and I decid-
ed to take him to the hospital.
I stood on Exhibition Road for more
than ten minutes trying to hail a cab
with no success, so, reminded how hor-
ribly torturing my friend’s pain was, I
decided to call an ambulance.
I’ve never called an ambulance before,
knowing that it is a valuable resource
not to be taken lightly. However, being
first year students in a foreign country
in excruciating pain and having no oth-
er means of traveling seemed to justify
the use. I dialed; the lady on the other
end asked me some standard questions
Samuel Lynas responds to Omar Hashmi’s comments about Jack Straw
and notified me that an ambulance was
on its way. I was really appreciative of
the kind and supportive service, but my
perspective on the NHS changed when
the ambulance arrived and the whole
evening just went downhill.
The two drivers walked out of the am-
bulance. I greeted the drivers, whose
expressions immediately changed
when they saw us. They started to de-
mand who called the ambulance, and
I, upon confirming, received a bashing
about how the situation was inappro-
priate: my friend wasn’t bleeding, was
conscious, and was able to walk (albeit
barely) – basically the situation wasn’t
lethal enough.
They shouted at the patients for be-
ing cheap students who took advantage
of the system, instead of taking a cab.
We apparently wanted to save money
by calling an ambulance. My friend
recalled being told on the way to the
hospital that the drivers scolded him
for depriving people who are having
heart attacks and bleeding to death of
the service and that he could be legally
sued for this abuse.
I was shocked at this unexpected at-
tack; didn’t the university say that we
should not be afraid to ask for help on
the first day? And the medical centre
who said no emergency was too small?
I explained unavailability of taxis to the
drivers, who disregarded it as a lie, and
pushed the patient into the ambulance
in the manner that police treat crimi-
nals. When my friend and I followed,
the drivers pushed us away, telling us
to take a taxi to the hospital to give us a
lesson that ambulances are not free.
I asked which hospital, and they re-
plied St Mary’s. I was abhorred at this
treatment and too shocked to demand
the response that we deserved. As my
friends and I climbed into a taxi ten
R
eading and re-reading Omar
Hashmi’s opinion piece of
last week on the current
debate stirred up by Jack
Straw’s comments on the
wearing of the Muslim veil (“Weighing
in on the veil issue”, Felix 1360), I felt
an unexpected surge of empathy in re-
sponse to his question: “To what end
does it serve [sic] making some look dif-
ferent, isolated, weak and suspicious?”
Let us leave to one side the obvious ob-
jection that it is not Jack Straw’s com-
ments but the veil itself, which makes
people look different, and, dare I say it,
suspicious. What Mr Hashmi is in es-
sence asking is: “What can Jack Straw
hope to achieve by putting these women
under the spotlight?” This is indeed a
legitimate question, and one I feel I can
answer.
Jack Straw has fired a salvo at what
would, in military parlance, be referred
to as a target of opportunity, that is to
say, a target made attractive not by its
intrinsic value but by its vulnerability.
As unassimilated – and arguably unas-
similable – Muslim populations repre-
sent an ever-greater threat to the secu-
rity of many Western European states,
even those as marinated in the miasma
of multiculturalism as our current gov-
ernment have finally realised that the
ramifications of leaving this problem
unchecked could be horrendous.
But how best to confront it? Should
we, perhaps, make a bold stand against
those who insist we consign traditional
ideas of freedom of speech to the trash-
can, as demanded by irate Muslim com-
munities throughout Europe (and the
world) during the Salman Rushdie and
Mohammed cartoon crises? Should
we introduce new legislation to explic-
itly ban the criminal practice of forced
marriages, rather than relying on a pot-
pourri of existing legislation relating to
kidnap and the like?
Of course not. For this might bring
us into contact with the bad-tempered
men with the placards, their faces con-
torted with rage at the discovery that
there exist people on this planet who
have the temerity to question their be-
liefs and values. This clearly being an
unacceptable option, Jack Straw has
wisely (albeit cravenly) decided to hack
off that part of the problem that looks
likely to yield the greatest benefit for
the least cost. Hence his comments
about the veil, an ultimately harmless
item of only secondary interest at best.
Such are the times we live in.
I will not expect Mr Hashmi to share
my opinions of the problems that Islam
poses for Britain and other European
countries; indeed, he has made it clear
that he does not. However, in the spirit
of the communication he hopes to en-
gender, I will express my alarm that he
seems puzzled by the idea that people
with different ‘core values’ or who fa-
vourdifferent‘systemsofgoverninglife’
could be a danger to society. What, one
wonders, could conceivably constitute
an internal threat to a society, any soci-
ety, if not those very things? What does
he believe underlies the turmoil that
leaps out at us from the pages of virtu-
ally any history book? Leprechauns?
Mr Hashmi goes on to inform us that
as long as conversation between seem-
ingly opposed groups is “conservative,
suitable and necessary”, it should be
“fine”. But this slightly sinister and
vaguely authoritarian wording is a man-
ifestation of the problem, not a route to
its solution. Many Muslims, it seems,
cannot help but insist that interaction
take place on their terms. No Moham-
med jokes, no bombs in turbans, no Sa-
tanic Verses, no unsolicited comments
about the veil, no exceptions. Where do
we think we are? Britain? These days,
one rather wonders.
As for the tired old claim that it is al-
ways the actions of others that account
for the violence of Muslims, perhaps Mr
Hashmi could explain why Sunni and
Shi’a Muslims are so intent on slaugh-
tering each other in Iraq and other Mus-
lim countries over a succession dispute
that took place over 1300 years ago in
the sands of Arabia. If some Muslims
are prepared to kill each other for such
farcical reasons, is it unreasonable to
suggest that still others might be pre-
pared to kill non-Muslims on the basis
of even less legitimate grievances? Mr
Hashmi might do well to consider the
possibility. As might the rest of us.
NHS ambulance nightmare
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB. Tel 020 7594
8072. Fax 020 7594 8065. Printed by The Northcliffe Press, Northcliffe
House, Meadow Road, Derby DE1 2DW. No 1,361, Friday 27 October 2006.
Registered newspaper ISSN 1040-0711. Copyright © Felix 2006.
Editor-in-chief Andy Sykes | Managing Editor Alex
Antonov | Deputy Editors Tomo Roberts & Becky
Warren | Science Editor Krystyna Larkham | Business
Editor Michael Olymbios | Music Editors Matthew
Hoban, Jenny Gibson, Tom Whitson | Film Editor
Angela Lee | Arts Editor Emily Lines | Fashion Editor
Dolly Delaney | Nightlife Editor Alex Baldwin |
Comment Editor Stephen Brown | Environment
Editor João Vitor Serra | Clubs & Societies Editor
Kirsty Patterson | Grammar Gestapo Andrew
Somerville, Jesse Garman, Christina Swasey
felix
Stephen Brown
Comment Editor
Valerio Chang
9
felix
Friday 27 October 2006
COMMENT & OPINION comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk

