ELETTERS;
OUR
Centenary
Dissent
Dear Sir,
I note with interest that Maribel Anderson,
who ran her election campaign on the basis of
providing a union which would be more
accessible to it's members now seems to
preside over a union run by hacks for hacks.
It appears that the only City and Guilds
organized event to fall within the three day
period assigned to the Centenary
Celebrations is the 'barnight', hardly a mass-
appeal event. Neither the Masquerade Ball,
which is a suitable event, nor the Banquet
which is apparently fully booked by 'hacks',
falls into this period. However, once again IC
Ents will be presenting a carnival.
With so little going on it seems ridiculous
for keen skiers to pass up this superb
opportunity to take advantage of mid-season
skiing conditions. The Ski Club will therefore
be making its travel funds available to any
bourgeois members who wish to ski in
Scotland during this period.
Yours,
P Drummond Smith
(Ski Club Secretary)
Dear Sir,
I have noticed a recent announcement that
undergraduates in City and Guilds will be
given three days holiday over the centenery
celebration period.
Does this offer extend to postgraduates in
City and Guilds? They are after all,
Guildsmen too.
If it does, what is being done for those
postgraduates who must be in College for the
period in order to show their laboratories off
to the general public? Will they be granted
three days extra holiday for the year?
Will they be offered demonstrating rates
for giving up three days of their research
time?
I appreciate that undergraduates are in the
majority at IC, but that is no reason for
postgraduates (who form approximately one
third of the student body) to be kept in the
dark and ignored.
Yours quizically,
Hugh Stiles
Chem Eng PG
Brown's
Terrorist
Dear Sir,
I feel I Must respond to Graham Brown's
letter published in last week's edition of
FELIX, in which he attacked the ANC as a
terrorist organisation, on par with the IRA.
Had he taken the trouble to look up the
word 'terrorist' in the dictionary, then he
would have found that a terrorist is 'one who
rules by or practices intimidation'. Surely
then, the word 'terrorist' is more applicable
to the South African government rather then
the African National Congress, since the
government, through its policy of apartheid
which incidentally needs to be backed up by
the most powerful army on the African
continent, denies even the most basic human
rights to the majority of the countries
population, excepting of course, those who
happen to be white who can enjoy one of the
highest standards of living in the world.
Should the ANC be branded as a terrorist
organistion because with the support of over
three-quarters of the population of South
Africa, it is prepared to stand up to this
disgusting regime?
As Graham Brown is such a staunch
advocate of democracy, then how does he fail
to realise that it is the ANC, and not the
government, that is the true voice of the
people of South Africa—a fact which is
recognised even by the United Nations? The
ANC are committed to the introduction of a
democratic system of government in South
Africa, in. which people of all races can
participate and not to the continuation of the
present systems which is based on fear,
intimidation and repression according to the
colour of one's skin. As the Freedom Charter
adopted by the ANC thirty years ago, clearly
states, 'South Africa belongs to all those who
live in it, black and white, and no government
can justly claim authority unless it is based on
the will of the people.
There can be no democracy in South
Africa, and Namibia, until apartheid is not
merely reformed, but completly destroyed, it
is only through the actions of such parties as
the African Nation Congress, and of the
recently formed United Democratic Front,
that this can ever be achieved.
S Dunlop
Physics 1
Thanks
Dear Sir,
Late on Saturday night in the ladies toilet
in the Union Building, the rape alarm was
accidentally set off. As a result within
minutes three of the Union Barmen arrived.
Their prompt response was very reassuring
and much appreciated, despite it being a false
alarm.
Yours sincerely,
Lindsay Pratt (Maths 2)
Jenny Massicott (Physics 2)
FELIX
First of all let me apologise for this edition of
FELIX being slimmer than usual, especially
compared with last week's bumper 20 pages.
This is due to our printer Tony being ill. We
were promised a temporary printer by a staff
agency but he didn't turn up, leaving us in the
lurch on Thursday. We hope that everything
will be back to normal next week.
The feature on sabbaticals this week (page 6)
highlights the fact that elections are looming.
The campus-wide ballot for next year's
President, DP, Hon Sec and FELIX Editor is
on March 11 and 12, and nomination papers
go up on February 18.
Candidates are allowed to put up posters
and distribute handouts from 5.30pm on
Friday 1 March when papers come down.
Manifestos will be published in FELIX on
March 8. Anyone who wishes to discuss their
publicity with me (in confidence) can do so
from now on. Artwork for printing must be
ready by February 22 to ensure that posters
are ready for distribution when papers come
down. Publicity is controlled by Elections
Committee, which may impose regulations
from time to time.
Acknowledgements: Many thanks to
Grenville, Ajay, Dave Jones, Hugh, Patrick,
Martin, Luke Boucher, Finian, Absofbance,
Rosemary and Sid Stevens of Aldridge Print.
Felix is published by the Editor for and on behalf of Imperial
College Union Publications Board and this edition is printed by
Aldridge Print Group, 36 Mitcham Lane, London SW16.
Telephone 01-589 5111 Ext 3515.
Editor: David Rowe, Business Manager: Martin Taylor,
Advertising Manager: Paul Belford.
Copyright FELIX 1985. ISSN 10140—0711.
SERVICING & REPAIRS
at
RICKY'S
GARAGE
(Personal service guaranteed.)
i» QUEENS GATE PLACE MEWS.
SOUTH KENSINGTON.
LONDON S.W.7
Tel : 01.SSI ISM
2 Friday 8 February 1985 FELIX

