PROFILE
A n n C o l l i n s
Ann Collins isn't exactly what most people
expect from a CCU president. For a start
she's female, doesn't play rugby and only
drinks halves when she takes part in boat
races. The major difference, though, is much
deeper. She is a very quiet, nervous person,
not the sort of person one would expect to
find running barnights. Sitting nervously on
'I've done a lot of things
that I wouldn't have done
otherwise'
CCU presidents are among the
most influential students at IC.
Few students other than the
hacks know much about them
though, so FELIX will be taking
a close look at each of them in
turn over the next three weeks.
the edge of her bed in Southside Ann
summed it up when she said 'I've done a lot of
things that I wouldn't have done otherwise'.
Ann came to college from Stevenage,
Hertfordshire a bland, new town that is
notable for absolutely nothing. After a year
as staircase rep, Ann became envolved in
both IC Union and RCS Union as Chemistry
departmental representative.
'The Union was a bit of a
closed shop so I thought
some new blood would be a
good idea'
However it surprised the average RCS
'hack' when she decided to run for president.
It was seen as an attempt broaden the appeal
of the union. 'The Union was a bit of a closed
shop so I thought some new blood would be a
good idea', was the justification that" Ann
provided for her decision to run.
Ann won the election with a landslide
majority. Hacks said this was the result of
two things. 'The Chemistry block vote',
which is the group of non-hacks that are
mean't to have provided the majority of her
voters, and the fact she is a women . Ann
denies that both these factors were
important and points out that many people
think a CCU president needs to be a male so
that he can down his pints.
This year when Ann was elected, there
were worries that the Union would be split
between hacks and non-hacks. An early
Broadsheet, for example, criticised the
Chemistry block vote for dominating a
UGM. However Ann claims this split hasn't
The Raft Race: a personal highlight for Ann
occured. 'I don't think we're a bunch of
happy hacks I don't think it has impaired the
running of the union and it has provided
different facets for it'
Ann admits that this year she hasn't
instigated any great initiatives, to expand the
union's activities. What she thinks she has
done is increased the co-operation between
the CCUs. 'There is a lot of friendly rivalry
(between unions) which is good but
sometimes it is taken a bit far'. Ann also
hopes that her year has started a trend
towards RCS becoming less 'hack'
orientated although she thinks it will be some
time until this trend is seen at all levels within
the union.
'Considering I had no
previous experience, I think
I did, in most cases the bestI
could'
Personally, Ann admits that she has made
mistakes as president and as a result she
says isn't totally satisfied with her
performance. Union officers have criticised
her being ineffective and naive on
committees. However she thinks
'considering I had no previous experience, I
think I did in most cases the best I could and
hindsight is a wonderful thing'.
Overall Ann has enjoyed the year and
thinks that it has been an opportunity she
'would have been stupid to miss'. She has
also appreciated the opportunity to take part
in events that otherwise she wouldn't
normally have considered taking part in.
'The raft race across the Serpentine nearly
killed me, but looking back I am glad that I did
it'. One common belief among students is
that a period as CCU president damages
one's grades. Ann thinks in her case the main
thing to suffer will be laboratory work. This
may result in her losing a grade of her degree.
CCUs are, in Ann's view, essential to the
social life of Imperial College because they
add to the character of Imperial College.
They also enable people to find some sense
of belonging that may otherwise be lacking in
a college as large as IC.
7 can't see it (RCS)
changing radically'
Ann is less than certain about where RCS
is going. 'I can't see it changing radically in
the next few years because there is too much
resistance. They've got their traditions and
they cling to them'. Ann hopes that academic
affairs will remain an important part of the
Union's role and that RCS clubs will become
more important.
Personally, Ann is aiming to go into trading
with oil companies and has already had
several interviews. If she fails at this then she
hopes to train as an accountant.
FELIX Friday 8 February 1985 5

