OPINIONJ
Sabbatical
credibility
Final year student Graham Thorpe, ICU Academic Affairs Officer, recounts his
experiences at a ULU mini-conference on education. .
Last Saturday saw the first ever 'Education
Day' held for London Colleges. It was jointly
organised by ULU and LSO (London
Student Organisation — the London branch
of the NUS). Aimed at not only present
officers, but potential Union post holders,
the basic idea of the day was to stimulate
discussion about aspects of academic affairs.
Next Tuesday, papers for the post of
Departmental Representative will be coming
down. Some departments will have a number
of interested students, whereas in others the
papers will have to stay up until someone
puts their name up. But will candidates will
have a clue as to how much power they will
hold in their hands when elected.
ULU/LSO's one day mini-conference on
academic affairs was a day of learning for all
those involved. Neither the six delegates
from Imperial who attended, nor other
delegates, nor even the organizers knew
really what to expect. The day got off to a
slow start (the water wasn't hot enough for
coffee). Phil Woolas—NUS President was
due to open proceedings but was unable to
attend. Instead, Delyth Morgan (ULU
President) and Peter Carr (LSO convenor)
gave a brief introduction before the 30-40
people present broke down into three
groups for discussion workshops on
education cuts, education policy and
welfare.
Each session was run twice, thus giving
delegates the chance to attend two.
Naturally the start of each group was shaky,
but by the end of the second period, people
had forgotten any shyness and discussions
were running well.
After a short 'de-brief (mainly to reassure
Ms Morgan that events were running
smoothly) it was down to the re-named
Mergers bar, to talk over first impressions of
the usefulness of the day over lunch.
Despite obvious dislike of Imperial's non-
membership of NUS, there were suprisingly
few of the petty intercollegiate wranglings of
GUC (ULU Council) and nearly all political
differences were left well alone.
Instead those two preliminary sessions
had thrown up a range of ideas, and a few
eye-opening facts.
What would students at Imperial do if
Staff/Student committees failed to exist?
Could you imagine a complaints system
without a Dep Rep? Surprisingly some
colleges do not have what we take for
granted at Imperial. But this does not mean
that we can be complacent—not at all.
Despite having a very good infrastructure for
student representation the debates focussed
how much more use could be made of the
facilities. Why, for instance do so few
students attend IC UGM's? The Dep Rep's
position is seen differently by people who are
involved to differing degrees in the Union. To
many students a Dep Rep can be viewed as a
one way channel for complaints about the
course. Indeed this is an important area of
the reps work, although criticism is all too
often not constructive enough to be of any
use. However a Dep Rep also sits on Union
Council. So what? Council is the ruling body
of the Union, responsible for many of its
polices. So although the Dep Rep may not
realise this, they are there to represent all the
students in their departments. This is where
the present system breaks down. In order to
ensure a more democratic Union, with
greater student involvement, Dep Reps must
become more interactive. It is their duty to
report back to their department's students
exactly what occurs at Council, policy
decided and possible implications. Whilst it
may be argued that FELIX does this to an
extent, there can be no substitute for
personal contact, and the intrinsic questions
and answers this involves. College does not
expect us to learn from just print on a page.
Should the Union? Five minutes a week at
the end of one lecture would make a lot of
difference to people's understanding of
certain issues.
So with these thoughts ringing in my ears,
it was time for the afternoon session. After a
'brain storming' period to discover what
people considered to be the issues in
academic affairs, lack of communication, the
effect of cuts, and others, there was a
discussion of what tools were available to
work for change. This included an interesting
discussion on how to conduct yourself when
on a college committee, as well as producing
more ideas—this time about the continuity of
academic affairs.
Financially clubs and societies have five
year plans laid out, so that they can achieve a
level of equipment attainment.
Correspondingly, student unions should set
themselves goals, not just in the short term,
but in a longer term as well. This has wider
implications than just for academic affairs.
Following yet another coffee break it was
down to more workshops, this time covering
more specific problems Libraries, Mergers,
Women. Again each was run twice.
At the end of these, with heads (or
notepads) full of ideas it was time for the final
'debriefing' session, before the eagerly
awaited wine. Despite more jibes about the
NUS, the general feeling was that the day
had been worthwhile for most people,
although not possibly in a very quantifiable
manner. Such a day is proposed for next
year, but it was pointed out that ULU's
faculty boards could (or should) be doing
more in this line, (there are faculty boards for
Science and Engineering, Medicine,
Humanities, Arts etc).
And so, once the wine had removed any
remaining inhibitions, it was time to talk to
Ms Morgen and dream of a non-political
NUS, led by Imperial students, huge grants
for all, and endless accommodation...
A thought for the day: Academic affairs is
not a soft option.
FELIX Friday 8 February 1985 7

