AP TECHSOC
Apathetic Technolgists?
'Engineers and scientists are asleep — they
direct their skills and knowledge
unthinkingly, whenever they are told to.
They are are about as aware as a ostrich with
its head buried in the ground'.
We often have this image thrown at us at
Imperial College, despite the existence of
Industrial Society, Wellsoc, Environmental
Soc, WIST, Bio Tech Soc, Third World First
etc etc, all of which show interest in the
directions technology is taking, and its good
and bad effects.
Appropriate Technology
The Appropriate Technology Society is
being set up to explore the relationships
between technology and the 'big wide world',
concerning itself with technologies that are
useful to people. It will have two main roles:
1 Discuss how appropriate different
conventional and alternative technologies
are from technical, economic, social and
environmental viewpoints. Events will range
from talks and newsletter articles by wind
power research students, to debates
between multinational oil companies and
Third World First or Green Peace.
QTSOC
And it came to pass that the man began to
write the QT Article, and the crowds they did
speak unto him and they said 'You did this
kind of article last week you overgrown
berk!'.
Boldly going where no QT member had
gone before the Captain leapt from his
command console 'Helm hard astern Mr
Sulu, don't let that Klingon ship escape!'
'Oh come off it' said Sulu 'everybody has
written in this style, at least be original'.
'I agree' said Spock 'I don't believe my ears
—how could you sink so low'.
'I don't believe your ears either Spock, but
I'm desperate to write this article'.
The man quickly regained his composure
and decided to give it to them straight: The
fabulous QT Membership cards where now
available—beautifully designed using
computer graphics, printed on quality
colourful paper, identifying QT to the world
along with their well-known motto 'Semper
in excretum sed attum variat'.
2 Provide a network between Imperial
College and the outside world, for socially
useful projects and research work — from
building aids for the elderly or handicapped
in the local community of Wednesday
afternoons, to carrying out research work
for the Intermediate Technology
Development Group (ITDG) or the Greater
London Enterprise Board (GLEB).
The society's first major speaker meeting
is being held in conjunction with the
Department of Humanities on Thursday 28
February at 1.10pm in the Pippard Theatre,
when Dr Mike Cooley will be speaking on:
'The Technologist and socially useful
products and processes'. Dr Cooley was a
coordinator of the Lucas Plan—a plan to
convert Lucas Aerospace factories
threatened with closure to the production of
socially useful products conceived by shop
floor workers. He is now Director of
Technology for the Greater London
Enterprise Board.
On Wednesday 13 February at 1.00pm in
Elec Eng 403A a preliminary meeting will be
held for all those interested in becoming
active in the society, to discuss policy, and to
form a committee.
Holders of these cards (and others,
Access, Visa, etc) are invited to attend
Speaker's Corner on Sunday to hear the
wonderful Mr Graham Shields preach on a
wide variety of subjects including 'The
Malignant Ear-Wart' and 'Why Bananas are
Curved?' 'Proceedings will begin at 3pm
promptish.
Next Event: A lot of effort has gone in to
'The St Valentines Day Comedy Massacre'
next Thursday, 1pm in Physics LT1. Please
come along and see John Hegley
undoubltably the finest alternative comedian
on the London circuit, who has teamed up
with the amazingly unheard-of but aptly
named Otis Canneloni to form the incredible
'Brown Paper Bag Bros'. John performed
last year at Imperial and no doubt his new act
will go down just as well.
Tickets available in advance from: Adam
Jefferson (Computing 2), Simon Singh (Phys
1), Malcohm Busby (E Eng 1), Mulligan The
Wallaby (Chem 2), Andy Latham (Geol 2).
CLUBS1
SCIFI
Level zero,
at least
The alarm bells rang. Someone must have
decided to knock out a few fire alarms for the
hell of it. The bells still didn't drown out the
sirens though. One minute gave what
promised to be a four-minute life span. It's
not a good idea to be caught on level eleven
when the four-minute warning goes.
Its strange; what do you decide to do when
you find out you've only got four minutes
left? Me, I try to get a longer life span, though
why, I don't know. Level zero or lower is
where I'm going. The noises coming from
some of the rooms I passed revealed some
other peoples choices—frenzied screams
from one, impassioned moans from another.
Might as well go out with a bang eh? As I ran
down the stairs, I found out what some other
people has decided to spend their last, what
is it now, two minutes doing. Prof Anderson
sped past me—using the quick route
down—no stairs. Whats the point getting
you own back on lectures—they'll be dead
soon anyway.
Come to think of it, what's the point of a
public four minutes warning anyway? There
was no place build up to this strike, so why
tell us we've only got four minutes. Hardly
time to build a shelter is it? The guys who've
got shelters will be in them any way, so why
not let us all get vaporised without knowing
its going to happen.
Level zero at least, and its pretty crowded.
Where's that man hole cover. Who know, if I
get the right tunnel I might even make the
bunker. Oh hell, only twenty seconds left.
Perhaps the others were right about what to
do.
Hey. The sirens have stopped! Is that a
voice I can hear?
'The attacks-warning drill is now over.
Normal business should be resumed as soon
as possible. We wish to apologize for any
inconvenience caused, and thank you for
your kind co-operation this day'...
Not much news this week, library meeting
Thursday 1pm in the Green Committee
room as usual. If anybody would like to
donate any books to the Library we'd be
grateful.
Our very own Science Fiction
Convention, PICOCON Pi (as in 3.141596)
will hopefully take place towards the end of
term, with videos, silly SF based games and
guest speakers. Also, as you may or may not
know, Arthur C Clarke's book 2010 has been
filmed. We are trying to get tickets for the
first night. All interested should get names to
a library meeting as soon as possible so we
can book (if there are any seats left still).
Expected date — early March.
PS That bunch of small ad page
degenerates, PPS, the self styled Plasma
Physics Soc have challenged us to a game of
Call my Bluff. Watch this space for details.
FELIX Friday 8 February 1985 9

