Letters
Apologies
Dear Bill,
May I, through your columns, take the
opportunity to apologise to students who have
been kept waiting for the refund of their residence
deposits. The delay is unacceptable and has, I
know, caused hardship and inconvenience.
Strange as it may seem, more man hours are
needed to refund a £50 deposit than to issue a
£500 rent bill. This is because so many different
things need to be checked before refunds are
made. And a lot of people are involved in the
process: housekeepers, wardens, the residence
office surveyors over head teneancy
dilapidations, the gas and electricity boards for
meter readings, and ultimately the finance office
staff to check that all outsanding bills have been
paid and to produce the refund cheques
themselves. This all takes time, and we are
frankly not well geared up for the operation at
present.
We will be looking at the problem in detail at
our next Students Residence Committee meeting.
In the meantime, I believe that we have now
refunded all the deposits due to last term's
residents. We are holding a few cheques in the
residence finance office (Sherfield, room 401),
awaiting forwarding addresses. I hope that
anyone who has not yet received their refund
from last term will come forward (after checking
their departmental pigeonhole, please).
Refund of summer vacation deposits will take
a while longer yet. It would be helpful if claimants
would not pester the staff concerned over the
next couple of weeks: it will only hold the process
up for everyone.
Yours sincerely,
Malcolm Aldridge, Senior Assistant Finance Officer.
Free holiday
With work beginning to pile high, I bring news
of how you can get away and spend a completely
free—yes free—week in Holland and get
something out of it.
BEST, the Board of European Students of
Technology was formed in Grenoble, France last
March. As the representative of the UK at this
conference, I spent eight exciting days with thirty
students from thirteen other countries. In
between partying, skiing, wine tasting and
sightseeing we held discussions on how
European students would be integrated in
preparation for 1992. We founded BEST and
through it aim to facilitate exchange programmes
for academic work and vacation work experience
throughout Europe.
The Eindoven University of Technology,
Holland is host for this next conference. Known
as the European Week, it is intended the work
of BEST will be furthered.
Two people, with the slightest inkling of what
student life is about in IC and the UK have been
invited to represent their College and country.
This could be the experience of a lifetime.
The week begins on Sunday October 30 when,
the participants will have to find and make their
own way to Eindhoven. The next five days will
be taken care of financially by the hosts. The
week's programme includes tours of the
university and local industry, a conference,
sporting activities, trip to 'Cats' in Amsterdam...
Anyone interested in helping to further history
by attending the European Week should contact
me as soon as possible saying why they think
they are suitable for the event. Hope to hear from
you soon.
Ena Jawa, Chem Eng 4.
More nosh
Dear Bill,
I would like to use this page to protest strongly
over the current pricing policy in the Union Snack
Bar. It is a little on the high side I feel.
Last year, the portions became a little sparse
towards the end of Norman's reign and the prices
went up. This year, the prices are even higher
(horrendously so) and the portions virtually non-
existant. I am aware that the Snack Bar made a
trading loss last year (until it was shut down),
but I can see no reason for the Union to try and
regain all of that loss in the first term!
One advantage I have noticed is that there are
much smaller queues and the area is more
sparsely populated than it ever used to be.
Unfortunately, this is as a direct result of the costs
in eating there; you can get much bigger portions
for less money at any of the other College outlets.
Let's not forget the Snack Bar is owned by the
Union for use by us humble and poorly funded
students. Bring down the prices so that we can
afford to eat at our own catering outlet.
Yours,
Steve Killmurray, Physics 3
Cath Maxwell, Physics 2
Simon Bichara, DoC 2
Zoe Hettinger, DoC 1
Rampant
Dear Bill,
With materialism at present being rampant I
wonder how many grduates this year will go for
high paid jobs in commerce and finance on the
get quick rich hype when this is their sole interest.
In ten years time many of these people will be
disillusioned and interested only in acquiring
more and more. Job satisfaction depends on
interest and enjoyment in what one does,
achievement as well as financial reward. Is this
emigration from science and engineering purely
because of higher salaries elsewhere or is it
because the teaching of science and engineering
and the promotion of careers in this area is so
inadequate that students motivation to pursue a
career in this field is rather low? Whatever the
reasons, the implications for the country's
economy in the future is serious. As for
materialism:
"The love of money is the root of all evil' (1 Tim
6vl0).
Does this accurately portray our current
society?
Dave Thomas.
Hello kiddies!
Dear Bill,
I think your readers may be interested to know
the happy ending to the STA Travel saga,
recounted in your last issue.
The agreement has now been signed by both
the College and the Union, and building work
to convert the former Sports Shop area will be
starting shortly. The deal will provide roughly
double the present level of income, all accruing
to the Union. The College gains no direct financial
benefit, but STA have promised to provide a good
quality business travel service for academic staff
travelling on lecture tours, conference visits etc,
alongside their existing cut-price service aimed
at the; student market.
The contract is in exactly the form proposed by
me on 22 September. In fact, I find it difficult now
to understand what all the fuss was about.
Yours sincerely,
Malcolm Aldridge, Senior Assistant Finance Officer.
Shocked
Dear Bill,
I noted with interest in your Freshers' issue that
you both praised and criticised former President
Sydney Harbour Bridge (name changed in aid of
Comic Relief) within the same editorial. Are you
schizophrenic ?
Yours, Jason Lander
Yes and No.
Schizophrenia
Dear Bitty,
I was shocked when I read last weeks FELIX
not to find a single one of my humorous articles
printed. I'll have you know that I spent days
working on that material, and I'm bloody
annoyed that you couldn't even be bothered to
include it in your worthless magazine. You have
left me with no choice other than to sell my dog
and join Industrial Society. I hope you get
dandruff.
Yours, Noel Rogan Josh
A thousand apologies Noel, but sometimes it is
just not possible to fit everything in one issue.
Space had been reserved for your funny bits, but
the last minuite non arrival of another funny
article (the Union Page) meant that we had to
re-run the Mormon feature from one of the
Postgraduate Editions. As the article was two
pages long I postponed your page until this
week.
I hope our contributors appreciate that these
things sometimes happen and it is the job of
editor to make the best of bad situations. I try
my best but I can't please everyone all of the
time.
Page 2 FELIX October 14 1988

