Feature
How to survive IC
Don Adlingtonjs the College's Student Counsellor
Given the entry qualifications of students coming to Imperial College,
it is almost inconceiveable that anyone would be admitted who was not
capable of working at degree level, and ultimately of attaining a degree.
In some respects undergaruates are already experts at study and at
examination preparation by the time they arrive here. Despite this it is
not at all uncommon for students to discover that their previous experience
of systematic learning does not, apparently, guarantee a smooth transition
to successful study at university. The study skills and learning hab'its
which brought success at 'O' and 'A' levels may prove to be inadequate
or invalid at university, and academic work, for the first time perhaps,
becomes a problem. Strikingly, this is at least as likely to happen to the
person with outstandingly good 'A' level grades as to anyone else, but
it is always a throroughly demoralising experience and needs to be
identified and dealt with urgently. A few points that seem to me to be
important.
A. Usually when first-year
undergraduates have academic
difficulties, it has more to do with
the sheer volume and unrelenting
nature of the workload, rather than
the intellectual level of the work.
The student whose habit has been
to work in short intensive bursts
prior to examinations, and who has
not been used to sustained, week-
in-week-'out effort, may well find
himself in difficulty quite quickly.
B: Learning is an interactive
process that demands time, energy
and commitment. Effective learning
cannot be done passively e.g. by
half-heartedly reading through
lecture notes or handouts.
Responding to problem sheets, or
group interaction in class for
example, will be immeasurably
more fruitful.
C. Thinking is intrinsically
difficult, and, for most of us, a
vaguely unwelcome activity, at least
initially. Because it's difficult, we
have an in-built tendency to skirt,
round it. For many people the
problem is breaking into it, for
example starting. We think of other
important but less demanding
things to do instead, like writing
letters, washing up, shopping, etc.
D. University students sometimes
run into difficulties because for the
first time the work they do (or don't
do) is determined by minute to
minute decisions as to how they use
their time. The immediate moral
constraints of the expectations of
one's family, or of sixth form
teachers are no longer there. There
is an enhanced emphasis on
self-motivation.
E. It sometimes takes a little time
to find a proper balance between the
demands of work and those of other
competing interests, all of which
may well be the normal healthy
expression of a full student life. The
management of time, informed by
recognition that invidious choices
having difficulty with work, he is
denied the vital reward of
understanding, which may,
remarkably quickly, depress his
confidence and overflow on to other
parts of his study. It is this close
identification of the emotional state
of confidence and buoyancy with
successful ongoing study, and the
converse identification of intellectual
defeat with depressiveness and
subsequent academic collapse,
which lends such urgency to dealing
with the problem.
sometimes have to be made, is a
skill that must be acquired if it isn't
there already. I am occassionally
surprised by a student having no
apparent conception of the scale of
the task he has taken on, regarding
the odd hour's work in the evening
as a major concession. Studying for
a degree at university is a full time
job, and is probably the hardest job
that most of us ever do. It inevitably
involves trading in or postponing
other desirable ends.
F. All the psychological literature
on learning emphasises the
importance of reward, and the
notion that reward is central to
effective learning holds good over
a very wide spectrum of activity
related to successful study at
university. At the macro level—the
fundamental motives for going for
a degree at all—it is crucial. The
rewards of prestige, of economic
security, or the excitement of
understanding one's subject at a
deeper level, of fulfilling the
expectations of family and teachers,
are obvious ones. If these things are
not valued sufficiently, the resilience
and buoyancy which are necessary
to overcome contingent difficulties
will be undermined, and the
student will falter.
That learning must be rewarding
is also true in the more detailed day-
to-day sense. When a student is
What do you do if you become
worried about your work?
A. Be pragmatic. If your work
habits seem not to be effective,
change them. For example, if you
find it difficult to work much in the
evening, try getting up early and
doing a couple of hours before
coming into College. If you find it
all too easy to be distracted working
in your room, try working in the
library instead. Don't spend hour
after hour staring blankly at notes,
text books, problem sheets. Break
away for a short time—have a
coffee, walk around for a bit, stand
on your head in the corner if it
helps—then try again. Break down
your work into small tasks (which
is really just another way of saying
develop a system of study) and put
a limit on what you're going to do,
and how long you're going to spend
on it. An ad hoc, disorganised
approach to work may have suited
you before, but if the evidence is
that it is not adequate now then
change the way you do things, and
feel confident that you are capable
of changing.
B. Talk to your personal tutor. If
for any reason you prefer not to do
this, make an appointment to see
your senior tutor, whom you can
see independently and without any
disloyalty or discourtesy to your
personal tutor. If your work or
attendance falls off badly, your
senior tutor may well send for you,
;but on the whole academic staff are
tolerant of a less than perfect
performance from students,
recognising that people have
different levels of competence and
different rates of applying
themselves to their degree course.
It is entirely possible for you to
become seriously worried about
your work before it becomes
obvious to anyone else, and the
onus is on you to initiate discussion
about it with those best fitted to help
you.
C. By all means have a look in
libraries and bookshops for books
on study skills and study
problems—you may well find
something helpful and certainly it
can't do any harm. There is also a
very short booklet available in
College called 'Study Success'. It
was written by two current
members of academic staff (a
physicist and an engineer) heavily
involved in undergraduate teaching,
and. seems to me both thoughtful
and relevant. Ask your senior tutor
or departmental officer for a copy,
or ring me and I will send you one.
D. Come to see me. I am easily
available, and my work is entirely
confidential, eg I won't talk to your
department behind your back. Your
time at university is precious—it is
also finite—and there may be
important practical reasons for
talking around anxieties about work
sooner rather than later. For one
thing the flood of new material
being thrown at you is likely to be
relentless, and this can induce a
very nasty feeling of panic if for
some reason you are struggling to
keep going. For another thing,
timing may be critically important
should there be some question of
transferring to another course,
department or university.
A final word. No one on the
College staff derives satisfaction
from students' academic distress.
Departments are adequately
resourced to contain the full
complement of their first-year intake
right the way through to final
graduation. There is no requirement
for a standard 'failure rate'. On the
contrary there is a great concern that
students who are not working well
should be identified early enough
for real help to be given, and the key
to that, quite often, is the student's
willingness to acknowledge the
problem.
Think about it.
October 14 1988 FELIX Page 5

