Thursday, November 5, 1970 FELIX Page 3
EDITORIAL
The more one learns about other universities, the easier it
becomes to appreciate IC's faults. Whether your intention is
to try and cure these faults or simply evade them, you can
gain a lot of valuable experience from the University of South
Kensington. The long awaited official handbook of USK
should be published tomorrow. It's a well-written comprehen-
sive guide not only to local colleges but to the whole district
in general. The handbook will be distributed to all the col-
leges in the area. For more topical news of USK events —
its hoped USK ents sheet will soon be rolling off the presses
again. Meanwhile below, John Goodman writes the first
half of a lengthy article on the theme of USK.
Last week's editorial did not mean to be a parting shot
for a written argument with CEFE. In fact to continue it
from this shore would mean a 1000 word article on the eco-
nomics of regional advertising and the comparative merits of
money and morals When there is a paper to support. Thus
I quietly resign from the argument and acknowledge
BROADsheet for revealing the truth (?) about the issue.
People have asked me about copy dates for FELLX — so
printed below for all budding journalists is a FELIX copy
date guide. If copy dates are not obeyed, it means a lot of
extra work for us. Incidentally we prefer articles to be typed,
but it's not essential. The two issue dates for the rest of
this term are Nov. 19th and Dec. 3rd. Copy must be dropped
into FELIX box in the union before the following times.
Photos are preferred in at the same time but can be delayed
a couple of days except on the Sunday before copy date.
FEATURES—
Midnight Saturday—12 days before issue date.
EARLY NEWS, Letters, Whats On—
2 p.m. Wednesday — 8 days before issue date.
SPORTS—
Midnight Wed. — 8 days before issue.
NEWS — FRONT AND BACK PAGES—
2 p.m. Sunday — 4 days before issue date.
FELICITY—
2 p.m. Wed. — 1 day before issue date.
Letters to the Editor
Megalomania Barclays ICCU
Dear Ed,
Once upon a time (about
two years ago when I first
arrived at these hallowed
halls), there were the goodies
sitting down at one side of
the council table and the
baddies on the other, and in
a comradely, backslapping
way they hated each oither.
There were a few idiots on
both sides and in both back-
ing groups, but there were
always a few who seemed
reasonably sensible and had
a vague idea of what they
were trying to do, and some-
times they managed to do it.
Things seemed to start going
awry last year when the left
rose to grasp power and had
a hazy idea how to use it;
a lot was done but there
seemed a clear division be-
tween those who were honest
advocates of socialist policies
and those who dressed them-
selves as socialists but
wanted their own way and
didn't care if the methods
they used or considered using
to this purpose were methods
more usually ascribed to the
far right of the political
spectrum.
Having called myself a
socialist since the dim mists
of memory, I now feel that
something has gone seriously
wrong with the state of the
left at I.C. It was moderately
funny last year when Mike
Muller and cefe started
rumours that the BoSt met
every full moon to worship
the Egyptian Sun God, and
that Lord Penney was two
druids in a skin, as there
were still plenty of sensible
elements around to stop the
left collapsing into puerility.
The sensible elements are
quieter this year, and a lot
of "left" opinion in cefe and
elsewhere seems to come
from those who don't take
time to consider their pro-
positions and put forward
their views in a manner best
suited to a megalomaniac
schoolkid. You cannot
criticise the left without
being labelled a fascist and
a racialist; if you are identi-
fied with IC socialism you
are burdened with their
naivete.
Can we have a return to
sanity?
Yours,
I A N C A R R .
Sir,
I feel C E F E is perfectly
justified in criticizing you for
accepting advertising copy
from Barclays Bank.
Obviously any sane per-
son must be horrified by
Barclays' involvement, finan-
cial and, dare I say it,
spiritual, in the oppression
of coloured people. It is for
this reason that students
must take a stand against
this organisation.
However, the demise of
'Felix' due to lack of adver-
tising finance would be a
sad event indeed. With this
in mind I suggested 'Felix'
continues to accept Bar-
clays' money, whilst making
it absolutely clear how much
it abhors Barclays' involve-
ment in Southern Africa.
Finally a grain of comfort
for Soc Soccers. Fidel Castro,
in his struggle for Cuba, was
perfectly happy to receive
money from Mexican Mil-
lionaires. If he was prepared
to. sell his soul for lucre, how
much less Felix.
Yours conceitedly,
M A R K L A N E
Physics I
and the
South Kensington University reply
New students will be excused for not having heard of
U.S.K.; older students may also not have heard of it, but
should not be excused. The idea first appeared about two
years ago from a group of brains which included those of
Piers Corbyn, Dave Wield, another John Goodman, and
many other people less well known and mostly now de-
parted. A l l this happened more or less simultaneously with
a resurgence in the National Union of Students as a relevant
body and with the growth of the "student movement" as a
significant part of the British Political scene. L.S.E. were
having sit-ins, Hornsey and Guildford schools of Art were
rent by conflict, the "student identity" spread to the country
from the USA. What then more natural than for some form
of co-operation between the highly diverse group of institu-
tions of higher education around here? Such co-operation
began on a highly informal basis, in a social context and
also in, for example, the production of the first U.S.K. map,
which made its bow in November 1968. Of course, like all
worthwhile movements, U.S.K. had to be bureaucratised and
on 19th February this year (apparently) the U.S.K. com-
mittee met for the first time.
This rather loosely jointed structure got things done.
The sports centre flung open its hallowed portals to all the
U.S.K. and the principle of reciprocal use of facilities was
established; another U.S.K. map appeared; the ents sheet
grooved into existence; the West London Students Accom-
modation bureau limped into existence; a U.S.K. Revue
was staged; some courses were arranged (see associated
Studies programme); the first U.S.K. handbook will be
published on November 6th, 20,000 U.S.K. cards are being
printed and will soon be distributed — Not a bad sjtart.
Now, dear passive readers, is the time to leave onlookers
breathless with the dynamism of this organisation as it leads
us all into the 1980's. The U.S.K. will, in the space of a
few days, be an official N.U.S. area. This pail of N.U.S.
activities is one of the fastest developing of its many facets.
A good thing too, N.U.S. has, to an ordinary student seemed
a top heavy institution in the past. The suggestion of dis-
affiliation from N.U.S. is always accompanied by the cry
"What the Hell does it do for me, it's just a quick leg-up
to the ambitious career politician". Quite right, and if you
were lamely to point to the Service section (ie. Travel) the
dissenter would simply explain that these services could be
provided by alternative organisations and methods.
It is through Areas that N.U.S. can be made to seem
relevant to most of its members. Be it in the field of
"political" action and debate, or in social matters, or in
services to students, the Area makes sense.
A group of colleges, in which everybody can get to know
everybody else, where the best use can be made of facilities,
finance and expertise, and where contact is easy and cheap,
is clearly a GOOD THING. A t the same time many people
have pointed out that it is a bad thing to create an organisa-
tion and then find a use for it. Better to come together on
an ad hoc basis over specific issues and problems and then dis-
band. I do not agree, for the reasons above, and also be-
cause there are surely always problems and matters of com-
mon interest. Indeed there are many occasions when these
only become apparent when people get together to compare
ideas, experience, personalities and frustrations.
Let us examine these problems with U.S.K., and divide
the list of 'things to be done' into four categories: social,
services, academic and political.
First, the social scene, perhaps the most relevant at the
moment to the general population of U.S.K. The Ents Sheet,
inaugurated last year, is continuing and, with luck, will be
even better this year (especially in its distribution). Then
there will be the development of the idea of liaison and co-
operation between social secretaries. The U.S.K. Chairman
(Dave Kay, president of Q.E.C.) is organising a meeting of
social sees. By this it is hoped to eliminate clashing dates,
establish decent channels of communication (posters, news-
sheets, etc.) and also, dare we hope, start some joint ventures.
Carnival is another obvious candidate for co-operation.
In fact some progress has already been made; M.A., I.F.
and the R.C.A. are all joining in with I.C.'s fund raising
efforts this year, but wouldn't it be an excellent idea to work
towards one massive U.S.K. Carnival. We could really make
the area sit up and take notice.
Sport isn't one of my specialities, but it strikes me that
the sports buffs could get together, to establish clubs for
minority sports, to play against each other and to make the
best use of facilities (and training?). Actually, great strides
were made last year in reciprocal use of facilities: you can
use squash, tennis and fives courts in any of the U.S.K. col-
leges.
Also in this sphere are the numerous 'social clubs'. As I
have said in the handbook, it is not for the U.S.K. Com-
mittee to act as some sort of marriage broker between clubs,
nor as a booking agency: it is up to the clubs to approach
each other. Any specific problems could be taken to the
committee of course, but for the rest you, the clubs, must
start writing letters, phoning, or even heaving yourselves off
your backsides and going round to see people.
Next Issue: amongst other things, the academic and
political implications of U.S.K.
Dear Sir,
We would like to clarify
some poinjs made by the
article 'Quo Vadis — or the
invisible church' which ap-
peared in Felix on Oct. 5th.
This article, referring to
the Anglican chaplaincy
states that 'This is the
church in Imperial College or
most of it. There are still
denominational groups and
there is also a rather
separatist Christian Union'.
We would like to stress
the fact that there are de-
nominational groups in I.C.
and it is only fair to say that
the Anglican chaplaincy,
pens to be the largest of these
denominational groups.
We are pleased that the
Anglican chaplaincy wel-
comes any Christian into its
groups but other denomina-
tional groups do so as well.
The fact that the Anglican
chaplaincy represents the
largest number of students in
I.C. does not give it the right
to call itself T H E chaplaincy.
It is a weak, ecumenical
church, which begins by
ignoring other denomina-
tional groups rather than
coming to terms with them.
Yours faithfully,
J O H N C A R T E R
President Cath Soc
D A V E G O O D A L L
President C U
J A N E J E F F E R I E S
Baptist Soc Rep
K E R R Y L A W S O N
Meth Soc
The Editor reserves the right
to condense any letter for space
reasons.
If you fly
scheduled
airlines
you're crazy.
Or rich.
Jet London to Dublin f 6
tq Paris £5.25 to Basel f 9
Get F R E E details today.
A t these prices,
you can't afford not
to go somewhere.
S s t O '
BRITISH S T U D E N T T R A V E L C E N T R E
231 Tottenham Court Road, London W1 E 42Z
Telephone: 01-637 1241
******************************************
THE NEWSPAPER OF
IMPERIAL UNION COLLEGE
Editor: Anthony John Sims
Assistant Editor: Mike Yates
All the other Assistant Editors:
Colin Harvey, Dave Sugden,
Typing: (See Assistant Editors)
Photos: Malcolm Bailey, Steve Heap, Pete Johnson,
Kevin Beat, Dave Mansfield.
Circulation: Pete Morgans, Arnold Darby
Sports: Mike Adams
Business: Ian Quarrinton
And grateful thanks to: Susan Parry, Tom Jaffray,
Tony Kirkham, Roger Lindsay, John Ackers, Kitty
McVey, Piers Corbyn, Judith Walker, Colcutt, John
Goodman, Mark Lane, Charlie Holme. Rify Abdulla,
Dianne, Stan Kearns.
^Printed by F. Bailey & Son, Dursley, Gloucestershire.
Sir,
The grant paid to Felix by
the Publications Board is
only £800 p.a. The cost per
issue is about £175, hence
the need for ads. Barclays
Bank ads are thoughtfully
provided by the agency
handling such matters and
bring in something to the
tune of £100 annually. I sug-
gest that Felix looks around
for other ads and I myself
am prepared to help do so.
The Editor cannot con-
tinue to accept Barclays
Bank ads and still maintain
that he abhors apartheid,
for 'diplomatic' reasons.
Yours affectedly,
R I F Y A B D U L L A
[This letter has been edited).
National Advertising: J.E.P. and Associates, 107/111
Fleet Street, E.C.4. Tel. 01-353-3712.
* Published by the Editor on behalf of I.C.U. Publications *
* Board, Imperial College Union, London, S.W.7. $

