Page 4 FELIX Thursday, November 5, 1970
THE ARTS
BOOKS
Groupie
In Jenny Fabians words,
'If you're a groupie you wear
freaky clothes, take a fair
amount of drugs, and go with
the boys in the good groups';
and that is what 'Groupie'
is all about.
The central character is
Katie, who graduates, via a
succession of groups, into a
very cool young lady. Her
motivations are often the
lowest, personal advance-
ment and self gratification.
She learns to subjugate her
emotions to the cause of be-
ing cool. She drinks tincture,
pops pills, drops acid,
catches V . D . and ruthlessly
discards people for whom
she no longer has any use.
Yet Katie is not an en-
tirely unsympathetic charac-
ter. She is undoubtedly typ-
ical of many of her particular
scene.
'Groupie' is a stimulating
insight into the strange
world of pop.
Beastly
Beatitudes
In "The Beastly Beati-
tudes of Balthazar B , " J. P.
Donleavy's latest book,
grammar, punctuation and
in some cases sense are con-
sistently ignored. The writ-
ing is lyrical and poetic but
like the subconscious mind
tends to ramble and weave,
and makes understanding
difficult. The hero of the
book, Balthazar B himself,
is shy, rich and loving; and
perhaps the anti-hero is
Beefy, his close friend,
throughout the book. Beefy
is a frank and self-pro-
claimed sinner as the follow-
ing passage shows:—
" I am looking for sin."
" Deepest most sordid sin.
I have been to the latrines.
But I am randy again. I have
other places too. Come. The
deepest and most sordid sin
purifies. I bugger old men. I
lay old ladies. Some of them
are dying when I do it."
"My pleasures are utter-
ly beautiful Balthazar.
Sacred. I mingle my elegance
with their retchedness. This
city is a sewer flowing with
rancour and decomposed
flesh, rotting through all
these streets . . . "
If you like this type of
writing, and more of a less
harsh quality, this book is for
you.
K I N E T I C S
The idea of this exhibition is simple. Ten contemporary
artists were each: given £100, and an empty room at I.C.A.
with which to produce a sitting room. Thus art is expressed,
not in a form which addresses itself to the mind alone, but
in a mode that suggests practicality. This art form is best
described as environmental art. If you visit this exhibition
you will find it a stimulating experience. I have briefly des-
cribed the rooms Which I found most provoking. They are
identified by their creators.
Simon Haynes. This room is well littered with paintings —
bold, stirring pictures with Gaugin inspired colour schemes.
Vividly coloured purple fur covers everything which could
possibly be furred. The purple ' dog-skin ' rug on the floor
closely resembles the artist.
Vaughan GrylLs. A cunning inventor of doubtful sanity,
this man. The chairs, providing a variation on the his-hers
theme, are labelled ' bastard,' ' bastardess.' They are com-
fortable but I was the only person using them.
Carol Joseph. What a magnificent shock on entering this
room. Short, bristly black hair covers literally everything.
Warm prickly chairs merge into the walls and floors. This
room is a tactile experience.
Bruce Lacey. The creator's pre dileotion to chopping things
in half makes the chairs difficult to use. Unremarkable ob-
jects are thrown together to produce a truly wonderful effect,
a room that might have been in constant use for the last
forty years. Very funny is the old 'mac,' hung behind the
door, with a bra dangling from a pocket (36D for the tech-
nically minded). Durex foils littered about the floor remind
you of home.
The exhibits in the Arts Council's 'Kinetics' exhibition at the Hayward Gallery (until
22 November) can be roughly divided into two groups: those designed to react in some
way to the presence of the spectator, and those which simply perform, uninfluenced by
external conditions. By far the most popular with the visiting public are those in the
former group as even the most unknowledg eable can become involved in their operation.
These devices vary in complexity, from a large magnetized plate and a supply of iron
nails for the viewer to throw, to a display of light which mysteriously change their pattern
on reception of any sounds. Much of the in terest in objects such as these is the behaviour
of one's fellow observers !
Of the independently operating group, many are simply extensions of well-known
static forms of art, particularly optical art. Others are virtually laboratory demonstra-
tions, such as Gary RieveschPs 'Lightning rods' which consists simply of a 10,000 volt
arc jumping about between sprung-steel rods. Some, however, explore original ideas and
manage to stir some emotion in the observer. Notable, in my opinion are Pol Bury's
frightening array of imperceptibly-moving wooded balls, and a large wooded wheel by
Harry Kramer which crawls along, powered by a clockwork motor, until it has to be
wound up and turned back by a steward: possibly a comment on the futility of tech-
nology (?').
Engineering-minded characters should certainly find this collection more fascinating
than the average collection of 17th century French portraits, since even if one is not artis-
tically inspired, some technical knowledge can be gained. A l l mechanical engineers should
definitely see Jean Tinguely's incredible machines, two of which are on show on the
balcony of the gallery. The larger of these, 'Fontaine b5,' has to be shown outside since
its primary function is to scatter water in all directions. It is enough to give a design
lecturer nightmares that unlikely machines such as these should even stand up, never
mind operate ! (It is quite possible that these machines, and some of the other exhibits,
will break down before November 22, so don't waste any time).
Electronics students can marvel at the amazing 'Electronic cube' by Piotr Kowasski.
This is a picture of a cube on a cathode-ray screen — a picture which Changes as the
observer moves around between two mesh screens in order to present the same view
as a real cube would from the same angle and distance. The exhibition costs 3 shillings,
and includes a free standing-room-only film show of the history of kinetic art.
C U There
A group of us, members of the Christian Church invite
you to join us, when we meet, as a group each week.
We meet every Wednesday, from 12.30 — 1.30 p.m. in
Room 311, Physics Building.
Each week, one of the members of the group leads the
rest in a discussion, or time of quiet or prayer, or any other
group activity, which is felt to be most appropriate. This part
of the proceedings will take about half an hour, and shar-
ing our meal together with conversation will occupy tiie rest
of the time.
If you must gat away for sports activities, or some other
business, then please feel free to do so at about 1.00 p.m.
This gives you the chance of gathering together with the rest
for at least part of the time.
Some of you were members of the Christian Community in
college last year through your membership of a Hall or
Student House. This year you may be living out in digs or
elsewhere. This opportunity, each week, is to help you to
refresh yourself in the experience of the shared Christian
worship, to which you have become accustomed.
Home ?
Marlene Raybould. Stunning ! ! Black and white the only
colours used, every square foot of wall space boasting a
painted breast, a gigantic G-string slung in one corner, not
so much a 'bed-sitter' more a 'sex-sitter.' Overheard comment
in this room 'What a super brothel.'
How to get there: I.C.A. is on The Mall near to Admiralty
Arch. The exhibition runs until November 8th.
P.S. Use I.C.A. coffee shop, good coffee and an entertaining
American girl on the cash desk, but hurry, she's moving on
to Oxford soon. N E W T O N
W h a t ' s o n ?
Saturday, 7 November
T I D D L E Y W I N K S down Oxford Street. Assemble between
10.00 and 10.30 at Marble Arch. Come and collect for
Carnival.
Tuesday, 10 November
D O N O V A N I N C O N C E R T 20.00, Great Hall. Tickets 25/-
in advance from the Union cloakroom.
Wednesday, 11 November
F O L K SONG C L U B : Johnny Handle. 19.30, Union Upper
Refectory, members 3/-, non-members 5/-, bar.
Friday, 13 November
FILMSOC: F A R F R O M T H E M A D D I N G C R O W D —
Julie Christie, Alan Bates, Peter Finch and Terence Stamp
in John Schlesinger's reconstruction of Hardy's novel; T H E
I M M O R T A L S T O R Y — Orson Welles directs, and plays
the Macoa merchant with the wish to play God before he
dies. Guest tickets in advance from 436 Tizard or 528 Lin-
stead. 19.15, Mech Eng 220.
The paucity of copy in this W H A T ' S O N is because
hardly anyone bothers to tell us what their club is doing, or
when. Please submit all notices at least eight days before
publication.
F E L I X needs staff. Come and do your bit every Tuesday
and Thursday lunchtimes. 13.15 in the Press Room at the
top of Beit Union.
Sunday, 15 November: P R O O F R E A D I N G & NEWS for
the next issue at 14.30 in the Press Room.
Wednesday, 18 November: C O L L A T I O N & DISTRIBU-
TION of the next issue of F E L I X from 19.30 in the Press
Room.
IN THE NICK
OF TIME
In the 70s Man made a break for it. Just in
time. The trap was closing.
Everywhere the stockpiles of weapons were building
up. One error of judgment by a general or a politician
— and that was it. Pollution and over-population were
rampant. No money to combat them: it all went on
weapons.
And then came Q.
Quietly the man in the street spoke his mind. The
politicians were stopped in their tracks. They listened:
they had to. And then the danger receded and men
breathed again. Q was the international movement of
ordinary people that brought the politicians to their
senses.
Information from
Q, 65 Artesian Road, London, W.2

