Thursday, November 5, 1970 F E L I X Page 5
M e d i t a t i o n
What is SIMS? Well, apart from the editor of Felix,
the name stands for Students International Meditation
Society, and I.C. SIMS is now the youngest member of the
Social Clubs Committee, having been officially set up this
year. Our aim is to spread the Transcendental Meditation
(T.M. from now on) of Maharishi Mahesh Yogi to every
individual in College.
I hope you're still with me at this point, because T . M .
is of direct relevance to your own situation and, indeed, to
that of everyone i n modern Society. No one needs to be
remanded of their tensions, their anxieties, frustrations and
the resulting depressions, and everyone knows, or at least
has heard, of how these things can affect a man's physical
health. How many of today's business men have ulcers, or
weak hearts? Look at the rising number of people needing
psychiatric treatment! Anxiety neuroses, psychosomatic dis-
eases; these are terms everyone is familiar with. Obviously,
not everyone is in such bad shape, but this seems to be the
tendency of society today. Industrial unrest, high crime rates,
irritable people, dissatisfied with life.
CREATIVE IQ
Enough of the negativity! Everyone wants to be happier,
more progressive, more fulfilled, more efficient so he can
more loving, compassionate and tolerant. But how can he
the better achieve his desires, more aware of his environment,
allow this to be?
Every man (and woman!) has within himself a reservoir
of creative intelligence, energy and happiness and during the
practice of T.M. — let me say here that T . M . is an effort-
less natural technique involving no concentration or change
in one's mode of living — one's individual awareness is al-
lowed to expand from the conscious thinking level to this in-
finite field of pure being, pure awareness, pure bliss.
With the prescription of T . M . in the a.m. and the p.m.,
for a few minutes before meals (!) suffering and negativity
will be cured and replaced with a positively enjoyable, pro-
gressive dynamic, fulfilled living.
And now a little note of our forthcoming activities:
(1) Thurs. 12th Nov. 6.30 Physics Building, Theatre 3.
Dr. Anthony Campbell, Medical Editor of the 'Hospital
Times' will speak on
'The Physiological Basis of Consciousness'—all welcome.
(Some ten years ago, Maharishi suggested that the existence
of the transcendental state was open to confirmation by
scientific method. Recent physiological studies have shown
that T . M . does indeed produce a distinct physiological state
which can be clearly distinguished from the waking, sleep-
ing and dreaming states, and at the same time that this
state is one of profound physical as well as mental rest).
(2) Starting Monday 2nd Nov. we will be holding a series
of fortnightly informal introductory talks on T.M. 6-7 p.m.
Upper Union Lounge. Please feel free to come along (2nd,
16th, 30th Nov. etc.).
Finally, I'm always pleased to see people in my room in
Hall (Selkirk 573), so if you have any queries or would like
more information on T . M . drop in, or leave a note.
Nat West's "bank-in"
In a drive to attract new
accounts National Westmin-
ster — the College's bankers
— held a five-day "bank-in"
just outside the Senior Com-
mon Room on Level 2 at the
beginning of term. Bank ac-
tivities and services were i l -
lustrated by display panels
and a kiosk handled cash
transactions.
DISPLAY
At this, the first display
NatWest had mounted at the
college, bank staff were on
hand each day from 9.30
a.m. — 4.30 p.m. to help new
customers with the formali-
ties of opening an account
and to answer their ques-
tions.
" W e are delighted with
the number of new accounts
opened and look forward
to helping account holders
with their personal money
problems," said M r . Tom
Sutton, who, as Manager of
the South Kensington Station
branch, has overall control
of the bank's permanent of-'
fice in the college.
This office in the main
block, Level 1 (West) is
open from 9.30 a.m. — 3
p.m. Mondays to Fridays and
provides a full range of ser-
vices with 36-year-old Mike
Taylor in day-to-day charge.
Students and staff who
wish to have a personal chat
can meet either Assistant
Manager Tony Stacey or
Sub-Manager Graham Soal
on Mondays and Wednes-
DIRT
Pin-up of this issue is DIANA, the second in our series of
gorgeous girls to be found decorating.Southside Bar. An ex-
student, she graduated at Manchester and works in IC.
The effects of the Col-
lege's Work Study on the
cleaners are now becoming
painfully obvious through-
out I.C.
Most users of the Union
building must have noticed
the increasingly dirty state
of the building. Thanks to
the Work Study, the number
of cleaners has been cut to
such an extent that there
are not now enough clean-
ers available to clear up any
unexpected mess, such as
the aftermath of a Freshers'
Dinner. To make it worse,
the lavatories are not cleaned
from Friday morning until
the following Monday. The
Beit Quad, which used to
be swept every day, now
gathers dust unchecked.
Nor is the Union the only
building affected—the stan-
dard of cleanliness through-
out the College has deteri-
orated recently. There can
be no doubt that this is
directly attributable to the
cut-back in cleaners after
the Work Study. Despite their
increased wages, the clean-
ers are not happy, as they
are expected to do an un-
realistic amount of work in
the time allotted to them by
the infamous Study.
The question on every-
one's mind now is: How long
before the College abandons
the Work Study and the
buildings can become clean
again?
Transactions in progress
days (12 noon — 1 p.m.) or
Fridays (2 — 3), at the col-
lege office.
COMMENTATOR
Alternatively, Tom Sutton
will be pleased to meet cus-
tomers at the Station Branch
at 18 Cromwell Place. First
year students who don't al-
ready know him may find his
voice strangely familiar, for
he has broadcast frequently
on rowing — on B B C T V at
Henley Royal Regatta and
for Radio on the Oxford and
Cambridge Boat Race.'
As a member of the Sen-
ior Common Room, he fol-
lowed closely the fortunes of
The Imperial College Cox-
less Four at this year's Hen-
ley Regatta, at which Lord
and Lady Penney were his
guests — appropriately on
Lady Penney's birthday.
Lord Penney joined M r . Sut-
ton in the umpire's launch to
follow the I.C. crew in one
of their heats.
Something to applaud this time. Britain's most impressive demon-
stration of books for students. Over 120,000 books always in stock.
THE STUDENTS BOOKSHOP IS AT
CLAUDE GILL BOOKS LTD
481 Oxford Street, London, W.1.
One minute from Marble Arch near Seifridges.
Q. How to get there?
A. Tube: Central Line to Marble Arch or Bond Street.
Buses: 2, 6, 7, 8,12,13,15,26, 30, 55,
60,73, 74, 88,113,137, 500, 505.
Open MONDAY-SATURDAY
9.00 a.m.- 5.30 p.m.
late Thursday
to 7 p.m.

