Page 8 FELIX Thursday, November 5, 1970
R E L E V A N C E
( P i e r s P i e c e )
What has the impending picket of the College Block
Brown Lounge (Ante-Room) Waitress Service got to do with
student pressure for diversification of narrow courses?
Sometime this week there will be a picket of the Brown
Lounge because the powers that be above us, and their ap-
pointees are autocratic, narrow, unimaginative, and finance-
minded. Like the Tories, with their museum entrance fees,
they put money and autocracy before culture and consulta-
tion. Hence they unilaterally decided, against the wishes of a
great many people, to put a waitress-service refectory rather
than an art gallery there, and refuse to budge
Their attitude is a reflection of the attitude of members of
the Governing Body — who make appointments, or appoint
those who do. Most of them each have a handfull of director-
ships of companies or groups of companies. For example,
Lord Sherfield (Chairman), Lord Penney (Rector) and Sir
Edward Playfair hold about a dozen such directorships be-
tween them, which together involve probably over 1000
subsidiary companies, many of which are South African
(where money comes before life, not to mention culture).
The influence of our Governing Body of Wanker Bankers
reflects in the research finance of I.C. (19% industrial,
9% military), and the hierarchical, autocratic, narrow and
unimaginative ethos they exude into the structure of Imperial
College.
The Union has proposed a change in the College Charter
to make I.C. more socially responsible. But that is not
enough, just as we have to fight to get culture put before
money withour picket line, we have to fight for the introduc-
tion of socially and politically relevant courses and projects.
It is therefore very good that there was such huge support
(at the first U . G . M . this term) for the very important Union
decision to draw up, in conjunction with experience else-
where, our own courses and projects to be introduced in
departments (not reported in Felix). It will be interesting to
see how many academics, few of whom deny the need for a
' broader outlook,' will support us.
The Departmental reps and Academic Affairs Officers are
now gathering ideas on courses and projects which can fit
into each Department. In Aero people are thinking of Con-
corde cost and bangs; In Chem Eng, pollution; in Mech Eng
and Physics, The Third World Society is thinking up ideas to
help intermediate technology (technology for the Third
World). They all need help, so bring forward your ideas, to
them, or anyone on the Academic Affairs Committee.
So don't forget — you can understand this place if you
look ' upstairs' a bit and see the forces which push us around.
Piers Corbyn.
C O N C E R T A N I A
I.C. Ents have already be-
come pissed off with their
fellow inmates after the Free
concert in the Great Hall, a
week last Friday. Despite
Free's fame, a top support-
ing group and good advertis-
ing, only about 600 people
turned up to this gig, result-
ing in a £250 loss. One esti-
mate was that there were
more people both from M A
and IF than from IC.
The concert itself went
very well, the Great Hall
looking quite full, consider-
ing. Mighty Baby played
superbly but there was some
doubt whether the light
show was following the
group or the group playing
to the light show; not that it
mattered. Their perform-
ance was equalled by Free
with their sheer profession-
alism and loud music; People
came away awed by their
act which made their records
seem so inadequate.
The reputation of the
Great Hall is growing rapid-
ly, with Donovan giving a
two hour concert on Novem-
ber 10 (tickets 25/- from the
Union Cloakroom), Traffic
on January 27 and Elton
John on February 24. Other
groups wishing to give con-
certs are Crosby, Stills, Nash
and Young (doubtful due to
dates clashing), Emerson,
Lake and Palmer (in the
spring), and the Who rang
up last week saying they too
would like to play in our
Great H a l l !
To prevent similar losses
Ents would like to hear from
anyone on their views (via
FELIX) on who they would
like to see in concert, for
Ents exist primarily for you!
Rumblings
from
U.L.U.
Students entering the hal-
lowed precincts of U L U (that
place in Malet Street) in the
last few days will have seen
a notice announcing drastic
changes in the admittedly
odd opening hours. And this
change is provoking quite a
controversy, as it seems that
the decision on ithe changes
were taken without the sayso
of any of the U L U commit-
tees.
The first steps in this furor
was taken by the Sooieties'
Council, the body which
runs all the social and recre-
ational clubs at U L U . This
body has called an emerg-
ency Assembly of Councils
meeting — the nearest thing
U L U has to a Union General
Meeting. What this will ach-
ieve is not entirely certain —
what is certain is that it will
have to take place before
mid-November. Meanwhile,
rumours grow apace as to
whom will end up carrying
the can for this bit of student
unrest.
LETTER TO THE EDITOR
Bookshop hits at Neasden
Dear Sir,
I am enclosing a copy of a letter in reply to one from Mr. Arnold Neasden in your
last issue. 1 have contacted the Records Department of the Registry, and they cannot
confirm that there is a student Of that name at the College.
Yours faithfully,
J. L. Knill.
Dear Sir,
The letter in your last issue from M r . Arnold Neasden (" Unrepeatable Bargain Of-
fers ") requires a reply since much of what he wrote was either misleading or simply in-
correot.
The Imperial College Bookshop is owned by the College Unions . . . in other words
the representatives of the student body . . . and five of the seven members on the Com-
mittee are elected student representatives. The shop makes no " profits" as such but,
after retention of a proportion for continuation of the Bookshop's operations, the sur-
plus at the end of each financial year is paid to the Unions. The method of disburse-
ment between the Unions is determined by the LC. Union Council and confirmed by
the Bookshop Committee. As I understand the position, the student body could not re-
ceive a " larger share of the profits " than they receive at present. The author of ' News
in Brief was well-informed as to the then—confidential information in my files when he
drew attention to the "fantastically increased I.C. Bookshop profits" and the manner in
which this could influence Constituent College finances. I am sorry to tell M r . Neasden
thait the surplus this year is larger than ever before and well over twice that paid to the
Unions last year.
Mr. Neasden has. apparently unwittingly, made a serious charge against local book-
shops in that he implied that new books can be purchased from them at prices less than
those current in the I.C. Bookshop. There is a Net Book Agreement on sales of new books
and unless a bookseller agrees to stand by this he will lose his licence and therefore Pub-
lishers will not supply further stock. The price of the same book in the I.C. Bookshop
and another copy bought elsewhere must be the same. The I.C. Bookshop does not sell at
prices above those indicated under the terms of the Net Book Agreement. If Mr. Neasden.
or any other student, can substantiate his claim in writing Ito me, I will investigate the
matter and report my findings to you, M r . Editor.
The " supermarket image" deplored by Mr. Neasden was purely temporary as a
visit to the shop will readily demonstrate. Part of the shop was operated on a " help
yourself" basis for the first fortnight of the Autumn Term in order to speed up sales
and services as much as possible, during the period when the shop is heavily stocked and
seriously understaffed. The same policy was adopted last year; we are quite unrepentant
and intend to repeat this arrangement in October 1971.
May I remind all Felix readers that there are three channels of direct communica-
tion for constructive comment or genuine enquiry into the Bookshop's operations . . .
the student representatives on the I.C. Bookshop Committee, the Manager (Miss M .
Basden) or myself.
J. L. Knill,
Chairman, I.C. Bookshop Committee.
(Unfortunately this letter was received too late for inclusion on the letters page—Editor)
U n i o n R e g a i n s C o l o u r
A new colour television set is at last about to be installed
in the Union Reading Room (first floor) to replace the T.V.
stolen last year.
By the time you read this, the Anti-theft frame should
have been made and bolted into position, and the T.V. will
be bought as soon as possible, pending Insurance Company
approval of the frame. The set ordered is a 25in. floor
standing Baird model similar to the T.V. already in the
Southside Senior Common Room, and will cost the Union
nigh on £100 per year.
Now the Union inhabitants can once again watch in
colour pressure is mounting on the Union (also once again)
to hire a colour T.V. for Southside Lounge. Three Halls
(Tizard. Falmouth, and Linstead) are known to want their
own colour " boxes." but are unwilling to got their's before
Southside. for fear of their own lounges being invaded, as has
happened in Weeks Hall.
Donovan, shown below as he appeared on his last visit
is returning to L C . on Tuesday, 10th November.
Eng. Soc. visit to Rolls-Royce
Rolls-Royce, motor car division, Crewe, had the honour
of a visit by 7 members of City and Guilds Engineering Soc-
iety of which every C & G student is a member, on Wednesday.
Oct. 21st.
The marathon distance was covered quickly and comfort-
ably by minibus, and the tour around the works proved to be
interesting and not a little surprising — in fact worth missing
a lecture or two.
Many more bigger and better (even !) visits are in the off-
ing, including C O N C O R D E ! ! Up to 45 Students will be
able to come on this visit, which no other society in I.C. has
ever managed to arrange before.
Keep an eye on the Eng. Soc. notice board on level 3,
Mech Eng, for details of visits to Concorde. Road Research
Laboratory. Watney's Brewery, Coventry Colliery, and many
others yet to be arranged.
Keith Armstrong, Visits Sec.
LAMLEY'S
A
E
^ r •
STATIONERY
1 EXHIBITION ROW), S.W.7
Are you interested in
books by:-
Joseph |-|eller
Edward y^lbee
John L e Carre
Roald Qahl
John y^rden
Harold Nicholson
Gavin gwart
Get them from the
Haldane Library
Level 2, Library Block
Open Mon. to Fri. 10—5.30

