science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
10 felix Friday 16 May 2008
Science
Science Editor – Ed Henley
Simon Singh, author, science journalist, and Imperial alumnus, speaks to Felix about his new book
Simon Singh recently got in contact
with Felix, mentioning he'd got a new
book out, "Trick or Treatment? Al-
ternative Medicine on Trial", which
he'd co-authored with Edzard Ernst,
and asking if we wanted an interview.
Naturally, we leapt at the chance, which
resulted in the following conversation,
outside a Richmond pub on a sunny af-
ternoon last week.
It’s very informative - I’ve picked
up a lot of things I’d not twigged,
such as chiropractice being
completely different from what
chiropodists do…
I think that’s an important point: I sat
in on a lecture for some trainee GPs – I
surveyed them before the lecture, and
it was quite clear that half of them had
no real idea what homeopathy was –
they thought it was to do with herbal
medicine – they didn’t realise it was
just sugar pills. On the one hand, GPs
shouldn’t hand out homeopathy, but
on the other, they will encounter pa-
tients who will say “Oh, I’m thinking
about this – what do you think about
this”. You say you learned a lot read-
ing this book, I think GPs could too,
because alternative medicine, like it or
not, is an area they’ll come across again
and again.
How did this book come about –
when did you meet Edzard Ernst,
and where did your personal
interest come from?
Although I started off as a physicist, I
then went off to become a TV journal-
ist and an author and so I skip about
all over the place – from pure maths
in Fermat’s Last Theorem to cosmol-
ogy in the Big Bang to cryptography
in The Code Book. So in a way it’s not
surprising that I skip over to alterna-
tive medicine, except that it’s very dif-
ferent from maths and physics.
The way it started was that I’d heard
of people using homeopathy to prevent
malaria, and I thought this cannot re-
ally be true. I know for a fact that ho-
meopathy’s just sugar pills and that of
all the alternative therapies it’s the one
that we know just doesn’t work – both
from a theoretical and an experimental
basis. I think an important point of the
book is that we’re not anti alternative
medicine, we’re just pro-evidence, and
sometimes we’ll embrace an alterna-
tive treatment, and in other cases we
won’t; homeopathy’s one we abso-
lutely reject. Having heard these sto-
ries about malaria, I thought it would
be good to do a bit of a survey, and so
I worked with a young graduate, who
went to ten different homeopaths - it’s
one of the stories we tell in the book.
Because I’m not a specialist, I collabo-
rated with some tropical medicine spe-
cialists. They said you should say this
woman’s going to West Africa, where
the most serious cases are. I double-
checked with Edzard, as I knew he was
the world’s first Professor of Alterna-
tive Medicine, to check if there was any
evidence homeopathy could be used to
avoid malaria. That’s when I first met
Edzard, and when I first became aware
of how scandalous what’s going on is
– that ten out of ten homeopaths were
willing to treat this young lady, sending
Singh on alternative therapies
her off to West Africa unprotected.
That’s when I thought: hang on –
there’s something here that needs to
be written; for the public. Even people
close to me – members of my fam-
ily – have used homeopathy. They’re
good parents, smart people, and if
they’re turning to homeopathy, there’s
clearly a public education thing going
on here, as well as a fascinating history
as to how homeopathy emerged, how it
grew, and what’s going on in the minds
of people who are spending money and
investing hope in therapies which don’t
work. That’s when it all came together,
during the homeopathy study, meet-
ing Edzard and realising he’s spent 15
years studying this and writing a hun-
dred academic papers, but wondering
whether his message was getting out to
a wider audience.
Though you’ve worked in many
different areas as a science
journalist, this was your first
book-length piece in this sort of
area. How was the process of
collaborating?
It worked incredibly well, much better
than I could have hoped for. There are
nightmare scenarios where authors fall
out with each other. But this was ut-
terly painless, for a variety of reasons.
One of them is that Edzard’s a good
writer – he’s written columns, articles
for the public – so there were sections
where I’d say ‘Can you have a go at this’,
so he’d send me the material, and I
might go away and reshape it, reword
it, and shorten it a bit but he always
gave me stuff that was already read-
able. And in other cases, I’d say ‘I want
to write a section on herbal medicine
and I’m particularly interested in the
safety aspect. Can you send me some
material?’ And he’d send me essentially
a dossier of all the most important ma-
terial. I’d read outside that too, but he
would give a good starting point.
And perhaps the most important
thing is that we always said our conclu-
sions about particular therapies would
always be based on the scientific evi-
dence – we’re not writing a book about
what food we like – we’re looking at
whether or not a treatment works, and
the way you do that is through a scien-
tific trial. Science is never as cut-and-
dried as people might think it is – it’s
always open to slight interpretation,
but at the end of the day it’s quite clear
whether or not acupuncture is effec-
tive for eczema, or is there adequate
evidence that it’s effective.
I think the only area where we could
have had disagreements, and it’s a real-
ly interesting area, is on the placebo ef-
fect. We could have said “Homeopathy
has no pharmacological effect in and
of itself, so why does it work, why do
people think it works?” Well there are
various reasons – one is they take them
when they’re at their worst, so they can
only get better; they take them when
they’re already taking conventional
drugs, which may help them, yet they
credit the homeopathy; they think it
works because of misleading things
they read in the press. And the body
heals itself. So if you have a cold, with
homeopathy you’ll get better in 7 days,
without it you’ll get better in a week,
but again you’ll credit homeopathy.
But one of the reasons is the placebo
effect – the sheer thought of taking a
remedy which you think will help you
will have some positive effect. We ex-
plain the placebo effect is incredibly
powerful, and clearly of benefit to pa-
tients. So even if homeopathy is just a
placebo, if a placebo is generally bene-
ficial, what’s wrong with homeopathy?
That’s a very powerful question we can
get to. The problem in the debate is
getting homeopaths to agree it’s just a
placebo in the first place! If we can get
that far there’s an interesting debate
as to whether or not we should use
placebos. Some people would say we
should - it provides an instant benefit
at relatively cheap cost for people who
have otherwise untreatable conditions
like chronic back pain. But Edzard and
I agreed that we would not want to go
down that route.
They’re interesting, the reasons
you raise as to why you think
this is unethical, that the ends
don’t justify the means. You say it
devalues medicine…
Yes, it encourages irrationality; it’s a
gateway to people who think well if ho-
meopathy works for my cold, maybe it
will help for my malaria protection.
Also, it encourages a culture of lying –
if homeopaths are allowed to lie to us,
are big drug companies? Who else is
allowed to lie to us?
And why on earth would you have just
a placebo when you can have a real
medicine plus a placebo: if you have a
back pain Ibuprofen has a real effect as
well as the placebo.
And the more we run down conven-
tional drugs (which admittedly aren’t
perfect) the more we remove their pla-
cebo effect, and stop their real effect.
This raises a few issues - as you
point out, alternative medicine
is attractive to many because of
its individual approach, which
maximises the “therapeutic
relationship”. Has this effect been
investigated?
Yes, studies have shown that if a doctor
gives you medicine personally, rather
than a prescription, this enhances
the placebo effect. There are prob-
ably things conventional medicine can
learn from alternative therapists. But
one of the ways you elicit the placebo
effect is purely through time. I had my
first acupuncture session recently – a
Simon Singh: if you've not read his previous books (e.g. Fermat's Last Theorem), you've missed out on some exceptional science writing. Change
this today – go pick up a copy of Trick or Treatment? Alternative Medicine on Trial. Or, if you're feeling lucky (punk), try out our competition
Edmund Henley
Science Editor

