science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
11
Friday 16 May 2008 felix
Science
photo for an interview. I’ve deliberately
avoided all alternative therapies be-
cause I shouldn’t base the conclusions
in a book from my own personal expe-
riences – how arrogant would that be of
me to say acupuncture worked for me,
so everyone should use it? So it was my
first session, and it was an hour long –
someone talked to me, held my hand,
seemed to do some level of diagnoses.
For half an hour, I had acupuncture,
for 20 minutes of that I lay down in a
quiet room, with music playing gently,
for the last 10 minutes I had a head
massage. It’s an hour long procedure,
which probably cost around £50. Now
if you can invest that kind of money,
you’re bound to get a placebo effect,
but unfortunately money’s always go-
ing to be limited, which is why, I’m very
happy to say, we can’t waste money on
unproven therapies.
Is alternative medicine on the
rise?
Yes, undoubtedly, increasingly there
are all sorts of weird and wonderful
things on almost every high street –
why is this? One reason is we’re an af-
fluent society, we have money to pam-
per ourselves and give ourselves the
illusion we’re helping ourselves. When
people have a real crisis – breaking
a leg – they go to A&E. Alternative
medicine caters for these diseases
which annoy us, where people get frus-
trated with mainstream medicine, say
colds or back pain, where mainstream
medicine has nothing to offer. And it’s
partly about mainstream medicine’s
lack of sensitivity to the public, and the
way a minority of doctors treat their
patients.
But I think the main driving force is
the mainstream media – in any Sunday
supplement you’ll see articles about
the benefits of crystal therapy, or “My
Reiki guru”. And if you’re reading that
you’ve got to think there’s something in
it. And you look across the street, and
Bootsissellinghomeopathy.Bootssells
medicines that help me, surely there-
fore homeopathy must help me, other-
wise why would they be allowed to sell
it. Neal’s Yard, just last week, were very
heavily criticised by the MHRA for
selling a homeopathic remedy which
claimed it could treat malaria. So all of
this stuff is going on around us, so it’s
not surprising the public thinks there’s
something in it.
You promote an idea of Dylan
Evan’s, suggesting alternative
medicines and therapies should
come with disclaimer labels; that
this £40 billion industry should
be regulated. How easy do you
think it would be to impose this
regulation?
I don’t know – it’s a funny one – if I
want to fit a gas meter in my house,
whoever does it has to be CORGI reg-
istered. If someone wants to give me
a checkup, it could be anyone. You
could go home tonight and put up an
advert calling yourself a homeopath,
and nobody could stop us. You have
to be trained to install a gas meter, but
you don’t have to be to treat someone
else. This is where the regulation falls
apart - the really bizarre thing is that
although I can treat anyone who wants
to see me and pay me, I can’t treat any
animals – to treat animals you need
to be a fully trained vet. Animals have
more protection than us!
Say you suffered from something,
say irritable bowel syndrome,
which hasn’t responded well to
conventional treatment. You then
come across an alternative ther-
apy, which as a scientist sounds
plausible and useful. How would
you go about investigating it?
I’d get a copy of my book and I’d look
it up! We look at the 30 most popular
herbal remedies, which have been the
most investigated, and say what they’re
effective for. If it was mild depression,
and it was St John’s Wort, which really
does seem to be effective (though it
does have some side effects) then I’d go
and speak to my GP. I was recently giv-
en some pills by a herbalist, of which
I was supposed to take 30 a day, and I
said I’d like to talk to my GP first. Their
response was “There’s no point telling
your GP, they’re not a herbalist, they
won’t know what this is.” That’s the
level of irresponsibility and huckster-
ism that’s out there. I’m shocked – the
sort of things we talk about in the book
– if a GP did that, they’d be struck off!
Should this be a criminal offence?
About 180 MPs signed an early-day
motion in support of homeopathy. It’s
the most extreme example of political
cowardice I can imagine – they’re be-
ing asked to endorse a form of medi-
cine most doctors don’t seem to sup-
port. If they campaigned to get rid of
it, they know about 15-20% of their
constituency, who maybe use home-
opathy, would say “how dare you try to
deprive me of this medicine, or cut it
And the ones that mother gives you, don't do anything at all. Well, if they're homeopathic that is
out of the NHS”, and they’d lose votes.
Rather than do that, they’d prefer to
perpetuate this lie that homeopathy is
some kind of effective medicine.
And similarly universities which
teach alternative medicine – absolutely
bogus science – and which at the end
of it give people a BSc. I’m really proud
of my BSc from Imperial College. I’d
always understood what it meant was
that lots of clever scientists in the past
had built up this body of knowledge,
and that other clever scientists had
taught it to me, and that I’d accumu-
lated this body of knowledge of what
science is, and what science has taught
us, and where it’s going in the future,
and that I could walk out of Imperial a
little budding scientist, who’d learned
something. At other places, when you
do a BSc, in complementary medicine,
you’re being taught pseudo-science.
As a student you’re being misled, and
if you later go and treat people later
you’re misleading your patients.
I think it’s an utter disgrace that
Westminster University, which in so
many ways is a respectable place, with
good research and good teaching, is
prepared to undermine the integrity of
British education in this way. It would
be wonderful if some of the academics
at Westminster had the guts to stand
up and say “I’m a biochemist here and
I care about what we stand for, and I
don’t want to be in a university where,
in one part, we teach that the more
dose you give someone, the bigger the
effect, and in that little bit, they teach
the opposite”.
One interesting thing here, to go back
to your earlier question, is that I love
physics, and maths and the pure sci-
ence side, still more than anything else.
The direction here is not just a shift in
subject matter, it’s also shifting to an is-
sue which faces society and which just
makes me angry and frustrated. I think
it’s a role for young scientists and un-
dergraduates, to get involved.
In what way?
Say going to pharmacists and asking
“You’re selling this stuff, do you be-
lieve in it? How does it work?” I think
there’s a level of involvement, becom-
ing active. There’s an organisation,
the Voice of Young Scientists (VOYS),
and they’re great – there’s a cosmetic,
which is supposed to block radiation,
and they’ve just rung up the company
which makes it, and asked “How does
it work? Sounds fantastic!” They’ve
basically been causing a little bit of
mischief, and forcing people to justify
what it is they’re selling. And I think
the more that scientists can confront
these issues, and talk about them, and
cause trouble with the people that sell
them, and try and talk to other people
who may be less aware of how science
works, the better!
And so what now – any ideas for
the next project? I imagine you’ll
be sticking with this one for a
while.
These things do roll on for a while – I’ll
be going to America in August, to talk
about the book there. It’s a fascinating
process, writing a book, but it’s also ex-
hausting – for two years I’ve not read
a novel or any other non-fiction. It’s
lovely to think that this summer I’ll be
able to sit down and read a book. And I
might read one which triggers my next
project – these things fall into your lap
in a way which you never expect! Now
I’m writing about things which appal
and anger me. I’ve got involved in the
debate on some of the bad and ludi-
crous anti-science which tries to ex-
plain global warming isn’t serious, isn’t
caused by humans. I’m a firm believer
there’s a scientific consensus that glo-
bal warming’s real, and that we need to
act – so maybe my next book will also
be this angry sort too!
Simon Singh and Edzard Ernst's new book, "Trick Or Treatment?
Alternative Medicine On Trial" is a great read, combining the story-
telling and lucidity we've now come to expect from Singh with a
fair and rigourous assessment of a range of alternative therapies,
from herbal medicine to acupuncture. Supplemented with histories
of the therapies' often baffling origins and a thoughtful discussion
of the ethics involved, the book is rounded off with useful refer-
ence material on the most often-encountered alternative therapies.
Simon Singh and Transworld Publishers have kindly donated a
competition copy to Felix, which can be all yours, if you get the
following question right.
Which higher-level institution was Singh based at for his Ph.D.?
1. Exeter University
2. Cambridge University
3. Imperial College London
4. The Centre for Homeopathic Education
Answers to science.felix@imperial.ac.uk by Tuesday 20 May, 7pm.
Correct answers will be put into a hat, and the winner of the draw
will be notified by email. If you don't win, we suggest you console
yourself by buying a copy – it's worth it!
These ones, on the other hand, do apparently. Don't think Alice took fish oil capsules though
Competition!

