Culture &
The Arts
Arts Editors – Rosie Grayburn, Caz Knight, David Paw and Emily Wilson
Budding culture vulture? Write for us.
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Rosie Grayburn
Arts Editor
J
ust prior to the time of writing
this column of writer’s block, I
was angry. The sun had buggered
off and the 1st day I had decided
to wear shorts had gone terribly
wrong as I was greeted with ice-cold
wind slapping my poor legs. This made
me especially aggravated as I wanted to
write a nice column extolling the sum-
mer season. Now I’m going to have to
write about art. Shit.
In this week’s pages, we have been
creeping around small, unfamiliar gal-
leries and theatres in London. David
Paw has discovered the Embankment
Gallery in Somerset House. When he
told me its whereabouts, it sounded
very much like he had gone on an In-
diana Jones style escapade to get there:
“I swung across the Thames using my
handy liana rope, and then I had to
answer the Sphinx’s riddle and then
I crossed a lake of molten lava, then I
was there. Easy. Or get the number 9
bus”.
But maybe this is the time of year to
take a break from the sweltering galler-
ies of London. There are so many beau-
tiful parks in London, and all have their
own individual character. My favourite
is London park is Hampstead Heath,
probably because it has a hill. Coming
from ‘Up North’, I do like a good gradi-
ent and the views across the city and
surrounding countryside are splen-
did from the top of the heath. Heaven
would be lying there on a sunny day
in the long grass with a good book. In
heaven there is no such thing as a grass
allergy or hayfever. Next week we will
feature a tube map of parks to explore
around the city.
Over the summer, I have decided to
drag my poor boyfriend to Florence
and Siena. “I don’t like art,” he stated,
“but I will when we get there.” There is
nothing but art there, except for large
helpings of espresso, pasta, and ar-
mies of tourists. Maybe to wean him
onto Italian art, I should take him to
a new gallery that has cropped up on
my radar: The Estorick Collection in
Islington. It is described as “One of the
most civilised ways to spend an hour in
London” and is set in a listed Georgian
building with a sumptuous café and 6
galleries containing London’s finest
modern Italian art. At the moment
there is a lovely exhibition of prints
from a well-known collection in Italy.
However, I am really looking forward
to the exhibition opening on the 25th
June at the Estorick: The Mountain
Photography of Vittorio Sella. What
could be more beautiful than seeing
nature’s own art that has been cre-
ated over millions of years? The way
the snow folds down the mountain is
better than the best couture at Fashion
Week and the mountain looks at you in
a formidable manner, unlike any por-
trait in the NPG.
If you would like to get involved with
Arts, please contact us at arts.felix@
imperial.ac.uk and we will give you
free tickets in return for your articles.
It’s like that bit in the Little Mermaid,
except we won’t take your fishtail or
give you legs… in fact it’s completely
different.
Corrie for cultured people
Rosie Grayburn sees the World Premiere of Harper Reagan at the National Theatre
Harper Reagan (Lesley Sharp) and a generic drunk Northern bloke (Jack Deam). People in Stockport don’t have jobs: they have pints of lager.
I
t’s amazing when anything re-
motely related to the North of
England pops up on my radar
here in London, so imagine my
delight when I found a new play
at the National Theatre which was
partly set in my hometown of Stock-
port! Harper Reagan is a new play by a
fellow Stockportian, Simon Stephens,
and it is the most wonderful piece
of theatre I have seen in a long, long
time.
Poor old Stockport never gets a
look-in when it comes to culture-type
things. It’s stuck in a limbo between
Manchester and Macclesfield - both
far more interesting places, it has to be
said – and contains a dirty shopping
centre, a deserted entertainment com-
plex, council flats and a hat museum. I
am so glad it gets an airing at the Na-
tional Theatre’s most intimate stage,
although I have to say Stockport looks
a fair sight better at the theatre than in
real life.
The play focuses on one seeming-
ly ordinary person, Harper Reagan,
played by the fantastic Lesley Sharp.
Harper works in an office. She has a
grungy teenage daughter and a lov-
ing husband, who has a sinister secret.
For this reason they have moved from
Stockport to another limbo, Uxbridge.
On a hot autumn day, Harper leaves
her family without telling them and
gets on a plane back to Manchester.
You see, children, Harper is having
what is commonly known as a MID
LIFE CRISIS. We follow Harper on
her journey to South Manchester, and
around many stage sets which rotate in
a very elaborate fashion, as she tries to
find some answers to life’s questions.
In a simple way, the play is like an en-
tire year of Coronation Street played
out in 2½ hours, with an in-depth and
darkly comic exploration of sex and
death. You wouldn’t get this on ITV.
Apparently, Simon Stephens origi-
nally wanted the play to be about a
man but then obviously decided that
the play would be far more interest-
ing if the main character was a wom-
an. Lesley Sharp’s Harper is a brilliant
‘heroine’. She is slightly adolescent
in her awkward manner, but this just
shows she is at an odd stage of her life.
Harper is thrown into disarray when
she doesn’t manage to see her father
before he dies and consequently goes
wild – sleeping with strangers, glassing
uncouth men in pubs and stealing their
clothes. I don’t blame the woman – her
life is unravelling around her and only
when it gets really bad does she return
to her distraught family in Uxbridge.
Every character we encounter on
her journey up and down the country
is watchable and interesting. Her very
eccentric boss (Michael Mears) is just
one of those people you’d wish to avoid
in the corridor at work, whereas Harp-
er’s mother (Susan Brown) is half Man-
cunian Hyacinth Bucket, half emo-
tional wreck. Seth Reagan (Nick Sidi),
Harper’s husband is a wonderful, calm,
sweet man and my heart was wrenched
when we learned about his past.
I left the theatre feeling enlightened,
thoughtful and gobsmacked: all the
emotions one should feel when one
goes to see a play. I loved the fact the
play was spoken in Northern, when
nowadays you get so many actors who
sound like they have a plum in their
gob. If you hark from up north, go and
see this play. If you’re from anywhere
else, go and see this play. It is sparkling
new theatre and it glitters with atti-
tude. Ee by ‘eck, I loved it.
Harper Reagan is on until 9th
August. The National Theatre
release Student Standby tickets
every day 45 minutes before the
show starts. These cost £10 and
you get the best seats in the
house. Yummy!
Harper is heartily disappointed on visiting Stockport’s Hat Museum
15
Friday 16 May 2008 felix

