16 felix Friday 16 May 2008
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Arts
Shades of Purity: Skin & Bones
Fashion and architecture may not appear to be the most obvious pairing. David J Paw reviews one of the
year’s most important exhibitions fresh from the Museum of Contemporary Art in Los Angeles
A
fter making your way
down the steps of Som-
erset House’s south en-
trance, you find yourself
in the shade of two arch-
ing canopies rising from the sidewalk of
the Victoria Embankment. Who would
have thought? The Embankment Gal-
leries seem to be the sort of small and
largely-ignored establishment one
gushes liberally about to one’s friends
over lazy afternoon drinks. Not any
more. As Rebecca Johnson stated a
couple of months ago in the London
Student, this exhibition was long over-
due in London, one of the key cities in
the progression of the worlds of fash-
ion and architecture.
Skin and Bones’ mission statement
concerns the convergence of the afore-
mentioned disciplines in recent years,
citing examples from each. The ex-
hibition starts in the 1980s, perhaps
appropriately as the Japanese fashion
designers led by Issey Miyake invaded
the Paris shows and began to make
their impact felt, quickly followed by
the hastily-labelled “Hiroshima chic”
of Comme des Garcons and the great
Yohji Yamamoto.
These designers created unconven-
tional outfits, treating clothing more
sculpturally and including liberal dos-
es of asymmetry and sheer volumes
more associated with architecture.
As you head into the dark of the gal-
lery through a set of heavy curtains, a
collage of old magazine clippings from
the time sets the scene perfectly, with
liberal lashings of the new breed of de-
signers such as Comme and John Gal-
liano. Though not quite the juggernaut
of modernism, the exhibition recog-
nises the exciting potential of the crea-
tive exchange and movement early on.
Though the creations and techniques
of previous couturiers such as Cristo-
bal Balenciaga had been described as
“architectural” in form, the eighties
provides the perfect starting point for
the uninitiated as the technology avail-
able was light years ahead of traditional
pattern cutting techniques, thus allow-
ing a new spirit of creative enterprise
to flourish and allowing a convenient
entry point. The exhibits are perfectly
presented and in a logical order that is
a pleasure to view. For an avid fan of
design, it is a heaven of sorts.
Zaha Hadid’s angular building pro-
posal for The Peak commercial centre
on Hong Kong Island is quickly fol-
lowed by a massive full-wall projection
of Belgian duo Viktor & Rolf’s 2002
Long Live The Immaterial collection,
in which models wear designs cut
from bluescreen material. The effect is
wondrous, with projections of sprawl-
ing Los Angeles freeways and reef fish
skitting excitedly across tucked and
draped dresses and tops. Several out-
fits from Bouddica’s Invisible City col-
lection are also displayed in the flesh,
allowing viewers to marvel at their
tautly suspended hyper nylon dresses,
interlocking shapes and finlike pro-
jections that were more Boeing than
Brooks Brothers. A video schematic
showing British designer Hussein Cha-
layan’s remote control dress from 1999
plays on loop. The room is silent.
The space the exhibition takes place
in was designed by architect Eva Jir-
icna, and is in itself worthy of marvel.
Flat silver panels roll into undulating
carbon black surfaces, juxtaposed with
gorgeous jabs of teak to punctuate the
contrast between the artificial and
organic so often referenced in both
fashion and architecture. Wind up the
underlit staircase and you find yourself
staring down a two corridors in which
the thick of the exhibition lies.
Despite its billing as an exhibition of
architecture and fashion, the general
feel is that of architecture influenc-
ing fashion more than the converse.
Of course, this is not without reason.
As architects increasingly begin work-
ing on smaller-scale household items,
clothing also makes an interesting ex-
periment. It is far easier for a designer
of clothes to incorporate architectural
sensibilities into his or her work on
a small and relatively low-cost scale,
than it is for an architect to boldly ex-
periment with couture techniques on a
massive scale under even larger com-
mercial pressures and logistic con-
straints. It is more straightforward to
work alone with yards of silk and crepe
than it is to work with several engi-
neering teams and construction firms
on a project involving steel beams and
fragile glass panels.
Thus it seems somewhat simpler to
find examples of architecture in fash-
ion than vice-versa. The crowd at the
exhibition are also distinctly in the
fashion camp – leggings, status bags
and wedges galore, though occasion-
ally a lost architecture student wan-
ders in and provides some contrast to
the crowds counting the layers rapidly
accumulating on model Maggie Rizer
in Viktor & Rolf’s 1999 Russian Doll
show, in which a model has progressive
tiers of dresses layered upon her.
The upstairs takes techniques from
each discipline such as draping, decon-
struction, printing, use of geometry
and volume, and compares the crosso-
ver of each technique into the domain
of the other. The appeal of this is made
starkly apparent in many examples, but
none more so than in the “printing”
section, in which a technique normally
used by fashion designers such as Mat-
thew Williamson is splayed in ceramic
tiles across the roof of Santa Caterina
market in Barcelona by the dynamic
architecture group EMBT.
Similarly, the use of paper tubes is
contrasted between architect Shigeru
Ban’s paper tube shelters used to
house refugees in Rwanda, and Yohji
Yamamoto’s stunning and innovative
use of them in his “secret dress” from
his 1999 Wedding collection. Their
innovative and surprisingly practi-
cal application (used in the latter in
lieu of zips to “lock” sections of ma-
terial together) is a testament to the
forward thinking of visionaries such
as Yamamoto and Ban. Though they
won’t be in the mainstream any time
soon, the path is already paved.
In addition to comparisons, collabo-
rations are also evident. Those who
take note of luxury trends will note the
now-established trend of collaboration
between fashion designers and luxury
labels with prestigious architects. The
given examples here are Herzog & De
Meuron’s collaboration with Prada on
anepicstoreinAoyama,Tokyo,andFu-
ture Systems’ design for the Selfridges
store in Birmingham. Rei Kawakubo of
Comme des Garcons has notably been
honoured with inclusion amongst the
world’s best architects in Taschen’s Ar-
chitecture Now annuals for her input in
designing Comme’s store in Manhat-
tan, a shimmering aluminium tunnel
taking the shopper from an unassum-
ing sidewalk into a futurist labyrinth
laden with Kawakubo’s idiosyncratic
clothing designs.
So besides spectacularly highlighting
the similarities between the disciplines
and recognising a long-overlooked and
significant design trend, what else does
the exhibition succeed in? Well, as
stated before, the space is a fashion and
architecture junkie’s dream come true.
Finally, after the frivolity of purely aes-
thetic fashion with its frills and over-
sized bows comes fashion anchored
in pure design sensibility and with it,
names not normally seen in show-
rooms and boutiques, let alone major
exhibitions. For this alone the fashion
and design community owes the or-
ganisers no small gratitude.
Wired ensembles and jaw dropping
technocouture dresses by Junya Wa-
The Japanese designer Yohji Yamamoto’s sculptural and tastefully clean clothes are design favourites in the world of architecture
“The exhibition
recognises the
exciting potential
of the creative
exchange”

