arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
17
Friday 16 May 2008 felix
Arts
Above: Hussein Chalayan’s LED design for Readings (1); Wilkinson Eyre Architects’ folded Bridge of Aspiration at the Royal Ballet School (2);
Hussein Chalayan’s Afterwords (3) and Daniel Libeskind’s design for the Jewish Museum in Berlin both draw cues from embedded notions of
identity; Yeohlee’s increasingly complex use of structuring and suspension (5) draws from long established architectural principles, as evidenced
in Foster & Partners’ Millau Viaduct (6)
tanabe vie for your attention along
with a deconstructed Margiela piece
and suspended harness dresses by
New York design wizard Yeohlee Teng.
More mainstream pieces such as a
Vivienne Westwood piece in Duchesse
satin or an incredible Alexander Mc-
Queen piece from The Widows of Cul-
loden (2006) are the icing on the cake.
In particular, those not fortunate
enough to have witnessed Hussein
Chalayan’s performance set piece dur-
ing 2000’s Afterwords collection will
see it here in all its glory, albeit with
the actual clothing and the video of the
“performance” on loop adjacent to the
display. Chalayan was interested in ref-
ugees in the context of identityand the
idea of having to pack one’s belongings
to flee undesirable circumstances.
His piece consisted of a few chairs
surrounding an ordinary circular
wooden table. When the models ap-
pear, they remove the cloth from the
chairs and don them as dresses, and
the frames fold into suitcases. After, a
model steps into the centre of the ta-
ble, which then folds into a tiered skirt,
before the group walks away. Visually
powerful and iconic in the world of
fashion and design, this is worth the
admission alone.
And what of the architecture die-
hards? Thankfully, there is ample to
satisfy here on that count as well.
The great and the good, from Daniel
Libeskind to Jakob and MacFarlane
are represented, and superstars are in
abundance as well. Thankfully, Frank
Gehry’s inclusion avoided the obvi-
ous reference,sinstead focusing on
his pleated and muscular design for
the IAC Building in New York and his
gorgeous Walt Disney Concert Hall in
downtown Los Angeles.
Someone once wittily observed that
fashion was so vapid that without at-
tachment and association to other cre-
ative mediums, it would evaporate into
thin air. In this instance, it attaches
itself to that other peripheral medium,
architecture. As demonstrated by the
exhibition, there are more similarities
between the two than you might give
them credit for. Neither is really ac-
cepted by the old guard and thus it is
left to the likes of the more progres-
sive-minded younger generations to
identify and integrate it as such.
No, fashion and architecture will
probably never be as expressive as pure
forms like sculpture and painting, but
then one isn’t intended to wear a sculp-
ture or live beneath a canvas. Though
to some the references and parallels
will appear obvious, Skin and Bones
evidences just how deeply the design
symbiosis runs as there is much here
to astound and inspire.
Its last parting shot is a Chalayan
piece from last summer’s Readings col-
lection. Bundles of burning red lasers
sear across the enclosed glass, cutting
swathes of jagged, angular lines. The
illusion of geometrical structures rise
and fall in the melee like the organised
chaos of a Jackson Pollock, suggesting
an architecture of the space around
the body, Regardless of medium, the
essence of design comes down to line,
line, line. Both disciplines in the purest
sense strive to free themselves of the
limits of convention and diktat. And
in the world of art where most of the
work is in the intention, what more is
there to it than that?
3 4
5 6
1 2
“Powerful
and iconic,
Afterwords
is worth the
admission alone”

