music.felix@imperial.ac.uk
18 felix Friday 16 May 2008
Music
Music Editors – Peter Sinclair and Susan Yu
Peter Sinclair
Music Editor Efterklang
Queen Elizabeth Hall
2nd March, 2008
Efterklang live at Southbank
From the release of their first EP
‘Springer’ in 2003 to their second and
latest full-length LP ‘Parades’ in late
2007, Efterklang have experienced a
level of success enjoyed by relatively
few bands who still manage to retain
their independence and individuality.
Parades, which was met with almost
unanimous excellent reviews in the
music press upon its release, contin-
ues a trend observable throughout all
of their albums - away from the colder,
more introverted electronic sounds of
their earlier works towards a more live,
almost orchestral feel. It is a trend seen
in virtually all electronic genres today,
and represents something of a coming-
of-age for the whole style.
In a tour which has taken them
around Western Europe and will soon
take them to the US and Canada,
Efterklang’s 33rd date was London’s
Queen’s Hall in the Southbank Centre.
Embracing the sumptuousness of the
venue, the band’s newfound warmth
was brought to a level only hinted at
on the LP, with all instrumental parts
(excluding beeps and clicks) being per-
formed by five of the core members,
with Anna Brønsted of Our Broken
Garden filling in for the fifth. Even the
choral arrangements were performed
live, with all members of the band sing-
ing in harmony. Given the dreamlike,
sometimes whimsical sound of the rest
of the music, these sections were par-
ticularly powerful, ushering the mood
from the sombre to the divine.
Efterklang really have managed to
perfect the art of the live show, despite
the complexity of the music which
must make its performance a night-
mare. There were no points where
the veneer of the music faded and you
could see through to the technicalities,
as happens when some electronic acts
Efterklang live at The Queen Elizabeth Hall, Southbank Centre
go live – like when watching a good
movie, there isn’t time to question how
real the characters are when they act so
beautifully.
Like the music, the band’s perform-
ance is playful and sometimes whim-
sical. The violin solo which was sup-
posed to be played during one of the
songs by the missing member (stuck
in Sweden due to UK visa issues), was
After the release of their second album
‘Twenty One’ on the 24th of March,
and kickstarting their tour in Man-
chester, Mystery Jets came home to
London to play a very special show at
Scala on the 24th of April.
The band came out with a roar of
applause from the audience , start-
ing off their show with ‘Hideaway’, the
first track from their new album. The
crowd was made up of artsy indie kids
and people you wouldn’t normally as-
sociate with the electronic style of the
Mystery Jets, but nevertheless they
all swayed and jumped in harmony
to tracks like ‘Young Love’, ‘Veiled in
Grey’ and my personal favourite, ‘Hand
Me Down’.
Although the band no longer play
with Blaine’s father Henry, they still
managed to reproduce their tracks live
as clear as they sound on the album on
Scala’s fantastic soundsystem.
The relentless cheering of the crowd,
however, brought the band back on
stage to play an encore. Along with
them came Henry, who played a very
much missed guitar part for ‘You Can’t
Fool Me Dennis’ and the show’s closer,
‘Zoo Time’. The audience’s chanting of
“Zoo Time, Zoo Time, Zoo Time” add-
ed to the already hyped atmosphere
and made a kickass addition to the end
of an impressive show. It is safe to say
that the 80s-influenced vocal harmo-
nies and synth-heavy melodies of the
Mystery Jets rocked Scala that night.
The band will be continuing their
tour until Christmas this year so you’ll
have the chance to catch them in Lon-
don at Kentish Town Forum on the
28th of May (alongside the likes of
Maximo Park and Blood Red Shoes), at
Victoria Park the 9th of August and at
Astoria on the 23rd of October.
Roman Hochuli
Efterklang have risen to become one of the most popular and admired electronic acts
today. Peter Sinclair went to see them at the London leg of their current world tour
W
hen I next write
here I will be twen-
ty. While there will
benophysical,tem-
poral or emotional
gap between 11:59pm on the 15th of
June, and 12:00am on the 16th, I think
in a few years it won’t be hard for me
to mentally separate the two decades –
the teens being as they were filled with
hormonal instability, getting drunk in
the park and Slipknot, and the twenties
with its forthcoming vast riches, super-
model girlfriends and utopian technol-
ogies. I tend to think of the awkward
teenage years as very much overrated,
but hearing of Slipknot’s fourth studio
release some time this summer has got
me reminiscing.
I must have been about thirteen, or
fourteen maybe, when I first heard the
band – I think my brother bought their
first album and I must have stolen it off
him at some point. Until then, I had
been bored by the Britney vs. Christina
whore-off that dominated mainstream
teenage music culture at the time, so
tended to react to most music with
bewildered disinterest. But Slipknot
was a revolution. Drop D guitars, two
drummers, screaming and rapping all
in the same gruesome (albeit slickly
marketed) band. Add to this the hor-
ror masks, and I was in love with nu-
metal. This whole world opened up to
me: Deftones’ ‘Back to School’ played
on my DiskMan during most of my
highschool education, Korn inspired
countless attempts at starting bands –
it was a good time to be 13.
Through nu-metal I heard about
grunge, and through grunge I heard
about The Smashing Pumpkins. By the
time I got into them they were long
gone, so I had the whole catalogue of
albums to discover. I loved the creamy,
brittle distorted sound, and I lived vi-
cariously through the ‘1979’ video.
I actually met one of my best friends
through our mutual love of the Pump-
kins – I was wearing a ZERO t-shirt,
and we spent hours talking about the
breakdown of ‘Geek U.S.A.’ and the
dizzying apex of ‘Hummer’.
This column is taking me so long to
write – I keep taking 20 minutes out
to trawl YouTube for all of these old
tunes. I hadn’t listened to Hummer for
years before 5 minutes ago, and I had
barely given Deftones a thought since I
was 16. When I first saw the ridiculous
promo video that Slipknot have put
out to promote their new album, I was
ready to cringe at myself for ever hav-
ing liked them, but I now realise that I
actually had excellent taste in music as
a teen. I still think the horror masks are
cool (although cutting off your dread-
locks and sticking them to a mask is
definitely not cool, and quite disgust-
ing). Maybe I will buy another Slipknot
t-shirt. I probably appreciate it on a
different level now to how I liked it
back in the day, but it’s comforting to
see that while my tastes have changed
since highschool, I still deep down love
my nu-metal upbringing.
Does anyone even read this bit?
Special mystery prize to the first
three people who email music.
felix@gmail.com
replaced by a whistling solo, and sev-
eral members of the band miming the
air-violin. At the end of the show, in a
charming twist, the band played their
final song while parading through the
audience in the style of a marching
band, the main vocalist and multi-in-
strumentalist Casper Clausen donning
a snare drum and taking the role of
Drum Major.
I had my initial doubts when hear-
ing ‘Parades’ for the first time, but in
what seems like a complete reversal
of roles, this is an album which must
be appreciated live. When recorded, it
sometimes feels slightly melodramatic
and at times contrived, but live it is so
real and so organic, it couldn’t be any
different.
Peter Sinclair
Mystery Jets
Scala
24th April, 2008
Mystery Jets play live at Scala
Contrary to popular belief, that is in fact hair and not a shit

