music.felix@imperial.ac.uk
19
Friday 16 May 2008 felix
Music
The Courteeners are a four piece Indie
act from Manchester and are tipped to
be the next big thing with their debut
album ‘St Jude’ currently at number
27 in the official album chart, 4 weeks
after its release on the 7th April. You
might have been hearing them since
August last year when they released
their first single ‘Cavorting’ on the in-
dependent label Loog Records, which
sold out immediately, serving as a pre-
monition of their success to come.
The band was used to playing to wild
crowds in packed-out venues in and
around Manchester, and went down
well with The Coral audiences as the
supporting act of their UK tour. Un-
suprisingly then, their first headlining
tour in October was extremely popu-
lar with their devout following of live
music lovers, finishing with a sold-
out date at Shepherds Bush Empire.
The band have since released 3 more
singles, the last two of which - ‘What
Took You So Long’ and ‘Not Nineteen
Forever’ - have been top-20 hits, and
their album St Jude has been eagerly
awaited.
The album opens with the catchy
and dramatic tune ‘Aftershow’, which
gives us a taster of the wholesome
pop-indie goodness which fills the al-
bum from start to finish. It’s a strong
beginning and is sure to have you tap-
The Courteeners
St Jude
★★★✩✩
Lost causes and a love of the steam locomotive
ping your feet and humming along. It
maintains that get-up-and-dance pace
for the first four songs, only slowing
down momentarily for ‘Please Don’t’,
a sweet little track telling the all-too-
familiar story of the messy break-up,
asking “Please don’t pretend that we’ll
stay friends.” Frontman Liam Fray
describes this track as “Better than
anything I’ve heard in years” and his
slurry Manchester vocals seem just as
comfortable with this sentisitive and
melancholic number as they do in the
more common explosive, upbeat and
general feel-good tunes which follow
it. The album does slow down to catch
its breath again in ‘How Come’ and the
lovely ‘Yesterday, Today & Probably
Tomorrow’ which closes the album
like a goodnight kiss.
So yes, it’s good. But it’s not really
anything new. They are trendy, cardi-
gan-clad, indie Manchester boys and
while the lyrics do occasionally deviate
from the usual topic of love-life related
misery, such as the binge drinking, pill
popping culture of today’s youth in Ca-
vorting and a quite bitter criticism of
the posey and image-desperate stere-
otype of the ‘alternative’ music fan in
Fallowfield Hillbilly, these references
are still far from insightful.
In short, St Jude isn’t going to change
your life, but it you love indie, it will
sound great, and your CD collection
won’t be complete without this energy-
oozing gem.
Fiona Watt
Westlife. Ho ho, not really. It’s the fucking Courteeners
Mournful post-rock signal men iLiKE-
TRAiNS made it to London to give a
lesson in chess players, fictional prime
ministers and the great fire of London.
Drawing on events or people from
the past, David Martin deeply crooned
over a solid reflective post-rock base
in Shepherd’s Bush. They performed
a wide set both from their excellent
debut EP ‘Progress Reform’, and their
first-but-not-as-good album ‘Elegies
to Lesson’s Learnt’. Nevertheless, live,
the band where clearly engrossed with
their music, as were the audience,
sucked in through their mesmerising
visual displays. Each song has a specif-
ic setting and date, for example ‘Terra
Nova’, which recounts Captain Scott’s
expedition to Antarctica. The setting
was exhibited with striking, often black
and white grainy images that dragged
the audience forward. The visuals were
especially lovely if you aren’t partial to
starring at beards. During the last song
‘Spencer Percevel’, David Martin broke
his guitar in the sheer emotion of the
nine minute epic. Lucky for us, how-
ever, they also previewed a new as-yet-
untitled song, which hinted that the
future of iLiKETRAiNS may be slightly
more upbeat. Good, as after an hour
of melancholy historic post rock, it
all starts to merge together due to the
iLiKETRAiNS
Shepherd’s Bush Hall
2nd March, 2008
genre’s predictable structure and Dav-
id Martin’s voice. When Guy Bannister
(guitarist) harmonised, the sound was
given more depth, but this was unfor-
tunately an effect the band only used
sparingly.
Oh but the Venue! Trundle along
Uxbridge Road for a little further than
Google would have you believe and
you’ll find the Shepherd’s Bush Hall,
the Empire’s smaller, more regal little
brother. The atmosphere and deco-
ration of the venue made the gig feel
like the house party of a member of
the minor aristocracy who keeps in-
die scenesters and long-haired 30-50
somethings as close friends. The walls
were exquisitely covered in mouldings
of cherubs and scrolls and there were
no fewer than six chandeliers (and one
small disco ball), hanging from the
ceiling. As I arrived the ‘party guests’
were sitting in circles or nonchalantly
leaning against the wall just a little
passed out. It wasn’t tacky, despite my
description, and iLiKETRAiNS’ sound
made the whole place cry of a dysto-
pian future.
Sarah-Emily Mutch
Chooooooo! Kill me now
We would like to hear your views and opinions about disability and Imperial College.
Have you enjoyed your experience as a student here? Do you think Imperial could improve some of the
things it does to support disabled students?
We are holding confidential meetings (focus groups) to give you the opportunity to voice how we can
improve what we do for disabled students at Imperial College. Your comments will be treated in strict
confidence with an external independent specialist facilitating the meeting(s).
If you would like to participate please contact Christine Yates, The College's Equalities & Diversity
Consultant at c.yates@imperial.ac.uk or tel: 020 7594 5558.
You need only state which time you would like to attend, for numbers (and catering) purposes only. The
times and venues are as follows:
Tuesday 27th May at 10.00—13.00 Room 311, Level 3, Sherfield Building, South Kensington
Tuesday 27th May at 14.00—16.00 Room 307b Level 3 Sherfield Building, South Kensington
Monday 2nd June at 10.00 —14.00, Room 311, Level 3, Sherfield Building, South Kensington
Monday 2nd June at 14.00—16.00, Room 311, Level 3, Sherfield Building, South Kensington
Your opinion counts – Disabilities

