felix@imperial.ac.uk
Travel
Travel Editors – Ahran Arnold, Nadine Richards and Ammar Waraich
The Democratic Republic of Congo
Ammar Waraich finally delivers Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) Part 2 of 2 (Part 1 in Felix 1,397).
Gorillas, guns and Generals are on the cards as he discusses the issues and situations surrounding his visit
A
dmittedly this piece has
taken more than the one
week promised since the
first part, but better late
than never!
As those of you who remember read-
ing the previous piece may recall, I
spent some time in the DRC last sum-
mer when I literally walked into the
country on foot alone, looking for ad-
venture. But what I got in return was
being stuck in civil strife; being reduced
to having only $7 in my pocket; brib-
ery; and having to escape the country
by taking a boat past armed gunmen.
The Democratic Republic of Congo
was a country that instantly caught my
imagination. Precariously straddling
the line between extreme lawlessness
and raw livid excitement, one doesn’t
really know whether they should hop
onto the next motorcycle taxi to try
and overland it to capital Kinshasa
across vast jungles, armed militias and
never-explored terrain; or whether
they should cower in the toilet at the
border upon entry and wait for the for-
eign office to send a rescue helicopter.
This country has so much to offer -
from active volcanoes and undiscov-
ered wildlife to bona fide pygmy vil-
lages and a surprising amount of good
international cuisine! I did not spend
long enough there to savour every-
thing but one thing I did do, which was
almost a life-changing experience, was
to visit the Highland Silverback Goril-
las of the Zaire basin.
Taking a bumpy 3 hour journey into
the Virunga NP, my guide - a local man
named Kennedy - and I ventured into
dense pristine rainforest. Deep lush
green in colour and truly stretching as
far as the eye could see, this was also
rebel territory; and the regular check-
points as well as gunmen all along the
road constantly imposed this on us.
These were ex-soldiers under the com-
mand of General Laurent Nkunda, a
former army General turned rebel.
As we drove on into Virunga, our
jeep nearly ran over a young kid who
decided to step into our vehicle’s path
at the last second. A rebel soldier who
witnessed this caused an uproar and
demanded that the child’s mother be
brought to him. When she appeared,
he arrested her on the charge of dis-
turbing foreigners and being negligent.
Despite our protests he demanded a
minimum 2 dollar bribe for her release,
and therein I think he exposed the real
motivation for the rebellion.
Poverty was clearly rife and the dif-
ference between the DRC and Rwanda
or Uganda was astounding. Within my
first 2 days there I was able to compare
the DRC to towns in these neighbour-
ing states, a mere 4-5 kilometres away,
and see the stark differences. They had
the ability to look after their people,
provide a much better infrastructure
and even protect their Gorillas more
robustly. In the Congo, roads were an-
cient; small weak children begged for
empty bottles and pens; and the park
rangers were totally clueless. There was
no local produce here and all goods
were imported from Uganda; and this
was the most developed region in the
area! I could almost feel the gripping
desperation of the people here.
Upon arrival at the gate of the Go-
rilla sanctuary, Kennedy and I were
greeted once again by rebels. Initially
20 felix Friday 16 May 2008
out with our machetes and AK-47’s,
we knew roughly where the Gorilla
family group were, but tracking them
was still pure exhilaration. Any bird
or insect that moved fooled me into
thinking that a Gorilla was upon us,
and made me simultaneously tremble
with expectation and lock my limbs
in full photography posture, copiously
extending my zoom lens.
Although these jolts of unjustified
excitement eventually smoothed out,
the feeling of actually coming across
your first Gorilla is out of this world.
As we unwittingly got closer, I heard
the first surefire sounds of Gorilla ac-
tivity. It was the delicate patting of the
huge jaws of one of these gentle beasts.
Next came a huge crash as it broke
down a tree, followed by the sighting
of rustling leaves. I had to look hard in-
itially amongst the tight undergrowth
but was then able to spot a massive jet
black form feeding.
I couldn’t see its face as it had its
back to us, but then suddenly upon no-
ticing us it turned 180 degrees. In an
instance it stepped out into the light,
stopped eating and just gawped at us
in amazement for a precious few sec-
onds. Although I took plenty of photos
of this moment, I had to force myself to
stop and marvel at the situation.
This was one of the rarest species on
the planet, numbering only 700, and I
was lucky enough to see it and interact
with it in its natural habitat. How many
people get to do that!? Our group were
only humble guests in the home of
these majestic creatures and the onus
was on us to show them the utmost re-
spect here.
As we stood in near paralysis, new
members of the family group also ap-
proached. First came the children, cu-
Poverty and lava structures in Goma, DRC
I felt frustrated that I would have to
deal with these guys and see the Goril-
las under their jurisdiction, but I soon
learnt from Kennedy that the defunct
park rangers had abandoned their
posts a long while ago and in fact these
rebels had defended the Gorillas with
their lives during the recent bouts of
conflicts.
The expressions on their faces made
it clear that I had to tip them as hand-
somely as I could. After some reflec-
tion I came to the conclusion that
maybe they deserved this, having seen
their poor condition and compared it
to the much better-off Gorilla rang-
ers of Rwanda next door. I was not too
comfortable, though, with the knowl-
edge that my money may be used to
fund the rebel activity, but Kennedy
assured me otherwise.
As expected, rebels appeared in their
droves when I agreed to pay them to
escort me through the battle-hardened
Virunga forest towards the Goril-
las. This was a much less professional
service than the one in Rwanda but
was consequently a lot cheaper and
less restricted.
I cannot emphasise enough the sheer
joy of the next part of the experience
– approaching the Gorillas. As we set
Overlanding it on a motorcycle taxi
The people of Congo
Self explanatory
The headquarters of MONUC in Goma
“the feeling of
actually coming
across your first
Gorilla is out of
this world”

