felix@imperial.ac.uk Travel
21
Friday 16 May 2008 felix
rious and playful, always wanting to
get close and touch us. Second came
the females, socialising amongst them-
selves through grooming and commu-
nicating. Next came the fighting ado-
lescents; and then finally the dominant
alpha male Silverback of the group.
He was by far the most imposing fam-
ily member, being the largest, the loud-
est, the most ferocious and the most
gentle. He had a thick lining of silver
hairs on his back, almost like a crown,
and we watched him break numerous
trees to distance himself from us. He
hid in bushes and brooded in corners
before finally coming out into the open
to thump his barrel chest. All of this
made for spectacular viewing and be-
fore we knew it, our designated hour
with the Gorillas was up and we had to
start on our way back to civilisation.
I was not too happy to find out that
the park soon after suffered an out-
break of Ebola virus that claimed 133
lives, but in retrospect the risk was
worth the intimate photos I got of these
extraordinary beasts. It was unfortu-
nate that in order to get close enough I
had to get Gorilla excrement, the main
transmitter of Ebola, smeared on my
shoes and trousers but like I said, it was
well worth the risk!
The endangered Silverback Gorillas
currently find themselves in a perilous
situation. Not only is their habitat be-
ing destroyed at an unprecedented rate
but they are also facing threats from
poaching and hunting. Last year in the
DRC, five members of a family were
shot and killed for no apparent reason.
The importance of the Gorillas to
the natural world and the economy of
Congo cannot be underestimated, but
as Kennedy exclaimed “I don’t think
our President even knows we have Go-
rillas in this country”. This sums up the
situation here quite neatly, and sadly
this is not the only challenge facing the
DRC right now.
Goma, the town where I was based,
was one buried under lava after several
eruptions from the local Nyiragongo
volcano. Consisting of a few dusty ash
filled streets and some stunning lava
landscape; there was not too much to
do here. To find activity one had to
look beyond its confines and although I
had been told to the contrary in neigh-
bouring Rwanda, the area surrounding
it wasn’t totally stable.
Unexpectedly, General Nkunda and
his rebels mentioned above had decid-
ed to launch an attack on government
troops and the presidential guard in
the local North Kivu region almost im-
mediately after I returned from my Go-
rilla visit. This abrupt and unfortunate
development was obviously a source of
misery to the locals who wanted noth-
ing to do with politics getting out of
hand but was, dare I admit it, a new
source of excitement for me.
Nkunda was a Tutsi who joined the
DRC army under the government’s
‘mixed brigades’ programme that was
initiated to absorb local Tutsi groups.
However, recent government orders
meant that these brigades were to be
relocated to other parts of the country,
somethingNkundaandthesoldiersun-
der him didn’t agree with. They want-
ed to remain deployed in areas close to
the Tutsi community they belonged to,
in order to oversee the protection of
their community against Hutu rebels
still active in east DRC following their
forced removal from Rwanda post the
1994 genocide there.
As usual in conflicts of this nature,
pretty soon this faction of the army be-
came rebels and took up arms against
the government. The problem is now
far beyond the simple initial disagree-
ment and according to recent reports,
the fighting is still rising in intensity.
Resolution is a far cry and this is a sad
manifestation of the Rwandan conflict
spilling over into DRC.
The UN was sent over to this war
torn mix to try and aid things. Func-
tioning under the name of MONUC,
its job was to try to bring and maintain
peace, and to move the DRC towards a
credible election process. Considering
that it was the UN’s largest and most
expensive mission, hopes were high.
I didn’t know any of the above when
I arrived. Feeling restricted by the
conflict and bewildered amongst the
sudden military activity, I went to MO-
NUC headquarters in Goma to try and
get some information for myself dur-
ing this latest round of uncertainty.
Posing as a ‘foreign journalist’ (essen-
tially true as I am now writing this in
the Felix), I approached the MONUC
headquarters in Goma, hoping that
they will be able to tell me something
of interest that I could take back to
the settlement of Nkunda supporters
amongst whom I was temporarily re-
siding. Fate was on my side as the MO-
NUC staff let me in to meet with the
head of PR, who guided me through
the history of the conflict but was tight
lipped about recent developments.
Judging by the inactivity of the UN
troops who were spending time play-
ing badminton and having barbecues,
it did not seem like the UN was actively
participating beyond providing equip-
ment to the Congolese army.
I took my perceptions from this
meeting back to where I lived but no
one I talked to was surprised at the lack
of UN involvement. Conversely they
were quite excited that a ‘foreign jour-
nalist’ was living amongst them, much
to my embarrassment. These were
resilient Nkunda supporters who had
unknown to me and as chance would
have it seen it fit to organise a meeting
between myself and General Nkunda
in person!
This was undeniably quite an excit-
ing opportunity and I felt quite the fool
for getting myself more involved than
necessary, but I didn’t want to turn it
down. We were scheduled to meet in a
nearby town called Masisi but intense
fighting made that impossible. We
therefore arranged a phone interview
but alas, even though he agreed to a
phone call that night, he did not pick
up as the rebels stepped up engage-
ment with the Congolese army.
Kennedy advised me to leave as soon
as possible after that night for my own
safety and so I left early the next day by
taking a boat across Lake Kivu. Sadly
this meant that this once-in-a-lifetime
scoop for the Felix had to be forsaken!
Therefore, I left Congo feeling a bit
worthless and slightly upset. From my
brief visit, life appeared to be made dif-
ficult by many things beyond scarcity.
Estimates of child soldiers are rising
as more of the young take up arms,
with no reason for them to stop. The
government and the rebels are ratchet-
ing up the language on both sides. The
most recent reports have also indi-
cated that the very UN troops drafted
in to aid peace are the ones working
against it by smuggling gold and ivory
in exchange for providing militias with
ammunition and weapons.
If someone like me, who as a west-
ern tourist passing through, cannot
see much hope in the near future then
what must the people of Congo who
have to face this situation day in day
out feel?
I do not know the answer to that as I
have never lived there, nor have I been
brought up there, and people’s happi-
ness is not necessarily linked to their
levels of consumption and wastage.
However, I do know that I fell in love
with Congo and I do know that there
is great scope for a lot of change and a
lot of betterment. And in time no one
can say how the situation may change.
Here is sincerely hoping for the best.
My first Gorilla sighting. He gawps at our group in curiosity
Females grooming The vast rainforest jungles of Congo
The alphamale Silverback grazes on some leaves
“playing
badminton
and having
barbecues, it did
not seem like the
UN was actively
participating”

