Hangman
Putting the cat out to dry
Felix Editor stabbed
twenty-five times in
smut-related attack
Imperial
Kids:
Sartorially
uncool; fact
Presidents love themselves
(and each other) very much
Please donate to find a cure, he needs your help... desperately
Researchers have confirmed the ex-
istence of an extremely dangerous
virus found at Imperial College’s
South Kensington Campus.
The origin of this virus is un-
known to date but some advances
have been made in our understand-
ing of its mechanism. It somehow
blocks transporters of dopamine
(the chemical responsible for ‘cool-
ness’) to the brain, therefore mas-
sively reducing the amount of this
chemical reaching the synapses. In
non-nerd, that means Imperial are
dressing and styling themselves like
tools. Shortly before death, the af-
flicted begin wearing shitty t-shirts
and getting even worse haircuts, as
seen on the left.
While an antidote is currently be-
ing worked on, there is no known
cure at present. Government offi-
cials suggest that students alleviate
their suffering by getting a) a life; b)
a partner c) a mirror.
T
he heat can do strange things to people: it can make them inappro-
priately cheery in the face of exams, even cause them to throw re-
vision to the wind and choose a tan over a degree. In the case of
these two lovely people, the beautiful sunshine has caused romance
to blossom.
Jennifer Morgan has been spending a lot of time with Union President Stephen
Brown of late, learning as much as she can from the incumbent before her term
as President begins next year. But after weeks of sexual tension and lustful looks
across the water-cooler it appears that advice isn’t all Stephen’s been giving Jen.
Not all are pleased about the amount of love in the air, with Deputy President
(Finance and Services) Chris Larvin voicing concern about the amount of work
Stephen will get done, now that he’s installed a sex swing in his office.
W
ondering why this
week’s Felix is seem-
ingly devoid of inter-
esting material? Aghast
that someone has let a couple of com-
plete fuckwits loose on an entire page?
There’s a simple explanation, Tom
Roberts is dead.
Details on this brutal and entirely
pre-meditated attack have finally been
released by the police. He was stabbed
in his home a total of 25 times before
slowly bleeding to death. 25 being the
number of editions of Felix this year
and therefore the number of missed
opportunities for pornographic Page
3s.
His last words are reported to
have been “gash-balls” but this re-
porter questions the accuracy of this
relevation.
He had been dead several days before
being discovered. When questioned,
his friends said of their complacency
over his disappearence “We thought he
was on one of his marathon Pokemon
sessions, last time we disturbed him
during one of those, I lost an ear”.
A neighbour finally raised the alarm
when she realised that she had not
heard his roof-raising cries of orgas-
mic ecstacy for several days. “It was
a daily thing. I could set my clock by
it; every day at 23:15 I could hear Mr
Roberts revelling in the excitement of
what was either some very entertain-
ing paper-mache session or a wild orgy
with his harem of gorgeous but invari-
ably under-age female partners”.
As yet, the police have no suspects
but a conspicous Grand Theft Auto
3-style trail of bloody footprints from
Mr Roberts’ flat to Beit Quad may yet
throw up some leads.
With no concrete leads, the motives
of such an attack remain in the land of
speculation. Mr Roberts had no known
enemies, except perhaps personal
hygiene.
The Union President caught embracing his successor
However, IF it was me that had a
grudge against Tom Roberts and IF it
was me who forced him to watch the
video for Wham’s Club Tropicana 800
times before putting him out of his
misery I know why I’d want him dead.
Look to your left, those are some awe-
some Imperial breasts. By failing to
provide the dribbling masses with fine
booty in the form of Page 3 smut, Tom
Roberts forfeited his life in the same
way that I forfeited my dignity when I
jacked off to an episode of Q.I... twice.
If you would like to pay your re-
spects to the deceased Editor, we have
propped up his body in the Felix office,
you know... just for shits and giggles.
This Page 3 model is still at Imperial. You have a chance!
Shocking as it seems, his skeleton turned out to be plastic...
23
Friday 16 May 2008 felix

