Day 2 – Let the pain begin
The change for daylight savings com-
bined with the time zone difference
resulted in a befuddled bunch of row-
ers at 7 am on Sunday morning. Not
quite awake yet, we desperately tried to
comprehend the freezing air and pitch
black conditions while freshly applied
suncream melted and dripped from
our faces in the drizzling rain. Much to
our disappointment, similar conditions
were expected for most of the week.
The training schedule involved three
sessions a day, two in the morning
and one in the afternoon. Some brave
troopers knuckled down to revision be-
tween outings while the rest of us en-
gaged in some activities such as biking,
kayaking, blister repair and extreme
power sleeping. Crews and boats were
varied throughout the week introduc-
ing club members to a wide range of
rowing and sculling techniques.
Some of the afternoon sessions were
land-based, making use of the weight
training facility, gym, pool and sauna.
The centre itself was very impressive
with ensuite accommodation, catered
meals and a complimentary laundry
service.
After-dinner entertainment usually
involved scrutinising video of the day’s
rowing to improve our technique. De-
spite Steve’s informative narration and
critique of the video, most minds were
focused on whose muscles looked big-
ger and how better to expose their own
sculpted features for the next outing.
With great intentions for the nights
activities, physical exhaustion won
out with few remaining conscious for
movie watching or a few drinks at the
local.
Day 3 – Beach Bum
On Monday night Exeter University
Boat Club, also training at the centre,
had a club-only celebration at the bar.
ICBC members were only too willing
to show some support on the night.
Although rain was prevalent for the
initial days of camp the evenings were
mild. Pleasant temperatures permitted
Ben Newland to take his stool out of
the bar and down to the beach before
closing time. Despite this premature
evacuation, Ben still managed to leave
his mark on the night which offered
a welcome release from the intense
training.
Day 4 – Thirsty Work
After two tough water sessions on
Tuesday morning, including several 2
km time trials, the afternoon was set
aside for a club activity. ICBC’s token
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
26 Friday 16 May 2008
felix
Sport
Carlos Schuster getting creamed by Will McFarland
ICBC squads intensify training in France
American girl Anna Jones was bidding
farewell to her teenage years and we
celebrated with a club trip to the lo-
cal vineyard. Our French translators
Charles Sanders and Junior World
Mime Champion Ludo Garreau were
at hand to tell us when it was and
wasn’t appropriate to start drinking.
After a brief sniffing competition, a
pleasant stroll around the manufactur-
ing area and some mandatory oohing
and ahhing at the undulating topogra-
phy of wine barrels, our patience was
rewarded.
The age-old wine tasting process
of See, Swirl, Sniff, Sip, Savour was
replaced by ICBC’s preferred ‘down
the hatch’ approach. First came the
‘catch’ where eager outstretched hands
competed to claim the freshly poured
glasses. This was immediately followed
by the ‘drive’ as wine was hurtled down
the esophagus. Next was the ‘extrac-
tion’ as upended glasses were removed
from the throat before winding down
at the ‘finish’ by clinking empty ves-
sels onto the counter for refilling. The
‘recovery’ would come much later and
be a more unpleasant affair with much
body-swing and rock-over reported
overnight.
Having thoroughly assessed the ch-
arcter and complexity of every bottle
on offer, some period of time passed
and we staggered back to the bus. Al-
ready weakened knees were barely able
to carry the crates of wine onboard.
Much of the wine was purchased as
gifts for home with this status being
reviewed as the week went on.
Days 5 & 6 – Dropping like flies
As the days passed, the crew lists short-
ened and the injured/ill list length-
ened. Emma Murray was confined to
quarantine early on, seeking comfort
in bowls of Lipton tea while Mackenzie
Clavin reported hallucinating during
the time trial. Kate Wylie was struck
by tedonitis of the wrist while Carlos
Schuster was struck with ‘a pain in
the back of my knee’. Blisters were dis-
cussed and compared for location, size
and density. Carrots could be peeled
with our bare hands as they hardened
into callouses. An infected foot blister
forced Andy Forrester off the water
and into the emergency room where he
was prescribed antibiotics for the rest
of the week. Reams of used micropo-
rous and electrical tape, empty tubes of
antiseptic cream and bottles of Dettol
piled high. And that was just my room,
after the first day.
Day 7 – Initiaition Carnage
Friday was the last full day of rowing
camp and the sun had finally made an
appearance. Some Deeps-style ‘strip-
page’ ensued and some questionable
footage of her ‘technique’ was filmed
in the morning sessions. With the af-
ternoon off, revising, sunbathing and
snoozing were the day’s main activi-
ties. Erica Thompson and myself re-
turned to the water confident enough
in our water skills to jump in a pair of
kayaks with our double-bladed pad-
dles. We eventually made it down to
the dam despite the kayaks’ best efforts
to randomly spin us anti-clockwise;
which we later attributed to our bow-
side-edness and nothing to do with our
kayaking skills.
Upon our return and sore from an
afternoon of hilarity it transpired that
the senior men’s squad had been very
busy plotting the novice initiation.
‘Preparation’ is one of Steve’s top-five
training buzz words, and so the wine
tasting excursion was a fitting warm up
to what lay ahead.
The novi were split into teams of four
and pitted against each other. I formed
a quarter of the highly competitive
women’s team. On the clock and at a
searing pace we gulped and chomped
our way through station one, consum-
ing a baguette, an onion, a clove of gar-
lic and a bottle of wine. Striding into
the lead we hit station two performing
a four-man square press-up. Craving
something sweet to finish off our meal
at station one, gentleman Will McFar-
land took excessive pleasure in brand-
ing the letters ICBC in cream on our
bodies and instructing us to lick it off
each other.
De-creamed and decorum-free we
dashed to the riverside and into a scull-
ing boat for round three. One member
had to scull and the other coxed while
downing a glass of wine. Out around
the yellow buoy where cox and scull-
er switched seats and sculled back to
swap with the other team members.
We finished the water race in record
time while the boys were still trying to
figure out what the second oar was for.
With victory in sight the final stages
involved lashing our blistered hands
in alcohol and high fiving Rob Manton
before washing down yet another bot-
tle of wine and contorting our bodies
to spell the letters ICBC. Dripping with
wine, faces sticky from cream-licking
and emitting a strange garlic/onion
odour, we took first place earning some
well deserved beer and gum.
The concoction of sunlight, wine,
onion, garlic and beer successfully
blurred the lines of reality and caution
was thrown to the wind. Also thrown
to the wind (or rather into the freezing
river) were coxes, coaches and rowers
alike. The slightest movement or mis-
placed eye contact initiated a Lord of
the Flies type pursuit. Coaches Nigel
Atkinss and Ross Smitheson meekly
retreated to the trailers, Nigel impres-
sively entangling himself around the
trailer’s beams before giving in to the
wine-soaked mob. Deeps thrashed
herself about like a fish out of water
while Selina repeatedly demonstrated
her leg-press capabilities to the bit-
ter end; but neither could escape the
drenching.
With calm temporarily restored and
initiation residue showered off, it was
time for the last supper before depar-
ture the next day. The novice boys
were each presented with a delightful
handbag to accentuate the feminine
qualities they had been displaying all
week. Mogens Mathiesen and John
Dick looked particularly fetching on
the night. Goggles and swimming
hats were awarded to pair-swimmers
Mackenzie & Anna and Andy & Mike.
Shower caps were distributed to John
‘The Handbrake’ Davey and Dan ‘The
Bicep’ Everall for some undisclosed
nocturnal shenanigans. I humbly ac-
cepted the inaugural Duffy Award of a
box of nails for continuing to row, de-
spite having involuntarily donated half
my hand to the aquatic vertebrates of
the river. A proud moment for Duffys
across Ireland.
Donning shower caps, goggles and
handbags, ICBC celebrated a success-
ful week with a trip to the Castle bar
across the road for a ‘quiet’ drink, or
two, or maybe a few more.
Day 8 – Shaped up and shipping
out
The final day had arrived and our last
outing was scheduled for 8:00 am.
After sweating out a few time trials
down the river we paddled back, and
began derigging and loading the boats
onto the trailers. Breakfast was an
emotional time having formed strong
bonds with Coco Pops, Miel pops, the
occasional Choco Flake, hot chocolate
and of course, the endless supply of ba-
guettes. Coaches and boats departed
early for the long drive home while the
rest of had the day to unwind.
ICBC members sprawled their weary
bodies across the grass where flesh
was revealed, sun cream was applied
and Kieron broke out the champagne
in style.
In the late afternoon four of the larger
paddle boats were strung together in a
makeshift raft and we floated down the
river with our mini picnic of biscuits,
beer and wine. The entertainment
was provided by seat-racers whom we
didn’t distract at all.
Like all good things, camp had come
to an end. The coach arrived and after
a scenic route to the airport it was just
fifteen minutes before check-in closed
when we arrived.
Rumours of cheese being confiscated
at security had ICBC members franti-
cally unwrapping and chomping down
on their baguettes supplied earlier by
the camp caterers. Exhausted, aching
and blistered we arrived at Gatwick
Airport late on Saturday night and
went our separate ways to recuperate...
before training on Monday.
Great people make great memories
and with images of Richard Winches-
ter experimenting with facial hair and
a sighting of Ross in lycra, this was a
week that will require a lot of psychi-
atric hours to forget. All of the crews
moved on significantly over the week,
as demonstrated by ICBC’s domina-
tion of the BUSA Sprints on April 20th.
We look forward to a highly successful
summer season of racing!
Continued from back page
Novice women at wine tasting
Iain Palmer is launched into the river

