felix sport Send in your sport reports:
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
High resolution photos only
Imperial men’s rugby win Middlesex Sevens
Sun’s out, guns out
A hot sunny day on the 3rd May saw
Imperial College’s 7’s team arrive at
Richmond for the 3rd annual Mid-
dlesex 7’s Student Competition. With
perfect conditions for 7’s & a runners
up spot here last year, a youthful Impe-
rial team were in high hopes. We were
drawn in a group comprising Kingston,
LSE & Southbank, knowing that if we
came top we would once again be in
the final.
The 1st game against Kingston
started shakily due to our lack of 7’s
practice, with Kingston putting early
pressure on us. However this didn’t
last long & we started to dominate
with tries from Joe Brown (3), James
Fletcher (2), Chris Lau & Remi Wil-
liams. Kingston managed to get back a
try to give a comfortable score line of
45-7 to Imperial College.
The 2nd game was against LSE. The
game started off badly with LSE scor-
ing straight from the kick-off. Tom
Coggrave pulled one back but LSE
scored again from a disappointing try
bringing the half-time score, 2 tries to
1 in favour of LSE. After the half-time
talk & a few changes we immediately
scored another try through Joe Brown
but LSE once again scored another dis-
appointing try from the resulting kick-
off. We finally pulled ourselves togeth-
er after that try with Captain James
Fletcher scoring a hat-trick, without
reply from LSE, bringing a close fought
game to an end with the final score
of 29-17 to Imperial. A no show from
Southbank meant that we had topped
the group and were through top the fi-
nal vs. GKT (Kings’ Medic Scum).
The final was played on the same
pitch as the Varsity game, and with
many of the team having lost to Medic
Scum on this pitch before, it was not
something we wanted to happen again.
With Imperial fired up for this chance
of silverware, we started off brilliantly
with Joe Brown scoring twice immedi-
ately after kick-off. We dominated the
game being ruthless in attack & tight
in defence with Joe Brown scoring an-
other 2 tries, Freddie Chalke scoring 2
& James Fletcher scoring 1. GKT man-
aged to get 2 consolation tries meaning
a resounding final score of 47-12 and
Imperial College crowned as champi-
ons of the Middlesex 7’s Student Men’s
Competition for the 1st time.
Led by the Skipper the team strode
up to receive the Cup, a plaque & a
bottle of wine. Special mention goes
to Freddie Chalke’s mum for provid-
ing a delicious hamper of food for the
team for which she received the bottle
of wine from a grateful team. With this
renowned title under our belt and the
strength throughout the club, Imperial
College can look forward to more sil-
verware in the future.
Chris Lau
Day 1 – Arrival
Shiny new bikinis were purchased
and legs were waxed in anticipation
of ICBC’s week-long training camp in
Toulouse – but Nigel Atkins and Ki-
eron Turkington weren’t the only ones
excitedly preparing for camp. Lycra
and electrical tape shortages were re-
ported across London due to the mass
exodus of all ICBC squads.
After a short flight from Gatwick
airport on Saturday morning we were
whisked from Toulouse airport to the
outdoor games sports centre at Le
Temple sur Lot, two hours northwest of
Toulouse. As the standard of conversa-
tion rapidly deteriorated mile by mile,
it wasn’t soon enough that we reached
the centre. Coaches Steve ‘Want to see
my gold medal?’ Trapmore and James
Blackley had arrived the previous day
to make our beds and put mints on the
pillows after driving from London with
the boats. Rooms were assigned and
boats were rigged in time for a quick
water session.
Christina Duffy
Continued on page 26
Captain James Fletcher with the squad collecting their trophy

