news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
3
Friday 16 May 2008 felix
News
Shock! College likes its students
Imperial tops at least one league table this week: only £6k is made by College from library fines each year
Kadhim Shubber
Depending on your willingness to part with 50p, you might want to return these on time
Hotel retains ICFC’s £1,000 deposit
Rembrandt episode follows confrontations between IC and Royal Holloway football fans one week earlier
Figures obtained under the Freedom
of Information act have revealed a sur-
prising uniqueness about Imperial and
perhaps a level of benevolence on the
part of College.
Imperial College London makes the
least amount of money from library
fines out of 20 top universities sur-
veyed, including LSE, Oxford, Cam-
bridge, Manchester, UCL and St An-
drews. The information provided by
Exeposé, the Student Newspaper of
Exeter University, shows that in the
year 2006/07, UCL made £168,942 and
Manchester University made £190,338
from library fines whilst Imperial Col-
lege accrued a miniscule £6,474. As an
average this amounts to around 50p
per student.
LSE comes top as the university with
the highest fine-per-person figure of
£10.50; more than 20 times the figure
for Imperial. The second-cheapest for
the year 06/07 is Cambridge university
which made £34,302, 3 times less than
its rival Oxford.
Taking into account all 20 universi-
ties surveyed, the average amount of
fines is approximately £90,000.
The statistics indicate that Imperial’s
library fines are significantly lower
than those from around the country.
The University of York, which has a
similar number of students to Impe-
rial, generated £83,953 in library fines,
more than ten times that of Imperial’s.
Of course, one can interpret these
results differently and conclude that
Imperial students are uniquely consci-
entious about returning their books.
A cynic might scoff that it’s probably
due to the fact that few people can
withstand the Sahara-like conditions
of our library long enough to take out
a book.
The library is often a source of com-
plaint amongst Imperial students and
these figures provide a refreshing
change. But with the news that the
refurbished floors of the library are
set to re-open in early July, including
increased space for study and a brand
new café area, Imperial’s conquest of
this latest league table may be one ac-
colade that we can hold close to our
heart; no matter what the University
Listings say.
However, more studious library-
goers are unlikely to find comfort in
the fact that we only get a pat on the
bottom, instead of a kick up the arse,
since the current problems with the
library will not be resolved before the
end of this exam period.
Tom Roberts
Editor-in-Chief
Aggressive behaviour, intimidating
conduct, inciting fights and criminal
damage – these are all accusations
which have been levelled at Imperial
College Football Club (ICFC) after two
events over the Easter break. The first
incident involved ICFC supporters
and fans from Royal Holloway’s Foot-
ball Club (RHFC) who are reported to
have clashed at the University of Lon-
don Union (ULU) Challenge Cup Final
on 8th March. The second occurred a
mere week later on 15th March, when
ICFC held its Annual Club Dinner
at the four-star Rembrandt Hotel in
Knightsbridge, allegedly causing nu-
merous damages to the property, re-
sulting in a £1,000 deposit being kept
by the proprietors.
Felix’s source from the Rembrandt
Hotel said “a handful of students de-
cided that drunken and intimidating
behaviour was perfectly acceptable,
whereby they conscientiously and wil-
fully caused damage to the hotel.” A
number of students vomited into ice
buckets in the hotel’s function room,
food was strewn across the floor and
some ICFC members are also reported
as having attempted to provoke a fight
with one of the hotel’s personnel.
The accusations extend beyond
disorderly and threatening conduct,
however, and into the realms of crimi-
nal behaviour. According to the Rem-
brandt Hotel source both the male
and female toilets were defaced with
graffiti; an emergency light was pulled
off the wall; plants outside of the hotel
were damaged and left on the pave-
ment; and two paintings were taken
off the wall and smashed, breaking the
glass and frames.
As the footballers left the hotel they
are said to have been “noisy and in-
timidating”, singing offensive chants,
as well as being abusive towards some
members of staff.
It has also emerged that during the
ULU Challenge Cup Final the previous
week, ICFC supporters were involved
in confrontations with Royal Holloway
students in the stands of Motspur Park
football ground. Banter between fans
turned into fighting, leading to at least
one seat being ripped from the stands
and punches being thrown. The extent
of the fighting is unclear, as is the issue
of culpability. For their part ICFC have
stated that one of their members was
“assaulted by several Royal Holloway”
fans.
Felix spoke to current Football Club
captain Garo Torossian and captain-
elect James Skeen, who denied knowl-
edge of any criminal damage commit-
ted within the Rembrandt Hotel. The
representatives gave Felix their account
of the evening, confirming that the toi-
lets and ice buckets were used for vom-
iting in, and that hotel staff were not
happy with “100 men leaving the hotel
loudly.” However, they refuted claims
made about aggressive and intimidat-
ing behaviour.
Whenquestionedabouttheincidents
surrounding the scuffles at Motspur
Park, they said their supporters felt
provoked by the Royal Holloway con-
tingent. “We feel we were the innocent
party … they came over to Imperial’s
side of the stands celebrating in front
of IC fans,” Mr Torossian explained,
“looking for a fight.” According to the
captain, once the game had finished,
two RHFC supporters who had been
ejected from the stands earlier in the
day challenged the IC team in the car
park, with one of them reportedly
throwing a punch.
At the time of going to print, Felix
has been unable to contact ULU for
its version. The Royal Holloway Union
President, Joff Manning, told Felix that
“supporters from both sides allowed
themselves to let natural tension … spill
overintoaggression,”andthat,“individ-
uals have let us down in this instance.”
ICU echoed this latter statement say-
ing that there is a “minority [within the
Football Club] that haven’t been reined
in sufficiently.” However, ICU criticised
ICFC for their “blanket denial” of the
events on both occasions.
When asked by Felix why they
thought the hotel owners kept the
£1,000 deposit, the football club admit-
ted they didn’t expect to lose it entirely,
however, they believed that the cost of
replacing broken glasses, cleaning the
function room and refunds being given
to disturbed guests was large enough
to account for the whole amount being
retained. The captains also suggested
that the hotel was “bitter because it
didn’t take the deposit from the Rugby
Club” at a similar dinner event held
last year.
It is true that the Rembrandt Hotel
is no stranger to boisterous behaviour
from some of Imperial’s other socie-
ties. Last year, the Rugby Club was
almost fined and banned for damages
after an event held at the hotel. How-
ever, the following morning the charg-
es were dropped when members of the
club spoke and apologised to the own-
ers. Similarly, this is not the first time
that the Football Club has appeared
in these pages this year. Felix reported
on allegations of “homophobic chants”
and harassment in the Union in the
Autumn term, and members of the
Football club have made several state-
ments in Felix over what they believe is
a persecution of their club, which they
perceive as unfairly perpetuating their
poor public image.
Some disciplinary action has been
taken against ICFC following these
two most recent events. Mr Toros-
sian said the club has been kept in the
dark about decisions made against it,
citing Sport Imperial’s decision to ban
them from attending this year’s IDEA
League Tournament as one example.
He said that he found out about the
ban via third parties, although he ac-
knowledged it was a fair decision. The
Union has told Felix that it will be fol-
lowing-up with some form of discipli-
nary action, the severity of which is yet
to be decided upon.
For a statement from the ICFC
Club Captain, turn to page 9
Left, the main function room in the four-star Rembrandt Hotel and right, the sparkling male toilets

