4 felix Friday 16 May 2008
politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
International
Headlines from around the globe
The world beyond College walls...
Election Results II
United States
The long road to the Democratic nomination looks about
to get longer. The results of the West Virginia primary
are a landslide by anyone’s count, with Senator Hillary
Clinton defeating Senator Obama 67% to 26%. This
has made Clinton ‘more determined than ever to carry
on this campaign until everyone has had a chance to
make their voices heard.’ Next round starts on June 3rd,
when both Democratic candidates face off in Montana.
Bush on Tour
Israel
President Bush has started his tour of the Middle East
with a visit to Israel on Wednesday, and intends to make
stops in Saudi Arabia and Egypt on his five-day trip. He
arrived in Israel exactly 60 years to the day after the state
declared its independence, and was warmly greeted by
his hosts. Though this is Bush’s second visit to the Middle
East this year, many commentators are sceptical about
fruitful negotiations arising out of his years in office.
Most are of the opinion that Bush has only ‘discovered’
the Israeli-Palestinian conflict in his last year in office,
and that his relations with the Arab states are hardly
such as to give the talks the momentum he wants.
A
week has gone by,
and the world is still
an eventful place.
Two almost equally
devastating natural
disasters hit Asia, provoking two
staggeringly different reactions
from the respective governments.
The aid is trickling into Burma,
whose military government has
virtually refused access to for-
eigners, and seems oblivious to
the magnitude of the disaster. As
a result, the story, as well as the
devastation on the ground, is well
into its second week. Contrast this
with the almost instantaneous de-
cision by the Chinese government
to send in thousands of troops to
provide assistance.
Nature isn’t the only villain in
this week’s issue, as bombs ex-
plode in the historic city of Jaipur,
and Hezbollah now reveals itself
to be the real power in Lebanon.
To quote Prime Minister Siniora:
“We thought the threat [to] our
country was from our historic en-
emy Israel. But recent experience
now shows that our homes and
our democracy is being held hos-
tage by our own brothers’. Hezbol-
lah is so powerful in Lebanon that
there is now no choice but to ne-
gotiate with what the US and the
UK have long designated as a ter-
rorist organization.
I never cease to wonder at how
fickle public attention can be. I
wonder even more at how fickle I
am myself - I only pick up on some
of these stories while researching
for this page. The situation in Leb-
anon is not getting the attention it
deserves, and Sudan isn’t a word
that’s made it into the headlines
these past few weeks, though the
state of affairs in that part of the
world is still catastrophic. Still,
look on the bright side - the US
election is still as unconclusive as
ever. Oh, and Bush is in the Mid-
dle East. That’s something to look
forward to.
Border Closes
Sudan
Last week’s attacks on the Sudanese capital by Justice and
Equality Movement (JEM) rebels have been linked by Sudan’s
officials to neighbouring Chad. As a result, the border
between the two countries has been closed, and all trade ties
have been severed. Relations between the two states have
been poor all year, with Chad having accusing Sudan of an
attempted coup in February. Sudan’s ambassador to the UN
has said that ‘this is a moment of truth for the international
community [to] send a message to Chad to desist from acts
of destabilization.’ Secretary-General Ban Ki-Moon has
condemned all violence in the region.
Gilead Amit

