politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
5
Friday 16 May 2008 felix
International
Earthquake – 7.9
China
The earthquake that hit China’s Sichuan province on the
12th of May has left some 20,000 people dead, according
tounofficialfigures.Thousandsofpeopleremaintrapped
in badly damaged cities, with many more reported
missing. The Chinese government’s reponse has been
almost immediate, with over 50,000 troops being sent
to the eight affected provinces. Chinese Premier Wen
Jiabao was at the quake’s epicentre on Wednesday, and is
personally leading the relief effort. China has announced
that it would be grateful for any international aid, though
none has yet been formally offered.
Bomb Attacks
India
63 people are dead and over a hundred more are
wounded after eight bombs exploded in the Indian city
of Jaipur. The bombs all detonated within twelve minutes
of each other, and in a radius of half a kilometre from
the city’s historic centre. Local officials have reported
that a ninth ‘medium intensity’ bomb was defused, and
that motorcycles seem to have been used in the attacks.
The city of Jaipur, which is a popular tourist attraction,
has no real history of religious violence. The incidents
have been condemned both in India and abroad as
acts of terrorism, though no group has as of yet taken
responsibility.
International Aid?
Burma
UN figures for the deathtoll due to cyclone Nargis
are almost double what they were a week ago, with an
estimated maximum of 100,000 dead. The Burmese
government’s reaction has seemed surprisingly slow to
many, with only limited access being granted to external
aid workers. Expert opinion on the ground is that the
military junta’s offhand approach suggests they are not
fully aware of the extent of the crisis. A $187 million UN
appeal is underway, receiving grudging support from the
local government
Designed by Gilead Amit & Kadhim Shubber
‘Civil Disobedience’
Lebanon
A comparative calm has settled over Beirut, following some
of the most brutal sectarian violence seen since Lebanon’s
civil war in the 1990s. Monday saw the Lebanese government
revoking Hezbollah’s telecommunication privileges, an
action Hassan Nasrallah, the group’s leader, claimed was
tantamount to ‘a declaration of open war.’ Very soon after
fighting between Hezbollah and the Lebanese army began,
thegrouptookcontroloverWesternBeirutandblockadedthe
airport. The blockade has since been lifted to allow a handful
of international mediators into the country. Negotiations are
due to start in the near future, but there is no question that
Lebanon risks being torn apart from within.

