6 felix Friday 16 May 2008
Comment, Opinion
& Letters
Let us know your views: comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Letters may be edited for length and grammar purposes
Views on these pages are not representative of Felix
Imperial
College
Union
Steve Brown
President
“
As a result
of this incident
our room
booking form is
now going to be
updated to make
this obligation to
event organisers
a lot clearer
In response to the PPS Chair
Imperial College Union President, Steve Brown, replies to the comments made by the Political Philosophy
Society Chair, Ammar Waraich, in last week’s issue of Felix about the club’s recent ‘Criminalising War’ event
“
The
reputation of the
PPS, the Union
and the College
could have been
damaged if Dr
Mahathir went
off topic
”
F
or the record, I would also
like to publicise my version
of the events surrounding
the former Malaysian Prime
Minister’s visit to Imperial
College on Friday 25th April. The Po-
litical Philosophy Society (PPS) has
laid on several excellent events this
year and I too feel it is a shame that
only the more controversial ones have
received the lion’s share of the public-
ity. No-one in the Union or the College
has ever doubted the intentions of the
society and I hope that Ammar is able
to ignore those individuals who criti-
cised him and the PPS anonymously
from behind a computer screen rather
than talking to him personally. It is
easy to criticise if you are safe in the
knowledge that you yourself are im-
mune from response and I would hope
that the PPS can rise above the risible
rantings on message boards.
Your article does fail to mention,
however, the short time-scale over
which decisions regarding this event
had to be made. I received a complaint
from one of our fellow students that
your society had invited a speaker who
had previously made racist comments
on the evening of Tuesday 22nd April.
At no point before this date did your
society inform anyone in the Union
or the College (as they are required to
do) that in light of his previous com-
ments there may be a problem with
this speaker which would mean that
additional security measures would
have to be introduced. To arrange a
meeting with all concerned parties to
discuss a mutually acceptable solution
was not possible at this late stage due
to scheduling difficulties. You com-
plain that you were only given notice
of the restrictions placed on this event
24 hours in advance but at the same
time no formal notice was given that
a speaker was invited to Imperial Col-
lege who has a history of inciting racial
hatred. As a result of this incident our
room booking form is now going to
be updated to make this obligation to
event organisers a lot clearer.
Several contributors to Felix last
week spoke for the whole student body
when registering their disgust that a
member of the British National Party
had been elected to the London As-
sembly. If a BNP speaker was invited
to campus there would be uproar and
I would like to think that there would
be no tacit acceptance that the anti-
Semitism espoused by Dr Mahathir is
somehow a less serious form of rac-
ism by any student at Imperial College.
Having gained knowledge of his rac-
ist views, please forgive me if I do not
share your concerns that Dr Mahathir
felt “insulted” by the steps the College
took to ensure that the talk and subse-
quent discussion remained focused on
the advertised topic. If he is still un-
happy I would suggest that in future he
thinks twice about parading his bigotry
on the world stage which has seen him
condemned by governments and right-
thinking individuals across the world.
You also admitted in your article that
you were disappointed with the con-
duct of the Ramadhan Foundation. It
was clear a couple of days in advance
of this event that the overwhelming
majority of guests would not be mem-
bers of the College thus if this organi-
sation wished to host Dr. Mahathir
then they should have booked a public
venue rather than effectively hijacking
a student society. If they were being, as
you said, “uncooperative and decep-
tive” on the night then in my view this
vindicates the decision taken to ensure
that this event was kept under strict
control.
I understand that you think that the
terms placed on this talk were over-
bearing but please understand that
this decision was taken in the context
of whether the event should be allowed
to take place at all. The College and the
Union have a duty to take reasonable
steps to ensure free speech within the
law and it would not be responsible for
either party to allow an event which
was partly organised by an external
organisation whose conduct you were
“disappointed” with to take place on
their terms. The reputation of the PPS,
the Union and the College could have
been damaged if Dr Mahathir went off
topic as if he repeated any of his rac-
ist comments it would have been in
breach of UK law. Neither of us would
have wanted this and whilst it is easy
with the benefit of hindsight to take
the attitude that “everything would
have been fine and a fuss was kicked
up over nothing” this would not have
been an appropriate response to give
in advance of this event to students
who approached me as President to
raise concerns about an individual
with a history of inciting racial hatred
coming to campus.
Your proposed solution that in fu-
ture it should be the responsibility of
concerned parties to contact you well
in advance of PPS events would fall
foul of the Union’s Code of Practice on
Freedom of Speech. The onus is cur-
rently placed on the organisers to flag
up any circumstances which might
indicate that an invited speakers’ pres-
ence will result in controversy. The
Code of Practice required that you as
principal organiser should have given
notice of the event 2 weeks in advance,
including a written statement of any
circumstances which give rise to con-
cern about potential disturbances.
Dr Mahathir’s racist views are well-
documented and I apologise if the
Union has failed to adequately convey
this duty to students who are inviting
speakers to campus. If this had hap-
pened then it would have been possi-
ble for you and the students who were
worried about Dr Mahathir’s visit to
have been more involved in the deci-
sion making process as then time pres-
sure wouldn’t have been the issue that
it was.
As I have already stated, I do not
doubt the noble intentions of the PPS
and I think that you have done a lot
of excellent work this year which has
contributed enormously to College
life. If the correct procedures were fol-
lowed this would have avoided the dif-
ficult situation which as a result of our
updated procedures will hopefully be
avoided in future.
War Crimes badges from Dr Mahathir’s Perdana Global Peace Organisation, available after the event
Former Malaysian Prime Minister, Tun Dr Mahathir Mohamad, takes a question from an audience member

