Gilead Amit
8 felix Friday 16 May 2008
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Comment
Freudian projection
Viscount
Kensington
Z
ealous eyes now scrutinise
dusty and thick textbooks
and cryptic notes on bind-
er hooks. No doubt you
will now want a chance to
draw breath after that adventure of an
opening sentence; not only does the
first word begin with a Z (ensuring
that letter’s extra largeness, how often
do you see a big Z?) but it also sort of
rhymes.
Like my peers Lord Byron and Lord
Tennyson, both only mere Barons, I am
clearly an artist of the first rate. Still, it
is unbecoming of me to so flaunt my
many merits when I am about to strip
away any illusions a mother’s uncritical
love may have given you (or your Gov-
erness, if like me, your parents were
far too important and far too rich to
have the time or the need to raise chil-
dren). The truth of the matter is, you
are all inviolably doomed. Do not ask
for whom the bell tolls; it tolls for the
upcoming examinations which you are
going to sit and fail.
Your ignorant retort may be to claim
that you still have time to revise and
put things right. How very naïve of
you: you didn’t understand the top-
ics of those lectures when you had a
world-class expert teaching them and
answering any questions you had when
your pride yielded to your fear and you
sought them out during office hours.
What could possibly make you think
you are going to understand it any bet-
ter when you revisit the topic in some
enigmatic, unchanging textbooks for
ten minutes between bouts of weeping
under the strain? You couldn’t answer
those problem sheets when they were
on a single topic you had just covered
fifteen minutes ago in a lecture and
you had your notes right out in front
of you. How could you possibly an-
swer problems comprising of not just
one course, but several, when the last
time you saw the relevant notes was
5:00AM the previous morning when
you succumbed to tiredness and fell
asleep in a puddle of your own tears,
drool and all other manner of egested
and excreted material? Make no mis-
take: the Sword of Damocles swings
softly overhead (small angle approxi-
mation for sine applies).
There is no hope: the passing sec-
onds are your foe, gnawing on your
chances, stealing the opportunities
you have left to wage a war on your
ineptitude. Do not be so misguided as
to think that everyone is, to use a col-
loquial expression, in the same boat (I
especially would never be in the same
boat as you, I do not travel in economy
class). Look around you; look at the
people you study with. There are the
gifted, whose gifts will compel them to
pass no matter the effort they expend.
Then there are the hard working: those
who did not go out, those who did
their essays on time and had no need
to invent excuses to get an extension.
Then there is you. All those optional
homework sheets you did not do. All
those lectures you missed because
you were nursing a hangover or were
sharing a bed with a woman or man
or animal whose name you could not
even remember. What have you done
to deserve to pass? Oh, my apologies,
I forgot that you attended every single
student night at ‘Tiger, Tiger’, how very
foolish of me.
And without science, you are noth-
ing. Brook no illusion: You have no
other skills; there is nothing to fall back
on. When you lose the safety blanket
of a world of the maths of algebra and
calculus you will tumble into the abyss
of the maths of rents and work. When
most of the workforce at least has a
degree in something, even something
absurd and pathetically easy, how are
you with only your precious A-grade
A-levels going to compete?
I myself would just borrow Lord Kel-
vin’s idea and pay an impoverished but
educated person to do science for me
and then pass it off as my own to the
Royal Society: but that option is hardly
available to you. No, the only option
available to you is failure. You will fail
at everything, you will be abandoned
by everyone, you will die both young
and poor.
Well, I suppose you could always end
up at the University of Soho. The only
course may be a very practically-orien-
tated biology one, but there are not any
tuition fees, far fewer lab reports to do
and you get to spend most of your time
in bed albeit with a fat, balding, mid-
dle-aged man. No doubt his weight will
be measured not in stone but tectonic
plates and he’ll have a dazzling array
of highly disturbing sexual fetishes.
Worst of all, he will probably work in
the City.
My summer condition
Linnearse
Of recent criticisms
H
ello all once again. I seem
tohavecausedashitstorm
of balti-sized proportions
with a whole two IC Foot-
ballers writing letters to
Felix about me (all by themselves, with-
out any help from their mums – aww
cuteness!). I was going to whap out an
even worse parody of the greasy snot-
bags, but since the sun is shining – I'm
going to be nice and reply instead:
Ok IC Football Club, I admit what I
wrote about you last month/term/eon
was incorrect. Here's my revised in-
terpretation of you: "I'm a little pansy
wimp, boo-hoo. Why does everybody
keep slagging me off, I don't like it...
BAAAAAWWWW". Obviously some
of my comments hit a little too close to
home for your liking!
Well I couldn't give a flying fuck.
Don't try blaming me for your failings
as people. The IC Finance Tarts may
be completely lacking in decorum and
self-awareness, but at least they know
when to take a dick to the face (oh my,
how well they do it!). Take my verbal
cockslap like men. Wipe my lashings
of vitriolic knobcheese off your stupid
chins and move on. By writing in wh-
inging pussy letters to Felix, all you're
doing is confirming your wannabe-
alpha-male-but-lack-the-qualities per-
sona that makes you so easy and enjoy-
able to mock.
You don't like your club's bad reputa-
tion? Man up and do something about
it. People calling you homophobic?
Organise a bar night with the Imperial
Queers (you might even meet a nice
boy or two…). People getting annoyed
with you trashing the Union? Take con-
trol of your 'players' and shift your half-
arsed attempts at drinking elsewhere
for once.
My parody was not aimed at the en-
tirety of IC Football, rather the idiotic
yobbo nobodies that it attracts. You
don't have to make your club suffer,
guys. Indeed, you should be proud to
wear your skanky overpriced train-
ing tops around campus. However, the
ones with the power to change your
club's image won't be me, nor the Felix
Editor – it's going to have to be you.
Good luck, girlies.
I
think we can officially say that
summer is here. Midday tem-
peratures are above 20 degrees,
it’s impossible to survive in a
closed room without opening
a window, and t-shirts and shorts are
once again invading the streets.
This state of affairs may make some
of you happy. Shame on you. You can
cheer if you want, but don’t expect me
to join in with the general euphoria. I
dislike Heat with a passion I find diffi-
cult to express without vomiting. To be
quite frank, I’m allergic to the damned
thing. When the temperature rises
above 20 or so degrees, my skin starts
to ooze a warm, clear liquid, I turn red,
and various parts of my body start to
itch. It’s not a pleasant thing to talk
about, I know, but my doctor tells me
there’s nothing I can do about it. Just
grin and bear it.
So I do. Or try to, at least, as the glo-
rious cool months inexorably fade into
the hellish days of summer. My grin
does get considerably less prominent,
though, when my face starts to melt in
the summer heat.
I know, I know, this is just me being
weird and obnoxious, trying to ruin the
fun all you lovely normal people are
having in the great outdoors. Perhaps.
I can’t state unequivocally that my
unusual preferences don’t stem from
some long-standing feeling of inferior-
ity. Perhaps I choked on a Pictionary
card defining the word ‘hot’ as a child,
or maybe a freak sweating accident at
the age of eight left me permanently
traumatised. Somehow, though, I don’t
think so.
It certainly stems from within me.
The summer is a great time to relax, to
let one’s hair down and be immersed in
the moment. Apart from the obvious
difficulty arising from the compara-
tive shortness of my hair at the present
time, I find it very hard to relax. I’m
tense, I’m controlling, I’m analytical
and I’m obsessive: but hey, let’s not fo-
cus on the positives.
My enjoyment comes precisely from
being above the moment – from crack-
ing jokes at the moment’s expense, and
by revelling in its weaknesses. That
comes in handy for braving a lot of
life’s vicissitudes, but it’s worth bugger
all in the summer. You can’t be ironic
about heat. Make fun of dehydration as
much as you want; you’ll still end up in
the Emergency Ward if you don’t drink
something.
Now I’m not being intentionally
dense – though I obviously can’t ex-
cuse myself of any accidental idiocy. I
understand that people like the sum-
mer, and I even understand why. The
daily message I get smothered in from
mid-May to late September almost
every year is: ‘being warm is so much
more relaxing than being cool’.
Dandy. You prefer warm to cold, I
prefer Table Tennis to Badminton. It’s
a choice, and like every choice, it re-
veals something about one’s character.
I don’t mind being in the minority, I
don’t mind being the only person smil-
ing as the weather announcer predicts
cloudy weather, and I don’t even mind
people telling me I’m weird. But one
thing I can’t stand is the Heat.
And it’s only May.
My eyes! It burns! It burns!

