comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
9
Friday 16 May 2008 felix
Comment
ULU Challenge Cup final
and Annual Dinner
As reported in Felix this week, there
were incidents at both of these events
which brought the image of the Club
and the College into disrepute. The
football club takes full responsibility
for the actions of its members and in
no way wishes to justify the incidents.
Nevertheless, through this statement
we wish to clear up to the student body
the exact nature of the events.
ULU Challenge Cup Final
The incidents at the cup final were the
result of an initially good-natured in-
ter-team rivalry ending on a sour note
with minor scuffles in the car park.
Whilst no individual blame can be ap-
portioned to our members at this mo-
ment, they were subject to abuse from
the opposing Holloway fans, which
resulted in several members of the
Royal Holloway fans being forcibly re-
moved from the car park and detained
by the Motspur Park security officers.
No Imperial College students or sup-
porters were perceived to be worthy of
detainment by the Motspur Park secu-
rity officers as a result of this incident.
During the match one member of the
Club was asked to leave the stands for
having an unopened can of lager in
his possession (there was an alcohol
ban at this year's cup final). He was
completely co-operative and left im-
mediately. Since the event the Club has
been made aware (informally) that one
seat was broken and deemed to be an
IC Football Club responds...
Imperial College offence as it occurred
on our side of the stand. We take full
responsibility for this damage and will
take the appropriate action to have it
replaced.
The incidents from the day can be
summarised as isolated minor scuf-
fles and are certainly not condoned by
the club. However, we do feel that we
were the innocent party in this event
and any aggressive behaviour was the
result of provocation which could have
been prevented by superior stewarding
of the event by the University of Lon-
don and Motspur Park.
For example, on several occasions
a group of Royal Holloway students
crossed from their side of the stands to
the Imperial side and confronted our
members in an aggressive manner. The
stewards were aware of this on each
occasion, but failed to prevent it re-
occurring. ICUAFC have played in 7 of
the past 11 ULU Challenge Cup Finals
and this is the first, and we wish it to
be the last, time that such an incident
has occurred.
Rembrandt Hotel
The Rembrandt Hotel was used as the
venue for the Football Club annual
dinner on Saturday 15th March. The
event was in keeping with previous
years; however, there were some iso-
lated incidents worth reporting. We
have not been directly notified of the
specific damages but through inves-
tigation we are aware that the men’s
toilets were used for vomiting, as was
an ice bucket. Also, accidental dam-
age was caused to a number of wine
glasses, however these broke on the
floor and no damage was done to any
property or any individuals. Following
the clear-up it was found that 2 bottles
of alcohol which were not purchased
at the hotel bar were brought into the
venue (such action is in conflict with
the hotel’s policy) . Furthermore, with
access to our function room requiring
passing through the main hotel lobby
and bar, several hotel guests were dis-
turbed at the end of the night by the
departure of a crowd of approximately
100 men – which I dare say was not a
quiet occurrence.
The Club has nothing to hide regard-
ing this event, indeed both the Union
President and a member of Sport Im-
perial were invited as guests to the oc-
casion (although neither were available
to attend on the evening). A £1,000
deposit was taken from the Club; how-
ever, with previous experience of these
events and the nature of the contracts,
the loss of deposit was at best feared
and at worst expected. Hence, this cost
was budgeted for. Since the event the
football club have been banned by the
Rembrandt Hotel from using their fa-
cilities again, although it should be
noted that this is a result of both this
incident and a further incident last
year caused by a separate ICU Sports
Club, a similar incident which this pa-
per failed to report on.
Outcomes
Since the aforementioned incidents
the Football Club has been under in-
vestigation by the college body Sport
Imperial. As a result of these events
the football club was punished by re-
moval from this year's IDEA league
tournament in Zurich (although both
Sport Imperial and ACC Chair Luke
Taylor failed to notify the Club of this
decision and we were only made aware
of it through informed contacts and
third parties). This has directly pun-
ished members of the club who were
contending the ULU challenge final, by
denying them an opportunity to play at
FIFA headquarters.
The Football Club Committee and
I are deeply disappointed by both of
these events and have been working to
fully resolve these matters as quickly
and as fairly as possible. I would like
to personally apologise for the actions
of the Club and for any shame it has
brought upon the Union, the College
and our fellow students. This notwith-
standing, the Football Club also brings
honour, achievement and a vibrant so-
cial body to the College, a factor which
seems to be overlooked with regular
occurrence.
The frequency with which the foot-
ball club continues to make Felix head-
lines astounds me. We are the largest
sports club on campus, entirely male,
and very socially active. Perhaps this
helps to draw a bad press, but equally
I am aware of many similar incidents
from other sports teams which fail to
make the headlines of Felix. What's
more, I know that some of the accu-
sations made against us in this week’s
Felix were a result of the poor behav-
iour of another ICU Sports Club and
have wrongly being attributed to us. It
is only fair for us to distance ourselves
from these accusations and make the
student body aware of this. Whilst I
enjoy reading Felix each week, know-
ing this does raise the question of the
level of impartiality and degree of sen-
sationalism in the reporting.
ICU Football
Club
Garo Torossian
Club Captain
In reply to this week’s news article concerning the Football Club, which can be found on page 3, captain Garo
Torossian gives ICFC’s account of the events that occurred at the Rembrandt Hotel and Motspur Park
felix
Editorial
T
his week’s statement from
the Imperial College
Football Club (ICFC) is
long overdue. The Foot-
ball Club has taken um-
brage with articles written about them
throughout the year, even going as far
as questioning: “Is there nothing bet-
ter for Felix to do than damage the
image of the Football Club?” Yet, up
until the publication of the statement
above, the Club’s correspondence has
largely been defensive rather than pro-
active, and has been labelled by some
as reactionary, including columnists in
this issue. It is, therefore, promising to
see that the Football Club is finally ac-
knowledging responsibility for some of
its actions.
Even though this is a step in the right
direction, the Football Club has failed
to apologise to the Hotel proprietors,
an action which other IC sports clubs
have done in the past. Furthermore,
ICFC have displayed a surprising will-
ingness to deflect the blame onto other
societies, other universities, and even
this newspaper.
ICFC feels persecuted by Felix’s “sen-
sationalist” reporting. The criticisms
are directed at a series of Comment
articles and two separate news stories
involving them this year. They also
highlight there has been a lack of nega-
tive coverage of other sports club.
Felix is not biased against the Foot-
ball Club. We have printed both com-
plaints levelled at the ICFC as well as
responses from the Club’s members.
Mr Torossian states that “many similar
incidents from other sports teams ...
fail to make the headlines of Felix.” Yet
we have not received reports of these
incidents. If a story is newsworthy, Fe-
lix will always report on it, regardless
of which club is involved.
If the Football Club wants to avoid
doing damage to their image, and avoid
appearing within the news pages of Fe-
lix, perhaps they should not put them-
selves in a position where their actions
are newsworthy.
With the information available to us,
we continue to stand by the news sto-
ries as they appeared both in this issue
and last Autumn.
Felix responds to the ongoing back-and-
forth between the ICFC and its critics

