A study of the reproductive success of 6000
Finnish people born between 1760-1849 sug-
gests that the technological and social advanc-
es of the agricultural revolution did not put a
stop to human evolution.
“It is a common misunderstanding that evo-
lution took place a long time ago, and that to
understand ourselves we must look back to the
hunter-gatherer days of humans,” says project
leader Virpi Lummaa, of the Department of
Animal and Plant Sciences at the University of
Sheffield.
But in a collaborative study, involving teams
from Germany and Finland as well as the UK,
Lummaa and colleagues looked at the life cy-
cles of a large set of individuals using church
records going back 250 years. They conclud-
ed that “significant selection has been taking
place in very recent populations, and likely
still occurs.”
By tracking variables such as survival to
adulthood, mate access, mating success, and
fertility per mate, the researchers found that
the intensity of Darwinian selection in the
population they analysed was in line with that
measured for species ‘in the wild’. The find-
ings also appear to suggest that sexual selec-
tion can still be at work in a society where the
marriage system is strictly monogamous.
This is in stark contrast to the traditional
view, held by many evolutionary psychologists
and social scientists, that selective pressures
in human evolution have been significantly
weakened – if not put on hold entirely – by the
flexibility our species gained through social
and cultural adaptations.
The researchers also found that evolution-
ary rates varied between men and women.
Though individuals in the population were
assumed to maintain monogamous relation-
ships, men were more likely to remarry af-
ter the death of a spouse, exposing them to
Humans are still evolving
FELIX
Friday 25 may 2012
10
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Science Editors: Kelly Oakes
Alexander Karapetian
SCIENCE
In brief
Researchers at Disney and Carnegie Mellon Uni-
versity have published new research which could
make everyday objects and even the human body
into a touchscreen.
This could mean traditional interfaces would
no longer be needed, as smartphones could be
silenced by holding a finger to the lips, and the
volume on mp3 players could be controlled with
a tap of the hand.
The technology, known as Touché, uses Swept
Frequency Capacitive Sensing, which is similar
to the technology used in smartphone screens.
Smartphones only detect electrical signals on
one frequency, allowing them to know when they
are being touched. Touché takes this one step
further by using a range of frequencies, so ob-
jects not only detect touch, but ‘sense’ how they
are being touched.
Everyday objects can be equipped with the new
technology by attaching only one electrode. “It
could immediately be used to create new and ex-
citing ways for people to interact with objects and
the world at large,” says Ivan Poupyrev, senior
research scientist at Disney Research.
The researchers envision a Touché-equipped
home where the television is turned on when the
user sits down on the sofa. The lights automati-
cally dim when the user leans back to enjoy the
show, and if they fall asleep, the room darkens
and the television is turned off.
The research, presented at the Conference on
Human Factors in Computing Systems in Texas,
investigated how this could be used in existing
tablet computers. Depending on which fingers
were used to touch the screen, and whether a
‘pinch’ or ‘grasp’ motion was used, the computer
could perform different functions, such as zoom-
ing in or right-clicking. Touché technology can
also be applied to liquids, detecting whether one
finger or a whole hand is submerged in a con-
tainer of water.
By wearing electrode on the wrists in a similar
way to watches, smartphones, mp3 players and
computers could all become gesture-controlled.
“This might enable us to one day do away with
keyboards, mice and perhaps even conventional
touchscreens for many applications,” says Mune-
hiko Sato, a PhD student involved in the work.
Disney is also conducting research into how
living plants can be made into surround sound
systems for use in their theme parks.
Siobhan Chan
Disney want to make all the world
a touchscreen
slightly greater sexual competition on aver-
age over their lifetimes.
However, selection seems to have been in-
different to social status. “Surprisingly,” says
Lummaa, “selection affected wealthy and poor
people in the society to the same extent.” Yet
another thing that money can’t buy?
DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1118174109
Douglas Heaven
A new study has identified three key proteins
in plants that may help the development of
improved crops yielding higher qualities and
quantities of oils. The scientists, of the Salk
Institute for Biological Studies and Iowa
State University, say that such plants could
help to reduce the growing global demand for
food and fuels, and negate the detrimental ef-
fect such demand may have on our environ-
ment and ecosystems.
The research, headed by lead authors Jo-
seph Noel and Eve Syrkin Wurtele, anal-
ysed genomic plant data and pinpointed the
proteins responsible for regulating the me-
tabolism of fatty acids in thale cress plants.
These three proteins, dubbed FAP1, FAP2
and FAP3, control the molecular pathways
responsible for plant oil production and bind
fatty acids such as omega-3.
“This work has major implications for
modulating the fatty acid profiles of plants,”
says lead author Joseph Noel. The research-
ers found that altering the expression of these
proteins changed the amount and quality of
plant oil produced via these pathways.
Plant oils are triglycerides and are stored
in seeds. They consist of three linked fatty
acids, which are very high-energy molecules
formed in a plant using solar energy. Utilis-
ing these acids could therefore provide a very
efficient method for producing biorenewable
chemicals and fuels. This would help to al-
leviate fears over petroleum security and
global climate change, as well as aiding in-
ternational industry, nutrition and transport.
FAP1, 2 and 3 are linked ancestrally to
Trio of proteins to ease food demand
enzymes that control flavonoid production,
compounds that play many roles within a
plant and have great nutritional and health
benefits in human diets. Further study of
plant proteins may result in a greater un-
derstanding of how proteins evolve into en-
zymes, a mechanism that has huge industrial
promise.
DOI:10.1038/nature11009
Nicola Guttridge
Tree or surround sound system?
The internet is potentially making huge strides in changing the way we think
Part of the ribbon diagram for an X-ray crystal structure
Nature

