SCIENCE
FELIX Friday 25 may 2012 11
The decline of British bee power
P
esticides may be the bees
knees when it comes to pro-
tecting crops, but research-
ers from the UK and France
have shown that exposure
to one common pesticide leads to a dra-
matic loss to the number of queen bees,
and another pesticide affects foragers’
ability to find their way back to the
hive. The new findings might go some
way to explaining recent decline in bee
numbers.
Scientists at the University of Stir-
ling and the Lancaster Environment
Centre, both in the UK, exposed colo-
nies of bumble bees to realistic levels
of imidacloprid, a pesticide chemical-
ly related to nicotine, in the lab. They
then placed the colonies into the field
to forage on gardens, wildflowers and
a variety of crops, and watched as the
colonies that had been exposed to the
pesticide suffered an 85% reduction in
the number of new queens compared
to colonies that were not exposed. The
exposed bees also gathered less food
and produced less workers, but it was
the drop in queens that was most dra-
matic. The findings were published in
the journal Science.
A meta-analysis published last year
showed that imidacloprid was not lethal
to bees, but since then there has been
growing evidence from laboratory trials
that the pesticide does harm memory and
navigation. This new research is the first
time such an effect has been found in re-
alistic conditions.
A separate team of scientists from
France found that bees exposed to low
doses of a different pesticide, called thi-
amethoxam and belonging to the same
family as imidacloprid, had trouble
finding their way home. The team glued
tiny radio-frequency tags to the backs
of 653 honey bees. Up to 43.2% of the
bees given the pesticide did not return
to their hive, depending on how far
away from the hive they were released,
compared with 16.9% of the untreated
bees. The researchers say that this level
of homing failure could put a colony at
risk of collapse.
The news comes five years after bee
colonies in the US were devastated when
they were hit by a strange condition
called colony collapse disorder. Millions
of bees vanished from their hives, leav-
ing young bees to fend for themselves.
The latest US Department of Agricul-
ture data, released in 2011, suggests that
colony collapse disorder is still alive and
well – unlike the bees affected by it.
Bees, along with other insects, pol-
linate around one third of the crops we
eat. But in the past 25 years honey bee
numbers in the US and UK have suffered
a drop of around 50%. The reason for the
decline has been unclear, but pesticides,
parasites and the destruction of flower-
rich habitats are thought to be the key
reasons.
Several European countries have
stopped using certain pesticides for fear
of falling bee populations, but the UK is
not among them. A spokesperson from
the Department of Environment, Food
and Rural Affairs told the Guardian that
the new research did not change the gov-
Science and the law have clashed
again this week, and it seems that the
US is adamant in attempting to in-
hibit scientific advances yet again in
the name of public safety. This time,
it is the geneticists that are under
pressure, as Californian senators are
attempting to pass a bill that could
hinder on-going research into genetic
diseases.
The bill, known as The Genetic
Information Privacy Act, aims to in-
troduce consent forms covering the
explicit intended use of the genetic
sample, which the person who is do-
nating the material must then agree
with. The bill also states that such
genetic material must be destroyed
after, and cannot be stored to be ac-
cessed at a later date. Supporters for
the bill are keen to point out that it
doesn’t stop research, just adds a new
bureaucratic component to protect
personal information.
With the National Human Genome
Research Institute predicting that the
cost of sequencing a genome is drop-
ping at a greater than exponential
rate, it is only a matter of time be-
fore anyone can get their own DNA
sequenced at a reasonable cost. It is
with this increase in ease of access
that concern arose into how such
sensitive and personal information
should be treated, triggering the new
law.
However, the proposed paperwork
will cost researchers around half a
million dollars annually, according
to the University of California, not
to mention the time delay it will un-
doubtedly add to any sort of investi-
gation in the future. This will espe-
cially hinder key research into the
genetic causes of diseases as they re-
quire thousands of genomic samples
at a time.
This echoes the reasoning behind
the significant delay seen earlier this
month of the publication of a key vi-
rology article detailing the artificial
creation of an influenza strain. In that
case, paper publication went ahead in
Nature without consequence. Should
this new bill be passed and then ig-
nored, penalties will range from
$1,000 to $10,000 depending on the
circumstances.
With many other states already
putting into motion their own inter-
pretation of bills concerning genetic
research, it seems that this new ex-
penditure is going to be an unavoid-
able reality very soon. This highlights
again the definitive need for some
other mandate to form a bridge be-
tween public safety and scientific ad-
vances, so both can be satisfied with-
out any detrimental effects to the two.
Genetic
privacy
Philippa Skett
Wildflower meadows are a bee’s favourite stomping ground, but 97% of them have been lost over the past 60 years, adding to the decline of bees
Muhammad Mahdi Karim
ernments position, but they would not
hesitate to act if presented with any new
evidence.
Campaigns to encourage the growth of
wildflower meadows – a bee’s favourite
habitat – will go some way to encour-
aging numbers to rise. But these stud-
ies, and others, show that it is unlikely
to be that simple. Identifying the cause
of colony collapse is essential to protect
food security, as well as the wild flowers
that bees pollinate and the animals that
depend on them.
DOI: 10.1126/science.1215039
DOI: 10.1126/science.1215025
Kelly Oakes reports on a possible cause of falling bee numbers
Bee decline: in numbers
50%
the drop in honey bee num-
bers over the last 25 years
2006
collony collapse disorder first
reported in the US
£1.8 billion
the amount it would cost per
year to hand pollinate UK
crops without bees
Attaching an RFID tag to a bee

