I
f you like your Felix lighthearted, you may
want to turn the page, because this article is
anything but. The seeds of my piece were
planted when I heard that one of my friends
was planning to attend CodeF, a Google
networking event ‘exclusively for female com-
puter scientists’ attending top universities here in
the UK. These kind of events are commonplace at
Imperial, women-only events meant to encourage
female scientists and engineers to apply to the top
jobs in the country, jobs that are skewed heavily
towards men. Unfortunately, these firms are fight-
ing a battle that is very near lost in a fashion that
places gestures over results. The losers are not the
women already at Imperial, but the many women
who will be turned away before they even get the
chance to wine and dine with Britain’s best.
An opportunity lost
The information revolution is the first major ‘rev-
olution’ to have occurred after women’s rights
rose to prominence. It was as such an excellent
opportunity to start off with an attempt at gender
equality. Looking at where we are now, however,
it is obvious that this mission (if it ever existed)
has failed. Imperial is split 65%-35% between men
and women, while the ratio in Computing is al-
most certainly worse.
Top City and tech firms vie to attract the hand-
ful of female computing graduates that do make it
in, but an undercurrent of mild sexism in industry
has also been well documented. In a now infamous
presentation at a Ruby conference in 2009, a pre-
senter used soft-porn images to illustrate how your
servers could ‘perform like a pr0n star’, while an
excellent article in Mother Jones magazine titled
‘“Gangbang Interviews” and “Bikini Shots”: Sili-
con Valley’s Brogrammer Problem’, documents
countless examples of women in the industry be-
ing not just discriminated against but (perhaps
more insultingly) being completely ignored.
It is a depressing fact that this battle that could
have easily been won many years ago has now
been almost completely lost. This is leaving us
with yet another highly paid, booming industry
where men vastly outnumber women. Firms that
scrabble around for female computing graduates
are not making things worse, but are not really
making things better: the ratio of women to men
entering the tech industry is still at best 65% to
35%.
It’s because of this that it’s hard to believe that
Too few women and no change in sight
technology.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Technology Editors: Chris Bowers
Feroz Salam
the fight for equality has to be won in the work-
place, or even at university. Most of the women
I have worked with and taught in my four years
of Computing at Imperial have been highly ambi-
tious and passionate about the subject. They will
probably go on to great things at workplaces that
will bend to their terms rather than vice versa, as is
often the case with graduates from Imperial.
The mission to motivate them into graduate
technology is arguably not as vital, as they are
obviously already motivated enough. Hiring the
35% already in the doors is easy, but fixing the
reasons why there are only 35% is where the real
problem lies.
Forcing an attitude change
The first port of call needs to look at our children,
and the influences they receive. Toys and games
play a huge role here. The blogger Kate Bachus (at
www.katebachus.com) takes the brilliant example
of Lego sets. Those targeted at boys are a magni-
tude more complex than those targeted at girls of
the same age. Skills you learn on Lego sets are
pretty much the exact same ones you apply when
problem-solving in programming, and it’s hard to
imagine girls having an interest in the latter when
they are never challenged by the former.
Setting toys aside, games are another area
where women are almost unconsciously sidelined:
games targeted at girls tend to be of the ‘Good
Housekeeping’ variety (simplistic family and food
management routines), while their male-oriented
counterparts involve journeying across nations/
planets/fantastical lands to slay terrorists/aliens/
dragons, often at a budget that would be enough
for twenty versions of Cake Mania (I’ve played
three versions, so I would know). Given that so
many people I know first discovered programming
when they were young ‘to make a game’, I suspect
that a fair chunk of the 65/35 gap lies there.
Now that we have girls interested in program-
ming, how do we get them to put that down on
their UCAS forms? This problem is more com-
plex, but I suspect a lot of it boils down to rep-
resentations of programmers in the media. I can
Feroz Salam on how equality is a long way away in the world of ‘brogrammers’
The girl takes care of the sparkly two-bit house in nauseatingly named ‘Heartlake City’ while the man holds down a real job. Both sets are aimed for the same ages
TECHNOLOGY
FELIX Friday 25 may 2012 13
think of only two major productions where the
techie is a woman: The Girl with the Dragon Tat-
too and the American drama Criminal Minds. The
majority (CSI, The Social Network, Swordfish, or
virtually any major production with the need for an
IT professional) all portray the person behind the
computer as an awkward male with a one-dimen-
sional personality.
Even before you begin to delve into the expec-
tations placed on women, you have to ask, who
wants to be that man? I certainly don’t. That we
have any women applying to work behind a moitor
should amaze us.
Clawing back some equality
The truth is, a brilliant opportunity to turn the
tables on ingrained sexism at our universities and
workplaces was lost some time ago, probably be-
fore our generation was born. Instead, we start
off with the same representation of gender as we
have in the other, older fields of engineering (Mec-
cano for boys, Barbies for girls, anyone?), and the
smelly, antisocial male programmer as our pro-
tagonist. Is the fact that we end up with abysmal
numbers of women in the field any surprise?
My advice for the bevy of tech firms lining up
with their women-oriented programs would be
this: fight the fight where it will make a difference
in the future. Campaign for girls to be treated as
they are: fully intelligent and creative members
of society, with the potential to be excellent en-
gineers. School outreach programs help, but even
more necessary is the promotion of media and toys
that focus on girls working with computers too.
Destigmatise the notion of working as a program-
mer, by showcasing the best men and women in
your company doing things that make a tangible
difference.
Finally, there must be a campaign to root out the
sexist culture in technology that is so brilliantly
(albeit unintentionally) encapsulated by the movie
Swordfish: a woman on her knees giving a blow-
job while a man does the real work. A buffet lunch
at a networking event is something, but not nearly
enough.
Startup Sqoot learnt a hard lesson the in consequences of advertising women as a ‘perk’

