COMMENT
FELIX Friday 25 MAy 2012 19
COMMENT
FELIX
S
ay you’re on your way
home from college, and
you need to pop into the su-
permarket for a cheeky bit
of grocery shopping, even
dropping by the reduced section to
buy a whole cheesecake that not only
you’re never going to finish before it
goes off but you end up paying more
per unit of cheesecake eaten despite
the reduction, but you buy it anyway
because it has a yellow sticker and
you grab it like a magpie in a jewel-
lery shop. There’s also that sense of ac-
complishment that you’ve ‘beaten’ the
supermarket by not paying full price,
even though you’re probably playing
straight into their hands.
As you turn around to move on to the
next isle with your booty in tow, you
bump into someone you know, whose
beady eyes were probably eyeing up
that cheesecake you just took. Ignor-
ing them is out of the question now:
you’ve made eye contact within talk-
ing distance and both of you are sta-
tionary. Plan B: you exchange pleas-
antries, talk about the weather, ask
redundant questions like “doing a bit
of shopping, eh?” and generally lubri-
cate the conversation until you part,
before it grinds to an awkward halt.
The problem is that supermarkets
are designed specifically so that you
traverse its isles in a scarily predict-
able manner: fresh produce, then meat,
dairy, the frozen section, and finally all
the sweet, carbohydrate-laden goodies
at the end. So you’re browsing the milk
section calculating how much you’d
save by buying four pints instead of
two and weighing that up against the
odds of you finishing it before it goes
The tale of why I hate food shopping
sour, all the time looking like an idiot
because the saving you make is some-
thing like five pence. You decide to
take a walk on the wild side and take
a six pint bottle, turn around, and… oh
it’s you again. Hi. Buying milk, I see?
It could be your best friend, house-
mate, mother or girlfriend: there is no
way this isn’t going to be painful.
If it is your housemate, you now
need to navigate the logistical and eti-
quette nightmare ahead of you: you’re
obviously going to wait for each other
since you’re walking exactly the same
way home, but you might be at dif-
ferent stages of shopping or one of
you has bought way more stuff than
the other. So one waits for the other,
looking on, not in an annoyed way, but
still wishing they’d hurry up – while
you feel their unintentional glare pile
the pressure on you to get through the
self-checkout sooner. You scan your
items more quickly, except the scanner
fails to read the barcode so the moment
you bag that box of cereal the machine
blares in that voice that reads “my
words say you made an honest mistake
but by my intonation I’m accusing you
of trying to steal”.
Sometimes if you really addle its
silicon brain you’re forced to call one
of those people with the store ID card
to save you. This not only defeats the
purpose of self-checkouts to minimise
human contact during shopping, but
also that of theft – if on the off-chance
the employee sees you’ve paid for
5 kilos of carrots yet all you have in
your bags are chorizo, you’re not go-
ing to be able to explain it by saying
you thought the sausages were just a
different cultivar.
Finally, with your groceries bagged
and paid for (or stolen), you and your
housemate now just want to get home.
Then you realise you forgot to buy
bread…
... the machine
blares in that
voice that reads
“my words say
you made an
honest mistake
but by my
intonation I’m
accusing you of
trying to steal
... the
... the
blares
blares
”
ou of
ou o
eal
eal
Veli Akiner
I refuse to use self checkout. I’m basically temping for free by PLEASE REMOVE ITEM FROM BAGGING AREA
Do you enjoy West End musicals? Do you take pleasure in not paying for things? Do you find joy in watching others fail and pitifully
stumble around on stage as they try to remember dance moves that they’ve only had ten minutes to practise?
If you answered yes to any of the previous questions, then don’t miss out on MTSoc’s 24 hour musical! In the space of just 24 hours,
Imperial’s finest and worst will learn the entirety of a well-known musical and then perform it for you at the measly price of £0!
There is simply no excuse for missing out! Revision is not an excuse. Not liking musicals is not an excuse. Not being alive is sort of
an excuse, but not a very good one, so drag your cold dead ass along to this summer’s hottest event – other than summer.
Imperial College Union Concert Hall
Sunday 27 May, 7pm
HOUR MUSICAL
[The musical is NOT 24 hours long. The audience are just expected to turn up at 7 and watch a musical of a fairly standard show length (2 – 3 hours)]

