I was in two minds on how to write this. On
the one hand as a stalwart Imperialist (person
of Imperial College) with a thorough ground-
ing in scientific lore, the word ether when re-
ferring to waves conjures up memories of an
as-of-1887 defunct theory of a medium said to
transmit light through space. On the other, af-
ter having spent Easter in a less than scientific
family in a less than scientific country, some-
thing inside me says possibly the importance
of something doesn’t always lie in whether it
is true or not. It is this that leads to my some-
what Jekyll and Hyde opinion of the Ethomet-
ric Museum.
The Ethometric Museum itself is an installa-
tion in a room full of whirring, buzzing, beep-
ing, flashing, soft siren-screeching machines.
It sounds part Willy Wonka and the Chocolate
Factory and part primitive view of a brave new
world of robotics. But of course the sounds
are a mere by-product of the ethometric waves
filling you with good will and positive energy.
That is the whole point. These archaic look-
ing machines were ‘rescued from a fire’ and
carefully tuned to produce these never-before-
heard-of-to-science waves: ethometric waves.
This is not a night out using Hangman’s rec-
ommendations. These were guaranteed to in-
duce happiness by the time we left.
In a darkened room, about twenty duped in-
dividuals milled around looking at machines
with names like the Sonaesthetic Ethometer
and Ether Flux Magnifier while things flashed,
machines beeped and a middle aged man in
a tweed suit with white gloves altered dials,
generally looking serious and occasionally
making magnets move metal objects. Enough
to make anyone smile right? Well isn’t that
just it? This man lectures in contemporary
arts and music at Oxford Brookes Univer-
sity. I find it hard to believe anybody in the
modern age could fall for this sort of rubbish
so instead I plug for the option that it’s some
sort of elaborate piece of art where the exhibit
is more the acting, the people viewing it and
their feelings. A happening perhaps, I’m not
sure, I’m not au fait with this lingo. This view
could explain why it was shown at Battersea
Arts Centre and not Imperial College Lon-
don.
So that’s my take. Of the show itself, high-
lights included a blonde assistant, the fact that
she was eastern-European and her acting abil-
ity. I was particularly impressed by how she
didn’t laugh when she told some of her stories;
a favourite of mine was how Einstein calculat-
ed the age of the universe after an ethometric
sesh. Would I recommend it? Well I did leave
happy, but a free beer will do that to you.
The Ethometric Museum at The Battersea
Arts Centre on the 25 and 26 May. Tick-
ets are £10
FELIX
Friday 25 MAY 2012
20
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Arts Editors: Will Prince
Eva Rosenthal
ARTS
The Poet’s Column
Iain Bower
Surfing
the wave
of weird
Having first seen comedy group WitTank two
years ago at the Edinburgh Fringe on the
recommendation of a friend, I’ve been com-
ing back for more at every opportunity. These
are the guys who compete against some other
2500 shows for an audience at the Fringe ev-
ery year and still manage to pack the house for
every performance.
At first glance, it’s not easy to see why: the
threesome don’t have the media fame of other
Fringe rivals such as Jimmy Carr, Eddie Izzard
or Shappy Khorsandi; nor are they born out
of a traditional representation like the Oxford
Revue or the Footlights. It seems improbable
that the set, whose existence alone arose after
a rejection to perform in the Durham Revue,
could succeed in not only winning over but
also multiplying their audience every year for
the last five years.
But succeed they have. Their sketches are
brilliant, original and unforgettable: there may
not be anything particularly witty about them
but the boyish charm, charisma and excitement
that WitTank bring to the stage draws you in
immediately. See what you like at the Fringe,
but I can guarantee you that these are the guys
WitTank spoons out
hilarity at King’s Place
Win Nova Festival tickets!
The Arts Pages this week bring you a new competi-
tion – and this one is even bigger and better than
the last. The Nova Festival – music, art, theatre &
comedy all taking place in one big field in Sussex
– is offering us a pair of tickets, valued at £100
each, for the winners of our competition below.
For all you festival fanatics out there, this is the
perfect chance to spend four drunken days swim-
ming in love, happiness and just a little mud. Even
if festivals aren’t exactly your thing, it will give you
something to do in the long, hot summer (5 – 8 of
July to be precise) if you were planning to spend it
doing not much of anything...
Send us your best festival story – in 20 words
max. – to be in with a chance of winning one of
our two tickets!
The two winners will be selected on Wednesday 6
June and will be revealed in Felix on Friday 8 June.
By that long scan of waves, myself call’d back,
resumed upon myself,
In every crest some undulating light or shade--
some retrospect,
Joys, travels, studies, silent panoramas--scenes
ephemeral,
The long past war, the battles, hospital sights, the
wounded and the dead,
Myself through every by-gone phase--my idle
youth--old age at hand,
My three-score years of life summ’d up, and more,
and past,
By any grand ideal tried, intentionless, the whole
a nothing,
And haply yet some drop within God’s scheme’s
ensemble--some
wave, or part of wave,
Like one of yours, ye multitudinous ocean.
Our Felix poets are on holiday this week (or pos-
sibly on exam time) so instead we bring you a bit
of the sea from the great Walt Whitman. With this
weather, who doesn’t dream of the sea?
By That Long Scan of Waves
by Walt Whitman
you will be quoting and imitating months after.
With this in mind, I was over the moon when
I learnt that I would be reviewing one of their
rare shows out of the Fringe milieu. Even in
the sleepy King’s Place venue every seat was
taken, word-of-mouth being crucial to Wit-
Tank’s fame. As the lights fade and the three
take to the stage their appearance electrifies the
viewer as they seem to bounce off each other
and the audience.
My only disappointment was that to a dedi-
cated Edinburgh fan like myself, the material
presented at this London viewing was largely
recycled from their previous shows. Even so,
I was still able to thoroughly enjoy the perfor-
mance. It hardly mattered that I wasn’t hearing
these jokes for the first time, I was laughing
myself into a stitch anyway. If there’s one thing
these guys are good at, it’s timing—something
the other shows of the night (The Three Eng-
lishmen and Nish Kumar) fell short on.
Going to the Fringe this year? Make sure you
check these guys out. I know I’ll be in the audi-
ence again.
WitTank returns to the Edinburgh Fringe
Festival this summer. Shows from 1 – 26
August.
Will Prince
What a wunch of bankers!

