5/4 Respect: A Tribute
to Math Rock
MUSIC
FELIX
Friday 25 MaY 2012
22
music.felix@gmail.com
Music Editors: Íñigo Martínez de Rituerto
Ross Gray Mark England
Alex Ramadan
Simon Hunter
M
odern music has few people
prolific as Australian guitar-
ist and multi-instrumentalist
Oren Ambarchi. He started
out as free jazz drummer
in his native country before moving to guitar,
which he plays experimentally and unconven-
tionally, producing sounds alien to traditional
music.
His music is of a consistently high quality
and he puts out an amazing amount of collabo-
rations, with people as respected as Sunn 0))).
He has a simply huge discography, with more
than 3 releases this year so far and an album
with Sunn 0)))’s Steven O’Malley and Keiji
Haino in production. While I admit his regular
output is often a challenge to keep up with, he
rarely lets the quality slip and has an outstand-
ing range.
The logical starting point is the only solo
work released this year, Audience Of One.
What surprised me about it was the prevalence
of vocals on the first track. I have to admit that
that from the opening of ‘Salt’ I was puzzled,
even disappointed. On further listens, how-
ever, I realised that it was both relaxing and
resonant, if a little lacking in experimentation.
The same could be said for the last two tracks,
which are interlinked and contain some con-
ventional use of acoustic guitar over ambient
soundscapes. If all this sounds like a quaint
ambient album, it’s because I haven’t men-
tioned the second track. As nice as the piec-
es are, the main event is the 33 minute cen-
trepiece ‘Knots’, which is a noise rock/drone/
free jazz/hard to define piece, and one which
doesn’t disappoint. It’s very hard to describe
because it is a persistently evolving musi-
cal journey, starting ambient, with a beat that
slowly speeds up, building in intensity, until it
drops out, leaving a more empty soundscape
led by metallic sounds.
The second album is a collaboration with
Swedish free jazz band Fire! entitled In The
Mouth a Hand. Fire! are a super group of sorts,
as all of the trio have made their names in
other projects. They are signed to the Norwe-
gian Rune Grammofon label, and are masters
of creating hypnotic platforms for the build-
up of intensity, at once ominous and reflec-
tive. It must be said that the album is closer
to Fire!’s natural style than Ambarchi’s and in
fact, on the first listen I struggled to work out
what exactly Ambarchi did on the album. He
is credited as playing guitar, but as touched on
above, he makes sounds that little resemble the
traditional guitar. On further listens it became
clear what his role was. The album is one of
those brilliantly layered albums where the
listener notices new elements on every listen
and this subtlety is due to Ambarchi, with a
wide array of effected tones and various am-
bient sounds. This is unlike a lot of free jazz
in that is doesn’t stop and restart threateningly
loud. Fire!’s rhythm section maintain hypnotic
rhythms giving these songs the impression of
slow burners, which gradually rise and fall
with their own momentum. It is not bereft of
intense moments though, as Fire!’s trumpetist
and Ambarchi’s noises often combine to great
effect to provide claustrophobia, even within
such an expansive sound.
Live collaboration with Keiji Haino and
Jim O’Rourke, Imikuzushi, completes the
set with the most extreme of the offerings.
The first track is a statement of intent, from
0.01 going straight for the jugular with some
balls-to-the-wall, blistering noise rock, which
eventually settles down to a steady rhythm
with recognisable instruments but still noisy
guitar. Oren Ambarchi returns to his original
instrument, the drums, and links up well with
O’Rourke, who plays bass on this album. Lat-
er tracks settle down to a more conventional
style, still intense and building, and this album
is definitely a notable departure from their
earlier works, where the music could often be
an interminable mass. This sounds more like
Boris on an acid trip gone bad. A further de-
parture is that this really sounds like a Haino
project as he plays the guitar and does vocals.
A highlight for me is the third track, which
starts of muted and ambient, a soundscape im-
bued with haunted beauty until after 8 minutes
is drops into a normal beat, which I can’t help
but interpret as a nod to Krautrock. Album of
the year so far.
While the order I’ve reviewed them in seems
to suggest ascending quality (and does to me),
I hasten to add that it’s almost not applicable,
because each album has a different scope of
moods, and caters to a different musical whim:
O. Ambarchi: an introduction
RiazAgahigoesdeep on threeof this year’s offerings
Although they have often used larger set ups, Hel-
la, at its barebones, is guitarist Spencer Seim and
drummer extraordinaire Zach Hill, who have played
together since high school. They released their first
EP
, Leather Diamond, in 2001. Even in that early
release, the Sacramento, California band have a
distinctive tone, consisting of technical, breakneck
riffs and outstanding drum performances from Hill.
Zach Hill’s drumming talents are utilised on
a plethora of other projects, such as work with
Orthrelm’s Mick Barr, or trending experimental hip-
hop group Death Grips. Seim also has a solo proj-
ect and Nintendo cover band The Advantage.
Hella have been branded noise rock, but I dis-
agree with this label. While their music can have
a chaotic air to it, Seim’s guitar often flirts with
melody. Slow it down and make it 4/4 and it could
be the makings of some standard indie. The im-
portance of polyrhythyms sets Hella apart as math
rock, or a noise rock/math rock crossover. Experi-
mental rock is perhaps another tag that may be
applicable because Hella have never shied away
from experimenting.
Indeed, primarily an instrumental group, they
included vocals from friend Dan Elkan on certain
tracks in early EPs, and from Aaron Ross on 2006’s
There’s No 666 In Outer Space. Use of vocals does
little to mellow their music or blunt the band’s
sense of experimentalism as while this album
does contain some of their most accessible songs,
it also has some of their most experimental work,
where vocals merely add to the psychedelic blur of
the instruments. Their music has also been known
to include elements of other genres such as 8-bit
and dance, shown by working with synths and a
split with Four Tet. The culmination of their experi-
ments was the 2005 double album Church Gone
Wild/Chirpin Hard, two independently recorded solo
albums from Hill and Seim respectively, Hill making
a noise rock release and Seim going in a 8-bit/
punk/math rock fusion direction.
Hella continue to produce quality music, releas-
ing their latest album, Tripper, last year, once again
as a duo. As in the past, they created yet another
physically exhausting album, at once aggressive
and catchy, with a groove running through the ma-
jority of the songs, resembling a less noisy Light-
ning Bolt. In contrast to the above albums, Tripper
takes a restrained approach, with a sound that is
more traditionally Hella, which no doubt pleased
many, but still breaking new ground.
In many ways, despite spending most of their
time as a duo, Hella are the perfect culmination
of the rock band; never afraid to try new sounds,
but with a propensity for catchy hooks and a pop-
like sensibility that makes them manageable at all
times.
Riaz Agahi
Pt. IV - Hella
Big O. doing what he does best
Audience of One is a catharsis sandwich with
ambient relaxation instead of bread; In The
Mouth A Hand is a set of fierce but hypnotic
soundscapes, only added to the organic sound
of Fire!’s jazz instruments; and Imikuzushi is
an exploration of some darker elements, of-
ten intense but just as often slow ominous and
building.
It is a common belief that prolific musicians
are often inconsistent and that when you re-
lease that much output, some is bound to fall
flat. While I have far from listened to Ambar-
chi’s entire discography to truly confirm or
deny this, it is worth pointing out that every
one of these albums is well worth listening to.
Perhaps it’s the amount of collaborations that
lead to this, but every album seems to be en-
dowed with a little bit of genius, impressive on
the first listen but imbued with more and more
depth, subtler and subtler elements with each
subsequent listen.
Plastic People
Saturday 26 May
Be sure not to miss...
Floating Points
Floating Points, as well as being ev-
eryone’s favourite programming term,
is also a London based PhD student
and purveyor of excellent, jazz-in-
fused electronic music.
The last Saturday in the month sees
him at Plastic People, a tiny club
off Old Street with the most insane
sound system. Expect to hear every-
thing from jazz to disco to techno. But
more than anything expect to lose
yourself.
Simon Hunter
“They are masters of cre-
ating hypnotic platforms
for the build-up of in-
tensity, at once ominous
and reflective”

