MUSIC
FELIX Friday 25 MAY 2012 23
Zulu Winter: worth the hype?
Mark England travels to the Boston Arms to find a
band guaranteed to soundtrack future O2 adverts
Reviewed in 60
seconds
Z
ulu Winter are a curious band.
They seem to be a band beloved
by hipsters at the minute, yet their
soaring ambitions surely cannot
be contained to playing to only
the trendy crowds of London. The band’s
recent singles are highly reminiscent of the
stadium bothering doom-pop of White Lies
and the lead singer’s powerful vocals remind
me very much of Chris Martin in his prime,
( I am not entirely sure when that is but I can
definitely say it is not now). Therefore it was
quite a surreal night when I went to their debut
album’s launch party show at a small venue in
North London. It was an odd sight looking at
a crowd of East London hipsters, industry lig-
gers and fashionistas stroking their moustach-
es and sipping their Red Stripe whilst the band
bash out some massive choruses smothered in
swooning guitars, clearly with much bigger
venues in mind.
Zulu Winter have been widely tipped by
BBC 6 Music, NME and Zane Lowe and so
they came accompanied with lots of buzz to
London to play their first major headline show
in the capital. They started the show looking
very confident and assured, and it was clear
from the first song that the band were primar-
ily concerned with sounding huge. The song
that most people knew, ‘We Should Be Swim-
ming’, was carted out as their second song and
this can be attributed to one of two reasons;
either the band were extremely confident of
their remaining songs or they understood that
the crowd was so full of muted industry types
that an energetic and enthusiastic response
was never going to be forthcoming so what did
they have to lose by using the big guns first?
I still remain undecided as to what was the
real reason. Other stand out songs were ‘Sil-
ver Tongue’ and ‘Let’s Move Back To Front’
which proved a real hit with the crowd; it was
impossible not to get caught up with the soar-
ing choruses and sweeping guitar parts. From
the majority of the set it was very clear to see
why, even before the release of their debut,
Zulu Winter are tipped to break into the main-
stream.
The issue which I would raise to all those
jumping on the bandwagon is that there is
nothing revolutionary or especially different
about Zulu Winter. Everything they produce
has been done ad-infinitum before and prob-
ably done better. Many words used to describe
the band go along the lines of massive, epic
and ambitious but one description sticks better
than most: Coldplay-esque. The comparison
with Chris Martin and co. is not hugely wide
of the mark with their album aimed towards
stratospheric hugeness, aided by swooping
melodies and 80s styling. In the end I would
definitely recommend checking Zulu Winter
out. Be aware they are in no way ground-
breaking but they do prove to be a very satis-
fying listen.
For someone who’s as big a fan of Stones Throw
Records as I, it’s a wonder I didn’t get on this al-
bum earlier. In all honesty, it’s probably due to it
still not being available on Spotify (Grooveshark
to the eventual rescue). Anyway...
Quakers is a 35 strong hip hop collective, mas-
sive even by hip hop’s standards. At the core
of the group are three producers, one of which
being Portishead’s Geoff Barrow, and they also
have their very own brass ensemble. Rappers
include Stones Throw stars Guilty Simpson and
MED, but the majority were recruited from the
vast wilderness of MySpace (back before it lost
all relevance).
The beats are as good as you’re likely to hear
and the variation in rappers keeps the flows
fresh. The reason I haven’t given this five stars
is that it’s perhaps not the most original produc-
tion you’ll hear on a hip hop album this year, but
if you like hip hop, you love this.
Simon Hunter
★★★★✩
Quakers
Quakers
2012
Inspiration Information is the third album from
R&B legend, Shuggie Otis. It marked a divergence
from his first two efforts in that this album was
self-produced. This and his use of early analogue
drum machines helped him create a slightly differ-
ent sound from his earlier, more traditional rhythm
and blues.
The appeal in this album has been lasting; many
producers still cite it as being hugely influential to
them and songs have been sampled by the likes
of J Dilla and Madonna. Hell, ‘Aht Uh Mi Head’
became hugely popular one summer after it was
used in the soundtrack to TV show Skins.
The best part? Summer seems to have hit us
and there isn’t a better tracklist to an evening bar-
beque than this album.
Simon Hunter
★★★★★
Shuggie Otis
Inspiration Information
1974
More hairstyles than you can shake a hipster at
The Hundred
in the Hands
Chris Richardson
Following what appeared to be an indefinite
hiatus after the release of their eponymous
debut in 2010, The Hundred in the Hands
are back on the scene. And while that said
debut managed to rapidly rack up favourable
reviews from the likes of Pitchfork and Meta-
critic, it looks as though we can expect much
more from their forthcoming second album
Red Night, which gets released next month.
As with all great electropop duos, Eleanore
Everdell (vocals) and Jason Friedman (beats)
have a brilliant synergy that they manage to
maintain throughout their tracks. As far as
production is concerned, think of those be-
loved twinkles that made Jamie xx a buzzz-
word, but with a side order of amphetamines
fed to the BPM that invokes constant foot-
tapping. While sceptics were initially dubi-
ous about Everdell’s vocal abilities, any such
reservations will probably subside once they
hear the new material: she manages to bril-
liantly capture the elegance of Lykke Li, but
also kick things up to Karen O when the cre-
scendo calls for it. Combined, the duo have
managed to create some brilliant tracks, the
lyrics of which carry their appeal even fur-
ther.
While THITH have managed to maintain
a place in the hearts and iTunes libraries of
those who stumbled across their debut, I have
a hunch that their new material is going to be
big on the blogosphere and beyond. At a time
when people are becoming increasingly dis-
gruntled with electronic music that is so fix-
ated on a ‘drop’ (at that beloved 55 second
mark, no doubt), people are all ears for the
more ambient artists that offer you a massage,
not a massacre. If The xx, Grimes or Purity
Ring are your sort of thing, THITH are cer-
tainly one to add to your repertoire.
Want to see The Hundred in the Hands
live? Catch them at White Heat, Madame
JoJo’s, on Tuesday 29 May, with support
from Young Man. Tickets are £7 from
whiteheatmayfair.com.
Got an album you want
to shout about?
Send us a short review with a
rating and we’ll be your soapbox
A band to look out for

