FILM
FELIX Friday 25 MAY 2012 25
annes Film Festival 2012
The 22 films in competition this year
Moonrise Kingdom
Dir: Wes Anderson
Cast: Bruce Willis, Edward Norton, Bill Murray, Frances McDormand, Tilda Swinton
Plot: A couple flee their eccentric town, whilst a search party tries to find them.
Rust and Bone
Dir: Jacques Audiard
Cast: Marion Cotillard, Matthias Schoenaerts
Plot: Love story between an unemployed 25-year-old man and a killer whale trainer.
Like Someone in Love
Dir: Abbas Kiarostami
Cast: Rin Takanashi, Tadashi Okuno, Ryo Kase
Plot: Struggling to finance her studies, a Japanese woman resorts to prostitution.
The Angels’ Share
Dir: Ken Loach
Cast: Paul Brannigan, John Henshaw, William Ruane, Gary Maitland
Plot: A young father is determined to sort his life out after avoiding a jail sentence.
In the Fog
Dir: Sergei Loznitsa
Cast: Vladimir Svirskiy, Vladislav Abashin, Sergei Kolesov, Yulia Peresild
Plot: A man is accused of collaboration in western frontiers of the USSR in 1942.
Beyond the Hills
Dir: Cristian Mungiu
Cast: Cosmina Stratan, Cristina Flutur
Plot: Two young women enter an Orthodox convent in Romania.
After the Battle
Dir: Yousry Nasrallah
Cast: Nahed El Sebaï, Bassem Samar, Menna Shalabi
Plot: An ex-military man meets a divorcee in the midst of the ‘11 Egyptian protests.
Mud
Dir: Jeff Nichols
Cast: Reese Witherspoon, Matthew McConaughey, Michael Shannon
Plot: Two teenage boys decide to help a fugitive reunite with his one true love.
You Haven’t Seen Anything Yet
Dir: Alain Resnais
Cast: Mathieu Amalric, Lambert Wilson, Michael Piccoli, Anne Consigny
Plot: A group of actors gather for the reading of a dead playwright’s will.
Post Tenebras Lux
Dir: Carlos Reygadas
Cast: Adolfo Jimenez Castro, Nathalia Acevedo, Willebaldo Torres
Plot: The enjoyment and suffering of a family living in the Mexican countryside.
On the Road
Dir: Walter Salles
Cast: Garrett Hedlund, Sam Riley, Kristen Stewart, Amy Adams, Viggo Mortensen
Plot: A young struggling writer takes a road trip following the death of his father.
Holy Motors
Dir: Leos Carax
Cast: Denis Lavant, Édith Scob
Plot: Lavant travels through time and space, living multiple parallel lives.
Cosmopolis
Dir: David Cronenberg
Cast: Robert Pattinson, Jay Baruchel, Paul Giamatti, Juliette Binoche
Plot: A young billionaire in Manhattan goes for a limo ride. Things get complicated.
The Paperboy
Dir: Lee Daniels
Cast: Zac Efron, John Cusack, Matthew McConaughey, Nicole Kidman
Plot: Two brothers attempt to exonerate a man who they think is innocent.
Killing Them Softly
Dir: Andrew Dominik
Cast: Brad Pitt, James Gandolfini, Richard Jenkins
Plot: A point man investigates a heist that occurs at high stakes poker game.
Reality
Dir: Matteo Garrone
Cast: Aniello Arena, Loredana Simioli, Claudia Gerini
Plot: An Italian fishmonger enters his country’s Big Brother House.
Love
Dir: Michael Haneke
Cast: Isabelle Huppert, Jean-Louis Trintignant, Emmanuelle Riva
Plot: An elderly couple must deal with the fact that they’re close to death.
Lawless
Dir: John Hillcoat
Cast: Shia LaBeouf, Tom Hardy, Gary Oldman, Jessica Chastain, Guy Pearce
Plot: Three brothers’ business in the Prohibition Era is threatened by newcomers.
In Another Country
Dir: Hong Sang-soo
Cast: Isabelle Huppert, Yoo Jun-sang
Plot: Three characters, played by one actress, each telling a different story.
The Taste of Money
Dir: Im Sang-soo
Cast: Kim Kang-woo, Yoon Yeo-jeong, Kim Hyo-jin, Baek Yoon-sik
Plot: The story of South Korea’s 1%, where the rich crave sex, power and money.
Paradise: Love
Dir: Ulrich Seidl
Cast: Maria Hofstatter, Margarete Tiesel, Inge Maux
Plot: A 50-year-old woman travels to Kenya as a sex tourist.
The Hunt
Dir: Thomas Vinterberg
Cast: Mads Mikkelsen, Alexandra Rapaport, Thomas Bo Larsen
Plot: A man becomes the centre of mass hysteria in a small Danish village.

