F
rom the title, one will probably
think that this article is about unin-
teresting food habits or a nutrition-
ist’s advice and stuff that the ma-
jority of people don’t care about.
To be honest that could have been my editor’s
picture of what I should write but indeed, the
theory of relativity suggests that everything is
relative, and because we are scientists it’s good
to apply it sometimes. Therefore, I am relating
eating habits and food preferences with actual
human behavior and diversity of characters,
with a more specific zoom in on our life here
at Imperial. In this college, there are several
kinds of people, from different nationalities,
studying different courses having different
interests and hobbies. All of these factors af-
fect the way we are fed and therefore one can
define the kind of one’s personality by using
this information. In the following article, I will
analyse some of the most distinctive kinds of
people here at Imperial, extrapolating from
their eating habits.
Let’s begin with the ‘’money spoiler cliché’’.
This kind of individual spends more money
on food than on accommodation for a flat in
Central London, and I do not mean a lot of
money on food because of quantity. You might
be wondering, how is that possible? Well, it is
quite obvious that choosing to eat at expen-
sive, highly valued restaurants for lunch and
for dinner on a daily basis, you would proba-
bly enjoy delicious meals but this also induces
other conclusions. I would personally describe
this kind of individual as shallow and a snob.
Why is that? The fact that these people do not
accept anything that might be cheaper, spend
their parents’ money extensively and judge oth-
ers on the strict rules of savoir vivre says a lot.
On the other hand, a very attractive type
is the “intellectual”. Students that belong to
this category are those who enjoy cooking
their own food, sometimes using sophisti-
cated recipes, and also throw on some music
while they cook. If you are an intellectual
you will probably feel proud of belonging in
this category. Intellectuals are considered to
be very interesting people. There is no doubt
that if you enjoy cooking, you are passionate
not only about cooking but probably about
other things as well. This kind of person sees
food as a source of inspiration and not just
a physical need for nutrition. Therefore, in-
tellectuals can be very approachable and at
the same time mature. Maturity comes from
the fact that they have taken food seriously
and converted its preparation from some-
thing that might seem a time wasting need,
to an attempt for a perfect creation. The way
FOOD
FELIX
Friday 25 may 2012
26
food.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Food Editors: Anastasia Eleftheriou
Michael Krestas
Boston Tart
Procedure:
Preheat the oven at 180 ºC. Oil a 9-inch pie plate.
Crash the biscuits and add the sugar and melted
margarine and milk. Press the biscuit mixture in a
9-inch pie plate and bake for 8 minutes. Let it cool
and remove it from the pie plate. Make the cake layer
by mixing together the milk and the vinegar. After 2
minutes add the oil, vanilla extract and sugar. In a
separate bowl mix all the dry ingredients. Then, add
the liquid mixture in the bowl with the dry ingredients.
Mix until just combined. Do not overmix. Place the
batter in a 9-inch pie plate and bake for about 12 min-
utes. Let it cool. To make the cream filling combine
the tofu, salt, vanilla extract in a blender. In a small
saucepan combine 1/2 of the milk and the agar pow-
der, cook for 5 minutes stirring occasionally. Add the
sugar, soy milk and cornstarch in a cup and whisk.
Add this to the simmering soy milk mixture and stir
for about 5 minutes. Add the cooked cream in the
blender with the tofu and the other ingredients and
blend until very smooth. Pour it immediately into the
baked pie shell. When the cream filling cools place
the cake layer on top of it. Finally, make the ganache
by melting the chocolate, margarine and adding the
milk. Use a spatula to spread the ganache on top of
the cake. Refrigerate for at least three hours.
“You are what you eat”: A charac
by Yiango Mavroconstanti
that intellectuals “treat” their food is similar
to the way they experience life in general.
Next eating type: Asian! I personally love
delicacies such as sweet and sour or noodles,
but from personal experience, I had no idea
what my kitchen-mate used to be cooking!
Were those gigantic 30cm shrimps or huge
insects from the Jurassic age? Were they
alive? Each nation has its own food tradi-
tions but I can say that Asians have been the
most brave in my eyes, including ingredients
in their nutrition that I wouldn’t even think
of as edible. Many kinds of insects are in-
cluded on their menu, but I have to acknowl-
edge that they have high nutrition value.
What’s next? The “Cholesterolian’’. The
description of this eating type is quite obvi-
ous. Cholesterolians simply eat pizza, burg-
ers, fried chicken and all kinds of fast food
only, at a regular day to day basis. One thing
to note is that a Cholesterolian’s excuse for
this is the fact that there is no time to cook.
WHAT? SERIOUSLY? My dear Cholestero-
lians, feeding yourself is not something that
just appears on your schedule to waste your
time, it’s something you do for your own good!
We are now moving to a very common eat-
ing type at Imperial. This paragraph describes
the “Sandwich Nerd’’. In my mind’s diction-
ary, the Sandwich Nerd only eats sandwiches
from the Central Library or JCR day and night
as he or she literally studies all the time. Why
all the time? People of this category may be
buried under the illusion that if they don’t
study enough in order to get an A or A*, they
are Imperial failures. As you might probably
know, some of the Sandwich Nerds actually
Modified recipe from the recipe book “ Vegan Pie
in the Sky” by Isa Chandra Moskowitz
Ingredients:
For the base:
1 3/4 cups graham crackers or digestives
3 tablespoons sugar
4 tablespoons melted non-hydrogenated margarine
1 tablespoon milk
For the cream:
6 ounces silken tofu salt
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/2 teaspoon lemon juice
1 cup soy milk
1/2 teaspoon agar powder
1/2 cup sugar
1 tablespoon cornstarch
For the Cake layer:
1/2 cup flour
1/2 teaspoon baking powder
1/8 teaspoon salt
3/4 cup milk
1/2 teaspoon vinegar
3 tablespoons sugar
2 tablespoons vegetable oil
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
For the Ganache:
1/4 cup milk
3/4 cup chocolate chips
1 tablespoon margarine
The “Money Spoiler Cliché”: spending daddy’s money at Michelin restaurants!
Renos Karamanis analyses Imperial’s food habits. With illust
The “Intellectual”: Food is life! The “Asian”: Interesting and brave!
“I will analyse some
of the most distinctive
kinds of people at
Imperial”
“I had no idea what my
kitchen-mate used to be
cooking!”

