FOOD
FELIX Friday 25 may 2012 27
cter criterion or just philosophical bullshit?
The “Cholesterolian”: Don’t bother on a 2-1 Tuesday!
kets). I believe this fact can describe the
Lucky One as a slightly immature per-
son or not yet an adult to be fair. On the
other hand the positive thing about the
Lucky One is that is a very approachable
person. A Lucky One has many friends,
or at least he or she has some very good
friends. Why? Who is cooking for the
Lucky One? FRIENDS! Now if I try
to do some chemistry here, adding the
approachability with the immaturity,
we have a person who is very sensitive!
Got tired reading this? WAIT! We’re
not there just yet! I can’t say I saved
the best for the end but “the Mummy’s
Kid’’ is an eating type that deserves to
be mentioned. “The Mummy’s Kid’’
is of course the student that when re-
turning from vacation, fills the freezer
with tons of homemade food, cooked
with extensive care by his or her lov-
ing mom. The supplies include all the
kinds of food that the Mummy’s Kid
wouldn’t dare to cook and taste deli-
ciously great. If Mummy’s Kids leave
in hall they probably occupy the whole
freezer themselves (yep, a lot of stuff!).
I remember a floor mate asking me
last year while I was unpacking the
“goods’’ (yes I’m one of those): “Renos!
Mother Karamanis must have spent
days of cooking!’’ Well she did, she
still does, but let’s move on to discover
some of the characteristics of these eat-
ing type. Furthermore, the fact that
Mummy’s Kids store food that can last
for a long time, means that they think
about the future, hence a Mummy’s Kid
The “Sandwich Nerd”: boring, dull, and a genius; we all need one of those!
might be always prepared on anything,
thinking two steps forward each time
(that’s all hypothetical). It would be
undeniable to also claim that Mummy’s
Kids are most of times guys that have
the greatest love for their moms. This
great love, combined with the fact that
they sometimes share their food sup-
plies with others, suggests people who
are approachable and sociable, which
earns them lots of friends. The obvi-
ous thing to notice though, that always
happens, is that “Mummy’s Kids’’ con-
vert to any other eating type mentioned
before, as soon as the supplies run out.
Summarizing, we have gone through
seven eating types in enough detail for
you to start spotting yourself into one
of those. What eating type are you? You
can’t find yourself into one of those?
You may be a combination of eating
types. The complexity of everyday life
here at Imperial makes us synoptic,
which may be described as a new eating
type. Is what you eat a character crite-
rion though? Or is it just philosophical
bullshit? It depends on how someone
understands the article. You can reach
to your own conclusion depending on
the way you think. For me, the eating
type is a character criterion. I wouldn’t
write the article if did not believe
so. For others it could be just bullshit
someone had the idea and pleasure to
write about in Felix. My tip is that if
you have reached this paragraph read-
ing the whole article, you clearly believe
it is an actual character criterion. If you
still read the whole article but still be-
lieve it’s bullshit, then there is clear
evidence that you prefer wasting your
time reading bullshit in newspapers.
The “Mummy’s Kid”: Marry him, you marry his mother too!
The “Lucky Ones”: Lazy and bored or just the smartest people at IC?
live in the Central Library (but they
still pay rent for a flat!). It’s a pity,
isn’t it? Sandwich Nerds may like and
actually be good at other things like
music, sports or dancing and be tal-
ented but put them aside as “there is
no time for those’’. Therefore, they are
most of times unhappy and complain
about Imperial life. I would describe
this attitude as ironic. Why complain
about Imperial life while it is your own
responsibility to find the correct bal-
ance of curricular and extracurricular
activities that makes you happy? Af-
ter all, getting a 2:1 will definitely not
ruin your future career. What’s more
tragic, is the fact that Sandwich Nerds
have no idea that they are drowning in
the sea of pointless academic success.
Contrary to the last two eating types,
the next eating type appears to be the
one I would like to be. I call this type
the “Lucky One’’. Being a Lucky One
implies that you have your friends
cooking for you all the time! How great
is that? It is like an Imperial “mum ver-
sion’’, with the friends being your flat
mates, friends that live in your hall, a
boyfriend, a girlfriend or just a friend
with benefits. The Lucky One most
probably has no idea of cooking, which
is a reasonable conclusion as he or she
never cooks. There is one major advan-
tage and one major drawback about the
Lucky One. The negative side is that if a
person doesn’t know how to cook, then
that person can’t survive alone (unless
eating ready meals from supermar-
trations by Ioanna Kalogeraki
“Getting a 2:1 will
definitely not ruin
your future career”
“The Lucky One
most probably has
no idea of cooking”
“What eating
type are you?”

