As the saying goes: even a poor-quality photo
taken on a beaten digital camera can tell a thou-
sand brilliant words. Or something like that. If
the accompanying photograph doesn’t appeal to
you then hopefully the remainder of this article
will inspire you to take a trip.
The destination in question is Alleppey, in the
heart of “God’s own country”, Kerala. I know
what you’re thinking: isn’t India usually affili-
ated with dusty temples, sprawling metropoleis
and aggressive tuk-tuk drivers? Usually, and
that’s why I’d urge you to take a train (or plane,
if you’re feeling fly) to the more serene south
coast.
Kerala boasts the highest literacy rate in In-
dia, and the government places huge emphasis
on education and clean streets, which probably
contributes to its popularity as a global holiday
destination. While I’ve covered some of the oth-
er attractions on offer, by far the greatest reason
to take a trip to Kerala is to take a ride on a rice
boat through its famed backwaters.
The best place to see the backwaters is by
heading out from Alleppey, where there are
probably more boat operators around than there
are kilometres of canals (more than 900, or so
I’m told). Inevitably, many of these operators
will provide you with sub-par bang-for-your-
rupee, which is why Felix Travel has already
tested the waters to find a more reputable ket-
tuvallam provider.
Gambit Cruises (GambitCruises.com) offer
a variety of packages on their humble kettuval-
lams that can be tailored by time and destination
according to your needs. Your houseboat pack-
age includes a captain, chef and handy-man, and
can sleep up to four should you stay overnight.
FELIX
Friday 25 MAY 2012
28
travel.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Travel Editors: Chris Richardson
Dushi Arumuganesan
TRAVEL
Wishing you were here
Get there: Northern Line
See: The lock, the markets
Eat: BYOB Brazilian at Guanabara
Cost: £10 for a tasty burger
Some say it’s had its day, but Camden still has
some little gems on offer. If you can’t be bothered
to trawl through fake band T-shirts and the other
miscellaneous bric-a-brac, check out what’s on at
the Proud gallery, then follow it up with some deep
conversation over some tasty beers at BrewDog,
or head down to the Barfly for a wiggle.
Planning a trip? Want some quick advice from
experienced travellers? Have a travelling tale to
share with Imperial?
Drop us an email at travel.felix@imperial.ac.uk, or
send us a tweet using #FelixTravel
this to coincidence).
After a tiring day of enjoying the feast of sights
on offer, you’ll no doubt be ready for darkness
and tranquillity at this point. What’s cool about
certain parts of the backwaters is the thousands
of fireflies they house, which, if you’re lucky,
will come out and greet you for some evening
entertainment before you retire to your cabin.
It’s no surprise that this ranked in my recent
India top five: when you’re kicking back with a
coconut on your kettuvallam, there’s really very
little to complain about. Whether you’re inter-
ested in unrivalled scenery or just want to live
out I’m on a Boat, be sure to make a backwater
cruise your top priority when visiting Kerala.
Chris Richardson The company has a flawless safety record, and
all boats come equipped with more accessories
than Xzibit would ever consider including if the
boats were to appear on Pimp My Ride.
While you could catch a glimpse of the back-
waters in the course of an afternoon, most peo-
ple I know who opted to do so left dissatisfied
and hungry for more, which is why I opted for a
one-night stay. It takes a few hours to get away
from those trying to cram in a trip in a single af-
ternoon, and by lunchtime you get to experience
the true serenity of the canals. Gambit Cruises
have the experience of navigation and knowl-
edge of other tour operators’ plans to make your
trip as isolated and spectacular as possible.
After floating through larger lakes and drift-
ing down windy, narrow canals, you’re able to
stroll through villages and rice paddies, en-route
to a local fisherman’s market where you can pick
out your dinner and grab a refreshing coconut to
enjoy on your upper deck. Regardless of where
you look, you’ll have so many beautiful sights
on offer to keep you entertained as your chef
prepares you a proper Keralan banquet.
In addition to the sheer time increase to enjoy
the area’s gorgeous flora and fauna, opting for an
overnight stay opens up other interesting oppor-
tunities, depending on your interests. It’s pos-
sible to continue strolling through welcoming
rural villages as the sun sets, which could prove
even more memorable should your trip coincide
with a festival (though I recommend not leaving
“experience the true
serenity of the canals”
Cruising up the backwaters
Kicking back on a luxury rice boat in the heart of Kerala
Nope, this boat doesn’t come equipped with its own T-Pain (real name Faheem Rasheed Najm)
The legendary Camden Lock
Travel on your doorstep
‘Seoul lotus lantern festival’ by Jeon Heon-Kyun
Planning a trip to Kerala or any other part
of India? Contact Kerala Holidays, who
offer tailor-made custom packages for
groups of any size, that start and end at the
airport and include everything in between.
Awarded as the Best In-Bound Tour Opera-
tor by the Kerala Government, and with a
friendly staff who know the ins and outs of
the country, it’s no wonder they’re attract-
ing holidaymakers and celebrities alike.
Visit KeralaHolidays.com to find out more,
where you can call them for free and check
out some of the testimonials for yourself.

