because I was obviously wearing far too
many square inches of clothing. I was
then issued with a marathon-style num-
ber to put on my back, and from then
onwards I was just “96”.
When it was time to dance all my
apprehension vanished. As the music
started playing I was transported to
Brazil and I remembered how much I
CLUBS & SOCIETIES
FELIX Friday 25 MAY 2012 29
“I had been paired at
the last minute with
a charming Parisian”
O
n Friday 18 May at 7pm,
a group of 15 of us met
outside the Union and
packed onto the mini-
bus alongside bags
filled with Waitrose goodies, ready for
a weekend of luxury. After stopping at
a huge Tesco, dodging a cat in the road
and listening to classical music being
interrupted by a whale repeatedly fall-
ing into a huge swimming pool, we ar-
rived at the hut in Drws-y-Coed around
1.30am and went straight to bed.
Waking bright and early on Saturday
we had our first luxury meal – bagels
with smoked salmon and cream cheese.
We then set off on the minibus toArenig
Fawr. We were lucky that it didn’t rain
all weekend, but on Saturday there was
a thick fog that unfortunately made it
pretty hard to see any of the views from
up high. After the ascent, we stopped
at the top (854m) for our luxury lunch,
huddled in the shade of a memorial.
Once stuffed with posh bread, cheese,
salami, wild boar, other assorted meats
and organic chutneys, we began the de-
scent via Moel Llyfnant (751m). Soon
enough, it was time for some Darjeel-
ing tea (courtesy of Harrods) alongside
scones topped with Duchy raspberry
and strawberry jam (best food on the
trip) and clotted cream. We then headed
off for the last stretch down from Moel
y Slates (557m) towards the minibus
through what is probably the longest
stretch of bog that any of us have ever
walked through, and got thoroughly
soggy – with Rob’s jump/skid/fall defi-
nitely being the most amusing.
Upon returning to the hut, the won-
derful cooks attempted to make a bar-
beque for our luxury dinner, but in the
end had to resort to the oven. In the
mean time, our soggy clothes, shoes
and feet were dried by the fire. Our
luxury dinner consisted of (many) burg-
ers, chicken, sausages, salads, summer
trifles, wine, port, champagne and el-
derflower cordial. Once suitably stuffed
full of luxury, some went to bed whist
others enjoyed polishing off the wine
and after dinner mints.
We woke a little later on Sunday to
a beautiful morning and had our luxury
breakfast (croissants with more amaz-
ing jam and butter) on the scenic mini-
bus ride whilst listening to classical
music. Several people were feeling a
little worse for wear after the previous
day’s walk, and so they went off to en-
joy a ride on a steam train and walk in
the ‘Welsh rainforest’ in a nearby town.
The rest of us headed up towards Moel-
wyn Mawr (770m). The sun was peak-
ing through the clouds and there was a
slight breeze, making it perfect walking
weather. The hike up was tiring but we
were rewarded with wonderful views
all around, including being able to see
out to sea. Our luxury lunch on top of
the trig point consisted of more posh
bread, cheese, assorted meats and salad.
After lunch we happily clambered
along a rocky ridge before dipping
down and then ascending back up again
to Moelwyn Bach (710m). On the de-
scent we stopped for some tasty home-
made luxury Welsh cakes, courtesy of
Jim. Soon after, we hit some bog, but
thankfully it was tiny compared to what
we walked through on Saturday. We
got back to the minibus around 4pm,
met up with the rest of the group, put
some lovely dry clothes on, and headed
home. After stopping at The Harvester
for a tasty dinner, texting in to an agony
aunt on the Radio 1 ‘Sunday Surgery’
and singing along to Maroon 5, we
made it back to London for 11pm, in
time for everyone to catch last tubes
home and have a much needed luxury
shower and sleep.
Snowdonia in style
All you need is food... Sejal Mahida reports on the latest Fellwanderers trip
I used to loathe dancing. I was one of
those people who stands in the corner
looking awkward, refusing to join the
dance floor. However, in a moment of
daring, I tried Latin American Dancing
and not that long after I found myself
travelling one Sunday morning to the
south coast for my first competition.
The day got off to a bad start. I ar-
rived at the Hove Dance Centre with
relative ease, rather smug at having
successfully negotiated National Rail’s
replacement bus service. But as soon as
I arrived I started to notice that some-
thing was not quite right. The building
was very small, its door was locked,
the lights were off, and the only sound
I could hear was that of seagulls – there
was evidently no dance competition
here. After a few frantic phone calls I
ascertained that yes, I had got the right
date, but no I wasn’t at the right place;
I was meant to be at the town hall over
2 miles away. When I finally arrived, I
knew I’d made it. Women in blindingly
bright sequined dresses and thick layers
of makeup were rehearsing their moves
in the lobby. I panicked. Not only did
they look terrifyingly good at dancing,
but I also realised that I was both un-
der and over dressed for the occasion;
underdressed because I hadn’t stuck
sequined jewellery on my forehead or
greased back my hair, and overdressed
loved this type of dancing. Samba is a
“progressive” dance, which means that
you describe a circular shape around the
room as you dance. Rather inevitably
as we (my teacher and I) “progressed”
in front one of the adjudicators, my
routine “progressed” out of my brain
causing me to come to a rather embar-
rassing halt. Needless to say I did not
get through to the next round. However,
spirits remained high since the “pairs”
event was yet to take place. I had been
paired at the last minute with a charm-
ing Parisian whom I was to Cha-cha-cha
with. Seeing that the individual events
were taking some time, I took the oppor-
tunity to take a stroll along the seaside
and get something to eat. Hove looked
beautiful, bathed in the first sunshine of
the summer. Too beautiful perhaps, as
on my return it emerged that I had em-
barrassingly missed the pair event, my
final chance to dance! I set off for home,
dejected but convinced I should redeem
myself at another competition.
Was the whole day worth it just for
two minutes of dancing? Definitely. It
was great to see so many dancers of so
many ages enjoying themselves (there
was a whole section for 50 plus age
group), and I picked up some tips about
how I should dress (!). I also saw danc-
ing of the highest standard which was
truly incredible. I certainly no longer
have any inhibitions on the dance floor.
That is, when I make it there on time.
Stephanie Walton
Strictly hate dancing? Give it a shot!
Thea Powell
Another weekend of desolation, only without any revision involved
felix@imperial.ac.uk

