More student cuts
More student cuts for Imperial
students at South Kensington’s
FRESH Hairdressers.
Men’s cuts £22
Women’s shampoo and cut
and shake dry £28
Women’s shampoo, cut and
blow-dry £38
All of our cuts are done by
highly experienced stylists.
Tuesday to Fridays 9.30 to
4.30 (sorry no discounts on
Saturdays).
We are only 70 metres from
South Kensington tube station
Sponsored Editorial
Discount haircuts for Imperial
students at Fresh Hairdressers
To book an appointment,
call 0207 823 8968. Ask for a
student discount and bring your
Imperial ID.
NEWS
FELIX Friday 25 may 2012 3
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
News Editors: Sophia David
Alex Nowbar
ation. Scoring 84% under the category,
this placed the institution above the
London School of Economics’ relative
score of 82% at the top of the leader-
board for this category.
Imperial is placed third amongst
the London-based universities, with
the London School of Economics be-
ing placed in 3rd position overall, and
University College London placed at
6th position.
Deputy President (Education) Jason
Parmar was particularly outspoken on
Imperial’s position in the rankings, and
league tables in general:
“I believe that prioritising the stu-
dent experience as a criteria for UK
league tables is commendable of the
Guardian, The Sunday Times and
others. However, it is fair to say that
the methodology of these tables have
meant that they can be seen as doing a
complete disservice to the prospective
students who use them”
“We should be asking ourselves the
question: should career prospects and
research have greater weighting in
modern league tables if we are to pro-
vide future students with a good ser-
vice? In the current financial climate
career prospects are crucial to a stu-
dent’s choice of university, now more
so than ever. The fact that the Guard-
ian league table doesn’t even consider
research worries me.
“In addition, their analysis and
measure of the student experience,
which contributes so heavily in the
table, is unreliable as it is based solely
on the National Student Survey. We
even saw in Felix that the NSS could
League table results questioned
be hacked by students with very little
effort. In addition to this the three
student experience areas taken from
the NSS are ‘Overall Satisfaction’,
‘Feedback’ and ‘Teaching’. But this
doesn’t cover, for example, ‘Learning
Resources’, which is a very important
part of the student experience.”
Parmar was particularly vocal re-
garding the ‘Value Added’ category:
“Although in principal the ‘Value
Added’ category aims to “show how
effective teaching is”, it could easily
do the exact opposite. To top the table
in this criteria, which is worth 15%
of the overall score, a university can
simply increase the amount of firsts
and upper seconds it awards, lower its
entry requirements, and have terrible
teaching effectiveness. This is counter
productive as it lessens the academ-
ic integrity of graduates, and hence the
table can easily misguide prospective
students.”
Deputy President (Education) criticises choice of league table categories
eas of food security, which will be a
pressing issue with the growing glob-
al population”.
Other staff who are leaving include
Dr Tilly Collins, Senior Teaching Fel-
low in the Department of Life Scienc-
es, which will have a further impact
on undergraduate Biology degrees
since Dr Leather also undertook a sig-
nificant amount of teaching for them.
Deputy President (Education) Jason
Parmar told Felix that “the reasons for
the staff leaving are their own which
we are unaware of, but it may be fair
to assume that the low demand may
have played a significant role in their
decision.”
“Unfortunately,” he continued, “due
to the courses’ reliance on the two
staff members they have had to be
postponed. It is concerning that these
courses relied so heavily on individu-
als and we have been assured that the
college is looking into preventing fu-
ture risks like this occurring again.”
The Conservation Science MSc,
Ecology, Evolution and Conservation
MSc/MRes and Quantitative Biology
MSc will continue to run at Silwood
Park in 2012/2013, with a new Bio-
diversity Informatics and Genomics
MRes starting in October.
...Continued from Front Page
Courses end at Silwood
The ‘value added’ score in the rankings (above: left) have been criticised by Deputy President (Education) Jason Parmar (above: right)
These departures follow cuts to the Department of Life Sciences last academic year
...Continued from Front Page
Matthew Colvin

