NEWS
FELIX Friday 25 may 2012 5
Scientists protest to protect research
On Tuesday 15 May, around 80 physicists
and chemists from around the UK held
an unusual protest against their research
funder by parading a coffin and a horse-
drawn hearse down London’s Whitehall
to Downing Street.
The protest marked the start of the Sci-
ence for the Future campaign which is
fighting for the reform of the Engineering
and Physical Sciences Research Council
(EPSRC). The protesting scientists argue
that a number of policies introduced by
the council place British research in mor-
tal danger.
The unpopular policies include a deci-
sion to stop funding PhD studentships on
research grants, limiting fellowships to
specific subjects and a ban on the resub-
mission of most rejected grant proposals.
A new funding scheme also means that
more money is being allocated by EPSRC
staff rather than through a peer-review
process. The council’s “National impor-
tance” criterion, for which scientists must
explain how their research might meet
“national strategic needs” over 10-50
years, has also drawn much criticism.
Professor Tony Barrett, a synthetic-
organic chemist at Imperial, is the chief
organiser of the campaign, and has called
for the chief executive of the EPSRC, Da-
vid Delpy, to take action or step down. He
described the moves by the council as a
“Stalinist collectivization of science.”
Prof. Barrett said, “I don’t want more
money for science. I just don’t want tax-
Sophia David
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
News Editors: Sophia David
Alex Nowbar
Plans to record lectures are set to fi-
nally come to fruition next academic
year. College is set to work with video
capture platform Panopto in order to
ensure that lectures are made more ac-
cessible to students.
The collaboration will result in live
lecture streaming, the opportunity to
view previous recordings at any time,
the ability to view lectures on mobile
phones and tablets, and follows sug-
gestions by students listed in Imperial
College Union’s response to the 2011
National Student Survey Report.
Panopto was founded in 2007, and
was built with technology developed
at Carnegie Mellon University’s
School of Computer Science. The
platform now serves several markets
and institutions with video capture
technology.
This academic year the system was
piloted in every faculty with over
1,000 successful recordings made by
staff.
Jason Parmar, Deputy President
(Education) who also sits on the e-
Learning Strategy Committee in-
volved with the plans said “it has been
fantastic to work with the committee
and see resources be dedicated to this
innovation in teaching. It will improve
educational access to students and im-
prove the student experience here at
Imperial so I hope as many lecturers
Lecture podcasting to become
reality after test successes
Matthew Colvin
Panopto provides services for Fortune 500 companies
Imperial professor Tony Barrett is the chief organiser of the campaign
payers’ money to be spent on a top-down
diktat programme emblematic of what
went on in East Germany.”
The turnout of the protest was low with
only 80 out of 8000 researchers funded by
the EPSRC attending.
Prof. Barrett commented that, “A num-
ber of my colleagues were afraid to be
here. They are concerned that their future
grant proposals will be in danger.”
The protest has drawn criticism from
some commentators including Professor
Athene Donald of the University of Cam-
bridge who argued, “They are not repre-
senting all of us and many of us do not
agree with their stunt.”
The council also argued that the protest-
ers were a small and unrepresentative mi-
nority of the scientific community.
They said, “If we are to continue to
excel in areas of strength, we must take
a strategic approach in how we invest –
so we have the right balance of funding
between different research areas, making
sure the UK has the right national capa-
bility in core disciplines and is addressing
major societal and economic challenges.”
Following the success of previous edi-
tions, this year welcomes LUSO 2012,
the Sixth Meeting of Portuguese Re-
searchers and Students in the United
Kingdom.
LUSO 2012 will take place on the
16th of June at the Senate House in
London. Its main theme is “Powering-
Up Portugal”, aimed at encouraging
disclosure, communication and inter-
action in the fields of science, tech-
nology, entrepreneurship, and arts,
among others. LUSO 2012 will host
a diverse panel of prominent guest
speakers from the academic, entrepre-
neurial, and political fields.
Some of the confirmed speak-
ers include Nuno Crato (Portuguese
Minister for Education and Science),
Miguel Seabra (President, Portuguese
Foundation for Science and Technol-
ogy), and Sir Tim Hunt (Nobel Prize
Laureate in Physiology/Medicine
2001).
Notwithstanding being the annual
meeting of Portuguese Researchers
and Students in the United Kingdom,
LUSO 2012 welcomes participants
across all areas of study/work, ages
and nationalities. Registration for
LUSO 2012 will be open until 9 June.
More information can be found
on LUSO 2012 website http://
www.2012.luso.org.uk.
Imperial students organise
major conference about
Portugal in London
Joana Moscoso
The LUSO 2012 organising committee
as possible will take advantage of it.”
The beginning of Autumn Term
2012 will see an anticipated gradual
introduction of the scheme, though
implementing the video capture is en-
tirely at the discretion of lecturers.

