Pdge 4 F E L I X M a r c h 6th 1973
President's Piece
A v i d readers of my writings will have noticed a
single-minded concentration on grants. This week I
want to write about three other matters which affect
students very much indeed. Funnily enough all of
them turn out to be linked up with the problem of stu-
dent financing.
H A L L S A N D H O U S E S
The facts of rents and grants for undergraduates are
as follows:
Board & Lodging Estimates for Lodging
Total Grant £ Element Board
3972/73 480 27.5 163* 112
197374 500 28.5 163** 122
* Meals are estimated at 75p per day for 31 weeks.
N.B. This is the College's estimate.
** Assuming no increase in refectory priced(!)
Charges range from £102 to £120 per year in the case
of halls and from £101 to £116 for houses. In all cases
these figures include £11 (ie 35p per week) contribution
to the Building Fund (a voluntary payment to help fin-
ance the new hall).
The actual amount paid is around the national
element in the grant. l . C rents arc only " l o w " because
conference and block bookings in vacations provide so
much revenue. In fact we only think of them as low
because London rents are so outrageously high.
Next week's Student Residence Committee (a College
Committee with student representation) will receive a
report on finances. This will indicate a likely £8,000 de-
ficit next year and recommend economies. Student H o u -
ses would get what they need for redecoration (in case
they fall apart) halls would get a 48 per cent cut. Even
so the basic "economic" rent would be £3.65 or £124 per
year (if the full 35p levy stays) is over the national ele-
ment even assuming that refectory prices stay steady.
Given that the union is trying to catch up with the
effect of past inflation we can hardly be expected to
agree to more without a fight.
S T U D E N T N U M B E R S
The University Grants Committee (through which IC
gets in Govcrment money) has decided that in the
next five years our student numbers should increase by
25 per cent, the recurrent grant (which pays running
costs etc.) increasing only 11 per cent. Apparently more
students can be crammed into our buildings than they
were built for. Worse still, what is the effect on the ac-
commodation problem? 1.000 more students pushing
up rents in Kensington, breaking up the local commu-
nity to make way for bed-sit racketeers, or commuting
from Wimbledon, Richmond. Clapham. and, even fur-
ther. The Greater London Development Plan suggests
that students should in fact be moved out of London.
This may sound extreme but as I see it either the cx-
pansion must come by building new colleges outside
London with proper accommodation or the Government
will have to ban office block and luxury hotel build-
ing in London and supply the finance for both student
accommodation and housing for the people of London.
T o make matters worse there is grave doubt about
whether the new hall will in fact be built.
The "brighter" side is that fewer school-leavers want
to study science at Universities in general and I.C. in
particular. C a n you blame them? Lousy London digs,
lousy grants and lousy job prospects in many fields. For
the first time lecturers interviewing applicants have met
with worries about the level of grants from school-
leavers.
R E F E C T O R Y P R I C E S
Prices will not go up next term. O K . But if inflation
continues (if?) the refectory committee may well be
laced with the proposal to increase them from 1st A u -
gust (when the union is at its weakest point, funnily
enough). Clearly jf we intend to stop them we have to
do it now. Subsidies would be better than nothing but
that would tie us to Mooney. Basically- we need grant
increases to match inflation so that we can have
the choice of eating outside Mooney if we want to. Simi-
larly over hall rents subsidies would help those in hall
but leave those in private accommodation in acute diffi-
culty.
G R A N T S C A M P A I G N S T R A T E G Y
Getting obsessed with subsidies can lead to wrong
strategy; namely, relying entirely on local militancy, in
a minority of colleges, to make the Government allow
these colleges to subsidise hall and refectory accounts.
This strategy "guerilla struggle in the colleges" would in
fact not build the sort of mass movement, on a national
scale that could win a grants increase. It would in effect
exclude the majority of small colleges from the cam-
paign and would run the risk that a number of unions
would face victimisation. Support for the unions would
then be more difficult to build because of the lack of a
national campaign already in existence.
O n the other hand, by launching a National C a m -
paign for higher grants N.U.S. has united the F . E .
Students with the University students and students in
hall with those in digs. The rent strikes, refectory boy-
cotts, occupations are an important part of this nation-
al campaign but must be seen in this context.
The outcome of meeting on Thursday, between N U S
and the Government about grants is bound to anger a
lot of students. M r . St. John Stevas agreed with the jus-
tice of virtually every point in the claim (except the an-
nual review)! The Government figures on the decline
in purchasing power of the grant tallied with those of
N.U.S. they agreed that an increasing number of stu-
dents suffered real hardship and in general the ultimate
point in reasoned negotiation was reached—viz "be-
cause of the economic situation, we cannot afford it,"
but they want more time to think about it! Question—
how can they afford the 11 per cent increase in defence
expenditure?
The Government had the first interim claim a year
ago, January, and the present claim with all the fig-
ures four months ago. ft clearly taxed the organisational
power of the D.E.S. to the limit to actually arrange a
meeting with N.U.S.—too much to expect them to give
an answer! N o , we've got to wait! A n d maybe since
students are "notoriously fickle" the present grants cam-
paign will just fade away.
It's rather interesting that the Government did not
have the basic animal cunning to put forward a small
divisive offer, as seemed likely—maybe that is still to
come. Other points of interest, according to Digby
Jacks, are firstly that St. John Stevas was not very well
briefed particularly on the cost of abolishing the paren-
tal contribution and secondly that he said he was sym-
pathetic to the student case but the economy, the pub-
lic. M.P.'s, local authorities. M r s . Thatcher, Ted Heath
the civil service etc. etc." were the problem. That is
everyone was to blame except Our Norman.
Well, at least, we know they cannot meet us in a
straight argument—our case is solid. They seem to be
pissing about, playing for time. The only thing to do
is hit them hard on M a r c h 14th. Every student in I.C.
should be on "strike" that day in a really massive
demonstration that we are not complaining about
grants because it's "the latest fun thing to do." We
demand that our claim is taken seriously.
Our postion has changed completely in the last de-
cade. If anyone still thinks students are privileged, this
episode should shatter their illusions. We have been
put in exactly the same position as the millions of wor-
kers in dispute just now, health service workers, civil
servants, Ford workers, train drivers, nurses, gas work-
ers, teachers; in the same position as the old age pen-
sioners. We are being told that no matter how just our
case is—no deal! The defence increase and tax-cuts
for the rich come first.
Surely it is stating the obvious to say that all the
sections hit by the Government freeze should support
each other? A s yet we have done far too little to win
that support from either trade unionists or old-age pen-
sioners.
M A R C H 14th
After last Thursday's U . G . M . there will no doubt be
great confusion about the M a r c h 14th D a y of Action.
Council, last week agreed nem. con. to back the strike
and so the Executive and the Grants A c t i o n Commit-
tee can go ahead and organise things. A teach-in on
"Education in the '70's" in the Great H a l l , mass public
leafleting in Oxford Street in the afternoon a street
theatre and disco in the evening are all planned. The
delegate lobby of Parliament can be organised.
The U . G . M . was, of course inquorate by the time
the vote on the strike motion was taken. 240 members
were present and when a vote was taken only four voted
against. Presumably, the high tension of the hustings
took its toll of the other 300 who were at the best at-
tending General Meeting this year but drifted away
after Mooney. Clearly we need a well attended E . G . M .
next Friday, 12.45—Great H a l l to take the final deci-
sion. Meantime petitions are available for each class to
request the support of its lecturers by postponing their
lectures. M a n y of the staff support the grants claim and
we should have no hesitation in asking them to help us
in this way.
The M a r c h 14th action is on it's up to you to make
it a decisive rejection of the Government delaying tac-
tics!
Note: Next Grant's Action Committee—5.00. To-
day—Committee R o o m A .
White Paper
(cont'd from page 3)
the axe; after all. nobody
really likes students (es-
pecially after Stirling) and
most people like babies.
The 10 per cent increase
in the defence budget al-
so means economies have
to be made somewhere.
The first effect of the
government's proposals
on Universities will be to
reduce the number of
places available, thus
making entry more diffi-
cult and strengthening
the binary system. Places
will be reduced by reduc-
ing the universities' finan-
cing. This has many oth-
er effects besides simply
cutting numbers of stud-
ents.
The quality of educa-
tion will decline, for staff/
student ratios are to be
cut from 8:1 to 10:1. A n d
not only will there be less
teachers to go round, but
those that there are will
be. on average, older —
reductions will be made
by cutting recruitment.
Cutting back is indeed
the prime motive of the
proposals — research stu-
dent numbers arc to cut
back too. The reduction
in supervisors for under-
graduates thus implied
will have to be met from
teaching staff, who'll have
less time for their research
It's a shame they don't
spend more time on their
research anyway, since so
many of them are such
useless teachers and are
totally uninterested
teaching.
in
One of the most impor-
tant innovations of the
White Paper is the Diplo-
ma of Higher Education,
a two-year course with A -
level entry. This would be
great if it was intended
as a foundation course,
since so many students go
to college for nebulous
reasons forced upon them
by head teachers and
their staff with their own
minds undecided. If it
were possible for students
to make up their minds
on a degree course bear-
ing in mind their exper-
ience on a Dip H E course
the latter would be valu-
able; but the government
see it as a two-year ter-
minal qualification, de-
signed to satisfy the de-
mand for higher educa-
tion and to reduce still
further student numbers.
But do they save in the
long run? Their cuts can
only prove detrimental to
education as a whole. Y o u
may adopt the attitude of
"I'm all right. Jack. I've
been to university, so
what?" But education
shapes our society — a
poor standard of educa-
tion for all means a poor
society for all. We must
always bear the future in
mind.
(based on an article by
Joy Clancy, President of
U L U , written for the
L S P A ) .

