FELIX FELIX, Friday October 17th 1 9 8 6 12
Maggie's Farm
Martin S Taylor (1982-83) discusses pressure groups and
freedom of speech.
One of my favourite political
cartoons is by the American artist
Ron Cobb. It dates from end of the
Vietnam war, and shows a middle
ages, middle class citizen reading a
newspaper incredulously; 'Christ!
After all the lives we lost giving
freedom to the South Vietnamese
people all they do with it is criticize
President Thieu'
The comedian Michael Flanders
made a similar joke in his revue At
the Drop of a Hat-\ take it everyone
here is in favour of freedom of
speech-at least, provided it isn't
calculated to change our Western
way of thought'.
It's very easy to approve of
freedom of speech as long as it will
be used for causes we approve of. I
was caught out this way when
reading Amnesty, thejournal for the
human rights group Amnesty
International, and, incidentally, one
of the most depressing magazines
published. I am an enthusiastic
supporter of Amnesty's work, but I
was abashed to read that they
campaign on behalf of Jehovah's
Witness, extreme right-wing groups,
fanatical Moslems, and all sorts of
dubious causes (provided they do
not advocate violence).
Now I don't subcribe to the belief
of these people, but I do agree with
Voltaire's famous maxim; I
disapprove of what you say, but I
will defend to the death your right to
say it. Which brings me to the main
point of this article.
Last Friday's FELIX included a
paragraph announcing a new NUS
campaign. Apparently the NUS
have decided that the National
Front is such an enormous evil that
we are being asked to prevent them
and similar right-wing groups from
addressing meetings at universities
and colleges througthout the
country.
If this is true, then it is one of most
misguided ideas and the NUS has
ever proposed, and one IC Union
must have nothing to do with-
indeed, this is one of the most
eloquent arguements when put
forward for not joining the NUS
(who assert that they present the
views of the whole student body).
For while it is admirable to show
the National Front that their views
are repugant to us, denying them a
platform is both hyprocritical and
foolish for a number of reasons.
Firsty, there is the forbidden fruit
problem. If you tell someone that
something is so wicked they mustn't
even be allowed to known what it is,
human nature dictates they will try
it at the earliest opportunity;
remember what you thought of sex
when you were thirteen?
Secondly it's important to know
what the National Front stands for,
in order to argue effectively against
it. To criticise them as a bunch of
fascist thugs when you have no
knowledge of their ideals is to fall
back on the predigested thing of Sun
readers.
Thirdly there is the precedent it
will set. If we deny the National
Front a platform today, who will we
ban tomorrow? Scientologists?
Greens? The SDP?
In case anyone has still not taken
my point, let me reaffirm that my
attitude does not spring from a
political viewpoint somewhere to
the right of Goering; I am just as
critical, and for the same reason, of
those who pre-emptively remove
publicity for CND meetings. The
principle is ultimately one of
censorship; do you want to delegate .
your thinking to your union (ICU or
NUS) or are you responsible enough
to decide for yourself?
Ithe
1
BLUEBELLS
Hosellout
Ho
surrender
Victory to
theminers
Tested and Measured for Success
Datron Instruments is setting the pace in the design of high
technology test instruments - these currently include Digital
Multimeters; Calibrators and Calibration Systems.
To maintain our technical leadership w e reguire graduates
who can combine flair and innovation with aptitude for
design in any of the following disciplines:
A n a l o g u e - advanced circuit designs in the freguency range
DC to 1MHz.
Digital - system design using microprocessors, gate arrays
and interface technology
Software - real time measurement system management and
interface handlers using both assembler and structured
languages.
You will work within a highly skilled team on the development
of n e w products incorporating imaginative measurement
technigues and the latest technology Training will be under
the guidance of a senior engineer, supplemented by specialist
courses.
Datron offers an excellent working environment in a new, well
equipped Engineering Research facility. This is augmented by
an informal and friendly atmosphere. Based in picturesque
Norwich, close to both the coast and Norfolk Broads, the area
offers excellent recreation facilities and l o w cost housing.
Your experience at Datron will give you an identity in a
company which has an international reputation for quality
and excellence, with positive opportunities for further career
advancement.
Highly competitive salaries will be offered; other benefits
include profit share, a transferable pension scheme and BUPA.
Assistance with relocation is available.
Final year students are invited to apply. For further information
please contact the Careers Advisory Service or meet us on
29th October at the Careers Fair.
* Leading in measurement technology
• Impressive growth in turnover
• Plants in N o r w i c h , Florida and California
* Technology A w a r d Winners
* Full air conditioned laboratory
•k Ambitious R & D Programmes
* Attractively priced housing
it Scope for career advancement
Datron Instruments Limited, Hurricane Way Norwich, NR6 6JB. A subsidiary of Datron International pic.
World Class ...Worldwide
I N S T R U M E N T S I

