'A cock-up of which I am aware and for which I apologise,' Dr Raanan
Gillan, Health Centre Director
Cocked-up communications
A student suffering a malarial fever had
to wait four hours for a College doctor to
arrive last Saturday because of poor
communications and the doctor's failure
to treat the case as an emergency.
Shawn Manning, a third year Life
Scientist living in Selkirk Hall who had
returned from an expedition to Papua New
Guinea four weeks ago, asked for a doctor
after feeling unwell at lunchtime last
Saturday
Alex Young, a Selkirk re-applicant,
called the College emergency number
(3333) and was told to phone internal 999.
He did so and gave details, including
mentioning the possibility of malaria or
toxicara, to the message desk. It then took
the message desk forty-five minutes to
contact a doctor using a radiopager.
The doctor concerned, Dr Tessa
Addenbrooke of the College Heath
Centre, claimed she had only received the
paging call at about 12.50 pm and that she
immediately phoned M r Young. M r
Young said he told her that M r Manning
was vomiting,had a 'bloated' stomach,
difficulty in eating and drinking, and was
experiencing aches in his back and limbs,
although he neglected to mention the
recent tropical visit. Dr Addenbrooke told
FELIX that Mr Young had mentioned the
possibility of malaria by explaining that
Mr Manning might have been in contact
with experimental malarial mosquitoes in
the Life Science Department. Dr
Addenbrooke said she felt malaria was
unlikely as undergraduates are not
normally allowed into contact with the
mosquitoes and as M r Young seemed
unsure whether M r Manning had a fever.
She concluded it was a viral infection and
asked Mr Young to ensure the patient had
an adequate fluid intake; she said she
would be call later that afternoon.
During this time, another Selkirk
reapplicant, Rachel Carr, had gone to the
Health Centre to use the emergency phone
as the number given to contact the doctor
on call was continually engaged.
At 3.00pm M r Bassem Younes, a sub-
warden in Tizard Hall, called a taxi to take
Mr Manning to Westminster Hospital. Dr
Addenbrooke arrived at Selkirk Hall at
4.00 pm, when Mr Young explained that
The health centre; a pillar of society or house of horror':
Mr Manning had been taken to hospital
and mentioned the recent tropical visit.
Mr Young claimed Dr Addenbrooke
told him they had 'over-reacted'. Dr
Addenbrooke later denied she had said
this.
The hospital confirmed that M r
Manning has a generally non-lethal strain
of malaria Plasmodium Vivax. Dr
Addenbrooke was informed of the
diagnosis when she phoned the hospital to
pass on her apologies to the patient. She
then phoned Dr John Hassard, warden of
Tizard & Selkirk Hall to apologise for the
delay and misdiagnosis.
Mr Manning was released from hospital
last Wednesday He said that the IC
College Health Service had always been
good to him before, and that the whole
thing was a bit 'over the top'. He added
that he had taken the correct precautions
against malaria, and that he had been told
that this strain would recur about once
every two to four years.
Dr Ranaan Gillon, Director of the
College Health Service, told FELIX that
a three-quarter hour delay in finding a
doctor is unusual, though not exceptional.
He said that in this case it there had been
'a cock-up of which I am aware and for
which I apologise'. He added that it was
difficult to diagnose over the phone and
that doctors had to prioritise their calls and
that in his view Dr Addenbrooke had made
the correct decision. He admitted that the
situation over communications was 'not
acceptable' and that the College Health
Service intends to improve its telephone
service in the near future.
In an interview with FELIX, Dr
Addenbrooke replied T was very upset
that I had not relieved anxiety'. She
explained she had been in the West End
when she received the paging call and set
off through very heavy traffic an hour
later. T am appalled,' she said, 'this is no!
the way I want to practice.' She said she
now knows the students were continuously
trying to get through, though at the time
she received no such message and
commented that the communication
system was 'far too cumbersome'. She
added that she had briefed the Papua New
Guinea Expedition group on malaria
before they left.
Dr Hassard commented 'I do regard it
as a serious matter...however, please pass
on my thanks to the students involved for
their actions.'
ICU's Price Waterhouse ban to
draw national attention?
Imperial College Union's banning of Price
Waterhouse (PW) from the careers fair last
week led to a meeting between Mr. Neil
McCluskey Imperial College Union
President and PW's Head of Recruitment.
Mr. Dave Smedley, FELIX editor, was
also present.
Mr McCluskey told PW's partner
responsible for the feasibility study on
student loans that he did not feel the report
was fair. PW countered, saying that they
had taken a professional attitude to the
report, which could not encompass a
moral or political stance. PW will not be
appearing at this year's career's fair, and
letters will now be sent nationally to
explain the circumstances.
PW complained that IC Union was
'shooting at the messenger but not the
message,' by banning them from the
career's fair. They were sad not to be
coming to the fair, they added, but said
that they could not fight back for
professional reasons.
Mr McCluskey now plans to make a
national press release on ICU's opposition
to Price Waterhouse, who are instigating
the second stage of the loans scheme build-
up.

