Careers Fair
Whether you have your future mapped out in front of you or
whether you still don't know what you want to do when you
grow up, the Careers Fair has something for you. There is a
vast array of opportunities in accountancy, banking and
management consultancy. Then there's always the army...
Making the most of the Fair
The Imperial College Careers Fair is tailor-made to help
you find out about employers before you decide which
of them will be lucky enough to get an application
from you! Your time at Imperial will probably have
convinced you that you're one of an elite group of
students whom employers are falling over each other
to recruit. There is some truth in this, but I have to
tell you that we're not yet at the stage where you can
just sit back and wait for them to discover you. You
still have to do something about it and going to the
fair is one of the best things you can do to get the
ball rolling.
The employers at the Fair will be able to tell you
about themselves, the jobs they want to fill and the
sort of people they are looking for. They will also be
on the lookout for potential applicants so the Fair can
provide you with an opportunity to impress a particular
employer you already have your eye on. You may even
be interviewed at some later date by the person you
talk to at the Fair. In this case a little preparation
beforehand could mean the difference between
creating a lasting impression and being lost in a sea
of faces.
Preparing for the Fair
'Wait a minute!' I can hear some of you saying. '
I
thought the Fair was to help me obtain information.
You make it sound as if I'm going to be interviewed!'
The answer is, of course, that both could be true on
the day-it really depends on where you have got to
in your thinking about your future. Perhaps you fit into
one of the following categories:
I haven't really got a clue what to do—let alone
who I should talk to at the Fair!
Depending on how much time you've got when you
realise this-there are a number of things you could
do. A careers interview perhaps, a stab at a computer-
assisted career guidance programme possibly, a look
through some self-help workbooks to help you focus
on your interests, skills etc before matching these to
suitable careers-any of these might help you. The
College Careers Advisory Service will tell you about
the range of things we provide to help you get started.
I don't know what I want to do and what's more
I haven't got time before the fair to find out!
First list on a piece of paper the things you are good
at. Some of these might appear quite ordinary-an
ability to listen, talk, argue, negotiate or make
speeches. Others may relate more directly to your
degree subject, eg analysis, numeracy, lucid writing,
practical ability, programming and so on. Then stop
to think which of these you would particularly like to
use in a job (if any!). You could then approach an
employer at the Fair and say something like 'I believe
my skills lie in these areas-do you think you would
have anything to suit me?' You could also look at your
Page 12
interests. How do you currently feel about your degree
subject-love it, can't stand it etc? What about your
spare time interests-do you like committee meetings,
team activities, outdoor pursuits and so on? These
may also help you to identify particular employers at
the Fair. You might also like to think about what is
important to you. Do you want to earn a fortune in
your first year of employment, do you want to live and
work in Scotland, do you fancy doing something that
might eventually lead to self-employment?
Having been through this exercise you should at
least have a better idea of what sort of person you
are and this may provide clues about which employers
you might approach at the Fair.
I know roughly the sort of work I want to do but
I'm not sure who offers it.
The Fair is, of course, one way to find out and
employers will be on the lookout for floating votersl
However, you could seize the opportunity to provide
a better impression if you spent some time researching
particular employers before the Fair. You could, for
example, look up who employs graduates from your
degree discipline in a careers directory such as ROGET
or GET. With an immediate hit-list of possible
employers which you could cross check with those
at the Fair, you can then begin to focus upon specific
employers. A browse through their brochure in the
Careers Office should help you to decide whether
what they offer is what you really want. It is probably
best not to be too choosy at this stage, however, but
rather to use the Fair to ask employers to clarify any
misconceptions, fears etc you may have. You may
end up rejecting them after all but at least it will be
for sound reasons. If on the other hand you have
identified an employer who seems right for you-then
you should use the Fair to create a memorable impact
on them. This will involve stating the reasons for your
interest in them and leaving them with the impression
that you will be applying to them and hope very much
to have the opportunity to discuss your application
through a more formal interview.
What should I do after the Fair?
The Fair will, hopefully, have helped you identify some
employers you would like to apply to. It is worth
making a note of these soon after the Fair in case a
couple of weeks of intensive lectures clouds your
memory! Before you actually complete an application
form, you should read through any literature about
that employer which you have managed to obtain.
This will act as a last check that you really do want
to apply to them before you invest a lot of time in
pursuing your application.
Applications
Applying for jobs is easy. Applying effectively for a
job that will suit your qualifications, experience and
personality demands skill and, very often, imagination.
How does the system work? Let's start with the
person who initiates your application-the employer.
Before a job can be advertised, this person needs to
know what the new recruit will be expected to do.
A list of regular tasks and responsibilities will be drawn
up. This is the 'job description'. Similarly, before
shortlisting the candidates from the forms and CVs
that arrive, the employer will develop a 'person
specification'. This is a checklist of key factors that
will be either essential or desirable if a candidate is
going to be able to cope, generally after initial training,
with the demands of the job, as described in the job
description. The person specification may look
something like this: 'A suitable candidate will be
numerate leg at least Grade B at '0' Level) with
proven organisational skills. He/she should be
practical, not afraid to communicate effectively both
verbally and in writing and be seriously motivated
towards developing a management career'.
You, as the applicant, can apply the same technique
to tune into the employer's wavelength. The easy
method of applying for jobs is to give detailed
information about yourself and your activities in a
haphazard fashion, with the attitude that 'anything
that looks interesting' will do. Not only is this time
consuming, it is often wasted effort. The difficult bit
is judging what the important elements of the person
specification are, and then emphasising your aptitude
for the advertised position by highlighting your
relevant experience. How do you do this? Put yourself
in the employer's position. Draw up a job description
using the advert, Careers Information Booklets,
ROGET, the Trade Press and obviously the company
recruitment brochure, if it exists, and then write a
person specification. Say to yourself 'What have I ever
done to show that I fit in with this person
specification? Can I organise things and people? How
do I persuade them that I have practical skills?' etc.
Highlight all these factors in your application and
considerably reduce all other information.
The aim of the exercise is for the employer upon
receiving your application to think, 'This person has
really thought about what we're looking for' and put
you on the short list for interview.
Finally
Both the College's Careers Advisory Service and the
Imperial College Union Industrial Society provide a
range of resources you can use to help you decide on
your future career. You could visit an employer,
participate in a business game, watch a video, attend
careers talks, go for mock interviews and so on. The
Careers Advisory Service will be represented at the
Fair and will be happy to provide you with detailed
programmes of their activities.
Russ Clark
Head of College
Careers Service

