Interviews
Before the interview, make sure that the clothes you
are to wear are clean, smart and comfortable. Check
details of the time and place of interview. Make sure
you know how to get there and allow plenty of time
for cancelled trains or broken down buses or cars.
Read through your application form and imagine what
sort of questions you would ask if presented with such
a form. Remind yourself why you want the job and
why you think you'd be good at it. What's your
evidence? Read any company literature you've got.
Rehearse the worst question you can imagine the
employer asking!
The first few minutes of an inteview are critical. The
employer will expect you to be a bit nervous (they're
probably a bit nervous too) but try to appear relaxed.
Take your cues from the interviewer, if they offer a
handshake, shake it firmly but not too firmly and wait
to be asked to sit down. Throughout the interview,
do make eye contact with the interviewer. Candidates
who gaze at the floor or out of the window are rarely
successful. Speak clearly and remember the points
you wish to get over. If necessary, manipulate the
questions in order to get your points
across...something I am sure many of you have done
in exams.
Employers will want to test how well you are suited
to the job both in terms of ability and personality. They
will ask you questions about your leisure activities to
Some of you may be looking on with great despair at
your friends wondering 'What's happening to them all
of a sudden?' as they've begun to talk about starting
salaries, going to presentations, filling in application
forms and worst of all, buying a suit. 'Have they sold
out?' you ask.
Well don't worry if you're not interested in getting
a job after you finish-there is an alternative. It is,
what is commonly referred to as a 'YEAR OFF' —
something which is becoming increasingly popular
with graduates: It's worth considering even if you are
going through the Milk Round this year, as more and
more employers are willing to consider deferred entry.
There are a number of reasons for taking a year off
and it is important to find out if it will personally
benefit you; only you can decide that.
Principally, a year off is a break from the academic
system which many of you have been in for at least
sixteen years. It is an option when you are unsure of
what you want to do or feel that you don't want to
start a job straight away.
A year off gives you the time and the opportunity
to try something new or different: to travel round the
world; to live and work in another country; do
voluntary work or to do anything you want.
As long as you use the time constructively then it
will enhance your personal development and
character, as well as help you decide what interests
you, and therefore which career path you wish to
pursue.
If you decide to take a year out, then start thinking
and planning now as to how you will spend the time,
see how well you can communicate but also to find
evidence of your character and interests. Two very
common types of questions are what I call the 'Expert'
and the 'Idiot'. The 'Expert' question is where you
know a lot about the subject and the interviewer
knows very little. This could be based on your project,
degree subject, a hobby, anything. Make sure you find
out how much the interviewer knows and pitch your
answer accordingly. Don't blind them with
gobbledygook but don't bore them with a 'ladybird
guide' approach. The 'Idiot' question is where the
roles are reversed. They know a lot about the subject
and you know very little. They don't expect you to
get the answer right, they just want to see if you
tackle the question in logical, structured way. Don't
be afraid to pause and marshal your thoughts before
answering any question. Better to have a few seconds
silence than for you to launch in, get halfway through
an answer, change your mind, forget what you were
going to say and end with a lame 'urn'.
Interviewers will expect you to be keen and
interested. One way of showing this is to ask genuine
questions at the end of the interview. Make sure that
you also find out what happens next in the selection
process and how long you will have to wait before you
hear the outcome. Don't forget to thank the
interviewers for their time. Oh yes, and don't forget
to smile.
because it is very easy to fall into the trap of doing
a year of nothing. Use the Careers Service to get the
names of organisations involved in short-term projects
and work schemes.
Finally, employers will look upon a graduate who
has taken a year off favourably providing he/she has
used the time effectively. Very often your new
personal attributes after a year off will give you the
edge over other applicants.
A word of warning-do not be fooled into thinking
that because you are taking a year off, then your
degree result does not matter. Although you are
constantly hearing that graduates are in big demand,
it is very often misquoted. The demand is actually for
'Good Graduates'. This implies a good degree;
therefore do not neglect your work.
Contacts
Community Service Volunteers (CSV), 237
Pentonville Road N1 9NJ, 01-278 6601.
Kibbutz Representatives, 523 Finchley Road, London
NW3 7BD.
BUNAC, 232 Vauxhall Bridge Road, London SW1V
1AV. These people now do exchange programmes to
Australia.
Books
A Year Off...A Year On?-a guide to jobs, voluntary
service. Published by CRAC-See Careers Office.
Directory of Jobs and Careers Abroad-by Leppard.
D. Published by Vacation Work.
What a
WANGer
Commerce and industry increasingly rely on
computers. Computers control manufacturing
processes. Computers analyse probabilities for
insurance. Everywhere computers control accounting,
invoicing and all layers of finance. Without computers
the City of London would grind to a halt and the
wheels of industry would not turn.
The development and maintenance of these
commercial systems is done by an army of analysts
and programmers. These 200,000 men and women
tend not to be technical wizards. The skills required
are more the ability to analyse business requirements
and convert these into systems. The emphasis is upon
the application of technology to the real world, not
technology for its own sake.
The commercial computing industry is desperately
short-staffed. At the lower levels, there are 47% more
vacancies than people. This has driven salaries up to
ludicrous levels. Freelance analyst/programmers with
three to four years experience can demand a thousand
a week. Lowly programmers are getting £16K after
two years. The low levels of graduates coming into
the industry combined with the general unwillingness
of companies to train means that this situation can
only get worse. (Or better!)
What does the job entail? To start with, computer
programming. Upon, joining a graduate is sure to be
taught a programming language and set to work upon
either the development of a new system or, more
likely, the maintenance and enhancement of an
existing system. The language is unlikely to be one
learnt at College, COBOL is sadly prevalent although
fourth generation languages are slowly gaining
popularity. Work on maintenance can be extremely
frustrating, learning just how code should not be
written.
Later, the trainee starts analysis work. This is the
most challenging part of the job. An analyst has to
understand quickly user procedures which they have
developed over a long period of time, and be able to
apply these to a systems environment. Analysis can
lead to such wonderful (and lucrative) careers as
consultancy.
The industry is in a constant state of flux. This is
not a career for those wanting a stable job with one
company for thirty years. The average time a
programmer stays in a job is eighteen months. 49%
work for themselves, taking six to twelve month
contracts, then moving on. Large companies seem to
be having problems: Wang and Ferranti are in dire
financial straits, IBM's profits are 30% down. Small
companies rise to make millions, then crash
spectacularly or are swallowed by the giants. Those
with a clear head and the intuition when to jump can
make a fortune.
To get a job you need nine month's commercial
experience. You cannot get nine month's commercial
experience without a job. This is the BIG problem with
the computer industry. If you can get onto a big
company training course, then you're in. Better still
to find a small software house who will give you the
analysis experience early on. Commercial computing
is an exciting career and this is the time to get into it.
Neil Motteram.
Go Away!
Page 14

