Teaching is without doubt a very rewarding career.
Teaching
There was a time when teaching was regarded by
some as a soft option-a last resort for the graduate
if all else failed. This is no longer the case; the
profession faces greater challenges today than at any
time in its history and graduates would be well advised
to consider carefully the evolutionary processes which
are combining to make teaching one of the most
stressful occupatons today.
Before considering the financial rewards, short days
and long holidays it may be advisable to think of the
high proportion of teachers who retire early on the
grounds of ill health of mental breakdown.
What is happening in the world of education to
produce such serious problems? One of the most
contentious issues is discipline in the classroom. It is
not simply a question of the much publicised violence
or the abolition of corporal punishment; laudable
though it was, it was simply the first step in a series
of legal moves which have reduced the sanctions
available to teachers to an alarming extent.
Discipline in today's classrooms can only be
maintained by a process of negotiation between the
teacher and pupil, but not all parents or pupils are
prepared to enter into that process.
The status of teachers in today's society is
constantly called into question. Words such as
accountability and assessment are bandied around
with little or no understanding of the problems they
create. Mr Baker has stated that teachers should be
assessed annually—a simple enough idea, but by
whom and on what grounds? The learning and
teaching processes are subjective; they cannot be
quantified or measured empirically. There is also the
problem of the objectivity of the proposed
assessment.
The encroachment of information technology into
the classroom is another factor which is claiming a
lot of firsts for some teachers. The range of skills and
knowledge required to handle the new technology
expands daily and teachers are expected to keep
abreast of these developments. Through the advisory
services local education authorities do provide courses
to enable teachers to gain new skills or expertese, but
the knowledge base is contantly shifting and
expanding.
The stresses involved in these developments
coupled with additional work of the changing
syllabuses and examination requirements have
increased the workload of the teacher to an extent
which could not be forseen 20 years ago. As a direct
consequence the teacher finds himself operating in a
strained environment which is foreign to the one he
envisaged when he elected to enter the profession.
The Government's latest package of proposals
indicate the rate of change is not going to slacken.
The advent of the City Technical Colleges (CTCs) in
their areas will create even greater pressures on the
teacher. Already schools are beginning to compete
with each other. There is a perceived need to be
judged as being a 'good' or 'successful' school and
the obvious criteria for comparison is examination
results. If the 'better educated parents' of pupils who
currently attend secondary schools with good
catchment areas send their children to the local CTC
the school's success rate in examinations will fall off.
Will the school then be judged as a failure?
There will certainly be an increase in the pressure
brought to bear on teachers to maintain past levels
of achievement. As we move into an era when
schools will be responsible for their own financial
administration, and the funding is dependent on the
number of pupils attending each schools parental
choice will become a vital consideration in the success
or otherwise of any school. The prospects for some
schools looks very bleak indeed.
In the light of these and other developments
currently under consideration, it will behold the
graduate well to think very carefully before
committing him or herself to a career in teaching. It
is without doubt a very rewarding career, if one is
successful, but it is also extremely demanding. In the
old days it was said that 'those who can do, do-
those who can't, teach'. Perhaps it should be
rephrased 'those who can teach, teach and those who
can't should keep well away'.
UNITED ENGINEERING STEELS LTD.
We are Europe's largest
manufacturer of engineering steels
and forgings.
If you are thinking about starting
your career in industry, we will be
very pleased to discuss prospects
with you at the
CAREERS FAIR
on 2nd November 1989
ROLLS-ROYCE pic
Manufacturer of gas turbines for
aero, marine and industrial use
In order to maintian its reputation as a
leading engineering and manufacturing
company, Rolls-Royce will be
recruiting up to 150 talented
Degree/Diploma students at its five
main sites in Derby, Bristol, Watford,
Glasgow and Coventry. A wide range
of career opportunities is offered
within the Company, with vacancies in
Engineering, Supply, Systems and
Computing, Commercial, Finance,
Business Management and Personnel.
Come and talk to us at the Imperial
College Careers Fair: November 2nd.

