The Delator Columnby Paul Shanley
It really is appalling
The developers have moved into my town. They've
been threatening to do it for years. Wimbledon town
centre will shortly be going the same way as other
outer London areas such as Croydon or Sutton or
Ealing already have.
The main objection is that no matter how good their
intentions, most architects tend to make a dog's ear
of it. The early work in Wimbledon has been to build
a fire station coloured bright red, an office block jet
black with mirrored windows and a shopping centre
coloured white. All soar deep into the sky resembling
a scaled down version of Gotham City in Burton's
Batman.
I wonder whether progress was ever meant to
happen. Each week we hear of new inventions, new
ideas, new plans. Innovative objects become
everyday objects. New schemes become old hat. Old'
changes become history.
Bad architecture, for those who care, leads to
dissatisfaction with one's environs. This, in turn,
contributes to bad feeling in a community. The capital
cities seem to be the worst offenders. London is falling
over itself to become modern. Its US equivalent,
Manhattan, is a dirty, smog-filled city. A town's
changes have a knock-on effect on the manner of its
populace. The argument is strengthened if one looks
at Hamburg. It is one of the rudest places I have
visited. Its residents are geared to progress, to getting
on without giving a damn for those around them.
But what of the opposite? Does an unchanged
environment breed a nicer kind of people? Maybe. I
can cite two examples which support this argument.
Over the Summer, it was a great privilege to visit two
places where change has occurred in a fashion that
has not lowered the tone or restricted the skyline.
Edinburgh and Dublin have had to evolve to an ever
changing economic climate. They have had to adapt
to change in order for their cities to compete with
others for trade. The difference is that they have done
it without radically changing their existing buildings
or their heritage.
When Macdonalds wanted to convert an existing
building that they had just bought on Dublin's
Lights out
The House of Commons was treated to a taste of
things to come last Tuesday. Television lights were
installed in preparation for the televising of Parliament
next month. Some of the Members present objected
to this experiment on the grounds that it was causing
them to sweat profusely. Other MPs were claiming
that the arc lights possessed soporific qualities. Many
of them were said to be nodding off primarily because
of the stresses of working under such bright
conditions. Secretly, many Labour and Conservative
MPs must be rubbing their hands. They now have a
legitimate reason for sleeping through speeches made
by the Windbag and the Blue Rinse.
Page 16
O'Connell Street into a fast-food restaurant, certain
conditions were laid down before they were allowed
to do so. The fundamental one was that they were
not allowed to trade with the familiar red and white
shop front which has become their trade mark. Dublin
insisted that the restaurant should blend in with its
neighbours. It looks no more out of place now than
any other of the outlets in Eire's capital.
Similarly, Wimpy wanted to locate in Princes Street,
the main thoroughfare in Edinburgh. Edinburgh
imposed the same restrictions as Dublin. The view
from Carlton Hill down onto Princes Street is now
unspoiled by any unsightly pieces of architecture.
There are similar restrictions in force in many other
towns in Britain and to a certain extent in some
sympathetic boroughs of London. In most of the
capital however, the planners have beaten the
community groups on every occasion that there has
been a difference of opinion.
The public needs places to shop. There is a good
argument in favour of large hypermarkets that cater
for every possible consumer item. Large shops that
cause traffic snarl-ups and excesses of litter should
not be allowed in residential towns such as those
mentioned unless suitable precautions are taken. One
solution is to allow the Savacentres and Tescos to
locate only on condition that they are held responsible
for the accompanying problems that arise. This means
that they have to take responsiblity for excess litter
and trolleys that clog up the pavement. They have to
make provisions for adequate parking for shoppers.
They must be made aware of the alcohol problems
that are compounded by late opening hours. Above
all, the design of their shops must blend in with the
image of the local community. Only then should the
major supermarket chains be allowed to locate in our
major towns.
Aural sex
Two new products were released onto the
unsuspecting public last week. Business Week
magazine carried the world's first talking
advertisement. The advert had a flap which when
lifted proferred details of the chip upon which the
speech was held. The manufacturers claim that
production will be so cheap in several years time that
packaging will contain talking messages giving details
of the product.
Also announced was the world's first luminous
condom. The real test will come when the two
products are combined to give the first sheath that
not only glows in the dark but gives you directions as
well. "Right a bit, left a bit,...."

