When big companies write their recruitment literature, what do they really me
What are they really looking for? And just what are they offering in return? W
reveal how to survive the jargon-ridden jungle that is the Careers Fair.
The Plain T r u t h
Strong Interpersonal Skills: an awful americanism
for having the usual number of heads, mouths etc and
being able to string words of more than one syllable
together intelligably. Probably also helps if people
don't vomit when you walk into the room (although
for a job in advertising, this is reversed and becomes
compulsory).
Salary to be advised: we're so confused that we
haven't got a clue what we're paying our staff now,
let alone what we'll be paying you.
Salary negotiable: we're so sussed we'll ask you to
name the price, knowing that either you'll vastly
underestimate your worth so we can get away with
rippping you off, or you'll so overestimate your worth,
we can have a good giggle at your expense.
Salary at market rates: we'll give you peanuts.
Monkeys of the world, you have been warned!
Attractive salary: well something about this job has
to be attractive.
On the job training: we're going to throw you in at
the deep end. We expect you to use your 'strong
interpersonal skills' to the full in coping with a major
crisis on your first day.
Comprehensive training programme: we'll treat you
like a moron and make you wonder why you bothered
spending three years doing a degree.
Passing professional exams: we'll put you on a
seven and a half hour day followed by studying all
evening for yet more qualifications - and you thought
that was all over.
Offices in attractive location: we'll post you in the
middle of nowhere, miles from any interesting
nightlife, late night shops or any of the things you've
become used to having in London over the past two
or three years. Oh, by the way the location was
attractive, but we've just built our offices all over
those pretty green fields.
Market Leader: at least five companies in each field
will claim to be this. Someone has to be wrong. The
trick is to spot who and then find out what else they're
lying about.
Full range of benefits: usually include free meals in
very grotty company canteen, membership of a health
plan (means they're going to work you so hard you'll
have a breakdown) and company pension scheme -
which you can't take with you when you move to your
next job in two years time.
Rapid career progression: we're so lousy all our top
staff are leaving in droves. This means that you, our
innocent new recruit, will be rapidly advanced to fill
their empty desks. In this sort of company you could
be managing director after you've been there three
weeks.
Flexible working atmosphere: be prepared to make the
tea, do the photocopying, sweep the floor...
Any degree discipline considered: you'll be on the
same footing as lots of grotty arts graduates who've
been sitting around on their backsides for the past
three years writing the odd essay, while you've been
slaving away in the lab for eighteen hours a day. Is
this fair?
Rector's words of advice: twaddle at front of careers
brochure. To be ignored.
Go f u r t h e r
with your career...
The Dow Chemical Company is one of the
world's largest industrial leaders with a
manufacturing base spanning 32
countries. In total we produce and market
over 2,000 products for distribution
worldwide.
We offer excellent opportunities for
graduates with degrees in engineering,
varied scientific disciplines, business and
administration, economics or a computer
related subject. You could work in one of
our manufacturing, commercial,
accounting, materials management
or information systems functions
anywhere in the UK, or indeed abroad.
Our individually tailored programme
provides a mix of on-the-job and formal
training. As your career develops you will
be able to gain broad experience, often
spanning several parts of our diverse
business.
Ifyou are seeking a challenging
international career, come and meet our
team at the Imperial College Careers Fair
on the 1st and 2nd November.
Alternatively, ifyou cannot attend ring
Agnes Guichard on 0784 461600
for more details.
Trademark of the DOW Chemical Company

