S C A N D A L O U S !
A poster appeared outside the Union Office on
Monday claiming that rooms were available in
Southside. It went on to say that interested parties
should either contact Union Deputy President Dave
Williams or ring the accomodation office direct. Mr
Williams told FELIX that he knew nothing of the poster
but would investigate. He later stated that he had a
look and that it was an old one. FELIX have inspected
the poster and can reveal that it is not an 'old one'
but is brand spanking new with Mr Williams' name
enscribed upon it in bold type. Meanwhile, the
accommodation office has been inundated with calls
from hopeful applicants. Their blanket reply is that
there are no rooms available. A spokeswoman for the
accommodation office told Felix that "they had no
idea where the poster had come from".
A small terrier of the canine variety has been sighted
in the Aeronautics Department. The pooch apparently
lives in the office of Director Professor Bearman's
secretary, Roz Fairhurst. Brandy - for that his name
- happily trots around the department and has been
known to attend the odd lecture. Felix rang Ms
Fairhurst on Tuesday to enquire about the little doggy,
but were somewhat abruptly told "Go and ask
someone else, I'm not going to tell you.". A
spokesman told FELIX that Brandy is hoping for a 2:1.
Not Brandy
Mouchel, established in 1897, is one of the
larger firms of Professional Engineers in the
United Kingdom. With a staff of 1000 qualified
professionals and supporting staff, the Firm
offers comprehensive consulting services in a
wide range of engineering activities including:
Power Stations
Highways and Transportation
Bridges
Port and Marine Works
Water Supply
Sewerage, Drainage and Flood Control
Sewage Treatment and Disposal
Industrial Effluent Treatment
Grain Handling and Storage
Airports
Industrial Structures
Multi Storey Car Parks
Structural Engineering
Geotechnical Engineering
Tunnels
Land Reclamation
Engineering Accountancy
Computer Applications
Project Management
Advanced Structural Analysis
Mouchel requires Graduate Civil, Structural
and Geotechnical Engineers plus Quantity
Surveyors. We run an approved training
scheme and have an active in-house training
programme.
Those interested in joining us should contact
our Administration Controller at:
LG Mouchel & Partners
Consulting Engineers
West Hall, West Byfleet, Weybridge,
Surrey KT14 6EZ.
Telephone: 09323 41155.
©luSiwuf Schweppes
C A R E E R S F O R G R A D U A T E S
PRESENTATION EVENING
Come and take part in our informal presentation
and business game. Buffet supper.
Meet senior and young managers for careers
counselling and information on opportunities
within our business.
Thursday 2 November
•
6.00pm for 6.15pm start
IMPERIAL C O L L E G E
Cadbury Schweppes
1-4 Connaught Place, W2
Register at your careers service to ensure a place.

