Sailing by
This weekend saw eight brave souls struggling up to
the Welsh Harp in Wembley, for a team racing event.
On arrival we discovered that not only was it raining,
but, that waves had somehow miraculously appeared
on the reservoir. Of course this could have been due
to the fact that the wind was very strong. In fact, after
several postponements, the race committee decided
to only let us race with four roll reefs in the sails, only
to change this to six after the first race.
The Foot, which is the event's name, is run by the
Castaways (ex-University of London sailors) and
attracts top teams from all over the country, this year
there were 19 teams, organised into two leagues.
In our league there were nine teams, including the
combined British Universities team and the University
of London team. The Imperial College team performed
very well given the conditions and remembering that
this was the first time we had sailed in a race as a
team. Unfortunately due to the force of the wind we
were beset by gear failure, such that in every race only
two out of our three boats actually crossed the
finishing line. However, we kept up with the other
teams, showing a very respectable result. The high
spot was, however, coming joint first in the race
against the University of London team (the UL team
is drawn from all the college's in the University
including IC, whereas IC is just drawn from one
college).
This year, for the first time ever, it may be possible
to raise a ladies team, as well as the existing mixed
team. If anyone is interested in either team then please
contact the Sailing Club at one of its meetings (see
What's On) or via the Club pigeonholes in the Union.
The more the merrier!
Boardsailing
Last weekend the Boardsailing Club went down to
Gosport in search of sun, surf and wind. Although not
very sunny, force 7-8 winds meant our first stop was
to buy a small enough sail and we then had some great
sailing for the whole weekend.
Our next trip will be to Poole/Bournemouth on 4
November and we go to Queen Mary Reservoir every
Running
The first men's team did IC proud last Wednesday,
by winning the first London College's League race of
the series. Despite missing some of our more valuable
runners on the day, the team packed well to
accumulate 391 points, just 2 ahead of Thames Poly.
An outstanding 5th place was achieved by Paul
Northrop in his first race for the College and not far
behind was Alex Gaskell (17th). Helen Macintosh
finished 12th in the ladies race to become the first UL
runner home. With Sonia Legg in 20th, they managed
8th in the team event.
The bandwaggon rolls on at Guildford on November
8. The Cross Country Club is set for a successful
season.
Wednesday, so whether you want to perfect your
one-handed duck jibes, or just like dressing up in day-
glo rubber, whether you fall off, or wipe out come and
see us in Southside Lounge at 12.30pm on Tuesday,
we cater for all standards from complete beginners
to complete head cases.
The Wall
This coming Thursday Filmsoc is showing The Wall-
Man Parker's film set to the music of the Pink Floyd
album of the same name.
It is a dark, visceral work: a fading rockstar (played
by Bob Geldof), on the verge of a nervous breakdown,
looks back on his life which has been traumatic to say
the least. The film is, perhaps, most memorable for
its use of the distinctive cartoons of Gerald Scarfe,
which fill the screen with disturbing, surreal images.
All in all, not a nice film but certainly a remarkable and
memorable one, guaranteed to leave you
'uncomfortably numb'.
See What's On for further details.
OVERSEAS STUDENTS
COMMITTEE
ELECTIONS
Tuesday 31st October 1989,12.45pm
Room 311
Huxley Building, Dept of Computing
1. Vice-Chairman
2. Publicity Officer
3. Seven Ordinary Members
4. Transport Committee Representative
5. Accommodation Cttee Representative
Papers are up in the Walkway,
OSC Noticeboard
Caterpillar Cafe
Hasty, hot vegetarian & meat
dishes every day
ilk best salads and the best
burps in College
ilry our yummy cakes and
sandwiches or even fresh coffe
croisants and toast every morni
OPEN Monday to Friday
8am-3pm and 5pm-8pm
UNION BUILDING, BEIT QUAD, IMPERIAL COLLEGE UNION
LINSTEAD HALL
—BAR NIGHT—
&
-BUSKERS-
Ex-Linsteadeans please bring cards
MONDAY 30th OCTOBER
Page 20

