Football
• Mens 1sts v UCL
Hockey
3-0 1st XI V UCL
A workman-like performance by the 'Reds' saw them
overcome a lively UCL side with some lethal finishing.
UCL started strongest and only Si Holden's diving
block kept the scores level. IC gradually got used to
the UCL crunching challenges and began to assert
themselves. They took the lead somewhat against the
run of play, after Adam Thomas was in the box. Tim
Fisher converted the resulting penalty. They extended
their lead after winning a free-kick for swearing. The
ball was driven into the box and Adam Thomas looped
a header into the top right corner.
IC started the second half much stronger and
several chances went close before Femi Omatoya
wrapped up the match with a blistering right foot shot
that gave the keeper no chance. Indeed he might have
had a second minutes later, but the post came
between him and glory. This win maintains IC 1sts
100% record and they are yet to concede a goal.
Ladies v UCL 2-9
The recently set up ladies football team got off to a
lightening start on Wednesday 11th with a 9-2 defeat
against UCL!
The 2 goals were scored by Sophia Bustanante and
Katie, a player lent to us by UCL! Tricia Bradley gave
a startling performance with a nifty little header during
the second half-this unfortunately left her 2 inches
shorter with no neck, she did, however, make a good
recovery in the bar afterwards. Janet Leah gave a
good defence backed up by Antonetta Loba in goal.
Mandy Tayler and Diana Marshe made the occasional
burst through the defence but alas their dynamic right
wing was too much for us and we were forced to
concede 9 goals and 2 cardiac arrests by full-time.
Being attached to the men's football club has helped
us a lot with the organisation and it has meant that
we have our own kit-a nice blue striped little
number-and, of course, a ball to play with. We have
managed to slip into the London league and other
fixtures include the UAU, four-a-side and six-a-side
tournaments. So it looks like a busy season ahead.
Any aspiring footballers are welcome to come along
and play-the only prerequisite is that you must be
female.
Rugby
IC v London Hospital
Sunday 22nd October
17-7
IC, sporting a new look kit, began this year's challenge
for the Gutteridge Cup with a good win over London
Hospital. Conditions for good rugby were made almost
impossible by a gale force wind blowing down the
field. Each half, obviously, was biased to the team
with the 'wind'.
IC lost the toss and faced kicking off with the
elements. Importance of scoring points, with our
advantage, was uppermost. However IC started
slowly, amassing only a 10 point lead at half time.
Score 13-3, thanks to tries by Simon Bicknell and
Mike Anderson. Anderson also put over one
conversion and a penalty.
London Hospital, playing with the wind, scored a
giveaway try, due to slack defence from IC. This
sparked something in the recesses of the IC lads'
minds. Inspirationally playing out of their skins for the
remainder of the match Simon Bicknell scored a try
from a solid scrummage on the opponents' line, right
in the dying moments.
IC face either Kings or Barts next round.
4-1
After a nervous start, and a 0-0 score against us the
week before, IC 1sts played some good strong
hockey. The first half was slow with neither side on
top and both teams having several chances. In the
second half IC played a confident game and within the
first ten minutes Phil Stubs placed a beautiful pass to
Mark London who hit the ball through the keeper's
legs. The game then suddenly picked up with some
dynamic hockey in midfield. Then a cross from right
allowed Mike Marshal to put the ball into the back of
the net. UCL then began to flownder and a miss-hit
from their defence again gave Mark London a chance
to place his second into the net.
UCL in a frenzy suddenly picked up the pace of their
game, placing a lot of pressure on the IC defence who
broke and IC let in their first goal. Then came a
'pseudo' cross from the right winger Gary
Knaresborough on the half-way line to Duncan Fitter,
who had made a run from the left wing and after
passing one defender and into the goal making the
score 4-1 to IC at the end of the game. A good start
to the league.
Ists v PHC Chisich 2-1
After a 4-0 defeat against this team last year, IC 1 sts
started the game with some apprehension!
Little occurred in the first half, and play was fairly
even. PHC Chisich did settle first into some good hard
hockey, but IC continued to place pressure on them
and try one hundred per cent.
The second half started with PHC forcing IC into
a defensive role. It was fifteen minutes from the end
when our goalkeeper James Whitelaw unfortunately
gave away a penalty flick, and they put the first goal
away.
This single event suddenly increased the pace of the
match. Several times IC broke forward but to no avail.
Then suddenly IC put together a very simple move:
good sharp, clean passes which left Mike Marshal
with an open goal to place the first IC goal of the day.
Within two minutes of restarting IC were again
attacking with Mark London cracking a shot which
deflected off the keeper and up into the net.
PHC Chisich then played some good astro hockey
but IC held them off.
2nds v UCL 6-0
Last Wednesday saw the destruction of a UCL team
fresh from the summer break. The game started quite
evenly, but more and more possession was gained by
IC as four completely new teams pulled together.
Dave Millard kindly volunteered to umpire the first half
but much to IC's amazement disallowed a short corner
goal. The 2nds preserved and managed to break
through in the shape of a good individual goal from
Mark Londan. He again scored as the ball struck the
backboard from a short corner. Don Howard, on his
debut, managed to make it 3 before the umpire
redeemed himself and gave a penalty flick. Mark just
managed to get it in to get a well deserved hattrick
as the half-time whistle went.
From then on IC were on top but we could only
manage 2 goals in the 2nd half despite having all the
possession^Dave Millard, on the pitch this time,
creamed the ball to almost knock the corner out of
the goal, and Hassan Majid got on the scoresheet to
make it 6-0 to IC.
There should be a good season ahead with a good
intake of freshers and better performances from the
'oldies'.
4ths v St Georges 3-2
This friendly fixture signified the start of the season
for the newly-formed 4ths and we were apprehensive
when only 7 players turned up. However we soldiered
on, having borrowed a substitute from the Ists,
against a full St Georges' team. The first half saw IC
in charge of the game with our kicking back spending
most of his time resting against the side of the post
while the rest of the team attacked the St Georges'
half. We were rewarded shortly with our first goal
from Andrew Talby. However a penalty corner just
before the end of the half levelled the score for St
Georges.
There then followed a period when both teams tried
to kill each other resulting in one broken nose, one cut
lip and one bruised kneecap.
The 4ths fought back hard and the centre half,
Adam Pritchard, found the back of the net after an
accurate pass from the right half. By this time
everybody was tiring, except for our Kicking Back
James Larkins who needed a change. Charging up the
field and arrived in front of the net just in time to meet
the ball, which he promptly despatched. The final
score suggests a good season for the 4ths when we
reach full strength.
Rowing
Upper Thames Fours Head, Henley on Thames
Sunday 22nd October
Sunday saw the 1st and 2nd IC fours in the first race
of the year. Racing at Senior I level IC 'A' not only
won their own division but were easily the fastest
coxless four. They beat all the elite crews, and were
only narrowly squeezed from second place overall by
the supposedly much faster quadruple sculls. IC 'B'
raced Senior II coxless fours, storming their own
division and barely missing being the 2nd fastest
coxless four.
Results:
1 IC 'A' 10'.24"
2 Thames Tradesmmen RC
3 IC 'B'
Senior I 4 -
10'.43" Open 4 -
10'.45" Senior II 4 -
Page 22

