We're all
wonderful
Dear Mr Smedley,
We write with regard to your comments in last
week's FELIX concerning Life Sciences timetabling,
and would be interested to know from where you have
obtained your information. All students were given an
outline timetable at the beginning of term, which
informed them at least where and when to go for their
first lecture, and they were given detailed timetables
at the beginning of their course. We have copies of
these timetables and none indicates any classes on
Wednesday afternoons. We have checked with the
course conveners concerned, who have confirmed
that there has been no teaching on Wednesday
afternoons on their courses. In addition, we have
spoken to a number of students, none of whom have
been affected, or know anybody who has been
affected by timetabled work during Wednesday
afternoons, or by lack of information on where or
when their lectures are. We have also seen the
Divisional Rep, AN Mobasheri, and he has confirmed
that he knows of no problems.
I am sure that all Life Sciences students know us
in the office well enough to inform us if there are any
serious complaints.
For the record, we would like to point out that
Professor Anderson is in no way responsible for any
timetabling within the Division.
Yours sincerely,
Valerie Forge and Debbie Lloyd, Life Science Office.
Life sciences
derision
Dear Dave,
We were very surprised at the tone and factual
contents of your editorial on the Life Science
Department in last week's issue of FELIX (No 8451.
We would firstly point out that Life Sciences is a
Division and not a Department, and there are two
Departments concerned. We represent the
Department of Biology, so what we have to say
applies mainly to our department. We have checked
and could find no instance of any teaching taking
place on Wednesday afternoons. All teaching takes
place as outlined on the detailed timetable of every
course, provided to each student on the first day of
the course. If and when any change is made, this is
done following full consultation with the students. We
will take your claim seriously if you can at least tell
us which courses and lecturers were supposedly
involved.
We would admit to a complicated timetable, but
that stems from our problem in that Life Sciences does
not have adequate lecturing facilities, especially for
the large common First Year. Instead of writing as you
have done, it would be more helpful to your fellow
students if you spent time campaigning for better
lecturing facilities in the College.
Finally, your unfounded personal comments that
Prof Anderson has little thought for the students in
his department and that he does not deign to speak
to mere mortals cannot go unanswered. He does care
about undergraduate teaching and chairs the Staff-
Page 24
Student Committee, at which student reps from each
year comment on the courses and appropriate action
is taken. Most of the students in the Life Sciences
Division will have met him, at ourtermly Staff-Student
Wine & Cheese functions. He not only 'deigns to
speak to mere mortals', he drinks with them!
Yours sincerely,
Dr Bill Hominick,
Director of Undergraduate Studies, Biology.
Dr Mustafa Djamgoz, Senior Tutor, Biology.
Research makes
Prof a Mr?
Dear FELIX Editor,
Your 'footnote' (and I use the term lightly as it
should really be described as trash!) concerning the
poor running of the Life Sciences Office has just come
to my attention. Quite frankly I cannot imagine what
would prompt you to write such a blatantly inaccurate
editorial. I would also like to ask why you have printed
none of the letters that you received, even with names
withheld, if this was not just a figment of your
imagination? As far as I know there are NO colleges
in the University of London that do have lectures on
a Wednesday afternoon, and certainly no life
scientists I know! You obviously have not actually
seen any of the timetables 1st year-3rd year, that
are freely available and have been since the beginning
of term. In case you don't know, it's called research!
I can only assume that your criticism of Mr
Anderson's management is equally unresearched. I
would equate this kind of jounalism with that of a
Sunday Sport trainee journalist. What's in FELIX next
week? 'Rector uses IC's to buy spaceship'.
I suggest that you also include an apology to the
whole of the Life Science Department and its very
helpful staff!
Yours sincerely,
L J Sawyerr, Biochem II.
Nothing to
discuss
Dear Dave,
The concept of free university education, which has
been built up over the last 35 years is under attack.
There are two prongs to this attack: The first is the
proposal by Government no longer to maintain the
value of the grant, against erosion by inflation,
coupled with the offer of loans to bridge the gap. The
second is a proposal perpetrated by some Vice
Chancellors, that students should pay the full
economic costs of their studies in the form of fees,
compensated in part by means-tested State
Scholarships.
When asked, on the phone, by one of your
colleagues, I said that I saw the latter as the greater
danger, the one which it is was important to counter.
I also said that in my view, the retention of a full
maintenance grant is no longer a realistic hope. The
priority of all political parties is to increase the
percentage • of the community who benefit from
tertiary education. I do not see any evidence of
political will-on either side of Parliament-to maintain
full grants. It is important not to under estimate the
fact that grant support barely exists in continental
Europe, or, come to that, the USA.
The full fees movement is a desperate move by the
proposers which I believe to be wholly against the
interests of society in general and all of us in the
university system in particular. I participated in the
debate in the Committee of Vice Chancellors and
Principles. I wrote an extended letter to the Times
Higher Education Supplement attacking the full fees
proposal. Did you see it Dave? The THES is after all
quite an important forum for discussion of such
matters. My views are accessible to anyone who
might be interested to hear them. It is not difficult to
caricature by selective quotation-but Dave, it is not
good journalism; nor is it keeping faith with your
readers.
Why have we not called that committee? Because
so far there has been almost nothing solid to discuss.
Is it possible that the very small number of students
who attended the EGM on loans can be thus
explained?
The situation may change in the near future. There
is a likelihood (no certainty) that the Loans issue will
figure in the Queen's speech. The full fees movement
is a new dimension to the problem which I believe
requires more analysis; it is one where participation
in debate could make a decisive difference. I will ask
Mr Edmund Dell the designated Chairperson, to
arrange a meeting of the committee before the end
of the term.
Yours sincerely,
Eric A. Ash.
Baron is
bollocks!
Dear Dave,
After reading the piece 'The Baron of Cheapskate'
I have only one question, why?
I presume that it was humourous parody but since
I've been at IC for three weeks I found it introspective,
self-glorifying horse shit.
The only references I recognised as being instantly
Imperial College were, 'Jackie Skirt...citizen in charge
of well feeling' and 'Fiona Nickerless'. An attitude
which seems to be stuffed down the trouser fronts
of some of the male population in College. If this sort
of pap is to be valid then perhaps 'Neil Smug' should
be the three legged man and 'Derek Dash' a do-it-
yourself enthusiast.
FELIX is the paper for the Imperial College Union and
not an ego massager for the Union Executive. If you
are attemptimg to alienate first year readers then; nice
one.
Give the next instalment of 'The Baron of
Cheapskate' its rightful place in journalism—in the bin.
Dominic Wilkinson.
Smart arse shit
wins
Dear FELIX,
Despite being zealous enough to insert the word
'loans' into every paragraph of FELIX No 846, your
Editor still managed to perpetrate a disgusting spelling
mistake in the main headline of page one.
Perhaps this was his deliberate implicit comment on
the quality of his education. However, I think not.
Yours,
F Dudbridge, Computing.
No, it was a test to see which obnoxious smart-
arsed shit from Computing would winge first.

