Whipping a
dead key-fob
Dear Dave,
Your concerned coverage of the key fob fiasco of
last week (FELIX, back pagel in Southside was timely
and welcome. We would like to correct the impression
that some of your readers might have got, however,
that the fault in some way rested with our splendid
Housekeeper. She received four boxes of key fobs
with no instructions as to which were the correct
ones. Southside residents were very lucky that the fire
alarm which occurred with our security guard locked
out of the building turned out to be faise.
Yours sincerely,
Phil Clapp, Subwarden.
John Hassard, Warden.
Simultaneous
translator
wanted
Dear Dave,
I am sitting in a lecture which is being taken by a
non-English lecturer. Unfortunately, the lecture also
seems to be non-English! Although his command of
the English language is quite extensive as far as
vocabulary is concerned, his accent is so thick, and
his presentation so confused, that his sentences
constantly disappear into a mass of unintelligible
sounds.
It further occurs to me, that if I'm having trouble
understanding him, when English is my first language,
how the hell do the overseas students cope, who
don't have English as their first language?
At this 'centre of academic excellence' how can
undergraduates (however unimportant our
Department may consider us to be) be asked to sit
through lectures, where the presentation is so poor,
that for one reason or another, it is practically
impossible to understand what is going on!
Too many of us are inclined to think that this is fair
enough, because the College obviously feels it is, or
we wouldn't be suffering it now. However large
amounts of money are being paid to this College, in
return for these lectures etc, especially by the
overseas students. Surely College have a duty to
provide clear and ordered lectures, which are delivered
intelligibly.
The work at IC is hard enough to take in as it is,
as is proved by the number of high standard students
who leave here with 3rds or pass degrees, but that's
another story! We shouldn't have to put up with the
added complications of translating lectures first!
Yours in confusion,
Name withheld by request.
Moronic
drinking
Dear Dave,
I have been a member of the Royal School of Mines
Union for near on three years now, and have kept my
feelings firmly to myself. But now, it seems, this union
has sunk to new depths of drunkenness and stupidity,
first with the recent Geology Freshers Dinner, and
then with a poster advertising an RSM Ents event.
Taking the Freshers Dinner: After the initial quick
pint or two in the bar, we were hurried upstairs to the
dining room, where we were quickly seated and
served with the starter. No sooner had I lifted my knife
and fork, than the proposal went up for the first
penalty pint, to be sunk in extremely quick time to the
sound of everyone else in the dining room banging
their cutlery on the table as loudly and as
intimidatingly as possible. This is supposingly because
the victim has done something stupid. In short, the
dinner, complete with uninteresting food, deteriorated
from then on, and with the help of certain notable
wankers - you know who you are - turned into a
riotous, and no doubt gut- churning session of beer
and vomit. This culminated with the noble President
of the RSMU passing a motion that everyone who
hadn't drunk a pint, should. The crime, I must assume,
was that we were all wankers for turning up in the
first place. Finally, a week after the dinner, I wasn't
greatly surprised to see my worst fears confirmed. A
poster advertising the RSM Barnight reads at the
bottom:1
'Compulsory drinking by order'
What had this confirmed? That RSM stands not for
"Royal School of Mines", but for "Right Stupid
Morons".
I am no wet blanket. I enjoy a drink, but in my own
time, and not under the gazing eyes and banging
cutlery of 40+ geologists. The RSM has this image,
and what is worse, they love it. I question, though,
how many of it's students really do? Not a majority,
I am sure.
Neil Lavitt, a Right Stupid Moron!
Weird
Dear Dave,
I am a Beatle's fan and part of the lyrics to Sergeant
Pepper's A Day in the Life go:
He blew his mind out in a car
He didn't notice that the lights had changed
A crowd of people stood and stared
They'd seen his face before
Nobody was really sure
If he was from the House of Lords
I have read somewhere that John Lennon was here
referring to the death of a close Beatle's friend, a 26
year old Guinness heir* who jumped a set of traffic
lights in South Kensington and smashed his car into
a lorry. Does anybody know the exact location of this
accident? Since I feel compelled to visit it.
Yours sincerely,
Mark Whiting.
'Unsure of name (in 1967).
WANTED
FELIX EDITOR
To work Thursday
Afternoon
Some experience needed (can you
make nice coffee?)
Apply to FELIX Editor
(Who collected his today-congratulations David}
f 9
O
All noUHD,

