F e l i X
Thanks
I have to start this editorial with a huge thanks to
everybody in the FELIX Office this week. Andy
Thompson, our printer has been an absolute marvel,
working far beyond the call of duty. I cannot begin
to express how thankful I am to Andy Bannister, who
stopped me thinking this issue would never come out
and helped print FELIX until 4am on Thursday
morning. Steve Meyfroidt has pasted up more than
I believed was possible and Stef Smith has done a
fantastic job running the paper whilst I was at the
Commemoration ceremony; I am immensely grateful
to both of them.
Life Science
I must apologise most profusely for my hjdeous slur
upon the Life Sciences Derision as I must now call it.
Due to an horrendous typing error, the words
'Wednesday afternoon,' were mixed up with the
words 'Tuesday and Thursday lunchtimes between
12.30 and 2.30.' I cannot see how this most hideous
crime was perpetrated but, rest assured, when I find-
the gremlins responsible I shall have them summarily
shot. I believe the department in question has now
corrected its error in timetabling within these areas,
which breaks the rules set down by the College's
Board of Studies. It's good to know that it isn't just
myself who makes mistakes.
Whilst I am on the subject of Board of Studies, it
is interesting to note how the College handles external
examiners' reports. Departments are reviewed by
external examiners for the Universities Funding
Council every five years or so. The results from their
efforts should make objective criticisms within the
constraints of the brief time of contact that external
examiners enjoy. They would make interesting
reading. How sad then, that they are confidential. The
only point at which Board of Studies gets to see these
reports is after they have been through a meeting of
the College's Undergraduate Studies Committee. This
Committee has a body of academics, who far
outweigh the students present. Now here is the
shocker; the department under review gets to send
two representatives to this censoring committee. Yes,
at Imperial College you can judge yourself and adjust
other people's views accordingly. Doubleplus good for
the Ministry of Truth.
Commemoration day
Apart from a two second highpoint, this had to be one
of the most boring lowpoints of my life so far. It was
made all the worse by the sheer bumbling idiocy of
the Dean of the Royal College of Science, Professor
James Barber. This man managed to verbally mangle
almost every name he read from the list of graduates,
including simple ones like 'Clark.' Was he drunk or did
he just not bother reading through the list beforehand?
Needless to say, the Deans of each of the other
Colleges gave a most commendable reading. The only
thing which saved the whole occasion, however, was
the excellent speech by John Smith; it is sad we will
not see him as staff orator next year.
Health Centre
I should like to point out now that I Will not print letters
which are or may be professionally damaging to any
member of the medical profession. I do not wish to
see a trial of doctors through the pages of FELIX. If
you wish to complain about any doctor you should
write to your local Family Practitioners Council (FPC).
The local address is Kensington, Chelsea and
Westminster FPC, Grove House, 88-94 Westbourne
Grove, London W2.
Competition
On a lighter note, I have been accused of catching out
the College's staff in alphabetical order. This is entirely
untrue. Just to prove my conviction on this point, I
shall offer a £5 prize to the sender of the best bit of
dirt on a well known member of College, whose
surname begins with the letter 'D'. You can post the
muck in the messages file on the door of the FELIX
Office if you wish to remain anonymous before the
anouncement of the prize winning entry. If anybody
would like to have their own cock-ups highlighted in
FELIX, and would like to plan them ahead, the letter
for the week after will be 'E.'
Credits
Many thanks to all of last week's collators, including
BJ, Mike Dalton, Gwyn Jones, Morgan Pimblett, Lisa
Ingram, Pete Brookes, Jon Graham, Niall Davis, David
Ivory, Ian Davis, Ian Hodge, Jake, Liz Warren and
Chris Stapleton. Double thanks firstly to Adam
Harrington for News (I missed him out last weekl,
along with Pippa Salmon and Sunny Bains. Thanks
again to Steve Meyfroidt, Stef Smith, Andy Bannister
and Andy Thompson for general heroism and to Chris
Stapleton for the riding feature; Harshad for the piece
on taking a year out; Dave Millard for sports; Kaveh
and Chris for pics; Neil Lavitt, Chris Leahy and Dick
Savage for Music; Paul Shanley for the Delator
Column; Jason for something but I can't say what;
Liz Warren for lots; all the reviewers; Sinclair Goodlad
and anybody I've forgotten, plus the anonymous
sources which shall remain forever so.
FELIX is published by the Editor for and on behalf of Imperial
College Union Publications Board and is Printed by the Imperial
College Union Print Unit, Prince Consort Road, London SW7
2BB (tel. 01-589 5111 ext 3515). Editor: Dave Smedley.
Business Manager: Stef Smith. Advertising Manager: Ramin
Nakisa. Copyright FELIX 1989. ISSN 1040-0711.
WITH A CAREER EM ICI -
THE SKY'S THE LIMIT
With the Stratoquest balloon developed by ICI, we proved the sky's the limit by achieving a world
record altitude of 65,000 feet.
We are constantly showing that there are no limits to what you can achieve if you are the best at
what you do.
We are looking for the best graduates to help us to keep breaking records.
So take advantage of the three visits we are making to Imperial College over the next few weeks.
The ICI Roadshow - a chance for an informal chat with people who have recentlyjoined ICI.
Come any time between 12.:30pm and 7.00pm on Tuesday 31st October 1989 at the Gloucester Hotel,
Ashburn Suite, Harrington Gardens, SWT 4LH.
The Careers Fair - look out for Id's stand at the JCR on either 2nd or 3rd November between
9.30am and 4.30pm.
The ICI Interviewing Skills Seminar - a chance to learn about how to create the right
impression in an interview. To be held at 5.30pm on 9th November at the Southside Suite Dining
Room. Get your ticket now from the Careers Service.
Films
H

