Sadly research sells better than accommodation
Appeal plans new hall
A £7 million appeal was launched by Imperial College
last Tuesday (24th) to mark the merger of St Mary's
Hospital Medical School and Imperial College.
Sir Evelyn de Rothschild, a co-chairman of the
Appeal explained the need for a new postgraduate hall,
to be built over the swimming pool on the North side
of Prince's Gardens. He also admitted that it was
easier to raise money on the 'emotional aspects of
medicine, not on the "bricks and mortar'", and much
of the appeal is to go towards a new 'Centre for Visual
Science' and a 'Centre for Biological and Medical
Systems'. The Centre for Visual Science is to be split
between the clinical aspect, set in the Western
Opthalmic Hospital (connected to St Mary's Hospital
Medical School) and the biophysical aspect, this side
of the park.
The Rector, Professor Eric Ash, commented on the
merger that he thought it only a 'natural complement'.
He also complained that 'Universities are asking to
reconstruct without gaining any funds by doing
so...this appeal is quite modest in comparison to
Oxbridge standards' and that Imperial College were
thrid in the league table, marginally under Oxford and
Cambridge, but doesn't get the funding to complement
this position.
The Dean of St Mary's Hospital Medical School,
Professor Peter Richards explained that the appeal
was 'about education, about research and finally about
the care of patients...we are in the business of
throroughly raising the intelligence of students....so
I have not the slightest Compunction in asking for £7
million'. He agreed with Professor Ash that the
merger was an inevitable result. On being asked
SPORTS RESULTS
UAU RUGBY
Wednesday 25th October
IC 1st X V - 7 6 L S E 1st X V - 4
IC 2nd X V - 2 9 LSE 2nd X V - 0
HOCKEY
Wednesday 25th October
M E N S
IC
IC
IC
IC
lsts—
2nds- 1
L S E - 1
L S E - 0
LADIES
lsts—2
2 n d s - l
LSE-
LSE-
Other Hockey
IC Mens 3rds—4 Richmond 6th Form Col—0
IC 4ths-9 SOAS/SSEES lsts-0
FOOTBALL
Wednesday 25th October
UAU (National Knockout Competition)
IC 1 - 2 LSE I - l
IC I I - 1 LSE II—2
IC III—3 L S E III-O
League Division Four
Goldsmiths III—3 IC I V - 5
Floater
City & Guilds Union members are building a float
which will take part in the Lord Mayor's Show on
November 11th. Any Guilds members who wish to
help with the job are encouraged to present themselves
at the Union Office (Level 3 Mech Eng) any
lunchtime.
Artist's impression of the
proposed postgraduate
hall of residence
whether the split of the campuses could cause any
problems, he replied he could see no particular
problem—'departments in Cambridge are just as far
apart.. .students have bicycles and can walk, the Park
is not so very big'.
It was explained that 54% of IC's income was raised
by itself, often from industry and industry benefits
from the trained students IC produces. The appeal
fund is to be raised mainly from industry, though Sir
Competition
In their nearby parallel universe, the Metric
University sabbaticals still reign supreme. For those
of you who entered our creation-spanning
competition, the answers are:
•Their President is Fiona Smedley who is widely
believed to be female.
•Their Deputy President is Neil Williams, a dancer.
• Their Hon.Sec. is Dave Nicholas who hails from
parallel Wales.
•The Mickey Editor is Di McCluskey, a certified
nicotine fiend.
The first correct answer drawn from the editor's
headgear was from T.Addenbrooke of Civ Eng III,
whose massive five pound prize money' can be
collected from the FELIX office. However, a special
mention must go to S. Sbicca who has either cheated
or appears to be living in the wrong universe and has
sent us the names of Imperial's own sabs. However
in recognition of his efforts, our colleagues in the
parallel universe have promised to send him a virtual
fiver by the next transdimensional post.
Give blood
A mass blood transfusion will take place in Southside
Gym on Thursday November 21. Anyone who is
willing to donate blood should book an appointment
during the next week by going to the City & Guilds
Union Office (Level 3, Mech Eng). 'If enough people
are interested we might be able to get a second day',
a Guilds representative told FELIX, adding that the
event was over-subscribed when it was held last year.
Evelyn explained that direct mailing of Alumni was
also going ahead.
When asked about the total lack of reference to
undergraduates during the entire lunchtime, a former
Pro Rector of IC conceded to FELIX that sadly
research 'sells' better than accommodation. Though
both are direly needed. It was also commented that
if the appeal fund did not reach the desire amount,
the research centres would get priority.
Drug
warning
The National Union of Students (NUS) has warned
students against taking part in drug trials.
Many students take part in these trials—not
controlled by law, only under a voluntary agreement
by the industries concerned—to supplement their
grant. At least two students have died during trials
and a number have had to be recuscitated.
The NUS with the Association of Independent
Clinical Research Contractors have drawn up
guidelines for student safety which asks for a thorough
medical for the student, an approval of the tests by
an ethical committee, full insurance of the company
and withdrawal of the volunteer at any stage.
Elec Eng
terrorised
A mysterious photographer, who may possibly be a
member of the IRA, terrorised the Electrical
Engineering department last week.
Professor Turner, of the Digital Communications
Group, claimed that a man burst into his office, took
two flash photographs and then ran away. He
described the man as 'having straggling hair, looking
foreign, with a long droopy moustache.'
No other sightings of the phantom photographer
have been reported. Professor Turner said, 'he could
have been from the IRA or anyone.'

