2000 AD comes of age
Now in its twelfth year, 2000 AD is with Prog 650
undergoing a major revamp. Bursting with colour and
new stories, the intention is to attract new readers;
specifically the growing number of older comic readers
that the media have made such a fuss over.
For the uninitiated, 2000 AD is a weekly science
fiction anthology which has built up a loyal following
of young adult readers since its creation. The tongue-
in-cheek, satirical approach and the idiosyncratic
artwork have been an addictive combination and, as
the average reader's age has increased, the stories
have become more sophisticated, leaving the
early/pre-teens to seek entertainment eslewhere.
Described by the editor Richard Burton as 'the next
logical step in 2000 AD's evolution', Prog 650's only
remarkable difference to recent issues is the increased
number of colour pages. Whereas previously only one
colour strip appeared, the tally is now three (count
'em!) strips out of five in dazzling technicolour. Well,
rather murky technicolour, in fact, but that's the
artist's perogative. Regarding the stories in this Prog,
we have Judge Dredd as always, the continuations
of Zenith and Slaine, a revised version of Rogue
Trooper and an all-new strip, The Dead Man. It would
be pointless to go into any depth of analysis for just
one episode of each strip, but a few general
comments are called for.
Judge Dredd: The mainstay of 2000 AD; a
futuristic cop of jutting jaw and huge boots (all the
better to kick crooks with), a big bastard with a one-
track mind and a gun. He's getting old now, and big
changes are planned, I'm told. Robocop with brains.
Zenith: The coolest strip in the comic. A SAW-style
pop-star who happens to be a superhero is whisked
off to fight Dark Gods on parallel earths. Telly-age.
cultural references abound, and Steve Yeowell's black
and white art is fabbo.
Rogue Trooper: The original strip was a turkey of
first order, consisting of a blue Gl wandering around
a desert killing people. Now the first artist, Dave
Gibbons, has taken on the scripting and is attempting
to inject some entertainment value by turning the strip
into a grim, realistic anti-war story. Yes, well, good
luck to him. Nice use of colour by the artist Will
Simpson, though.
The Dead Man: The first episode of this new story
is mildly intriguing. Two young boys find a badly
charred body barely alive, and have it taken to their
village. It's too early to make a judgement on the
story, but John Ridgway's art is always a pleasure-
fragile and scratchy, beautifully textured.
i 1
/ C J '
i
Slaine-The Horned God: This is a sword and
sorcery strip that concentrates more on the customs
and religion of the Celtic tribes than on their swords
and sorcerers. Writer Pat Mills is renowned for the
research he puts into his stories and between them,
Mills and artist Simon Bisley have made their Ancient
Britain come alive, breathing authentically. Bisley's
paintings are stunning, though he does relish his
mightily bosomed, powerfully thighed women so
typical of fantasy illustration, which is a pity because
Slaine is anything but run-of-the-mill.
Being an anthology published every week, much
cj> varied material passes through 2000AD's pages, and
2 naturally there are low patches. Prog 650 represents
•
> the comic on a high, and with a strong line-up waiting
£ to appear in the near future, it is likely to remain on
that high for a good while to come. Intelligent, witty
and finely drawn, existing afficionados will be
| delighted; if you've not tasted 2000AD's exotic fruit,
Z give it a try. You'll surprise yourself.
Richard Crouch
Glass Hwang
Philip Glass and David Henry Hwang's
1000 Airplanes on the Roof
Sadler's Wells Fri & Sat, £4-16, 278 8916
Philip Glass is a man you either love or hate. But after
the success of M Butterfly at the Shaftesbury, David
Henry Hwang might be expected to be the subject of
more mixed affections. An operative collaboration
between the two might then be expected to tempt
along a mix bunch of Glass fanatics and other less
disturbed types. Whoops, I slipped.
Hwang's libretto is clear and clever but crazy,
wrapped as it is in sixties Psychobabble UFO speak
and New Age nonsense: M or 'Everyperson' (subtle
that) New York resident and major loon is either
tripping insane or has glimpsed-the-inner-essence-of-
the-spirit-of-consciousness-with-the-aid-of-beings-
from-another-planet-and-wearing-a-beehive-on-her-
head. My money's on one of the former.
There's a lot of meeting of minds and gazing weirdly
around the psycadelic projections of cityscapes
spacescapes and mindscapes (?) that the ingenious
set supports quite convincingly and Betsy Aidem
makes a cute and funny M. Some of her lines betray
her though, like; 'There's a universe in my mind
struggling to break out-and I'm a normal person' (!).
Well I'd hate to meet her friends.
Despite the huge speaker stacks and Glass's
attempts to fuel inject adrenalin by hammering out
about three notes the whole thing works itself into a
bit of an unnecessary frenzy: Well meant but rather
silly.
MAC.
Return to the Forbidden Planet
Last night I died and went to heaven, transported
there, courtesy of Dramsoc, aboard a space ship, ably
commanded by Captain Tempest-a square-jawed
Boys Own Paper hero, and pipe smoker.
Loosely based on Shakespeare's The Tempest
(though featuring quotes from MacBeth, Julius
Ceaser, Romeo and Juliet...etc), Return of the
Forbidden Planet, currently running at the Cambridge
Theatre, tells the story of mad scientist, Dr Prospero,
who develops an elusive formulae with which he
intends to change the world.
Telegenesis, the science of creating matter from
pure thought, had remained only partially successful
until Dr Prospero elucidated the mystery formulae-
Factor X-with which he would be able to unleash the
nine tenths of the human brain unused by most
mortals.
His apparently faithful wife, Gloria, duped him and
sent him off into hyperspace, but unbeknown to her,
their infant daughter Miranda lay sleeping on board
the ship.
Page 4
Fifteen years later we board a routine survey flight
commanded by Captain Tempest and, assisted by his
crew and a new Science Officer, a hard and bitter
woman, who flees the ship at the first hint of trouble
or, in this case, a meteor shower.
The ship survives but, on coming out of hyperspace,
is caught in a tractor beam and pulled towards the
planet D'illyria-the forbidden planet.
Written by Bob Carlton and performed by Rhythm
Method Productions (both of 'From a Jack to a King'
fame), Return to the Forbidden Planet is probably the
most original show to hit the London stage in years.
Outstanding performances by Matthew Devitt as
Cookie-the ship's cook (just listen to that guitar rip),
Christian Roberts as the evil Dr Prospero, and a certain
well known astronomer (not the one who wears short
skirts!), coupled with special effects by Gerry
Anderson (yes, him of Thunderbirds fame) and superb
lighting make this show one not to miss! Technically
speaking it's brilliant!
With hits by artists ranging from the Beach Boys to
U2, liberally intersperced with classics by Elvis, The
Animals and The Shadows. If Rock 'n' roll is your
passion then this show is for you!
If you see just one show during your stay at Imperial
College make sure it's this one-for once the reviews
don't lie. But when you do go remember to take with
you a pair of Blue Suede Shoes, a loud suit and a
member of the Rock 'n' Roll Dance Club because
when the music's this good you've just gotta dance!
A Tuesday night and the audience were on their
feet, bopping in the aisles and jiving in the royal circle,
this show definitely provides a night to remember.
Dramsoc liked it so much we want to buy the
company. We'll soon be going back for more so if
you're interested see Dave Colling for details.
When this show makes it onto the silver screen
Rocky Horror had better look out.
Darren Austin

