Hats off to the Blue Nile
infectious choruses that you will not even notice at
first la tradition in Blue Nile songs) until you are found
singing it every minute of the day. The second side,
however, is saved solely by the haunting melody of
From a Late Night Train, probably the best track on
the album.
And so, 1989 will be remembered only for the ear
bashing, stomach turning dross that is Stock, Aitken
Blue Nile-Hats
It had to be a disappointment didn't it?
For five years now, Blue Nile devotees have been
religiously scouring the music press for any little
snippit that might indicate the arrival of the 'difficult'
second album.
How could anybody follow the intensely brilliant
Walk Across the Rooftops? Maybe nobody can.
Certainly the Blue Nile seem quite uncomfortable
perched upon the pedastal on which their follower's
have placed them, for, although Hafs is not far
removed from their first offering, it falls down on three
accounts:-
Firstly; what has happened to the noises? The
bones, the chains, the steel, the atmosphere that was
Rooftops, each sound a delicious sub-plot that made
the entirity of songs such as Easter Parade and
Automobile Noise.
Secondly; the lyrics. Paul Buchanan has the ability
to write songs about places where we have all been,
the places where we lost lor found) our first love,
those intimate places that will always remain
somewhere deep inside us. And yet on Hafs he
struggles to capture our hearts. The words almost
want to make us cry and, although nobody can doubt
the sincerity with which they are sung, they somehow
fail to transform us back to those mystic times and
we remain seated, dry of eye, within the four walls
of our present surroundings.
And thirdly; has Paul's voice left its 'Sinatra-ist'
leanings and headed towards the ground which Chris
Rea already occupies? A sad departure.
However, before becoming too despondent Hafs is
a good album. The three songs on the first side
including the excellent Downtown Lights all have their
passionate moments, especially on lef's Go Out
Tonight. Whilst Over the Hillside has one of those
Naked and Bland
Cindy Lee Berryhill—Naked Movie Star
and Waterman, our few moments of relief having been
supplied by Costello and Collins (Edwyn, not Phil).
Whilst Hafs is a good album and undoubtedly
worthy of a prime place in anybody's record collection
it is not the second coming which the faithful will have
prayed for.
It had to be a disappointment, didn't it!
Andy (A Blue Nile devotee).
Little cuddly fluffy bunny popped his head out into the
bright morning sunshine. He blinked as the warm
summer breeze played across his fur. His little pink
nose twitched with pleasure as the gentle wind
brought the fresh smell of happiness to his burrow.
BBLLLLEEEUUUGHHH! THUD! EEEOOOWWW! A
surging tidal wave of guitar and drums tears the still
twitching ears from the twisting body! Oops! Sorry
that's the No Means No LP again.
Having never actually heard of Cindy before (cries
of; oh! No! you mean you haven't got the 'Grandma's
Blueberry Pie American Dream' import compilation
collecting the best of her 17 classic LPs), I was rather
expecting some dreary SAW type girly girl wimpering
over a drum machine about her 12 year-old boyfriend.
In fact the first track was a quite promising blend of
blues and jazz with a groovy Hammond organ backing
a Neil Young type vocal (that's promising?). However,
so were all the other tracks. Cindy obviously holds to
the Tracy Chapman ethic of diversity.
This record is just a bit too bland, giving the
impression it would sound damn good in a wine bar
but is too emotionless for home consumption. Too
much Greenwich Village and brown rice, without the
real talent thet will make sure Michelle Shocked
remains the Queen of the Arran Sweater Brigade
(cheques in the post, I hope Michelle!).
Dick Savage.
Monstrous Puppets
Meat Puppets—Monsters
In this review the Meat Puppets (probably the Pups
to their friends, if they have any anymore) get what
they deserve for bowing before the corporate gods of
American FM radio. Yes kids that's right, the cuddly
Kirkwood brothers prove that living in the desert and
drinking nothing but JB really can cause you to like
Tofo.
Our good friends The Meats latest LP is a true
monster indeed. The hardcore approach of In A Car
and the often brilliant Up on the Sun are in little
evidence here. I thought this band were definitely past
their sell-by date when I heard Mirage. I guess
everybody knew they were sunbaked hippys then and
this LP proves it! One thing you can say for the Meat
Puppets is they've always been prolific in their LP
output. I wish they bloody well weren't.
I could go into an in-depth critique of every track
but that would be as boring as the record itself. Save
your money readers, go and buy Up on the Sun if you
want a good record. If you want a brilliant one buy
a Firehose LP instead (cheques in the post, I hope
lads!).
Dick Savage.
Tar Heads
More Fiends—Yo Asphalt Head
WOOARGH!! Yo Asphalt Head is loud, dangerous,
noisy, furious, insistent, pounding hardcore by a four-
piece from wild west Philly. This new album by the
Mean Fiends from Philadelphia in America is rather
loud and lacks musical refinements such as melody
and tunes.
Bleargh!! Bob Bludgeon, ferocious new sticksman
joins Allen, Elizabeth and Ron Fiend to bring you a disc
full of verve and energy; a rapid-fire concentrated
delivery!! The drummer is called Robert. The new
album has some original songs with imaginative titles
such as Vinyl Grind, Slug Cooked, Mad at Everyone
and Time-Warp Bio-feedback Amphetamine
Nightmare. I kid you not.
Aaagh!! Danger's always doggin' these dudes,
workin' as bike couriers dodgin' head on collisions.
So far they've come out of it unscathed but Al's riffs
will knock your jaded ears off and the bass line can
slush your brain around inside your skull. As
mentioned earlier, the 'music' is rather loud and
offensive to the ears.
Uuuunngh! Bad luck lives next door to the Fiends,
and the grim reaper across the street. Once some
dude broke his neck slammin' at a gig and another
time someone freaked out with a butcher's knife and
killed a customer. This is music to break your neck
to, or perhaps commit murder.
'Nuff said!
C.D.L.
Page 5

