Crossroads
Tracy Chapman—Crossroads
With one platinum LP under her belt, Tracy Chapman
has reassembled the same team, including Larry Klein
(husband of the Queen of singer-songwriters, Joni
Mitchell) in an attempt to repeat the success.
Unfortunately she has fallen prey to the same problem
encountered by her immediate predecessor, Suzanne
Vega, and remade her debut album.
Tracy Chapman was a near perfect collection of the
best of the songs written whilst busking in The
Village, New York. Fifteen months after the Nelson
Mandela Birthday Concert propelled her to fame, and
with the Amnesty tour under her belt it seems that
ten new songs of the same callibre are at this time,
beyond her.
The subjects on Crossroads are much the same.
Personal experiences and social comment from a
coloured point of view. The title track rails against the
pressure she obviously feels at being instant public
property.
7 look to the left, I look to the right,
There're hands that grab me on every side.'
This sentiment is repeated in Born to Fight where she
protests at being made into 'a white man's drone' an
understandable fear because of the massive white
audience that has put her where she now is.
Elsewhere, the oldest 'terrorist' of them all, Nelson
Madela is the subject of Freedom Now, but the song
is as tired as the continued calls for his release.
It is not until the penultimate track with This Time,
that Crossroads achieves the standards that Chapman
has set herself and Neil Young helps her to maintain
this for the finale, All That You Have Is Your Soul.
However most of the songs are at best imitations of
her earlier material and occasionally meld into
blandness; the talent is obviously still present.
However she must channel it into a specific direction
otherwise she will drift into obscurity with the
swiftness she achieved stardom initially.
R.P.O. Plays Floyd
OK, so while it wasn't the cheapest of concerts, the
Leave Those Kids Alone bash was in aid of the NSPCC
(warm glow of self righteousness). For this princely
sum you were awarded the Royal Philharmonic (less
conductor, and several session musicians, all playing
the music of Pink Floyd. And you had comfy seats.
'Less conductor?' I hear you ask. Well, not exactly.
The conductor was in fact David Palmer oiJethro Tull
'fame'.
Before the interval we were exposed to various
Genesis and Jethro Tull tunes. By this point it was
blatantly obvious that nobody had told Palmer what
a conductor does. To say that his leadership was
uncoordinated would be a mild understatement
comparable to saying that Kenneth Baker is unpopular
with students. Of course the problem was that I had
never realised that Follow You, Follow Me was in 1:4
time!
Then the real music began. However, no sooner had
the heartbeat recording on Run Like Hell began, with
Palmer waving his thunderbird-like arms in the air,
Wrong Means
than disaster struck! The backing tape had a cardiac
arrest while he had trotted off to his dressing room
to get his score for the second half. He returned
suitably armed with an impressive wad of rainforest
and we were off.
RPO went into autopilot mode,
The 'rock' musicians went into loud mode,
Palmer went into Kermit the Frog mode.
So what was the outcome of all this frenzied
activity? Well, while Another Brick in the Wall Part I
was suffering from poor arrangement, Part II and
Shine On Your Crazy Diamond were excellent. The
remainder was, to put it politely, mediocre.
Two very drawn out encores later (between which
many people mistakenly left) we filed out. Among us
were the dedicated followers along with those on the
charity evening circuit who had barely even heard of
the group and weren't impressed.
An evening not to be missed? No; even for the most
hardened fan this didn't do justice to Pink Floyd.
No Means No—Wrong
'AND YOU CAN DANCE!' This is excellent. No Means
No have come a long way since their promising but
sparse debut Sex Mad. The Day Everything Became
Nothing was a good follow up, but now they seem
to have reached their destination.
Every available space is a churning mix of bass and
drums similar to Punchline and Minutemen (even my
stomach started turning, or maybe that was last
night's pints of Directors). If you haven't heard this
lot before their closest contemporaries are labelmates
Lard or possibly Victims of Family. No Means No
Page 6
however, take a more head down approach, building
songs around complicated rhythm changes
punctuated with slabs of harsh Gang of Four type
guitars (okay I'm not scared to use a cliche now and
then!).
If your room mate likes Queen buy him this because
he'll hate every second. Even better, get him to buy
it for you. This means you can play it until he stage
dives out of the window thus killing two birds with
one stone.
Dick Savage.
Joe Jackson
Halfway through Saturday night's concert Joe
Jackson effectively silenced those hecklers shouting
requests for old numbers with 'I've got a request for
you too...'. His ability to hit the target was in this case
good-natured but is an accurate description of much
of his music and 'angry' label he acquired has not been
easy to shift. This is hardly surprising when he plays
songs like Jet Set ('Fat American tourists pointing
cameras at you') and Evil Empire ('A few cheap shots
at Reagan') with such vehemence.
He has no pretensions as a slick rock star, and
obviously enjoys playing with all of his ten-strong
Anglo-American band. What is lost by the lack of
stage show is more than made up for by his reworking
of old favourites. Hometown was set to Pachabel's
Canon (the pure wool advert for philistines who don't
know), and there was an instrumental verson of
Breaking Us In Two. This was obviously too close for
comfort for one couple who walked out screaming at
each other at this point.
The main theme of the evening was his latest album
Blaze of Glory, which was played in its entirety.
Almost a concept album, which Jackson admits to
hating, it traces the developments for his attitudes
since the sixties. From the naive dreams of
Tomorrow's World to the present day desires to be
Nineteen Forever, and intended swipe at the
renaissance of certain 'old lizards and deaf guitarists'.
Played almost as recorded it provided many
opportunities for the audience to 'stomp in their seats'
but it wasn't until his final encore of the Jumpin' Jive
medley that everyone deigned to stand up and get
down. Presumably lost on them was the immortal line
which should be included in the IC crest; 'What's the
use of getting sober, when you're gonna get drunk
again!'.
Veiled
Claytown T r o u p e -
Through the Veil
Debut album from the band that will 'redefine the
formula for commercial rock of the 1990's'. If you
think the level of reviewing in FELIX sometimes verges
on the sycophantic you should see some of the guff
we get from the record companies.
First heard whilst watching Bros In 2 Summer on
TV (lovely boys those Goss twins, shame about Ken),
nearly half of Through the Veil sounded reminiscent
of Julian Cope a la Teardrop Explodes with the guitars
wound up. It was of course a vast improvement on
the sound of 50,000 pubescent girlies screaming at
Matt's nipples, yet still throwaway and forgettable.
Second time around it was better (no sexy young
gods to destract me). Too much emphasis on the
noisy rockers. However, this is the material of fine live
performances, with flashes of originality from Rick
Williams' understated keyboards and 'Ben' Bennet's
guitar, especially on Haf fo Haf and the single Prayer
. Later on in side two there is a complete
transformation with Love Is and The Veil, a brace of
snappy intelligent songs of the sort REM produced
before they became 'the greatest band in the world'.
There is also an ethereal accoustic guitar instrumental
called Chiracahua Sun. This is out of place but entirely
welcome on an album which shows promise but will
not be changing Rock as we know it for a little while
yet, thank you.
A free 12" EP accompanying the album gives
superior mixes of Bury My Heart and Prayer indicating
that producer Ron Fair played no small part in the
making of this album.

