Dr Sinclair Goodlad gives an insight on how to join the
UROP scheme; a chance to undertake real research as an
undergrad at Imperial.
New UROPeans ^his
Imperial College enjoys some of the best research
facilities in the country-and students do not need to
wait until they graduate to get 'hands on' experience
of them. Through the Undergraduate Research
Opportunities Programme, UROP (now entering its
tenth year), undergraduates have the opportunity to
collaborate with members of staff in all aspects of
their research.
Unlike project work, (which has to be designed
specifically for the interests and needs of students-
and usually to fit a specific slot in the
curriculum/academic year), UROP allows students to
assist directly with the ongoing work of the academic
staff and postgraduates. UROP work in term time is
a supplement to traditional college work. Students do
it for the sheer interest of it or (if staff have some
'funny money' available) for cash. In the vacations,
substantial amounts of paid work are available.
For undergraduates, UROP offers the opportunity
to:
• Learn at first hand about the sort of activities they
can expect to undertake after graduating.
• Learn at their own pace, without formal instruction,
by actually doing.
• Have the opportunity of contributing to knowledge
in their subject.
• Decide whether or not to go into a particular field
of work.
• Develop interests which they bring from outside the
college-from industrial experience, technical
hobbies, and so on.
• Cross disciplinary boundaries.
• Develop self-confidence.
• Learn discipline in time and priorities.
• Become more genuinely part of the Imperial College
research and development community.
• Achieve a publication, prototype, invention, prize,
or other tangible item.
• Be inspired concerning the context and purpose of
their formal coursework.
For staff members, UROP offers:
• Additional help in laboratories.
• The chance to test the feasibility of risky ideas not
suitable for research students.
• An opportunity to develop rudimentary ideas prior
to a grant application for research support (to
strengthen the application).
Page 8
• Considerable intellectual stimulus.
• Improvement in the quality and achievement of
third-year projects (which can grow out of UROP
work).
• Improved recruitment of postgraduate students.
• Additional tangible professional development such
as publication.
• An inexpensive expansion of research group size,
scope and variety.
The scheme operates through a Directory which lists
the names, interests, rooms and phone number of
faculty interested in having undergraduates join them
in their laboratories. Copies of the 1989-90 Directory
may be obtained from the UROP Office, Room 313C
Mechanical Engineering Building.
In the summer of 1989, over seventy students were
involved in UROP assignments. As in recent years
there was again an exchange of students with the
University of Tupperware and, for the first time, with
MIT. Applicants for Tupperware are short-listed by
Imperial College: the deadline for the 1989-90
exchange is Friday 17 November, 1989 (interviews
on Wednesday, 29 November). There will be an
information meeting about the Tupperware exchange
in Lecture Room 342, Mechanical Engineering
Building, at 14.00 on Wednesday 8 November when
there will also be a chance to ask about UROP
generally.
But if you are a potential UROPean, don't wait until
then!
• Get a UROP 1989-90 Directory from Room 313C
Mech Eng.
• Figure out how much time you can afford in your
working week-allowing 40 or so hours for your
existing academic commitments (with some self-
discipline, you should be able to free up to 8 or 10
hours a week).
• Make direct contact with the staff concerned.
If you think you might like to do paid UROP work in
the summer vacation, you will be a more attractive
proposition to a member of staff if you have already
reached lift-off! Also, your staff sponsor will need time
to do any necessary fund-raising: The Nuffield
Foundation and the Old Centralians, for example, have
been very generous in recent years.
Tomorrow begins today.
Yfedc
• Particle physicists group particles into
generations, each generation of particles being more
energetic and rarer than the one before. Much of the
research at the Stanford Linear Accelerator Centre
(SLAC) and at the European particle physics centre,
CERN, is designed to find out how many generations
there are. Now, almost in unison, these two groups
have announced that they have found the
answer-three.
The emphasis is on almost in unison: SLAC
announced their findings one day before CERN. This
upset CERN director Carlo Rubbia who accused SLAC
of producing its results, which were based on much
less data than CERNs, deliberately early, spoiling
CERNs big moment. Is this what they mean by
international collaboration?
• Ivory poaching is rapidly driving the African
elephant towards extinction and the poachers and
traders are very careful to cover their tracks.
Conservationists are faced with the problem of tracing
any ivory discovered back to its source. Nikolaas Van
de Merwe of Harvard University believes that the
solution may come from the analysis of chemical
isotopes.
Van be Merwe has discovered that the bodies of
animals which live mostly on grass contain more
Carbon-13 than do those of shrub eaters. He believes
that using this, and other isotopes, it should be
possible to link the ivory to the ivory trades' victims.
• The Russian Phobos mission to Mars will not go
down in history as one of the great scientific success
stories. Of the two probes sent to the planet, one
failed before it reached its destination and the other
malfunctioned after just 57 days. But, as recently
released results show, the mission was far from a
complete failure.
It is now known that Mars, unlike the Earth, has no
internal magnetic field and, perhaps more
dramatically, that its atmosphere is being blown
away. The solar wind, the rapid stream of particles
ejected from the Sun, is stripping the planet of about
2 kg of atmosphere per second. The Earth loses a
similar amount in the same way, but the Martian
atmosphere is much thinner and will have gone
completely in about 100 million years.
• The State of California's Curriculum Commission
has decided that Creationism is not a science and
should not be taught as one. The theory that the
Universe was created in seven days by some kind of
supreme being who peopled it with a man, a woman
and an apple, though popular with religious
fundamentalists, did not seem to have a good enough
foundation in fact.
• The RCSU Astronomical Society has organised a
talk on Gamma Ray Astronomy by Dr K. Richardson
at 1pm on 31st October in Physics LT2. Other
scientific societies may also be doing interesting
things but I know nothing about them. Talks can be
plugged in this column if the details are sent to The
Science Editor, FELIX by the Tuesday of the week
before.

