Chris Stapleton discovers how an experienced cycling bum doesn't get sore when riding a
horse with the riding club
W h i p crack away!
Chaaaaarrgge! into the valley of Woking rode
the galliant five hundred.
Unless your steed's hind quarters are embellished
with a learner's 'L' from Hell you probably won't reach
such a climax on your first day's horse riding. But, the
initial zip of adrenalin ain't too bad at all partners when
first you take that high stride into the saddle.
Duke's classic tan shades conjured up visions of
cowboys resting by the camp fire, harmonica playing,
after a long day's cattle driving in the heat of the day,
riding free from today's toxic air across the plains, and
other romantic imagery. So I got Cloud, a dark horse,
hinting more of thunder and rain (definitely no lightning
here) rather than Wordsworth.
His steady manner on first approach belied the
enormous and obviously unfulfilled stomach slung
between his haunches. As soon as the reins were in
my hands his head dipped and kept on dipping, like
one of those sordid nodding glass ornamental birds.
When the straw around his immediate vicinity had
been consumed his attentions turned to the bale store
in front of us: a brief but successful power struggle
ensued (I won).
Moving out of the stables we were led by the more
experienced riders to the paddock to begin the day's
lesson. Firstly, are we sitting comfortably, or at least
are we sitting correctly. Sit back and upright, resisting
the temptation to grip, with nervous exasperation, the
saddle with the inner leg and thigh. Now make a line
between the shoulder, hip, and ankle, and we're ready
for the off. Oh, but before the off it's quite a good
idea to take a hold of the reins, thumbs up of course
and untwisted from the bit.
And they're off, racing down the inside left of the
paddock at an incredible walking pace, firmly kicking
the belly with the heels in quick succession to keep
him going. Oh my god, the railings go round to the
left...what now? Pulling in on the left hand rein and
keeping taught on the right, while emphasising the
kicking of the right leg, but retaining the action of the
left, isn't easy. But if you wish to avoid gouging your
right leg it's the only way. You skid, in dramatic style,
around the corner, leg and horse intact to see another
day and another turn. A little hammy perhaps? Yes.
Now, just to get your circulation going, a little keep
fit. Whilst sitting, and keeping the horse moving, lean
forward from the hips to touch the horse's ears. No
problem if you're on a Dartmoor pony. Then, leaning
back, touch the tail. Now touch your left toe with your
left hand and vice-versa, and because that's far too
easy try the left hand with your right toe and so on.
Catching on eh, bit of a smart arse eh? Time for a
bit of trotting then. Step One: liven the walking pace.
Step Two: using a more persistent kicking action goad
on the horse with encouraging sounds. Step Three:
remain upright and on top of the situation. Mastered
that. Good, let's go on to do some more of those
aerobics.
In drawing to the end of the first lesson I hear you
cry 'Rawhide!'. Well I must admit that it was well
knackering trying to keep up the kicking action,
biasing left or right as need be, but as far as
dishevelled, blunt and bruised bums go, not one sore
cheek in sight. Years of cycling over the potholes of
London and the trip in the minibus on hard slat bench
seats prepared me well for that potential ordeal. So
if you fancy a trek and have not done it before, don't
get bucked before the outset, go along and give it a
try-
Riding Club meets every Tuesday lunchtime, 12.30,
Southside Upper Lounge.
Chris Stapleton
. AH» me. senreMce.1 To ee
ST««=» TO pe*rn. searencB TO
Page 9

