21 November 1997
MID-TWENTIES BREAKDOWN
FEATURE 11
has b r a i n
sprung
leak?
The Mid-Twenties Breakdown: A period of
mental collapse occurring in one's twenties
often caused by an inability to function out-
side of a structured environment, coupled
with a realization of one's essential aloneness
in the world. Often marked by induction into
ritual pharmaceutical usage.
You've left college, you have a (comparatively)
large disposable income, you're young, you're
free and ...
Seratonin (the stuff that makes us feel good) in the
brain is bad. Damon Albarn, Kurt Cobain, Paul
'Guigsy' McGuigan, and Richey Edwards (the
'missing' member of the Manic Street Preachers
last seen standing on the edge of the Severn
Bridge although reports have placed him as far
away as Bangkok) have all succumbed and, as
everyone knows, in the Nirvana frontman's case, it
resulted in tragic death leaving behind his wife and
daughter and a mutilated corpse.
->SNAP<- THEIR REFUSAL TO
TAKE NOTICE OF THE WARNING
SIGNS HAS RESULTED IN COM-
PLETE CRASH OF THE SYSTEM.
... suddenly you don't have anything to organize
your life around. You're still going out clubbing
until 4am but you can't just decide to skip work
and s H t o m e watchir^ggha Jeletubbies. Life
has changed dra: rically and your body, and your
mind, can't cope with it. You're heading for a
mid-Hwntics akdowrt.
A bi eakdown is an episode where stress reach-
es unmanageable levels and your brain decides
••>,. •;,; :\ L : snfc
sion. depression and weepiness. You can't seel]
the point of getting o it of bed and all yu .v.nu
to do is curl up in a ball and sleep until it's all
finished. In extreme cases it could leac to sui-
cide; male suicide figures have more than
tripled in recent years for those aged between
15 and 24 reaching 255 in 1995. If the figure
include a '. those up to the <ge ol 29 then y o i
can add a further one hundred casualties. 'Pop'
MALE SUICIDE FIGURES HAVE
MORE THAN TRIPLED IN RECENT
YEARS FOR THOSE AGED
BETWEEN 15 AND 24...
So who is vulnerable? Well the British have the
stereotyped 'stiff upper lip' approach to life which
is partifjdariwpmmon among the young,.Males
today, caught in the wave of new-ladism, are
unlikely to confide in their friends, let alone their
doctors, thai lili! is getting a bit to much. When was
the last time you cried? Exactly. In the new, hard
edged nineties you learn to survive on your own or
• the < ompctition will gobble you up. A recent survey
. • " i • ' , , • I '<••)••<,<- bs!v„eer> • , <
, ,i 25,
. • • ' i ' •', • •. . • . i. -,-iVy . ~ 'J.s t-i
• depressed;, would tell f hero-to , . themselves
together". The thing is it isn't your wussy,
hypochondriac friend who is most likely to flip, in
fact this sort of person is most likely to go through
life unscathed; it's the super-together mate that
they talk to who is vulnerable; you know the one
• n o ' s up for^iiiything, who is stringing along three
girlfriends and always pulls when you go to clubs,
who is completely on top of their course but still has
time to hold down a well paid job *and* go out 4
times a week and 3 times at the weekends. When
they succumb to some minor illness they don't
refuse to go into college, they go for a run. When
suddenly swamped with work they don't cut down
on extra-curricular activities, they continue on as
normal until ->snap<- their refusal to take notice of
stars seem particularly vulnerable to this phe-
nomenon possibly because they are thrust into
the limelight at a tender age then put under
immense pressure to perform. Then there are
the drugs. Cocaine, ecstasy and speed all have
been linked to mental collapse and in fact any-
thing that artificially messes with the levels of
the warning signs has resulted in com-
plete crash of the system.
So what do you do? Well Imperial stu-
dents are probably at a higher risk than
most other uni students. We are doing
difficult courses under difficult circum-
stances. London is at once temptingly
easy to go mad in but at the same
time extraordinarily expensive leading
to cash crisies. The capital can also
have the effect of making one feel
incredibly alone and very insignifi-
cant. Oh, and for the men, there are
not enough potential partners going
round for. cliched as it is, having a
girl/boy friend does, help because
such a person can on en be told
things th&fenormally can. rjever' be
repeated and, of course, sex
reduces tension. If you think that
your having problems foi gnd's
sake talk to some one;"If: you
. S J ' I wa " ,en 1
".'make it ;•: d
or a tutoi
leader. There is no stigma-
attached anymore to going to
see a so called 'shrink' If you
want to be anoifymous then
there are pla||u. of helplines;
I'll has its mvn advisor, col*
lege has tutors and you cari
call nightline on 0171 436
556(about anything. There's
also the Samaritans and No
Panic. Just remember, and
please, no X-Files jokes,
you're not alone. There is
always someone who can
help. If you're under 35
then you're the envy of
most people in society.
Enjoy it, don't take life too
seriously, be young, be
foolish, be happy. Even
at IC.
Simon Wistow

