21st November 1997 MUSIC 15
ALBUMS
Something To Remember Me By * * * * '/2
ALABAMA 3
Exile On Coldharbour Lane *
I f
B
en Lee. Who is he? Well, this
Australian singer made some
waves in 1994 when his now
defunct teen punk band Noise
Addict released their debut album,
Crandpaw Would, Since then, Ben
has enlisted the services of the
most wonderful of instrumental
companions, the trusty acoustic
guitar. What we have here is 14
simple acoustic songs. Just Ben
and his guitar. Well, 13 really. A
Month Today, the world-weary
song which shows Ben to be older
than his official 18 years, is per-
formed a cappella.
Musically, Ben pretty much
uses the same formula throughout
this album. A nice little rhythm and
an uncomplicated strumming sys-
tem. However, formulas don't
become formulas for no reason at
all. They become formulas because
they work. The treat is Ben's lyrics.
Each song may have the same
musical base but each tells its own
story. Mostly experiences from
Ben's life, they're cleverly written.
Eight Years Old is the best,
telling a touching story of first love.
During a bus-ride, Ben meets the
girl he loved but was rejected by
when he was eight and she touch-
es his knee. He feels like he's eight
again but can't accept the offer,
telling her, T was in love. I was
eight. Almost a decade later. A
decade too late.' 1 mean, 1 know
there's not many romantics out
there (or are there?) but that is
beautiful beyond words.
Daisy also explores the theme
of unrequited love in youth. Career
Choice chronicles the part of Ben's
youth in which he fell victim to pro-
crastination and is full of T could
have been....'-type lines. There's 2
Sisters, which has a slightly smoky
after hours feel, which analyses
why some people just don't get on
with each other. There's also a
humourous and equally serious
track about fallen 80s TV stars from
shows such as Family Ties, Punky
Brewster, Growing Pains and
Different Strokes. In short, Ben is a
gifted songwriter. Simple tunes are
just the basis for the almost effort-
lessly familiar way in which he
expresses himself. So, I give you
Ben Lee. I'm sure they'll be even
more to remember him by in the
future. CI
Dennis
I
f this album were a woman it
would be Victoria Adams. If it
were a footballer it would be
David Beckham. 1 like this CD, it
makes me smile. And if I didn't
already own it...I'd go out and buy
one. Well actually I am not Jeremy
Clarkson, Master of Bullshit, and
Exile On Coldharbour Lane only
resembles Posh Spice in that it def-
initely does not smile, just like me
when I'm listening to it. There are
many reasons why. The album con-
tains a distinct lack of variety, so
sadly falling victim to, and indeed
being found very, very guilty of the
same charges that are constantly
thrown at dance music. In my opin-
ion, it sounds like funky-styled
country and westemy blues with
repetitive, unimaginative beats and
rhythms. Oh yeah, and the occa-
sional political message thrown in
for good measure. Excessive listen-
ing will undoubtedly leave your
ears with a deep and immediate
yearning for some quality sounds.
O.K., it's not so bad that your
brain will bleed before you are able
to reach for the eject button. But if
an album can, at best, barely reach
those not-so-dizzy heights of plain
mediocrity, then what's the point
in buying it? If you are lucky enough
to have a burning hole in your
pocket then 1 say let it smoke, let it
smoulder. DON'T BUY THIS CD.
For I'm sure you'd rather briefly
suffer from mild thigh burn than
own this ranking stain of monkey
jism.
If this album were a woman, it
would be Marlene from
Neighbours. If it were a footballer it
would be my mum. And the full 63
minutes of this trash could only be
conceivably endurable under the
heady influence of some very top
gear. E
H
Gabriel
THA BOMBI
How all tha b-boys and b-girls doin? Its
another week and another column, more
news about what's goin' on in the world of hip
hop and RnB.
Tupac's back. Released this Monday is a
new album of unheard 2Pac cuts from his old
days with Interscope Records (1991-1994).
The posthumous release is a double LP called
R U Still Down (Remember Me), the CD ver-
sion includes a 12 page booklet all about the
man. From what I've been told the album
comprises of a couple of choice cuts and a
load of stuff that wasn't considered good
enough for release when he was alive.
The Fresh Prince is back, except Will no
longer wants to called the Fresh Prince,
instead he is Will Smith movie mega-star and
hip hop star. Well that's what he says he is,
having had the opportunity to listen to a cou-
ple of the cuts off the forth coming album, I
would describe him as a movie mega-star and
a POP star. If the rest of the album is any-
thing like the tracks I heard then it can only
be described as commercial pop/swing, the
LP's called Big Willie Style and will be droppin'
in next week
Tha Bomb album of the week is the medi-
cine man Lynden David Hall's Medicine 4 My
Pain, this man has brought an album that is
soul at its very best. The musical content is
best described as Nu Soul and with this LP he
has gone up directly against big name
Americans such as Maxwell and D'Aneglo and
for me he has come out on top, this deserves
to be massive and if his record company
backs it then it will be. This will be a classic
so don't hesitate for a minute when buying.
On a single tip there are some serious trax
being released on British this week and a trip
down to the local record store to purchase
these three tunes is essential. First up we got
a British RnB group, Truce with their joint
Nothin' But A Party, this has got that party
vibe to it, if there was any justice this would
blow up massive; this is a tune, buy. The orig-
inal first ladies of hip hop, Salt'N'Pepa, return
after a long time out with their new album
Brand New, the first single to be lifted from it
is R U Ready. Now I heard this track an age
ago and I've been telling y'all about for a time,
and at last it's here. This bangin' high tempo
track is a stone cold killer; it comes on two
CDs l&J., with the second CD containing the
hit singles Shoop, Whatta Man & the classic
Lets Talk About Sex. My third and final single
recommendation is the latest Missy joint Sock
It 2 Me, this is the second cut from her high-
ly acclaimed debut album. The groove is cre-
ated by Timbaland and the Da Brat helps out
as a guest, listen to this and you'll want it.
Other singles out or droppin' soon include
Stomp from Cods Property, this dope little
gospel track has Salt (from Salt'N'Pepa)
appearing on rap duty, this good and well
worth a listen. The latest offering from Shola
Ama is a ballad called Who's Loving My Baby,
this is as good as the previous two and should
fly straight into the top spots in the chart. For
all the DnB boys I have to metion the massive
Digital from Golide, this is rough and raw, a
baseline that blows you away, KRS1 is pure
class, this is Tha Bomb.
Till next time, I'm out.
Tha Bomb! - Diary Dates
There's loads of shit goin' on in the capi-
tal in the upcoming weeks and its time for a
run down of all the bangin' dates. The crazi-
est hip hop sound, horror rap, comes to town
as The Gravediggaz fly in to promote their new
album, they play at Subterania, Ladbroke
Grove on Wednesday (26), doors open at nine.
This is a must for all the true hip hop headz,
it'll be one muthafucka of a night. Another
group of innovative hip hoppers, Spearhead,
bring their sound to us the following week on
December 3rd at the Forum; Michael Franti
and the boys always put on a good show. On
a RnB tip, the three funky divas, En Vogue hit
town on December 4th, this will sell out so
get those tickets quick. Looking to the future,
the most eagerly awaited concert date was
recently announced - Puffy playing Wembley
Arena on January 13th. Puffy and the whole
damn family coming over for their first ever
European concerts, big name family members
Li 1
" Kim and Mase will be in attendance, so get
those tickets fast.
Af//en

