21 st November 1997 MUSIC 17
CLUBSCENE • THE UNDERGROUND MUSIC GUIDE
Hi and welcome to the Electric Cafe. My name is
Alick Sethi. I work together with Trevor Morgan
and Chris Gower on the new dance and club sec-
tion of Felix. We aim to cover reviews, features
and club listings on a wide range of dance music;
reflecting the London scene as it really is!
The Electric Cafe is also the name of a radio
show that I run weekly on the Student Radio
Network for two hours (Sunday night/Monday
morning @ midnight till 2am). It can be listened
to using IC Radio. Each show aims to introduce
people to a variety of electronic music; from
drum'n'bass to funky techno, ambient to deep
house. Most of all we believe very strongly that
there is something for everybody in electronic
music. We interview artists and DJs in order to
make the music less faceless and more personal.
So do listen in if you are interested!
Now that the plugging is out of the way, I
should get on with the column and a very inter-
esting new clubnight that has caught my eye. To
coincide with the new single by LA Synthesis (see
techno reviews section), a joint venture between
Vent and Universal Language is starting tonight at
The Soundshaft (Hungerford Lane, London WC2).
Universal Language is a label that has been
putting out some outrageously funky electronic
music for several years, with big acts such as the
jedi Knights and Gerd currently enjoying enor-
mous critical acclaim. Tonight you will be able to
see LA Synthesis and Spacetime Continuum (aka
Jonah Sharpe from Reflective Records in San
Franscisco) playing live. Tom Middleton and Mark
Pritchard from Global Communications will be up
CLUBSCENE - COMPILATIONS
1 0 1 % SPEED GARAGE
on the decks. All this for a mere £5 if you remem-
ber your student card. Now that can't be bad for a
Friday night can it?
Finally, if you are beginning to think about
Christmas Presents for friends, then I want to rec-
ommend three great DJ mix albums on CD.
The MayDay Mix (Open) is by one of the origi-
nators of techno music. Derrick May hails from
Detroit and has become a legend with tracks such
as Strings of Life. His DJ talents are no less awe-
some. He keeps his mix extremely funky yet varies
the musical style throughout. There are no rules
when he is on the decks. Tracks are stopped mid-
way through and even mixed backwards into each
other. This is an essential album for clubbers and
DJs alike!
X-Mix Deep Space Radio (Studio !K7) features
the mixing talents of another Detroit Legend,
Kevin Saunderson who was the brains behind
Inner City and E-Dancer. This is a varied selection,
featuring hard techno from Dark Comedy hand-in-
hand with minimal house from Octave One. As
you would expect, the mixing is flawless.
Subculture (Subclub/BMG) has been prepared
and mixed by one of the pioneers of the Glasgow
scene, DJ Harri. The character of the mix is
smooth and seamless, which is appropriate as the
musical style represented throughout is deep
soulful house music. This album is not about tak-
ing you higher, but instead putting you in a
groove. It works well in the bedroom as well as on
the dancefloor.
Alick
ON THE
• • • •
SPCECED
GAI
The most unimagi-
native title in the
world ever!
W
ith the explosion of
Speed Garage onto the
London club scene, and
the increasing popularity of it
throughout the rest of the country,
it is inevitable that the period
before Christmas will see countless
compilations being released under
the title of 'Speed Garage'.
The mission, if I wished to
accept it, was to search out an
'album' which truly represents the
scene at this present time.
This CD is an hour long epic live
in the mix from Trinity at the
Chunnel Club by DJ Jay Dee. Trinity
is a night in Vauxhall which caters
for both the Speed Garage and
Hard House scenes, and this is a
set played out to a packed crowd
of serious clubbers.
The opener, Kym Mazelle's Big
Baby is a soulful starter which com-
bines funky beats with catchy lyrics.
The next two tunes are on the
same wavelength, with large lyrical
content, before DJ Ride and
Michael King's Renegade Bass, fea-
turing remnants of a classic old
Skool tune, takes over and treats all
to the first real helping of raw Drum
'n' Bass. This ingredient is very
much in full effect from then on,
with a bassy sound system contin-
uously screaming to be turned
up. 187 Lockdown's Gunman, pos-
sibly the most recognised speed-
garage tune features, as does
Peekay's Sweet Sensation , another
tune which brings back memories
from the 90's Old Skool era.
The album closes with New
Horizons It's My House and
Smokin Beats Vol 4 jazz House,
both of which take a more tune-ori-
entated approach as opposed to a
phat and phunkee bassline. This
concludes an hours worth of music
which covers all components of
this particular scene.
All in all, this compilation con-
tains 16 massive underground
tunes which are expertly remixed
by Jay Dee. A worthwhile addition
for those in the know, and a damn-
good starter for those wanting to
get in the know, d e l
Chris
At the EC1 Club
I
f speed garage is your scene
and you're looking for a late
Thursday night out, then we
have found the club for you. 'On
The Edge' boasts resident DJs '
The Dreem Teem' and Dexter, as
well as other big name DJs on
rotation, playing only the finest
underground tracks.
Due to the late opening hours
- the latest in London for a
Thursday night - it is considered
as more of an afterclub and so the
crowd do not arrive until lish.
Most of them are regulars, and
can only be described as
'London's Nuttas',- they have
every intention of dancing all night
until the lights go up at 6am.
Within the silver walls and
decor, the atmosphere is 'chilled
out'. You won't find the attitude
that some clubs have become
famous for. In fact the only scary
element is Shadow from
Gladiators, who is one of the
doormen. He is currently under
tuition to DJ, as there have already
been substantial offers from vari-
ous clubs in the Midlands.
There is plenty of space to
'shake your thang', as well as
loads of tables and chairs for you
to rest your weary dancing feet. If
you are a beer drinker, then you
are catered for - but if not, then
it's soft drinks all night.
The music is at the cutting
edge of the scene, the sound sys-
tem deafens, the atmosphere is
friendly and the night is a stormer!
Chris &. Tina
Capacity: 600
Price : £2 (with Student ID)
b4 11 pm and £5 after
Beer: £2.50
Water: £1
Cloakroom: £1
Nearest Tube: Farringdon

