18 MUSIC 21st November 1997
CLUBSCENE - COMPILATIONS
CREAM ANTHEMS '97 DOUBLE CD
Mixed By Paul Oakenfold & Nick Warren • • •
I
must say 1 was looking forward
to listening to this one, Cream
is one of the so called 'Super
Clubs' and with the highest quality
DJing ability of Oakenfold (one of
my favourite house D.J's, and being
voted 2nd best D.J in the world by
the readers of D.J mag) and Warren
(voted 31st) this mix CD promised
big things.
CD01. Paul Oakenfold, starts
off with the laid back trancy num-
ber Mystery Land by Y-Traxx, then
Jay Dee's Plastic Dreams rolls nice-
ly into the dreamy Remember, by
B.T. Next drops Energy 52's Cafe
Del Mar, nice dreamy breaks and
driven beats, then the pace is lifted
with Nightmare by Brianbug one of
my favourites of the moment, mas-
sive tune. Keeping things rolling
along nicely with Oakenfold's mix
of Olive's You're Not Alone, BBE's
Flash then in comes D.J Scot
Project's How Deep Is Your Love, a
very slightly dodgy mix quickly sort-
ed out. Yes even Oakenfold is not
perfect, well not all the time.) This
track has a slightly harder feel to it,
picking up the pace again with its
soft techno sounds. This harder
feel is kept going until Marmion's
Schoenberg is dropped from the
top, still with those harder beats.
Finally and surprisingly started from
the beginning again, is Transa's
Prophase in that hard trancey style.
Over all as you would expect from
such a quality DJ you're taken on a
pleasant journey gradually building
in pace as it progresses. I did
expect more involved mixing, but it
is all kept neat and simple. 1
assume to appeal to a wider audi-
ence.
CD02. Nick Warren. This one
starts off with what you should all
know, Ultra Nate's Free, the former
number 1, then it gets a little less
commercial with Alex Neri's Planet
Funk 2 and the Heartist's Belo
Horizonti before the wicked 187
Lockdown's Gunman is dropped in.
Things are kept going with the
equally good Ajare from Way Out
West (incidentally Nick Warren is
part of Way Out West.) Then with a
flick of the wrist the mood is total-
ly changed and The Prodigy's
Breathe comes tearing at you. Then
a quite superb mix of this into JDS's
Nineways, then the tempo slowly
builds from these break beat driven
tracks to more rolling trancy house
tunes such as Underworld's Cow
Girl, Moon Man's Don't Be Afraid
and Chicane's Offshore. Then for
some reason which I could not
understand Stretch &. Vern's
cheese-tastic Get Up is brought in,
totally killing any vibe that had been
got going then the equally weak
Dario G Sunchyme is dropped in. It
finishes with the excellent
Chemicals Brothers' Block Rockin'
Beats.
Overall these CDs give a com-
prehensive review of the current
'club scene' from cheesey chart
toppers to underground classics. I
preferred the Oakenfold CD due to
it being more of a journey and no
cheese fillers. The Warren CD
would have been so much better if
he had left out the commercial
stuff, because the change of styles
from break beat to house was quite
superb. But I prefer my music hard-
er and on the more underground
tip. These CD's seem to be aimed
at a broader audience, not one for
the hardcore. ITTcl
MP
CLUBSCENE - SINGLES
Big Bud - Rafiki / Memories k k k k
(Creative Source 015)
I could not decide which of these tracks was the
A-side due to them both being equally strong
tracks. Keeping with Creative Source's intelli-
gent more musical stepping style of D&B, but
with a definite air of originality. Memories starts
off with a stepping break beat, then rolls in with
strong atmosphericals and ab-line. Rafiki is in
much the same style with very deep and haunt-
ing feel with echoing beats. Top quality produc-
tion as you would expect. If anyone thinks D&B
is not a form of music, just samples and big b-
lines they should give this a listen and they
might learn something.
D.J Suv - free beat EP (double vinyl) k k k k
(Full Cycle Rec)
D.J Suv, the least known of the Full Cycle col-
lective, offers us a 4 track EP for his debut solo
project. And what a way to start - if he keeps
going like this he won't be the least known for
long. All four tracks are absolutely firing, pack
full of fresh ideas and originality with that dis-
tinctive Full Cycle feel. Fat b-lines, stepping
beats 'n' breaks, clever arrangements, dark
samples and excellent use of a piecing piano
tone in 'Output'. Everything you would expect
from this label , still leading the way after many
years at the front. Setting a trend that so many
other's will follow. MP
LA Synthesis - Harmonic Disassembly
Universal Language - Released 01/12/97
Harmonic Disassembly is the trio's first release
for the famous Universal Language label (also
home to the very funky Jedi Knights). The title
track is an awesome trip into old skool electro;
complete with authentic robotic voices, funky
rhythms and a vibrant string section. Skyline is a
straight 4/4 effort, blending technology with
deep harmonies. This falls into the groovy deep
house catagory. Look out for this EP!
Honesty - Weitzeituhr
Sonic Icons - Out now
German electronic music continues to soar to
new heights. This 10" EP on a new Berlin label is
best classed as completely freestyle; juggling
moody ambient synth melodies with unconven-
tional rhythm patterns and extremely funky
basslines. Da Doub lies somewhere between
electro and and jazz. Acapulco Gold would glide
effortlessly into the midst of any Detroit techno
set. Both mixes of Cote d'lvoire are examples of
cutting-edge dance music with a groove.
Computers ain't funky? Don't believe it!
Alick
Full Intention - (I love) America. Remixes
k k k
(Stress Rec.)
Stress have re-issued the 96' classic America
with a shed load of new remixes, from the likes
of Sharp, Gant, Todd Terry, Jean &. Peran, UBQ
&. Jason Nevins. So there should be something
for everyone here from gay disco style mixes to
the fat 'speed garage' mix of Gant and a more
banging mix by Sharp. These are all top quality
tracks in there own right and very different from
each other, except for the title sample which is
the only thing that lets these tunes down. It
becomes a bit annoying after a while, well it did
for me after repeated listening of all eight re-
mixes. But the strength of the re-mixes, makes
it a useful addition to any record collection. A
nice diverse selection of mixes from some of
the best re-mixers in the business. Worth a lis-
ten.
Lucid - / Can't Help Myself kkk
(Delirous)
This is Lucid's debut single and it's not bad at
all. There's four mixes to choose from, all have
that hard house feel to them in varying degrees.
With driven beats and b-line, with those dreamy
title vocals from Clare Canty in a folk style.
There's nothing particualy special about this
track, but there's also nothing wrong with it.

