etters
'4 X
• I ,?r,fr
Disgraceful AGM
Oc((/' Judith.
I'm not the type of person that normally writes letters,
let alone complaining ones, but after today's AGM I feel
forced to put pen to paper.
After witnessing the disgraceful behaviour of Union
members both off and on the platform, I wasn't the least
surprised that St Mary's have decided to call off further
negotiation with ICU. Surely the reason for having
somebody in the chair at these meetings is that they can
decide who is going to speak and when they speak, so
that the meeting doesn't become a free for all. This isn't
to be taken as a comment about the Chairman, who
appeared to be doing his best to keep order, but about
those people who don't realise this and whenever they
heard something they disagreed with felt forced to
immediately shout out their response without waiting for
the speaker to finish. As I recall, our Union supports
freedom of speech, which I have always understood to
mean that everybody has the right to speak without
interruption (time permitting), whether other people agree
with what they are saying or not; after today's meeting
it appears to me that some people think that freedom of
speech relies upon the ability to shout down anybody with
different opinions or beliefs to your own. I think that
history has shown that the latter version can frequently
lead to confrontation and violence; and where possible
should not be used for the discussion of important matters.
How can we expect to hold our Union meetings in this
manner, and not put students off of attending them?
1 have deliberately avoided writing about the issues
which caused the furor (ie the Union Bar and Snack Bar)
as I believe that they should be discussed at an organised
question and answer session with all those involved and
interested present, and perhaps a bit of patience from all
those who have questions to ask or points to make. Who
knows, maybe if we can do this successfully and show
that our house is in order St Mary's will consider re-
opening negotiations?
/ remain, etc:
Eddie Kiernan MRE1.
True or false?
Dear Judith,
I hope you enjoyed 'Feeliks'. I apologise for the few
copies which went out anonymously (under 100) but when
the original was printed it was intended as a private joke
with a small circulation. After we made the decision to
produce a large number of copies I agreed to put my name
to the document.
'Feeliks' was produced to highlight the poor quality of
news reporting in FELIX over the past few weeks,
especially when referring to Union matters. You have left
yourself wide open to accusations of bias and selective
inaccuracy and have no real defence. Your consistent
badmouthing of the Union President in supposedly
accurate, objective and impartial news reporting is
indefensible.
In last week's leading story you expressed clear opinions
over the attack on yourself by Neil McCluskey and Nigel
Baker whilst purporting to cover the A G M as news. It
is a matter in dispute as to whether the meeting could direct
you what to do and expressing an argument in favour of
your side during a news story is a clear breach of your
job description. The editorial is the place for opinions.
There again, does anyone take your editorials seriously
anymore?
IC Union is your employer. A general meeting of ICU
is recognised as the authoritative voice of the Union until
such time as its quorum (that is, how representative of
the students the meeting is) is challenged. This you chose
not to do. so you implicitly recognised the A G M at that
time as the voice of your employers. Surely an employee
cannot ignore a mandate from their employer which in
this case did not interfere with Pub Board's beloved
concept of editorial freedom.
Dear Judith, please, whatever lies, breaches of
confidence, one-sided rants and anything else you may
choose to put within the pages of our beloved newspaper,
please keep your news reporting fair, unbiased and free
of opinion. Otherwise surely all the Union's confidence
in its employee may be lost forever. I am quite willing
to go to the expense and hassle of producing 'Feeliks' if
I feel there is need.
Yours sincerely,
Neil Motteram, ICU External Affairs Officer,
Editor of Eeeliks'
It must have taken you so much time and effort to
produce 'Feeliks'! I'm sure that all those students really
appreciated it. Just for your information, I chose not
to misuse the call of Quorum. Perhaps I will in the
future...
The only fan letter
Dear Miss Hackney,
Before you come to the end of your term as FELIX
Editor, I would like to compliment you on the standard
achieved while you have been in the chair. I have read
FELIX since the first issue (with some gaps), and have
seen it go steadily downhill until during some of the last
few years it was something of which university students
ought to be ashamed. But during your tenure I have noticed
a big change for the better, in both content and presentation
(the number of spelling mistakes and other evidences of
limited literacy has been reduced).
I hope FELIX will always be a vehicle for independent
but responsible reporting and comment; but it can be that
without being scurrilous, obscene or illiterate, and I think
that you have done a good job.
Best wishes for your future,
Yours sincerely,
Alan Swanson.
Correction
Dear Judith,
I wish to correct any misconception which may have
arisen from the paragraph in 'Blackmail', Friday 20th
May. concerning responsibility for the reorganisation of
the Union.
The facts are:
Mr Harbour-Bridge initiated and drew up the 'White
Paper' referred to and only subsequently was I involved.
Yours sincerely,
Jen Hardy-Smith, Union Administrator.
S
m
a
l
l Ads
A N N O U N C E M E N T S
• Environmental Soc is looking for a
keen and active leader for next year.
We have a good list of contacts already
so get in contact with R J Heap, Life
Sci pigeonholes.
• FREE IDC ribbon cable, in lengths
10cm to 2m. Contact STOIC (int 3518)
or Al Birch (int 3624).
• Wanted for Hall of Residence: Your
redundant or faulty computer VDUs.
Will collect. Contact Al Birch (int 3624).
• Biochem Bookstall —Biochem Soc are
starting a bookstall. Calling all 3rd and
2nd years we want books you want to
sell! Contact Nick Steele, Biochem
pigeonholes.
A C C O M M O D A T I O N
• Accommodation required from June
30th. Walking distance fo College.
Single room preferred. Contact Pippa
Salmon c/o FELIX Office.
FOR SALE A N D WANTED
• For sale: Creek Cas 4040 amp £85,
Rega Planar 2 with Goldring G1010
£100, B&W DM110 speakers £75,
Heybrook HBS1 speaker stands £30. All
in good condition contact Martin Doble,
Elec Eng 3, 741 5661.
• Wanted: Thai speaker for help
learning Thai for summer holiday.
Contact Verity ex 4519 or 785 2872
evenings.
PERSONAL
• Shoe number in May 2, 1986 ad
will confirm that it could only be by me
Zev-Green Jacket. Pentax ME Super
B3976260 L1152185. Included in the
10000 —see my ad this Gatwick News,
May 28 1988 were Thatcher and
British Royal Family with Oldfield in
March 1981. F E L I X - M a y 23, 1988.
• Who is the Phantom Soaker of Beit
Hall?
• Ann doesn't accept credit cards, only
cash (no word to the tax man).
• Is there a CD player in NH90?
• M y ads in FELIX, Newspaper of
Imperial College Union London, May 2,
1986, page 5, will later be falsely
claimed by my future double 'Blue
Jacket' and subverted for demonic
purposes by the Special Mideast Envoy.
Zev—Green Jacket —NYS Drivers
License B18556 50264 083987 29
former address Vigilant Hotel —Pentax
ME Super B3976260 L1152185-FELIX,
May 27, 1988.
• For massages and other specialists
contact Chas B on the telephone
number as advertised in the Albert Hall
phone box.
• M y apologies for my mistake in the
small-ad last week. It should not have
read NH90, but NH96 which is my
room. From Chas B.
• To Chas Mars Bar B—it's my secret
as to how I manage to fortify my door
to prevent your amourous advances
with dolly.
• I Kevin Humphries, NH72, would in
future like to be referred to simply as
10 Friday May 27th 1988 FELIX

