IP
etters
'Egg-Head'.
• Mike, NH1, has it ever occurred to
you to tidy up the s**t you leave in
the kitchen?
• Chas, does the DP's job description
mention kinky massage or are you
using some initiative.
• P M — y o u hold the next and I'll shoot
in eight mils.
• Brian—why do you keep that brush
in your pocket? From a concerned
staircase.
• The only 'Defening' thing, was the
roar as the pool 'Chumpion' lost. 34
Mad Gardeners.
• Q: What's a Kenyan's favourite
breakfast food?
• A: Peaches-and-cream-a-waffle! 34
Mad Gardeners.
• Come t o the five star Garden Hall
Hotel, for your own choice of weather
and scenery. Glorious sunshine outside,
waterfalls in the second floor
kitchen
and arctic showers in the bathrooms.
34 Mad Gardeners.
• To Her I'll pop in and see you later,
love Him.
• SK, if you and the Boys want
another hand or favour scratch my back
and I'll...enjoy it! SL.
• Good luck to the train spotters
appreciation club next week. From the
2.21 from East Croydon.
• Bedsoc announces: Friday night was
good but Saturday morning was better.
• Bedsoc do not appreciate fire alarms.
• Don't unscrew you leg for Bedsoc.
• The Beach Boys are in Bed —soc.
Good vibrations.
• Get Physic-al in Bed-soc.
• Wickets and stumps: Four-play for
Bedsoc.
• Bedsoc prefers the solid state.
• NH2W—the married wing!
• Q: What have Neil Motteram, Neil
McCluskey and Ian Howgate's
Haemmerhoids all got in common?
• A: None of them can drive a tractor.
• LOST—large quantity of pubic hair. If
found please return to Neil Motteram
c/o Randomsoc.
• Coming this Monday and Wednesday
is the even better 'Fast Trousers Show'.
• Why has Pressy-boy gone home?
• Because he can w * * k better there
than at home.
• Introducing Spenser Lane —Mr
Awesome himself.
• Introducing Neil Press —Mr Awful
himself.
• So tune in to 999kHz medium wave
at 8am on Monday and 1pm on
Wednesday.
• I didn't want to say this—The Rector.
• Who knows Helen from Chem Eng
1.
• Coming soon—The Philippa Rowe
Show.
• M r Ents—do I detect a note of
sarcasm in that smile?
• Thinking of failing your exams? Join
Dropout Soc. FELIX.
Letter to the floozie
Dear Shan the Man,
Glad to see that you've finally put pen to paper and
actually put your name to it. Makes a change from the
usual anonymous contributions. It is however a pity to
see that you still view fiction as fact and facts as lies. If
you wish to quote from Council either wait until the
minutes are produced or record the meeting on tape. Do
bear in mind though that sound recorded evidence is not
admissible in court.
In your letter you hold Sydney personally responsible
for a number of motions being passed at the meeting. May
I remind you that there are nearly fifty members of
Council, of which over thirty were present at the meeting,
all of whom have individual votes. Can Sydney really be
personally responsible for the way in which these people
vote?
You accuse Sydney of 'orchestrating' Council. As far
as I am aware Sydney did not threaten any members of
Council, he did not bribe any members of Council, nor
did he blackmail any members of Council. What he may
have used is something called charisma, that, combined
with enthusiasm may have persuaded people to see the
logic in his arguments. Any person tabling any motion
at any meeting tries their hardest to persuade the other
members at the meeting to pass that motion. What I think
you hold against Sydney is that so often he succeeds. Can
I detect a little envy of Sydney being able to do this where
you can't?
Yours,
Neil McCluskey, Sydney's Side-kick.
PS. What is better Sydney's Side-kick or Judith's
Floozie?
False or true?
Dear Judith,
I read with interest Paul Shanley's letter in FELIX 803
and am pleased to see that FELIX workers such as Paul
are continuing to uphold the principles of true and accurate
representation of the facts in their letters as well as in the
paper in general. However. I do feel that it is necessary
to bring some points to your attention where Paul's
habitual high journalistic standards seem to have slipped
a bit.
Item 1: The referral back of the Pub Board colours and
the whole issue of Pub Board colours, was not brought
up by Syd H-B (ne Howgate) but by myself. The issue
of the content of FELIX did not even enter my
consideration, but merely the fact that the award of so
many colours within a small body (such as Pub Board)
is degrading the value of IC Social Colours for everybody.
Item 2: The addition of preparation of Council/UGM
papers to the duties of the appropriate chairman was
necessary since nobody was responsible for these essential
duties as the job descriptions then stood. As for a job
description changing after election, that is one of the risks
of office.
Item 3: While Mr Shanley would like to imply that only
a select few people he dislikes made all these supposedly
flawed decisions, he should remember that both the above
items, and that of Mr Tyler's social colours were taken
by majority vote by the whole of Council. Unlike FELIX,
Council is still democratic. It should be noted that Dave
will still receive IC social colours this year via his award
of a Guilds UGA.
To close this part of my letter, I believe Mr Shanley
has deceived the populace of IC by this misrepresentation
and distortion of the facts.
One other matter raised by FELIX 803 I feel needs
comment. It is suggested in a news article that a UGM
has no 'practical power over the FELIX Editor' other than
dismissal. This matter is contentious and the above
statement is a matter of opinion rather than a factual
statement. News articles are not the place for the statement
of editorial opinion. It is my belief that the part of the
FELIX Editor's Job Description stating that they are
'Responsible to the UGM for...' means that a UGM can
ask for reports from the Editor. Whether this is the case
or not. I believe that someone who spends of the order
of £10,000 of our money, and has their salary paid by
us is honour bound to tell us how that money has been
spent. While I support the principle of editorial freedom
so dear to the hearts of Judith. Paul and all the other
FELIX hacks, I also support the principle of editorial
responsibility, and there has been precious little
responsibility in FELIX this year, as many of the items
in Blackmail, for example, prove.
I hope that the spirit of FELIX that has prevailed this
year does indeed die with the arrival of next year's editorial
team.
Yours sincerely,
Dave Clements, SCC Chairman 87-88.
Item 1: As far as all of us remember, it was Mr
Harbour-Bridge who brought the subject of Pub Board
colours up and it was he who made the formal proposal
that they should be referred back. Point of
information—Mr Harbour-Bridge was present at the
Publications Board meeting the week before when
Chris Martin announced how many colours had been
awarded and he made no complaint. It was only when
he saw who had been awarded the colours that he
objected to them.
As far as the rest of your points regarding FELIX,
please read my editorial.
Second class?
Dear Judith,
As ex-residents of Rayleigh House, we've suffered
considerable inconvenience from visiting estate agents and
having to move in the middle of the year. Not only this,
but our new accommodation is very inferior and more
expensive.
The final straw came when we received our new bills
(May 16th) which overcharged us by £ 7 0 and also
demanded a second key deposit, though our original
deposit has yet to be returned to us. We went to the
Accommodation Office to point out their £120 mistake
and were treated as if the offence were ours. Having been
given only two days to pay this bill, we inquired what
would happen to people from Rayleigh who had not
received bills. The aggressive reply was that we all had
received our bills on May 9th (not true).
The impression we got was that mentioning Rayleigh
House opened up an old wound. We are sick of being
treated like second class citizens, after all, it's College
Accommodation that's making mistakes, NOT US!
Annette McGrath and Lara Sherwin.
L
FELIX Friday May 27th 1988 11

