• STUDENTS VISITING the IC
Union Office on Tuesday witnessed
an astonishing scene during the lunch
hour. A little bird had informed the
President that DP Alan Rose had not
been in the Office recently because he
was working for a computing firm.
The treacherous bird also gave him
the name of the company. The
President, eager to see if the story was
true, looked up the telephone number,
rang it and asked to speak to Mr Rose.
When Alan finally came to the
'phone, the President slammed it
down and was seen pacing around the
office for several minutes claiming
that he was going to kill the absent
DP when he next saw him. FELIX
would like to see him try it. We're
certainly not taking any bets on the
outcome of the encounter. BIFF!
SPLAT! WOLLOP!
• MAN OF THE MOMENT and
FELIX Editor's floozie Paul 'I'm on
the wagon—honest' Shanley
embarrassed himself severely earlier
this week. After a couple of drinks
(well too many, actually), Mr
Shanley, having lost his door keys,
blacked out and ended up on a
friend's sofa for the night. The next
morning he became distraught when
he thought that he had not only
mislaid his keys but also his contact
lenses. His anxious friend, concerned
that Mr Shanley would have to wear
his glasses (ugh!), rang around
College to find out where the lenses
could be.
The lenses were eventually
found—in Mr Shanley's eyes!
• HOLBEIN HOUSE'S least
favourite heartthrob, Yishu Nanda,
has been living up to his reputation
as 'Yishu the Octopus' again this
week. Having continually pestered
Sunny Bains for a night of naughtiness
and being turned down, he resorted
to an alternative approach. The
lecherous Mr Nanda was last seen
chasing Ms Bains around the JCR
threatening to bare his hairy chest.
•QUOTE OF THE WEEK: comes
from Alan Hepper, Guilds Hon Sec.
On witnessing an argument between
last year's FELIX Editor David Jones
and reformed alcoholic Paul Shanley,
Mr Hepper remarked: 'It's a battle of
the the wit and the half-wit'.
biacKMAiL
Information required on the following topics:
• Why was last Thursday's A G M held in the Union Concert Hall
where, if the meeting had been quorate, fire regulations would have
been broken?
• ICU DP-elect Chas Brereton has moved into present DP Alan Rose's
room in 96 Beit Hall following Mr Rose's departure. Mr Brereton is
paying the full whack for his hall bill. However, the phone in the room
is still fully operational. Who is footing the bill for all Mr Brereton's
personal phone calls? On the subject, why has Mr Brereton moved
into the room, when Mr Rose is still the official occupant?
• Neil McCluskey, our illustrious RCC Chairman, has given out details
of where to contact ICU Deputy President Alan Rose should students
need him. It seems to me that other officers may be needed at all
sorts of times. Should the need arise to speak to Mr Harbour-Bridge
or Mr Brereton, then their respective numbers are 3511 and 3512.
Don't hesitate to ring these officers should you wake up at, say, four
o'clock in the morning, with something on your mind. I just hope no
one abuses this information...
• Everyone is dying to get into Blackmail these days. One notable
has even agreed to give Delator details of his crude sexual practices.
Tough luck, Mr B, I'm not printing!
Last week's Blackmail
1) The Phantom Soaker has paid his five pounds.
2) Slight problem here. I had intended to publish details of some
confidential items discussed at the last Council meeting. However,
Mr Harbour-Birdge threatened Delator with legal action if I went
ahead. I should point out, though, that any student can ask for
minutes of any Union meeting. Therefore, if you want to read some
fop secret documents, go up to the Union Office and ask for the
minutes of Imperial College Union Council, May 16th 1988.
3) It was ICU Hon Sec Chas Jackson according to my source. If
this isn't true, then perhaps Mr Jackson should have a quiet word
with Mr Alan Hepper who provided him with the information.
This week's Blackmail:
1) Which Union Officer said, in the Union Office, on Tuesday 2nd
February of this year; T d love to meet students, but I don't get
the time'.
2) Delator has received a letter from 'The Phantom Filofax Thief.
Enclosed was a page from a College notable's diary. Three of the
entries are of particular interest:
Thursday 17th March: Amazing two hour session involving Jacqui
and bar of Galaxy.
Monday 21st March: 6 month anniversary. Celebrated with
amazing f*ck with Jacqui. She was amazing—lasted twenty
minutes.
Friday 25th March: Made it five times with Jacqui.
These comments are all in 'Jacqui's' writing! A fiver each from
'Jacqui' and Mr Filofax or I reveal names.
Delator
PS. Don't let the dirt dry up.
I
_
i t
>
e
l
• NEWS REACHES my ears of an
interesting wager. ICU President
Sydney Harbour-Bridge bet College
Chief Security Officer Geoff Reeves
an undisclosed amount. Mr Harbour-
Bridge claimed that he could get his
hand on an R37 within four days. For
the uninitiated, an R37 is a master key
that gains entry to most of the
Sherfield Building and Beit Hall.
After three days with no success, Mr
Harbour-Bridge got desperate. He
approached an acquaintance of his and
asked to borrow his R37. 'Of course,'
said the acquaintance, 'what do you
want it for?'. 'Oh,' came the reply,
T had a bet with Geoff Reeves'.
'F*ck off,' said the acquaintance.
The following letter was received in
the FELIX Office this week:
It was sad to note that, on your
'Blackmail' page in the last two issues
of FELIX, some accusations of
alleged activities of mine whilst at
school. I was, at first, confused as to
where these allegations could have
originated. I then remembered, that
in my second year at school, it was
alleged by one of my classmates (to
the rest of my English class) that I had
cut off a few pubic hairs privately
during a lesson. (A typical childish
joke). I also remembered that Mr
Andrew B Thompson, once of that
class but no friend of mind, is now
a first year Maths student and Bean's
Club minion.
I ask you to note that, following the
publishing of the allegations, I have
received a tasteless slur stuck upon
my pigeonhole in the Union Office.
These allegations, even if they did
originate with Mr Thompson, are
wholly untrue, damaging, and
literally libellous. May I ask for you
to publish a public apology to myself
and a withdrawal of the above-
mentioned allegations and suggest that
your informants/columnists make
some form of public donation to Rag
as reccompense. Otherwise I feel that
I may have to take legal advice on the
matter.
I sincerely hope I do not have to
take the matter further, be it a formal
complaint to ICU Publications Board
or to a higher body.
Yours sincerely,
Neil Motteram.
We are terribly sorry for having
allegedly libelled you Neil, old boy.
Please take our unreserved apologies
but our alleged source claims that it's
all allegedly true. We are currently
trying to find other members of that
English class to hear their alleged
versions of the story.
Chris Jones.
FELIX Friday May 27th 1988 5

