Don't miss out on this invaluable experience: you may think that three or four years is a long time
will soon be gone. Start now, today, this weekend.
The British Museum
Born by a Parliamentary act of 1753 its origins and
founding material were incepted by the library and
collections of Sir Hans Sloane. His collections,
bequeathed to the nation, were soon joined by the
subsequent acquisition of the Cottanian, Harleian and
other libraries, forming a nucleus housed in Montague
House by 1759. Rapid expansion ensued in this great
institution and led to the construction of the present
buildings, designed by Sir Robert Smirke, who also has
the Covent Garden Theatre to his name.
Its exhibits are often colossal and this matches the
external fabric of contruction in its Doric style, most
magnificently exemplified in the Parthenon in Athens.
In itself the building is a collection of architectural
ideas, opinions and practicality, consuming the
passion of a multitude of designers over the course
of two and a half centuries. Their own input was
directed as much by personal imagination as by public
opinion and practicality of use.
To many, the idea of a museum conjures up the
excitement of stalking slugs from one end of a garden
path to the other, and indeed as a child not only my
feet complained bitterly of pain and boredom.
However, this background history was surmounted by
a recent visit to the British Museum after a lapse of
some twelve years.
Britain's largest classical building has acted as the
root and parent of many institutions in the course of
its life. The best known to you all is the Natural History
Museum down the road which transferred to South
Kensington in 1881. The British Library also began at
Montague House and has now resided on an adjoining
site since 1971. The Library, which receives a copy
of every publication in the UK (even FELIX), illustrates
the problem of collecting in such magnitude. Although
its collection of provincial and London newspapers is
housed in Colindale, it requires over three miles of new
shelving each year and the demand for space is
accelerating. A new library is planned in the Kings
Cross area with 60ft of subterranian floors before
heading skyward.
The British Museum, through its numerous
collections of ancient, medaeival and modern objects,
not only charts the broader aspects of world history
but, integrally with it, the personal history of its
collectors, contributors, patrons and public in modern
times. For example the Library's Round Room has
played host to Karl Marx, the Kings Library to
Macaulay, and Keats found inspiration in
contemplating the Elgin Marbles.
The concept of the museum dates back beyond the
times of the Ancient Greeks, Egyptian Pharoahs and
Roman conquerors, although these people began to
put them into a public perspective. Between them
they represent three differing aims and ideas. The
Greek 'mouseion' had grown out of the shrine of the
muses, the Nine Muses being high ranking daughters
of Seus and Mnemosyne-the goddess of memory.
Initially the shrines were repositories of gifts, then
temples of art and finally a collection house of the
ingenuity of man. Their climax, as seen in Belenistic
times, saw two rivals: Eumenes II and Pergamon and
Ptolemy Philadelphus at Alexandria, whose collections
illustrated a fine composite structure. Here were
libraries, collections of paintings and sculpture residing
with colleges for scholars, including critics and poets.
Their 'mouseians' had become centres of knowledge
and inspiration summed up by the Greek
'encyclopedia'-a complete circle of learning. Roman
museums never equalled their Greek counterparts in
terms of quality but easily surpassed them by sheer
quantity gathered during their plundering of
continents. At first, museums were akin to private
libraries and as Seneca, a Roman philosopher and
tutor to Nero, once commented, they had become as
fashionable as a private bath. Roman civic pride
showed itself admirable and provided suitable cultural
impetus that caused many museums and libraries to
become turned over to public use. The Egyptian ideals
of Rameses II are eloquently expressed in an
inscription over the doorway of his library at Thebes.
The legend reads: 'a place of healing for the soul.'
It is from these examples that the British Museum
draws its life blood. The libraries of learning, the
massive collection of civic memory and artefacts and
the divine feeling of satisfaction experienced by
today's visitor or pupil. Despite grand, cavernous
rooms in simple stone hues and the stillness of
exhibits this place is warm and inviting. An
atmosphere able and willing to allow eager hearts and
minds to imbibe the pleasures of fine arts and crafts
from a massive slice of history.
Snorting horses and warriors clash with titanic
beasts in intricate freases. Glorious statues and
sculptures which once stood proud stand again, with
a little help, exhibiting their artists' grace and the
models' courage and dynamism. Egyptian gods look
upon you in animal-man amalgamation. And the
middle-class life and finery of Trojans and Hadrian's
Roman Britain is played out before you.
It is truly inspirational and leaves you on a high. The
only sad note is that despite this great effort many
artefacts lie in grave-like state, rotting for lack of
money and time for preservation. Don't miss out on
this invaluable experience: you may think that three
or four years is a long time but it will soon be gone.
Start now, today, this weekend.
The British Museum is open Monday to Saturday
10.00am to 5.00pm and Sunday 2.30pm to 6.00pm.
Admission is free and disabled visitors are well catered
for, as are the hungry and the thirsty ones in the
comfy cafe!
It is on Great Russel Street and the nearest tubes
are Russel Square and Tottenham Court Road.
Telephone 01-636 1555.
Page 10

