Soar away with hang gliding
Ever fancied soaring free as a bird, 1,000 feet over
the sea with the white cliffs of Beachy Head looming
large and jagged only a few hundred feet to your side?
Just as you start to think 'Oh shit, I'm not going to
make it back to the top', the lift increases and once
more the cliff top comes into view. By the time you
are back on the ground (having misjudged and
overshot your planned landing site twice). The knees
are definitely a little weaker than when you took off.
This was how I fell on one of my first soaring flights
last year. The the adrenalin rush started to subside.
I was definitely glad I had taken the sport up on
coming to IC 18 months previously. Nothing else
takes you so close to the edge-it's even more
exhilarating than sharing a jaccuzi with Patsy Kensit
(or Mel Gibson if he's your sort). For sheer thrill value
hang gliding can't be beaten.
If you think you can handle it, then drop a note in
my pigeonhole, or better still come and meet the club,
we'll be in Southside Upper Lounge each Friday from
12.30 to 1.30pm.
The cost to obtain your licence is approximately
£100, but after that it's all free-just you and the
elements. Happy flying.
Mike Tarry, Aero 3, 352 4007.
The first stage of our summer tour took us to the
health resort of Font-Romeo, high in the French
Pyrennees. The competition took place on five
consecutive mornings in different areas of the
countryside and amidst stunning mountain scenery.
For those who don't know; orienteering consists of
using a map to find markers dotted about the
landscape, and doing so as quickly as possible.
Usually we do this around London parks, so these
rocky mountains were quite a challenge. Nevertheless
we had some good performances: Dave Knight was
well placed on perhaps the toughest day, and William
Power was fastest Brit overall in 11th place.
The afternoons were free for recovering,
sightseeing and socialising, and we have never been
Yachting is
The Yacht Club is back in operation. Two years ago,
after many years of successful operation, the Yacht
Club was defrauded out of about £2,000. The man
the club found to take them sailing decided to go
sailing himself after being paid, and the money was
finally recovered after legal action from the Union.
Due to this the club's activities stopped for that
year. Most of the activity within the club last year was
tied up with preparations for this year. And now we
are back with a vengeance.
We have two boats going out on the weekend of
the 20th October. One of them is skippered by our
resident instructor, who will be able to run courses
for us, so the opportunity of getting a Royal Yachting
Association (RYA) crew and RYA day skipper
certificate, at about two thirds the commerical cost,
is here! We also hope to run a week's trip at Easter
to get across to France and the Channel Islands-the
Page 12
to a better staged event. There was a wonderfully
international atmosphere and we met teams from
across the whole of Europe. We even challenged the
superfit Scandinavians to a football match—with
predictable results!!
The next event was the Swiss 6-days, the first 3
days of competition were held near Lousanne, often
in torrential rain. The next 3 days were near Lugano
on the Italian border, we eventually arrived there
despite some abysmal navigation and some stunning
sights. The courses took place in sweltering heat on
very hilly slopes. Everyone enjoyed themselves and
we would like to thank Matt Lynas and Claire
Hargreaves for organising this very successful tour.
back
French restaurants and duty free make it a very
worthwhile trip. Over the summer we hope to go for
two weeks and get as far as Brittany.
For the racing enthusiasts, the Royal Ocean Racing
Club season starts in May and we will be looking
forward to entering one or two races. Unfortunately
the Fastnet is not on this year, but we can start to
build up to it.
For those of you who have expressed an interest,
or for those of you who haven't, watch out for
information on our noticeboard along the walkway by
the JCR as we will take membership at any meeting
and we should have another boat or two out in three
or four weeks time.
It's good to be back and we are hoping for great
support-you need no experience to join. See you
soon.
Swimming
Are you one of a handful of the freshers who signed
up for the College Swimming Club and haven't given
it a try yet? If you are, you are not alone. Over 150
people showed an interest in the Club this year and
yet only a fraction have taken a Monday or Friday
evening off to come and join in with one of the most
social clubs at IC. So far we've had no
disappointments.
Those who do have the get-up-and-go to show up
for training have a great time and get fit into the
bargain. People leave the sessions feeling good.
Not only that, but they also stand a chance of going
to the club tour next July.. .We hope to go to the South
of France or perhaps even closer to the equator.
So, if you've passed on the Swimming Club,
perhaps now is the time for a rethink. You'll only need
to turn up once to find out what you're missing.
See the 'What's On' columns for the next club
session.
Snooker
Congratulations to Abdul Khan, the winner of this
year's freshers' tournament. He beat Roger Attril in
a thrilling final by 2-0. Anyone who is interested in
joining the Snooker Club can come up to the top floor
of the Union Building at lunchtime when committee
members will be available to register your
membership. One year membership costs £4 and
there is no additional charges for booking. Finally, any
budding champion out there who fancies his chance
is invited to enter the November Open; the entry fee
is £2 with cash prizes for the finalists and a trophy
for the winner. The tournament will begin on Monday
6th November and the deadline for entry is Friday 3rd
November.

