Of course you won't havetimeto play games if loans come in
Rugby I
IC 1st XV-62 UCL1stXV-4
'IC kicked-off the new season with impressive wins
over our adversaries UCL. What is normally a tough,
evenly matched battle, this encounter left UCL
wondering, what worth it would be continuing the
season?
Both teams began shakily, but IC moved away with
tries by Simon Bicknell and Rich Walters. Confidence
growing, the IC lads began throwing the ball about.
Further tries were scored by frenchi JF and the
physical Henry Faj. Mike Anderson kicked two
conversions to put IC twenty points up at half time.
The second half turned out to be a bit of a walkover
for IC. UCL managed some respectability on scoring
a well worked try. However the IC machine rumbled
on, to give more of a cricket score at the final whistle.
Rugby II
IC 2nd XV-39 UCL 2nd XV-0
IC 2nds also proved to be superior in their match.
Storming away to a convincing win over UCL.
Notable performances were put in by stand-off
Andy Fleming and wing Matt Hales, each scoring
three tries. Freshers Tony Bull and Tintin each scored
a try. Tintin also dropped a goal and kicked two fine
conversions.
It .
X-Country
The first event of the new season saw IC men's team
win a bronze medal at the annual Oxford Poly Relay
Race. Over 1.78 miles of undulating country, Captain
Alex Gaskell once again performed first-leg heroics by
coming home in second place (9.14). Second man Bill
Skailes, running with flu, turned in 9.35 to hand over
fifth. Eric Myrvang brought us up to third with 10.02
and anchorman Dave Knight completed this good
team performance by consolidating third position with
9.31.
Now a member of staff, John Rowland DIC was
unable to run for the A team, but his time of 9.26 may
well have been a veteran's course record.
Our ladies team did not figure amongst the medals,
but a good time was had by all, Christy Sinclair
running 13.14 and Helen Macintosh 12.34. Helen will
soon be heading for Japan to represent UL in the
Ediden Relay.
Football
winners
IC Ists—3 Kings College-0
IC unveiled a new generation of stars for their opening
match against Kings and the new boys demonstrated
a ferocious determination to keep the ULU Premiership
where it belongs, in the trophy cabinet at Harlington.
Kings were simply outclassed in every department.
Adam Thomas opened the scoring just before half
time with a deftly placed shot. A superlative strike
from Felix Francis and a scrambled effort from the
ever-battling Mike Patton in the second half secured
the points, despite the fact that IC had been reduced
to ten men by the loss of skipper Pip Peel with a knee
injury.
On this form, IC are once again a force to be
reckoned with this year.
More footy
IC It — (1)2 KCH l-(0)1
Neil Leonard, daring to go where no man has gone
before, clinched the game for a hard working IC side,
with a goal in each half.
Despite the difficult pitch, which was harder than
most of the tackling, IC deservedly came out on top;
many players showed useful skills.
Incidentally, KCH scored when D Copeland, who
otherwise had an excellent game, punched an
incorrectly awarded corner into his own net.
WITH A CAREER IN ICI -
THE SKY'S THE LIMIT
With the Stratoquest balloon developed by ICI, we proved the sky's the limit by achieving a world
record altitude of 65,000 feet.
We are constantly showing that there are no limits to what you can achieve if you are the best at
what you do.
We are looking for the best graduates to help us to keep breaking records.
So take advantage of the three visits we are making to Imperial College over the next few weeks.
The ICI Roadshow - a chance for an informal chat with people who have recently joined ICI.
Come any time between 12.30pm and 7.00pm on Tuesday 31st October 1989 at the Gloucester Hotel,
Ashburn Suite, Harrington Gardens, SW7 4LH.
The Careers Fair - look out for ICI's stand at the JCR on either 2nd or 3rd November between
9.30am and 4.30pm.
The ICI Interviewing Skills Seminar - a chance to learn about how to create the right
impression in an interview, lb be held at 5.30pm on 9th November at the Southside Suite Dining
Room. Get your ticket now from the Careers Service.

