The Delator Column
Lucky dip justice
by Paul Shanley
The Conservative Party Conference last week was
almost as dull as the Labour, SLD, and SDP ones in
the weeks before. From what I did see of it—and
luckily I missed Her speech-the only orator that
didn't threaten to place the listener in a sleep-inducing.
trance of Rip Van Winklesque magnitude was Douglas
Hurd.
The Tory Party as a whole, is a body of people I have
never held in very deep regard. As individuals, there
are some that stick out - if only for Margaret to chop
their necks off—but by and large they mostly
represent the True Blue ideal. This is an ideal that you
either defend staunchly or attack to the death. The
one senior minister who has cut through all party
barriers recently has been Douglas Hurd, no more so
than in his speech to conference at Blackpool.
Up until recently, the picture of the Home Secretary
that has sprung to mind has been that of Spitting
Image's quivering jelly complete with ice cream cone
haircut. Last Wednesday's speech will have left that
impression far behind.
Hurd's conference speech was both confident and
competent. In it he outlined plans for law and order
which members of all peaceful political groups must
surely agree with. The minister left the electorate in
no doubt that whatever else the government does, the
legal process will not be brushed to one side.
Blackpool was duly impressed and rewarded Hurd
with a standing ovation-a rare privilege for a Home
Secretary.
But does Hurd's address amount to mere rhetoric?
Is government policy getting through to the judges?
If last week's batch of sentencing is anything to go
by, it would appear not.
Amongst the punishments handed out last week
was one of such astounding stupidity that it would
. lead one to suspect that judges rely more on a lucky
dip than on the sentencing book they have in front of
them. On Wednesday, a man who fired at an 18-
month old baby from a tower block was found guilty
on two charges of causing actual bodily harm and one
of possessing a prohibited firearm. The gunman had
been released from custody on the morning of the
shooting after a nine-month spell for mugging an old
woman. On being arrested, he said "I did it for a
laugh". The man was freed by an Old Bailey judge.
An overhaul of the legal system is necessary if that
is what it will take to ensure that serious offenders
are not unleashed onto the community but are put
where they belong-behind bars. Until that happens,
until judges are educated, the words of the Home
Secretary, no matter how commendable they may be,
ring hollow.
Manchester United?
The story so far: Martin meets Michael in a pub. "Can
I buy you a drink, Michael?", says Martin. "Can I buy
your football team, Martin?", says Michael. "Have
you got any money, Michael?", says Martin. "No,
Martin", says Michael. "Okay, Michael, you talked
me into it. It's yours for £10m", says Martin.
The saga of Manchester United football club came
to a conclusion (hopefully) last week when Michael
Knighton withdrew his bid to buy the club in return
for a non-executive directorship of the board. The
whole sorry affair has been an unfortunate one. What
started out as a simple contract between two parties
has turned into a scandal that has tarred the good
name of Manchester United.
Knighton could have taken an easy option. It would
have been relatively easy to approach a merchant
bank and say "I've got the rights to buy a business
for £10m that's really worth closer to £15m. Lend me
the money to close the deal and I'll sell the business
and pay you a hefty commission". This he did not do.
That alone demonstrates either an incredible lack of
nous on his part or a deep affiliation to the club.
I think the latter is more likely. If the rumours are
Page 14
to be believed, Knighton approached numerous
businessman including Owen Oyston, Eddie Shah and
lan Maxwell (son of Bob), to help him out. This was
after his original financiers had pulled the plug on him.
It would appear that with this volume of dealing, he
had a general desire to retain the club after
purchase-not sell it for a fast buck.
The most astounding feature of the whole affair,
however, is that Knighton's credentials weren't
checked before the deal was reached. It has been
strongly hinted by the quality media that his total
wealth is less than £10m, let alone having this sum
as operating capital. Knighton isn't even registered
with Company House.
Most Manchester United fans must now be
regretting that Michael Knighton doesn't head the
boardroom at Old Trafford. Football has far too many
chairmen who run clubs for greed and their own self-
interest. Of course, clubs should be profit-making, but
they should also be there to provide a service to the
fans. Without their supporters, clubs would not exist.
That is a fact that far too many clubs choose to ignore.
Eau?
"There is nothing wrong with the quality of British tap
water. I drink it myself." - Environment Secretary,
Chris Patten last month. Seen at the Tory Party
conference last week - countless bottles of Malvern
Spring water lined up along the front table. This
week's quiz : Which minister in particular was seen
drinking it?
Apology
In last week's column, it was inadvertently stated that
the Union Administrator, Jen Hardy-Smith is 94.
Delator now acknowledges that this statement is
completely without foundation. Delator retracts the
statement unconditionally and accepts the fact that
it was no more than a cheap jibe by a two-bit journalist
seeking to get a quick laugh at someone else's'
expense. Delator wishes to apologise to Mrs Hardy-
Smith for any inconvenience this may have caused
her. Silly old bag.

