F e l i X
Letters
I have received a number of letters on the subject of
the Life Sciences Division. Unfortunately, these were
handed in too late for inclusion in this week's issue.
I shall print them all in next week's issue, whilst
refraining from comment now. FELIX welcomes
letters. This is your Newspaper; if you wish to vent
your opinion in the form of a letter or opinion article,
please drop something in to the FELIX Office. The
deadline for letters is Tuesday lunchtime, 1.30pm.
Loans again
A lot of people are probably going to complain that
I have biased this issue with an anti-loans stance. I
fully admit to this with no shame whatsoever. After
the pathetic turnout at Tuesday's EGM, I felt that it
was important to try and raise people's awareness on
this issue. The end-line of the loans issue is that every
student in London will be £20 worse off per week,
unless they are prepared to take out a hefty overdraft.
Already, students at Imperial have overdrafts hanging
around their necks; if the situation gets much worse,
students will not be able to study in London. If you
don't care about this, I have only one question to ask;
why did you come here?
If you do care, or you want to know more, please
go to the Union Office and find out some details.
Contrary to popular, but misinformed, opinion, the
Union is not the people in that Office, it is YOU. If
there is no opposition to loans from IC Union, it will
be your fault this year.
A sad point to note at this stage is the Rector's
opinion on the matter.'He feels that grants 'wholly
paid for by the State are no longer tenable.' I must
presume from this that he also means that Imperial
College is no longer tenable as a place of study.
Professor Ash represents us at the highest levels
within the education system, and he is selling us out.
This calls for a brief resume of what happened last
year, I think.
Last year, IC Union Hon Sec, Ian Morris, presented
a paper to the College's Governing Body, which
outlined the financial failings of the loans scheme
proposals. Governing Body decided to set up a
committee to look into the paper further. Professor
Ash was appointed as the person in charge of calling
this meeting. What a surprise that the paper was
never discussed then. How are we supposed to feel
when the man at the top refuses to even help in the
formulation of an opposition to loans? I'll tell you how
I feel; disgusted. At this rate, Imperial College will
disappear before Professor Ash has a chance to finish
his term in office. Oh well, I guess there will be some
mention in the Queen's Honours list one day, after
we're all gone. Thanks Eric.
Southside
I have begun to wonder who is in charge of what at
Imperial. I am rapidly coming to the conclusion that
the only thing that everybody is in charge of is
covering their own arse. Peter Hallworth changed his
story on the swapping of the Southside locks more
times than I care to mention. He ended up by blaming
the Southside housekeeper and temporary staff
employed during the Summer. This is not good
management. A good manager takes the rough end
of the stick and backs up the staff below him. Face
it Peter, you were in charge of these locks as
Managing Surveyor of Residences and there was an
almighty mix up and terrible breakdown in
communication. Blaming other staff and then saying
that you were very busy during the Summer is not
good enough. The Summer holiday should be your
slack period if you are actually looking after STUDENT
accommodation.
Happy Birthday
Happy birthday to our music editor, Neil Lavitt for
Wednesday. Buy him a drink if you know him and
forgot.
Credits
Many thanks to last week's collators including Richard
Vaughan, Christy White, Permi, Murray Williamson,
Tim Newton Smith, Martha Black, Cathy McClay,
Claire Kerry, Niall Davis, Liz Warren, Sydney H-B, Joe
Fernley, Ian Frith, Roy Masterton, Jason Lander, Steve
Meyfroidt and Rob Gimeno for the telly. A huge thanks
this week to Sez and Rhydian for the Cancer feature;
Chris Stapleton for the British Museum feature; Paul
Shanley; Neil Lavitt, Chris Leahy, Ben Gladwyn and
JC Graham for Music; Jason for Science; Jalisi,
Wendy and Liz for reviews; Dave Millard, Simon
Turner and all the teams for sport; Caveh, Stef and
Chris for pics; Pippa, Simon, Ian and Liz for pasting
up; Andy Waller for help in recruitment; Andy
Bannister for some sanity; Ramin for advertising; Stef
for doing the business; Rose and Andy for putting up
with me, and the anonymous sources, who shall
remain forever so.
FELIX is published by the editor for and on behalf of Imperial College Union
Publications Board and is printed by the Imperial College Union Print Unit,
Prince Consort Road, London, SW7 2BB (Tel. 01-589 5111 ext 35151.
Edrtor: Dave Smedley. Business Manager: Stef Smith. Advertising Manager:
Ramin Nakisa. Copyright FELIX 1989. ISSN 1040-0711
ULU TRAVEL
• L o w c o s t w o r l d w i d e flights • S p e c i a l fares for students
* Expert advice for independent travellers
• Tours, short breaks it s k i holidays * Group b o o k i n g s
* Over 70 offices w o r l d w i d e
<2#
From
ULU Travel
Sherfield Building
Imperial College
London SW7
STA T R A V E L
01-581 1022 Intercontinental
01-581 8233 European
IABTAI
79525
ULU TRAVEL
Council sketch
Since a picture speaks a thousand words, here
it is:
7/
15 Page

