Selkirk warden locked out of his own hall in College mess up
Southside students fobbed off
Dr John Hassard, the warden of Tizard and Selkirk
Halls, was unable to get into his own building last
Friday, after a mix-up over the installation of new
locks in Southside. Students and a security guard were
unable to enter when a fire alarm went off, and the
fire brigade also had trouble when they were called.
Professor New, Warden of Falmouth Keogh Hall
explained that the locks were changed annually and
'all students were issued with a key to fit old and new
locks' and that though it 'was potentially a clever
system....it didn't work'. He said there had been a
lamentable lack of communication between the
security officers, Messrs Briley and Reeves and the
Manager of Residences, M r Peter Hallworth, who
oversees the maintenance of student residences.
Dr Hassard, warden of Selkirk Hall said it was a
New appeal •
Imperial College could gain two new research centres
and a 150 bed postgraduate hall of residence if a £7
million fund raising appeal is sucessful. The appeal,
which is to be officially lauched on the 24th October,
marks the first anniversary of the merger with St.
Mary's Hospital Medical School.
The appeal organisers are planning to fund
interdisciplinary research at a Centre for Biological
and Medical Systems and a Centre for Visual Science.
Most of the money is expected to come from business.
Patrons of the appeal include such luminaries as
Sir George Porter, President of the Royal Society,
and Richard Stilgoe.
Monopoly
The World's biggest Monopoly game raised £6,108
for Imperial College Union Charity Rag last Saturday.
The winning team 'Garden Hall Jerks' raised £393
between the four of them. 'Brass Monkey's' came
second at £389 between six and the '3L's' came third
at £189 between three.
The individual winner was Tara Shear, who raised
£171, and Michael Johnson came second with £143.
Hal Calamvokis said this was the 'best single day
ever' for Rag and probably, per head, the best in the
country'. The winning teams, and anyone who raised
over £100 should go to the Rag Meeting this Friday
lunchtime in the Union Lounge.
STAFF WANTED
The Union Snack Bar,
Bar and Bookstore
are always in need of casual staff.
The pay is £2.60 per hour.
Interested?
See Dave Williams, Union Office
'very regrettable incident' and that he was -'very
unhappy about being locked outside at lam,' as was
the security guard. He also stated it was 'absolutely
outrageous' that nobody could get in when a fire alarm
went off, so the fire brigade had to be called to force
an entry. He said 'people could have been
killed.. .when I find out who's responsible, I shall be
very cross indeed'.
Fiona Nicholas, IC Union Honorary Secretary
(Events) who lives in Southside, revealed her
consternation about the complete lack of notice to
warn students about the lock change. She said she
was worried that girls coming home alone late at night
could have been trapped outside.
Mr Peter Hallworth told FELIX that the lock
change was made last Friday night and that the
Civ Eng go
to 'Frisco
The Civil Engineering Department at Imperial College
is to send a team of three researchers to California
to assist in the investigations into the earthquake which
devastated the San Francisco Bay area earlier this
week.
The team, to be led by Dr Elnashai, is from the
Engineering Seismology and Earthquake Engineering
section, which includes the Earthquake Field Training
Unit. They will be working with researchers from
the University of Southern California and Los
Angeles. Their investigations will be into damage to
structures and ground deformation. The project will
last two weeks.
Julian Bommer, a member of the team, who also
visited Armenia after the earthquake there last year,
said 'The sobering thought is that this earthquake,
which has caused considerable damage and
destruction, is by no means the largest earthquake that
California will have to contend with. At the same
time, it is worth noting that this earthquake was the
same size as the Armenian earthquake and affected
a far bigger population and yet killed less than 300
people compared to more than 25,000 in Armenia.'
South Ken
Campus?
An article in this week's Nature shows proposals by
the Natural History Museum to group the 'museums,
colleges and leisure facilities of South Kensington into
a beautiful, single campus'.
Researchers in the Museum believe this is
somewhat over ambitious and do not see a need to
change.
The originator of the idea, Wally Olin, from Wolff
Olin told FELIX that the potential for a social and
cultural campus within the area was 'tremendous.'
However, 'nobody has the will to make it happen,'
he added.
temporary housekeeper gave out the wrong keys. He
said the code on the locks had been changed but he
didn't know why. He went on to say the lock
mechanism was damaged as a student had pulled it
off. When it was pointed out that some people couldn't
use their keys on any doors he said 'I'm baffled...I
can't see how the system works'.
The housekeeper involved explained the new keys
were given out from a box marked 'new fobs', and
that last year's box, also marked 'new fobs' was also
used, therefore many of the keys given out were old
ones that would not work on the newly coded locks.
She said she naturally assumed that the warden and
security would have been informed.
FELIX CLUB
Come and stuff your face and
meet the FELIX team at the FELIX
Club
American Picnic
Starts 7.30pm
Costs just £1 per head
Today
S P O R T S R E S U L T S
HOCKEY
Saturday 14th
Ladies:
IC lsts—1 Guys lsts—5
IC 2nds-0 Royal Vets 3
Wednesday 18th
Mens:
IC lsts—4 U C L lsts—1
IC 2nds-0 QMC lsts—4
IC 3rds-0 Kings lsts—6
Ladies:
IC lsts—1 St Georges 2nds-0
IC 2nds-3 QMC 2nds-0
RUGBY
Wednesday 18th
IC lsts—35 Brunei lsts—16
IC 2nds-12 Brunei 2nds-13
FOOTBALL
IC 1-3 U C 1-0
IC II—0 UC II—2
UC III—5 IGIII-0
LH II-1 IC I V - 2
Golds III—5 IC V - 2
LSE V - 4 IC V I - 1
Also: If you have any sports news for
the new FELIX Sports Editor, Dave
Millard, Chem Eng II, drop it into the
Office in Beit Quad

