The Mighty Lemon Drops recently toured the UK to promote their latest album, Laughter.
Neil Lavitt and Susan Appleby interviewed them before they went on stage at the Dominion
Theatre last Saturday.
The Mighty Lemon Drops
The Mighty Lemon Drops formed in Wolverhampton
in 1985. Known for a distinctly abrasive style of pop,
they were soon playing to capacity crowds up and
down the United Kingdom. This initial success
culmunated in the release of NME's compilation album
on which the track Happy Head caused no less than
nine record companies to show interest. Since then
however, despite popularity in the USA they have
never achieved their previous standing in the UK.
'What the Mighty Lemon Drops have achieved in
Britain is through our own efforts and the music
press has never hyped us.'
A very bitter comment it seems, surprisingly so from
the relaxed and extremely friendly figure of guitarist
Dave Newton. It was clear though that there was a
lot of dislike at the way in which the press has reacted
to their passage through the rock 'n' roll business,
especially in Britain.
Dave feels early comparisons with Echo and the
Bunnymen were press hyped and completely
unjustified.
'The similarities between us and the Bunnymen
is based on the fact that we are a four piece guitar
band which draws our inspiration from bands of
the late sixties, The Doors and The Velvet
Underground.'
Even today the press has not improved, a two-page
interview with NME was edited down to half a page;
this they believe is due to NME's editor disliking them.
Only when the Lemon Drops went to the States did
they begin to lose favour with the UK music press.
The States however proved very successful for them
with initial sell out tours and hit singles culminating
in a number one college album in the form of World
Without End. The band appear very modest about
their success in America, attributing it mainly to hard
touring and early success which has allowed them
prime radio play. They claim that Americans are less
bothered about being hip and that the music is the
most important thing, whereas in the UK the reverse
is true. Despite being extremely vague about their
audiences, the New York Ritz was the best venue they
have ever played.
In the latter part of 1988 and early 1989 the Lemon
Drops have toured the world, with three months in
America as well as touring Europe. The band has also
been to Brazil where they managed to afford the most
expensive hotel in Rio de Janeiro, only playing to the
more afluent of Brazilians. This is a great contrast to
their British audiences.
Dave, as band guitarist, is also responsible for the
writing, especially on their last album titled Laughter.
Prior to this he was helped by ex-bassist Tony until
he was asked to leave by the other members of the
band. This was necessary, Dave feels, because he
was musically holding the band back and his creativity
had gone as far as it could go. He was replaced by
the latest bassist Marcus Williams who Dave is very
happy with.
When asked about the lyrics Dave appeared very
vague, even suggesting that they were about nothing
at all, and when pushed only suggested that they were
'non-directive, and not about my emotions and
problems, perhaps using other peoples problems
as a source of inspiration'.
Laughter was one of the first albums to be recorded
in Peter Gabriel's Real World Studios in Bath, Avon.
The band feel that it is a definite progression, although
it won't shock. The title was chosen in an attempt
to expel the previous gloomy image of the band
created to emphasise a new 'up' nature to
themselves.
Their creative confidence in Laughter may have had
something to do with the Real World Studios, which
Keith describes as being 'the perfect recording
environment based upon an old mill with a glass
floor and a stream running underneath.' They were
one of the first bands to record in it and subsequently
got a reduced rate.
The Lemon Drops claim that they would never
intentionally search out success, but in the same
breath claimed that they could handle it and would
enjoy appearances on Top of the Pops and all the
associated media coverage. They make a living from
record company advances and live on a day-to-day
basis, never looking too far forward. Despite this they
are looking forward to touring Europe in December
followed by the States again in January. No new
material has been written. Dave claims that he cannot
write on tour as he is usually either asleep on drunk,
each of which are difficult states in which to write.
We look forward to hearing from this band who
appear to be making their last big push for UK
success. Hope you have stamina boys, you've a
difficult hill to climb.
N.E.M.L.
Interview recorded in association with Susan Appleby
of IC Radio. The interview will be broadcast at 7.00pm
on October 30th.
The Dominion Theatre is an extremely plush setting
for a gig by The Mighty Lemon Drops. What was more
surprising was that the average age of the following
had to be under 20, most of them probably students.
The gig started with The Family Cat, a five piece
band consisting of three guitarists, a bassist and a
drummer. The result was a sound that was very
abrasive but very rhythmic and melodic. A lot of this
had to be attributed to some excellent lead guitar work
and a very ingenious drummer who managed to keep
my feet tapping on practically every song. Their set
seemed to progress very quickly and they were no
sooner on stage than they had gone, no encore, a pity
really.
After what seemed like an eternity the lights went
down, the audience rose, and behind the rising stalls
and net curtain the Mighty Lemon Drops appeared.
The opening song At Midnight was a very
uninteresting piece, followed by what was the best
song of the night; the 1986 Happy Head. This was
the only song which had my full attention.
As the concert progessed, my mind wondered more
and more away from the music and more and more
to what had happened at the Geology Freshers' dinner
the previous night.
In summary I have to say this was a very mediocre
performance; a previous press article described them
as more lemon than mighty. This is very true. The
lighting show was uninteresting and unnecessary and
more than anything Paul Marsh's vocals became
irritating to the point where I had to leave three
quarters of the way through.
N.E.M.L.
Starship
I wasn't sure what to expect from the new Starship.
They have replaced two members of the band since
their last LP, but the style of Love, Among the
Cannibals was always on my shortlist.
The overriding thing about this album is its over-
produced and commercialised sound, with chorus and
multitracking of the vocals very much evident. This
led to much of it being indistinguishable from the rest,
especially on side one where no particular track stood
out on its own.
A track which shows promise is the title track which
has a more complex 'jungle' rhythm and syncopated
bass line, breaking the monotony of side one but
unfortunately doesn't seem to get anywhere.
We Dream in Colour is also a change because it isn't
a song about love, a rare occurence on this album.
It's pretty good turned up loud and could have the
makings of a single if it wasn't for the 'atmospheric'
start and over-repeated chorus which stretch it out
to 6.27 mins.
After that the album goes right downhill again with
a totally abysmal song Healing Waters and Blaze of
Love which sounds like a mixture of all the American
pop songs I've every heard.
It's taken Starship four years to get around to
writing a new album and, although their music is
certainly more substantial than on Knee Deep in the
Hoopla, it still rates as a run-of-the-mill record without
the inventiveness of Bon Jovi and therefore doomed
to fail.
Ben Gladwyn.
Page 3

