Of course you won't be able to afford any of this if loans come in.
Queen—Rare Live
At last a release by Queen where their talent is what
counts and not the high-tech production.
After a small excerpt from Live Aid the title
sequence opens up to the tune of / Want it All,
thankfully the only track from The Miracle as this is
not a promo for their new album (which is beyond all
hope anyway) but a history of Queen in their
element—live.
It's got all the 'classic' tracks on it as you'd expect,
{Killer Queen, We Are the Champions, etc) and quite
a few I'd never seen live before, eg Liar (even a bit
of the '73 rehearsal-check out the blouses!) and
Stone Cold Crazy at Hammy Odeon in '74. These '74
performances at the Rainbow Theatre and Hammy are
the closest I've ever got to the real Queen on video-
full of energy and atmosphere, the latter being harder
to capture when you're filming a stadium show with
an audience of 250,000.
A noticeable thing about these live shows is the
decline of Freddy's voice over the years, it gets
harsher, he tends to shout out the lyrics more and
drops out of tune. This cannot be said about Brian
May's guitar work however, which stays immaculate
all the way through.
The camera work is generally good, but the most
irritating thing in the video is the cutting together of
three concerts in quick succession through large
portions of some songs, especially in Keep Yourself
Alive, where it is hard to keep track of where you are.
This ruins all the performances.
Don't let this criticism put you off from getting to
see it at some time though-if all the Queen you know
dates from The Works then you need to see Queen
in their early prime. For dedicated fans this is a worthy
addition to your collection.
Finally, see if you can spot Kevin McCann's hat
being worn by Brian May, it's in there somewhere!
Ben Gladwyn.
Seasons End
Are Marillion more than just adept, yet faceless,
backing musicians for their erstwhile lead singer, Fish?
Is this, their 'difficult' fifth album, the change in
direction that it is being claimed to be? ('Progressive
rockers never die, they just change direction.') To
quote a lyric from Misplaced Childhood, 'Does
anybody care anymore?'.
It is immediately apparent that this is a 'new' sound
as they pinch riffs from groups other than Genesis.
King of Sunset Town is the opening to Saf Out of Hell
and The Space is Ozzy Osbourne's Diary of a Mad
Man. Elsewhere, Clannad (Easter), Rush and pop-
metal in general are evoked; but the general
impression reeks, uncannily of Foreigner, partly
because of Steve Hogorth's vocals.
This is not to say that their latest album is all bad.
They still manage to change tempo at least twice in
every song and Fish has taken much of the depressing
subject matter with him. Steve Rothery's guitar is
refreshing, although it is developing a nasty metallic
taste at times, and Mark Kelly contributes lush
keyboards that support the song rather than
swallowing it.
Hogarth's voice is not always foremost in the mix,
and although he claims the Marillion fans have already
accepted him it remains to be seen whether he can
match the enormous stage presence of his Scottish
predecessor.
Season's End is accomplished yet devoid of the
emotion of their earlier work. It is their most MoR
piece to date, but they could forefeit older fans simply
because it lacks fresh ideas and revisits over-familiar
territory. One hopes that this is a transitional and not
a terminal ailment.
CDL.
Gunfire Dance II
Last Thursday saw the first Rocksoc Disco and Band
of the year, with brummy band Gunfire Dance playing
to a packed (OK, moderately full) Union Lounge.
Your illustrious DP, Dai Williams, set the evening
cooking with a great selection of melodic and power
rock (following his own good taste), together with a
sprinkling of aural assualt for the brain dead. Notable
was Rocksoc President Nick Foster's attempted self-
decapitation to the melodious strains of Metallica's
'....and justice for all'.
Gunfire Dance played a well-received one hour set.
Page 4
Jeff's Aerosmithy guitar was well supported by Daz's
low slung bass, energy and enthusiasm were provided
by frontman Art, and the whole was marvelously
metronomed by Ozzy's skin-bashing.
In all, a good evening, even if nobody liked the free
beer-no more gratis Fosters for you ungrateful
b'stards! Next time a bar instead.
For information on forthcoming events, Rocksoc
meets every Monday lunchtime in Southside Upper
Lounge.
JC Graham.
Gunfire I
Well, things can only get better, 'cos they sure as hell
can't get any worse!
The first shock was the band drinking their
Newquay Brown in the Snack Bar. Their jeans were
of the spray-on variety, tastefully decorated with the
obligatory rips and scarves tied around their knees?
(Well if you like it, lads!) And one of them had pink
cowboy boots ('nuff said).
The shirts consisted of more rips than material,
presumably to show off their (not so) manly bodies!!
By the time they got on stage, their lead singer was
extremely pissed. Although whether that was the
reason for his total lack of stage presence, and
inability to sing is debatable. He pranced around the
stage making a complete prat of himself, but never
mind! (What can you expect for £100).
For musical ability, Gunfire Dance score 0, on
entertainment....well the kids seemed to enjoy
themselves, probably because their drummer was
quite good, but then it's difficult to play the drums
out of tune.
Personally, I wouldn't see them again, but that's my
opinion, and plenty of other people quite enjoyed
themselves! Maybe eight pints is a necessary
prerequisite!!
Name withheld by request.
Liza Minelli
Results
It is trendy to like Liza now she's been subjected to
the Midas touch of the Pet Shop Boys. Having enjoyed
chart success with the first single from Results, Losing
My Mind, in which she gushingly gave us her all to
a Eurobeat backdrop, the far superior second single
Don't Drop Bombs turned out to be one itself and
seems to have disappeared without overtroubling
Gallup.
The LP as a whole is an uneasy mixture of
predictable ballads full of schmaltz and potential disco
smashes. The Pet Shop Boys have supplied seven of
the ten songs, five of them new. Of the others Rent
is given full Broadway treatment and an orchestra. It
unfortunately suffers as a result, losing the
idiosyncratic attraction of Neil Tennant's plaintive
vocals. (WOT!) Another 'ex-PSB libris' song, Tonight
is Forever works better in this format, although it will
probably now appear on an Elaine Page album.
The forgettable So Sorry I Said and a reworking of
Love Pains are the low points; MOR fillers which show
how poor the album could have been without the help
of Chris Lowe's skills at conjuring up dance grooves
from a Fairlight. The most impressive of the dance
numbers must be the most unlikely. Tanita Tikaram's
moody Twist in my Sobriety is transformed into a
groovy stomper complete with scratching and
rapping. Courtney Pine guests with some scintillating
soprano saxophone on If There Was Love and the final
track / Can't Say Goodnight.
Despite the high calibre of its contributors Results
never quite adds up to the sum of its parts. It will
perhaps be remembered as a brave departure which
didn't quite succeed, but will probably make her a lot
of money despite its failings.

