Old Gringo
Of course you won't be able to
afford any of this if loans come
in.
Release date 20th October
If your idea of an epic movie is one with a cast of
hundreds, a foreign location and orchestral title music
then this film lives up to its bold claim. Unfortunately,
if you require a meaningful storyline to stir strong
emotion in you, tough!
Peck plays Ambrose Bierce; the legendary American
journalist with the acid pen, who disappeared in
Mexico. Smits is a young revolutionary general who
uses Fonda, a governess, as a ploy to free his home
town from rich landowners. This leads to an almost
dramatic battle which the revolutionaries win,
naturally. From there on the film goes downhill, Smits
seduces Fonda, and at the same time is unable to
escape his past which prevents him from joining the
rest of the revolutionaries in Mexico. This ultimately
causes his downfall and Peck's too, as he tries to help
Smits leave the past.
Peck acts well and plays a more philosophical and
sedate Bierce, this is probably more to do with the fact
that the script is written in his favour and the rest of
the cast are not particularly special. Fonda's narration
at the end is very annoying. The scene in which Smits
shoots his own horse is probably the most dramatic
in the whole film and after this event I didn't care what
happened to Smits. Mind you I can't say that I was
too concerned from tha very beginning either.
Jalisi.
1
« 3 S
The Cook, the Thief,
his Wife & her Lover
Gate Cinema, Notting Hill Gate £4.25
Lumiere, St Martin's Lane £4.50
Caterpillar
Cafe
Tasty, hot vegetarian and meat
dishes every day
also a stunning variety of
salads, pizzas, burgers and
pies
Rounded off with sandwiches,
yummy cakes andfreshcoffee
WE UNION BUILDING, BEIT QUAD
This film is another of Peter Greenaway's 14 Zed &
Two Noughts, Drowning by Numbers etc.I visual and
aural masterpieces. It is laced with his constant
themes of death, decay and corruption. In this film it
is the colour of the images that is all important. As
the action switches from one scene to another the
lighting changes from blue to green to red to white-
and the leading characters change costume
accordingly.
The plot is simple, although up to Greenaway's
usual slightly surreal standards. The Cook (Richard
Bohringer) runs a restaurant which is patronised, or
terrorised, by the Thief (Michael Gambon), a bullying
gangster who is accompanied by his beautiful, long
suffering Wife (Helen Mirren). Sitting in the same
restaurant, watching the Thief's humiliation of all
around him, is the book collector who becomes the
Wife's Lover (Alan Howard).
Their bizarre couplings take place in the gleaming
white restaurant Ladies, the murky green-lit kitchen
pantry and even in the restaurant's cold store. The
Thief of course eventually discovers why his wife
spends so much of each meal 'in the Ladies', but I will
not spoil the denoument of the film as other reviewers
(Film 89) have done. Suffice to say, in a film obsessed
with food and sex, it is a timely and fitting revenge.
The film is a sensory bombardment. The platters of
food in the restaurant, the hellish atmosphere evoked
by the red drapes and devil-like prescence of the Thief
contrast with the gleaming silence of the lavatories
and the dangerous atmosphere of the blue-lit carpark.
There is extreme brutality, so much so that I wondered
at times if I was watching a 'blood and guts' film
rather than an 'art' film, but the violence is not
misplaced. Michael Gambon's performance is brilliant
in evoking a monstrously vulgar personality and the
other leading actors support him admirably. Behind it
all is another obsessive, hypnotic, overwhelming
score.
It is hard to know whether to recommend this film.
It is not an easy evening's viewing: the violence is not
banal but highly disturbing and calculated. Precisely
because of that, and the genius of its conception and
design, this must be one of the best films of the year.
Liz W.
WUTAN
TAI CHI C H U A N
Inslructor: Hong Chun Lai
hand form * pushing inds * self-defence # internal strength *
\\eap*<; t suord * sabre * spear
Classes suitable tor ± tges, troth sexes of any level, beginners lo
jvanced practitioners
REGULAR CLASSES:
Shacklel'ord \ liuge Hall, Guildford—Tuesdays 7-9pni
Imperial College. Union Lounge-Wednesdays 3-4.30pm/4.30-6pm
For further details contact:
Hong Chun Lai. 10 Emma Road. Plaistow. London EI3 ODR. 552 5038
or Chih Y Wong. Chemistry PG. 262 2081 ext 514
Page b

