In thefirstofa hopefully-not-too-occasional series ofarticles on research
being done here, at Imperial College, Professor Charles Rees of the
Department of Chemistry describes his work on a subject that spans
organic and inorganic chemistry. It could be described as chemistry with
no loose ends—the chemistry of rings of atoms...
Chemistry i n circles
Organic chemistry, the chemistry of carbon
compounds is the chemistry of life. Its unique and
necessary feature for life is the limitless ability of
carbon IC) atoms to form themselves into long and
branched chains, rings and three dimensional
networks. These carbon atom frameworks can then
combine with most of the other chemical elements,
though hydrogen (H), oxygen (0) and nitrogen (N) are
the most common, generating an almost infinite
number of possible structures.
Although all organic compounds came originally,
from nature, many more have now been made in
chemical laboratories and most of the 9 million
compounds described in the Chemical Abstracts
Database are synthetic organic compounds. About
half of these belong to one vast class called
'heterocyclic'. These are rings of carbon atoms
containing at least one other element, 0, N and
sulphur (S) being the most common. There is a
limitless number of such compounds: the rings can be
of any size, from three membered upwards, and the
non-carbon 'hetero' atoms can be chosen from most
of the other elements.
But why have millions of these compounds been
produced? Why are new ones still being made, world-
wide, at a rate of one every few minutes. There are
several reasons: heterocyclic compounds are widely
distributed throughout nature and are essential for life;
they play a vital role in the metabolism of all living
cells. The pyrimidine and purine bases of DNA and
RNA, some of the essential amino acids, many
vitamins, co-enzymes and hormones, and chlorophyll
and haemoglobin are all heterocyclic compounds.
They are extremely useful, and profitable. Many
biologically active substances are heterocyclic,
including natural products such as penicillin and
morphine. Synthetic heterocyclic compounds range
from anticancer drugs to solvents. Of the 10 biggest
selling pharmaceuticals, all are cyclic and 7 are
heterocyclic. Half of Glaxo's recently announced £1
billion profit came from just one heterocyclic
compound, the anti-ulcer agent Ranitidine.
Heterocyclic compounds are important theoretically
and their unlimited flexibility can produce compounds
with almost any desired physical, chemical or
biological property. We only need to be clever enough
to design and construct the right sequence.
Traditionally the design of heterocyclic compounds
starts with and appropriate all-carbon ring, like
benzene, and considers the effect of introducing
heteroatoms into this, one at a time. This works
surprisingly well for the first few heteroatoms but then
starts to break down badly. The number of available,
stable molecules rapidly drops when there is a large
proportion of heteroatoms. So, in spite of the vast
number of known heterocyclic compounds, there is
a big gap in our knowledge of stable, and hence useful
compounds. This is gap which we are trying to fill in
C H 3
CH
^N
_CHAX
N 0 7
C H 7
.CH:
C H 7
H H
Ranitidine: an heterocyclic anti-ulcer drug worth £1 million per day
its manufacturers.
the Hofmann Lab in the Chemistry Department at
Imperial College.
Our approach is the exact opposite of that described
above. We start with stable rings composed wholly
of heteroatoms and study the effects of introducing
carbon atoms, one at a time. We hoped that if the
starting rings were stable enough we could modify
them in this way, producing organic compounds
which would still be stable in spite of their unusual
structure. This simple idea has proved to be very
successful and, 8 Ph.D theses and 25 papers later,
we have established the main ground rules in this new
area of chemistry which straddles organic and
inorganic.
With this approach we could, in principle, start with
cyclic structures from anywhere in the Periodic Table.
We actually started with compounds of sulphur and
nitrogen, two of the most important heteroatoms.
Several such compounds are known, with a wide
variety of ring sizes and shapes. Their (inorganic)
chemistry has been well worked out and, fortunately,
we have an expert in this field, Dr Derek Woolins, in
the department. Many of these inorganic compounds
have delocalised structures, structures in which the
individual electrons have freed themselves from the
atoms and are flowing around the rings. This promises
well for compound stability and for many practical
applications such as dyestuffs and pigments and,
particularly, conductors. Indeed the ultimate
delocalised structure in this area is a linear polymer
of alternating sulphur and nitrogen atoms,
polysulphur-nitride ((SN)n), a highly conducting
anisotropic 'metal' which becomes superconducting
at sufficiently low temperatures. One of the aims of
our work is to improve on the properties of this
polymer by incorporating the atomic framework into
the much more stable heterocyclic rings that we have
discovered whilst maintaining the totally delocalised
electron structure.
This is still for the future. What we have done so
far is to establish chemical methods for opening the
sulphur-nitrogen rings, inserting a carbon atom or two
and snapping the ring shut again. We have discovered
a range of fascinating 5 to 8 membered heterocyclic
rings which are highly stable and beautifully coloured.
They are quite unlike anything observed in nature, or
the lab, before. Indeed one of the pleasures of being
a research student working on synthetic chemistry is
the opportunity to make entirely new materials and
to be the first person to see and handle them - long
before your supervisor!
It now remains to be seen if our compounds will be
as practically useful as they are theoretically novel.
/ /
: N
: N
Polysulphur-nitride: a highly reactive conducting 'metal' madefrom
non-metals, adding heterocyclic rings may make it more stable.
Page 6

