This
y/eek
• As politicians, including the French Prime Minister
Michel Rocard, call for Antarctica to be made an
international nature reserve, researchers at the British
Antarctic Survey's Rothera base are suffering from a
thaw. Recent measurements show that there has
recently been significant loss of snow and ice,
according to a report released by the Natural
Environment Research Council. Mean summer
temperatures at the base have increased by 1 degree
since 1982.
Computer models predict that the poles will be the
first to suffer from global warming. Despite this,
experts warn against blaming all the rise on the
greenhouse effect. The Earth goes through a natural
cycle of warming and cooling and it is believed that
the temperature of the planet is now reaching a peak.
There is still concern that the presence of greenhouse
gases in the atmosphere may delay any eventual
downturn.
• Despite protests from environmental groups, the
World Bank has agreed to help fund the gigantic Indian
Narmada Sagar-Sardar Sarovar dam project. The
scheme will block several major rivers and includes
plans for 30 major dams to irrigate 2 million hectares
of land and provide 2500 MW of electrical power. At
the moment, the Bank is providing only 10% of the
total finance and, pressure groups claim, as other
sources of funding are few and far between the
project could run out of money before it is completed,
possibly within 2 or 3 years.
• Faith healers and their ilk often preach that health
is a state of mind and that, for wont of a better term,
positive thinking can cure diseases. Now researchers
are hoping to put this theory on a firmer footing. The
European Science Foundation has provided $91,000
to set up a network of researchers studying
'neuroimmunomodulation', the connection between
the immune system and the central nervous system,
to see if one can affect the other.
• The Earth's crust is at least 4 billion years old
according to Samuel Bowring of Washington
University, St. Louis. He, and colleagues from the
Australian National University in Canberra, have dated
samples of surface rock using a machine called
SHRIMP, the Sensitive, High-Resolution, Ion
Microprobe, and found them to be 3.96 billion years
old. There is evidence of still older rocks yet to be
found and Bowring believes that the planet's crust
could be up to 4.3 billion years old. The accepted age
of the Earth itself is 'only' 4.5 billion years.
• The Natural History Museum may have some
interesting plans for the future. In true Thatcherite
style they have called in the ad-men and the design
consultants, gained a new logo and even put some
money, well £5 million, on one side for some new
exhibitions. The museum is looking for inspiration
from America: staff have been sent on study trips to
one of the US's greatest cultural centres, Disneyland.
'Dearie me', said Mrs Jolly Hockey-Sticks as she
reached for the sherry bottle, 'There are so many staff
in the Citizens' Office these days that I hardly know
who to boss about first. Thank goodness I've still got
Sidney Spanker around to give me a hand.'
Sidney Spanker had been Head Citizen two years
ago but he still liked to rush about Cheapskate telling
everybody how important he was. Most of all he liked
to tell Jackie Skirt, the Citizen in Charge of
Wellfeeling, what to do, because he thought she was
very pretty.
Unfortunately, Spanker was nowhere to be seen.
'He's probably playing with Wendy and GMT,' sighed
Jolly Hockey-Sticks. She walked gloomily around the
office, on her way treading on some citizens who
were waiting to use the smudging machine.
In one corner of the room Dai Rocking, the Deputy
Head Citizen, was installing flashing lights and a
record deck. 'Do you know where Sidney is, Dai?'
asked Jolly Hockey-Sticks. 'No,' he shouted above
the disco beat, 'But Fiona Knickerless and Neil Smug
have gone to a very important meeting with Derek
Dash.
Mrs Jolly Hockey-Sticks was very annoyed about
this because they hadn't asked her if they could go
first. 'Perhaps it's time I left Cheapskate,' she mused
sadly. 'On the other hand, I could have another glass
of sherry...'
Meanwhile, in the Baron's Office, Neil Smug, the Head
Citizen, was shouting at Derek Dash. 'Listen Derek,
it's not fair of you to charge the citizens so much
money for the Comic Shop. You know very well that
half of the comics are useless-they were out of date
when you were a citizen!' he exclaimed.
'Oh dear,' said Derek. He had hoped that the
citizens wouldn't notice because he wanted the
money so that he could have his go-karting rink
re-surfaced.
'And what's more,' chipped in Benj Trainers, the
Citizen in Charge of Games, 'All our playing fields at
Gravlington have been ploughed up and now even
Sherpa Club can't climb over the bumps.'
'Oh dear,' said Derek. Then he had a bright idea.
'Perhaps you could have an H2 S04 House Party there
and all the citizens' dancing would trample it flat. You
could even charge an entrance fee and give the
proceeds to help the Chinese citizens.'
Smug and Trainers glowered at him. 'Oh dear,'
thought Derek. 'I wish Mad Dash were here. She's
terribly good at getting people enthusiastic about
things.'
John Secretary took his ear away from the keyhole
and tiptoed down the corridor. He was giggling so
much he'd had to stuff a 'Souvenir of Cheapskate'
handkerchief into his mouth.
It was Secretary's job to be crafty but he'd become
rather fond of the citizens. Sometimes this made him
feel guilty about trying to trick them. More
importantly, though, he was glad to see Derek being
made to look silly.'
'He's always bossed me around and pretended that
he ran Cheapskate, when I'm the one who does all
the important work,' thought Secretary. 'Now that I'm
retiring to Martinique, I could get my own back once
and for all. Perhaps I could even help the citizens...'
9 Will Jolly Hockey-Sticks leave any sherry for
Sidney Spanker?
•Does John Secretary have something up his
sleeve?
01s it just his arm?
*AII may be revealed in the next instalment of The
Baron of Cheapskate.
Page 7

