Sez Wilkinson and Rhydian Hapgood present a discussion of the risks involved.
Cancer—the hazards
There can be few people at College who have not met,
or at some stage, been in contact with a cancer
sufferer. There exists an abundance of novels
centering around the personal experiences of suffering
cancer; testimonies which express the extreme
psychological and emotional consequences of the
disease. This feature does not set out to evoke tears
or to stimulate emotions. Rather it aims to inform the
reader from a scientific viewpoint of factors
associated with the occurence of the disease.
The Statistics
Statistical measurements of the frequency of cancer
within and between populations are an important part
of the study of the disease and have produced much
information on its possible causes. The two measures
of frequency most commonly employed are mortality
and incidence. Mortality is the annual rate of death
attributed to cancer, while incidence is the frequency
of new cases arising in the population. As a cause of
death, cancer is second only to heart disease in the
developed world and is showing an increasing
incidence. To some extent this is due to the longevity
Environmental
factors
Personal Habits
One of the most important examples of an
environmental contribution to cancer is the
association of lung cancer with cigarette smoking. In
several large-scale studies, the mortality from lung
cancer has shown to be over ten times greater in
smokers than non-smokers and to be proportional to
the number of cigarettes smoked and the number of
years over which smoking has been practised.
Smoking also leads to increased mortality from
cancers of the larynx, oral cavity, oesophagus and
bladder. Similarly, air pollution may account for the
greater incidence of lung tumours among city dwellers
than in the country. Sexual experience influences the
incidence of certain cancers. Cervical cancer is
associated with early sexual relations, an early age of
marriage and frequency of births, though with respect
to the last point it seems that the act of intercourse
rather than pregnancy is the important factor. Cervical
cancer shows its lowest incidence among nuns,
virgins and Jewish women. Among the Jews, the
practice of circumcision may be one factor responsible
for the low frequency of cervical cancer. Breast
cancer shows the reverse correlation with sexual
experience in that it is less frequent among women
with a large number of children.
Diet
Differences in the incidence of cancers of the
ailimentary tract (oesophagus, stomach, colon) may
be related to dietary components such as salt, smoked
food and alcohol. Some pronounced geographical
variations in frequencies of these tumours are likely
to be the result of different dietary habits in different
parts of the world. The association of stomach cancer
with low economic status is also likely to be due to
dietary factors.
Page 8
enjoyed by the population in a period when fatal
infectious diseases have been largely eradicated and
to more refined diagnostic procedures now in use.
Even when these points are taken into account,
however, some cancers, such as cancer of the lung,
show real increases. The rising frequency of cancer
is presumably the result of our increased exposure to
carcinogenic (cancer-causing) agents.
Within a population the incidence of cancer varies
widely with age, sex, site of origin and various
environmental factors. The latter, in particular,
provides valuable information on the basic factors that
contribute to the occurence of cancer. Further, there
are sometimes wide variations when different
populations are compared and this geographical
dependence of certain cancers is similarly indicative
of important causative factors in the environment.
Age
For most cancers, incidence in the population
increases with age. Some, however, show peculiarly
high incidence in childhood, notably acute leukaemia
and tumours of the central nervous system. For this
Scotland
England & Wales
Finland
Netherlands
Austria
Belgium
Germany, F R
North. Ireland
U.S.. Nonwhite
U.S. White
South Africa
Denmark
New Zealand
Australia
Switzerland
Canada
Ireland
Italy
France
i=.ael
Sweden
Norway
Chile
Japan
Portugal
Occupation
There are many examples of cancers which are
hazards of particular occupations. The sites most
frequently affected are the skin, respiratory tract and
bladder. That is either the surface with which the
cancer-inducing agent first makes contact or that
exposed to its active metabolites in urine. Among the
early examples of occupational cancers were the
observation of cancer in the scrotum of chimney
sweep boys and shale-oil cancer in workers in mineral
oil distilleries. Bladder cancer was a hazard of the early
aniline- and azo-dye industries and is caused by
aromatic amines and related substances.
Occupational cancers can be caused by irradiation
as well as by chemical carcinogens, illustrative
reason, the overall incidence of cancer is higher in the
first five years of life than in the next two five-year
periods.
Sex
In childhood and over 60 years of age, males are more
affected than females, between 30 and 60 years the
overall incidence is generally higher in famales,
because of the risk of cervical and breast cancer
during.this period. However, mortality is higher in
males in most age groups, because of their higher
frequency of cancer of low curability (lung, stomach);
the common cancers of women (breast, cervix) are
more readily cured. The frequency of some
malignancies differ markedly in the two sexes. Thus
cancer of the lung and oesophagus are considerably
more frequent in males. For lung cancer the ratio of
males to females affected can be as high as 10:1.
Stomach cancer and leukaemia are also more common
in men, though rather less strikingly so. On the other
hand, cancer of the breast, reproductive organs and
thyroids are more often found in women. Other
tumours are of equal occurence in both sexes.
examples being the skin cancer of the early
radiologists and lung cancer among uranium miners.
A large portion of recent occupational cancers are
due to asbestos, a fact which has given rise to a great
deal of public concern. Public pressure is now leading
to a reduction in asbestos levels in industry, schools
and homes. Discouraging smoking is also clearly an
important step which, if effective, would be of
particular benefit to workers in the asbestos industry,
as well as to the population at large.
In principle occupational cancers are wholly
preventable but in practice, workers will continue to
be affected so long as society demands the products
of the industries concerned.
10
Rate per 100,000 pop.
20 30 4 0 50 60 70 8 0
Male
Rate per 100,000 pop.
0 5 10 15
Scotland
England & Waiesj
Ireland
' Israel
Denmark
South Africa
North Ireland
U.S.. Nonwhite
US.. White
Austria
Germany. F.R.
New Zealand
Canada
Chile
Japan
Belgium
Italy
Australia
Sweden
Finland
France
Netherlands
Switzerland
Norway
Portugal
Female
Death rates for lung and related cancers in various
countries 1964-65.

