BOOKS
Editor: Maciej
Matuszewski, Eva
Rosenthal
books.felix@imperial.ac.uk
14 FRIDAY 11 OCT
Scalzi’s Old Man’s War
John Scalzi is one of the highest proﬁle
science ﬁction authors alive. A proliﬁc
writer, he was also President of the Science
Fiction and Fantasy Writers of America,
consulted on the hit TV show Stargate
Universe, maintains a hugely popular blog
and is an outspoken activist for many good
causes. It was therefore with high hopes
that last year I picked up Redshirts – one
of his latest novels, which recently won the
Hugo award. Unfortunately the reality did
not live up to the hype – it was, eﬀectively,
a single Star Trek joke stretched out to ﬁll
300 pages, with uninspired characterisation
and insipid prose. Over time, however, I
began to suspect that I might have judged
Scalzi too harshly and that it might be
worth giving a writer of his reputation
another chance. herefore, I recently
read Old Man’s War – his ﬁrst ever novel.
he book is set in the distant future –
with humanity having ﬁnally reached the
stars and found out that we are not alone.
he various species of the galaxy are caught
up in a near constant state of conﬂict –
in many ways the reminiscent of 19th
century colonial wars. While Earth itself
is isolated from the ﬁghting, as well as the
greater galactic community in general, by
its colonies the planet’s citizens when they
turn 75 may join the Colonial Defence Force
and receive a rejuvenation treatment before
Student picks
getting the chance to see the universe. he
novel follows John Perry, who makes this
very choice, and his fellow new recruits as
they go through basic training, have their
ﬁrst taste of combat and learn how, in the
current conﬂict, there are no real ‘good guys’
.
In many ways this book has many problems
similar to those in Redshirts. he main issue I
have with Scalzi’s characters in both books is
that they are all essentially the same person.
he protagonists may be diﬀerentiated
by gender or ethnicity but they all have
the same personality – smart, outspoken,
generally nice but often sarcastic – in short,
people very similar to Scalzi himself. Don’t
get me wrong – Scalzi knows how to write
this character type very well but seeing it half
a dozen times in the same novel gets really
tiring, really fast. Scalzi’s prose is, to put it
nicely, very utilitarian. It is clear and readable
but nothing more. here is no beauty in it – it
is used merely as a tool to get the story across.
All this leaves are the plot and themes
– and here is where my opinion of the two
novel diverges. While Redshirts was just, in
eﬀect, an extended parody, Old Man’s War
is something more. While focusing mainly
on the personal experiences of John Perry
it also subtly conveys the far larger and
deeper story of galactic conﬂict and, by the
end, it manages to ask serious questions
about the nature of war and colonisation.
All the while it remains very exciting –
both in the fast paced combat scenes and
in the tense moments in between them.
hese positives don’t cancel out the
negatives, but they do help me forget them
and make the book a very enjoyable read.
here are novels which explore similar
themes in more depth and with greater skill
but few which do it in such an engaging
manner. I do believe that Scalzi’s popularity
as a person has artiﬁcially inﬂated the
popularity of his books and Old Man’s
War is certainly not a masterpiece but
the fact is that I read it in a single day and
its sequels are already on my reading list.
In Henry James’ The Figure in the Car-
pet, several unlucky people become ob-
sessed with painstakingly unearthing the
meaning concealed – literally – in the
works of a brilliant novelist. The story
plays easily with the reader; it dangles a
something sweet – the promise of ulti-
mate knowledge – in front of us and ul-
timately disappoints. The after effect is
wittily insidious: one may start to think
that there could be, that there definitely
is, a golden key, to decoding James’ entire
body of work. If one were to look care-
fully enough, obsessively enough, per-
haps it could be found… James cautions
us throughout with his sad and unhappy
characters but it is hard to resist his rid-
dle.
This dilemma, to me, exemplifies the
power of James’ short stories. More than
just a writer of impossible syntax, James
will drag the reader along with subtlety
and stealth until they emerge, albeit fully
submerged in the Jamesian world.
Within 50 pages – and sometimes far
less – humans are exquisitely drawn up.
The characters feel heavy and tangible
from the moment they appear; their ac-
tions, however strange, are precisely
what they should be. As can be seen from
the few examples below, James’ stories
cover a wide range of subjects, which he
treats with equal care and brilliance.
Daisy Miller tells of the problems that
a young American girl faces when trav-
elling through Europe. Her personality is
lost on the Europeans, whom she some-
times understands but who rarely under-
stand her. Her desire for freedom and, in
many ways, for simply flitting through
life, are misunderstood by even her clos-
est friends, who carelessly and cruelly
criticise and abandon her.
In La Pension Beaurepas, caricatures of
rather empty ladies-who-shop, bankrupt-
ing their hardworking caretaker in the
process, are juxtaposed with everything
beautiful and delicate about desire.
James’ In the Cage has the feel of a de-
tective story; here the voyeuristic tenden-
cies and the imagination of a young, un-
named telegraphist, stuck in both a literal
and a metaphoric cage, combine to con-
jure up an unexpected adventure. From
her position as a ‘nothing’, she achieves a
remarkable level of knowledge – perhaps
real, perhaps fanciful – about the extrav-
agantly rich people she comes into con-
tact with. This is a tale which, ultimately
disheartening in its outlook, nevertheless
encourages extravagant daydreaming to
deal with the greyer hours.
Short stories are perfect if you don’t
have the time or energy to concentrate on
a longer novel. You can pick the book up
whenever you want, sure in the knowl-
edge that you won’t have to leave some-
thing unfinished for weeks while you
work towards your next deadline. James’
tales are also something of a ‘language
workout’; they require a little effort but
the rewards are copious and the reader’s
English may become much improved.
Selected Tales by Henry James; pub-
lished by Penguin Classics ed. 2001.
Best of Henry James
Maciej Matuszewski
Books Editor
Eva Rosenthal
Books Editor
Have you ever wondered where your most mundane
thoughts come from? Whether any feeling has even a
smidgen of individuality?
How does this absurd western world, our reality, exist
without self-destructing; with people seemingly una-
ware of the great hypocrisy that makes our lives easy
and in many respects, beautiful?
I worried about these silly questions for some time and,
short of considering something like the ‘Matrix’ a pos-
sibility, found few helpful answers. hat is, until I came
upon a book with a mouthful for a title. The Social Con-
struction of Reality: a treatise in the sociology of knowl-
edge postulates that societies are themselves, through
complex, unconscious processes, the builders of their
subjective reality. We are all thought to participate in
the various artful – and really quite cunning – tech-
niques whereby society maintains its smooth running
order. For one (very simple) example, practially useless
conversations about one’s day, the weather, or about
so-and-so’s cat, are thought to be a simple but eﬀective
way of reaﬃrming the existence of our subjetive uni-
verse. Very few things escape the tendrils of mundanity
and system stability ensues.
Although the book contains many technical sociologi-
cal terms, it is nevertheless intended for laymen. More-
over, despite the serious nature of the topic, it is written
with a degree of reassuring wit.
his book did not answer all my questions and I found
many of its conclusions a little terrifying. However,
what it did lead to was my begrudging acceptance of
reality as a ﬂuid and ever-changing object.
Send your submissions
for our newest regular
features!
FLASH FICTION: Ultrashort fiction
up to 200 characters
STUDENT PICKS: Send us up to
250 words on your favourite book
and how it changed you
books.felix@imperial.ac.uk
The Social Construction of Reality: a treatise in the
sociology of knowledge by Peter L. Berger and homas
Luckmann
Eva Rosenthal picks:

