15
FRIDAY 11 OCT
MUSIC
@feliximperial
FelixMusic
Armchair Techno
Help The Aged
Simon Hunter reviews Nicholas Jaarʼs Barbican Spectacular
Stuart Masson watches No Age at the Dome
or a guy who has had such
a spectacular rise to musi-
cal prominence, Nicolas
Jaar’s choice of the Barbi-
can as the venue for a one-
oﬀ gig last weekend should perhaps
not be too surprising. In many ways
the concert hall is perfectly suited to
Jaar’s delicate, jazz-infused melodies
and masterful productions. Indeed,
the Barbican is no stranger to host-
ing musicians strongly rooted in the
electronic music sphere; the night be-
fore had seen Pantha du Prince grace
the stage. I was expecting an evening
of Jaar’s more laid-back music, hope-
fully with some guest musicians to ﬁll
the acoustic slots from Space is only
Noise. For these regions, along with
the promise of a trippy accompanying
light show, I was hyped.
he night kicked oﬀ with support
act, Evian Christ, weaving the audi-
ence through shifting clouds of ambi-
ent electronica. he visuals, projected
onto a huge screen along the stage,
added the perfect ocular accompani-
ment, entrancing much of the crowd.
Unfortunately, after a while the audi-
ence began to get somewhat restless,
presumably due to the lack of any beat
to focus the mind. heir prayers may
have been answered in emphatic style
when, halfway through his set, Evian
Christ began laying the jungle and rap
samples on thick. For me, the whole
thing was slightly too long, with the
aggressive drum and bass samples be-
coming jarring towards the end.
After the interval, Jaar took to the
stage and the performance was kicked
oﬀ by a young girl sporadically say-
ing “mama”. After the slightly bizarre
opening, she was whisked oﬀ and Jaar
began.
he ﬁrst half of his performance
F
was a mixture of songs from Space is
Only Noise and other pieces that are
presumably unreleased. Jaar manoeu-
vred between his laptop, keyboard,
microphone and, extremely brieﬂy, a
grand piano. Half-way through, the
young girl returned to the stage with
three others to lend their vocal tal-
ents. his was one of the highlights
of the show, and it was a shame that
more musicians weren’t present to
add an extra dimension to the perfor-
mance.
he second part of Jaar’s perfor-
mance involved the guitarist and oth-
er half of the Darkside project, Dave
Harrington. Together the two create
music very much in line with Jaar’s
other productions, however Har-
rington’s eﬀects-laden guitar work
deﬁnitely adds something new. he
duo played a few tracks from their
recently-released record, Psychic.
AMS album of the week
Janelle Monáe recently released
her latest offering; a double album
consisting of two so-called “suites”,
expanding on the Metropolis con-
ceptual series of her first two re-
leases. After a rise in fame due to
her barely-there feature on Fun.’s
abysmal hit ‘We Are Young’, The
Electric Lady is a wonderful jour-
ney through the past, present and
future of R&B, with a nice sprin-
kling of afrofuturist tinged inter-
sectional feminism! Try saying that
with your mouth full.
The double album features R&B giants such as Prince and Erykah Badu
as well as newcomers Miguel, Esperanza Spalding and Solange. Despite
this, each song remains entirely in Monáe’s domain, stylistically and lyrical-
ly. However, The Electric Lady is less of an obvious concept album as with
2010’sThe ArchAndroid,andIfoundhadtodigdeepertofindthecontextof
the world within which Monáe writes. Interspersed are the hilarious radio
show skits, which give further snippets of the man vs. android concept.
A personal highlight of mine is Monáe and Miguel’s take on the tradi-
tional 90s slow jam ‘Primetime’, featuring a crafty and well utilised Pixies
sample. It seems only fitting that the album has moments that harp back to
the classic ‘Miseducation of Lauryn Hill’, as Hill has just been released from
prison for tax-evasion. Even ‘Electric Lady’ sounds just like a TLC song, if
TLC was two parts Monáe and one part Solange.
‘Ghetto Woman’ is perhaps the only low point of The Electric Lady. I think
the jumbled Stevie Wonder-esque production really lets the song down, as
the lyrical content is socially significant. Aside from this, the production
work courtesy of funk act ‘Deep Cotton’ is pretty awesome.
I have so much more to say about this great double album, but I
really recommend you give it a listen. “What an Experience” indeed.
Janelle Monáe – The Electric Lady
Yasmin Malik
hroughout the show a team
of visual artists worked behind the
screen, projecting analogue visual de-
lights. Diﬀerent eﬀects, such as pro-
jections of mixing coloured oils with
water, were layered upon one another
creating an authentically analogue and
unique visual experience. his was
good, as watching a man play with his
laptop and ﬁddle with a keyboard isn’t
particularly entrancing.
By the encore people had been
teased enough and (myself included)
wanted to dance. Gradually the crowd
stood up and danced as well they could
between rows of seats and to one of
Jaar’s less danceable numbers. Just as
the crowd were really getting into it and
anticipation was growing for a ﬁnale
that would transform the Barbican into
a club, the performance ended. Disap-
pointment was fairly tangible.
And this was my problem with
the concert; Jaar neither performed
his more delicate work at its’ expan-
sive best - with live instruments; nor
did he whip the crowd up enough to
turn the Barbican into a dance ﬂoor.
Instead, I was sat in some middle
ground, with my leg frantically tap-
ping the beat and wondering how
good it could have been had Nicolas
Jaar stuck to one or the other.
No Age descended on North Lon-
don last week to showcase their new
album, “An Object”. he LA two piece
were originally scheduled to play at
Koko but the gig was downsized to
the school hall-esque Dome in Tufnell
Park. his is deﬁnitely a band on the
way down. he new album, unlike its
predecessors, has received little hype
and a fair amount of criticism. I think
a lot of the criticism is over the top,
but the live performance doesn’t ex-
actly help my point. here’s no energy
in any of the new stuﬀ, and there is a
lot of uninspiring shoegazey bollocks.
he lack of drums on a lot of
tracks takes all momentum out of the
songs in the live arena and, perhaps
even more importantly, Dean Spunt
cannot sing for shit. hat’s all ﬁne
when you’re belting out noisey punk
classics, but without the raw energy
it just doesn’t ﬁt. Luckily, they still
brought out some of the noisey punk
classics. “Eraser” and “Teen Creeps”
were met with rapturous approval by
a suddenly energetic crowd and old
favourite “Boy Void” went down a
treat too.
he undoubted highlight of the
night for me was a storming perfor-
mance of “Fever Dreaming” that left
me almost dead (freshers' ﬂu and
energetic gig going are not compat-
ible) but damn happy about it. No
Age deﬁnitely still have the ability to
entertain live, it’s just a shame they
don’t write the songs to do it any
more.
Listen to music? Dance to
music? Sing music? Want
some free tickets? Then write
for music!

