imperialcollegeunion.org
Imperial College Union will be hosting a free sexual health clinic run by
theTerrence HigginsTrust. Services available include rapid HIV, chlamydia and
gonorrhoea tests, condoms, lube and advice.The clinic welcomes all students
regardless of age, gender, sexual orientation, study type or country of origin.
Appointments are bookable on the day and will be allocated on a ﬁrst-come,
ﬁrst-served basis. We will release appointments at 10:30 and 13:30.The last
appointment will be at 16:00. If you have any questions please contact Zoe
Richardson, Representation Coordinator (z.richardson@imperial.ac.uk).
Free Sexual Health ClinicThursday 17 October
Try something new with Give ItA Go!
Imperial College Union’s first Give It A Go scheme is launching this
month! There are lots of free or cheap opportunities to try new things during
October with our Clubs, Societies & Projects. Sessions include synchronised
swimming, American football, yoga, msuci technology and much much more.
Find out more about from our Deputy President (Clubs & Societies) on her
blog at imperialcollegeunion.org/blogs. The What’s On calendar on our website
also has more details and even more events and activities that you can take
part in. Have a look at imperialcollegeunion.org/whats-on.
imperialcollegeunion.org/giag
Last chance to stand inYour Rep & Union Council Elections
Year Representative (Undergraduate) and Course Representative
(Postgraduate) nominations close this Sunday 13 October. If you’re interested
in getting to know students on your course, developing new skills and increasing
your employability, why not become aYear Rep?
Reps are the ﬁrst point of contact for students with course issues, sit on the
Staff-Student Committee and get involved with initiatives such as Rep Week, our
annual Rep Conference and the Student Academic Choice Awards (SACAs).
Being aYear Rep takes no more than one-and-a-half hours a week, is term time
only and work is flexible, meaning you can easily ﬁt it around your workload.
Being a Course Rep takes on average one hour a week and work is flexible.
Being a Rep is a fun and varied role, and you can gain an Imperial Plus certiﬁcate
recognising the hours they put in over the year. No previous experience is
required.
Find out more information on our website or get in touch at elections@imperial.
ac.uk to talk more about becoming a rep.
imperialcollegeunion.org/elections
Union Page
your reps
and union council
elections

