17
FRIDAY 11 OCT
FILM
@feliximperial
FelixImperial
You coulda had class? You coulda been a contender? You coulda been somebody? Do you frankly not give a damn? Are you ready
for your close-up? You love the smell of napalm in the morning? Please tell us all about it: film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Bring her hoooooome
John Park
Film Editor
Prisoners
Director: Denis Villeneuve
Writer: Aaron Guzikowski
Starring: Hugh Jackman, Jake
Gyllenhaal, Maria Bello, Terrence
Howard, Viola Davis, Paul Dano,
Melissa Leo
Runtime: 153 minutes
Certification: 15
“Only do what your heart tells you”
John Park
Film Editor
Diana
Director: Oliver Hirschbiegel
Writer: Stephen Jeffreys, Kate Snell
(book)
Starring: Naomi Watts, Naveen
Andrews
Runtime: 113 minutes
Certification: 12A
If it was ever Naomi Watts’ intention
to pull a Streep or Mirren and score an
Oscar win by playing an iconic English
female, she should have paid closer at-
tention to the script that was handed
to her.
For what it’s worth, Diana’s fail-
ure isn’t down to Watts’ brave per-
formance. At the centre of it all is
the impeccably dressed, wigged, and
made-up actress (they’ve really gone
all out in trying to match the appear-
ance), who nails the (in)famous Pano-
rama interview word for word, and re-
ally captures the essence of a woman
trapped, constantly hounded by the
press who can’t get enough shots of
her, as well as her desire for helping
those in need and most importantly,
for this film, her search for love.
It’s this love angle that puts such a
drab spin on the narrative, as her “love
at first sight” with brilliant cardiotho-
racic surgeon Hasnat Khan (Andrews,
surprisingly good) is played out in
such ridiculous scenes of utmost un-
intentional hilarity that the film fails
to sell a single thing it has to say about
the lovebirds who could have had it all
had it not been for Dr Khan’s strong
disapproval and distaste towards the
media invasion of his privacy. The ro-
mance’s low-point comes when Diana
can’t stop talking about how an actual
human heart cannot really be broken.
Hilarity and embarrassment ensue.
Sudden awkward time-jumps play
an important part in doing some shal-
low digging into the big achievements
of Diana and her charity work, but
these scenes seem to serve the one
single purpose of recreating some of
the famous pictures captured of the
Princess of Wales. Most notable is her
walk in the Angolan minefield - inspi-
rational sure, but when it translates to
the film with very little context to back
What kind of demons can parents
really turn into when something
happens to their children? According
to Prisoners, Denis Villeneuve’s new
gritty, dark, and twisty thriller, anyone
pushed to the limit can be capable of
pretty much anything - which sends
quite the chilling, disturbing message
at the end of its lengthy 153-minute
running time. The eternal question
of “What are we really capable of in
desperate circumstances?” is explored
here, as a number of characters are
thrown into impossible situations.
It was supposed to be an ordinary
Thanksgiving dinner for the Dover
and Birch families. Keller (Jackman),
Grace (Bello), Franklin (Howard) and
Nancy (Davis) are friends who get
together for the annual celebration
with their children. However when
their daughters disappear, it sends
everyone into panic, then despair, as
everyone unravels at the thought of the
worst case scenario.
An obvious suspect is immediately
apprehended, a mentally stunted
young man (Dano) who cannot be
interrogated fully due to his lack of
general understanding. Keller, not
satisfied with the limits of the law,
decides to take matters into his own
hands, starting with kidnapping,
then imprisoning, swiftly moving to
violence and torture. The cold, grey
setting certainly help set the tone of
what is to come, and what follows
matches up with the bleak build-up.
Inwhatmustbethebestperformance
of his career so far, Jackman shines in
the lead as a regular family man gone
wrong - as darkness takes over, his
presence becomes more and more
gripping by the frame, and if he could
score an Oscar nomination with Les
Mis, he certainly deserves one for his
work here.
Equally effective is the rest of
the cast: Gyllenhaal, the fiery and
determined detective who tries to
keep a clear perspective of what’s
legal and what’s not, Bello, Jackman’s
quietly grieving wife who looks sleep-
deprived, Howard, one of the other
fathers who reluctantly gets roped
into Keller’s extreme methods, Davis,
his steely wife who encourages her
husband to look the other way when it
comes to what needs to be done, Dano,
ambiguous in the centre of the did-he-
or-didn’t-he mystery, and Leo, as an
elderly lady who knows more than she
lets on.
The plot becomes more and more
complicated as it goes on, and it’s a
shame the credibility of it all soon
drops along with it. The final reveal is
one that shocks but perhaps not quite
fully explains.
It’s not an easy film to watch by any
means, and the film isn’t afraid to show
some of the frank brutality displayed by
the characters, but this is one that will
linger in the mind and spark debates.
“What would you do?”, “What do they
deserve?” will be interesting questions
to answer after the credits start rolling.
it all up, none of it feels as powerful as
it should have done.
That’s the problem with Diana. As
much as everyone tries to give an in-
timate portrayal, it plays too safe and
neat with the subject at hand, never
steering the narrative to more inter-
esting territory. It goes through the
last two years of her life like a history
textbook, this happened, then a few
months later this, then she made a
speech here etc - which explains why
the film feels as dull as reading one.
Perhaps it is too soon to expect
someone to properly tackle this in-
ternationally celebrated figure. There
must be a biopic underway, something
like My Week with Marilyn , not huge-
ly ambitious timeline-wise, but a suit-
ably poignant and sentimental explo-
ration of an icon’s life. This is sadly not
that film, and Watts has quite severely
burned herself out of this year’s Oscar
race with this one.

