FILM Editor: John Park
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
18 FRIDAY 11 OCT
Fasten your seatbelts... it’s going to be a bumpy night
John Park
Film Editor
Rush
Director: Ron Howard
Writer: Peter Morgan
Starring: Chris Hemsworth, Daniel
Brühl, Olivia Wilde, Alexandra Maria
Lara
Runtime: 123 minutes
Certification: 15
There is something so intensely vigor-
ous and exciting about Ron Howard’s
Formula 1 biopic Rush. Focusing on
British driver James Hunt (Hems-
worth, excellent) and his rivalry with
the German Niki Lauda (Brühl, a wor-
thy opponent), here is a winning film
that concentrates on having fun as
well as staying on course to develop its
characters.
In portraying Hunt and Lauda, that
they’re the complete opposite in na-
ture works to the film’s advantage in
creating a fun dynamic. Hunt is the
boozy, womanising, vomits-before-
every-race kind of playboy, whereas
Lauda, who seems to know everything
there is to know about cars, is a much
more grounded, serious, hardworking
type, whose only romantic streak with
the opposite gender can be hilariously
summed up in his “proposal” for mar-
riage: “it might as well be you” he says
to his future wife. So we’re all quite
shocked when she says yes.
Together they start on the lower
end of the racing world. But slowly
working their way up, they eventually
reach the Formula 1 racetracks. And
through the first act or so it feels as
though a lot of the deep-rooted per-
sonal histories of the two drivers lead-
ing up to this point have been glossed
over, most possibly in favour of the
adrenaline-fuelled race sequences to
come.
But a lot can be forgiven when the
technically sound, highly watchable
and entertaining scenes hit the screen.
The engines start roaring, the tyres
start rolling, and backed by the thun-
dering score of Hans Zimmer, off they
go, risking their lives on the deadly
tracks, and it’s this sense of uncer-
tain danger that adds an unbearable
amount of tension, particularly more
so for individuals not familiar with the
sport in the first place. The cars moves
at an immense speed, and with each
curve, each near-fatal-crash, the awe-
inspiring wow factor is without doubt
the film’s highlight. Howard places his
cameras accordingly for maximum
viewing experience, sometimes within
the driver’s seat as well, so the audi-
ence gets a first-hand glimpse of what
it’s like inside the helmet.
A major life event the film wisely
chooses to spend some time on is
Lauda’s catastrophic crash at the 1976
World Championship in Germany.
With significant burns and multiple
serious injuries, Lauda is left fighting
for his life. And in a gut-wrenching
series of scenes that quite graphically
shows this struggle, it’s impossible not
to sympathise for the helpless man,
more so when his devastated wife
Marlene (Lara) looks on from a dis-
tance. But without ever milking the
dense, heavy emotions, the film care-
fully explores what must have been
Lauda’s most painful, difficult weeks,
whilst also reminding the audience of
the races that are still happening with-
out the German driver.
Hemsworth and Brühl don’t share
as many scenes together as you’d ex-
pect – and frankly there isn’t a lot of
dramatic showdown between the two
other than on the racetrack itself. The
behind-the-scenes rivalry between
the two isn’t well captured initially,
mostly due to the fact that the film
also has their personal lives to juggle
once the drivers’ fame and money kick
in, but their love-hate bromance-type
relationship does build up eventu-
ally, which leads to some very genuine
heartfelt scenes in which we realise
perhaps they did need one another for
that extra drive and push.
The two women standing by on each
of the driver’s side is the aforemen-
tioned Marlene and English model/
socialist Suzy Hunt (Wilde, sporting
a mighty fine English accent), who
catches Hunt’s eyes. Together they
further shape the personal lives of the
drivers, injecting some fiery drama
and at times, some well-placed hu-
mour stemming from events occur-
ring away from the tracks.
In the end with both their likable
qualities, it doesn’t matter a huge deal
when it comes to who eventually takes
the trophy home. Lauda is ahead on
points prior to his accident, and dur-
ing his stay at the hospital for recov-
ery, Hunt gains in on the ranks. The
deciding race at Fuji in Japan, under
frighteningly harsh weather condi-
tions, is a final race worthy of putting
a close to such an electric, exhilarating
“based on a true story” biopic.
Turbo
Director: David Soren
Writers: Darren Lemke, Robert D.
Siegel, David Soren
Starring: (voices) Ryan Reynolds,
Paul Giamatti, Samuel L. Jackson,
Michael Peña
Runtime: 96 minutes
Certification: U
For Theo, aka Turbo (Reynolds), being
a snail is hardly something that will
keep him from dreaming of becoming
a successful, celebrated racer. Staying
up night after night watching his idol
human driver Guy Gagné (Bill Hader,
effectively laying on the cheese) spew
out inspirational monologues, Turbo
too, wishes to compete in the annual
Indy 500 race.
And of course, due to exceptional
circumstances that involves Turbo
drinking some dodgy nitrous oxide
from a sports car, he finds a way to en-
ter the competition, which puts him in
direct competition with his hero.
Of course, the plot is as preposter-
ous and laughable as they come, a tiny
little snail whizzing past Ferraris to
actually compete in the real world, but
once you can take in the fact that this
is a DreamWorks Animation’s movie
aimed mainly for children and hope-
fully the more open-minded adults,
the film succeeds in creating a vibrant,
colourful atmosphere for audiences of
a wide demographic to enjoy.
When the race is on, it marks the
film’s finest moment - as Turbo dodg-
es obstacles, slides under cars, and
skillfully navigates his way around the
track - the camera moves at a rapid
pace to keep up with all the action that
is happening, and with all the noise
and excitement, it’s impossible not to
be swept up by the sheer level of en-
ergy that turns out to become more
infectious than you would have ever
imagined.
Turbo gets a friendly little support
gang together prior to his big show-
down: snails he meets at a taco truck,
owned by kind-hearted Mexican Tito
(Peña) who makes it a hobby to col-
lect snails (and no, never inhumanely
so) and race them with his friends at
a struggling run-down strip mall. And
voiced by the excellent supporting
cast that consists of Smauel L. Jackson
who never disappoints, as well as Mi-
chelle Rodriguez and Ken Jeong, Tur-
bo finds room for humour as our lead
character finds friendship and playful
dialogue when he isn’t showing off his
new skills and his snazzy blue glow-
ing shell (a side-effect of the nitrous
oxide).
Less fun is the family aspect the film
focuses on. Turbo has an older brother
Chet (Giamatti) who constantly tries
to put a stop to his younger brother’s
crazy dreams. This same fraternal re-
lationship is further echoed in Tito’s
life story, as he too, has a disapprov-
ing older brother who is the sensible
realist having to shout at his younger
hermano for not selling enough tacos.
When the message of following your
dream, your passion, and your heart is
hammered home, it’s at times difficult
to have any sympathy left for the char-
acters when it truly matters.
But in the end the message is a
healthy, supposed-to-be-heart-warm-
ing one, something that can be taken
in by both children and adults alike,
with a voice cast diverse and funny
enough to entertain throughout, lead
by the always-reliable Reynolds.
Aside from turning the table on how
one of the slowest creatures on the
planet ends up as one of the fastest,
there are very few original ideas and
imaginative developments to make
this extra special - but to pass the time
with a visually thrilling feature, there’s
nothing safer than a harmless bit of
no-thoughts-required animation.

