19
FRIDAY 11 OCT
FILM
@feliximperial
FelixImperial
BFI London Film Festival
Roz (Wright) and Lil (Watts) are best
friends. Roz’s son Tom (Frencheville)
and Lil’s son Ian (Samuel) are also
best friends. So far so good right?
Now here’s where it gets weird. Ian
starts sleeping with Roz first. Then
Tom starts sleeping with Liz. Yes, the
two female best friends are engaged
in romantic relationships with each
other’s sons. It doesn’t take long for
them to find out about all of this, and
even when they do, their reactions are
shockingly tame. They don’t mind,
as they want each other to be happy,
which is fine for now, but we all know
this arrangement is one that cannot
possibly have a happy ending… right?
More definitely so since Roz is actually
married.
But the way everything keeps its
peace and quiet for quite some time is
what’s remarkable. The four of them
are still as chummy as ever, and it’s
back to their old routines of going to
the beach; the two beautiful mothers
lying in the sand soaking up the sun,
and the two good-looking sons go-
ing surfing, exactly the same picture
they’ve been painting over the years.
And for a good hour the pair of re-
lationships goes on without a single
noticeable hitch. And with the four
actors sharing convincing enough
John Park
Film Editor
Adore
Director: Anne Fontaine
Writers: Christopher Hampton,
Anne Fontaine, Doris Lessing (novel)
Starring: Naomi Watts, Robin
Wright, James Frencheville, Xavier
Samuel
Runtime: 100 minutes
Certification: R (USA)
chemistry, it’s easy to buy into their
love, despite how inappropriate and
preposterous it all may have seemed
at the start.
Having spent so much time on how
happy they are, there is an ill-placed
time-jump that fast-forwards two
years of their lives in which we find
that they’re still hopelessly in love and
devoted. With hardly any details or
significant happenings to back this all
up, the narrow scope through which
we view the characters does limit how
much of this the audience can actually
find believable.
All good things must come to an end
however, after more than an hour or
so, leaving only 40 minutes to come
to some kind of conclusion for this
complicated situation. Reality sinks
in for the characters, and one sensible
person of the group decides to call it
quits. What looked so picturesque
and felt perfect as the four of them
frolicked on the beach not caring for
one moment about real-life problems,
must finish on a bitter note as the film
to moves forward. But what should
have been the most intriguing part
of the story turns into a surprisingly
dry and tepid re-treading of famil-
iar themes for a film that started out
boldly in its opening.
There’s jealousy, younger women
involved, some weddings, and even
an introduction of a new generation.
The mothers officially become grand-
mothers. Even all this however, can’t
liven up the drama or inject any pas-
sion to the narrative. It gets more and
more ridiculous as the film refuses to
address the uncomfortable questions
in the room, instead showing us end-
less pretty scenes at the beach that
start to have less meaning the more
we visit the same thing over and over
again. The fact they all remain age-
defying is one of many distracting fea-
tures, as well as the continued use of
the aforementioned time-jumps that
breaks any fluidity in the storytelling.
Much like what everyone goes
through in the film, the audience may
find themselves hooked and intrigued
in the beginning, only to be left dis-
appointed and empty towards the
end. The actresses in particular give
it their all, in playing the indecisive
women of a certain age who simply try
to embrace love and life for what they
are, but there is simply not enough
going on here to keep you interested
throughout the entire film, which is a
shame, given the highly unexpected,
unique nature of the film’s core ro-
mance plot.
John Park
Film Editor
The Spectacular Now
Director: James Ponsoldt
Writers: Scott Neustadter, Michael
H. Weber, Tim Tharp (novel)
Starring: Miles Teller, Shailene
Woodley, Jennifer Jason Leigh, Kyle
Chandler
Runtime: 95 minutes
Certification: R (USA)
Here is a delightfully charming high-
school drama in which the charac-
ters talk, think, and look like teenag-
ers. Every now and then we are lucky
enough to be treated to some excel-
lent films that involve coming-of-age
stories (Clueless, 10 Things I Hate
About You, Mean Girls, Easy A), so it
was about time we had another one of
these, and The Spectacular Now cer-
tainly fits the bill.
It starts with Sutter (Teller) having
to do what all high-school students
must dread: the college application es-
say. He’s supposed to write about any
difficulties and hardship he’s faced in
life. With plenty of examples to give,
he starts typing away, giving us plenty
of humourous insight into his life that
has so far been far from ordinary.
He thinks he’s happy with his current
girlfriend, and he thinks she’s happy
too, until he finds that she’s been go-
ing to parties without him and instead
with the high-school quarterback. Al-
ready quite the big fan of booze and
having a constant light buzz wherever
he goes (he has a handy little metal-
lic flask he carries with him), Miles
goes through one night of particular
drunken debauchery that ends with
him passing out on a stranger’s front
yard, to be awoken the next morning
by Aimee (Woodley).
So now the boy’s met the girl - and
the subsequent development of their
relationship is quite simply the most
adorable thing you’re likely to see this
year. It naturally progresses from a
slightly awkward friendship stemming
from the boy’s need to have geometry
explained to him, to something more,
then to a more romantic one, with first
kiss, sex, the prom, planning for the
future, all thrown in there.
Also helping are the spot-on perfor-
mances by the two young actors who
appear so natural and comfortable in
their roles. Every minute they’re to-
gether, they seem to be enjoying each
other’s presence, as is the audience.
They laugh, share jokes and family
stories as they bond, and every min-
ute of their blossoming romance feels
heart-warmingly genuine.
Yes, family is another aspect that
plays an important part in fully draw-
ing out Miles’ character. Raised by his
single mother who works as a nurse
(Jason Leigh) and isn’t always neces-
sarily there, he wonders where his
father may be and what he’s getting
up to. Finding his father, and having a
decent conversation is what he longs
for, and when he does turn up in the
form of a scruffy-looking Kyle Chan-
dler, the result is far from something
he wanted. The adults surrounding
Miles, including Mary Elizabeth Win-
stead as his married older sister who
he barely sees, all pitch in brilliant
performances that further shape the
film with touching drama.
Aside from being told that she has
an overbearing mother who wants
her daughter around forever to help
with her newspaper route job, Aimee’s
family life is talked about but barely
seen, an aspect which should have
been explored more, to give an even
balance in the two leads.
The bittersweet nostalgia of hav-
ing to grow up and face the world out
there is the inevitable theme the film
must address, as Miles is quite happy
enough sitting back and relaxing in
his little town that everyone else can-
not wait to leave behind. It’s of course
a familiar message we’ve seen many
times before, but ending the film is a
brilliant closing montage with an ef-
fective voiceover from Sutter, beauti-
fully weaving together everything he’s
learned over the course of the film’s
running time, which is plenty.

