BUSINESS POLITICS PUZZLES
Be a Mentor! Puzzles are back!
Schoolchildren in Zambia
producing handmade bags.
America commends capture of
suspected Al Qaeda leader.
We’ve got two awesome new
puzzles editors who are ready
to give you some cerebral exer-
cise. We’re also introducing the
new comic, Plugtime!
EDITOR’S PICKS
2 FRIDAY 11 OCT
LOLCAT OF TEH WEEK: More from teh Lolcat editor
Joe Letts
Editor-in-Chief
Technical Difficulties
S
o, we had a some perfectly
timed technical diﬃculties
this week, much like when
the printer breaks down
just before you’re supposed
to be handing in an assignment. I’m
praying that this arrives on Friday, so if
youseeitwhenyou’reoutgettinglunch
you’ll know that today is a lucky day!
Anyhow on with the week’s news.
One of the unexpected parts of the
news this week is the upcoming visit to
Imperial by Prince Harry, of Royal and
tabloid fame. he Prince’s visit marks
the opening of the Royal British Legion
Centre for Blast Injury Studies, a new
centre created to improve treatment
and recovery for personnel serving
in the military. I’m sure security will
be tight but who knows, maybe he’ll
stop by the new College Café for
one of those handmade sandwiches?
Another interesting topic is the
resurgence of mascotry in the Faculty
Unions, something I’ve certainly
missed out on as a member of CGCU.
While investigating the story, as well
as interviewing the RCSU President
Plabon Saba I also stumbled upon
College’s blog dedicated to our
collection of mascots. Hopefully after
one of the mascots was taken while
the person in the oﬃce was literally
sleeping in the job, we might see
some more mascot activities taking
place of the course of the year. It will
also be interesting to see what the
RCSU decides to do with the violated
mascot, after all the current heta
cost more than £10,000 at the time
of creation. hey might be forgiven
for not commissioning a new version!
Felix is also starting a new feature
as part of the Clubs & Socs section,
a full page from a diﬀerent Faculty/
Constituent Union each week,
starting with the RCSU (I’ve already
seen Plabon too many time this week).
Hopefullyyou’llbeabletokeepupwith
events and activities of your union on
an almost monthly basis. We’ve also
got a wide range of interesting stories
this week, from our short snippets of
higher education news (including a
rather worrying call from the Oxford
Vice Chancellor for even more fee
increases), an interesting head-to-
head about religious integration and
separation in schools and an insightful
features piece about studying
abroad on the Erasmus scheme.
Finally, keep an eye on the Union
elections happening this month. If
you’d like to stand for a position you
still have until Sunday to enter. As well
as Year Reps and Liberation oﬃcers
there are also positions available on
the Union Council, a body where
you really can make a diﬀerence.
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB.
Email: felix@imperial.ac.uk. Tel: 020 7594 8072. Fax: 020 7594 8065.
Printed by Iliffe Print Cambridge, Winship Road, Cambridge.
Registered newspaper ISSN 1040-0711.
Copyright © Felix 2013.
TO YOU
THIS
WEEK
WAS
BROUGHT
BY
Editor-in-Chief Joe Letts News Editors Aemun Reza, Nida Mahmud Features Editors VACANT Business Editor James Tsim Science Editors Philippa Skett, Keir Little, Fiona Hartley Politics Editor Kartikeya Rana
Food Editors Carol Ann Cheah, Michael Chung Comment Editors Eoghan J. Totten, Tessa Davey Arts Editor Arianna Sorba Books Editors Maciej Matuszewski, Eva Rosenthal Music Editors Simon Hunter, Riaz Agahi,
Stuart Masson, William Stocker Television Editors John Park, Emily Fulham Film Editor John Park Games Editors Maximilian Eggl, Calum Skene, Imran Rashid Technology Editors Maximilian Eggl, Yong Wen Chua Travel
Editor Chris Richardson Sports Editors VACANT Online Editors Philip Kent, Annina Sartor, Stephen Ball Puzzles Commanders Kingshuk Dasadhikari, Oliver Price Copy Chief Annina Sartor Copy Editors Stephen Ball,
Alexandra Hamilton, Thomas Heaven, Mattin Mir-Tahmasebi
This week
Erratum
Hey, so last week we had errors in our erratum. We’re sorry. his week we’re
bound to have some more. If you ﬁnd some errors, want to complain or just
want to have your name on non-printer paper, why not send in a letter to
felix@imperial.ac.uk?
COMMENT
So you think you could be a
better GTA? hink again! Like
riding a bicycle it’s not as easy
as it looks!
Teach First!
Do you want to change live
and make society better?

