McAvoy’s filthy habits
John Park
Film Editor
Filth
Director: Jon S. Baird
Writers: Jon S. Baird, Irvine Welsh
(novel)
Starring: James McAvoy, Jamie Bell,
Jim Broadbent, Imogen Poots, Eddie
Marsan
Runtime: 97 minutes
Certification: 18
John Park
Film Editor
Thanks for Sharing
Director: Stuart Blumberg
Writers: Stuart Blumberg, Matt
Winston
Starring: Mark Ruffalo, Gwyneth
Paltrow, Josh Gad, Alecia Moore, Tim
Robbins, Joely Richardson
Runtime: 112 minutes
Certification: 15
Welcome to Scotland: where we are
greeted by Bruce Robertson (McA-
voy), a coke-snorting, alcohol-addict-
ed, sex-loving detective who’s gunning
for a promotion to the position of de-
tective inspector. In order to get there,
he needs to eliminate his competition.
And by eliminate we don’t mean kill,
but rather publicly humiliate so they’ll
be out of the running. He’s racist, sex-
ist, and every kind of -ist you can think
of, and as we find out more about this
troubled man, you begin to question
the narrator’s mental state as he has
distressing visions that get in the way
of his boozy, dopey life. That someone
like Bruce is in the law enforcement
line of work already provides some
solid groundwork for the film to build
on.
Robertson’s visions of disturbing an-
imals (pigs, sheep, you name it) don’t
even begin to cover how energetically
bonkers this film is. Why is the nar-
rative interrupted at times by Bruce’s
wife Carole (Shauna Macdonald) who
constantly breaks the fourth wall talk-
ing to the audience about her married
life to Bruce? Why does Bruce keep
seeing a tar-stained boy in the corner
of his eyes? Or how about the night-
marish therapy sessions he imagines
being a part of, where Dr Rossi (Jim
Broadbent), with a grossly enlarged
sci-fi alien head, keeps hounding
Bruce with unsettling questions?
A Japanese student who turns up
dead sets off the motion of events, as
taking the lead on this case could ef-
fectively get Bruce a step closer to the
promotion. But the film’s plot never
remains solely on solving the case, nor
does it concentrate on Bruce’s sly and
devious plans to take down his col-
leagues. Filth is really all about Bruce,
and every single detail of his personal
and professional life is laid out for the
audience as we try to piece together
just what on earth must have hap-
pened to create such a person.
McAvoy is startlingly good in his
mentally unhinged role that becomes
more and more unpredictable and
outrageous as time passes by. With
every nervous twitch he shows, cap-
tured closely by so many uncomfort-
ably zoomed-in close-ups, his ex-
tremely physical performance is one
thing that carries the movie and keeps
everything together despite the many
off-beat strands that don’t quite gel
very well. Arousal of sympathy for a
character like Bruce is not the easi-
est task to convey, but with McAvoy
showing a softer, more vulnerable side
to his unsteady self, which plays a piv-
otal role in selling the big reveal in the
final scenes of the film.
The supporting roles are largely un-
memorable (Jamie Bell, Imogen Poots
both have relatively thankless roles
even with their big names), aside from
Broadbent putting on a performance
twice as creepy as the one he showed
us in Moulin Rouge, and Eddie Mar-
san, the kind-hearted, rich best friend
of Bruce who is constantly manipu-
lated and pushed around by his detec-
tive friend. Being a sensible, insecure
softie suits Marsan, as he is respon-
sible for bringing out both the best
and worst in Bruce who, quite frankly
doesn’t deserve a friend like him.
Although starting with a cynical,
black comedy view of Scotland, the
film winds up in places you never
thought would go. Word is, the novel
of the same name the film is based on
is more daring with even less clear
boundaries. It feels as though that giv-
en the film’s title, the overall content
could have been more edgy or darker,
and not perhaps relying solely on the
talent of the film’s leading man.
The structure is no doubt a mess,
but anchored by a superb perfor-
mance from an actor whose extreme
volatility screams mental breakdown,
Filth is a wacky, unmissable ride, one
that is guaranteed to shock and offend
and quite possibly make you think
twice before visiting Scotland.
Let’s talk about sex addiction baby
Everything that Shame was, Thanks
for Sharing is not. Whereas we saw
Michael Fassbender spiral wildly out
of control in Steve McQueen’s har-
rowing sex-addiction drama, Ruffalo
and Paltrow star as the couple to root
for in this light and often fluffy ro-
mantic comedy dealing with the same
subject matter.
Adam (the effortlessly good Ruffalo)
has been “sober” for five years now:
and in sex addiction terms, this means
no pornography, no prostitutes, and
no one-night-stands. His sponsor
Mike (Robbins) encourages him to
start dating again, given how much
change he’s shown over the years in
their 12-step recovery programme,
which is when he meets Phoebe (Pal-
trow), a fitness freak, at a bug-eating
party (no joke).
Their relationship develops, and
eventually the dreaded time comes for
Adam to come clean about his secret
to the unsuspecting Phoebe who de-
scribes herself as a sexual person and
wants to give him a cringe-worthy
lap-dance showing off her impeccable
figure. Will they survive this and will
Adam be able to keep his sobriety go-
ing and not resort back to his old hab-
its when there are so many distracting
triggers around him in everyday life?
Phoebe and Adam’s romance is the
“sweet” part of the film. Elsewhere
in the recovery process is the porn-
addicted, stress/guilt-eating Neil
(Gad, of ‘The Book of Mormon’ fame),
whose friendship with fellow sex ad-
dict Dede (Alecia Moore aka the sing-
er P!nk- who, if she ever needs a ca-
reer transition, should definitely give
acting a go, given her impressive debut
performance here) is where the film
finds its space for most of the humour.
Mike, Adam’s sponsor, also has his
share of drama to handle mostly stem-
ming from his family. His recovering
addict son returns out of the blue
claiming that he has truly kicked the
habit this time. His mother, Mike’s
wife Katie (Richardson, who looks so
much like her mother Vanessa Red-
grave that it’s almost scary in certain
shots) believes him, but Mike refuses
to let his son back in. This strand deals
with the moving drama as family ten-
sion escalates and goes to all the fa-
miliar places of loud drama and harsh
words.
Overall the three main plots that we
follow achieve what they originally set
out to do. They generate an adequate
number of laughs and they move. Sure
it’s often contrived, and doesn’t delve
too deep into the real issue at hand,
aside from Ruffalo explaining a thing
or two about his addiction. There
are even a couple of scenes that step
away from the breezy atmosphere to
portray something more honest and
painful about being a sex addict but
it’s clear from the get-go that this isn’t
something the film wants to spend too
much time exploring.
Ultimately everything means well,
and by addressing a taboo subject the
director has done well not to make
light of a serious condition people suf-
fer. It provides a very optimistic, hope-
ful view for those involved, and whilst
the actual recovery process cannot se-
riously be as sugar-coated and colour-
ful as what is shown here, the certain
element of a feel-good factor delivered
by the stellar cast is worth getting in-
vested in.
Imperial Cinema
This week, bald, furrow-browed
super villain Gru and his posse of
Minions are back in Despicable Me
2!
Following on from the first
Despicable Me, Gru is now a
devoted father of three and a
reformed supervillain. But happy
families don’t last long before
Gru is recruited by the Anti-
Villain League to investigate the
mysterious disappearance of a top-
secret laboratory in the Arctic.
Turns out the lab was producing
a dodgy chemical with a bullshit
Hollywood Science name which
makes indestructible monsters
out of anything, so shit has hit the
proverbial fan. On top of this Gru
also has mayjah romantic woes as
well as parenting struggles. Come
along to find out how Gru and co.
sort this mess out! Despicable Me
2 is a delightful follow up to the
franchise, watch this space for the
upcoming Minions spinoff.
Despicable Me 2:
Tuesday 15th /Thursday 17th Oct.
19:00pm
Ticketsforindividualscreenings
are £3 for members and £4 for
non-members, buy on the door.
£5 Membership includes one
free film and cheaper ticket prices
all year! Buy it here: tickets.
imperialcinema.co.uk
Next Week: Pacific Rim
22 FRIDAY 11 OCT
FILM Editor: John Park
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk

