TELEVISION
Editors: John Park, Emily
Fulham
television.felix@imperial.ac.uk
24 FRIDAY 11 OCT
John Park Television Editor
Revenge: Season 2
2012-13 Television
PreviouslyonRevenge;EmilyThorne
(Emily van Camp) was a kick-ass
vengeful heroine who would have
scared Count Monte Cristo’s socks
off...in season 1. When the show de-
buted, Emily’s goal was to take down
anyone and everyone who played a
part in her innocent father’s (James
Tupper) unfair downfall and his
eventual death - and at the heart of
this conspiracy was the Graysons,
a wealthy Hamptonite family who
would lie, cheat, manipulate and
kill anyone to score an extra buck
or two. There were mindgames be-
tween Emily and the Grayson matri-
arch Victoria (Madeleine Stowe) as
Emily worked her magic wrapping
Daniel Grayson (Joshua Bowman),
the Grayson son, around her fingers.
Withanexplosiveseason1finale,Re-
venge was supposed to have an even
better follow-up season.
So where did it all go wrong? Sea-
son2hasended,andthethirdseason
is well under way, but unless there
is a serious creative reboot, Revenge
may as well call it quits, as the sliding
ratings show the audience wasn’t a
huge fan of the second series.
The problems started when char-
acters with potential were written off
with barely a chance to speak. Most
notable was Jennifer Jason Leigh’s
embarrassingly brief stint on the
show as Emily’s biological mother.
As a mentally unstable character,
there could have been more drama
to play around with, but sadly after
one brief hostage situation she went
away for good. Much anticipation
and hype surrounded what Emily’s
mother would bring to the overall
narrative and what chemistry she
would share with the cast but alas,
this was not meant to be, and an ac-
tress of Jason Leigh’s calibre should
have gotten more.
Exhibit B of more useless charac-
ters: the men. That is, of course, with
the exception of Conrad Grayson
(Henry Czerny) whose pure evil na-
ture makes him awesome as he gets
more deserved screen time. Nolan
(Gabriel Mann) is also invaluable to
Emily’s quest, and is excluded from
this category. Plus, he’s loaded and
is a genius. Who can hate a man
like that? So “the men” include Jack
Porter (Nick Wechsler), his often-
invisible younger brother Declan
(ConnorPaolo),DanielGrayson,and
anewentrytothecast,AidanMathis
(Barry Sloane). Jack the lost puppy in
search of a connection only delays
and derails Emily’s agenda, which
makes for more sappy minutes, De-
clan goes to a fancy posh school and
finds that he’s not fitting in so well
(oh god), and Daniel is stepping up
to the challenge of becoming a bona
fide Grayson, plotting and scheming
although still looking like an over-
sizedimmature14-year-oldwayover
his head. The worst offender of all
however is Aidan - an old classmate
of Emily. The two of them met whilst
they were both in the Japanese Re-
vengey Academy (not a real place).
Their sensei saw romance develop-
ing between the two, and decided
to tear them apart. It’s been years,
they reconnect, and he wants to help
Emily. Help her how exactly...? All
Aidan does is create another side of
a love-shape Emily’s rapidly build-
ing up for herself, and with another
eligible bachelor comes at least a few
episodes of mopey sulking, when
people should really be getting their
act together and launching an attack
on the smug Graysons.
Want more needless characters?
Charlotte Grayson (Christa B. Al-
len) should have stayed dead with
theoverdosefromtheseason1finale
and Amanda Clarke (Margarita Le-
vieva), Emily’s “best friend aka the
girl Emily swapped identities with”
wants the audience’s sympathy when
it comes to the mid-season climax,
and to that I say too little too late.
Only Ashley Davenport (Ashley
Madekwe), the Graysons’ live-in
slave (not being racist here, she really
IS a slave), shows potential with her
duplicitous, selfish side emerging,
only for that to go nowhere too (she’s
also being written out for season 3 -
bye bye Ashley, be a dear and poison
Charlotte on your way out will you?).
Things take an even more drastic
turn for the worse with the introduc-
tion of The Initiative, a collection of
bad guys ultimately responsible for
everything bad that’s happened in
Emily’s life. The name is ridiculous in
itself, and when we get a glimpse into
their offices, oh what a treat we’re in
for. They sit in their sci-fi futuristic
set, one that would most likely find
its place on the Starship Enterprise,
they stare at screens and make deci-
sions to kill people. Yes there may be
people in the world who do this kind
of thing for a living, but given how
Revenge started, this marked a seri-
ous step down for the show.
Putting a face on The Initiative are
Helen Crowley (Wendy Crewson)
and Mr Trask (Burn Gorman), two
villains so over the top they make
Disney baddies look like a real-world
possibility. Helen eventually clashes
with Victoria, the protective mother,
who has one highlight episode of ac-
tually doing something memorable.
That’s right...ONE...out of 22.
Victoria, as always, is craftier with
her verbal threats than she is when
it comes to actually getting things
done. She fancies herself as quite the
schemer and backstabber, but she al-
ways finds herself on the losing end.
But on the plus side, she always looks
so damn flawless and outshines her
younger co-stars which is a real vis-
ual treat.
Coming back to the character who
startedallthisinthefirstplace,Emily
looks as lost as the writers. She dilly
dallys with her revenge idea, a huge
let-down for everyone who’s been
rooting for her since day one (i.e.
me), and with a drewwwwary pace
that is more interested in her love
stories, Emily has very little time to
flex her action muscles and put her
tacky martial arts moves to good use
in dodgy choreography.
Are things looking better for the
third season? Well...to start with,
two of the aforementioned good-for-
nothing roles were given the brutal
axe (not literally - although this is
an absolutely just cause for celebra-
tion: hurrah), but to put a damper of
things is the announcement that two
new actors have signed on for recur-
ring roles. One, a character close to
Victoria and another who may or
may not have something going on
with Daniel. Only time will tell on
whetherthereareenoughpeoplestill
invested in the show to keep those
all important 18-49-year-olds’ rat-
ings/share, but to not haemorrhage
viewers, the show needs to go back
to where everything kicked off so
well, and lose all the fancy wannabe
plot lines to keep everything taut and
focused.

