TECHNOLOGY
Editor: Maximilian
Eggl, Yong Wen
Chua, Osama Awara
technology.felix@imperial.
ac.uk
28 FRIDAY 11 OCT
Nexus 7 Review!
Yong Wen Chua
Technology Editor
T
he Nexus series of devices
released by Google is now
a staple amongst many
Android users’ arsenal of
devices. Initially touted as
a benchmark setting niché series of
devices, the Nexus series has spawned
oﬀ its own fanbase for users who are
interested in always having the latest
version of Android free from any
custom manufacturer’s skins. he
original Nexus 7 released in 2012 was
lauded as one of the best tablets upon
its release. However, one year on,
the Tegra 3 System-On-Chip (SOC)
in it has shown its limitation with
sub-par performance and battery
life. Combined with the cheap ﬂash
memory used in its manufacture,
the original Nexus 7 now feels like a
sluggish monster to use. Google has
seeked to rectify this with the new
Nexus 7 model. Starting at £199 for a
16 GB model, the Nexus 7 is one of the
most aﬀordable 7-inch tablets in the
market, if you discount the recently
released budget £119 tablet called
“Hudl” by Tesco (which apparently
does not suck at all!). he Nexus 7
touts an impressive screen resolution
of 1920 x 1200 pixels at 323 pixels
per inch (ppi). And thankfully, it has
ditched the Tegra series of SOC for
the Qualcomm Snapdragon S4 Pro,
and comes with a hefty 2 GB of RAM.
he display is an absolute treat. With
such an impressive ppi, I can hardly
tell the pixels apart from each other.
Text looks absolutely crisp and a joy
to read. With a PDF of my report
zoomed out to display an entire page
on screen, I could read the text on it
without needing to strain my eyes.
he colours do seem a bit yellowish,
but that could be due to the poor
colour calibration on Google’s part,
something which could be ﬁxed
with some manual user calibration
if they root the device, (then again,
this is highly subjective.) he high
resolution seems to also have taken
its toll on the animations of some
unoptimised applications. Scrolling
through an article on the Guardian
application is janky, and the page ﬂip
animation of my PDF application is
simply unusable. Although the battery
is smaller in size than the original
Nexus 7, the battery life is much better
on this new model. Turning on the
screen for prolonged usage, however,
still destroys the battery life, although
at a slower rate. he tablet boosts an
amazing standby power consumption.
I left the tablet overnight with WiFi
The Torrid State of the Onion
Apparently, the best 7-inch tablet you can get
It was something like a 90s
cyberpunk’s dream: an anonymous,
hidden marketplace on the “deep
web” where everything from research
psychedelics to stolen credit card
details could be bought. he Silk
Road, considered by some a bold
experiment in libertarianism, by
others the biggest online hotbed of
illegal trade, was ﬁnally shut down
by the FBI last week after over
two years of successful operation.
Tor, he Onion Router, sends
connections through several relays
around the world, hiding users’ ip
addresses from websites they visit. It
also allows websites like he Silk Road,
known as hidden services, which are
only accessible via Tor and have a
.onion domain name. Tor is widely
used by journalists and activists to
hide their identities and circumvent
censorship in oppressive countries,
but its hidden services are infamous
for piracy and criminal activity.
he Silk Road takedown is the latest
in a recent spate of developments on
the Tor network: two weeks earlier,
another marketplace called Atlantis
shut down, seemingly voluntarily. In
August, the hidden webhost service
Freedom Hosting, which served
child pornography, was seized by
the FBI. Later that month, millions
of new clients connected to the
Tor network, far more than natural
growth in the service’s popularity can
account for, most likely a criminal
botnet. hese events have raised
concerns for Tor’s users, especially
in light of the recent NSA leaks:
is the network as anonymous as it
claims, or has it been compromised
by law enforcement agencies?
he Silk Road’s operator is known
to its users as Dread Pirate Roberts.
In real life, he is 29 year old physicist
Ross Ulbricht, who lives in San
Francisco, and who had earned around
$80 million from the site. He was
arrested last hursday and charged
with narcotics trafficking, computer
hacking and money laundering, but
it was human error, rather than any
ﬂaw in Tor’s anonymity, which led to
his arrest: at the time of Silk Road’s
launch in January 2011, a user called
Altoid appeared on several forums
advertisingthesite.Onepostcontained
Ulbricht’s personal email address,
which led to his being investigated.
In the Freedom Hosting case,
the owner attempted to set up a
bitcoin-dealing company using his
real identity, which the FBI linked
to the hidden services. he FBI took
control of the servers after his arrest.
Both of these show that Tor hasn’t
been compromised; however, Tor
doesn’t protect from old fashioned
cracking, an unsecured hidden
service, while anonymous, is just as
susceptible to attack as something
accessible from the internet.
Tor’s software is open source and
extensively vetted, and the Tor Project
say, “nothing about this case makes
us think that there are new ways
to compromise Tor (the software
or the network)”. A recent leaked
presentation from the NSA claims
that, “we will never be able to de-
anonymize all Tor users all the time”,
turned on and woke up to ﬁnd that
it has drained less than 5% of the
battery life. Pretty impressive! On the
number side of things, I can only say
unscientiﬁcally that the device feels
fast. It is a joy to use. If you are looking
for the numbers on the device, I would
point you to the excellent review that
AnandTech (http://www.anandtech.
com/show/7231/the-nexus-7-2013-
review) has done. My only concern
with the device is how it does not try
to exceed the current hardware norm,
and break the mold. While the price
is really great for its hardware, the
hardware is simply what is current at
the time of its release. his means that
the hardware will become outdated
rather quickly. While it is inevitable
for devices released today to become
outdated tomorrow, I was hoping
that Google would try and set a
higher standard with its current line
of Nexus devices, much like how the
original Nexus One did. he Nexus
7 is an excellent device. If you are in
the market for a 7-inch device, and are
unwilling to pay the price that Apple
has asked for its iPad Mini, the Nexus
7 should be at the top of your list. It has
a good price, with excellent hardware.
he device is also guaranteed to always
run the latest version of Android,
unencumbered by the lengthy
delays that Android devices are
infamous for their software updates.
going on to say that with manual
analysis they can reveal a very small
fraction of users, but not on demand.
Still, the conﬁdence of Tor’s users,
many of whom are attempting to
evade snooping by the NSA, has been
shaken. When the FBI seized Freedom
Hosting, they installed javascript
code exploiting older versions of
the Tor Browser Bundle which
revealed many users’ IP addresses
,not so much a chip in Tor’s armour,
but a complete sidestep around it.
he exploit was quickly ﬁxed, but
raises deep concerns that similar
vulnerabilitiescouldariseinthefuture.
While Tor is certainly still safe
for its intended purpose, hiding
your ip from websites, these recent
events show that Tor alone isn’t
enough to protect you when hosting
criminal activity. Paranoid users are
looking towards alternatives such
as i2p and Project Meshnet, but for
most, the onion router’s anonymity
hasn’t yet been peeled away.
Kier Little on the shutdown of the webʼs biggest drug dealership

