29
FRIDAY 11 OCT
TECHNOLOGY
@felixtechnology
FelixImperial
Osama Awara, new tech editor, informs you about 3D space printing!
Launching a rocket into space is in
itself a tricky business; well after all it
is rocket science!
Being able to repair one or a space
station for that matter is a diﬀerent
ball game altogether. NASA has plans
to launch their very own 3-D printer
by next year, and for those of you
who aren’t familiar with this novel
way of printing, it basically involves
making a 3-D object of your choice
and having a machine spew it out for
you by simply adding layers of material
together. NASA has been looking at
ways for many years to make the lives
of astronauts easier, as if having to
chase their food around isn’t trouble
enough, astronauts have to worry
about repairing faulty components in
and around space craft/stations which
can potentially be life threatening if
not attended to. A perfect example
of this was in 1970 when astronauts
abroad the fatally struck Apollo 13
were forced to jerry rig a carbon-
dioxide ﬁlter using scrap materials
such as a plastic bag and book cover
and the old classic of DIY: duct tape.
If it were not for the ingenuity of crew
members and engineers on ground
control, this could’ve potentially been
a disastrous return mission. What
NASA aims to do with 3-D printing
is allow astronauts to build their own
repair tools and replacement parts so
incidents that happened back in the
old ’70s NASA era aren’t repeated.
“Imagine an astronaut needing to make
a life-or-death repair… Rather than
hoping that the necessary parts and
tools are on the station already, what
if the parts could be 3-D printed when
they needed them?” Aaron Kemmer,
CEO of Made in Space, a company
which is one of Silicon Valley’s new
members and are contracted to
oversee NASA’s 3-D printing space
programme (pretty impressive for a
start-up to say the least).
Now of course it’s not just space
safety that 3-D printers will improve
but also making the availability of
space (if you’d pardon the pun) a hell of
a lot better. Imagine eventually being
able to launch a printer into space that
allows you to make virtually anything,
all you’d need to take up with you
is just the printer and some plastic,
obviously I’m exaggerating a wee bit
but you get my point, 3-D printers will
make sending a rocket into space a lot
less heavier which for NASA is a big
bonus because fuel prices just aren’t
in the favour of anyone these days,
apart from them Saudi oil lords. Scott
Crump, one of the ﬁrst developers of
3-D printing said, ‘he good news is
that you don’t have to have this huge
amount of inventory in space, but the
bad news is now you need materials,’
and I get his point: you’ will need to
be able to store large quantities of
diﬀerent types of material (namely
plastic and metal) but at the end of
the day storing them is a lot easier and
convenient then storing already built
and functioning equipment. What
is more amazing than printing tools
and parts, is miniature 3-D satellites,
‘what!?’ I hear you shout, yes, NASA
engineers are also trying their hands
at 3-D printing these little bad-boys
that could shoot out of the space
station and transmit signals to earth.
Of course space printers are going to
have to be made slightly diﬀerent from
their earthly counterparts as they’d
have to operate under zero gravity
and survive the ridiculous amount of
vibrations during take-oﬀ in order to
land in one piece, so in terms of cost
it’d be more than your average $2000
3-D printer but knowing NASA’s
outrageous budgets investing in one
of these would be like us going into
a supermarket and buying a kilo of
tomatoes. All in all for any remaining
sceptics out there, 3-D printing is a
sustainable method for bringing with
you what you need when you need it.
3-D Printers take off!
BBC iPlayer 30 days!
The News Bubble
Maximilian Eggl
Yong Wen Chua
Osama Awara
Technology Editors
General news from around the tech world, so you can keep up to
datewith thenewest,wierdestandmostfuturisticthingsaround
1 millionth Rasperry Pi
Samsung curved screen
he ﬁrst ever curved smartphone has been launched. Called the Galaxy
round, it is made by Samsung as you may have guessed. his comes just
days after a rival in the smartphone market announced its own curved
smartphone. At the moment this strange novelty is only available in
South Korea. How much this bendy trend will catch on is unknown
New apple event
HTC One Max
he Rasperry Pi, the mini computer that is available for £25-£32, has
known been produced 1 million times in the UK. Let this not mislead you,
actually this little wonder has sold over 1.5 million units. his makes it the
most successful british computer since the BBC Micro (yes, BBC did make
a PC a while back). We all expect a lot from this credit card sized Brit!
News reports suggest that Apple will be holding an event on October 22.
Rumours on the interwebs suggest that new iPads, general info on pricing
of Mavericks as well as the dandy new Mac Pro will be revealed. he big
iPad is set to be redesigned falling in line with its smaller brother with a
cleaner ﬁnish and portrait size bezel. Furthermore there are suggestions
that the mini will get the same colour palette as the iPhone 5C. Hopefully
this event will not be quite as disappointing as the last one.
he popular online service provided by the BBC is set to get an update.
Viewing windows will now be increased to 30 days for some shows, as well
as some being viewable before the official broadcast! Furthermore, music
is taking a step into the foreground with Radio 1 being introduced into the
iPlayer as well!
One of the only serious competitors to the Samsung dominance of
android, HTC is on the verge of announcing the HTC One Max. his giant
of a phone (even bigger than the galaxy note) will look much like the HTC
One, and will feature a ﬁngerprint scanner in the same manner that the
iPhone 5S does.

