FreshHairdressers
Men’s cuts £22 (normally £35)
All over clipper cuts from £10
Women’s cut and rough dry £28
Women’s cut and salon finish
blow-dry £38 (normally £55)
Highlights from only £40
Sorry CASH only!
FRESH hairdressers are offering
the best haircuts, prices and
service in South Kensington.
Please call 0207 823 8968 to
book an appointment and ask for
a student discount. Please bring
your student ID we look forward to
seeing you.
We use the best styling products
from Wella, Moroccan Oil, L’Oreal.
Sponsored Editorial
Student Discounts At
Appointments available Tuesday to
Saturdays 9.30 to 6.30
We are only 70 metres from
South Kensington station at 15a
Harrington road,South Kensington,
SW7 3ES 0207 823 8968.
Check out our website:
www.freshhairdressers.co.uk
3
FRIDAY 11 OCT
IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON
NEWS
Editors: Aemun Reza,
Nida Mahmud
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
70m from South Kensington tube
College Chemistry department
wins Athena SWAN Gold award
Nida Mahmud
News Editor
T
he Imperial Department
of Chemistry has won
an Athena SWAN Gold
Award, making it one
of the four departments
in the UK to win one.
his is the ﬁrst gold level award for
Imperial. he award acknowledges
success in the increasing numbers
of female students in science, which
improvesequalityincareerprogression
and encouraging others to do the same.
Numerous reasons have been given
for the award to the Department of
Chemistry. hese include multiple
examples of the department showing
national leadership in encouraging
diversity. Imperial and the University
of Warwick established the Irene
Joliot-Curienationalcareerconference
for women that work in science.
Imperial College London has already
won an institutional silver award,
six departments have been awarded
silver and four departments have been
awarded bronze. he Athena SWAN
scheme is managed by the Equality
Challenge Unit, which is a charity
that backs diversity and equality for
staﬀ and students in universities.
he Athena SWAN Manager at
the Equality Challenge Unit, Sarah
Dickinson stated: “he department’s
approach shows that they have been
thinking about and working towards
achieving broader cultural change for
some time. he progress they have
made with regards to gender and
diversity more easily comes when
the principles of the Charter are well
embedded in the department, and this
was evidenced by the submission.”
he Head of the Department of
Chemistry, Tom Welton commented
on this achievement: “I am absolutely
delighted at this fabulous result!
When I became Head of Department
in 2007, I realised that the future
Last week Kensington Palace announced Prince Harry will
be visiting Imperial College London on October 17 to open
the Royal British Legion Centre for Blast Injury Studies.
he palace press release stated that the Prince will be given a
tour of the new centre for blast studies. He will be given 3D
demonstrations in the labs on the eﬀect of simulated blast
impact on cells, and how the blast shockwaves can be used for
research, as well as the simulation of an under vehicle explosion.
he aim of the centre is to increase understanding
and awareness regarding blast injury.
LastweekFreshers’atRoyalHollowayStudentsUnionwere alarmedbya
policeraidduringaFreshers’Weekevent.hestudentswere stoppedand
searched for narcotics. A 19 year-old student was arrested on suspicion
of possession oﬀensive weaponry while ULU Vice President Daniel
Cooperwasdetainedandlatergivenacautionwhenhetriedtointervene.
he Vice Chancellor at Oxford University wants to increase their
tuition fees in comparison to other universities with an aim of
making up for a £7,000 per student deﬁcit in funding. Professor
Andrew Hamilton believes a university should charge students
relative to what it oﬀers, and the cost of education at Oxford
costs more that £16,000 for each undergraduate every year.
success of the department would
depend, not only on the scientiﬁc
excellence of our individual members,
but on how well we work together.
We freely give mutual support when
things go wrong for those around us.
I made it my challenge to create a
culture where we can all do this for
each other on a daily basis; making
‘fantastic’ ordinary, rather than an
exception. his beneﬁts everyone
in the department, but women
especially. Winning an Athena SWAN
Gold not only recognizes the progress
that we are making on transforming
the Department’s working
environment, it also provides impetus
to help drive the next phase forward.”
Imperial’s Provost, Professor James
Stirling commented: “Gender equality
is one of my personal priorities
as Provost. Attracting, promoting
and developing outstanding female
scientists is crucial to our eﬀorts to
remain a world-leader in science
and innovation. he whole College
is proud of the Department of
Chemistry for doing so much to
promote opportunities for women in
science. Staﬀ at every level in each
department are now working to
build on and replicate this success.”
Higher Education
News
Imperial College
Royal Holloway SU
Oxford

