31
FRIDAY 11 OCT
ICU Co-op is a new stall on campus that sells Organic and Fairtrade
foods on Thursdays. They are normally on the Sherﬁeld Building, and
everything is sold at cost-price, so you can buy good quality, feel good
food without breaking the wallet. Most food on the stall will be directly
comparable to the supermarket brands, so why not give it a go?
Goodies include (but of course arenʼt limited to) vegbags from
Sutton Community Farm, snackables like nuts, and coffee/tea.
For more info or to ﬁnd out whatʼs on offer every week (stock
changes from time to time), drop coop@imperial.ac.uk a line...
Carol Ann Cheah
FOOD
Sage(!) advice on how to shop, cook and eat smart - fresherʼs 15 begone!
The self-catering cheatsheet
CHECK IT OUT: ICU CO-OP
Understandably everyone reading
this article will have a diﬀerent
view or preference/budget when it
comes to eating or food shopping.
Even within Carol’s household, the
boys prefer to bag everything from
Sainsbury’s (everything’s in one
location), whereas she doesn’t mind
scouring the North End Road market
and butcher’s for cheaper produce.
However there are some universal
rules that most savvier food shoppers/
cooks will agree with, so we’ve listed
them here for your convenience.
hink of it as a bit of a springboard
if you’re new to or still have kittens
when it comes to self-catering!
PLANNING AHEAD
Unless you’ve got immense
supermarket-fu, get into the habit
of making a shopping list and
corresponding food budget AND
stick to it. It’s very easy to go over
your budget when you see temptables
masked as “oh-actually-I-want-some-
of-these” items.
Some weeks you’ll need to stock
up on some dried/tinned goods (rice,
pasta) and that’ll mean you spend a
bit more in those weeks during the
month, but that’s okay. Adjust the
On Tuesday Oct 1, Meat Soc held
its primary trip this academic year
to the Green Door Steakhouse,
on Gloucester Road. It was great
to meat new members, and to
ketchup with some of our older
ones. We felt that we should begin
in style, dining on really good food.
he food and the service at the
restaurant were excellent; and the
price of the vast majority of the
main courses was reasonable. he
steaks were high, but the restaurant
rose to the challenge. he food
portions were generous, the waiters
were attentive (appearing and
disappearing quietly at intervals), and
they brought the bill in good time.
Rather oddly for a food review,
I have nothing negative to say, and
we had no bones to pick with the
restaurant. All of those present at
our ﬁrst meeting would recommend
the Green Door Steakhouse; all of
the meals ordered looked excellent
(especially the beef ribs); and
everyone looked as though they were
having fun. To not have gone there
would have been a missed-steak. It
may not be appropriate for a student
on a tight budget, but if you are
looking for a really good meal with
good service, we highly recommend it.
For our next trip, a chicken wing
eating contest…
Green Door Steakhouse
152 Gloucester Road
SW7 4TD
Mon-Sun ,11am-11.30pm
Prime Meat Soc Meet
Helen Pennington with a meaty (groan!) review
budget for future weeks accordingly...
plus pasta isn’t a heavy expenditure.
We recommend doing a food shop
weekly and with at least one shopping
buddy. BOGOF/BOGOHP (Buy One
Get One Free/Half Price) deals are
great; but sometimes if they’re on
fresh produce you may not use it all in
time so having a food shopping buddy
means you get to enjoy the deals but
without as much outlay. It works for
online food shopping as well get a
few more buddies, split the delivery
cost or try and hit free-delivery spend
amounts.
Whatever you do, don’t head oﬀ
shopping on an empty stomach. Many
of us can testify that you’ll end up
spending more...
SAVVY CHOICES
You don’t always have to be a food/
label snob. Sometimes own-brand/
value-brand stuﬀ is on par or perhaps
better than the name-brand stuﬀ you
ﬁnd in supermarkets (Basics digestives
and smoked salmon trimmings are
Felix Food favourites). However there
are times where you do get what you
pay for, so you might have to have a
try for yourself. Do keep an open mind
though!
Sometimes a simple swap in the
cut of meat can save you pounds. We
opt for chicken thigh/drumstick meat
instead of breast meat sometimes
chopped up, it’s more sumptuous in
stews and has a richer ﬂavour. For
protein ﬁends with little to no time,
eggs and ﬁsh are a great and cheaper
way to keep going.
Buy seasonal fruit and veg. We’re
sometimes guilty of violating this
as a certain editor is a sucker for
clementines whatever month of the
year we’re in, but it’s a lot better to
stick to the produce that comes with
the seasons. Leeks and potatoes for
Autumn/Winter, light summery veg
for the warmer months... your wallet
will thank you, and no one wants to
eat a dense casserole in summer so
your stomach will too!
Make it a point to try something
new in terms of fruit or veg (or maybe
even cuts of meat) once a week. It’s a
great way to broaden your horizons
and prevent you from being stuck in
a food rut. You never know, you may
end up liking it, Carol found out that
way with beetroot! he internet is a
great place to ﬁnd out what to do with
novel (to you) foods/ingredients.
MAKING THE MOST OF IT
Cook two portions in a go, don’t
bother with just one, as you’ll be
making and washing up the same
amount of mess. Keep one portion
for lunch the next day, or share with
a mate (and get them to cook the next
day!)
If you’re short on dosh, all-in-one
meals like soups, one-pan dishes or
stir-fries are great to save on the cost.
here’s still a way to eat cheap and
healthy without having to resort to pot
noodle (okay, we’ve made pot noodle
gourmet before in a previous issue but
you get our drift!).
Don’t chuck out sad-looking fruit,
give it a new lease of life by blitzing
it up for smoothies/yogurt sauce,
or maybe use it in a pudding/cake
(banana bread, we’re looking at you).
To keep it fresh for longer though,
we recommend storing bananas away
from other fruit, their gases make fruit
go oﬀ faster.
Similarly for older veg, they tend
to make great soup or sauce-bulking
ingredients. Or just cook them for
longer in a winter stew.
Invest in a decent grater, for cheese,
it boosts ﬂavor and aerates it a bit so
you’ll use less and save money. A good
grater helps create interest in dishes as
well: grated carrot and cucumber in a
tossed salad, anyone?
Measure out pasta/spaghetti to cut
down on waste. As a handy guideline,
a standard mugful of pasta is enough
for one person. For spaghetti, we love
the spaghetti measure from Joseph
Joseph (check out John Lewis) that can
be adjusted to measure out portions
1-4 servings. It’s 8 quid, but you’ll
recoup the cost in terms of spaghetti
(and other sauce) not wasted.
And of course, the most basic
time-saving tip (for you chronic on-
the-rush freshers)... food cooks faster
if you chop it up into smaller bits
instead of larger chunks (e.g. carrots
and potatoes for roasting/boiling/stir-
frying). No one’s going to be judging
you on whether you’ve presented your
veg in cubes or matchsticks, so unless
you’re cooking for Gordon Ramsay it
really doesn’t matter.
Got a few protips of your
own for us? Weʼd be happy
to make a compilation.
Send them over to
food.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Editor: Carol Ann
Cheah, Michael Yat
Kit Chung
food.felix@imperial.ac.uk

