CAREERS
32 FRIDAY 11 OCT
As well as thinking carefully about
what factors are important to you
and what skills you want to use and
develop, it is also essential to consider
what interests you and what it is that
you would like to achieve in your
career. You might like to consider how
much you wish to use your degree
subject in your chosen career. Jobs
for graduates can be roughly divided
into three categories: those where
the degree discipline is an essential
element of the job; those where the
degree discipline provides useful
background knowledge but will not
be used directly and ﬁnally careers
which are open to graduates of any
discipline. It is worth noting that
about 45% of all graduate roles are
open to students from any subject so
that really opens up your choice. Your
leisure and other interests outside
your degree studies may also give you
an indication of the type of career that
might attract you. he clearer you are
about what will challenge and satisfy
you, the easier it will be to select the
career ideas with the most potential.
Whatever your interests are –
from your degree, extra-curricular
activities or elsewhere – consider
whether and how you might wish
to use them. Do you want to focus
your career on this area of interest or
It’s the time of year when all around
you fellow students are busy getting
ready to make applications to graduate
roles, internships and further study.
Does it feel like everyone apart from
youhastheirfutureplannedout?Don’t
worry, hopefully this article will give
you some pointers about how to make
that all important career decision
and start planning for your future.
It pays to understand
you!
A career is most likely to be
satisfying if it enables you to use
your preferred skills and personal
qualities. You will need to reﬂect
on your strengths, attributes, skills
and experience so far to enable you
to build a clearer picture of yourself.
hink about all your qualiﬁcations,
and also the skills you have developed
through your studies, extra-curricular
activities and any work experience to
build a picture of what you would like
to use in your work and also perhaps
which skills you would prefer to avoid.
knowledge, or would you simply like
to have it as a context for your job?
Butitnotjustyourskillsandinterests
that are important, motivation
and values are just as critical when
thinking about your career direction.
A job that meets your motivational
criteria is most probably going to be a
fulﬁlling job. For some people, a high
status and signiﬁcant salary will be
key factors when they are choosing a
career. Other people may place great
importance on having a good balance
between their work and home life or in
a career that will continue to challenge
intellectually. You may want to “make
a diﬀerence” in your job – what does
this phrase mean to you? Is it about
having a commercial impact, making
a scientiﬁc discovery or helping a
child to learn? hinking through
how you feel about work will also
help you in your ﬁnal career choice.
Next step – find out
what is available!
We are very fortunate at Imperial
College, with many companies
interested in recruiting Imperial
students. As a result you will get
lots of exposure to diﬀerent industry
sectors and types of companies during
Confused about your career choice?
Careers Service
Imperial College
your degree. here are plenty of
opportunities to investigate career
roles, and potential employers
throughout the year by attending
Fairs, Forums, Lunchtime Careers
Talks, Recruiter in Residence Days,
alumni networking sessions and
much more all designed to allow you
to research and make contact with
potential employers. JobsLive is also
a great source of information with
a database of over 7000 employer
proﬁles searchable by industry sector
and location. Because it tends to be
the larger organisations that physically
come onto campus JobsLive is a great
way to begin to research smaller
companies and start-ups who may well
oﬀer a perfect way to start your career.
Remember not every job is going
to be clearly advertised. he ‘hidden’
job market describes those vacancies
which employers don’t advertise yet
still want to ﬁll. Advertising a job can
be costly and might generate more
applications than they really want
making it a time consuming to process
for the employer. Some job sectors are
so popular that employers may receive
enough speculative applications to ﬁll
any position without advertising. It
is estimated that the 70% of jobs are
ﬁlled though the hidden job market.
To discover how to make the most
in this area check out information
at http://www3.imperial.ac.uk/
careers/ug/grad/hidden for help in
breaking into these ‘hidden’ roles.
Considering further study as your
next step? Yet again it pays to plan
early and to think through what you
hope to gain from the course you
choose. Masters, PhD, vocational
qualiﬁcation, specialise from degree
or change direction, funding and
location all need to be considered.
here is information on further
study at http://www3.imperial.ac.uk/
careers/ug/consideringfurtherstudy
to help you work through your choices.
To start with it might seem as
though your research into you is
generating more questions than
answers but it pays to take the time
to build this picture of yourself
and how your future might look.
Understanding what is important to
you will hopefully make you more
conﬁdent when it comes to making
decisions, researching opportunities
in the job market and it will also
make it much easier to eventually
market yourself to employers.
To get further help with career
decision making go to:
www.imperial.ac.uk/careers/ug/plan
CFCAREERS
FAIR 2013
imperialcollegeunion.org/careersfair
Find your new career here
Monday 21 October 2013
11:00 - 16:00 | Queen’s Lawn | Imperial College London | South Kensington

