CLUBS & SOCS
34 FRIDAY 11 OCT
Why Volunteer?
Ben Fernando
Charity Editor
S
ome people think that charity should
be done as a completely selﬂess pursuit.
Perhaps it should be! But the reality is
that we’re all busy and want to enjoy
our free time at Imperial, so why
bother to do not-for-proﬁt work? Here are a few
reasons. Some of them are obvious, some are not…
1) You can make a contribution to people
who need our help –whether it’s refugees or drug
addicts or people in extreme poverty; the charitable
groups at Imperial oﬀer you an opportunity to
make a diﬀerence. And what’s more, you’ll always be
given the opportunity to see what the diﬀerence that
you’ve made is, whether that means going to Kenya
to see the Orphan Project work, or going out to see
Richard House’s amazing work with terminally ill kids.
2) You will meet some pretty cool people. Some
people see it as a networking opportunity, others just
like the socialising. I ﬁnd that talking to other people at
RAG helps me stay sane! If it gets you out from behind
your desk and your laptop at Imperial, then it is good.
3) You never know, you might end up ﬁnding out
that you want to go into not-for-proﬁt work. I started
my ﬁrst year wanting go into Physics but now I think
something along the lines of science for development
could be interesting. ‘Social Entrepreneurship’ is one
of the new big things in the world, and there’s a huge
amountoffundingforpeopleinterestedinsuchventures.
Charity work can be a great introduction to the ﬁeld
and can help you ﬁnd a product that needs developing.
4) You can travel loads. RAG organises charity
trips to Kilimanjaro; I’ve just got back from an attempt
at climbing up Everest. hat… didn’t go so well… but
it was still a great experience! Friends of mine have
been oﬀ to Kenya, South Africa and there was even
a team that went to El Salvador to volunteer this
summer. If you want to see the world and make a real
diﬀerence too, then sign up for one of these trips now.
5) Volunteering recognition – not-for-
proﬁt work is something that people are sometimes
uncomfortable being rewarded for, but you can work
towards an Imperial Plus volunteering certiﬁcate or a
National Volunteering Qualiﬁcation. Whilst these are
just bits of paper, they recognise the development of
importantskillslikecommunicationanddelegationthat
are key to not just charity work but also jobs in general.
6) It will make you more employable! I
hate to use the ‘CV’ word but you don’t want to be
one of those people that end up sitting behind a
desk at their ﬁrst job and can’t communicate with
their office mate to save their life. Volunteering
will expose you to all kinds of situations that are
unfamiliar and will force you to develop your own
skills. I don’t think I would be nearly as conﬁdent
writing for Felix if I hadn’t done any charity stuﬀ!
Feel free to email me if you have any questions!
Ben
rag.treasurer@imperial.ac.uk
“Are you a
part of a club
or society?
Or do you go
clubbing? Are
you sociable?
Do you like
projects? Yes,
Yes, Yes? Then
write in with
something
interesting
about your
club, like a two
page report
on a Chess
Tour! Who
knoew these
guys weere so
good?”
RAG Treasurer
CLUBS & SOCS
A
s some of you may already
know, Imperial has sadly
lost its ‘Skateboarding and
BMX’ society this year.
However, this does not
mean that Imperial has lost its skaters
and BMXers! his is a quick update as
to what is happening with the Imperial
skateboard and BMX scene this year.
Imperial SB is currently an unofficial
group of riders that session a variety
of diﬀerent skate parks across London.
In contrast to the Skate society, which
mainly focuses on ice skating and roller
skating in and around public parks,
Imperial SB is for those who want to
session skate parks for ‘tricks-based’
activities, such as skateboarding, BMXing
or rollerblading. If you enjoy riding,
use to ride or are looking to start, then
don’t hesitate to contact us on Facebook
(facebook.com/ImperialSb), Tumblr
(imperialsb.tumblr.com) or Gmail
(imperialskatebmx@gmail.com). We are
looking for new riders, photographers,
ﬁlmers, artists and anyone that’s
interested in the local skatepark scene.
London already has a large and diverse
range of skateparks with many more
opening every year. he biggest and
arguably the most famous skate park in
London is BaySixty6; now sponsored
by Nike SB. his park has recently had
a complete overhaul and reopened in
August this year. he new and improved
skate facility is fully resurfaced and
redesigned, complete with new gaps,
hydraulic ledges and a bowl. he park is
still open daily, with a full day pass costing
around £10 and there are, of course,
concessions for beginners and for shorter
sessions. BMX riders unfortunately
still have restricted access. Check the
park’s Facebook page for further details
(http://www.facebook.com/BaySixty6).
New to the scene this month is the
council-funded £170k concrete skatepark
in King George’s Park (on the Southﬁelds/
Wandsworth border). We had the
opportunity to quickly session this park
before the start of term and the verdict
is unanimously positive. Next to the
site of the previous skatepark and youth
centre, Wandsworth Council has decided
to invest money in constructing a new
concrete skate plaza and BMX track.
his park has pretty much anything you
could ever want, including: ﬂat banks,
quarter pipes, rails, ledges, gaps and
really smooth transition. To top this all
oﬀ, the council has left the old skatepark
in place, which further adds to the
variety on oﬀer. To ensure that the park
has a successful induction into the local
community, two members of staﬀ are on
site permanently until the end of this year.
his park is free to ride and already has a
great community of skaters and BMXers.
If you would like to be kept updated on
openings like this and what’s happening
in the local skate and BMX scene then
contact us or follow us on Facebook or
Tumblr. We hope to ride with you all soon!
Skateboarding & BMX
BART ANDREWS
“
£170k concrete
skatepark in King
Georgeʼs Park
“
ED BRIAL
ED BRIAL
Bart Andrews provides an SB & BMX update

