4 FRIDAY 11 OCT
FEATURES Editors: VACANT
felix@imperial.ac.uk
So you think you’re an Erasmuser?
I
t may seem strange stuck on level 4 of the
library, turning pages as silently as possible
to avoid any evil stare of doom, but there
are some Imperialites that leave for the
mythological Erasmus year; and I am one
of them. Last year I packed up my stuﬀ in three
bags and ﬁve boxes and left for Montpellier,
France. I’m back in London now, new ﬂat, new
year, but I am still haunted by the memory of
those wonderful days. Every French tourist on
the tube makes me want to jump on a plane and
every mention of cheese, wine or garlic makes
me more than acceptably emotional. he truth is
I’ve got Erasmus blues. I met some lovely people,
saw new places, lived in a foreign country, learnt
a diﬀerent language blah, blah, blah… Really
I did all of the things it says on the brochure. I
also made friends with people with names like
Pierre-Etienne and Delphine, and spent and awful
lot of time playing board games with the best
group of French nerds ever. I made friends from
all over the world and found couches for all my
future interrailing plans across Europe. Even so,
happiness is a question of timing, and more than
once I have heard fellow students describing their
Erasmus experiences far less enthusiastically
than me. For an unlucky Erasmuser, the French
aren’t sophisticated, they’re stuck-up, the Spanish
aren’t friendly they’re loud, the English aren’t…
well I don’t know what positive things they say
about us, but add your own disgusting food-bad
humour stereotype at this point. In order to avoid
any disappointment, here is a list of some major
pointers to think about if you are considering
whether of not you could be an Erasmuser:
Did you enjoy group holidays as a child?
Erasmus, especially in the ﬁrst few weeks,
involves a lot of mingling and travelling to places
with large groups of people. Usually your host
university will organize some form of meeting
or, if the institution isn’t very hands-on, you can
join your local Erasmus Facebook page. here
is usually a lot of souvenir buying, queuing
together for things like banks and phone shops
and generally awkward interacting (if you are
unlucky). If childhood experiences like scouting
and school trips to the zoo didn’t traumatize
you, it’s more likely that you will enjoy visiting a
church/random Roman theatre/weirdly shaped
cave with total strangers. But be aware that this is
part of the process.
Do you have your mind set on what you
want to do after university?
Erasmus is an academic and professional
experience, but don’t be fooled, it isn’t a year in
research or industry. You will grow on a personal
level and you will learn things about yourself and
what you want to do “when you grow up”. But if
you already know these things, why bother? For
some people Erasmus just isn’t the right choice, if
you’re eager to ﬁnish your studies and are scared
to lose your friends as they graduate and leave
you to reach all their goals of wealth and fame,
you don’t have to do it. On the other hand, if you
are so determined, a welcome break before you
start your lifetime of achievements could be a
good idea.
Did you miss your parents so much when
you came to university that the P&G advert
for the Olympics made you cry?
Again, I am not saying that you shouldn’t go
abroad if leaving your parents the ﬁrst time was a
bit of a trauma. Some years will have passed when
you eventually leave, and you will be older and
wiser. But if you enjoy the comfort of your home
and the people you’ve known all your life, there
is no need to leave, you can make new friends
anywhere, and new experiences are new and
exciting no matter what country you’re in. he
same thing goes for your boyfriend/girlfriend.
Most students take a year in another university to
“get to know” another culture… one member of
the opposite sex at a time. Possibilities are endless
as well, because Erasmus students (and I am sorry
to say this but English ones in particular) have a
bit of a reputation. But if you have someone to
snuggle up to while watching TV, then well done!
You’ve earned the chance spend as much time
as possible with them! Go be a smug couple if
you are so inclined, because no one will be very
tolerant of your endless pining for a far away
loved one once you leave Britain.
Are you comfortable drinking large
quantities of local alcoholic beverages in
order to improve your foreign language
abilities?
his is probably the least worrying of the
considerations: I left London a lightweight
drinker who couldn’t have a pint of cider at the
union without stumbling home afterwards,
and I return with the drinking stamina of a
small Australian rugby team. However, feeling
uncomfortable about the language is a hard part of
going on an Erasmus. he truth is that one never
really feels like the same person when speaking
a foreign language: jokes seem lamer; feelings
appear impossible to translate into phrases, and
occasionally, or very often, people laugh at your
mistakes. his is something to consider because,
if you are a naturally shy person, it is unlikely that
you will discover your inner lion while talking
German to a group of Bavarian footballers from
the local club. Even so, at the end of the time you
spend abroad you will have achieved some goals
from a linguistic point of view, and anyway, there
are always other Erasmus students, and chances
are that you might be able to sneak a few cheeky
English phrases here and there.
Having considered all these things, you should
now consider this: nobody is, ever, ever again
going to sponsor you for meeting lovely people,
seeing new places, living in a foreign country,
learning a diﬀerent language and, yeah, doing all
the things it says on the brochure. You might get
the occasional feeling, reminiscent about the time
you were picked last for the volley team in PE, but
those passed then, and now the odds are all in your
favour. You came to Imperial a scared fresher, and
now you’re a cool, easygoing Imperialite and full
of friends! It’s time to do it again and become an
Erasmuser! If you’re really lucky you might even
meet a group of lovely nerds and spend the best
few months of your life.
Disclaimer: students are advised to check out
the situation in their own deptartment
Imperial’s Erasmus Mobility
Every year Imperial sends students abroad to study with a
large number being sent via the Erasmus scheme.
FRANCE
GERMANY
ITALY
NETHERLANDS
SPAIN
SWEDEN
34
9
0
10
4
7
1
40
29
10
18
1
21
2
SWITZERLAND
FROM IMPERIAL TO IMPERIAL
B_rhnmabgdmaZmrhn]ebd^mh`^mbgoheo^]pbmama^>kZlfnl
scheme or even meet some Erasmus students, why not
contact the Erasmus club?
Otherwise if you think you could have made a better
infographic, contact felix@imperial.ac.uk
SOURCE: IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON
Giulia Gabrielli on the Erasmus experience

