“Keep the
Cat Free”
11/10/13
Issue 1555
felixonline.co.uk
SPORT
If only you knew how easy (well,
relatively) it is to edit Sport...
he ﬁrst event of the tri club racing
calendar brought nine athletes to
LondonFields,competingintheswim-
run combo known as an aquathlon.
his early season competition was
an opportunity to blow away some
of the summer cobwebs for returning
members, whilst for a couple of others
it was an opportunity to get a ﬁrst
taste of the multi-discipline action.
Myself in the latter category, I was
so full of enthusiasm when signing
up, that little things like start times
didn’t really seem important enough
to check. Surely it can’t be too early,
they do realise we were students right?
Wrong. Alarms set for between 4.30
and 5 o’clock, we made our way bright
eyed and bushy tailed (okay that was
a slight lie) to catch the ﬁrst of our
two buses to get to the venue. Now
normally bus journeys don’t make it
into match reports, but ours makes
a brief appearance for two reasons;
ﬁrstly in memory of the much missed
Jean Claude, the ‘porridge-in-a-
pot’ made several appearances and
secondly for the adventures of Sophie
Kirk. Normally the most organised of
people, we found it slightly surprising
when she missed our arranged
meeting time and thus the 211. Fear
not, she will get the next bus and
catch the subsequent one to London
Fields? Wrong again. Due to the Royal
Parks half marathon taking place that
Triathlon Club make a splash at Aquathlon
ICU TRIATHLON CLUB
James Ellis documents TriClubʼs trials on land, buses, and water in an epic battle against their competitors
morning (shout out to Harriet, a Tri
member competing) diversions were
beginning to take operation and time
was beginning to get short. Having
pulled a sprint out the bag that Bolt
would have been proud of, Sophie
just missed catching us in the walk
between stops and was now in danger
of missing the event. At this point she
hailed down a cab and uttered the line
in true ﬁlm fashion – ‘follow that bus!’
To cut to the chase; one cab driver
doing a good Lewis Hamilton
impersonation, a quick-ﬁre bit of
transition practise between cab and
bus at one of the stops and a round of
applause later and the team was ﬁnally
complete. Drama over, for now at
least, we progressed to the venue and
completed the registration process.
he swim went oﬀ in a staggered start,
with the ﬁrst of the 200 competitors
taking to water just after 8 AM with
swimmers entering at 20 second
intervals. Done on a ‘fastest-ﬁrst’
basis, Sophie was the premier member
of TriIC attacking the 400m outdoor
pool swim. She was swiftly followed
by Charlie Houston before the trio
of Vicki Solly, Marcel Admiraal and
Fran Capel all in one after another.
With the cluster demonstrating some
smooth technique, a bit of intra-club
rivalry helped to spur them on to
excellent performances. Dropping
down the order a bit to our slightly
less gifted swimmers - I can write this
as I’m very much a ﬁsh out of water
in the pool (that sounded better in
my head) – Ed Hallett, American
newbie Alejandro Baez and myself
were underway. By this point Sophie
was coming to the completion of
her 5 x 1km loops, all of which was
able to be caught on camera by Mike
Kaye who was timetabled to enter the
water 135/200 of the competitors. At
this point the starting order system
should be explained; during the
online registration process you had to
give your estimated time for a 400m
swim and everyone was then ranking
accordingly. Not knowing his 400m
time, Mike – a PhD student – scaled
down a time from his 750m swim at
the BUCS sprint triathlon. Slightly
surprised at his position on arrive
Mike rechecked his estimate and
realised the 10mins should actually
have been more like 6mins 20 which
would have him right at the front of the
race. hank goodness Imperial isn’t a
university which relies on numerical
competency… It should be pointed
out Mike did give a masterclass when
he eventually entered the water!
Moving onto the run section and
diﬀerent strengths of the athletes
began to show through, with some
much better runners than swimmers.
his, combined with the ﬁve lap
nature of the course, meant everyone
gets well and truly mixed up making
it hard to know your true position in
the race. hus it was simply a matter
of grinding it out and making the
most of a crisp Sunday morning.
Everyone showed remarkable grit
and determination, with the likes of
Charlie seeming to get round looking
relatively (or you could say annoyingly)
untroubled. I’d like to say I joined him
in this, however I took a liking to the
pool water and managed to swallow
quite a lot of it, which then made the
run rather challenging! Ultimately we
all crossed the line in various states of
disrepair, managed to grab a handful
of complementary cake and stumble
over to join the rest of the TriIC
A lot of hard work, multiple bruises, a
devilishpubquizandonebrokennose...
Imperial’s Shorinji Kempo club
organised this year’s highly-
successful BSKF (British Shorinji
Kempo Federation) summer camp in
Chiswick. he two-day event in early
September was attended by more
than seventy Kempo practitioners
(kenshi) and some top Kempo Senseis
from Britain and Japan. Participants
crew. Marcel even managed to grab a
free massage at the ﬁnish too, which
appeared to go down a treat, before
we all did the mandatory club photo.
Whilst staring into the sun caused a
few eyes to be forced open, the smiles
were not, due to the satisfaction of
completion and the legendry Tri club
atmosphere.
Still not complete with our day, we
headed oﬀ to the pub where the prize
giving was to take place – and no
we did not have a tipple, we’re elite
athletes – with Sophie in particular in
the running for medals. Alas it didn’t
turn out to be the case, although some
hiccups had already surfaced with the
results, which as of writing have not
been released outside the current top
three. So I think this should really go
down as a TBC. Everyone is eagerly
awaiting the results so we can analyse
our times in each section (we’re
Imperial students after all, what else
would we do with a load of data?), but
either way I can safely say on behalf
of everyone it was a fun event to be
part of. As a Tri club ﬁrst-timer I was
more than welcomed into the team
(ignoring the blatant segregation on
the bus) and we are very grateful to
London Fields Tri Club for organising
what was a very successful event.
Appetite suitably whetted for the
year, I for one can’t wait to kick on
with training and throw myself into
more races over the coming term – as
such, anyone who has ever thought
about triathlon, come and try some
of the sessions out! he club is a very
welcoming one, Ed as chairman is
doing a wonderful job developing it
and ultimately it’s a great laugh with a
great bunch of people. Email triath@
imperial.ac.uk to ﬁnd out more!
enjoyed some quality Kempo
instruction in sparring (randoori), soft
techniques (juho), hard techniques
(goho), healing massage (seiho), set
moves (kata) and philosophy (howa)
As well as kenshi from Britain
and Ireland, we were joined by a
contingent of Czechs from Prague
dojo, which was set up by Imperial
alumnus Tomas Bystron who gained
his black belt (1st dan) at Imperial
Saturday’s training included teaching
on how to do a perfect ninja
forward role (mae ukemi) amongst
other techniques. here was some
bloodshed as one instructor suﬀered a
broken nose that was quickly tweaked
back into place by Sensei Mizuno
(8th dan), the BSKF’s chief instructor.
Sensei Mizuno’s later philosophy
session talked about the healing
powers of seiho (kempo’s healing
massage techniques) and kenshi were
invited to perform some leg seiho.
Only on one leg, though, as a test to
see by comparing leg aches and pains
if seiho really works! Reports diﬀer...
Saturday night was (of course)
spent in the pub. Sensei Sean from
Imperial had devised a ﬁendish
martial arts pub quiz, including a
picture round (Can YOU recognise
a picture of Chow Yun Fat at ﬁfty
paces?) and some very obscure
trivia. he winning team received
a bottle of Sake for their eﬀorts.
Sunday’s training involved punching
practise using pads for full-force
blows, randoori practise and kata
practise. hat afternoon, kenshi were
treated to some demonstrations
including three-against-one ﬁghting
and a skilled pairform demonstration
(embu) using bo staﬀ (shakujo).
Kenshi departed on Sunday evening
feeling tired and bruised, but having
learnt some great Kempo. Imperial
kenshi left safe in the knowledge
of a job well done. Done so well, in
fact, that Imperial dojo has been
asked to organise next year’s BSKF
40th anniversary celebrations, too!
he success of the summer camp for
us at Imperial completes a great year
for ICU Shorinji Kempo. he club’s
baking raised over £400 for charity,
and we attracted more new members
than ever before. Eight new kenshi
gained their yellow belts and three
of our instructors, including Imperial
alumnus Aled, gained their 2nd dan
in Shorinji Kempo. Former captain
Maks gained his black belt (1st dan)
alongside fellow ‘ﬂying moustache’
and treasurer Aditya. You may
remember this dynamic duo from
the BSKF national demonstration
(Tai Kai) last November, where their
pairform demonstration (embu) won
ﬁrst place. Imperial Shorinji Kempo
is also now (based on the number of
paid-up BSKF members) the biggest
BSKF dojo. All in all a fantastic year,
let’s hope for more of the same.
Shorinji Kempo trains on Saturdays
1-3pm in the Union Gym and
hursdays 6-8pm in Activity Space 1
Summer camp success
for ICU Shorinji Kempo
Emma King reports back from the
British Shorinji Kempo Fedoration camp

