6 FRIDAY 11 OCT
Indeco School in Zambia - developing their tailoring business and producing handmade bags! Hereʼs a picture
of the students having fun as they sort out the materials.
BUSINESS
Imperial Hub Project: Become a mentor for school businesses
Interested in enterprise?
Editor: James Tsim
business.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Lily Le
Join the
Felix
Business
Team
Today!
Are you
interested in
ﬁnance or
business within
jounalism?
Send an email
to:
felix.business@
imperial.ac.uk
Imagine you are not at Imperial. You
have never heard of Felix and you are
not sitting here reading this article.
What a dream. No dull lectures, ridic-
ulously diﬃcult coursework, or seem-
ingly un-passable exams. But imagine
that it wasn’t out of choice – imagine
you never obtained the opportunity to
study here, or to do any studying at all
in fact. According to UNESCO, this
is the reality for 57 million primary
school-aged and 69 million lower
secondary school-aged children as of
2011 around the world. here are huge
eﬀorts to try and get these ﬁgures
down to 0, but it is still a long way oﬀ.
It is diﬃcult to identify the contri-
bution that each barrier has on imped-
ing these children’s rights to educa-
tion. Nevertheless, this is not a reason
to sit back and wait for the statistics to
ﬂow in before we make a move.
In line with the Millennium Devel-
opment Goal that “by 2015, children
everywhere will be able to complete
a full course in primary schooling”,
and even beyond, charities all over the
world are working to change the cur-
rent situation.
One example is the Paraguayan
Foundation for Cooperation and De-
velopment an organisation which aids
schools in Latin America to improve
access to education for young people.
By showing the San Francisco school
in Paraguay that they do not need to
solely depend on external sources of
income, the Foundation has managed
to facilitate it from being previously
dependent on decreasing government
subsidies and facing high dropout
rates. he San Francisco School is now
a 100% self-suﬃcient model that was
able to generate $300,000 in ﬁve years.
How? he solution, when expressed
aloud, seems so simple and obvious –
successful school businesses!
hanks to this approach, students
at the San Francisco School pay only
$10 a month in fees. All school leavers
are now working for successful busi-
nesses, are self-employed, or enrolled
in higher education.
his innovative method has been
spread around the world by the Foun-
dation’s UK-based sister charity Teach
a Man to Fish. “Give a man a ﬁsh and
he will eat for a day. Teach a man to
ﬁsh and he will eat for a lifetime.”
Teach school children how to set up
and run their own socially-responsible
and environmentally-friendly enter-
prises and not only will they gain real-
life, hands-on skills, and the business
experience required to succeed after
leaving school; but they will also help
their schools to generate sustainable
income. Education that pays for itself.
Teach a Man to Fish work close-
ly with La Bastilla Technical High
School in Nicuragua with the aim for
it to become fully self-suﬃcient within
the next two years. Currently only 20%
of young people in the Jinotega De-
partment, where the school is located,
attend secondary school. By setting
up and running a touristic Ecolodge,
chicken and egg production, manag-
ing dairy, pigs, and a vegetable gar-
den, students are able to gain techni-
cal skills and business experience in a
range of enterprises, as well as know
that their eﬀorts are paying for their
own education.
It is a great step-forward to empow-
ering students, teachers, and whole
communities to alleviate themselves
from poverty and educational disad-
vantage.
In order to reach out and encourage
even more schools to set up successful
businesses Teach A Man To Fish run
the annual School Enterprise Chal-
lenge. In this global business planning
competition, schools are guided dur-
ing the ﬁrst stage to think of a business
idea and write business and ﬁnancial
plans. During the second stage they
set up and run their own enterprise.
At both stages schools are able to to
win cash prizes which can be invested
in their businesses. hey range from
textiles, to recycling, vegetable gar-
dens, arts and crafts, and furniture-
making.
What if a school is already running
a successful business? No problem,
the School Enterprise Challenge has a
section to encourage these schools to
keep going.
To support schools to get the most
out of the competition, they are of-
fered the opportunity to form partner-
ships with other schools taking part
and apply for a business mentor.
“Mentors play a vital role in encour-
aging the pupils through challenges
and acting as a sounding board to
bounce creative ideas” explains Susan-
nah Morcowitz, a School Enterprise
Challenge Programme Fellow at Teach
a Man to Fish.
“hey can be the pivot for launching
the school enterprises into excellence
thanks to the conﬁdence students and
teachers gain from their encouraging
words.”
he talent and drive of Imperial Col-
lege students does not go unnoticed
and is something the organisation be-
lieves could make an enormous impact
on schools around the world.
“Mentoring is a great opportunity for
Imperial students with an interest in en-
terprise to gain experience working on a
global business planning competition,”
states Morcowitz.
“Not only is it a chance to gain skills in
communication, leadership and men-
toring, but it is also a huge beneﬁt for
schools around the world who are look-
ing to provide pupils with the soft skills
to succeed in future employment.”
At Imperial Hub, a project is being run
for students interested in or studying
business-related subjects to be an inspi-
rational role model for such schools in a
disadvantaged position. his is carried
out in the form of two hours a month
of mentoring via e-mail at times to suit
the mentor in order to provide feedback
and support to school businesses.
If you would like to spend a small
amount of time developing your pro-
fessional skills but make a huge impact,
checkout more information at www.im-
perialhub.org/teach-a-man-to-ﬁsh.
“hese are the views of the writer
and not the organisations”
Writer
Text to World: Donʼt give a man a ﬁsh
“by 2015, children everywhere will be able to
complete a full course in primary schooling”
RACHEL BROCK: NOVEL BLOG

