Editors: Philippa Skett,
Keir Little, Fiona Hartley
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
8 FRIDAY 11 OCT
Fiona Hartley Science Editor
Here we are at the end of the ﬁrst proper week and here’s a new spread
of science to educate and hopefully entertain you. Philippa introduced
me as a ‘bubbling biologist’ last week, which is an exaggeration, but true
to form this week’s news story that has struck me is a biological one.
I strongly dislike common wasps. So it’s not diﬃcult to understand
that the concept of gigantic, venomous, aggressive wasps that can
kill you make me glad that I live in Britain. Inhabit a place where a
species whose queens can grow to be over 5cm long? No thanks.
Despitethis,reportsthathornetsareresponsibleforover40deathsandatleast1600
injuriesintheChineseprovinceofShaanxithissummerhavemeweirdlyenthralled.
Hornetattacksareafactoflifeinthearea,butthisyear’sattacksareunprecedented
in number and severity. It’s not hard to ﬁnd photographs of unfortunate
victims on the Internet. heir wounds look like small necrotic bullet holes.
Deaths are being attributed to both the Asian giant hornet and the Asian
predatory wasp. he Asian giant hornet’s sting is the most venomous wasp
sting known. he venom is capable of destroying red blood cells and thus
causing kidney failure and death. Even if one hasn’t received a fatal dose of
venom many suﬀer an allergic response and may die of anaphylaxis. he
Asian predatory wasp is smaller but incredibly aggressive – people have
described being chased for hundreds of metres by swarms of these hornets.
here is a lot of blame going around regarding the high number of attacks. he
authorities have pointed to a prolonged period of dry and warm weather that
has allowed hornet colonies to thrive. Environmentalists blame urbanisation
of habitat where hornets build their nests. Others have cited additional
ecological factors like a reduction in the numbers of hornets’ natural enemies.
he combination of these issues has surely led to the situation the Chinese people
ﬁnd themselves in this year. Unfortunately it cannot be ﬁxed peacefully. Hornets
have their numbers and their venom. Humans have hospitals and ﬂamethrowers.
Who will win? Well, in the end humans always win. As a biologist
that saddens me. Yet I can’t help it; the instinctive and selﬁsh part
of me looks at an Asian giant hornet and thinks, “Good riddance.”
Hype, hope and headlines
Fiona’s science corner
he relationship between scientists,
themediaandthepublicisfraughtwith
the dangers of miscommunication
and exploitation. he question of
where the responsibility must lie
when a patient becomes a victim
is not easily answered. his is
particularly true of fertility research,
an area that touches on one of the
most profound aspects of all our lives.
While some of us may be more
impatient than others for the dawn
of quantum computing, the wait is
unlikely to have any personal cost.
he same is not true of fertility
research where the cost is the chance
of parenthood and the temporal
window is not even a lifetime, but
the reproductive cycle of a woman.
New technologies can take decades to
be developed from concept to ﬁnished
product, for some families waiting
for the gold standard of proof in
clinical trials, randomized controlled
testing, this is not an option. he
urgent nature of fertility treatment
demands a more nuanced evaluation
of evidence. he question is then,
who is responsible for this? Should
scientists and doctors withhold
unproven results? Is it the role of
a science journalist to identify bad
research? Or is the patient ultimately
responsible for their own decisions?
Some argue that all scientiﬁc
research should be open access,
we shouldn’t patronise the public
through censorship. he minimum
requirement is factual, well referenced
reporting. It is the patient’s role
to undertake their own research
and weigh up evidence against
potential risk and cost utilising
public guidelines such as those
issued by NICE (National Institute
of Health and Care Excellence).
However it is doctors who have the
access to treatments and the expertise
to best advise their patients, putting
them ultimately in the position of
power. An uncomfortable tension
then arises between scientiﬁc integrity
and good business. Is it exploitative
for a clinician to oﬀer an expensive
but unproven treatment to a desperate
family? Or for a research group to
portray their results in a favourable
light in order to garner more funding?
What’s more private clinics driven
by commercial interest oﬀer many
treatments unavailable on the NHS.
his creates a consumer-led industry
that knocks scientiﬁc progress oﬀ
course, to the detriment of future
generations. If the newest treatments
can always be demanded, there is no
body of patients to undertake large
clinical trials and evidence for existing
treatments will get weaker and weaker.
here is a disjuncture between the
conception of the general public
of science as an orthodox body
of knowledge and the reality that
clinical trials are extremely sensitive
and interpreting results is not
straightforward. Journalists, hungry
for heart-pounding stories of miracle
babies and with deadlines to meet,
often widen rather than resolve this
gulf. A good science journalist must
take some responsibility, as mediator
between expert and lay-person, to
report tentative results with caution.
It is perhaps the duty of the science
writer to report all progress, however
incremental. But small steps can too
often translate as a ‘breakthrough
new technology’ in print.
hese issues were all discussed at
a recent debate held by PET, the
Progress Educational Trust, who seek
to inﬂuence policy on ethical issues
in science. he debate concluded that
accountability must be held by all in
theinformationstream.hetakehome
message - pause before you publish.
Jamie Rickman
Science Writer
he Imperial male is very much
a wonder to behold. What this
population lacks in female
companionship is makes up with a
multitude of complex social rituals;
whether it is the drinking circles of the
rugby team, the LAN parties of the
computer scientists or the Friday night
pizza fest down in the sci-ﬁ library.
It may not come as a surprise that the
mating mannerisms of the Imperial
male contrasts with a sexual ferocity
recently discovered in a much smaller,
usually more docile species - the
marsupial mouse. A study published
this week and conducted by the
University of Queensland, Australia,
found that marsupial mice were
mating with such vigour and intensity
that they then died due to disease or
even just from exhaustion. Known as
suicidal reproduction, or semelparity,
these marsupials were observed
keeling over simultaneously in large
Marsupials don’t stop until they drop
numbers after the breeding season.
Semelparity is often a mechanism
adapted for organisms with short
breeding seasons or those that
experience ﬂuctuations in food
availability. Females are thought to
time breeding sessions to correspond
to peaks in certain insect populations,
to ensure both the maximal survival
of the mother and her undeveloped
young that will require weeks
of care. hey therefore are only
available for mating once a year,
and for these mice a year can be a
long and perilous road for survival.
he male mice therefore put all they
have (literally and ﬁguratively) into
mating during this temporarily open
slot (again, literally and ﬁguratively).
hey may mate continuously for
12 hours or more until passing out
from exhaustion - the parallel to this
behaviour is often seen in Imperial
males as they study throughout
the night in the Wolfson suite.
he diﬀerence is that the eﬀorts
of the mouse are more likely to be
much more fruitful- producing
oﬀspring, despite risking death is
more rewarding that the low 2.2 the
Imperial male may be laundered with
after handing in that subpar lab report.
Due to such a short fertility
window, female marsupial mice are
also highly promiscuous to ensure
the production of oﬀspring for the
future. Coupled with the competition
of a whole host of horny suicidal
males, this breeding season leads
to a sexual frenzy, something akin
to that only seen at seasonal balls
with gregariously large bar tabs
and no 9am lectures the next day.
he marsupial males only have one
shot, and pour everything they have
into making it truly deliver. hey
concentrate all biological eﬀorts into
producing particularly potent sperm
at the cost of their immune system
strength, resulting in an increased
susceptibility to disease after mating
season. his is not experienced in
the female population, so males will
inevitably suﬀer and die in large
numbers whilst females may live for
a number of years and breed again
For these male mice, with there
Are you dying for sex? Philippa Skett tells us that if you compare yourself to
male marsupial mice, you really arenʼt
Cathy Wilcox
being no selectional pressure for
prolonged survival, this pattern of
semelparity is set to continue long into
the evolutionary future. Fortunately,
the same cannot be said for the
Imperial male, as once they leave the
conﬁnes of the university community,
they generally metamorphose into
a more respected, social member of
the wider population and can use
humour, charm, looks and a large
city wage to secure a mate instead.
It is debatable as to which male of
either species is more successful, as
although the marsupial mouse seems
to have a sex life that is more exciting
than an average imperial male,
their lives in general are very much
shorter. Personally, I think that until
a marsupial mouse secures a graduate
scheme placement at Goldman Sachs,
theImperialmalestilltriumphsoverall.
DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1310691110
Getty Images
SCIENCE

