9
FRIDAY 11 OCT
Editor: Kartikeya
Rana
politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
POLITICS
THE WEEK IN POLITICS
UK e-borders scheme
deemed ineffective:
Reportshavesuggestedthatthe£500m
‘e-borders’ programme propelled by
the Home Oﬃce has not been very
eﬀective in dealing with migrants who
are said to be potentially dangerous.
his scheme, which took 10 years
to develop, was made to ensure
that ‘high risk individuals’ such as
criminals and terrorists would not
be able to re-enter into the UK.
he idea was for the passengers to
provide their personal details to the
airlines such that the individuals
would be prevented from boarding
the planes themselves. However,
only 2 airlines have signed up for the
pre-departure screenings which are
essential for such a system to work.
he scheme was meant to track the
movement of 100% of the passengers
moving in or out of Britain but only
manages to track about 65% of such
passengers. To ensure the movement
of terrorists and other non-state
actors, the tracking of all passengers
is essential. he report also expanded
upon the ‘poor quality of data’
collected from the e-borders system.
he UK Border Agency is said to be
the most technologically advanced in
Europe but has clearly shown areas
where improvement is necessary.
he main reason for lack of data
collection is said to be because of a lack
of tracking on European routes. Also,
the lack of e-borders system at sea and
on trade routes has made the system
seem more ineﬀective. he full report
is, however, not in public domain.
he people who have published
this report have also put forward
some positive ﬁndings. hey state
that the e-system has been eﬀective
in capturing criminals who have
serious charges such as those of
rape and murder on their heads.
here is anger in Libya over the US
captureofasuspectedAlQaedaleader.
he man named as Abu Anas Al-Liby
was wanted for his connection in the
bombings in Tanzania and Kenya of
US embassies in 1998. US defence
secretary, Chuck Hagel, commended
the raid and stated that this showed
how America would spare ‘no eﬀort
to hold terrorists accountable’.
he family of Al-Liby, however,
calls the raid ‘an act of piracy’. hey
say that when Abu was coming
back from Morning Prayer, he was
met with ‘at least 10 men’. hese
men allegedly were Libyan and had
forcibly put this man in a ‘white
Mercedes’. hey also demand that if
Al-Liby has done something wrong
then he should be prosecuted within
Libya itself. he Libyan government
appears to have had no knowledge
about this raid and asked for further
explanation from the White House.
However, the chances of a
prosecution in Libyan soil seem bleak.
A spokesperson from the BBC stated
that he was being ‘lawfully’ detained
under the ‘law of war’ in a secure
location outside Libya. He is also being
prosecuted in the New York court for
the 1998 bombings, which has caused
the likelihood of his release from the
US authorities to be very low indeed.
he Libyan government, however,
feels that this event will not erode
relationships between Libya and the
US. One leading spokesperson from
the ruling party stated that the US
played a key role in the revolution and
therefore feel that this event would
not deteriorate relationships. He also
added that although the maintenance
of relationships was important, the
safety and security of the Libyan
citizens was of greater importance.
hisraidhasangeredterroristgroups
who have asked for some retaliation.
Libya intensiﬁes
pressure on USA:
Hamid Karzai criticizes
NATO forces:
NATO combat forces are planning to
leave Afghanistan in 2014. There are
still 80,000 NATO forces inAfghanistan
that will be gradually retracted. Hamid
Karzai does not seem to see these
forces as being beneficial in his country.
A large amount of resources
provided by NATO members were also
applied towards maintaining peace
in Afghanistan. However, President
Hamid Karzai claims that not only have
the NATO forces been ineffective but
have in fact ended up being damaging
for the country. He claimed that the
NATO had a role to play in the loss of
life of Afghan people. He further stated
that he did not want a partial victory
over terrorism but a ‘clear-cut’ war on
terror. In the same interview he also said
that he would open talks with the Al
Qaeda, as they are also Afghan citizens.
This view, however, has brought
forward criticism from people around
the world. Some say that it is unfair
to the soldiers who had lost their lives
towards the cause as well as the nations
that had committed their resources in
Afghanistan through the NATO forces.
The NATO itself is yet to release an
official response to Karzai’s claims.
This is not the firwst time that Karzai
has made such controversial claims.
He has tended to show animosity
towards western forces in the past
in various speeches and interviews.
EU proposes Mediter-
ranean Sea patrols:
On October 3, a migrant boat was
shipwrecked off the coast of Lampedusa
inItaly.Theincidentresultedinthedeath
of 274 people and the captain of the
ship being detained. This has resulted in
the European Commission requesting
the EU to undertake search and rescue
operations in the Mediterranean.
Italian Interior Minister,AngeloAlfano,
supported the proposition and stated
that more has to be done to save lives.
“We have saved thousands and
thousands of people”, she said, “now we
areaskingEUforahandinstrengthening
border control”. However, there is
growing concern that this scheme
may fail as the migrant boats may flee
as they see the patrol approaching.
EU states have not been able to come
to an agreement on their policies
on migrants and asylum seekers. A
growing number of asylum seekers
from Syria and elsewhere has put
pressure on European nations to reach
a concrete solution to these issues.
Corruption in China
Bo Xilai is the former secretary of the
Chongqing party in China with popu-
lar support. He was, however, found
guilty last year on charges of corrup-
tion. He has furiously denied all the
chargers that were laid before him.
Bo was a popular politician who was
seen as a capable candidate for the
top job. When the new leaders came
in power, his downfall began. His
wife, Gu Kailai, was found guilty of
killing the British businessman, Neil
Heywood. This lead to a further in-
vestigation into Bo Xilai’s conduct as
a politician and consequently charges
of abuse of power, embezzlement
as well as bribery being put on him.
A Chinese court has recently agreed
to consider his appeal but the likeli-
hood of the charges placed him being
dropped are low as the ruling Com-
munist party controls the courts. His
supporters still claim that he is a vic-
tim of political vendetta and has done
nothing wrong. It would be interest-
ing to see how the trials play out.
FELIX politics.
Bringing you the best of
one manʼs views since
2013. Rise up and revolt
against this by writing for
politics.
Email your articles to:
politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Politics Editor
Kartikeya
Rana A summary of the key issues from around the world

