Southside Demolition
Southside's much-publicised renovation
(Felices ad nauseam) may give way to its total
demolition in a new plan drawn up by College.
The landmark building, much maligned by
residents, currently houses 390 students dur-
ing term-time but has become steadily less
habitable with each passing year. Plans to tear
down the building have been thwarted by its
Grade II listed status: The structure is consid-
ered to be exemplary of its style. The result is
that refurbishment would require a huge
investment by College to maintain original fea-
tures while maintaining the infrastructure nec-
essary for students to live there.
The Southside refurbishment plan has
repeatedly slipped from its 2001 schedule due
mainly to funding problems. However, despite
financing issues, work had been brought for-
ward to 2003-2004 due to grave concerns
that the "critical infrastructure" may fail before
the most recent refurbishment date of 2005.
In order to pull the building down, Southside
i f f //$•• 4 ' V
' Awt*
' I
s
Southside: Home of bar and student
will have to be de-listed - something the
College will have to agree with the Government
while gaining support from preservation groups
- certainly the biggest obstacle to the College's
plans. Equally, de-listing the building might
make refurbishment cheaper, though delaying
it even further.
The proposed replacement building will hold
over 500 bed-spaces in extreme proximity to
College, much touted as one of the Rector's
main residences goals - a useful increase of
100 beds to offset planned halls sales.
Union President Sen Ganesh said that he
was "excited about the provision of higher
quality residences" and "keen for a quick deci-
sion", but expressed concern that the demoli-
tion bid may do little other than set back the
inevitable refurbishment.
David Brookes-Wilson, Head of Estates, was
reticent to comment before an official decision,
but stressed that all the options were "benefi-
cial to students".
The redevelopment of Eastside (Linstead
Hall and tennis courts) will undoubtedly follow,
but with so many slipping deadlines, it remains
uncertain who will benefit.
AW
Cynical Sykes Snubs Protest
650 Imperial students lined the
route between the Rector's office
and 170 Queen's Gate last Friday
to protest about the proposed
introduction of tuition fees for
Imperial College students.
There seemed to be some con-
fusion among protesters inter-
viewed by Felix about whether
they could be liable for fees - a
condition explicitly ruled out by
the proposal - but many were
there on behalf of the next gener-
ation of students.
The Rector agreed with Union
President Sen Ganesh in advance
that he would walk the protest
route, but seemed not to take the
crowd very seriously as he smiled
broadly during his two minute
walk to the College Council meet-
ing where the proposal was to be
presented.
At the meeting, the proposal
was approved unanimously apart
from the one vote awarded to the
Union delegate. Sen Ganesh said
that the protest had "raised ques-
tions" at the meeting, but clearly
had little effect on the outcome.
The fees proposal now awaits
Governmental approval. AW
Tom investigates Sykes' motiva-
tions for the UCL merger and
top-up fees...
Alex vents his spleen (amongst
other organs) about his finan-
cial worries...
2<fi «o/a.
REFERENCE
COLLECTION
Imperial College and
Science Museum Libraries
quite-Halloween special, as
iy mixes our web reviews
on with the Really Wild
gets slightly creepy...
t stay up late.
25th October 2002
"ltd be alright if you weren't such a bitch" http://www.union.ic.ac.uk/felix/ • felix@ic.ac.uk

