F E L I X W E B S I T E R E V I E W S 1 3
cellspacing-G border-BHrHd alip-rigbl valign-toltoir-a hrel-http:
der-0 idth-38 heigbt-58 i\F"~IH[A~\A valip-botlom«a hn
hrel-Mtp://»iw.oniiqlB.com-iBio src-/imag«s/res3.||i[ border
href-Zadvancen search?(j-wehsite*rRviewsSlil-enSlr-Bie-lITF 8»Advai
hrel-fapage. lnols?q-website*reviewsShl-en81r-8ie-IITP 8>Lanpage
valir'eifHipt tupe-hidden name=lr value-""-inpnt type hidden name-ie value-"!
bollom-a href'http://www.aaogle.coni"img src-/images/resl.gil tor
align-right valip-top class-h>-b*Gnb$pWIHId"td ralip-top^a
nbspr/lonHtd-'/trHlableHldxId nowrap-lonl size- l»«a
!»s8bl-en8lr-8ie-BTF8'Prelerences"/a>8nbsp;8nbsp;8nbsp;8nbspra
form name-p melhiid GET adion-tarch-inpnl Ipe bidden name-Id
value-"websile reviews">-[ont size- Is
- «inpl Ipe-sobmil name-btnG valne-Hoogle Searcb'-span
A r e a l l y t a s t y H a l l o w e e n s n a c k , m a y b e
"It can't be," I hear you think! Well, it is. A
website dedicated to entomophagy, which is, I
am informed, the art of eating insects. The
author of this lovely (pink) site is seventeen
and suffers (I think that it's the right word)
from a life long fascination with the subject.
The information here will allow you to begin
your entomophagical career describing how
one should raise them, kill them and prepare
them before adding them to one of the lovely
recipes provided. The web site is simple and
easy to use, read and understand so you
should have no trouble finding what you are
looking for. Whatever that might be.
I felt that since Halloween is on its way you
could enjoy a little treat that is rather in keep-
ing with the atmosphere. Or maybe just some-
thing a little different to give to trick-or-treaters,
or maybe not - you could get sued. How about
mealworm chocolate chip cookies - the meal-
worm is used to make the flour. Apparently
they "enrich the cookie with a somewhat nutty
flavour and extra protein". Or maybe you feel a
little more adventurous and fancy the chocolate
covered crickets? Wash the live crickets in a
colander, put them in a plastic bag and then in
the freezer for fifteen minutes or so to kill them.
Then, once then heads and legs have been cut
off, you place them in an oven at 250° until
they are nice and crunchy. Then dip them in
melted chocolate, place in the fridge to cool
and then you have an apparently delicious
S p o t t h e d e l i b e r a t e m i s t a k e
I know that quite a few of you will probably
have heard of this page but for those of you
who haven't and feel like destroying your faith
in the film industry, take a visit here. It is what
it sounds like - a list of the mistakes made in
films. In its own words, continuity shmontinu-
ity (took me a while to say that too). Whatever
you do, do not look at films that you have not
yet seen unless you are clinically stupid
because this site will ruin it. However, this site
is quite fun to look around and, if you hated a
film, it is very satisfying to see everything that
was wrong with it.
It is run using donations as well as pop-ups
and adverts. At the moment the author is
receiving enough donations to remove all pop-
up ads and is hoping to eventually get rid of all
adverts, but that depends on the donation sit-
uation. However, this is an easy site to use and
there are hundreds of films listed here. They
are listed alphabetically and each has the
number of mistakes next to it so you can pick
out the more interesting films to look without
having to download every single page.
There is a 'Best' section which has a list of
the top twenty mistakes as voted by visitors to
the site and the 'Top films' which are the most
mistake-filled movies. At the top is one of my
favourite films - The Matrix, with 176 mis-
takes, ooops. Red Dragon, the new Hannibal
film, has over twenty mistakes spotted already.
Enjoy the site but don't blame me if you hap-
pen to ruin your favourite film.
Don't ruin your dinner children.
Emily wants to know if a merger with UCL
just means the end of Imperial?
wvwirv.maviemistakes.cam
snack. Have fun people and have a brilliantly
drunk Halloween.
www. eatbug .cam
T e r m o f t h e Week:
RAM (BaaaJ
RAM stands for Random Access Memory and
is found in most computers as well as other
lovely little things like printers. Its name
comes from the fact that it can be accessed
randomly. RAM is commonly used to mean
the main memory for the programs. Its con-
tents are lost when the device is switched off,
it is the ROM (Read Only Memory) that is
responsible for starting the contraption.
There are two types of RAM - SRAM (stat-
ic) and DRAM (dynamic). DRAM must be
constantly refreshed or the contents are lost
whereas SRAM is faster but this means it
requires more power and it is more expensive.
F r o m t h e d o t M e i s t e r
Good morning soldiers! Hope everyone has
enjoyed a week of stamping on children -
don't you just love half term? Hoards of chil-
dren descend upon South Kensington with the
sole purpose of getting under my feet.
Anyway, Halloween is on the way and so I
found a lovely little site with recipes that I'm
sure you will love. So please try them and let
me know your favourites.
Secondly, while I am certain that some of
you will have already heard of this site, I felt it
was necessary that the word was spread fur-
ther. Go forth to movie mistakes.
Have a good week my little purple chickens,
and don't let the skeletons get you. Jenny
felix@ic.ac.uk The student newspaper of Imperial College

