F I L M F E L I X
Come one, come all to the second in the series
of hastily thrown together Felix Film reviews!
Fingers crossed, by this time next week you
will be reading a well organised, informative
and easy to understand set of up-to-date movie
articles. There may even be one or two inter-
esting articles. Perhaps the sheer volume of
copy will shoulder its way onto a second page.
Perhaps.
For the time being though (i.e. this week) the
level of work put in by your hard working but
shockingly green film editor has been limited
by happenings in The Real World. Which is
bang out of order I know, but such is life. So
what does all this gibberish mean? No xXx
review I'm afraid. No K-19 review either. Nor is
there a review of Red Dragon or even
Halloween Resurrection.
I haven't been to the pictures in over a week
so you're stuck with cop-out DVD and video
reviews. Sorry to all of you without either -
keep an eye out for the TV premieres or some-
thing ;)
On the bright side, it's Halloween next
Thursday, so all the reviews are of appropriate-
ly gory and blood-chillingly scary horror
movies. Enjoy!!
'OtrTOg Soon
RING
Ok, in what can only be described as a
vain attempt to push back the boundaries of
film reviewing, I will now proceed to watch
the "Scariest Movie Ever", as recommended
by my horror-movie loving friends - Hideo
Nakata's "Ring" (cheap in Virgin, btw). I will
then, in a thoroughly petrified state, try and
fill you in on the details. Its 3am, I'm alone
in the house, the lights are off... wish me
luck....
Well, ninety minutes later I'm still here.
The television is still in the room, but I am
twitching a bit and I fear sleep may be a lit-
tle hard to come by this morning. I've already
decided I'll wait for the sun to come up
before I go to the loo...
The movie centres around a Japanese
urban myth involving a videotape - anyone
who watches the tape dies horribly. Ring
(also known as Ringu) is a fantastic sus-
pense filled film that had me scared silly
throughout. There are a few slow patches,
but the sting in the tail will have you bur-
rowing behind the sofa.
The American remake (cleverly titled "The
Ring") was released in the U.S. earlier this
year and is scheduled for a December release
over here. I'm not sure how well a remake
will suit this movie, it's one where much of
the appeal derives from its very particular
style. For example, the Rollerball remake
was entertaining but nowhere near as
intense and effective as the original. Ring
has planted seeds of paranoia in my head - a
terrifying piece of work. Subtitled Japanese
horror may not be your cup of tea, but I urge
you to try this one for size this Halloween -
it's the perfect movie for a dark, lonely night.
Ring is out now, Cert 18 on DVD and video
BLADE II
The Daywalker returns for the second
movie in a series that is sure to be a fran-
chise before long. Not that I'm saying this is
a bad thing, mind. I love Snipes and reckon
that Blade was the best thing he'd done -
aside from Demolition Man (yes, i really did
like that movie) - until this.
Our Wes reprises his role of Blade - a half
human half-vampire cross breed - in this vio-
lent and fast paced fantasy horror. On the
face of it, this one hasn't got a great deal
going for it. Unknown director, obviously try-
ing to cash in on the success of the original,
samey plot, one third of Bros as the main
bad guy and so on. But somehow all this
adds up to an utterly fantastic ride, with
some superbly choreographed fight
sequences (heavy on the Wire-Fu and SFX,
so steer clear if you're not a fan) and a sur-
prisingly enticing story, which sees Blade
forced into a truce with the Vampire Nation
after a new mutual threat is discovered in the
shape of Luke Goss and his hybrid vamps.
And yes, Luke actually makes a convincing
bad guy - its worth seeing just for that spec-
tacle alone.
If you do get your hands on the DVD ver-
sion, you will be treated to two superb com-
mentaries (one featuring a frank and honest
account from first-time director Del Toro, the
other featuring Snipes and the writer, David
Goyer) as well as a treasure trove of deleted
scenes, storyboards, documentaries, inter-
views... all of which have commentary pro-
vided by the director Guillermo Del Toro. A
fun movie ideal for Halloween and a packed
DVD. Heartily recommended!
Blade II is out now, Cert 18 on DVD and
video
28 MVS UTEB-.
Alex Garland? Danny Boyle? An undead
Leonardo DiCaprio? We can but hope!
Seriously, this zombie-esque flick looks fan-
tastic. Mostly an unknown cast but I for one
am dying to see the striking scenes of a
deserted London, as well as Garlands proper
scriptwriting debut (The Beach doesn't
count).
28 Days Later... is released on 1st
November 2002, Cert. 18.
BOBSOLDIERS
Werewolves vs. British Special Forces in a
fight to the death in Scotland. This one was
released to an unsuspecting public earlier
this year and became a huge cult hit. British
movie making at its best, ladies and gents,
with buckets of gore just like any self-
respecting 18 certificate should have. The
best werewolf movie ever?
Dog Soldiers is available to rent from 4th
November 2002, Cert. 18. (Note - this is an
unconfirmed date and since it's been put
back a couple of times already, don't hold me
to it. I do however have it on reasonably
good authority that it will have a US DVD
release on November 5th, so those of you
with multi-region players keep your paws
crossed.)
Vv/Viat you slioultf ?
>
e watching
...at the Movies : Donnie Darko (Released
18th October, 15)
...on TV: Interview With The Vampire
(Wednesday 30th October, 23:35, ITV1)
on Sky: Pitch Black (Monday 28th October,
22:00, MovieMax)
.on Video: Blade II (Released 14th October,
112)
film.felix@ic.ac.uk The student newspaper of Imperial College

