N I G H T L I F E F E L I X
NightLife
Fabriclive
Friday @ Fabric
The debate over the existence of a God should
be left for another time and place - but the fact
that my 21st birthday fell on a Friday, and
coincided with Fabric's 3rd anniversary - cer-
tainly nudged me a little further away from
complete scepticism.
I have often said that Fabric is the best
Friday night out in London, not only for the
music and the understated style of the place
but also because of the likeminded, friendly
and invariably fucked crowd. They were out in
full force tonight, all ready to take the beats by
the horns and dance until the grins dropped off
their faces.
Arriving at 11pm, with the venue already
packed, I made my way directly to Room 2 to
watch the likes of Grooverider, Adam F and
Andy C make it impossible not to be moved by
the atmosphere. A good hard dance, a few ran-
dom conversations with random conversation-
alists, a nice chillout on the stairs, a thorough
appreciation of the water fountains; all in all, a
textbook Fabriclive experience which, even if
you are not a fan of the music, should not be
missed. Dan B.
Fabric
Saturday @ Fabric
Fabric's Saturday night birthday celebrations
took place in fine fashion by doing what they
do every Saturday; putting on a night of deep
techy house.
It all really started when Philadelphia's
finest, Josh Wink, came on at 2:30am and
hammered the crowd with a brilliant set of
pounding mechanical, iron hard beats, with
screeching acid overtones. His prowess was
evident: he would cut out the bass for a few
seconds so the crowd could take a breather,
before letting it kick in again to an eruption of
crowd appreciation.
If that wasn't your thing, DJ Cosmo in Room
3 was playing a great but slightly weird set of
80's electro, jacking', techy bodypopping
hiphop sounds (you had to be there) which
had everyone doing "the robot".
The climax came at 4am when we headed
over to Room 2 to catch Slam, who were play-
ing an inspired mix of funky/party/Detroit
sounding techno. By 5:30am we had danced
too hard, had no energy left and had to leave
to the sound of Dirty by Dirty: "obscene, dirty,
filthy, immoral, ah yeah!" Alexander H.
Stanton Warriors
M A
wik lM* fln
Welcome
Everyone loves EC1.
Yes, ladies and gentlemen, Fabric is now three
years old. As you can probably tell, we here at
Nightlife thought it was significant enough to
demand a whole page to cover.
For three years, Fabric has been the night-
club of choice for many a clubber. It is the
club's attention to detail with its design and
its state-of-the-art sound system which guar-
antee its popularity as a venue. However, it is
Fabric's atmosphere, its music and its com-
mitment to giving its clientele an exciting
night out which have made it the success it is.
If you have never been before and you can
bear queuing (or arriving before the queues
start to stretch all the way back to the tube
station), then you should definitely give it a try
(as our reviews will testify).
Clubbers' Diaries:
If any of you want Nightlife to print an account
of a great night out that you've had, then send
it to Nightlife at:
clubs.felix@ic.ac.uk
It should be no less than 150 words. So, if
Saturday 2nd November Saturday 2nd November there is some gem of a club that you've dis-
covered, or there is some night out that has
Rahzel (Live) Terry Francis been cruelly ignored by us - or even if you
Stanton Warriors Jon Marsh want to tell everyone about some reckless,
Scratch Perverts DJ Buck lairy bender (within reason, guys - I'll have no
pathetic tales of dodgy kebabs and the subse-
9.30pm-5am 10pm - 7am quent vomitus, thanks).
£12 (£10 NUS) £15 (£12 NUS)
Have a good weekend and take it easy.
Fabric, 77A Charterhouse Street, EC1 Fabric, 77A Charterhouse Street, EC1
www.fabriclondon.com www.fabriclondon.com Patrick
clubs.felix@ic.ac.uk "My nose feels like it's been taken for a 24hr test-drive by Daniella Westbrook..."

