C O F F E E B R E A K F E L I X
by Bobby Cyclops & Dr Hot Fudge
THE GREAT FELIX QUOTES QUIZ
T H K Q U O T E S RAMI* LINGS
1. "Adrianos was not perfect. It was perfectly planned, but executed
with neolithic incompetence."
2. "Man, you really are prehistoric!"
3. "I like you Clarence, always have always will."
4. "Not just screwing Mitch. But the kind of intimate acts like oral and
what-not, that a trusting young wife might find hard to forgive."
5. "To make honey, young bee need young flower, not old prune."
6. "This little scrotum - sucker deceived us!"
7. "The moral of the story is, 'don't be a dick', Dick."
A N S W E R S T O G F Q Q 1 2 4 4
1. Westley/Cary Elwes - The Princess Bride
2. Dr Frank-N-Furter/Tim Curry - Rocky Horror Picture Show
3. Fred/Lance Percival - Yellow Submarine
4. Blade/Wesley Snipes - Blade 2
5. Roy Batty/Rutger Hauer - Blade Runner
6. HAL 9000/Douglas Rain - 2001: A Space Odyssey
7. Withnail/Richard E. Grant
~I/Paul McGann - Withnail and I
W E E O F T H E W E E K
www.hatsofmeat.com
Synopsis: Intriguing insight into the world of meat hats - "Remembering
the past, cherishing the present, and celebrating the future of meat hats."
Rating: Never have we been more confused by a website. Plenty of info,
FAQs and so on, but we like pictures, and there needs to be more on this
site. Nevertheless, it is fascinating - find out where the phrase "I'll eat my
hat" came from, and how to discourage dogs from eating your meat-hat
with a water-pistol filled with lemon juice. Enjoy.
Coffeebreak score: 6 / 1 0
We apologise for our absence last week readers, but some janner delet-
ed our GFQQ & LQ pages from Felix's custom built high voltage laser
containment system. Luckily, we had the pleasure of the return of Turnip
Henry from Felix's vault, as prophesised by Fudge in his novel - A
Knuckle Too Far (not available from Waterstones, Imperial College
Branch). Mr Henry, it was an honour.
Welcome back to all those entrants from last year - unfortunately
GFQQ mk I's winner is not competing this year, but the rest of you old-
school can fight it out yourselves. Bobby Cyclops
Well it's still going strong, desptie an almighty fuck-up of stream-cross-
ing proportions. As last week's quotes and lyrics weren't officially vetted
(and have caused some confusion), we have decided not to include them
in the official points for the various leagues. A few of you have also been
a little upset thinking that we have cheated you out of points. However,
this is not the case, it's just that B.C. and I have suddenly become
tighter than a mermaid's crack when it comes to point allocation. This
means that to gain the highest stature in the lyrics quiz you have to state
the exact artist. For instance, Coolio & L.V. recorded Gangsta's Paradise,
not just the braided one himself. So don't cry my little pretties, just make
sure you do your research. Toodle-oo. Dr. Hot Fudge
(II Hi BLOW DRV
BY OUR TOP STYLISTS
£20 LADIES
£17 M E N
Normal Price £35
ACCESS VISA MASTERCARD CASH CHEQUES
South Kfnsinpn Tube)
p Telephone 020 7823 8968 ^
MMMMiiiiiaiiiiiftiiftiiiiiiiif
coffee.felix@ic.ac.uk The Great Felix Film Quiz

