F E L I X C O L U M N 0 3
What's In It For Sykes?
During the last week, I have heard many sto-
ries and ideas about the Rector's proposed
plans for the merger of UCL and IC, the £10k
top-up fees, and the damaging effects that
these will have on IC. Will the creation of a
'new' University of London wobble the delicate
balance already held, putting the smaller col-
leges into an endless spiral of decline? Why do
we want to dilute our good reputation with
that of a University from which some of us
received an unconditional offer to study, whilst
accepting an AAB offer from IC?
Conversely, many people have nothing but
praise for the plans. 'Fantastic!' 'Well done,
the best thing that Imperial could do, merging
with UCL.' Now we'll be a world class institu-
tion able to compete 'on an international mar-
ket platform', attracting new students will
remain as lucrative as it has been until now.
Even arts students will be able to come to IC,
and we'll sort out our money problems in one
fell swoop, too!
So whilst there has been considerable
debate on the effects of all this, it seems
nobody has addressed the causes. Why does
the Rector want to merge IC and UCL, and
introduce top-up fees, and what's in it for him?
The Rector, Sir Richard Sykes, previously
Chair of the board of GlaxoSmithKline (gsk),
formerly GlaxoWellcome, formerly Glaxo,
presided over the merger of GlaxoWellcome
and SmithKline Beecham. Even the Wellcome
Trust (later pic) was not immune to him, being
bought up in 1995 by Glaxo. He has a history
of merging organisations, so his philosophy is
very much 'bigger is better'.
At least he can send his own kids to IC for
£10k a year, since for 2000 and 2001, he
was paid a staggering £2.16m by gsk. But the
Rector does not make as much money at IC as
he used to at gsk, and merging with UCL is
unlikely to massively increase his own salary
as Rector, currently about £140,000 pa.
But something must be on the cards; even a
man with his credentials wouldn't merge two
Universities and introduce veritably reviled
top-up fees just for fun.
Sir Richard serves on several committees -
most notably in this case the council for sci-
ence and technology - and has a steering role
in education policy. It comes as little surprise
that his paper 'pre-empts' the government
white paper in November, and Margaret
Hodge, higher education minister, has point-
edly refused to rule out top-up fees when
questioned by the education committee. In the
current wave of 'neo-liberal' Thatcherism we
are experiencing, it seems the government is
keen to divorce the Treasury from the coun-
try's universities and thus reduce public
spending to cut taxes hence win votes.
Drawing parallels to the rail industry, the gov-
ernment is attempting to privatise an under-
funded state service.
Sir Richard has a taste for running large
organisations. UCL is currently in a weak posi-
tion; the incumbent Provost, Sir Derek Roberts
is only temporarily on the job, and the previ-
ous Provost Sir Christopher Llewellyn Smith
was booted out. Could Sir Richard be exploit-
ing the situation to his personal advantage: an
aggressive merger with a rudderless
University? As merger partners go, LSE would
be a much better choice for IC, but LSE have
already given us the proverbial finger. They
know that they have a strong brand, can
attract the best students - and don't want to
waste money on an expensive merger.
It's well known that the favoured way of
saying "thank you" to a supportive un-elected
crony is to grant them a life peerage, or a seat
in the House of Lords. The best thing is that
Sir Richard can choose to leave IC whenever
he wants. Merge with UCL, sell most of the
buildings to fill funding gaps, take the money
off the students and then leave as Lord Sykes
of South Kensington, and watch the student
number/ability decline. Reminiscent of the
recent Glaxo share price movements, actually.
7bm Tibbits
You could say that
a large group of
individuals is an
impossible concept;
alternatively you
could work for one.
To learn more about opportunities
at Marakon we would like to invite
you to our presentation
Monday 28th October
6.45pm
Adelphi Room
Meridien Waldorf Hotel, Aldwych
Nearest Tubes - Holbom, Temple
For more information
contact Emma Sorsky:
ukrecruiting@marakon.com
www.marakon.com
viaiaKoii Associates
strategic management consultants
Chicago • London • New York • San Francisco • Singapore
M B M H B B H B H H M B H S H H M
felix@ic.ac.uk The student newspaper of Imperial College

