CUTTERS
Letters
David's Goliath
Dear Sir,
I say 'ear! 'ear! to, T Mohammad's letter in
last weeks FELIX. The Jewish Society must
realise that the state of Israel is very, far from
being the poor, weak, little 'David' that the
whole world must feel sorry for. Israel is a
'Goliath' who has trampled under-foot the
rights to life , liberty and property of its own
native population and the citizens of a
neighbouring country. Just like the Biblical
Goliath the Israelis have finally received 'one
in the eye' from people who have decided to
stand up for their freedom.
Yours,
T S Sheriff.
Blinkered Vision
Dear Sir,
Thank you Mr Mohammad for your letter
in the last issue of FELIX. Unfortunately I
haven't got your talent for propaganda. If I
had I could answer you in the same style and
remind you of Arab cruel and horrifying acts
towards Israel, and among themselves for
that matter. Quite frankly, Mr Mohammad,
are you not beginning to be fed up with this
endless fight?
It is true that Lebanon wasn't one of
Israel's more successful campaigns and it is
true that civilians were hit during this war.
Unfortunately every war claims its victims
from the civilian population, as indeed your
fellow English students will tell you of the
thousands killed during World War 2 when
the RAF bombed Dresden and Hamburg
which were purely civilian targets. I can only
tell you that we truely tried our best not to
hurt civilians, and I did not need the TV to see
that. If you knew me you'd believe me.
Mr Mohammad, don't you think it is about
time that we both grew-up and tried to sit
together instead of killing each other, as we
have been doing for the past 50 years? Do you
not think that this argument over a piece of
land of less than the size of Wales has gone on
long enough. If not, please write 'Down with
Israel' on the walls of the College again , so
I'll know.
Yours faithfully,
Gad Aharoni,
DOC 1.
Realistic Attitude
Dear Sir,
I write in support of Mr T Mohammad,
whose letter was published in last weeks
FELIX, concerning the slogan 'Down with
Israel!'
It is sad that members of the Jewish Society
condemn so strongly, relatively harmless
words on a wall, without reflecting upon the
actions of their fellow Jews in Lebanon. I fail
to understand how they can ignore the daily
acts of murder and the continuing oppression
of countless civilians by their armed forces,
when we are constantly reminded of the
suffering undergone by the Jews themselves
just forty years ago.
It becomes worrying that the Jewish
people do not seem to have learnt from their
past, and are not at least trying to extend a
friendly and peaceful hand to their Lebanese
neighbour, rather than a fist made from iron.
Yours
T Ishaq
Peaceful Discussion
Dear Sir,
Since the first few words one saw when
opening FELIX last week were 'Down with
Israel', the hooligans can now dispense with
their spray-cans! The title to the letter from T
Mohammed does5
their work for them.
While not condoning violence, I do
acknowledge Israel's right to defend herself
against acts of terrorism. However, it is these
furtive acts of senseless vandalism that serve
only to promote enmity and distrust between
Jew and Arab, emotions which I, for one,
hope to see disappear from Imperial College.
And this will only occur through peaceful
discussion of the issues involved.
Yours Sincerely,
Miss J A Glausiusz,
Chairman, Jewish Society,
Life Sciences 2.
Humble Obedience
Dear Sir,
Could you please remind anyone who was
issued with a parking permit who is not using
it any more to return it to the Union Office.
This also applies to anyone who will have
no furthur use for their permit over the
summer vacation or after exams.
This is important as there are an awful lot
of people who can make use of underused
permits.
/ remain, Sir,
Your humbly obedient servant,
Eric Darbyshire.
FELIX
Accommodation for next year dominates
conversation among 1st and 2nd years this term, as
much as 'employment prospects pre-occupy
finalists.
Since many students will be forced to seek
accommodation in the private sector. It seems to
me that the College and or Union could do a lot
more to help.
At many universities, for instance, computerised
accommodation data-bases exist. Students about
to move out of private flats have details of
landlord, location, price etc., put on file. They can
then be sorted by price, size, location for the benefit
of students searching for flats for next year.
Such a system would be cheap, immensely useful
and, for a science and technology College one
would have thought, easy to set up.
'Security' in Southside is a source of endless
annoyance.
First there was the ASSA lock—occasionally the
door was propped open, but in general things
weren't too bad.
Then came the key-card Mark I. You stuck it in a
hole, forced it against a spring using both hands,
twisted it through several hundred degrees of arc at
some danger to your equilibrium and then, panting
and short of breath, you used both hands and one
leg to open the door.
No wonder it got kicked in every week.
Then came the key-card Mark II. It's electronic
so it must be better. One would have thought. But it
isn't.
In fact it's so unreliable and difficult to use that
the Selkirk doors are left permanently unlocked.
A bright red light has thoughtfully been
provided by the Estates section. It flashes out,
beacon-like across Princes Gardens, as if to say:
'OK, boys. The doors are open. Everyone
welcome.'
In fact that's exactly what it does say. It's meant
to say it to the men whose job it is to watch the TV
monitors (there is a camera at each entrance). But
they don't seem to take much notice. Otherwise the
red light wouldn't be left to flash all night, would it?
The entire ridiculous system of key cards should
be ripped-out and disposed of. It is utterly useless.
Any suggestions as to what use the red lights
might have? Well, you could always screw them to
the outside wall and use them to hail taxis, I
suppose.
By the way. The ASSA locks aren't much good
either. Doors at both ends of Southside can easily
be opened with a pen knife.
Acknowledgements: Many thanks to Gren,
Richard, Martin, Debbie, Howard Rudd, John,
Jon, Hugh, Hugh, Luke, Steve Marshall, Judith,
Chris, Alan, Diane, Nigel, Pete, Rosemary and
Tony.
Felix is published by the Editor for and on behalf of Imperial
College Union Publications Board and is printed by the Union Print
Unit, Imperial College, Prince Consort Road. London SW7.
Telephone 01-589 5111 Ext 3515
Editor: David Rowe. Business Manager: Martin Taylor,
Advertising Manager: Paul Belford.
Copyright FELIX 1985. ISSN 10140-0711.
2 Friday 3 May 1985 FELIX

