Water, water
everywhere
A slow sand filter tank with storage tanks in the distance
The photographs were taken by Nigel Graham when he went to
Somalia to see how the systems behaved in the field.
The water distribution unit
•RELIEF FOR REFUGEES in areas such as Nicaragua,
Honduras, Ethiopia and the Sudan is being provided by a new
water supply system developed at Imperial College. Our science
correspondent investigates...
In spite of improvements in sanitation, health care and food
supplies, the overall wellbeing of refugees is heavily dependent on the
adequacy and quality of the water supply. As people entering refugee
camps are often undernourished and weak, the dangers of sickness
and death from polluted drinking water are greatly increased. ,
In emergency situations pre-planning and preparation of
equipment and materials is essential for rapid establishment of safe
water supplies. With these needs in mind, Oxfam and D r Nigel
Graham of the Civil Engineering Department at Imperial College are
collaborating on a project to research, design and develop a water
supply system.
Great flexibility is needed for the system to be adaptable to the
varied requirements of different areas, and this is achieved throught
the use of interchangeable units. So far four principal units have been
designed and made: a piped distribution unit, a storage unit, a
pumping unit, and a treatment system. The treatment system makes
use of a sand filter unit to remove
m i c r o b i a l a n d p h y s i c a l ,
contaminants from the water.
The research is currently
aimed at finding suitable
t e c h n i q u e s to a b s t r a c t
groundwater. It is likely that the
final water supply system may
have as many as nine units, and it
will be able to use water from
many different sources such as
rivers, lakes, wells or springs.
Each unit is self-contained,
and a stock is kept in a disaster
store ready for rapid transportat-
ion overseas. Every system is
designed to cater for 5,000 people
assuming a minimum consumpt-
ion per head of 23 litres a day.
With this knowledge of the
capacity and capability of each
unit, rapid decisions are possible
as to which units are needed in an
area. The combination of units
required will depend on the type
of local water source and the
number of people in the camp.
The design of the units allows
rapid transportation and easy installation, with the materials used
chosen for cheapness, reliability and simplicity. Only two to three days
are needed to set up the storage and distribution units, but the
treatment system may need a few weeks before it is fully operational.
During this period, water may be transported from urban supplies to
the storage tanks, if possible. The very low cost of the systems, at
around £3 per head, means that relief agencies are able to provide
much more with the limited resources they have available. Also very
few demands are made on the availability of local materials, with only
diesel/petrol for powering pumps, and sand and gravel for the
treatment unit being required. As refugee camps should only be a
temporary measure, the fact that the units can be easily taken apart
and re-erected elsewhere is very important.
Since 1981, Oxfam have installed storage and distribution units at
refugee camps in Nicaragua, Honduras, and the Sudan. In Somalia
treatment units are being used by The Ecumenical Relief and
Development Group for Somalia, while for the current relief
operations in Ethiopia, Oxfam are using the storage units. Oxfam feel
that in the future these systems may be used in urban squatter areas
and for rural villages in the third world.
The ready availability of pre-planned and developed water supply
equipment, will help to save time, money and most important of all
human lives, in emergency situations. •
FELIX Friday 3 May 1985 7

