FELIX
PHOTO
Here are the results of the magnificent Photosoc FELIX
competition. All you avid readers of this column should
know all about it, because it has been mentioned in
almost every Photosoc article and newsletter since
before Christmas. Just in case you don't, though, here is
a quick recap.
Each entry for the competition was a portfolio of up to four prints,
B&W or colour, of any size and of varied subject matter. The main
criterion for judging was to have been visual composition, rather than
print quality. The first prize is a £10 voucher to buy photographic
equipment from Jessops, and the two runners up get £5 Jessops
vouchers. The entire winning portfolio is printed in these pages,
together with one print from each of the runners up. The competition
was judged by that well know art critic M r Dave Rowe, with a little
help from Nigel Atkinson. Altogether we had seven entries, which just
goes to show what can be achieved by continually putting back the
deadline! The winning portfolio was submitted by Sigrun Eriksen a
Chemistry P G . The two runners up are Chris Jones, a Chemistry R A
and Richard Lewis, another Chemistry P G . The committee would
like to thank the other people who bothered to enter ie Johann Riedel,
Nick Horton, Sarah Butler and myself. The prints will be returned to
their owners either personally or via the internal mail. Prizes can be
collected at any Photosoc committee meeting.
The winning portfolio was chosen, despite what was said above,
mainly becuasje of its excellent print quality although the pictures of
the brick staircase and of the small child are also striking
compositions. The head and shoulders portrait can really only be best
appreciated by looking at the original print, from which it is apparent
that professional lighting equipment has been used. The fourth shot,
that of a nude man is best not mentioned at all, except to deny all
responsibility.
The print quality in Chris Jones's entry was also first class. This set
included a close up of a daffodil, a landscape, a photograph of a
farmhouse and the dead brilliant one of a young man blowing his nose
which is reproduced here (the print, not the nose).
All but two of the portfolios consisted of 8" x 10" hand printed B & W
prints. The others were postcard sized colour prints done by
professional laboratories. The Judge thought that one of these ought
to be among the winners, and so the second runner up is Richard
Lewis. Among his portfolio were pictures of a Hippopotamus, a dried
fruit, a tree and the Albert Bridge. The one of the Albert Bridge is also
printed here. Among those who didn't win, Nick Horton's portfolio
was particularly good.
On the principle that no publicity is bad publicity, I think that this
competition could be judged a success, but if we are to hold another
one next year then we must have more entries than this. W e are
seriously considering making it compulsory.
Photo: Sigrun Eriksen Photo: Sigrun Eriksen
Photo: Chris Jones
Photo: Sigrun Eriksen
Photo: Richard Lewis
8 Friday 3 May 1985 9

