CLUBS AND SOCIETIES
Astrosoc
After a somewhat hectic start to the term, and
a very successful Freshers' Fair (despite
having stall 13!), Astrosoc has finally "lifted off
and seems ready to reach for the stars (both of
the twinkling and the famous variety).
Following an informal, open committee
meeting during which plans for the coming
term were discussed, and a very interesting
talk by Dr Blackwell yesterday, we are now
looking forward to Professor Ring's lecture on
'Modern Astronomical Instrumentation'. It will
be held in 304 Huxley at 6:30pm and will be
followed by a social evening with free coffee
and biscuits for all (but do look out for our
Treasurer....he will be on the prowl eager to
collect your subscriptions if you haven't
joined). Plans are afoot to investigate our
Observatory and/or assorted pieces of
equipment at Silwood Park with a view to
starting up an observing group, so if you
always wanted to have a go at civil engineering,
or, bored with your Rubik's cube, want
something a little more challenging (such as
assembling a twelve inch Cassegrain
telescope), either come to a meeting or 'Watch
this space' (but preferably both), for. further
news.
Surf
A Surf Club in the middle of London? The IC
Surf Club exists for those amongst us who feel
the need to rush down to Cornwall on a Friday
night, then jump into ice-cold water with 6ft of
glass fibre attached to their leg by an elastic
band.
The first trip of the year is this weekend (too
late, you've missed it!) but there are vacancies
for the next trip in two weeks time.
If you want to come along and/or find out
about the Surf Club, come along to Southside
Bar (upstairs) next Tuesday (October 20) at
1:00pm. For further details about the Surf
Club contact Paul Sunderland (ME3) via letter-
racks.
Industrial
Thank you to all those who attended our first
presentation on Tuesday. Congratulations to
those who joined us then; if you didn't, you still
can at any function.
Our first visit is on Friday, October 23 when
we grace British Airways with our presence
and will be looking around the airport and
maintenance departments.
Meet in Beit Arch at 10:00am to learn how to
take planes to bits. You will need a little money
to pay a share of minibus costs, and youH no
doubt be heartbroken to miss a couple of
lechers!
By the way, if you are over 21, the society
needs you to drive minibuses. A clean, tidy
driving licence is also useful.
Bookshop News
With a few problems from suppliers, I think we
have managed to meet most of both your and
the tutors' needs. We have had a few
problems. We ordered Exercise Books in early
June, and to date, we still have not got them.
We have the eminent author/lecturer whose
publisher couldn't find his books as they have
moved the warehouse. The student with a
1977 Recommended Reading List, who
complained he couldn't find any of the books.
The usual Publisher Reports: R/P, R / P / U / C ,
BND, R/P/N/D, T / O / S , O/S, O/P, N/K. R/E,
N/E, L/E O N L Y , N/Y/P. The first student who
comes to jne with the correct meaning of the
' above abbreviations gets a £2.00 Book Token.
-On a more serious note, NO EXIT means
"please do not leave by this door". EXIT
means "you can leave by this door". With so
many coming in the shop, it is easier to come
in one door and go out the other. Book prices
are set by the publishers, not by the
Bookshop; and by law, we cannot reduce that
price except when a book is more than two
years old.
Exhibitons in the Bookshop
October 19-23: Staedtler Drawing Equipment.
November 2-6: George Godwin Ltd, technical
and scientific books.
November 16-20: Open University, books
published by O U .
Nov 30 to Dec 4: Academic Press, all their
publications.
January 18-22: International Labour Office,
books on management science.
Snooker
There will be a freshers tournament this
Saturday and possibly Sunday, depending
upon numbers. Any first years interested in
playing for our teams should take part in this
tournament, if possible. There is a list of
competitors in the Snooker Room, and entries
will be accepted up until 10:00am on Saturday
morning.
At present there is an unfilled committee
position, papers for this post are now up.
Subscriptions are still being taken at
lunchtimes in the Snooker Room—don't
forget, only members are allowed to use the
tables and equipment.
(You don't have to be a member to enter
freshers' tournament.)
G o
An introductory evening will be held in
Southside Upper Lounge on Monday, October
19. All standards are welcome, with tuition for
beginners. No obligation to part with any
money (as yet). If you're interested but cannot
come on Monday and we don't have your
name already, drop a note in my pigeonhole.
Neil Hampton, Physics 3
--fh amnesty
<
tF international
I I N A U G U R A L M E E T I N G
1 2 - 3 0 P M M O N D A Y 19 O C T O B E R
G R E E K C O M M I T T E E R O O M .
T O P FLOOR U N I O N BUILDING
Amnesty International campaigns for the
release of men and women who are imprisoned
for their political or religious beliefs or for their
race, coiour, language or ethnic origin,
provided they have not used or advocated
violence. Such people are called "Prisoners of
Conscience".
Amnesty International opposes torture,
inhuman treatment and capital punishment in
ail cases and without reservation.
Amnesty International is strictly non-
political. It works for Prisoners of Conscience
in countries as diverse as El Salvador, Russia,
South Africa and Iran.
For anyone who missed the Amnesty
International stall at Freshers' Fair (because
there wasn't one) this meeting is to re-launch
IC Amnesty Group. If you are concerned
about basic human rights—the rights to life
and dignity, freedom of speech (without
advocating violence), security from persecu-
tion and torture—for all people, please come
to this meting and/or contact Robert Kelsey,
Civ Eng 2.
Gliding
imperial College Gliding Club re-asserted itself
as a force to be reckoned with in early July by
competing in the inter-universities task week
at Duxford (near Cambridge). A group of eight
members drove to Duxford on June 28 with
three gliders: a Bocian two-seater, a club
Libeile and an Astir single seater.
The competition began the following day
with teams from Cambridge (the hosts),
Edinburgh, Salford, Surrey, Birmingham,
Wales. Leicester and Nottingham. The aim of
the exercise was to fly a set course, generally
starting and finishing at Duxford. Each glider
was handicapped, points being awarded for
distance travelled along the course and speed.
To make this fairer the gliders were divided
I into two classes: one for glass fibre models and
one for wood/fabric/metal. The Astir and Club
Libelle comprised 40% of the glass-fibre class,
while the Bocian was one of twelve lower
performance gliders.
The first day was notable in that it was the
only day when more than 50% of the gliders
made it back to Duxford, including two of the
IC gliders. The third glider, the Astir, made a
somewhat unconventional landing on an
I airstrip in a cornfield, but was subsequently
j found to be O K to fly, leaving us still with our
Page 6 FELIX, October 16, 1981

