13
@feliximperial
FelixImperial
FRIDAY 08 NOV
COMMENT
A
s an undergraduate,
if you had asked me
what the worst thing
was about Imperial
it was obvious: The
exams. After working all those hours
to be hit with the striking realisation
that I did not, in fact, understand
the topic even a little bit caused me
to doubt many a life decision. I also
came to doubt my native English
following one particularly bad exam
where I distinctly remember no verbs
in the first two sentences. But never
did I consider what happened to that
stack of papers the GTAs insisted on
counting for five minutes at least 12
times after the end of the exam.
I was asked to mark one of my
class’s mid-term tests, the standard
‘Oh, but we want you to understand
your progress, nothing to worry
about, but since you are all here it
can be a horrifically weighted piece of
coursework that you might fail’ kind
of thing. This was finally my chance to
get revenge. I would be one of those
awful GTAs that wrote nothing in
feedback and in general gave marks
lower than your wildest imagination.
What I did not expect to hit me
was compassion. I have taught these
students for two months now. I
have struggled alongside them with
techniques they will probably never
use again... ever. I even sat with them
in the exam and tried not to stand
behind them or take too long to count
the scripts at the end. I found myself
rejoicing in their success, in those
beautiful but startlingly rare papers
which were close to the mark scheme
and extraordinarily correct.
These were, however, the unicorn
papers that were like a needle in
a haystack or really just a stack.
More commonly, I was assaulted by
additional issues and, finally, broken
hearted by being unable to read
what people had written. This was
frustrating. We would get halfway
through a problem and suddenly it
became a maze of lines and artistic but
illegible squiggles and nearly always,
always, wrong at the end. I couldn’t
help them and pull them back from
the oblivion of failure simply because
I had no idea what was going on. 4s
suddenly appeared or disappeared
seemingly at random or life became
some sort of integration with no limits
or possible answer.
I know I was never a unicorn,
but the shining lights for me were
those people who admitted their
weaknesses. A simple note to say I
have forgotten the definition of sinh.
I have assumed it is this. Or I think
it went wrong here. These were the
people that got the method marks as
were those who had bad handwriting
but spread everything out. I could save
these people.
So at two in the morning, having
lost the will to live, wondering what in
heck did I teach these people, a GTA
does not expect to see a unicorn, but a
nicely laid out paper with the mistakes
clearly marked. This was the Holy
Grail.
Confessions of a GTA: Part 6
The GTA
Anonymous
W
hat could
possibly link
Angelina Jolie
and the first
female President
of Sri Lanka, Chandrika Bandaranaike
Kumaratunga? Why William Hague
and last week’s Commonwealth
summit, of course! There has been a
bizarre image occasionally popping up
over the past few months, of a rather
smitten MP standing beside Angelina
Jolie talking about the horrors of rape
and abuse that women suffer the
world over. The most striking image I
have of Kumaratunga is, perhaps, less
comical: she had made a speech in
Colombo brutally criticising the mass
murder and war crimes committed
by the Sri Lankan government in the
closing stages of the ‘war’ against the
Tamil ‘Tigers’. I never expected to
hear a former head of state claim to
be ashamed at being from the country
they served but these were the words
that came from Kumaratunga’s mouth.
Yet somehow, poor old Willy has
forgotten Angie’s campaign and
is going to the Commonwealth
summit held in Sri Lanka. Forget
the ‘allegations’ of war crimes, of
mass rape, of the murder of women,
children and civilians, by the Sri
Lankan government since well before
their culmination in the atrocities
of 2011. Forget the videos of mass
execution and war crimes in the
Channel 4 Documentary: Sri Lanka’s
Killing Fields – one of those rare
examples of journalistic integrity that
renews your faith in the free press.
The video may have been verified by
the UN, but forget that, the Sinhalese
government claims that it is a forgery.
That clearly settles the matter.
Yes, once again, the British
government has distinguished itself
in its concern for alleged human
rights abuses. But a boycott, no. That
would be unthinkable and damaging.
It is only through discussion, talk,
and trade (especially trade), that we
can encourage governments to act
in a humane way. If I recall correctly,
similar arguments were made by
another respected Tory leader, and her
American counterpart, apropos some
other backwards regime… What was
it again? Apartheid South Africa? I
think there must be something wrong
there but I can’t quite figure out what.
Well regardless, we must let history be
the judge.
Getting back to the point; should
we really, however, see the spate of
boycotts as a positive sign? Although I
would suggest it is idiotic to complain
that, as one online headline put it,
the Indian boycott was made for
Political Reasons (what reasons, pray,
were you expecting?), and though
Canada’s motivations are probably
relatively benign (the large Tamil ex-
pat population will also have played
a factor), we should really never be
satisfied with the stories politicians
like to tell about themselves. PM
Manmohan Singh may well care
deeply for ‘Commonwealth values’, but
the continued and sinister movements
made by the Indian government
against the Naxalite rebels has some
disturbing parallels with the Sinhalese
campaign against the Tamil Tigers
before 2011. More likely, Singh felt the
pressure of the large Tamil population
(and elements of government) in
India. If this was all, India’s intentions
would still be largely honourable – we
often seem to forget that listening to
the will of the people is essentially
democratic and there is little wrong
in principle if a politician serves that
people instead of his or her own ideas
and beliefs.
This is, however, not all. Is it
coincidence that the Mauritian PM
joined the boycott? Mauritius (along
with Madagascar and the Seychelles)
has recently seen a lot of Indian
interest. India needs to protect its
trade ships against the resurgent
phenomenon of piracy, and these
islands make ideal bases to do so. Well,
there is that and the fact that India
has steadily been losing out as far as
imperial and geopolitical dominance
in the Indian Ocean is concerned.
China’s String of Pearls strategy has
been remarkably effective, isolating
India and restricting its sphere of
influence. And the Koh-i-Noor in that
string of pearls? You guessed it: Sri
Lanka.
For instance, what does a largely
Buddhist and Islamic country like
Sri Lanka need with a $400 million
casino? Nothing, but the growing
Chinese and Indian middle classes
could do with entertainment when
they visit the tropical paradise. It is
just a pity that it is in the middle of
a civil war… Oh wait! With a Reuters
report estimating a further $2.5 billion
a year from tourism alone (a modest
5% of GDP, something equivalent to
$750 billion dollars in the US, or put
differently, the entire US bailout fund),
Sri Lanka needs to prepare itself to
cater for all those nouveau riche.
Or take the fancy new Lotus tower:
it will be 350m upon completion,
dwarfing the Shard, and funded out of
the goodwill of the People’s Republic
of China. The Sri Lankan’s benefit,
the Indian tourists benefit and the
Chinese benefit. Everybody is happy!
Except the Tamils. With the mass
murders of 2011, further claims for
independence are unlikely to be top
priority for the people of Northern
Sri Lanka. Especially considering the
immediate future holds nothing but
grim prospects. Manmohan Singh
himself inaugurated the dredging of
the ancient Ram Sethu Canal, trying
to make the Tamil Nadu area of India a
“rival for [the now destitute] Detroit”.
The toxic effects on the ecosystem
are probably of secondary concern
to Singh, particularly since the one of
the worst groups to be affected will
be Tamils living in coastal areas of
Sri Lanka, where small scale fishing is
an intrinsic part of everyday survival.
Meanwhile the great ‘benefits’ of
Chinese investment have come at
a bitter price to the Tamil people
(assuming that the effective North/
South divide doesn’t prevent the even
spread of new wealth as it always has
done in the past). Is it coincidence that
the $4 billion worth of infrastructure
projects and the new deep trade-links
came after China sold Sri Lanka the
weapons needed for the victory over
the um, terrorist, children?
The only surprise in all this is that
India bothered to boycott at all. It
seems clear that they care very little
about the Sri Lankan Tamils, and a
short term spat with the teardrop
isle may well lead to an entrenched
Chinese position which India cannot
desire in its small neighbour. The
pressure from Tamil politicians may
be considerable, though we doubt it
can be important for a government
so notoriously corrupt and which has
such blatant imperialist ambitions.
The general consensus is that India
is only damaging its international
position by boycotting this meeting,
so what could be the motivation? It
could be that the internal situation
in India is even more desperate than
commentators seem to think. Or could
these whispers of a new Chinese-
Indian trade deal I am hearing have
anything to do with it? Common
wealth? Somehow, I think not.
Since when was wealth common?
Christy Kelly
Writer
After marking 56 papers we become a bit overdramatic

