14 FRIDAY 08 NOV
COMMENT
Editors: Eoghan J.
Totten, Tessa Davey
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
T
he recent cleaning response from
Campus Services (see front page)
indicates that some progress
is being made in the ‘cleaning
situation’. However, one wonders
why the department has taken so long to give
an apology, even if they’re only apologising
for taking so long to provide adequate
information to all hall residents. Felix would
still like an answer to the list of questions we
sent to them over seven days ago, we feel that
the students should be getting some proper
answers about the ways in which decisions
were made that have a strong impact of
their wellbeing and studying experience.
Felix knows about at least one student who
lives on a room where cleaning was not
completed during the second rotation of the
schedule, leaving the student to have a room
that has only been cleaned once (so far) this
term. While it is true that mistakes can be
made (or possibly the room was particularly
untidy) did Campus Services think about the
repercussions it’s actions would have on the
students, and indeed had the potential for
these changes ever been discussed prior to
the re-tender?
Imperial has recently signed up to the
Renaissance Engineering Programme with
the Singaporean Nanyang Technological
University. The program is shaped to create
a kind-of engineering polymath, with bright
students being educated in engineering,
science, technology, business, economics,
and entrepreneurship (College Joins NTU
Renaissance Engineering Programme,
page 3). This progressive programme seems
like a fantastic opportunity for the students
who will be selected and may leave some
current students wishing they were only a few
years younger...
Oh, ULU, whatever next?
As you may have heard in last week’s
national papers, the President of the
University of London Union, Michael
Chessum was arrested the day after a
protest he organised on University property.
Following the controversy over Summer,
where the University of London banned
students from protesting on some areas of
University property (see FelixOnline.co.uk on
Aug 7th bit.ly/17S1ZrM), it seems as though
the Union chose to ignore this warning
while protesting about it’s immenent closure
at the end of this academic year. While it is
important that students stand up for their
views, the low turnouts for ULU elections
and the decent size of the UoL constituent
College Unions, some might see the closue
of ULU and the repurposing of its building
by the University as a progessive move that
might improve the efficiency of services for
students.
Joseph Letts
Editor-in-Chief
Of cleaning (still),
partnerships and Chessums
Letters
To whom it may concern,
I enjoy reading the articles on the paper
but ever since I realised that you put a
double spread of really disrespectful
material in it I stopped. I think this
can be better replaced with many
different things, like a spread on some
details of a country with interviews
from people originating from there,
which I would be happy to help; and I
know hundreds of students who want
this to be removed as well, I can give
you a list of their names if you want;
and I believe that if we take this out
then the newspaper would be more
highly regarded amongst the seniors
and visiting researchers and anyone
else who reads it expecting to read
interesting facts about Imperial. If you
have any questions please let me know
and I hope to hear from you soon.
Thanks and regards,
[Name Withheld] x
Dear Sir,
Thank you for getting in touch with your concerns.
I always enjoy reading letters. I await your petition
with interest, it’s always nice to get feedback (unless
you want to wait for our feedback survey?). -Ed.
Dearest Felix Editor,
Perhaps my insults towards this bum of
the forest [The Druid, see last week] were
a bit exaggerated. He seems to be quite a
nice chap (aside ice cream addiction). I
agree that we should combine the might
of the light and the power of nature to
make the Union a better place for all.
His point about fish is quite astute, and
I beg you, dearest Felix editor, look
into this matter. Furthermore I would
like to complain about the state of the
bathrooms in the Union. Recently I was
relieving myself (taking a dump), and
there was no toilet paper! Imagine my
horror! I had to use the might of light
to cleanse myself! Please inform those
responsible that I shall be cursing them.
Yours Sincerely,
The Paladin
Are you guys serious? Well, just on the off-chance you
are you’ll probably want to write a paper to the Union’s
Exec Board (in charge of operations). I’m sure they’ll
respond to your problems with the treatment you
deserve... - Ed.
Disrespectful Material
An Apology to Felix Copy Editors & Centrefold Members
During the production of last week’s paper, due to a change in circumstances (which also led to a reduction in the number of pages),
the paper was printed without the changes made by the Copy Editors. Felix would like to officially apologise for the misspent hours the
Copy Editors lost while trying to improve the standard of the paper. This week all edits have been included, providing a better reading
experience for both the readers and the Copy Editors.
We would also like top apologise to the students in last week’s Centrefold, who took part in a distinctly off-centre centrefold. We hope to
reprint the centrefold in a distinctly more central position later on in the year.
Felix.
Don’t be afraid,
the Cat doesn’t bite! If you have something on your
mind, want to share your opinion with the world,
want to write about the last gig, play, movie or
game you experienced, have an interesting news
story to share with us, fancy yourself as the next
Alan Sugar or just simply like to make illustrations,
make sure to send an email to us at:
felix@imperial.ac.uk
No experience necessary, honest.

