18 FRIDAY 22 NOV
MUSIC
Editor: Simon Hunter,
Riaz Agahi, Stuart
Masson, William
Stocker
music.felix@gmail.com
mperial Rocksoc was
out in force this week-
end to catch the Metal
Hammer: Defenders
of the Faith IV tour. It
doesn’t get much more
metal that a show headlined by mod-
ern day Vikings Amon Amarth with
heroes of the grindcore and melodic
death genres Carcass, the fresher
faced Bleed From Within and cult
80’s heavy metal band Hell opening
proceedings. All to a sold out Kentish
Town Forum filled with excited fans.
Hell’s impressive stage set-up and
backdrop is more than you would nor-
mally expect from the first band of four
but doesn’t come as a surprise to those
familiar with the group. Frontman
David Bower delivers a theatrical per-
formance during which he performs
exorcisms on lucky crowd members in
the front row and performs self-flagel-
lation, all whilst sporting some pretty
Metal Hammer: Defenders of the Faith
I
AMS album of the week
A world away from the pop punk
sound of A Fever You Can’t Sweat Out,
Panic! at the Disco’s new album, Too
Weird To Live, Too Rare To Die!, lands
us smack bang in the middle of the
contemporary electro and dance scene.
I’m neither surprised nor upset by this
move; Panic! has always pushed the
boundaries and demonstrated versatility
(fingers to the second album, Beatles nay
sayers). However, previously the vocals
were balanced with an eclectic use of
instruments and quirky sounds. Now we have a less than imaginative use of the
vocoder and this album is synth’d up to its eyeballs.
Ultimately, the success of this album is down to Brendon’s voice. The album
begins with ‘This is Gospel,’ where he smashes us in the face with the chorus (the
vocals ring true through the vocoder which is just there as a genre play thing).
In round 3, ‘Vegas Lights’ with its distinct 80s and glitzy Vegas influence (a little
on the nose given the name, but hey!) further sets the scene for Brendon’s vocal
onslaught. In rounds 4, 5, & 6, - ‘Girl That You Love’, ‘Nicotine’ & ‘Girls/Girls/
Boys’, we are fully against the ropes, bludgeoned and in awe by these tracks that
are surely destined to be club anthems. In the closing round, we are put to sleep
by ‘The End Of All Things’, a lyrical and poetic reminder of the softer (despite
the harsh electronic tones) side of Panic! A phenomenal display by Brendon but
not as impressive a Panic! collection as I might have hoped for.
On to the music videos. ‘Miss Jackson’. Cult… what… huh? Anyway, the video
for Girls/Girls/Boys is definitely worth a comment and a watch. Brendon, who
conceded this summer that he, alongside everyone, is a little bit gay, took it
upon himself to cast homage to D’Angelo’s ‘Untitled [How Does It Feel]’. Now,
D’Angelo’s caramel creation is steamy and dripping in eroticism. Brendon,
however, do you even lift? Bless him, for he should have done at least one push-
up prior to making this music video. The one redeeming feature of the video
occurs at the final chorus when Brendon flicks his hair at the camera, charged
with all the emotion that wailing about girls loving both sexes naturally would
result in, and that makes this writer favour the album and closer to agreeing
with Brendon’s summer sentiment.
Panic! At the Disco – Too Weird to Live, Too Rare to Die!
George Spence-Jones
wicked looking red contacts. The clas-
sic NWOBHM sounds that accompa-
ny this spectacle more than match up
to it. Having initially formed in 1982,
a series of unfortunate events meant
that Hell were only able to release their
debut album upon reforming in 2008,
having survived in the underground
tape trading scene for the intervening
period.Itisagreatdisappointmentthat
we are only treated to five songs and
are denied the devil horns and stilts
seen at bloodstock earlier this year.
Bleed From Within from Glasgow
are up next; they are making a habit of
getting onto some fairly major billings
having supported Megadeth earlier
this year. Given the animosity felt by
some members of the metal communi-
ty towards bands of the metalcore ilk,
Bleed From Within might be forgiven
for approaching a show featuring Car-
cass with some trepidation. As it turns
out, there is no sign that the group’s
confidence has been affected at all. A
small group of fans manage to open up
a pretty sizable, if sparsely populated
pit, in the centre of the room. I also
saw vocalist Scott Kennedy attempt
to catch his own spit at one point,
which is pretty strange behaviour,
but whatever works for you I guess.
Carcass come to the show having
released Surgical Steel in September,
the legendary group’s first album since
1996. Carcass played a pioneering
role in the grindcore genre with their
early works, being among the first to
record anything so musically extreme
at the time. They hold an influential
position within melodic death metal
as well due to the album Heartwork,
released in 1993, which helped estab-
lish the genre alongside bands from
the Swedish death metal scene. The
gory themes and imagery that they
put forward, a deliberate statement
given their own strongly held vegan
views, as well track titles full of medi-
cal terminology and sound clips about
autopsies have been highly influential.
Not to mention the effect of the ex-
treme vocals or furious technicality
of their guitar and drum sounds. They
are clearly the main draw for many at
the show given the initial response to
their ‘Surgical Steel’ banner. Frustrat-
ingly the Forum’s muddy acoustics
mean that Jeff Walker’s gnarled vocals
are often lost behind the music but
this cannot fully hold back classics like
‘The Mortal Coil’ or ‘Corporal Jigsore
Quandary’ which go down a storm re-
gardless. Carcass are more than able
to live up to their legendary status.
Bad news first, the forum’s stage is
too small so Amon Amarth were not
able to bring their Viking longboat with
them for this show. If you are unfamil-
iar with the Viking themed melodic
death metal group, that first sentence
should tell you everything you need to
know. They have a long ship! Is there
anyone that doesn’t think that is awe-
some? Even without their centrepiece,
frontman Johan Hegg can still sport a
comically oversized hammer for the
show, as well as the standard huge
backdrop pictures of Surtur, Odin and
many Vikings. Some snazzy looking
tombstones make an appearance dur-
ing ‘Runes To My Memory’ complete
with glowing runes. From the moment
‘Father Of The Wolf’ starts, pandemo-
nium descends, with a huge backlog
of unstoppable anthems and an un-
limited supply of epic, ridiculous bra-
vado, Amon Amarth deliver pure fun
for the whole of their set. Urging the
crowd on and chugging from drinking
horns, they give the impression that
they too are having a great time. Hav-
ing opened with newer material from
the recently released Deceiver Of The
Gods album, which proves the band
is still going strong, more established
tracks like ‘Guardians Of Asgaard’
and ‘Destroyer Of The Universe’ pro-
vide great opportunities to sing along.
As is pointed out, it doesn’t even re-
ally matter if you know the words, it’s
death metal, nobody can understand
you anyway. Although I doubt anyone
has that problem with tunes as catchy
as these. Twin guitar harmonies usu-
ally reserved for power metal acts
are combined with the bite of death
metal and Hegg’s signature deep
growls to produce an instantly iden-
tifiable sound. There was never going
to be enough time for this many great
bands and sure enough when 11pm
arrives it seems like everyone is left
wishing for more. Fortunately Amon
Amarth have been announced for
this summer’s bloodstock festival so
they may just have their wish granted.
Thomas Heaven

