22 FRIDAY 22 NOV
FILM Editor: John Park
Chiwetel Ejiofor (12 Years a Slave)
Director Steve McQueen certainly
hit the critical jackpot with his brutal,
unflinching slavery drama, and at the
heart of such ordeal is Chiwetel Eji-
ofor who is utterly compelling in the
lead role. A free black man kidnapped
and forced into slavery, Solomon
Northup (Ejiofor) spends hellish years
working away whilst witnessing and
experiencing unthinkable, unjustifi-
able cruelty. This will be a first-time
nomination for the usually under-the-
radar Ejiofor, who, no doubt, will be a
better known name in the industry by
the end of the year.
Tom Hanks (Captain Phillips)
One of this year’s expert nail-biting
thrillers is headed by Tom Hanks,
whose mission is to protect his ship
and crew from Somali pirates who
board with machine guns. His intel-
ligence, courage and calm sense of
reasoning keep him alive throughout,
although it’s the final scenes that serve
as an impressive showcase for Hanks’
abilities. The film itself has attracted
some controversy surrounding the ac-
curacy of events, but this in no way
should hurt Hanks’ chance of scoring
a nomination, who is possibly looking
at a double nomination this year.
Robert Redford (All is Lost)
Leading J. C. Chandor’s one-man sur-
vival drama at sea is none other than
screen veteran Robert Redford, who
gives what must be one of the tough-
est, most physically challenging roles
of his career. Redford is the only cred-
ited member of the cast, and he alone
is responsible for keeping the audience
captivated throughout the whole film,
which he successfully does. That he is
77 years old makes this man vs nature
film that much more tense and excit-
ing to watch, and as Redford reaches
for the very last ounce of the human
survival spirit, it’s one thrilling ride.
Forest Whitaker (The Butler)
It may have been a while since the
release of Lee Daniels’ massive Os-
car-bait of a film, but momentum is
certainly strong enough for Forest
Whitaker to be able to gain a well-
deserved recognition for his deeply
touching turn. In portraying a White
House butler who served for over
three decades, Whitaker is mostly
very quiet, but most certainly power-
ful even in his long-sustained silence.
It’s the best thing Whitaker has done
since his Oscar-winning turn in The
Last King of Scotland, and maybe a
second win won’t be so far off.
December is just around the corner,
and film studios are lining up their
critically-lauded films to take part in
this year’s much-anticipated Oscar
race. As with any year, there are strong
contenders in every field and it’s
certainly too early to be betting on a
winner.
So over the next few weeks, Felix
Film will be giving you a breakdown of
the actors, actresses and films that will
be grabbing the headlines in the near
future; but this is in no way a definitive
list, as some of the films haven’t even
been released here yet.
This week in our feature is the Best
Lead Actor category.
Ready...
Steady...
Go!
2014 at the Oscars:

