23
@feliximperial
FelixImperial
FRIDAY 22 NOV
FILM
: Best Leading Actor
Matthew McConaughey (Dallas
Buyers Club)
As an HIV-positive man when there
wasn’t much known about the disease
(1985), Ron Woodroof has only him-
self to depend on when it comes to
securing drugs that have yet to reach
the United States. Matthew McCo-
naughey lost 50 pounds for the role,
which explains his gaunt figure, but
it’s in his raw, vulnerable and inspiring
performance that the film truly comes
to life despite its bleak subject mat-
ter. McConaughey’s versatility knows
no bounds, and given his Magic Mike
snub last year, he deserves a spot here.
Leonardo DiCaprio (The Wolf of
Wall Street)
It’s a surprise to many that Leonardo
DiCaprio has never won an Oscar. He
has been consistently unlucky with his
nominations, always forced to face off
against difficult opponents. So will
this finally be his year of glory? Work-
ing in his favour is the fact that he’s un-
der the direction of Martin Scorsese,
and that the studio has enough faith in
the film for a Christmas Day release.
But once again there are some act-
ing heavyweights vying for the always
competitive Best Actor category. He
may have to sit out for another year.
Bruce Dern (Nebraska)
This year’s Cannes Film Festival’s Best
Actor winner, Bruce Dern stars in Al-
exander Payne’s new black-and-white
family roadtrip drama that is as hilari-
ous as it is heartwarming. Although
starting off as a grumpy, deluded man
with a dream of collecting his million
dollars just by turning up to a scam
agency, it turns out Woody Grant
(Dern) has so many more stories to
tell than that, which is why Nebraska
is one of this year’s best films, with
Dern in a pivotal role that sees him
largely cold and distant, although with
the right amount of warmth.
Michael B. Jordan (Fruitvale Station)
The Academy likes to pay attention
to at least one independent film each
year (perhaps to show off their fo-
cus on variety) and if there is ever a
film to get into the mix this year, it’s
2013’s Sundance hit, the based-on-a-
true-story account of the shooting of
Oscar Grant. Jordan is set to scoop up
some newcomer awards (he has done
so already with the Hollywood Film
Awards), but is he ready to play at the
highest of the levels with this year’s
competition? It’s unlikely for sure,
but if all the love for the film sticks
around, there could be a chance.
Idris Elba (Mandela: Long Walk to
Freedom)
Hand-picked by Barack Obama to
screen at the White House, this Nel-
son Mandela biopic has awards glory
written all over it. The critics are al-
ready raving about Elba’s outstanding
performance as the President of South
Africa. Plus, Elba has been growing
in popularity thanks to his successful
stints on television with shows like
The Wire and Luther. He has been
making the transition from TV to film
over the years (Thor, Pacific Rim) but
this is setting out to be the biggest
critical hit of his career yet.
Oscar Isaac (Inside Llewyn Davis)
Singing always goes down well when
it comes to attracting award atten-
tion (just look at the guy to the left)
although how the Academy will react
to folk music is left to be seen. But
regardless of music taste, the Coen
brothers’ tragi-comedy works because
of a likable central character. There
is something heartbreaking about
witnessing something that will never
be, as we follow Llewyn (Oscar Isaac)
struggling to catch a break in the mu-
sic industry. His incredible singing
that makes you fall in love with an
entire genre of music should help too.
Joaquin Phoenix (Her)
His rather chequered relationship
with the Academy (calling the awards
‘bullshit’ is never a way to go when it
comes to winning favours) isn’t going
to win him any fans, but this quirky
romantic comedy in which Joaquin
Phoenix’s character falls in love with a
virtual machine’s voice (much sweeter
and more touching than it actually
sounds) may just be unique enough
to catch the Academy’s attention. It’s
a fascinating concept, with a talented
enough actor to sell the story with
sensitive exploration of an highly unu-
sual character.
Christian Bale (Out of the Furnace)
His performance here has been de-
scribed as his ‘greatest performance’,
which is really saying something for an
actor who has consistently delivered in
outstanding roles time and time again
over his long-standing career. When it
comes to dedicated intensity, no one
does it better than Bale. With a Best
Supporting Actor Award (The Fighter)
already under his belt, has time come
for him to conquer the other catego-
ry as well? This may not be a biopic
or based on a best-selling novel, but
given the early mixed reviews, Bale’s
performance is praised most.
Josh Brolin (Oldboy)
The much-anticipated American re-
make of Chan-wook Park’s Oldboy
(that no one actually wanted in the
first place) hits the screens in 2013
(a decade after the original’s release).
Will Smith was once worryingly set to
star in the new version, although it’s
good to see someone of Josh Brolin’s
scruffy bad-boy killer intensity took
over instead. The Motion Picture
Association of America highlights
“strong brutal violence, disturbing
images, some graphic sexuality and
nudity, and language” which could po-
tentially act as a deterrent.
Hugh Jackman (Prisoners)
Hugh Jackman has truly outdone
himself following on from his Oscar-
nominated role in Les Misérables. As
a grieving, desperate father who will
stop at nothing to find his kidnapped
daughter, Jackman goes to incredibly
dark places, using morally question-
able methods to get to the disturbing
truth. His slow transformation from
a loving, caring family man to some-
thing more sinister and monstrous is
one captured stunningly well by Jack-
man whose role will no doubt spark
debates among cinema-goers. It’s a
well-layered, haunting performance.

