24 FRIDAY 22 NOV
FILM Editor: John Park
The comic success of Don Jon
Jack Steadman
Star Writer
Don Jon
Director: Joseph Gordon-Levitt
Writer: Joseph Gordon-Levitt
Starring: Joseph Gordon-Levitt,
Scarlett Johansson, Julianne Moore
Runtime: 90 minutes
Certification: 18
Joseph Gordon-Levitt’s directorial
debut (which he also wrote and stars in
– the classic triple threat) opens with
a rather unsubtle montage that flicks
between credits and the standard
examples of society’s objectification
of women. It makes a rather obvious
point – objectification is everywhere
– but the complete absence of context
sets the initial tone of the film in a no-
man’s-land of taste: is this just another
film that uses objectification as part
of its draw, or is this one that openly
rips into and lays bare the misogyny
behind that objectification? (I’m going
to spoil things for you here, because
if I don’t, it completely derails the
review, and tell you this is very much
the latter. Obviously.)
From the title card comes a
sequence that is almost instantly the
perfect example of TMI (Too Much
Information for you acronym-o-
phobes) as ‘Don’ Jon (Gordon-Levitt)
details his, ah, ‘me time’ routine.
Explicitly detailed. With clips from
the porn and everything. And then,
just when you think Don Jon might
finally have found the limit of the
detail it’s prepared to go into, it goes
further, and just keeps going. It’s an
incredibly confident (and bold) film
for a debut director – and it works all
the better for it. A more nervous hand
could have sunk this film, instead the
assured direction and script ensure it
stays afloat, confident in the comedy
and story being good enough to get
past the initial awkwardness.
Fortunately (oh, so fortunately),
both of them are more than good
enough – the comedy is spot-on,
getting laughs from both the insanely
smart script and its brutal realism. In a
film that opens the way Don Jon does,
it’s perfectly acceptable for people to
talk the way people in real life actually
talk (shocking, isn’t it, people talking
like people in a film), with quickfire
exchanges and inane banter (mostly
involving Jon & Co’s ‘scoring’ –
literally, not in the euphemistic sense
you foul-minded slob, although they
do that too – of women at the bar)
keeping the laughter fairly constant.
The family comedy is a treat, from
Tony Danza’s admiring of Jon’s new
girlfriend (which got perhaps the
biggest laughs of the night) to Brie
Larson’s deadpan expressions (with
Larson walking off with the film’s
highest laughs-to-lines ratio: one
line to many, many laughs). Julianne
Moore’s introductory monologue is
equally delightful (and by delightful
I mean hilariously awkward and off-
the-wall – I have a weird definition
of ‘delightful’ it seems), and the in-car
skits are perhaps the film’s highlight;
ten 20-second shots that perfectly
encapsulate Jon at that point in time.
It seems a little excessive to continue
raving about the comedy quality of
Don Jon, but it’s easily its strongest
asset, as the script skewers absolutely
everything it can lay its hands
on, from the obvious – misogyny,
objectification, porn, gender norms
(there’s a great argument about
‘cleaning’ in the film which is the
complete opposite of what you
expect and therefore perfect) – to
the unexpected – TiVo, the Church,
advertisements, Facebook. You name
it, it’s probably getting fun poked at it.
Even films. Especially films. Hell, Don
Jon pokes fun at itself. And that’s why
it’s so good.
Well, it’s not the only reason. The
perfect performances play a significant
part in that as well – everyone is on
top form here, from Larson with
her one line to Gordon-Levitt and
Scarlett Johansson (amazing, as ever)
with their many. The great use of
recurring imagery (trips to the gym,
the car skits, confessions – half the
film consists of variations on the same
ten or so scenes, and yet it works), the
solid editing and the constant sense
of discomfort all combine to produce
one hell of a film. It’s not perfect, by
any means, but then as the film tries
so hard to point out – nothing, and
nobody is. Not sex, not relationships,
not movie-making. But at least Don
Jon comes close.
Can Fassbender handle the truth?
Jack Steadman
Star Writer
The Counsellor
Director: Ridley Scott
Writer: Cormac McCarthy
Starring: Michael Fassbender,
Penélope Cruz, Javier Bardem,
Cameron Diaz, Brad Pitt
Runtime: 117 minutes
Certification: 18
On paper, The Counsellor should be
perfect. Cormac McCarthy’s first
original screenplay (a few of his
other books have been adapted into
screenplays – notably No Country for
Old Men and The Road), directed by
Ridley Scott, the genius behind Alien
and the man with such a passion for
McCarthy’s work he’s been trying
to work out how to film Blood
Meridian for years. Plus a heavy-hitter
cast featuring the likes of Michael
Fassbender at the point where his
career seems utterly unstoppable,
Javier Bardem after his scene-stealing
turn in Skyfall, Brad Pitt following
on from holding up the entire film of
World War Z and both Cameron Diaz
and Penélope Cruz, amongst many,
many others. What could go wrong?
Obviously, the immediate answer
to that question is: absolutely
everything. Fortunately, that’s not
quite the case here, but The Counsellor
is an extremely complicated beast.
McCarthy’s script is a real treat in
terms of the spoken word, delivering
some exquisite monologues that just
wouldn’t exist in any other film, but it
does make the film incredibly heavy on
talking heads – there are a few pulse-
pounding moments of action, but on
the whole it’s a film that requires a lot
of investment in the characters for,
ultimately, no reward. In traditional
McCarthy style, The Counsellor is
unrelentingly bleak, offering a flicker
of (false) hope at the beginning with
a proposal before rapidly spinning off
into an uncontrollable descent into
hell for the eponymous counsellor.
There is no innocence, no hope, no
redeemable features left in the world of
The Counsellor, and the final cut leaves
a film with no closure. It’s horrifying
– and on one hand it’s a move that
leaves the film feeling unfinished,
but on the other, it couldn’t end any
other way. This is not a film that was
meant to have a happy ending, and
to give closure (other than the deaths
of various characters) would be to
undermine the preceding two hours.
With such a dialogue-heavy film,
much depends on the actors to
deliver the goods and make it all
engaging (and believable – how
many monologues do you encounter
in the real world?). With the names
The Counsellor has on board, there
was never any doubt they’d manage
it. Fassbender is endlessly watchable,
Bardem is absurdly sleazy (proving his
incredible versatility, from the silent
andthreateningassassininNoCountry
to the evil mastermind in Skyfall
to this utter sleaze-bag), Diaz is an
enigma wrapped in a riddle, wrapped
in a question (to paraphrase someone
more intelligent), Pitt is charming
and Cruz does an incredible job with
a very limited part. There are flashes
of black humour through the endless
darkness, and the cast handle it well,
rolling off the fantastically verbose
dialogue like nobody’s business.
Despite the stunning script, the
assured acting, and the delightful
directing (Scott’s as on-form as he’s
ever been – with a script that’s less of
a horrifying mess than Prometheus,
he has plenty of chances to show off)
it’s still hard to conclusively like The
Counsellor. It’s a long slog through a
two hour run-time, and the resulting
feeling of emptiness and shock that
it leaves is not the best way to leave a
cinema.
The very fact it can have that effect
speaks volumes.
ROGEREBERT.COM
WWW.PATHEOS.COM CHELEBELLESLAIR.TUMBLR.COM

