25
@feliximperial
FelixImperial
FRIDAY 22 NOV
FILM
JFK + Vantage Point + Bobby
John Park
Film Editor
Parkland
Director: Peter Landesman
Writers: Peter Landesman, Vincent
Buglisoi (novel)
Starring: Zac Efron, Marcia Gay
Harden, Colin Hanks, Paul Giamatti,
Billy Bob Thornton, James Badge
Dale, Jacki Weaver, Ron Livingston,
Tom Welling, Austin Nichols
Runtime: 93 minutes
Certification: 15
John Park
Film Editor
The Family
Director: Luc Besson
Writers: Luc Besson, Michael Caleo,
Tonino Benacquista
Starring: Robert De Niro, Michelle
Pfeiffer, Tommy Lee Jones, Dianna
Agron, John D’Leo
Runtime: 111 minutes
Certification: 15
The Badfellas
WWW.FIRSTSHOWING.NET
MADISONMOVIE.WORDPRESS.COM
WWW.AVCLUB.COM
What starts off promisingly enough
heads for a rapid decline in quality
when director Luc Besson doesn’t
quite know what to do with the
impressive cast he has assembled.
Whatever it wants to achieve, whether
that is comedy, family drama, or
invoking some kind of nostalgia, it fails
on all counts, and without any decent
action to make any of this worthwhile,
Besson’s newest marks a disappointing
low for the French director. That the
film’s executive producer is Martin
Scorsese doesn’t appear to have added
much to the finished product.
Mafia boss Giovanni Manzoni
(Robert De Niro), along with his
wife (Michelle Pfeiffer) and two
children (Dianna Agron, John D’Leo)
are relocated to Normandy, France
as a part of the witness protection
programme after he rats out a
powerful enemy. They have been on
the run for six years now, and FBI
agent Robert Stansfield (Tommy Lee
Jones) tasked with keeping the family
safe is quite frankly sick of having to
move them around so much. “Try to
fit in, I’m getting tired of finding you
a new place to live every 90 days”
he says, and the newly named Blake
family promise to behave themselves.
That is until the father beats up a
plumber who is trying to rip him off,
the mother blows up a local grocery
store after getting insulted by snooty
French people, the daughter attacks a
sleazy boy with a tennis racquet, and
the son starts running a mini-Mafia
ring at his school.
Sound fun? It really isn’t. Aside from
a few seconds of actual narrative flair
that signals some kind of direction or
purpose, the film comes to an awful
standstill where characters mope
around whilst trying to adjust to
their new lives. There is the inevitable
showdown that must occur between
the “Blakes” and the wronged bad guys
who are on the hunt for the traitors,
but at a staggering 111-minute
running time, you wonder whether
the Mafia could hurry up and get on
with tracking people down.
How do the Blakes pass their time
in the meantime? Fred (De Niro)
starts writing a book – a memoir of
some sorts that he thinks will be a
good idea given his criminal past. The
FBI agent wisely advises against this,
but to no avail. When Fred finds an
old typewriter, he’s an unstoppable
literary machine. Maggie (Pfeiffer)
invites people around for a barbecue,
is a cooking queen, and finds peace
by going to church. She confesses
her sins to a priest. The priest is
horrified and tells her never to come
back. What these supposed sins are
the audience never finds out, since
that actual confession itself is never
shown. Belle (Agron) is about to
experience what it’s like to fall in love
with the wrong man: a teacher. For
someone her age, she’s very misguided
and frustratingly immature when it
comes to relationships, which marks
the weakest subplot of the lot. Warren
(D’Leo) doesn’t really get up to much,
although he does play a significant
part in the film’s most outrageous
strand that outlines the steps by which
the antagonists finally manage to track
this family down.
Despite the cool, relaxed demeanour
of De Niro, and the feisty energy from
Pfeiffer, The Family is a disappointingly
dull feature that mistakes portraying
utter empty boredom with inducing
nostalgia. Is this a black comedy? A
family drama? It’s neither.
There are far better movies out there
that are based on the assassination of
American President John F. Kennedy.
Parkland may boast an impressive cast
the trailers have no trouble showing
off, with the obligatory “Academy
Award Winning” or “Academy Award
Nominated” slogans written above
the more famous names of the bunch
headlining the film. But what is the
point of having so many talented
individuals all cramped together in a
90-minute running time without any
of them given proper room to breathe
with their characters?
It must have sounded fantastic
on paper, which is probably how it
managed to attract so much talent
for such an inadequate little film. The
President’s assassination is shown
from various different angles, and
how this sudden turn of events starts
to affect everyone. But the general
concensus is, everyone is shocked.
Everyone is sad. And everyone is
crying. Watching the news on their
television screens, they can’t believe
what they’re all witnessing. The tears
start pouring. Frankly that does very
little for the audience.
As John F. Kennedy is rushed to
Parkland Memorial Hospital (hence
the film’s title), he is met by Dr Charles
James Carrico (Zac Efron in a surgical
gown – and no, I wouldn’t want him
to be my doctor either) who freaks out
at first but then steps up to the biggest
challenge of his life and tries his best to
save POTUS with his limited medical
expertise. Help from Dr Malcolm O.
Perry (Colin “son of Tom” Hanks)
doesn’t improve the situation much,
and it’s no spoiler to reveal that he in
fact, does not make it, which makes
all the nurses cry. Oh, and Jacqueline
Kennedy (Kat Steffens), who has been
left a widow, cries too.
The Secret Service agents are angry.
They didn’t see the attack coming and
they essentially collectively failed at
doingtheirjobs.RoyKellermann(Tom
Welling) and Emory Roberts (Austin
Nichols) look all puffy and sulk on
screen, whereas Forrest Sorrels (Billy
Bob Thornton) gets down to business
trying to track down the man (Paul
Giamatti) who inadvertantly filmed
the entire assassination on his camera,
hoping to find some answers there.
The Federal Bureau of Investigation
(FBI) is in a state of mass panic as
it comes to light that Lee Harvey
Oswald (Jeremy Strong), the man
identified as the shooter, was in fact
in their offices a few days prior to the
shooting. Oswald’s threats weren’t
taken seriously at the time by the Feds,
which in light of recent events, would
make them look beyond incompetent.
They’re scared, some evidence-
burying takes place, although to what
end we’re never even shown.
It’s a highly disjointed, confused film
that brings together several snapshots
of various people’s lives and leaving
so many strands hanging. Very little
connection is made in between the
characters, which is crucial in making
such ‘hyperlink’ dramas work. This is
Landesman’s debut film, and with so
much dense material and a large cast
to juggle around with, it appears he is
out of his depth with this one.
The only worthy subplot is one
involving the assassin’s family
members. Robert Oswald (James
Badge Dale), Lee Harvey’s brother,
is faced with an impossible situation
when he and his family come under
intense media spotlight. Looking at
this chaotic event from the family’s
point of view offers an interesting
dynamic for the film to play with.
As a family they want to stand by
Lee Oswald for his grave actions,
but on the other hand there is that
completely relatable issue of difficulty
in understanding his thought process.
Dale plays the most fascinating role in
the film thanks to having a lot more
deserved allocated screen time than
his co-stars, and when the excellent
Jacki Weaver enters the picture as
the unintentionally funny, delusional
conspiracy theorist Margeurite
Oswald, the mother, this narrative
strand only gets better. Even though
it’s clear that Lee Oswald is the villain
here, there is something deeply sad
and unsettling when it comes to what
his brother and mother have to face
and what is left for them to clean up.
A more intimate, focussed film
concentrating solely on the Oswalds
would have served this idea better.
There is so much distraction that even
the impact the best scene of the film
should have had is lost, which is a
huge letdown.
With so many ups and downs
throughout, it’s a film that requires an
enormous amount of patience, as you
will have to endure endless scenes of
useless characters faffing about.
Is it all worth it in the end? Not really.
You’ll be better served by watching
documentaries or interviews.

