26 FRIDAY 22 NOV
TELEVISION
Editors: John Park,
Emily Fulham
television.felix@imperial.ac.uk
American Horror
Story: Coven
Ding dong the wit
John Park Television Editor
Incest. Rape. Murder. Witches.
Voodoo. Resurrection. Zombies.
Slavery. Blood. Goats. Snakes. Limbs.
A severed tongue. Yes, Ryan Murphy is
back doing what he does best – laying
on the dark and twisted in the new
season of his hit anthology, American
Horror Story, this year appropriately
titled Coven. Every season is a
standalone one, each with its very own
beginning, middle and an end, which
stops the show from growing stale, as
fresh new ideas come alive every year.
As can be sussed out from the title,
we focus on a group of modern day
witches who face extinction.
Zoe Benson (Taissa Farmiga)
discovers her unique witchy ‘gift’
of literally being able to use sex as a
deadly weapon, when the first boy
she does the deed with dies of a
mysterious brain haemorrhage. For
her own protection and education,
she is sent away to a special boarding
school run by Cordelia Foxx (Sarah
Paulson), who is focused on teaching
her students Madison Montgomery
(Emma Roberts), Queenie (Gabourey
Sidibe), Nan (Jamie Brewer) and Zoe
whilst also keeping them safe from
dangers of the outside world.
The unexpected return of Fiona
Goode (Jessica Lange) signals trouble
for everyone involved. As the reigning
Supreme of the generation, she is
the most powerful witch in town,
although age seems to be taking its
toll on the once-omnipotent glamour-
cat, and her obsession with keeping
her youthful looks and powers intact
is her main objective. Cordelia isn’t
thrilled to have her unstable mother
around the house, and her tendency
to seek out trouble and violence
wherever she goes. Also not pleased
with this new arrival is Marie Laveau
(Angela Bassett), an immensely skilled
voodoo queen who’s been alive since
the 1800s, it seems.
New addition Kathy Bates also has a
prominent role, based on the real-life
Madame Marie Delphine LaLaurie,
whose infamous treatment of her
domestic staff is portrayed on the
screen here, as she gains pleasure in
torturing her group of black servants.
It was promised Bates would play
a woman five times worse than her
Misery character of Annie Wilkes, and
Bates’ LaLaurie does not disappoint.
How she fits into the overall modern
day timeline is through some spooky
voodoo trick which promises to have
a lot of fun in store for us.
American Horror Story is a show
where restraint has no place in any of
its episodes. The crazier it gets, the
more deliciously fun it is for the audi-
ence. The uneasy truce between the
witches’ coven and the voodoo prac-
titioner builds to a boiling point early
on, and gloves will certainly be com-
ing off as these two powerful forces go
head to head, reigniting a bloody war
that should light our screens ablaze
with fire, blood, guts and gore.
There is internal conflict within the
coven, as Fiona’s reckless use of her
powers alerts the Council, headed
by Fiona’s long-time nemesis, Myrtle
Snow (American Horror Story regular
Frances Conroy with crazy red hair).
This rivalry is also setting up to
become a juicy plot strand, and with
two actresses of exceptional acting
abilities, their showdown should be
one to look forward to.
Murphy’s genius move of recycling
various members of his cast is one
of the most attractive features of his
anthology series. Lange, as usual, is
a commanding force of nature who
makes the show what it is, Paulson
is equally as strong, Denis O’Hare is
immensely creepy as a loyal cross-
dressing, doll-collecting, tea-party-
loving house servant, and making a
particularly welcome return is Lily
Rabe as a slow-moving, slow-talking
but powerful witch who can resurrect
anything. She, too, is not all right in
the head, which will most definitely
lead to unpredictable developments.
Zoe’s relationship with Kyle (Evan
Peters) brings back the similar
forbidden love subplot from Murder
House that was missing in Asylum.
Early episodes have been so busy with
setting the tone with different witches
that Zoe and Kyle haven’t yet had a
whole lot of time to spend together.
The same goes for the new neighbours
of the witchy academy, the good-
looking Luke (Alexander Dreymon),
his bible-thumping mother Joan
(Patti LuPone), as well as Cordelia’s
shady looking husband Hank (Josh
Hamilton). But so far seven episodes
have aired, and with six more to go,
everything is looking so far so spooky.
American Horror Story does have
the tendency to start off incredibly
strong and die down slightly towards
the end (as is reflected by its television
ratings), but what it promises to
deliver in terms of shock value and
campy fun is done so week after week.
It’s highly addictive, and for those who
can stomach the constant flashes of
unthinkable violence, Coven is quite
a ride, and promises to be a whole lot
more horrifying in future episodes.

