@feliximperial
FelixImperial
FRIDAY 22 NOV
TELEVISION
tches are here
Witches of East
End: Season 1
John Park Television Editor
Remember how awful it is when an
American actor tries to unsuccessfully
imitate an English accent? Well here
is the perfect example of where the
opposite has gone completely wrong.
Yes, an English actress who tries (and
sometimes it doesn’t even sound like
she’s trying one bit) to put on a con-
vincing American accent. She fails
every episode of course, although that
alone isn’t enough to write this show
off completely.
Julia Ormond is the aforementioned
guilty accent offender, as she ventures
wildly between both dodgy American
and sometimes proper posh English.
She plays Joanna Beauchamp, an im-
mensely powerful, immortal witch
who is cursed with having to bury and
give birth to her daughters time and
time again no matter what she does
to protect them. Her daughters Ingrid
(Rachel Boston) and Freya (Jenna De-
wan-Tatum) live until they reach the
age of 30, die, then are soon reborn for
Joanna to go through the painful cycle
of giving birth and raising her daugh-
ters only for them to die all over again.
This time, Joanna is determined to
hold on to her daughters, and so keeps
the magical powers a secret from her
children. But it doesn’t take long for
them to find out about their abilities,
especially when Joanna’s fun-loving,
magic-practicing sister, the girls’ aunt
Wendy (Mädchen Amick) drops by for
a visit.
As if this wasn’t complicated enough
for Joanna, it turns out she has an-
gered a lot of bad people over the
years thanks to her immortality and
powers, and now one of them may be
out for revenge. Before this evil can at-
tack her beloved family, Joanna must
race against the clock, identify this
force, and contain the threat.
It’s not just Joanna who is having
a tough time though. Each daughter
has soapy love-life problems to deal
with. Freya, recently engaged to Dash
Gardiner (Eric Winters), a dreamy
doctor, couldn’t be happier, despite
his mother’s (Virginia Madsen – who
should have a bigger role) frank disap-
proval. This is until she starts having
weird dreams about Killian (Daniel Di
Tomasso), the estranged brother of
her fiance who she’s never met. Very
awkward indeed. Is there some sort
of supernatural pull that is hinting at
destiny? Or is Freya just really into the
wild child of the two sisters?
Ingrid has always been interested in
pagan rituals and witchcraft in gen-
eral even before the discovery of her
powers, but now that she’s equipped
with the knowledge that she is, in fact,
a witch, it doesn’t take long for her
to start experimenting. She too has a
love interest, Adam (Jason Winston
George), the handsome cop, although
the need for secrecy surrounding her
identity makes it difficult for their re-
lationship to move forward.
Witches of East End is clearly more
fun when it is spending time with
magic, not with individual relation-
ship drama. Both Boston and Dewan-
Tatum have enough likability and
charm to carry their own plot strands,
but when compared to the weight and
charisma carried by Ormond (despite
her horrendous, vomit-inducing ac-
cent) and the refreshingly bright and
perky Amick, they cannot quite hold
their own. When the four of them
come together however, there is no
telling what they will be able to do.
Even in the most dire circumstances,
the show remembers to have a lighter
touch, with humour spread through-
out to make up for the shortfall when
it comes to delivering the dramatic
goods. So far, nothing particularly
eye-catching has happened, but it’s a
show with potential. Given the many
centuries Joanna has lived through,
there will no doubt be many flashback
sequences that take us to all sorts of
different time periods. For those who
can’t handle the madness of American
Horror Story: Coven, here is another
witchy show whose spell you can fall
under.
Cartoon Corner
Tom Rivlin
Welcome to Cartoon Corner, the
new weekly column where we ex-
plore the wonderful world of anima-
tion! (Not anime. We have a sepa-
rate club for that.) Each week I’ll be
doing either a review of a currently
airing show, or a retrospective on
something more nostalgic. So, word
counts are tight here, let’s start with
an obvious one!
Adventure Time!
(Come on, grab your friends!)
Adventure Time really is an ideal
show to start this column with, as
it’s a perfect example of a Cartoon
Network kids’ show reaching many
people outside its target audience on
the basis of it being just damn good.
At first it might be hard to see why –
the show starts off rather unassum-
ingly, dropping you without fanfare
into the world of Ooo, and introduc-
ing you to Finn (the human) and Jake
(the dog… who can stretch his body
into limitless forms). More char-
acters are introduced as time goes
on, however, and each one leaves an
impression in their own unique way.
Early episodes are seemingly simple,
but each one holds surprises and de-
fies expectations.
As the show progresses, though, it
becomes clearer that it’s really some-
thing special. The surrealist humour
leads to countless memorable scenes
and episodes, and the show swings
between diabetes-inducing saccha-
rine and horrifying terror with hi-
larious abruptness. Eventually you
learn more about the history of the
magical world they inhabit, and the
shocking truth of Ooo’s history casts
the entire series in a whole new,
bleak light, yet the overall tone of
the show defiantly remains the same.
Personally, I think that the best
part of the show is how wonderfully
it shows Finn growing up. Like Aang
in Avatar: The Last Airbender, he
is voiced by an actual kid (Jeremy
Shada), whose voice breaks during
the show, and it really adds an ex-
tra dimension to the notion of Finn
maturing as time goes on. He experi-
ences love, loss, pain and joy in ways
that feel very organic and real for a
person of his age, and most impor-
tantly, we see him growing up.
Adventure Time isn’t my favourite
cartoon of all time, but I completely
understand how it gathered such a
large fanbase, why it’s always a huge-
ly popular cosplay choice at conven-
tions and how it has kept running for
145 episodes (and counting). Simply
put, it’s a smartly written, charming,
light-hearted, yet often emotion-
ally heavy adventure that I strongly
recommend you make time for. (See
what I did there?) Each one is about
ten minutes long, so they’re perfect
revision breaks for that holiday stud-
ying we’re all definitely going to do…
Next time, a nostalgia trip: he’s
gotta get back, back to the past,
Samurai Jack!

