30 FRIDAY 22 NOV
GAMES
@felixgames
facebook.com/FelixImperial
Recently I have picked up a few
games through steam sales which I
have loved for their originality. These
were cheap games in which I have
already racked up an impressive (or
unimpressive depending on your
viewpoint) number of hours in. So
if you’re looking for a great game to
add to your steam libraries read on.
Escape Goat is a puzzle platformer
an engaging game. Visually I think the
game looks awesome, and it reminds
me of games such as Doom and Hexen.
Strangely where this game really stands
out for me is the soundtrack. Escape
Goat has a beautiful 8-bit Beverly Hills
cop themed soundtrack which I loved
so much that I downloaded it and put
it on my IPod (which you can do for
free). For the price this game is great
and you will get your money’s worth.
I had heard about Hotline Miami
from a friend and instantly wanted to
buy it but held off until it appeared in
a sale. This top down view game has
you carrying out hit jobs normally in
people’s flats. You start off with just
your fists but as you take down people
you can pick up their weapons and the
more you play the more weapons there
are. Each mission you get to choose a
mask that gives you special abilities.
You start with a mask that doesn’t do
anything but over time you start to
build a collection of some pretty use-
ful abilities. My favourite was a mask
that enabled you to kill your enemies
by slamming a door into them (which
normally just knocks them out). This
led to a time where feeling trapped
I fired off the last of my gun. When I
looked back at the screen everyone was
dead because they had been killed by
the door I was standing behind. This
however was extremely lucky as in gen-
eral this game is hard! Each floor of a
building will need to be completed in
one go and this leads to frustration but
a massive feeling of success when you
finally manage to kill everyone. The
levels remain fresh by adding interac-
tive elements (picking up a pan of boil-
ing water from a kitchen), and differ-
ent enemy configurations. Sometimes
you are forced to be stealthy or just
run in and be quick, but on the most
part each level can be completed in
many different ways and it’s this crea-
tivity that makes the game so much
fun. Not visually demanding this game
can be run on most machines and will
add a fun game to anyone steams li-
brary if you can handle the violence.
in which you play as a goat accused
of witchcraft and thrown in prison.
You must escape by awakening sev-
eral sheep which you find at the end of
6 levels. This game has classic puzzle
elements such as pushing switches in
the right order, not getting trapped etc
and platformer elements like jumping
and jumping higher. However where
Escape Goat differs is in the new me-
chanics it adds. How will you solve
puzzles while being blasted by invinci-
ble fire ball throwing wizards? By using
the new tools the game gives you, such
as your mouse friend who can travel in
small cracks and climb walls and the
magic hat which, in select puzzles, lets
you teleport to your mouse friend. Ok
I can see that this game sounds ridicu-
lous, but it really works. The puzzles
are inventive and fun to solve, and the
platform elements add to make this
Last week my fellow games Editor
Maximilian Eggl pointed out some of
the main differences between the up-
coming PS4 and Xbox One. Although
I see many good things in both of these
consoles I feel that even though it has
already been out for a year, the Wii
U deserves a mention. I am, as some
may have noticed, a pretty hardcore
Nintendo fan but I shall try and keep
this as informative and unbiased as
I can. So here follows an account of
why I believe the Wii U is a real com-
petitor and something that should
be considered, and just a general
overview of what I think of consoles.
Maybe the first thing to start with in
a console comparison review is a little
background of consoles I own. Ninten-
do wise I own everything back to the
SNES and hopefully one day I will get
a NES too. With Sony I have a PSP go
and a PS2, and from Microsoft I have
the Xbox 360. So as you can see I have
owned a little of everything. In the last
generation of consoles despite loving
the Wii my favourite was the Xbox 360.
I played my Xbox to death (literally
many red lights of doom death) and
I just went straight out and bought a
new one. I preferred the Xbox mainly
because it had pretty much every ti-
tle I wanted to play. I was a major fan
of Halo (until 4) and Assassins Creed
(until Revelation’s), and played a stupid
amount of GTA4. This is something I
download just about every classic game
that I dearly missed from the Nintendo
64 and back (except Donkey Kong 64).
Things changed when I got my com-
puter. I was able to download cheaply
in Steam sales just about every game I
had loved on the Xbox and play these
with the wired controller plugged into
a USB socket. My Xbox was therefore
replaced by the superior (and quieter
computer). My Wii however was not
replaced. It was still my TV console of
choice, enabling me to relax and play
classic games, and the excellent Wii
games Nintendo makes. I did miss
the Xbox but my new gaming com-
couldn’t have done on the Wii! So then
why did I play my Wii? Simply because
it’s the only way to play games in my fa-
vourite franchises of all time. Nintendo
consoles are and always will be the only
way to
p l a y
M a r i o ,
Donkey Kong, Zelda, Metroid, Super
Smash Bros… In my view these games
are unique, and as mentioned before
there is nothing else like them on any
other console and in this way Nintendo
has the best exclusive title lineup. Yes
Xbox has Halo which I dearly love,
however there are other shooter games
on just about every console. In fact
orignially I bought a Wii entirely for
the Virtual Console. Here I was able to
bination of Wii and computer was
far more suited towards my needs.
IboughttheWiiUshortlyafterlaunch
for many reasons. Primarily because
I wanted to play the new Nintendo
games
that
w e re
c o m i n g
out such as New Super Mario Broth-
ers Wii U, but also because I wanted
back something of the console gam-
ing feeling. Sometimes I just prefer
to lie back in my bed playing games
on the TV rather than sat at the com-
puter. This time around though, I think
the Wii U is enough to not make me
want the Xbox One or PS4. It is pow-
erful enough to have 3rd party games.
At launch it had titles I really wanted
to play, Assassins Creed 3 and Batman
Arkham City (which, even though I
played before, wasn’t boring to play as
they revamped it for the Wii U). The
Wii U controller itself has a large screen
which enables you to play most games
entirely on it and, despite the size, is re-
ally comfortable to hold. It even offers
interesting multiplayer options where
one person uses the controller screen
and the other the TV. If you still want a
controller more like the Xbox and Play-
Station ones, Nintendo offers the Pro
Controller which is super comfortable,
looks great and has crazy long battery
life. For some games you can even use
the Wii remote and Nunchuck. For me
this just shows that Nintendo lets you
play games exactly as you want. Playing
Black Ops 2 on Veteran difficulty with
the Wii Zapper attachment is epic and
makes up for any loss in graphic qual-
ity. If you want amazing graphics why
not just invest once in a computer?
Nintendo is also the only next gen
console to offer free online multi-
player. Unfortunately the Wii U isn’t
getting every new title (GTA5) but
as I can pick most of these up on the
computer I am not too bothered.
In the end the Wii U is a great liv-
ing room console, which lets you play
games how you want. It offers the most
diverse controller options, is the only
backwards compatible console, has a
great line up on the virtual console and
has on demand TV services such as
Netflix. When considering which con-
sole you want I hope you pay attention
to the Wii U. It is currently available
for £230 (far cheaper than its competi-
tors) and will only get better with time.
Wii U No consider Nintendo?
Calum Skene
Games Editor
Calum Skene reviews some great indie games (yes, again)!
Indied, Games that you will surely love!

