32 FRIDAY 22 NOV
TRAVEL
Chris
Richardson
travel.felix@imperial.ac.uk
32
On safari: East African delights
Priyank Shah
I
’ve had the privilege of growing
up in East Africa, complete with
the staple diet of safaris, beaches,
poor roads and corruption. So
having been to most national
parks and game reserves in Kenya,
we finally decided to venture next
door to the fellow Swahili-speaking
nation that is Tanzania, home of the
famous Serengeti National Park.
For two neighbouring countries
that share the same language and
currency, the difference between
them is certainly startling: Kenya
has long been the commercial and
economic hub of East Africa, whereas
Tanzania is one of the poorest
countries in the world. Tanzania has,
however, been spared the internal
strife that has blighted many African
states. Indeed, the remains of some
of the earliest traces of humanity,
including the legendary two million-
year-old Australopithecus habilis,
were found in Tanzania’s Olduvai
Gorge, one of the world’s most
important paleoanthropological sites.
Tanzania is an extremely large
country, approximately four times the
size of Britain. Our journey began in
Kenya’s capital, Nairobi, from where
we drove south to the border town
Namanga, before crossing the border
into Tanzania and stopping in Arusha.
From here we finally met our guide
and driver, the wonderfully-named
Ezekiel Mwanza, who was going to be
with us for the duration of the safari.
Our first port of call was Lake
Manyara National Park, famous for its
tree-climbing lions who love nothing
more than acacia trees. Unfortunately
we didn’t manage to see any, but we
were blessed with plenty of other
beautiful wildlife. From here we
headed to the Ngorongoro Crater,
a national park in itself, measuring
a whopping 264 square kilometres.
Next was a seemingly endless seven
hour drive north to Lobo National
Park, and finally two days at the
Serengeti National Park. Serengeti
translates from Maasai as ‘endless
plains’, quite an apt name for a park
covering 14,750 square kilometres.
The Maasai Mara in Kenya and
the Serengeti play host to one of the
most spectacular events on Earth:
the migration of over one-and-a-half-
This photo caption is so boring that even this hungry lioness is dropping off. Get back to the articles.
million white-bearded wildebeest and
two hundred and fifty thousand zebra,
for which numerous Nile crocodile
eagerly await in the rivers nearby.
The sheer amount of wildlife we saw
was staggering. Casually witnessing
fourteen sleeping lionesses, sated
from their recent meal together, was
so special. Leopards are allegedly
one of the most elusive of creatures
around: not only did we see one, but
we saw it casually climbing a tree!
It’s an unfortunate truth that the
Maasai Mara is now suffering the
effects of mass-tourism, in contrast to
a trip across the border, where policy
is focused on conservation as opposed
to profiteering. A trip to Tanzania is
very expensive for a foreigner, and
the prices don’t even have a concept
of a low season. One of the guides
remarked that “Tanzania has the
better parks, but Kenya has better
marketing”. Everyone we met was from
mainlandEurope.Tanzaniahassixteen
national parks, 29 game reserves,
and 40 controlled conservation areas
and marine parks. One of particular
note is Gombe National Park, where
one can go chimpanzee trekking.
All in all, the trip was absolutely
fantastic. For those with an
inclination to go on a safari
anytime soon: head to Tanzania.
And swing by Kenya, obviously.
Travel! ...And other narcotics
Pablo Colón
T
ravel is, in so many ways,
a powerful drug. This
resemblance is one that
I’ve always considered,
and the analogy seems
to hold true with respect to most
of travel’s traits, except perhaps for
the fact that you can’t physically
sniff travel through a crisp fifty
after crushing it with a credit card.
People who have never travelled
will never properly understand the
concept and, as with drugs, tend
to fall into two camps: those who
can see the appeal but for whatever
reason haven’t pursued it, and those
who dismiss the notion as a waste of
energy, time, and money. To attempt
to explain it to the outsider is an
exercise in futility. That’s not to say
that it’s some exclusive club, but
rather something that people should
experience for themselves in order
to draw their own conclusions with
MDMA from some sub-par Silk Road
vendor, there’s always the occasional
backpacker who contracts dengue
fever or ends up having to bribe their
way out of a situation in which they’ve
done nothing wrong, but on the
The rush that punches you in the
face when you touchdown, with a
ridiculous number of days and miles
ahead of you, is very much a physical
sensation, a sort of coming-up. There’s
the strange adjustment period as
when it’s all over too soon make you
impulsively hunt for your next hit.
It’s also a pretty expensive habit,
but one that you can justify the costs
for on the basis that it’s too much
fun, and something you probably
won’t be able to do once you’re all
grown up and in the real world.
Unless you’re a part of that rare breed
who wants to maintain the habit
well into adulthood and retirement.
Travel brings together people from
allwalks,andprovidestheopportunity
for them to go a little bit crazy and
generate some stories that probably
won’t ever be told to the grandkids.
It’s something that everyone should
experience – before diving soul-
first into the nearest hedge fund or
strategy boutique – and something
that offers at least some solace in what
are otherwise, sadly, pretty dark times.
“the analogy seems to hold true … except perhaps for the
as few preconceptions as is possible.
Those fortunate enough to be
acquainted with travel typically
regard it as a positive, life-changing
experience. Of course, like the
unfortunate psychonaut who is
unjustifiably sold PMA in place of
whole it’s the sort of experience that
enriches you and your perceptions.
There’s that element of excitement
and danger as you plunge into the
unknown, providing you’re willing
to tread at least a little off the well-
beaten Banana Pancake Trail.
you struggle to adapt to a completely
alien milieu, before you relax into
what you’re doing and enjoy the ride,
talking to strangers and taking part
in activities you’d probably never
consider doing back home. And the
yearning and nostalgia that kick in

