33
@feliximperial
FelixImperial
FRIDAY 22 NOV
CAREERS
Hidden jobs… How to find them
H
ave you ever wondered why
the very job you are madly
interested in you never see
advertised? Well it could be
that it is part of the ‘Hidden Job’
market. It is estimated that approximately
70% of all vacancies filled have never been
openly advertised. This can be particularly
prevalent for what are called ‘experienced
hire’ opportunities but it can also be common
in certain industry sectors at the graduate
and intern level. So why are some jobs hidden
like this? Well there are several reasons.
Firstly it takes time and money to advertise
job opportunities so if your company is in
a sector that is highly sought after then you
might prefer to wait for potential candidates
to come knocking on your door. For smaller
companies who only recruit as and when the
need arises there might be a fear of being
swamped if they make their opportunities
too public. In some cases the work area is
highly specialised and so only a known group
of people possess the right skill set so why
look further afield; and finally many jobs are
filled through contacts and networking, so it
is all about who you know. So to maximise
your job hunting chances you need to take
into account this hidden factor as well as the
more openly advertised opportunities.
So how do you break into this
mystery area?
Here are four golden rules that will help you
succeed.
Research – It is important that you
understand the normal recruitment methods
for the work you are trying to get into.
Does the sector almost always advertise
or not? An easy way to find this out is by
checking regularly in all the normal sources
for vacancies such as newspapers, specialist
journals, career websites, company websites
and of course JobsLive. If you can’t find what
you are looking for it does not necessarily
mean it doesn’t exist, it could just require
a little more effort and ingenuity to find it.
Your careers consultant at College will be
able to help you understand the norm for the
area you are trying to get into so consider
booking an appointment to see the careers
consultant who works with your degree
course. There is also useful information on
the www.prospects.ac.uk website Types of
Jobs section with details on a wide variety
of occupational areas including information
about typical sources for vacancies. While
you are researching the work area it is
important to understand what skills are
required for the work as well because a big
part of this type of job hunting involves
selling your skills.
Sell your skills – Knowing what you have
to offer is all important in the ‘Hidden Job’
market. It will be down to you to understand
how your knowledge, experience and skills fit
with the work you are interested in, and then
marketing them in a way that is going to be
irresistible to a potential employer. It is all
about showing what benefits you can bring
to the organisation. Make sure when you
are constructing your CV and covering letter
that you are highlighting all the right areas
of expertise. Provide good clear evidence of
what you can do; show that you understand
who they are and the work they are engaged
in. The speculative cover letter needs to
capture their attention and leave them
wanting to find out more about you. There is
useful information on writing cover letters at
http://bit.ly/1aEIOFb.
Be proactive – Planning your strategy is
vital. Firstly, from your research, you need
to create a target list of potential employers.
The more effort you put into this and the
more imaginatively you think about possible
resources the more likely you are to come up
with a long target list unique to you. There
are the obvious areas such as using internet
searches but you could also think about
other resources. Specialist journals and
publications have articles which may name
key players in the sector, who has recently
been active in research, winning contracts,
developing innovation, collaborating with
other companies etc. Some publications
may carry job adverts but they may also carry
adverts for products or services and you can
use these as a way of researching companies
too. If you know the sector you are interested
in holds information/trade fairs these can
also be good ways to seek out company
details.
Having put together your target list try
to find a named contact. It always pays to
send a speculative letter or email to a specific
person. It is very easy to hit the delete
button if you feel a message is not personally
addressed to you but if it has your name at
the top human nature tends to make us much
more likely to reply. So check company web
pages where you will often find an ‘about
us’ section which may include lists of key
personnel.
The next step is to decide how to approach
them. Here it pays to be subtle: the ‘Give us
a job’ up front attack does not always pay
off. It can help to use a ‘softly, softly’ strategy
where you build up some connection first.
Have you got a reason to make contact? Are
you doing something on your course: an
assignment, a project, some research that
would give you an opening? Sometimes
asking for some help or information relating
to your degree or research can provide
just the right opportunity to develop a
connection further and you will be surprised
how often people will respond to this type
of request for assistance. Then, having
made the connection, it is a lot easier to
build this up step by step. You could ask
for a short meeting to find out more about
their particular work area, advice on your
CV, possibly a request to work shadow for
a day. Getting yourself known and having a
‘foot in the door’ are just the keys needed to
unlocking this hidden market.
Network and use your contacts – Making
use of your network is also essential and in
this type of job hunting it is all about building
up that list of contacts. Make sure people
know what type of work you are interested
in. You will be surprised how, in the course
of general conversation, someone will know
of someone else who happens to work in
that area. Also if you do make speculative
approaches which are not successful always
follow up by asking if they happen to know
someone else who you might contact. That
gives you another name to add to your target
list and can also act as an introduction,
“x suggested I contact you about…” Use
your friends, parents, family, colleagues,
academics, family friends and all of their
contacts to spread you potential network and
provided you approach them diplomatically
and politely this extended web of contacts
will prove to be a fantastic resource. For more
help in how to network for success check our
Quick Guide on Networking at http://bit.
ly/1aPTFsI.
Hopefully this article will have given you
a starting point in breaking into the ‘Hidden
Job’ market but if you need further help get
in touch.
The Careers Service
Imperial College London
Careers
Events
Workshop
25 November, 12:30 – 14:00
Group Mock Interview
Seminar
25 November, 16:15 – 17:15
Create a Winning CV
Lunchtime Careers Talk
25 November, 13:00 – 13:50
Applying for Postgraduate Study in the US
Workshop
26 November, 12:30 – 14:00
Preparing For Assessment Centres - Group Activities
Seminar
26 November, 16:15 – 17:15
Interview
Lunchtime Careers Talk
26 November, 13:00 – 13:50
Engineering Support Services - delivering critical
support
Workshop
27 November, 12:30 – 14:00
Preparing For Assessment Centres - Presentation
Skills
Seminar
27 November 16:15-17:15
Assessment Centres
Employer-Led Skills Workshop
27 November, 13:30 – 15:30
Business Networking Skills Workshop (Teach First)
Book in person at Careers Service – £10 deposit
required (correct change only!)
Workshop
28 November 12:30-14:00
Preparing for Assessment Centres – In-Tray / E-tray
Exercises
Seminar
28 November, 16:15 – 17:15
Create a Winning CV
Lunchtime Careers Talk
28 November, 13:00 – 13:50
Quant Trading and the Technology Behind It
Seminar
29 November, 16:15 – 17:15
Effective Applications
THE FULL FOOL
Apply via Jobs Live unless stated

