34 FRIDAY 22 NOV
CLUBS & SOCS Editor: Nida Mahmud
felix@imperial.ac.uk
Christmas is Coming
Ben Fernando
Charity Editor
I
t’s that time of year again – Christmas! Once again
the hordes of charity appeals are descending upon us,
all asking for our help. But other than giving away our
Christmas money (which I’m hoping to talk about
next week), what can you and I do to help? There’re
a number of ways that our time can be put to good use.
I’ve not put a huge number of links in this article, but if
you’re interested a quick Google search with the name of
your area and what you’d like to do will probably lead to
some contacts. Otherwise, www.volunteernow.co.uk has a
pretty neat interactive search function that might help you
narrow down what you want to do.
The first, and perhaps most common volunteering activ-
ity over Christmas is helping the homeless. Over the win-
ter period the low temperatures and higher incidence of
infectious diseases means that the death rate amongst
the homeless noticeably increases, and obviously chari-
ties work to try and combat this problem. Crisis, a lead-
ing homelessness charity, runs several temporary shelters
over Christmas in various cities: www.crisis.org.uk.
You could also think about volunteering to help vulner-
able people who aren’t necessarily homeless. Christmas
tends to be a time when organisations are short on staff
but the demand is nonetheless high – consider a helpline
like Samaritans, or perhaps an old people’s home. These
often run small Christmas parties or events that require
help from people who aren’t specially trained, but who are
enthusiastic and willing to pitch in.
If you’d like something a bit less front-line, you could think
about helping out for a couple of hours at a local foodbank,
or promoting present recycling. The former involves tak-
ing donations of unused food, like tins and cereals, and
packaging and distributing them to people who need
them. Again, Christmas often sees the problem of food
poverty highlighted, as people spend more on their heat-
ing and can’t afford to eat. What’s more worrying is that
the incidence of food bank usage is actually going up in the
UK, something which I find rather shocking.
Present recycling promotes the use of Christmas pre-
sents that we would otherwise throw away or stick in a
cupboard somewhere. Charity shops will always be really
keen to get their hands on unwanted presents which can
go a long way to making up their takings in January, which
often sees a decline in sales for shops. If you get a new
laptop or something, you could also consider recycling the
old one, though an organisation like Computer Aid (www.
computeraid.org).
Finally, one thing which those of us who grew up in the
UK will remember is the Christmas Fayre/Fair/Market/
Church Fair/event, which always has a charity presence. If
you’d like a slightly more chilled volunteering opportunity,
you could find out which charity is going to be at any of
your local events and volunteer to help out: be it selling
merchandise, helping on the door or whatever. I’ve been to
loads of these and they’re generally good fun, you’ll likely
get a cup of tea and a biscuit for your trouble as well.
So there’s a few ideas, a list that’s by no means exhaustive.
Whilst we all of course have our own ideas of what we’d
like to do in terms of relaxing and working over Christmas,
even a couple of hours that you spend helping out can go
a long way to making a big difference in the community.
Ben
IC Radio Schedule
Don’t miss a treat!!
I
f you’ve never seen Imperial
College Symphony Orchestra
play, you’re missing out! Full of
science-loving musicians, ICSO
is Imperial’s flagship orchestra
playing great music to the highest
standards.
After the success of playing to a
sold out Cadogan Hall last year with
the stunning BBC Young Musician
2012 Laura van der Heijden, ICSO
have begun this year with the fabulous
annual weekend trip to Dorchester.
Staying with amazingly generous host
families, ICSO performed alongside
the Thomas Hardye Singers before
introducing our new members to the
wonderful Dorchester night life!
Our first South Kensington Concert
is on Friday 29th November 2013 in
the Great Hall at 8pm. Tickets cost
just £3 for students in advance and
are available from the Blyth Centre on
Level 5 of the Sherfield building.
Alongside a jazz clarinet concerto
performed by the phenomenal Chaz
Keiderling (one of the winners of
Imperial’s Concerto Competition),
ICSO will also be playing the epic
Rachmaninov Symphony No.2 – the
perfect programme to take you away
from your manic week of work, it is
guaranteed to be a night to remember!
Yet this is just the start! Next term
will see ICSO perform Britten’s War
Requiem with IC Choir in Winchester
Cathedral, as well as four more
concertos from Imperial College
performers. In the summer, ICSO
have been invited to perform a concert
in aid of UNESCO in Sibelius Hall,
Finland – providing the base for a very
exciting Summer Tour to Helsinki!
We hope to see you on the 29th
November and feel free to get in
contact at icso@imperial.ac.uk if
you’d like to stay in touch with our
events or have any questions!
Imperial College Symphony Orchestra play Rachmaninov,
Khachaturian and Beal…
ICSO
friday 22 november
Blackstreet
sunday 24 november
Tune in for an hour of R&B, Hip
Hop, Trap, Afrobeats, you name it!
#TheAttic
Student Radio Chart Show
Join the Sunday fun with
happymichael! Random cool features
and stories with awesome tunes (and
sometimes a complimentary laughing
fit!)
monday 25 november
and More
Stage, Screen and Beyond...
If you like music, frequent technical
problems and unusual pan-european
accents, this is the show for you!
Ectoplasm
tuesday 26 november
one hour of totally rad music, old and
new.
From the IC Radio studios, TedZed
join us for an exclusive set live on
radio.
A weekly fix of brand new indie/alt/
electronica.
wednesday 27 november
Rampage
Great music brought to you by the
Rocksoc Community!
Two Irish lads bringing you some
excellent banter, topical comedy and
powerful tuneage.
Charles and Ellie
An in depth look at steam engines in
the 19th century.
thursday 28 november
Chris, James and Fiona bring you a
show that’s a bit like one of those films
that’s so bad it’s almost good.

