38 FRIDAY 22 NOV
SPORT Editor: Kunal Wagle
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
IC beat Subway
sellers
I
t was a cold frosty morning;
luckily the weather was a
little more stable than Frosty’s
stomach walls. Beasley faced
a huge debate though: to wear
a layer underneath or not. Sacrifice
warmth and endure the possibility
of nipple chaffing, or lose vital fluids.
It was a tough choice, almost on par
with the age-old optimal banana
consumption time and optimal
shower temperature. We got out on to
the pitch well before the opposition,
making sure to lock all of our lectures
notes in a safe. As we were warming
up, the second half of Westminster
1s arrived, opting to jump out over a
barbed wire fence rather than walking
round to the actual entrance – clearly
a bright bunch. I hope they’re a little
smarter when I tell them what I want
in my Subway.
Wanting to bounce back from two
1-0 defeats, high pressing, hard work
and plenty of chat were on the agen-
da. Dale was missing from the warm
up, which has become the norm on
a Wednesday night. Captain Robin-
son led the pressure from the front,
shouting out multiple orders at their
back four who scrambled to find the
BLT. Rumour has it he only takes girls
to Subway to see if they can handle a
foot long. Vicious. The pressure from
the team was starting to pay off as
Westminster panicked at the back
and they had no outlet on the pitch.
Instead they had a lump up top, but
all of that muscle meant nothing as
Diaz and Amjad didn’t even have to
come out of first gear to beat him to
the ball. His touch was terrible, and
Westminster were routinely broken
down. We ended the first half well on
top, passes were slick, wingers were
skinning defenders and Crawford had
resisted the temptation to wade in to
the Children’s Activity Centre. All we
lacked was a goal.
The second half almost delivered
one instantly. From the restart, Cherif
played a ball in behind to Murphy who
latched on to it and fizzed it invitingly
across the box, with Robinson just get-
ting his first time finish the wrong side
of the left post. It was promising from
IC, who needed a goal more than the
Union needs efficiency. IC continued
with high pressing and were awarded
a few free kicks, but when nothing
was coming to fruition, we stayed dis-
ciplined and kept plugging away. Mur-
phy then won another free kick on the
edge of the box. After squandering a
few free kicks previously, he had to
make this one count, and he did. Send-
ing the future Subway employee that
was their goalkeeper sprawling across
the goal to try and reach the ball, his
efforts were pointless as the ball went
in off the far post. IC erupted like a
virgin reaching a climax; all the hard
work had paid off and there was defi-
nitely the capacity for more goals. IC
were creating loads of chances, slip-
ping balls in behind their back four,
however the aforementioned lump,
with a touch that would get him on a
particular register, decided that ejacu-
lating wasn’t the only thing he would
be doing prematurely today. Now in
the role of linesman he was flagging
absolutely every through ball to Rob-
inson offside, but, to be fair, he prob-
ably didn’t know the offside rule. It’s
not a problem though, as I’m sure they
have plenty of ketchup, salt and pep-
per in Subway for him to learn. Bend
It Like Beckham.
WithIC’suniquebrandofhighpress-
ing football beginning to take a toll on
them, the game started to open up a
bit, although Westminster’s non exist-
ent knowledge of the offside rule ran
throughout their whole team, as they
were caught offside multiple times by
a militant back four. IC almost extend-
ed the lead to 2-0 as Captain Robinson
pulled off a diving header, but wanted
it a little bit too much and sent the ball
in off his hands. The last 10 minutes
were a bit shaky but with the deploy-
ment of Crawford and Beasley we saw
the game out well.
IC win in Cup
Paul Nugent
1st XI Football Player
LUSL Cup days – the highlight of
any IC footballer’s career, more
magic than the FA Cup and more
grit and determination than a
drunken iNuge verbally attacking
a granny on a night bus after the
union.
We were facing off against Kings
Medics 2s, who we overturned in
the Semi Final on our way to win-
ning the cup last season. We face
their 1s, who won the LUSL league
last year, later in the campaign, and
we needed to send a message to
them, much like we did to UCL’s 1s
earlier in the season (By thrashing
their 2s 13-0 in a friendly). Mur-
phy was noticeably missing, as was
Crawford. Suspicious. Rumour has
it they were on a romantic getaway
together; neither were available to
comment as they were both ‘busy’.
The football was fast flowing
from IC and the midfield trio of
Cherif, Ayanwale and Hill were
keeping the ball well in midfield
and hitting the channels well. Dale
was beating his man all day for
pace on the right and Prestinoni’s
dribbling skills meant that Kings
Medics didn’t see much of the ball,
and when they did, the back four’s
militant back line caught them off-
side. The goal came as quickly as an
over excited fresher in bed. Dale
got down the right, eating his man
for breakfast (that’s not the only
thing he eats, ladies), playing the
ball square through the CBs legs,
and directly in the path of Captain
Robinson who opened his body
out in a Nugent-esque fashion and
slotted the ball in. The keeper was
once again left sprawled, legs open
and dominated (Robinson, 2013).
Rumour has it Captain Robin-
son snapchatted a picture of their
keeper to all his friends to gloat.
Not that he’s done anything like
that before.
We went in at half time 1-0 to the
good. Our lead was quickly dou-
bled as Prestinoni’s tight dribbling
saw him maze past several players
before wading into the box and be-
ing hacked down by their CB. Cap-
tain Robinson stepped up to take
the penalty, and he grabbed the
chance by the balls and squeezed as
hard he could, thrashing the ball in
to the bottom left corner and send-
ing the keeper the opposite way. 2-0,
advantage ICs. From an absolutely
huge goal kick from Wells which
bypassed even their centre backs,
Captain Robinson drifted in from
the left and in behind the defence to
take the ball first time on his chest,
instantly putting him one on one
with the goalkeeper which he easily
dispatched via a wonderful volley in
to the back of the net to round off a
hat trick.
The tie wasn’t over yet though as
King’s Medics pulled one back from
a corner. We did well to hold off any
more pressure and contain them
following their goal. Beasley’s intro-
duction saw the game settle in our
favour and his warm up was so quick
he actually got out of the illustrious
second gear. Nielsen and Nugent
took it upon themselves to bomb up
the pitch and try and reclaim some
much needed fantasy points. Shamsi
had other ideas though, making a
good run down the middle allow-
ing Dale to play him in, however he
did his best to put the ball anywhere
but on target. 3-1 was the final score
and saw IC 1s progress in to the next
round of the cup.
Paul Nugent gives the juicy details
On both Wednesday 13th and Satur-
day 16th of November, the ICUAFC
3rd team played the King’s College
2nd team, home and away respec-
tively.
On the Wednesday, coming off the
back of some huge confidence boost-
ing wins in both the BUCS and LUSL
cups (#cuprun), the atmosphere
within the squad was teething with
tension to test ourselves against a re-
spected side.
When kick-off did come and was
followed moments later by a clatter-
ing Taha Butt tackle, it was evident
that this fixture was going to be a
tightly-fought affair.
Solid defending from both sides
meant chances were few and far be-
tween in the first half. A tireless Fran-
cis Nwobu nearly eked a goal from
a bouncy through-ball from Myles
Jarvis, only to be cruelly denied with
a stellar off-balance claw away from
the goal line by the King’s keeper. Per-
haps the best chance of the half fell to
Julian Iacoponi – playing the floating
role on the edge of the box at a cor-
ner – but unfortunately the ensuing
bounce volley which fell to him so
sweetly rose bitterly over the bar.
Both teams were content with going
into the half-time break at 0-0. Start-
ing the second half with a positive
mind set, Alex Whittington slipped
a stellar sliding pass into the feet of
Myles who, leading from the front as
skipper, slotted away.
Initial 1-0 nerves kicked in as some
sloppy passes left the IC goal exposed,
requiring some strong sweeper-
keeper play from Sanjiv Dutt. Despite
some sustained pressure, Miles Cov-
ers’ orbital throw-ins helped IC get
back into King’s territory, and the 3s
started to dominate again.
With the defence becoming more
compact and composed with the
Anglo-French pairing of Jack ‘Allez’
Peacock and Vincent Avena ruling
over the King’s attack, the 3s started
penetrating behind the King’s defence
with Adam Marks linking up well with
Naven Ghulam up the right flank.
The game was tilting in IC’s favour,
and Francis began imposing himself
on the towering King’s centre-halves
evermore. Muscling out his opposing
defender, he lofted a defence-splitting
ball through to a sprinting Julian Iaco-
poni to challenge for a 50-50 with the
King’s keeper, only for the fresher to
sky his shot, again. This time however,
the aerial route to goal was deliber-
ate, with the chip-cum-lob over the
goalie – despite convincing the rest of
the team it was going into the hockey
pitches over the fence – dropping in at
as vertical an angle as possible, going
into both the top and bottom corner
simultaneously: not something you
can say everyday about a goal!
Relentless one-twos down the wing
led to more crosses and corners, one
of which fell to Julian, sneaking in
at the back post, to slot a soft volley
finish inside of the post. Right place,
right time, and it was 3-0 with IC in
cruise control. An audacious bicycle
kick effort on goal from Alex Whit-
tington – spectacularly saved by the
opposition keeper – was the highlight
of the remainder of play, whilst the
back four ensured a clean sheet with
yet more confident clearances and
clear communication. What a victory,
and what a day.
The return leg on the following
Saturday the 16th was away at King’s
home pitches at Berrylands (#For-
tressB), and proved just as fruitful,
with another 3-0 3-pointer secured
for the magical 3s. This match-up
transpired to be another cagey affair,
and was indeed tighter than Alex ‘Tut-
ti-Frutti’ Hugh-Wilson’s infamously
skinny skinny-jeans. Chris Aspinall
made some crucial blocks in goal to
keep his sheet clean, and Adam Marks
had his strongest performance of the
season (if not the best performance by
any player in any season) in defence
and attack, timing tackles and con-
taining the King’s flank play, whilst
picking out his winger with scientific
precision and reliability. This even
prompted an onlooker to say, “Does
your right back usually play for a high-
er team?” – high praise for the East
Cornwall cornerback.
The game was finally unlocked at
the 70 minute mark, courtesy of a nar-
row pitch and those aforementioned
rocket-like long throws from left-back
Miles Covers, which somehow small-
est-man-in-the-club Myles Jarvis got
on the end of, to slot in an opportun-
istic goal. The other goals again came
from the skipper-scorer-supreme: one
from a cracking free-kick cross caus-
ing the King’s keeper to fumble into
the net, and the other a tap in after
right-winger Alex ‘Fantasy Futsal’
Hassan placed the ball expertly into
that famously most uncertain of cor-
ridors, which Myles smashed in at the
far post.
3-0 and the match secured, it was
time for celebrations to begin.
IC do the double over KCL
Julian Iacoponi describes the action
ICUAFC is sponsored by:

