4 FRIDAY 22 NOV
REP WEEK
R
ep Week is starting on Monday and provides a platform to
celebrate the great changes that have taken place with the help
of your Academic Representation Network. Just last month a
record number of students voted in our Your Rep Elections
and there are now over 430 Academic Reps working, for you,
in every department of College. Their aim is to improve your education.
There have already been some great successes in your department and
we will be showcasing some of these throughout the week, using our ‘You
said, we did’ campaign. Keep checking the Union website and follow our
hashtag #loveyourep on Twitter.
Your reps will be wearing bright red ‘love your rep’ t-shirts all week (25-
29 November) so keep an eye out for them. They will be gathering your
suggestions for improvements to teaching, learning and facilities in your
department. Feel free to give them any tips on how your time at Imperial
can be improved. You can do this by emailing, Facebook messaging or
talking to them in person.
The 700+ tips collected from last year’s Rep Weeks were typed up and
sent to your academic reps, who were encouraged to bring them up at
their next Staff-Student Committee. So don’t think we just collect your
suggestions and leave them – we read each and every one of them! We
will be rewarding the three best suggestions with £10 Union vouchers
and you can even tweet your suggestions by giving your course and using
#loveyourrep on Twitter.
If you want to talk to your reps in person then come to the Junior Common
Room between 12:00 -14:00 Monday-Friday. We also have Postgraduate
reps in ħ (h-bar) and Silwood Park campus on Wednesday 12:00- 14:00.
Don’t know who your rep is? Log into imperialcollegeunion.org and your
reps will appear in the side bar, or take a look at our Rep A to Z: http://
bit.ly/IgI7aW
Also taking place during Rep Week is the Student ICT forum, where reps
meet up with members of ICT and eLearning staff. If you have any ICT-
related problems (yes, including Panopto!) then email your rep to let them
know BEFORE Thursday and then they can bring your problems and
suggestions to the forum. This is a really useful way of bringing together the
ICT team with students and previous meetings have been really successful
at sorting out your ICT problems. I will write a blog on everything that
was discussed and circulate it to you via your reps so you’ll know all the
outcomes that resulted from your comments and suggestions. Your voice
will be heard.
Reps work hard to get the best educational experience for you all, so if you
see a rep make sure you show them some love!
DPE love, Nat x
Rep Week next week!
#loveyourrep
Nat Kempston
Deputy President (Education)
#LoveYourRep Academic Representation Network (ARN) facts:
Tfrom year to year with changes to courses and PhD groups.
Tfor these elections. This turnout would have placed us 11th nationally in the
SABB/Big elections – so this is an amazing total!
Ovacancies! (3rd year JMC anyone??)
Y
27candidates stood for the position of Year 1 Medicine Rep.
Over 300 reps have been trained in person so far this year.
There are over 150 Staff Student Committees that take place across the whole
College
770
Rep Week: Where To Find Us
Monday
12-1400: Stall in JCR
Tuesday
12-1400: Stall in JCR
Wednesday
12-1400: Stall in JCR
12-1400: Stall at Silwood Campus
12-1400:
Thursday
12-1400: Stall in JCR
12-1330: Student ICT Forum
(Meeting Room 3, Union
Building)
18-1900: Education and
Representation Board (Meeting
Rooms 1&2, Union Building)
Friday
12-1400: Stall in JCR

