5
@feliximperial
FelixImperial
FRIDAY 22 NOV
REP WEEK
The Student Academic
Choice Awards are back!
A
fter the huge success
of last year’s awards
the Student Academic
Choice Awards
(SACAs) are back, and
this year they are bigger than ever!
In case you haven’t heard of them,
the SACAs are awards for academics
and support staff, nominated and
chosen entirely by students. The
awards are designed to celebrate and
reward good teaching and emphasise
teaching as a skill of equal worth and
value as research. We also want to
build a community in which students,
academics and staff all feel ownership
of the development and delivery
of their course. These awards are a
chance for students to say thank you
to those members of staff that have
had a positive impact on their time at
Imperial.
There are eight awards in total that
will cover all faculties, departments
and campuses. There will also be
specific prizes available for those
who supervise doctoral students,
teach masters students, and work
in professional roles within College.
The awards aren’t designed to be a
popularity contest but a recognition
of innovation, skill, engagement and
energy that students have received
from academics.
We want the best members of staff
to win these awards, so we need your
nominations! Nominations open on
Monday 25 November, and all you
have to do is go online to union.
ic.ac.uk/SACAs and fill in the simple
online nomination form.
The shortlists will be drawn up and
winners selected by student panels
– making these truly your awards.
The shortlisted candidates will be
announced online and in Felix before
the winners will be announced at the
swanky black-tie awards ceremony in
May. If your nominee is shortlisted
you have the chance to get a ticket
to the main event, and trust me, you
don’t want to miss out on one of the
most glamorous nights of the year.
Last year over 550 nominations
were made for over 250 members of
staff, which were sifted down to 42
shortlisted candidates by panels of
students. This year our target is 1000
nominations, so get nominating from
Monday 25 at union.ic.ac.uk/SACAs
Award Categories
The awards available in the SACAs reflect the priorities of current and past Imperial students, and all have the common theme of ‘excellence’. The awards aim
to reward members of staff who display the elements of excellent academic practice that our members believe are most important, such as high-quality feed-
back or the use of innovative teaching techniques. Through national and local surveys, staff-student committees, and the individual opinions of our Academic
Representatives, we developed the following categories and their shortlisting criteria.
Best Teaching for Undergraduates –
Excellence in teaching is characterised by
enthusiasm, the use of original and accessible
teaching methods as well as the clarity of
learning objectives.
Best Teaching for Postgraduates – Excellence
in teaching is characterised by enthusiasm, the
use of original and accessible teaching methods
as well as the clarity of learning objectives.
Best Innovation – Excellence in innovation
is characterised by the imaginative use of
technology, the early adoption of new methods,
and the use of online and mobile technologies
in learning & teaching.
Best Graduate Teaching Assistant –
Excellence as a Graduate Teaching Assistant
is characterised by clear and effective
demonstrating, offering detailed and
personalised feedback, and giving one-to-one
support to students when needed.
Best Tutoring- Excellence in tutoring is
characterised by the offering of quality pastoral
care and support, and the responsiveness,
availability and openness of the tutor.
Best Feedback- Excellence in feedback is
characterised by constructive commentary,
the accessibility of staff members to explain or
expand upon feedback, and the timely return of
assessed coursework.
Best Support Staff- Excellence in support
staffing is characterised by using experience
and knowledge to help students, enhancing
the staff-student community within the
department, and supporting co- and extra-
curricular activities.
Best Supervision- Excellence in doctoral
research supervision is characterised by the
availability and openness of the supervisor,

