6 FRIDAY 22 NOV
WELLBEING
I
was diagnosed with clinical depression
when I was 17. For me, the diagnosis
helped. It helped to give a name to the
bizarre way that I had been feeling for
overayear.Iwasalwaystiredandalways
sad. The worst feeling was that of isolation,
and feeling disjointed from the world, and I
felt like I was the only person in the world to
feel this way. I didn’t tell anybody because I
thought it might go away. I was scared of how
I was feeling; I knew something was wrong,
but I didn’t know what to do about it and I
didn’t want to make a fuss. When I finally got
my diagnosis, I was given a legitimate reason
to feel the way I did.
Depression has affected every aspect
of my life, and its symptoms can be quite
overwhelming. Some days I wake up and feel
empty. I don’t want to do anything. I don’t
want to work, I don’t want to watch TV, and
I certainly don’t want to talk to anyone. For
me, one of the worst parts of depression
was a sense of losing myself. I lost interest
in things that I previously loved, like dancing
and singing. I was in the choir but stopped
going because I was too depressed. I lost my
passion for biology, a subject I had previously
loved, and my pride in my college work
disappeared. Depression also brought with it
a huge lack of self-confidence. I have always
been a high achiever and a perfectionist, so
I am constantly putting myself down when
it comes to work. I’m also quite shy in social
situations because I think that I have nothing
to add to the conversation and that nobody
wants me there. This can make hanging
out with friends mentally exhausting. If
someone was bullying you, constantly telling
you weren’t good enough, that everybody
hates you and there’s no point to anything,
you would walk away. You can’t walk away
when that bully is inside your own head.
Trying to explain depression to friends
and family has been difficult. The most
common reaction I’ve faced is confusion,
with my friends saying that I don’t look or
act depressed. What some people don’t
understand about depression is its strength,
and how it can completely consume
somebody’s life, without anybody knowing.
It is surprisingly easy to hide. I got so good
at putting up a front that I don’t even realise
I’m doing it anymore. I have also had
friends offering advice on how to raise my
mood, or who to turn to for help. Although
I understand that they are just trying to
help, when I want to talk, is it to get things
off my chest, and all I want is someone to
listen to me. Offering advice can be a little
patronising, despite the good intentions.
The most upsetting reaction I’ve had is
being called a drama queen. My depression
is not something I have “made up”, and I
cannot control my symptoms. Because of
this negative reaction, I have become very
reluctant to talk about my problems, and
instead deal with everything myself. Rather
than talking to someone, I have often turned
to self harm to alleviate the stress, which
can manifest itself in many different ways.
For me, it is cutting, purging (making myself
sick) and overdosing. I have also tried to
take my own life several times. I feel like
this is a common situation faced by those
with depression. Telling someone to “pull
themselves together” will only increase their
sense of loneliness, and make them less likely
to seek help.
Everybody needs a support network to
fall back on. That may be family, a close
friend, or a counsellor/psychiatrist. It’s
different for each individual. There are many
different treatment options for depression:
counselling, cognitive behavioural therapy
(CBT), medication, talking therapies, group
therapies and self-help, or a combination
of these. Each individual will find that a
different type of treatment works best for
them. It may take some time to find the right
one. If I were to give advice to others seeking
help, I would say be patient with the service,
and with yourself. You may not feel better
straight away, and often “it has to get worse
before it gets better” applies. Talking about
your feelings can be very difficult, especially
if you’re quite introverted like me. It can help,
but if that really isn’t working, you could try
writing in a diary; anything to get how you
feel out, so that it’s not building up inside
of you. Even just hearing your thoughts out
loud can be helpful, and something you were
scared of suddenly doesn’t seem so scary
anymore. I found CBT and counselling
extremely hard as I did not want to open up.
I also found medication ineffectual. What
worked for me was distracting myself when
I got low, by hanging out with a close friend,
watching something good on TV, baking,
singing or even cleaning. Self-help is more
effective for me personally, because I hate
talking to other people about my feelings.
Getting a good night’s sleep always helps
alleviate my low mood and helps my energy
levels. I find that going for a jog or a swim
during the day helps me fall asleep more
easily at night, and I also like to watch ASMR
(autonomous sensory meridian response)
videos on Youtube.
Looking to the future, I hope to keep
managing my depression. Depression may be
something that I have to live with for the rest
of my life, but that doesn’t mean it is going to
rule my life. I may retry counselling and/or
medication, maybe when I’m more mature
and more ready to talk about my problems.
Ultimately, I want to have good mental
health. To me, this doesn’t mean being happy
all the time, but rather equipping myself with
the tools I need to manage my thoughts,
and accepting that there will always be bad
patches, but they won’t be forever and I will
come out the other side.
-Anonymous
If you have any first-hand experiences with
depression and want to write an article in
Felix for the OpenMinds campaign, please
send in your articles to Moeko at disoff@
imperial.ac.uk. For further information
on how to get involved OpenMinds, email
Moeko or visit our facebook page at www.
facebook.com/ICOpenMinds.
I
mperial, welcome to the OpenMinds campaign!
Our aim is to increase understanding of mental
health conditions and remove some of the stigma
with which they are associated.
1 in 4 people suffer from a mental health
condition, yet there is a severe lack of awareness and
the subject is, too often, taboo. Those with a mental
health condition can feel isolated and unsure of whom
to turn to when, in reality, there are plenty of mental
health services available. One of our objectives is to tell
you about the services that Imperial provides as well as
the external support on offer, that you might not have
known existed.
Mental health conditions include schizophrenia,
anxiety, OCD, and eating disorders but depression is
the most common in the UK and is the focus of our
campaign. There is no single cause of depression,
but triggering factors can include: money worries,
personal relationships, loneliness, drug and alcohol
abuse. It can also be hereditary. There are many
different types of depression, all of which are very real
medical conditions that require support.
Uni life can be stressful for anyone. Add this to
depression, and every day can be a struggle. Those who
can’t cope might be told to “suck it up” or labelled as
“weak”. This will only exacerbate the problem and cause
people to hide their problems out of embarrassment
and shame. However, it isn’t always easy on the other
side of things. The lack of understanding of depression
is astounding, considering how common it is. This
is why we are campaigning to give you the facts on
depression, and debunk some of the myths, such as
“depression is not a real medical illness”.
We will have frequent articles here in the Felix, such
as articles by health professionals, “myth-busters” and
some of your first hand experiences (send them in to
the email below!), and we hope that as many of you as
possible will participate in the survey we are releasing
in the near future. The survey will include questions
about your understanding of mental health and the
services available, in order to get an idea of current
attitudes towards mental health here at Imperial. In
spring term we will be hosting an event with guest
speakers from various mental health organisations and
medical professionals. Look out for our posters around
campus! Our Facebook page is the place to keep up to
date with the campaign and to get involved!
We want you to get involved because mental health
really does affect everybody. You may suffer from a
mental health condition yourself, know someone who
does, or experience depression in the future. Increasing
understanding and de-stigmatising depression could
help you through a rough patch, or enable you to be
that awesome supportive friend in someone’s time of
need.
If you want to get involved with the OpenMinds
campaign, email Moeko at disoff@imperial.ac.uk
or find our Facebook page www.facebook.com/
ICOpenMinds.
Depression – Taboo
or Not Taboo?
OpenMinds Campaign Team
Imperial College Union
IC Disabilities Advisory Service disabilities@imperial.ac.uk
IC Counselling Service counselling@imperial.ac.uk
IC Health Centre imperialcollege.hc@nhs.net
Nightline 0207 631 0101
(listening@nightline.org.uk)
Samaritans 08457 90 90 90
(jo@samaritans.org)
Mind www.mind.org.uk
Time To Change www.time-to-change.org.uk
Depression – My Story
Useful Contacts

