imperialcollegeunion.org
Union Page
imperialcollegeunion.org/academicreps
#loveyourrep
Monday 25 – Friday 29 November is Rep Week, our campaign to increase
awareness of Academic Representatives (or ‘Reps’ for short).
Academic Reps are the first point of contact for students with course or
research group concerns, facilities issues and positive feedback. Reps sit on
Staff-Student Committees and are an essential link between the College and
students.
Find us in the JCR 12:00 - 14:00, Monday – Thursday and 13:00 – 14:00 on
Friday. We’ll be giving away Love Heart sweets, collecting your views about
your course/research group and collecting Student Academic Choice Awards
nominations for deserving staff.
Find out who your Rep is at imperialcollegeunion.org/academicreps.
RepWeek starts on Monday
The Sexual Health Clinic is back!
Imperial College Union will be hosting another free sexual health clinic run
by the Terrence Higgins Trust on Thursday 5 December. It will take place in
the Activities Spaces, Union Building, Beit Quad. Services available include
rapid HIV testing, Chlamydia testing, Gonorrhoea testing, condoms, lube and
advice. The clinic welcomes all students regardless of age, gender, sexual
orientation, study type or country of origin.
Appointments can be booked in advance and a walk-in service is also
available. To book an appointment or get more information about the clinic,
please contact Zoe Richardson, Representation Coordinator, at z.richardson@
imperial.ac.uk.
imperialcollegeunion.org/sexual-health
imperialcollegeunion.org/realales
Vote for your December guest ales
The cold and dark nights are approaching and there is nothing better than
having a sip of one of your favourite ales inside the warmth of the Union.
To get your favourite ale behind the bar all you need to do is take the poll at
imperialcollegeunion.org/realales and the ales with the highest votes win! There
is a separate poll for The Union Bar and h-bar.
The current poll will close at 10:00, Monday 2 December and the winning ales
will be on sale later in the month.
December’s guest ale will join out regular ales in the bars - IPA (£2.90 a pint)
and Tolly English Ale (or TEA - £2.20 a pint).

