F E L I X 22nd January, 1974
S O C I E T I E S' P A G E
FOLK CLUB
Good morning campers, music lovers, and any-
one who cares to read this. Imperial College Folk
Club is responsible for this particular piece of
drivel, but don't rush off now, give us a chance
to tell you about this wonderful society.
Singers
We meet every Wednesday in the Lower Re-
fectory, at about 8.00 (well that's the official
time). We present a variety of acts from floor
singers (no that doesn't mean they're flat out
drunk), to a professional guest artist each week.
Music is mostly folky, both traditional and con-
temporary but there are some notable exceptions.
Anyone who wishes is welcome to come along
and sing or play anything. They can sing their
own or known songs (or both if they're that
good), or just play some instruments. We're very
friendly to floor singers really, we only laugh
at our resident drunk. But seriously, we respect
anyone's efforts and appreciate their participa-
tion (guess who just swallowed a dictionary!).
We have our own resident singer in the form of
Steve (where's the toothpaste) Walmsley, well
known to anyone who has been to any folk music
happening at l . C Extra attraction is that we're
only across the hall from the bar.
Regular folk club members come from IC, U C ,
IF, Bedford to mention but a few.
Artists
Artists who appear are usually well known in
their own area of the country, but they are nearly
all reasonably well known in this field (figura-
tively speaking, cos I'm really writing this in a
room!). To name drop, Diz Disley, Rosie Hard-
man, Stan Arnold and Bob Davenport have all
played here recently and of course the best Great
Hall concert of last term—Ralph McTell was a
folk club concert, officially (sorry Syd and Pete,
etc. who did all the work).
Membership
Everyone is welcome to come along on Wed-
nesday nights—keep an eye out for our posters.
You don't have to sing, you can just come and
ItSten and join in choruses, etc. (heavy hint here
to members^. We have a reciprocal agreement (!)
with Bedford College, and any of our members
can attend their folk club at a reduced rate. If
you wish to become a folk club member (a very
superior species), just turn up on any Wednesday
evening and we'll give you a card and pinch all
your money—No! That's wrong, membership fee
is only 50p,
I think that's all—*it will have to be, because
my brain hurts! Please come and see us soon, at
least it breaks up the week, and if you don't like
the music, you can always laugh at the
jokes (? ? ) .
Hope to see you sometime soon.
Luv from the Folk Club Committee.
g o c i E T y
Imperial College Railway Society was found-
ed by a group of railway enthusiasts at the col-
lege in 1947. Although the society has had its
"ups and downs" since then, the situation at
the moment can be regarded as fairly represen-
tative with membership around the thirty mark
and a full programme of fortnightly meetings
and visits.
Meetings
Meetings are held once every two weeks dur-
ing the Winter and Spring terms on Tuesday
evenings starting at 17.40. This arrangement
allows the speaker to be entertained at Hall
Dinner after the talk. The programme of meet-
ings is carefully chosen to ensure as wide a
coverage of railway subjects as possible. For
example, last term Mr. F. W. Briggs gave a
talk entitled "The South Eastern and Chatham
Scene", a historical illustrated review. Earlier in
the term Lt. Col. Townsend-Rose of the Railway
Inspectorate came and discussed his job. Still
to come this term is, amongst others, Mr. B. J .
Prigmore on "Tube Stock through the ages"
and, later on. Dr. A . 0. Gilchrist Will present
"The Technical Background to High Speed
Trains." The Society also has a reciprocal ar-
rangement with University College Railway
Society allowing members to attend meetings
there.
Visits
Visits are not held in accordance with such
a rigid timetable but there are usually about five
each term. The majority of them take place on
Wednesday afternoons but evening and week-
end ones are not uncommon. The highlight of
last term's visits was undoubtedly that to
Coburg St. Control for the Victoria and Northern
Line (LTE). Plans for this term include Victoria
signal box (BR-SR) and the White City Train-
ing Centre (LTE). In the summer term a long-
distance outing is arranged; the most recent was
to Carlisle, the outward journey being via the
Midlands and the return via the West Coast.
Own Loco
Other points of interest relate to the Society's
own steam loco and magazine: the former is a
3-y" gauge loco called "Dymphna". Although
heavy repairs are needed at the moment, a
technician in the college is carrying them out
and it is hoped that "Dymphna" will be in steam
before the end of the year. The Society's maga-
zine "Record" is published annually and, apart
from reporting on Society activities, articles of
general railway interest are included.
Details
I hope this brief article has given you some
idea of what the Society does and should you
desire them further details can be obtained
from the Secretary, Jonathan Edwards vis ME
3 "pigeonhole". Alternatively, you can just
come along to a meeting—you would be very
welcome. Details of these are given in I.C.
News. P. Greatorex, Chairman ICRS
$ & C W E E K
IN THE
LAKE DISTRICT
While most of you were still stuffing Christ-
mas goodies and feeling sick, members of the
I.C. Scout and Guide Club, also feeling sick,
prepared for their annual trip to the Lake Dis-
trict. By 9.00 a.m. on the Saturday morning,
the minibus was loaded and heading north.
Arrival
Around 5.00 p.m. we arrived in Little Lang-
dale, having picked up more people on the way.
Here progress slowed considerably, since the
next two hours were spent a) finding the hut to
sleep in, and b), finding the keys at the nearby
farm. Unfortunately due to error, not ours, the
hut was being used that night.
Cosy
After a night in the minibus we were feeling
superbly fit to climb Helvellyn the next morn-
ing. Eventually, after this exhilarating opener,
we found the hut. It was smaller than expected,
but cosy, too cosy in fact.
Misplaced
During the rest of the week much walking
was done, in various groups, and at various
times. The Langdale Pikes, The Old Man of
Coniston, Skiddaw, the Bowfell group, and the
Fairfield group were encompassed. The weather
varied from good to bad, and very bad. On one
of the latter Bowfell appeared to have been re-
placed by Esk Pike, or our compasses didn't
function. Either way the effect was that our
route was not as intended.
Future Events
All too quickly it seemed it was time to come
back, but everyone seemed to enjoy themselves
and so could you. This term we are walking in
North Wales, and Yorkshire, having a weekend
on the Broads, and also one canoeing. Come
and see us any Thursday lunchtime 12.30—
1.30 in Mines 303. We might even let you come
to Andorra in the summer!
Brian Murkin, Maths II
A.C.C.
meeting
SCR UNION 5.30
All tour grants to be submitted
at this meeting
JAN. 24
C R O S S - C O U N T R Y C L U B
There is a legend in the Cross-
country Club that, only a few years,
ago, we were honoured to be repre-
sented by runners of such outstand-
ing ability as to be called upon to
represent their countries internation-
ally. And, as we hear at the annual
dinner, we were the instituters and
oft-times record holders of the
Three Peaks Race, involving the
ascent and descent of three moun-
tains in the Peak District. Nowadays
the position is that, with the Club
at its largest for some years, there
is a great diversity of speed; on the
one hand our Captain being sum-
moned to run for his county, on the
other a number plodding along at the
back at 9 minutes a mile.
Background
As run at this college, X-country
is a unique sport. Firstly in the
variety of courses; differing in length
from \ \ to 6 miles, over ploughed
fields, roads, knee-deep mud, pas-
ture and parkland; in straight races
and relays. Secondly; at almost all
races, anyone who turns up can run.
Thirdly; it is an all weather sport;
no amount of rain or snow (or sun-
shine) or even fog has ever post-
poned one of our races. Lastly; the
competition; we run against such
varied opponents as Wye College
with their three runners and other
London Colleges, Sandhurst and the
Met. Police, and When we run for
U.L., where once again everyone is
welcome, the Navy, Oxford, Cam-
bridge and Birmingham Universities.
Whoever coined the phrase 'the
loneliness of the long-distance run-
ner' couldn't be more wrong, as
there's never any lack of people to
talk to (there's an old saying;
'you're never last in cross-country').
Social Life
The social side of the club is not
lacking, either. In fact, it tends to
overshadow the running section at
times. No report of the Cross-Coun-
try Club would be complete without
mention of the Isle of Man running
festival at Easter. We've been there
for the past 2 years now, and hope
to go again this year.
The club vest is also unique; not
only does it bear red, yellow and
purple diagonal stripes, it is also
optional. Gloves are also worn.
Races
Most of our races are friendlies
against other colleges. We also com-
pete in a League with other colleges
in and around London for which
there are 5 races, usually with a
field of about 120. Our own course
is in Richmond Park and consists of
one lap of five and a third miles. We
also enter teams in the Southern
Counties and National Champion-
ships, competing against large
numbers of club teams (a field of
over 1,000 in the National Seniors).
Apart from wandering the country-
side going to other people's races,
we also organise our own Hyde Park
Relay, which attracts entries from
over 80 different colleges ranging
from Scotland to Germany, Spain
and Sweden.
Fixtures are organised for every
Wednesday and Saturday afternoon
during the first two terms, and you
will be welcomed if you turn up for
any of them, even if you can only
come occasionally. This applies t®
all students at I.C. and other U.S.K.
colleges, and members of staff will
also be welcome to join in.

