CAREERS FAIR
The Industrial Society and the Careers Adyisory Service are once again presenting a 'Careers Information Fair' on
Wednesday 2 November. Sixty employers will be here for you to approach in the JCR or the Great Hall.
The nationalised concerns will be here in force this year: British Telecom, Steel, Gas and Rail suggesting that they may
have more vacancies to talk about in 1984. Oil companies whose recruitment was slight in 1983 appear to be entering the
market again. The financial concerns, particularly the banks and accountants, have already notified us of large numbers of
vacancies for 1984 graduates and so have Her Majesty's Forces.
Below is given a list of employers who will be attending the Careers Fair. After the title, a brief description of the
organisations main activities is provided and, in brackets, the main departments from which they will be hoping to recruit
graduates. This is not absolutely binding in every case and it may well be worth making an enquiry even if the letter
corresponding to your department (as indicated in the key below) does not appear next to the employer's name.
A-Aeronautical Engineering
B-Chemical Engineering
C-Civil Engineering
D-Mechanical Engineering
E-Electrical Engineering
F-Environmental Technology
G-Geology
H-Metallurgy
I-Petroleum Engineering
J-Mineral Resources Engineering
L-Materials Science
M-Mathematics
N-Chemistry
O-Management Science
P-Physics
R-Botany
S-Biochemistry
T-Social & Economic Studies
U-Computing
X-Biology
Y-Microbiology
Z-Zoology
1. Air Products
Manufacture and sale of industrial gases and process plants equipment. (BNUOLMDH)
2. Arthur Anderson
Chartered Accountants. Tax and Audit and management consultants. (All departments)
3. Associated British Foods
Food manufacturing and retailing (All departments)
4. Association of Certified Accountants
5. Barclays
Banking and financial management. (All departments)
6. BICC
Design and manufacture of cables and accessories, a wide range of electrical and mechanical
engineering products and contracting activities on a world wide basis. (ACUEOLMDPT)
7. Blue Circle
Manufacture and marketing of cement, ceramics and allied products. (All departments)
8. British Aerospace
Design, manufacture and marketing of civil and military aircraft. Design, development and
manufacture of guided weapons systems and space equipment, (AUELMDPHO)
9. British Gas
Exploration, production and transmission of natural gas. (All departments)
10. British Rail
Rail and sea transport. (All departments)
11. British Steel
Largest UK producer of iron and steel products. (All departments)
12. British Telecom
Provision of a national and international telecommunications service. (All departments)
12. Britoil
Exploration, production and trading of oil and oil related products. (All departments)
14. Burroughs Machines
Computer and business systems, modular micro computer based terminals manufacture.
(AUEOMDPT)
15. Civil Service Commission
Diplomatic service and House of Lords/Common clerkships; executive officers in the Home Civil
Service; science and professional and technology groups. (All departments).
16. Coopers & Lybrand
Chartered accountants. (All departments)
17. Courtaulds
Textiles Also paints, packaging and plastics. (All departments)
18. Ernst & Whinney
Chartered Accountants (All departments)
19. Ferranti
General electrical and electronic engineering. (AUEFLMDF)
20. Ford
Design, manufacture and sales of motor vehicles. (All departments)
21. G E C Turbine Generators
Design, manufacture and erection of large steam turbine generators and power stations
throughout the world. (AELMOHP)
22. Gencor
Mineral mining and processing of metals. (BNELDHJI)
23. G L C Fire Brigade
All aspects of fire prevention. (All departments)
24. Hayes Allen
Chartered accountants. (All departments)
25. HM Government Communications Centre
R&D of electronic and communication equipment to meet the special needs of HM government
at home and overseas. (EP)
26. ICI
Manufacture of chemicals for a wide range of applications. (All departments)
27. ICL
Computers, hardware. (All departments)
28. Johnson Matthey
Precious metal refiners, chemical manufacturers, metal fabricators. (All departments)
29. Lutron Electronics • j
High technology company developing energy saving lighting and motor controls. Worldwide j
application. (EDP)
30. Marathon Petrol
Oil and gas exploration and field development. (ABCUEDHI)
31. Marconi Communication Systems
Capital electronics. (All departments)
32. Mars
Manufacture and marketing of confectionery (All departments)
33. Mobil
Exploration, production, refining, distribution and marketing of petroleum products.
(IBDNCUGOLMJPT)
34. M O Value Co Ltd
35. National Coal Board
Coal mining and related activities. (All departments)
36. National Westminster Bank
Banking. (All departments)
37. Ove Arup Partnership
Consulting Engineers (ACDE)
38. Pilkington Brothers
Manufacture of glass and allied products. (All departments)
39. Pilkington PE
Design, development and manufacture of precision electro-optical systems. (UEOLMOHP)
40. Price Waterhouse
International firm of chartered accountants. (All departments)
41. Procter and Gamble
Detergents, toiletries, industrial goods and allied products.
42. Reckitt & Colman
Manufacture of household goods, toiletries, pharmaceuticals, food and wine. (All departments)
43. REME
Responsibility for providing engineering support for the army's equipment. (AED and various)
44. Royal Air Force
National defence by the operation and support of military aircraft. (All departments)
45. Royal Engineers
Military engineering. (All departments)
46. Royal Navy
Tfc^imaritime and strategic defence of the realm. (All departments)
47. RTZ Services
Mining, metal smelting, processing and fabrication, energy resources, chemicals and cement
manufacture, light engineering, (All departments).
48. Sarter Automation
Environmental controls, building automation, energy management. (UEDP)
49. Scicon
Computer systems, design and consultancy work. (All departments)
50. Shell
All aspects of the oil, chemical and gas industry. (All departments)
51. Schlumberger Inland Services
Oilfield service company. (AUEMDHJIP).
52. Spicer and Pegler
Chartered accountants. (All departments)
53. S T C
Telecommunications, electronic components and distribution. (All departments)
54. Systems Designers
Computer real time systems house. (UEFOMP)
55. Touche Ross
International firm of chartered accountants. (All departments)
56. Tube Investments
International engineering group of companies. (All departments)
57. Unilever
Consumer products manufacture. (All departments)
Page 4 l Friday, October 28, 19831 I FELIX

