Tips & Hacks
be.ez LA Robe 13 Black Addict
The be.ez is a sturdy bag that has clearly been
designed keeping your laptop in mind. There are
enough pockets to carry a few peripherals and
pens with you, as well as enough space for a small
sheaf of papers. That said, the bag is quite small;
don’t expect it to carry anything more than a small
refill pad in addition to your laptop. In terms of
style, the bag looks quite attractive when shut
– I’m not so sure about the gaudy ‘raspberry’ in-
terior of the review piece we received, but that’s
possibly a question of personal taste. The inner
sleeve is well cushioned and should protect your
laptop well. Overall, the Black Addict is very good
at keeping your laptop safe – the combination of
the no-nonsense bag and memory foam sleeve
mean you won’t have to handle your notebook too
carefully. A very dependable option that doesn’t
look too shabby either.
Can you imagine a day without the internet?
Today communication touches every aspect of
our lives from social networking to business.
We exploit information technology to enhance
the learning experience through the use of the
internet, supported by online initiatives such as
podcasts and Virtual Learning Environments.
However in countries such as Morocco, Thai-
land, India and Nepal, social and economic
development is restricted by a lack of commu-
nications infrastructure.
The Aurora project aims to provide internet
access to communities in rural areas, bringing
key social benefits and enhancing learning.
Run by a team of students from the Electrical
& Electronic Engineering Department, we aim
to achieve this objective by creating wireless
networks, coupling long range transmitters
with an existing electricity grid. The key is
Wi-Max technology – offering a range of up to
10 km from a single router. By connecting Wi-
Max routers in relays, we can get information
to very remote locations.
Founded in October 2011, the progress has
been remarkable. One of our team members
went to Morocco last December and conducted
a location feasibility study – which proved Wi-
Max was viable to implement in the region. We
have fostered excellent links in industry with
Internet Service Providers, energy companies
and RuggedCom – a specialist Canadian based
company manufacturing Wi-Max products
who are one of our close industrial partners.
Thanks to fantastic support from our depart-
ment (in particular Dr Kristel Fobelets) and
supervisor, Prof Kin Leung, a few of our team
had the chance to visit the RuggedCom office
in Lancaster and see Wi-max technology in ac-
tion. We successfully managed to get a trans-
mitter on loan which will enable us test the
technical feasibility of the project right here in
London. Therefore, our next step is to conduct
a live field test by creating a Wi-Max network
in Imperial College; we are in the process of
completing licensing agreements for this.
With this and our remaining location feasibil-
ity studies just on the horizon, we believe we
will soon achieve our ultimate goal of enabling
schools in communities to use our WiMax net-
work to enhance education in the near future.
After seeing this project developed so much,
just from an idea put forward by a few stu-
dents, we are sure that every one of us can
make a difference in this world. So we would
like to encourage each of you to take an initia-
Providing internet to all
FELIX
Friday 17 FEBRUARY 2012
10
technology.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Technology Editors: Chris Bowers
Feroz Salam
TECHNOLOGY
The Aurora Team
tive, be bold and run with your creative ideas
– we know first-hand that Imperial will always
support you. Create the future.
A new ‘best’ method for creating passwords?
“Your password will expire in 10 days. Would
you like to change it now?” This is the message
that greets me when I log on to Outlook Web
Access. I was first told my password was go-
ing to expire at the end of January, so why have
I not yet done so? The act itself of changing the
password is by no means a complex task – but
instead it’s the creation of its replacement that
takes time and effort.
The problem is, of course, security. While
I don’t think my accounts are going to be the
targets of everyday hacking, I still wouldn’t
feel comfortable leaving my emails open to
anyone who tried “123456” in the password
field. We have all been encouraged to conjure
up complex combinations of upper and lower-
case letters, numbers and symbols, but these
tend to be less than easily memorable. This has
led people to possibly not bother with anything
complicated, or leaving a note of their pass-
word lying around.
New discussion in the area, however, hopes
to alleviate these issues greatly. Many of you
will be familiar with the xkcd comic about
password entropy, I’m sure, but it seems this
also isn’t the answer. The problem lies in find-
ing a good balance between memorability and
security. Unfortunately, many hackers aren’t
stupid, so “Pa55w0rd” isn’t going to fit the bill
– that and its variations would be tried in most
dictionary attacks. “P@s5w()r1}” is consid-
ered much stronger, but is far less memorable.
Instead, the solution relies on ‘padded pass-
words’. The concept is simple – take a fairly
memorable password (let’s use Lond0n as an
example), and add a small ‘pad’ to it, increas-
ing both the length and complexity of the fin-
ished product. In our example, we could pad
with “.**” and end up with “.**Lond0n.**”.
Of course, the padding doesn’t need to be the
same everywhere, nor does it need to be at ei-
ther end. This is the key to the system – you
could give away the base password to anyone,
but as long as they don’t know your pad(s) and
where padding exists in the password, they still
wouldn’t be able to access your account.
In technical terms, there are a few factors at
play here. It is still highly recommended to use
a combination of alphanumeric characters and
symbols, as this massively increases the search
space that a hacker would need to test every
combination of. However, a hacker would only
resort to this brute forcing when simpler mea-
sures – such as dictionary attacks – have been
exhausted, but the padding essentially forces
any hacking attempt into that huge domain.
Once this technique is being used, the biggest
factor in the security of your password is its
length, which of course the padding only helps.
The memorability of the password is also not
too bad – “Lond0n” by itself isn’t too taxing
for example, and it’s easy to pick a pad that
suits you – “&*(“ are neighbours on the key-
board, but still an effective pad. Additionally,
those without a great memory for passwords
could write down either the pad or the base
password without fear, as discussed before.
In essence, these passwords are not too dif-
ferent from a random, strong password with
all the right elements. However, being easier
to think up and remember brings them to more
people. Given their security, this can only be a
good thing.
Chris Bowers
Release windows hurt box office
A joint study by researchers from Wellesley College
and the University of Missouri has found that US
box office takings are largely unaffected by piracy,
and instead point to large international release
windows (the time from American national releas-
es to releases across the globe) as a significant
factor in decreased overall revenue for movie fran-
chises. Factors identified as contributing to this
large window include the need to support legacy
theatre systems that still depend on expensive
35mm reels and the cost of promotional jaunts
across the globe for the leading cast members.
This probably has some relevance towards tele-
vision programming as well, with top American TV
shows often airing for the first time internationally
a few seasons after their national success. While
international television operators are naturally
wary of betting on shows that haven’t been previ-
ously tested, it is only a matter of time before it
becomes unprofitable to even bet on successes,
given the ease with which pirated versions can be
accessed online. As the endless battles between
copyright owners and pirates continue, it might be
time for the movie industry to focus their energies
on something they can actually control.
The Aurora Team consists of Mehvesh
Tariq, Sriram Kannan, Giri Kesavan,
Sonal Rashmi, Jegadeesh Sitham-
parathas, Wayne Yeang, Minoru
Nanayakkara, Sumedha Kodaman-
chali and Sathesh Elangovan.
www.aurorawimax.co.uk
Sturdy and dependable

