FELIX
Friday 17 february 2012
12
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Comment Editors: Tim Arbabzadah
Sam Horti
COMMENT
FELIX
O
ur front page story this
week uncovered a meth-
od students from the De-
partment of Computing
found to be able to mass
impersonate final year students in the Na-
tional Student Survey (NSS), effectively
skewing the results in favour of Imperial.
Of course, the aforementioned technique
of programmatically scraping an internal
database for the names and CID numbers
of final year students may be easy, but is
rigging the NSS really that simple?
Let’s look at the information required
to fill it in. We need the first letter of the
student’s first name, the first four letters
of their last name, their CID number and
their day and month of birth. Everything
but the latter is trivially found in the in-
ternal databases described, so a program
could theoretically automate scraping
this data and autofill the survey to pose
as the students. The problem lies with
the date of birth, however. If the NSS
required the student’s year of birth too,
it would be more complex to determine,
but not impossible. The TeachDB data-
base from the Department of Computing
gives us the year the student started their
course, and we can make a few assump-
tions to determine their probable age, and
as a result, their year of birth.
Of course, this isn’t perfect, and there’s
a good chance we’d lose more than half
of the dataset of students to imperson-
ate because of it, but that still means a
fair number of students are still vulner-
able. The crux in our method is that the
NSS requires the day and month too,
something that isn’t available in (at least)
this database. One may trivialise the dif-
ficulty of obtaining this information at
first, thinking it wouldn’t be too hard to
cross reference with Facebook, especial-
ly since students leave more information
open unwillingly to the Imperial net-
work. I take issue with this suggestion. If
you take a look at facebook.com/events/
birthdays you’ll notice it’s actually quite
challenging to obtain birthday informa-
tion.
Even if one created a fake Facebook ac-
count, added a few people from Imperial
as friends until they had enough mutual
friends to confidently auto-add most Im-
perial people, they still wouldn’t get full
access to as much birthday information
as they’d expect. The problems which
may arise here are that cross referenc-
ing the Imperial student database against
Facebook will not match those who go
by nicknames or have different names
than the ones they use with friends.
Although the Facebook privacy set-
tings work in the malicious person’s fa-
vour, it’s likely this gives a lot of prob-
lems and increases the amount of effort
required to execute a successful cross
reference by an order of magnitude. Peo-
ple think they are being more private if
they do not show their age (and therefore
their year of birth), but what they do not
know is that it is the day and month they
need to protect for the case of personally
identifiable information for use within
the NSS.
An additional barrier is the problem
of scraping this data programmatically.
One used to be able to see a breakdown
of friends’ birthdays by month, but now
we get the data categorised as “Today”,
“Tomorrow”, “Later This Week” and so
on. By making it relative to the current
day, Facebook’s made it harder to scrape
birthday information, questioning how
easy this last nugget really is to obtain.
A further flaw in the NSS system was
exposed in the article, showing that re-
gardless of the amount of times a stu-
dent fills in the survey, only their first
response is counted and they are not
warned in certain cases that they have
already completed it. If this were the oth-
er way around, it would be much more
devastating. Should the NSS take your
last response only and we had a correct
automatic program to mass impersonate
students, we could run the code on the
very last day (if not hour) of the survey,
overwriting all previous responses. The
fact that it’s the first response, however,
provides a workaround by making use of
the phone call one receives upon forget-
ting to do the survey.
On rigging the NSS
If you’ve not completed it and you
don’t receive a phone call, it is possible
you have been impersonated. If a pro-
gram can use a database to do it, don’t
hesitate to think your friends can’t. Yes,
I’m looking at those of you who’ve
posted pictures of your ID cards online
on Facebook or Twitter, exposing your
CID numbers on potentially the same
page your date of birth resides. Don’t
help usher in an era of NSS trolling.
So even if we get around all this,
there’s one more obstacle. Not every-
thing in the survey is multiple choice,
there are some boxes which require text
input. Unless we define unique respons-
es for each student, there’s a fair chance
the NSS engine will detect patterns and
be alerted to suspicious activity. For a
malicious programmer with enough
motivation, it’s not too infeasible, how-
ever.
I contacted the Deputy President
(Education) Jason Parmar, who told me
that even so, it’s “widely accepted as
the “current” measure for student satis-
faction”, and that “this may change in
the next decade”. Tom Wilshere, Com-
puting Department Representative,
believes “this discovery completely
undermines the NSS as a reliable and
trustworthy source of information for
ranking satisfaction in universities”,
and that “it seems ridiculous that stu-
dents (or indeed universities) could
easily spam the system to improve the
results for their departments”.
With the commonplace nature of au-
tomated spam e-mailing systems with
intelligent text generators that can pass
the Turing test and deceive humans into
thinking they are human too, it’s not
farfetched to wonder whether students
at this university or elsewhere have
taken advantage of the exploits defined
above. If executed right, they’d poten-
tially go undetected and possibly get
away scot-free…
NSS called
you up and
told you to do
the survey?
Vent at the
annoyance by
commenting
online at:
felixonline.
co.uk
Alexander
Karapetian
Not sure if meme or caption. Oh, wait, caption. Oh well...
In last week’s Felix, an article was
published in the Hangman section
which many readers felt incited sexual
violence, trivialised rape and generally
contributed to the idea of a rape cul-
ture. I would like to take the opportu-
nity to assure readers that this was in
no way our intention, and we all agree
that a piece of content which does this
is wholly unacceptable.
Following complaints addressed per-
sonally to me, or otherwise, I have tak-
en the decision to end the Hangman
section for the foreseeable future. The
offending article, quite simply, failed
in its ill-judged attempt at humour and
did not warrant publication. We are
now taking the time to carefully con-
sider how any section designed with
the sole intention of being humourous
can feature and simultaneously exist to
the same standard as the rest of this
publication. The level of offence that
Hangman caused is not something that
should be admired or actively sought
after.
This incident has highlighted several
major flaws in our quality control pro-
cess, for which I take full responsibil-
ity. As a result, I am taking concrete
steps to ensure that this does not hap-
pen again. Alongside the removal of the
Hangman section, any future section
with the intention of comedy or sat-
ire will be held to more stringent con-
tent guidelines and I will ensure that
the consequences of every article we
publish are considered fully. I am also
making certain that our writing team is
fully educated on and sensitive to top-
ics that could cause offence if handled
improperly.
Of course, humour does have a place
in Felix, but now is the time to take a
serious step back from the events of
last week and refocus our attention
into something that actually deserves
a place in this publication. We need
something that sits comfortably along-
side such reasoned debate and con-
tent such as that I have had the privi-
lege of editing, and not something that
pushes the boundaries of offence for
the sake of an article that barely pro-
vides a modicum of humour.
I do deeply regret my own personal
failure in not having taken action to pre-
vent this happening in the first place,
and I would like to reassure readers
that after this incident the content that
goes into any section will be radically
rethought before publication.
A note on last week’s
Hangman

