COMMENT
FELIX Friday 17 february 2012 13
COMMENT
FELIX
D
ear Sir – The word
“feminism” is meant to
be on opposite ends of
the spectrum with “sex-
ism”. Arguably it is the
only means to combating sexism, but
I hear this word being misused on a
daily basis. If even the most forward-
thinking students often disregard the
true meaning of the word, how can it
be used to combat sexism effectively?
In order for this to happen, we must
first ensure that we have a true under-
standing of what “feminism” entails.
Modern feminism is nothing like the
bra burning activism that took to the
streets in the 60s, and it is certainly not
that crap that Sarah Palin claims to sup-
port. Modern feminism is much more
intricate and subtle; it’s not because
we have lost our spirit, it’s because it
can be. This type of feminism is led by
strong women all over the world that
are demonstrating with ease that their
contribution to our advancement is just
as important as any of their male coun-
terparts (and no, I do not mean just in a
reproductive sense…). Good examples
of modern day feminists include the
likes of Natasha Walter, who fully em-
bodies this new, passive form of activ-
ism, and Facebook COO, Sheryl Sand-
berg, living proof that we are more than
capable of playing in the “big leagues”
with all of the boys.
The article on sexism in last week’s
issue of Felix convincingly presented a
general critique of the lack of feminist
efforts at Imperial, pointing out that we
are doing more to promote sexism than
to discourage it. The author condemned
Women in Science, Engineering, and
Technology (the only society on cam-
pus to carry out feminist activity) for
the promotional material used for a
club night. The material in fact aimed
to challenge the stereotype of women
in SET and to say that any woman can
be ‘sexy’ and be in SET, but was unfor-
tunately (and quite understandably…)
interpreted as ‘objectifying women’.
This can rather rightfully be taken for
a misguided approach to try and reap
the benefits of the constructed gender
differences that we encounter daily
in university life, but the bottom line
is: how is marveling over a couple of
beautiful belly dancers any different to
the way the varsity rugby players flaunt
their masculinity? Men do the same
thing, auctioning off themselves, and
just because it is WOMEN auctioning
off WOMEN, it has caught your atten-
Keep up: this is the new feminism
tion and this is a problem in itself. It’s a
societal problem.
The author may well be correct in
deeming WSET’s angle inappropriate
considering their platform, but I also
believe that we should not live in fear of
these stereotypes. Whether you believe
that gender is entirely a social construct
or not, social conditioning has led us to
this current state of mind that unfortu-
nately has resulted in a disproportional
praising of a woman’s achievements
and a likewise higher than normal “un-
derstanding” of the lack thereof. Any
sensible human being would agree that
this is unfair. So, the question remains:
how can we change this? Accountably,
there are multiple ways of going about
this, but which is the most effective?
What we are trying to fight in WSET
is the root cause of the problem: getting
more women into SET careers. In a way,
“toying” with the current disputes does
little to add to or remove from the root
cause because it is an attempt at chang-
ing people’s mentality without any real
experience. It is a broadly accepted
view in philosophy that we only learn
and develop through tangible change in
the form of experience, and although
the author raises some excellent points,
what he fails to do is provide tangible
solutions to the highlighted issues. Get
angry? Is that really the answer?
Most of the time, when sexist com-
ments are made, they tend to be just
to get a reaction out of the target audi-
ence, and I think the majority of us are
intuitive enough to judge whether each
case is malicious or not. Of course, in
the former, ‘get angry’ is certainly the
way to go, but in that regard I’d like
to think that that is what the majority
of us are doing anyway; and if it isn’t,
then it’s what we all should be doing.
In WSET we try to stick to the post-
positivist approach to feminism: TOO
MUCH CRITICISM, NOT ENOUGH
SOLUTIONS.
There are so many types of femi-
nisms: Marxists who are critical of the
status quo, linking women’s oppres-
sion to the exploitive nature of capital-
ism, liberals who value individuality
and privacy, egalitarians who believe
in no differences between men and
women, existentialists who celebrate
our natural differences, and also differ-
ent waves (first, second, third) etc. At
WSET we fight to maintain the ‘status
quo’ by getting women into science,
empowering women within science,
and encouraging diversity through a
variety of means that include provid-
ing visible role models for younger
women: proven to be the most effective
method to combat sexism. We believe
that fighting for specific causes is more
effective because realistically, what is
fighting for ALL feminist causes going
to do? Fighting for a cause is always
better when the aims and objectives are
clearly stated, and not broad and un-
achievable.
Although in legal terms men and
women are now equal, there are traces
of old-fashioned sexism that are inevi-
table due to countless reasons includ-
ing, but not exclusive to, the fact that
it was as recent as 1965 that women in
France required their husband’s per-
mission to work abroad. This roughly
coincides with the time that the par-
ents of current 20-40 year olds began
work. The unfortunate outcome: a
trickle down effect and remnants of
that mentality haunting us till this day.
I am not trying to say that the issues
we currently face will disappear along
with that generation; they may or they
may not. What I can say is that as we
move towards a society relying more
and more heavily on mental strength
and moral fiber, the biological differ-
ences become obsolete with regards to
progression. Yes, there is still sexism.
Yes, as a woman you will be looked at
and treated slightly differently than as a
man at Imperial (and let’s be honest…
generally in the positive sense), but this
should no longer be something to fear.
The war is over, now it’s time for us to
pick up the pieces and put them back
together with a new vision in mind.
We need to focus on what we as indi-
viduals can do. Turning this back into
a conflict will not resolve the remains
of the battle, and the recent proposal to
inaugurate a feminist society at Impe-
rial falls directly in the eye of the storm.
Although sexual violence is a major
issue that deserves all of our attentions
and efforts at Imperial, perhaps a femi-
nist society is not the most progressive
way to tackle such issues, especially
since these issues are at the heart of
our social responsibilities and should
be targeted by all regardless. Instating
such a society may possibly be coun-
ter-productive in terms of truly achiev-
ing common ground. Not that they
wouldn’t have just cause for their plat-
form. They would have plenty of just
cause, and we would be happy to sup-
port all of their motions as I am sure the
majority of you reading this would also
agree, the debate is whether this would
be the best platform to do so? Such a
society should have been instated many
years ago; which makes me question
whether doing so now would simply
add to the divide? For those who think
that such a platform would provide le-
gitimate ground for progressive work
then please sign the petition at http://
www.ipetitions.com/petition/icwrs/
and help make this happen.
In the words of Isabel Allende,
“The time is right to make fundamen-
tal changes in our civilization, but for
real change we need feminine energy
in the management of the world. We
need a critical number of women in
positions of power and we need to nur-
ture the feminine energy in men. I’m
talking about men with young minds
of course… old guys are hopeless, we
have to wait for them to die off!” –
couldn’t have put it any better.
In WSET we try to
stick to the post-
positivist approach
to feminism: TOO
MUCH CRITICISM,
NOT ENOUGH
SOLUTIONS
“
In WSET
In WSE
stick to
stick to
”
H
H
Natasha Walter, author of Living Dolls: The Return of Sexism
Veronica Gouvea
We’re always looking for people to get involved and join the discussion in Comment. How do I do this you say?
Excellent question, well done for asking, you’ll be Jeremy Paxman in no time.
It’s simple, you just email comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk with an article, or even just an idea!

