FELIX
Friday 17 february 2012
14
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Comment Editors: Tim Arbabzadah
Sam Horti
COMMENT
I
nequality irritates me, particular-
ly as it is so prevalent within our
society. Women are oppressed
on many different levels; here
at Imperial the most recent evi-
dence for this is the refusal by the NCC
(New Clubs Committee) of a Gender
Equality Society. The reasoning of the
Union is as follows: we don’t need
another women’s society as we have
WSET and a Gender Equality Officer.
Our attempts to set up this society were
instead relegated to ‘campaign’ status
within the Union, which, although no
one seems to know what this is, seems
fair enough on the face of it all. The
problem is that this comes at a time
when Felix is in trouble with the Tele-
graph for joking about Rohypnol and
others have pointed out how anti-fem-
inist the only Women’s society at Im-
perial is (see last week’s Felix). There
seems to be no time like the present for
a feminist or women’s rights group at
the Union. Pity those in power disagree.
WSET’s goals, as outlined on its
website, are: “Promoting SET careers
amongst women in College” and “En-
hancing the flow of girls in SET depart-
ments at University”. We aimed to set
up a group to tackle more traditional
feminist issues, such as the prevalence
of rape in today’s society, domestic
abuse, or the objectification of women in
the media. Upon speaking to the WSET
committee they admitted they are not
keen for extra groups underneath them,
as this would further divide their hard-
This week’s potential scandal
Evidence for sexism in the Union?
earned corporate sponsorship. However,
this means that the NCC’s suggestion
that we form a subgroup under WSET
would be a little difficult as we have dif-
ferent aims; they don’t want us, and we
want autonomy.
When we mentioned that we would
want to run campaigns to tackle the
widespread sexual violence women ex-
perience in our society, the NCC were
quick to ask what we would be doing
to stop male rape or support male rape
victims. There’s a meme for this line
of questioning in feminist circles; it’s
called ‘what about teh menz?’ Now, this
might seem a bit dismissive as, after
all, men do get raped too and it is ev-
ery bit as awful as when a woman gets
raped. However, until 50, 000 men get
raped every year in the UK and until
1 in 3 men can expect to get raped in
their lifetimes (admittedly impossible to
get truly accurate figures as up to 90%
of rapes remain unreported), it isn’t an
issue of gender equality. Rape is a gen-
dered issue because the overwhelming
majority of perpetrators are men and the
overwhelming majority of victims are
women, suggesting that our society has
a problem with violence against women.
Asking that men take the lion’s share of
responsibility for this issue isn’t sug-
gesting men can never be raped or that
women can never be rapists; the same
way that asking white people to take the
lion’s share of responsibility for institu-
tional racism isn’t saying white people
can never be discriminated against or
D
eep breaths everyone.
Let’s open with the state-
ment that no-one finds
rape funny. So let’s do
that: it’s not funny. No-
one likes to see or hear about anyone
being abused in such a way. I’m not
particularly interested if you think male
rape is under-represented, or if rape law
only protects women, or anything like
that. This is not Reddit. Rape isn’t ha-
ha funny, plain and simple. I’ve never
seen an episode of Friends about some-
one getting jovially drugged, abused and
dumped somewhere.
Similarly, I’m not one for making com-
edy sacred. Free speech is excellent, with
the exception of television about video-
games, and if you want to loudly an-
nounce to everyone on the 93 from Wim-
bledon how much of a bigoted twunt you
are by telling an offensive joke to your
friend then by all means please go ahead.
But once we get above the nattering-in-
a-pub level of joke-telling I feel we have
some baselines set down, and at an insti-
tution that is so fundamentally racked by
issues of gender divide, Hangman prob-
ably stumbled too far last week.
It’s gone downhill. While the Tele-
graph article that announced this story to
the world was about as well-constructed
as the drunken, rambling tweets that
cited it (one proclaimed “Rape is hilari-
ous, right? Imperial College thinks so!”)
it was hard to summon the effort to laugh
at the article. Hangman could hardly be
defended.
So in the week between me writing
this and it being published (editors will-
ing) there’ll be various things happening
– lots of people will have Opinions and
Views and these may or may not involve
the phrase ‘PC-crazy’ in a context other
than a Starcraft convention. Let’s be
clear, though – before we start having a
debate on the topic of women, men and
Imperial – that we exist in a man’s world,
still. There are pockets of exemplary be-
haviour, and the department I’m in, in
particular, has some great people who do
everything they can to combat inequal-
ity and bad examples being set. But let’s
not pretend, as many commenters online
tried to, that men are in any way hard
done by.
At the same time, jumping to the con-
clusion that we need an armed feminist
society ready to kick ass, chew gum
and live their lives in an independent,
thoughtful and personally satisfying way
seems like a knee jerk in the opposite di-
rection. We shouldn’t need to do this. We
shouldn’t need to get to the point where
we have to have a fucking Union society
to remind people that women are a group
that needs representation. It is, to me, ut-
terly unacceptable that Imperial would
need to drop to this level.
On Twitter, from time to time, Mrs.
Geek’s name pops up in relation to vari-
ous things. She is a student at Imperial
like myself, and through her eyes I occa-
sionally get glimpses of how bizarre our
community is. Oftentimes it feels like
that people of other races can’t be rac-
ist; it’s simply saying that the two sides
aren’t equal. The NCC asking what a
feminist group will do for male equality
is every bit as ridiculous and bigoted as,
say, asking what an LGBT group will do
for the well known problem of hetero-
sexual discrimination.
Considering we go to a university
that’s 70% male and has 3 separate all-
male drinking societies, is asking for a
separate, independent women’s group
really that unreasonable? After all, there
are a whole host of issues that female
students are subject to, even when they
don’t attend such a male-dominated
university: a recent survey by the NUS
found that 1 in 7 female students are
victims of “serious sexual assault or vio-
lence” while at university; eating disor-
ders are at their highest ever prevalence
in our age group, and women are chroni-
cally underrepresented in student unions
(with only 22% of university presidents
being female). What is Imperial actu-
ally doing to ensure the welfare of fe-
male students? And, more importantly,
why was a society that aimed to allow
students to discuss these issues and cam-
paign on behalf of our female students
deemed to lack ‘substance’and rejected?
The clubs that successfully passed
our NCC were a new App develop-
ment society and a Harry Potter society
(Pottersoc). Although we would like to
point out we have nothing against apps
or Harry Potter in principle, it is a little
insulting that the NCC views either of
The iconic photo of Emily Davidson
Emily Davison did
not throw herself
under the King’s
horse for the right
to play Angry Birds
”
e right
e right
ry Birds
y Birds
“
Emily D
Emily D
not thro
not thro
these things more important than the
quest for women’s rights. After all, Em-
ily Davison did not throw herself under
the King’s horse for the right to play An-
gry Birds.
Adding final insult to injury, the Clubs
and Societies Officer seemed to suggest
that somehow our petition of 20 names
(the requirement to start a new society
at Imperial) was invalid as 6 signatures
were from people who worked at the
Union. This was because both of the au-
thors work at the union and took our pe-
tition into work, which people were keen
to sign. However the Deputy President
(Clubs & Societies) claimed these peo-
ple “did not care”; last time we checked
it was not a requirement to be a misogy-
nist to work at the Union but apparently
it helps according to the NCC.
there are only two ways to pass through
Imperial as a woman – either you get by
being what Imperial’s male contingent
expect you to be, or you shut yourself off
from that world entirely and only com-
municate with other female students.
Neither outcome seems favourable, and
all the shouting and commenting I’ve
seen since the article went live seems to
only push towards these two outcomes.
(Incidentally, Mrs. Geek appears to
have gotten through by doing neither of
these things, one of many attributes I find
admirable and worthy of great respect.
Yes, this is your Valentine’s Day present.
Yes it does count. Love you.)
So let’s bear something in mind, as we
scrabble for what can be done at Imperial
– we’re trying to build a community in
which everyone is happy, treated equally,
and in which jokes can be made if they
are appropriate. Don’t be heavy-handed
in our search for a solution, and don’t let
personal prejudice against a minority af-
fect how we treat the majority.
Angry Geek
... we’re trying to
build a community
in which everyone
is... treated equally
“
... we’re
... we’re
build a
build a
Marissa Lewis
Kelly Osborne

