COMMENT
FELIX Friday 17 february 2012 15
RCSU IS BETTER
Paul Beaumont RCSU Vice President (Operations)
ICSM IS BETTER
Suzie Rayner ICSMSU President
I
run the inherent risk of making myself
unpopular in writing this: and so I shall
endeavour to explain why – as uncontro-
versially as possible, but without question
– the RCSU is better than the ICSMSU.
For my argument to hold, one must first accept
that this is a rather fucked up playing field. The
Faculty of Medicine donate large sums of money
to the ICSMSU. They have a paid-for-by-College
President working on ‘stuff’ full-time (or, more
commonly, curled up on the sofa in her office
wishing she’d stuck at playing doctors and nurses
instead of taking a year out). If this whole ‘Fac-
ulty Union’ thing was golf, the Medics have the
maximum handicap of 36 whilst the RCSU are
playing as pros at 0. Not fair.
And so, it is on this basis that I will build my
argument. I quite happily smile and nod when a
Medic tells me how amazing their Union is over
RCSU. Inside, I’m dying – yearning – to scream
“BUT LOOK AT THE PLAYING FIELD”. I
somehow think they may think me mad for doing
so, though.
Readers of this publication will no doubt how-
ever have spotted the numerous successes of the
RCSU this year. Autumn Ball. Oktoberfest. Made
In Chelsea Pub Crawl. Book Sale. Welfare Week.
Charity Cakes Sales. Careers Talks. Alumni Din-
ner. Winter Ball. Science Challenge. RAG Ball.
All of these have been on the back of a team of
crack-pot scientists, working hard behind the
scenes. No full-time staff – no labour costs. No
thousands of pounds, flooding our accounts like
the torrent of vomit flowing through Reynolds.
What have – with all these extra resources –
the Medics’ Union achieved then? Erm. Oh, this
is awkward. Their social calendar is, like, “pad-
ded” with the RCSU events (read: that woman in
charge is piggybacking the RCSU). The events
that the Medic Union cook up themselves – un-
der the, may I stress, direction of paid-sabbatical
Miss Rayner – are only as good as the RCSU’s,
and only marginally more frequent.
As Faculty Unions, we also handle welfare
weeks and the rep system on behalf of the DPE.
Many would argue that this is where the medics
shine, with an enviable buddy scheme – some-
thing I won’t deny them. I would ask though,
if this cannot be attributed more to the fact the
medics have more time to be social than us hard-
working scientists? Having lived with medics
for two years, the number of nights they stumble
home as opposed to walk suggests they had too
much time to kill. Yes – I guess I am just jealous.
But then, the RCSU serves a greater purpose
than just this social lark the medics thrive on.
Unlike their students, ours now have a wealth of
opportunities open to them on graduating. Virtu-
ally any job is at your fingertips with the letters
ARCS after your name (Associateship of the
Royal College of Science). To this end the
RCSU takes it upon itself to organise ca-
reers talks that will benefit our members’
futures; we don’t just act as a drain on their
members’ student loan by holding fancy
bops, etc.
And so – for fear of wittering on too
much, I conclude as thus: ICSMSU,
as a union, is good – but given
its resources should be so
many times more brilliant
than the RCSU. But it
just isn’t. To return
to the analogy
of me scream-
ing “PLAYING
FIELD” at some
poor medic –
caught up in this
fierce inter-faculty
rivalry – I would
like to make a sug-
gestion to the medics.
Ditch your sabbati-
cal President and refuse
(most of) College’s mon-
ey. At least that way, our
playing field would then
be levelled. If then you
are still better than us, I
may consider accepting
defeat...
T
hankfully, as someone who will
now never run for an ICU posi-
tion, I don’t have to people please.
But I’d like to think I’m fair. So
why am I here? I think that be-
cause Imperial has made it so.
From Day 1, I’ve been disliked for my sub-
ject. As a fresher, many IC students walked
away once they found out my career ambitions.
But not ICSM. That is where you are protect-
ed. And therefore, why would any
student ask advice from ICU
when they can ask it from
ICSMSU? This advice, our
clubs and societies, the
excellent welfare (kind-
ly recognised) and end-
less meetings are my
daily routine. I haven’t
organised a single event.
So it probably isn’t a fair
comparison.
And as for my wages,
you’re just jealous. To be
honest, the torrent
of unnecessar-
ily targeted
abuse
has been written by a gentleman who moon-
lights as the ‘System Administrator’ for ICU.
Doesn’t sound half as cool as Medic President.
If “I did nothing all day”, the students and
the faculty would have cut the funding a long
time ago. In fact, the Presidential salary is the
most protected funding. So more importantly,
why have RCSU not been offered the money
to enhance their services to students and pro-
vide a full time RCSU officer? Because they
are clearly not offering enough.
I didn’t know what RCSU stood for when I
got this job. I live and breathe medicine, the
medical school and every person in it. And
because ICSM is such a fantastic place and
Medicine a fascinating career, that is more than
enough for me.
I wish I knew more about RCSU to be able
to tell you what we do better, but I don’t. Nor
do I really want to; any list of events that a
union has offered that includes a Cake Sale has
a lot to answer for. Giving credit where due,
ICSMSU did get branded condoms following
the RCSU example. But we got more.
The sad thing is we need you as much as you
need us. Without scientists we don’t have the
medicine to make people better. But without
the medics, who has skills to understand what
was wrong in the first place?
Speaking as the offspring of two mathemati-
cians and a once student of Further Maths,
I have nothing against scientists. In fact I
very nearly studied it in its purest form.
But the limiting factor was the lifestyle,
and ultimately the purpose. At least when
my parents studied maths you could get a
job with it.
According to the Guardian’s League Ta-
bles for 2012, 100% of Medical Students
from Imperial College have a career af-
ter 6 months. Not that I expected to find
anything less. Mathematics, for want of an
RCSU example, has 77%.
So, as I get back to my Sunday afternoon
of ICSMSU work, I ask can you blame us?
Scientists, which % would you prefer?
ICSM VS RCSU
The RCSU is challenging ICSMSU at the Tuesday Quiz Night on February 28 in FiveSixEight. Ahead of this, the Comment pages of
Felix are taken over to see which is better.
Disclaimer: If you read this as anything other than a bit of banterous free advertising for our joint event, then you read too hard.
SU IS BETTER
l Beaumont RCSU Vi
un the inh
ay
Felix a
ICSM IS BETTE
Suzie Rayner ICSMSU Preside
written by a gentleman who
ystem Administrator’ f
ool as Medic P
the stu

