MUSIC
FELIX
Friday 17 February 2012
16
music.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Kadhim’s totally hot
album of the week
The Black Keys
El Camino
Nonesuch Records
2011
Oh, errors of judgement. How I know you well! Last
term, just as we were heading off for Christmas,
I wrote in a throwaway comment, which I’d now
like to dispose of properly, that the Black Keys’
latest album El Camino is a ‘dud’. Well, it is time
to make amends. Using all the powers of apology
that I acquired as Felix Editor last year, let me now
say, “I was wrong”.
This change-of-heart occurred on the road from
Alexandra Palace last week. We all know how dif-
ficult it is to admit changes of musical taste –
God, forbid I should ever start enjoying Lana Del
Rey – so do not view this Damascene conversion
lightly. I was returning from the Black Keys gig
at the aforementioned venue, through a blizzard
of snow that sadly didn’t stay until the morning,
when I realised my coolness towards El Camino
was misplaced.
My first taste of the Black Keys came from the
superb mash-up of their album Brother with Big
Boi’s debut, Sir Lucious Left Foot: The Son of
Chico Dusty. It has jazz, style, and an unquantifi-
able something that gets you moving in your chair.
When I finally listened to the original, Brother, I
found myself standing from my chair, leaping on
the table, and dancing like I imagine I would if my
life was a movie...
I should say that all of this happened about a
year after everyone else had listened to Brother.
“Hey man, have you heard this sweet-ass album?”
– “Yeah, Kadhim, like a year ago; why are we still
friends?” But then, a new album appeared on the
horizon. I could love the Black Keys and get down
and jive, at the same time as everyone else. Holy
fucking hallelujah! The first single, ‘Lonely Boy’,
seemed to live up to my dreams – a ragged chain-
saw guitar riff and an impeccably cool music video.
But when the album came out, I felt let down. It
wasn’t the hell-raising party I had expected. There
was a change of tone; it was less bombastic and
more introspective. Instead of screaming, “MY
NEXT GIRL [bumb bumb bumb] WILL BE NOTHING
LIKE MY EX-GIRL!” here they were singing woefully,
“Operayyytor please, put me back on the line … …
told my girl I’d be back, Operayyytor please, this is
wrecking my mind.”
It was only when I saw them live that I began
to appreciate El Camino’s softer touch (and upset-
tingly realised that much of its energy had been
stripped out by my laptop’s tinny speakers). Broth-
er and El Camino felt much less in opposition and
more like a complementary yinw and yang.
If you feel the need to point out that @theblackkeys
have five other albums, then tweet, “you don’t know
shit!”, @kadhimshubber. Otherwise, tweet @Imperi-
alLibrary complaining about their Inceptrance.
Music Editors: Íñigo Martínez de Rituerto
Alex Ramadan
Osama Bin Laden was a big fan of ales from
the Isle of Wight... Moving swiftly along, the
theme this year is Wildlife, which is a guarantee
that someone will completely ignore the theme
and ‘dress up’ in a full-body spandex suit. Non-
douchebags, take note: your costume is key – get
it right and you’ll be a muthafuckin’BAWWS.
Alas, I’ve used up all my space. Tickets are
£179.95 [inc. booking fee], which considering
that most gigs cost between £15-20 nowadays
and you’re going to see far more than 10 artists,
is still pretty good. I’ve got mine – student loan,
thank you – don’t forget yours.
Bollywood Tent – you’ll see. But if I’m honest,
Bestival is a bit... errr, middle-class. In fairness,
the music is a good few floors away from main-
stream, but I’m afraid there’s no way I’ll be able
to argue that a festival with luxury teepees and,
new this year, “wood-burning Scandinavian hot
tubs and a sauna area” is anything like the rough-
and-tumble of Reading & Leeds festival; there’s
no ritual tent burning for one thing. I don’t know
about you, but I can’t help but look back at my
17-year-old self at Reading and think that’s not
necessarily a bad thing...
Ok, next reason to hate the Isle of Wight:
D
ressing up: probably the reason I
love going to Bestival every year.
In 2010, a pair of twins I know
dressed as colonial-era hunters
and chased the other festival-
goers who had so foolishly dressed as characters
from The Fantastic Mr Fox. (Last year, well, a
picture speaks a 1000 words [see right].) There’s
no greater pleasure than writing about a topic
that you enjoy, so I will do my best to add some
Isle of Wight hate into the next 300 or so words,
just to balance things out.
Let’s get started. In 2009, Duncan Thomson
and Sammi Gardiner, residents of the Isle of
Wight, had a Star Wars-themed wedding. Worst
still, they had the wedding on the 4th of May so
they could say, “May the 4th be with you”. On
the other hand: De La Soul, New Order, Jus-
tice, and pretty much the whole freakin’ Brain-
feeder crew are playing Bestival this year. On a
personal note, Gold Panda, whose Lucky Shiner
tour I missed, and whose Lucky Shiner album is
probably the best electronic album since Alex-
ander Bell patented the first electric loudspeaker,
is on the roster. (I hope you’ll excuse me a little,
‘HOLY FREAKIN’YEAAAAH’).
Asidefromthemusic,Bestivalalwaysimpress-
es with the amount of alternative activities there
are. Last year I ‘starred’ as the hotel receptionist
in Ghostbusters; the year before I ran across tubs
of cornstarch goo (as I believe is the scientific
term for it). There’s a fantastically eclectic mix
of stuff to do when you’re not skanking out in the
Simply the Bestival?
Kadhim Shubber on the festival that rounds off the summer with a bang
room to see warm-up act Band of Skulls, one
thing became glaringly apparent: the crowd,
generally speaking, were pretty short. It turned
out that the gig was a 14+ event, something I’m
not sure even existed when I was a young ‘un.
The depressing feeling that I was potentially al-
most a decade older than some of them was bal-
anced by the fact that I was guaranteed a crack-
ing view.
Band of Skulls delivered a solid performance,
occasionally coaxing the crowd into movement
beyond default head-nodding. Not being hugely
aware of Band of Skulls myself, their brand
of ballsy rock was tight and produced several
stand-out numbers.
As the clock approached half nine, Dan Auer-
bach and Patrick Carney a.k.a. The Black Keys
led the band onto the stage, their unconventional
setup belying where the strengths of the band
lay. Usually, the drummer is hidden away at the
back; here, Patrick assumed his raised position,
centre stage behind his kit, Dan to the right with
bassist Gus Seyffert and keyboardist John Wood
behind. The band delivered the kick of a donkey
as they started with songs from 2010’s album,
Brothers. Unfortunately it took a while for the
crowd to respond and I began to worry that this
younger generation of rock fans had lost the art
of ‘losing your shit’. Thankfully, all it took was
the rendition of an effort from The Black Keys’
Simon Hunter
Blacks Keys rock a heart at the Ally Pally
Like most people who spent the better half of
their teenage years during the mid-noughties,
my music tastes were fairly rigidly constrained
to the world of indie rock. My iTunes library
was full of guitar bands and the ideal school
night involved necking a few tins, getting on the
train and sweating copious amounts in the poor-
ly ventilated gig venues of Leeds. These days
there are maybe three guitar bands that I pay any
real attention to, with the rest of my attention
falling on the world of electronic and hip hop
music. Thinking about it, I’ve probably been to
two gigs featuring bands playing ‘actual instru-
ments’ in the past year. Perhaps this makes me
less qualified to comment on this whole thing,
perhaps it makes me more so, perhaps I couldn’t
give a tuppeny fuck either way.
Regardless, there I was last Saturday being
presented with a ticket to see the current kings
of blues rock – The Black Keys. It was a gig
I’d been meaning to get tickets to for ages, yet
never followed through. Luckily though, my
girlfriend decided to excel herself and mop up
my incompetence, purchasing a couple of tickets
and surprising me.
We rocked up to Alexandra Palace and, winc-
ing, I immediately sunk fifteen quid on a couple
of drinks. As we made our way into the main
most recent album, El Camino, to whip the kids
up into a fury. I would like to note at this point
that we hadn’t just gatecrashed some underage
gig, but as at most gigs there was an (in this case
significant) age gradient away from the stage,
and we’d managed to get quite close to the front.
The next hour was crammed with driving
blues-rock rhythms, interspersed with some of
the gentler efforts from El Camino and others
from their earlier albums including decade-old
debut The Big Come Up. As they left the stage
to play the ‘How long can we keep the audience
waiting while we sip Champagne?’ game, I was
left hoping that when they inevitably returned
the encore would just keep going. As it was,
their following rendition of ‘Everlasting Light’
left me in awe as beams of white light exploded
out from the enormous mirror ball suddenly sus-
pended above the stage. They finished the gig
with a couple more songs as the words “THE
BLACK KEYS” lit up in incandescent bulbs
above the band’s heads.
To say this was the most fun I’d had at a rock
gig for a long time wouldn’t really mean much.
To say this was the most fun I’ve had at any gig
for a long time might mean more. Either way it
was great to remember how much fun I used to
have in those grimy venues in Leeds and that
I’m not too old to get stuck into a ‘pit’ every
once in a while.
Mark England
Simon Hunter
Oooh-errr!
Bestival
Where: Isle of Wight
When: 6–10 September
How much?: £179.95 [inc.
booking fee]
Who: New Order, the xx, Sigur
Rós, Friendly Fires, Justice, Hot
Chip, Soulwax, De La Soul,
Teebs, Azealia Banks, Four
Tet B2B Caribou, Gold Panda,
Buraka Som Sistema, and more
James Mossahebi

