MUSIC
As promised, this week I will be beginning my ram-
page of digging up dead, old UK post-hardcore
bands. The first band to be mentioned is, obvi-
ously, Reuben. Despite their ten-year lifetime and
numerous outstanding releases, they failed to
gain any mainstream success (as is the story for
most bands in this series). For some reason, the
good post-hardcore bands from the UK seem to
all come from Surrey and Reuben are no different.
They formed in 1998 and their intense live
shows made them a household name in the under-
ground music scene, gaining a lot of fans and ad-
miration from other bands. This continued despite
not releasing their first full-length until 2004. The
three albums they released in the following three-
year period were all incredible and it’s a shame
they didn’t achieve higher levels of popularity, es-
pecially within the UK. However, I personally think
their final album, In Nothing We Trust, was their
best. From listening to any selection of Reuben’s
songs, you will realise that their style is incredibly
diverse. There are some songs you could listen to
and not notice it’s the same band at all. Some of
their tracks are mellow and some (quite a lot in
fact) are heavily pop-infused, unreconcilable with
post-hardcore even a little bit.
This brings me to the reason why I prefer the
most recent album: because it’s the rawest. De-
spite their diverse sound, I have to say that for
me, I like the heavier tracks and In Nothing We
Trust delivers forceful riffs and ridiculous drum
smashing by the truckload. Their widely varied
setlist saw them attract all different types of peo-
ple to their live shows. Perhaps the most engaging
thing about them though was their unique sense
of humour always present in their videos and gigs
(watch their ‘Michael Jackson’ video on YouTube).
For these reasons, Reuben were one of the gems
of UK alternative rock music and all we can do
is hope that one day they will return, but for now
check out the recommendation below and come
back next time for more UK post-hardcore thrills!
Writer’s Recommendation
A test of what we’ve learnt so far: listen to the song
‘Crushed Under the Weight of the Enormous Bullshit’
and you should recognise some of the bands and al-
bums mentioned in the song from previous lessons.
George Jeffery’s
A beginner’s guide to
post-hardcore
Lesson 6: Reuben
FELIX Friday 17 February 2012 17
Cafe Oto
Wednesday 22 Feburary
Be sure not to miss...
Body/Heat
Sonic Youth bassist Kim Gordon
goes solo, alongside “constant in
the free rock universe” Bill Nace,
following their collaborative tape on
Ecstatic Peace.
Íñigo Martínez de Rituerto
is that Bonnie ‘Prince’ Billy embodies the
DIY approach that I cherish, and combines
it with lyrics so distressingly fragile that one
cannot help but connect with him. So, I urge
all the wannabe Mumfords out there to put to
down their accordion and pick up a copy of
Beware to listen to the master at work.
presents an eerie warning to “watch out for
my silent thoughts”. The track ‘You Don’t
Love Me’ stands out as a heart wrenching
account of a man who sings to his lover
“you wouldn’t pass the time with me, except
you’re tired of all your friends”. The brutal
honesty of Oldham’s words are sometimes
disconcerting but, sang against a beauti-
ful setting of lilting guitars and a choir of
swooning backing singers, one can find a
theme of hope lining the album. Throughout
this collection of anti-love songs, he never
gives up that his perfect woman is “lying
curled somewhere lonely” waiting for him.
I find it refreshing that Will Oldham is
a man who refuses to play the media and
promotion game. There is little or no build
up to an album release and this means that
each record feels unexpected when it does
arrive. His latest album, Wolfroy Goes To
Town, may have passed many by but it de-
serves to be listened to by a large audience.
It successfully continues his style of mixing
hauntingly beautiful melodies with dark sub-
jects although does not reach the heights of
previous releases.
Some of my friends cannot understand why,
as an avid listener of lo-fi New York punk, I
would recommend something which argu-
ably verges on country music. My response
B
onnie ‘Prince’ Billy, aka Will
Oldham, is a name who should
be on everyone’s lips. Instead,
in the current landscape of in-
die-folk/Americana he has been
overlooked for the watered-down beige-athon
that is Mumford and Sons. Many commend-
able elements of the current scene can be seen
in Bonnie ‘Prince’ Billy’s prodigious output;
the stark, naked beauty of Bon Iver, the lyrical
twist of Conor Oberst and Laura Marling’s
ability to take your breath away with a tune.
Thankfully, Mumford’s equation for success
(an abundance of waistcoats, combined with
inane choruses) is nowhere to be seen on any
of the Prince’s eleven albums.
I was first introduced to Oldham with
the astonishing album Beware, which, along
with Down in the Light, is normally consid-
ered to be his best work. The lyrics are at
times so intimate that it can be an awkward
first listen. On ‘Beware Your Only Friend’ he
How you doin’?
“Bonnie ‘Prince’ Billy
embodies the DIY ap-
proach that I cherish”
The Fresh Prince of Kentucky
Mark England on the coolest, baldest, and beardiest man in town
Rama’s Hip-Hop
Tune of the Week
cently released album Habits and Contradic-
tions. The song samples a live Lissie cover of
the Kid Cudi track ‘The Pursuit of Happiness’
for the chorus and also features critic’s favou-
rite A$AP Rocky. In an album with a gen-
eral tone of moody introspective aggression,
‘Hands on the Wheel’ is a relatively upbeat
affair with tight production courtesy of Best
Kept Secret.
The song is one of the most accessible on
the album and is a good introduction to the
versatility of Schoolboy Q’s rapping. The
album also contains features from the other
members of the Black Hippy Crew who are
helping to reinvent West Coast rap. If you’re
a fan of the old-school hardcore hip-hop remi-
niscent of N.W.A. I would recommend check-
ing out the album.
Schoolboy Q
‘Hands On The Wheel’
(feat. A$AP Rocky)
South Ken street cred
As the imaginatively named title of this col-
umn would suggest, each week I hope to bring
you a top notch hip-hop tune. This week’s
song comes courtesy of Schoolboy Q’s re-
Fitzcarraldo!

