Some films to avoid on a date
eral hundred people all having nervous
breakdowns at the same time. So it was
a risk adapting this sepulchral, haunting
tale to the screen, where popcorn tends
to distract from the terror.
But adapted it was. Central Televi-
sion made a television production of The
Woman In Black, which was broadcast
on Christmas Eve 1989 and repeated just
once since in 1994. This version was
very successful, and is often described
as one of the most creepy, paralysingly
scary screen adaptations of a ghost story
ever made.
So, having worked wonders with this
version, why take the risk and make it
again? Well, aside from the fact that the
rights to the version made by Central
Television are M.I.A. (which is pretty
creepy), Daniel Radcliffe will certainly
bring in a wide audience as the self-con-
fessed ex-alkie graduates from Hogwarts
Anyone who has seen Susan Hill’s eery
tale The Woman in Black on stage will
know that the performance is terrify-
ing. Even people who say they don’t get
scared got scared in the theatre at this
one. But that’s just it – in the theatre, it’s
dark…the woman is creepy as hell…oh
god, why is the rocking chair rocking
on its own…oh my god why have the
lights gone out….OH MY GOD THE
WOMAN IN BLACK IS SCREAMING
RIGHT BEHIND ME!!!!! I mean – you
really get into it when there are sev-
and makes him associate more with the
creepy past of the mansion’s stories. A
nearby landowner (Hinds) tells Kipps
about a mysterious, cloaked old woman
who has been seen at the window of the
old house from time to time. Even learn-
ing this, Kipps (foolishly) decides to
spend the night at the old house to fin-
ish his paperwork, and learns a lot more
about the old woman, who pays him a
visit or two…
Director Watkins is a true expert in cre-
ating a permeating sense of dread, and he
keeps you holding your breath with sus-
pense for as long as possible before the
shock actually makes you jump. Don’t
be mistaken by the 12A certificate – true,
there’s no blood or gore, hardly any mon-
sters and ghosts in this film, but that’s ex-
actly what makes it so terrifying. Like all
of the best ghost stories, The Woman In
Black only gets better in the retelling.
Director James Watkins
Screenwriters Susan Hill (novel),
Jane Goldman (screenplay)
Cast Daniel Radcliffe, Ciarán Hinds,
Janet McTeer
The Woman in Black
Lucy Wiles
Harry Potter and the Deadly Woman
to something new.
Let’s be honest – when you heard
about this film you were pretty sure it
wasn’t going to be worth seeing. How-
ever, thanks to its well-styled, very Ed-
wardian setting and some clever story
changes by screenwriter Jane Goldman,
this version actually feels less like a re-
make, and more like you’re rereading an
old story with new eyes, realising things
you didn’t get before, and the whole film
trembles with freshly scary resonances.
Radcliffe actually gives a pretty con-
vincing and mature performance as Ar-
thur Kipps (extraordinary considering
he still looks like he’s twelve years old,
bless him), who is a lawyer summoned
to a slightly dilapidated, remote mansion
to settle the recently-deceased owner’s
estate. In one of the major twists from
Hill’s original story, Kipps is a young
widower, which perhaps affects him, You’re on your own this time...
The Human Centipede 2:
Full Sequence
If you’ve seen the first Human Centipede film, you
may well have been pretty disgusted. It wasn’t nice,
was it? But this one is worse. This story follows Mar-
tin Lomax, a depraved maniac obsessed with the first
film, and his insane urge to create a twelve-person
‘centipede’. You can imagine how it goes. This movie
has not been released into any UK viewing format:
the British Board of Film Classification deemed it “un-
doubtedly tasteless and disgusting”.
Irreversible
Directed by Gaspar Noé, this French film was re-
leased in UK cinemas without much question, al-
though admittedly with an 18 certificate. This is
surprisingly lenient considering a hugely graphic
rape scene which goes on for what seems like many
uncomfortable hours, not to mention some spec-
tacularly extreme and gory death-by-fire-extinguisher-
bludgeoning. Certainly not the best date film by any
means.
The Twilight Saga: Breaking Dawn
Part 1
Vampires, werewolves, vampires having a minor dis-
agreement with werewolves, a bit of running, a bit of
slow motion vampire-y jumping, a girl pregnant with a
vampire-human hybrid monster, said girl’s pregnancy
craving being a nice cup of blood... yep, this is a spec-
tacular film. Not only will the love interests (and I use
the term ‘interests’ lightly) bore the pants of all par-
ties, but the strobe lighting and reasonably graphic
birth scene are likely to make some feel dizzy.
La Belle Noiseuse
Seriously – any film in which we can see the fantas-
tically gorgeous Emmanuelle Béart standing totally
starkers for two hours while modeling for a painting,
should not be a boring film. Unfortunately, the film is
four hours long... and the other two consist of close-
ups of the painter at work. So not only are you pa-
rading naked lady in front of your date, you are also
boring her rigid. I mean, at least have Béart do star-
jumps, or something.
Honourable mentions: Fatal Attraction, Titanic, Pink Flamingos, Precious: Based on the Novel “Push” by Sapphire, I Spit on your Grave, The Last House on the Left, Misery, Requiem for a Dream,
Revolutionary Road, American Psycho, Showgirls, Striptease, xXx, The Fast and the Furious series, and any film by Lars von Trier
Whether it’s extreme violence, naked ladies, or weird psychos, there are films that are simply big no-nos
FILM
FELIX Friday 17 February 2012 23
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Film Editors: John Park
Lucy Wiles

