FELIX
Friday 17 February 2012
24
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Film Editors: John Park
Lucy Wiles
FILM
Love, Lust, Sex, Passion, W
Felix Film looks back at the past eight decades of cinema, hand-picking the most touchi
The 1930s:
Queen Christina
If you want to watch a love story where a
monarch gives up a throne for love, don’t
watch Madonna’s latest, W.E., which is a
bland, dull retelling of this century’s great-
est romance. Watch instead the divine,
majestic Greta Garbo’s Queen Christina,
in which she plays a Swedish queen, torn
between her loyalty for her people and
her love for a Spanish nobleman which
is much criticised by her country. Garbo,
the talented Swedish beauty who was
the Queen of MGM (the film production
company that “owned” her) in the 30s
had a string of films that were released
and proved to be instant hits. Her pierc-
ing gaze, large and clear eyes, and thick
but comprehensible accent, make her
the perfect heroine in a tragic love story.
Closing with one of the most unfogettable
close-ups of Garbo’s strikingly beautiful
face, Queen Christina is an emotional,
heart-breaking love story.
Other worthy nominees: Dark Victory, It
Happened One Night, Gone with the Wind
The 1940s: Casablanca
It was an easy one to decide, this. With
endlessly quotable dialogue from its
magnificently nostalgic script, along
with a high-profile Hollywood pairing be-
tween two actors that has subsquently
been copied but never defeated, this
story of unfulfilled love, regret and sac-
rifice is simply irresistible. The sudden
appearance of an old flame (Ingrid Berg-
man) is bad news for a local bar owner
(Humphrey Bogart) living in Morocco,
away from all the violence sweeping
through Europe during the early years of
the Second World War. They both have
a chance to escape to America but his
love seems to have turned up with a
new man of her own. Ending with one
of the bravest, most heart-wrenching
scenes of all time without a hint of any
over the top sugary sweetness, Casa-
blanca is the one essential black and
white film that must be watched even
for those who aren’t so keen on old-
fashioned style.
Other worthy nominees: Now, Voyager,
It’s a Wonderful Life, The Lady Eve, Gilda
The 1980s:
On Golden Pond
Not all love stories need to be about
young, immature, attractive couples
discovering the ups and downs of com-
mittment with many tragic events along
the way. What is more deeply touching
is the bond shared for decades, which is
what is shown On Golden Pond between
Norman (Henry Fonda) and Ethel (Katha-
rine Hepburn.) The film is as much about
their long-lasting love as well as the un-
easy relationship shared by Norman and
his daughter, played by Jane Fonda (no
prizes for guessing how she’s related to
Henry Fonda). It’s a calm and collected
film of many similarly styled performanc-
es, with a careful, close perception of a
typical family life. An absolute must for
anyone looking to be blown away by the
superb portrayal of everlasting affection
and dedication, and even for the coldest
cynics who always struggle to sit through
a number of corny romantic films.
Other worthy nominees: Out of Africa,
Moonstruck, When Harry Met Sally, Reds
The 1970s: Love Story
Love stories and tragic, tear-jerking dra-
mas don’t come much thicker than this.
The famous “love means never having to
say you’re sorry” line was coined here,
as two awfully pretty star-crossed lovers
Ryan O’Neal and Ali MacGraw are sepa-
rated and put through hardship by their
differences in wealth, class and even-
tually poor health. This may have more
manipulative emotional pit falls than
any other film you may experience in the
future, but it remains a firm favourite
amongst the most romance-loving au-
dience members. Based on a phenom-
enally popular book, the film turned out
to be a massive hit too, raking in over
a hundred million dollars back in the
70s States alone, on a modest budget
of $2.2m. The Oscar winning score also
plays a huge part in creating a sombre,
rich, melancholy atmosphere, another
something to break your heart in the
film’s most tender moments.
Other worthy nominees: Harold and
Maude, Annie Hall, The Way We Were,
Coming Home

