FILM
FELIX Friday 17 February 2012 25
Warmth, Beauty, Desire
ing and memorable movies – ideal for a quiet, intimate, romantic night in
The 1950s: An Affair to
Remember
Although not without its cheesy moments,
and the misunderstanding that tears this
couple apart is no doubt painfully frustrat-
ing to watch, the sizzling chemistry that
Cary Grant shares with Deborah Kerr sim-
ply melts away any little missteps this may
have made on the way. Despite its second
half drifting more towards the tragic side of
love, there is plenty of sassy, quick-witted
banter between the two that allows sparks
to fly. Add to that the sensational original
song written by Harry Warren, Harold Adam-
son and Leo McCarey, and you get one of
the most iconic love stories of all time. The
Empire State Building became more popu-
lar due to the romantic setting of this film,
and although rather poorly adapted by Nora
Ephron in her Sleepless in Seattle, An Affair
to Remember thankfully has its reputation
intact.
Other worthy nominees: Roman Holiday,
From Here to Eternity, A Star is Born, The
Country Girl, The African Queen, Singin’ in
the Rain
The 1960s: Bonnie and
Clyde
The strong word-of-mouth success of this
was the prime reason Warren Beatty, the
star and producer, walked away with a large
sum of cash and Faye Dunaway was pro-
pelled into stardom in her debut role. In the
tricky roles of a couple of bank-robbers and
eventual killers, Beatty and Dunaway make
one heck of a duo and their team, consist-
ing of Gene Hackman, Estelle Parsons and,
is one worth rooting for – which is why the
tragic final scene, shot with such effective
speed, accuracy and sudden close-ups,
has more impact. Even through the tough-
est, potentially life-threatening situations,
this brave couple copes by relying on and
having faith in each other. They commit
crimes, and Bonnie even goes so far as
to cheerfully exclaim “we rob banks!” but
their convincing passion and committment
have a thing or two to teach us all.
Other worthy nominees: The Umbrellas of
Cherbourg, Splendour in the Grass, West
Side Story, Doctor Zhivago, Breakfast at Tif-
fany’s
The 1990s: Ghost
The late Patrick Swayze was always asked
by fans to utter the word “ditto” to them
and if you’re unsure as to why that is,
watch Ghost and find out that sometimes,
the words “I love you” are often overrat-
ed. Even in death, Sam’s (Swayze) soul
lingers on Earth in order to complete his
one final task: keep his girlfriend Molly
(Demi Moore) safe from those who had
him killed. Molly struggles to move on
of course (especially after that pottery
scene, no-one would) but not everything
is a complete downer. With a killer comic
relief performance from Whoopi Goldberg
as the sole person who can communicate
with the dead soul of Sam, it achieves
a nice balance between tragic romance
and hysterical comedy, never undermin-
ing or sacrificing one another. Another
well-played chart-topper came from this
– The Righteous Brothers’ “Unchained
Melody.”
Other worthy nominees: The Bridges of
Madison County, Jerry Maguire, One True
Thing, Beauty and the Beast, The English
Patient
The 2000s: Atonement
War drives a lot of unfortunate lovers
apart, and nothing is more heart-breaking
to see than two people who could have
and should have been able to spend
more time together. Due to a little girl’s
misguided imagination, Robbie (James
McAvoy) is separated from his true love
Cecilia (Keira Knightley); first being es-
corted to prison, then to the front line
of the First World War. Will they ever re-
unite? It’s unclear throughout the course
of the film but what is apparent is the two
lovers’ painful longing for the years and
years they remain apart. The final mo-
ments of the film, handled so well in their
sheer modesty and sincerity with acting
veteran Vanessa Redgrave shining in her
brief scene, are devastating yet incred-
ibly satisfying. Although it covers a long
duration, it is a neatly condensed, highly
watchable affair, immaculately presented
by a truly talented English director, Joe
Wright.
Other worthy nominees: Away From Her,
Once, Brokeback Mountain, The Notebook,
Amelie

