FELIX
Friday 17 february 2012
games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Games Editor: Laurence Pope
GAMES
If you’re looking for the best of both worlds,
brains and beauty, then Miss Alyx Vance is
your best bet. Growing up on a Combine-
Virtual dating for those
despondent Valentines
Once more Valentine’s Day rolls around, and once more my evening date is a bottle of vodka and video games.
The result? Tongue-in-cheek dating profiles for video game females. I may need to kick the habit
Alyx Vance (HL2 Series)
From: City 17
The Good: Feisty yet incredibly practical ac-
tion girl with energy and brains to spare.
The Bad: Packs heat. On no account leave
the relationship on a sour note.
Mr Right: Prefers the strong, silent nerdy
type. Having a PhD in theoretical physics
is a plus.
occupied Earth has moulded her into a
technical whizz quite capable of holding
herself in a fire fight, all the while keeping
her looks intact. She lives for the moment,
because you never know when the next
Hunter strike is a-coming.
Those wanting a simple life may wish to
steer clear however. Expect to be running
to keep up with her, both physically and
mentally, never settling down for too long.
Alyx certainly isn’t one to take the easy
route through life, and whilst she’ll come
back for you no matter what, it can make
for an exhausting relationship.
A fetishist’s wet dream. Bayonetta is a
witch, but don’t go thinking about the ugly
sort with warts and all. No, Bayonetta is a
gun-toting, demon slaying seductress with
legs all the way up to Heaven. The vanilla
amongst you will do well to steer clear –
Bayonetta is not the girl for those of you
looking to raise a nice family and own a
Bayonetta (Bayonetta)
From: Vigrid
The Good: Indulges in a whole host of fe-
tishes, some of which you’re bound to enjoy.
The Bad: Indulges in a whole host of fetish-
es, some of which you’re bound to be utterly
sickened by.
Mr Right: A man to whom ethics, morals
and decency have no meaning, or medieval
dungeon keepers (often one and the same).
cottage with a white-picket fence. Instead
you’ll be getting an action-packed sex-
crazed thrill ride.
On the other side, an action-packed sex-
crazed thrill ride is ALL you’ll be getting.
Sounds fun now, but a few months down
the line and you’ll be completely knackered
with a woman (sorry, witch) still to please.
Moreover, whilst some of her fetishes may
be hot, others will inevitably scare the liv-
ing daylights out of you – keep in mind that
this wild cat is a witch who kills demons
using BDSM techniques.
If the term ‘strong independent woman’
were to be applied to anyone it’d apply to
Miss Aran. As an ex-soldier and bounty
hunter Samus is well-versed in combat,
Samus Aran (Metroid Series)
From: Zebes
The Good: Has a great body and gorgeous
looks.
The Bad: That is, if you can get her out of
her suit.
Mr Right: Tony Stark.
sporting her impressive Power Suit with
more weaponry than your average mid-sized
battlecruiser. After a hard few weeks or
months scouring the galaxy of evil expect
a tigress on your hands with a dire need to
get out of her Power Suit and relieve some
tension, if you know what I mean fellas.
Still, you can probably see the problem
arising here. Love and relationships will
take second fiddle if the Space Pirates or
the Metroids start becoming a problem
again, and Samus isn’t one to put it all be-
hind her for another few minutes snuggling
on the couch. Expect to be left behind twid-
dling your thumbs whilst she’s out saving
the galaxy for the umpteenth time.
Fancy writing in for Felix Games? We don’t bite! Email games.felix@imperial.co.uk. Have a Weighted Companion Cube:
A blonde beauty with a heart of gold, the
sweet Princess Peach will certainly never
let you down. Don’t assume that she’s all
looks and no brains though – she’s prov-
en herself adapt at go karting, football
and even hand-to-hand combat. Her vast
Princess Peach (Mario Series)
From: The Mushroom Kingdom
The Good: Well-mannered, generous and
rich. Also a Princess.
The Bad: Has a bad habit of being kid-
napped by large sentient reptiles.
Mr Right: Portly southern-European gentle-
men with large moustaches and a talent
for plumbing and go karting.
riches, in excess of $1bn, will certainly
make life a whole lot easier.
Be prepared for some very interesting
mood and personality swings however.
Whilst at times Peach will display some
lethal punch and kick combos, she’ll also
suffer sudden relapses, somehow inca-
pable of even rudimentary self-defense.
These lapses are often taken advantage
of by a large ferocious kidnapping reptile.
Should this occur, be ready to go out and
rescue her to keep the relationship ticking
over. Alternatively contact the Mushroom
Kingdom’s friendly local plumbing service.
26

