More student cuts
More student cuts for Imperial
students at South Kensington’s
FRESH Hairdressers.
Men’s cuts £22
Women’s shampoo and cut
and shake dry £28
Women’s shampoo, cut and
blow-dry £38
All of our cuts are done by
highly experienced stylists.
Tuesday to Fridays 9.30 to
4.30 (sorry no discounts on
Saturdays).
We are only 70 metres from
South Kensington tube station
Sponsored Editorial
Discount haircuts for Imperial
students at Fresh Hairdressers
To book an appointment,
call 0207 823 8968. Ask for a
student discount and bring your
Imperial ID.
NEWS
FELIX Friday 17 february 2012 3
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
News Editors: Sophia David
Alex Nowbar
Flaws exposed in NSS
Students from the Department of
Computing have teamed up with Fe-
lix to uncover methods which can be
used to skew data being submitted to
the National Student Survey (NSS) in
favour of Imperial College.
The flaws rely on the availability
of basic information required to pose
as another student in the survey, and
the process can be automated to mass
impersonate entire departments. The
NSS is a survey for final year students
conducted by Ipsos MORI, the second
largest market research organisation
in the UK, on behalf of the Higher Ed-
ucation Funding Council for England
(HEFCE). The results from the NSS
have been used heavily to determine
student satisfaction levels and affect
university rankings.
Entering the NSS via thestudent-
survey.com requires the responder to
enter the institution they are currently
enrolled at, their student number (CID
in Imperial’s case), the first letter of
their first name and the first four char-
acters of their last name. Along with
merely the day and month (not year)
of birth, this information is all that
is necessary to undertake the survey.
Upon entering these details, the NSS
claims to “check [them] against the
National Student Survey 2012 target
population” for eligibility.
Little do they know many universi-
ties and their departments provide da-
tabases of students with their associ-
ated information to enrolled members.
Take our Department of Computing’s
(DoC) TeachDB database for instance.
Students from this department can log
in using their basic credentials and are
faced with a full search engine for stu-
dents, staff, degrees, courses, UTAs,
GTAs and books. Think in terms of
the database Mark Zuckerberg used to
grab students’ pictures and start Face-
book back in Harvard.
Felix logged into the DoC TeachDB
network and performed a search for
all students in their fourth year. No
other details were required and we
can confirm wildcard searches such
as these are allowed. What resulted
was a list of 160 students. We ran the
search again for third year and got a
list of 200. Since we can’t be sure all
third years are in their final year, we’ll
go with the dataset of fourth years.
The information we got? Stu-
dents’ pictures, their login, their full
first name and last name, the degree
they’re on, their CID number and year
of entry. All in a neat, tabular and ma-
chine readable format. With this in-
formation, it would be a piece of cake
to produce a proof of concept appli-
cation that can automatically harvest
final year student data from this data-
base, cross reference it with another
service like Facebook (made even eas-
ier using their new social graph pro-
gramming interface) for their day and
month of birth (never mind privacy
settings, some profiles show more to
the Imperial network by default) and
fill in the NSS as all of them by itself.
And this is just one database in one
department – if such a thing exists in
DoC, could other departments within
Imperial provide such accessible re-
cords? In fact, taking other universi-
ties’ engines and similarly readily
available information into account,
suddenly the results of the NSS don’t
seem so trustworthy anymore.
What if some students have already
filled in the survey, however? Funnily
enough, the exposure of a second flaw
makes our automated rigging process
even more tempting. A student can
fill in the NSS as many times as they
want, with their first response taking
precedence over all others. Simply
put, one can write code to automate
filling in the survey by impersonat-
ing many students on the first day (or
even the first few hours) of the survey
opening, and overwrite all their future
responses with 100% satisfaction for
everything eligible without the system
“Anything less than
total veracity is a
disastrous breach of
reputation”
Union to lobby council
over Exhibition Road
Tim Arbabzadah
In a paper brought to Union Council on
Monday 13 February by Deputy Presi-
dent (Welfare) Nicolas Massie, the
Union proposed to lobby Westminster
City Council about multiple concerns
with the new Exhibition Road layout.
The paper pointed out the “uncertainty
about the boundaries of the road on the
west side, particularly the tactile bor-
ders”.
It went on to point out that the “use of
the ‘roundabout’ (Prince Consort Road
and Exhibition Road) is unclear and
has increased the risk to cyclists”.
When even the Union begins to use
quotation marks, everyone can rest as-
sured it’s absurd.
The ‘roundabout’ in question is lo-
cated outside the Business School. This
is, unlike every other roundabout, just
a crossroads with a circle painted on it.
The paper also raised concerns over the
“800 metres [of Exhibition Road] with-
out assisted crossing”.
The paper was ultimately passed,
and it was decided that the Union
should lobby Westminster City Coun-
cil to clarify several points, including
“whether it is a shared space”. Another
issue to be lobbied for is to put up signs
informing people of the rules of the
road.
Student survey data could be skewed
(or the student) batting an eyelid for
suspicious activity.
Felix contacted Jason Parmar, Dep-
uty President (Education), about the
ability to fill in the NSS many times,
since students were confused as to
what happened to their responses. In
an inconsistent manner, accessing the
NSS using the introductory email and
attempting to complete it subsequent-
ly causes it to fail with the response:
“Thank you for your interest in par-
ticipating in this survey. You have
already completed the survey”. Ac-
cessing it via their website and click-
ing through to “complete the survey”,
however, allows students to redo it an
unbounded number of times, leaving it
unclear what the impact is on results.
Jason Parmar contacted Senior As-
sistant Registrar (Quality Assurance
& Data) Rebecca Penny, who spoke
with Ipsos MORI and confirmed that
“students can complete the survey
more than once, however only the first
response they submit will be counted
in the results”.
James Greenhalgh, a DoC student,
and Tom Wilshere, Computing De-
partment Representative, told Felix
their feelings on the matter, saying:
“for a survey so important in inform-
ing the immediate future decisions of
thousands of school leavers, anything
less that total veracity is a disastrous
breach of reputation”.
James raised his concerns and said
that “if these bugs have existed in pre-
vious years then newspapers are not
only foolish to provide such heavy
weighting to the results, but also dam-
aging”, adding that this “cavalier ap-
proach to the futures of school leav-
ers, especially given the increased
financial burden they face, and to the
future of already embattled academics
shows yet another fundamental flaw
in our country’s obsessive need to
arbitrarily order all public establish-
ments”.
The questions which remain are
how long these problems have existed
and whether other universities have
been exploiting the issues described.
Could Imperial’s drop below UCL be
explained by us simply being more
honest?
Alexander Karapetian
Rigging away? Information gained from the TeachDB database includes name, CID, and year
The unveiling of the new Exhibition Road, not lobbying in action
Jonathan Peek
Alexander Karapetian

