FOOD
FELIX
Friday 17 february 2012
30
food.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Food Editors: Anastasia Eleftheriou
Michael Krestas
“One human heart please, without the artery...”
Eat your heart out
So you think love comes from the heart?
Although Valentine’s Day has passed, the Food
Section would like to suggest to its readers a
repulsive yet interesting cake to eat with your
beloved one.
As everybody knows, and as memes have been
making clear the past days, Imperial students
are way more savvy than any UCL geek, and
are certainly aware that a real heart isn’t in the
shape of upturned buttocks.
I find it of great importance that we reject
anything that presents, makes use of, or even
glorifies the Valentine’s Heart. It’s time some-
one stepped up and defended this magnificent
organ, beating at 80 bpm, continuously pumping
blood so that we can keep trying to weaken it
living a life full of responsibilities and deadlines
to meet.
The Lily Vanilli bakery in London, sharing my
views, has decided to offer customers this ex-
traordinary and irresistible piece of... cake!
Scarily realistic but delicious, with a red velvet
sponge, cream cheese frosting and blackcurrant
and cherry ‘blood’, this sweet human organ is
the best way to say your darling: “I love you. I
love you and always will do. Now eat your heart!”
So do you think you’re up to the challenge?
Eating a blood-red cake in the full size of a bleed-
ing human heart? Just don’t eat your heart out!
Michael Krestas
The Lily Vanilli Bakery
The secrets of a lobster
The next time you see live lobsters at a res-
taurant market, don’t be afraid of them! You
will see that they’re pretty easy to cook and
enjoy.
Lobsters are very expensive though, and
that is not only because they are very popular,
but because it’s very difficult to find them.
They live in holes and caves in deep waters
and don’t get out of them very often.
There are two kinds of lobsters; the first one
lives in warm waters and has no callipers and
the second one lives in cold waters and has
two enormous ones. Keep in mind that a lob-
ster should be alive to have a good taste when
you will cook it, as the lobster’s meat quality
is altered very, very quickly. If you feel guilty
boiling them alive (although some people be-
lieve that the nervous system of a lobster is
too simple for it to feel any pain at all), put
them in the freezer for 20 minutes to let them
become numb and then boil them.
Female lobsters are more tasty than male
ones and here is the way to distinguish be-
tween the two; if you compare a male and
a female lobster of approximately the same
size, the female one has a wider tail to allow
some space for its eggs.
In order to boil your lobster, you will need
salty water, enough to cover the lobster com-
pletely. Grasp the live lobster behind the
claws and drop it head-first into the boiling
water. Boil the lobster for 10 minutes for the
first lb of weight and then three more minutes
for each extra pound. Once cooked, drain the
lobster immediately and serve hot.
You shouldn’t serve the lobster as it is, try
to make your guests’ lives easier. You can ei-
ther use lobster crackers to crack the shell in
order to reach the meat or cut the claws and
the lobster in half with a sturdy knife.
Whichever your choice, make sure you en-
joy it with the right person!
The Imperial Food Awards
are back again for the
Spring Term.
This time we’re going
Fairtrade in association with ICU
Fairtrade Society.
We can’t wait to receive your
recipes at food.felix@imperial.
ac.uk. For more info, check the
article on this page!
www.foodbeast.com
Anastasia Eleftheriou
Grilled, spaghetti or sushi? The choice is yours!
www.gourmetotaku.com
saltysoul.wordpress.com
Fairtrade Fortnight starts on February 27
Judging entries:
The competition is judged by how good the
presentation of the meal is, how tasty the
recipe reads and the percentage of Fairtrade
products used in the recipe. The presentation
and recipe categories are judged democrati-
cally on the Fairtrade website. Each category
is weighted equally and amounts to a total
score, defining the winner!
T
he annual Fairtrade Fortnight is
soon upon us! To kick-start the
festivities the ICU Fairtrade So-
ciety is hosting a competition to
find the most scrumptious ethical
chef at Imperial!
How to enter:
1. Simply cook your amazing meal (it can be
any type: starter, breakfast, tea, dinner, des-
sert, etc.)
2. Write up your recipe including the ingredi-
ent brands used. The recipe can be inspired by
existing ones, however, your personal twist
should be added.
3. Shoot some photos of your meal and the
ingredients you used.
4. Send in points 2 and 3 to: food.felix@im-
perial.ac.uk
Group and multiple entries are welcome!
Fairtrade Cooking Competition
Olivia Tillbert, ICU Fairtrade Society Treasurer, announces the kick-
off of the second Imperial Food Awards. This time we go Fairtrade!
Each participant will receive free entry to a
Fairtrade Fortnight event of their choice, in-
cluding the popular All You Can Eat Ben &
Jerry and Cheese & Wine nights! Therefore,
the earlier the entry the greater the choice of
events!
Prizes:
The lucky winners will receive the following
prizes:
1st place: £30 voucher for EthicalSuper-
store.com
2nd and 3rd place: A Fairtrade Cookbook
(TBC)
Deadline:
The deadline for submissions for the competi-
tion is Saturday 3 March.
Remember, Fairtrade products can be rec-
ognised by the trademark printed on their
packaging (see above image).

