By the time I hit Kerala I was more than ready
for it: with Rajasthan’s dusty forts a distant
memory I was ready to hit up something a
little more tropical. That’s the incredible thing
about Kerala: after a short and breezy (read:
forty hour and mosquito-infested) coastal
train down from the north, you find yourself
in paradise. Of course, to the rational mind
that doesn’t doubt the existence of continental
drift, this shouldn’t really come as much of a
shock. But I was still in awe of the abundant
African-esque flora and fauna at my disposal.
After adjusting to communist Kerala for a
few days we opted to take a local bus through
the windy Western Ghats to Thekkady, an un-
tainted town with lots of things on offer. For
some reason Thekkady seems to evade some
people’s schedules, but I’d list it as one of
my favourite Keralan destinations. For this
leg of the trip I’d arranged a home stay with
the lovely Cyriac and Dolly at Pepper County
(PepperCounty.com) – be warned that hostels
can be really hit or miss, so if visiting be sure
to have a look at the thriving home stay scene.
The home stay was lovely: Pepper County
comes equipped with beautiful bedrooms,
views of the surrounding countryside and a
commercial farm that Cyriac will gladly show
you around. Here I really felt at home as Dolly
served up the best Keralan cuisine I had the
pleasure of eating: egg curry, sweet cardamom
pancakes and frosty beer. Cyriac is a brilliant
host, and took me up to some viewpoints be-
FELIX
Friday 17 february 2012
32
travel.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Travel Editors: Chris Richardson
Dushi Arumuganesan
TRAVEL
Wishing you were here
Get there: Boris bike (‘cause it’s faster)
See: Endless cocktail and blues bars
Eat: Mezze to share at Yalla Yalla
Cost: £5-15 for nibbles for 2
Hop away from Piccadilly’s tourist-filled pavements
and delve into the side streets of Soho. You’ll be
pleasantly surprised by the swanky bars offer-
ing free music all nights of the week (see: Ain’t
Nothin’ But), cheap and delicious eateries, and a
resident B@1 (formerly the Red Lion pub, Marx’s
old hangout) that trumps its lousy Hammersmith
counterpart.
Planning a trip? Want some quick advice from
experienced travellers? Have a travelling tale to
share with Imperial?
Drop us an email at travel.felix@imperial.ac.uk, or
send us a tweet using #FelixTravel
help in various construction processes by mov-
ing heavy materials. In this camp you can tell
that the elephants are well looked after: they
have a beautiful home, respectful owners and
a more-than-ample food supply. Giving the el-
ephants a coconut scrub after a rough day at
the office is a must for visitors to Thekkady.
Having been tempted by Dolly’s artisan
Keralan culinary skills, I spent my last night
in town attempting to replicate some of the
results. I spent far too much time in India in
cooking classes but could have easily kept go-
ing: in spite of the results being sub-par the
feast is always a delight. Plus it’s a great place
to hook up with other backpackers on a similar
circuit. Thekkady was a great place to dabble
with Keralan cuisine, what with all of the nec-
essary ingredients literally being taken from
the garden outside the family home.
In short, don’t bypass Thekkady if you’re in
the area (and indeed, go out of your way to be
in the area): it’s sure to be a high point of your
trip. The locals are humble, the nature serene,
and the sights, sounds and smells as alluring as
ever. When you’re bored of temples and forts,
head to Thekkady and get lost in the under-
growth.
Planning a trip to Kerala?
Kerala Holidays (KeralaHolidays.com) were
awarded as India’s Best In-Bound Tour
Operator 2011, and offer tailor-made tour
packages for groups of all sizes. Visit the
website and check out some testimonials.
Chris Richardson fore letting me head out in search of tigers.
Thekkady sits alongside the Periyar Tiger
Reserve, making the 5 o’clock start for the full
day safari that little less tragic. I only spent a
few days ambling through this gorgeous na-
tional park but could have easily spent more –
unfortunately, the tigers are elusive at the best
of times, with some workers only catching a
glimpse of a dozen or so in a decade’s work.
Regardless, the various trek routes and abun-
dance of other animals make it worthwhile.
In just a few hours I managed to tick off just
about everything but the tiger, including ele-
phants, bison and vibrant birds. All of this hard
work was concluded with a relaxing bamboo
raft across the park’s tranquil lake.
Thanks to tips from Cyriac I managed to
avoid a lot of the tourist traps in the town: ev-
ery taxi driver and hostel owner seems to know
about an ‘elephant sanctuary’ in the town, but
usually these amount to nothing. Cyriac ar-
ranged for me to visit a proper elephant train-
ing camp, where I was able to help care for
the elephants and see how the villagers incor-
porate them into village life. With just a few
simple commands, the elephants are trained to
“Head to Thekkady and
get lost in the under-
growth”
Welcome to the jungle
Wandering through the misty morass: India’s Western Ghats
A revitalising coconut scrub after a rough day at the office
Side streets of seedy Soho
Travel on your doorstep
‘Surfing in Kuta’ by Sonny Tumbelaka

