CLUBS & SOCIETIES
FELIX
Friday 17 february 2012
34
felix@imperial.ac.uk
Spirit of Adventure with Mick Fowler
Ever sat in the Library, staring out of the
window and wondering what else you
could be doing? On the last day in Janu-
ary, Exploration Society helped fuel the
imagination of adventure by hosting a
talk by Mick Fowler.
Mick Fowler is a British mountaineer
but not your ordinary mountaineer. He,
as voted in a poll by the Observer, is
“the Mountaineer’s Mountaineer” and
has been described by Sir Chris Bon-
ington as “one of the greatest moun-
taineers”. What does this mean? Well,
he’s not just another climber who talks
about nothing but climbing routes and
makes a conversation about Physics
seem more interesting. He is someone
who takes adventure to new heights and
inspires you to try something other than
the latest console game during your free
time.
I arrived at the talk to find a near-
full Physics Lecture Theatre (LT1) and
Mick standing at the front waiting to
start. Mick began by informing the au-
dience that he works for HM Revenue
and Customs and enjoys exploratory
climbing in his spare time. If you think
we have already climbed all there is to
climb, you couldn’t be more wrong.
You just need to look around and see
what is interesting.
During the talk, Mick relayed many
stories of previous climbs and the ex-
periences that surrounded them. In the
70s, when flares were in, Mick and two
climbing partners pioneered the ascent
of the White Cliffs of Dover by using
ice climbing gear. This adventure was
met by a small audience upon comple-
tion and was reported in the local media.
My favourite tale involved Mick as-
cending the finest ice climb in London.
You wouldn’t think London was great
for its ice features, but on this occasion
there was a 65 ft ice stack on the outside
of St Pancras station. While “belayed
to a handy parking meter” he ascended
to find the ice stack had formed from a
leaking toilet outflow. This landed Mick
some attention by the media and police
service. The ice flow was then axed by
the fire service to prevent Mick dam-
aging the building. Ironically, the fire
service caused more damage than Mick
had when climbing it.
Apart from the unusual, Mick has also
obtained many first ascents of Himala-
yan Mountains. His last ascent was the
Kajaqiao in China with Chris Watts. His
previous ascent, of Siguniang in China
with Paul Ramsden, won Mick the pres-
tigious Piolet d’Or (France) and Golden
Piton (USA) awards for his route. To
date, Mick has achieved the first ascents
of five conventional rock climbs, five
sea cliffs, nine sea stacks, six ice climbs
and eleven mountains. If you want to
know more about Mick’s adventures, he
has published four books.
Since 2010 Mick is also the Alpine
Club President and is always enthusi-
astically encouraging all young active
alpinists to join it! The AC is a great
source of help and advice when plan-
ning your next (or first!) alpine ad-
venture. (More information on www.
alpine-club.org.uk.)
Mick comes across as a modest guy
who just likes an adventure. I’d recom-
mend his talk to anyone. So it turns out
Exploration Society invite “the Mountaineer’s Mountaineer” to Imperial College
Nathaniel Bottrell
© Ernst &Young 2012. Ernst &Young is an equal opportunities employer and welcomes applications from all sections of the
community. The UK firm Ernst &Young LLP is a limited liability partnership and a member firm of Ernst &Young Global Limited.
Win prizes foryou
and youruniversity
The Ernst &Young
University Prize-Tagging
Competition
Visit our facebook
pagefor thechance
to win great prizes
for you and £10,000
for your university.
facebook.com/
EYUKcareers
you can work in the tax office and be an
incredibly interesting person!
With the opening up of the Himalayan
Mountains, there are many valleys un-
explored and summits unclimbed. Only
a modest amount of the Himalayas has
been summited, there is plenty of area
to be explored and adventures waiting
to be had...
Exploration Society organise many
talks throughout the year from the
world’s top explorers. The society is
there for people to hear about other’s
experiences, or who have the desire to
explore themselves.
There’s an adventure to be had every-
where!
The next talk will be on the adven-
tures of an Imperial College Kayaking
expedition to Sri Lanka. It will be on
March 6 at 6:30pm in the RSM LT 1.31.
Hope to see you all there!
Sara Arbós Torrent
“A 65ft ice stack at
St Pancras station”
Mick Fowler, not your conventional tax office resident
Nathaniel Bottrell

