NEWS
FELIX
Friday 17 FEBRUARY 2012
4
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
News Editors: Sophia David
Alex Nowbar
New proposals set out by the Union
could mean that some prospective
clubs and societies at risk of rejec-
tion must hold a test event in order
to judge their viability and popularity.
The suggested changes aim to ease
decisions made by the New Clubs
Committee on whether to accept or
reject “border-line” applications of
clubs whose future success is unclear.
However, the proposals are yet to be
approved by the Clubs & Societies
Board.
The current process for the creation
of new Clubs, Societies & Projects
involves the interested group fill-
ing out a New Club or Project Form
available from the Union website and
then presenting their application to a
committee at a meeting. The commit-
tee then decides whether to accept or
reject the application. However, often
the Committee must make decisions
leading to the acceptance of clubs
which subsequently become unsuc-
cessful, or the rejection of proposed
clubs whose applicants are told to re-
apply once certain issues have been
addressed.
If implemented, the proposals
would not change the submission pro-
cess but allow the committee a third
choice rather than accepting or reject-
ing the application immediately. If
they feel the club is viable but would
benefit from a test run, they could de-
cide to put it into the New Club Incu-
bator (NCI). The NCI would provide
the prospective club with facilities to
book a room for a test event, put up
posters using the Union logo, create
a Facebook group using the Union’s
name and provide direct support from
the Deputy President (Clubs & Soci-
eties) and relevant Union Staff to run
the test event. The NCI would also
provide support and training to the
prospective club founders so that they
are in a stronger position if the club
is approved.
The test event would be attended
by the Deputy President who would
provide assistance as well as evaluate
its success. Attendees would also be
asked to fill in a short feedback form
which would ask whether they en-
joyed the event, if they would come
to similar events again, whether they
would join the club and whether they
have any suggestions for improve-
ments. After the event, the applicants
must update their New Club Form
and, currently, resubmit it to the New
Clubs Committee for a final decision
to be made.
Currently, clubs are often rejected if
the prospective club overlaps with ex-
isting clubs, the proposed club is not
feasible given the resources required,
the club has previously existed but
was closed due to lack of interest,
there are concerns over committee
experience, the interest in the club is
questionable or if the proposed club
does not have enough events to deem
it viable.
Recently, an application for a Gen-
der Equality Society was rejected.
Monya Zard, Deputy President (Clubs
& Societies), told the applicants that
the committee “felt there was not
enough ‘substance’ to be a club.” She
added, “The social aspect seemed
rather minor and for the activities you
want to run, such as attending confer-
ences, running campaigns and rais-
ing awareness it would be better to
use the recently developed Campaign
system in conjunction with both the
Gender Equality Officer and Deputy
President (Welfare).”
Rejected applicants can reapply as
many times as they like, or appeal
the decision to the Clubs & Societies
Board but should this be unsuccess-
ful, they cannot reapply to further
New Clubs Committees.
Comment: Page 14
New clubs at risk of rejection given chance
Proposals to determine viability of new ventures include test events
Sophia David

