•A special offer for I
Imperial students
from D
Denis Smyth
•Driving Standards Agency (D
DSA)
Accredited I
Instructor
•Mock Test E
Examiner
To make inquiries and book lessons,
call 07808 610 898
Driving Lessons For Imperial Students
“Denis is a fantastic teacher and knows how to get people from completely
inexperienced and utterly hopeless driving up to the standard to pass their test.
He is always calm and his comments are constructive; his knowledge of London
and his knack of engineering driving routes that test the learner make the lessons
more than worth it. Since I have met him he has shown a great desire to offer
cheaper lessons to Imperial students and with the backing of other students
I am more than happy to support him”
- Alex Kendall, IC Union President 2010-11
5 Driving Lessons
for £95
NEWS
FELIX Friday 17 february 2012 5
Nominations for the Union’s ‘Big Elec-
tions’ opened on Monday 13 February
with students able to put themselves for-
ward as candidates for departmental and
sabbatical positions. The site’s look and
feel has been radically changed from
previous elections, and the voting sta-
tistics have reportedly been revamped.
The decision to make the elections
different came from the central services
manager and marketing departments in
the union, who believe the change will
increase turnout even more. The new
logo and redesign was used to improve
usability and rid the elections website
of the previously used grey and green
colour scheme, bringing the site in line
with imperialcollegeunion.org and eAc-
tivities. Union Systems Administrator
and RCSU Vice President (Operations)
Paul Beaumont worked with Jonathan
Kim, responsible for many web projects
including FelixOnline, to produce the
new website’s features.
When the 2011 Sabbatical and Stu-
dent Trustee elections opened, the site
crashed due to high demand, causing all
other resources on the server to become
temporarily unavailable. This was due
to the marketing and elections systems
being on the same server which hosts
clubs’ and societies’ webpages, Dou-
gal. The union has four servers: Pinky,
Perky, Dougal and Heeps, of which
Beaumont is in charge of the latter two.
Steps have been taken to ensure such
a crash does not happen this time, with
the voting website being moved to the
Perky server in order to restrict access
to union staff only and prevent high de-
mand taking down other vital resources.
The Big Elections include faculty
and departmental positions all under
one system. As a result, all positions
are shown in one list and can be hard to
navigate. Beaumont told Felix that this
was due to “there being one overseeing
returning officer” and that “things will
change once nominations close”. It is a
constitutional requirement that the list of
all positions is shown, and Union Presi-
dent Scott Heath’s interpretation of the
constitution has resulted in the display
of the number of seconders a candidate
has being capped at the maximum of 20.
The statistics website will go live
around the weekend before voting
opens, and a number of technical (as
well as aesthetic) improvements have
been made. For instance, the stats will
now be pushed to clients from the server
rather than the browser frequently pull-
ing data, reducing load and the poten-
tial of crashing. When the nominations
website went live and the Union adver-
tised that they were open, the site was
still not accepting logins to the elections
system. Beaumont explained that “the
server was tested for a fortnight and its
time had gone out of sync by twenty
minutes in that period”, adding that “it’s
fine now since the server is safe and se-
cure in one of the College’s datacenters,
and the server has been set to autosync
time”, assuring it will never go wrong
again.
The official Twitter hashtag for the
elections is #voteicu, which started to
receive use around the same time as
Deputy President (Education) Jason
Parmar tweeted that the hashtag of the
week should be #loveyourrep for Rep
Week. On the suggestion of a hashtag
war, Beaumont explained that he be-
lieves “the Union’s tweeting as much
for the elections as it is for rep week,
and the reps have had more of a physi-
cal presence across campus”. He added
that the “elections will get physical in a
couple of weeks”.
The electronic ballot box for voting
has also been improved, with candi-
dates’ manifestos and pictures being
displayed on the voting screen, shuffled
for fairness. A brief explanation of the
Single Transferable Vote (STV) system
is also provided, and the list of sec-
onders (constitutionally made public)
may be used in the marketing website.
Beaumont told Felix that he is “happy
with how the system’s been received”
and that he thinks “everyone’s taken it
well”.
Alexander Karapetian
Nominations open for Union Big Elections
“Elections will get
physical in a couple
of weeks”
Philip Kent

