NEWS
FELIX
Friday 17 FEBRUARY 2012
6
Thinking of running? It could be you...
As nominations open, Matthew Colvin speaks to two of this year’s Sabbatical Officers about their time in office
W
hat have you enjoyed most?
I think it’s working in the
Union and being part of a
team. It’s a very good atmo-
sphere to work in and it really
helps you do your role and also to see that you
help other people do theirs as well – everyone’s
got something to contribute and build on. Specifi-
cally within my role, I’ve enjoyed getting stuck
into policy and operational matters, and making
decisions on how we run commercial services.
I’ve also really enjoyed seeing online finances re-
ally develop and be rolled out in a big way – obvi-
ously I’m building on the work of my predecessors
but it’s good to see that finally come to fruition.
What have you enjoyed least?
At the beginning it was hard to manage my time.
I found that the admin was taking up a lot of my
time and that was hard because it meant that I
couldn’t focus on what I came into the role to do.
Also, I think it’s fair to say that I didn’t enjoy the
backlash from the Responsible Retailing Policy
and the new bar nights procedure. I understand
the backlash, but it’s never a nice thing to receive
criticism and it’s quite stressful. I was able to re-
spond to criticisms and of course I’m glad for the
experience, but at the time it was very difficult.
What has been your biggest challenge in the
role?
The biggest challenge has been trying to com-
municate to the student body that, while we are
here to represent them over their time at Imperial
and their student experience, there has to be an
implicit acceptance that the Union is also a busi-
ness. There are times when the Union does have
to make money and that may not go down well
with some of the traditions of the clubs but we do
need to make sure that the Union sticks around for
years to come.
How far have you delivered on your manifesto
points?
Not yet, but we’re just over halfway through the
year. One of my manifesto points was about the
Summer Ball so that’s only just ramping up now.
Another of my points (which is a regular appear-
ance on DPFS manifestos) was about cashless
payments. We are looking into our suppliers of
payment systems and we’re also looking to work
with college to see if they are willing to help us
with that. However, because we need to look at
all the options available to us it’s not happening
as quickly as I had thought. I’m confident that
some move can be made, though. The other main
manifesto points included an improvement in the
standard of bar service; things have improved
gradually for the past few months but with the ex-
perience and knowledge of our new management
the standard will increase at a much regular rate.
I’m also very satisfied with the progress of online
finances.
Is there such a thing as an average day?
There is such a thing, as a lot of my time is taken
up by admin! There are also various little tasks
– almost housekeeping – such as responding to
queries on financial matters. When that’s all done
I take the chance to look at how we provide func-
tions and dinners at the Union, at what we’re do-
ing for the Summer Ball, at new ways of clubs
saving money or how better to streamline our on-
line financial systems.
What have you gained from being DPFS?
I have learned about how to manage my time,
how to prioritise my tasks and how to generally be
more effective. I’ve also learned to do what will
have the most impact and to accept that there are
some smaller things that I can’t resolve as quickly
as I would like – that’s been difficult to do because
every club is important, every club has its own
problems and similarly different parts of commer-
cial services have their own problems, but there
are some bigger issues that need to take priority
at the expense of others. Further, I think I’ve also
learnt the importance of not just making decisions
but also communicating them effectively and in
good time, and the rationale behind them.
What advice would you give to those consider-
ing running for DPFS?
If you’re concerned that you don’t have the ex-
perience, then that’s a non-issue, we have very
good training. We can bring you up to speed
very quickly and there is an extensive handover
period so you can learn the ropes very quickly. I
would also say that if you are passionate about fi-
nance and commercial services, and you see a lot
of things that you have ideas to change and you
think could be much better, then you’ll always
have something to contribute. There will be a staff
team around you who have got the experience to
help you implement your ideas and you certainly
won’t be isolated. You’ll find it quite a satisfying
experience to try and make a difference in the way
finance and services are run.
W
hat have you enjoyed most?
Freshers’ Fair! It was a lot of
work and was very stressful,
but it was definitely the most
rewarding experience of the
year so far; it was such a huge event and it’s some-
thing that you know you have to get right because
it’s going to be the new students’ first experience
of Student Activities. The reason it’s so reward-
ing and why I enjoyed it so much was because you
have to rely on the fact that volunteers are going be
there – that’s not just the club members, but also
the Management Groups who come there on the
day at 7 in the morning to help you set everything
up. It’s stressful because you know you are relying
on people who aren’t necessarily paid to do the job
they’re doing, but one of the things that makes it
so great is that everyone pulls together to make it a
fantastic event on the day!
What have you enjoyed least?
The times when people come to you with some-
thing that they’ve left right until the last minute:
maybe it’s an event that they’re having that eve-
ning or in a week and they’ve not sorted something
out. You just have to be prepared to drop every-
thing to help them with their problem, because
although you could try and tell them afterwards
“next time, don’t leave it so late,” at this point they
want to have the event. You do get the satisfaction
in knowing that, afterwards, they are grateful for
your help.
What has been your biggest challenge in the
role?
Learning how to manage your time. As I’ve said,
people come in at the last minute with things that
need doing but at the same time you get a lot of
enquiries from people, a lot of clubs that ask you
for help, and you also want to achieve the bigger
goals that you set for yourself that year. Learning
how to manage all of those and learning how to fit
them all into your day can sometimes mean work-
ing very long days, or it can sometimes mean being
prepared to shift everything in your calendar at the
drop of a hat.
How far have you delivered on your manifesto
points?
I’d say I’m just over halfway through. Some of
them are a lot more long term than Freshers’ Fair,
particularly looking at storage. Ultimately, you
come into this job thinking you’re going to achieve
everything on your manifesto, but once you start
and you realise the scale of some of the things that
you’ve got to do, and also as other things keep get-
ting added onto your project list, it becomes a little
bit harder to achieve them all in the time frame
you imagined.
Is there such a thing as an average day?
While there is some answering of emails and club
questions, you could also be mediating between
club committees. You could have a meeting with
college, talking, for example, about Sport Imperial
or Arts Imperial or about trying to get some more
money from the IC Trust for Tour Funding. On the
other hand, you could have meetings with exter-
nals like BUCS or National Governing Bodies – so
there’s never really a typical day.
What have you gained from being DPCS?
Definitely being calm under pressure – there’s a
lot going on, and you have to be able to juggle all
of that. I’ve really enjoyed all the different things
that you get to do in one year that you probably
wouldn’t get to do in any other job. I’ve sat on
recruiting interview panels, which have been re-
ally great fun but on a personal level the thing I’ve
gained the most is that the people you work with
become your friends. In particular this includes the
Management Groups and Club Chairs who come
and see you and who work with you on an almost
day-to-day basis. It’s incredible the amount of time
they put in and they do become really good friends.
What advice would you give to those consider-
ing running for DPCS?
The first thing to say is that you don’t have to have
been the chair of a club or been involved in the
Union before. Even if you were the chair of one
club, there are 300 at Imperial and the variety of
stuff that we do is huge – there’s no way you’d
know all the answers to the questions anyway. You
don’t have to have any prior experience, but what
do you have to have is a passion for Student Ac-
tivities. You have to have lot of energy to dedicate
to the role, because sometimes you’ll be working
long hours and sometimes you’ll have to do things
that aren’t really the most fun jobs in the world, but
hopefully this year we’ve managed to eliminate a
lot of those. Actually, one of the things we’ve been
working on is making the role less admin-based
and more ‘get out there and make actual changes’.
The things you’ll learn in handover will cover
what you have to know and no-one knows all the
answers – even now in February I’m still looking
up the answers to questions!
Monya Zard
Deputy President
(Clubs & Societies)
Michael Foster
Deputy President
(Finance & Services)
The DPFS is responsible for the
finances of the Union; the bars,
Metric, shops and Clubs & Socie-
ties all fall under his remit
Imperial has over 300 Clubs, So-
cieties & Projects. The DPCS is in
charge of overseeing all of them –
from Freshers’ Fair onwards
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
News Editors: Sophia David
Alex Nowbar

