features.felix@gmail.com
Features Editors: Katy Bettany
Stephen Smith
erty to care about climate change?” were
discussed with a refreshingly realistic
stance. Yet despite the stimulating topics,
heartfelt talks and optimistic vibe, I was
still not feeling particularly inspired.
Over lunch, a friend from Oxford
walked us round the beautiful grounds of
Worcester College (a depressing remind-
er of how ugly the Sherfield building re-
ally is) and we all agreed that we were im-
pressed, but not blown away. We came to
the conclusion that the reason we weren’t
high on inspiration was because all the
talks had been focusing on the problems,
but none of them provided any solutions.
Luckily, the afternoon sessions served
up plenty of what we wanted. “The
Greenest Government Ever?” session
kicked off the afternoon. Tom Burke,
founding director of the think tank E3G,
former Executive Director of Friends of
the Earth and visiting professor here at
Imperial College London (and UCL) was
one of the more enigmatic panellists from
this session. On energy politics of the
future, he urged us to take collective ac-
tion, to get involved in politics, and boldly
summed up the session by saying “If
you’re under 40, you’d better start doing
something!”
Mark Lynas kept mid-afternoon sleepi-
ness at bay by conducting a fun and in-
teractive session called “Future visions”.
Using the DECC 2050 energy pathways
calculator, he managed to get an audi-
ence of 200 to predict the UK’s energy
supply and demand in 2050. The good
news is that, with current technology, we
can make it to a zero carbon economy
by 2050 (just)! The bad news is that us-
ing our demand predictions, we need to
be wildly ambitious about the number of
offshore wind-farms, solar panelled roofs
and biomass power stations we can install
in under 40 years...
But unsurprisingly, like any true Impe-
rialite, my absolute favourite session of
the day was called “Can Technology Beat
Climate Change?” Dr. Ralph Clague of
Gordon Murray Design Limited, a world
leader in automotive design, showed us
how the vision of electric powered cars
could become a reality. He showed us
prototype low carbon city cars (which
are thankfully much prettier than the G-
wizz) and talked us through their new
efficient production process called iS-
tream (commendably admitting that it
was indeed named iStream as “anything
sounds cool if you put an ‘i’ in front of
it”). In my view, the most visionary, most
V
ery early on Saturday
morning, whilst Freshers
were making their way
home from Fabric, I was
venturing across London
for an entirely different reason. I was bat-
tling my way through the bitterly cold
morning air so that I could catch a train
from London Paddington to Oxford in or-
der to attend the annual Oxford Climate
Forum. The Oxford Climate Forum is
the country’s highest-profile conference
on climate change organised entirely by
students bringing leading thinkers and
doers under one roof to discuss the key
environmental concerns facing the global
community.As a sustainability enthusiast,
not even the malfunctioning heating sys-
tems on Great Western trains could deter
my excitement about this event. It was
7am on a Saturday morning, I was sat on
a (literally) freezing cold train and I was
raring to go!
Unfortunately, things weren’t entirely
that idyllic. I’d managed to persuade a
friend from UCL to come with me, and
whilst I was feeling gleeful and inspired
as we trundled past frost-covered fields
glittering in the morning sun, she was
feeling tired, cold and in desperate need
of caffeine. I sure hoped that this event
would be worth the journey.
The first talk of the morning was from
lawyer Polly Higgins, who pledged that
we need to govern the planet’s right to
life as we do for humans. In order to do
this she believes that Ecocide is the miss-
ing 5th Crime Against Peace and that it
should sit alongside genocide as an in-
ternational crime throughout the world.
She made a convincing argument and
managed to express what can sometimes
sound like hippy-speak in an authorita-
tive manner. However, I was not blown
away. Imposing laws and trying to change
social attitudes is not, in my view, the best
pathway to a sustainable future.
Other morning sessions threw up diffi-
cult questions such as “do developing na-
tions have a right to rapid development or
a responsibility to develop sustainably?”
and “how can we equitably share the bur-
den of climate change?” The issues raised
were tackled with vigour, intellect, and
enthusiasm, with speakers from a broad
range of backgrounds, including aca-
demia, business, and charity offering a
far-reaching and deep range of expertise.
Even seemingly impenetrable questions
such as “how can you ask people in pov-
Gate crashing the Oxford Climate Forum
Caroline Wood escapes London for a sustainable future
ambitious and most exciting solution was
called DESTERTEC. DESERTEC’s vi-
sion is to harness solar energy from de-
serts, and transport the energy generated
via international grids. Yes, that’s deserts
(meaning Africa and the Middle East)
and international grids (meaning politi-
cal negotiations). I told you it was ambi-
tious. However, given the fact that in just
6 hours deserts receive more energy from
the sun than human-kind consumes in a
year, it seems the idea is worth pursuing
in spite of political and funding issues.
Jeremy Leggett, described by the Ob-
server as “Britain’s most respected green
energy boss”, a social entrepreneur, and
author of The Carbon War and Half Gone
gave a compelling closing speech. Prag-
matic and persuasive, Jeremy left us with
some motivating closing thoughts: we can
use existing technologies to get where we
want to be. If we mix and match exist-
ing technologies, we can domestically
provide enough energy for the UK. But
“How can we
equitably share the
burden of climate
change?”
people are scared to listen to warnings
about peak oil. There is a deeply rooted
defence of the status quo, and we need
seismic change that can make green ideas
go viral and go global.
So there you have it. A great day came
to an end. 200 people ventured out of
Oxford’s town hall, into the freshly fall-
en snow, feeling motivated and inspired
to keep working towards a sustainable
future – my sceptical friend from UCL
included.
“If you’re under 40,
you’d better start
doing something!”
FEATURE
FELIX Friday 17 february 2012 7

