Scientists from the University of California,
Berkley, have been able to successfully deter-
mine fragments of people’s thoughts by decod-
ing brain activity caused by words they hear.
The study has given researchers further in-
sight into how the brain processes language
and paves the way for devices that may be
able to help those without the power of speech.
Researchers believe this may be the first step
to primitive brain implants that can monitor
people’s thoughts and speak on behalf of them.
The study held in the US showed that a com-
puter could play back words that the patients
heard by analysing their thoughts, though the
words played back were sometimes not clear.
Speaking to The Guardian, Robert Knight,
director of the Helen Wills Neuroscience In-
stitute, said “this is exciting in terms of the ba-
sic science of how the brain decodes what we
hear. Potentially, the technique could be used
to develop an implantable prosthetic device to
aid speaking, and for some patients that would
be wonderful.”
“The next step”, he continued, “is to test
whether we can decode a word when a person
imagines it. That might sound spooky, but this
could really help patients. Perhaps in 10 years
it will be as common as grandmother getting
a new hip.”
The study involved playing a series of words
to the patients for up to ten minutes while re-
cording their brain activity from electrodes
placed across the surface of their brain. The top
of the patients’ skulls had been removed previ-
ously in an operation to treat intractable epi-
lepsy, allowing this procedure to be carried out.
The activity from the electrodes showed that the
brain broke down sound into their constituent
frequencies and the program kept track of this.
Another collection of words was then played
to the patients to see whether the program could
differentiate between words that were repeated
from before and those that were new. The list
of words included “Waldo”, “structure”, and
“property”. The scientists got their best results
when activity was recorded in the superior tem-
poral gyrus, above the ear. Brian Pasley, a sci-
entist on the team, compared the technique to a
musician who could hear a piece in their mind
just by knowing which notes are played.
The study raises implications for potential
mind reading programs, though the scientists
point out that it would require the skull of the
participant being opened up. Even if a device
were to exist without such intrusive measures,
Mind reading programs?
Neural networks are used to simulate brain activity, but cannot interpret thoughts
it would be difficult to differentiate between
an inner monologue and words intended to be
said aloud, therefore impacting any ability to
aid the speechless.
Though the scientists’ work must not be un-
derestimated, Guardian blogger Mo Costandi
wrote that “we are nowhere near being able to
decode and reconstruct such complex neural
activity [as our extremely rich stream of con-
sciousness]”, and that “it may, in fact, never be
possible”. It is likely that “your thoughts will
remain private for a very long time.”
DOI:10.1371/journal.pbio.1001251
A paper in 1932 by William Holder Zacha-
riasen hinted at the atomic structure of glass,
which at the time was unexplored. This de-
duction was based purely on the properties of
glass known at the time. For example, the fact
it does not have a crystalline structure indicat-
ed that molecules within it are not symmetric.
This work now appears to be vindicated fol-
lowing new research reported in Nano Letters,
which shows that a 2D layer of glass imaged
using Transmission Electron Microscopy
(TEM) has an extremely similar structure to
that deduced in the 1932 work.
As with many scientific discoveries, this one
was partially accidental. The team intended to
make graphene for an experiment; however,
unintended consequences actually resulted in
graphene with a layer of glass forming instead.
The researchers suspect that this is due to air
leaking into the process.
Conventional glass (as found in windows) is
made of silicon dioxide – also known as sil-
ica. The process used to create the graphene,
in this instance, involved a quartz substrate
on carbon. When air leaked into the process,
this caused the carbon to be oxidised (and the
quartz subsequently reduced). This forms sili-
ca in the same structure of glass – yet just three
atoms thick, making it effectively 2D.
This research is important for two reasons.
The first of these is to allow direct imaging of
molecules, some of which may not occur natu-
rally.
The other reason is that it opens the door to
synthesising a wide variety of other 2D mol-
ecules through the use of a graphene substrate:
it may be possible to produce a glass from alu-
minium oxide with this technique. Addition-
ally the graphene support removes the need
for the variety of conditions that 2D materials
need to form, such as unreactivity.
This provided an opportunity to investigate
the properties of the rings within glass. One
of the properties discovered was that the glass
was not covalently bonded to the graphene –
this would cause an unacceptable amount of
strain within the molecule. This can be seen
in graphical models, which show a large mis-
match between the lattice of graphene and the
glass.
Instead, the van der Waals interactions cause
the attraction to occur, resulting in a stabilisa-
tion effect within the glass. This shows that
graphene could be a core component of pro-
duction of new 2D substances.
As for the 2D silica-based glass, this could
have a use in electronics, namely semicon-
ductors, or as gate insulators in semiconduc-
tors. This is thanks to the ease of which the
graphene and glass can be stripped from the
starting copper.
Philip Kent
FELIX
Friday 17 February 2012
8
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Science Editors: Kelly Oakes
Alexander Karapetian
SCIENCE
In brief
Alexander Karapetian
Swearing for Scientists
by Maria Veiga
Nasa’s New Horizons probe has entered the final
stage of its journey to Pluto. It is currently twenty
three times the Sun-Earth distance away from
us, and is due to reach its final destination on
July 14, 2015.
It won’t be staying for long, however, and will
fly past the dwarf planet gathering as much data
as it can before it gets too far away again. From
there, the probe will continue past Pluto’s moon
Charon and then to the outer reaches of the solar
system.
Getting data back from such a distance will be
a challenge. At the moment, the probe just over
three light hours away from Earth, so a round trip
for commands to reach the probe and data to
come back would take over six hours.
Kelly Oakes
New Horizons nearly at Pluto
networksandservers.blogspot.com
World’s thinnest pane of glass unveiled

