Want to write for
Felix Science?
Email us:
science.felix@
imperial.ac.uk
SCIENCE
FELIX Friday 17 February 2012 9
Little leaps to the end of Malaria
Eliot Barford on the small things that could add up to getting rid of malaria for good
My body
clock and I
Tim Arbabzadah
How many times have you ended
up staring at Facebook at 3am on a
Monday? If you’re me, the answer is
too many to count. A lot of people
out there have trouble keeping their
sleeping pattern in check. It can be
very detrimental to your life (and
really annoying). It seems my body
clock just wants to troll me con-
stantly, smugly making me stumble
bleary eyed out of bed after too little
sleep. The recent freezing weather
doesn’t help. It makes the warm con-
fines of the covers look incredibly
appealing.
A new study led by Imperial sci-
entists has found a link between dia-
betes and a person’s body clock. To
be less cryptically vague, the study
found a link between the gene MTN-
R1B and type 2 diabetes. MTNR1B
codes for MT2, a receptor for the
hormone melatonin. Melatonin regu-
lates the sleeping cycle and also the
release of insulin, which is what reg-
ulates the level of sugar in the blood.
The postulation is that mutations in
the MT2 gene could disrupt both the
sleeping cycle and the release of in-
sulin. Thus, people with the muta-
tions will not be able to control their
blood sugar level correctly. Therein
lies the link between the MT2 gene
and diabetes and explains the con-
nection between two seemingly un-
connected things. A person carrying
these mutations will not definitely
develop type 2 diabetes, but the risk
that they do, compared to someone
without said mutations, is increased.
The study looked at 7,632 Euro-
peans and included 2,186 individu-
als with type 2 diabetes. In total, the
MT2 gene can have forty mutations;
all were tested to see what the ef-
fect would be. Four of these, which
are, luckily, very rare, were found
to completely stop the melatonin
from binding to MT2. These highly
increased the risk of type 2 diabetes
developing.
The hope is that this discovery
and mechanistic link can be used to
gauge the diabetes risk of an indi-
vidual and tailor medical treatments
to their needs, a small step towards
personalised medicine.
Wikipedia
A
t the start of this month,
a statistical analysis
published in The Lan-
cet claimed that deaths
due to malaria world-
wide are almost twice as high as was
thought – 1.24 million in 2010 rather
than 655,000, as estimated by the World
Health Organisation (WHO). While
there is controversy over the study’s
methodology, its implications for the
international malaria eradication drive
are troubling – the WHO also estimated
that 216 million people became ill with
malaria in 2010. Fortunately, these are
not the only large numbers associated
with the disease: annually, US$2 billion
is contributed for malaria control mea-
sures, and over US$600m for research
and development to fight it. Progress
is being made, and funnily enough, it
tends to involve much smaller things.
Two recent advances have illustrated
how the tiniest things can make the
greatest difference.
Around 50 antimalarial drugs are in
development right now. The pace is
high because researchers are trying to
find replacements for artemisinin, the
principle malaria treatment worldwide,
before it is rendered useless by spread-
ing resistance. In January, an Ameri-
can group at Washington University
in Missouri solved the structure of an
enzyme, a protein which catalyses a re-
action, that is needed by every parasitic
cell to grow. It provides an example of
how exploiting the subtle differences
between our cells and malaria parasites
may allow us to cure the disease.
Plasmodium, the microbe that causes
malaria, is a protozoan and therefore
part of a separate kingdom of life to
animals and plants. However, its bio-
chemistry shares some peculiar features
with plants due to an ancient evolution-
ary event in which it took on an alga as
an “endosymbiont”, a permanent resi-
dent of its cells, similarly to the way in
which plant cells acquired their photo-
synthetic chloroplasts. The relic of this
alga, known as the apicoplast, performs
certain chemical reactions for the para-
site very unlike those done by our cells.
Cell membranes are made of mol-
ecules called phospholipids such as
phosphatidylcholine, which the parasite
must synthesise to grow and divide. It
does this in the apicoplast via a plant-
like chemical pathway subtly different
from our own, which includes a step
that never happens in our cells. The
Washington group’s protein is respon-
sible for this reaction. The team has
worked out its exact structure and is try-
ing to explain its activity at the atomic
level. If someone can use this informa-
tion to develop a drug that blocks it,
malaria parasites could be killed with
no harm to patients – the most difficult
challenge to overcome in development
of new treatments.
Drugs are essential to cure people in-
fected with malaria, but eradication is a
fantasy unless a vaccine to prevent in-
fection is developed. A vaccine called
RTS,S has shown promise, as reported
in Felix on November 4 last year. How-
ever, RTS,S is not very effective com-
pared to other vaccines and its protec-
tion may not last long. It will save the
lives of many children under five, who
suffer over 80% of deaths from malaria,
but better vaccines will be needed to
stop the disease spreading entirely.
In December, a team based at Oxford
University demonstrated a new vaccine
target in rabbits. They exploited a weak-
ness in the parasite’s infective strategy
revealed only in November by a group
at the Sanger Institute in Cambridge.
Malaria parasites multiply by invading
and parasitising red blood cells (RBCs),
and until recently it was thought that
they used such numerous ways of gain-
ing entry that no one method was used
by every strain. The Sanger group test-
ed several strains and discovered that
every one needed a particular RBC pro-
tein to get its foot in the door, a protein
called basigin.
Basigin’s exact function remains un-
known, and scientists originally rec-
ognised it only as the determinant of a
rare blood group, Ok-, found in a hand-
ful of Japanese families. Nonetheless,
a parasite protein called PfRh5 binds
to basigin and is somehow crucial for
invasion. The Oxford group produced
a vaccine by incorporating PfRh5 into
a virus and used it on rabbits, who de-
veloped immunity. The antibodies in
their blood prevented all parasite strains
from infecting blood cells.
This leap forward was unexpected.
Malaria is a successful disease precisely
because it works so hard to avoid be-
ing recognised by our adaptive immune
system. PfEMP1 protein, the main pro-
tein to which we do become immune,
comes in 60 different versions so that
the parasite can repeatedly change be-
tween them before the body can elimi-
nate it. People who live where malaria
is common become infected many
times during their lives, never develop-
ing full immunity, because Plasmodium
is so adept at evading our defences.
However, in rabbits, a vaccine grant-
ed immunity to PfRh5, of which there
is only one copy. Why? PfRh5 seems to
have escaped natural selection for vari-
ation because the immune system does
not normally ‘see’ it. The reason why
remains unknown, though it may be be-
cause it is only released by the parasite
at the moment of invasion, straight into
the unlucky RBC. This is important be-
cause it may mean that all Plasmodium
strains rely wholly on PfRh5 to infect
our blood. By ‘showing’ it to the im-
mune system with a vaccination, pro-
tection far greater than that from RTS,S
could be achieved – perhaps enough to
thwart malaria for good.
A very high magnification micrograph of maternal malaria
Sleeping like a log...

