2 NEWS F E L I X FRIDAY 25TH OCTOBER
The woman who wants to be .
a Defence Minister
ANDREW SMITH
The day that the Government's plans
for their latest Parliamentary session
were announced, the Minister of
State at the Home Office responsible
for prisons and life sentences defend-
ed policies which will dramatically
increase the UK prison population.
While admitting that the changes
would increase overcrowding in the
short term, Anne Widdecombe,
Member of Parliament for
Maidstone, spoke to Imperial
College students on Wednesday
about Law and Order, and of her
Government's plan to help build
twelve new prisons.
In a move, widely regarded as an
attempt to embarrass the Parlia-
mentary Labour Party, after seven-
teen years in power the Conservative
Party have announced plans to inter-
fere in the sentencing of a wide range
of convicted criminals. Ms
continued from front page
Last week, as part of a question-
naire concerning security that was
sent to all residents, asking what
measures they would like to see
taken, students were asked to consid-
er window bars, lights programmed
to turn on and off at random, net cur-
tains, whether they would be willing
to spend their spare time planting
rose bushes, and whether or not they
would consider paying an extra £2.50
a week for the extra security patrols.
So far, replies handed in have been
mostly negative, and the feeling
seems to be that people were not pre-
pared to pay extra rent towards secu-
rity. As one resident remarked, "it
should come out of the rent we are
paying already."
Currently, Clayponds Village is
insured by College. Residents' basic
cover gives a payout of £2,200, and
the maximum payout for any specif-
ic item is £600. The most that a stu-
dent could claim for is £5000. Last
year, Clayponds insurance claims
cost the College somewhere in the
region of £25,000. This could have a
knock-on effect, forcing College to
increase insurance premiums.
In his interview, Mr Caldwell
Widdecombe, admitted that the plans
are a political tool, but denied that
this was the only reason for their
introduction.
"It is not just a crude attempt to put
clear blue water between us and
them," she insisted after being ques-
tioned about her party's motives. The
Junior Minister, who enjoys a com-
fortable 16,000 majority, insisted that
the package of measures was being
introduced for the public good,
despite the fact that "there will be
some hiatus", due to the inevitable
overcrowding.
Government plans centre on the
imposition of mandatory sentences,
and thereby regularly removing the
judiciary from the sentencing
process. Anyone convicted of a third
Class A drugs crime would receive a
minimum of seven years, and two
successive rape convictions would
pointed out that Clayponds is often
empty during the daytime and early
evening. He also expressed a
resigned attitude that if thieves really
wanted to get in, they would find a
way of doing so, whatever precau-
tions were taken. "The burglars seem
lead to "mandatory life sentence".
This would mean that "we will have
control over the point at which they
(sexual offenders) get released."
According to Ms Widdecombe the
overall rise in UK crime during the
course of the successive Tory admin-
istrations is part of "a rising tide of
lawlessness that has been experi-
enced in every western country for
the past 40 years." She repeatedly
denied that there was any link
between poverty and crime, and
asserted that vehicle and property
crime increase with prosperity.
While the Tories have introduced
crime bills almost every year since
their election in 1979, the Home
Office Minister insisted that, "It is
not possible for any Government to
wave a magic wand." Her
Government's new measures of
mandatory sentences and "honesty in
to change tactics," he said, pointing
out that they glass panels have been
smashed and window frames jem-
mied in order to gain entrance, which
is, apparently, "very unusual."
Despite this, residents still feel that
College aren't doing enough, mostly
sentencing" were an attempt to "deal
with what we have."
Recent personal attacks on the
Labour leader, Tony Blair, also came
under fire during a question and
answer session, but Ms Widdecombe
insisted that the 'dangers' of Labour
plans for trade union reform and the
introduction of a minimum wage and
the Social Chapter must be high-
lighted. She dismissed her party's of
tax increases following the last elec-
tion, blaming the ERM and the reces-
sion, saying "We were derailed."
Looking forward to the next
General Election, which she expects
to be held on 1 May 1997, Ms
Widdecombe would like to "break
the mould" and become the first ever
woman in the Ministry of Defence.
Perhaps optimistically, she hopes to
serve in a Government which will
have, "a nice large majority."
on the grounds that it would be too
expensive to put bars on ground floor
windows and deadlocks on the doors.
They feel that that argument is a bit
weak, considering the lavish expen-
diture on brand new carpets that have
recently been installed, at a cost of
£163,170 including VAT. (Figures
supplied by Mr Daniels). The reason
for this, Mr Leeson said, was that "on
the stairs, where the carpet was fray-
ing, someone could have had a nasty
accident. These new carpets should
last for a good 10-15 years." Mr
Caldwell added that they had had a
substantial discount for carpeting all
of the hall at once.
Mr Caldwell pointed out that the
money for the new carpets and for
the forthcoming new common room
(estimated to cost about £40,000)
does not come out of the same fund
as the security costs, though, ulti-
mately, it all comes out of the rent.
The new common room, which stu-
dents have been waiting several years
for, is in the planning stages.
Alternative funding for this venture
has been sought, with the IC Trust
offering to provide £15,000 towards
the final cost. As yet, there appears to
be no alternative funding sought for
the residents' security.

