Employment Opportunities for
Imperial College Postgraduate Students
in the
C E N T R E F O R C O M P U T I N G S E R V I C E S
H E L P D E S K S T A F F R E Q U I R E D
The Centre for Computing Services runs a HelpDesk providing
support to Members of the College on computing related
problems. Help Desk duties consists of one 4.5 hour session
each week, working in the HelpDesk office (a morning or
afternoon), paid at demonstrator's rates, currently £8.46 per
hour. You will be a member of a team of 3 people (2 on-duty
desk staff with a Duty Manager providing support).
Experience:
You should have some experience in the use of one, or more, of
PCs, UNIX or Macs and be able to communicate effectively with
people. We do not expect you to be an computer expert (but if
you are, then that too is not a problem). However you should
have a reasonable User type experience in one or more of the
areas mentioned and be willing to learn. Enthusiasm and
willingness are just as important as technical knowledge when
you start.
Professionalism:
Since we are the front-line for the Centre, we consider it
important that clients are treated in the best possible way.
Politeness and willingness to do the best for the client is
important, almost more important than computer knowledge.
Who to contact:
For an information discussion, please contact Mr Michael Nock,
Centre for Computing Services, room 482 ME, Tel 46968 or
email m.nockfaKc.ac.uk.
Applications are invitedfor the position of
SUBWARDEN
FALMOUTH KEOGH HALL
Falmouth Keogh hall is a student residence in Princes Gardens, which houses
186 undergraduate and postgraduate students. Every year Falmouth Keogh
runs a lively social programme of events, and a team of wardens and
subwardens facilitate this social programme and provide pastoral care to
residents.
We are looking for a subwarden to join the wardening team in January 1997.
Applications are welcome from all members of College, although the position
is particularly well suited to postgraduate students with at least 18 months to
completion of their course. Applicants should be friendly, resourceful, possess
energy and a high degree of personal maturity. Rent free accommodation will
be provided to the successful applicant.
Application forms are available from the Student Accommodation Office, 15
Princes Gardens.
Application forms should be returned to the Warden, Dr Andrew Livingston,
Department of Chemical Engineering, by 5pm on
Wednesday 20 November 1996
STEP UP...
04 3
H i
S i
...TO A
BRIGHTER
FUTURE
ATTENTION
FINALISTS &
NON FINALISTS
Get a head start in the
employment market. Meet leading
employersface toface and
discover hundreds ofgraduate
career and vacation opportunities.
EXHIBITORS
INCLUDE:
Abbey National, Allied Domecq,
Armed Forces, Bass, Boots,
British Aerospace, BNF, BT,
Ericsson, Ford, Sainsbury's,
Marks & Spencer, NHS,
NatWest, Nissan, Peugeot,
Rover, Tesco,
Vauxhall, Walkers
...and many more.
BIRMINGHAM
UNIVERSITY
30th October 1996
The Avon Room
11am - 5pm
Organised in association with
THE INDEPENDENT
FREE COACH TRANSPORT
Under the archway in Price Consort Road
12 noon on Wednesday 30th October
Call 0171 727 7380 to reserve your place

