NEWSPAPER OF 1 ER1AL COLLEGE UNION
Phew!
What a
Scorcher!
Pictured above at Saturday's Rag
Fete, a student suffering the after
effects of a Mines curry. All in all
£850 was raised from stalls and
trips up the Queens Tower. Guilds
President Mike Stuart raised£300
by allowing his successor Maribel
Anderson to shave off his hair.
For afull account of the Fete see
UGM Sketch on page 3.
No 675 • • • • •
Angry Exchanges
in Phones Fury!
Union President Gaynor Lewis has decided that IC Radio and
STOIC will have their outside telephone lines removed with the
introduction of the new telephone system in September. The two
stations presently have external extensions which enable them to
make outgoing calls through the College switchboard.
When told of the particular assertion were true the only
necessity of IC Radio's being able
to make outgoing calls, Miss
Lewis said they could make their
calls from the Union Office. It
seems unnecessary, however, that
IC Radio staff should be required
to do this when it would cost
nothing extra to allow them to
make outside calls from their
offices in Southside, as at present.
IC Radio need to make outside
calls to keep in touch with record
companies from which they
receive over £2,000 worth of
records every year. STOIC often
require to telephone people to
request interviews and over the
years have been successful in
getting many famous names into
their studios. The Ents office is
also to lose its external call
facility which was only installed
late last year and which they use
to organise band bookings.
The reason for Miss Lewis'
proposed restrictions is unclear.
There is no apparent need to limit
the total number of extensions
able to make outgoing calls since
all extensions are physically
identical and the type of calls
which can be made from any
particular one is controlled by
computers in the exchange. Miss
Lewis told F E L I X she felt the
Union would do well to get one
extra line, but the College are
concerned only with the total
number of instruments, not the
number which make outgoing
calls which is irrelevant for
installation purposes. Even if her
reason why there are no lines left
for IC Radio, STOIC and Ents is
the increase in lines in the Union
Office.
There have been complaints
from College that a number of
unauthorised overseas calls have
been made by the Union. It seems
that IC Radio and STOIC are
having their ability to make calls
sacrificed to appease College
when these unauthorised calls
originate from the Union Office.
In any case the new system will be
able to provide the Union with
information about calls made
from each individual extension so
any abuse w i l l be e a s i l y
discoverd.
The new system will be a
modern electronic exchange with
many new f a c i l i t i e s . A l l
telephones will make and receive
internal calls and many will also
receive incoming external calls.
Only those phones authorised by
departments (which includes IC
Union) will make outgoing calls.
AGM Awards
Awards for notable contributions to the Union were presented to staff
and students at yesterday's Annual General Meeting. Two Union
General Awards were made to students who have done outstanding
work for the Union and Honorary Life Membership of IC Union was
awarded to six members of staff.
U G A s were awarded to Ian Bull A C C Chairman and President-elect
for his work for athletics amongst other things, and Peter Rodgers for
work on F E L I X and the Union Handbook. These awards are made by
the President alone, unlike other Union awards. Gaynor Lewis was
also awarded a U G A by Council.
Honorary Life Membership was awarded to Jo Hewanicka, who
recently left her job as Union receptionist; Roy Hicks, Bookshop
Manager; Bill Mason, Boathouse Manager; Nick James of the
Computer Centre for his work for Sporting Motorcycle Club; Robin
Smith, College Tutor and S C C Senior Treasurer; and D r Sinclair
Goodlad for his work for the Pimlico Connection society. It was
discovered that Dr Goodlad had already been awarded H L M in 1968
but the Union had lost records of this.
The meeting considered the President's annual report next, and
there was a move to refer it back by John Martins on the grounds that
he disagreed with her views of U G M s . He spoke to this referral and as a
vote was being taken he challenged the quorum of the meeting. Since
there were less than 100 people present the meeting was deemed closed
by the Chairman.
I FELIX, May 25 19841 I Fnal

