Rule by Decree
You may have seen the annual reports of the sabbatical and other Union
officers distributed all round campus yesterday. A few of you may even have
read them. For those of you that haven't the reports are twelve pages of self-
congratulation and mutual admiration. Whilst its clubs, societies and C C U s
are as healthy and active as ever the Union itself is irrelevant to most of its
members. Apart from a few U G M s where groups have turned up en-masse to
see certain motions go their way, interest shown in the Union by the majority
of its members has been minimal. One can hardly blame people for not
attending Union meetings if they are not allowed to contribute ideas or take
decisions. Those that attend are told of what has happened and decisions that
have been taken.
The Union is run by Gaynor and a select few of her chums. They have
surrounded themselves in a brick wall running the Union as their own private
enterprise for their own amusement. Ideas and initiatives from outside are
not permited. The President rules by decree, never does she consult or feel out
opinion outside her small circle of friends but seeks guidance from above
(Christine) and sets down the law. When will she learn that she was not
elected a monarch, to rule over the Union, but to represent the views of its
members—not to put forward her own muddle headed notions.
Gaynor Lewis has worked very hard and concientiously this year—she
may have convinced herself that she had done a good job, but in the final
analysis if she looks back through the year she must realise that the Union
could have run just as effectively without her.
Phoney
An illustration of Gaynor's lack of consultation has been her decision to
remove STOIC and IC Radio's facility for making external phone calls.
Apparently College Secretary John Smith had complained about the number
of long distance calls tnat were being made from the Union Office so Gaynor
promptly decided to take out the STOIC and IC Radio phones. She did not
think to consult either party. Both IC Radio and STOIC need to make
outgoing calls to provide their service. IC Radio need to be in constant touch
with record companies to ensure a good supply of records. However Gaynor
in her infinite wisdom decided these 'little people' didn't need the phones as
much as the Union Office—which will have four external lines. As President
Gaynor ought to be trying to improve—or at least attempting to
maintain—Union facilities. She certainly shouldn't be doing College's job for
them and reducing facilities. Increasingly the Union Office is becoming an
extension of College administration.
Bound Editions
If you would like your copies of F E L I X bound in beautiful black leather,
tastefully embossed with your name in gold, all for the meagre sum of £15.50
(+p&p) then bring in your copies of F E L I X any time between now and the
penultimate week of term. Don't worry if you have gaps in your collection
they can be made up from our file copies. A Bound Edition of F E L I X makes
a marvellous souvenir of your time at Imperial.
Credits
Jon Jones, Ulysses, Nigel Atkinson, Pete Hobbis, J Martin Taylor, Diane Love,
David Rowe, John Burgess, Hugh Stiles, David Jones, Maz and Peter.
Congratulations to Peter Rodgers on his thoroughly merited Union General
Award for his outstanding contribution to FELIX over the years and the best
Handbook Imperial College has ever seen. P 1
1 b Gh h
How can you divide a circle into the greatest
number of pieces with six straight lines? Answers in
the form of a sketch please.
Solutions, comments, criticisms to me at the
FELIX Office by 1:00pm on Wednesday, please. £5,
courtesy of Mend-a-Bike, for the randomly selected
winner.
Last week's solution
If there was only one failure, he would immediately
know that he had failed as he wouldn't have got a
note, thus he would jump on the first day after the
letter was displayed. If there were two failures then
they would have got single names on their lists, and
if no one jumped on the first day then there couldn't
have been only one failure, and so these people
would work out that they were the failures in time to
jump on the second day. This logic can be extended
so that if someone receives a note with five names,
and no one jumps on the fifth day, then he must be
one of the failures and so he jumps on the sixth day.
The winner, not for the first time, M Begley of
Maths 3 who can collect his cheque for £5, courtesy
of Mend-a-Bike, from the FELIX Office after 1:30pm
on Tuesday.
MEN P A - B I K E
13-15 Park Walk,
London SW10, 01-352 3999
F U L H A M C Y C L E S T O R E
917-921 Fulham Road,
London SW6, 01-736 8655
FELIX is published by the Editor for and on behalf of Imperial College Union Publications Board and is printed by the Union, Print•"™t
-p
^ceC
?n
^^S
M.
Tel 01-589 5111 extn 1048 or internal 2881. Editor: Pallab K Ghosh; Business Manager.PeterRodgers,Advertis,ngManager:HughSouthei,CopynghtFEUX 1984,

