Reviews
Starlight Express playing at the
Apoljo Victoria
Andrew Lloyd-Webber, Richard Stilgoe
and Arlene Philips have produced the most
spectacular musical blockbuster to hit the
London theatre for years. The musical is
about the secret life of railway locomotives
and coaches, which are portrayed by actors
on rollers skates. There are three main
locomotives, Greaseball the deisel engine
with his gang of menacing rock'n'roll
hoodlums; Rusty, an old fashioned steam
engine; and, the star of the show Electra the
futuristic ' A C D C electric train, played by
Jeffrey Daniels of Shalamar. All three are
anxious to win the annual race.
The plot sounds crass (and it is), however
people don't go to musicals for intellectual
- enlightenment. People go for the dynamic
musical numbers and fast moving action.
Something which this musical has in
abundance. This high speed spectacular on
skates is an amazing feat of special effects
and choreography. The theatre itself has
undergone extensive alterations to
accommodate the roller skate track which is
built around the audience. The actors whizz
around the track at breakneck speeds
During the race crash barriers are raised
hydraulically into place and agigantic metal
bridge is moved to connect the tracks. Also
TV screens appear and show the action that
is out of sight.
The classification into diesel, steam and
electric allows a variety of musical styles; the
diesel trains sing Grease-type rock'n'roll; the
steam trains sing blues and the
hermaphrodite Electra turns every scene
into futuristic disco frenzy with strobe light
electric sparks and green laser beams.
Stilgoe rises to the occasion with words
which are exactly right on every
occasion—funny, punny (where human
drama is translated into locomotive drama)
and ably demonstrating what talented and
demonstrating what a talented and versatile
wordsmith Stilgoe is. Best memories are
Belle's solo about her existence as a
dilapidated sleeping car, the lovely blues
scene involving Poppa steam-engine and
Rusty's coaches and the hilarious parody of
on D.I.V.O.R.C.E. which is sung by Dinah
(the dining car) in true country and western
style when she splits up with Greaseball. The
locomotive equivalent is U.N.C.O.U.P.L.E.D.
I found'the opening sequence rather tame,
which was sad as it was intended to be
punchy and dramatic. The action built up
slowly and became quite exciting in the
second half. Sometimes the plot slipped from
unlikely to downright corny, particularly in
the 'Starlight Express' scene where the great
locomotive spirit in the sky comes down to
cheer up the downcast Rusty.
Definitely worth seeing over the summer,
however seats are practically fully booked
u n t i l A u
S ^ Diane Loue 1
Page
The rival locomotives (left to right) Greaseball the diesel, Rusty
the steam train and Electra the electric train of the future.
p O R
C i H E *
T B I
The London Contempora^^ance""^ TT^concludes the short visit to Sadler's Wells f
Theatre on Saturday. During this time it has performed six works, two of which receive their
.premiere in London.
Contemporary dance differs from classical ballet in a number of ways. Unlike classical ballet '
withits rather outdatedtalesof witches, princes,swans and the like, modemdance retains the '
option to deal with topics of a more abstractnature. The works are generallyshorter, so that a
typical evening may contain two or three pieces, balanced to contrast with each other. The '
stage is smaller, the sets are less elaborate, in short the tedious 'pomp and circumstance' of
classical ballet is stripped away, to leave the dancer as free as possible to express himself in
movement alone.
This is certainly the policy of the London Contemporary Dance Theatre. The emphasis on
the danceisso great, thatthe dancersoften treat it isas a subject. One piece in particular'New
Galileo' by Siobhan Davies is entirely devoted to 'the potential of physical movement', and
ironically, I found this piece most tedious, as Ms Davies does not allow the dancers the
enormous versatiity of expression of which they are capable.
The lighting and stage ettects for the programme were by necessity very simple, andby way
of this, extremely eiiective. It is very simple, when designing sets to lose sight of the simplicity
underlining shapes rather than movementsso that much of the danceisbased aroundfixed or
gyrating poses. Some of these are staggeringly beautiful, but others, alas just stagger and the
costumes for the contemporary stage make your actors appears 'trendy' and stylish, like
some Habitat department. Here, however both lighting and costumes were excellently' |
balanced, each one depending on the other for its effect. In 'Songs, Lamentations and Praises'
by Robert Cohan for examplethe effect of goldenlightingon the dancers give them the illusion
of nakedness.
The second programme finishes this Saturday evening. It consists of three works, 'Agora'
by Robert Cohan with the Chaconne in D minor and Brandenburg Concerto no. 6by Bach;
'Run Like Thunder' by Tom Jobe, with a computer-written score by BarringtonPhelaungand '
'Carnival', an amusing interpretation of Saint Saens, 'Carnival des Animaux' again Siohban
Davies. The three pieces taken together promise to provide a versatile evening for anyone,
' and I very much hope that this show will go on tour in the near future. , _
John Burgess
1984 I I FELIX

