THE NEWSPAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE UNION Friday, December 7th, 1979 Issue No. 537
£1 million CUT IN BUDGET
FELIX arranged a special interview last Tuesday with John Smith,
the College Secretary, to discuss how the cuts will affect Imperial.
One percent of IC's budget (£300,000) will
have to be saved this year and next year cuts
in the order of £1 million are expected. At the
end of the next four years the budget of
£30 million may drop to £27 million.
Rumours that major departments will be
axed were dismissed by Mr Smith as he
explained that the College has not taken any
specific measures to freeze posts: "When it is
known that a post is going to become vacant,
the College will look very carefully at that
particular area". The History of Science
department, for e x a m p l e , has three
academics. Two are retiring and College is
considering how best to organise the
department in the future.
The aim is to streamlinethe training offered
at IC by merging courses that are duplicated
in more than one department. However, there
will be many talks and discussions and advice
will betaken from outside before changes are
made.
DUPLICATION
A College working party is considering the
advantages of merging the two departments
of Botany and Zoology. The chairs of both
have become vacant. Ideally, the merge, if it
were to take place, would be followed by the
construction of a new building for the
combined departments of Life Sciences.
However, there is no money for such building
projects.
In the example of Life Sciences, the first
objective is not to save money, but the priority
is to come to a decision that makes good
academic sense. Of course, it is expected that
money will be saved as a result. The
elimination of duplication is the main theme
of College's plans for maintaining academic
excellence within the cuts that are being
made to the annual budget.
The Rector has. said that in order to
strengthen the management structure of
College so that it can cope with different
financial ties it must not allow the traditions of
the past to impede good management in the
future. When FELIX asked for details of how
the cuts would effect the Royal School of
Mines, Mr Smith said that if similar activities
were seen to be taking place in both City and
Guilds and the Royal School of Mines, then
College would ask 'do we need both
activities?': "One should not diversify effort
when wc don't need to spread scarce
resources over a wider area." Mr Smith went
on to discuss the departments where courses
are similar and mentioned that some courses
in Mines and Aeronautics were close to those
offered by Mech Eng.
30th
ANNIVERSARY
ISSUE
Mr Smith observed that it is very difficult to
effect change but relatively easy to start new
things. At first it may be hard to pull people
together who haven't been working with each
other.
In order to save money changes will occur
in all aspects of College life. The Rector has
asked halls to reduce cleaning costs by
twenty percent. College windows will be
cleaned twice a year instead of four times in a
bid to save £7,000. Water is metered at IC and
they are putting in a system to save water.
WATER
Urinals will stop flushing at a set time, say
10:00pm, although on special nights they will
have to be left on for a longer period. Thought
is being given to rearranging the Christmas
term to give a longer holiday, in order to save
money on heating.
When FELIX asked the College Secretary
how the cuts will effect IC Union, he replied:
"The Union will not be asked to bear cuts, but
they might not receive as much money as
they will need to cover increasing posts."
Referring to the Rector's Commemoration
Day address, Mr Smith said:'"If the cuts
destroy what is good at IC ther <
\ is better that
IC should go." However, he expected that
there was no danger of Imperial being closed
and that implies that its excellence will
survive. Imperial College is thought very
highly of and there are eight applicants for
every place at the College.
PUBLIC IMAGE
In general, M r Smith commented: "IC
' students are probably fairly staid and
respectable. There are occasional lapses in
good taste. People were very concerned with
this year's Rag Mag. The mag came at a
politically bad time for Imperial. We must be
cautious of our image and not get
complacent. Imperial has its strengths and
weaknesses and we must build on our
I strengths."

