EDITORIAL
Happy Birthday to us! We're thirty years old
and good for another thirty — at least!
A long long term's glaring over a paste-up
board has not been in vain. Mistakes — I've
made a few, but then again too few to
mention....I did it my way! FELIX is alive and
well, but I still need people, people, people; as
reporters, proof-readers and collators to
mention but a few. All the issues I've delivered
on Friday mornings have sold like hot-cakes,
but although it's great to see you read FELIX,
with the economic strains that have been
imposed on the College as a whole, you're the
people who have to show that FELIX is
justified in getting all the aid it can. A n d that
goes for everything else that keeps y o u
amused in College. G o to the Devils this
week, go to the Ents Free G i g next Tuesday
evening, but above all show that y o u care.
It's easy to criticise, but what can you offeras
alternatives? If you've got some good ideas,
come and tell me, because you know what
apathy equals? Cuts! S o be warned: Don't be
a dodo!
The Felix Society will hold its last meeting
this term on Monday at 12:45 in the FELIX
Office. Subscription to the Society is now
fixed at 30p (cheap!). C o m e along and hear
what's happened this term in FELIX and tell
us all your ideas for next term.
CREDITS
Austin, Lars, Mark, Mary, Ian, Fred,
Margaret, Jeremy, Paul, Archie Evans, Jill
Dawson, Dave Bryan and anybody else who
with true Christmas spirit has helped on
FELIX.
FELIX was born on 9 December 1949 as a
fortnightly newspaper costing 3d. Its purpose
was, and still is, to comment on topical affairs
around College, bring to attention the
activities of College members and also to
entertain. It was felt that The Phoenix, the
litereary magazine of Imperial, could not
hope to fulfil these roles and should remain
the tempremental bird it is, dying in some
years and rising gloriously from the ashes in
others. O n looking through the first year's
FELIX it is quite amazing how the paper has
maintained a constant image.
The first issue reported various events,
including the arrest of sixteen people at the
annual Rag Bonfire on the steps of the Albert
Memorial. A Morphy Day report and a sports
review were supported by regular features
like the 'Diary of Forthcoming Events' and
the already controversial letters page.
The first six hundred copies sold quickly so
the second issue increased to one thousand
copies to avoid a black market. To quote the
editor, E M Hughes: "....and it was reported
that some sportsmen were offering their
copies to latecomers at 4d, and finding plenty
of takers."
Having overcome the threat of a black
market, the staff decided to include some
regular features: 'Profile' and 'The Drinking
Man's Guide To London'. The first subject of
'Profile' was our own Union bar: "....and in a
few years its place in history was assured by
the formation of four clubs closely connected
with it and by its firm installation next to the
lavatory. The 21. 22. Chaps and Links Clubs
made the Bar a congenial meeting place, a
good talking shop, a place for warriors to
return to tell the tale and lick the odd wound
(from rag or honest game), and of course a
place in which to liberate great exuberance -
for such is the/oyous outcome of bibulation."
There was also a letter from the Ents
Chairman discussing methods of keeping
numbers down at the Saturday night 'hop'.
Issue three indicated more diverse material
was being attracted: a crossword, poetry and
an article on the emancipation of women. The
trend continued in future issues. B y issue
four the accommodation problem was being
aired — issue 7, refectory prices and soon the
various political societies were edging for
space.
Issue 10 saw a new style FELIX; printed
rather than duplicated on a Roneo machine
as had previously been the case. A map of
MNM L . W . H .
College supplied to Freshmen gave particular
emphasis to the local public houses. Times
don't change much.
With a new editor and new format the paper
was undoubtably destined for better things.
The first anniversary issue summarised the
status of FELIX very well: "The end of the year
found the paper established as part of the
College and recognised and constituted by
Council as the official newspaper of IC."
FELIX had emerged a great success, its
coat well groomed and as black as printers
ink. Now, thirty years later, we celebrate
another birthday. Perhaps it is best to look
back at the personal view of the first editor,
Ted Hughes:
"Although the paper is financially
responsible to Council and exists by their
consent, it is free to express such opinions as
it sees fit. The FELIX Board therefore carries a
considerable responsibility for in the hands
of irresponsible persons the paper could be a
powerful and mischievous weapon. In the
event it would undoubtably be suppressed,
and I should be extremely sorry to see that
happen. I hope, therefore, that future FELIX
Boards will bring new ideas and new life to
the paper, but will maintain essentially the
same spirit."
Hopefully we have kept true to these ideals
during the ensuing thirty years as deviation
from these is inexcusable.
Happy thirtieth birthday FELIX, long may
you continue!
MARK SMITH
11

