STUDENT TELEVISION OF
IMPERIAL COLLEGE
STOIC 10th ANNIVERSARY
FELIX celebrates its 30th birthday with this
issue, IC Radio celebrated one year of
Medium Wave broadcasting last week and
S T O I C will be c e l e b r a t i n g its 10th
anniversary in February next year. A series of
special programmes win oe shown . to
celebrate this event, but in the meantime
S T O I C has a special programme schedule for
the last week of term.
CHRISTMAS PROGRAMMES
On Tuesday at 1:00pm and again at 6:00pm
Paul Johnson will be talking to the Rector
(colour).
On Thursday at 1:00 and 6:00pm there is a
n o t - s o - s e r i o u s News-Break C h r i s t m a s
Special, featuring Bryan Steele in a kilt plus
the It'll Be Alright On The Night STOIC
Special. The parts even Denis Norden
couldn't show (with coloured bits).
You can watch STOIC in the J C R , Union
Building, Southside Lower TV Lounge and
Beit and Southside Halls on Channel 21.
W A N T E D : M U S I C I A N S AND
BANDS
STOIC are at present in the process of
recording sessions with musicians and
groups of ail types. Although the response to
an article in FELIX earlier this term was very
good, we still want to hear from people who
have not yet contacted us.
We can record sessions in either colour or
monochrome and we are very interested in
doing some location recording. So, if you are
interested in featuring in a S T O I C
programme and would like to see what your
band looks like on television why not come to
the TV studio and talk to Adrian Jeakings or
J i m D o n a l d s o n ? We might even be
persuaded to show you some of our previous
recordings.
IDEAS
S T O I C is Y O U R own TV service so why not
develop it? (Don't worry, no work involved
unless you want to!). If you would like to help
with S T O I C productions or have any ideas for
STOIC programmes, come to the TV studio
or ring int 2637 and talk to Adrian Jeakings or
Grant Richmond.
THE LAND WE LIVE IN
Environmental Week started, naturally
enough, with an introductory talk, which was
presented by Tom Burke, an ex-director of
Friends of the Earth. If you ever wondered
what F o E actually does (and has done) then
you may have missed an excellent chance to
find out. He gave a view of the background to
the present day environmental movements
which developed from the concern of our
ancestors about the preservation of footpaths
and monuments in the 1890s. Today, afterthe
r a p i d b i r t h a n d g r o w t h of m a n y
environmental groups in the sixties, the
economic rather than altruistic pressures are
bringing home to people the need for
conservation.
It is not a crisis of capitalism as the
communists would have it, nor is it a crisis of
communism as capitalists call it, rather it is a
crisis of society.
Though energy is the most obvious and
most advertised, commodity that needs
conserving there are many different aspects
of energy production that need looking into
This is the function of the Standing
Commission on Energy and the Environment
of which Lord Flowers is a member. His talk,
given later on the same day, gave a brief, but
detailed, explanation of this function
Starting with the government's green paper
o n e n e r g y policy they are now studying the
various aspects of energy production, use
and its environmental side effects. Their first
report, on coal, is due to be completed in
1981.
Though Lord Flowers' committee decided
that nuclear power could be left until late orf
their list of1
energy sources for discusiion
Thursday week saw an almost full Physics
Lecture Theatre 1 waiting avidly for the
debate of this particular topic. They were not
disappointed. With Mr Brookes, economic
adviser to the UK Atomic Energy Authority
and Dr Goodard, known to Mech Eng as a
lecturer, speaking for the motion and a
professor from Hull University and Professor
Scorer of the Maths department speaking
against the debate they discussed fully the
various economic and safey factors involved,
the Harrisburg disaster being a much quoted
example. At the end it seemed that the
speakers for had a solution to the 'energy
crisis' and the speakers against thought that
the solution was wrong and there might not
be a crisis at all. Both sides however seemed
unhappy about nuclear waste storage and
nuclear arms proliferation.
The discussion on the Chemical Aspects of
Farming A n d Food Production was designed
to encourage people to think whether that
ordinary lettuce leaf on their plate is really
good for you, seeing as, when commercially
produced, it is sprayed with a pesticide every
week of its growth and traces will always
remain and the undertakers do very well out
of preservatives in our food, they can now
keep dead bodies for days without
refridgeration or decay
Now hands up those who like helping
children. Now keep your hand up if you put
theory into practice. Yes, as I thought, most
went down again. Put you hands down the
few that are left and thank you for attending
the Adventure Fun Days at the weekend when
a playground was to be rebuilt and painted for
London children with no other place to play
except the streets.
The debate on what to conserve seemed to
be of interest only to 'conservationists'
judging from the turnout, but the talks,
especially the one given by Mr Hookway of
the Countryside Commission were very
interesting and in some ways eye-opening.
Did you know that IC destroyed a beautiful
19th century square in order to build
SouthsideV
Mr Hookway started with a quotation:
"What has posterity done for me?" Perhaps
this sums up the attitude of IC students to the
environment.
At the Environmental Fair on the other
hand it was hard to judge the amount of
interest, but a lot of people did come for a
look around. Societies, such as Friends of the
Earth, the World Wildlife Fund, the National
Society for Clean Air and even the Vicotian
Preservation Society were present. The
Cyclists Touring Club was of particular
interest to students since the London branch
is trying to create 'bicycleways' in various
streets in, London.
If you did not manage to attend any of the
events but are still interested in joining or
finding out more about any of the societies,
here are some addresses:
Friends of the Earth, 9 Poland Street, London
W1V 3 D G
Nature Conservancy Council, 20 Belgrave
Square, London SW1X 8PY
National Society for Clean Air, 136 North
Street, Brighton BN1 1RG
Transport 2000, 40 James Street, London
W1M 5HS
Campaign Against Lead in Petrol, 63 Dora
Road, London SW 19 7HH
The Soil Association, Walnut Tree Manor,
Haughley, Stowmarket, Suffolk 1P314 3RS.
(They offer a special student membership).
Cyclists Touring Club, Cotterell House, 69
Meadow Godlaming, Surrey
National Conservation Corps (South East),
Zoological Gardens, Regents Park, London
NW1 4RY
Town and Country Planning Association, 17
Carlton House Terrace, London S W 1Y 5AS
Railway Development Society, B M — R D S ,
London WC1V 6XX
The Victorian Society, 1 Priory Gardens,
London W4 1TT
or ask for Mary in the FELIX Office.
Mary Freeman
12

