REACTION TO LAST WEEKS MICRO ARTICLE
I w a s i n t e r e s t e d t o r e a d M a r y
Attenborough's article in FELIX no. 536.
Ms Attenborough presents a scenario and
then just leaves it without pointing out its
consequences or how things got like that. I
refer to her remark "Of the people in work, we
could be left with a technocratic elite and
deskilled masses."
No government would survive for very long
if this state of affairs existed (except a regime
like the one in Cambodia which was prepared
to kill off a large fraction of the population for
purely economic reasons), as the "unskilled
masses" would 'revolt'.
What is more interesting is how the
situation could get that bad in the first place.
The answer is that in this country it couldn't
because of the way that the technology
works. Very few of the factory 'robots' which
will replace human jobs can do so without
having been taught how to do that job by the
human operator. Whenever a factory starts
producing a new item, the machines have to
be taught how to deal with them, by skilled
human operators
There are very few paint sprayers, for
example, who would teach a machine to
spray a chair if it meant the he/she and
his/her mates would be out of a job as soon as
they'd done it. S o what is the answer: Hide
vour head in the sand (the Australians have a
lot of that)? No, chiefly because the chip
gives a great chance to improve the
environment, as I shall explain.
The answer is for the paint sprayer to
copywrite his work, so that each time the
machine paints a chair the company pays
him, well actually not him, but a union who
distributes the money amongst the paint
sprayers who are registered as working for
that factory.
So what to do with the time that used to be
spent spraying chairs? Oddly enough, much
of it will be spent painting chairs because :the
guy who gets the next job is the best paint
sprayer around, so every one keeps in
practice.
The reason I say that micros are going to
improve t h e e n v i r o n m e n t is b e c a u s e
economic policy of firms is based on
reducing unit costs, conventionally this is
done by reducing labour costs, but if labour
costs are fixed (as above) then the only way to
reduce unit costs is to use less resources,
land energy, raw materials etc, and therby
doing all the things the environmentalists
want us to do.
Actually micros aren't that clever either, the
brain surgery machine mentioned by Ms
Attenborough couldn't deal with any thing it
hadn't met before (well a c t u a l l y t's
programmer, who would also have to be a
brain surgeon) whereas the experienced
human could, not for any spiritual reason but
simply because the data storage and data
handling capacity ofthe human brain cannot
as yet be rivaled by any computer around
today (or tomorrow).
Any one who has written software for a real
problem will know that most of the skill is
defining the problem and selecting the
c o m p r o m i s e s ( t h e r e a r e a l w a y s
compromises). The coding is a very minor
part of the work, computers can do the
coding but none of the rest.
So my view of the future is of a society
based on skill not 'slog' where people do what
they are good at, and sell the copyright on
their skill. I believe this future is inevitable,
economic and social pressures will ensure it
goes that way.
If you are frightened by, or even interested
in micros then come to one of the micro
computer club meetings at 7:00pm on
Tuesdays. This week our illustrious editor is
giving a talk.
Tim Panton
COMPOSING
MUSIC BY
COMPUTER
BY THE FELIX EDITOR, COLIN PALMER
Somehow they (micro club) managed to
rope me into giving a lecture o n Music
Composition by computers. Before you turn
to page 12 of this illustrious newspaper I
promise not to bore y o u with detailed
descriptions of 12,000 line Pascal programs.
For those of y o u who remember my
election campaign for FELIX Editor, last
March, you may recall a weird election poster
based on my experiments with computer
music composition. Most programmers
create games packages which use up large
amounts of units. In these days of cuts I
believe one should write programs that create
usable output rather than eat up units ....
however the program had a 6 hour C P U
execution time a n d thus defeated the
objective of saving units (it was run over the
summer vacation 1978).
If you are interested in computer music
composition then come to the Micro
computer club next Tuesday (I don't know
the venue but I suppose it's in the Union
building?). T o wet your appetite i'll try and
give y o u a brief description of the main
elements of the program.
Before composing music one has to write
an output package that will display the notes
in a readable format. It is useless trying to
interpret millions of numbers and symbols.
Fortunately several students have developed
an attractive plotting package for the
Kingmatic plotter (a great device that also
produces attractive spirographic patterns).
However, I decided it would be interesting to
develop a package that would output musical
scores on a lineprinter.
After a few weeks the lineprinter was
merrily churning out single voice random
tunes. I was not satisfied with just one voice
being composed and set to work producing a
p r o g r a m , that w o u l d output four-part
harmony o n the lineprinter! 3 months and
20,000 units laterthe progrtam began to run. It
included a self-checking subroutine that
needed a checking routine to detect bugs in
the check program. Before long the first aim
to produce a program that composed music
had been amended to producing a good
output package.
I was able to compose some canons which
could never have been constructed by a
h u m a n b e i n g b e c a u s e t h e y h a d a
mathematical perfection and harmonic 'fit'
that would have taken years to compose. The
program was able to give a mark out of 60,000
points for each attempt that it composed. The
computer stored the 'best' attempts and
reproduced them at the end of the search to
find special canons. The ability for a machine
to evaluate its performance smacks or
artificial intelligence and that is one of the
areas in which I next hope to write articles for
FELIX.
If you'd like to see some of the output
please drop into the FELIX office.
RCS C A R O L SINGING
NEXT
MONDAY
MEET RCSU FOR
FREE PUNCH
AT 6 p.m.
PROF. BREMSSTRAHLUNO
Come an Pro)"'
It's wmnina'
refuse to beiieve t+ijir I
ccjn be beaten b.j a. mierg
rrKu-bin<- ... ,h
r., thai : /
Too bad Prof ! L j o u
can't huff i t s king !
13

