IC
.LIBERAL,
/ CLUB \
On Thursday 29 November, IC Liberal Club hosted a very successful
meeting with David Alton, Liberal M P for Liverpool Edge Hill.
David, the youngest member of the House of Commons, spoke for
about half an hour on a wide range of issues under the broad title Britain
Needs A Liberal Government. His speech included the following points:
1. That we need a system of proportional representation to end the two-
party system and the endless pendulum-swinging that goes with it. The
cycles of Labour nationalisation and Tory denationalisation are
detrimental to the health of the nation.
2. That we need greater workers participation in industry and they must
partake in the profits of industry.
3. That violations of human rights are occuring all around the world. He
severely attacked Mrs Thatcher for continuing to recognise the regime
of Pol Pot in Cambodia. This regime may well be the worst in the history
of the world and was responsible for genocide on a massive scale but
sf/7/ we continue to give the stamp of approval to it. He also referred to
the plight of dissidents in the USSR.
4. That public spending cuts are a myth. In fact, total public spending
will be increased next year with large increases in defence and law and
order. He attacked the government' ideological 'dismantling of the
welfare state' and the proposals contained in the Education Bill.
5. That we need to invest more in alternative energy research. He
mentioned that many buildings now derived their energy from solar
panels.
Questions from the floor included one on David's attitude to the
Corrie Bjll. He replied that he was against abortion for deeply-held
moral reasons. He was also asked about Liberal philosophy, and
referred the questioner to a cassette of the philosophy debate at
Margate. At the Assembly, David had spoken on the 'Troops Out' motion
on Northern Ireland and he was asked about this. He replied that he had
never condoned the activities of the IRA and was looking for a
negotiated solution involving the withdrawal of troops.
CLUB NEWS
IC Liberal Club has elected Philip Cole as Secretary and Ian Prosser
as ordinary committee member. The annual dinner of the Club will be
held on Tuesday 11 December at the National Liberal Club. The cost is
£5.05 and anyone can come along (you don't even have to be a Liberal!).
Finally, don't forget our informal meetings at 1:00pm on Fridays in
Stan's Bar.
Richard Earl
Metropolitan — Cammell, of Washwood
Heath, Birmingham is Britain's last remaining
private builder of rolling stock and as such
was the subject of a Railsoc visit on
Wednesday 28 November.
Initially we had planned to travel to
Birmingham on the 8:50 from Paddington,
but this proved impractical owing to
railcards not being valid on this train. To
Euston therefore and journey hence to
Birmingham on the 9:35 'Clansman'. At
Birmingham we were due to wait an hour for
Steve Clayton to arrive on the 10:40, this
proved elastic as the 10:40 arrived thirty
minutes late due to loco failure at Rugby.
Washwood Heath works is currently
engaged on building trains for three
contracts, the D78 stock for the District Line
as well as trains for the Tyne and Wear and
Hong Kong metros.
The D78 trains represent quite a major
departure from previous practice in London
Transport surface stock. For one thing, it will
be the first time the District has recieved new
stock rather than cast-offs from other lines.
RAILWAY
SOCIETY
TORY REFORM GROUP vs MONDAY CLUB
The Conservative Society recently invited M r T i m Smith (a memberof
the TRG's National Executive) and Mr Brian Rathbone (a solicitor and
member of the Monday Club) to take part in a friendly discussion about
the merits (or otherwise) of their respective groups. The T R G and the
M C are pressure groups within the Tory party, the former on the left-
wing and the latter on the right. They try to present alternative policies,
put forward particular points of view and generally promote discussion
within the party.
Giving a brief summary of the development and beliefs of the Tory
Reform Group (founded in 1963), Mr Smith emphasised that there is no
'right' answer to the problems facing us and consequently there is a
need for organisations to put forward alternative views. No party should
be monolithic and it is foolish to rule out certain courses of action
simply for philosophic reasons: "There is no room for dogma". The
power of any government to intervene is limited — this fact must be
recognised.
Replying'for the opposition, so to speak, Mr Rathbone explained that
the Monday Club also dated from 1963; its formation was a response
from members of the party who felt it was going through a bad patch and
losing sight of traditional Conservatism. In the early 1970s, everything
went wrong again, culminating in a "richly deserved defeat" in 1974 for
the Heath government.
Mr Rathbone expressed approval of the present administration, now
taking determined steps to reduce the power of the government "....the
hard disciplines which this country must endure because of
mismanagement dating back almost to the end of the last war. This
government will maintain its policy with vigour until it gets results. It will
however, take a long time to reap these benefits".
The essential difference between the T R G and the M C was stated as
being once of emphasis: a question of priorities. For the Monday Club,
freedom of the individual and traditional Conservative values were very
important; for the Tory Reform Group, equality of opportunity.
Some interesting comments were made in answer to questions from
the audience. On trade union reform, Mr Rathbone said firmly that the
limited reforms proposed were not enough; the power of trade unions
was quite frightening. He added: "The true doctrine of monetarist
policies will not work if the economy is distorted by an agglomeration of
union power". Both he and Mr Smith agreed that the 1976 act should
certainly be repealed.
Less agreement was reached on electoral reform; Mr Smith said that
he had gradually moved round to favour the idea of some sort of
proportional representation. When Mr Rathbone voiced fears of this
producing a 'soft centre' government and fragmentation of parties into
small units, Mr Smith said he thought it would help to preserve some
kind of political stability. Under the present system and with the rather
gloomy prospects for the 1980s, he foresaw with some anxiety the
possibility of dissatsified voters swinging wildly from left to right and
back, voting in different governments every five years or so, which
would be pretty disastrous.
Further discussion on schools and education was unfortunately cut
short through lack of time, and the audience dispersed, enlightened, to
seek knowledge of a different kind.
IC Conservative Society
An all-aluminium train, they have only four
single leaf doors per vehicle and these are
equiped to be operated by the passengers by
way of a button next to the doors. When the
speed of the train has fallen to a suitable low
value, the guard can press a door release
button to allow passengers to use the buttons
on the doors. Tinted glass is fitted, and a
force-ventilation system is used with
distribution along the train by way of small
centrifugal fans. New trains are delivered by
BR to their West Ruislip depot and the first
D78 trains are now being used for crew
training at Dagenham.
The Hong Kong metro cars are very
different to any in Britain. One feature
immediately noticed is their sheer size, they
are seventy-five feet long and twelve feet
wide, which gives them a capacity per car of
450 including only 45 seated. The cars are
marshalled into six car trains, and one
equiped with overhead current collection,
this time 25 Kvac. The whole metro project
has been a really exciting engineering
venture, involving the construction of a
tunnel across the harbour, that is really a
series of tubes sunk into position from the
surface.
The other activity at the works is bus-
building. The standard bus built is the
Metrobus as used by LT with all integral
construction. This can take a variety of diesel
enaines such as those by Rolls-Royce or
Gardner. The process of painting was rather
interesting, as was the method of moving the
buses around the works. An electric trolley
with jacking capacity is moved underneath
the front end of the bus, which is jacked up
and the bus can be pulled along by one man.
The future of the company seems assured
for the moment with a full order book for both
rail and road vehicles. Future new trains are
to include the 1983 tube stock for LT's Jubilee
Line.
Chris Veale
16

