Dear FELIX
Lately I have been very concerned about your letter diet. In
fact I think that you, dear pussycat must be pretty sick of eating
the same old thing all the time. You had enough of it last year
and so far this term it seems to have become your staple diet.
But of course, you can only eat what is given you, so let me
direct my nutritional complaint to your feeders: For God's sake,
will you stop imposing your own views on abortion on other
people by giving poor old kitty-cat FELIX here a massive excess
of abortion letters. I'm sure that on a subject as sensitive as this
one people can make up their own minds and don't have to be
told what sort of feeling the should have about abortion.
So all you potential abortion letter writers out there, please,
please, no more food for FELIX that comes in a big slop. Let's
have something firm and meaty because I'm sure that eight out
of ten IC students prefer it.
From a bored cat,
Oliver Kleyn
Chem Eng 3
Our story begins back on Sunday 9 May 1976. Jezebel, after taking
part in the FELIX Treasure Hunt, set off with her crew down the Kings
Road to view a 1912 Dennis Fire Engine. While gently decellerating, a
bang and clatter is heard from underthe bonnet. On lifting the cover, the
worst is found. A con-rod is broken and the crankcase is cracked.
The Royal College of Science Union Motor Club are grateful to: Mr
Jon Dennis of Dennis Motors, Guildford for a new, unused con-rod and
copies of their surviving general engine drawings: David Evans Ltd
(Barimar) for trying to weld up the crankcase and sump (even though
they made a mess of it); Sir Hugh Ford, then Head of the Mechanical
Engineering Department (now Pro-Rector), and the Rector (now) Lord
Flowers for agreeing that the machining could be carried out in the
Mechanical Engineering Department's workshop; the Metallurgy and
Materials Science Department for determining, as found, that the
aluminium alloy of the crankcase and sump were unweldable.
The pattern makers, W H Sheppard and Co., whoare based justafew
hundred yards from the site of the demise of the engine; Mr Terry
Sheppard of Met and Mat S c i Dept for putting us in touch with Alcan
Laboratories, Banbury, who agreed to cast the new crankcase and
sump; M r Brian Gillett and Mr Keith Latimer of Alcan Laboratories for
producing excellent one-off castings of the complicated crankcase and
sump; the Mech Eng Dept; Sir Hugh Ford; Mr Peter Moore; Dr Hill; the
present Head of Dept, Prof S A V Swanson; the Mech Eng Main
Workshop for coordinating the machining of the castings (even though
they didn't know quite what to expect); Thompson Engineering for re-
metalling the main bearings and checking the crankshaft.
Particular thanks must go to Ken Barham in the workshop for carrying
out the demanding task of preparing drawings and dimensions from the
old damaged components and producing new parts to fit the existing
undamaged parts of the engine. The expertise of his workmanship is
demonstrated by the running of the complete unit.
During the three and a half years spent moving the parts of the engine
from one expert to the next and a move from one garage (demolished
just after moving out) to a new one six months later; the pump has been
connected up, and, with the engine running, is found to work. Thanks
to: the Merseyside Metropolitan Fire Brigade for the pump; M r John
Dennis for spares for the pump; C W Vass, Ampthill for pump
equipment and Mr Lashbrook, Paxman Diesels apprentices for bearings
for the transmission.
Thanks also to all those who offered helpful suggestions and other
work towards getting J e z running.
A n d finally, thanks to the Royal College of Science Union, Imperial
College Union, the Royal College of Science Departments for financial
assistance.
RCSU Motor Club
Dear Colin
To change the subject, I'd now
like to mention the R a g M a g . In
addition to IC R a g Mag, I've also
had the pleasure of reading mags
from Oxford a n d Surrey. T h e
comparison was very striking in
three ways;
1. J o k e content
2. Paper quality
3. Advertising
The first point has been fairly
amply discussed. T h e second
point has been mentioned in
defence of our mag, but I can't see
why we should be glad that our
mag has wasted more trees than
mags of other universities.
The third point has, I believe not
been mentioned. If my memory is
correct, then the main defence for
continued sales of the mag was
that it would make money for the
Rag Appeal, which is obviously
desirable. S o we wish the mag to
raise as much money as possible
for chairty, but this makes m y
observations appear a trifle
strange.
R A G M A G NUMBER OF SIDES
IC 42
Oxford 34
Surrey • 50
From this comparison, one may
see that purchasers of the IC Rag
Mag are getting good value for
money, but not IC Rag.
Why is there so little advertising
in IC Rag Mag? Is it because of
lack of effort on behalf of the Rag
Committee, is it that people who
might advertise are put off by the
supposed bad name of IC Rag
Mag or is it just not possible to get
advertising in London?
If the problem is the first then
the solution is simple, if it is the
second then the solution is more
tricky. It brings us right back to
the old argument about the
quality of the jokes, but lends
considerably more weight to the
clean-up-the-mag campaigners,
after all it would be indefensible to
reduce the amount of money
raised by the mag, just to satisfy a
desire for distasteful jokes.
I'm not preaching conformity
nor morals, I'm just interested in
the Rag Mag raising the maximum
amount of money for Rag.
Yours sincerely
Hodgson
N U M B E R O F S I D E S O F
ADVERTS
2
18
27

