IC BILLIARDS AND SNOOKER
CLUB
On Wednesday last, three teams of snooker
'haven't quite made its' were supposed to play
matches. In fact a tragedy happened. The A
team won 5-0 by default, frauding their
opponents of what would have been a
negligible efforfanihilation like when Wales
beat England at rugby.
The C team played Q M C at home. Our
immortal team were defeated 3-2. First to play
was our entrepreneur and raconteur buffoon
David whose consistancy kept up his zero
record. Graham 'not Tony' Curtis floundered
to the table next, bravely fighting off the US
seventh army and the wobbledy gobbledy
Damian 'Omen II' Kelly, in that order. So with
typical nitro glycerine stability D Kely
fumbled his feeble wav to the cloth. Owino to
the fact, his opponent had a severe attack of
'two left feet' in his hands, Damn found he was
able to shake his wobbly cue to an
underestimatable win and a night win racquel
Welsh's mother. So at this point in the
proceedings I approached the sacred cloth
knowing that the night before I had attempted
to break the'Fuller's passport knowing that
certain PAs in Physics 2 had done it in twenty
days (must be a record). Well I might as well
have drowned myself for the contrasting
impression I made on my opponent who
knew I was the greatest snooker player
anyone could ever know.
The B team played L S E A team away and
although being as harmonious as a stringless
guitar, they won 4-1, the only loser being the 'I
can't help complimenting you, because you
keep winning' Tomsk. The L S E A team's first
player approached the table followed by our
first player the rotund Simon Bennet, '
described by spherical coordinates his
snooker compares favourably with a flat pint
of Albrights bitter (I'm a member of the A A A
Albrights Apathy Association). Securely tied
down so as not to float away like a hot air
balloon, he scintillatingly sent his opponent
round the bend and won his first glorious
match.
Nest on was Rasputin's grand son, Randy
Crusewski who between swigs of Cossack
Vodka and the odd Ukrainian folk dance
potted a few balls chanting K G B slogans like:
"I like a Gremlin in the Kremlin" and " B u y a
one way return ticket to Moscow". After this
his nervy opponent was finished and gave
him the game in return for (a visit to the)
Political Assylum.
Well, Steve Means Beans cautiously
approached the table next, brimming with the
confidence of a religious Iranian. Well, not
wanting to lose again and knowing the loser
ve as much chance of continued existance as
a D C 10, he astonished the bewildered yet
stupid audience and won.
What a let down the next match was, Tomsk
who must be one of the best snooker players
around, next to J o h n Binden in drag, played
like he had a half starved ferret down his
trousers.
. The final chapter of this boring saga of
snooker misery was completed by Alan 'I
don't rip snooker cloths much' Leclezio, still
looking like an overweight Mosha Dayan with
his black eye, he confounded his oppenent
with an exhibition of ture fairyness. The
problem was, he saw 'Lord oftheRings'atthe
pictures the night before and now knowing
what a true Hobbit looks like he came in
wearing a funny pair of feet and a rather
stupid nose that made him look more
gormless than a roman nosed Toulouse
Latrec. On this form winning was as usual
just a formality, so the B team won 4-1.
SAILING CLUB
IC Sailing Club sailed their second league
match of the season last Saturday, against
Oxford. Oxford brought a strong team and in
the first race, IC were 'caught cold' and easily
beaten. Race two started well for IC, and after
the first lap, they were in a commanding
position. On the final leg they fought through
to take the first three places and so tie the
score with the final race to decide.
This race proved to be very close, with IC
coming through from behind to takethe race,
thanks to some excellent teamwork.
The standard of sailing within the team is
improving all the time and our chances of
winning the league now look good.
Team: J o h n Williams (captain), James
Baxter, Dave Culshaw, Colin Murray and
Caolan Patterson.
BUDWORTH PAIRS
IC were invited to the Budworth Pairs
competition last weekend along with London
University.
Cambridge fell to IC after a closely fought
first race, but the second race was lost on the
starting line with West Kirby S C taking first
and second at the finish. With the wind
increasing, gear failure marred the third race
with Chris Lewis and Alan Beany taking a
ducking as their mainsheet parted from the
boom. The last race of the day saw a decisive
victory against Manchester University.
After Saturday night's festivities IC sailed
UL losing only on the last leg after having a
winning position. With the chances of
qualifying for the semifinals now diminishing,
the IC team sailed the remaining races with
determination, but little success. IC were
represented by lan Robson, Chris Lewis, Alan
Beany and Carolyn Jaffy.
UL having won our league were narrowly
beaten in a semifinal by Castaways after
winning the first race from the best of three.
Dave Derby and Geoff Titmus from IC were
sailing for UL's team.
TABLE TENNIS
Due to the lack of quality humour in recent
articles, I'm not writing this one....instead he
is.
Hello, well after that succinctly instructive
introduction, batten down the hatches a n d
button up your flies 'cos we're off!
Just to celebrate FELIX'S 30th Birthday
(perhaps het roofpreading will imperve) IC
managed a clean sweep of victories (yes, we
gave every one the brush off) in league
matches, but lost their return friendly with
Q M C (more later abut the QuagMire Cretins).
Let's deal with victories first:
IC 1 vs Sarah Siddons (home): 7-2
With 'Rutherford Scattering' all his
opponents before him, Kartick flabber-
gasting his, and Wild-Man-of-Borneo Hong
tearing limbs and screaming incessantly in
the inaudible tongue of his native land, this
slip of a girl....er, team stood not an earthly.
(Phew!)
IC 2 vs Dept of Employment (away): 9-0
It really was time the 2nds won again (this is
the second time) especially with an ex-
Lebanese international and a Clive L!
look-a-like in the side.
IC 3 vs BSC 33 Club 3 (away): 9-0
Bending British Steel before them like trees
in a hurricane (quaint huh?), the thin
reinforced their claim to the championsh
and (the serious bit) only have to defeat
House to be certain (I think) of the
championship.
IC 4 vs LUCS (home)
Well the sandwiches were nice, but I don't
like waiting an hour for a team, and the'-
being told on the phone that the Chine
captain has gone home for six matches!
A joint mens and ladies tie ended with QW
winning the mens and IC winning their fir
ever ladies match 4-2.
Yet again fielding a team without IC's b e a
half-dozen players (who only play for ULU)
but nevertheless a good team of regulars, IC
gave Q M C ' s strongest trio a very good run
losing only 3-6 and taking almost every set to
three games. Special credit to Eze (2nd team
IC only) who outshone even Kartik and
Kumar (well he looks so nice when he's
playing) Singarajah. Each player won one
set.
Even better though were the ladies, C%
Pang (not C h i - C h i Panda), Eva Somethi
Chinese and Aine all winning at least one set
(the one from Eire — guess which — won
two).
If y o u didn't enter the H a n d i c a 0
Competition you don't KIIOW what
missed.
I'll be back next week — The Other Write
PROF BREWS STRAHLUNG
r-: £?>
Here Quark, cue observe
the common cold virus
in action!
y^- ^
^ H e j P r o f ! What's that''
I his , Quark., is w h a t
the w o r l d has been
waiting for - Supc-Bugl
Oh well back t o
the tissue culture
rK — ^?TmTm$
23

