A n Energy Future
for Britain?
Mech Eng 220 was packed to capacity on
Thursday for the penultimate discussion to
be held in Environmental Week. Chaired by
our Rector, Lord Flowers (who is also
Chairman of the Standing Commission on
Energy and the Environment) the speakers
were Nigel Forman (Conservative M P and
author of Another Britain), Dr David Owen
(Labour party spokesman on energy), Lord
Tanlow (Liberal spokesman in the House of
Lords on energy) and Michael Robson
(member of the Science Policy Research Unit
at Sussex University). Sir Derek Ezra was
unfortunately unable to attend as he was '
"discussing with the unions".
Lord Flowers gave a brief introduction
stating the need to formulate a policy which
achieves a balance between industrial
consumption and growth and conservation.
Throughout the discussion it became clear
that Britain's future energy sources are 'Co-
C o Nuke', Conservation, Coal and Nuclear
power. Mr Forman emphasised that our
usage of fueld, especially nuclear, implies a
'Trade-off between generations'. T h e
unfortunate difficulty being the difference
between the 'life' span of a politician and time
taken for energy research into alternative
sources to oil and gas.
Before we go ahead with nuclear power Dr
Owen believes we should have a full public
enquiry and debate, though, after the
speeches, a comment was made that not even
the experts can agree on the advantages and
dangers of the various, if not all, types of
reactors. He also believes that c o a l
production should be increased and research
should be carried out into the various uses of
coal and other sources of energy and
methods of energy conservation.
Lord Tanlow put forward the merits of small
urban coal fired power stations with district
heating systems and also the electrification
of railways as a useful way of decreasing oil
consumption, since eventually cars will
become too expensive too run.
Michael Robson looked at more specific
difficulties in each of the fuel uses. He
pointed out that nuclear plants suffer from
technological faults which cause delays and
increased expenditure which can ruin any
government's forecast, and that is also
foolish to go ahead with the development of
three different types of reactor (PWR, A G R
E N V I R O N M E N T A L
W E E K
Dr.David Owen,Nigel Forman
M.P.and The Lord Flowers.
and Fast Breeder) at the same time. There isa
need for slow adjustment which gives the
power.plant industry steady work over a
larger number of years. The difficulty with
coal is that it is dirty and firms using gas and
oil are unlikely to return to coal, though
obviously industries (such as pottery and
smelting) cannot anyway.
Many interesting points were raised in the
brief time that was left for questions such as
about the wastage of three quarters of the H ~
coal used in power stations due to insufficient
conversion and, when asked about the need H
for Fast Breeder Reactors, Dr Owen replied H
that the dangers of bombs being made from H
the plutonium have been overemphasised H
and that there is definitely a need for a public H
enquiry since "politicians cannot make these H
decisions". They need help from technicians.
Mary Freeman
Photo by Colin Pair
Photo by Colin Palmer
Rag Queen,Viv Brown Photo by Colin Palmer Photograph of tonight's Pyjama Party

