THE HEINEKIN BENEFIT OR
HOW TO CLAIM RENT
DURING THE VACATION
WHAT'S IT ALL ABOUT?
Supplementary Benefit — known as the
Heinekin Benefit because it reaches the parts
that other benefits do not reach — is probably
the most productive method of recovering the
rent that you have to pay over the vacation.
Supplementary benefit is a top-up benefit
which aims to bring anyone who is
unemployed up to minimum level of
subsistence and is payable even though you
have never paid any National Insurance
contributions.
Supplementary Benefit consists of two
components, a living allowance a n d a
payment to cover the cost of your
a c c o m m o d a t i o n . In c a l c u l a t i n g y o u r
entitlement account is taken of other
resources that you may have available.
These include Unemployment Benefit,
interest o n savings over £1,200 and, most
important of all, the vacation element is taken
into account even if you don't actually receive
it, eg because your parental contribution isn't
paid in full.
WILL I BE ABLE TO CLAIM IT?
To qualify for supplementary benefit for
rent during the vacations you have to satisfy
the following requirements:
1. Be unemployed.
2. Be available for work.
3. B e prepared to sign on in London once a
week duringjhe vacation.
If you are not thinking of staying in London
during the vacation, don't despair because:
1. Depending on where you will be staying, it
might be worth coming up to London once a
week to sign on.
2 The benefit office may be closed for public
holidays on one or more of your signing on
days.
3. You may be able to persuade them to give
you a 'holiday form' which effectively excuses
you from signing on.
HOW MUCH WILL I GET?
This can get a bit complicated. Firstly, there
is the fact that there are, in practice, three
rates at which benefit is paid. Secondly, the
Department of Health and Social Security
may feel that you are paying too much rent
and only reimburse you to the extent of what
they consider to be a reasonable rent. T h e
different rates are for three different kinds of
occupational status:
1. Householder
2. Non-householder
3. Flat sharer
There isn't actually a proper definition of
what a householder is, but in general terms it
is someone who is responsible for outgoings
such as electricity bills and so o n over and
above the rent, while a non-householder is
usually thought of as someone who just pays
r e n t a n d h a s n o o t h e r f i n a n c i a l
responsibilities towards his accommodation.
A householder gets some extra money
tacked onto his living allowance to cover
these extra responsibilities and pay for things
like standing charges on service bills. A flat
sharer is treated as a part-householder and
gets a share of the householder addition,
which depends on the number of .people in
the flat. The rates at which supplementary
benefit is paid are as follows:
Householder — £18.50 per week
Non-householder — £14.65 per week
Non-householder — £1.70 per week
rent allowance
Flat sharer — £14.65 plus (£18.50 - £14.65
divided by the number of people in the flat).
The non-householder rent allowance is
paid to people who are not paying rent eg if
they are living rent free with relatives.
EXAMPLES
1. Harry has a place in hall and is going home
during the vacation so he isn't paying any
rent. His requirements are £14.65 (non-
householder living allowance) plus£1.70rent
allowance which totals £16.35. His resources
are £16.35 vacation element. A s his
requirements equal his resources, he will end
up with nothing.
2. This time, Harry is living in a bedsit with a
coin-slot meter paying £15 per week rent. If
he goes home and claims there, he will only
get a £2 per week retainer (owing to an
arbitary and discriminatory policy invented
by the DHSS). If, on the other hand, he stays
in London and claims or at any rate can sign
on each week, his requirements will be£14.65
plus £15 rent which totals £29.25. His
resources are £16.35 (vacation element) so
he ends up with £13.30 per week. If Harry had
been classified as a householder he would
have got £18.50 plus £15 less £16.35 which
gives him £17.15 per week — £3.85 per week
more.
3. Supposing that Harry was sharing a flat
with three others and paying the same £15 per
week rent. He would then get what he got as a
non-householder ie £13.30 per week plus a
quarter of the £3.85 householder addition.
This would give him £14.28 per week.
WHAT IS THE PROCEDURE FOR
CLAIMING?
1. Ring up your nearest D H S S office which
you can find under 'Health' in the telephone
directory. Book an appointment with them for
say, the first day of the holidays (if you ring
them up now they may send you a form which
may or may not make things easier). While
you are talking to them ask which Job Centre
and Department of Employment office you
should go to and check on the documents
that they will require y o u to bring to the
interview. (They usually want to see proof of
your savings eg bank statement and savings
books and proof that you are paying rent eg
lease or rent book. A handwritten letter from
your landlord is unlikely to be accepted
except under protest.)
2. G o to the Job Centre and look for a job.
3. Next, go to the Department of Employment
offices and sign o n as unemployed.
4. Turn up for your interview.
5. Sign on each week as instructed.
WHAT DO I DO IF THINGS GO
GO WRONG?
If they won't pay and you think that they are
in the wrong, you have 21 days in which to
appeal. This doesn't cost you anything and
simply means that you tell them that you are
unhappy with their decision (s) and wish to
appeal. T h e case is then reviewed by a
supervisor in the office and if they still think
that they are right it is passed on to an
'independant' appeal tribunal.
You can get help with the tribunal hearing
from the Welfare Centre. If any of this articles
doesn't make sense, you can always come up
to the Welfare Centre and ask me about it.
Finally, a word of warning, if you make a
claim for supplementary benefit you have to
sign on as unemployed which means that you
are claiming unemployment benefit. Because
of the 13 week rule, a claim now means that if
you have earned over £438 in one tax year you
may have an entitlement to unemployment
benefit next year which a claim now could
endanger, alternatively a claim now could
mean that you will be able to if you hadn't
claimed. If you are not sure how you stand on
this, it might be better to check with the
Welfare Centre before you claim.
Michael Arthur
Welfare Adviser
DHSS OFFICES
Acton (covers part of Hammersmith): 743-
9131
Balham: 673-7722
Battersea: 228-6454
Brixton: 274-7777
Chelsea/Fulham: 736-3399
Kensington: 603-4633
Westminster: 834-8433
T
How does be expect Brains 1
(ike me to force back the
frontiers of Knowledge
without decent working
condifcions• • •0
PROF BREMSSTRflHLUNG
HANDS O F F T H A T
. R A D I A T O R , Q U A R K 1
T J .
But Professor Brown
.says we've o\X ^ot to
SLICE energy consumption
in the College1
J
8

