WEDNESDAY 28 FRIDAY 30 MONDAY 3
257 LOST. IN DC 10 CRASH
A n Air New Zealand D C 10 crashed into a
volcano off the coast of Antartica during a
sightseeing excursion. There were 257
people on board and there were no signs of
survivors among the wreckage spotted by U S
Navy planes.
PRY FORUM OFFER
The National Economic Development
Council was re-erected by Sir Geoffrey Howe
as a major forum in which the Government
might be able to do business with unions and
employers. At the same time however the
Chancellor warned that pay rises at present
levels could lead to tax increases instead of
the tax cuts promised by the Tories.
BSC LOSS THREATENS MORE
JOBS
The B S C is expected to announce a half
yearly loss of £150 million. It is planning fresh
reductions in capacity and redundancies to
meet a d e t e r i o r a t i n g s i t u a t i o n . T h e
Corporation has been hit by a drop in demand
of 15% and this has been aggravated by the
effects of the Government's monetary
squeeze.
THURSDAY 29
NO S U C C E S S A T D U B L I N
SUMMIT
At the E E C talks in Dublin the E E C
countries rejected Margaret Thatcher's
demands for a vast reduction in Britain's
contribution to the E E C budget. The Prime
Minister demands were for a reduction of £1
billion as opposed to the reduction of £350
million to £400 million which the other
governments were willing to discuss. She
warned the meeting that their refusal risked
provoking a crisis in Britain's relations with
the E E D . The present budget imbalance
could mean that Britain would pay £1,200
million more into the E E C next year than it
will receive.
US RADIATION DAMAGE
The U S Government have for the first time
admitted that radiation from atmospheric
atomic bomb tests in the South Pacific from
1945 to 1962 may have caused cancer among
the troops exposed. The government
accepted responsibility in a case brought by a
former sergeant who is currently dying of
cancer. It is estimated that 250,000 personnel
and islanders were exposed to radiation in
183 tests.
Residents of a town in Utah are suing the
Government claiming that a radio-active
cloud drifted over their town causing
outbreaks of Leukaemia. A Hollywood film
crew made a film in the same town and since
then its stars: J o h n Wayne, Susan Hayward
and Agnes Moorhead, have died of cancer as
have the director, production manager and
wardrobe mistress. Some people are
connecting these deaths with the alleged
radiation exposure.
BRITAIN'S EEC BUDGET
Mrs Thatcher told her fellow E E C leaders
to find an acceptable solution to Britain's
E E C budget demands or else face unilateral
action by Britain to cut its payments which
would result in a European political crisis.
Mrs Thatcher left the conference empty
handed after a six month campaign to reduce
Britain's payments admitting that there was
little hope of a solution in the next few
months.
SHAH'S NEXT MOVE
The Shah said that he still intended to leave
the US despite the Mexican Government's
decision to bar his return. He is said to be
considering other offers of political asylum.
Concerning the hostages, the sense of
crisis is deepening with no apparent way out
of the impasse. The US ambassador at the U N
acknowledged that it was unrealistic to
expect any action by the U N which would
lead to a quick release of the hostages.
SATURDAY 1
THATCHER'S EEC PLANS
Under the Prime Minister's orders, plans to
freeze Britain's relations with the C o m m o n
Market go ahead. The plans are to be held
ready in the event of a final breakdown of
negotiations with the E E C over Britian's
demand for a reduction in its contribution to
the E E C budget. The contingency plans are
reported to cover everything short of a British
walk-out from the community.
NO MORE DINKY CARS
The Liverpool factory which produces
Dinky cars is to close because of labour costs
and lack of productivity. Meccano, owned by
the same company, face the same fate. In
nearly 50 years history of Dinky cars 900
models in crash-proof, diecast metal have
sold in their millions. Collectors predict that
the present models will be snatched up and
carefully 'garaged' for their investment value.
Earlier this year a model of a Pickford removal
van, sold for four shillings in the thirties, was
auctioned for £340.
SUNDAY 2
ATTACK ON US EMBASSY IN
LIBYA
The US Government protested to Libya
after an attack on the U S Embassy in Tripoli
by a rioting mob. The mob included men in
military uniform according to the State
Department. The attack came shortly after
the Shah had been moved from New York to a
military hospitai near San Antonio. For the
first time the U S Government admitted that it
was to help the Shah find somewhere to live.
LADBROKE LOSES APPEAL
Ladbrokes, Britain's biggest games group,
has closed three of its West End casinos
because the group's appeal against the loss
of licence for the clubs has been rejected.
Licensing magistrates had ruled in July that
Ladbroke was "not fit and proper" to hold
casino licences. The three casinos involved
are estimated to have contributed half of
Ladhroke's 1978 profit of over £41 million.
Evidence was produced which show that an
operation had been set up to entice gamblers
away from rival casinos.
BBC DISPUTE SETTLED
Settlement occurred after a peace formula
was worked out by the Broadcasting Union
and the B B C . During the dispute 610
technicians were suspended for staging one-
day strikes and the B B C lost 123 programmes
at a cost of £2 million. Priority will now be
given to the recording of Christmas shows.
TUESDAY 4
DOCTORS TO SPY ON MIGRANTS
Doctors are being asked by the Home
Office and D H S S to help pool confidential
facts about health service patients suspected
of being illegal immigrants. A consultant has
complained to the B M A that private
information was passed on by the D H S S to
the Home Office without the patients'
consent. The Home Office denied this but
said that doctors have been asked to watch
out for patients suspected of beingjneligible
for N H S treatment.
RHODESIA MEDIATOR SOUGHT
A mediator is being sought to save the
Rhodesian talks from collapsing. The first
mediators move came from the President of
Siberia, in the form of a telegram to Mrs
Thatcher in his capacity as chairman of the
O r g a n i s a t i o n for A f r i c a n U n i t y . T h e
conference is deadlocked on the framework
of the c e a s e f i r e . L o r d C a r r i n g t o n ' s
demanding straight acceptance by the PF
leaders which they are unable or unwilling to
give.
ELEVEN PEOPLE KILLED AT
ROCK CONCERT
Widespread drug taking, badly thought out
ticket arrangements and the late arrival of
The Who were the main factors for a
stampede at a rock concert in which eleven
people were killed. The concert had been due
to start at 8:00pm and those with numbered
and reserved tickets were allowed in. The
Who arrived at 8:30pm and as their warm-up
began the teenagers outside began to panic.
The crowd surged forward and during the
panic eleven people were killed and twenty
seriously injured.
9

