5/ Mary's votes swing deputy president election for a new election and finalise victory
for president, Paul Shanley.
The worm that
Turnered
New Election has won its first sabbatical
election since its inception two years ago
after a landslide rejection of Ben Turner
in the election for Deputy President by
students voting at St Mary's. Next year's
1CU President will be Paul Shanley with
strong support from Mary's. Chris
Stapleton gained the post of FELIX editor
and Murray Williamson will be Honorary
Secretary (Events).
After a Vh hour count. Paul Shanlex
won the presidential election at the final
re-allocation with 555 votes against 363
votes for Doug King. Results before the
first re-allocation were Doug King 289,
Mark Orrow-Whiting 85. Athos Ritsperis
231, Paul Shanley 453 (with a vote from
St Mary's of 165) and New Election 87.
Speaking after his election. Mr Shanle)
said he felt 'Bloody marvelous.' He
commended Doug King in particular for
his 'extremely clean campaign.' He added
that he was glad it was all over. Speaking
on the support he had received from the
voters at St Mary's, he said. T think they
have an important role to play next year
in the politics and the running of IC
Union.' Paul Shanley and proposer. Andrew Bannister.
Next year's FELIX editor. Chris Stapleton. takes hisfirstpint from the editor's pot.
Chris Stapleton won the election for
FELIX editor by a strong margin, with
831 votes against 169 votes for Thomas
Wyatt and 118 votes for new election.
Asked how he felt about his victory, Mr
Stapleton said. 'Bloody marvelous, it's
about fucking time as well.' Frightened
by the prospect of smoking up to 50
cigarettes a day by the end of his year. Mr
Stapleton said T certainly hope to keep that
down.' He added that the term 'mass
resignation' meant nothing to him
thankfully. Having won the election. M r
Stapleton said he was determined to pass
his examinations.
In the election for Deputy President.
New Election won with 603 votes to Ben
Turner's 500. The poll at St Mary's made
the decision, with 172 votes for new
election against 3 votes for Ben Turner.
Ben Turner said afterwards that he was
unsure a*»out restanding for the post.
In the election for Honorary Secretary
(Events). Murray Williamson passed
quota before the first re-allocation of votes
with 566 votes against 236 for Ian Thomas
and 190 for new election. Speaking after
the result, Mr Wiliamson said 'So, I
won..!' 'Is that cock enough?' he added.
Issue 863
Wednesday 7th March

