F e l i X
The winners
Congratulations to all the winners and commiserations
to the losers. This year has seen the biggest shock
in ICU election history. In its second year of running,
new election has won the post for which the best
candidate for years had stood. Ben Turner was the
best Deputy President candidate for a long time and
his loss was probably the hardest to bear. I hope he
stands in the re-election.
As for the other posts, there were few surprises
except the huge -turnout at St Mary's. Without the
Mary's vote, Paul Shanley would have had a very
close run against Doug King. Ian Thomas' strong
showing at the ballot box was also a close run thing,
with most of his votes from Mary's. Chris Stapleton's
result never seemed in doubt.
The question now arises; why did the students at
St Mary's vote in such a polarised way? Having
spoken to the candidates, it seems that St Mary's
largely voted for people who went to them outside the
hustings and made an effort in the halls and union
building. I believe they were right to vote in the way
that they did, although it was sad to see Doug lose
so heavily at Mary's after he had spent a large amount
of time over at Mary's. This must show a strong moral
for next year's candidates; if you don't give a shit
about Mary's they won't give a shit about you. Long
live democracy!
It now falls upon me to slag off the winners. I
remember what a bastard my predecessor was at this
stage of the year and I refuse to predict their
downfalls. Good luck to them all, it's a hard job
whichever you're doing and you'll need all the luck
you can get. Thomas Wyatt is dead, RIP ConSoc.
The dirt
This year's elections must rank as the dirtiest for
years. The presidential election has been a farce. One
candidate has broken nearly every rule in the book.
That candidate is Athos Ritsperis. He has consistently
flaunted every rule he could find. At times it has
seemed as if he has searched for more to break.
Within fifteen minutes of papers coming down he had
broken the rule which states that no election
candidate may use gum-backed stickers. The
inevitable happened. The so-called 'badges' which Mr
Ritsperis claimed were not for use as posters rapidly
found their way onto walls and doors in college.
Impossible to remove without the use of some sort
of solvent, these stickers should have been enough
to have Athos disqualified outright.
Not content with the shambles which he rapidly
disowned, Mr Ritsperis proceeded to push his luck
with the receipt for his stickers. A scrawled piece of
paper was all there was to show for the supposed 288
stickers produced. The amount? £3.65. As print unit
manager I would like to make an order for a few
thousand such stickers. The figure is so cheap I know
that the ICU print unit cannot beat it. The only way
in which the stickers could have been produced for
such a small charge, is a fiddle.
Athos must have had to search pretty hard for
another rule to break after the stickers, but he
managed. Not content with his maximum 3000
handouts he persuaded his chums in Hellenic Society
to produce a newsletter promoting him. As usual, Mr
Ritsperis disclaimed all knowledge of the incident. This
was pretty bloody amazing since Athos rang me
within minutes of my refusal to release the material
before it was approved by the Returning Officer. How
couldn't he have known about the handout, when he
rang to complain about the delay on its release? The
answer is simple he was, and is, a lying git.
On the same day, Athos started to use handouts
as posters. Yes, he had finally found the only
unbroken rule so far! Claiming that it was his
supporters, and not him, Athos was let off the hook.
For a candidate to be disqualified they must be caught
in the act, it seems. With God seeing all but Mr
Ritsperis' blatant cheating the other candidates were
almost certainly disadvantaged by his behaviour
Then the day of voting came. With the rule which
states that candidates shall not canvas around the
ballot box in mind , Mr Ritsperis stood at ballot boxes
pointing at the box next to his name saying 'put a 1
there.' I know that candidates sometimes place
handouts near the box, but this behaviour is
inexcusable. Not only does it assume that voters do
not have a mind of their own, it displays yet another
attempt to rig the ballot.
Then came the CCUs and their idiotic plans to help
their candidate, Doug King. Doug's a pleasant enough
bloke, and had the ability to win under his own steam.
The CCUs wanted to be sure of it. Not only did the
dim-witted Broadsheet Editor print a Small Ad
promoting Doug King (fair enough, apart from the rule
that says that candidates shall not make use of CCU
publications for publicity), but City and Guilds hatched
a plan to print free T- shirts with the slogan 'I'm voting
for Dougie.' The latter would have been fair game if
the cost had been included on Doug's publicity
budget. Fortunately, Doug managed to control the
production of the T-shirts, thus saving himself a lot
of trouble.
Mr Shanley is not without blame. As a non-member
of IC Union last year, he stood at UGMs and opposed
the election of other candidates to the post of UGM
Chair. This enabled him to take the vacant post this
year, as he became a student. There is no doubt that
this post gave Mr Shanley a huge amount of publicity
as well as another union post under his belt.
Prompted by Mr Ritsperis' wish to produce extra
posters to replace those which had blown down, both
Mr King and Paul Shanley had extra ones printed. A
careful twist in the rules allowed this to happen.
Candidates who asked had more posters than the
accepted maximum of 300. With a precedent like this
set, next year's candidates should be allowed as many
posters as they like. After all, how many have blown
down? There is no way that the returning officer can
be sure. With no need for any real receipts, they might
as well have had no budget limit set. The Union might
as well have said 'Do what you like, we're not
bothered.' There is no doubt in my mind that the
reason the elections have been such a farce this year,
is the appalling way in which elections committee and
Fiona Nicholas have interpreted the election rules. I
don't know why they bothered with the rules, nobody
else did. It should be added that the election rules are
now almost certain to be rewritten with much stricter
guidelines in mind.
The real dirt
The worst behaviour has not been exhibited by a
candidate but an ex-union president, who should
know better. Sydney Harbour-Bridge has interfered in
something in which he no longer has any say.
Concerned for the future of his union, this ex-
president of 1987-88 decided to mount a campaign
against one candidate and to attempt to draw another
under his wing. Promising votes galore through his
warden chum, and one-time proposer, Ken Young, Mr
Harbour-Bridge offered to back Doug King's campaign
against Paul Shanley. Seeing this election puppetry
for what it was, Doug declined the offer. Syd was
desperate.
Having suffered at the hands of the libel column in
FELIX during his year as president, Mr Harbour-Bridge
was almost certain the author was Paul Shanley,
Having seen the 'damage' this column had done to
the union (well him anyway), Mr Harbour-Bridge was
determined to stop Mr Shanley at all costs. Mr
Harbour-Bridge had another motive for his dirty
dealings which follow shortly; his undying admiration
and adoration of Jen Hardy-Smith, the union
administrator. There is no doubt that little love is lost
between Mr Shanley and Ms Hardy-Smith. Sydney
saw the election of Paul Shanley as a threat to the
status quo imposed upon the union by Ms
Hardy-Smith.
He had to stop the nomination of Mr Shanley going
ahead if nothing else. He had a member of college
staff check the registry and finance records for any
outstanding bills or faults in Mr Shanley's registering
with college. Could Mr Shanley be banned from
standing because he had faced a disciplinary board
over one matter? Could his outstanding bill for the
Beans Club prevent him from standing? One thing is
for sure, Mr Harbour-Bridge made a vindictive
campaign to stop Mr Shanley standing for ICU
President and pulled every string he could to ensure
success, before he realised that there were no
grounds for preventing Mr Shanley from running. The
question still stands. Who was the staff member who
made enquiries into Mr Shanley's records: a member
of staff in the Union Office or Ken Young?
If a permanent member of union staff made the
enquiries they have committed a serious offence.
They have attempted to influence the sabbatical
elections which they have no right to interfere in. If
Ken Young is the perpetrator, his position as a warden
must be brought into question.
Whoever made the enquiries, one thing is for sure,
Mr Harbour- Bridge's interference in these elections
is unforgivable. Not only has he proceeded to tell
everybody not to vote for Paul Shanley (with no
alternative offered, it seems) he has used every
possible opportunity to intervene in the elections. He
planted questions at the hustings and scrawled DON'T
VOTE FOR PAUL SHANLEY on the sign-out sheets in
Linstead Hall. A petty thought, maybe, but then
everything Mr Harbour-Bridge has done during these
elections has been petty. The multitude of perverse
actions taken by Mr Harbour-Bridge have culminated
into a festering mess. Not only is Mr Shanley
unimpressed, Mr King has little respect for Mr
Harbour-Bridge now.
Jackie Scott? The ultimate puppet for Mr Harbour-
Bridge. As the candidate who would give up her time
booked in the print unit to another candidate, Ms Scott
fell for the game plan. Mr Harbour- Bridge had hoped
St Mary's President, Rhydian Hapgood, would stand
at the last minute. Rhydian finally decided for the
sensible option of keeping out of the whole mess in
favour of a more worthwhile career. Seeing that
Rhydian was not going to stand, Jackie withdrew, in
a fit of panic, realising that she could well have won.
I'm sorry Syd, but in your own words, IT HAD TO
BE SAID.
FEiiX is published by the editor for and on behalf of Imperial College Union
3
bbiicanons Board and is printed by the Imperial College Union Print Unit.
3
rmce Consort Road, London, SW7 2BB ITel. 01-589 5111 ext 35151-
Editor: Dave Smedley. Business Manager: Jeremy Burnell. Advertising
Manager: Chris Adams. Copyright FELIX 1990. ISSN 1040-0711

