"And God blessed Noah...and Noah began to be an
husbandman, and he planted a vineyard: And he drank
of the wine and was drunken..."
Genesis Ch 9
All you ever wanted to
know about
Wine
Do you like a fruity nose? Or do you
prefer a full body? Or do you just want a
bit of sparkle in your otherwise lacklustre
life? Whether you simply want to enjoy a
good glass of wine or to impress your
friends FELIX, in conjunction with Wine
Tasting Society, gives you all the answers
in this special wine feature.
W i n e
n a t u r a l l y o n the s k i n
grape, will if the skin becomes
A brief history
Wine is as old as the grape, and it was
produced well before Homo Sapiens
a p p e a r e d . W i n e p r o d u c i n g yeasts
w h i c h
of a ripe
broken, turn the grapes sugar to alcohol.
This is the essence of wine making, although
larger scale p r o d u c t i o n has many
complications.
The human hand has been turned to wine
making for a very long time. Wine was prepared
in prehistoric Mesopotamia and in Egypt
before 3000BC. The O l d Testament
mentions the wines of Syria and the fragrant
wines of the Lebanon. Vines and wine
making were probably introduced to France
and Italy by the Greeks around 1000BC. The
Romans, who must have been very fond of
swilling the odd goblet, did their bit to spread
viticulture. They were responsible for
establishing the vineyards of the Rhone
Valley, the Loire, Bordeaux and Burgundy,
as well as planting vines along the Moselle
and Rhine.
Through the Dark Ages the Church kept
alive the art of wine making. Until fairly
recently the church owned most of the
greatest vineyards of Europe and it has been
responsible for many of the developments in
wine making which are still important today.
The characters of the wines produced in
the various traditional regions of Europe
have thus emerged gradually over the
centuries. Perhaps by luck, perhaps by trial
and error different grape varieties have been
introduced and become standard for each
area. There are now complicated laws
enforcing these standards, aimed at
protecting the consumer, but often
succeeding only in confusing him or her. In
contrast to this Californian and Australian
vineyards were started in the nineteenth
century and many new areas have been
planted in the last fifty years. Here the choice
Page 1 JBrWrWMBIIM^^
of vine has been a matter of judgement made
with modern agricultural knowledge and in
the light of European experience, with some
delicious results.
Wine production today has been
revolutionised by new scientific methods.
The ability to monitor and control the
chemical and physical changes that take
place during fermentation has on the whole
helped the wine maker to avoid producing
really poor product. However, very often it
will not be very good either. There seems to
be a general trend towards producing vast
quantities of pleasant wine which will neither
offend nor excite anyone.
Impressing your
friends
You may not particularly wish to impress
your friends by recognising a '71 Chateau
Fonplegade or winning blind tasting
competitions, but even so it is very useful to
build up some small mental catalogue of
wines. This can be started and expanded by
tasting wine rather than just swallowing it. Of
course one man's meat and all that is very
true and tasting is a subjective exercise. The
various terms used by wine drinkers are
badly defined a n d tend to become
increasingly so as the evening wears on. The
important thing is to remember your own
terms and judgements and to use them
consistently.
Most wine comes straight out of the E E C
wine lake, an endless blend from every
overproducing vineyard in Europe and North
Africa. This wine is best swallowed whilst
thinking about something else, there is no
need to look for delicate smells or subtle
flavours. Well made wine is usually
expensive, however with careful selection
one can find interesting and delicious wines
at a reasonable price. Good places for
searching out such bargains include Majestic
H H P f f W l H Friday. June 1, 1984 H B 1
Wine Warehouse (but you must buy at least
12 bottles), some of the large chains of off-
licences (especially Oddbins) and some
supermarket own label wines.
When buying a bottle of wine you have to
rely on the information given on the label.
Unfortunately there is undoubtably a fair
amount of fraudulent wine on sale in this
country, and this is good reason for dealing
with reputable wine merchants. Assuming
the labelling is genuine, the amount and type
of information given depends on the laws of
the country of origin, the shipper, wine
merchant and so on. It takes a little while to
become familiar with even the more basic
terms, but it is a fascinating and rewarding
study. Fortunately it is becoming increasingly
common to include back labels with fairly
technical information in simple terms—these
remove much of the guess work.
When you drink a bottle of wine, try to
remember some things about it. Obviously
it's important to be able to recognise the label
again, it's not much use to know you drank
some really delicious wine if you're not sure
where it was from or who made it. When you
pour some in your glass, look at the colour:
red wine can vary from purple to deep amber.
Generally the more purple the wine the
younger it is, and it will become paler and
browner with age. White wines may be green,
gold or even amber, and they tend to gain
colour with age.
The next thing to notice is the smell, or
bouquet, of the wine. Smells can be very
evocative, but are rather more difficult to
quantify than colours. -The bouquet is often
characteristic of the grape varieties used in
the wine, and some rather odd terminology
has arisen in the cataloguing of these smells.
Thus the tangy aroma of the shiraz grape has
been described as 'sweaty saddle' and the
pinot noir smells rather of boiled beetroot or
cabbage.
I FELIX

