To taste a wine it is necessary to take a
good mouthful and swirl it around the mouth,
so that all the tastebuds come in contact with
it. It is often helpful to aerate the wine by
drawing air into the mouth with an
unsophisticated guzzling noise. Try to notice
the balance or otherwise of the fruit and acids
in the wine, the amount of mouth puckering
tannin, the length of time the flavour lingers in
the mouth, and anything distinctive which
you might recognise again.
If your budget is as limited as mine, and I
suspect that for most of you it is, then there
are very few occasions when you can splash
out on a very expensive bottle of wine. I don't
believe that it is worth looking for a cheap
bottle of claret, the contents are all too likely
to be very disappointing. The same goes for
many of the well known names, it is best to
leave their delights until you can afford a
decent example. In the meantime there are
many lesser known wines to be inexpensively
enjoyed.
Malvaza, and there is some experimentation
with French varieties. Where the old
Bordeaux methods are practised the wines
are aged for up to ten years in oak casks. This
reduces their fruitiness, replacing it with a
soft vanilla flavour from the oak. I found a
pamphlet on Rioja wines which revealed the
secrets of their production this way: "The
first breeding of our wines takes place during
the period the wine remains in American oak
casks of 2251ts, being afterwards bottled in
the best conditions in order it may develop all
its strength during the second breeding in the
bottle; for this they must remain in horizontal
position in a fresh, dark place with little
oscillations of wetness and temperature."
Small independent producers are not
alllowed to market their wine as Rioja, and so
the industry is dominated by the big
'bodegas'. Some of these have their own
vineyards, others buy in the grapes, making
and aging large quantities /-^-s/ine which is
usually only released whei
drunk. Thus the names on bottles of Rioja are
brand names rather than the names of
growers or their properties. Bodegas Minga
produce wine in the traditional way, the total
vinification is carried out in wood. O n the
other hand Bodegas Olarra was built in 1972
and produces very good examples of the
more modem style of wine from this region.
Other names worth looking for include
Frederico Paternina, Tondonia and Marques
de Caceres. The wines should have a small
label on the back with a map of Rioja and the
word Crianza, Reserva or Gran Reserva.
These indicate increasing maturation.
//you would like more information on wine
and wine tasting come along to any meeting
of the Wine Tasting society (usually held at
6.00pm on Tuesdays). A recommended text
on the choosing, buying and serving wine is
Wine by Hugh Johnson published by
Emblem.
Julia Newton-Howes
The Regions
One region which provides very good
value for money is Rioja in Northern Spain.
Geographcially this region is quite close to
Bordeaux, and when phylloxera (an insect
feeding on plant juices) arrived there in the
1870s many wine growers moved South to
Rioja and started making wine. Phylloxera
caught up with them in the end, and they
went back to Bordeaux, leaving behind
traditional French methods of wine
production.
The grapes of Rioja are Tempranillo,
Graciano, Mazuelo, Granacha, Viura and
'It's a naive domestic burgundy without any breeding, but I think
you'll be amused by its presumption.'
FALMOUTH KEOGH
HALL
Appointment of Assistant Sub-
Warden
Applications are invited for the post of Assistant
Subwarden of Falmouth Keogh Hall. The Hall has
190 residents (25% female, 75% male) and the
essential duties of the post are to assist the Warden
with the day to day running of the Hall. Rent-free
accommodation is provided in the form of a study
bedroom.
The post requires someone who can combine
conscientious application, enthusiasm, initiative
and a responsible outlook. Thesuccessful applicant
will probably be a postgraduate, but others will be
considered. Applications should be made in writing,
detailing any relevant experience, to reach the
Warden, DY P W Jowitt, by Friday 22nd June.
Southsidc Bar
Friday 1 June
Introduction & June Guest Ale
Springfield Bitter 50p/pint
& Disco
& Live Music
Buddy & the Bloodsuckers
A,
FELIX I
COCKTAIL BAR
Mon-Fri 6.00-11.00 Sat 8.00-11.00
Happy Hour Monday Special
6.00-9.00 Cocktails £1.60
Cocktails £1.60 all night
NIGHTCLUB Tues-Sat 11.00-3am
Entrance to Night Club half price on
presentation of Imperial College cards
I Entrance on: 3 Cromwell Road, SW7. T«l: 584 7258
Friday. June 1, 1984 • • • • • H H H H B H B H i Page 5

