Playing with Fire
There are bound to be a few teething troubles when a new fire alarm system is
installed. False alarms and faulty detectors are to be expected in the first
couple of weeks. However the newly installed fire alarm system in Southside
are still going off spuriously eight weeks after they were first installed. This
state of affairs would be irritating at the best of times, but is intolerable
during the exam term. Not only is students' revision being disturbed but they
are woken up at 2:00 or 3:00am in the morning when they have an exam that
day.
Perhaps more worrying is the fact that since there are two or three false
alarms per week no one is taking any notice when the alarms go off. If there is
a fire in louthside it is going to be impossible to evacuate the building. The
bungling and incompetence of the Estates section has become a tired joke
around College. In this instance one would expect the matter to be treated
with a little more seriousness when the lives of 300 Southside residents are at
risk.
Dirty Weekend
Do you fancy a free weekend for two in Paris after your exams? Well that's
what you could win if you enter the F E L I X / S T A travel quiz(see page 3). A l l
you have to do is answer the travel questions in this and next weeks' F E L I X
correctly and you could win a wonderful weekend in Paris.
Help
As we enter the height of the exam period all activity has well and truly
ground to a halt. There's hardly any news to report, the F E L I X staff are busy
with their exams and you dear readers have stopped writing articles, letters
and even small ads. There are still two more issues of F E L I X to go so if you
know of any news (anything at all) or if you have finished your exams and can
len'_ a hand on F E L I X pop into the Office. Particularly required are people
to collate pages of F E L I X on Thursday evenings at about 8:30pm.
Staff Photocall
If you have helped in any way at all on F E L I X this year then please come
along to the staff photocall today in the F E L I X Office at 12:30pm.
Credits
Jon Jones, Ulysses, David Jones, Diane Love, David Rowe, Julia Newton-
Howes, Steve Bamett, Hugh Stiles, Mike Smith, Maz and Peter.
Pallab Ghosh
Sub-Wardenships and Assistant Sub-
Wardenships, Tizard and Selkirk Hails
Applications are invited for two posts of sub-warden and two of
assistant sub-warden effective from September 1984. For the posts of
sub-warden, preference will be given to postgraduate or post-
doctoral staff who intend remaining at Imperial Collegefor a period of
at least two years. The function of sub-wardens and assistant sub-
wardens is to assist the warden in the organisation of the halls and to
take an active role in the promotion of social activities. The successful
applicants will receive free accommodation. Applications with details
of relevant experience and referees should be sent to Dr M H R
Hutchinson, Tizard Hall, before 29 J u n e 1984.
The FELIX Car Rally
The FELIX Editor, PallabWhow, h a s g o t a reputation
as a scatterbrain. This was borne out by the events of
last week.
He sent me five notes about the FELIX C a r Rally,
each stating the date of the Rally, the time of
starting, the starting p l a c e , the m a x i m u m
membership of each team and whether or not I
needed a car. The five notes read as follows:
20 June, start 9:30, FELIX Office, maximum of four
a team; car needed.
21 June, start 10:30, outside Mech Eng, maximum
of two in a team; car not needed.
22 June, start 11:30, FELIX Office, maximum of six
in a team, car not needed.
23 June, start 11:30, FELIX Office, maximum of
three in a team, car not needed.
24 June, start 10:30, outside Huxley, maximum of
five in a team, car needed.
When I questioned Zam about the FELIX Car
Rally, she told me that each of the notes was right in
two of its five details.
So, what are the details of the FELIX Car Rally?
G o o d luck, everyone.
Solutions, comments, criticisms to me at the
FELIX Office by 1:00pm on Wednesday, please. £5,
courtesy of Mend-a-Bike, for the randomly selected
winner.
Last week's solution
It can be shown that a circle cut with n lines has a
maximum of 1
/2 n(n+1 )+1 pieces. Therefore, for n=6,
there are a maximum of 22 pieces. Congratulations
to the fourteen people who got it right, and the
winner is G S Heyhoe of D o C 1 , who can collect the
£5 cheque from the FELIX Office after 1:30pm on
Monday.
FELIX is published by the Editor for and on behalf of Imperial College Union Publications Board and is printed by the Union Print Unit Prince Con*ortRd,SW7
Tel 01-589 5111 extn 1048 or internal 2881. Editor. Pallab K Ghosh; Business Manager:PeterRodgers;AdvertisinaManager:HughSoutheyCopynghtFELIX 1984

