THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON 10
22.05.2015
FELIX
Comment Comment Editor Tessa Davey
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Summer Ball Headliner ‘Slap Happy’
Stare into the eyes of a slapper. Photo: allmusic.com
An anonymous student asks why the Union hired an unapologetic thug
Your comments on FelixOnline this week
I think the Liberal Democrats behaved dishonestly
and they’ve got exactly what they deserve
Kay:
“-“Lib dems totally dishonest to increase tuition fees having
said they wouldn’t”
-“But labour did just that”
-“that’s not the issue,we’re talking about the lib dems here”
Good try...”
On continuing to Keep The Cat Free
FirstYearStudent:
“While I agree that media censorship should not be allowed,
Felix should be more sensitive in how it relays information.
Why was there a need to put that story on the front page,
knowing perfectly well that there would be thousands of
visitors coming to the College on the weekend? Wouldn’t
it be better to delay the news and not jeopardise such an
opportunity to promote the College in a large scale?
If your goal is to inform the students,then delaying the story
wouldn’t have mattered as we would be here anyway.And if
your goal is to inform the public,well,the story is already out
there for them to see.!”
JasperSMenkus:
“@First Year Student: Felix’s job isn’t to do PR for the College.
There are enough spinners on campus as it is.”
CecilyJohnson:
“@First Year Student: You make some valid points,many of
which we’ve discussed in the office.Felix puts a lot of thought
into how we present information; we follow best practice
media guidelines set out by Samaritans and other sources
whenever we cover sensitive stories.
Felix bases our choice of front page story on what is most
newsworthy that particular week.The Nordin conviction
story was the clear choice,and given that we had been in
contact with Comms about the story and they had not raised
any concerns we honestly did not expect them to remove the
papers from campus.
With regards to your concern about jeopardising the
promotion of College,Felix does not exist to ensure that
Imperial’s reputation is protected.We report the news that
is most of interest to students; we would not be much of a
newspaper if we didn’t do that.
Last week we distributed more than 200 extra papers than
normal,so clearly students were very interested in this story.
Those students who would not otherwise have picked up
the paper were then exposed to 37 other pages of content
including Comment,Science,Film and Arts pages.
Personally I feel that Felix’s overall contribution to the
Imperial student experience is a very positive one despite the
fact that we publish unpleasant stories when they occur,and I
stand by Philippa’s decision to publish the story when we did
and to put it on the front cover.
Amazon soon to deliver to Sherfield
ComputerSuiteHermit:
“Finally,I can live full-time in College and still get packages
delivered.What a time to be alive!”
"Green
assaulted
a Durham
student
when
booked
for their
freshers
week
event."
This year’s Summer Ball
headliner was announced a
couple of weeks ago, via the
somewhat protracted method of a
quiz – where the first letter of five
somewhat transparently James Bond
themed questions allowed students to
spell out the artist’s name.
How successful this method of
engaging with the notoriously
apathetic student body was, I have
no idea – I assume buzzwords
like ‘interactive’, ‘immersion’ and
‘360-degree storyscaping’ were
used in whatever hell hole of a
committee dreamt up this particular
marketing idea, while other words
like ‘maybe just email everyone with
the headliner in the subject line so
they still find out even though they’ll
delete the email along with every
other email anyone has ever got from
the Union’ were brushed under the
tea, coffee and danishes table.
If you haven’t heard from a friend
(either because you don’t have any or
because you have friends who have
better things to talk about – like
the socioeconomic state of Syria, or
Eurovision or something), or failed to
see the rather menacing posters and
leaflets littered around FiveSixEight,
the headliner for this year’s Summer
Ball is the so-called Professor Green.
This seems like a great match.
Imperial is a University; Green is
apparently a Professor. Green hasn’t
been popular since 2010; the Union
has no money. Imperial has a history
of ethics issues and inviting hate
speakers; Green assaulted a Durham
student when booked for their
Freshers’ Week event. Wait. What?
Let me start again. On Friday
3rd
October, 2014, a man slapped a
teenager. At the Durham Freshers
ball. Whilst performing on stage.
With a security guard present to
suppress any response. That man
has since been contracted for an
estimated £10,000 to headline the
Imperial Summer Ball. See the
problem here?
For some background, you should
watch the videos – a quick Google
of “Professor Green slaps” will get
you two taken from different angles.
“That’s what you get if you call me a
c**t” shouts the triumphant happy
slapper, before segueing smoothly
into the presumably rhetorical “Are
we going to have a f***ing good time
tonight or what?” Not so PG after all.
What is most unnerving about
this incident is Professor Green’s
apparent lack of contrition, telling
the Mirror: “I don’t reflect on things
like that”. He stated, “If someone
abuses you and throws their hand
up at your face, then someone says
that you hit a fan I’m just like like
what fan? It happened. I mean, what’s
happened to rock and roll? I don’t
understand why it became such a big
thing.”
Now whether or not it could be
claimed that by hiring Green the
Union is implicitly condoning his
actions, the question must be asked as
to who on earth thought that this was
a good idea. It should be noted at this
point that the Union, insecure in its
own ability to choose and book a ‘big
name’ artist and presumably scared
of any involvement of students in
the Ball’s running since the debacle
of 2011, when general incompetence
and unrealistic expectations led to a
loss of £120,000 over the course of
one badly attended evening, hired an
external agency to recommend and
book the acts.
The unfortunate thing is that the
agency, the Union, and Green’s self
inflated sense of importance are
right. Whether or not brand ICU
will benefit from being linked to an
unapologetic thug, Professor Green’s
name (and to a lesser extent, face)
attached to the summer ball has seen
a huge spike in ticket sales, increased
on last year, and reports of “well
excited” freshers.
And what if the incident is
repeated at Imperial? One Durham
student, “gutted” to have missed the
freshers ball, told The Tab Durham
that paying almost £40 to attend
would have been “worth it to see a
internationally renowned rap artist
bitch slap a teenager”.
Whether or not the staff involved
in the decision making process that
led to booking the so called Professor
were aware of the incident leads to
two conclusions. Either they knew
about the incident; having spent
more than 5 minutes researching
the person they were spending half
a year’s salary on in a single evening
and decided that this was something
they were ok with, or they do have a
moral compass but, failing to have
done the initial research and finding
out too late, are now unable to back
out of the contract. While the reader
can draw their own conclusions,
past experience would suggest that
the simplest explanation here is
incompetence.
"Who
on earth
thought
that this
was a good
idea?"

