THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON 9
22.05.2015
FELIX
Editor Philippa Skett
Features Editor Cecily Johnson
Features
features.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Cecily Johnson finds out how students are relaxing during the exam period
Universities and Student Unions employ
peculiar methods to relieve exam stress
Students enjoy a few moments away from the stress of revision. Photos: (clockwise from top left) Wynnoa Loredo/Johanna Kaiser/Dan Addison/Middlesex Students Union
Exam season is most definitely
upon us, and this year more and
more Universities and Student
Unions are attempting to reduce
students’ stress levels with a variety
of bizarre initiatives ranging from
Puppy Therapy to ball pits.
In an ever-growing trend, students
are being encouraged to put down
their revision notes and tear
themselves away from the computer
screen for a short time to relax
and de-stress by engaging in these
unorthodox activities.
Inflatable playgrounds and
bubble wrap popping stations have
both featured in recent years at the
University of Leicester, alongside
the ever-popular petting zoo. Bath
Spa expanded their zoo this year to
include Shetland Ponies alongside the
regular goats, ducks and baby chicks.
Students at the University of Exeter
have had the opportunity to cuddle
with tiny micropigs, provided by
a local farm. At Royal Holloway,
University of London, the Students’
Union provided both a petting zoo
and regular Puppy Therapy sessions
with dogs from Battersea Dogs Home.
Bristol University opened up a
puppy-petting centre in partnership
with the charity UK Guide Dogs. Over
2000 students applied but just 500 got
the chance to take part in the project,
inspired by recent research in Japan
which suggested that interacting with
animals may improve concentration
levels and exam performance.
Perhaps they were suffering from
cuteness overload at the University of
Reading – their Students’ Union went
with less conventionally adorable
animals, organising a reptile zoo.
Hundreds of students turned up to
meet and hold the bearded dragons,
lizards, tortoises and boa constrictors.
However not all Universities have
gone the animal therapy route. The
University of Manchester Student
Union hosted an entire festival with
live music and stalls selling food and
vintage clothing. The University
of Huddersfield held a de-stressing
knitting session, which supported the
charity Age UK.
Fitness sessions are also becoming
more popular this year, with Durham
University offering free Thai boxing
classes, while students at Leeds
Beckett University got to enjoy
skipping and a “reiki taster session”,
and Queen Mary University of
London offered an introduction to
meditation.
The University of Plymouth
Student Union attempted to
crowdfund a giant ball pit, capable
of entertaining 50 students at a
time. Sadly it appears that they were
unsuccessful this year, but maybe
next exam season they’ll secure the
funding required to purchase the
necessary 50,000 plastic balls.
Meanwhile at Imperial, campus has
been pretty quiet after the excitement
of ‘Treat Yo’ Self Week’ last term,
which was hosted by the Royal
College of Science and Royal School
of Mines Unions with the support
of Imperial College Union. The
activities included an obstacle course,
free candy floss, yoga sessions and a
bouncy castle.
In previous years, our Union has
run the wide-reaching campaign
‘Stress Less’, billed as “a whole host of
events designed to help you de-stress
during the exam and coursework
period”. Stress Less events have
included masseurs in the Library
Café, free yoga lessons, crazy golf,
bouncy castles and a petting zoo on
the Queen’s Lawn.
Unfortunately in 2013 the
organisers came under fire from
animal rights activists who spammed
the College Facebook page with angry
comments. Representatives from the
organisation PETA UK wrote a letter
of complaint to the College Rector
expressing concerns that the petting
zoo would “contribute to a cruel
cycle of breeding, abandonment and
killing”.

