THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON 25
22.05.2015
FELIX
Arts Editors Fred Fyles & Kamil McClelland
Arts
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
The RSC’s Thoroughly Modern Miller
L-R – Alex Hassell (Biff), Harriet Walter (Linda Loman), Antony Sher (Willy Loman), and Sam Marks (Happy) in the RCS’s Death of a Salesman Photo: Ellie Kurttz
Jack Steadman can’t stop thinking about this powerful production
With 2015 marking the
centenary of Arthur
Miller’s birth, it was
inevitable that a fresh crop of revivals
of the great American playwright’s
works would spring up across the
theatre world. Last year saw Yael
Farber direct a production of The
Crucible, staged in the round at
the Old Vic and starring Richard
Armitage; Ivo Van Hoe brought A
View from the Bridge back to life in a
startlingly minimalist production
that moved from the Young Vic to
the Wyndham’s Theatre for early
2015; this year, a touring production
of All My Sons featuring an all-black
cast made the rounds, while the RSC
opened a revival of Miller’s most
enduringly acclaimed piece, Death of
a Salesman, at the Royal Shakespeare
Theatre in Stratford-upon-Avon.
That production now transfers to the
Noel Coward Theatre in the West
End proper (replacing Shakespeare in
Love) for a ten-week run.
The first thing that – naturally –
catches your eye when entering the
theatre is the set. The interior of a
two-storey house squats centre stage,
the beams supporting the ground
floor visible, as if the whole house had
been cut in two. Small and compact,
the house is overshadowed by the vast
number of identical dwellings that
loom over it in an imposing tableau.
Rows and rows of terraced flats
define the sides and rear of the stage,
some with lights shining through
their windows, suggesting a scale far
beyond the one measly house we have
been granted access to.
There are moments where it can
feel like this is a show that has been
scaled up for a full-blown West End
stage – the decision to use gauze and
what appears to be projection, to
allow the backdrop to subtly shift in
appearance during certain scenes,
inevitably leads to moments where
the entire thing becomes almost
transparent, but it’s a forgivable (and
understandable) sin. Yes, you can
occasionally see the construction
holding up the structure, but the
play does such a magnificent job of
focusing your attention on the actors’
performances that’s it hard to mind
too much.
The discussion of staging proves
interesting in the context of the
two other West End productions
of Miller’s plays: The Crucible’s set
was sparse, enough to evoke the
setting and little more, and being
in the round meant the actors’
performances were being viewed
from all angles; A View from the Bridge
went even further, dropping almost
all set entirely in favour of a knee-
high glass bench, with audience on
three sides. No props beyond a pair of
shoes, and yet still utterly absorbing.
By comparison, this production of
Death of a Salesman is an incredibly
straight-forward affair. Where this
show gets interesting is the text itself.
The story is that of Willy Loman,
a down-on-his-luck, exhausted
salesman. Returning home from
an abortive sales trip following a
near-miss car accident, he discovers
his estranged, unsuccessful sons have
both come to stay, reuniting their old
family unit.
As Willy’s mind wanders, he begins
to talk to himself, often flashing back
to moments in his sons’ childhoods,
when the world lay at their feet and
success seemed certain. It’s in these
flashbacks that the play is allowed
to quietly tug at the rug beneath the
audience’s feet, as subtle (and the
odd unsubtle) lighting changes fire
off, and the invisible boundaries
of the house – almost all of them
imaginary, and defined solely by the
actors’ performances, never noticed
or remarked upon until now – are
ignored and trampled all over.
Those flashbacks in particular
demand an incredibly strong presence
on stage to pull off successfully. The
lines between reality and the world
inside Willy’s head grow increasingly
blurry throughout the play, leading
with a dread inevitability towards the
titular conclusion, and it’s to Antony
Sher’s immense credit that he pulls
the whole thing off magnificently.
It’s a towering performance that
rules the stage, as he inhabits the
tortured, exhausted, lost Willy. His
accent initially grates, pushing us
away from the character, but over
time it serves as another aspect to
Willy’s personality, combining his
desperate need to be “well-liked” with
his constant pushing away of those
around him through his actions and
failings.
It’s a fine line between feeling
empathy with Willy, understanding
his struggles, and just feeling sorry
for him, which this production
occasionally strays over, before
immediately course-correcting. It’s
an intense effort by the cast, who
without exception put in excellent
performances, not least Alex Hassell
and Sam Marks as Willy’s sons Biff
and Happy. Asked to play grown
men one minute, then teenage boys
the next, they are given the greatest
challenge after Sher, and both tackle
it excellently. Hassell’s performance
is heart-wrenching in the play’s
closing moments, as he desperately
attempts to break through Willy’s
self-delusions and show him the
truth.
In fact, it’s the play’s closing
moments where everything, across
the board, comes together to
deliver something truly great. This
production is long, at two and a half
hours (not including the interval)
– not nearly as long as The Crucible,
which clocked in over three hours, but
not as snappy as the one-act A View
from the Bridge – and the struggle to
maintain the tension, the intensity
of emotion that the play demands
starts to become too much as the end
approaches.
But then, as Biff confronts his
father one last time, everything
abruptly falls into place. The use of
a live band, which until this point
feels significantly under-used, is fully
justified by the trembling, painfully
high note that lingers uncomfortably
in the air as Willy makes his final
decision. The lighting is perfect, the
performances are perfect, everything
just works. It’s a gut-wrenching
moment – telegraphed by the title,
but still hitting hard.
It takes a long time to reach that
point, and while this production is
never bad – or even adequate, it’s
always good – it never quite hits
greatness until the big finish. But
when it gets there, it explodes, and
hovers in the memory for hours, days
afterwards.
This is the play that mostly
impresses, rather than awes, at first
sight, but sticks with you long after
the curtain falls. And that, more than
anything else, deserves applause.
Death of a Salesman is on at the Noël
Coward Theatre until 18th
July. Tickets
from £10, available online.

