THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON 35
22.05.2015
FELIX
What is going on inside
the Blue Cube this week
This week’s, we’re all rather tired after the
excitement of last week’s celebrations.
All-Staff Briefing Cancelled
Our weekly staff briefing has been
cancelled by the Vice Provost (Arbitrary
Excuses) due to the lack of a marquee on
Queen’s Lawn.
As ever, we hope that the content in this
week’s Blue News will serve to keep you
abreast of all the developments that
matter to you, our wonderful staff team.
What Is: BUAV?
Our “Advice on” series has undergone
a minor facelift - we’ve listened to your
feedback on the series, and after your
comments we’ve changed the title to
“What Is?”
We haven’t interfered with the content at
all (don’t panic!), but we all know the value
of a good re-brand. And for just £2 million,
we think it’s a remarkably good deal!
The first session of the new-look series
promises to be highly useful. We’ll be
explaining just who (and what) the BUAV
are, and how best to deal with them.
Come along to the Board Room at 2pm on
Tuesday to join in the session, and learn all
there is to learn about BUAV.
Don’t forget to bring your yoga mat as
usual, and green tea will (of course) be
provided.
Writing for Blue News
On Thursday at 10am, we’re running a
special course on how you can get involved
in Blue News! That’s right, we want your
help in creating the esteemed Blue News!
Come along to the Board Room to learn
how we put Blue News together, and how
you could be the next contributor!
What is going on outside the
Blue Cube this week
The Central Library continues to be off-
limits to all staff, due to an uncontained
infestation.
The pests have been seen fighting over
available computers, marking their
territory with overladen bags, frantically
removing textbooks from shelves, and
aggressively swearing at the printers.
Steer clear at all costs.
Alice Gast: Thought of the Week
“This week, I’m sure you’ve heard the malicious
rumours with regards to animal testing at
Imperial. I’d like to reassure everyone that
there are no problems with any animal testing
occuring at Imperial, and that everything we do
at this world-leading institution is above-board
and entirely ethically sound. Although, saying
that, I wouldn’t mind doing some unethical tests
on those bloody protestors.”
The weekly newsletter of the Faculty Building
Blue News
Provost Post
of the Week
Every week, a member of
our esteemed Provost board
shares their thoughts with
our collaborative, cohesive
community. This week, we
welcome back Al Pologies,
Vice Provost (Arbitrary
Excuses)!
Unsurprisingly, Al was
unavailable to write his
column, as he encountered
an unfortunate issue with his
computer.
He was able to send us this
short extract from what we
presume would have been his
column!
“LOST MY ID CARD STOP
LOCKED OUT OF FACULTY
BUILDING STOP SEND HELP
IMMEDIATELY STOP OH GOD I
THINK THEY FOUND ME STOP
YES THE STUDENTS HAVE
FOUND ME STOP SEND HELP
STOP HELP STOP”
We’re not sure why Al sent his
message by telegraph, to be
honest!
We knew that technology
was lagging behind our high-
tech offices here in the Faculty
Building, but I don’t think any
of us realised that the outside
world was that far behind!
It’s almost enough to make
you want to never leave the
Faculty Building!
Of course, we all know that
staying in the Faculty Building is
still, sadly, impossible. Even at
Imperial we haven’t discovered
the secret to surviving without
food, which means venturing
forth beyond those glorious
blue walls.
Of course, we’re looking into
the possibility of replacing
the old Vice Provost (Student
Voice)’s office with a canteen for
Faculty Building staff.
After all, if we could introduce
the Sixth Floor sleeping pods so
successfully (I myself have been
known to take the occasional
nap there!), why couldn’t we
introduce a canteen for our
staff?
Soon (timings to be
announced shortly), we hope
that it will become possible to
arrive in the Faculty Building
at 8am on a Monday morning,
and then stay until it’s time
to go home at 5pm on Friday
afternoon! How wonderful!
Hello all,
Good morning, good morning, good morning! Welcome to another fine
edition of Blue News! I’d love to say it’s our best issue so far, but we’ve
had such a fantastic quality of our recent issues that I’m loath to call any
one issue ‘the best’.
In fact, I’d like to take the chance to use this issue to highlight just what
a wonderful thing Blue News really is. I’m sure you’re all aware of the
intense amount of collaboration that goes on behind-the-scenes to
make this delightfully informative piece of joy a reality each week, but I
felt a full appreciation of the key collaborators was long overdue.
Firstly, this entire project was the brainchild of our gorgeous and
incredibly talented Vice Provost (Marketing), Em (Perial), who saw the
lack of informative, aesthetically pleasing, well-produced newsletters in
the Faculty Building.
Instead of despairing at her inability to receive the weekly goings-on
here in the Faculty Building in one simple, easy-to-read (and easy on the
eye!) newsletter, Em thought to herself: why don’t I just make one? It’s
this kind of blue-sky thinking, can-do attitude that helps Imperial such a
world-leading institution.
Without such out-of-the-box thinking, we could never manage to be as
successful as we are! I hope you’ll all join me in giving Em our thanks
for helping make everyone’s lives here in the Faculty Building so much
better than they were in the dull, grey days before Blue News!
Of course, Blue News wouldn’t be possible without the wonderful work
of the lovely boys over in Comms, who spend at least thirty minutes
each week laying out this wonderful burst of information. Without them,
we’d be reduced to having to send you all a boring, unimaginative black-
and-white staff briefing email with the latest news and juicy educational
tidbits in bullet point form - and we’d have to number each one, too!
So thank you, one and all, for allowing this delightful organ to continue!
Have a productive, cohesive, collaborative and happy day!

