THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON 39
22.05.2015
FELIX
C & S Editor Ben Howitt
Clubs and Societies
felix.clubsandsocieties@imperial.ac.uk
Alhasan Al-Habib reviews Dramsoc’s latest production
The Shape of the American midwest
Adam (Sid Sinha) is an insecure
student working part-time
as a museum security guard,
where he meets anarchistic Art
student Evelyn (Lucy Luo). After
arguing, they begin dating and he
introduces his best friends, Jenny
(Emmie de Falbe) and Phillip (Joshua
Jacob) to her. As their relationship
progresses, Adam’s behaviour changes
and his appearance and confidence
improve due to the influences of
Evelyn, a transition that does not go
unnoticed. He is soon unrecognisable,
but when Evelyn presents her thesis
for her Master’s degree, Adam meets
with a shocking revelation.
The Shape of Things (directed
by Holly Avins, produced by Peter
Griffin) doesn’t require much in
the way of a set, so Sherfield is an
adequate venue, and the climax
occurring in a lecture theatre justifies
this unorthodox choice of space.
Sinha gives Adam the “bumbling
fool” treatment, his nervousness
translating into a sort of awkward
humour and wit à la Hugh
Grant. With good direction this
translates into a powerful and
meaningful contrast with the
otherwise charismatic, controlling
and manipulative Evelyn. His
performance does occasionally suffer
for being slightly forced, however.
Acting nervously in a way that
seems genuine is difficult, and Sid’s
performance becomes slightly clumsy
when he is asked to do so. Lines
occasionally seem over-rehearsed, but
his overall performance is very good
so this can easily be overseen. “I smell
trouble,” declares Adam, “which I
might not be able to after this,” before
undergoing cosmetic nasal surgery.
It’s a line typical of the seriocomic
nature of the character, and Sid
delivers it with aplomb.
One of the reasons Luo’s portrayal
of Evelyn works is because of its sharp
contrast with Sinha’s Adam. Where
Adam is funny and charming, Evelyn
is aggressive and spiteful; where
Adam is naïve and affectionate,
Evelyn is calculated and domineering.
She may have a tiny frame but,
boosted by her ego, it seems the other
characters can only look up to her.
At times Evelyn smoulders, Luo
producing an authentic seduction
of Adam that remains delicate and
subtle. “You’re cute, I don’t like the
way you style your hair”. She judges
him the same way she judges the
statue in the opening scene, and it sets
the play up well. This play depends
on a good actress for Evelyn, so the
production is lucky to have Luo.
Jacob’s depiction of Phillip was
excellent. It is unerring in its realism.
A lot of the comedy within the play
depends on the perfect execution
and delivery of his lines, often in
confrontation, and here Josh delivers
the goods with poise, timing and
all the finesse one might expect of
a professional. As such, a clearly
noticeable instance of forgetting
his lines during the confrontation
with Adam is easily overlooked, if
a little unsettling. But he contorts
every sinew of his face to express the
contempt he has for Evelyn, and his
accent never drops for even the most
poignant of lines. He can be proud of
his performance.
De Falbe, a newcomer to DramSoc,
enjoys a good introduction to the
Stage. She delivers a convincing
portrayal of Jenny, whose purpose
is to provide the direct antithesis of
Evelyn; the contrast in this play is
severe, and serves its purpose well.
So it’s a shame that her delivery of
many lines rarely deviates from the
monotonous and flat. At one point,
after kissing Adam whilst being
engaged to his best friend, she states
(and states is exactly what she does)
“I’ve wanted to do that for a very long
time”. It’s a sentence that’s meant to
be overflowing with deep, suppressed
emotion, uncorked by a sudden
rush of anxiety and fear in the face
of the terrifying dilemma she faces.
Unfortunately it’s delivered the same
way one might deliver a Domino’s
Pizza, that is to say promptly and
efficiently but without much in the
way of craftsmanship or finesse. This
example typifies a performance where
the verbal lags behind a very good
non-verbal performance. Regardless,
she matures and improves as the play
progresses. She does the awkward
meeting with her ex very well, and
the seduction previously quoted is
otherwise actually quite stirring –
her shocking lasciviousness actually
elicits gasps (and even one cry of
“Slut!”) from a shocked audience.
Ultimately “The Shape of Things”
is a resounding success. Acting that at
times touches upon excellence fuses
with a direction that is confident
and assured, resulting in a sterling
accomplishment by the cast and crew.
If you missed it, you missed out.
Evelyn (Lucy Luo) assesses a sculpture in the opening scene. Photo: Facebook
"it’s
delivered
the same
way one
might
deliver a
Domino’s
Pizza"
"he
contorts
every sinew
of his face"
TEDx at the Vanderbilt
Following last year’s TEDxImperialCollege conference
at Imperial College,students from Imperial can now
look forward to yet another thought-provoking,mind-
engaging TEDx conference on the 6th
of June 2015.
The third TEDxImperialCollege conference will bring
you‘ACCELERATE’.This year’s theme aims to inspire and
encourage young fresh minds-male and female alike
-to support women in gaining momentum.You can
expect this to be a conference filled with inspiring and
great ideas.
The event will be held at the beautiful Radisson Blue
Vanderbilt Hotel,around the corner from the South
Kensington campus.In the coming weeks,the full list
of hand-picked speakers will be released.Tickets will
be released very soon,so keep yourself abreast of the
latest TEDxImperialCollege updates by visiting the
TEDxIC Facebook page. It certainly sounds like a lot
of excitement is building up behind the scenes.Make
sure you don’t miss out on this unique event and on the
opportunity to become part of‘ACCELERATE’.
CORINNA LAMBERTI
TEDX IMPERIALCOLLEGE ORGANISER

