40 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON FELIX
22.05.2015
Sport Editor: Kunal Wagle
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Issue 1606
SPORT
Kunal Wagle voices his frustrations at the England Cricket Board
An IPL Contract, an autobiography, and a
lack of trust: The Kevin Pietersen Saga
If Andrew Strauss thought he’d
have a pleasant honeymoon
period in his new Director of
Cricket role at the England and Wales
Cricket Board (ECB), Kevin Pietersen
had other ideas. As Strauss was
partaking in his first interview with
the media in the role Kevin Pietersen
was piling the pressure on, smashing
Leicestershire’s defenceless bowlers
for 355 not out – his highest first
class score.
Strauss said that “there is no trust”
between Pietersen and the ECB.
It’s an easy statement to make, and
it’s certainly true that Pietersen
has not been a model employee. In
2012 Pietersen was dropped from
the national side after he admitted
sending “provocative” text messages
to members of the South African
team, allegedly about Andrew Strauss
himself (although he denied this). A
few months later he was allowed back
into the side, after a reintegration
period.
Pietersen was later sacked from the
England side after the 5-0 thumping
in the Ashes down under in 2014.
His contract was terminated and he
became a freelance player, securing
deals in the Indian Premier League,
the Caribbean Premier League, the
t20 Blast and the Big Bash League.
He courted controversy again
late last year with the release of his
autobiography, which contained
revelations about several of his
former colleagues, including calling
Matt Prior “a Dairylea triangle
thinking he’s a Brie”. Many thought
that any remote chance of Pietersen
coming back to the national set up
had evaporated with each criticism on
those pages.
But then, there was hope.
Incoming ECB Chairman Colin
Graves said in a press conference in
March that anyone who gets runs in
county cricket would be considered
for selection. Following two meetings
with Graves, Pietersen said, “He has
told me he wants the best players
playing for England and that there
is a clean slate“. A superb century
against low calibre opposition in
Oxford was followed quickly by the
triple ton against Leicestershire.
Strauss’ decision on Pietersen was
being made tougher and tougher.
As Pietersen put the finishing
touches on his immense 355 not out,
Strauss was only a few miles away at
Lord’s confirming that he was closing
the door on the maverick’s selection
for the Ashes summer. It had been
expected – numerous papers had
carried the news in that morning’s
press. But that’s where my problems
start with the board.
The day before Strauss’ conference
he had had a private meeting with
Pietersen. During this meeting
Strauss told him exactly what he told
the press the following day. But not
thirty minutes after the meeting had
this information been leaked to the
press, and Pietersen denies that it was
him.
Granted, he could be lying through
his teeth when he says this. But if he
isn’t, then it isn’t the first time the
ECB have leaked information the day
before a press conference. Every man
and his dog knew that Peter Moores
(the England coach) was going to be
sacked before he did. The same goes
for Alistair Cook when he lost the
limited overs captaincy late last year.
It’s not a great trait to have.
There’s also the small matter of
Strauss’ reasoning for not bringing
Pietersen back. Citing a lack of trust
would suggest that the ECB had little
to no interest in bringing Pietersen
back into the fold. In face they aren’t
even considering him for the rest of
the summer. Kevin Pietersen had
a contract for the Indian Premier
League side Sunrisers Hyderabad that
he effectively tore up when he was
told that he had a chance to get back
into the England team. What was that
contract worth? £250,000.
That’s right. Kevin Pietersen tore up
a £250,000 contract because he had
been assured that he still had a shot at
an England place. Now it transpires
that that it’s unlikely that that was
ever the case.
The ECB cite a lack of trust,
but perhaps they mean that it’s
not Pietersen they can’t trust, it’s
Pietersen who can’t trust them.
They talk about a lack of trust. Yet
Andrew Strauss was perfectly happy
to offer Pietersen an advisory role
in the limited overs set up. In what
world can you not trust someone
enough to be in your team, and yet
still think they can be with the team
on a daily basis? It just doesn’t sound
quite right.
Don’t get me wrong – I think
some of the stuff Pietersen did was
unacceptable. The “textgate” scandal
will always stick in the throat. But we
are talking about one of England’s
greatest ever batsmen. And an
England team at the moment that
is currently floundering, unable to
beat a West Indies team (one that was
stripped bare of their top players, who
are playing in the IPL).
If it were me I’d have said that at
the moment the middle order is the
only part of the team that’s working,
and as a result currently there is no
place for Pietersen. But I certainly
wouldn’t rule anything out. I would
have also said he needs to continue
getting runs.
There’s a difference between
that (which shows that you’re still
interested and weren’t lying about it
earlier in the season) and closing the
door on someone who could still be
valuable to this England squad.
As it stands I don’t think he can
play for the country again. It would
need the board to swallow too much
pride.
And so to crucial test series against
New Zealand and Australia.
It’s seven tests to save Alistair
Cook’s captaincy. It’s seven tests
for Andrew Strauss to show that he
means business.
Unfortunately I can’t see either
happening, and we could be in for a
long and difficult summer.
At least our players trust each other.
I just hope there’s not a sponsor’s
function they’re expected to attend.
Or an Ashes series to win.
Kevin Pietersen walks off the Oval pitch after scoring a career high 355 Photo: Getty Images

