THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON 4
22.05.2015
FELIX
News
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk News Editors Carol Ann Cheah, Cecily Johnson & Kunal Wagle
st Home Office
abuse at Imperial
Imperial’s new governance
model:
In January 2014,Imperial put into place a new
governance model to oversee animal research
taking place across college.These included various
operational and advisory groups,such as:
The Governance Board for Animal Welfare
This oversees the governance model put in place in
January,and is chaired by Professor Dermot Kelleher,
Vice President (Health).The board met twice in 2014.
The 3Rs Group
This is an advisory board that was introduced slightly
later,in May 2014.The group aims to increase the
mentality of“Refine,Reduce and Replace”(3Rs)
in animal research.The board is made up of five
academic staff and a number of animal technologists
and is chaired by Professor Richard Reynolds,Deputy
Head of Research in the Division of Brain Sciences.
The board meets every two months and are currently
gathering knowledge about how the 3Rs are currently
met across college,before looking to share best
practices across fields and other organisations too.
Two new Animal Welfare and Ethical Review Bodies
(AWERBs)
All organisations that work with animals must have,by
law,an AWERB.AWERBs ensure animals are only used
when it is completely necessary to do so,and review all
projects that plan to use animals for testing.
Imperial’s own central AWERB is Chaired by
Professor Maggie Dallman,and strives to review all
project applications personally before they proceed,
to ensure they are legally acceptable and conform to
best practice.Two more localised AWERBs have been
formed to serve other campuses outside of South
Kensington.
Quality Assurance Advisory Group
Chaired by Professor Marina Botto,Director of the
Centre for Complement and Inflammation Research,
this group provides advise on how new developments
in animal research can be assimilated into current
facilities.They organise meetings with project license
holders to share best practice.
Designated Room Advisory Group: Rooms containing
specialist equipment must meet safety standards set
by the Home Office,and this group was formed to
provide assistance around the provision of such spaces.
The group consists of academics from all faculties.
Who is the Establishment Licence Holder?
Imperial’s Establishment Licence Holder is currently
Professor James Stirling.
Stirling spoke to Felix about what his role entails:
“As the College’s Establishment Licence Holder I’m
responsible for ensuring we comply with all the
relevant regulations and requirements in our work
with animals.
“Since taking up that role it’s been my privilege to see
first-hand how committed we are as a community to
excellence in our work with animals.
“Over the past 18 months we have seen a great deal
of positive change in our facilities–including a major
restructure of the way we govern and support our
animal research work.
“We’ve reformed our ethical and welfare review
process,introduced a new governance structure and
created stronger links between different parts of our
animal research community.
“We have strengthened our approaches to finding
replacements for animal research,to reducing the
number of animals used in experiments and to refining
methods to minimise suffering.
“We’ve also committed to communicating with
openness and transparency about the animal research
we do,and why we do it.
“Students and staff can find out more by visiting the
College’s animal research webpages,which have more
information on this important work and how it’s done,
as does our first ever Animal Research Annual Report.”
Ensuring openess
Back in May 2014,Imperial was also one of 72
institutions to sign up for the Concordat on Openness
in Animal Research,a pledge to help the public
understand more about animal research.
conduct, management and oversight
of animal research at Imperial
College.
“Imperial College is internationally
recognised as one of the world’s best
research institutes and it is important
that this is matched by its standards
of animal use and welfare.”
Imperial put into place a number
of actions as a result of the Brown
review, which included prioritising
investment in staffing and leadership
and placing more emphasis on
refining, reducing, or replacing
animal use in research.
They also pledged to recruit a
Director of Biosciences to provide
direction in implementing further
improvements. These included
a reform of the ethical review
process for animal research, and a
commitment to improving internal
and external communication.
BUAV have run various other
undercover investigations in the past,
some targeting other universities.
They recently filmed another video
using secret footage of research
at Cambridge University, where
they are currently using sheep in
investigations into Batten’s and
Huntington’s disease.
Provost James Stirling Photo: Thomas Angus

