5 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON FELIX
22.05.2015
News Editors Carol Ann Cheah, Cecily Johnson & Kunal Wagle
News
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Goldsmiths Diversity Officer in race row
Diversity Officer Ms Mustafa shown here taking her job very seriously. Photo: Facebook
Apetition has been launched
to remove Bahara Mustafa,
the current Diversity officer
for Goldsmiths University, from
her position following a recent tweet
featuring the inflammatory hashtag
“Kill all white men”. This follows a
long line of controversies from Ms
Mustafa, the first of which saw her
banning certain people from an event
that sought opinions on diversifying
the Goldsmiths curriculum.
Ms Mustafa posted on the page for
the event on Facebook: “Invite loads
of BME [Black and Minority Ethnic]
Women and non-binary people!!
Also, if you’ve been invited and
you’re a man and/ or white PLEASE
DON’T COME just cos i invited a
bunch of people and hope you will be
responsible enough to respect this is a
BME Women and non-binary event
only [sic]”.
The comment resulted in outrage,
with the student community at
Goldsmiths calling it “laughable”
and “patronising beyond belief”.
Event organisers later deleted the
post and attempted to mitigate with
the comment “Allies now welcome!”
posted on the Facebook page.
Goldsmiths University were quick
to react, stating that “We are proud
of our diverse community and do
not tolerate any form of oppression,
including racism, sexism or any other
form of bigotry.”
The Student Union added,
“Challenging societal inequality has
been at the core of our campaigns
and we try to do this pro-actively in
our everyday work, so the accusation
that we discriminate is one we refute
wholeheartedly”.
Ms Mustafa hit back at claims
by commenters that her posts had
a racist and sexist undertone by
refuting the possibility of these
structures existing: “I, an ethnic
minority woman, cannot be racist or
sexist towards white men, because
racism and sexism describe structures
of privilege based on race and gender.
“Therefore, women of colour and
minority genders cannot be racist or
sexist, since we do not stand to benefit
from such a system”. She added
“Reverse racism and reverse sexism
are not real”.
At the time of writing, the petition
to expel Ms Mustafa from her
position has amassed just over 17,500
signatures, with the petition citing
various acts such as the use of the
official Union Twitter account to
tweet using the hashtag “white trash”,
claiming that it violates several of
the Union’s policies when it comes to
bigotry and discrimination.
However, in recent days there
have been a number of supporters
taking to Twitter to defend Ms
Mustafa by using the hashtag
“#supportbaharmustafa”. Elle Baeker
tweeted her support in stating that it
was “not reverse racism to create safe
spaces for BME women” and arguing
that the the question shouldn’t
be “why were white people & men
excluded?” but instead “why are safe
spaces needed?”.
JONATHAN MASTERS
NEWS WRITER
International Students boost economy by £2.3 billion
London First argues that international students should be given visitor status. Photo: Imperial College
Areport by London First has
said that overseas students
in London alone contribute
as much as £2.3 billion to the
economy. The report also claims
that students from abroad are made
to feel “unwelcome”. It goes on to
argue that migration targets should
be reclassified and students should
be given visitor status, and should be
allowed to work after graduation.
London First, which is a lobby
that represents London businesses
and the accountancy firm
PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC), also
included in its report that the £2.3
billion quoted is after £540 million
was taken off for public services, such
as the NHS. It is also believed that
international students help support
as many as 70,000 jobs in the capital,
through University fees and their
expenditure while in the city.
Speaking on the subject of the
students’ migrant status, the report
says “They are here for a short time
only and by choosing to study in the
UK, they are contributing to jobs,
growth and cultural understanding
in this country. By classifying them
as migrants and including them
within the net migration target we are
implying they are unwelcome.”
The report goes on to say that the
government “should reinstate the
automatic option... for international
students to work here for a few years
after graduation”. It says that such
a policy would be “good for UK
universities, good for UK business,
and good for Britain’s long-term
relations with the global business
community”.
Julia Onslow-Cole at PwC said
about the report: “While politicians
recognise the importance of
international students, there has
been considerable debate over their
economic value. This is the first study
to quantify the benefits of student
migration. We need more hard data
like this to inform immigration
policies and targets.”
Immigration minister James
Brokenshire, who took up his position
in 2014, added: “The government
will pursue further reforms to tackle
abuse while continuing to attract the
brightest and the best to our world-
class universities.
“The latest figures show this
strategy is working – university
applications from overseas students
are up by 18% since 2010.”
Kunal Wagle reports as report recommends migration targets be reclassified

