7 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON FELIX
22.05.2015
News Editors Carol Ann Cheah, Cecily Johnson & Kunal Wagle
News
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Two Imperial Professors receive awards
from the Royal Society of Chemistry
Professor Kazarian with his research group. Photo: Imperial College
London
Philip Kurukgy looks into the research that earned them the recognition
The Royal Society of Chemistry
has recognised two Imperial
professors for their world-
leading research. Professor Sergei
Kazarian from the Department
of Chemical Engineering and
Professor Elaine Holmes from the
Department of Surgery and Cancer
have received the awards in the light
of new discoveries in the field of
concentration measurement, which
will improve the effectiveness of
pharmaceuticals and medicine.
Professor Kazarian received the Sir
George Stokes award. In an interview
with Felix, he discussed the practical
applications of his research, which
involves the use of Attenuated Total
Reflectance Fourier Transform
Infrared (ATR-FTIR) spectroscopy.
He described the ability of this
technology to reveal “what the eye
cannot see”.
Professor Kazarian described the
new imaging method as a form of
“Chemical Photography” which relies
on the vibrations of chemical bonds
and Beer’s Law, allowing scientists
to determine the concentration
distribution of proteins, lipids and
chemicals in human tissue. This is
particularly useful in analysing how
drug tablets diffuse in the body.
In the past, pharmaceutical
companies have had to rely on
trial and error to determine the
right compositions. The industry is
already using this new imagining
method to enhance the efficiency of
their products by allowing them to
predict analytically how unknown
compositions behave in the body.
This technology has further
applications in forensic science.
Professor Kazarian – a Sherlock
Holmes fan – was thrilled to see that
his research is currently being used
by the Home Office to investigate
crime scenes. ATR-FTIR spectroscopy
allows detectives to predict the age
of a fingerprint, and the sex of the
person who left it, by analysing the
chemicals present.
Professor Elaine Holmes received
this year’s Royal Society of Chemistry
Interdisciplinary Award. Her research
concerns the chemical mapping of
biological samples. Human cells
contain thousands of chemicals and
have many different concentration
profiles. Any changes to those profiles
reflects a change of the environment
or the health of the subject.
Professor Holmes’ complex
modelling of chemicals in the human
body has lead to a completely new
field of statistics within the biological
framework of the human body. She
described it as “a privilege to work in
such an exciting field of study and
one that could make a real difference
to patients’ lives.
“I feel very lucky to have a job
that I love doing. The Royal Society
of Chemistry award is indeed an
honour and the recognition of the
potential of metabolic phenotyping
as a valuable field of research in its
own right highlights the value in the
partnership between chemistry and
medicine.”
There is still time to get
involved!
Email felix @imperial.ac.uk

