EXEC NEWS
I C U G M T U E S D A Y
J A N U A R Y 2 4 t h 1 : 0 0 p m
G R E A T H A L L
AGENDA
1#Minutes of the Meeting 6 D e c e m b e r .
2.Presidents Heport.
3.Dep.Pres Report.
4*.Hon. Sec* Report.
5.Other Officers Reports.
6 . Motions.
7.A.O.B.
PRESIDENT'S REPORT TO U
G
M
TUESDAY.24TH JANUARY, 1984.
U
G
C Response.
At the end of last term a small group of Union Officers discussed the issues
of the UGC letter concerning the financial restrictions that are likely to
be imposed on institutions of higher education. Over the Christmas period
Doth Peter Burt, External Affairs Officer, and I drafted separate responses
based on the discussion. Two days before the deadline, Monday 9th January,
the group, slightly diminished, met again and commented on both responses.
W
e found it difficult to combine the two replies although both agreed on
essential issues, they expressed these views differently. As such both
reports were submitted to College. W
e .are expected to reply to the College
draft in February.
f4,0QQ.
At the end of last term, I discussed with the College Secretary the
possibility of College financing the installing of showers in the Volleyball
Court area. John Smith agreed that College would finance this project, to
the degree of £4,000.
Suggestions & Complaints Committee.
i have been asKed by the College to chair this Committee for the remainder
of m
y year. Although, an extra committment, I feel that this can only benefit
the Union as we now should have an increased ability to attempt to persuade
College of the various improvements necessary in the refectory system.
Southside Disco.
After various letters re the noise level on a Friday night and concern for
neighbours, I met with various College representatives to discuss the issue.
After a lengthy discussion they agreed that there was no cause for concern
at present, i f different events were held in the area, i.e. higher noise level,
then provision would have to be made. College accepted the responsibility of
improving the sound proofing of the area.
Trie appearance of a new magazine last week has started a debate within ICU.
The magazine was produced by members of the College Administration without
m
y knowledge. Throughout last term the sabbaticals were approached on
several occasions about the editorial style of Felix. W
e consistently
maintained that editorial freedom was an established right for Felix within
IC Union and that w
e were unprepared to attempt to curb that freedom. Since
Christmas several queries were received in the Union Office from members of
the administration about the running of Felix. Expecting some sort of problem
from College w
e began to consider the implications i f the College persisted.
W
e were not expecting to see the publication of a rival-
I discussed with the Rector why this magazine had been published. There appears
to be two primary reasons:
i) It was to be used as a method of communication between staff.
ii) College felt that as the Sabbaticals were unwilling to comment on the
style of Felix, they should produce a magazine making their
dissatisfaction known.
At present it is uncertain whether this new magazine will continue.
H
O
N
O
R
A
R
Y SECRETARY'S REPORT TO UGM.
1. Insurance.
a) Union Vans: After some discussion between Malcolm Aldridge, Commercial
Union and myself, Commercial Union are going to completely revise the
insurance premium for the Union Vans. Apparently I should receive a revised
estimate by February, when the policy is due for renewal.
b) Union Equipment: All the revised inventories I had received from Union
Clubs before Christmas have now been sent off to the insurers. The insurers
will be using these as a guide to draw up a new blanket policy for the Unions
Equipment. This new policy, when drawn up will mean that any new equipment
bought or borrowed by a club will be automatically insured - even without
informing the insurers.
2. Union Duplicating Service.
At present I have two Gestetners working, however the old one is very
unreliable and keeps eating up stencils. The Photocopier is working but needs
servicing as it is giving out quite dirty photocopies - I a
m at present waiting
for someone from Cannon to come round and take care of this.
3. Elections.
a) Sabbatical Elections: The voting for the Sabbatical elections will take
place in a l l departments on Monday 5th March and Tuesday 6th March between
the hours of 1
0
.
0
0
a
m and 5pm. Papers for these elections shall go up on the
Union Noticeboard (Main Entrance to the Union Building) at 9
.
3
0
a
m on Monday
13th February and come down at 5
.
3
0
p
m on Friday 24th February 1984.
Anyone wishing to stand for a sabbatical post needs to be a Full member of
the Students Union and will need one proposer and twenty seconders - a l l of
which must be full members of the Students' Union.
Election Rules, Publicity Rules and Job Descriptions are available from m
e in
the Union Office.
b) Departmental Representative Elections: The elections for the Departmental
Representatives will take place between 10.00 a
m and 5.00pm in a l l departments
on Tuesday 14th February. Papers for these elections will go up in all
departments at 9.30am on Tuesday 24th January and come down at 5
.
3
0
p
m on
Monday 6th February.
Anyone wishing to stand has to be a Full member of the Students' Union and
will need one proposer and ten seconders all of which must be Full members of
the Students' Union. To find out what the job entails, see your current
departmental representative.
c) Ballot Box Attendants: Anyone wanting to earn £1.75 per hour by being ballot
box attendants during the elections, come to the Union Office and give in
your name and the time you will be available.
« * * * # * # * * «
DEPUTY PRESIDENT'S REPORT TO UGM.
M O T I O N S
1. Volleyball Court.
Netting has now been placed over the shutes and in the roof of the Volleyball
Court and benches provided in the changing rooms. College have agreed to pay
for the installation of showers in the mens and ladies changing rooms and this
should take place some time this term. I a
m very pleased that the Volleyball
Court will at last have reasonable changing facilities particularly as this
has dragged on for over eighteen months.
2. Union Building.
The Furniture in the Union Building has at the time of writing been completely
sorted out, making the Union Building almost reasonable but I a
m sure by the
time of this meeting the forces of entropy will have caused the usual
migration of chairs and tables. The East Staircase should be in the process
of being painted, and the infamous locks at the back of the Old Kitchen have
been fitted at last.
3. Bare and Refectories.
M
O
T
I
O
N O
N G
R
E
N
A
D
A A
M
D LEBANON.
There are discussions going on within College that should lead to further
reductions in bar prices. I a
m continually hassling College about management
problems in the bars and refectories including the i l l fated introduction of
new software. By the time of this meeting there will have been another
Refectory Committee at which some progress should have been made. I live in
hope. The guest beer for February is Ruddles.
4. Estimates for Expenditure 84/85.
Most clubs should be providing estimates of expenditure for next session to
their relevant officers. The first draft will be produced early in February
at which point I will start discussions with the Financial Secretary.
5. Transport.
Frazer Wigley has had to resign as Transport Officer and I would like to thank
him for all the hard work he has done. HL0, our latest van has now arrived
and has been received very favourably.
Proposed by: Ian Wingfield, OSES PG.
Seconded by: David Eagerton, OSES PG.
1. The current foreign policy of military intervention by €he U
S
A in Grenada
and Lebanon.
2. The transgression of international law that the invasion of Grenada
represents, and its similarity to the Argentine invasion of the Falkland
Islands.
3. The freedom of the peoples of Grenada and Lebanon to decide their o
w
n
destiny, free from foreign military occupation.
4. The doubt raised by American military intervention in Grenada over control-
of cruise missiles deployed in this country.
ICU Believes:
1. That no one country has the right to invade another and overthrow its
government purely on the basis of political and ideological motives.
2. That the indigenous peoples of Grenada and Lebanon have a right to self
determination free from foreign manipulation.
3. That American control over nuclear weapons based in Britain represents a
threat to the security of this country.
ICU Instructs:
1. The President of this Union to write to President Reagan and the U.S.
Ambassador to Britain condemning American military intervention in
Grenada and Lebanon.
2. That a representative of the overthrown Government of Grenada be invited
to address the Union by the Secretary.
3. That the Union actively campaign against the dangers of American control
of cruise missiles in this country.

