R e v i e w s ]
by Joseph Caruso
at Wyndhams Theatre.
Set in 1890s, 'Little Lies' is a free
adaptation of Pinero's long-running Victorian
farce 'The Magistrate'. Its humour hinges on
the deceit that Mrs Posket practised on her
marriage to the eminently respectable Mr
Posket, the magistrate of Pinero s original
title. On the death of her first husband,
finding herself of an 'awkward age' for
remarriage, she took the liberty of docking
five years from her age. Unfortunately, she
had to do the same for her son Cis, who
unaware of his true age, prances round the
stage in a monstrously tight Eton jacket.
Much comedy comes from his unnaturally
(for a boy of 14) precocious tastes in
gambling, drinking and lusting atter his young
music teacher. Played with exuberant high
spirits by Dominic Guard, he is aided by
Leonard Maguire as. Wyke, the bleary,
doddery old butler, who sneaks Cis the best
port when no-one's looking.
The moment Sir John Mills CBE walks on,
he gets a large hand from the audience (most
blue-rinsed pensioners in my Saturday
matinee performance). Whether this appro-
bation is due to his knighthood, or whether to
sheer envy at his audacity at stepping on a
stage at 75 years sold, is unclear, but it most
certainly occurs before the noble knight gets
a chance to speak. But do not fear!—he gives
a most accomplished performance as Mr
Posket, a bandy-legged uxorious old gentle-
man, full of affectionate concern for his wild
stepson.
This prediliction, however, leads him into
trouble, when the unscrupulous young Cis,
lures him into a night on the town at the
risque Hotel des Princes. Owned by a
flamboyant Frenchwoman Mandame Blond,
the establishment is raided during the course
of the evening by Posket's own men.
Meanwhile, Mrs Posket (a distraught
Connie Booth) has secretly also gone to the
hotel, with her sister Charlotte. She has
learnt that an old friend of both Poskets,
Colonel Lukyn, has newly-arrived from
abroad, and aware that he attended Cis's
christening, has come to warn him against
revealing her 'little lie'. But who should be
with Lukyn, but Captain Horace Vale, whose
heart has been broken by none other than
Charlotte. Here Malcolm Sinclair, as a kind
of morose John Clessish character, gives one
of the funniest performances in the play.
1 will not reveal any more, but just add that
everyone's deceptions are finally exposed,
leaving the characters to live happily (and
one hopes, more honestly) forever.
Claire Moss
• ^ i v i m t M i a * mdtm
^ by Christopher Hampton
at the Oiivic NT.
When the 'emigres' arrived in Southern
California during the 1930s. writers, artists
and poets driven from their German and
Austrian homeland by the vise of the Third
Reich, they were to find awaiting for them a
life rich in material and financial n waif
Stripped of their culture, however, and un
able to write freely to earn a living wage,
many of them felt Hollywood was far from
paradise, but more a living hell.
Into this world steps Odon von Horvath, a
promising playwright especially reinf^rrial
by Howard for the olay (in reality Hotvath
was killed by the falling branch ot a chestnut
tree, long before he ever reached America).
Horvath tells of his rise to prosperity, of the
people he knew there (amongst them Brecht
and the Brothers Mann) and the agony they
suffered in writing the endlessly dro'H
scenarios demanded of them by their em-
ployers (principally MGM and Warner Bro-
thers). Ultimately many of these authors
were publicly disgraced by the McCarthy
movement, having moved towards socialism
after the humiliation and suffering experi-
enced by their fellow men in the hands of the
Nazis.
It is a very light hearted, but excellently
balanced production. As a black .comedy,
rich in irony it mimics the glamorous sheen of
the 1930s' film industry (and in passing, the
wave of trashy technicolour remakes in the
70s) whilst still retaining the gravity essential
to the play's outcome. If the humour tends to
(Right) Berthold Brecht (Ian McDiamid in
'Tales From Hollywood'. (Above)
Barbara Murray and John Mills in 'Little
Lies'.
Student-standby tickets are available at
most West End theatres an hour before
the production, but it is advisable to
check with the box office first.
glitter rather than sparkle in the introduction,
become:', unnoticeable as the play
gathers momentum jp~ the characters art"
oiioweci to develop.
Hampton has used Horvath in order u.
candidly emphasise some persona! aspects
ol the characters which was hidden in tht'ir
published work. Heinrkh Mann (Philip
Locke), an outmoded author, is a more
pathetic figure than photographs of him
suggest, pressurised by his wife and severely-
criticised by his brother, a mature, middle
aged man basking in his literary success. Ian
McDiarmid gives a fine performance as
Berthold Brecht, warming to his
character and making full use of the innova
five techniques employed by him and
cribbed—with kind permission—by
Hampton. In fact the only weak performance
is that of John Bluthal. whose performance of
Money, the millionaire and film tycoon, is
Stiff, cliched and thankfully short.
Unfortunately the play's introduction
greatly.lacks continuity. The open stage at
the Olivier Theatre is a little too large for the
sets the production encompasses, so that
characters are shunted about on armchairs
and other pieces of furniture like well paying
residents of a Beverley Hills Rest Home. The
'lighting was effective, though limited. Dim-
ming the sets perhaps wouid have allowed
smoother scene changes and cleared up
confusions as to whom the principal was
addressing, his companions or the audience.
At times, neither seemed to know.
Tales From Hollywood runs until early
February, which is a pity because it was
received little publicity next to Jean Seberg,
National Theatre's other major production at
the Olivier. I found it both amusing and
informative and 1 look forward to future
productions from this young author.
John Burgess
Page 6 Friday, 20 January, 19841 1FELIX

