C l u b s
R a g
At the moment we are looking for a couple of i
people to fill some vacant positions in the Rag j
Committee, Of primary importance is the
appointment of a Rag Mag Editor. The i
position of Rag Treasurer is also up for grabs, i
If anybody is interested in either of the jobs I
suggest that they have a chat with either Carl
Burgess in the Sports Shop or myself in the
:
Union Office or in the Elec Eng department.
Job Description: Rag Mag Editor
1
. Compilation of new jokes. Best done by
hanging around in bars with a tape recorder,
as it takes much less coordination to press a
button than it does to write.
2. Coordination of humorous articles
written exclusively for the Rag Mag by and
for the thinking intelligentsia of IC. You must
force people to write for you if necessary.
3. The procuration of cartoons and
articles from humorous literature which j
would be of interest to the average IC student.
This is done by writing to the publishers and
paying the necessary fee.
4. The writing of lots of material to fill in J
the spaces left by censorship/bad jokes etc.
5. Above all try to be original and makej
the IC Rag Mag far superior to any other in
the country. You must produce a Rag Mag
that you, yourself, would pay 40p to read.
6. Learn the"usage of the machinery in the
F E L I X Office.
Job Description: Rag Treasurer j
The job of Rag Treasurer is quite staight
forward and enjoyable. I am sorry to be
giving it up, but the combination of chair-
man, treasurer and academic work is just too
much. The responsibilities are composed of:
—looking after the Rag accounts.
—ensuring that all money raised is paid
into the bank.
—taking bills to the Senior Treasurer for
payment.
—keeping a running record of personal
totals.
and a few other things.
If anybody is interested I will be glad to
discuss the job with them and pass on any
additional information.
The appointments for the above positions
will take place at the Rag Committee meet-
ings on 26 Jan in the U D H at 12:45pm.
James Benbow
W i n e
A quick word to let the general public know-
that Tuesday 21 Feb is the Wine Tasting
Society's Annual Dinner. The guest speaker
will be M r Carr-Tayior from the Sussex Carr-
Taylor vineyards. It should prove to be an
excellent evening especially after M r Carr-
Taylor has just reaped a bumper harvest of
grapes.
Tickets available on Tuesday wine tasting
evenings from committee members.
Tai Chi Chuan Liberal Club
(Supreme Ultimate Fist)
Tai-Chi Chuan is the system of exercise,
meditation and self-defence which the
Chinese practice in the parks in the early
mornings.
The Tai-Chi form is a set of slow, extremely
beautiful, movements based on movements
of animals and martial arts applications.
The practice of these movements causes a
flow of energy or Chi to move through the
acupuncture meridians of the body.
Legend has it that Tai-Chi was developed
in the 13th century and said to have been
inspired by a battle between a crane and a
snake. The crane struck strongly and per-
sistently, while the snake melted away from
each attack.
The strong active movements of the crane
and the yielding motion of the snake, sym-
bolise the Y'ang and Yin forces in the Universe
and Tai-Chi is an expression of this natural
flow.
Tai-Chi Chuan is principally an exercise in
health and relaxation and in later stages an
extremely powerful system of self-defence.
Anyone interested in learning this art
please meet in the students union gymnasium
on Tuesday 24 Jan at 1:00pm where a demon-
stration will be given.
over Club
The Hoverclub has recently been reformed
and although coming under the City and
Guilds' banner, membership is open to every-
one in College. We currently have one func-
tioning (just!) hovercraft and over Christmas
a hull and lift mechanism for another was
bought. Consequently, some help will be
required in constructing the new craft, from
fitting the engine to sewing a skirt.
By the time you are reading this, we should j
have been out to the Thames for our first of '
many events, both 'hovering' and social. New
members are most welcome, so please come
along to our next meeting at 12:40 on
Tuesday in Southside Upper Lounge.
Margaret Thatcher's attempt to 'Streamline
the Cities' in a manner very similar to Henry
VIII's streamlining of Anne Boleyn will have
a dramatic effect on the accountability of
London administrators to the ratepayers who
they are supposed to be serving. Quite apart
from the proposal's effects on London' sala-
mander population, the plans concerning
I L E A and London Transport have a direct
effect on Imperial College students. If you are
interested in what can be done about this,
come along to the Lounge above Southside at
7:30 next Tuesday.
That blasted leopard has finally been passed
back to its rightful owners and so, for the first
time in over two years, we are without a
second mascot: so, any information leading
to capture will be rewarded, as the Old Bill
say.
Last Sunday, we held the Rarg 3-legged Pub
Crawl which was a minor success with £54
raised, and lots of alcohol downed, thanks
especially to the maniacs from First Year
Maths who decided on a 6-leg crawl.
On Sunday we have the R C S U New Year
Barnight—this was supposed to be the Xmas
one but we had so much fun outsinging
Guilds at their Xmas Barnight we moved it.
So come along for beer, songs, boat and yard
races and anything else, from 7:00pm on-
wards in the Union Bar.
The following evening the hardened al-
coholics—ie the officers and reps—gather in
the Lounge Lizards for the General Com-
mittee at 6:00pm so if you're on it, come or
apologise.
Coming soon on 5 Feb is the Rugby 7s
tournament so get a team together and tell
Digby Holman ( R C S R F C ist X V Capt)
about it.
Finally don't forget the Annual Dinner on
Friday 3 February at the International Hotel.
Tickets cost £12.50 each and are available
from the office and officers.
W E L L S O C L E C T U R E
J
FELIX)}
Welcome back to another wonderful term
packed full of J-Soc parties, speakers, outings
etc. For those of you who missed our A G M at -
the end of last term our new Committee .
consists of Laurence Gergel, Francine
Sternfeld, Simon Myers, Corinne Lander,
Anthony Epstein, Jose Olausius. Speakers
this-term include a member of the Knesset
(Herut Party) and many others being planned
at the moment. For further information
contact Laurence Gergel (Maths 2).
See you at our meetings.
I Friday, 20 January, 1984\
' L A S E R B E A M
W E A P O N S '
P r o f N e w M o n d a y 7:30pm 23rd J a n

