! F o o t b a l
EDITORIAL
Not many reports this week,the guidelines seem
to be too much for you all. Still, if I can manage
it, anyone can!
The guidelines are the principles used in article
writing by every newspaper, no matter what the
subject. As a matter of fact they were approved
as an improvement over the current format, I
entirely agree with them, though I think the bit
about chucking articles in the bin is worded too
strongly.
Chris, however, seems to be missing the
point. As I said last week, there is no reason
why articles can't be creative and entertaining
when in a set format. The idea is to prevent the
worst excesses of 'in' jokes and accounts of
piss-ups which just about every article writer,
including myself, have resorted to in the past.
It is rather arrogant of Chris to assume that
he can write excellent sports reports without
any help, when the tabloid writers go on
extensive training courses.
If anyone is interested in going up to
Harlington on Wednesday afternoons to take
photographs for the sports page would they
please contact me via A C C pigeonoles or the
FELIX Office. Any photographs are always
welcome and should be submitted with the
articles, please put a return address on the back
of the photos if you want them returned safely.
And now, a sad moment in the History of
FELIX. Readers of this sacred will no doubt be
horrified to learn that this is the very last
episode ofthe cricket saga. Tears will be shed in
far flung corners of Imperial over its demise.
Seriously, thanks to whoever wrote a very
amusing account, and sorry if I took the piss a
bit!
Captain's Log. Star Date 29.6.83
Sad to see Vernon 'The Rhino' Gaskell go
home. Last hea: !i to be on the run for
exposing himself on Torquay High Street, (he
always insisted on getting changed on the way
.to cricket matches.)
Carried out the annual ritual of a two hour,
guided tour of Newton Abbot trying to find
South Devon's ground.
Then conceded 220-runs in 30 overs. Sur-
prisingly we lost, only managing to score 180
for 3 in 30 overs. Bell and another fifty equal
more beer.
The End
List of Characters
Simon 'Stan Laurel' Tear: renowned for
his funny way of scratching his head when
opposition batsman hits him for six.
James 'Martin Sneddon' Howard: Nearly
achieved the New Zealanders test figures of 0-
111 off 11 overs.
John 'Grahame Wood' Collins: bats left-
handed and can't run between the wickets.
Rob 'Jack Nicklaus' Kelly: always hits the
ball in the air.
Nev 'George Bernard' Shaw: no ball spec-
cialist similar action to a J C B in full swing.
Steve 'Abudl Qadir' Barnett: possessor of a
very supple wrist and a bald patch.
FELIX wmmmmmmummmmmmmmsm
Mixed 2 v Guys: lost 5-4
This result is not as bad as it sounds as we
only had two pairs, due to a certain female
being too paralytic to remember that she had
been selected! The team won four out of the
six games played, and ony an extremely dire
performance by myself in the last game
prevented us pulling off an astonishing vic-
tory. (How honest can I get?—Sports Ed).
The four players between them had three
horrific hangovers, two injuries and hardly
any sleep, though three of us did fall asleep on
the way to the match.
None of them managed to break any
racquets, despite the sideline being about an
inch away from the walls.
Both pairs had two easy wins and one
defeat against their first pair, neither of which
should have happened, but even as badminj
ton players can't be perfect all the time!
There was an after match piss up, but I've
banned myself from mentioning it!
Mens 3 won 7-2 and now can't fail to win,
the league, barring Chemistry PGs keeping
the Volleyball Court keys all weekend again!
There is no badminton this Friday, but
there is one next Monday and the Friday after
that. A l l those who would have turned up on -
Friday should meet in Southside for 7:30pm
and we'll have a few sets using packets of crips
as shuttles.
B a s k e t b a l l
ICBB v London Hospital: won 94-44
Top of the league!
Last year's joke (and this year's!-Sports Ed)
the ICBB team are at the top and intend to
stay there having only lost one game and that
by one basket!
The latest victory came on the first day of
term when only seven players without a coach
squashed London Hospital 94-44.
• Having lost our two American players we
I were a little unsure of ourselves but the
luninspiring play of our opponents made us
wonder if we were playing the patients and
they threatened to send half the defence to
sleep! Fortunately they woke up in time to
grab some rebounds and lob the ball up-court
for Jarret to saunter down and convert into
points. This revolutionary new style of play
gave Jarret 31 points assisted by Mackenzie
with 24 points and 5 fouls!
Incidently, if any of you out there want to
learn how to dribble, lay up, jump shoot or
even drunk (shurly shome mi-htake-Svorts Ed)
(just a few of the amazing things basketball
players can do!) do not hesitate to contact
Tim 'Shit I dropped i f Vink via Elec Eng
letter-racks.
WKUMHMFridav. 20 Januarv. 1 9 8 4 H H I
Holbein v Bernard Sunley: won 3-2
Another season of inter-house football came
to a climactic close last Sunday at Harlington
| with Holbein retaining the trophy for a
second year by narrowly defeating arch-rivals
Bernard Sunley 3-2. In a rather more subdued
| fixture Mining unexpectedly trounced Willis
Jackson 7-2 to take third place. The remain-
1
ing House, Southwell, unfortunately take the
I wooden spoon for a splendid whitewash
i having already lost all four of their games.
I would like to thank all the poor souls who
dragged themselves out of bed before ten
o'clock on Sundays to take part. This year's
competition was made particularly enjoyable
by the good spirit in which the games were
(played (ie the way Bernard Sunley didn't
i retaliate against Holbein during their attempts
t to dismember us!-Sports Ed). Thanks must
also go to Groundsman Mick Reynolds for
his customary efficiency and to Capital
i Coaches for their eventual appearances.
-Flash
r
P i n g P o n g
r
P i n g P o n g
r
P i n g P o n g
First an apology to Chris Nicolaides, re the
final report last year. The report was written
without firm knowledge of the first team's
result for the penultimate game of the year
iand as a consequence wrongly stated. The
(first team actually won, with the above said
I person excelling himself by registering three
victories.
I This week Teams 3, 4 and 5 played, with
Team 1 postponing their scheduled match.
Team 3 restarted their campaign with a
convincing victory over London University 3,
repeating their performance from earlier in
their season thus achieving an impressive
double. This victory further reinforces Team
3's strong challenge in the Division 4 promo-
tion race after lying third over the Christmas
break. Let's hope they can maintain their
present form.
Team 4 also restarted positively by taking
three games off second place Lyndhurst 3.
This could signal the beginning of a second
half of the season rally to avoid relegation
now that the team has settled down after
| some initial problems.
| Team 5 made a poor start, in not so much
that they lost but went to the wrong venue.
i Therefore the match was forfeited and Eric
Parkes is depressed. Never mind we all make
blunders (though p'raps not quite so 'orrible
ones).
Reuter
H H H N H V n a M L O H ! Page 9

