Founded in 1949 The Newspaper of Imperial College Union
Lord Flowers of Queensgate, Rector of Imperial College,
chastises Government on Overseas Students fees issue
Imperial College Don accused of being a nurd!
F O R M O S T of this term, residents of the Linstead Extension have been
capturing the interest of many I C students with delightfully cryptic little
messages in their bedroom windows.
Most of these have been relatively harmless and juvenile such as
"Falmouth S u c k s " — an early classic. But Tuesday last week, for a brief
period, the message "Monro's a nurd" was seen glaring out across the
gardens (captured by our photographer above).
It was first thought that the snide slogan may have referred to a
Linstead resident but it was later revealed that the reason it was removed
so quickly was because it referred to D r D o n Munro, Senior Warden and
Chairman of ihe Residence Committee.
Most of the Linstead residents have refused to speak to F E L I X and
even when faced with the photographic evidence refuse to comment.
However, one Linstead resident told us that the Sub-warden had advised
them to take down the letters before D r M o n r o or D r Carabine (Linstead
Warden) saw them.
THE RECTOR, Lord Flowers, reaffirmed the fundamental
aims of Imperial College in his address to open International
Week last Monday.
Imperial College was founded to give a high level of scientific
training to students from a l l over the world. F o r that reason it h a d
governors representing different countries, e.g. Australia and C a n a d a .
The College was originally intended to serve students from Europe,
then the Commonwealth, and now the whole world, and there have
been overseas students here since its formation.
This year there are 771 overseas students, which is a 20% reduction
on the last session. These students now comprise only 17% of the
student body. I n 1978/9 this percentage was 23%. This represents a
dramatic change, a n d distorts the purpose a n d character of the
College.
There are presently students from eighty-five countries, speaking
seventy-five different languages. This mix of nationalities is invaluable
for academic advancement. It provides a n incentive for solving
problems all over the world. It cultivates understanding and tolerance,
and leads indirectly towards world peace.
Some advanced courses are r u n specifically for overseas students,
and more would be if needs could be identified. In the past, academic
staff have been encouraged to do what interests them. I n future needs
must be satisfied first.
T u r n i n g to finance, the Rector said that the Government expects
£5,000 per overseas students to be paid. I C lost i n the last year or so a
quarter of its overseas students, and may continue to lose more. H e
regretted the imposition of h i g h fees, but h a d to recognise the
Government's policies of cutting public spending. H e added " t o us
the imposition of high fees to reduce the cost to the taxpayer is
administratively clumsy, educationally harmful, a n d diplomatically
disastrous".
In L o n d o n there is a high proportion of overseas students and the
consequences of higher fees were appalling, especially in medicine. " I
cannot believe that such insensitive foolishness can continue for long. I
believe the Government will see the error of its ways".
"....achievement and promise "
The College admits students on the basis of achievement a n d
promise, without regard to the student's beliefs. T h e College does not
necessarily accept the beliefs or actions of its home a n d overseas
students. They are less concerned with the beliefs of a student's parents,
sponsers or government. The right to come here must be supported, no
matter how strong our o w n belief. " T h i s basic principle must be
u p h e l d " . The College, as an institution, is not empowered to take sides,
and will achieve nothing if it does. By upholding the right of the
individual, and the rule of reason, we can help men and women to see
the folly of conflict and oppression.
In answer to questions, L o r d Flowers doubted whether overseas
students would go back to being charged the same as home students.
H a l f the purpose of a university, especially Imperial College, is
research, a n d the Government's policies were rducing the number of
overseas students on these courses. H e hoped however that I C would be
well positioned to take advantage of any upturn in the economy by
having more research sponsored by industry.
No. 577 Friday, February 20,1981 Free!

