Graffitti
GRAFFITTI IS A screen printing club for those
who have never heard of it.
For those lucky people who have, I would like
to point out that all work undertaken for other
clubs/individuals such as tickets and posters is
carried out in members own free time, so, please
if you want us to print something, try and give us
as much notice as possible, preferably a month.
But, of course, you could do it yourself if you so
wished — try something new!
Dave Poley
M E 2 Secretary
SF Soc
W E L C O M E once again to the SF Soc bulletin,
the only bulletin that entertains conjecture, that
refuses to give way to the onslaught of the cash
nexus, and is replete with homilies reflecting the
profound alienation caused by the fragmentation
inherent in the onset of post-industrial society.
First, several germane thoughts intimately
connected with future events involving the
society, society in general, and in particular.
March 10. Mark it in your diary. Carve it on
your knees. Emboss it on your heart. For that is
the day of days on which the society improves the
quality of life by showing the Rocky Horror
Picture Show. Not to be missed.
March 8. My birthday. Also Women's Day in
the People's Republic of Mongolia.
Feb 20. B S F A Meeting. Meet Hammersmith
tube 7:30pm.
Short Note on the film Stalker. It is based on
the book Roadside Picnic by Arkadi and Boris
Strugatski, famous Russian S F writers. A s far as I
,know, only one film reviewer has bothered to
mention this.
Golem 100, Alfred Bester's most recent
published novel is out in paperback. The said
author is definitely one of the top five S F writers
in the world, living or dead. It is his worst novel so
far, which makes it merely very good indeed
instead of the best recently published book. The
Soc library hasn't got a copy, and they're not
getting mine!
This SF Soc bulletin stops suddenly.
Ken Mann
SF Soc Publicity Officer and Pocket Saviour
Operatic
Diversion
Diversion
'TIS L O U D in the praise of the Arts Council of
Great Britain I sing! And this outburst of offbeat
Huzzah! and Hey Nonny! all caused by a cut.
Aye, there are benefits of fiscal Thatcherism! For
the wonderful City of Wallasey Operatic Society
have, alas for them, been denied a donation from
the A r t s C o u n c i l and hence have had to
reschedule their tour of the South East this
spring. Obviously, when economies are essential,
the organisational mind leaps immediately into the
thriftiness nay, downright cheapness, of the
Imperial College Union Concert Hall.
For four nights, March 11-14, the roof shall be
raised by the melodies of that neglected
masterpiece, Maseratis "II Fomicazione". It will
be performed in an English translation of
Michelangelo Verdi's libretto, on the very same
set that was used in triumphal performance at la
Scala (a famous operatic theatre apparently
named after a bingo hall in Runcorn).
A limited number of tickets, at the discount
price of £1.00 are available from the Dramatic
Society. Collar the most adjacent member (of
Dramsoc) now.
Compiled by Phil Webb
Results
Wednesday, Feb 11,1981
Rugby
IC 1st X V V Kingston Poly 13-9
IC 2nd X V V Q E C 1st 24-0
Football
Q E C 1st
IC 2nd XI V R H C 2-2
IC 5th XI V Charing X 9-2
IC 6th XI V Charing X 0-6
Hockey
Charing X
Guilds V St Barts Hosp 3-2
R C S V U C L 0-6
j v w w w v w v w w w w m f w w v
Football Sixths
AFTER being beaten in the semi-final of the
cup on a day when the blustery wind stifled
the natural fluency of the Sixths football, the
Sixths were back to the nitty gritty of league
football.
The game started well for the Sixths with an
early goal; Coussens took full advantage of
some hesitancy in the C h a r i n g C r o s s
defence, ran through and slotted the ball into
the net. This goal inspired some of the best
football the Sixths have played this year and
they soon went two up following a fine
run and narrow angled shot by Chamberlain.
The Sixths should have gone further ahead
but Bradley missed a penalty after Chamber-
lain had been brought down in the area.
Charing Cross, to their credit, came back
into the game and scored two goals so that at
half time the scores were level.
The Sixths regained the lead soon after the
restart; Roche intercepted a backpass and
scored his fifteenth goal of the season. The
Sixths regained a two goal advantage when
Chamberlain scored following Milner's free
kick. The Sixths appeared to be well on top at
this stage, but performed their usual charitable
act by giving the opposition a goal ten minutes
from the end leaving the result in doubt up to
the final whistle
TEAM: Veats, Higham. Bradley. Haberlin,
Davies. Tinkler, Milner. Gartside. Coussens,
Roche. Chamberlain.
Results
Saturday, Feb 14, 1981
Rugby
IC 1st X V V Sideup 2 9-10
IC 2nd X V V Sidcup 3 10-20
Football
IC 5th XI V Chelsea 10-1
IC 6th XI V St Thomas Hosp 2-2
Hockey
IC 1st XI V Ramarqhia Sabba 2-2
IC 2nd XI Enfield 0-1
IC 3rd XI V Uxbridge 3-1
Snooker
THE B TEAM won again, hurray! They beat a
mediocre Q M C team, who were more
interested in beer and food than snooker. We
had to rely on two substitutes, namely Algy
and Holt, who both won and now seemed
destined for stardom or a permanent place in
the B team.
The C team who were scheduled to play
Charing Cross were bitterly disappointed
when their opponents failed to turn up and
were forced to take the match five-nil.
The handicap-singles tournament will start
shortly, so get your name down (Snooker
Lounge noticeboard) soon.
Football Sixths
THE Sixths faced their toughest match of the
season against their main promotion rivals.
As expected few chances were created by
either side in this competitive match.
With Milner being switched to centre
forward to deputise for the injured, Roche
and Caseau playing in midfield, the Sixths
took a while to settle down.
IC took the lead after half an hour when
good work from Davies allowed Chamberlain
to break free down the left and cross for
Milner to score with a fine header. The Sixths
had to withstand considerable pressure but at
half time were still leading.
After the restart St Thomas' increased the
pace of the game and began to threaten the
IC goal more frequently. The scores were
soon level when a St Thomas' forward
scored from close range.
The Sixths were spurred into action by this
goal and managed to create several promising
chances before, following a corner, Maynard
steamed into the penalty area and thumped
the ball in the back of the net.
The Sixths lead, however, was short lived
with St Thomas' equalising ten minutes
before the end and could have snatched a late
victory, but for a good save by Hampton and a
Bradley clearance off the line.
T E A M : Hampton, Higham, Bradley,
Maynard, Davies, Tinkler, Gartside, Caseau,
Coussens, Milner, Chamberlain.
Hockey Thirds
H A V I N G made a s c e n i c tour of West
Middlesex, we stumbled upon Uxbridge and
found a pitch, where for the third time in a
row, we had to construct the goalposts.
Since neither team had bought an umpire,
Leinster was volunteered, and he obviously
enjoyed his short spell of meglomania, since,
after only half an hour, he had sent off Saluib
Singh Patel of Uxbridge for grievous bodily
harm of Shindler's head. IC took advantage of
this, going 1-0 up, scored by Mitchell in true
indeterminate style. Five minutes into the
second half, Wylie put us further ahead after
convincingly beating four blades of grass and
a goalpost with some sensational stickwork.
This encouraged Uxbridge to counter,
though they were kept out by Purdy, who
made an impressive debut in goal. The
opposition then decided upon a verbal form
of attack, but it was totally ineffective since
our umpire cannot understand Indian. IC
rounded off an inept performance with
Mitchell scoring a third, while Hughes scored
the best goal of the game, deflecting a shot
into the root of our net.
TEAM: Purdy, Pound, Leinster, Sawers,
Shindler, Moron, Hughes, Hopkins, Taylor,
Wylie, Mahers, Michell.
FEUX, February 20,1981 Page 11

