Reviews
Certificate X . Starring Robert De Niro,
Joe Pesci. Directed by Martin Scorsese.
Now showing at Notting Hill Gate, Classic
Chelsea and Studio Oxford St.
A c r a s h i n g hand sends M a r c e l C e r d a n
reeling and the fight is stopped. It is 1949 and
Jake la Motta, the Bronx Bull, has won the title
Middleweight Champion of the World.
Raging Bull is based on the bravely honest
autobiography of L a Motta, a tough Italian-
American who quickly falls from being World
Champion to failed night club owner.
The film is not just about boxing; scenes
from various fights punctuate a look at one
man's personal life; his violent temper and
suspicion outside the ring help him to win
fights, yet ruin his relationships with his
brother Joey and wife Vickie. He refuses to
deal with the fight racketeers and is thus
prevented from contending the title for many
years.
The boxing scenes are short and to the
point. Fists cause deep thuds and the boxers
sweat, blow and bleed their way to glory. Slow
motion enhances the moment of victory, as L a
Motta revels in his trade. H e retires and buys a
night club in which he gives a self-humiliating
comedy act.
In the lead role Robert D e Niro gives a
marvellous performance — he firstly trained as
a boxer and then gained an amazing sixty
pounds in weight to show L a Motta's later
years. H e is ably supported by Joe Pesci as his
manager and brother, Joey.
The underlying theme of human tragedy is
at times 'quite unbelievable. After all, who in
their right minds could blow all their money
and ruin a marriage to a beautiful wife as Jake
did? It is, however, true and we see a blend of
human emotion and violent action which make
the film entertaining, up to a point.
Thus I reach the controversy surrounding
the film. A s you n o doubt know, there was a
danger at first that it would not be shown in
this country when the two dominant cinema
chains refused to show it. Their reason? That it
was firstly too violent and secondly full of bad
language. Whilst both of these elements are
evident in the film, it is not just a ruthless
exploitation movie. It would not appeal to the
prudish or squeamish, but it is a tragedy to
think that the people running the vast majority
of our cinemas do not believe that there is a
sufficiently adult audience, who can discrimin-
ate between good and bad films, for them to
make a reasonable profit. It is an intelligently
made and artistically important film, which
should be seen by those interested in such
powerful real life dramas.
Mark Smith
ERRATUM
O n the front page of this issue we incorrectly
refer t o the R e c t o r as L O R D F l o w e r s of
Queensgate, this should, of course, have read
B A R O N Flowers of Queensgate.
Also, in the Editorial on the back page the
Editor refers to the Rector as "sensitive", this
should have read "sensible".
Robert De Niro has not surprisingly been nominated for an Oscar for his portrayal of Jake La
Motta. He achieved the startling transformation from boxer (left) to overweight slob (right) in only
two months.
"Battle Beyond The Stars"
Battle Beyond The Stars (A, Warner West End, ABC Fulham Rd) is a harmless sci-fi romp from
the Roger Corman stable. Evil warlord Sador (John Saxon) arrives at the planet Akir with an
ultimatum - submit to my rule or I'll turn your planet into a star with my "stellar converter"
(Yipee!).
Not surprisingly the pacifist residents of Akir take offence and send Shad (Richard Thomas) off
to recruit mercenaries. He collects a motley crew - Space Cowboy, Gelt, Nanelia, Cayman (a
huge reptile), Nestor and the voluptuous St Exmin, a valkiri warrior whose ample bosom is only
just restrained by her flimsy costumes.
They return to Akir for a shoot out - in true Magnificent Seven tradition (the film from which i
the plot has been grafted into space). Made on a low budget, the effects add a little glitter to an
otherwise dull film. The occasional flashes of humour are enjoyable, but I doubt whether even the
most faithful scifi college students would find it rewarding. The still shows Cayman and his two
sidekicks the Kelvins (thermal twins!), an example of some of the wonderful make-up used.
Page 8 FELIX, February 20, 198/

