Liz's Wee Bit
Insurance
There have been rather a lot of incidents of
property being stolen over the last few months in
various parts of College Residence. The initial
problem was the disappearance of several items
of luggage from the basement of Linstead Hall.
Following discussions with M r Reeves, the Chief
Security Officer, a receipt system has been
brought into operation. T h e messenger in
Linstead Hall has been issued with a triplicate
receipt book; one receipt is attached to the item
of luggage, one is given to the student and one
remains with the messenger. The luggage will not
be released until the receipt is presented to the
messenger. This system will hopefully tighten up
the security of the area and try to prevent luggage
being stolen as the Insurance Policy now states
that theft cover applies only where there is
evidence of forceable and violent entry.
I cannot stress how important it is for you to
take care that your rooms are locked and that
any valuables are locked away or are separately
insured. Students can individually extend the
policy to include accidental breakage or loss to
specified items s u c h as c a m e r a s , stereo
equipment, jewellery, etc., on application to
Endsleigh and payment of an additional premium.
If anyone would like any advice on this matter
please don't hesitate to get in touch with me.
INCOST
Preparations for the conference are advancing
very well. The working group which is to discuss
'Preparation for a Scientific or Technical Degree'
has at last got off the ground — thanks to Shezi
and Andy for volunteering. The other three
groups are progressing well and have attracted
some very interesting speakers.
At the end of January I was visited by the
Director of U N E S C O , M r James McDivitt who
has been very kind in giving us financial support
to the tune of $1,000. U N E S C O will also be
sponsoring two delegates from underdeveloped
countries. These students are to be found and
have their travel and conference fees paid by
U N E S C O .
Tickets have been booked for the delegates to
attend 'Evita' and a visit to Silwood Park has been
arranged for the Sunday. Anyone else who would
be interested in helping with the organisation,
please get in touch with me.
Elections
Papers went up on Monday, February 16 in the
Union Lower Lounge, for the four sabbatical
posts. Voting will be held in all departments on
Monday, 9 and Tuesday 10 March.
Dep Rep nomination papers go up on Monday,
February 23 in each department with elections
taking place on Monday, March 16.
The papers for the other officers: A A O , E A O ,
Welfare Officer, U L U Rep, Rag Chairman, U G M
Chairman and I C C A G Chairman will be posted in
the Union Lower Lounge on Thursday, February
26. The elections for these posts will take place at
the U G M on Thursday, March 12 at 1:00pm in
the Great Hall.
Volunteers are needed to man ballot boxes on
Monday 9, Tuesday 10, and Monday, 16 of March
from 10:00am to 5:00pm. Students will be paid
£1.00 per hour. Anyone interested please see me
or Jen in the Union Office.
U G M s
The attendance at the U G M held on February 5
was rather poor to say the least. I was as
disappointed as everyone else. The publicity
organised for the meeting was of the same
quantity as had been produced for the previous
meetings; 2,000 copies of Exec News which were
distributed from Monday to Thursday. Further
issues were distributed around the Refectories,
the Union Lower Lounge, and the J C R at about
11:30am on the Thursday morning.
PWP have kindly taken over my suggestion of a
working party to produce ways of encouraging
attendance, but I am only sorry that Owen Green
and William Cortazzi (Bill the Mole?) felt they
could not offer any helpful ideas on this issue. I
thought Tim Lawes' suggestions very construc-
tive and I hope to have a chat with him about
them. Anyone else who thinks they can help more
than welcome to attend the P W P meeting on
Friday, February 20 at 12:40pm in the Union
Office or come and see me.
I entirely agree with Steve in his remarks about
the subject matter submitted this year to U G M s .
If y o u feel that the subjects which have been
submitted do not appeal to you then please
formulate a motion which is interesting to you and
hopefully to other students as well. The motion
deadline for the next UGM is Thursday,
February 26, 1981.
Colours
The deadline for nominations for Social Colours
will be the last day of this term, Friday, March 20.
Nominations and their justifications should be
handed to me in the Union Office.
Sorry this is so lengthy but do think about
submitting a motion and remember the next
U G M is on Thursday, March 5 at 1:00pm in the
Great Hall.
Hope to see you there.
Welfare
Matters Raised
Haldane Library
The Haldane Library Committee have formed a
working party, of which I am a member, to
consider the relationship of the Haldane to the
Lyon Piayfair Library and to discuss library
facilities for the Humanities ODtions.
At its first meeting last week the following
points were discussed:
1. Whether course textbooks for under-
graduate humanities options should be in the
Haldane or the Lyon Piayfair Library, and what
the borrowing arrangements should be (e.g.
restricted loan for books used specifically for
essays, which will be needed by many students
over a short period).
2. The possibility of merging the two libraries
with one main entrance and one issue desk,
allowing free access to the Haldane collection
through the Lyon Piayfair Library.
We need student opinion on this (especially
that of people taking Humanities options) so can
anyone interested please either come and see me
or drop a note into the Union Office by Monday,
March 9.
London Student Travel
LST is looking for Representatives, especially
from Halls and House, to distribute a few leaflets,
posters, etc., for which you will get a £5.00
voucher off your holiday. Anyone interested
please come and see me as soon as possible.
LST are also holding a Trade Fair on Tuesday,
March 3, in the JCR. There will be about twenty-
five travel operators coming so if you're intending'
to travel this Easter or Summer make a note in
your diary, and look out for more details.
Rape Alarms
I have now found a supplier who can sell me the
hand-held repell-alarms (which I've previously
written about) for only £2.50, so if anyone wants
one at this new low price can they come and see
me as soon as possible so I can judge whethei
there's enough demand to make a bulk order, i
Cheap Tube Fares?
John and 1 recently went to a meeting at City
University to get all the Universities, Colleges and
Polytechnics in London together to try and
persuade London Transport to give concession-
ary rates on tubes and buses for students. Soon
there should be a campaign starting and a petition
going around, so when it does I hope you'll all sign
it, as I'm sure you're all in favour of cheaper fares.
QUOORRUMM!
The post of Union General Meeting Chairperson
for the 1981/2 session is to be elected soon. The
papers go up on February 26, come down on
March 9 with the hustings at the U G M on March
12. Have you the nerve to hold back 300 (you'll be
lucky) screaming heathens and the ability to run a
meeting to its standing orders? In that case you're
half way there. If you'd like to stand and have any
questions, see Liz Lindsay, Hon Sec or Jon Firth,
Mech Eng 3.
Since it seems that some landlords are still fixing
electricity meters above the legal resale limit of
4.77p per unit perhaps more positve action is
needed. If you are concerned about your meter
the London Electricity Consultative C o u n c i l
would like to know about it, the number to ring is
638 4803. They will tell you how to check that you
are in fact paying too much and, if need be, advise
you to initiate legal proceedings. However, a
friendly word of warning to the landlord of your
intentions may well cause him to think again.
Meanwhile, in desperation at the high cost of
electricty, some people are turning to a cheaper
form of heating — parafin stoves. I am told by
Bob Foggan, our fire chief, that they cannot be
used in any College accommodation since parafin
stoves and students are a highly combustible
combination! However, if you like outside College
and decide to use this form of heating make sure
you have a heater stamped with BS (British
Standard) 3300. This ensures that anyone given
to staggering or fumbling around in the dark can
knock it over without setting themselves or
anyone else alight (the end result of 15 specific
laboratory tests which hav eto be passed before
the kitemark of the BS Institution is awarded). It
is now illegal to sell a paraffin heater without the
BS label and consequently many insurance
companies will not pay up for fire damage if a
heater other than a B S one caused the fire. It
doesn't end there either. Bob tells me that the
stoves should be taken outside for refilling, and
even the paraffin used should comply with the BS
code
Another type of risk that we get queries about
are T V licences. Unfortunately when the Post
Office goes on the prowl it seems to operate on
the principle first seen, first served. In other
words, the unsuspecting Flatsharer who opens
the door may well end up receiving the summons,
even if there are ten other people watching the
box and the bloke who bought it left the country
two years ago. And you can't always rely on the
folks back home since their licence only covers
you if the T V is purely portable, that is, without
any sockets for mains connection.
Finally, just a reminder about the new dental
regulations, due to commence at the end of
March. If you're 19 or 20 you will no longer get
free treatment under the NHS. However, all is not
lost for anyone over 18 paying a fairly high rent
since this will normally bring you into the category
able to claim a refund during term time as well as
the holidays. For further information about this
ask your dentist or come and consult our leaflets.
If you need a N H S dentist in the area we have a
list of some, while those students who live in IC
Halls as well as the U L Intercollegiate Halls can
use the U L U Dental Service at Malet Street,
phone number 636 9799.
Sue Telling
Student Services
15 Princes Gardens
Bookshop News
A L L DIARIES have been reduced by at least a
third. You still have ten months to go!
International Writers Day
March 14 at the Purcell Rooms. Organized by
P.E.N., The World Association of Writers. The
Bookstall will be run by the speakers: Anthony
Burgess, Mario Vargas Llosa, Benny Green and
Toni Kanac.
Tickets for lectures and coffee, £4.00, from:
PEN, 7 Dilke Street. London, SW3 4JE.
A bit of useless information: The Bank is open
9:30-3:30 for change. As much as we like you, we
cannot change £10.00 notes from the service till
for 5ps.
Advance Information
Michael Kidrom, the author of "State of the
World Atlas" will be discussing his book on
March 6 at the Read Lecture Theatre at 1:00pm.
Copies are on sale at the Bookshop.
FEUX, February 20,1981 Page 9

