FELIX FRIDAY 1 7TH JANUARY C O L U M N S 11
/ Westminster Eye - Hamish Common
m T e a c h i n g
I f
unions broke
a prolonged
habit recent-
ly, praising
Conservative
education policy at the expense of
Labour's 'nanny state' plans to
demand half an hour's homework per
night in primary schools and an hour
and a half's worth per night in sec-
ondary schools. Nigel de Gruchy,
General Secretary of the NASUWT
declared that "the Government's
approach will commend itself more
to the profession than the high-hand-
ed dictatorial 'we know best'
approach from Tony Blair." A simi-
lar view was expressed by the NUT.
The School's Minister, Robin Squire
rather enjoyed the rare union support,
criticising Labour's policy as "insult-
ing teachers". Stealing thunder from
Labour, Mr Squire also announced a
£60,000 provision for 12 pilot pro-
jects for encouraging homework,
including a 'homework hotline', say-
ing that he agreed with Labour on the
principle of homework, but that
schools and teachers should have dis-
cretion in setting work. Alluding to
Jack Straw's proposals for curfews
and bedtimes, Mr Squire said that "a
few months ago there was a sugges-
tion from Jack Straw that children
should be tucked in bed at a particu-
lar time. Presumably David Blunkett
[the Shadow Education Secretary]
would be going round checking they
had done their homework first."
The three main political parties have
been desperately scrambling over
each other to convey themselves to
the public as 'the party of education'
ever since the Liberal Democrats
committed themselves to raising tax
to increase education spending by
one billion pounds a year. The
Government have done their level
best to privatise schools in all but
name, introducing the internal mar-
ket and allowing increasing levels of
selection. Since Tony Blair's procla-
mation at the party conference that
his first three priorities were "educa-
tion, education and education",
Labour's contribution consisted of
scrapping assisted places, and lots of
hot air. This finally culminated in a
White Paper promising a giant
Education Act, to be passed early on.
in a Labour term, which would
reverse much of the present
Government's policy. There is less to
be found on Labour's intentions with
Higher Education: their main inten-
tions are to replace the
loan/grant/parental contribution with
a loan, saying rather patronisingly
that students would be grateful for
the increased simplicity of the sys-
tem. Nor will any more favourable
policies be found in the other parties'
manifestos, the Conservatives for the
main part keeping the status quo, and
the Liberal Democrats' ten figure
sum is to be spent on nursery and pri-
mary education. Sadly, there are few
votes in Higher Education: the young
don't vote and all the parties know it.
The renewed political emphasis on
educational matters has been brought
about by three factors: the constant
embarrassment as Britain is shown
again to have low academic stan-
dards on the international stage, the
importance of a skilled workforce in
an increasingly technological age
and by far the most important for the
politicians, the enormous potential
for votes from people in their 30s and
40s with children at school, from
which there is a high turnout at elec-
tions. Labour intend to build on the
Government's campaign to increase
the standards of the teaching profes-
sion with the creation of a General
Teaching Council to promote profes-
sionalism and regulate discipline,
and a new "advanced skills grade" to
reward the best teachers who wish to
stay in the profession. It seems
Labour intend to address what I
believe is one of the most serious
problems with the teaching profes-
sion today, in that it still considers
itself a 'workforce' that requires to
be unionised, rather than a profession
to which people can aspire to. When
teachers are seen in the same profes-
sional light as doctors or lawyers, the
powers that be, including the
Government and parents, may treat
them with the respect that many of
them deserve.
The most worrying and contentious
aspect of Labour's plans were
excluded from Labour's weekend
trumpeting of their new White Paper.
The proposal followed standard
Labour practice, which is to look
more Tory than the Conservative
Party, but with the slightest inspec-
tion of the document one can see the
true Labour policies buried within.
This is not to say that I think they're
dire, but it would be nice for them to
be honest about what they really
want to do once in while! The issue
at hand is the reinstatement of Local
Education Authorities as the final
arbiters in school matters - they will
regain control of selection and spend-
ing. Plenty of legislation will be
devoted to cosmetic changes, such as
calling them 'Foundation Schools'
rather than opt-out schools, and is
this already drawing fire from par-
ents one hand and left-wingers on the
other, who justifiably say that the
system will remain two-tier.
As with the usual vogue issues, there
has been political point-scoring and
misleading statistics as the parties vie
for this juicy political opportunity. It
seems Labour may have over-
reached themselves this time: union
leaders do not find themselves con-
demning Labour whilst agreeing
with Conservative policies very
often. The Guardian had a leader
praising Labour's policy - not a rare
occurrence - using rather irrelevant
statistics to back it up. According to
them homework is a better indication
of success than social class, justify-
ing this with the fact that children
who do lots of homework do well.
Any sensible person can see that chil-
dren who do lots of homework and
students who study hard will be more
likely to succeed. The Conservatives
are missing a an opportunity to take
some credit for this: they have bro-
ken much of the "we're working
class and proud of it" attitude that
holds down people who consider
themselves part of such a group and
therefore unable to break out. It has
shown that many people from poor
backgrounds can succeed - indeed it
used this very fact to devastating
effect in the 1983 and 1987 election
campaigns. There has been a culture
change during these years of
Conservative Government, and it is
now assumed that people who do
work hard may well be rewarded at
the expense of those who don't. This
is at the root of Conservative educa-
tion policy. The Labour grass roots
believe in opportunity for all, on an
equal basis, which is not what their
leadership is proposing. There may
be a battle within a future Labour
Government, with the leadership
claiming that they're scrapping ide-
ology, and the rank and file claiming
they're more Tory than the Tories.
A n E x p l a n a t o r y Sonnet
(for Simon Baker)
In general, life's swell at IC,
Apart from the poems in Felix weekly,
Why should the writers seem so down at heart
When college is unalloyed joy from the start?
After all, there's no reason for whinges or moans,
Now we've got access to student loans.
Well, as students we 're cheerful and uncomplicated,
Despair is passe and depression outdated.
But poems require a different view,
Most poets are miserable (and most poems too)
To succeed in this field angst you should nurse,
So would-be poets write disconsolate verse.
The moral I'm sure is easy to see,
We 're only happy to a degree.
(or PhD, I suppose)
L a u r a
PoetIC is the creative writing society of Imperial College, and we are always
happy to greet new members. If you would like to find out more about
PoetIC, or are interested in attending our weekly meetings, contact Keith
McNulty on ext 58610 or via k.mcnulty@ic.ac.uk

