Social Clubs Committee Week
Well, it's approaching the end of January, and that
means but one thing at IC. It's SCC Week and it's
back this year, bigger, bolder and brighter than ever
before. With more societies participating and more
events organised, this is your opportunity to join all
those societies you meant to, or just to get a chance to
participate.
All week long there will be stalls in the JCR from 12-2.
There you can pick up information about the clubs,
their events, and meet those in charge. It's your
chance to find out about subsidised trips to the theatre
with ArtSoc, student tutoring with Pimlico
Connection, collecting different bags with BagSoc,
or learning about Indian culture with the Vedic
Society.
There are other events during lunchtimes during the
week as well. On Monday 20th January, at 1pm in the
Concert Hall, is your chance to participate in the
biggest issue of the moment. There is a parliamen-
tary-style debate with representatives from Labour
and Conservative parties on the future of education
funding in the UK. IF you have ever had any questions
that you were itching to ask, come along to Jewish
Society's "Ask the Rabbi" question time on
Monday at 12.30 in the Tennis Table Room. And if
you want to go and see a show in the West End but
were worried you can't afford it, go and see ArtSoc
on Monday at 12.30 in the SCR. "
On Wednesday, come along to the SCR at 12.30 for a
talk entitled "The Global Defence Market" with a
speaker from the Campaign against the Arms
Trade, organised by Third World First. Do you feel
you have your finger on the pulse? Do you know what
makes people tick? Then come along to the
Marketing and Advertising business game, run by
Procter and Gamble, on Wednesday afternoon in
the Ante Room in Sherfield. Make sure you visit
Industrial Society's stall in the JCR on Tuesday and
sign up soon because there are 50 places available
and they will go fast!
In case you were at a loss for what to do in the
evenings, some classic films will be shown this week in
the Concert Hall at 7pm. Monday sees a welcome
return for "Grease". Drop in on Tuesday for Frank
Herbert's "Dune". Make sure you take plenty of han-
kies for "Philadelphia" on Wednesday. All shows
cost £1 and are at 7pm. For a bit of a difference, on
Wednesday night in the Brown Committee Room at
6pm there is a free showing of "The Ten
Commandments", an epic if ever there was one.
To end the week on a high note, on Thursday night in
dB's there are a couple of World Music DJs playing,
organised by Sikh Society. They will be playing a
total range of music, from eastern and western cul-
tures. Time to boogie on down to those bhangra, salsa
and African beats! From 8-12, entry is £2. See you
there!
SCC WEEK 20-24 Jan
Day JCR Concert Hall Elsewhere
Monday Bagsoc, ICSF Grease, 7pm Parliamentary Debate
Concert Hall, 1pm
Tuesday Abacus, Irish, Welsh,
Tamil, Industrial
Dune, 7pm Ten Commandments
Brown CR, 6pm
(Wednesday)
Wednesday Finance, ArtSoc, Jewish,
PoetIC, IQ
Philadelphia, 7pm P&G Business game
Ante Room 2pm
TWF Speaker, SCR,
12.30pm
Thursday CathSoc, MethSoc, Islamic,
Consoc, Labour
Party"'"
dB's, 8-12pm
Friday Pimlico, TWF, SWSS, Sikh,
Vedic

