2 N E W S FELIX FRIDAY 1 7TH IANUARY
IC Biosphere research into ecosystem
UMBAR S A L E E M
International scientists have built a
biosphere at Imperial College's
Silwood Park research centre which
will allow scientists to simulate con-
ditions in the environment caused by
pollution. For the past three years
Professor John Lawton has been
leading a research team investigating
the effects of global warming on
agriculture and animal life.
The biosphere has many eco-
chambers where sunlight is simulat-
ed using powerful halogen lamps,
and various gases are added to create
an environment that has been sub-
jected to the equivalent of seventy
years of pollution. Professor Lawton
explained that good as well as bad
conclusions have been drawn from
the study. The project revealed that
the soil absorbed carbon dioxide
from the atmosphere which acceler-
ated its decomposition and would
"increase the rate of global warm-
ing," yet "the effects on plants and
insects were much less dramatic than
expected."
The results from the £1 million
Ecotron experiment, to be published
in April, will add new flavour to the
debate on the long term effects of
present day pollution. Professor
decreased rainfall over the past ten
years. Even though it is difficult to
make very accurate predictions, Dr
Hefin Jones, also working at Silwood
Lawton is convinced that the effects
of global warming can be seen
already with warmer summers and
Park, is confident of the results.
"There is now enough research data
available to leave no doubt of the
change," he stated.
Some ecologists and climatolo-
gists also agree that recent anomalies
observed by plant growers in Britain
are an indication of very gradual
changes taking place in the world's
climate. For the first time ever, plants
traditionally grown in warmer coun-
tries are surviving in Britain. We can
now grow peppers, melons, bananas,
French beans and outdoor cherry
tomatoes. As a consequence of this,
David Jeffery from Unwin's Seeds,
Histon, warned that "Many of the
vegetables now grown in the South
of England may disappear in time."
Vegetables such as sprouts, cabbage,
runner beans and turnips are finding
it harder to compete, possibly due to
poisonous chemicals in the atmos-
phere which weaken the plants mak-
ing them susceptible to disease.
This debate rages on. Climate
changes that are attributed to pollu-
tion could be due to other factors.
The Ecotron experiment is the first of
its kind in the world and will be able
to predict the consequences of
humankind's actions today on the
Testing mad cows at St Mary's
KENT YIP
Professor John Collinge and his
Prion Research Group at St Mary's
Hospital Medical School may pave
the way for developing a new test
which allows early diagnosis of the
new strain of CJD, according to the
latest edition of the medical journal
The Lancet.
At present, confirmation of the
diagnosis of CJD can only be done
in a post-mortem examination.
Conducting a, histological examina-
tion, an examination of the mor-
phology of the cell, on brain tissues
provides the only alternative. Beside
the obvious risks involved in carry-
ing out a brain biopsy to obtain the
tissues, this method is also unreli-
able. Test on tissues from the ton-
sils, which can be removed under
local anaesthetics by a relatively
simple procedure, may bring new
hope to clinicians in making a more
confident diagnosis.
Previous attempts to employ anti-
bodies for a similar purpose proved
unsuccessful because there are not
enough structural differences at the
molecular level for the antibodies to
distinguish between the normal prion
protein, which is present in healthy
individuals, and the abnormal prion
protein, which causes CJD. At St
Mary's, an abnormal prion protein
associated with the new strain of
CJD has recently been identified in
tonsil tissues. This finding is further
supported by histological analyses of
the tonsil tissues.
The new strain was discovered by
the same group in October last year,
and its resemblance to the protein
that causes BSE is closer than any
other previous strain. This reinforces
the popular belief that the recent out-
break of CJD is caused by the con-
sumption of BSE contaminated meat
products. In contrast to classical
CJD, the new variant arises in
younger patients, affecting people
under the age of 50, has a longer
duration of illness and presents dif-
ferent pathologies.
The implication of the new test is
profound. Symptoms of CJD, which
include depression and sensory dis-
turbance, are similar to other treat-
able degenerative diseases. Writing
to The Lancet, Professor Collinge
explained that if there were to be an
epidemic of CJD, and if the new
strain of CJD was indeed caused by
BSE, early markers would be essen-
tial for differential diagnosis as the
presenting features are non-specific.
Speaking to Felix, Andrew Hill,
co-author of the letter published in
The Lancet, stressed that at the
moment the abnormal protein has
only been identified in the tonsils of
a dead patient. However, the protein
responsible for scrapie, the equiva-
lent of CJD in sheep, has been report-
ed by a Dutch research group to pre-
sent in the tonsils of infected sheep
when they are still alive. In fact, it
can be detected long before the
occurrence of early symptoms.
The research group at St Mary's
hope that samples of tonsil tissues
from living patients suspected of
CJD can been sent in from other hos-
pitals to confirm their finding. The
major difficulty in turning it into a
routine clinical test would be the
requirement of special containment
laboratories, due to the highly infec-
tious nature of the prion protein. He
went on to explain that the same pro-
cedure might be of use in diagnosing
other variants of CJD.
Currently, while only a small pro-
portion of all the CJD cases are sus-
pected to be linked to BSE, 15% are
thought to have arisen as a result of
genetic mutation with the majority
occurring sporadically with no
known cause.
Funding - RAE
link
JACKIE S K E A T E
Following the results of the national
Research Assessment Exercise pub-
lished last week, some universities
have expressed uncertainty about the
slightly different score system and
its link with future HE research
funding.
Imperial College was ranked
fourth in the U K , with almost all
departments receiving a score of 5 or
5* (on a scale of 1, 2, 3a, 3b, 4,5 and
5*). The results of the RAE are used
to determine the levels of funding
allocated to each department.
Despite the fact that College
stands in a good position to be
awarded more research funds overall
than most other universities, there
have been fears expressed that this
may not be enough. Dr Rodney
Eastwood from the Financial
Planning department indicated that
College "was expected to do at least
as well as in 1992", but as yet, the
amount of funding attached to differ-
ent ratings is unknown, as the scor-
ing system has changed since 1992,
when departments were assessed on
a scale running from 1-5.
The Higher Education Funding
Council for England committee will
meet next week to decide the basis
on which funding is allocated.

