4 N E W S FELIX FRIDAY 1 7TH IANUARY
Millenium bug comes to IC
MICHAEL ROBERTS
Forget Ebola, E-coli or any other
lethal super-bug you may have heard
of. In the cold, dark chambers of the
computer support services at IC, con-
versations turn to the so-called
"Millennium Bug", now made infa-
mous through the media bombard-
ment it has received in the past few
months courtesy of most leading
broadsheets.
The Millennium Bug is purported
to arise due to the "dd/mm/yy"
(day/month/year) date format used in
many computer systems, whereby
the date is displayed in a two digit
format. Thus, the year 1997 appears
hire/rental) fines being charged for
titles on loan over the new year,
incorrect interest calculations on
loans and savings and discrepancies
in computerised company accounts.
Although this all sounds rather
apocalyptic, the reality is rather less
disastrous. Far fewer systems will be
affected than the broadsheets would
have us believe, since many comput-
ers do not calculate the date in the
same way humans do. Rather, they
store the date in terms of the number
of seconds since a set date, in many
cases 1971. The year 2000 should
therefore have no effect on the com-
puter's perception of the date.
as "97" and the year 2000 appears as
"00". Computer systems using the
two digit date format may be unable
to cope with 2000 and beyond,
recognising it as the year 1900
instead. This, it has been claimed,
can lead to many faults and anom-
alies appearing in otherwise stable
systems. These could, for example,
include excessive library (or other
The real problems are more likely
to arise in certain software packages,
where the date is stored amongst
other data, for example in a database.
More simple systems would both dis-
play and store dates, held in accounts
for example, as two digit numbers -
producing the potential results men-
tioned. Many larger companies and
organisations have already produced
reports and begun to check their sys-
tems. Sadly, it appears that smaller
companies are more likely to suffer,
since they do not have the financial
or technical resources to draw from,
in order to verify and adapt their sys-
tems if necessary.
Concerned at the potential impli-
cations on Imperial (and whether,
more importantly, students living in
halls, could hope to see their rent
accidentally waived), the bug is "cer-
tainly being discussed" by relevant
authorities at IC. Apparently, the
accounting package currently in use
will "probably" be affected.
However, this system is due to be
replaced "around 1998" and any
replacement will, by then, certainly
be able to handle the year 2000.
Top-up fees threat
UMBAR S A L E E M
The prospect of undergraduate stu-
dents in the U K facing an annual
charge of up to a £1,000 towards
their college fees came closer after
the Russell Group of top universities
advised this month that some institu-
tions would charge fees in the future.
At present, the government reim-
burses local education authorities for
payment of university tuition fees,
but this form of higher education
funding may become a thing of the
past. The Higher Education Funding
Council for England awarded univer-
sities £3.1 billion for this academic
year, a £0.4 billion decrease on 1995.
With increasing numbers of students
entering higher education each year,
more universities are looking at top-
up fees as a realistic option for
obtaining necessary funds.
Imperial College had been report-
ed in The Sunday Times to have been
among those universities considering
top-up fees. The article stated that IC
would mention top-up fees being
charged in its 1998 prospectus. Dr
Rodney Eastwood from the
[Financial] Planning department
denied this, insisting that "IC cur-
rently has no plans to introduce top-
up fees." He also explained that if
College did introduce such a charge,
dependent on government funding,
more mechanisms to offer students
financial assistance, such as scholar-
ships, awards and bursaries, would
be introduced. Dr Eastwood also
assured Felix that the financial status
of prospective students would not
affect their likelihood of gaining an
offer.
Colleges that will be charging top-
up fees are legally required to inform
applicants prior to enrolment. The
London School of Economics have
already warned undergraduates in
their prospectus that they reserve the
right to charge fees for tuition.
Union proposes C & S Resource centre
PAUL SQUIRES
Imperial College Union is planning
to build a new Clubs and Societies
Resource Centre to make administra-
tion of Clubs and Societies more effi-
cient. The new Centre is likely to be
in a refurbished Senior Common
Room, adjacent to the Union Office.
It is hoped that some of the money
for the project will be provided by
the Harlington Trust, a fund set up on
the proceeds from gravel extraction
on Imperial College's athletic ground
at Harlington, near Heathrow. The
Trust considers applications for
funding of various projects such as
this though in the past the fund has
enabled the Union to purchase
minibuses.
The reasoning behind the plans is
for the largely inadequate current
facilities for clubs and societies be
upgraded to meet ICU's new Health
and Safety policy's standards. The
policy requires ICU to undertake to
provide first aid training for at least
one member of each club and soci-
ety. The policy also requires that
External Activities forms be com-
pleted before any trip may proceed,
that all potential hazards and dangers
must be assessed beforehand and that
group leaders be better trained and
more experienced in general.
In order to meet such demands, the
Union requires more efficient facili-
ties. At present, only one computer in
the Union office is permanently
available for the use of clubs and
societies. Departmental computing
facilities are inappropriate since they
are primarily for academic usage and
payment is required for print-outs of
any material the club wishes to issue.
The new Resource Centre, however,
would contain many computers
exclusively for clubs and societies.
Another reason for the plans is the
change to the structure of the British
University Sports Association's fix-
ture listings. Previously inter-univer-
sity sports tournaments were organ-
ised as block fixtures, in which uni-
versities would only play universities
and hospitals only hospitals. The cur-
rent BUSA system is a more com-
plex league system, in which each
institution has a ranking and fixtures
are arranged accordingly, thus
requiring a more efficient system for
such things as booking coaches for
away matches. This side of adminis-
tration is currently handled by the
Deputy President for Clubs and
Societies, Sarah Corneille, but book-
ings are often made by other Union
officers, resulting in confusion. It is
anticipated that the proposed
Resource Centre would employ a
full-time administrator to handle
such administrative matters allowing
Sarah Corneille to concentrate on her
other duties.
Ms Corneille has high hopes for
the plans; "It would both improve
efficiency and bring different Clubs
and Societies together more, hopeful-
ly breaking down the barriers and
prejudices which sometimes exist
between them."

