8 F A N T A S Y S A B B A T I C A L L E A G U E FELIX FRIDAY 1 7TH JANUARY
This year, for the first time, Felix brings you an unrivalled opportunity to share the success of next year's sabbaticals with Felix's Fantasy Sabbatical I-eague™.
For those not in the know, each year Imperial College Union holds a campus wide ballot to elect new sabbatical officers. There are four sabbaticals at ICU:
President, Deputy President (Finance & Services), Deputy President (Clubs & Societies) and Felix Editor. They hold their position for year while taking
a break (a sabbatical) from their studies. During this time, each is ultimately responsible for running the services and performing the duties under their remit.
The sabbatical elections will take place in early March, however, the papers for nominations go up on February 3*. Any full member of Imperial College
Union may stand for any of the positions listed above. To be able to run for election, however, each nominee must have a proposer and twenty seconders, all
of whom must also be full members of the Union. After the papers come down on February 14'\ campaigning proper can start, and the 1996-97 sabbatical race
can begin. If you have any queries about the elections or wish to find out more about any of the posts, contact the President, Eric Allsop, via the Union.
Now you too can join in the cut and thrust of the sabbatical race by playing Felix's Fantasy Sabbatical League™. Read on, and you could be a winner!
Prizes to be won!
To the winners, the spoils, to the losers, ignominy.
First Prize: two return tickets to
Paris and a bottle of
Champagne
Second Prize: £ 3 0 of music vouchers
Other prizes to be announced depending on stock
ACRONYM CHASER
AAO Academic Affairs Officer
ACC Athletic Clubs Committee
Dcp Rep Departmental Representative
ICCAG Imperial College Community Action Group
OSC Overseas Sub-Committee
Pub Board Publications Board
SCAB Social and Cultural Amusements Board
s e e Social Clubs Committee
RCC Recreational Clubs Committee
RSC Refectory Services Committee
The aim of the game
TM
The object of Felix Fantasy Sabbatical League is to predict the outcome
of the 1997 ICU Sabbatical Elections. Using your skill and judgement,
you must choose which four people you think will be elected to each of
the four sabbatical positions, and which four will be runners-up (ie lose
and come second). First and second place positions are simply deter-
mined by who wins most (and next most) votes in the eventual elections.
To win, you will have to guess not only who will be elected, but also who
is likely to stand for election.
Included opposite is a list of possible 'players.' These are people who
currently hold positions on Council (the governing body of the Union)
plus a few wildcards. They are the people closely involved with the
Union whom we feel are most likely to stand for one of the four sabbat-
ical positions. We have placed them in divisions, according to the senior-
ity of their position within the Union, and assigned a points value to the
players in each division. THE POSITION OF INDIVIDUALS WITHIN
THE LEAGUE REFLECTS ONLY THEIR CURRENT STATUS
WITHIN THE UNION: IT DOES NOT REPRESENT HIS/HER LIKE-
LIHOOD OF STANDING OR BEING ELECTED.
There are two other 'players'; you should enter 'New Election' as a
second choice for a position if you think that only one candidate will
stand for that post, or if you think people would rather vote for a new
election than any of the candidates. If you think someone other than those
included on our list will stand for a particular post, then include the
'None of the above' player in the relevant place on your team. You do
not have to state who you think 'None of the above' will be. If 'New elec-
tion' or 'None of the above' finishes in the place you have guessed, you
score the same points as if you had guessed an actual individual's result.
Remember, you are strictly limited in the number of points you can
spend on players, and so may not be able to field your first choice team...
This is where the element of chance comes in; Good luck!
The small print
•The closing date for entries is 5.00pm, Monday 3rd February.
•Competition results will be determined using 1997 ICU Sabbatical election results, as confirmed by ICU elections committee.
•The highest-scoring entry, as calculated by Felix, will be the winner. In the unlikely event of a tie, the winner will be the entrant whose original team had
the lowest combined points value. Failing this, the winner will be selected at random from those sharing the highest score.
•The competition is NOT open to the following groups of people:
•All those listed as 'players' opposite.
•Current sabbaticals.
•The Felix staff.
•Any unlisted 1997 sabbatical candidate.
•Anyone who is not a UG, PG or member of staff at Imperial College.
•Anyone acting on behalf of those above.
•The Felix Editor retains the right to declare the competition null and void at any time and to amend the rules without notice. Any change in rules will be
published in Felix.
•The results of the competition, and the points value assigned to each player shall have no bearing whatsoever upon the results of the election. Anyone sus-
pected of contravening ICU sabbatical election rules, as laid down in the ICU constitution, may be subject to ICU disciplinary procedures.

