FEATURES
Features Editors: Stephen Smith,
Caroline Wood
felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 01 FEBRUARY
10
It can strike anyone at any time in their
life. he percentage of students being
diagnosed with it has more than dou-
bled, to 21% , over the past ten years.
Every year, it is partly responsible for
half a million deaths worldwide, and
every indication is that this num-
ber will only increase as time passes.
Medically, it belongs to a group of
conditions which are some of the
least well understood on Earth, and
socially, attitudes towards it are often
still as backward as they were towards
HIV in the late 1980s and early 90s. I
am talking about depression, the most
common mental illness out there, and
sadly, one of those which to this day
still carries the most social stigma.
Too many times one hears suicide
attempts being labelled as “cries for
help”, rather than being due to “real”
depression. Often in fact, those apply-
ing these labels are the same people
who would quite rightly be horriﬁed
by rape apologists making a claim that
rapes are actually “made up”, or by
religious extremists claiming that ho-
mosexuals can be “cured”. Indeed, as
a society our awareness of depression
and mental health issues in general, is
so far out dated that it is often deemed
socially acceptable to refer to individ-
uals with severe clinical depression in
a derogatory way, to call them “emo”,
needing to “man up” (sexist much!?)
or “pull themselves together”. As if,
by telling someone going through a
nervous breakdown or major depres-
sive episode to make an eﬀort to be
more sociable, work harder or just act
as if nothing is wrong is somehow to
help them. Would you expect some-
one dying of pneumonia to get bet-
ter if you told their immune system
to pull itself together and man up? I
hope not!
In fact, the stigma associated with
depression runs far deeper. Having
been medicated for depression, I now
have a mark on my life history which
for some careers would be viewed
similarly to a black spot on your CRB.
Taking a signiﬁcant amount of sick
leave due to having a depressive epi-
sode, no matter what anyone in hu-
man resources may try to tell you, is
not viewed in the same way in corpo-
rate land as taking sick leave to recov-
er from any other, more “real” illness.
Why is that? Why is it that I, as some-
one who has suﬀered from depression,
should fear a remission of symptoms,
just in case my future boss thinks I
am weak, or, worse, lazy! Why should
I, as someone who for all intents and
purposes is completely healthy (could
lose a few pounds maybe??), have to
explain myself if applying for a job
at the home oﬃce, or any other role
where I handle sensitive information.
In short, why do we as a society ﬁnd
it so hard to treat people recovering
from mental illness just like they were
recovering from any other illness?
he obvious answer is that with
more physical (don’t like using that
word, but it will have to do) illnesses,
the symptoms are clear and well de-
ﬁned. You vomit blood, you’re ill; no
one is going to argue with that, no
one will blame you for it. You shove
a handful of pills in your mouth and
try to down it with vodka before be-
ing brought to your senses by your
girlfriend (ex, naturally) who then
proceeds to tear the bottle out of your
hand… that was a symptom of my
condition; no one will argue with that,
but you can’t quite see it in the same
way can you?
herein lies the problem. People
must take some degree of responsibil-
ity for everything they do, regardless
of whether they are mentally ill or
not. However, if someone mentally ill
commits a crime, you lock them up,
but make sure you lock them up in a
hospital, rather than a prison. We do
this because we are aware that, even
when we know a person, mental ill-
ness may cause us to no longer rec-
ognise that very individual, because
of how it inﬂuences their behaviour.
When I had my ﬁrst, and hopefully
last, depressive episode, it aﬀected me
in a way I cannot not adequately de-
scribe to someone who has not expe-
rienced it ﬁrst-hand. How strongly it
took hold me, how powerless I felt to
do anything about it, and the state of
mind I had to be in to consider death
as a lovely holiday rather than some-
thing best avoided, no amount of po-
etry or literature can describe it. I was
lucky to have had family and friends,
almost all of whom stood by me dur-
ing that time, who tried their best to
understand what I was going through.
However, I know many people are not
so lucky.
It is for this reason that I have de-
cided to write this article, after even-
tually stumbling across someone who
had been through what I had, the day
to day struggle of coping with my con-
dition was made much more manage-
able, and so I am delighted to hear
that Becky Lane (Deputy President
(Welfare) for those of you that don’t
know) is setting up a mental health
awareness day in the near future,
which I hope will also be an oppor-
tunity for like-minded (illness of the
mind, like minded… get it?) individu-
als to come out of the woodwork and
support each other. I also hope that if
you know someone (if you don’t yet
then one day you will), suﬀering from
depression, you try to remember that
the person they were before their
episode isn’t gone, and you do your
best to support them and be there for
them while you wait for them to re-
turn to their normal selves, that is all
anyone can ask.
And to anyone reading this who is
currently suﬀering from depression,
there is a light at the end of the tun-
nel… and it isn’t heaven. If you are
really unlucky you will have to ride
this out for half a year, most of you
won’t have to wait much more than 3
months, so hang in there bro!
UNSEEN
imperial
Depression: the
stigmatised illness
What is Unseen Imperial?
Unseen Imperial is a project that aims
to talk about the things that we don’t
really feel comfortable about, but they
are there if you scratch the surface.
Mental health, discrimination, bully-
ing; all the things that sometimes we
pretend aren’t happening right under
our noses. It is a forum/campaign/dis-
cussion – whatever you want to call it,
a project to get people talking about
these ‘uncomfortable’ issues so that
hopefully work can be done as a com-
munity towards de-stigmatising them.
Jonathan London Writer
The figures about student depres-
sion don’t make for pleasant read-
ing – but so many suffer in silence.
I have so much admiration for the
author of this piece for speaking
out about his experiences without
anonymity. For those of you reading
this article who have experienced
depression in the past or present,
there are people and services avail-
able to help. In College there are the
Counselling Service (www3.imperi-
al.ac.uk/counselling), your GP, your
personal/senior tutor, the Union
Advice Centre (contacted by email-
ing advice@imperial.ac.uk) and the
College Tutors (contacted by email-
ing college-tutors@imperial.ac.uk).
There are also many organisations
external to Imperial that can help
you through your difficulties such
as Nightline – a confidential lis-
tening service aimed specifically at
students (0207 631 0101). Although
I am sure at times depression can
make you feel like the loneliest per-
son in the world; with all these sup-
port services, there is no need to
battle depression alone.
If you are passionate about men-
tal health issues and delivering an
important message to the Imperial
community, get in touch with me by
email on dpwelfare@imperial.ac.uk
to join the Mental Health campaign
group. Whether you feel passionate
about combating the myths about
depression, or lobbying College to
increase their counselling provi-
sion; as a group our voice is louder.
Want to contribute to Unseen Im-
perial? Either email Tim at felix@
imperial.ac.uk or me at dpwelfare@
imperial.ac.uk, whether you want to
be anonymous or not will always be
respected.
Introduction and information at the
end written by Becky Lane, Deputy
President (Welfare).

