FEATURES
Features Editors: Stephen Smith,
Caroline Wood
felix@imperial.ac.uk
11
FRIDAY 01 FEBRUARY
LGBT history month
t’s February, and that means
it’s once again time for LGBT
History Month. For those of
you that may not be aware,
LGBT History Month aims
to draw attention to both the past and
the present state of LGBT (lesbian,
gay, bisexual and transgender) rights,
as well as the impact LGBT people
have had throughout history. While in
many cases the sexuality of historical
ﬁgures is only speculative, it is impor-
tant to acknowledge that alternative
sexualities have always existed, and
are not some “modern lifestyle choice”.
For example, while many people will
know of Sir Francis Bacon, King James
I and Florence Nightingale, they may
not be aware that these historical ﬁg-
ures are believed to have had relation-
ships with members of the same sex.
LGBT History Month was ﬁrst or-
ganised in 2005 by Schools OUT (a
group promoting equality for LGBT
people in education) to celebrate the
repeal of a government act known as
Section 28.
What was Section 28?:
Section 28 was enacted in 1988 by the
Conservative government. he Act
covered “Prohibition on promoting
homosexuality by teaching or by pub-
lishing material” and stated that:
“A local authority shall not –
(a) intentionally promote homosex-
uality or publish material with the in-
tention of promoting homosexuality;
(b) promote the teaching in any
maintained school of the acceptability
of homosexuality as a pretended fam-
ily relationship.”
here were many aspects of this act
that were damaging to the homosex-
ual community. he term “promoting
homosexuality” lends credence to the
(false) belief that sexuality is a choice
that people can be encouraged to
take. Also, the act was implemented
to “protect” children, implying that
homosexuality is inherently danger-
ous to young people. Many LGBT stu-
dent and support groups were closed
down due to fears that they would be
breaching the Act.
Many people and groups spoke out
against this legislation, and it prompt-
ed Sir Ian McKellen to publicly come
out on BBC Radio 3 during a discus-
sion of the Act. Regarding Section 28,
he says: “he notorious Section 28 was
a disaster for children in state schools
because it encouraged their teachers
to lie about homosexuality”. It was
repealed (against much opposition) in
2000 in Scotland and 2003 in the rest
of Great Britain.
Why do we celebrate LGBT
History Month?:
While LGBT people and couples in
the UK enjoy most of the legal free-
doms enjoyed by everyone else, many
of these were only introduced within
the last 10-15 years. hese include
equal age of consent (2001), transexu-
alism declassiﬁed as an illness (2002)
and various anti-discrimination laws
(1999-2010). However, there are still
some areas (such as blood donation)
where laws aren’t equal. Laws regard-
ing equal marriage are currently being
introduced.
However, while the laws in the UK
are (mostly) equal, it is a sad truth that
there is still a large amount of LGBT-
phobic abuse. A few facts gathered by
the Youth Chances LGBTQ Survey
paint a rather alarming picture:
• 3 out of 4 respondents have re-
ceived verbal abuse because of their
sexuality.
• Nearly half of respondents have
experienced threats due to their sexu-
ality.
• 1 in 4 respondents have been phys-
ically abused because of their sexual-
ity.
• LGBTQ youths are up to 5 times
more likely to self harm than other
youths.
hese numbers don’t cover every-
thing, as it doesn’t take into account
those who have lost their lives as a
result of LGBT-phobic abuse. The
Independent on Sunday is aware of
at least nine people in the UK who
were killed or committed suicide after
LGBT-phobic bullying between 2009
and 2011. One of these was Ian Bayn-
ham, who was beaten to death in the
middle of Trafalgar Square by a group
of teenagers shouting homophobic
abuse. Unfortunately, the number of
hate crimes against LGBT people in
the UK is rising.
When we look at the rest of the
world, homosexual acts are illegal in
over 70 countries, and seven of these
have the death penalty for such acts
(eight if pending legislation in Uganda
is passed). Also, Russia has recently
passed a law prohibiting homosexual,
bisexual and transgender “propa-
ganda”, much akin to our Section 28.
However, the same law also covers
paedophilia, essentially equating these
categories. In many other countries,
the stats for LGBT related hate crimes
are just as bad, if not worse than those
in the UK.
he above facts demonstrate that
there are still many hurdles before
LGBT people can be counted as
truly equal. To quote Lester B. Pear-
son (14th Prime Minister of Canada
and 1957 Nobel Peace Prize winner),
“Misunderstanding arising from igno-
rance breeds fear, and fear remains the
greatest enemy of peace”. One way we
can remove this ignorance is to make
LGBT people more visible, both pres-
ently and historically, and give others
the opportunity to learn and under-
stand. his is why we observe LGBT
History Month.
IQ is Imperial College’s LGBT soci-
ety. If you wish to come to our events,
you can sign up to our mailing list by
visiting www.union.ic.ac.uk/scc/iq.
If you identify as LGBTQ (lesbian,
gay, bisexual, transgender, queer or
questioning) and are aged 16-25, you
are invited to take part in the Youth
Chances survey. he project aims to
assess the quality of life experienced
by LGBTQ youths in the UK by gar-
tering data from 15,000 people. If you
wish to take part or get more informa-
tion, please visit www.youthchances.
org.
Russell Hills introduces you to Section 28 and LGBT issues
I
Below is the controversial Section 28 in its entirety
The theme for LGBT History Month 2013 is Maths, Science and Engineering: keep an eye out for our article on LGBT
pioneers in STEM subjects coming soon!

