FEATURES
Features Editors: Stephen Smith,
Caroline Wood
felix@imperial.ac.uk
13
FRIDAY 01 FEBRUARY
You know TEDx
, now meet...
Joshua Maxey Writer
SAF just got a
makeover
©
2013
Accenture.
All
rights
reserved.
Boot Camp could be the most intense learning
experience of your life. We won’t tell you the
location. We won’t even tell you the agenda.
All we can tell you right now is that you will
negotiate a packed itinerary of business games
and other mental challenges.
This is a popular scheme, and competition is
fierce so the first skill we’ll test is your
response time. Applications are open now for
first & final year students and close on 22nd
February. However places are filled on a
first-come, first-served basis so apply early to
avoid disappointment.
Boot Camp takes place 25th – 27th March
2013.It could also be the start of your future
with us, as attending Boot Camp means you
are fast-tracked to interview for Accenture’s
2014 graduate, industrial placement or
summer vacation scheme. All will be revealed
by visiting our graduate website.
accenture.com/bootcamp
Be the first to know the latest news:
‘Like’ Accenture Careers UK
Follow accentureukjobs on Twitter
Watch us on YouTube AccentureUKcareers
Boot Camp – your toughest test yet
This is your invitation to join an organisation offering greater opportunity, greater challenge and greater satisfaction.
An organisation dedicated to teamwork and collaboration. An organisation working in the forefront of technology,
helping 92 of the Fortune Global 100 to reinvent business. Our capabilities are so broad, you can even change jobs
without ever changing companies. Talk to Accenture and discover how great you can be.
Fresh from the excitement of last
year’s incredibly successful TEDx
event, those great TED vibes return to
Imperial College once more, this time
bringing with them TEDMEDLive.
TEDMED is a community of the
brightest minds interested in over-
coming the world’s most pressing
medical and health challenges. Once
a year they congregate in Washington,
DC to bring to bear the latest thinking
and research into a diverse range of
ﬁelds surrounding the human condi-
tion, but don’t be tricked into thinking
TEDMED is of interest only to med-
ics.
he four day conferences are ex-
tremely multidisciplinary, combining
talks and presentations with perfor-
mances from artists, poets and musi-
cians. Highlights from past TEDMED
conferences include David Blaine tell-
ing a room full of medical profession-
als how he continually deﬁed the ad-
vice of doctors in his pursuit to break
the record for holding one’s breath
under water, and illusionist Eric Mead
demonstrating the complex power of
the placebo with nothing but a piece of
cutlery. hese talks alone demonstrate
the amazing accessibility to medical
insight and innovation a TEDMED
event aﬀords its audience.
However, until this year, to be in
a live TEDMED audience required
a trip to the States. All that has now
changed as it was revealed today that
a license has been obtained to hold
‘TEDMEDLive at Imperial College’, a
sister event to the conference in DC,
the ﬁrst of its kind outside the US.
From April 16-19 TEDMEDLive
Imperial College will feature streams
from stateside as well as a programme
of live speakers, performers and work-
shops. All these will be presented un-
der the overarching mission to ‘Com-
bine the nexus of health, information
and technology with compelling per-
sonal stories and glimpses into the
future of healthcare and medicine’.
Although many of the details have yet
to be revealed, the event is expected
to celebrate the contributions of Im-
perial College and the UK as a whole
to the advancement of medicine and
healthcare and is expected to be a big
draw due to it’s unique European loca-
tion.
Ticket prices are expected to be an-
nounced in the following days, but the
organising committee has conﬁrmed
that a proportion of tickets will be
made exclusively available to Imperial
students at a lower price to make the
event as widely available as possible.
More details are expected in the com-
ing days and weeks. Discover them first
on the TEDMEDLive at Imperial blog,
found here: www.TEDMEDLiveImpe-
rial.com.

