BUSINESS
Business Editor: Deepka Rana
business.felix@imperial.ac.uk
19
FRIDAY 01 FEBRUARY
Finding your way around the Valley
Imperial Entrepreneurs unveil the latest International Insight Series
hen it comes to
the crunch ex-
plaining what
‘Silicon Valley’
actually repre-
sents – ask yourself – do you really
have a clear understanding? For most
of us, I suppose the inﬂuence from
popular social media tools and cool
high tech gadgets will probably re-
late us to multinational corporations
like Facebook, Microsoft and Google
which have oﬃces situated in that
region of San Francisco. Perhaps this
amount of information is more than
enough to bore some of the more ig-
norant ones about tech-based entre-
preneurship – but honestly, Silicon
Valley’s history and its place at the
forefront of innovation and enterprise
has more than what meets the eye.
Silicon Valley, as its name suggests,
comprises a trove of internet or elec-
tronics-based companies that domi-
nate markets and set ‘tech-fashions’.
But while this name aptly describes
companies like Facebook, Yahoo and
Apple, you should know many other
kinds of corporations are also present
in the same region. Take Gilead Sci-
ence for instance. One of the top com-
panies in the region, it is a research-
based biopharmaceutical organization
that conducts medical-related R&D in
drugs and therapies. As you can see,
it is hardly related to a silicon chip or
semiconductor manufacturing. So,
why do we use the term “Silicon”?
William Shockley, one of the ‘found-
ing fathers’ of Silicon Valley is the rea-
son behind its nickname, due to his
innovations in the design of the semi-
conductor. But its actual beginnings
reach all the way back to early 20th
century, when experimentation with
electronics was taking place. Subse-
quently by the 1970s, while semicon-
ductors contributed a major portion
of the area’s economy, its fame as the
region where computers and graphi-
cal user interfaces were born soon
drew more companies and venture
capitalists into the region for business.
And right before the dot-com crash,
the Silicon Valley found itself to be
the centre of an explosion of internet-
based businesses.
Today, Silicon Valley is no longer
considered just the centre of silicon
chip manufacturers, its name is syn-
onymous with world-class innovation
and technological progress – a far cry
from its early beginnings.
And now, as Imperial students, a se-
lect few of us will have the chance to
experience it ﬁrst-hand.
A month from now will mark the
start of the International Insight Se-
ries to Silicon Valley, San Francisco,
where a series of high-key appoint-
ments will be conducted within the
world’s fastest growing hub of cutting
edge, high-tech companies. King’s
College Business Club and Imperial
Entrepreneurs have jointly organised
this trip to provide Imperial students
the opportunity to visit some of the
most prestigious companies existing
in Silicon Valley today.
With presentations, discussions and
networking just beside some of the
most successful start-up ventures in
the world, this trip is promised to be
that ticket you have been hoping for
to get through the door for a promis-
ing career in entrepreneurship while
of course – soaking in the sun on the
other side of the Atlantic.
he application process is really sim-
ple. To apply, you will have to forward
your CV to zhong.lim12@imperial.
ac.uk and answer the following ques-
tion in less than 200 words: “What
would you hope to gain from attend-
ing this trip?” he deadline for online
applications at http://imperialentre-
preneurs.com/silicon-valley-trip/ is
midnight on the 4th of February 2013.
For further details please visit
imperialentrepreneurs.com
W
Identify your Dream Team!
I’m sure you’ve all heard the phrase
‘two heads are better than one’. Seems
pretty obvious, right? By this logic,
it follows that three heads are better
than two, four better than three and
so on. Unfortunately, when it comes
to startups, the equation is not quite
so simple. Finding the right team is a
very long and diﬃcult task, and one
mistake could jeopardise the entire
business. Ed Catmull, co-founder of
Pixar, summarises it perfectly: “If you
give a good idea to a mediocre team,
they’ll screw it up. But if you give a
mediocre idea to a great team, they’ll
make it work.”
here are two main aspects to look
at to build such a great team; skills and
attitude.
Together, the ideal team will have a
broad enough set of skills to be able to
cover any task that needs to be done,
but enough of an overlap so that the
team communicates well and the idea
doesn’t crash and burn the second one
person leaves.
For most projects, the ideal team
will have the following members:
he Visionary: the person who
came up with the idea and is willing to
put everything behind it. his is usu-
ally the person that runs the show, but
also motivates the team and makes
sure all bases are covered
he Brains: this person brings the
idea to life using technical or other
specialist skills.
he Logistics: once the idea has
been brought to life, this person brings
it out into the wild and makes sure it
reaches the target market.
he Salesman: the one who makes
sure that once it reaches the tar-
get market, people are convinced to
spend money on it.
he Financier: the person that
tracks the cash ﬂow, making sure that
enough money is being made and not
too much is being spent.
Of course this will all vary depend-
ing on the business; one based on a
brand will need more logistics and
sales power, whereas one based on a
new invention or discovery may need
more brains behind it.
Despite the common misconcep-
tion, skilled people are actually not
too diﬃcult to ﬁnd, especially in an
institution like Imperial College. he
main challenge comes in ﬁnding peo-
ple with the right attitude.
First and foremost, everyone in the
team must share a passion for the
business. his is what drives the sleep-
less nights and initial low pay before
the idea develops and can start mak-
ing money. he visionary will natu-
rally have the most passion, but the ul-
timate goal and belief that the product
will bring value to the end users must
be prevalent throughout.
Beyond that is the work ethic and
personality ﬁt with the team. We have
all had experience with lazy members
and those that constantly bring the
team down. Even if they have the per-
fect skill set and are brilliant at what
they do, they will undoubtedly disturb
the harmony of the rest of the group
and could potentially jeopardise the
whole project.
However, it should be noted that
there is a ﬁne line between a naysayer
and a critical thinker. Naysayers are
the pessimists that ﬁnd fault wherever
possible, but offer no reasonable solu-
tion or coping mechanism. his is a
clear sign that they do not believe in
the idea and should be kicked out as
soon as possible. Critical thinkers, i.e.
those who can make realistic outlooks
and prevent overly ambitious and
frivolous actions, are essential. En-
trepreneurs are naturally optimistic,
and the Visionary in particular would
be blinded by it. A good critical eye
can rein the team in and prevent early
burnout.
So how do you ﬁnd your dream
team? hat’s fairly simple for most of
us because the chances are your per-
fect match is somewhere in Imperial.
It’s just a matter of joining the right
societies and talking to the right peo-
ple to ﬁnd them. Beyond that, Linked-
In and personal contacts need to be
utilised to ﬁnd the right people. It isn’t
easy and can severely delay the devel-
opment of an idea, but once you are
surrounded by people who share the
same vision, there will be nothing that
can get in your way.
Nitin Nihalani Writer

