LOLCAT OF TEH WEEK: Finding these is a perk of the job
Tim Arbabzadah
Editor-in-Chief
Run for Felix Editor!
lections are here once
again. It seems like only
yesterday I was putting my
name down for Felix Editor
and hoping someone sec-
onds me.
I thought I would give some advice for
thosethinkingofrunningforasabbatical
position in the Big Elections. It applies for
all of the positions, but especially applies
to the sabbaticals.
First up: are your intentions ‘pure’ for
the lack of a better word? If the reason
you are running is something along
the lines of “I don’t have a job and want
something good to put on my CV”, then
don’t bother. Yeah, just because you
want a good CV doesn’t necessarily
meanthatyouwon’tbegood,butitdoes
mean you are unlikely to really go above
and beyond the position and give your all
toit.Especiallywhenyou’reinthedepths
of a massive all nighter and what you are
doing could affect a lot of other people.
Think of it in this simplistic way: would
you want a pilot to be not really paying
much attention and just hanging about
while landing the plan you’re on?
If you are considering running for Felix
Editor: go for it! It will be the best year of
yourlife,Icanguaranteethat.I’mnotjust
saying it. Actually, I’m even telling you
that at a time when my stress level is
through the roof (near the deadline). It’s
a lot of responsibility, but it’s also a lot of
fun. What follows is a brief rundown of
what life is going to be like if you become
Felix Editor.
Fun.That’stheonewordI’duse.Iknow
using the word fun makes it sound like a
crapcorporatemarketingschemeand/or
something you were told to trick you into
doing science, but it’s true. The Office
has a great atmosphere, and you get to
impose your music tastes on everyone.
Amazing opportunities. You get to do
really cool things like go to the BBC stu-
diostointerviewsomeone,designanen-
tire newspaper from scratch (how many
people can say they did that?), learn how
to use loads of software, learn how to
squintatascreen–sorry,you’reanImpe-
rial student, you know that one already.
Hard work. You’ll essentially move into
the Felix Office. Luckily I don’t live too
far away, but some Editors are forced
to sleep in the Office. Wednesday will
involve a massive push to get the paper
done. Then, on Thursday (the day I’m
writing this on), you will be at it (not in a
fun way) every single waking second.
Even popping to the JCR for a sandwich
of questionable quality will be filled with
work:you’llbethinkingofwhatyouneed
to get done when you get back.
Stressful. Yep, there will be some hair
loss. Sorry. The role has some sides you
don’t think about. The ever approaching
deadline. Not to mention the financial
and administrative side of the paper –
you have to make sure to balance the
books – that are generally pretty well
hidden when people read it.
Mistakes. Loads. Trouble is that it’s dif-
ferent now. Before, you could just fuck
something up and nobody would notice.
Now, there are thousands of hard copies
to remind you about it. So, get ready to
mess things up every now and then. Be
preparedtolearnfromyourmistakesand
say “MUST TRY HARDER NEXT TIME”.
There’s not enough space to be com-
prehensive here. There are some downs,
but the ups are so up that they definitely
outweigh the bad sides.
So here is some advice for your cam-
paign. To make a manifesto just think
about what sort of stuff you would like
to see in Felix and what tone you want it
to have. Be realistic, but don’t be boring.
Be bold in your aims; you may not reach
them, but you can get close. If you have
an idea and want to know if it’s feasible,
talk to me to see what I say. You can al-
ways ignore my advice. Standard stuff
applies: get a nice poster, website and
flyers designed. Print everything out in
good time (trust me).
If you are considering running, please
just drop me an email at felix@imperial.
ac.uk, and we can meet up for tea and
have a chat about what it’s like.
FEATURES SCIENCE BUSINESS
Unseen Imperial The pill Win a San Fran trip
Thisweekseesthereturnofthis
feature, which looks at various
issues that people have and
are sometimes hesitant to talk
about publicly.
How one little pill (well, one
per day) has changed so much
for us. Also, how it can affect
what type of person you are at-
tracted to.
Imperial Entrepreneurs have
the chance to win a trip to Sili-
con Valley. Those who are fans
of the old school Driver games
can see the sights.
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB.
Email: felix@imperial.ac.uk. Tel: 020 7594 8072. Fax: 020 7594 8065.
Printed by Iliffe Print Cambridge, Winship Road, Cambridge.
Registered newspaper ISSN 1040-0711.
Copyright © Felix 2013.
TO YOU
THIS
WEEK
WAS
BROUGHT
BY
EDITOR’S PICKS
2
>> 11 >>16 >>19
CLASSIFIEDS
FRIDAY 01 FEBRUARY
Editor-in-Chief Tim Arbabzadah Deputy Editor Saskia Verhagen Assistant Editor Matt Colvin News Editors Aemun Reza, Nida Mahmud Features Editors Caroline Wood, Stephen Smith Business Editor Deepka
Rana Science Editors Philip Kent, Laurence Pope, Philippa Skett Politics Editors Padraic Calpin, Marie-Laure Hicks Food Editors Carol Ann Cheah, Sophia Goldberg, Yiango Mavrocostanti Comment Editors George
Barnett, Navid Nabijou, James Simpson Fashion Editors Saskia Verhagen, Alice Yang Arts Editors Eva Rosenthal, Meredith Thomas Books Editor Maciej Matuszewski Music Editors Mark England, Ross Gray, Simon
Hunter Television Editor Lucia Podhorska Film Editors Katy Bettany, John Park, Lucy Wiles Games Editor Ross Webster Technology Editors Jason Parmar, Max Eggl Coffee Break Boss Matt Colvin Travel Editor
Veronika McQuade Sports Editors Oli Benton, Sorcha Cotter, Margot Pikovsky Online Editors Philip Kent, Jonathan Kim Puzzles Commanders Louisa Byrne, Sotirios Karamitsos Copy Chief Annina Sartor Copy
Editors Thomas Lim, Matt Colvin, Christopher Witham Illustrators Hamish Muir, Lizzy Griffiths, Outi Supponen
Flyer Distributers wanted
Jump&Bounce is hiring a flyer distribution team and we
would love to get the community involved.
Teams will be lead by team managers. Distributions will
be taking place at evening times at Shoreditch, Hoxton,
Southwark, Camden Town, Notting hill, Sheperds bush,
Hammersmith & Fulham and Kensington.
Flyer distribution will start on the 21st FEB and finish
March 7th.
Campaign days THURS - FRI - SAT
PAY £40 per 1000 flyers
For more information: Get in touch with Brendon Kasozi
via events@jumpandbounceclub.com
Email felix@imperial.ac.uk to place Classifieds.
Boy/girl seeking boy/girl also welcome. Accompanying pictures of you in
provocative poses in the Library not.
E

