FOOD
23
FRIDAY 01 FEBRUARY
Food Editors: Carol Ann Cheah,
Sophia Goldberg, Yiango
Mavrocostanti
food.felix@imperial.ac.uk
The great folks at The Lazy Fox will be offering some
special student deals when they launch their live music
nights on Sundays in March. These deals will also cover
their Monday quiz nights – so watch this space!
ENJOYED THIS REVIEW?
ably encouraged by Yanna to give our
opinion on both good and bad without
feeling like we were treading on egg-
shells – brownie points for impeccable
(and timely!) service. By the end of all
three courses, even though we were
starving earlier, we felt like the pub’s
namesake and retreated to one of the
comfy aforementioned sofas near the
ﬁreplace to recuperate. My best bet is
that even just a main course and drink
combination would give your most
Scrooge-like mates a 180.
Contrary to the sometimes-preten-
tious gastropubs you see nowadays,
he Lazy Fox can probably be best
described as a refreshing marriage
between good ol’ British tradition
and the Facebook age. It strikes a nice
balance between the two, so you can
enjoy the simple pleasures that come
from pub tipple and grub enhanced
with just the right amount of modern
pizzazz. he Robot Pub Group, who
run the place (along with its older
sibling he hirsty Bear in Waterloo)
are also the masterminds behind the
technology that makes the beer wall
possible – along with a host of other
solutions for optimizing the pub expe-
rience. Talk about having a long-term
Show and Tell that works!
All in all, he Lazy Fox has some-
thing for everyone to enjoy, whether
you’re a traditionalist looking for a
new watering hole or a tech geek cu-
rious about the beer wall. Go early in
the week for a relaxing drink/meal and
catch up with mates or a date; stop by
on match days, Sundays or one of their
events/quizzes to enjoy some good ol’
pub bustle (I’ve been assured that the
matchday crowd is rather well-be-
haved!) You’ll be well looked-after and
you’ll get to savour good drinks and a
decent portion of food at a great price.
One ﬁnal note: I wasn’t exaggerating
when I said this pub was in the Face-
book age. If you’re a Foursquare ﬁend,
try checking in on your visit and see
what happens. hank us later.
he Lazy Fox, 18 Farm Lane, Fulham.
SW6 1PP. 020 7386 3783
Open 12pm-12am everyday
Reservations recommended for busier
times (e.g. weekends.)
A very chunky review
It definitely sounds as if it’s going to be amazing. The
fudge is actually pretty nice. The problem is when
you compare it to just a normal Chunky: doesn’t add
so much that you think it’s revolutionary. Okay, we
know that it’s not exactly supposed to be pioneering
new grounds, but, still, some innovation please.
Big expectations were in store for this one. We basi-
cally assumed it was going to be a Kit Kat Chunky
with a massive strip of Bounty-esque coconut in the
middle of it. Turns out we had false hopes and it was
just chocolate that tasted faintly of coconut. Weak
taste meant it just tasted odd.
This was the one that sounded amazing. In our
minds, it was basically a Kit Kat Chunky Peanut But-
ter but with Nutella instead. That sounded incred-
ible. It did actually have a strip of hazelnut stuff in
it, and was pretty good, Still not close to the PB one,
but it has mileage and could be the real deal.
Reminscent of the classic Club chocolate bar or
some people’s (Tim only probably) childhoods. It’s
actually just a Kit Kat Chunky with mint chocolate
covering it instead of the normal chocolate you get.
Can be touch and go. Tastes okay, but there’s cer-
tainly no GIVE ME MORE factor.
Tim Arbabzadah and Caroline Wood try them for you...
Scores: Tim – 6/10 Caroline – 7/10 Scores: Tim – 2/10 Caroline – 2/10 Scores: Tim – 7/10 Caroline – 6/10 Scores: Tim – 5/10 Caroline – 7/10

