ARTS
Arts Editors: Eva Rosenthal,
Meredith Thomas
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Ice Age Art @ TheBritishMuseum–Anexhibitionofexhibitingpre-historicobjects.
You might think that this is what The British does on a regular basis. But in their
forthcoming exhibition, the objects made by ice-age men are going to be displayed
alongside the works of modern artists. This is apparently groundbreaking, teaching
usthatourancestorswerenotjustcreatorsofarchaeologicalobjects,butalsoartists.
Man Ray @ The National Portrait Gallery – A showing of the portraits of the Surre-
alist/ Dadaist photographer Man Ray are exhibited. His subjects are celebrities and
artists,hiscontemporariesontheParisianartscenefrom1916to1968.Toptip:check
out the new, totally unbelievable portrait of the Duchess of Cambridge at the same
time. 7 February - 27 May. £14.
Macbeth @ Trafalgar Studios – A new production of Macbeth, starring James McA-
voy, begins its run next weekend. It is always interesting to see how a famous actor
fares on-stage. Can they rid themselves of their fame and truly become a character?
Surely McAvoy will not disappoint as the doomed Scottish king. Get on the cheap
tickets fast! Monday tickets are all £15 and day tickets only £10. Starts 9 February.
Garden of earthly delights by Paulina Otylie Sury @ Richard Young Gallery – Whimsi-
cal and dreamy, a bit like a secret garden in the springtime, are the photographs of
Otylie. She gelatin-prints her shots and subsequently modifies them by hand to cre-
ate ethereal effects. Especially recommended for those Imperialites who hate the new
technologies.
Why work? Instead, doodle all lecture long and then send us your drawings
to arts.felix@ic.ac.uk. This doodle was done by Umar Hossain who kindly
sentusaloadofdoodleslastterm!
FRIDAY 01 FEBRUARY
24
Eva Rosenthal & Meredith Thomas
Putting the cam
M
eredith and I went
down to the Noël
Coward heatre
in the West End
in order to inter-
view a young actor, Sam Swainsbury,
involved in one of the most exciting
theatre companies playing currently
in London.
Swainsbury plays a cocky ﬂight ser-
geant with no combat time in Privates
on Parade. He answered our questions
and only conﬁrmed any notions we
may have had about the toughness of
the acting profession.
Felix: Why do you think you were
selected for this current role?
Sam: his role? I think it’s suitability.
I’ve got an agent who is my link to the
professional world. She will get casting
breakdowns looking for a certain type
of person and then will run through
her client list and say, “Sam is suitable
for this”. Ultimately she gets me in the
door and then I audition. I am very
lucky with my agent. She’s one of the
best in the game so she can get me a
really good audition like this one [for
Privates on Parade]. hen I go in and
try to wow the pants oﬀ the director,
which often doesn’t happen.
When I read this part, though, I
thought this was very much in my
comfort zone, so I went into the audi-
tion and just said ‘give me the job’ –
I didn’t actually say that – and it just
went really well. It was a combination
of suitability, timing and obviously
Michael thinking I had the ability to
do it.
F: What’s it like working with Mi-
chael?
S: Working with Michael? (Laughs)
He’s really shit... no! When I talk about
Michael Grandage, I can’t help but
gush because I think he is fantastic.
He’s brilliant like no one I’ve known
before. He assembles a company of
like-minded people, who are at the
top of their game and who all get on
with each other. He talks to everyone
in the company on a level, so there are
never feelings like ‘he’s the director’
and we’re ‘the actors’. He always talks
across at you, which is remarkable in
itself. He also loves what he does so
much. He loves directing. If you’re not
in a scene and you watch him watch-
ing a scene, he is there, living for it. He
is one of the best directors I’ve ever
worked with. Hopefully I will work
with him again and again.
F: So how is this diﬀerent from oth-
er companies you’ve worked with?
S: his job is the highest calibre job I’ve
had so far. When it comes to theatre,
this is pretty much as good as it gets: in
the West End, Michael Grandage com-
pany, Simon Russell [Beale] in the com-
pany… there in rehearsals… For me as
a young actor it doesn’t really get much
better than that.
F: Will you be working on other pro-
ductions for Grandage?
S: Well that’s down to Michael! I hope
so. He is very loyal. He says to us in re-
hearsals that he loves to work with the
same people again and again. hat’s
why he’s assembled such a great team.
He keeps working with people whom
he enjoys working with and has a good
relationship. You end up with a great
company full of people who really do
their jobs well.
F: As an actor, what is your import to
the part, how is it being directed and
how much do you bring to a role?
S: I guess he [Grandage] says “let’s try
something”
. You get up and you have a
go. hen he’ll say “this was good, that
wasn’t” and he’ll direct you, honing your
performance. He is very open minded
about what actors as individuals have to
oﬀer. He used to be an actor himself. It’s
always great to work with directors that
have previously been actors because
they have way of understanding what
we do... because it’s a fucking odd job.
F: How do you prepare for a role?
S: It depends. here are some charac-
ters that come and you totally get them
– totally get where they are coming
from. A lot of it comes down to my ex-
periences.
here are other times when the char-
acters are much further from you and
you have to research and use your im-
agination to understand those experi-
ences. For this [Privates on Parade] for
example, it’s 1948, and we’re in the Brit-
ish Armed Services. Immediately there
are things we can research. Where are
you? We’re in Malaya. Okay, what’s
it like in Malaya? Why are we there?
You’re in the army. What’s your rank?
What do you do?
You build up a character proﬁle; then
you can have fun with it in rehearsals
and play with voices and funny walks.
F: Is there a diﬀerence to playing a
comic part as opposed to playing a
more dramatic part?
S: Not really. You start in the same way.
You need the character to be rounded
and real, but when it comes to perfor-
mance the only thing that’s diﬀerent
in comedy is that there is a technique,
which separates it from drama. It’s just
simple comic timing. If you look at Si-
mon tonight, his comic timing is sec-
ond to none. hat’s something some
people have and some people don’t and
it’s something you can work towards.
Another actor in this company, John
Marquez, has got an incredible nose
for comedy and for sniffing out a gag
without making it unreal. We’d been
open for three or four weeks, and there
was a line that was bugging him and he
suddenly thought “Oh I’ve been miss-
ing this gag!”
. He told us in the dress-
ing room and suddenly found a way of
saying it with a rhythm. he line gets a
massive laugh every night. here is a
technique to comedy that straight dra-
ma does not necessarily need.
F: Is acting a job or a calling?
S: For me it was deﬁnitely a calling.
Sam Swainsbury & Joseph Timms ©Johan Persson

