ARTS
Arts Editors: Eva Rosenthal,
Meredith Thomas
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 01 FEBRUARY 25
Privates on Parade, a musical farce
rife with semi-gratuitous nudity and
camp song-and-dance numbers, is
not the sort of play one would expect
Michael Grandage to stage. A star-
studded Shakespeare production
would have been the obvious choice
as his new company takes to the Lon-
don stage for the ﬁrst time. he risk
that Grandage has taken is palpable
in every bawdy, mildly inappropriate
scene. With a script that is already
OTT, any directorial excesses could
easily have had a disastrous eﬀect.
he ﬁne line that Grandage parades
his actors along yields a very strange
sort of titillation. One cannot help
but imagine that the whole thing is
about to take a dramatic (although
surely hysterical) tumble.
It does not. Instead, it triumphs in
a medley of farcical comedy and dra-
matic sentimentality with a British
feel.
Some of the credit for this success
has to go to the unmissable star of the
show, Simon Russell Beale.
Beale gives a fabulous performance
as the fabulous Acting Captain Terri
Eva Rosenthal Arts Editor
p back into campaign
mince along to the Michael Grandage Company’s opening show
F:Howoldwereyouwhenyoudecided?
S: Nine. I did a jazzed up nativity show
at my primary school where I was play-
ing Oriole the Angel. I took these three
kids back in time to show them the true
meaning of Christmas. My parents had
no idea. hey came to watch the show
and they were knocked over by how
much I’d learned. hey took me to these
theatre workshops around the corner
and that was it.
It’s an impossible career sometimes,
when you’re working, like now, it’s the
best job ever. When you’re not work-
ing, it can send you insane. It’s so com-
petitive and completely subjective and
often based on nepotism, timing and
luck. I think you need some sort of call-
ing in order to get through the tough
times.
F: So is this your big break?
S: I will only be able to tell that in ret-
rospect from the jobs that come after-
wards but it’s deﬁnitely the best expo-
sure I’ve had so far..
F: What do you really aspire to in this
profession?
S: It really changes as you get older.
When I was at drama school in my
early 20s, I was just waiting for the limo
to pick me up to take me to the airport,
then a private jet oﬀ to Hollywood and
boom, famous thanks very much! But
as you get older you realise…
F: hat the reality of life is somewhat
diﬀerent…
S: Yeah, now I am 30 years old and what
I aim for is to be happy and to reach a
point in my career where I can choose
between jobs and have a healthy family
life. I think last year was the ﬁrst time
I was living oﬀ acting and not needing
to… I was a male nanny for two years.
Unemployed actor’s side jobs can be
very weird.
F: What’s the weirdest job you’ve had?
S: Mine haven’t been too bad. I dressed
up as Buzz Lightyear for a rich kid’s chil-
dren’s party. hat was pretty humiliating.
But one of my friends went around col-
lecting piss from people. He was doing
free sexual health checks, going around
bars collecting chlamydia tests… so yeah
there is some pretty random stuﬀ.
F: Hopefully you won’t have to do
that again...
S: No hopefully not…
Dennis, posted in Malaya for the en-
tertainment of the peace-time con-
scripts. Beale as the transvestite Terri
Dennis is the ultimate in campiness.
He displays a sense of comic timing
that results in subtle moments of ab-
solute hilarity. For one of his num-
bers, Beale impersonates Marlene Di-
etrich. Without a doubt, the general
impression of this nicely rotund man
with rather disproportionately large
shoulders in a tight blue dress and
suspenders, singing in an exagger-
ated German accent, is very funny.
However, it is the attention to detail
– the little stumble as Terri/ Marlene
struggles to get her legs around the
chair or the grimaces she gives to her
co-stars when they blunder – that
truly enliven this production. Beale
also manages to convey a true sense
of tragedy.
Although Beale, partially as a re-
sult of the loudness of Terri Dennis’
persona, tends to upstage anyone
standing next to him, the rest of the
cast are excellent in their own right.
Each character has a real personal-
ity, perfectly drawn out by the actors,
to such an extent that the individual
characters are not farcical in them-
selves.
It was also amusing to see Sam
Swainsbury, who we’d interviewed
only a couple of hours earlier, now in
pretty short army-issue shorts, total-
ly transﬁgured into a foul-mouthed
singing-dancing sensation.
he play does try to touch upon
some serious topics: amongst them
are the useless nature of the peace-
keeping mission in the colonies, Im-
perialism in general, the oppression
of women, the nature of leadership,
discrimination against homosexuals
and more. In retrospect, this is a bit
much for the essence of the play to
carry and perhaps the reason why the
second half fell slightly ﬂatter than
the ﬁrst. On the other hand, the dra-
ma worked well in the ﬁrst act, pro-
viding the same service that ‘comic
relief’ would do in a tragedy.
he stage and the colourful cos-
tumes – white satin for Beale – is
understated and provides the perfect
backdrop to the the 1950s musical
style (think South Pacific – sentimen-
tal musical – with swearing).
here are some sensationally funny
moments in Privates on Parade and I
would suggest one take advantage of
the many £10 tickets that this com-
pany has to oﬀer.
F: So if you had the choice… Hamlet
or Macbeth?
S: I think it would probably be the Scot-
tish Play [Macbeth] as I think it’s a bit
grittier. he thing with Hamlet is that
it’s amazing but everyone’s got an opin-
ion on it. I think I would just be scared
of not getting it right.
F: What would be your ultimate role?
S: I’ve predominantly done theatre since
I left [university] but I’m very interested
in ﬁlm anyways. At the moment I’ve re-
ally got a hankering for exposure on tel-
evision. I just ﬁnd it so exciting. It would
be lovely to have one of those contracts
with a big American series; like with the
new Mad Men or something like that. It
would be extraordinary.
When it comes down to it I do like
playing the bad guys. I would like to
play the trickier characters like Edmund
in King Lear… yeah, someone with a
bit of edge to them, maybe not quite so
nice.
F: Can we ask you something a bit
unfair now just because of the kind of
newspaper we are… at this moment,
how would you defend the arts to the
scientists and engineers that read our
papers in the battle for funding?
S: Obviously science is incredibly im-
portant but if you work all day, where
do you escape to when you ﬁnish work?
hey [science and art] are completely
in balance with each other. I know
that when I want to escape I listen to
music… art is everywhere. I just think
we need art, we just need it. We need
smiles! If we had a world without laugh-
ter or tears it would be a world of robots
and I think that freedom of expression
and to enjoy that expression is com-
pletely paramount as us as human be-
ings…
F: And ﬁnally, you’re in the profes-
sion of dressing up… Have you en-
joyed the uniform?
S: My girlfriend said to me – there was
a commercial video [for the show] that
went up and I’d thought that they were
rather nice when I ﬁrst tried them on–
and then she said “everyone else looks
okay but your shorts… what is the deal
with your shorts? hey’re just much
shorter than everyone else’s”
.
hey’renot!It’sjustbecauseIammuch
longer than everyone else! hey took a
bit of getting used to but it’s quite nice,
wearing uniform. I wear a very fetching
policeman’s outﬁt late in the play. hat’s
probably one of my favourites.
Company of SADUSEA ©Johan Persson

