ARTS
Arts Editors: Eva Rosenthal,
Meredith Thomas
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 01 FEBRUARY
26
Ctrl+Paint
DeviantART
Doodler’s anonymous
Wikipainting
This isn’t happiness
Google art project
Google have teamed up with 141 galleries and institutions worldwide to
bring famous collections online in dazzling HD. With over 30,000 paintings
and sculptures painstakingly digitised, the project represents a stunning re-
source for those unable to visit galleries in person. Using the same technol-
ogy as street view, visitors to the website can stroll around galleries such as
The Metropolitan in New York © and the Tate.
The detail with which one is able to view A-list artworks is astounding.
It is possible to examine Dali’s brush strokes or the cracked paint in van
Gogh’s Starry Night. This may very well be the future of art appreciation.
DeviantART is the Facebook of art and undisputed champion
of social networking amongst creative types. Users create
profiles and are then able to upload paintings, drawings and
pretty much every other genre you can conceive. In fact sub-
missions range from traditional disciplines to pixel art and
video, including, it must be said, a massive amount of anime
and fan art.
Now entering its 13th year, the website has over 25 million
registered members and grows by 160,000 uploads a day. There
is a lot of dross generated, one suspects, by prepubescents.
However, if you are prepared to search, there are some real
gems and a lot of talent. Its also a good place to get critique
about your own work, however accomplished you are.
This project aims to “create high-quality, most complete and
well-structured online repository of fine art”. While this is
grammatically dubious, it is certainly a laudable ambition.
Although still in beta development the website is based on a
standard wiki structure. The eventual aim is to make classical art
more comprehensible and accessible to the public and allow con-
temporary artists a conduit to that same community.
Wikipaintings is a not-for-profit organisation without the
funding available to, say, the Google Art Project. However,
free from commercial bias, the website also provides com-
mentary and historical context on famous artworks built up
by a similar approach to Wikipedia. In other words it is an art
history student’s dream.
Tumblrs do not have a great name. The regurgitation of cultural snippets is billed
as a pretty vacuous activity, symptomatic of 21st Century consumer ambiva-
lence, but there is always a role for the tasteful disseminator of other people’s
work. Peteski is one such curator and his tumblr, This isn’t happiness was re-
cently listed in the top 100 most influential blogs.
The posts cover art, design, photography and poetry selected every day from
dusty corners of the internet you never imagined existed. The strangely enchant-
ing atmosphere created is one of occasionally sweet, always romantic, yet dark-
ly and cynically morbid beauty. Erotic art is thrown in with pedantic diatribes
against obscured malpractices in graphic design to create a strangely coherent
philosophy.
This website started by a pair of obsessive casual sketchers as
a light-hearted homage to the humble doodle has expanded
into a serious business. The website now showcases talented
artworks found in moleskins, on the back of letters and on
napkins. It also features a blog, a shop selling bound com-
pilations and T-shirts. The buzzing community of artists use
the simple concept to explore a surprisingly wide range of
tangential interviews and posts.
With almost 1,000 members this buzzing little site is a great
place to show off your subconscious scrawling, or simply to
browse the whimsical musings and pencil spider trails of
others. You could always save them for Doodle of the Week
though.
We need to mention at least one of the many excellent tuto-
rial sites designed for beginner artists. Crtl+Paint, set up by
Illustrator Matt Kohr, is as good an example as any. Although
it focuses on digital art there are many others that will at-
tempt to teach you anything from drawing to painting.
Matt, however, has dedicated himself to producing quality
videos and help guides, up to industry standard, entirely off
his own back. He does however charge for some of his more
advanced tutorials.
Whether this style of learning suits you or not you have to
admire to dedication of a single individual building up such
a recourse, or possibly just appreciate that illustrators spend
large amounts of time out of work.
1
2
3
4
5
6

