ARTS
Arts Editors: Eva Rosenthal,
Meredith Thomas
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 01 FEBRUARY 27
It has been over two years since the
beginning of the Arab Spring – the
wave of revolutions, protests and
conflict that swept the Arabian Pen-
insula – and things have still not
died down. The ongoing civil war
in Syria, which has left more than
60,000 dead, along with the continu-
ing protests in Egypt ensure that our
newspapers are filled with articles
about the Middle East’s struggle for
democracy on a daily basis. Whilst
this increased exposure has led to
heightened interest in the Arab
world, it has done nothing to ad-
dress the way many in the West see
the Middle East: a single, monolithic
entity, an endless desert stretching
across from Africa to India, filled
solely with oil wells, terrorists and
guns. The V&A’s exhibition, which
features work from 30 photogra-
phers and artists, helps shine a new
light on the Middle East, revealing
it to be a place of beauty, creativity
and tenacity.
A series of photographs taken
by legendary photographer Abbas
during the 1979 Iranian Revolution
introduces the first section, which
aims to document life in the Middle
East. His black and white images of
young men burning portraits of the
Shah hang next to work by Newsha
Tavakolian showing elderly Iranian
women cradling photos of their
sons, who died years before in the
Iran-Iraq war, conjuring up an im-
age of the region with which we are
all familiar: a land of conflict and
violence. However, work by other
artists challenges this view of the
Middle East; Tal Shochat’s staged
pictures of impossibly perfect
pomegranate trees highlight the fer-
tility of his native Israel, while Issa
Touma’s documentation of Sufi pil-
grims in northern Syria display the
colourful traditions which continue
to this day. Young Middle Eastern
artists are documenting the expe-
rience of what living is like in the
area, and what being Middle Eastern
means to them.
Hassan Hajjaj’s portraits open the
next section, and playfully explore
the culture clash between East and
West; women’s eyes peep out from
behind Louis Vuitton emblazoned
headscarves, and traditional foot-
wear is presented decorated with the
Coca-Cola logo. Hajjaj is inspired by
Western fashion photography, and
this reimagining of Western art is
continued by Raeda Saadeh, whose
portrait Who will make me real
shows the artist reclining in a pose
similar to the ones found in 19th
Century European nudes. Her body
is covered in a cast made from Pal-
estinian newspapers, which reveal
her curves but destroy the sensual-
ity normally associated with such
portraits; Saadeh is immobilised,
and stares rigidly at the viewer from
inside her paper-mâché prison. Sha-
di Ghadirian’s photographs show
teenage girls dressed in the style of
19th Century Iran’s Oajar period,
but he has included an anachronism
is each portrait which clashes with
the traditional veils and skirts many
of the girls wear; one girl poses
clutching a Pepsi can, while another
reaches up to adjust her Ray-Bans.
These works explore what it means
to be young in the Middle East, and
question whether traditional Islam-
ic culture will coexist with Western
consumerism.
The last section is by far the most
powerful and, arguably, the most im-
portant, as it shows how art can be a
conduit for social change and rebel-
lion. The artists displayed here have
all made works protesting against
current regimes in the Middle East.
Amirali Ghasemi’s work directly
challenges the oppression faced by
young people in Iran, as well as the
censorship put in place by the gov-
ernment. His series Party shows
photographs taken at unsanctioned,
illegal private parties in Tehran, but
all the exposed skin shown has been
cut out, replaced by a gaping white
blankness, creating powerful, un-
settling images. This protest against
censorship is a theme explored in
Jowhara AlSaud’s line drawings of
featureless, anonymous figures,
printed on airmail envelopes. The
figures are shown embracing, creat-
ing an atmosphere of longing, while
the envelopes may refer to attempts
at communication thwarted by the
Saudi Arabian government.
It is not just the Middle East that is
criticised; in her series Most Want-
ed, Taraneh Hemami took mugshots
from a US governmental website
shortly following 9/11 and distorted
them by scratching the print sur-
face. The result is a series of blurred
faces. The key features can no long-
er be distinguished, but broad de-
tails such as headscarves can still be
made out, referencing both western
stereotypes of the Middle East, and
the heavy-handedness displayed by
the American government directly
following the 9/11 attacks.
The exhibition displays a Mid-
dle East that is young, vibrant, and
quickly evolving. As the region be-
comes more developed, and coun-
tries such as Saudi Arabia have an
ever-increasing importance in glob-
al politics, it is vital that we come
to recognise the Middle East as a
veritable hotbed of cultural activity.
The changes taking place there are
far from over; in fact, they have only
just begun.
Light from the Middle East: New Pho-
tography at the V&A. Free admission
Fred Fyles Writer
Youth in revolt
Street Anatomy
Flickr
Romantically
Apocalyptic
Artchipel
The ubiquitous Flickr cannot escape a mention. The go-to web-
site for professional photographers allows anyone to set up an
account and start sharing images. The website takes care to ex-
plicitly state the licence applied to each image. Many users make
their work available under creative commons licences for non-
commercial uses.
Flikr may seem like a strange choice. Many of the images are
corporate or decidedly amateur. However, when you consider
the volume of talented photographers who do use the site,
you soon realise how rewarding it can be to simply browse at
random. Definitely not worth a special mention at this point is
Insatgram, which really does not compare at all. So Instagram,
consider yourself snubbed.
In the grand scheme of the internet Artchipel is a pretty small
player. However the little French-based tumblr packs a wal-
lop. The name is inspired by the concept of the island chain
(Archepeligo) because if its connotations of connection and
interrelation. The art featured ranges pretty widely though
photography, collage and painting but as with any gallery it re-
flect the particular tastes of the curators. In this case the over
all impression is one of nostalgia and natural aesthetic with a
decidedly modern twist.
With a growing network of contemporary artists and a regu-
lar stream of images and photographs to intrigue the casual
procrastinator. As procrastination goes it has to be better than
Facebook, right?
In the spirit of randomness, and because there is quite clearly
no rhyme or reason to this list. Here is a blog about anatomy
themed art... only anatomy art. Why? Because the internet,
that’s why.
This site is so intriguing in our opinion because it restricts
its scope to such a small area and yet turns up so many fasci-
natingly strange creative ventures. Bakers who cook cakes to
look like butchered body parts. Designers who have re-jigged
the New York subway into the form of a male member. The
permutations, from the sublime to the horrific seem endless.
As the curators comment, there is more than a little “touch
of memento mori” on the site but maybe its healthy to see
that beauty can be more than skin deep every now and again.
We have had a lot of serious websites and it is time for some light
relief. If forced, one would probably classify Romantically Apoc-
alyptic as a web comic. However this is not the place to find a
weekly series of badly drawn twenty-somethings reenacting old
jokes. RA is a darkly hilarious trip into a demented world, popu-
lated solely by monsters, aliens and the insane survivors of the
holocaust of mankind.
The entire series is illustrated with its own idiosyncratic mix-
ture of photography and digital painting. The imagery is so stun-
ning that we feel it deserves a place in this countdown. We rec-
ommend you read the comic from the start to have any chance of
following what we will loosely call a plot.
7
8
9
10

