BOOKS
Books Editor: Maciej Matuszewski
books.felix@imperial.ac.uk
A Mindstar was Rising
Alex Savell looks at the early work of Peter F. Hamilton
o those that follow the sci-
ence ﬁction scene Peter
Hamilton will most likely
be a name that sets bells
ringing. For me the name
stand up next to all the other modern
giants; Banks, Reynolds, Baxter and
so on and Hamilton’s Night’s Dawn
Trilogy will be familiar to many as the
sort of epic space opera that took the
subgenre from something regularly
worthy of scorn to a legitimate ﬁeld in
its own right. But today we look back
at one of Hamilton’s earlier works, the
beginning of a series of three books (he
is loath to name it a trilogy it seems)
starring a hero with a diﬀerence; Greg
Mandel.
If by some chance you’ve managed to
miss Hamilton, or maybe you’ve found
the hefty he Reality Dysfunction a lit-
tle too daunting to take a chance on,
I suggest you take a look at Mindstar
Rising. Even, perhaps, if you’re not the
biggest fan of science ﬁction I’d say it’s
worth a look and is a whole diﬀerent
ball game from what you might ex-
pect. Written back in the days when
we were just beginning to understand
that climate change was a big deal the
book is set in an arid wasteland of post
warming Britain, a world view that
seemed all too realistic at the time. A
country that’s ﬁnally crawled free of a
hard-line government that left the na-
tion in socio-economic tatters, is only
beginning to take the necessary steps
to recover; a world view that seems all
too realistic even now.
So the setting isn’t so very unbeliev-
able, sure there’s a few jumps in tech-
nology in there; artiﬁcial intelligence
for instance is becoming a thing, but in
truth the only really ‘out there’ concept
is Greg himself. A retired veteran from
the Army’s Elite Mindstar Programme;
Greg has been turned into a super
soldier engineered to possess unique
abilities. Now, we are really entering
comic book territory, Dr Doom seems
about to leap out of the shadows, but
rest assured Mandel won’t be running
around in red, white and blue lycra
(unless I missed something really im-
portant). Instead Greg has a gland that
allows him brief periods of telepathic
sensitivity and some other lesser men-
tal abilities; nothing that makes him
signiﬁcantly less squishy than your
average human being and unlike most
comic books the power comes with
a price that’s more than just a small
amount of social awkwardness.
So if it’s not that science ﬁctional and
the protagonist isn’t that much better
than everyone else then what’s the ap-
peal? Well if you’re asking that ques-
tion you may be missing the point;
personally I love that the plot plays
out in a world that isn’t so very far re-
moved from our own with a character
that’s special without being someone
that every geek and nerd wants to be.
But if that’s not enough the book is a
great detective novel; Mandel makes
his living as a freelance investigator
and is hired to investigate several in-
cidents of industrial sabotage at Event
Horizon – one of the large technology
corporations that’s leading the push
to get the country’s economy back on
track. With his abilities rooting out the
traitors and following the evidence to
the organisation responsible is some-
thing Greg was practically designed
for and yet, as with all good detective
novels, things are never that simple.
I remember how gripped I was by
Mindstar Rising; I’d happily say that
despite being a real, grown-up novel it
maintains itself as an easy read. here’s
evidence that Hamilton is still honing
his craft at this stage; the detail ori-
ented approach present in the Night’s
Dawn Trilogy is not so evident and
the plot is more linear than the vast
scope of other works. But while there
is a time and a place for plots that span
the stars and a host of characters that
George R. R. Martin would be proud
of, I still take great joy from occasion-
ally sitting on the shoulder of just one
good character and sinking into the
close atmosphere that that can create.
Mandel isn’t sitting in a smoky oﬃce in
1920s Chicago… but why should his-
tory get all the fun.
Peter F. Hamilton will be at Imperial
College for Picocon 30 on Saturday.
February 16. As one of the Guests of
Honour he will give an individual talk
and participate in the main panel
with Steph Swainston, Richard Mor-
gan, Kate Griﬃn and Jaine Fenn. For
more information, and to register your
attendance. visit icsf.org.uk/picocon .
T
I have had, shall we say, an unsteady
relation with Doctor Who. While oc-
casionally brilliant far more often it
is painfully frustrating or just plain
disappointing. Whatever my personal
views on the show, however, I have to
admit that, over its extraordinarily
long run, it has been both hugely pop-
ular and inﬂuential, and is therefore
deserving of study.
his was the reason why I picked
up Chicks Unravel Time, sequel to
the Hugo Award winning Chicks Dig
Time Lords. A series of essays by over
thirty female writers, including Di-
ana Gabaldon, Juliet E. McKenna and
Caroline Symcox, it promised to be an
interesting exploration of the show’s
history.
Each writer focuses primarily on
one season of the show but, apart from
that one unifying theme, the essays
vary wildly in topic – from looking at
the Doctor’s companions, to the per-
sonality of the Doctor himself to the
general philosophy of the show itself.
Each piece is insightful, well thought
out and highly researched. Indeed,
many of the essays are in fact nothing
less than fully cited research articles,
unsurprising given that many of the
writers are academics.
Every writer is clearly very passion-
ate about the show and, while in many
cases, this makes for more interesting
articles it also leads to the book’s main
problem. he fact that each writer
is a massive Doctor Who fan means
that their analysis is invariably posi-
tive. While some of the worst female
stereotyping of the old series is, quite
rightly, pointed out and criticised,
many other problems are glossed over.
here is no mention of the many
failures in pacing, characterisation
and basic plotting, nor of the frankly
disturbing Doctor-Amy-River re-
lationship (where the Doctor com-
pletely and repeatedly ruins his com-
panion’s life and then marries her
daughter). Admittedly, many of these
issues are subjective and so you would
not expect them to be brought up by
fans of the show, but I am still greatly
annoyed by how it repeatedly feels
that the book is making excuses for
the show.
Don’t get me wrong; this is still an
objectively good book (as much as
you can say that about anything), but
certainly one aimed primarily for con-
ﬁrmed Doctor Who fans. If you don’t
like the show the book won’t change
your mind and you’ll ﬁnd the near
constant praise tiresome and annoy-
ing. Neither is this the book for you if
you are looking for an objective analy-
sis of the show’s history. It is, however,
highly informative and an interesting
look at why so many people love the
show.
Juliet E. McKenna will be at Im-
perial College for Picocon 30 on the
weelend of February 16-17 as part of
the Write Fantastic collective (also
including Pat Cadigan, Ian Whates,
Kari Sperring, Sarah Ash, Mike
Shevdon and others). She will be par-
ticipating in the ‘Overcoming Death
hrough Science’ panel on Saturday
and running a series of drop in Writ-
ers’ Workshops on the Sunday. For
more information, and to register your
attendance, visit icsf.org.uk/picocon.
This is a picture caption right here
in this very box that is in the pic
A look at Doctor Who Fandom
Maciej Matuszewski Books Editor
31
FRIDAY 01 FEBRUARY

