Memoir mash-up
I am currently looking through Audi-
ble.co.uk. his is the Amazon sister-
company dedicated to providing au-
diobooks to the poor souls, such as
myself, that have countless hours of
free mental time, and a bank card. But,
why do I have all this time? Since start-
ing work at the Centre for Functional
Ecology in Montpellier, France, my life
has been dedicated to saving Alpine
forests from climate change. his has
mostly involved weighing hundreds of
plant samples, a sciency way of saying
leaves. his is a repetitive process that
leaves my mind free to wonder and I
am not complaining: I study ecology!
he task is long and time consuming,
but to be honest, it’s not even the ﬁrst
time I have weighed leaves. I am a pro
leaf-weigher.
So here I am, literally scavenging
through the comedy section of the site,
looking for something worth spending
my bonus point on (yes, I do have a
monthly membership, ok! It’s a bit of
an addiction at this point). he intern-
ship has given me countless compe-
tences, some applicable to my CV, and
others not so much so. A large knowl-
edge of celebrity memoirs is deﬁnitely
one of the latter… Even so, I am ﬁnish-
ing all this fun weighing now, so may-
be it’s also time to sum up something
about what I listened to, loved, hated.
Here is a short guide to some celebrity
biographies that you will have seen on
chat shows, book columns and tube
adverts, from someone who has read
(well, listened to) a great deal of them.
If you don’t have all this time at your
disposal (and let’s face it, you’re an
Imperialite so you don’t), I hope this
helps you take your pick next time you
browse through that bestselling list.
Let’s start from the number one
bestseller. Miranda Hart’s funny face
has been glooming from every book
pile, every underground tunnel and
the Graham Norton show since the
publication of her Is It Just Me?; a
book that asks if she alone is incapable
of dealing with the daily complications
of modern life. In truth, the answer is
yes. Each one of us has embarrassing
anecdotes to tell at a dinner table, but
Miranda has lived through all of our
worse stories, and has some nightmar-
ish ones of her own to tell. Read if you
enjoy slapstick comedy and are a fan of
the lovely comedienne.
Slightly less recent, but equally,
thrown at us in every sauce, Stephen
Fry’s he Fry Chronicles narrates the
second chunk of the author’s jam-
packed life in his soothing style. A sug-
gestion: avoid reading this if you still
take rejection from Oxbridge to heart.
Fry describes Cambridge as a mystical
place, full of ancient walls of knowl-
edge and masonic jargon, and you will
only ﬁnd it painful. Having said this,
Fry is so charming, that he makes even
jail sound like and appealing place to
visit (yes, Stephen Fry has been to jail).
David Mitchell’s autobiography
Back Story, another of the morning
show favourites (not that students
ever get to watch morning shows), is a
witty journey through London and his
life. Starting from Kilburn, the book
travels in space rather than time up to
BBC House (the big one near West-
ﬁelds). Satisfyingly, the recollection
ends on a very positive note (spoiler
alert, if you’ve not turned the TV on in
the last couple of years): his relation-
ship with Victoria Coren. I admit I am
a fan of Peep Show and the Mitchell/
Webb combo, and although I feel no
comedian better represents Britain’s
darker, slightly wingey side than Da-
vid Mitchell, it was lovely to see him
shrivel up with delight while describ-
ing his now wife.
Although not technically an autobi-
ography, Caitlin Moran’s How To Be
a Woman narrates her life and quest
to learn how to behave like a proper
adult female. Whether you are into
her feminist stance or not (and not-
so-big revelation moment, I am), this
is a truly funny book that will make all
girls go “Hey I’ve done that!” and most
of them say “hank God someone
warned my about that!” (large family
and hippy parents: Moran’s woman-
hood has been one of trial and error).
he recently published Moranthology
is also ok, but to avoid if you follow
Moran’s career on he Times as it is es-
sentially a glossy ﬁle for all her articles.
For the science fans, actually, for the
lovers of mankind and all things nice,
David Attenborough’s Life on Air is a
feast for the brain. It is inspiring in the
right sort of non-corny way, and in-
credibly entertaining. From his funny
anecdotes about rat-infested temples,
to the description of ground-breaking
ﬁlming techniques, Attenborough is
as good on paper as he is on ﬁlm. Un-
surprisingly majestic.
he choice about the ultimate life
story to recommend was a hard one.
David Attenborough is biology roy-
alty, and although it pains me to write
this, I have chosen laughter over roy-
alty. For Michael McIntyre’s Life and
Laughing does exactly what it says on
the cover. I know comedy hipsters re-
sent McIntyre for going mainstream,
but there is nothing to say: he is as
successful as he is clever. McIntyre’s
hilarious childhood is a funnier ver-
sion of all our family pasts, even with
his eccentric Hungarian nan, his
bombshell mother and his Canadian
father, producer of the slightly creepy
hit song ‘Grandad’. As the years go by,
the comedy becomes serious busi-
ness and when McIntyre describes his
breakthrough gig, and the emotion of
sharing it with the one-and-only love
of his life and his two kids, my eyes
dampened a bit. his is an autobiog-
raphy that deserves to be listened to:
his rendition of ‘God Save the Queen’,
during a recollection of a particularly
embarrassing family anecdote, made
my mother almost crash the car she
was driving (my Christmas present to
her, the book not the car). If you still
can’t forgive me for picking Michael
McIntyre over David Attenborough,
don’t waste any more time and go buy
Life on Air, in fact, I will be happy to
lend anyone of you my copy, as I hope
you will enjoy all these reads as much
as I did.
BOOKS Books Editor: Maciej Matuszewski
books.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Giulia Gabrielli Writer
FRIDAY 01 FEBRUARY
32

