MUSIC
Music Editors: Mark England,
Ross Gray, Simon Hunter
music.felix@gmail.com
FRIDAY 01 FEBRUARY
34
adies and gentlemen, we
have come to the last al-
bum of our trilogy, and
thus the last of these arti-
cles. However I promise
last should not be least! ¡Tré!, as the
last album is called, features the drum-
mer on the cover as well as carrying
his nickname. It was released a month
before schedule, due to the band can-
celling their promotion tours. Green
Day, in accordance with their attempt
to vary musical approaches on each
album, decided to go for the stadium
rock style, with the odd punk rock
song thrown in (a lá Dookie). here
is a more grand feeling to this album,
especially when in some songs when
you have the string arrangements and
vocal harmonies.
Carrying on the ‘party’ analogy from
the previous article, where the ¡Uno!
and ¡Dos! where the pre-party and par-
ty music respectively, this is the music
you hear the morning after. hus it is
AMS album of the week
Local Nativeshaveneverbeengroundbreak-
ing. They stood out not because they were
doing something different to their peers, but
because they were doing it quite well. Their
second album, Hummingbird, does not break
the trend. It wears its influences on its sleeve
and they’re pretty much the same as last time
round. It’s a fairly well informed American
indie record. Grizzly Bear, Animal Collec-
tive, a little Fleet Foxes, Grizzly Bear, a bit of
Broken Social Scene and Grizzly Bear. Yeah alright, it’s essentially just slightly
poppier Grizzly Bear.
This is a very difficult record to review. There’s nothing particularly bad about
any of it. There’s no bad songs to complain about. The songs all slot together
nicely. It’s a nice record. It’s just it’s nothing more than nice. At no point is it
anything more or less than nice. There aren’t really any good songs to rave about
either. The whole thing is just fairly flat, and the level isn’t high enough for that
to keep your attention. The songs all blend together because you stop paying
enough attention to tell them apart. To call it bland seems cruel. None of the
individual songs are bland, they’re all fairly decent tracks. The problem is, the
total is pretty bland.
In terms of song quality there are a few peaks. The first half of ‘You & I’ is
pretty, and the last minute or so of ‘Black Spot’ is pretty good. ‘Mt. Washington’
is the best track here as far as I’m concerned. In fact, I’d say it’s the only track
which breaks the mould at all. It’s not stylistically different, it’s just really good.
It’s the only track I can still see myself listening to in a few weeks time.
Intermsofsongwritingtheyseemtohavematuredabit.BythisImeanthey’ve
cut out the exuberant bits. Gorilla Manor had the high-spirited ‘Airplanes’ and
‘Sun Hands’ to break up the flow, this has a few fairly dreary ballads. I suppose
it’s a bit more subtle and better thought out, but it’s not as fun, and I don’t think
that’s a worthwhile trade. Hummingbird is not a big change though. Big fans
of Gorilla Manor will probably find this quite enjoyable. Casual fans probably
shouldn’t bother.
¡Tres! ¡Uno! ¡Dos!
Max Eggl reviews the final installment from Green Day
somewhat more melancholic and nos-
talgic (well I don’t imagine you’d be
very happy when you’re cleaning up).
It all works, and the three albums do
jam together very well, even though
they are relatively diﬀerent.
his album had/will have two sin-
gles released oﬀ it. ‘he Forgotten’
may seem familiar to you, as it was
chosen to be part of the soundtrack
of The Twilight Saga: Breaking Dawn
– Part 2. If it doesn’t seem to ring a
bell, Hooray! All the Green Day fans
who listen to this song, and watched
the movie will invariably connect it
to that movie. Apart from its horrible
associations, it is a very good piece of
music, a piano ballad that pulls at your
heartstrings. Yet I feel that compared
to the rest of the trilogy, the song is
kind of boring to be honest. he other
single (in fact the ﬁrst official single)
oﬀ the album, is ‘X-kid’ which will only
be released on the 13th February. Now
this song is more like it. Typical Green
Day, it has a great chord progression,
strong vocals and Mr. Cool does a
great job on the drums. Certainly one
of the top songs of this album!
It was very hard, trust me, excruci-
atingly so, for me to choose the best
songs that really describe this album.
All the songs were so really good, and
had something to oﬀer. However I did
have to have a choice. Honorary men-
tions go to; ‘Brutal Love’, for its grand
style, ‘Sex, Drugs and Violence’ for
the amazing lyrics and ‘Amanda’ for
the best Green Day solo I have heard
in a while. Now to the actual winners.
Bronze goes to ‘Dirty Rotten Bastards’,
a song reminding me of ‘Jesus of Sub-
urbia’. A medley of diﬀerent songs that
mesh so well. It is such a interesting
song, that is amazing to listen to and
also just fun. I could not face leaving it
oﬀ the list, because parts of this song
are outstanding. For example, the
bass line in the middle of the song is
divine. When I hear that I just wanna
jump up, and buy myself a bass and
learn that melody. Silver goes to ‘Walk
Away’, a piece of music that starts rela-
tively slowly, building up the tension,
until with a bang it bursts into a beau-
tiful song. he collaboration of White
and Armstrong is very apparent in the
combination of White’s guitar and
Armstrong’s vocals
overlaid, and it works
so well. If Green Day
keep churning out
songs like this, I will
be very happy. How-
ever they one up it,
with the winner of
Gold, ‘Drama Queen’.
his song is so beau-
tiful it almost hurts.
he acoustic guitar,
the vocals, the piano
notes, the guitar solo.
his is where I use
my copyrighted term,
“eargasm”. A pure ear-
gasm. he topic of the
song is also great, having to deal with
growing up/getting older, which I can
imagine lots of Imperial students can
associate with. Not only do I think this
is the song of the album, in fact I think
this is the song of the trilogy. his is
one of the best Green Day songs I have
heard.
In my opinion, this is an absolute
masterpiece of an album. he perfect
balance of high energy songs, and slow
ballads it hits all the right notes (pun
intended). he nostalgia that you feel
in this album applies well to the tril-
ogy as a whole. Everything must come
to an end, but Green Day manage it in
such a way that is absolutely stunning.
I am sorry if this may seem somewhat
cliché, but I give this album a 5/5,
because it is so rockingly awesome.
Please, if you didn’t buy the previous
albums, have a go at this one. If you
did follow my advice and got the other
ones, you know what you must do!
All in all the trilogy was a great set
of albums. It really worked out, and
Green Day really outdid themselves.
I really hope that they create more
beautiful music like this, to keep those
eargasms coming!
Grouper’sGhostlyMaritimeExplorations
Reviews for Grouper’s The Man Who
Died in His Boat (recorded in the same
sessions as my favourite work of hers,
Dragging a Dead Deer up a Hill) have
had a bit of a tendency to focus on the
concept behind the album. Liz Harris
(Grouper) has said that it’s based on
a teenage memory of peering inside
the cabin of a wrecked ship, with the
previous occupant’s belongings still
strewn around inside. I had intended
not to dwell on this too much but the
evocation of the scene is really incred-
ible; from the oﬀ Harris treats us to
tape-echoed ambience that resembles
whispering winds over a blustering
sea, and the whole album has a reﬂec-
tive melancholy to its sound.
Whilst it all really falls under pop
ambient, Grouper has managed to
explore a fairly wide range of sound-
scapes in her time, and all are duti-
fully represented here: from the com-
pletely delayed-out pieces, where a
handful of chords and vocal tones are
extended and faded into nothing, to
the pop tracks with prominent, dis-
tinct melodies and lyrical vocals. his
release certainly seems stronger than
most of the recent oﬀerings – I felt
violet replacement was a little lack-
ing – which is perhaps not surpris-
ing considering the era it was pulled
from, and provides some fantastic
Ross Gray Music Editor
examples of the haunting simplic-
ity and droned out sounds that have
made Grouper a pop ambient hero in
recent years.
The Man Who Died in His Boat is be-
ing released by Kranky on the 4th of
February 2013 alongside a reissue of
Dragging a Dead Deer up a Hill.
Local Natives: Hummingbird
L
Stuart Masson

