hen ATP (All To-
morrow’s Parties)
and My Bloody
Valentine an-
nounced their
live return to the UK, a single night at
the Hammersmith Apollo in March,
the internet immediately started buzz-
ing. Tickets went up and were sold out
in seconds. Another night was quickly
added, where standing tickets also
promptly sold out. Having not seen
MBV – a key band in the develop-
ment of my musical tastes – in three
years, I was pretty stoked. hey were
clearly feeling generous with their live
performances for the dedicated and
added a third, more intimate, date –
the show at Electric Brixton last Sun-
day. By the time this third date was
added I was giddy with excitement so
quickly seized the opportunity to not
only see MBV one more time, but also
several months before I had originally
expected.
By the time support was announced
(which happened on the day of the
event) in the form of Le Volume
Courbe, I was already pretty excited,
more than I have been about a sin-
gle gig for a couple of years. I won-
dered whether there would be mate-
rial from the new album dropped, if
it even exists, and would I appreciate
‘he Holocaust’ more now that I’m
into noise? For those not in the know,
he Holocaust is a ~20 minute long
extension of a single note from ‘You
Made Me Realise’ and is renowned
for the incredible volume and distor-
tion with which it is performed. I did
hold some reservations though. I was
concerned that they would not live up
to their reputation for painfully loud
MUSIC
Music Editors: Mark England,
Ross Gray, Simon Hunter
music.felix@gmail.com
FRIDAY 01 FEBRUARY
36
My Bloody Valentine Live
Ross Gray is not talking about Bullet For My Valentine
live shows – I felt the ﬁrst time I saw
them was nowhere near loud enough,
although some people were sat on the
ﬂoor holding their ears at the end –
and that if they played a lot of new ma-
terial, maybe it wouldn’t hold a candle
to the impressive standard of Loveless.
here was a tangible buzz in the air
coming to the gig. Everyone on the
tube seemed to be heading there, and
I even recognized a few people from
various ATP festivals (including the
tall grey haired guy who is at literally
everything). Needless to say, I was as
hyped up as a little middle class girl
buying her ﬁrst pony.
he venue was surprisingly large.
he size of it made me worry I have
completely forgotten just how large
the Apollo is, being spoilt by a spate
of gigs in the past 3 months that rarely
exceeded a 200 person capacity. Ac-
cordingly it felt pretty empty when Le
Volume Courbe opened, and we man-
aged to work our way to the second
row. he set seemed pretty great but I
was kind of distracted by the upcom-
ing festivities and found it a little hard
to focus, so I doubt I could really add
any value by discussing it at length.
By the time My Bloody Valentine
took the stage, the venue was absolute-
ly rammed. Now I was very concerned
about the business of the March
dates, but was content in that we
had held our spot at the front despite
how crushed it was elsewhere in the
venue. hey opened with a new track
(the only one they would play), which
seemed pretty great, although maybe
I was a bit caught up in seeing them
again. he track was, as I somewhat
expected, a lot less dense than any-
thing from Loveless, though the drum
and bass elements Shields referred
to were, not surprisingly, nowhere in
sight. he ﬁrst thing that caught me,
sadly, was how loud it was – not very.
It was pretty much at a standard gig
level. Certainly nobody was vomiting
on the ﬂoor whilst bleeding from the
ears, as one would quite like in these
situations.
From the oﬀ, people were complain-
ing about the sound mix. Several peo-
ple shouted after the ﬁrst track that the
vocals were too low, which sounds ab-
surd for shoegaze, but was sadly true.
Of course they should be buried, but
certainly where I was, I literally could
not hear them for the vast majority
of the set. he sound system seemed
completely unable to handle the levels
that were desired, with a lack of deﬁ-
nition in pretty much everything and
the lows getting washed out. he band
themselves were clearly very unhappy
about the sound too, stopping halfway
through ‘To Here Knows When’ to try
and get it turned up, which they cer-
tainly managed, but perhaps at the ex-
pense of even more ﬁdelity. As Kevin
Shields angrily remarked, “It sounds
like we’re playing in a wind tunnel
three miles long”.
I think it is a testament to the
strength of their live set that despite
being clearly a little out of practice and
having all the sound problems, I still
really enjoyed the performance. ‘he
Holocaust’, it turned out, was indeed
phenomenal. Again the volume disap-
pointed me, and I think this is possibly
why they chose to cut it short (only 6
minutes), but the actual noise being
produced was pretty incredible. I feel
it’s quite remarkable really just how
good ‘he Holocaust’ is considering
that they have little tendency towards
noise overall, and really wish it would
have been extended. he drop from
the absolutely searing distortion of the
conclusion of ‘he Holocaust’ straight
back into the punchy, catchy drive of
‘You Made Me Realise’ was a deﬁnite
highlight of the set, and I look forward
to seeing this executed to its maxi-
mum in March. Unless of course they
are only going to perform 6 minutes
of it now every time, which would be
truly sad.
I think possibly too onerous of a bur-
den is sometimes put on My Bloody
Valentine as a result of their live repu-
tation. Everyone who had seen them
before, and knew how great they can
be when the sound is as loud as they
want and the system is of a good quali-
ty, seemed to be disappointed with the
set. hose I spoke to who had never
seen them before thought it was still
amazing despite the problems, and the
girl next to us (sadly she disappeared
before I could get an opinion) certainly
seemed to be enjoying it based on how
utterly mental she was going. Having
had a night to reﬂect, whilst they didn’t
live up to the extremely high standard
I have applied to them, I think they
will in March. With two months to re-
ally nail their live performances again,
and the fact that the sound system at
Apollo is far better than at Electric, I
think they should once again be able to
provide the kind of performance that
makes grown men weep.
DandyWarholssilentlyrockLeTrianon
On the 29th of November I was stand-
ing in Le Trianon, a music venue in
Paris, waiting for the arrival of he
Dandy Warhols onto the stage.
Whilst waiting I took a look around
the old theatre in which I was stand-
ing, and it is truly one of the most
beautiful venues that I have ever been
in, with wooden carvings surrounding
the stage and adorning the walls. hen
the lights dimmed and they came out
on stage immediately launching into
‘Be-In’ with its slowly building cre-
scendo of pure Dandy Warhols es-
sence setting the tone for the whole
show. his wasn’t just a tour to pro-
mote their new album, it was a show
for the fans.
he Dandy Warhols are an Ameri-
can group which have been around
since the early 90s, probably being
best described under that blanket
term ‘alternative rock’. Whilst remain-
ing in this general genre they’ve man-
aged to change their sound almost
continuously whilst still remaining
identiﬁably as the good ol’ Dandy
Warhols. hey started with garage
rock, touched on psychedelia, and
have had a stint with power-pop dur-
ing their ongoing evolution, which
Edward Bals Writer
W
seems to be settling, at least for the
moment, on a more stripped down,
guitar driven rock.
With this constantly changing
sound, he Dandy Warhols have
generally polarised fans into groups
which like a particular ‘version’ of he
Dandy Warhols. It is almost without
doubt that the track ‘Bohemian Like
You’, through its use on a Vodafone
advert, gained them recognition and
was a huge part in their success dur-
ing this period of the early noughties. I
think that it was this song that I heard
ﬁrst and their infectious sound has
meant that I have been snared since
then. I’ve stayed a fan through their
various transformations, as even when
they swap to diﬀerent genres there
still remains something quintessen-
tially Dandy Warhols-ish in all their
albums, and it’s this that keeps draw-
ing me back.
At the concert itself the band pan-
dered to all of their diﬀerent fans,
playing a large selection of favourites
from across their albums including,
of course, ‘Bohemian Like You’ with
other well-known tracks like ‘God-
less’ and ‘We Used To Be Friends’ also
making an appearance. A fair few of
the songs played were quite diﬀer-
ent renditions of their album coun-
terparts, even with a melodica being
brought out for a few. his added to
their performance making it feel like a
truly ‘live’ and special experience, not
just a replay of the albums.
he band itself was one of the least
talkative I’ve seen, possibly was be-
cause it was Paris, and instead just got
down to playing their no-nonsense
rock, with the atmosphere building
throughout the night, with the old
theatre’s danceﬂoor literally bounc-
ing by the end. he concert was such
a comprehensive compilation of the
Dandy Warhols, making it a real
pleasure to be part of the experience,
and convincing me to seek them out
whenever they’re on tour.

