FILM
Film Editors: Katy Bettany,
John Park, Lucy Wiles
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 01 FEBRUARY
40
2013 February Preview
Flight – 1st February
Whip (Denzel Washington) loves his
alcohol and drugs, which is a problem
since he’s a pilot. A faulty plane forces
him to emergency land in an open ﬁeld,
instantly turning him into a hero for
saving most of his passengers. But an in-
vestigation looking into every aspect of
the crash draws out his substance abuse
– and as an addict who refuses to believe
he has a problem, it’s clear he won’t be
abletocopewellwiththemanyhearings
and tough questions lined up. he ﬁrst
half-hour is an intense opening showing
us the actual crash itself. he rest is an
in-depth character study of a man who
spirals out of control, with Washington
giving a solid lead performance.
John Park Film Editor
I Give it a Year – 8th February
Marriage is hard, as evidenced by a pair of newlyweds facing all sorts of chal-
lenges in their ﬁrst year. Rafe Spall and Rose Byrne are the couple, Minnie
Driver is the straight-talking hilarious sister of the bride, Anna Faris and Si-
mon Baker star as the potential extra-marital love interests, whereas Stephen
Merchant and Olivia Coleman lend their comic helping hands as further sup-
porting characters. With a cast this good, it’s worth having some expectation.
Beautiful Creatures – 13th February
he start of a thrilling new witch saga or yet another literary adaptation that fails to soar or even worse, a Twilight-like
dud? Only time will tell but as far as the casting goes, it doesn’t need any more big names for what appears to be aimed
at young adults. Based on the popular bestseller of the same name, it deals with a group of witches, sorry, Casters, as a
young girl about to hit 16 (Alice Englert) having to choose between the Light and Dark. Emma hompson and Emmy
Rossum are Dark, Viola Davis and Jeremy Irons are Light. Who will she side with? And the more important question:
will the newcomers be competent in their lead roles?
Warm Bodies – 8th February
A zombie (Nicholas Hoult) falls in
love with a non-zombie human girl
(Teresa Palmer) after eating her boy-
friend’s brain. Aww. It’s certainly an
interesting spin on the well-known
zombie apocalypse setting. Also act-
ing as a tribute to William Shake-
speare’s Romeo and Juliet, will these
two star-crossed lovers overcome
their obvious obstacles and diﬀer-
ences to live happily ever after? If
this decides to follow Shakespeare’s
work closely, the answer is probably
not.
This is 40 – 14th February
Judd Apatow’s sort-of-sequel to
Knocked Up, we look at the lives of
Pete (Paul Rudd) and Debbie (Leslie
Mann) as a married couple having to
come to terms with ageing and vari-
ous mid-life crises. hey love each
other, there’s some falling apart, but
in the end it turns out they really do
love each other. Sounds simple and
pretty standard but with Apatow
looking over the project, there are
plenty of laughs to be had.
Hitchcock – 8th February
Filming Psycho wasn’t an easy task it seems, as ﬁnancial problems and sensi-
tive topics prevented even one of the most respected and popular directors in
Hollywood from ﬁnding much support. Here we focus more heavily on Alfred
Hitchcock’s rocky relationship with his wife Alma Reville, and the two power-
house British veterans, Anthony Hopkins and Helen Mirren in their respective
roles are truly magniﬁcent, although the weak and uneven script doesn’t do its
potentially meaty subject any favours.
YAAAAAY I’m getting eaten alive today!!!
Still hotter than
Edward Cullen
Flying high
“I just farted on the last piece
of pizza before giving it to you”
Did I lock my front door?

