FILM
Film Editors: Katy Bettany,
John Park, Lucy Wiles
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
41
FRIDAY 01 FEBRUARY
w: all you need is love...
Song for Marion – 22nd February
Arthur (Terrence Stamp) is a grumpy old man who frowns at his loving wife
Marion’s (Vanessa Redgrave) singing passion. When she falls ill and is unable
to perform in her choir’s upcoming competition, it’s down to Arthur’s voice to
determine whether the show goes on or not. Will he sing or won’t be in place
for his sick wife? he outcome is a predictable but warmly satisfying one, with
Redgrave’s well-placed rendition of ‘True Colours’ bound to leave the audience
in tears. Plus, how many ﬁlms this year will have a group of old retirees singing
‘Let’s Talk About Sex’?
Hansel and Gretel: Witch Hunters – 22nd February
If Abe Lincoln can be a vampire hunter, these two can certainly be witch hunt-
ers. Hansel and Gretel have now grown up, and ever since their unfortunate
encounter with a witch and her candy house, they have made it their mission
to slay all witches that terrorise villages and kidnap children. hey meet their
match with Muriel (Famke Janssen) who seems to have a master evil plan to
kill people. Complete and utter nonsense but perhaps to its intended target
audience, this could work out to be some refreshing, blood-soaked light en-
tertainment.
Cloud Atlas – 22nd February
Ambitious, visually enthralling, and endlessly entertaining, the Wachowski
siblings team up with Tom Tykwer to cover 500 years of narrative, a boatload
of characters, and fascinating, smart links between six separate plot chunks.
his barely made a mark in the US box oﬃce, and is slowly getting its push
in the European market – probably won’t do much better on this side of the
Atlantic either though; which is tragic, because here is a meticulously crafted
ﬁlm which oﬀers a wide mix of genres and yet a powerful ﬁnishing punch.
Mama – 22nd February
Jessica Chastain is on a roll, covering
a every genre possible showing her
endless versatility. Here we meet her
in the middle of a spooky horror ﬁlm.
As an unwilling aunt to two trauma-
tised nieces, she slowly uncovers the
mysteries surrounding their dark
past and a sinister Mama spirit that
surrounds them.
A Good Day to Die Hard – 14th February
One for the boys this one, an anti-Valentine’s Day addition to the mix. An
American cop visits Russia – a combination not likely to go down well. In the
previous instalment we met John McClane’s (Bruce Willis, still going strong
even though he’s nearing 60 now) daughter. Here we meet his son (Jai Court-
ney), and the two of them ﬁght the bad guys. A lot of dumb fun for sure, with
absurd but hilarious one-liners that will make you chuckle.
To the Wonder – 22nd
February
Terrence Malick is not everyone’s cup
of tea, as evidenced by the polarised re-
actions at many of his festival screen-
ings. His laboured, slow direction is
considered beautiful to some, but also
dull and pretentious to others. His
latest is no exception to his methods,
and sports an A-star cast as usual. An
American man’s (Ben Affleck) mar-
riage to a European woman falls apart,
which prompts him to reach out to an
old childhood friend of his – where
romance ignites. With very little dia-
logue and a director known to take his
time with his lengthy shots, this one is
deﬁnitely not for the easily bored.
Right Ben...down
on your knees...
TOWIE’s having
a bad hair day...
Come here rude boy boy
boy boy can you get it up...?
I’ve got a surpriiiiise for youuuuu
Am I the only
one around here..
What do you mean you haven’t
filled out the Felix Sex Survey

