SimCity (Not 5)
Josh Price givesushisthoughtsonlastweekend’sSimCitybeta
t’s been almost a year since I
discovered the new SimCity
was announced. Was it really,
ﬁnally, possible that Maxis
were making a new game,
with that one feature that was miss-
ing from the previous versions? Could
this really be the dawn of curved roads?
Speculation aside, I was particularly
pleased to ﬁnd that I had an invitation
to the beta, last weekend. Naturally,
what follows is not a full feature re-
view, there will of course be changes,
but I still had a fun in the limited hour
that the beta provided. Plenty of time
to start oppressing the masses and be-
gin industrialisation creating an idyllic
suburban utopia.
For those curious to know what this
is, SimCity is a ‘reboot’ of the series
which is about, surprise surprise, city
building. he gameplay is fairly simple.
A network of roads acts as the core of
your city, from simple streets to 8 lane
highways. Development is controlled
by zones, residential, commercial and
industrial. here are many services you
need to manage too; Electricity, Wa-
ter, Health, Rubbish, etc, etc. here’s
a whole list of needs you need to bal-
ance, in order to make your city func-
tional and to keep your Sims happy.
As the game progresses, new options
open up to you, including better trans-
port systems, landmarks and the like.
If you’re successful, you should slowly
notice your small country-style town
of shacks, develop into a huge mega-
lopolis of gleaming glass spires.
But what of new features? It’s been
10 years since the last game, SimCity
4, came out (Societies? Mention it
not!), and there are plenty of additions
to boot in the new game. Zoning, for
example, is now free and only neces-
sary along roads themselves. hank-
fully , this means no more “no access”
signs springing up, or worrying about
ﬁlling up those awkward little gaps.
One of the biggest changes however is
the level of increased customization.
Any service, aesthetic, or general
‘functional’ structure you place
can now be modiﬁed. Is your
s c h o o l over-enrolled?
B u i l d more classrooms!
Is your wind farm not meeting your
power demands? Add more turbines!
here are other neat features along
this line too. he old radius system
for buildings seems to have been done
away with mostly, and there’s no worry
about taking up grid squares to play.
And yes, ﬁnally, curved roads; you’re
no longer conﬁned to building towns
of a similar style to Milton Keynes.
One other new feature that is worth
mentioning is the increased regional
play, sadly absent from the beta. In pre-
vious versions of the game, you created
your city in a region, but didn’t neces-
sarily need to interact with any others.
With the exception of SimCity 2000’s
Network Edition, the game was entirely
single player. In this version, however,
Maxis have added the option of hav-
ing you play with other people. hese
can be complete strangers, or just
your friends. he level of interactivity
between cities seems to be much im-
proved; you can share certain services
and the like. One other new feature
seems to be “Great Works”, which the
beta excitedly promotes as something
for mayors to work together on. Spe-
cial sites are given over in a region, to
these, and can consist of things such
as a shared solar farm or international
airport.
It’s not all nice and rosy however.
Depressingly, the game does require
the presence of an always online inter-
net connection. Maxis have stated that
this is to ensure a better game experi-
ence, and that some of the simulations
required by the game are required for
play. he lack of a 100% offline single-
player mode is disappointing, espe-
cially for those still without constant
uninterrupted access to the internet.
Not only this, but it raises the question
of the reliability of EA’s servers. here
were some issues in connecting to the
beta initially, though this was to be ex-
pected, however it raises the question
as to how long support for the title will
last.
In addition to all this, there were a
few features seemingly absent. While
the version I played was a beta, there
were clear signs
of things
available in the full version, hidden un-
der a “Not in Beta” tag. Long term fans
of the series will be saddened by the ab-
sence of certain features. Perhaps most
notably, these include subways and
farms; I can only hope they aren’t spe-
ciﬁcally left out to be included as later
downloadable content. One other fea-
ture that seemed to be annoying was
the limited size of the city. Maxis have
conﬁrmed that this isn’t restricted to
the beta, and is a design and technical
choice. hey have stated that this will
improve regional play, giving no “cor-
rect” city design. I was quite a fan of
creating as large as possible metropo-
lises in SimCity 4 and I can imagine this
will be a common complaint amongst
other fans of the original game.
Overall though, my experience of the
beta was very enjoyable. After playing
for an hour it’s nice to see that the at-
tention to detail in graphics is present
in the new Glassbox engine, and you
are no longer conﬁned to an isometric
view. You can play the entire game from
a tilt-shift perspective, and if you’ve got
a computer with a decent amount of
power under the hood, you can expect
to be treated to some very nice looking
cityscapes. he statistics mode is pre-
sent, as in the previous game, which
allows you to study diﬀerent aspects of
your city in almost minute detail. here
are various graphs present which let
you look at things, from happiness to
local pollution. With the new engine
these can be shown directly in your
city, providing some strangely satisfy-
ing scenarios. For example, try watch-
ing the ﬂow of power to your buildings
after you’ve built a power plant.
Online qualms aside, I am deﬁnitely
giving this title some more interest
now I’ve had the chance to play it. As
a major fan of the original series, I’m
looking forward to the release of this
a lot more, and would recom-
mend it to others, or those
looking to try something
new.
I
GAMES Games Editor: Ross Webster
games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 01 FEBRUARY
42
Now with 100% more 3D...
...200% more curves...
... and 1000% more Japan-
sourced city destruction!

