TECHNOLOGY
Technology Editor: Jason Parmar
Maximilian Eggl
technology.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Microsoft going hard?
Jason Parmar looks at Microsoft’s new philosophy: go hard and soft
FRIDAY 01 FEBRUARY 45
The News Bubble
General news from around the tech world, so you can keep up to date
with the newest, weirdest and most futuristic things around.
128GB iPad
Yes, Apple finally has released a tablet with some REAL memory stor-
age. Costing you around £750, it should only really be considered by
the Apple obsessed or by those with serious amounts of data.
Twitter Porn
Six second porn clips were added to Twitter, via the app Vine. Invari-
ably something quite explicit appeared in everyone’s vine feed, due to
it being an editor’s pick. The hashtag “dildoplay” became quite popu-
lar on Twitter, but the video was almost instantly removed.
The Graphene Flagship
The EU has recently released its science funding, and announced it
would give a budget of 1bn euros to the University of Cambridge who
are working with Nokia to bring graphene to everyday electronics.
Bendy phones like Nokia’s Morph may be more than just a concept!
Office 365 (2013)
Microsoft has launched a new iteration of Office, redesigning it to
utilise touch screen based controls as well as Skype’s video chat. There
are also several other features, which can be added via the app store.
There is a one time purchase for £110 (will be cheaper for students) or
a subscription model for £80 pounds per annum, which includes 60
minutes of Skype calling as well as more Skydrive storage.
Blackberry 10
After their market share collapsed from 19% in 2010 to 4% Blackberry
released their long awaited make-or-break operating system. The Z10
and Q10 are the flagship devices, the former making its world debut in
the UK. Blackberry’s shares fell more than 6% after the launch.
Max Eggl and Jason Parmar Tech Editors
t’s not unfair to call Microsoft
a reactive company, i.e. they
follow trends and build on
others innovations, it’s in their
history.
Excel was an improved spreadsheet
of existing VisiCalc, Word was an
improved word processor of existing
MicroPro and Internet Explorer was
an improved web browser of existing
NCSA Mosaic. Even Microsoft’s ﬁrst
big commercial success in the mass
market, MS-DOS was built on, like
Apple, the investment in GUI that
Xerox developed.
Microsoft have continued to be re-
active to this day and have a reputation
for successfully recognising growth
markets, acquiring ﬁrms and devel-
oping products more successful than
many of their competitors (with a few
exceptions).
Xbox 360, for example, announced
they’ve shipped over 70 million units
in October 2012, not bad for a com-
pany who only entered the console
market in 2001.
Over the last 30 years Microsoft
have well and truly demonstrated that
there’s nothing wrong with being a
reactive or a “following” company, as
long as you do it well. heir reactive
strategies have earned them the hon-
our to be one of very few companies in
the world to have over a billion users
worldwide and is why they still are one
of the top 10 companies in the world.
So why are they so interesting now?
What’s changed?
Well, we are currently seeing the
most radical change in the Redmond
based company’s history. hey’ve fun-
damentally changed what they com-
panies message to world is, released
radical new products and have metic-
ulously integrated all their services, all
within the last 12 months.
And the reason? Well it has some-
thing to do with the fact that Micro-
soft are reacting to what they believe is
a fundamental shift in the market and
computing demands.
he world has moved on from
Bill Gates’ famous BHAG to have “a
computer on every desk and in every
home”. hat goal has mostly been
achieved in the western world today,
and technology, never standing still,
appears to be inching ever closer to
the “post-PC era”. Just this month it
was announced that worldwide PC
sales were down 5% compared with
year and most believe that the down-
ward trend will continue at an increas-
ingly rapid pace.
But it’s not like Microsoft never pre-
pared for the death of the PC. In 2002
Bill Gates released the tablet PC think-
ing it would change the world and be
the future, but it failed spectacularly.
here’s lots of cited reasons for the
failure, e.g. primitive software, but
the real reason is that Microsoft just
isn’t like their Cupertino rivals Ap-
ple, they’re not a proactive company,
they’re reactive.
Microsoft therefore needed some-
one else to create a new growth mar-
ket, a market they could build upon for
the future success of their company. So
in steps the world’s best marketer and
innovator, Apple CEO, Steve Jobs. In
2010 he released the iPad and claimed
it would “change the world”. Change
the world it did, the world went into
a frenzy for the product, growing the
tablet market by 250% in 2011 and in-
creasing current sales projections to
165.9m this year alone.
It’s this market demand that kicked
Microsoft the most and it’s the one
they have reacted to the strongest.
But choosing to distinguish them-
selves from their wealthier rivals, they
haven’t gone directly into the “tab-
let” market and have instead claimed
they are creating their own innovative
market, the “hybrid” market. Regard-
less if the two market are the same or
diﬀerent, Microsoft appear 100% sure
that it will be the future for comput-
ing devices and have attacked all guns
blazing.
we are cur-
rently seeing
the most rad-
ical change in
the Redmond
based com-
pany’s history
And by all guns blazing, I basically
mean Microsoft went HARD. Not
only did they not even contemplate
going home, but they literally went
hard by releasing their ﬁrst piece of
real hardware.
In this last six months alone Micro-
soft released: new hardware hybrids
with the Surface RT & Surface Pro,
a radical new operating system with
Windows 8, an increasingly popular
and innovative mobile operating sys-
tem with Windows Phone 8, a com-
pletely overhauled cloud and subscrip-
tion based Oﬃce Suite with Oﬃce
365, a “seamlessly integrated” cloud
based storage service with SkyDrive
and to tie it all together they not only
integrated the functions of all of their
services but they completely rebrand-
ed the entire companies products and
publicity material with new logos,
websites and design templates.
With a new Xbox 720 on the horizon
and Microsoft’s Bing search grabbing
market share oﬀ Google every day, it’s
no wonder people are calling this Mi-
crosoft’s biggest change ever, they’re
going hard.
But perhaps one of the most inter-
esting emerging news topics about
Microsoft going hard is their ru-
moured investment of $3bn into soon-
to-be private Dell. It’s incredibly rare
for Microsoft to tap into their $67bn
cash reserve so chances are Microsoft
are thinking seriously about going into
hardware. his makes sense for Micro-
soft, as CEO Steve Ballmer repeatedly
stated at the launch of the Microsoft
Surface that they believed that success
relied on the strength of hardware and
software working together. So it’s pos-
sible that in the near future Microsoft
may no longer just be a software com-
pany and may actually become, much
like Apple, a “device company”, eﬀec-
tively going from Microsoft to ‘Micro-
hardandsoft’.
So although Microsoft’s proﬁts are
down 4% on last year, it’s evident that
they aren’t standing still. In keeping
with their reactive follower history,
Microsoft have gone all in for what
they think is the future of computing.
hey’ve bet almost everything on the
uptake of their new operating systems
and the success of the tablet/hybrid
market. It’s a bold move and only time
will tell if they can successfully win
over business and consumers. But
with the “post-PC era” drawing ever
closer, a radical change was needed. I
for one think Microsoft have reacted
well, they’ve stepped up and have gone
hard.
Too Long, Didn’t Read
Microsoft are going so hard that
home is just a ﬁctional concept.
hey’ve radically changed their fun-
damental strategy by mixing hard-
ware with software across all plat-
forms (phones, tablets/hybrids and
desktops) and they’ve released bare
new products including Windows 8,
Windows Phone 8, Oﬃce 365 and
Surface in the last 6 months.
hey’re investing everything into
the success of the hybrid market,
their new software and their new
hardware. his is all in the hope that
consumers and business will contin-
ue to love them forever, or continue
to grudgingly accept them.
So not only are they going hard
from a “were releasing loads of new
stuﬀ” POV but their actually going
hard into hardware with Surface,
Xbox and a potential acquisition of
Dell. If it all goes ahead maybe they’ll
need to rebrand again, from Micro-
soft to MicroSofthenHard (but
perhaps that’s too much of a double
entendre).
I
Microsoft’s rebranding was too badass for an Obama “cool story bro”

