NEWS
6 FRIDAY 01 FEBRUARY
Imperial students in BP semi-finals
Imperial students have made it
through to the BP Ultimate Field
Trip semi-finals. Five Imperial
teams, each with three engineering
students have reached the semi-fi-
nals stage, which will be held on the
4th-5th February across the UK.
Emma Judge, BP Head of UK Grad-
uate Resourcing commented: “We’re
really impressed with the standard
of entries this year and it’s great to
see so many teams from different
universities getting involved. We
hope the semi-finalists are enjoying
the challenge and we wish everyone
the best of luck.”
The Ultimate Field Trip is the UK’s
flagship student competition; it ena-
bles some of the brightest individu-
als studying STEM subjects to work
in teams and answer a real life busi-
ness challenge. The winning team
receives a 2 week international field
trip with BP. The team that wins this
year will complete their internship
during the summer holidays; where
they will be travelling to Stavanger in
Norway, Shetland Isles, off the coast
of Scotland and the International
Centre of Business & Technology in
London.
These teams are solving this year’s
challenge, where they are required
to “Develop a single technical in-
novation, which has previously not
been demonstrated, to significantly
reduce the cost of PKT per capita
in your country by 2030”. Where the
“innovation can focus on one mode
of passenger transportation from
road, rail, water or air, or you can use
a combination of each. The solution
you develop must be technology-fo-
cused, practical and innovative.”
Imperial students regularly get
through to the latter half of the com-
petition.
News Editors: Aemun
Reza, Nida Mahmud
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Nida Mahmud News Editor
©
2013
Accenture.
All
rights
reserved.
If innovation makes you tick, now’s the time to put
that mental agility to use for the chance to win a
Google Nexus 7 (32GB). We’ve developed some
brain-teasing online games that will test your quick
responses and lateral thinking against students across
the country. Every week, the top of the leader board
for each game will win a prize.
We’ll also be on campus on 4th February, so come and
join us for more chances to win on our giant touchscreen.
At Accenture, innovation is something we know a
thing or two about. It’s helped us to transform clients’
organisations across the globe as one of the world’s
leading management consulting, technology services
and outsourcing companies. So, while you’re taking
part in the games you’ll discover how people with
your kind of problem-solving brains have joined
Accenture and helped to create the No. 1 sports
app for RBS 6 Nations Championship, set up charities
and transformed businesses across the globe.
Discover more about how being a graduate at Accenture
could transform your career. Visit our games page at
accenture.com/agilitymatters
Be the first to hear the latest news...
‘Like’ Accenture Careers UK
Follow accentureukjobs on Twitter
Watch us on YouTube AccentureUKcareers
This is your invitation to join an organisation offering greater opportunity, greater challenge and greater satisfaction.
An organisation dedicated to teamwork and collaboration. An organisation working at the forefront of technology, helping
92 of the Fortune Global 100 companies to reinvent business. Our capabilities are so broad, you can even change jobs without
ever changing companies. Talk to Accenture and discover how great you can be.
YOUR
DEGREE
BE>
Play our brain-teasing games
BP
David Eyton – BP Group
Head of Technology/Fabio
Capello look-a-like, handing
over a prize to the previous
Imperial College runners up
at the 2012 Ultimate Field
Trip grand final.

