NEWS
9
FRIDAY 01 FEBRUARY
News Editors: Aemun
Reza, Nida Mahmud
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Increase in uptake of the NSS
Tim Arbabzadah Editor-in-Chief
here has been a large increase in the
percentage of students ﬁlling in the
NSS when compared to the same time
last year.
he ﬁgures show that all departments
except for Civil Engineering have a
higher percentage. his has been at-
tributed to the Department waiting
until exams to remind students.
hose who do not ﬁll out the NSS will
start to receive calls soon asking them
to complete the survey.
Doug Hunt, Deputy President (Educa-
tion) was asked for comment on the
NSS in general and said: “So last year
the Union wrote a response to the 2011
NSS results, with clear recommenda-
tions to the College on how the educa-
tion and the student experience at Impe-
rial can be improved. From this a strict
policy on how feedback should be giv-
en back in 14 days was developed and
lecture podcasts were introduced due to
this response. This year Paul and I gave
an update to this response by award-
ing medals to the College on their pro-
gress. The College received 3 woods,
18 bronzes, 7 silvers and 7 golds. We
also gave 3 new recommendations and
included the Union’s strategic plan on
how we intend to improve your satis-
faction over the next year.
In the 2012 NSS a new question was
added, which asked how satisfied final
years were with their students’ union.
At this part I would like to make clear
that the Union is not just a bar, but is
also made up of around 330 clubs and
societies (highest number for any stu-
dents’ union) and the 400+ academic
reps (both UG and PG).”
Felix asked Hunt to comment on the
current rate at which students are filling
Left: the response rate in 2012 at this time. Right: the response rate this
year at the time of going to print. EEE have had everyone replying. This has
been attributed to Lorraine Craig’s encouragement.
Driving Lessons For Imperial Students
•A special offer for Imperial students
from Denis Smyth
•Driving Standards Agency (DSA)
Accredited Instructor
•Mock Test Examiner
5 Driving Lessons for
£95
"Denis is a fantastic teacher and knows how to get people from completely
inexperienced and utterly hopeless driving up to the standard to pass their test. He is
always calm and his comments are constructive; his knowledge of London and his
knack of engineering driving routes that test the learner make the lessons more than
worth it. Since I have met him he has shown a great desire to offer cheaper lessons to
Imperial students and with the backing of other students I am more than happy to
support him."
- Alex Kendall, IC Union President 2010-11
Free Mock Test from
retired Driving Examiner
"I learned to drive in one of the busiest cities in the world. I passed first time. Would I
recommend Denis? Without hesitation."
- Leon Vanstone, Aeronautical Engineering
To make inquiries and book lessons,
call 07808 610 898
out the survey, and why the sudden in-
crease. He replied: “The final years that
are filling it in are currently destroying
last year’s participation rate when you
see the College is at a 45.7%, com-
pared to 15.9% last year. This is due
to both the academic reps and depart-
mental staff pushing it hard from when
it opened. On top of that, the highest in
the country was 46.5%, so we could get
the highest turnout in the UK, if every-
one keeps up the good work.” He ended
by reminding students to not “be neu-
tral” when completing the survey.
The NSS is the National Student Sur-
vey. It is completed by all final year
undergraduates, and is a factor in many
university league tables. Imperial usu-
ally scores lower in satisfaction than
other universities, particularly for the
feedback section. For the results to even
be counted, there are thresholds of re-
sponses.

