A revised W I N E LIST has been put together
just in time for members of the College, staff
and students alike, to purchase wines direct
from the cellar. The prices quoted on the list
are for w i n e s s e r v e d at f u n c t i o n s ; any
comparison should thus be with prices in
restaurants and in wine bars (£1 per glass!!).
Remember, that when buying for private use a
discount of 7.5% is given for purchases of six
bottles or more, made up mixed as required,
but cash or cheque on collection please.
Orders can be placed with the Refectory
Office, ground floor Sherfield, room 104.
Hocks and Moselles will go well with any fish
and can be drunk as an aperitif; the middle and
upper quality Hocks will also have the body to
enhance most poultry and cheeses. The
nomenclature of German wines is lengthy but
very systematic - the terms Spatlese and
Auslese denote increasing deqrees of original
grape-sugar content. A reliable guide to quality
is of course price. A relatively inexpensive
Hock, based on the Riesling grape, is the
Rudesheimer Rosengarten 1979, and a greater,
but more expensive wine is the Schlossbockel-
heimer Felsenberg 1977. The Moselle wines
are g e n e r a l l y lighter and finer. A g o o d
introduction is the Piesporter Michelsberg
1977 and a delicious but more expensive one is
the Avelsbacker Altenberg 1979. The Alsace
wines on the list can be highly recommended
and some connoisseurs prefer them above all
else.
The C o m m o n Room Cuvee (Claret to all of
us but not in the E E C ) is good value, only £2.10
for a 75 cl bottle and r e m e m b e r i n g the
discount for 6 or more bottles, the price is
£1.94. The wine is reputed to come from the
regions a r o u n d B o r d e a u x and is bottled
specially for I.C. A fresh shipment came in
about a month ago. It is well worthwhile
putting away for six months or longer as it
improves in bottle. The C o m m o n R o o m
Cuvee is robust and can withstand a good deal
of mishandling such as being shaken about in
the boot of a car on Christmas Eve for drinking
over the holiday period. It would be a sacrilege
to do this to the finer Clarets. But whatever is
done to it, do not warm it up too quickly nor
too much. Of the finer red Bordeaux wines,
the vintages of 1973 and 1976 are drinking very
well now and will of course last for many more
years. Many on the list are Chateau bottled
(CB). The C h . de Pez (1976) is very good value
for a lovely wine. The 1978 C h . Rausan Segla is
strickly for laying down for enjoyment in the
future and a good investment. Clarets should
be served at room temperature and the cork
drawn several hours beforehand.
We have several interesting but never-
theless inexpensive wines from the Loire and
Rhone Valleys, from Provence and some good
Riojas from Spain. Why not experiment by
buying some of each? Regrettably, we cannot
s t o c k the great n a m e s from B u r g u n d y
although there are some reasonably priced
wines on the list. There is also the Common
Room Burgundy, red and white. The 1978
Beaujolais Villages is a good buy and the other
two Beaujolais are beautiful wines albeit
somewhat more expensive. A s an alternative
and perhaps with tongue in cheek, try some of
the Californian wines which were bought when
the dollar was at a low. The red Californian
wines are big, full bodied and with lots of
alcohol; they will stay for a long time and may
turn out to be the bargain for the 1980's. The
Firestone Merlot (1977) is quite exquisite and
anyone who had not tasted a wine made from
the famous Merlot grape should take the
opportunity. The white wines are also typical
and good value.
To finish a meal, what about some Port? We
have a vintage port (not listed), a 1967
Cockburn at £7.50 a bottle. O r 'have some
Madeira, my or as a very special treat have
the Janneau Armagnac.
Have a good Christmas.
P. Grootenhuis
Chairman, Wine Committee
7SM*y ....at last
uJed.Dtc. 1G*
§EAtuR!Ng:
a lilVg 200 b
<
S
>
R
+ w a pa C H a
+crimboDisco
UNION CONCERT
Page 16 FELIX, December 18, 1981

