The Birth of FELIX
On the occasion of the 600th issue, we look back at the history of FELIX.
The first issue of F E L I X was published on
Friday, December 9, 1949 in the form of a 14
page roneoed newspaper. The opening words
were:
The need has been felt for some time for a
frequently published journal to comment upon
the affairs of the College whilst they are still
topical, and to bring to the attention of its
members the activities of clubs and societies.
The introduction went on to mention The
Phoenix and how FELIX may complement, if
not compliment, the literary magazine in the
future. This indeed happened and it could be
said that the cat has now got the better of the
bird.
The Christening
Concerning the title of the newspaper, the
first edition included the following:
A debt of gratitude is owed to F.C. Ewels for
his suggestion of a title. He should be
rewarded with a saucer of milk.
The paper remained in its original format
throughout the 49/50 session and averaged
around 10 pages. The first Editor E . M . Hughes
produced nine issues at fortnightly intervals
and charged a price of 3d. Six hundred copies
of the first edition sold out fast, as indeed did
the second of one thousand. Indeed, there
were reports of a thriving black market where
copies exchanged hands at twice their face
value.
Issue 10 heralded a new format at the start
of a new academic year. Only four pages were
produced, although the reduced type size
allowed the content to remain at its previous
level. That year saw 15 F E L I C E S , some of 6
pages.
During the first year of production, only
issues 8 and 9 carried cover stories, while
regular items such as a regular character
profile and The Drinking Man's Guide to
London were established. Topics of interest
back in 1950 included refectories and The
Phoenix, but undoubtedly the main source of
news was the activities of students themselves.
Their frequent illegal activities and subsequent
run-ins with the police formed the basis of
many fascinating columns.
Other unusual items included the cover
story of issue 9, which concerned the sacking
of M r Sellars, butler in the Dining Hall! Also, it
may be of interest that in 1950 the C o m -
m e m o r a t i o n D a y B a l l was h e l d in the
Grosvenor House Hotel at a cost of 17/6d
each.
Reading through earlier copies of FELIX
makes one realise how much some things have
changed, while others remain exactly the
same. For instance, J . V . Bramley, advisory
The cover of the first issue
of FELIX which appeared
thirtv-two years ago. Six
hundred copies were made
which sold at 3d each. The
first Editor was E. M.
Hughes, who produced nine
issues.
editor in 1956/7, said in the classic Christmas
arid 100th issue:
The impression one gets from earlier issues
is that the College was more alive than now.
A FELIX first-the page
3 girl from issue 11,
October 10, 1950.
The current Deputy President, M r Barney
McCabe, may feel that his recent "Universal
Enjoyment Equation" was original, but the idea
cropped up as far back as FELIX no. 5:
T h e M a t h e m a t i c i a n ' s C o u r t s h i p
Let x denote beauty; y, Manners well-bred;
z, Fortune-fThis last is essential).
Let L stand for Love, our Philosopher said,
Then L is a function of x, y, and z,
Of the kind that is known as potential.
Now integrate L with respect to dt,
(t standing for time and persuasion)
Then, within proper limits, 'tis easy to see,
The definitive integral Marriage must be.
(A very concise demonstration).
Another example of early wit included:
Stratification
Girls at College are in two strata,
Girls with dates, and those with data.
1956 produced some very interesting items.
The Dramatic Society produced "The Ladies
not for Burning"; a certain Card Fiddler wrote
a letter in praise of U L U cards; Sir John
Betjemen (later to be Poet Laureate) said
"scientists and technologists have far more
sense of responsibility than the arts graduate
in the problems of aesthetic nature."
There was also a headline "Well done M r
Mooney" which was meant most sincerely.
As time passed, circulation increased and
had reached 1,400 by the summer of 1957. The
price remained at 3d, although some extra
large editions were 6d and very small ones only
Id. However when the price was raised to 4d
on the Charter Jubilee issue (No. 108, Friday
May 31, 1957) the circulation also rose to
1,500.

