Page 6 F E L I X Thursday, 24th February, 1972
R E V I E W S
Firstly, as a general 'puff. At
the moment of writing the Elec-
tricity picture (thinks) looks
grim, but many theatres have
arranged for their own genera-
tor, details in Press. Now is a
good time to see a play without
wasting your invaluable work
time.
The produce of the Theatre
Of Half-Remembered Fact Which
May Or May Not Be True seems
to be increasingly popular in the
English-speaking Theatre nowa-
days, and London attracts its
fair share of such plays as audi-
ences flock (note subtle allusion
to sheep) to see actors moping
around, musing over a past,
perhaps real, perhaps imagined.
Nothing really happens, and the
critics, who don't pay for their
tickets anyway, leave the theatre
making admiring clucking
noises.
I didn't pay for my tickets
either, but that I am afraid did
not stop me nodding off once or
twice during Edward Albee's
'All Over' (Aldwych, Royal
Shakespeare Company). The
theme is simple. A man, of whom
we learn little but that he is old,
famous and rich, is dying, and
his family and friends gather
round him in a beautifully musty
John Bury set. His wife, a stable
woman sadly reminiscing about
'the little girl I was when he
came to me' is there, and so are
the Mistress, the Best Friend, the
Issue and the Medical Assis-
tance. The characters talk (and
talk and talk) and the history of
the case is slowly revealed until
the man eventually dies just be-
fore the final curtain (oh look!
I've given the end away!)
But despite the good acting
involved, including Peggy Ash-
croft, Sebastian Shaw and a
rather mis-cast Sheila Hancock,
there seems nothing compelling
in the piece. The assumed
PEGGYASHCROFT:The wife
Plays
American accents do not help—
they vary from Deep Georgia
to better Roedean—and Albee's
dialogue (so good in 'Who's
Afraid of Virginia Woolf?') is
largely unattractive in it's violent
evasions of Cliche. This remin-
iscent type of drama can be very
effectively created, such as in
Miller's 'The Price', but this play
is in my view, neither particu-
larly dramatic nor effective.
Meanwhile, back at the Old
Vic, Stoppard rides again. I
have a great respect for Tom
Stoppard's plays, mainly, I think,
for their refreshingly humorous
obliquity, mixing novel Theatrical
ideas with a delightful 'potted'
philosophy. In 'Rosencrantz and
Guildestern are Dead' the idea
was of a 'Hamlet' from the angle
of the two attendant Lords, while
his The Real Inspector Hound'
took light-hearted jabs at every
theatrical institution from Critics
to 'The Mousetrap'. Thus it is
not as easy to define his new
farcical and surrealistic play for
the National Theatre, 'Jumpers'
(Old Vic).
The basis of this play is a
witty philosophical discussion on
the question of the meanings, if
any, of the words Good, Bad
and God. This is effected in the
oral preparation of just such a
paper by the central character
George (Richard Hordern), a
University Professor of Moral
Philosophy and is illustrated by
his circumstances, which include
his ex-Star wife Dottie (Diana
Rigg), a murdered acrobat (one
of the Jumpers — sort of
Gymnast-Philosophers), a con-
sequent Ortonian Detective and
a Psychiatrist Vice-Chancellor. A
great many extraordinary things
happen, for the play is set in a
future in which a repressive
Radical-Liberal part has just
been elected and British astro-
nauts have argued on the Moon,
but at the same time the form of
the play is tightly disciplined,
and at all times invested with
Stoppard's subtle wit. The end
is not entirely conclusive, for
although reason shows that there
can be no God, a comparable
line of logic shows that an arrow
will never reach its destination
(and St Sebastian died of
shock). 'Do not despair,' said
the quoted St Augustine 'one of
the thieves was saved'. Good
does exist, philosophy or not.
I cannot think of any play
with as enjoyable a philoso-
phical content as this since
'Rosencrantz and Guildenstern',
for on his chosen ground Mr.
Stoppard is unbeatable. The
performance of Michael Hor-
dern, with his alternating airs of
bewilderment and certainty, is
sure to win awards, and Diana
Rigg is quite his foil. This play
is seriously funny and is enjoy-
able on all planes, and is alto-
gether most splendidly wrought.
1 1 1 , . .
i s i s i f i s i i i i s
RAPE—KUBRICK STYLE
Films
This issue I shall be taking a
look at the career of one of my
favourite directors, Stanley
Kubrick. Stanley Kubrick has
been directing, writing and pro-
ducing films since 1956. He has
produced such a wide range of
films that it is very difficult to
categorise him: he has produced
such films as the terse thriller
'The Killing' (1956): the anti-
war 'Paths of Glory' (1958);
the epic 'Spartacus' (1960):
'Lolita' (1962): the nuclear war
film 'Dr. Strangelove' (1963):
the visually stunning '2001: A
Space Odyssey' (1967) and
finally he has reached a peak
with his terrifying look at the
near future with 'A Clockwork
Orange'.
The first film that convinced
me of Kubrick's talent was '2001:
A Space Odyssey'. This was the
most beautiful film I have seen.
, Visually it was quite stunning,
the model work was excellent
and the combined model-live
action sequences are still not
fully understood except by the
technicians involved: there was
always something to attract the
eye. I won't dare attempt to
interpret the film; every time I
see the film I interpret it in a
slightly different way. The Kill-
ing' was another fine film, not
in the same style as '200V, but
it was elevated above the stand-
ard 50's thriller with an excellent
script by Kubrick. 'Spartacus'
could have been another multi-
million dollar epic where the
cast of thousands reduces the
script to links between the
action sequences, but Kubrick
directed a human story of the
rebel gladiator.
'A Clockwork Orange' is per-
haps the Stanley Kubrick film
where many of the ideas in his
previous films come together to
produce a film with the pessi-
mism in 'Dr. Strangelove' and
parts of '2001' and the amorality
of characters in many of his
other films. The ultra-violence
that is shown is different from
that seen in other ultra-violent
films such as Peckinpah's 'Straw
Dogs' one gets the impression
of Kubrick as the scientist ob-
serving people as he would an
experiment with rats, whereas
Peckinpah's violence was a
much more subjective violence
trying to involve the viewer as
much as possible. There are
many other touches to the film
that are typical of Kubrick; —
the use of music as an integral
part of the film—this was seen
in '2001'. Also the use of an ir-
relevant song during a very dra-
matic part of the film (e.g. 'We'll
Meet Again' when the bomber
was on its way to attack Mos-
cow in Dr. Strangelove: 'Daisy'
sung by HAL when he was be-
ing immobilised by Bowman in
'2001' and finally 'Singin' in the
Rain' during the rape scene in
'A Clockwork Orange') in all
these incidents the songs seem
to be very trite but they only
tend to heighten the dramatic
impact of the scene.
'A Clockwork Orange' seen in
the context of his other films
only makes you realise how
much talent Stanley Kubrick has
as a writer-producer-director and
I hope that we don't have to wait
another four years before we
can see his next film.
Discs
Paul Simon "Paul Simon" ( C B S )
I must admit that I have never made much attempt
to get into the music of Simon and Garfunkel, or Simon
and Gutrot as I and my musically retarded schoolfriends
used to call them as we freaked to Steppenwolf and
Jimi Hendrix. But this record is extremely good—I
wonder if that is because this is the first album that
I've had to listen to attentively, (because of my devo-
tion to duty) or because this album is so much more
noticeable than the previous S. and G. albums. The
range of music covered on this album is much broader
than the largely acoustic guitar-orientated songs on
previous albums, at least before "Bridge over Troubled
Water". The first track on the album "Mother and Child
Reunion" which you may have heard as it has been re-
leased as a single, is a reggae song, pure and simple,
recorded in Kingston, Jamaica, but differing from the
usual reggae in that the words are not just about the
benefits of the banana (whoops my prejudice is show-
ing). The second song, "Duncan", my favourite at the
moment, has a rather sarcastic edge:— "Couple in the
next room/Bound to win a prize/They've been going at
it all night long/Well I'm trying to get some sleep/But
these motel wall are cheap" but it does seem to have
a happy ending:— "Just later on the very same night/
When I crept to her tent with a flashlight/And my long
years of innocence ended/Well, she took me to the
woods/Saying here comes something and it feels so
good/And just like a dog I was befriended..' That was
recorded in Paris. Simon has obviously travelled about
a bit looking for the best means of expressing his
songs. Also recorded in Paris is a lovely little number
called Hobo's Blues featuring Simon duetting with
veteran jazz violinist Stephane Grapelli. "Run That
Body Down" features wha-wha guitar and on a track
called "Papa Hobo" there is even a sound like that of
a synthesizer. Actually the sound is made by a harmo-
nium and a bass harmonica, but it does show how he is
branching out. Perhaps on the next album he really will
be using a synthesizer.
Stefan Grossman's bottleneck guitar on "Paranoia
Blues" is a sheer delight and on this track Simon again
shows that his garden is not free of weeds:— "I've got
some so-called friends/They'll smile right to my face/
But when my back is turned/They'd like to stick it to
me/Yes they would/ Oh no no, Oh no no/There's
only one thing I'd like to know/Whose side are you o n " .
I should like to print out all the lyrics (not easy pad-
ding these reviews out to 500 words you know) for the
benefit of people who take an interest in such things,
as they are printed on the sleeve.
This album is great and so I will spend the rest of
my life checking out on old Simon and Garfunkel
albums in hope of finding something as good as this.
Paul Simon

