music.felix@imperial.ac.uk
18 felix Friday 6 March 2009
Music
Music Editors – Peter Sinclair, Alex Ashford & James Houghton
Never really a gig to watch with your
mother, the Defenders of the Faith
tour this year brought with it three
fast, aggressive and technically skilled
shouty metal bands. And Dimmu
Borgir, but you can’t have everything.
Having missed the opening band of
the night, (the friendly-sounding Five
Finger Death Punch), due to the vagar-
ies of the London transport network –
thanks, Boris – by the time me and my
friend finally got into Brixton on Satur-
day we were both well in the mood for
a romantic Valentines night of sonic
assault and battery. Which was lucky,
considering the occasion.
Unusually for a rock concert, the
air-conditioning in the place had
been turned up to 11 – in deference,
one assumes, to the fact that fully half
the crowd were wearing floor-length
leather trench coats. Very rock. Still,
it was bastard freezing outside, so the
Goths got to feel smug for a change.
Unearth were just hitting the stage as
we got the first beers in. The US five-
piece aren’t famous for their subtlety,
but if brutal, unrefined aggression is
your thing then you can definitely do
Brixton yields to
death metal crusade
Duncan Casey
Four monsters of scary goth-metal - Five Finger Death Punch,
Unearth, Dimmu Borgir and Lamb of God - team up to unleash
satanic imagery on Brixton Acadamy. Duncan Casey reports
worse. The larynx-shredding vocals of
the obligatory long-haired lead singer,
along with his uncanny ability to piss
off the security men, meant that de-
spite the early bill the band secured
a rapturous reception from the circle
pits which quickly formed at the front.
Not that I was anywhere near them – I
am definitely too old for that shit.
The atmosphere was ruined a bit,
though, by the appearance of Dimmu
Borgir, with the kind of posturing self-
indulgence that would make Axl Rose
blush. The band are a bit like Lordi
(of Eurovision fame), only without any
noticeable sense of irony, replete with
make-up, studded pauldrons and an
utterly unnecessary preponderance
of pentangles. However, what really
killed the mood was the noise they
made – a kind of gothic elevator music:
think Lord of the Rings: The Musical,
only shit. Et tu, Gimli?
Despite the best efforts of the crazy
Norwegians, Lamb of God’s closing set
was a triumph of stripped-down, no-
bullshit Southern US death metal. Boy,
these lads have some issues, although
the chances of you hearing much about
them over the relentless intensity of the
bass pedals were fairly limited. Still, the
crowd knew the words off by heart and
although the format of the show neces-
sitated a pretty short set – an hour, at
most – the combination of the tempo,
the strobes, the sheer bloody volume
and the mist of testosterone in the air
meant that everyone left stress-free
and happy, having snarled away their
week’s woes at the rafters. Now there’s
a way to beat the credit crunch...
“If brutal,
unrefined
aggression
is your thing
then you can
definitely do
worse.”
Lamb of God guitarist Mark Morton gazes wistfully into the distance
After the publicity wanes, these people will have to get day-jobs
You can’t really get much grander
than the O2 arena, AKA the Millen-
nium Dome. With a capacity of 20,000,
when it’s full to the brim on a sold-out
evening, as it was when Keane hit the
stage a couple of weeks ago, the atmos-
phere could is palpably energetic and
emotionally charged.
‘The Lovers are Losing’ from their
3rd album was the surprising opener,
which did its job to rouse the hungry
hoards. Tom Chaplin, the front man,
once a chubby face, now adorning a
new trim and more mature look, took
our breath away with his electrifying
stage presence and angelic voice. With
his flashy, rusty gold jacket and skinny
jeans, all eyes were drawn to Chaplin
as he delivered with his bandmates a
combination of 22 songs from a reper-
toire derived from all past albums.
Halfway through the night, the B
stage paved way for a splendid acous-
tic set, allowing Keane to treat us with
some rarities like the melodic, quin-
tessence of soothingness that was
‘Sunshine’, ‘Snowed Under’ from their
extreme early days that pleased hard-
core fans and last but not the least, the
amazing ‘Try Again’ that was simply
delicate and beautiful. By returning
to their roots and going back to the
basics, Keane showed us exactly why
they are where they are now. Spotlights
from the front and back of the arena lit
up this second small stage, ‘under the
iron sea’ of darkness, Keane were the
source of energy and light, taking us
away from ‘the bad dream’ ‘again and
again.’
In contrast to the soft melodic in-
terlude, Keane followed up with their
The other kind of Keane. This article is not about this Keane
Susan Yu
Keane live at the O2 Arena
pulsating artillery in the form of cur-
rent dynamites such as ‘Spiralling’ and
‘Perfect Symmetry.’ The electro-dance
beats and strong rhythmic tunes drove
the crowd to a frenzy. Other tracks that
were triumphed on the last included
‘Crystal Ball’ that had the whole audi-
ence clapping and singing along, as
well as ‘Is it any wonder’ that further
enraptured the fans across the whole
arena.
The night drew to a sad nostalgic
end; everyone sang their hearts out to
‘Bedshaped’. Only the lucky ones that
had tickets to the Friday show the fol-
lowing night could be infatuated by
Keane once more. I know for a fact that
this is not the last time that I will be
seeing them.
The dude from Keane doing stuff
only
£1.50
a pint!
imperialcollegeunion.org/ents
Imperial College Union, Beit Quadrangle, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB
The Union encourages responsible drinking. R.O.A.R. Student I.D. Required.
The best value
Wednesday night in town!
Every Wednesday Night at the Union
20:00 - 01:00
BLOC PARTY
DJ SET RUSSELL & MATT
FRIDAY 6 MARCH
20:00-02:00
£5
imperialcollegeunion.org
buy online now from
green week
finale
imperialcollegeunion.org/green
Friday 13 March
20:00 - 02:00

