food.felix@imperial.ac.uk
20 felix Friday 6 March 2009
Food
Food Editors – Rosie Grayburn & Afonso Campos
Rosie Grayburn
Food Editor
Daffs, leeks and
sheep: oh my!
with salt, pepper and thyme on both sides.
Pop it in the oven (180°C) for 40 minutes.
Meanwhile, make a simple mint sauce
by dissolving 1 tbsp sugar in 150 ml vine-
gar and then adding 1tbsp chopped mint.
Get your meat out of the oven and serve
with the sauce, tatties and greens. Lie back
and think of Cymru!
3. ‘Cold and Wet in Wales’ Stew.
This stew has saved me on occasion
from hypothermia after a day out in the
Welsh wilderness. It is heavenly, but you
have to walk at least 9 miles in cold and
wet Welsh weather before you deserve
it! Chop 4 leeks, 2 onions, 3 carrots and 2
parsnips. Place in a pan with 200g rice and
600g neck of lamb (or any other cheap
cut). Season well and cover with plenty of
water. Simmer for 2 hours, skimming as
you go, then remove any stray bones from
the meat. Serve with lots of parsley and a
hunk of bread.
Before I sign off, I must remind you that
this week is the official Great British Pie
Week, so make sure you get your rolling
pin out or pop down to your local pub
for a slice of pastry-topped goodness…
just don’t decide this is the week you will
watch Sweeney Todd. Pies are amazingly
versatile – name any meat, vegetable or
fruit and you can make a pie from it!
In fact, our ancestors even dispensed
with the fact that the meat used should be
dead, as you’ll remember from that creepy
Blackbird Pie nursery rhyme. Pies were
often used as forms of entertainment, laid
out at an extravagant dinner party. When
the pie was cut up, live frogs, pigeons or
baby rabbits hopped or flew out, causing
a roar of cackling laughter from the over-
fed upper classes. Personally, I find pies
more entertaining when they’re cooked
and in my belly, but that’s just me.
I hope you enjoy the food section today.
James ‘I am A.A. Gill’ Copley pays Levi
Roots’ takeout a visit, while David Wallis
carries on his Slow Cooking series.
As usual, I would love to hear from you
if you want to contribute an article or rec-
ipe to the food pages. Or, if you want to
make any suggestions as to how we could
improve the food section get in touch:
food.felix@imperial.ac.uk is the address.
If you fail to do so, I’ll stick a Peter’s Leek
where the sun don’t shine… that’s a daffo-
dil to you and I.
Levi Roots and his Sauce
when Roots opened his first takeaway
in June 2007. The Papine Jerk Centre
itself however, is a world away from the
showbiz razzamatazz now associated
with its owner. Located in darkest Bat-
tersea, moments from Clapham Junc-
tion station, it sits on an inauspicious
row of shops surrounded by the im-
posing tower blocks of the Winstanley
and York Road estates. A world away
from primetime BBC1, I’m sure you’ll
agree. Roots seems committed to us-
ing his good fortune to help the locals
however, and there is a strong ethos of
educating people about healthy eating.
Somewhat endearingly, he ran a com-
petition, promising kids a month’s free
food if they could sing his Reggae Reg-
gae Sauce song ‘Proper Tings’ with no
mistakes.
The Jerk Centre has all the trappings
of the standard Caribbean takeaway:
bright yellow, green and red frontage,
a couple of moulded plastic tables. The
one difference being that you cannot
move for bottles of that ubiquitous
sauce. Now available in a range of fla-
vours including “Love Apple Tomato
Ketchup”. Quite.
The centre is open for breakfast six
days a week, with a range of classi-
cally Jamaican dishes on offer. Saltfish
with either calaloo (a leaf vegetable)
or ackee (a fruit which, when eaten
unripe, causes the wonderfully named
Jamaican Vomiting Sickness). For ich-
thyophobes such as myself, there is the
option of fried dumplings or plantain,
a range of patties, or the slightly less
Papine Jerk Centre HHH
8 Lavender Road
Battersea, SW11 2UG
0207 924 2288
www.papinejerk.com
Best: Good, traditional Carribean
food!
Worst: Not knowing the words
to the Reggae Reggae theme
tune, ‘Proper Tings’. Oh! the
shame.
Price: From £4.50 for mains;
breakfast items from 60p
exotic, but no doubt delicious, organic
porridge. So, if you ever find yourself
coming into Clapham Junction in the
morning, resist the West Cornwall
Pasty Company and go get some music
in your food.
To be honest, the main meals are
those found in almost every Caribbean
restaurant across the land. The jerk
chicken is fine, probably one of the bet-
ter ones I’ve had, but after all the hype,
expectations were a little bit higher. It
is difficult to overcome the familiarity
of the taste of that bloody sauce. The
Papine Jerk Centre is typical of its type:
honest, good value, spicy Jamaican
food.
T
hose of you who watch far
too much television will
recognise the name Levi
Roots from BBC’s Drag-
on’s Den. This eccentric
Jamaican man won the nation’s heart
with a blend of music, enthusiasm, and
his grandmother’s jerk sauce. Since
then Reggae-Reggae Sauce has spread
like wildfire from its humble begin-
nings in Brixton market. Far from be-
ing a temporary craze, it is remarkable
that, over two years after Dragon’s Den,
Reggae Reggae sauce is still being sold
in almost every supermarket across the
country. Roots, ever the entrepreneur,
has marketed CDs, cookbooks, and
even a Subway sandwich….
All of which made it no surprise
food.felix@imperial.ac.uk
21
Friday 6 March 2009 felix
Food
James Copley visits the Temple of Reggae Reggae Sauce
D
ydd Gwyl Dewi hapus!
I’m writing this on Saint
David’s Day, so a belated
Happy St. David’s Day
to you all. Instead of
celebrating this National Welsh Day
by downing vodka infused with Welsh-
cake (guilty), I’ve tried to come up with
lots of leek-based treats for you to
morsel. I don’t have any daffodil reci-
pes up my sleeve, but if you have one,
let me know!
I don’t have a Welsh bone in my body
(France 21-16 Wales… that’s all I’m say-
ing!) but when it comes to Welsh culture, I
just love their food: leeks, lamb and all the
Welsh produce you find on a jaunt across
the border into Cymru.
On a walking trip to Cader Idris, we
once stumbled across a butcher’s shop
with the slogan, “All our meat is vegetar-
ian”
. Intrigued, we stepped inside to find
an Aladdin’s Cave of home-made sau-
sages, local cheeses and two fingers up at
the Vegetarian café next door. That’s the
Welsh for you – amazing boar and orange
sausagesandagoodsenseofhumour.And
so follows a [belated] selection of Welsh
recipes in celebration of St. David’s Day.
1. Leek and Sheep Cheese Par-
cel – one for meat-sceptics. Preheat your
oven to 200°C. Slice 2 leeks and an onion
and fry in a dash of oil. If you happen to
have any other leftover vegetables that
need using, add those to the pan too.
Why not. Once the vegetables are sof-
tened, take the pan off the heat. Crumble
½ a pack of feta (or ewe) cheese into the
mixture along with a handful of grated
cheddar. Season with pepper.
Now, line a heatproof dish with 3 sheets
of filo pastry and brush with a little melted
butter. Tip in your leeky, cheesy mixture
and fold the filo over the filling to make a
parcel. Brush the pastry with melted but-
ter to stop it burning, and then bake in the
oven for 30 minutes. The pastry should be
golden and crunchy. This is nice served
with salad and cold white wine.
2. Simply Welsh lamb. Make sure
it is Welsh, or I won’t be happy. What’s the
point in flying in lamb from 11,680 miles
away in New Zealand when there are
plenty of tasty sheep just 130 miles away
in Wales!? Madness. Anyway, get some
nice Welsh lamb chops and season them
Serves 2
370g stewing beef (something with lots of fat running through it)
Half an onion, finely chopped
1 carrot, finely chopped
2-3 cloves of garlic, squashed and finely chopped
Handful fresh sage or thyme leaves.
4-5 rashers streaky bacon or pancetta (preferably smoked), cut into 1cm thick strips
Olive oil
300ml red wine
400g tin of chopped tomatoes
6 open-cap mushrooms, sliced
Tagliatelle
Parmesan cheese for serving
Salt and freshly ground black pepper
Dice the beef (1cm or 2cm chunks) and season well with salt and freshly ground black pepper.
Heat a tablespoon of olive oil in a frying pan over a medium-high heat and fry the meat until
browned on all sides (if your frying pan is a bit on the small side, do this in batches). Remove the
meat from the pan and set aside.
Return the pan to the heat, adding a bit more oil if necessary, and fry the bacon until the fat turns
golden and starts to crisp. Turn the heat down a fraction and add the finely chopped vegetables,
garlic and 2 thirds of the herbs (not the mushrooms), frying until soft.
Return the beef to the pan and pour in the wine, turning up the heat and simmer vigorously for
a couple of minutes before adding the chopped tomatoes. Turn the heat down to low and allow
to simmer gently for 1 1/2 to 2 hours, stirring occasionally and adding a splash of water when
needed so as to keep the meat covered (you can actually get away with adding quite a lot of water
without even remotely impairing the taste as all it does is cook off- helping keep your meat nice
and tender and sauce nice and silky).
Half an hour before serving, add the sliced mushrooms and check the seasoning. Ten minutes
before serving, cook the pasta in well-salted water until al-dente or according to the packet’s
instructions.
Drain the pasta and add to the pan with the beef, mix well and serve with plenty of Parmesan.
Enjoy with some garlic bread and a glass of red wine.
Written and Created by David Wallis
Slow-cooked Ragu
“Happy Saint David’s Day”, said one daffodil. “Shut it”, said the other,
and promptly put the nice daffodil in a headlock. Ah well.
GE Global Research
At GE, the future is you.
General Electric, a $ 152 billion company present in over a hundred countries, is a
diversified business with the focus of translating imagination into tangible ideas and
products.
GE Global Research, the hub of technology and innovation of GE, is one of the world’s most
manifold industrial research organizations. Researchers here engage in developing break-
through innovations for GE’s businesses, in the areas of medical imaging, energy generation
technology, jet engines & lighting, materials and many more. GE Global Research has research
centers in Niskayuna (USA), Bangalore (India), Shanghai (China) and Munich (Europe).
The European center of GE Global Research specializes in the areas of sensors, alternative energy
& environmental technologies, electrical energy systems, and advanced medical imaging.
GE Global Research is seeking for candidates (m/f) who hold a PhD or a Master degree.
To learn about specific openings at GE Global Research and to register your applications,
please turn to the career section at: www.ge.com/researcheurope.
An Equal Opportunity Employer
Warning: Not to be used in
foreplay. Ooh!

