East Meets West 2009
Sama Zaman and Kavita Aggarwal review this year’s event at the Theatre Royal, Drury Lane, as well
as giving a quick insight into the show’s past
A
fter many months of preparation and much anticipation, the country (and
Imperial’s!) largest and oldest student show, East Meets West, presented by
Indian Soc, returned to the stage on Sunday 22nd February 2009 at the Thea-
tre Royal, Drury Lane. With an illustrious 17-year history, the show has es-
tablished its own special place in the hearts of both performers and audience
alike, and with expectations even higher after last year’s stupendous success at the London
Palladium, the pressure was certainly on. The evening began with a spectacular opening
act, after which we were introduced to the event’s celebrity host, legendary comedian Nina
Wadia, who brought with her a most delightful surprise in the form of fellow Goodness
Gracious Me actor Kulvinder Ghir, whose perfect comic timing and hilarious quips had
the audience in stitches for the entire show. The acts themselves were a joy to behold not
only due to their exceptional high quality performances, but also due to their variety, which
is exactly what East Meets West represents and what makes the show so memorable and
so unique. The spectacular array of talent seen included the renowned street dance form
of Funkology, which was executed with so much passion that it looked almost effortless;
scintillating traditional Russian ballet; an incredibly enthusiastic Light Opera performance
and what many considered to be the highlight of the evening: bhangra by the Groundshaker
team. Overall the evening was extremely enjoyable and certainly delivered on its promise of
‘the ultimate celebration of culture’ whilst raising proceeds for and awareness towards three
very worthy causes: Save the Children, the Care Trust Education and this year’s RAG char-
ity the Winnicott Foundation. With yet another successful year to add to the show’s legacy,
we look forward to seeing what East Meets West will offer next year!
In the beginning...
Starting out in Imperial College’s Great Hall, the inaugural show was a great success with a
sell-out audience of 400 people. It began with the simple idea of merging classical eastern
acts with more contemporary western performances, and has since grown into the incon-
ceivable, ever widening and ever-diversifying production that it is today.
Previous venues have included the highly exalted Shaftesbury Theatre, Shepherd’s
Bush Empire, Hammersmith Apollo, as well as the Barbican and many more prestigious
locations.
And now...
Set in the heart of London, the prestigious Theatre Royal, Drury Lane is the perfect setting
for this magical evening. The Theatre Royal is found in the West End of London. Officially
situated on Catherine Street, the theatre backs on to Drury Lane just to the east of Covent
Garden. It was designed by Benjamin Wyatt and opened on October 10th, 1812 with a
production of Hamlet. The interior has been redesigned and overhauled many times since
then and now boasts a seating capacity of 2,205. It is one of the West End’s largest venues
and is currently the home of the hit West End production of Oliver with Rowan Atkinson.
24 felix Friday 6 March 2009
technology.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Technology
Technology Editor – Richard Lai
Richard Lai
Technology Editor
A
pologies for my absence
last week - we spent more
time and effort than ex-
pected into our group
project presentation, but
I think it paid off. At the same time, I
also had the opportunity to put Apple’s
iWork ‘09 - specifically Keynote - to
practical use instead of making price
comparison slides of new Apple prod-
ucts, and the result was beautiful. Mac
users are strongly encouraged to try
it - you can download the trial version
from Apple’s website.
Now to the subject: by now most of
you gadget fans should have heard of
or read about the Amazon Kindle 2
e-book reader. It is no doubt a great
improvement from its predecessor:
better button layout, slimmer design,
25% longer battery life, faster display,
new dictionary, and the controversial
“Read-To-Me” text-to-speech feature;
but I still have doubts about whether
the current range of e-ink devices will
win the hearts of traditionalists.
You see, the success of any new
piece of gadget depends heavily on
how natural one feels with its interface
and form factor. To some the problem
with the Kindle 2 and similar devices is
that the reading experience on them is
still very different to the real deal. Let
us start off with their form factor: we
tend not to read books in a tablet form,
and I personally like to hold my nov-
els with my one hand holding below
the V-shaped gutter. To satisfy me and
like-minded readers, the device would
have to utilise some sort of folding in
the middle.
Fine, the rest of you may argue that
some like to fold their books in half,
but what about the softness of the
book? That is another sensation which
the e-ink devices lack (the Kindle 2
has a cold metallic back!), and will no
doubt be a challenge for the develop-
ers to come up with a durable material
that gives the same feel as paper. This
should be possible, as demonstrated by
the current Wacom drawing tablets:
back in the early days the tablets I used
were very slippery, not comfortable to
use after long periods; when I read that
Wacom’s Bamboo tablet offers a “pa-
per-like work area for a natural experi-
ence”, I bought one straight away and it
really feels like writing on paper.
Next we have the page-turning expe-
rience: for me I get a greater satisfac-
tion with flicking through pages of pa-
per compared to using the scroll bar or
scroll wheel. Understandably, since the
e-book devices are not multi-paged it
is hard for them to offer the same sen-
sation. One possible solution is to im-
plement a touchscreen and have a lag-
less sliding animation like the one used
on the iPhone’s photo viewer, but this
would restrict the device’s form factor
as I don’t think this is possible on flex-
ible materials yet, and let us not forget
that this would need greater graphics
power too (thus money and battery).
I’m probably moaning too much, but
I am very keen to see a device that will
give the right e-book experience. What
do you think? Drop me line on Twitter
at http://twitter.com/richardlai .
Thoughts on
e-ink devices
Living in the Cloud...
Richard Lai compares some of the hottest cloud sync services
Y
ou may or may not have
heard of cloud computing,
but the chances are you are
already using a few servic-
es offered by such technol-
ogy. In a nutshell, cloud computing is
computing using various online serv-
ices, i.e. using the Internet (or meta-
phorically the “cloud”) instead of your
desktop PC as your computing plat-
form. Think about Google Maps: users
do not have to install any extra apps on
their computers in order to use it (that
is assuming the computer already has a
compatible Internet browser), as all the
data is stored in the cloud.
Obviously, the fact that such services
are on the Internet means that you can
access them from anywhere - specifi-
cally on any devices equipped with an
Internet browser or relevant app. You
don’t even have to worry about which
operating system you are using, as most
of these services are designed to be at
least accessible with all major browsers
in the form of a website.
Don’t get me wrong though: cloud
computing is not just for mass-data
services like Google Maps, nor is it just
for enterprise services like Amazon’s
Elastic Cloud Computing (EC2). Here
are a few options for us majority users:
Google has been one of the long-
est cloud service providers with their
Google Apps platform, with Google
Docs being their main cloud storage
product. I’ve personally used it to store
member records (as a spreadsheet) for
a student association outside Impe-
rial College, but since I’m not free to
edit it all the time, I share the full edit-
ing access with another secretary and
the chairman - all they needed to do
was to sign up for a Google Account.
Google Docs also has the essential on-
line editing tools for word documents,
spreadsheets and even PowerPoint
presentations, saving us from having to
download and upload files for even the
smallest changes. Two other features
Are you an iPhone
developer?
Here’s a chance for you to show off your
apps to your 12,000 fellow students/
potential customers at Imperial College.
Sendinthefollowingdetailstotechnology.
felix@imperial.ac.uk by 7pm next Monday:
Name and link of your app(s)
•
Large resolution screenshots (5 max.
•
for each app)
An interesting description in around
•
220 words (do talk about what
inspired you, the difficulties you had
during development etc.)
Your high-res mugshot (optional)
•
Selected apps will be featured next week!
The three major cloud storage service providers fighting for coverage.
worth mentioning are: revision history
for each document - an essential tool
for group collaborations, and an offline
mode which allows you to view and
edit documents in your browser with-
out Internet connection (and syncs
with server when next online).
Microsoft offers a similar service
with their Windows Live platform.
Their Google Docs equivalent is Office
Live Workspace and shares many com-
mon features with it, apart from the
lack of web apps for viewing and edit-
ing the documents - you need to have
Office installed! But the service that I
want to highlight is Live Mesh: a sync
service between multiple computers
(including Mac) and the cloud. This
involves installing a client app on your
machines and then choosing which lo-
cal folders you want to sync with the
cloud. Likewise, you can also sync your
machines with the other folders already
on the cloud server. This excellent fea-
ture eliminates the need of manual file
transfer from one computer to another,
as the Live Mesh client syncs with the
cloud instantly as you edit and save the
files. I use this to keep my lecture notes
and felix documents synced across my
two laptops (a Dell and a MacBook),
and if neither machines are with me,
I can use any computer and log onto
my “Live Desktop” to view all my cloud
files. Now you can see why I hardly
ever use my pen drive these days!
Last but not least, we have the famous
MobileMe service from Apple. Unlike
the previous two, MobileMe is a paid
service but includes a more advanced
sync service (that be push e-mail, push
contacts and push calendar) for iPhone
users. As well as some generous stor-
age space, the package also offers a web
hosting service for your personal web-
site, and photo-sharers have an elegant
gallery to play with as well. I person-
ally wouldn’t pay £58 for a year given
the free alternatives, but it does sound
like a great gift for Mother’s Day (22nd
March!).
While these three services offer
slightly different services, they all allow
you to choose what is private and what
is available for public viewing. Have a
look at the table below - you’re bound
to need more than one! Use them wise-
ly and your life will be a lot easier!
Docs
Windows Live Mesh
 “Sync-as-you-edit” connectivity
 Public folder
 Virtual desktop to view cloud files
 Group collaboration on folders
 Free
Google Docs
 Online apps for editing
 Revision history for each file
 Group collaboration on docs
 Offline editing mode
 Free
MobileMe
 Website hosting service
 Elegant photo gallery
 Public folder
 Direct public link to each file
 Assign expiration dates for links
 20GB of email and file storage
 Push data for iPhone
 No direct public link to each file
 Lacks online apps for editing
 5GB only (but it’s free!)
 Still in beta
 No direct public link to each file
 Only supports 4 types of files
 Still in beta
 £58-per-year subscription
 Lacks online apps for editing
 200GB monthly data transfer limit

