felix sport Send in your sport reports:
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
High resolution photos only
Imperial
swimmers
reach UK
finals
Thomas Whitehead-Clarke
This Valentine’ s day whilst many were
looking starry-eyed into their lovers’
eyes, IC’s team of elite swimmers were
up in Sheffield at the national aquatic
centre taking on some of the country’s
best swimmers.
With national champions and Ol-
ympic medallists also taking part, the
standard of competition was very high
indeed. The team started off well with
women’s and men’s freestyle teams
finishing 21st and 29th respectively,
giving the women’s team a place in the
B-final, finishing ahead of the much
fancied Liverpool and Hertfordshire.
The good performances kept coming
with Andy Hagues finishing 16th and
24th in the 50 and 100m backstroke, as
well as Benedict Steiner finishing the
50M fly in 30 seconds dead.
It was no doubt an emotional week-
end for Sophie Mitchinson swimming
And they’re back this weekend for a team
tournament
Continued on page 30
Cyclers crack the
CliMach X trial
Kristian Jenner
For once, everything seemed to be go-
ing according to plan as we packed up
the minibus in front of the Queen’s
Tower on Friday afternoon. We were
all there, and so were our bikes, which
was a nice change from the previous
trip. We set off around 16:15 on our
epic drive to North Wales looking for-
ward to a weekend of riding the sweet
trails round Snowdonia National Park.
As we crossed the Welsh border with
Tom Jones blasting out of the speakers,
the Daves kept themselves entertained
by arguing about how to pronounce
the Welsh place names, and who could
remember the way the best. Oh, and
about each other’s music tastes. They
like arguing.
We rolled into Dolgellau (if that’s
how you spell it) at an ungodly hour
and had to drag the receptionist out of
the pub to let us into the hostel. Yes,
that’s right, we slept in proper beds this
time – a welcome luxury. The only oth-
er guests that weekend were a group of
mates on a stag do, who kindly left us
some energy drinks and porn mags in
the kitchen. We met them later that
night when they came back from their
night out enjoying the wild nightlife
that Dolgellau has to offer (there’s
some great strippers according to the
guestbook). They later kept us up by
trying to beat the shit out of each other
after a prank gone wrong, smashing a
big hole in the wall. We didn’t see them
again.
The next day we drove down to the
trail centre at Coed-y-Brenin, home
of the first ever specific mountain
bike trail in the UK (apparently). As it
turned out we were half an hour early
for breakfast, and passed the time by
faffing about with our bikes. We started
the ride fuelled up on bacon sandwich-
es from the cafe, although we didn’t get
very far before the first pinch flat. This
was the first of around 10 punctures
we had in the first couple of hours on
Saturday. The best one has to be James,
who managed to rip his front tyre clean
off the rim while going through a com-
pression. Despite taking down our
average speed to around 5 mph, these
breaks were a good opportunity to get
some photos and for Doug’s trousers to
mysteriously disappear.
As the day went on, we had fewer in-
terruptions and we could really enjoy
the awesome riding at Coed-y-Brenin.
We were riding ‘the Beast’, 40 km of
perfectly bermed, rocky singletrack –
the reason we’d come such a long way.
This trail really has it all, although it’s
not for the faint hearted. The smiles on
our faces did start to fade a bit spinning
our way up the last massive climb, only
to be brought back by the awesome de-
scent on the other side. All I remember
is working my arse off trying to follow
Dave T down on his shiny new bike,
only to watch him endoing round one
of the corners, wtf??
By the time we got back to the cafe
there wasn’t enough daylight left to
do a whole loop more, so after a short
break we went up to do the first 5 km or
so of another trail, which turned out to
have some sweet berms near the end.
On that bombshell we decided to call it
a day and headed back to the hostel.
After a nice warm (sitting-down)
shower, we headed out to a pub
outside
Continued on page 30
Calling all Hurlers
Finian McCann
Imperial College GAA are very pleased
to announce that hurling training ses-
sions have started. They’re on every
Wednesday lunchtime at 2pm in Hyde
Park beside the tennis courts. We’ll be
more than happy to welcome any in-
terested parties along, whether you’ve
played before and are itching to pick
up a hurl again, or are just interested in
playing the most awesome sport on the
planet. Our aim this season is to pro-
mote the game and enter the Univer-
sities Seven-a-side Tournament, and
hopefully to compete in more compe-
titions next term. There’s no need to
worry about equipment as we’ve got
a dozen brand-new, freshly-gripped
hurls for you all to try out. For any fur-
ther enquiries, feel free to email me at
finian.mccann07@imperial.ac.uk.
Finnian McCann on the left and Stephen Gallagher on the right
wielding their hurl

