3
Friday 6 March 2009 felix
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
2 felix Friday 6 March 2009
News
News Editor – Kadhim Shubber and Dan Wan
Felix was brought to you by:
felix 1,427
Friday 06/03/09
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London
SW7 2BB. Tel: 020 7594 8072. Fax: 020 7594 8065.
Printed by The Harmsworth Printing Ltd, 17 Brest
Road, Derriford, Plymouth. Registered newspaper
ISSN 1040-0711. Copyright © Felix 2009.
LOLCATZ
of
teH
WEEK
Editor in Chief: Jovan Nedić
News Editor
Dan Wan
Copy Editors
Louise Etheridge
Jonathan Lloyd-Williams
Sasha Nicoletti
Dina Ismail
Politics Editors:
James Goldsack
Katya-yani Vyas
Science Editors
Mićo Tatalović
Daniel Burrows
Arts Editors
Caz Knight
David Paw
Emily Wilson
Business Editor
Luke Dhanoa
Nightlife Editor
Catherine Jones
What’s On Editors
Rachel D’oliviero
Lily Topham
Food Editors
Rosie Grayburn
Afonso Campos
Puzzles Supremo
George Charles Murdoch
Clubs and Socs Editor
Alice Rowlands
Sports Editors
Jack Cornish
Mustapher Botchway
Photography
Sami Michaels
Tom Roberts
International Editor
Hassan Joudi
Raphael Houdmont
Film Editors
Zuzanna Blaszczak
Jonathan Dakin
Technology Editor
Richard Lai
Music Editors
Peter Sinclair
James Houghton
Alex Ashford
Fashion Editor
Dan Wan
Coffee Break Editor
Ravi Pall
Travel Editor
Dylan Lowe
Deputy Editor: Kadhim Shubber Associate Editor: Gilead Amit
felix to create first
digital archive of its
kind in the UK
Work is finally underway for a brand
new digital archive of felix that will see
every issue since 1949 being available
to the entire world. The creation of the
archive will come as a welcome relief to
a lot of people at Imperial College (IC),
none more so than the clubs and socie-
ties at Imperial College Union (ICU).
After many months of extensive
research and numerous meetings, a
company has finally been found that
will digitise the past issues of felix and
make the files fully searchable. The de-
cision was taken last August when it
was discovered that some of the bound
editions were starting to deteriorate.
The obvious solution to preserve these
valuable archives was to digitise the
editions in our possession and then
hand over the bound editions to the
Imperial College Archive Department.
The project was discussed with sev-
eral companies, before the University
of London Computer Centre (ULCC)
was finally chosen to undertake the
project. It quickly became apparent
that if a high quality product was to be
produced, significant financial contri-
butions would be required to fund this
mammoth project.
The expected cost of the project
will be around £55,000 which includes
£25,000 for the digitisation of the ar-
chives and £30,000 for the final web
site. Several sources of funding have
been sought, in particular the Imperial
College Trust as well as the the Joint In-
formation Systems Committee (JISC)
(who are funded by the UK higher
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk News
Nominations are over,
elections are go go go...
It’s official, the Imperial College Union
Sabbatical elections are underway after
the candidates had their first meeting
on Monday. Deputy President (Finance
& Services) and Returning Officer for
the elections, Christian Carter, met the
candidates to go over the election pro-
cedure, as well as the do’s and don’ts of
election campaigning. Nearly all of the
15 Sabbatical candidates turned up to
the meeting, which the nine candidates
for Student Trustees also attended.
This year, due to a change in the Im-
perial College Union [ICU] Constitu-
tion, candidates are allowed to men-
tion their opposition in the campaign
material. Candidates have, however,
been warned that any statements made
in their campaign material need to be
backed up with strong evidence other-
wise they face being fined or even ex-
pelled from the elections race.
Even though the Constitution was
changed to allow negative campaign-
ing, the one thing that wasn’t changed
that has raised concern, is the ability to
remove seconders that the candidates
do not recognise. The reason for this
is that the seconders are immediately
part of the campaign team for that can-
didate and as such must abide by the
same rules; if they break the rules, the
candidates get fined. This was the con-
cern of some of the candidates both this
and last year, though one of the major
problems with removing seconders is
that the candidate might not have the
20 required to stand for election.
Earlier this week, Mr Carter an-
nounced to the candidates that due his
workload at this time of year, he has
elected a Deputy Returning Officer,
naming past DPFS John Matthews for
the role. Some have found this move a
bit strange as Mr Matthews is no long-
er a student at Imperial, however he is
a life member which makes the deci-
sion legitamate.
Manifestos of the candidates will be
released on the ICU web site as well as
Live! today, and will appear in felix next
week along with an interview with the
two Presidential candidates.
Hustings will be held next week on
Tuesday 10th March in the Junior
Common Room and Thursday 12th
March in da Vinci’s. Voting opens on
the Friday 13th March and closes on
Tuesday 17th March. Below are a list of
the candidates and the positions they
are running for.
ICU President
Ashley Brown
Afonso Campos
The candidates at their first meeting this Monday, but who will win? It
is up to you to pick the best person for the job, so go vote!
Jovan Nedić
Editor in Chief
Deputy President (Finance & Services)
Danny Hill
Peter Mabbott
Deputy President (Clubs & Societies)
Colette Gregory
Jennifer Wilson
Deputy President (Education)
Alexander Grisman
Matthew Kaufeler
Jonathan Silver
Deputy President (Welfare)
Caroline Clark
John James
Michael Powell
Felix Editor
Zoe Dobell
Kadhim Shubber
Daniel Wan
education and further education fund-
ing bodies to provide world-class lead-
ership in the innovative use of ICT to
support education and research). The
final product will be a PDF for each
issue, with a web-based interface that
will allow users to search for individual
words, issues and dates.
After speaking with representatives
from ULCC and JISC, felix ascertained
that this project would be the first of
its kind, as no other university student
newspaper in the UK has done this.
There are, however, a few in the US
that have undertaken similar projects
and the feedback from them has been
a positive one, something that will un-
doubtedly please both ICU and IC.
The first batch of issues has already
been sent to ULCC for digitising and
the project is expected to be finished
by November 2009. Once finished, the
new web site will enable users to search
for anything they like, which could
range from looking up stories cover-
ing past Beit redevelopments to angry
letters written by Rectors to editors of
felix. This will be very useful to clubs
and societies who wish to discover
more about their history, as well as to
alumni who will be able to relive their
time as students at the College.
felix had a quick look through the ar-
chive to try and find some gems from
the past, which can be found right.
With the creation of the archive, you
too will be able to search for some of
the wacky news stories of yesteryear.
Jovan Nedić
Editor in Chief
The current felix archive in the back room of the office
Imperial makes
a difference with
One Water
Golden Oldies
Gilead Amit goes through the
early copies of felix to find his
favourite stories
Baby found in Beit
Quadrangle
Unfortunate episode mars freshers’
night
At 11 o’clock on the night of the first R.C.S. Freshers’ dinner, a
baby was found in the middle of the Union quadrangle. The Presi-
dent of the Union and the Warden of the Hostel quickly arrived on
the scene and supervised the removal of the baby, whose name
is believed to be Austin, to Prince Consort Road, where it was left
for the night. By the following morning it had disappeared. Several
such episodes have occurred recently; it is reported that steps are
being take to discourage the offenders.
Issue 111, Friday 25 October 1957
Issue 128, Friday 16 January 1959
Women Professor for Imperial
College
Dr. Helen K. Porter, DSC FRS, whose appointment to the Chair of
Plant Physiology at the Imperial College of Science and Technol-
ogy is announced by the University of London, becomes the first
woman to hold a Chair at the College.
Dr. Porter’s association with Imperial College dates from 1921
when, after graduating from Bedford College, she spent a year
in the Department of Organic Chemistry and was then appointed
Research Assistant in the department of Botany. Ten years later
she joined the staff of the Research Institute of Plant Physiology
attached to the College and concentrated primarily on research in
the field of carbohydrate metabolism.
Shortly after the war she spent a year in Washington University,
St. Louis, studying enzymological methods. The subsequent de-
velopment of her work, in collaboration with a group of colleagues
and postgraduate research students, led, with the support of the
Nuffield Foundation, to the opening in 1953 of an enzymology lab-
oratory in the Plant Physiology section of the College, to accom-
modate a research group under Dr. Porter’s direction.
In 1956 she was elected to Fellowship if the Royal Society, the
twelfth woman to be so honoured. In 1957 Dr. Porter was appoint-
ed to a new Readership in Enzymology at the Imperial College.
Issue 120, Friday 2 May 1958
Pyjama Party
In the evening a seventy-strong pyjama party, in luxuriant night
attire, began their gay publicity stunt from S. Kensington; to the
accompaniment of hot rhythm and hectic jiving (stationmasters
and reporters getting hep) the party deviously reached Blackfriars,
and then proceeded to Fleet Street.
Here that law appeared gaily whistling, attracting passionate
blown kisses from passing nightshirts. On Trafalgar Square, hum-
ming patriotic airs, and provoking considerable public interest,
Here the skiffle group provided music for jiving in the wonderful
setting of floodlit fountains – onlookers joining in.
But the law at last politely but firmly intervened, informing the
party that they were contravening the “Sessional law”, as Parlia-
ment was then sitting. The procession was forcibly dispersed by ‘A’
Division but had soon re-formed, and disappeared into the depths
of Green Park Station. The revellers returned, as they went, to the
sound of strumming guitars.
The sixty years that separate us from the yellowed typewritten
sheets of the early felices have unsurprisingly seen tremendous
changes in the way students write and the subjects they are inter-
ested in. The passion for occasional risqué humour, however, has
lasted. A flick through these past issues provides a very powerful
image of student life in the middle of last century, and makes for
very entertaining reading. Over the coming year, a fully-searcha-
ble archive will hopefully be up and running and accessible to all.
MANIFESTOS & VOTE: www.imperialcollegeunion.org/vote MANIFESTOS: live.cgcu.net
Ex-IC ‘rich kid’ sues school
for £1 million
Dina Ismail
News Correspondent
An ex-Imperial student is suing his
former public school for almost £1mil-
lion after he claims he was bullied by
pupils who ‘made his life hell.’
The former student has launched
a landmark High Court case against
Berkhamsted Collegiate School, claim-
ing that staff failed to protect him from
fellow pupils who taunted him for
years.
The university graduate alleges
that the experience left him mentally
scarred and overshadowed his career
prospects causing him to graduate with
a second class degree when he had the
potential to get a first.
Amongst the grievances mentioned,
the student alleges he was taunted for
being rich and living in a large house.
Despite this he still managed to at-
tain ten grade A* or A GCSEs and four
A-grade A-levels. The school, which
charges fees of £15,000 a year, has in-
sisted that the incidents were too trivi-
al to be considered bullying.
The 23 year old graduate’s lawyer,
however, alleges that by attending the
school his client has been left with
poor self-esteem and suffers from a
depressive disorder. The school is ac-
cused of negligence and breach of duty
of care towards its student who had
unavailingly complained repeatedly to
staff and governors. The school, which
is facing the possibility of a substantial
payout, is denying any wrong doing.
If this landmark case wins, a new
precedent could be set for compensa-
tion claims made against schools which
fail to protect bullying victims.
Berkhamsted Collegiate School where the student claims his time
there “ made his life hell”
Did you know that 1 billion people in
the world don’t have access to clean
water? Or that 2 million people die
each year as a result of water related
diseases? When the people at ONE
Water found this out, they wanted to
do something to change those figures.
All their profits from sales of ONE Wa-
ter go to building unique PlayPump®
water systems in Africa which improve
people’s lives by providing free, clean
water.
Through selling approximately
150,000 bottles of ONE Water over the
last 18 months, Imperial has taken a
small step in helping their cause - pro-
viding clean free, water to those who
really need it. Thanks to our students
and staff who bought the water, we
have been able to donate a ONE WA-
TER PlayPump® to Ngabeni Primary
School in Maxesibeni, in the Eastern
Cape, South Africa.
To find out more about the ONE
projects see www.onedifference.
org
Children playing on the PlayPump in South Africa

