comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
7
Friday 6 March 2009 felix
Comment
6 felix Friday 6 March 2009
Comment, Opinion
& Letters
Let us know your views: comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Letters may be edited for length and grammar purposes
Views on these pages are not representative of felix
T
he household that I live
in is rather like a Gentle-
men’s Club. There are pe-
culiar customs and bizarre
rituals, we have annual
dinners and like all good Gentlemen’s
Clubs it is… well, 100% gentlemen. We
fulfill all the basic requirements.
However in other ways it’s very dif-
ferent. It doesn’t have a long or pres-
tigious history, Churchill was never a
member and Lord knows (as do any
visitors to our flat) that the premises
aren’t exactly grandiose.
It’s for this reason I believe that my
club, hereby named The House of
Tight Trousers, hasn’t been a riotous
hit amongst the great and good of Lon-
don. All Gentlemen’s Clubs are judged
on two things: their facilities and their
membership. Nobody wants to spend
time with a horde of boorish, shallow
fools (no matter how wonderful the
surroundings) but equally one can al-
ways take good company with one if
the premises aren’t up to scratch.
I’d say that my club wouldn’t be
judged too harshly by its member-
ship. Admittedly there are only three
of us: myself, Rob and Carlos. But it’s
multi-ethnic, multi-national and mul-
tifaith and although I live with a man
who never stops revising and a man
who never rises before 3pm, I like to
think that if you came to The House
of Tight Trousers for some company
and conversation, you wouldn’t be
disappointed.
Sadly though, the environment
might permanently deter you. The
club doesn’t employ a cleaner and 66%
of its members are unable to find the
strength to tidy up after themselves.
The result is, of course, chaos (not the
organized chaos of say an anarchist
commune, we’re talking a kind of 2003
post-invasion Iraq type of chaos ). Like
2003 post-invasion Iraq different areas
of the club are maintained to different
standards. Rob’s room has avoided the
chaos of the rest of the flat; it is a veri-
table oasis of cleanliness, structure and
general civility (Carlos and I suspect
that this is linked to the fact that he’s
the only one in the flat with any stor-
age space: there are two wardrobes in
our flat, both in Rob’s room; that and
the fact that his room is in the Green
Zone). Carlos’ room on the other hand
is the absolute opposite of Rob’s room;
if Rob’s room is the well-protected oil
wells and pipelines of Iraq then Carlos’
room is the Iraqi National Museum. He
is at a disadvantage, I’ll admit, in that
he has the smallest room but the most
clothes by a long way. His room has be-
come a jungle; his clothes racks are the
trees, the hangers are the branches and
the leaves are brightly coloured socks
from Uniqlo or American Apparel.
Perhaps our club might be judged
better if the rest of the flat resembled
Rob’s room rather than Carlos’. At first
Rob’s constitution was strong enough
to keep The House of Tight Trousers to
a certain standard but the weight of his
flatmates’ slovenliness overwhelmed
him; like the British in Basra he now
only keeps order within his base.
Even if The House of Trouser were to
be cleaned spotlessly, like Iraq it would
still face problems due to poor infra-
structure. There is an extreme short-
age of working appliances. We lack a
freezer, the hoover seems to expel more
dust than it inhales and the door of the
washing machine has to be prised open
with a knife. However, there are two
appliances that truly make me recon-
sider not taking that flight to Baghdad;
the dryer and the boiler.
I should correct myself, there is no
dryer and there never was a dryer.
The dryer is the WMD of The House
of Tight Trousers. I look at images of
Iraqis queuing in the unrepentant heat
for petrol and I dream of a life with
dry clothes. I dream of a world where
my clothes didn’t cling uncomfortably
to my shoulders and where the first 3
hours of each day weren’t spent shiver-
ing as my body struggles with its new
job as a radiator... wonderful.
But surely, I hear you cry, you could
just dry your clothes on an actual ra-
diator? Sadly not, I reply, since the
boiler has shuffled off its mortal coil
and departed to boiler heaven. I have
cold radiators and even colder show-
ers. Thrilling as cold showers may be,
there is something distinctly unsatisfy-
ing about moving from a cold shower
to a damp towel, before ‘slipping’ into
even damper socks and jeans.
The atmosphere therefore at The
House of Tight Trousers is as you may
have guessed it... damp. Visitors view
the piles of dry, unwashed clothing or
clean but damp clothing with suspi-
cion, as if insurgents might suddenly
leap from behind them. They bring
beers and enthusiastically offer to chill
them in the non-existent freezer and
are always confused when we offer
them a map and a machete before they
enter Carlos’ room.
Still there’s hope that we’ll be out by
August 2010. Rob says there’s a place
two doors down that we could move to
but Carlos and I aren’t enthusiastic.
Kadhim Shubber’s club has an image problem
“The House of
Tight Trousers is
a mess. It doesn’t
employ a cleaner
and its members
don’t tidy up after
themselves”
Gilead Amit begins a trek into the musical jungle
“Music played an
important part in
our home – but we
have never played
an important part
in the music.”
T
here is a well-known Re-
gency poet, or artist, or
composer or some glut-
tonous, decadent extrava-
gant fop, whose name has
been escaping me all morning. With
Google proving surprisingly uncoop-
erative and my reference books located
in another country, the only way I can
continue with my train of thought and
finish this story with any degree of
coherence is to invent an appropriate
substitute. So be it. Sir Darcy Wilber-
force St. John deLaney Hamilton, Bart.
that well-known member of the landed
gentry, ranked among the great artis-
tic souls of his day. His infusion with
the divine fire is often attributed to his
wealthy mother, who insisted that her
pregnancy be spent in the presence of
great works of art: soothing glissandos
delivered by periwigged pimpernels on
harps, elegant marble statuettes, fine
watercolours and the most refined to-
piary. Bear in mind that much of this
comes to you straight and unfiltered
from a notoriously unreliable memory.
If one of the greatest musical geniuses
of the age was the product of such re-
fined practices on the part of the elder
Mrs. Hamilton, then my own mother’s
nine-month must have involved long
periods of silence, punctuated by oc-
casional bouts of atonal shrieking
from my father as he danced around
her while whamming two metal frying
pans together with a ladle.
I must stop before I do them an in-
justice. Music has always played an
important part in our home – but we
have never played an important part in
the music. On my father’s side I am the
product of four generations of musical
imbecility, with the more harmonious
strands of our DNA having jumped
ship somewhere in the transition from
the stetls of Lithuania to the stetls of
the Ukraine. On my mother’s side the
accident occurred more recently, as my
grandfather’s vocal inheritance is prov-
ing strangely elusive.
I think a key factor in all this – or
more likely still, an off-key factor – is
that the first sound I ever heard was
a 10 pound baby tearing his lungs out
in an attempt to gain attention from a
hostile world. With that sort of intro-
duction to the mesmerizing world of
sound, is there any wonder I have no
sense of musical proportion?
My tonal eccentricities are well-
known to most of my friends and all of
my enemies. As a result, I am usually
forbidden to approach the microphone
on karaoke evenings, and am only al-
lowed out of the closet to reluctantly
deliver my highly sought-after imita-
tion of Sir Mixalot in idiosyncratic
tones.
The situation is aggravated by one
of those tragic twists of fate which has
ensured that all of my friends seem to
have dangerously overdeveloped mu-
sical glands. I have two friends who
are concert violinsts, a third is a gifted
flautist who currently conducts the or-
chestra of a prestigious London univer-
sity, and sopranos, tenors and baritones
crowd for space on my facebook friends
list. To rub salt, pepper and a hint of
tarragon yet further into the wound my
flatmate, in an attempt to become ac-
quainted with one instrument of every
family, has recently started learning
the cello. I alone of my acquaintances
receive pitying glances and sorrowful
embraces from friends and family when
circumstances compel me to break into
‘Happy Birthday’
. No-one else receives
the raised eyebrow or the quivering up-
turned lip of barely concealed laughter
as they produce vague humming sounds
in an attempt to recapture a particularly
stirring movement in a piece of classical
music. Years of self-confidence have at
least ensured that I make up in gusto for
what I lack in talent, but the embarrass-
ment remains.
This embarrassment is irrational
and all-consuming. Where no music
of any kind is involved, I can interact
with any of the above-mentioned vir-
tual virtuosi with the greatest of ease.
I can discuss literature and philosophy,
quote sitcoms and web memes, don an
air of loving condescension or ironic
detachment and generally proselytize,
pontificate and pun to my heart’s de-
light. The moment a bow is raised, a
throat cleared or a middle C pressed,
however, my ego goes the way of the
stock market and I become a dribbling
sycophant with a gift for words sur-
passed by most species of canary.
An intense feeling of inferiority sets
in – and rightly so. These individu-
als can do more with the emotions of
an audience than I will ever be able to
achieve in any other way. By playing on
their instruments they can play direct-
ly on human heartstrings. No other
artform has so true a course through
the emotional centres of our brains,
and no other artist can achieve so
much with what seems to be so little.
I cannot, in good faith, take a dislike to
people who can play an instrument as I
know that within the space of four bars
my respect for them will be soaring to
the B above high C. If there is one abil-
ity I have ever admired and envied and
craved for my own it is the opportunity
to produce music.
And so, after ten years of salivating
over instruments of all shapes and siz-
es, I have finally decided to give it a go.
I enter the vast unexplored jungle of
accidental notes and tangled staves, of
dominant chords and elusive sevenths
armed with nothing but a battered mu-
sic notebook and sensible shoes.
Tune in next week, same time, same
place, to hear what happens next. Be
warned though – it may not be so easy
on the ears.
I
t has been a strange week here at
felix, the office seems to be ee-
rily quiet and I find myself with
nothing but my own company
for hours on end. People seem to
appear only momentarily and then dis-
appear as quick as they arrived. This is
not so much of a surprise on Monday’s
as, well, there’s nothing really to do for
them as everyone is still waiting for the
weeks content to arrive, but them not
appearing on Tuesday or Wednesday
afternoon, now that is a bit worrying.
As I quickly glance over to look at the
issueplanIseethatweonlyhave12pag-
es booked for this week. Not that bad
as it means minimal work for me, but
at the same time putting out 12 pages
feels like a disappointment. Eventually
life forms appear in the office, clearly
stressed and in a hurry, I enquire as to
what is happening to which I get one
simple reply. ELECTIONS!
I had forgotten how much work
goes into the elections, making sure
your campaign material is OK’d by the
Returning Officer before you can do
anything with it, having them tell you
that there is one minute problem with
it, you having to change it only to be
told that there is another problem. It
is stressful, I should know, I’ve been
through this whole thing about a year
ago.
Seeing everyone work on their cam-
paign material and fine tuning their
manifestos it made me think about
what I promised the students of Impe-
rial this time last year. Looking back,
I must admit I could have done a lot
worse. Setting up the light hearted
material again was very easy as people
were extremely willing to do it, and yes
we might have pushed it a little bit too
far with Hangman, but it is all about
finding a balance. FUCWIT is back
and proving to be a great success, the
iPod’s have clearly worked to entice
people to take part while Coffee Break
is providing some interesting content.
“Bring Page 3 back”, centrepage, done!
“Free the Cat!” well it’s nearly out of the
bag, I’m pretty sure the stories on Mag-
ners and the Masquerade Ball prove
that. What else?
Ah, “improve the website”, that was
definitely not as easy as I thought and
I must admit that thing just annoys
me now. But it is OK dear readers, as
a new website, of sorts, is on its way.
As promised last year and after sev-
eral months of research and talks, the
digital archive is underway [see page
3] and it will be ready by November.
So I’ve managed to stick to a lot of my
manifesto points and for those that I
haven’t, I wholeheartedly apologise.
I really don’t envy the candidates this
year. The next two weeks are going to
be full of people offering you sweets
and other bribes in order to get your
vote. You never know, the decision you
make could actually make a difference,
so when it’s time to vote, please do!
T
here have been leaked re-
ports that reveal that the
UK Government plans to
ban, in all but name, open
criticism of liberal West-
ern values by Muslims.
In the beginning of February, Julia
Robinson resigned as Head of Meers-
brook Bank School (Sheffield) after
parents objected to her insistence that
Muslim children fully participate in
Christian assemblies. It appears that
Ms Robinson wasn’t on a personal cru-
sade to force children of non-Christian
faith to sing Christian hymns; the Gov-
ernment is instead beginning the next
phase in its anti-Muslim strategy –
forced assimilation of Muslims.
Britain likes to pride itself on being
a pluralistic and secular society. Black
and ethnic minorities make up nearly
12% of the population across the UK,
and over one in three Londoners be-
long to one of these minorities. Po-
litical parties parade their black and
minority members of parliament, or
indeed any aspiring MPs like prize cat-
tle hoping to court the ethnic vote. The
Government’s hardline stance would
thus seem to be at odds with Britain in
the 21st century.
However there is a view, both among
the political right and left, that Mus-
lims in Britain don’t fit well with mul-
ticulturalism. Minorities have, in the
past, been integrated into British so-
ciety with relative ease, adopting the
social and cultural norms of the domi-
nant population; interracial marriages
demonstrate the depth of integration.
In contrast, Muslims are not only
visibly different (women’s dress, men’s
breads) but their adherence to Islam,
which defines their identity, is a seri-
ous obstacle to full integration. Thus,
the Government’s view of Muslims’
adherence to Islamic values will be
used against those who do not fall into
broad agreement with Western values.
Muslims remaining silent or condon-
ing the failures of secular liberal values
and their incompatibility with Islam
will be tolerated, just. Those Muslims
who criticise, debunk, challenge or
dare to condemn Western values will
be rooted out, isolated, marginalised
and demonised, even though they do
not have a violent streak. This, togeth-
er with Ms Robinson’s stance of forced
Christian assemblies for all children
(Muslims mainly in this case) is noth-
ing less than forced assimilation into
the culture of the dominant major-
ity population, aimed at blurring and
eventually wiping out Islamic identity,
values and thought.
This draconian emerging Govern-
ment policy resembles how the British
forcefully assimilated the Aborigines
in newly colonised Australia. Sold as
being ‘for their own good’, policies to
assimilate Aborigines into British cul-
ture went to the extent of defining how
the natives brought up their children,
and led to the forceful separation of
Aboriginal children from their parents.
These children became known as the
stolen generation, and are still search-
ing for their families.
Some may argue that this representa-
tion is an over-exaggeration and scare-
mongering. However, the stark reality
is that since 9/11 we have seen signifi-
cant anti-Muslim policy creep in, from
anti-terrorism laws to preventing vio-
lent extremism.
This leaked new policy in fact ex-
poses the failure of liberal democracies
to defend their ideals from a viable al-
ternative ideology that is widely gain-
ing adherents from members of the
indigenous population who have seen
the breakdown of Western values as
a way of life. Unable to win over sup-
porters without offering funding and
jobs to a few ex-Islamist ideologues,
the Government is resorting to tyran-
nical tactics.
Abdul
Hannan
argues that
Muslims
are the
victims of a
government
strategy
of forcible
assimilation
Jovan Nedić
Editor in Chief
Where are all
my writers?
Kawai Wong and
her head reunite
M
y head has been on
holiday in the An-
dromeda NGC224
since 1986. This has
rendered me one of
the most clueless of the century. A-lev-
el Maths and Physics taught me how to
add one to one. My bum has done my
travelling head a favour - it sat the ex-
ams. That’s how I am here at the fifth
best university in the world. When I
beckoned to the sky 2 years ago, seeing
how exams weren’t 1+1 anymore, my
head agreed to travel back at the speed
of light. But NGC224 is 2,520,000 light
years away.
Scientists are cool. Engineers are
cool. Only smart people can be them.
I ousted the monster and saved the
princess in the Final Level. Score, game
over, now sit back and taste the victory
for the rest of my life. Good uni, good
degree. What could go wrong?
My interests have always been in the
‘to be sorted’ pigeonhole, next to ‘pri-
ority’
. I catered my personal statement
to the admission tutor’s liking. I would
say something the Head of Human Re-
sources liked to hear. What do I enjoy
doing? “For as long as I can remember, I
have always been aspired to become a [
]”
. Fill the bracket with a desired noun.
It just never occurred to me that
finding a career is nothing like at-
tending exams. Recalling facts from
my personal history and pasting the
scattered memories onto an applica-
tion form isn’t exactly the best way to
combat the life-long career battle. This
is the only weird occasion in life that
logical deduction is less sensible than
“follow your heart”.
My banker cousin smiled at me, re-
vealing his gold teeth. “I want some
gold teeth…”, I responded cross-eyed.
He has recently been made redundant.
The spell on me has been broken. Do
I really want some gold teeth? And
more importantly, do I want to sit at a
desk working on a spreadsheet while
a genie at the back of my head goes
“youaresoboredyoushouldleaveand-
dosomethingelse”? Do I then want to
bang my head on the keyboard in the
hope that the genie will go away and
subsequently get a bonus of “I LOVE
MY JOB” engraved on my forehead?
Jack said finding a career doesn’t
really matter; as long as you have a
“professional degree” you can get in
anywhere. Anywhere. I don’t want to
go anywhere, Jack, I am after a specific
somewhere, Jack. Now, with my head
nowhere to be seen and my feet stuck
in a sea of DNA and T-cells, where do I
go from here? And who the hell is Jack?
I don’t know Jack!
Before my head and I parted in 1986,
I wanted to be a writer. Then, I wanted
to be a doctor. Then, I wanted to de-
sign an engine for BMW. If it was easy
to score high marks in exams, surely it
is easy to design an engine? Then, I was
shafted by a screwdriver, in the derri-
ere . Then, I wanted to combine sci-
ence and literature, and biochemistry
is quite wordy. Then, my cousin bit me
with his gold teeth. Now, I have made
my “Welcome Home” banner; my head
is on its way now. Mate, where is your
head?
I
am very pleased to see the arti-
cle in last week’s Felix about the
legalisation of drugs because it
is a subject that very few peo-
ple are willing to openly discuss
for fear of intense criticism. Not only
did I agree with the sentiments but the
points were argued far more succinctly
and scientifically than I have been able
to myself.
I have never understood how anyone
can condemn the users of cannabis
in one breath, while taking a drag on
a cigarette with the next and helping
themselves to a bottle of red wine. Just
because an activity is allowed by law
and has been for a very long time does
not mean that it is somehow ‘right’. Last
century homosexuality, the suffrage of
women, abortion and blasphemy were
considered the utmost in social deg-
radation and ‘sinful’ and yet none of
these things would raise much more
than a few eyebrows these days.
I am not advocating the use of cur-
rently illegal drugs and am not deny-
ing the potentially harmful effects that
occur as a result of their use, but you
could say the same about skiing. As
someone who has never skied I think
it is an odd thing to want to do, espe-
cially seeing the injuries that people
can come back with, but I would never
try to ban someone from doing it. Any-
one that knows me should know what
I think of smokers, but it is their right
to do what they want as long as it does
not harm others.
Putting aside the hardest drugs, such
as heroin and crack cocaine, for a mo-
ment, drugs are naturally occurring or
at least easily synthesised so how can
you stop it? And why should you?
We live in a free society, or at least
we think we do, and surely if someone
wants to partake in an activity that
harms no one except possibly them-
selves then who are we to stop them?
And before everyone starts shouting;
no, even hard drugs do not harm in-
nocent bystanders any more than alco-
hol or smoking does. Drug addicts can
commit burglaries and robberies to
fund their addiction, but only because
they have been forced into it by the
failure of society to deal with the prob-
lem. Even the harmful effects of the
harder drugs, such as acute addiction,
can easily be negated if help is freely
available and the stigma attached to it
is reduced.
Drug use, like prostitution, will not
be stopped by making it illegal, it is
simply driven underground where
it creates far more problems than it
could possibly solve and creates a di-
vided society; the higher class in their
high-value homes in suburbia with not
a care in the world, and the lower class
trapped in slums where the police will
not tread. An exaggeration, maybe, but
try and deny that it isn’t true.
Legalise drugs: Tom Culley

