B
eing a man used to be in-
finitely easier. Ever since
we have hit the debauched
and certifiably unstable
noughties, things seem to
have gotten a hell of a lot tougher. The
cosmetic issues which a man is preo-
cuppying himself as of late are wildly
different (but not necessarily less im-
portant) to anything previously experi-
enced. While the infamous metrosexu-
al term dubbed by the prominent Mark
Simpson in an issue of a mid nineties
Independent has been strong before,
only now can we feel the full force of
this gail.
Shelves at Harrod’s, Selfridge’s, Har-
vey Nich’s et al, are lined with androg-
enous beauty products that are capable
of befundling even the most informed
and liberal of men. A tinted mosituriser
by Jean Paul Gaultier is no longer the
domain of the female species and men-
only spas and salons are cropping up
like mushrooms in the unlikelist places
across the country; from Blackpool and
Preston to the deepest, darkest Surrey
and Cumbria. Not all men (or women
for that matter) are fully comfortable
or content with this increase in per-
sonal grooming or changed aesthetic
values. Some find it feminine that a guy
would care about skin. I’m not totally
obsessed, but it would be a lie if I said
I didn’t care. I scrub and I moisturise,
but that’s about it.
Despite the complicated environ-
ment that the modern man has been
thrown into, there are still three key
things that any male should absolutely
know how to do. Regardless of wealth,
social status or pikeyness level, these
are the crux of what can really make a
man. Apart from the first one, they are
in no order of importance and I stand
by that they deserve equal recognition
as far as manliness goes.
The most basic is the most impor-
tant. Even if you are a high powered
CEO who gets his shoes waxed, pol-
ished and shone in front of 85 Broad
Street in New York City, it is still vitaly
important that you know how to do it
yourself. Not because there isn’t any-
one else to do it for you, but it truly is
the epitome of being a dude. It’s really
not difficult and there is some sort of
satisfaction that can be obtained from
spending a lazy Sunday afternoon tak-
ing care of your shoes. If well treated,
any expensive pair of shoes has the
potential to last at least 5 years, irre-
spective of how often they are worn.
I suggest you run a hot bath and leave
your shoes for 20 minutes just sitting in
the steamed up room. Commence by
cleaning the dirt using a shoeshining
brush. When this is done, using a pa-
per clip and a toothbrush clean out the
brogues and apply the right coloured
polish or clear wax to the entire shoe
in a circular motion. Wait about 20
minutes and brush again. Using an old
T-shirt, buff the shoe until it is shining
beautifully. Easy. Fast. Manly. Do it.
The handiman in you naturally
jumps up and down with unadulter-
ated excitement when a fuse blows.
Even though you may know nothing
about changing a fuse or have never
attempted the most softcore DIY task,
this is your time to be elevated in the
man world. You proudly claim, “It’s got
to be the fuse. I will change this fuse,
and then I will change the world”. And
then, you realise you can’t do it, so I’m
here to save you. It literally is as simple
as 1, 2, 3. Turn your fusebox off, re-
move the malfunctioning fuse by pull-
ing it out and insert the new one into
the base. Despite this being an effort
of unprecedented proportions, it will
lift your spirits and it is possible that
you will walk around with testosterone
coming out of your ears for the rest of
the day. I know I do. It also makes for
an interesting auditory experience.
Last, but just as important, is the
ability to properly iron a shirt. Usually,
there is always someone to do it for you,
be it a a dry cleaner, your mother, wife,
daughter, whatever... Granted, this is
not as manly as changing a car carbu-
rator, but it can take you almost as far
in some weird metaphorical sense I’m
not fully sure I comprehend. This is the
art of ironing a shirt to perfection. It’s a
little tricker than the other two but in
terms of sartorial knowledge, it doesn’t
get much better than this. Unbotton
the shirt and lay it on the board, chest
side up and begin at the tip of the col-
lar working inwards towards the mid-
dle. Iron the yoke on the thinner end
of the board and repeat on the second
shoulder. Cuffs are easy; open then and
iron them fully. Now, slip the shirt over
the board and iron the back. Repeat if
there are creases.
You are now a man. Go live your life.
D
inner was cooked. We
had decided, for once, to
make a shared meal. We
split the cost, the work-
load and the cooking.
There was a warm sense of altruism
as we sat down at the table. We were
finally forming a tight friendship. As I
took my first bite of the meal, dipping
my head low to the plate, I’m suddenly
distracted by the general sogginess of
the food. “Needs brown sauce!” an-
nounced a voice from my right. “No,
it needs soy sauce,” exclaims a voice to
my left in disagreement. As I evaluate
this return of statements like a specta-
tor at Wimbledon, my friend sitting
opposite pipes up. “Well, I think its….”
The other three of us gaze at her mo-
mentarily as we wait for her to finish
her sentence. There was no verbal fin-
ish, but a rotating jiggle of a pointed
hand towards her cheek, as she grins
manically. Our gazes turned to frowns
of utter confusion.
She gauged our reactions and quickly
went onto explain that it was a child-
ish gesture in Italy that signals when
something is ‘yummy’. You can prob-
ably guess that the guy that thought
our food needed brown sauce was
from the North. The girl that disagreed
and claimed soy sauce would solve the
bleak blandness of our meal grew up in
Dan Wan gets stuck in the middle of everything
“Hence, a natural
instinct for ease
and comfort has
become referred
to as ‘a cultural
divide’”
Beijing. There was actually meant to be
a fifth friend joining us for dinner that
night, but he was off getting hammered
on a boat with other Medics.
That little story (to call it an anec-
dote would be pushing it) recounts one
of the first instances at Imperial that I
noticed a culture difference. Imperial
College prides itself on being one of
the most culturally diverse universities
in the UK, and there is no doubt that it
should be celebrated.
As I grew into the very international
surroundings of Imperial folk, I have
grown to realise there are divides with-
in the student population. I think many
other people have realised the same,
but realisation does not necessarily in-
fer vocalisation of the matter. Divides
are not healthy.
Let’s start with the obvious: Medics
versus the rest of College. As proven
at my dinner, the absent person was
at a Medic Freshers’ event, on a boat,
probably making his very best friends
for the next six years. Varsity also hap-
pened recently, and it did nothing to
dampen the rivalry. However, it’s a ri-
valry that does little harm to the social
fabric of Imperial. My best mate from
Freshers’ Year is a dirty Medic, and as
he wanders into the SAF once a fort-
night like he’s the Don of South Ken-
sington, I don’t feel any acrimony to-
wards him. In fact, I see it as a pleasant
surprise that I haven’t had to schedule
‘lunch’ with him.
But this is where I struggle to com-
prehend. It is obvious that Imperial has
some of the brightest students from
the South East Asian region. My par-
ents are of Malaysian descent, but I was
born and raised in Watford; about as far
away from Malaysia you can get. What
this gives me is a good understanding of
both cultures I believe prevalent at Im-
perial. There is the Western culture that
I have grown up in, but there is also a
very different culture. A lot of students
that have had their schooling solely in
countries such as Hong Kong or China
understandably have the same needs,
habits and essentially lifestyle. Hence,
there is a natural divide in culture.
It is not a divide I have any disdain
for, though, as I can appreciate the is-
sues and circumstances one is faced
with when moving to a foreign coun-
try. No one can deny that when placed
in a similar situation (for example an
English student moved to China) the
easiest and most comfortable option
would be initially to stick around with
other Western-raised people. A com-
mon bond is found in uncertainty,
and this is where long friendships are
made. Already, purely out of comfort,
you would have made a hazy but slight
separation from you and the general
mass. Due to Imperial’s 34% interna-
tional student proportion, this hazy
separation is not small. It occurs on a
larger scale. Hence, a natural instinct
for ease and comfort becomes ‘a cul-
tural divide’.
During Freshers’ Week, it became an
amusing experience to watch interna-
tional students approach me expecting
me to share their background. Many
were perplexed at the idea that I’d rath-
er speak in English, with my uninhib-
ited colloquial slang littered through
each of my sentences. Explaining why
I was using the word ‘sick’ to describe
something good became a tedious task.
I’ve since stopped using the term.
I didn’t feel comfortable when they
gauged each other’s hometown for the
very first time. They reminisced about
places ‘back home’ I should know, but
didn’t. My sporadic interjections about
the quite honestly culturally pale arse-
end of Watford were met by silence
and polite chuckling before they swiftly
moved back on the subject of the Race-
course at Happy Valley, Hong Kong.
I’d rather talk to someone from the
London area, who knows about where
I grew up (it usually ends in humili-
ating laughter). But there you go; it
proves everyone, including me, prefers
comfort in cultural familiarity when
faced with a socially clean slate that is
Freshers’ Week.
Of course, though, there are the
brave ones; the ones that have the con-
fidence to approach anyone and eve-
ryone without hesitation and a fear of
not being understood. They are ones
that do not need the comforts of their
homeland through their friends. To
those people out there, I firmly salute
you. Sadly, I’m not one of those peo-
ple, because despite my interest in
wildly different cultures to my own, I
will probably never properly integrate
myself into one.
I’m stuck in the middle, but I don’t
begrudge my mismatch of ancestry and
upbringing. It allows me to appreciate
both sides of this natural divide. How-
ever, the word ‘divide’, I feel, infers a
sense of detrimental isolation. So may-
be ‘divide’ is too strong a word to be
using to describe a culture difference
seen in every society on every scale.
Imperial sees the effects enlarged, due
to it being such small, compact body of
students in South Kensington.
There is simply an emphasised nat-
ural divide within the student body
which no one can blame. However, I
still don’t understand why my North-
ern friend from dinner that night
thought brown sauce was the answer
to egg fried rice.
“It’s got to be the
fuse. I will change
this fuse and then,
I will change the
world”
Two hundred years ago, Charles Rob-
ert Darwin was born in Shrewsbury,
a small town in the west of England.
His theory of evolution by natural se-
lection was to cause upheavals during
his lifetime. Today a strange awe still
surrounds his name. His life and work
continue to inspire strong emotions
in many people, ranging from disgust,
through bafflement, to reverence. He
is praised as an inspiration and slan-
derously misrepresented in equal
measure.
Of all the great post-enlightenment
thinkers (and believe me, Darwin spent
most of his life in deep thought) he has
had perhaps the biggest impact on
present day thinking. Isaac Newton’s
supporters might cite his fundamental
laws of physics; those of Einstein rela-
tivity; Faraday’s electricity; and so on.
But to Darwin and Darwin alone we
owe a single – and “beguilingly simple”
according to Richard Dawkins – all-
encompassing idea to explain life in
its many forms and guises; as the 20th
century evolutionary biologist Theo-
dore Dobzhansky poetically put it;
“Nothing in biology makes sense, except
in the light of evolution.”
But I want to put Darwin’s achieve-
ments in some kind of modern-day
context. After all, this is not a static,
stale piece of history but an idea that
has constantly shifted, been added to,
adapted, and rigorously tested – and
never found wanting. One might say
that the theory encapsulates every-
thing it describes; others have arisen
but withered in the face of evidence
and scientific advance, whereas natural
selection has proved itself to be the fit-
test over the long haul; thus it survives
intact, 150 years after Darwin first
published “On the Origin of Species”.
So what can Darwin’s “dangerous
idea” – in Daniel Dennett’s words – still
teach us? In the most basic philosophi-
cal terms, it replaced the prevailing
Christian view of humans as stewards,
masters of all they see, created by God
to protect and prevail over nature as
they wish. In its place, evolution brings
the uncomfortable (for some) truth
that we are not intrinsically special,
but just another twig on the tree of life;
our cousins scuttle, scurry and fly all
around us; our ancestors lie fossilised
deep beneath us. Of course, Darwin
himself put it best in “The Origin”:
“When I view all beings not as special
creations, but as the lineal descendants
of some few beings which lived long
before the first bed of the Cambrian
system was deposited, they seem to me
to become ennobled.”
This concept of nature encompassing
humanity,althoughonlyhintedatinhis
great work, is perhaps Darwin’s most
vital contribution to conservation.
How about the more practical side
of things? After all, Darwin posited a
hypothesis for the great diversity of
life on earth, but did he contribute
anything towards saving it from crisis?
Maybe not directly; he was a man of
his times, and collecting in those days
involved a “shoot first, ask questions
later” approach to the study of natural
history. But numerous quotes point to
the fact that Darwin’s theory hinges on
how populations of animals or plants
react to great stress. For example, in
the chapter on Natural Selection he
introduces the idea of environmental
change:
“We shall best understand the prob-
able course of natural selection by tak-
ing the case of a country undergoing
some physical change, for instance, of
climate. The proportional numbers of
its inhabitant would almost immedi-
ately undergo a change, and some spe-
cies might become extinct”.
Even the concept of extinction was
controversial in early 19th century Eng-
land, when species were still thought to
be immutable. But Darwin could not
ignore the vast amount of evidence he
found on his travels and from looking
at fossils and rocks – species had ex-
isted in the past that were not around
today. He continued; “Rarity, as geol-
ogy tells us, is the precursor to extinc-
tion”. And, as if to drill the point home,
in chapter ten he wrote: “Species once
lost do not reappear”.
So Darwin not only introduced the
radical idea that species could disap-
pear just as easily as they came into
existence; he encapsulated two of the
most pressing issues facing contem-
porary conservation; rarity and en-
vironmental change. Many scientists
now talk of a “Sixth Mass Extinction”,
with unprecedented rates of biodi-
versity loss – but without Darwin’s
insight, this way of thinking would be
incomprehensible.
Conservation science as a discipline
only really took off towards the end
of the 20th century, and it relies heav-
ily on applying methods developed by
evolutionary biologists in the so-called
‘New Synthesis’. Population genetics
and the discovery of DNA has allowed
us to better appreciate what defines a
species, how small populations can
prosper, and whether species, com-
munities and ecosystems can adapt to
rapid changes in habitats and climate.
Again, none of this would have been
possible without Darwin.
It is likely that our current state of af-
fairs would have dismayed him. After
all, even the catalyst for his theory, the
Galapagos Islands, is under threat from
tourism. (tinyurl.com/c9awob)
He would certainly be aghast at the
rejection of science by vast numbers
of the public, both his own theory (ti-
Celebrating 200 years of Charles Darwin
Felix Whitton
Science Correspondent
Schizophrenia genes found
New research carried out by Impe-
rial College in conjunction with Glaxo-
SmithKline has revealed that Schizo-
phrenia could be caused by faulty
signalling in the brain.
In the largest study ever conducted,
researchers looked at brain samples
donated by people with the condition
and identified 49 genes that work dif-
ferently in brains belonging to schizo-
phrenia sufferers, according to new
research published in the journal Mo-
lecular Psychiatry.
Current theories behind schizophre-
nia believe that it could be a result of
the brain producing too much of the
chemical dopamine (since drugs that
block dopamine are an effective treat-
ment for the condition), or that the
protective myelin sheath which sur-
rounds nerve cells is damaged in suf-
ferers of the disease. However, this
new study found that the genes for
both dopamine and myelin appear to
be acting normally in schizophrenia
patients and seem to suggest that the
disease instead involves abnormali-
ties in the way cells communicate with
each other.
The disease affects around one in
every 100 people and although suf-
nyurl.com/b42n4o) and the more gen-
eral flat-earth-ism of climate change
deniers.
But I think there would also be much
to delight him. Popular figures such as
David Attenborough (tinyurl.com/dy8-
kj7), himself inspired by Darwin, strive
to communicate the beauty of nature,
and in doing so educate future genera-
tions of conservationists. He would no
doubt be amused by belated apolo-
gies from the Anglican and Catholic
churches for their awkward treatment
of his theory over the years (tinyurl.
com/b8kzva). And he would no doubt
dismiss as puerile the fabricated debate
between evolution and religion, much
as he did during his own lifetime.
Most of all, his theory continues to
evolve, and is today more wide-reach-
ing and powerful than at any time in
the past.
So today let us forget the dismal con-
clusions and revel in the words with
which Darwin ended “The Origin”, and
which always send a shiver down my
spine:
“There is grandeur in this view of life,
with its several powers, having been
originally breathed into a few forms or
into one; and that, whilst this planet
has gone cycling on according to the
fixed law of gravity, from so simple a
beginning endless forms most beautiful
and most wonderful have been, and are
being, evolved.”
ferers experience little physical effect
on the brain, they can have a range
of symptoms from hallucinations to
lack of motivation and impaired social
functioning. Better understanding of
how the disease affects patients could
lead to improved treatments and ear-
lier diagnosis of the condition.
Professor Jackie de Belleroche, from
Imperial College and an author of the
paper has said: “The first step towards
better treatment for schizophrenia is
to really understand what is going on,
to find out what genes are involved and
what they are doing. Our new study
has narrowed the search for potential
targets for treatment.” An actual ghost... The Brown Lady at Raynham Hall in Norfolk
Chloé Sharrocks
Science Correspondent
8 felix Friday 6 March 2009
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Comment
Afonso Campos can polish his own shoes
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Science
Science Editor – Mićo Tatalović and Daniel Burrows
9
Friday 6 March 2009 felix

