business.felix@imperial.ac.uk
10 felix Friday 6 March 2009
Business
Business Editor – Luke Dhanoa
11
Friday 6 March 2009 felix
New Obamanomics look the same
as our old failed Brownanomics
Luke Dhanoa
Business Editor
They say that there are five things you
can do to stimulate a receding econo-
my: you can cut taxes; you can make
money cheaper to borrow; you can
spend on infrastructure and education;
you can lower trade barriers and you
can create a clear and transparent gov-
ernmental, legal and financial system.
And if you look at any stimulus plan is-
sued by any of the major governments,
the policies all fall into these categories.
For the UK’s part we have tax cuts (like
the VAT one earlier), cash injections
into banks (in the form of bail outs
and buy outs), infrastructure spending
(apprenticeships and other announced
government projects), trade talks with
other EU countries, the US and the
East, and new financial regulations for
the banks. On 2nd April at the London
summit when Gordon Brown reveals
his 74 page, detailed plan to the EU, the
EU will most likely follow suit, much
as the US already have with their plan
for new tax cuts, bank injections, fresh
government investment, 0.25% inter-
est rate, new trade talks and a raft of
new financial regulations.
So, if governments are responding in
the way that history and the textbooks
say they should, why is the economy
still shrinking? Why is it that every
time a world leader unveils more po-
lices, the markets drop? Why does no
one seem to think that they will work?
Well, because they’re the same sort
of policies that caused this recession in
the first place. What was spectacular
about the 90’s and the early 00’s was
the fact that governments had begun
adopting a mix of Keynesian and Mon-
etarist policies which actually seemed
to work. Low interest rates, high gov-
ernment spending, massive globali-
sation and (relatively) low taxes all
spurred on new growth unhampered
by excess regulations.
However, what was really happening
was that governments were running
economic stimuli to push their econo-
mies as hard as they could to keep up
with each other, rather than readying
their countries for long term growth.
Almost like runners sprinting early in
a race to get to the front, even though
there’s a long way to go. Eventually
though, like the runners, these plans
ran out of steam as people no longer
had any more money to debt finance
further growth, leaving things, as you
know, where they are now.
So when Obama or Brown or any
other government announces its rem-
edies for the current situation, they’re
essentially going through the comic
below.
Which, understandably, gets every-
one upset. But what really has people
worried is the fact that this plan is the
best that anyone can come up with.
Everyone from Nobel Prize winning
economists to know-it-all university
newspaper business editors accept that
there isn’t really a lot else that anyone
can do. While it’s easy for political
snipers to pick apart plans that are laid
out, those very critics’ (Conservatives,
Republicans) own plans are either ef-
fectvely the same, or poorly thought
out. It’s easy for people to talk about
the perils of printing money or the
dangers of public debt but what else
can anyone do?
Nothing.
The alternative put forward by free
market economists is just to let the
whole thing sort itself out and thus
keep away from the problem. Claiming
that if we allow the central banks to set
the rate as they want to, and let gov-
ernments focus on resolving national
debt then everything will eventually
work itself out.
On the surface it seems like a great
idea – we just let the market solve eve-
rything, but if you think about it for a
few moments, it’s actually a pretty ter-
rible thing to do. By doing nothing we
will lose the confidence of the people
Buffett’s new letter
to shareholders:
awesome as usual
Back in the pre-9/11 days when the
stock market kept going up and up
and everything seemed to be going
along just swimmingly, there were two
mandatory readings for every serious
businessman. One was the transcripts
of Alan Greenspan’s congressional
testimonies (Greenspan was the head
of the US Federal Reserve throughout
the 90’s and early 00’s) which were
long winded and ridiculously hard to
understand.
The other was Warren Buffett’s Let-
ter to Shareholders, the letter sent out
to investors in his Berkshire Corpora-
tion explaining the last years perform-
ance and what Buffett thought would
happen in future, which has always
been clear and easy to read.
Since those days Greenspan has had
to admit that he misinterpreted how
capitalism works, whilst Buffett has
gone on to beat the S&P 500 index by
27.4%. Berkshire’s book value fell only
9.6%, compared to a fall of 37% for the
prices of 500 large, highly tradable,
US, company stocks) leaving investors
carefully combing through last weeks
Letter to Investors for anything they
could use to help them work out the
future. Luckily for them, Buffett is a
man who delivers.
This year, amongst quaint stories
about restaurants with “In God we
trust, all others pay cash” on the walls,
and bits about birds caught in badmin-
ton courts, there were some real pearls
of wisdom.
Probably the most important predic-
tion made is the future unwillingness
of newly bailed out firms to go back
to the status quo. We have essentially
started to reward firms for failing (at
least in the banking sector) and so
effectively punished those who have
done well. While in the short term,
this allows the financial systems to
keep hobbling along, in the medium
term, we’ve wrecked the natural selec-
tion system that capitalism relies on.
Now that banks are getting used to
being bailed out every time they mess
up, in the longer term they’re going to
need more injections just to keep go-
ing. On top of that we’re going to be
bombarded with random and ridicu-
lous requests for help from all sorts
of other industries and groups. One
good example is the ludicrous strike
from unions over “British jobs for Brit-
ish Workers” which would never have
had a chance of succeeding before the
credit crunch, and yet may now be
mirrored elsewhere.
The upshot from all this is a move
away from straight up capitalism to-
wards a pseudo-capitalist state in
which the government has a big say in
how firms operate. For instance, we’ve
begun to see new long term, govern-
ment backed, low interest mortgages
being offered by the newly government
controlled RBS and Northern Rock and
it is likely that there are more to come.
When firms are bailed out, they be-
come part controlled by a government,
who can then exercise their rights by
forcing firms to do what’s in the na-
tion’s interest, rather than their own
– like a watered down form of commu-
nism. More and more frequently the
idea of nationalising institutions seems
to be brought up subtly and snuck past
opposing naysayers under the guise of
“emergency actions”.
So it’s possible that we may see the
end to the free market deregulation
push that has driven growth for the
last 20 years and instead see a return
to more centralised economics. Not
that this will be widely publicised, as
the two n-words you can’t say in poli-
tics are n****r and nationalisation, but
it does seem as though governments
will be exercising their new ownership
for the good of the common man. Or at
least, they will in the short term before
people figure out that the Government
is incompetent and force them to give
up control and deregulate again.
and lose the confidence of our busi-
nesses. Therefore those that can move
abroad to where they can get benefits
will do so, leaving the country weaker,
with fewer talented people.
The short term pain will also push
the country far behind its peers, do-
ing damage to our GDP, employment,
infrastructure and human capital that
could never be undone by the same
market forces that failed to self-regu-
late these last few years. If we let this
current recession “burn itself out” the
damage it will do in the process will be
irreparable.
All of which leaves us trying to solve
the problem with the hair of the dog
that bit us, almost. Except the new
stimulus policies put forward all have
one thing that the old growth policies
didn’t: regulation.
Changes to the way that banks work
and are regulated aren’t really welcome
by the bankers that will be watched,
even though they will most likely have
a positive effect on the bankers in ques-
tion. Most city folk balk a the idea of
having to operate in a transparent clear
system that allows their competitors to
watch what they do, but it is precisely
the opaque nature of the derivatives
and securities markets that makes
them so dangerous and when you think
about it, it makes perfect sense for risk
products to be transparently traded.
Derivatives exist to transfer risk from
one place to another, but if you can’t
see how risk is being allocated in the
open market, then you can’t make an
effective assessment on how much risk
really costs, turning a potentially useful
tool into a big gambling match. One of
the things that makes this whole finan-
cial meltdown so potent is the fact that
none of the banks involved has a truly
accurate understanding of what their
instrument investments are – some-
thing which has to change.
And extra government investment
isn’t all bad news either. If it’s prop-
erly managed it could tackle some
pre-existing problems that we’ve taken
too long to get around to. Currently
the UK ranks 24th in terms of basic
requirement provision, which puts
us below Cyprus – a country with
less than three quarters our GDP per
capita. With some well placed extra
spending the UK has the chance to de-
velop its key infrastructure into what
it should be. Of course, all this hinges
on the idea that the government won’t
waste the money it should be using to
fix things, which is patently absurd.
So that’s it. The current economic
plan is to do a lot more of what we’ve
been doing already but keep more of
an eye on things. Awesome.
Forget about LOLCATZ, we now have LOLBAMAS
politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Politics
Politics Editors – James Goldsack & Katya-yani Vyas
Mr. Burns showing what seems to be, amongst the high-powered, an archetypal greed for money
Corruption pervades the workplace
Prime minister Gordon Brown signals his desire for cooperation with the US to solve the financial crisis
Hassan Joudi
James Goldsack
Politics Editor
In 2004 the US suffered from $525m
worth of robberies in street crime.
However in the same year an estimated
$600bn was stolen through employee
theft and fraud in the workplace in
white-collar crime. Noting the ‘bn’ on
that second figure, the latter is greater
by a factor of a thousand.
Although muggers on the streets or
opportunist burglars roaming quiet
residential roads are criminals that so-
ciety detests, what really costs us dear
are the educated workers in suits sitting
comfortably in their offices, embez-
zling money, giving bribes and practic-
ing “creative accounting.” Perhaps the
most high profile piece of “creative
accounting” in living memory must be
that which caused the collapse of En-
ron – an American energy company –
in 2001, when the manipulation of its
accounts was made public, causing its
share price to plummet and forcing it
to file for bankruptcy.
The US congress, partly in response
to Enron’s collapse, passed the Sar-
banes-Oxley Act of 2002. The legisla-
tion attempted to limit the interaction
of congressmen with businessmen
and lobbyists by, for example, banning
serving free meals to congressmen at
“widely attended functions” and giving
free flights in “fixed-wing aircrafts.”
Instead businessmen and lobbyists
circumvented the rules with limited
functions with guest lists, and by flying
congressmen in helicopters.
Corruption in government is a form
of white-collar crime too and is often
called ‘sleaze’, a term coined by the Brit-
ish press to describe political scandals
involving corruption during the 1980s
and 1990s. Government sleaze is per-
haps worse than corporate corruption
because the money it involves belongs
to taxpayers rather than private share-
holders. Sleaze is certainly not new to
British politics; in fact sleaze was one
of the factors that caused the defeat
of the Conservative Party in the 1997
general election to the Labour Party.
But despite their rebranding as “New
Labour” and Tony Blair’s promise that
they would be “whiter than white,” the
Labour Party has suffered its fair share
of sleaze accusations over the past dec-
ade. From the tobacco in a F1 adver-
tising scandal with Bernie Ecclestone
months after victory in 1997 to the po-
lice questioning of Lord Levy in 2006
to Peter Mandelson meeting Russian
billionaires on a luxury yatch in 2008,
it could be argued that Labour have
been more corrupt while in office than
the Conservatives.
And recently sleaze stories have con-
tinued to emanate from Westminster
like snot balls from a runny nose. The
Sunday Times investigation in January
2009 found that several peers offered
to amend laws in the House of Lords
in favour of certain businesses and en-
gineering companies in return for cash
payments of up to £100,000. Moreo-
ver on 20th January, the day President
Obama was inaugurated in the US, the
House of Commons was about to vote
on a bill preventing the publishing of
MPs’ expenses receipts under the Free-
dom of Information Act by giving MPs
a protected status. Critics were scepti-
cal saying the proposed changes were
deliberately announced that day to
bury bad news.
Cabinet ministers, MPs and civil
servants are in unique positions to
commit corrupt acts for their own in-
terests because their job exposes them
to such opportunities on a daily basis.
Political parties need funding from
generous donors, MPs have allowanc-
es to spend and government depart-
ments have contracts to award. This
was beautifully captured in a scene
from The Simpsons Movie (2007) when
the residents of Springfield were first
trapped inside the giant glass dome.
On a huge screen the head of EPA (En-
vironmental Protection Agency) says
the dome is the last thing they wanted
to do, before adding, “Well I do own
the company that makes the dome, but
that’s beside the point.” This echoes the
usual sentiments of Simpson’s regular,
Mr. Burns.
In Islam there is a beautiful story
involving Imam Ali (A.S) during his
time as leader of the Muslim Umma
(nation). While working in the Treas-
ury of the Islamic state, he was visited
one day by two men. Upon their ar-
rival he extinguished one candle that
was lighting the room and lit another.
Before starting their business the two
men asked the Imam why he did this.
The Imam replied, “That was a candle
bought of Treasury funds. As long as
I worked for the Treasury, I used it.
Now you have come for some personal
work, so I use the candle bought of my
personal fund.”
There is absolutely no doubt that it
is difficult to implement such a high
moral standard in our daily lives, and
with many Imperial students progress-
ing to high-flying jobs in business and
government after graduation, many of
us will face opportunities like those
mentioned in this article. Let us not
abandon our integrity and give in to
the corruption to become like the head
of the EPA.
Gordon Brown urges US to ‘seize the moment’
Gordon Brown, only the fifth UK prime
minister to address both houses on
Capitol Hill, will urge the US to “seize
the moment” to “make the future work
for us”. The Prime Minister is facing
growing media pressure to apologise
for the state of the economy. Despite
so far declining to do so, he said “hu-
mility” and “collective responsibility”
were always needed. He said: “this is
[not] a British problem that was a Brit-
ish government mistake, as everybody
understands, the whole global financial
system seized up.”
Gordon Brown said he was not sure
a British regulatory system could have
picked up the problems because of the
global scale. International coopera-
tion and supervision would be needed.
“We should have been tougher in some
areas but we have got to remember, of
course, that when it comes to the sub
prime mortgages which ended up in
the ownership of British banks, that’s
something that happened in America,
the risk was also passed on but they
were rated as triple-A products ” he
said.
The Prime Minister’s close ally Ed
Balls said, of the regulatory system, “in
retrospect, it is clear we were nowhere
near tough enough”.
In the speech, Gordon Brown will tell
Congress that “now more than ever the
rest of the world wants to work with
you” and will say the major challenges
faced are global challenges.
“And let me say that you now have the
most pro-American European leader-
ship in living memory. A leadership
that wants to cooperate more closely
together, in order to be a stronger part-
ner for you. There is no old Europe, no
new Europe, there is only your friend
Europe. So once again I say we should
seize the moment – because never be-
fore have I seen a world so willing to
come together. Never before has that
been more needed,”
After a meeting between Barack
Obama and Gordon Brown on Tues-
day, the US president said the “special
relationship” between the countries
would “only grow stronger”.
After about an hour of talks at the
White House, Mr Brown and Mr
Obama said they agreed that improve-
ments were needed to the regulation of
the global banking system. Mr Brown
said the two countries were pursuing
a “common interest” in a “global new
deal”.
Mr Obama warned that countries
should not “project inwards” by en-
couraging protectionism. Gordon
Brown has also said that world lead-
ers needed to “enlist all the energies of
people in different parts of the world to
deal with problems that we all face”.

