12 felix Friday 6 March 2009
Culture &
The Arts
Arts Editors – Caz Knight, David Paw and Emily Wilson
Budding culture vulture? Write for us.
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
13
Friday 6 March 2009 felix
Arts
Picasso: Challenging
the past
Emily Wilson travels to the National Gallery to see some of
Picasso’s materpieces
W
hen it comes to
most things, I tend
to avoid the main-
stream. I like hunt-
ingdownbooksand
music that nobody else has heard of so
I can hoard my secret treasures smugly
and nobody else can ruin them for me.
But when it comes to my favourite art-
ists, I can’t resist the standard names.
Ask a randomer on the street to name
a famous artist, and they’ll probably
say “Picasso”. Pablo Picasso is one of
the best known artists of all time but I
still can’t help loving him.
“Picasso: Challenging the Past” is a
high profile exhibition on now at The
National Gallery. It looks at Picasso’s
life and work from a different perspec-
tive. He is known for being an artistic
radical and an innovator, but here we
see Picasso’s devotion to and imitation
of the artists he adored – figures he
idolised but who are now often second
to him in fame – Raphael, Goya, Ingres,
Cezanne, Manet, Delacroix, Velazquez
and others. The exhibition is also or-
ganised a little differently to the norm.
Instead of the standard chronology the
paintings are arranged by subject mat-
ter, ranging from self portrait to female
nude to still life. This is one of the best
thingsabouttheexhibitionbecauseyou
can marvel at the full range of his skills
and styles. After all, Picasso wasn’t just
a Cubist. His style can be clean and
simple or frenzied, muted or colourful,
abstract or near-photographic. All are
represented here.
The exhibition isn’t as big as I ex-
pected; only six rooms, with a differ-
ent subject matter in each. This makes
it manageable and accessible to arty
newbies. It’s also well annotated by
helpful labels next to each painting,
which always goes down well with
me. This makes the audioguide, which
the majority of visitors fork out £3 for,
unnecessary. One of the few things I
disliked on my visit was the constant,
ear-splitting “EEEEEEEEEEEEE” given
out by the audioguides around me as
they changed tracks. I’d actually rec-
ommend getting yourself an audiogu-
ide just to block out the sound of other
people’s. At one point it hurt so much I
had to sit down and cover my ears just
to numb the headache. It doesn’t really
make you want to linger and savour the
art.
The art is varied and holds your
interest throughout. The exhibition
starts with self-portraits, which were
light-hearted and enjoyable. It always
interests me to see how artists portray
themselves. “The Artist in front of his
Canvas” and “Self-Portrait with a Wig”
are fine examples of the quirky fun to
come. You start to see the playful side
of Picasso. I was less keen on the room
of “characters and types”, which was
probably the lowlight. I found the dark
portraits cavaliers and historical style
figures like “Portrait de Jaime Sabartes
en Grand Espagne” all a bit too sinister,
but I dare say this is down to personal
taste and others will find this room the
highlight.
I was struck by Picasso’s different re-
lationships with women. In the room
of “models and muses: nudes” Picasso
comes off as a bit of a playboy, or pos-
sibly just a dirty old man. Some of the
annotations and commentary here
is amusing, with titbits such as “from
his earliest years Picasso painted fe-
male nudes, often as women at their
toilette or enjoying the privacy of the
boudoir… these are women abandoned
to the sensuality of their bodies, a sub-
ject Picasso never tired of exploring”.
No, I bet he didn’t. There was also a
comment at some stage about how he
would frequent brothels for research
purposes. But this contrasts with a
room of “models and muses: the pen-
sive sitter”, which is full of respectful
portraits of elegant, intelligent women.
I looked at them, in particular the stun-
ning “Portrait of Olga” and longed for
Picasso to paint my portrait and make
me look so regal and knowing.
I’m a big fan of Picasso’s still lifes.
“Skull, Sea Urchins and Lamp on a Ta-
ble” is so quintessentially Picasso and
yet something that wouldn’t look out
of place on your wall at home. I love
how he echoes Cezanne in so many
of these paintings – you can see it in
the apples. Skulls are always a popular
subject in still lifes, and Picasso shows
off his limitless talent in “Ram’s Skull”,
which is raw and bold but still with
incredible depth and realism. They’ve
been left to the end but make sure you
take a few minutes to give them the at-
tention they deserve.
The stars of the show are his “vari-
ations”. Picasso loved to produce vari-
ations of iconic masterpieces, taking
classic images and scenes and offer-
ing his personal twist. I hadn’t known
about this passion of his until I saw
this exhibition, and it’s unmissable.
He takes “Women of Algiers” by De-
lacroix, awe-inspiring in its own right,
and turns them into something almost
unrecognisably vivid and exciting and
filled with garish colour. It’s totally
different but somehow in the spirit of
the original. He does the same several
times over with Manet’s “Luncheon on
the Grass”, desperate to do it justice and
also add more, streaking blue and grey
and adding his own classic form to the
nudes. You should be utterly wowed by
his take on Velazquez’s “Las Meninas”,
which takes pride of place in the exhi-
bition. At first you can’t even tell what
the painting’s of, and it takes a second
glance for it to hit you. This, like most
of the variations, need to be viewed
from afar first to place the figures and
objects in the frame. My personal fa-
vourite variation is tucked in a corner
subtly – “The Rape of the Sabines”. It’s
in cheery brights and pastels but de-
picts a haunting scene of rape and de-
struction that grabs the soul. It’s like a
scaled down, doodled “Guernica”. Look
at the female forms, screaming faces
and babies that looked like stuffed toys.
My one niggling criticism is that these
paintings would be infinitely better if
hung next to their originals or, more
realistically, even bigger reproductions
to at least allow comparison.
My only criticisms are the whole
audioguide-based agony, my usual
whinge about the price of tickets
(though being a student gets you a sub-
stantial discount) and the fact that the
exhibition space in the Sainsbury wing
of The National Gallery is a bit like a
S
o many times individuals
have asked themselves the
question: “who am I?”… The
visual artist Roni Horn has
made it her vocation of try-
ing to explore all different themes of
identity, seeing it as mutable and mul-
tiple rather than fixed.
Born in New York in 1955, she is one
of these artists who became automati-
cally jaded of classical representations
of art and accepted Minimalism as a
basis for creativity. Throughout her
life, she investigates what creates iden-
tity and how it can be manipulated,
changed. This can be reflected in her
art by the various medias she uses to
express herself; drawings, sculpture,
photography, video, etc... Central to
her theme of identity is also the idea of
place, or how place defines identity by
the process of “becoming”.
In that sense, she mostly tries to re-
late to identity through the different
relations that create it; the place where
one is will define one’s identity, which
can be altered in another setting. Her
perception of art’s purpose is also
based on that principle. For example,
what a piece means, or what it is, for
the viewer will depend on where he is
from, what he has experienced in his
life, etc. This mixture of existential con-
cepts translates into arts through vari-
ous means. One of Horn’s realizations
is the use of identical pieces, paintings
or sculpture, displayed in three rooms
in a different order each time. While
the objects are the same in each room,
the experience of the viewer is differ-
ent every time as it is seen through
the memory of the previous works. In
fact, Horn believes that what is familiar
becomes unfamiliar just by the fact of
becoming familiar… Hum…. What? In
short, Horn asserts that it is the expe-
rience of the audience that creates the
art, and not the art itself. The latter is
in itself a statement that can be much
discussed, being relentlessly linked in a
loop of circular reasoning to the ques-
tion of identity and purpose of art, or
of the self if the self depends on art.
Therefore what is the self, and what is
art?
If you think you have a headache,
wait until you reach her theme explor-
ing the identity of water, it is over-
whelming like a tsunami… In fact, the
collection of Still Water (The River
Thames for Example) is build on a se-
ries of close-up photographs of differ-
ent currents and colors of the Thames,
provided with the personal analysis of
the author in the form of footnotes to
“you”. Once again, the interaction be-
tween the piece and the viewer will
define his experience and therefore
the piece itself. With statements such
as “Is water sexy? Black water is not
sexy”, the audience is left to ponder if it
makes any sense at all.
On the other side, why ask so many
questions on art, why not solely enjoy
it? However, Horn’s work can be found
to stand within a profound vacuum if
not related to the questions they ex-
plore as in themselves they possess
cave. If you’re thinking about going,
you might want to book your tickets
because the exhibition is bringing in
the crowds – I went on the first Sat-
urday after it opened and you could
hardly move in there. That or go at a
funny time on a weekday. This exhibi-
tion is beautifully presented and some
of the paintings are unmissable. Don’t
go expecting to see all his usuals; this is
an excellent chance to see what Picasso
and his art were really like.
Roni Horn shows us who she is
very limited technical qualities. Most
photographs are not bad, but do not
have any character in themselves if
separated from their existential “mean-
ing”. In that sense, Horn really succeeds
in creating a discussion on identity for
all viewers, as for almost every piece
Emile Beuchamp discovers the ‘special’
world of Roni Horn and her different
ways of expressing herself
it is inevitable to ask oneself what ex-
actly it that thing in front of you. For
those ready to reach deep in their in-
ner self and submit to an introspection
on what is it, where is it and why is it
there, Roni Horn aka Roni Horn is a
highly concentrated dose of these con-
temporary, abstractly conceptual exhi-
bitions that so well reflect how society
if lost today. Fit in an appointment in
advance with your shrink if you already
have one. For those less thrilled, may I
suggest Rodchenko and Popova’s exhi-
bition right across the corridor?
Roni Horn’s installation view at Whitney
Les femmes d’Alger, 1955 owned by a European Private Collection
Le Déjeuner sur l’Herbe, after Manet, 1961 which is at the Museu Picasso de Barcelona
The Artist in front of his Canvas, 1938
© RMN / Gérard Blot / Succession Picasso /DACS 2009
© RMN / Jean-Gilles Berizzi / Succession Picasso / DACS 2009
© Photo courtesy of Libby Howie / Succession Picasso / DACS 2009

