green week
imperialcollegeunion.org/green
Help make Imperial more
green and you could win
£1000!
All we want is your idea for greening Imperial. Entries will be judged for their
viability, originality and cost-effectiveness by a panel of College Staff and
Students’ Union Officers. Remember, some of the most successful ideas are
often the simplest! You may even see your proposal in action...
Top prize - £1000
Plus more prizes for runners up
Check our new Green Imperial website to see some of the College and Union’s
current initiatives and gain some inspiration!
You can enter by picking up one of the Greening Imperial flyers from around
campus or by going online to imperialcollegeunion.org/green.
Entries close 27 March 2009 and the winners will be announced online on 1
May 2009 at imperialcollegeunion.org/green and rcsu.org.uk.
There will also be stalls everyday during the week with information about some
of our student societies’ green initiatives including Community Action Group’s
Foodworks programme and Equinox’s renewable energy projects overseas.
imperialcollegeunion.org/green
With the increasing trend for eco-friendly products and yummy-mummies swapping their 4 wheel drives
for Priuses, Laurence Fahrni wonders why there’s still so much apathy amongst students at Imperial.
Is Green really the new black?
It almost didn’t surprise me to notice
that when topics of energy and envi-
ronment would come up in the discus-
sion at the end of the regular Political
Philosophy Society debates, a lot of
people would suddenly remember a
previous commitment and try to dis-
cretely leave. To me it seems this ‘co-
incidence’ seems attributable to three
factors really impeding the embracing
of ‘green’ issues in the wider popula-
tion. It is likely there can be a feeling
of it being to heavily shoved down
our throats on a daily basis I’m sure.
But there must also be some feeling
that it’s not yet affecting mankind and
may not do so in our lifetime. Finally
even at Imperial that feel they don’t
know if the science is right or that the
immediate economic benefits of not
being sustainable outweighs the long-
term costs. Perhaps Greenpeace has
just been getting on everyone’s nerves
since the seventies.
As much as I’d like to avoid engag-
ing these three in too much detail, it
stands to note that the World Health
Organisation estimates 150,000 deaths
in 2000 may be attributable to anthro-
pogenic climate change. This figure
and the projections of increase is an
equivalent number of deaths to fifty
9/11’s every year.
Is being an environmentalist a bad
word? I’m going to be bold. If you care
about animals and extinction, you’re
an environmentalist. If you care about
people in developing countries, you’re
an environmentalist. If you care about
the long-term future of the economy,
you’re an environmentalist. OK, you
may not be attending rallies, and are
perhaps more conscious of being la-
belled a hippy than the more vocal of
us, but the interests are fairly common
and rudimentary. To me it seems bi-
zarre to try to dispute the science, es-
pecially understanding the framework
of scientific research, and the level to
which expertise is reached in the post-
graduate world. If they had the time,
I would say why not have a chat with
the Professors in the Department of
Atmospheric Physics? Sure you’d be
told that the models aren’t perfected,
but when are they? In fact, it has been
suggested that the IPCC (Intergovern-
mental Panel for Climate change) are
too conservative in its estimates due
to the intense scrutiny it receives from
interest groups and sceptics.
At times the expertise gap between
the most polar sides of the debate
seems comparable to the one that can
be seen with evolution’s critics. That’s
not to say any criticism of details of the
research is invalid, but rather than go
down that long and winding road, why
don’t I use this opportunity to empha-
sise some of the smaller and simpler
things that can make prove a signifi-
cant and helpful step when done prop-
erly and en masse.
Aluminium is arguably the most im-
portant thing to recycle due to the en-
ergy used in production, tins and cans
are probably the ones to remember the
most. Remember not all plastics can be
recycled. At the moment in the College
recycling scheme it’s plastic bottles, or
anything that has a number 1, 2, or 3 in
that little triangle of arrows that graces
each plastic item. If there’s too many
‘contaminants’ (over 10%) in the recy-
cling (and this includes the wrong ma-
terials, but especially things like lumps
of food) then the whole wheelie bin is
going to be sent to landfill. Having said
all that, reports from the new recycling
scheme have been positive.
The planet naturally does a lot to
neutralise and sequester our effect, but
at the end of the day it is a question of
scale, and the sheer volume of green-
house gases leaked by our civilisation
is simply greater than can controlled
by our ecosystems. There is an army
of people thinking about what can be
done about this, but the problem re-
quires an even bigger army actually
doing so.
Regardless of personal feelings about
the best approach to protect the envi-
ronment and the economy, there is a
simple common sense reason for re-
ducing consumption of resources, es-
pecially fossil fuels. To quote the Insti-
tute of Mechanical Engineers’ journal
Professional Engineering “It is the sim-
ple fact that it took rather a lot more
years to make the stuff than it seems
likely to take to consume a good pro-
portion of what’s there”.
Remember not all plastics can be
recycled in the College’s scheme
Is the environment reason enough to go veggie?
Would you eat a puppy? If you told me
it was reared in a carbon neutral fash-
ion I certainly would.
There are many reasons to be a veg-
etarian, for some it’s because of the
treatment of animals in most large-
scale farming practises are not the nic-
est for the animal, a lot of the meat sold
in the supermarket for next to nothing
probably lived in appalling conditions.
Other people are vegetarian for reli-
gious or cultural reasons. Another ar-
gument I know about is the one I think
has the most weight and persuasive
ability behind it. At the moment the
news is mainly focussing on the eco-
nomic climate which I have gleaned
isn’t the best. It has also been said that
the recession is going to push ‘Climate
Change’ onto the back Russian-piped
gas burner, and that is probably true
because who cares about the ice-caps
when you are redundant with a mort-
gage payment due last Wednesday.
I still care about the ice caps melting
when you’re redundant with a mort-
gage payment due, I’m afraid, and
there has never been a better time
to set large scale changes in motion.
However, there is also something that
each of us omnivores can do, and that
is to start embracing the herbs, and by
embracing I mean cutting and cooking
into something delicious.
Firstly, cows and sheep fart a lot.
Rainforests burp every now and then I
know, but they can be forgiven because
they are a huge carbon sink. Cows
on the other hand fart out methane
(around a third more potent as a Green
House gas than CO2) in incredible
quantities (500L a day). In total these
animals produce more greenhouse
emissions than the world’s transport
systems. Additionally livestock animals
produce nitrous oxide and ammonia on
a gargantuan scale, not forgetting CO2,
thus contributing greatly to the green
Reuben Gibbins
VegSoc
house effect and acid rain. The animals
reared also poop, and this has annoy-
ing complications of contributing to al-
gal blooms in the water systems, which
in turn can lead to dead zones.
Then there are the resources required
to produce the meat; which is hor-
rifically inefficient. There is the clas-
sic example that a kilo of beef requires
at least 13,000 L of water (dependent
on location and breed) while a kilo of
wheat requires a mere 2000L. This is
of course a simple example because I
don’t want to limit my diet to things
made of wheat and I am aware water
demands of other plants, such as rock-
et, are much greater, however it doesn’t
even approach the requirements of
that kilo of beef. The crisis relating to
water is so great it not only has an in-
ternational day (March 22nd) we are
currently in a decade of action – Water
For Life – because a sixth of the world’s
population do not have access to clean
water. Of course, you could point out
that the glaciers are melting and more
interesting weather patterns will bal-
ance out this water loss, however rain
not falling on the right catchment area
is effectively useless and most water
will end up salinated. Desalination isn’t
yet as cost effective as better water use
practises and proper conservation.
Currently 70% of agricultural land
is used for farming animals, either
through grazing pastures or for the
crops to feed the beasts. To meet de-
mand agricultural land is sourced from
what would otherwise be unused, re-
sulting in considerable deforestation
across the globe. In terms of energy,
being vegetarian is a much more effi-
cient way of living as you remove the
food chain process, requiring less land
and water to support you. Furthermore
feed has to be transported to the farms,
as well as the produce transported away
and packaged, although these factors
and industrial processes are smaller in
comparison to the produce from the
animals themselves they still add up to
the environmental hoof-print that we
have created; the post-consumer ‘food
mile’ is less than half that of produce
transport emissions.
It is not only the legged animals we
should stop eating: pescetarianism is a
step in the right direction but it doesn’t
take into account that fish stocks are in
afairlybadplace.Althoughbetteraqua-
culture techniques are sure to arise, at
the moment two thirds of the world’s
fish species are either fully exploited
or depleted. The removal of key spe-
cies also messes with the ecosystems
in place, which do not help when you
remove prey for the sharks and whale
and then go hunting them for scientific
purposes; I’m looking to you Scandina-
via and Japan. Overfishing can lead to
situations where remaining stocks are
unable to restock the oceans properly
and the process of by-catch where the
majority of what is caught is discarded
as waste is highly inefficient.
Many of these arguments are ap-
plicable only when applied to a global
scale, and yet the change to vegetarian-
ism is essentially a solo switch. Even if
the whole of the UK switched to veg-
etarianism and adopted greener life
styles, the rest of the world will still be
getting their steak knives out. In the
same way that everyone wants a car, as
nations become more wealthy they will
desire similar diets that are indicative
of opulence. If large enough numbers
of people start to do something even-
tually the numbers will reach a critical
mass and everyone will adopt the ac-
tion, thus should enough of us change
our lifestyles people, like the cattle
we’re refraining from eating will follow
suit, or see that you don’t have to be-
gin to consume animals. This ties into
how meat is fairly expensive, which is
not surprising when taking into con-
sideration the higher requirements of
water and feed compared to vegetable
products.
I’m well aware most of my argu-
ments are not reasons to turn vegetar-
ian, rather reasons to not eat meat, but
if you smoke you look cool but also
make your lungs upset, and dumping
toxic waste into river sources is good
because it’s not your problem anymore
leads to all manner of cleaning up be-
ing required down the line. Meat is an
unavoidable part of our society.
In a perfect world there shouldn’t be
arguments for turning vegetarian, rath-
er highlighting it as a choice that some
people believe is healthier and kinder
to our animal kin. Ideally a sustainable
farming situation will arise allowing
people to eat anything may want, how-
ever with the ever increasing global
population that is unlikely to arise no
matter what wide spread changes oc-
cur. I appreciate that radically altering
your diet may seem at first a large and
daunting task to undertake; you could
try going vegetarian for a month, but
there would not be any tangible prize
at the end other than self satisfaction
of completing the challenge or the
great first bite back into meat. How-
ever, by making small gradual changes
one would make gradual reductions
in one’s impact on the environment.
I don’t know of many people who eat
meat every day, and it is not a tall order
to further reduce this to limiting your-
self to meat only once a week or once
a month. This would dramatically re-
duce your carbon footprint as well be-
ginning to illustrate that a vegetarian
lifestyle is feasible. Furthermore, if you
begin a habit of pseudo-vegetarianism
you are more likely to expand on it to
the point where you eat less meat.
Personally, if I said I was going veg-
etarian for life it would be a lie, like-
wise I know I will travel in a plane, even
if I would prefer to travel overland (I
don’t do seas too well), and I will at
some point probably buy a car, al-
though hopefully by that time I hope it
will be technologically better and envi-
ronmentally less damaging than those
around today, but I reckon I could be in
the position where I only eat meat on
special occasions. And even then, it’ll
probably only be roadkill on Christmas
Day. Yum.
Cows are good at farting. In fact they manage to fart out 500L of
methane a day, which is a more potent greenhouse gas than CO2.
Email Hannah on dpew@imperial.ac.uk
Email Nigel on advice@imperial.ac.uk
Welfare
Welfare Editor – Hannah Theodorou
15
Friday 6 March 2009 felix

