8
COMMENT
Comment Editor Ravi Pall
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
felix FRIDAY 04 DECEMBER 2009
I
realised at a young age that my
life ambition was to be a Renais-
sance Man. My first steps were
obviously to change my name
to Leonardo and grow a long
white beard, but after an unfortunately
‘barbe’d confrontation with school bul-
lies I had to cut all of that. Since then,
I can’t claim that I’ve yet been appren-
ticed by any 15th
century Italian paint-
ers, as would have been ideal, or even
that my knowledge of anything is par-
ticularly profound. Certainly I haven’t
reached anything like the stunning level
of cultivation displayed on Monday by
the University Challenge team. How-
ever, I vaguely cling to my unrealistic
goal. While we may not achieve prodi-
gious understanding, we can still take
an interest.
Last week, Dan Wan told us that Im-
perial students don’t work as long as
Oxbridge students. Isn’t that wonderful?
And obviously all that free time is also
the reason that Imperial is renowned for
its veritable army of Renaissance men
and women. After all, while arts are ac-
cessible without specialised training, sci-
ence is largely not, so for the truly well-
educated we’re looking for scientifically
literate young people with time to burn in
a cultural capital. So far, so good; except
of course, that Imperial’s reputation is not
one of an artistic and political hotbed.
So, where is this polymath potential
draining to? How is it that young sci-
entists with a lot of time on their hands
(yes, quit moaning: 11.3 hours a week
for starters) and access to all the artistic
stimulation you could hope for are not
known for the power of their myriad in-
terests? Why are the tiny political socie-
ties unvocal and inactive? How have the
TV and radio of Imperial slipped so far
from their heyday that most don’t even
know they exist? Why isn’t Imperial
renowned for its graduates as well in-
formed as Healy, Good, Amit, Nicolson
and Brightman?
It appears it can be put down to our
general apathy. Reflected all too often in
these felicitous pages is a mood of com-
plaint and an acute lack of pride in being
from Imperial, manifested especially in
The Imperial Stereotype, also known as
“Oh Please Not That Again” and “Flog-
ging a Dead Horse Much?”, which is
draped liberally around like pre-emptory
Christmas lighting. And we don’t under-
stand why student satisfaction is low?
I believe that the apathy which causes
lack of interest in the wider world is re-
sponsible for lack of community pride as
well. Better; I think it can be changed.
The more fascination that you can
muster in the outside world, the more
you can enjoy, and feel enriched by your
undergraduate years. If, after an inves-
tigation (which they surely deserve) of
these other worldly delights, you de-
velop the informed opinion that you
wouldn’t touch the non-scientific world
with a bargepole, then you can go back
and relish, nay, glory in spending ridicu-
lous amounts of time at your studies.
I can’t believe I’m urging anyone to-
wards community pride, a revolting
phrase I have been avoiding my whole
life. It conjures up for me the image of
jingoistic songs, flags and cliquey ho-
mogeneity, but lacking it has made me
realise what it really is. Self-esteem is
missing from students here, and the
desire to stand up for the good name of
the college.
Students of every other university in
the land boast wildly about their own
institutions and complaints are second-
ary to a hyperbolic assertion that it is,
without a doubt, the best place to be. In
fact, this sort of behaviour can only be
found here within a group whose com-
munity pride is matched only by the
sheer activity of clubs and societies, and
willingness to sing the praises of their
own faculty. I’m talking of course about
the medics. Why is it then that they are
treated with such disregard by everyone
else? Perhaps because they have found
a way to ignore the Imperial apathy and
disinterest, and cultivate the self-confi-
dence which would be so dearly treas-
ured by all the rest.
If arts students be the required tools
for an atmosphere of intellectual ex-
citement, it’s defeatist to think it can’t
be done without them. You have all the
outlets of an arts student here, and only
here can science students easily take
advantage of them. Make the most of it!
Rox Middleton’s childhood dream?
“...all that free
time is the reason
that Imperial
is renowned
for its army of
Renaissance men
and women”
I
f I’m honest, I don’t like Al Qaeda,
or Nick Griffin, and, in my opinion,
Hitler was not a nice man. Quite an
eclectic bunch, you might think; in-
deed, I don’t think you’ll find them
all around a table, enjoying a cheeky pint
at the Union, any time soon. Of course,
I’m sure I’m not alone in my dislike of
these people, these extremists if you
will – they’re all quite reprehensible. But
the reason for my particular aversion to
them is unique. I don’t hate them because
they’re extremists; I hate them because
they give extremists a bad name.
And this is a tragedy! It was reported
recently that the first person to live to
two-hundred is already living today but,
with a diet consisting of curry, pasta,
and “other”, washed down with Snake-
bite and tequila, in between a pattern of
work and...more work in the time pre-
viously designated for sleep, I severely
doubt that person is going to be me, or
anyone at Imperial. Which is why it is vi-
tal that we make the most of today! When
Horace said Carpe Diem, he didn’t just
mean stroke the day or gently fondle it –
he meant seize the day with passion and
zealandshakeitdownforallit’sgot!Lifeis
to be enjoyed and if we only have so long,
we have to get as much enjoyment in as
possible.
But in Britain today, this just doesn’t
happen. This is partly due to the extrem-
ists listed above, which I detest them for,
but it’s also an innate quality of the people.
This is a lukewarm nation. It is not in our
nature to push the envelope. The British
do not complain (with the notable excep-
tion of the weather), they do not dance if
there is even the slightest chance there are
people watching and they certainly do not
drink milk a day past the expiration date.
Our ancestors must have selectively bred
for politeness, though for the life of me I
can’t think why.
Now, I must stress this isn’t necessarily
a bad thing. The comfortable 28mph lives
of the many mean that those few extre-
mophiles, those golden children of sport,
politics and culture, really do stand out.
This is why Olympic gold medals and No-
bel prizes still mean something; they only
go to the outstanding among us.
I’m not alone in wanting to live an ex-
treme life. Pepsi’s slogan for their Pepsi
Max is “Maximum taste – no sugar.” Their
adverts show people pushing past the
boundaries of madness and public de-
cency to reach that sugar-free, caffeinated
soft drink at the end. Still, I don’t think an
enthusiastic, optimistic approach to an
empty, uncaring universe is quite on the
same level as coke but at least the spon-
sorship pays well.
This aversion to the extreme, this de-
sire to lie within the statistical average,
although a trait of the nation, isn’t some-
thing you grow up with – it’s something
you grow into. Consider, a newborn baby
in their mother’s arms. All the family
gather round and make silly noises and
say “Oh, isn’t he special!” But within a
few years, special takes on a very different
meaning. “Oh, you’ll have to excuse him,
he’s a bit...special.” At some point during
our life, we transition from the masters of
our own universe to just being another
face in the crowd. And worse still, we’re
happy with this! No, children have the
right idea; they don’t dream about tele-
marketing from a four foot by four foot
cubicle, they dream about being knights
and explorers and secret agents. If they
want to be a cowboy-astronaut with a
cape, they’re bloody well going to be one,
despite what anyone tells them. Children
don’t settle for mediocre, they don’t settle
of second-best, so why should we?
I think the point I am vaguely ap-
proaching in my roundabout fashion is
most succinctly summarised in the film,
WALL-E. When the rogue autopilot de-
fends its actions by saying it acted to en-
sure humanity’s survival, the captain of
the Axiom replies with a heart-rending
plea, “But I don’t want to survive – I want
to live.”
And that’s all I have to say. Live each
day as if it’s your last (and with the way
taxis drive in London, that is a distinct
possibility). I started off by talking about
terrorists and finished with a whimsi-
cal animated film. What kind of article
would do that? An extreme one! Woo!
Rhys Davies to the max and/or extreme
“The British do
not complain, they
do not dance if
there are people
watching, and do
not drink milk past
expiration”

