9
felix FRIDAY 04 DECEMBER 2009
COMMENT
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
T
his week, felix resumes its
search for ever more unu-
sual metaphorical places
to indulge its fondness for
hallucinogenic drugs. If
you feel up to it, join us in today’s issue
as we take a trip down memory lane.
In your unsuspecting innocence,
beloveds, you may have thought our
vicious and scathing periodical was a
recent creation. The hateful campness
that litters its pages like its pages litter
the campus could only, you suspected,
have been born of a cynical, post-Vi-
etnam, post-Thatcherite postal strike-
ridden world. Well, far be it for me to
destroy that illusion, but allow me to
destroy that illusion. This cat, you see,
is no ordinary cat. It has breeding. It
has a history, a lineage and a degree of
pedigree unmatched by your Clapham
common or garden-variety moggie.
For today’s issue, in case the bril-
liance of my invective has blinded you
to any of the large number of hints
strewn throughout the remainder of
this paper, marks our 60th anniver-
sary. And it is in an attempt to honour
the numerous incarnations of our be-
loved mascot that we stroll down the
long and winding road that leads to
the land of nostalgia.
Various section editors will be at-
tempting to recreate the atmosphere
of 1949 Britain, with potentially amus-
ing consequences for our games and
technology writers. And my life has
been made a great deal easier by the
world’s decision to revive the fun,
quirky atmosphere which pervaded
international politics in the years fol-
lowing the Second World War.
I am talking, of course, about the
wise, level-headed and insightful de-
cision made by the Swiss people to
prevent the building of minarets in
their land-locked European land of
fermented milk and money. I use the
third-person plural there for under-
standable yet unforgivable reasons.
For although I myself chose to abstain
in the referendum, my Swiss citizen-
ship forces me to be associated with its
repercussions. And its repercussions
in the political arena may well be sig-
nificant, as national leaders and indi-
vidual legal experts alike are queuing
up to hurl rotten tomatoes at the Swiss
as they languish in the depreciating
stocks of international opprobrium.
The world’s opinion of my country is
vitally important to me, of course, but
my own opinion matters even more.
And what I find particularly worrying
is what the vote says about my chosen
homeland.
The danger posed by fundamental-
ist Islam is real, and it is understand-
able why the Cantonal malcontents of
Thurgau, Glarus and Appenzell Inner-
rhoden would be opposed to minarets
blocking their scenic views of lakes
and mountain ranges. But attempting
to solve any form of cultural problem
by banning their construction is akin
to combating cancer by declaring tu-
mours illegal. It is symbolic, superfi-
cial and, most importantly, silly.
Nothing is achieved by forbidding
mosques to construct minarets, oth-
er than a preservation of the pristine
patina of parochial propriety which
matters most to those who think least.
Treating the tiny Muslim population
of Switzerland as though their cus-
toms and religion are not welcome will
do very little to improve the problem
of cultural integration.
All in all, this decision must go down
in Swiss history as the most misguided
political move since Hermann Gessler
stuck his hat on a pole in the Altdorf
town square and asked Mr. William
Tell why he wasn’t saluting it like all the
other good little people. That particu-
lar incident gave rise to an ingenious
new method for coring apples, a Ross-
ini overture, and Swiss independence
in one fell swoop. It strikes me that the
more recent Helvetic developments
may not prove quite so productive.
This is the unfortunate problem
posed by direct democracy. Allowing
the people to decide for themselves
can be a dangerous business, as all too
often that is precisely what they will
do. Taking decisions by national ref-
erenda automatically allows the 50%
of the population who are even more
bigoted, less well-informed and lazier
than the average voter to have what
passes for a majority in any federal
decision.
While many of my compatriots are
people as decent and charming as any
you could hope to find between the
Pyrenees and the Urals, the country
is as choc-a-block full of cuckoos as
a Swiss cheese is of holes. I wouldn’t
trust half the people who live on my
street to look after my nephew for an
afternoon, so why would I want them
to look after his future? Fortunately
they have very little chance of doing
either, given as my nephew lives on a
different continent.
It may be old-fashioned and elitist
to claim that ordinary people need
help governing themselves, but I ex-
pect those individuals who make the
important decisions to be accountable
to their citizenry – not emasculated
by them. A Utopian system of direct
democracy works well in small, homo-
geneous communities, but minorities
will be crushed the moment they dare
to make themselves known.
Speaking with my emotional bag-
gage as a Jew, as well as with my
mental baggage as a thinking human
being, I find the results of last week’s
vote unspeakably repellent and utterly
shameful. And I will shout it as loudly
as I can from the top of the nearest
minaret.
Gilead Amit stands up for the minareties
“Today, the Swiss
are languishing in
the depreciating
stocks of
international
opprobrium”
S
hock, dismay and furious
anger filled me as I read last
week’s cover story. Us? Drag-
ging down the Golden Tri-
angle? After the nerd-rage
subsided, I thought about it and have
concluded that we are actually clearly
more intelligent than Oxbridge stu-
dents. Trust me, I have logic to prove
it. You like logic, that’s why you’re here.
Think about it this way, why do we go
to university? Genuine interest in your
subject? I think not. So you can get a
good career? That’s much more likely.
How does one go about rating one’s
career? Job satisfaction? Ha. Monies?
Hell yeah.
Now, some facts from the Times
Good University Guide 2010. The aver-
age starting salary of an Imperial gradu-
ate is £26,299, compared to £24,460 for
Oxford and £22,964 for Cambridge
(and if anyone says it’s because we’re in
London, they can… err… shhh). I’m go-
ing to extrapolate (because I can) and
say that starting salary is proportional
to amount earned over a lifetime. I’m
also going to say that this is the single
criterion on which one should judge the
worthiness of a career.
Now as we’re all scientists let’s con-
sider efficiency. To get the best career
(max money) most efficiently, you want
to put in the least work and get the most
money out. Some relation like Life-
timeEarnings/HoursWorkedPerWeek-
AtUni. I like to call this the Falk ratio.
I always wanted a formula or a con-
stant or something named after me but
I suppose I’ll have to settle for a ratio.
Rather than judging a university on its
“research” or “student satisfaction” we
should judge them on their Falk ratio,
it pretty much gives you all you need to
know.
As was proclaimed boldly last week,
Cambridge and Oxford students do an
average of 40% and 30% more hours of
work respectively per week than us.
What does this mean for their Falk ra-
tios? Oh my, we come out on top. Fancy
that. If that doesn’t show that we’re
the most intelligent I don’t know what
does. We weren’t foolish enough to fall
for the stories. We saw past the elegant
halls, steeped in history and the uni-
versal admiration given to Oxbridge
students. We went past all that and saw
the truth, that to be most efficient (and
therefore have the best life) Imperial
was without doubt the only place to
be (except LSE but they don’t do our
courses).
Oh wait, no we didn’t: “61% of cur-
rent Imperial students applied to Ox-
ford or Cambridge as their original first
choice”. That tells me one thing, 39% of
current Imperial students lie to make
themselves feel better. Well no longer
do we need to be bitter about our re-
jection. We can rest on our Falk ratio
smugly and look down on our poorer
Oxbridge counterparts in years to
come. They’ll be there enjoying their
“satisfying jobs” and their “families”.
Maybe we’ll see them as we speed past
in our sports cars. Well not likely, we’ll
probably be driving them at 6am, it’s
no fun driving a fast car in traffic and
we need to be at work for 7. Come to
think of it, because we work at invest-
ment banks, we’ll only be leaving work
at around 6am. It’s fine though we can
laugh at them on one of ours days off.
So that’ll be Christmas Day. Hmmm.
Adam Falk with a very bitter article
“To get the best
career (max
money)... you
want to put in
the least work
and get the most
money out”

