10
SCIENCE
Science Editors
Science Editors Nathan Ley & Brigette Atkins
Nathan Ley & Brigette Atkins
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
felix FRIDAY 04 DECEMBER 2009
RELIVING THE SCIENCE OF 1949
Archaeology revolutionised by carbon-dating method
Then a few other things happened this year also...
1949 was hardly a classic year in sci-
ence on first glance. However, the year
culminated in a few important things
still relevant today.
One of the first computers was dev-
loped, the Manchester Mark 1, also
known as the Manchester Automatic
This computer is historically signifi-
cant because of its pioneering inclu-
sion of Index registers, an innovation
which made it easier for a program to
read sequentially through an array of
words in memory.
Thirty-four patents resulted from
the machine’s development, and many
of the ideas behind its design were in-
corporated in subsequent commercial
products such as the IBM 701 and 702
as well as the Ferranti Mark 1.
Development ceased at the end
of 1949, and the machine was later
scrapped.
Finally, the first automatic streetlights
were installed. The first automatic
streetlight was installed in 1949 in
New Milford, Ct. This was an auto-
matic streetlight system in which the
streetlights turned themselves on at
Antihistamines were also discovered
in 1949. Also referred to as histamine
antagonists, these inhibit the action
‘Radiocarbon dating’ – or just ‘carbon
dating’ – is one of the best known
methods of absolute dating used today
by archaeologists and scientists alike.
The most outstanding aspect of this
method is that it allows deposits to be
dated independent of any other sub-
stances or information.
Radiocarbon dating was developed
by Willard Libby and his colleagues,
who first measured the radioactive
half-life of carbon-14 at the Univer-
sity of Chicago in 1949. The method
of carbon dating is centralised around
one of the three isotopes of carbon
found naturally on Earth. Two of these
isotopes, carbon-12 and -13, are sta-
ble and account for the majority of
natural carbon. The trace remaining is
carbon-14 which is radioactive with a
half-life, known as the Libby half-life,
of 5568±30 years.
Carbon-14 is formed in the up-
per atmosphere, as a result of cosmic
ray neutrons interacting with nitro-
gen-14 atoms to produce carbon-14
atoms and protons. The carbon-14 is
oxidised and enters the organic envi-
ronment as a carbon dioxide isotope.
Approximately one carbon-14 atom
exists in nature for every 1000 billion
carbon-12 atoms. Hence the propor-
tion of carbon-14 atoms found in any
organic substance, once it is no longer
living, can be used to calculate the time
between the ‘death’ of the sample and
the present day.
When carbon-14 decays, it emits a
beta particle to become nitrogen-14
once again. After ten half-lives, the ex-
ponential nature of radioactive decay
means there is insufficient carbon-14
within a sample to allow for it to be
‘dated’ using this method. However,
carbon dating is suitable for placing an
age on any sample which has ‘died’ in
the past 50 to 60,000 years.
As well as the necessity for the sam-
ple being investigated to fall within this
time bracket, any results obtained must
be calibrated by comparison with sam-
ples dated using other methods. This
calibration is needed in order to ac-
count for the variation in atmospheric
carbon-14 levels over time. Changes
in cosmic ray intensity and the Earth’s
climate both have an effect on isotope
levels and must be accounted for in
order to date a sample accurately. An
example of this is atomic bomb tests in
the 1950s and 60s causing carbon-14
levels to double for a short period of
time.
Although the Libby half-life was later
found not to be an altogether accu-
rate value for the half-life of carbon-14
(nowadays, the ‘Cambridge half-life’ is
often quoted - 5730±40 years) the cali-
bration of the results cancels out any in-
Brigette Atkins
Brigette Atkins Science Editor
60,000
years old
Due to the half-life of carbon-14,
carbon dating is limited to samples
which have ceased to be living in the
past 50 to 60,000 years.
up to
accuracies and allows carbon dating to
remain as one of the most widely used
and globally consistent methods of dat-
ing samples. The development of ra-
diocarbon dating also gained Libby the
1960 Nobel Prize for Chemistry “for his
method to use carbon-14 for age deter-
mination in archaeology, geology, geo-
physics, and other branches of science”.
Nathan Ley
Nathan Ley Science Editor
1:1,000billion
The ratio of carbon-14 atoms to
carbon-12 atoms found natually
occuring
vide a computing resource within the
university and to allow researchers to
gain experience in using computers.
Subsequently it became a prototype on
which the design of Ferranti’s commer-
cial version was based.
The Manchester Automatic Digital Machine (MADM)
Digital Machine (MADM). The ma-
chine was reported upon positively in
the british press, being described as an
electronic brain.
This description provoked a reaction
from the head of Manchester Univer-
sity’s Department of Neurosurgery,
which began a long-running debate
as to whether an electronic computer
could ever be truly creative.
The Mark 1 was developed to pro-
of histamine. Histamines are involved
in local immune responses, as well as
in acting as a neurotransmitter. His-
tamine triggers the inflammatory
response.
Upon invasion of foreign pathogens,
histamine is produced by basophils
found in nearby connective tissue. The
function of histamine is to increase the
permeability of the capillaries to white
blood cells and other proteins in or-
der to allow these to engage with the
pathogens in the affected tissues. Such
is the nature of an innate response,
histamines are located in every animal
cell of the body.
Since antihistamines act to do
the opposite function of histamines
(which do a bloody good job) you may
be wondering why their discovery was
so important? Well, their use as a valu-
able compound arises in the situation
of allergy.
Allergies are caused by an exces-
sive response of the body to allergens
to harmless objects that don’t need to
be met with a full blown immune re-
sponse, such as pollen. Thus, temper-
ing this response is necessary to pre-
vent a waste of resources.
streetlight contained an electronic de-
vice that contained a photoelectric cell
capable of measuring outside light. By
November of 1949, seven miles of New
Milford’s roads were automatically lit
at dusk by a total of 190 photoelec-
tric streetlights. No longer would the
proud men of New Milford be forced
to don stilts in order to light their
street lamps.
dark, and was installed in New Mil-
ford, Connecticut, by the Connecti-
cut Light and Power Company. Each
Computers, antihistamines and automatic street lights - you can’t imagine living without them
A series of random street lights to
fill up a bit of space.
The decay of carbon-14 according to the more accurate ‘Cambridge half-life’

