11
felix FRIDAY 04 DECEMBER 2009
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk SCIENCE
One of the key postulates of Einstein’s
theory of special relativity is that the
speed of light in a vacuum is constant.
This means that whatever the energy
of the photons making up the ray of
light, its speed is always the same. It’s
called Lorentz invariance, and it’s been
on trial once again, courtesy of the Fer-
mi Large Area Telescope (LAT) Col-
laboration. In a paper published in Na-
ture last month, Abdo and colleagues
at the collaboration analysed the light
coming from a distant and fleeting
gamma ray burst to try and pick up any
variation in the speed of its photons –
and found no variation, at least down
to a limit. Gamma-ray bursts (GRBs)
are believed to be released during su-
pernovae and are the brightest events
occurring in the universe – despite the
fact that most of them are billions of
light years away from Earth. The radia-
tion emitted during a GRB is extremely
intense, typically releasing as much en-
ergy in a few seconds as the Sun will
in its entire lifetime. They are good
candidates for measuring a variation
in light speed due to the cosmologi-
cal distances the light has to travel to
reach us – even tiny variations in pho-
ton speed are amplified enough to be
revealed in the sharp features of the
light curve emitted during the burst.
Researchers at the Fermi LAT Col-
laboration were alerted to a particular-
ly interesting gamma-ray burst after it
was picked up by both the Large Area
Special relativity is
put to the test
Telescope and the Gamma-ray Burst
Monitor, which are aboard the Fermi
Gamma-ray Space Telescope. This
telescope is a joint project between
NASA, the US Department of Energy
and government agencies in France,
Germany, Italy, Japan and Sweden, and
is currently in low Earth orbit. A pho-
ton, with an energy of 31GeV, emitted
less than a second after the start of the
burst was singled out and used to find
a limit for the variation of the speed
of light. In special relativity this limit
should not exist, as there is no length
at which the Lorentz invariance should
be broken. However, some theoreti-
cal physicists think that at very small
lengths it could in fact be violated. In
order to formulate a “theory of every-
thing”, they are attempting to reconcile
gravitational effects with quantum me-
chanics and create a theory of quantum
gravity. According to these theories, at
the Planck scale (lengths of approxi-
mately 1.63 x 10-34 cm) quantum me-
chanics should interact with gravity,
influencing the nature of space-time
and so changing the speed of light. In
the research conducted by the Fermi
LAT Collaboration, however, Lorentz
invariance was found by two independ-
ent methods to hold true down to the
Planck length divided by 1.2. This is a
blow to some quantum gravity theories
that require the fabric of space-time to
be altered on small scales. While this
may be bad news for some modern day
physicists, it’s good news for Einstein –
after over 100 years, his theory of spe-
cial relativity still stands.
Kelly Oakes Science Reporter
Artists impression of a gamma ray burst detected by the Fermi telescope.
Photons from gamma ray bursts have called
into question the Lorentz invariance
This week marks the 109th Nobel Prize
award ceremony. In line with the 60th
anniversary of felix, we take a look at
the people who received the award for
scientific achievement back in 1949.
Physics - Hideki Yukawa:
After graduating from Kyoto university
in 1926, Yukawa became particularly
interested in the theory of elementary
particles. In 1935 he published a paper
on meson theory and proton-neutron
interactions. He received the Nobel
Prize for Physics ‘for his prediction of
the existence of mesons on the basis of
theoretical work on nuclear forces’ after
the discovery in 1947 of his theorised
pion by Cecil Powell, Guiseppe Occhia-
lini and Cesar Lattes.
Chemistry - William Giauque:
After gaining a PhD in Chemistry (with
a minor in Physics) from the University
of California in 1922, Giauque initially
had plans to become an engineer but
developed an interest in research un-
der Prof. Gilbert N Lewis (famous for
the discovery of the covalent bond).
Much of his research was dedicated to
demonstrating the third law of ther-
modynamics as a basic law and devel-
oping methods by which temperatures
below 1 Kelvin may be observed. Ac-
cordingly, he was awarded the Nobel
Prize for Chemistry ‘for his contribu-
tions in the field of chemical thermo-
dynamics, particularly concerning the
behaviour of substances at extremely
low temperatures.’
Physiology or Medicine - Walter
Hess and Egas Moniz
Walter Hess received his medical de-
gree from the University of Zurich in
1906 and trained an ophthalmologist
before turning to research. He started
to map the parts of the diencephalon
region of the brain following on from
his initial interest in blood flow and
respiration. He received half of the No-
bel Prize for Physiology or Medicine
‘for the discovery of the functional or-
ganisation of the interbrain as a coor-
dinator of the activities of the internal
organs.’
Egas Moniz studied medicine at the
University of Coimbra before training
as a neurologist. After a brief career in
politics, he returned to medicine and
in 1927 developed cerebral angiogra-
phy, a method allowing blood vessels in
the brain to be visualised. He received
half the Nobel Prize ‘for his discovery
of the therapeutic value of leucotomy
[lobotomy] in certain psychoses’.
Nobel Prize winners of 1949
Brigette Atkins Science Editor

