12
POLITICS
Politics Editors James Goldsack, Katya-yani Vyas, James Lees and Phil Murray
politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
felix FRIDAY 04 DECEMBER 2009
Guess who’s
back
D
id you miss me? No? I
suspected as much. It
has been such a long
time that I have had to
use an editorial picture
from last year where I look faintly
amused by someone’s footwear. It does
feel wonderful to be back though, I
think I was in danger of my fellow edi-
tors disowning me, but divulging the
politics of the felix office is not quite
what this section is for so thats more
than enough of that.
Right, well I think thats as self-indul-
gent an opening as I dare to give, for-
give me, I am attempting to stumble my
way back into the swing of things. So,
on to much more important matters...
First of all, I would like to wish felix
a very happy birthday. Our esteemed
newspaper has reached sexagenarian
status, and this issue is quite rightly
reveling in the occasion. At the ripe
old age of 60, felix can look back on its
life thus far with pride and anticipate
the future with excitement (albeit with
a hint of humorous cynicism, a hall-
mark of the paper). I salute you felix,
you truly are a prince amongst student
newspapers.
What on earth does this all have to
do with politics, I hear you cry. Well,
not very much, but brace yourself for
I am about to take felix on a political
rollercoaster through the last 60 years
starting with the year of its birth.
1949, what a year! Aside from the in-
ception of our beloved newspaper, this
was the year the Democratic Republic
of Germany was founded, the year Sta-
lin decided to lift the Berlin Blockade
and the year Goerge Orwell’s ‘Nineteen
Eighty Four’ was published. I could de-
tail a plethora of significant events...
Fast forward through the 1950s,
the Cold War is simmering despite
the death of Stalin in 1953. However,
the increasing paranoia with regards
to Communism leads to the rise of a
certain Senator McCarthy and his ap-
titude for innuendo and intense inter-
rogation. You could offer a beggar a
few cents and be incarcerated for ‘so-
cialist tendencies’. 1959 saw the Cuban
Revolution, bringing communism to
America’s back garden.
As an adolescent during the ‘60s, fe-
lix experimented with hallucinogenics
and watched the world transform with
the explosion of television, the rise of
feminism and counterculture. Anti-war
movements instigated by America’s in-
volvement in Vietnam were rife as were
attempts at procuring better civil rights,
it was clear that the shape of politics
was undergoing a radical shift.
On to the 1970s, the worlds econo-
mies were slowing down indicating an
end to the years of post-war prosperity.
The decade also saw a huge rise in ter-
rorist acitivity around the world as well
as a mass focus on civil rights.
Catapaulting through the ‘80s and
‘90s, the Thatcherite years, the rise of
New Labour and the momentous fall of
the Berlin Wall, felix was there through
it all.
And so we decelerate, this decade has
seen the escalation of terrorism, global
recession, the pessimism surrounding
Gordon Brown and the optimism asso-
ciated with Barack Obama.
Let us alight now from this politi-
cal steam train, take a moment to re-
flect and appreciate how the world
has changed since 1949, and indeed
how felix has changed. As a student
newspaper we have enormous poten-
tial and hopefully 60 years from now
felix will continue to thrive and maybe,
just maybe, I will have written another
column.
Katya-yani Vyas Politics Editor Swiss ban minarets
This past Sunday the Swiss voted in a
referendum on the inclusion of a ban
on the construction of minarets into
the country’s constitution.
In a surprise victory that has left
Swiss leadership reeling, the Swiss
People’s Party’s (SVP) vicious and con-
troversial prohibition campaign won
57.5% of the popular vote. Only four
out of the 23 cantons (federal states)
of the Confederation voted in opposi-
tion to the ban. Of the four, three are
from francophone Switzerland (Ge-
neva, Neuchatel and Vaud), with Ger-
man-speaking Basel-City (technically
only a half-canton) the fourth. Voter
turnout stood at around 55%.
The hard right SVP became the larg-
est party in the Swiss parliament in
2007, on the wave of an anti-immigra-
tion campaign that has been criticised
by even UN experts as being overtly
racist. Past campaign propaganda has
included a poster of two white sheep
kicking a black sheep off the Swiss
flag, and another where brown hands
are portrayed reaching eagerly to grab
at a Swiss passport. Their latest push,
this referendum, displayed minarets
placed on a Swiss flag and coloured to
appear as missiles.
The SVP strove to portray mina-
rets as symbols of rising Muslim reli-
gious and political power, campaign-
ing against what they describe as the
“rampant Islamisation” of Swiss soci-
ety. “The minaret has got nothing to do
with religion. It’s a symbol of political
power, a prelude to the introduction
of sharia law,” argues Ulrich Schlüer of
the SVP.
But these arguments seem only
vaguely based on fact. Out of Switzer-
land’s population of approximately 7.5
million, only 6 percent are Muslim,
mainly originating from the Balkan re-
gions of Kosovo, Albania and Bosnia.
Fewer than 13% are actually practicing.
As far as minarets go, there are only
four in the entire country, with two
situated in Geneva. “And we don’t want
any more,” comes the baffling counter-
argument from Schlüer. “There’s no
sense in banning them once you’ve got
hundreds. What’s the point in waiting
for that?”
In league with the SVP were secu-
larist leftists and liberals fiercely criti-
cal of Islam and its practices, which
they deem sexist. According to these
groups, minarets are male power sym-
bols, and their presence is indicative
of the state’s acceptance of the oppres-
sion of women.
The government and political main-
stream, as well as the business com-
munity, came out in strong opposition
against the ban on the grounds of tol-
erance, as well as very real fears of pos-
sible damage to important commer-
cial relationships with Middle Eastern
countries, such as happened to Den-
mark in the wake of the Muhammad
cartoon controversy. Justice Minister
and member of the Federal Council
(the body which serves as Switzer-
land’s collective Head of State) Eveline
Widmer-Schlumpf called the legiti-
macy entire process into question, de-
claring that a ban would breach anti-
discrimination laws and rights to free
religious observance. Church leaders
and the Jewish community also joined
in support of Muslims in calling for
the proposed amendment to be reject-
ed. As late as last week, the proposed
amendment looked on course for de-
feat, with only 37% of voters indicat-
ing they supported a ban.
There are now fears of a backlash,
both economic, through disruption
of trade ties with the Middle East, and
social, via encouraging radicalisation.
For a country that has for centuries
avoided conflict by selling itself as po-
litically neutral, and avoided becom-
ing a target of fundamentalists like
the majority of Western states, the
proposed addition to article 72 of the
Swiss constitution represents a worry-
ing development.
Anthony Maina
Climate change research: fraudulent and incorrect?
Neil Dhir
The Anthropogenic Global Warming
(AGW) hypothesis is, like many sci-
entific exercises before it, no stranger
to fraud. felix recently exposed the
scandal at the East Anglia Climate
Research Unit (CRU). As we are con-
stantly being fed the impending threat
of Armageddon as a result of AGW
it should come as no real surprise to
anyone that the AGW hypothesis has
been dipped in fraud, marinated in
fraud, stewed in fraud, flavoured with
fraud and finally served with a nice
bottle of 1962 Chateau de Scientific
Bogus Obfuscation. But as we shall
see ‘Climategate’ is only the tip of the
iceberg, to use the proverbial phrase,
in a long line of events which serve
only to dropkick the good name of
science in the bollocks. felix asks the
dear reader to spot occurrences of sci-
entific malpractice during the reading
of this article. The right answers are
posted at the end.
A quick 101 on ‘Climategate’ is in
order to get unfamiliar readers up to
date. Climategate is the name given to
the hacking of CRU where more than
1,000 e-mails, 3,000 documents and
160 MB of data were stolen and up-
loaded to various websites.
What Climategate has revealed so
far is the coordinated effort in the US
and UK of non-compliance with both
countries’ Freedom of Information
acts, and the apparent and widespread
intent of defrauding the highest lev-
els of international climate science
bodies.
We begin with a very bizarre epi-
sode which involved a NASA team
led by one James Hansen - a man who
makes Al Gore look like an AGW
skeptic (Hansen has demanded that
warming “deniers” be tried for “crimes
against humanity”).
While examining a series of NASA
temperature graphs, Steve McIntyre
a statistician, who is best described
as an anti-AGW Doctor Manhattan,
uncovered a discontinuity occurring
in January 2000 that raised tempera-
tures gathered over widespread areas
by 1-2 degrees (which in global warm-
ing world is like unicorn genocide us-
ing blunt spoons). Hansen refused to
reveal what algorithm he had used to
process the data. McIntyre thus began
the arduous process of figuring it out
himself and finally struck gold.
Once notified, Hansen’s team prom-
ised to correct the error, stating that it
was an “oversight.” When the corrected
figures were at last released, vanished
was the claim that the past few years
were “the warmest on record.” Now
1934 took precedence. A full half of the
top ten warmest years occurred before
WWII, well prior to any massive CO2
build-up.
No explanation has ever been of-
fered. Which leave us with a very odd
Y2K glitch that behaves like no other
computer glitch ever encountered,
uniformly affecting a large number of
sources distributed almost nationwide.
Although the incident trashed all
recent data and raised uncomfortable
questions about the warming thesis as
a whole, NASA itself made no effort at
an investigation or an attempt to clear
the issue up.
3,000
Number of documents leaked
in the ‘Climategate’ scandal
1934
The warmest year on record
according to new NASA data
Two propaganda posters from the SVP promoting racism in Switzerland

