14 felix FRIDAY 04 DECEMBER 2009
BUSINESS
Business Editor
Business Editor Sina Ataherian
Sina Ataherian
business.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Tenuously related events from 1949
In celebration of our newspaper’s sixtieth birthday, we look at a few stories from the year felix were founded
1949 saw the registering of Adidas,
and the approximate start of it being
a global household name. It deserves
a brief mention here as an example of
companies of its type gaining greater
importance in the second half of the
last century than ever before. In par-
ticular, it provides an excuse to defend
one of the main charges frequently lev-
elled against it and similar firms, that
they use ‘sweatshops.’
Just to be clear, some developing
world workshops referred to by this
phrase deceive and even force vulner-
able workers into working for them.
In other cases no one is coerced into
working at a particular establishment,
but illegal force is brought to bear
against anyone trying to organise any
form of unionisation. This is a serious
problem that public pressure has ad-
mirably done much to tackle in recent
decades, with the support of dedicated
campaign groups often proving vital.
But such businesses represent a tiny
fraction of those tarnished by the la-
bel of sweatshop, and are certainly not
suppliers to the major western brands
that attract so much criticism on the
issue. In fact, all that is usually enough
to qualify a place of work in a devel-
oping country as a sweatshop is work-
ing conditions that would make it an
undesirable employer for the activists
that attack them. However undesir-
able a certain firm appears, it must still
be better than the next best available
option; otherwise no one would freely
choose to work there.
So complaining that Adidas or any-
one else is ‘exploiting workers’ essen-
tially amounts to saying that you are
unhappy that there is inequality in the
world. This may be cause for concern,
but few sweatshop-bashers would
want businesses boycotted for not re-
specting absolute financial equality
for all workers. If it is more an issue
of their being a ‘minimum standard,’
the furthest from it are certainly not
the sweatshop workers, who by defini-
tion work. Concerned individuals are
already welcome to donate their own
money.
Relaxing immigration controls
would also even out global imbal-
ances and lead to greater economic
efficiency at the same time. But other
than that, as regrettable as some may
find inequality, it cannot in and of it-
self be cause for sanctioning individual
businesses. Instead, Adidas and its like
should be thanked for slightly lessen-
ing the gap through their job-creation.
Of course that still does not excuse the
lameness of their TV ads.
Sexual orientation-specific advertising has been criticised repeatedly both on ethical grounds and for marketing reasons:
10% of the population is a fairly small market segment
The Second World War spurred a
great amount of creativity and innova-
tion in a number of academic fields, in-
cluding Economics. The years follow-
ing the war saw major developments in
the discipline, including a sharpening
of the dividing lines between free-mar-
ket versus interventionist schools of
thought. 1949 contained two impor-
tant examples.
One of these examples never
amounted to anything of note in itself,
but offers an interesting glimpse into
the birth of the idea that the whole
economy can be viewed at the ‘macro’
level and planned with scientific preci-
sion. This was the Monetary National
Income Analogue Computer (MO-
NIAC), designed and built by Alban
William Housego Phillips, famous for
his curves.
Better known as the Phillips Hydrau-
lic Computer, the contraption is still
available for viewing at the London
School of Economics, where it was
first unveiled in, of course, 1949. As
the name suggests it models the Brit-
ish economy with a hydraulic device,
where water plays the role of money
circulating through the various com-
partments. The machine looks like
something from scrapheap challenge,
using tanks, pipes, valves, and wa-
ter pumped by a motor made out of
the windscreen wiper of a Lancaster
bomber.
Professor Phillips tried to show in-
come flowing around the economy and
being shared between consumer, gov-
ernment and business spending using
dyes channeled by a fishing line and
bits of plastic. He and his collaborator,
Walter Newlyn, decided on this de-
sign only after careful experimentation
with methylated spirits and treacle as
potential alternatives. Compared to
its successors found today in the form
of powerful computers in the quanti-
tative analytics departments of large
investment banks, the machine was
fairly basic. Ironically, it ignored such
phenomena as inflation and the busi-
ness cycle.
The machine came at a time of great
hardship. The entire economy was fac-
ing major restructuring and people
were disgusted to see so much mate-
rial suffering and idle resources in their
daily lives. There was strong demand
for a short cut to remedy the situation,
to get the idle resources working again
and return the country back to its days
of wealth and prosperity. The Phillips
machine was a significant milestone
for advocates of central macro-plan-
ning as a means of achieving maxi-
mum state control over the economy
in the most important but least per-
sonally intrusive way.
The thinking underlying the ma-
chine is still alive and well, with cen-
tral planners at the Federal Reserve
pursuing the policy of damaging the
economy with distortionary interven-
tions and then suggesting worse at-
tacks against the markets as a remedy.
All other central banks essentially act
in reaction to its decisions and so are
not really important enough to merit
individual mention. The similarities
of the principles of the Philips model
with those used by the Fed to deter-
mine how much and where to inter-
vene today is striking.
Although the late forties were a partic-
ularly strong time for poor economic
theories being popularised by the des-
peration of the people, they were also
an excellent time for the propagation
of much sounder thinking throughout
the Anglo-Saxon world. The persecu-
tion of German and Austrian Jews,
who of course provided most of the
country’s economists, forced many of
them to leave for the United States. A
notable example, probably the greatest
economist of the last century, was Lud-
wig von Mises. In 1949 he wrote his
magnum opus, Human Action, which
to this day remains one of the greatest
treaties on free market economics and
the principle of sound money.
The central thesis of the book is that
economics is fundamentally different
from the natural sciences. Whereas
in those we may measure things and
guess at conclusions based on our
measurements, this would be an in-
effective method when dealing with
human behaviour. Instead Mises pro-
posed basing an economic theory on
praxeology. This is the study of how
people behave, based on our a priori
understanding of rationality and moti-
vation. He wrote of his book:
“Economics does not allow any
breaking up into special branches. It
invariably deals with the interconnect-
edness of all phenomena of acting and
economising. All economic facts mu-
tually condition one another. Each of
the various economic problems must
be dealt with in the frame of a compre-
hensive system assigning its due place
and weight to every aspect of human
wants and desires.
I saw the forces operating which
could not but annihilate the high civi-
lization and prosperity of Europe. In
writing my book, I was hoping to con-
tribute to the endeavors of our most
eminent contemporaries to prevent this
country from following the path which
leads to the abyss.” Sadly the book, even
the German version written eight years
earlier, did little to mitigate the actions
of the Nazi regime as Mises hoped.
Adidas
China
The founding of the People’s Repub-
lic and the fleeing of the Kuomintang
government to Taiwan were clearly
very important 1949 events. But they
were both such complex events that it
obviously would not do them justice to
elaborate here.
But they would have been fairly glar-
ing omissions had they been ignored
altogether in a piece on the significant
events of 1949.
Professor Phillips’s MONIAC is a far cry from its current successors
Phillips Machine Human Action

