2 felix FRIDAY 09 DECEMBER 1949
The need has been felt for some time for a frequently published journal to comment upon the affairs of the College whilst they are still topical, and to
bring to the attention of its members the activities of Clubs and Societies of which people at present know little, and knowing little, tend to care even less.
This is a function which clearly cannot be performed by THE PHOENIX, particularly since that estimable bird is now to appear only twice a year, and so FELIX has
come to meet the need. We do not intend to encroach upon the literary field covered by THE PHOENIX; rather do we intend to be complementary to that journal, even
if not always complimentary. Neither are we in any way connected with it, nor are we its offspring. (In any case, this unfortunate bird is presumably unable to
produce any offspring, since only one bird exists at any one time, rising from the ashes of its predecessor. Perhaps this accounts for its doleful appearance).
No, THE PHOENIX will remain an essentially literary magazine, whereas we shall content ourselves with providing a commentary upon events and personalities.
The success or failure of this paper depends principally upon you, our readers. In the first place we depend upon you to produce many of our articles
and reports, since our staff cannot themselves attend and report every College event. Secondly we depend upon you to maintain a lively correspondence in our
columns. Here is an opportunity for you to air your opinions, ideas and grievances to the whole College instead of just to those within earshot at the bar,
and replies can be published before everyone has forgotten what the original letter was about. Thirdly we depend upon you(to buy your own copy of FELIX, and
not just to read somebody else’s copy. We do not think that 3d is beyond the financial scope even of a student trying to live on a F.E.T. grant, and copies for a
term cost less than a pint of beer.
Any profits made by the paper are to be devoted to Sports Day, since it appears that the Union is now so impecunious that it may be unable to subsidise
coaches and teas on that important occasion.
Any contribution will be welcomed, whether it be a full article on the marital customs of the Watussi or a chance remark heard in the bar. Contributions
and letters should be addressed to:- The Editor, Imperial College Union, Prince Consort Road. Contributors may write under nems de plume if they wish, but must
supply their names and Colleges with their contributions.
A debt of gratitude is owed to F.C.EWELS for his suggestion of a title. He shall be rewarded with a saucer of milk.
We note with pleasure that Dinner in Hall is steadily gaining support as a regular College function. We learn that 40 Dutch students are attending next
Tuesday’s dinner. If every member of the College makes a point of attending this function at least once a term, its success will be assured.
Celebration with Repercussions.
For centuries men, women and children, connected in the smallest way with this
country, have taken it to be their joyous and inalienable right to rend the silence and
blackness of the November night, for one night only, with loud explosions and vivid flames
and fireworks.
The men, women and children of this College differ little from their predecessors in
this respect, and on November 5th 1949, many hundred students with escort emerged from the
merrymaking at the “Hop” to gambol and caper, - indeed to celebrate in the way that Guy
Fawkes so unwittingly initiated. Know this, friends; these merry-makers were indeed worthy
of that title. The appellations of organised trouble-makers or hooligans ring as untrue
as apologies in the ear of one who has been crippled in the Scrum. Imagine, therefore, the
consternation among these revellers at being greeted in the shadow of the Albert Hall by
our blue-coated brothers in inflamed mood. Report after report was passed around of he
who had been punched in the kidneys, she who was pushed in the face, and others worsely
handled.
This treatment, one may conjecture, was designed to quell any merrymaking and
fireworking, and in fact force a hasty retreat by all to the Union. The design was bad; there
are probably few other bodies in the British community who value their freedom and their
rights as much as Students. The rough behaviour of the Law aroused indignation, but apart
from urgent expostulation, no departure was made from the practice of Bonfire lighting, the
creation of Mighty Explosions and the indescribable whirl and turmoil attendant upon the
Festival Spirit. Indeed 4 students (one at least of whom comes from The Bush) were defying
the flames and flying fireworks in a dance of delight round the fire. Meanwhile The Prince
Consort looked down benignly, and reassured himself, we are sure, by telling himself of the
safety of the structure around his head.
Others seemed to disagree, albeit reverently, with the measured opinion of the Prince
and more blue helmets were seen to bob their way (usually accompanied by a constable)
towards the fire - harmless as it was. In an instant there was a spurt of water; a loud
hissing and an uprising of angry steam marked the dousing of the friendly flames. But,
friends, this was not all. The jet of water having done its deed was then directed on to
those who hitherto, had been enjoying the pleasing warmth and happiness exuding from the
fire. Only one outcome could there be; students bore down upon the unpleasant hose in an
attempt to maintain the dryness of their clothing. The further outcome was unexpected, for
in an instant some of our numbers were linking arms with policemen and walking in some
haste towards the mobile police vans.
It became evident that strong measures were being taken by the Law to discontinue
the customary celebration; and even more so when student after student was flung into
a black van and removed to custody. It was an uneven contest, for the umpire was not on
our side. However, the student body is not one to say goodbye before the final whistle, and
their attentions having been distracted from the Albert Memorial Steps (oh, bad strategy,
sir!) some students were seen to have difficulty in crossing the road towards the Hall
without lifting a vehicle or two out of the way. Finally, conscious of the fact that the best
activities should not continue after the climax, cries of “Come on I.C.” and the chanting of
the I.C.Boomalaka brought an enjoyable - but disappointing - evening to a close.-
- For some, but others, languishing in Chelsea Police Station, were not wholly
appreciative of the humour of the occasion. These 16 unfortunates appeared before the
Beak on the Monday, to be remanded for a fortnight, since this was considered to be no
mere display of “the exuberance of youth” but a serious incident. In the interim police
helmets were sought among the student body with little success; many hearts, however, were
gladdened by the apparition on The Houses of Parliament of a similar object. Far be it from
me to speak sub judice regarding those yet to be tried. However, let us wish them god speed
in returning to us from the Court and, moreover, let us dig deep in our pockets to help pay
their fines.
TAURUS.
THE ESCAPADES OF BOANERGES IN THE LONDON-BRIGHTON RALLY,
NOVEMBER 13TH.
The weather forecast on the Saturday evening was not
very promising, cold with scattered showers. It was only to
be hoped that the showers would not scatter themselves on
the London-Brighton road. It meant an early start for all
concerned and the very sleepy crew of “Boanerges” rolled up
at the College at 7.15 a.m.
In the greyness of the morning “Bo” certainly looked
rather dispassionate but after the addition of a few gallons
of the essentials the old boy seemed a little more perky. At
last after innumerable adjustments had been made to the too
numerous controls Bo arrived in fine time at the “Magazine”
in Hyde Park, where the noise and smoke seemed to grow in
volume as did the spirits of the crews of “Bo and the tender”.
The “Guilds” veteran was superior in that it arrived
under its own power; for most of the veterans had been
carried – not just towed – on quite massive constructions
which devotedly followed their charges. In the Park it
was discovered that “Bo” had not enough water to last the
journey; so what could be better than to fill the spare cans
from the Serpentine. The veterans were started in order of
age at intervals of thirty seconds. “Bo” was number 48 and
was soon off to a fine start, with the tender following
watchfully.
Through London went the procession; past most of
the noble buildings and almost all London was taken in
gallant stride; Brixton Hill caused a little trouble for some
veterans but not so for the mighty “Boanerges” – at least
not after he realised he would have to go up, so he stopped
banging and smoking and went up in triumph, but when he
had collected his cheers he flagged and had to be revived by
some Serpentine water.
Perhaps it was imagination but “Bo” seemed to have
more vocal support throughout the journey than the rest of
the entrants put together. “Boanerges” had one misfortune,
but quite a minor one. The nut came off one of the the chain
joining links, but it gave the crew time to stamp their feet,
and someone experience in the use of a hammer.
It seems that the “Guilds” is not very willing for a
truce with the “Gentlemen” in blue, for they flaunted an
acquired taxi-horn at every aforementioned “Gentleman” they
encountered as well as going a little too close for comfort.
This was perhaps unfortunate as the Police on that Sunday
were really co-operative, allowing staggering veterans to
rattle across the lights. It was true that manners were not
lacking in the crew of “Boanerges” however, for all gestures
whether from on-lookers or Police were acknowledged if only
by the taxi-horn. After a while it was realised that “Bo” was
speeding, this being prohibited by the rules of the R.A.C. for
this run and at one point “Bo” was actually seen to be doing
40 m.p.h. (although it was downhill).
“Bo” eventually arrived in Maderia Drive with much
cheering and waving whilst steam issued from the various
Extracts from the first issue of Felix, published on the 9th of December, 1949

