16 felix FRIDAY 04 DECEMBER 2009
music.felix@imperial.ac.uk
MUSIC
Peggy Sue killed the Pirates, but don’t weep!
I sat down with the girls from Peggy
Sue (Rosa Rex and Katy Klaw) a few
weeks ago before their headline gig at
the ICA and chatted to them about
changing their name, their new album
and traveling around America.
Felix: What have you been up to this
summer?
Peggy Sue: We’ve been traveling
around the U.S. quite a lot, touring
and recording. We recorded our al-
bum there and we’ve just come back
after touring with Sky Larkin which
was great. We’ve definitely caught the
travel bug.
F: Did you enjoy playing to American
audiences?
PS: Yeah, some gigs were quite small
but we played a few big ones too, but
mainly it was good from our point of
view because they hadn’t heard of us
before so they didn’t know about Peggy
Sue & The Pirates so we were able to
present our new sound to a fresh au-
dience and they really responded to it.
F: Tell us a bit about your new sound,
is this why you’ve changed your name?
PS: Yep, we feel like a new band so
that’s why changed the name. When
we started we did the whole anti-folk
thing and that’s all we could really do.
But we’ve gotten more confident mu-
sically, we got a drummer [Olly Olly
Olly], who’s really creative and since
then we’ve been trying to make a big-
ger sound to sort of fill the space, we’re
a lot noisier definitely.
F: How have your fans reacted to the
change?
PS: At a gig in Southampton someone
came up to us asking whether we’d still
play the old stuff but we’re not going
to because we see ourselves as a new
band. But we’ve had lot of people also
come up to us saying that they really
like it and for us it’s the right sound.
F: So you’ve been around for almost
four years, you’ve got a new sound and
finally a debut album; what’s taken so
long?
PS: It’s a lot of stuff really, firstly, even if
we had done a Peggy Sue & The Pirates
album before, it wouldn’t have sounded
right, it probably would have been a bit
shit. But probably more importantly,
we didn’t really have the money or the
time, we started when we were at uni
in Brighton and, for example, the first
time we went touring we supposed to
be writing up our dissertations.
F: How did you get involved with John
Askew, The Dodos’ producer?
PS: When we were driving around
America, we were listening to The
Dodos’ latest album in the car and we
loved it so much, we both just said
“We have to get whoever produced
that to produce our album” and so we
approached him and we went up to
Brooklyn to produce it.
F: How do you write your material?
PS: We actually usually write our songs
separately, most of our songs are writ-
ten mostly by one or the other. But we
spend so much time together and our
songs are inspired by personal experi-
ence that we sometimes end up writing
really similar songs.
F: What is success for Peggy Sue?
PS: Success is playing in every city in
the U.K. and knowing that people are
going to be there.
Do I count as a photographer if I took this photo on a disposable?
Kadhim Shubber
Peggy Sue’s debut album ‘Fossils And
Other Phantoms’ is due early 2010.
The first single “Yo Mama” is out now
Belgian music promoters Toutpartout
celebrated their 15th birthday in style
last Thursday at the Scala, with eight
eclectic but awesome bands. However,
two stuck out in particular.
Kicking the night off with noise-rock
from another dimension, London’s
masters of distortion, Todd punished
the small crowd gathered in the Hard
Room with a disgustingly loud per-
formance. With endless waves of fuzz
and a shit-storm of screaming by their
drunk frontman in dungarees, Todd
played an extremely entertaining set,
showcasing the raw power of new al-
bum “Big Ripper”. After throwing awk-
ward dance moves, the singer wraps
his microphone cable around his neck
then around his shoe, tugs on it hop-
ping on one leg, choking himself and
screaming. As he is about to pass out,
he falls to the floor, unwinds the ca-
ble, chats up a pretty girl in the audi-
ence, grabs another beer from the bar
and rejoins the band on stage to end
an enthralling performance. A true
professional.
But the band everyone was waiting
for that night have become something
of underground legends over the past
few years. Monotonix, a 3-piece of
vocals, guitars and drums, come from
Tel Aviv, Israel, where they are banned
from half the live venues. This might
be due to the excessive male nudity
they indulge in, or the fact they set
their equipment – and themselves – on
fire, or maybe that most of their per-
formances end as full-out riots.
Monotonix refuse to play on stage.
They play down in the pit, surrounded
by the crowd. That’s one thing about
Monotonix; you do not so much
“watch” as “experience” them. Gui-
tarist Moshe Vegas stands alone in
tight sport shorts and bangs out a bad
mama-jamma garage rock riff. Drum-
mer Bonanza the Cat jumps off the
stage, topless, wearing a massive chain
around his neck, to the sound of excit-
ed cheers. Vegas’ voodoo riffing sends
Bonanza into a trance-like fit, writh-
ing on the ground, till moustachioed
singer Elvis grabs his legs and drags
him around the room. After some ac-
robatic poses, the time for partying has
come. Bonanza heavy-handedly strikes
the snare, the heat is on, and they
don’t stop rockin’ till their set is over.
Elvis steals every beer he can from the
frightened audience and pours them
on Bonanza as he plays. The drum kit
is drenched, the crowd is ecstatic.
Elvis starts to sing; it sounds like Bo-
rat doing AC-DC covers. I mean that
in the best way possible. None of their
songs are particularly memorable, but
they merge into a chaotic set during
which Elvis runs back and forth, climbs
on any surface/person possible and
jumps into the crowd. It is an exhila-
rating performance and no one in the
room can look away from the three
insane(ly) entertaining performers.
Vegas slides along the packed venue,
breaking out his sharpest dance moves,
Elvis does all he can to distract drum-
mer Bonanza: puts a bucket over his
head, even picks up a girl from the
audience, dumps her on his head and
humps them both violently. Bonanza
never budges.
As well as being great entertainers,
Monotonix are genuinely talented mu-
sicians. Every time a song ends, Vegas
keeps a riff going, while Elvis takes
apart the drum kit and randomly sets
it up somewhere else, so you’re never
at the “front” or the “back”: the gig is all
around you. This is where Monotonix
base their sets around something most
bands today have forgotten. A good live
band involves the audience. A perfect
gig feels like taking part in something
unique. By the end of Monotonix’ set,
the entire crowd was grinning madly,
clapping endlessly, grasping hands
with the band and each other. Monoto-
nix are something very special indeed.
Monotonix are banned in Israel
HAIR CUT
including shampoo and conditioner
student
special
offer
£10
Precision Haircut 
by fully qualified hair
stylists experienced in
modern hair dressing
Trevor Roy Salon
52 Kensington Church Street W8
0 1 7 1 9 3 7 6 4 1 3
CASH ONLY& ID PLEASE
Luckily this isn’t Israel and Greg Power shares his experience
Read more of this drivel! felixmusic.tk
• Animal Collective’s new EP
• La Roux live @ Shepherds Bush Empire
• Yeah Yeah Yeahs @ Brixton Academy
• Lele’s new release, ‘Slotmachine’
The sweat band protects his eyes from sweat, the tache protects his mouth

