18
CULTURE &
THE ARTS
Arts Editors Rosie Milton, Caz Knight & Lucy Harrold
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
felix FRIDAY 04 DECEMBER 2009
LucyHarrold Arts Editor
H
ooray! It’s finally De-
cember, I can’t believe
how excited I got when I
opened the first window
on my advent calendar-
ooo! A cracker! How excellent!
So what does December mean to us
artsy type people? Well to me it means
a busy timetable of rehearsals leading
to two days of sheer tiredness-based
hell performing and coproducing the
Musical Theatre Society’s revue: Nic-
est Kids in Town.
But I’m by no means the only one
putting myself through a life of living
off Red Bull and coffee in the name of
art. Take a look at any of the myriad
of posters around college (or anyone
who falls asleep in your lecture). You
may find a hidden gem or a new hobby
out of it! If you do see any of the mag-
nificent talent at Imperial do send us a
review! I may even give you a cookie.
December also means the start of
panto season. My parents were always
sceptical about taking my sisters and
I to pantomimes when we were little
for two reasons. 1) Pantos are bloody
expensive; it’s the one time of the year
theatres can guarantee an audience
and can hence charge what they bloody
well like. 2) I think my parents realised
that even at that young age I thought
pantos were a bit crude and tacky.
I have exactly two memories of pan-
tomines, generally because I have seen
two pantomines. The first was being
shit scared of King Rat in Dick Whit-
tington- wouldn’t you be scared of a
6ft rat trying to eat your pet? This may
have had something to do with my fas-
cination with Basil the Great Mouse
Detective at the time.
The second panto I saw was Alad-
din starring Barbara Windsor who
I thought was a supermegastar. My
greatest memory from this was of her
singing ‘Could It Be Magic’ and me
then trying to copy it in my living room
for the rest of the holidays thus driving
my parents crazy.
This Christmas there will be none of
that panto type nonsense. Instead I will
be settling down to David Tennant in
Hamlet and then quickly switch over
to Doctor Who to see him fight his fi-
nal battle. How cheery. Hang on, Doc-
tor Who is art isn’t it? Guys? Hello?
Oooh! Spooky Stuff!
Rhys Davies discovers The Woman in Black, the timeless thriller
Musical Theatre Weekly: South Pacific
Musical Theatre Weekly has returned. For felix’s anniversary Lucy Harrold celebrates the hot show of 1949
This is the reason girls really like musicals- fit men with their tops off, mmm....
I
’m afraid it was slim pickings
for the world of theatre in
1949, possibly because many
perfectly good shows were al-
ready showing and we can just
hide this year under the carpet as an
“off year”.
History
South Pacific derived from a series
of short stories by James A Michener
under the name of “Tales of The South
Pacific”. Joshua Logan, a director and
veteran of World War Two, decided
that he wanted to adapt these babies
and so approached Richard Rodgers
and Oscar Hammerstein, writers of
such shows as the Sound of Music and
Carousel, to do so. The production
won ten Tony awards and went on to
win the 1950 Pulitzer Prize for drama
(so far only one musical a decade has
won this accolade). The show went on
to be made into a movie and is consid-
ered one of the seminal Rodgers and
Hammerstein pieces.
At the time, South Pacific was seen
as a brave new piece embracing an
end to racism, but in hindsight it was
probably more racially blinkered than
anything.
Plot
On a small South Pacific island dur-
ing World War Two, Nellie Forbush, a
Navy Nurse, has fallen in love with a
French plantation owner named Emile.
She discovers he already has two chil-
dren by a native woman (insert racist
subplot) and realises she cannot go out
with a guy who likes “natives” (she’s
from Arkansas and it’s the forties, what
need I say?) Meanwhile, Lieutenant
Cable has arrived on the island as a spy
and is preyed upon by Bloody Mary: a
large, ugly woman, and the only non-
Navy woman on the island.
We then discover that her daughter,
Liat, is also on the island whom she
goes about setting up with Cable. Un-
fortunately Cable is also a typically rac-
ist guy although we discover that both
he and Nellie have been brought up
that way and (supposedly) “can’t help
it”.
Emile challenges the pair’s racist ten-
dencies and Cable realises that he does
still love Liat. I won’t give the ending
away but use your imagination- it’s set
in the South Pacific and it’s wartime.
Someone’s going to die.
Main Characters:
Nellie Forbush: Sweet, naive Navy
ensign from Arkansas.
Emile DeBecque: A wordly, older
French plantation owner who seems
to be the only non-racist character in
the show
Joe Cable: Attractive young Navy spy
who is hanging around the island until
he can start his mission
Bloody Mary: Fat, ugly native grass-
skirt seller who still manages to get all
the sailors’ attentions.
Liat: Bloody Mary’s young, attractive
daughter who falls in love with Cable.
Come on, you know something’s going
to go wrong.
Songs to look out for:
I’m Gonna Wash That Man Right
Outta My Hair: Cute song sung by
Nellie. Men pay attention: it is usually
sung by scantily clad, attractive young
women.
Some Enchanted Evening: Possibly
the most famous song from the show-
a booming ballad. Very lyrical, very
nice.
Younger Than Springtime: I see this
as basically a bouncier, less solemn
version of Some Enchanted Evening
and hence, like it more.
My head of department suggested I
added Happy Talk to this list but I still
can’t get over that awful remix by Diz-
zee Rascal.
Where can I can get it?
Well the DVD definitely still exists,
in fact there are a few versions. There
are recordings aplenty and if you have
lots of money or daddy’s credit card
then go to Broadway and see the Lin-
coln Centre revival. It won the Tony
award for best revival and is even con-
sidered better than the original. The
picture above is from that production
including the very delicious Matthew
Morrison and his oh so beefy biceps.
If you liked this, try:
The Sound of Music- Well, you’ve
probably tried this before South Pacif-
ic but it is possibly Rodgers and Ham-
merstein’s most famous show.
On The Town- More sailors!! This
time they’re in New York but there are
still links back to the war and the sad-
ness it brings.
Finians Rainbow- Another golden
oldie but also another show about rac-
ism. This was definitely ahead of its
time, a place where bigoted old towns-
folk are changed race by a magical
leprechaun.
I
t’s Friday night and I have an
old friend to entertain. What
am I to do?
Well, it’s London so we decide
to take in a show. But which
show? The choice is practically sti-
fling. However, after a personal rec-
ommendation, we finally decide on
The Woman in Black at the Fortune
Theatre, just off Covent Garden.
The plot, adapted from a Susan Hill
novel by Stephen Mallatratt, sees a
young London solicitor head north to
a dour estate to settle a recently de-
ceased client’s affairs. While there, he
catches glimpses of the mysteriously
ethereal woman in black. When he
questions the locals about her identity,
they behave strangely and refuse to
talk to him. Thus, he is on his own as
her character and purpose are slowly
revealed to him.
This may sound like a pretty pedes-
trian ghost story and I suppose it is
but there are many aspects of the play
which elevate not only the standard
but the fear also. Firstly, the play is
told as the solicitor, now an old man,
rehearses the story with a stage actor
so he can explain it to his family. Thus,
it becomes a story within a story. It is
especially effective when the recorded
sound and props used to create mood
and setting are overtly recognised as
such. What’s more, during the rehears-
al (the real story) the actor plays the
part of the solicitor while the solicitor
plays the rest of the cast. Far from a
distraction, it is innovative and a great
credit to the actors’ plasticity.
But what truly impressed and terri-
fied me in equal measure was the use
of sound and light in the play. The
stage itself is sparse, with the few props
constantly given new interpretations
with every changing scene. With noth-
ing gaudy to distract the audience, the
other senses are given free reign.
Every creaking floorboard, every
crow’s caw is used to instil a sense of
anxiety in the audience. If you can hear
something in the play, you’re meant
to hear it and it’s meant to worry you.
Light is used even better, despite its in-
fidelity to the young solicitor. Electrics
fail, torches give out, lamps splutter
and suddenly the stage is plunged into
darkness. But this isn’t an empty dark-
ness, there’s something in this night
and it’s none too nice. And when the
lights come back, that isn’t necessar-
ily good, as they illuminate something
which should have definitely remained
hidden.
In essence, where this play truly suc-
ceeds is not in what it shows you but
in what it doesn’t show you. With a
minimal cast, limited (but creative)
use of props, silence and darkness,
the play leaves your imagination to fill
in the gaps. It doesn’t say that there’s
something in the blackness but you in-
stinctively know that there is and your
heart begins to pound. Then, the play
jolts forward, reveals the eponymous
woman in black – and you scream.
Well, I did, at least. In summary, you
should make an effort to see this play
not only for a ghost story well told but
for the technical genius behind the
narrative as well.
She’s behind you! Sorry, wrong article

