19
felix FRIDAY 04 DECEMBER 2009
ARTS
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Wyrd Sisters review; definitely wyrd
Gilead Amit reviews Dramsoc’s take on Wyrd Sisters that played out to audiences last week in the Union
I
can’t escape the fact that as
an art historian, an art critic
and a plain old art fanatic, I
am wary of an artist such as
Damien Hirst making a ‘foray’
into the traditional arena of oil paint-
ing. Hirst has drawn us as spectators
right through a gamut to the sublime,
then whipped round and laughed in
our faces with ridicule. I shall try to
explain how I have come to feel this
way in the following article.
My experience of his paintings has
inspired not only suspicion, but also
cynicism in my interpretation of his
style and subject matter. For exam-
ple: does Hirst have a deep-set hatred
for creatures of the animal kingdom?
When he is not drowning sharks and
young calves in formaldehyde, he is ex-
ploding crows in a spatter of cadmium
and feathers on his canvases.
As for Hirst’s formal style, only a
year ago the Tate Britain held a ret-
rospective of Francis Bacon’s works.
Bacon’s tendency to use the triptych
format and fill his spaces with loose
geometric structures painted in nar-
row lines has clearly inspired Hirst.
If we are to compare Hirst’s portraits
with Bacon’s, they differ greatly. The
larger expanse of a Bacon, such as
‘Chimpanzee’ of 1955 has a worked
surface of blacks and blues, with fine
white, cobwebby lines drifting across
it, yet structured so as to form a cage
around the creature inside (very much
alive), signified by his wide-open jaw
and head thrown back in raw animal
cry. The detail of this face completely
contrasts with the background. The
creature’s face is like a vortex of the
greater expanse of the picture, draw-
ing you in to its deadly mouth – a de-
vice used frequently by Bacon. Hirst’s
‘Portrait of a Man IV’ (2008) is quite
different. The background is dark
and the palette of blues and black is
similar, with the contrasting details of
white. This deathly, bluish face creates
a sort of inverted portrait. Hirst’s fig-
ure is flattened – his face crudely lit
from the side, the shape of his mouth
and nose rendered with naïve difficul-
ty in impasto oils.
Yet this tendency to imitate the ar-
tistic works of a mind whose creativity
at least seemed somewhat disturbed
rings for me only of cliché. Hirst’s pri-
vate life – at least any part that might
give an explanation to the obsession
with death in his art – has not been
made clear throughout his history
as an artist. Bacon on the other hand
had a friend, possibly lover, who he
apparently goaded to suicide through
insults. The work resulting from this
episode in Bacon’s life appears tran-
scribed on the canvas with difficulty,
to express his feelings: the individuals
he made portraits of began to literally
lose their facial features, as if the art-
ist was unable to look into the eyes of
those he painted.
What I am trying to imply is that
Hirst has made ‘art’ and existed as an
artist in a manner which up until now
seems to have mocked and ridiculed
the body of the institution. He has used
the art auction to experiment in drag-
ging the prices of artworks above the
million mark and created the most ex-
pensive art object on earth, merely for
the sake of having someone buy it to
exacerbate the situation of culture in a
capitalist world. Then he turns to the
oil painting: a traditional, exalted and
admired art form, out of which famous
protagonists such as Edouard Manet, J.
M. W. Turner, and of course Franciss
Bacon, created beautiful illusions of
ferocious sea storms, courtesans that
shook French society’s ideology and a
pope that seemed to be screaming his
way to hell on his throne.
Hirst is by no means setting a new
milestone in subject matter: his skulls
and lemons speak of still life and Dutch
genre motifs (the skull was a symbol of
vanitas, literally a warning against fool-
ish vanity in life that would ultimately
lead to one’s death) and stylistically we
have already witnessed his homage to
Bacon.
My concern as an art enthusiast is
that the public will not be able to see
the wood for the trees: and mistakenly
admire Hirst’s foray into expressive
painting, when he is merely entreat-
ing you to do this in the first place, to
make an example of what ‘tourists’ we
are to the art gallery, when I know this
is not how I and many others feel. Even
though I am wary of Hirst’s intentions
as an artist, I still appreciate the debate
which is thrown our way from such
exhibitions. After all, I enjoyed some-
thing of the grand sale at Sotheby’s last
autumn, if only to see a huge number
of his installation works collected in
one place.
I would like to encourage you to go
and form your own opinion of Hirst’s
paintings, but don’t expect to see any
formaldehyde.
Rosie Milton reviews Damien Hirst’s exhibition of paintings, Nothing Matters, at both White Cube spaces
From the sublime to the ridiculous?
Damien Hirst’s Insomnia, not a drop of formaldehyde in sight
T
erry Pratchett’s Disc-
world: a fictional flat
world that floats through
space on the back of four
elephants, which in turn
stand on the back of a Great Turtle…
Seeing as we are at Imperial I’m proba-
bly already preaching to the converted.
Many of you would probably stop me
right now and explain that the Turtle
is called The Great A’tuin; the world,
though fictional, throws more satirical
light on real life issues than a month of
Jeremy Kyle repeats, and that overall,
it’s just pretty darn brilliant.
What you may not know is that Dram-
soc have decided to take on Wyrd Sisters,
one of the best known Discworld tales,
for their Christmas performance. What
you would like to know is: ‘is it any good?’
For the uninitiated, Wyrd Sisters shows
Pratchett indulging in one of his favour-
ite pastimes, riffing on popular literature:
this time, Shakespeare, notably Hamlet
and Macbeth. As such, prior knowledge
of both plays will help with some of the
jokes, but such is Pratchett’s skill that
there’s a lot more to get out than just ref-
erences to long dead playwrights.
A play of this sort, involving witches,
jailbreak, numerous instances of conjur-
ing, and at one point ‘flying’ broomsticks,
requires more than acting, it actually
requires some technical skill. And here
once again, Dramsoc manages to do im-
pressive things with limited resources.
There’s some great pyrotechnics, includ-
ing a brilliant exploding door. Some good
sound effects, an earthquake that rolls
impressively around the room, good use
of a trapdoor during a demon invocation,
and a play-within-a-play scene (like all
good Shakespeare) that inventively splits
the stage into actors (within the show)
backstage, and audience (within the
show) watching said play. If that doesn’t
make you even slightly curious, then you
are made of meaner stuff than I am.
As any fan of Doctor Who pre-Russell
T. Davies and the first six seasons of Red
Dwarf will tell you, wobbly sets, camp
costumes, and kitsch production values
are good things. These lend the endeav-
our a certain charm that tells you it isn’t
trying to be the next Avatar, but is just
being what it is, promising a good, silly,
and ultimately fun time. This show has all
three in spades, which works in its favour.
There’s a home-made charm about it that
immediately puts you at ease and let’s you
know from the off that you are not going
have to do too much thinking.
Pratchett always suffers when adapted
from page to stage, every reader has al-
ready directed the story in their head,
and on a much larger scale than can be
provided on any stage, so any production
(in my mind) will not compare favourably
if you have read the book. Subtleties are
lost, descriptive passages that draw so
perfect a picture just cannot be acted out,
and the thought processes detailed in the
booksareespeciallytricky.Thiscanresult
in non-sequiturs and it can be hard to
keepholdofthenarrative.Eventherecent
multi-million pound Sky TV adaptations
fell victim to this fact. So what’s left?
Like all good writers, one of the best
things about Pratchett is the language. If
you are going to succeed with Pratchett,
you have to get the language right. I am
pleased to say that in some sections of
this show, it zips back and forth like you
always hoped it would. The interplay be-
tween the central trio (the Wyrd Sisters),
which holds the show together, works
well with the three actresses making use
of the respective statuses of their charac-
ters. There are some well-executed jokes
(I particularly enjoyed the ‘Is this a dagger
I see before me?’ line). And though it isn’t
amatteroflanguage,theescalatingjokein
which Duke Felmet tries to get the blood
off his hands first by rubbing with sandpa-
per, and then with an ever-present wood
sander is genius.
A related issue with Pratchett is you re-
ally need to sell the world you are in. The
best adaptations of his works in any media
immediately sell the characters usually as
British cultural stereotypes, so Granny
Weatherwax walks on stage and straight
away, you get that this is an old no-non-
sense, not to be messed with, West Coun-
tryMarm.Therearesuccessfulattemptsin
this show at that, notably Shamini Bundell
as the motherly Nanny Ogg, and Aaron
Singh&LilyTophammakeagoodcomedy
double act, as the Duke and Lady Felmet,
playing characters that are totally oblivious
to their own ridiculousness. Their Doctor
Evil style laughter that slowly peters out
was one of the moments in which I found
myself laughing without realising it.
It is however a big ask of a cast of 22,
some of whom do not appear familiar
with the Pratchett world or the type of
language being used. As such, the world
is not kept consistent, with accents rang-
ing from South England to South France
with a slight detour via Eastern Europe,
buthey,that’sstudenttheatre.Anditkinda
adds to the aforementioned home-made
charm of the thing. All-in-all, considering
that the cast is entirely made up of Impe-
rialstudents,thisisagoodtryatahardjob,
putting Pratchett on stage.
Any review exists to ultimately tell you
what to do and the bottom line of this re-
view is: see this show, take a friend or two,
have a pint in DaVinci’s and have a good
time, because that is what this show prom-
ises and ultimately offers.
Shamini Bundell, Lauren Waterman, Ilse Daly as the maiden, the mother and...

