21
felix FRIDAY 04 DECEMBER 2009
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk FILM
No budget means no thrills
Film Releases
December 4th
Box, The (12A)
Cracks (15)
Departures (12A)
Disgrace (15)
Girlfriend Experience, The
I Know You Know
Me And Orson Welles (12A)
Merry Gentleman, The (15)
Paa
Planet 51
Tom Roberts
Every reviewer and his dog has been
calling Paranormal Activity this year’s
Blair Witch Project. But this compari-
son is only partly accurate. The Blair
Witch Project pioneered the shaky,
handheld camera style seen here,
but countless horror films since have
hopped on the bandwagon so much
so that an entirely new subgenre has
spawned for example Cloverfield, Di-
ary of the Dead, [Rec] and My Lit-
tle Eye. Without spoiling it too much
(and frankly, if you’re reading a review
about a film like this, which thrives
on surprises, you probably don’t care
for spoilers) Paranormal Activity is
thematically closer to the recent Drag
Me To Hell, just not nearly in the same
league.
A young couple living in San Diego
suburbia choose to document their
life from the moment things begin go-
ing bump in the night. The first half of
the film trundles along steadily while
it is established whether the sceptical
Micah really is taking his girlfriend
Katie’s paranoia seriously, or whether
he just wants to film the pair getting
down to some ‘extra curricular’ activ-
ity. Micah’s obsession with gadgets
leads him to rigging up microphones
around the bedroom and using the
camera’s infra-red mode to film while
they sleep. Doors open on their own
accord, personal belongings are mys-
teriously misplaced and chandeliers
swing despite all the windows being
locked in the house.
The atmosphere trembles, slowly
boiling but too often the tension is cut
with images of Katie’s arse or Micah
requesting a striptease. Thrust a cam-
era into the hands of a warm-blooded
male, especially one with an infra-red
mode, and thoughts will probably turn
to recreating One Night In Paris or
something equally salacious, but the
whole premise of the film is that the
tapes have been discovered, dusted off
and their contents released to show
the horrors lurking in the celluloid. Re-
taining the tits and arse when cutting
together a week’s worth of footage isn’t
the most respectful way of remember-
ing the missing or deceased’s final days.
The editor’s hand is far too apparent.
The Blair Witch Project succeeded
so brilliantly as you rarely felt aware
of the camera, and because there was
such little editing between scenes, the
film felt like raw footage. In Paranor-
mal Activity you are acutely aware of
the camera’s presence as every other
scene references it in some way and
this is ultimately at the detriment to
the toe-curling tension.
The whole point of the handheld
technique is to heighten the sense of
reality and immersion. Cloverfield
managed this despite featuring a gar-
gantuan monster, but Paranormal
Activity just feels contrived and no
amount of shaky-cam is going to res-
cue it. The story is pure hokum. I’m
probably stirring the depths of hell by
saying this, but the people who believe
in demons and ghosts are the same
idiots that think global warming is a
hoax. Drag Me To Hell, as well as Sam
Raimi’s earlier films such as Evil Dead,
recognised the absurdity of the spir-
itual world as well as its believers, and
took great pleasure in making a joke
out of them while creating effective,
scary horror films. Paranormal Activ-
ity takes such laughable subject matter
far too credibly.
Alas! The Blair Witch Project is still
the queen of the shaky-cam genre;
Paranormal Activity on the other hand
is what you’d get if you asked the Big
Brother producers to remake The
Exorcist.
felix is sixty! So here’s sixty years of the great and iconic cinema landmarks
First we had stereophonic, now pre-
pare yourself for stereoscopic! As the
22nd Academy awards draw closer
and the bookies place their odds on
the contenders, a small band of ren-
egades are causing ripples among
the film community. They claim that
soon they will be able to make pictures
jump out at us in 3 dimensions. That’s
right, instead of just watching the film,
we will be surrounded by the film.
Milton. L. Gunzberg has been de-
veloping a method of projecting ‘3D’
images called ‘Natural Colour’ and
has started to demonstrate it to all
the major studios but with little suc-
cess. MGM showed some interest and
even optioned the process, however
they seem to have forgotten about it
since and are now concentrating on
the usual lavish musicals instead. Mr.
Gunzberg stated “Louis B. Mayer is
blind, audiences are turning away from
cinemas in their millions to sit in front
of their new ‘televisions’ and he thinks
that turning out more and more ri-
diculously expensive musicals is going
to bring them back! Natural Colour is
the future of cinema, we will bide our
time but in ten years time all films will
be three dimensional and in sixty years
time technology will have advanced so
much that the pictures will be beamed
straight to our brains!”
We will have to wait and see about
the latter point Milton but rumour
has it that the maverick director, Arch
Oboler, is condisering this new me-
dium for his next film: ‘A savage and
fantastical adventure through the mys-
terious lands of the African Savannah!’.
(As decided by Ed Knock who spent hours on Photoshop making this rather excellent timeline!)
The new 3D spectacular!
EdKnock Film Editor
Aw...Katie couldn’t sleep.

