unionpage
We need your views on our new bars and nightclub!
imperialcollegeunion.org
We’ve had some good news this week, as
our plans for Phase 3 (refurbishment of the
ground floor bars in Beit) have, in principle,
been formally approved. Our first student
focus group has met to discuss the plans,
but there’s still time to get involved – you
can send your views to Daniel Hill, the
Deputy President (Finance & Services)
on dpfs@imperial.ac.uk. We want to hear
from everybody, whether you currently
use our bars or not. In fact, if you don’t use
the bars and nightclub very often (or at all),
we’re especially keen to hear your views;
what would encourage you to come over?
Where do you go now and why?
Phase 3 is the final part of the Union Building
Redevelopment project which started in
2006. Since then we have radically changed
the way we use the space we have in both
the main building and basements. We want
to achieve the same with the redevelopment
of the ground floor. Some things are not
possible to change due to time, money and
planing constraints. What we will have at
the end of this phase is a new nightclub/
bar where dB’s is now and a new cafe/bar
where da Vinci’s is now. We will only be
making slight changes to the Union Bar to
modernise the lighting and some light re-
decoration.
The nightclub, dB’s, will be a completely
blank slate with lots of extra space: we hope
to create a bigger, better venue with a more
efficient design. We need your feedback
and ideas to help our architects design the
best space for you. Our bar/cafe da Vinci’s
will also be completely refurbished to better
utilise the space and make services more
efficient.
Below we have included a plan of the ground
floor of the building with the space in both
dB’s and da Vinci’s that we can utilise during
these works marked in red. We would really
like you to cut this out and sketch your ideas
on it. Think about where the bars could go,
where we would put catering and where
we would put the stage in dB’s. The space
behind da Vinci’s will be the cellar so that has
to stay as it is. In dB’s there are unfortunately
load baring walls to take into account
which cannot be removed! Once you have
completed your sketch hand it in to Union
Reception, floor 2M of the Union Building,
email it to dpfs@imperial.ac.uk or post it to
us.
We are still finalising the exact project plan,
but we are currently aiming at minimal
disruption to our bars, catering and nightclub
until the end of the academic year. The major
works will be completed over the summer
with the new venues ready for October and
Freshers’ Week 2010.
Remember: it’s your Union, so tell us what
you want, whether you currently use our
bars or not. We will continue to keep you
up-to-date on this project as it continues on a
special area of our website and in Felix. Next
week we will open a survey to collect more
of your ideas, with some prizes to be won as
well. Please do take the time to let us know
what you want, we have the opportunity to
create something really special for you and
future generations of students!
The Wave
SATURDAY 5th December
Meet at 12.00 in Beit Quad with your banners
For more info
visit our website
imperialcollegeunion.org/green
or the-wave.org.uk

