cule waist.
She is emulated today by burlesque
artist Dita von Teese, who is drawn
to the polish of the 40s and spends
her days laced into Mr Pearl corsets
and atop one of her 500 pairs of Lou-
boutins. The model, muse and style
icon says, “I advocate glamour. Every
day. Every minute.”
This season, the bright, cinematic
spotlight of glamour shone over the
A/W 2009-10 catwalks at Dolce and
Gabbana, Alber Elbaz at Lanvin and
Christian Dior Couture. Clear refer-
ences were made to the 40s as luxe furs,
silks and rich brocades were worked
into narrow, chic silhouettes and
paired with elaborate milli-
24
FASHION
Fashion Editor Kawai Wong
fashion.felix@imperial.ac.uk
felix FRIDAY 04 DECEMBER 2009
A
n injucntion from 2008 dic-
tates that eBay is banned
from selling goods from
the LVMH empire on its
French website. LVMH is a
luxurygiantthatownsLouisVuitton,Dior,
Fendi and Givenchy - just to name a few.
This Tuesday, a Paris court judge
ruled that eBay had breached the in-
junction by not blocking sales of LVMH
products on its site. eBay was fined £1.5
million. LVMH’s move to ban sales of its
goods on eBay is to prevent the sale of
couterfeit products and also to ensure
that the brands’ products are distrib-
uted via franchised vendors. The latter
is worrying because this has opened the
door for big corporate companies to
seize control over the marketplace. This
episode has also highlighted the fragility
of independent designers when it comes
to defending their authentic creations.
While rich companies like LVMH can
rage a lawsuit against anyone; what pre-
vents corporate clothing chains from
ripping off designs of young designers
who don’t even have the strength to
complain about the misconduct?
Take Erdem for example. His au-
tumn/ winter 09 collection featured
splashed water-coloured floral printed
skirts and dresses. Four months later a
Legal
plagiarism
Kawai Wong Fashion Editor
similar design with a similar print ap-
peared on Primark’s shelves with a £12
price tag. If you look at H&M’s shop
window now, you can see a mannequin
donning a rose-pink puffy tulle skirt
that is reminiscent of Giles Deacon’s
black tulle petticoat, as seen in his show
back in September. Plaigiarism on the
high street seems to be an unstoppable
plague. Yesterday, I walked into an Aldo
and was shocked to to see the number
of shoes on the shelves that exude an
uncanny similarity to Giuseppe Zanotti
and Christian Louboutin’s original de-
signs. In Aldo, there’s a Stemper shoe
which is embellished with rainbow col-
oured crystals. In Zanotti, there’s also a
rainbow coloured Swarovski crystal an-
kle boot. Only that Aldo sports a £600
discount on this ‘alternative design’
.
For Giles and Erdem who seem to have
planted their feet firmly on the ground,
the impact of ‘legal corporate plagiarism’
may not be as hard hit as it is to any fresh
graduate designers. But plagiarism on
the high street seems to be a contagious
plague that is unstoppable.
For fresh designers, they barely have
any money to buy materials. It hurts to
see these young talents struggle, while
these multi-billion pound companies
rake it in with counterfeit designs.
From left: Opera leather gloves, ASOS, £30; pearl embellished bolero,
Topshop, £125; mary-jane shoes, Manolo Blahnik, vintage. Alber Elbaz
for Lanvin, AW09 collection; Dita von Teese in a jacket resembling the
1951 Balenciaga balloon sleeves design.
SaskiaVerhagen Fashion Writer
Renaissance of Glamour
Y
ear 1949: with endings come
the brightest beginnings.
Just two years after Japan’s
surrender documents were
signed on the USS Missouri, Christian
Dior revealed his 6 mannequins draped
in yards of extravagant materials; the
full, below calf-length skirts and nar-
row, tailored jackets later chronicled in
fashion history as the “New Look”.
Dior gave no quarter to the idea that
cutbacks and timidity should have
been the order of the day in times of
post-war fabric rationing; instead he
was to spawn a generation of silver
screen icons to be remembered for
their pristine, lavish glamour, both on
and off-screen.
Vivien Leigh was one of them, an
actress most commonly remembered
for her Oscar-winning performances
as Scarlett O’Hara in Gone With The
Wind and Blanche DuBois in A Street-
car Named Desire. Leigh embodied the
immaculate, refined look of the time
in silhouettes defined by a tiny waist.
The wide shoulders and A-line skirts
fashionable at the time served the sole
purpose to bestow upon the wearer the
illusion of an unspeakably
minus-
“Elbaz combined
a silk blouse in the
palest latté with
black gloves, a neat
matching pencil
skirt and swathed it
all in a stole.”
nery, clean, porcelain skin, neatly lined
eyes and pillow-soft matte red lips.
A look I personally favoured was
seen at Lanvin: Elbaz combined a silk
blouse in the palest latté with black
leather opera-length gloves, a neat
matching pencil skirt and swathed it all
in an ultimately luxurious red fox stole.
A true homage to the classic chic of the
40s: sumptuous materials transformed
into a functional combination fit for a
Hollywood screen goddess.
If your wardrobe is craving a bit of
glitz and glamour, look no further than
your nearest vintage boutique for a
few 40s originals. Scour out the light
silk blouses, full skirts complete with
millefeuillecrinolines, jaunty feathered
hats and look out for stoles, capes and
collars in mink, sable and fox – or faux,
if fur isn’t your thing. For those of you
looking for an easier fix than trawl-
ing through malodorous racks of old
clothes in amongst the teenyboppers
who seem to now frequent such vin-
tage outlets, both Topshop and ASOS
have the answer: elbow-length gloves,
luxurious embellished jackets and
wide corset belts are just a few mouse
clicks away. There’s no pride in having
taken only 5 minutes to get out of the
house – if you want to have every head
turn as you strut down Queen’s Gate,
take an extra minute to polish off your
look with a touch of 40s glamour.

