26
TRAVEL
Travel Editors Dylan Lowe & Olivia Davies
travel.felix@imperial.ac.uk
felix FRIDAY 04 DECEMBER 2009
L
ast week I left you having ex-
plored the south coast of Cam-
bodia and returning to Phnom
Penh. I returned to Lakeside to
have one final night relaxing in
a hammock before moving on.
However as often happens, I met a large
group of people that were heading out
into the city for a night out. We drank
some cheap local whisky to get the party
started, which was clearly a bad idea to
begin with. Buying any bottle of spirit
that costs $1 a litre is dicing with death,
and the delightful Mekong whisky was
no exception. Feeling very ill we took a
tuk-tuk to a local club recommended by
one of the group, quite worried by the fact
we had no idea where we were and would
be an easy target for any robbers.
We were in fact the centre of attention
in the club. As Caucasians we were all
a good foot taller than all the Cambo-
dian partygoers so at any point we could
see everyone in the group regardless of
where they were. Soon we were dancing
to the crazy electro music in a circle and
one by one the locals joined, making the
circle almost the size of the whole dance
floor. After a while it dawned on us that
there was something very odd about the
place. It turned out the club was in fact a
gay bar, which was probably why we were
being paid so much interest.
Once it closed we decided to get trans-
port back but being cheapskates we man-
aged to fit thirteen of us in a 2-seat tuk-
tuk and negotiated the fee down to $3 in
total. With several people hanging out of
the side and two people ‘surfing’ on the
roof we were a sight to behold and pass-
ing police cars simply laughed at us. Every
time we tried to turn a corner, or even
slightly swerve, the whole vehicle would
lean over and the tires ground against
the wheel-arch so we would pull people
in or lean them out at various distances
to even it out. It couldn’t get above 5mph
and most of the time several people
would get off and walk to allow it to get
back up to speed, but we crawled into the
guesthouse about 40 minutes later and
felt so guilty that we each gave the driver
a dollar tip. He was a very happy man that
night.
After all that excitement I now bring
you to the temples of Angkor. The town
of Siem Reap is the jumping off point for
anyone going to Angkor so it is a mag-
net for every tourist operator in SE Asia.
The entire town is made up of hundreds
of giant four-star hotels and even more
budget guesthouses for the cheapest of
travellers. It is the one part of Cambodia
that appears to have had any sort of seri-
ous investment, but mostly only to lure in
the foreign money rather than to actually
benefit the locals.
Over the centuries, many cities and
temples were built around the Angkor
area, all of whom are seemingly com-
pletely separate from each other; I ex-
plored at least twenty temples and not
one of them even remotely resembled
the last. I had thought that two days of
temples would have bored me shitless but
they were simply amazing.
The first day I decided to hire a rusty
one-speed bike as the cheapest way of ex-
ploring the area, but very quickly realised
that I was going to spend the day covered
in sweat and dirt. The roads were often
just bright orange soil and the mudguards
were no match for the dust thrown up by
my tires. However, after about half an
hour of cycling I had reached the first
point on the map.
The most famous temple is in fact the
biggest, Angkor Wat, and it certainly is
impressive due to its size, but it was not
necessarily the best. It is surrounded by a
moat of simply jaw-dropping size, which
had been built by hand, supposedly by
slave laborers, and which definitely puts
the Tower of London moat to shame.
Many buildings had the steepest stairs
that I have ever seen, and climbing them
without a harness seemed a good idea
at the time, but quickly my vertigo took
over. One temple had been allowed to
become overgrown for the last thousand
years and has remained untouched since,
apart from a few support beams keeping
the structure stable. The roots of 100ft
high trees seem to flow over the roofs and
walls and become a part of the structure,
and I could tell why this particular loca-
tion was chosen for the filming of Tomb
Raider.
My favorite temple was by far Preah
Khan. The complex was almost deserted
during my visit and it was incredibly easy
to get completely lost wandering around
the endless maze and seeing where na-
ture had started taking over. I was sur-
prised that even in this heavily touristic
environment the temples seemed empty.
At some points I would climb into an
old ruined building and read a book for
a while completely undisturbed in total
silence. Every so often, I would stumble
upon small groups of blind and/or mu-
tilated children who would play a short
piece of music automatically as you
passed.
My final experience of the country was
going through the incredible busy bor-
der control into Thailand. The no-man’s
land between the passport controls were
in fact a tax-haven for giant casinos and
people seemed to throng freely between
the sides of the border.
It is said that Cambodia will definitely
makeyoufeelalotmorecharitablehaving
seen the conditions that exist there, and I
think that is very true. Overall I am very
glad I made the effort to go to Cambodia;
I met amazing people and saw a new side
to life that I will always remember.
The main walkway into the temple
The lakes and courtyards resemble the oceans and continents of the real world.
Trees in Preah Khan have taken over the ruins in the last thousand years.
The steep steps leading up to the central building of Angkor itself.
Angkor What? That’s what she said.
Following on from last week’s article, Tom Culley takes you on a tour of the ancient temples of Angkor Wat.

