28
GAMES
Games Editor Michael Cook
games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
felix FRIDAY 04 DECEMBER 2009
The (Very)
Old Days
I
t’s the birthday issue this week,
of course, and so we’re supposed
to be theming our sections
around how they’d read in 1949.
Which is certainly an interest-
ing challenge for the Games section,
as we hint at below this editorial. You
might think that 1949 isn’t so far back
for the games industry, and maybe if
you chose old enough games you’d get
there eventually. Space Invaders? 1978.
Pong? 1972. In fact, in 1949, we were a
full thirteen years away from the first
computer game being hacked out on
a PDP-1 at MIT over in the US. And
Spacewar was hardly a global phenom-
enon at the time.
However, that in itself should be food
for thought. Although computers were
a reality in 1949, we were a long way off
graphical interfaces. Yet since then we
have developed techniques and tech-
nology to create scenes of such high-
fidelity that a reader of felix’s first issue
would have found it hard to distinguish
them from photographs. That’s some-
what humbling.
I suppose the obvious question to
ask is where we’ll be in another sixty
years’ time, but it seems a question
that’s fruitless to answer. The impact
of home computing or the internet on
video games had an unpredictable and
vast effect on gaming as a hobby, and
by the time you’re drawing your pen-
sion you will most likely no longer be
able to relate Modern Warfare 2 to the
hobbies your grandchildren enjoy.
Gaming’s youth is currently a draw-
back of sorts. It would be hard to cite
any major cultural landmarks for gam-
ing that are more than forty years old,
and for some people that’s a good ex-
cuse to dismiss gaming as a medium
in its infancy. A lot of people use the
film industry analogy, that we’re only
just entering the age of the talkie, or
similar nonsense. The truth is that
while reflecting on six decades of felix
is a good thing, it’s very hard to com-
pare one period of time to another, and
even harder to compare the passage of
time. Things change fast, and gaming
is transforming at a frighteningly fast
rate. Ten years ago, I visited the Mil-
lennium Dome, where I was told how
a 1Mbit internet connection could
download a movie trailer for Lord of
the Rings in just nine minutes. Nine
minutes! On the sort of connections
you can now obtain at Imperial Col-
lege, downloading the entire trilogy
of films would take somewhere in the
region of half an hour.
Next week, we look at 2009 in gam-
ing and give you the change to take
home some of its highlights in com-
petition form. But whether you look
back at a year, a decade or six of them,
the change you’ll see is huge. If noth-
ing else, it should excite you about the
next twelve months.
Games Editor
MichaelCook
Modern Warfare Two
Tristan Allwooddoesn’tneedonlinemultiplayer-andneitherdoyou
S
o, I found someone who had
avoided all the hype sur-
rounding Modern Warfare
2. His name is J, a student
primary school teacher at Ro-
hampton Uni.
Now, contrary to what the internet
would have you believe, Modern War-
fare 2 actually features a rather sub-
stantial offline component. There is a
singleplayer campaign which consists
of 5-6 hours of ridiculously scripted set-
piece FPS action; and a set of “challenge”
levels for one or, if you have any friends
left in the real world, two players.
lic-and-herb-dipped slices and guzzled
Fanta.
Of course, I described “the level” to
him. Thanks to the oversaturation
of the media, you have by now either
played “the level”, youtube’d a video of
it, or are clinically dead. So on hearing
that you get to shoot civillians, in a Rus-
sian airport, J’s reaction was about the
same as any normal person aiming to
establish themselves in a role moulding
the malleable minds of the future gener-
ations: “Load us that level up T, sounds
like a laugh!”
The screen flickered to life, the in-
ger. “This is awesome!”.
50 bodies fall, the blood flies every-
where. J walks through a metal detector
“Heh, I love the beeping noise it makes”
,
before he spots a lone civillian trying to
hide by a flower-pot. J gets right up in
his face, we can see the detail, his eyes,
his brow, “It’s quite realistic”, as the brain
matter lands on the geraniums. “Watch
this:” I say as the airport security climb
into a crystal lift to try and reach J.
The lift doors open, and exactly on
cue one of J’s terrorist companions lob
a grenade, the glass explodes in glorious
5.1 surround sound and lift, blue law
enforcement offers and shards crash
back down in a plume of smoke and a
resounding thud.
Eventually, there’s silence. Everyone’s
dead or has run away, and all you can
hear is the tick-ticky-ticky-tick of the
departure boards en-masse declaring all
flights are “delayed”. The level then pro-
ceeds in standard FPS fare from there,
those that feel your actions are mor-
ally repugnant should fear not, Infinity
Ward redresses the good/evil balance
by - and surely this can no longer be a
spoiler - executing you at the level end,
thus sparking a world war. This won’t
be the last time IW decide to kill you,
mind you, but it’s not the only highlight.
My favourite moment was getting to
see the first nuclear missile launch of
the war from space. Turns out nuclear
shockwaves and shuttles don’t mix well.
Our evening continues and the pizza
is finished, and much fun is had work-
ing through the co-op challenges. We
finally conclude that it’s a more varied
and fresh set of levels to replace many
worn out sessions of Rainbow 6 ter-
rorist hunts. So even if you have no
intention of being sworn at online by
a squeaky 12-year-old yank, MW2 can
offer you something.
Having woken up at 6.30am to get my
prize copy from the overwhelmed cus-
tomer services desk at Sainsbury’s for a
measly £26, I was determined to make
the most of my purchase. J was recruit-
ed, a large Domino’s pizza (with ham,
beef, sausage, sweetcorn [meatcorn,
surely? - Ed] and chicken) was acquired,
and I briefly explained a bit about the
game while we munched through gar-
tro animation rolled. The screen goes
black, the sound of guns cocking and
bullet proof vests being zipped up and
clicking into place, a light turns on and
5 men appear. “Remember, No Russian”,
you’re told as the door opens. Heavy
machine-gun in hand, and a swathe of
digital civillians bored and going no-
where in an airport waiting lounge in
front of him, J laughs and pulls the trig-
Two men. Skin-tight suits. Lots of back-to-back shooting. It’s manly stuff.
The 1949 Games chart in full
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
Source - His Master’s Voice, All Formats
What you can’t tell from the screenshot is that underneath the facemask he’s humming “So... ronery. I’m so ronery.”

