30
FOOD
Food Editors Chris Sim & Holly Cumbers
food.felix@imperial.ac.uk
felix FRIDAY 04 DECEMBER 2009
Chris Sim found out that whilst foodies didn’t have it all their own way in the 1950s, there was at least spam...
Happy Birthday to you! Happy 60th Birthday dear felix!
Holly Cumbers thought it would be a grand idea if everyone made a cake to celebrate this occasion!
Y
ou should all know me by
now, I adore cakes! There-
fore as this is felix’s 60th
Birthday I decided to give
you a recipe for an ultra-
special birthday cake, letting you join in
with the celebrations. If you are feeling
especially kind you could share it with us
all at felix- we would all apreciate a piece
of cake! However I think I may be push-
ing my luck ever so slightly!
However this is no ordinary cake
recipe- to tie in with the 1950s theme I
thought it would be good to give you a
recipe from the 1950s- so you can cel-
ebrate like it is 1949! Heck, why don’t
you go all out and have a 1949 party,
grab your best 1950s frock or suit,
get your friends to do the same, put
on some music from that era which I
think is sensational, let your hair down
and party! Don’t forget the wine either!
Unfortunately I don’t think you will be
able to get hold of any vintage alcohol.
So enjoy transporting yourself back to
the 1950s this week.
Rationing, bad cooking and some spam
F
elix is 60! He will now be able
to collect his pension! So to
celebrate this special occa-
sion we thought it was im-
portant to tell you a bit more
about the diet of Imperial’s students in
1949 and its following years.
Transport yourself back to the be-
ginning of the nineteen-fifties. An in-
teresting proposition, one might think.
Well, I guess it depends on your defi-
nition of ‘interesting’. For a foodie such
as myself, the word ‘interesting’ could
very well be replaced with ‘nightmare’.
So why the use of such a harsh word?
Let me explain. The after-effects
of World War II were still prominent
throughout nearly every aspect of Brit-
ish life in the early 1950s. This was
particularly noticeable at home on the
dinner table, with everyday necessities
such as sugar, butter, cheese, cooking
fat, margarine, bacon, meat and tea
still being rationed. In fact, it took until
1954 for meat and bacon to come off
the ration. To make matters worse, you
could only buy food from butchers and
grocers with whom you were registered
with, and even then what you took
home depended on what was keeping
their shelves warm. And it gets better.
A decade of rationing left housewives
with inadequate cooking skills, result-
ing in run-of-the-mill, bland cooking
and rather un-amused palettes.
I guess all was not all doom and
gloom in the Fifties. As rationing end-
ed, a greater variety of food returned
to the shelves. Bananas and oranges,
so sorely missed during the war, even-
tually made a welcomed return to the
shopping list. And then food shopping
as we know it today was conceived,
with a self-service style of shop ema-
nating from the States arriving on Brit-
ish shores. They even had the long-lost
uncle of the modern shopping trol-
ley, ‘the pram’: a wheeled frame well
capable of holding two baskets. An-
other plus for this decade was that the
re-emerging trend of eating seasonal
produce was the norm during this less
agriculturally advanced period. And be-
fore Jamie Oliver came along, modern
school meals were not a patch on their
Fifties’ counterparts. Real, unprocessed
food such as meat and two veg, maca-
roni and cheese and fish on Fridays
ensured that children got the fill they
deserved. And a British classic, Corona-
tion chicken, was one of the most wide-
spread favourites conjured up during
the celebration of Elizabeth II’s coro-
nation. Cold chicken, with an aromatic
curry-spiced mayo and sliced and diced
apricots really got the nation’s tastebuds
talking, and I guess, at least every now
and again, it still does today.
That’s the end of the 1950s food edu-
cation lesson for today folks. I would
really recommend making the spam
fritters, as they are so simple to make
and extremely tasty (I say that slightly
sarcastically!)
So to conclude, whilst Spam and
rationing will probably live a bit too
long in the memory of the post-war
generation, those hard times undoubt-
edly had moments of gastronomic
pleasure, even if they were few and
far between. At least we do not have
to eat Spam anymore that is definitely
something else to celebrate! We are the
lucky ones- some of us may have never
tasted spam. But make sure you try it
at least once.
Spam Fritters
Spam sums up the food of the early 1950s: a ghastly
source of protein born out of sheer necessity. Made out
of pork entrails and random bits of shoulder meat, it still
baffles me why people still eat it today. It really does. But
here’s a Spam Fritter recipe just for the sheer hell of it.
Here’s how to make them:
1. Slice your spam into 8 slices whilst heating 2-3 table-
spoons of oil in a pan. Mix batter ingredients together.
2. Smother the ‘spamlets’ in batter before dropping
them carefully into the hot oil.
3. Fry the fritters for 2-3minutes on each side until gold-
en-ish colour.
4. Enjoy this timeless recipe with chips.
(I am sure you will enjoy this, because we all love Spam!)
A slab of Spam
(12 ounces to be precise)
Oil for Frying
Batter mix:
1 cup of flour
1 large egg
½ pint of milk
Serves 4
60th Anniversary cake
1. Measure sifted flour, baking powder, and salt; sift together three
times.
2. In a mixing bowl, beat egg whites until foamy. Add half the sugar
gradually, and continue beating only until meringue will hold up in soft
peaks.
3. Cream butter or margarine. Gradually add remaining sugar, and
cream together until light and fluffy. Add sifted ingredients and add milk
a small amount at a time, beating after each addition until smooth. Mix
in flavourings. Add egg whites and beat thoroughly into batter. Spread
batter onto a 15 x 10 x 1 inch pan which has been lined on the bottom with
greaseproof paper.
4. Bake at 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) for 30 to 35 minutes. Cool cake
in pan for 10 minutes, then remove from pan and transfer to a wire rack to
finish cooling. This cake may also be baked in two 9 inch round pans for 30
to 35 minutes, or in three 8 inch round pans for 25 to 30 minutes.
Serves our entire party!
260 grammes cake flour,
4 teaspoons baking powder
¾ teaspoon salt
4 egg whites
180 grammes white sugar
90 grammes butter
90 ml milk
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 teaspoon almond extract
This cake is truly heavenly. We suggest you make it for us...
Spam, Spam, Spam. Everyone
should like SPAM!

