34
CLUBS &
SOCIETIES
Clubs & Socs Editor Alex Kendall
clubs.felix@imperial.ac.uk
felix FRIDAY 04 DECEMBER 2009
x
Symphony Orchestra stun Dorchester
Lots of eating, lots of drinking, and of course lots of good music as Ellie Berry travels to Dorset with ICSO
I
t’s getting chilly!
You may have noticed in the
past week while struggling to
get out of bed that it is getting
altogether chillier. But now mat-
ters are complicated, either because
you are an astute student who has
taken note of it being Green Week, or
because you have got to that stage in
the term where you have no money to
spend on any thing but baked beans
and beer. Either way this leaves you
without the option of turning on the
heating. That’s not to say however that
you’re not aware of the cold. The clue
was when you could see gas evaporat-
ing from your steady stream of urine.
This can mean only two things a)
you live in Scotland or b) it is nearing
Christmas.
We can clearly discount a) ergo it
B
oys who bake will always
be the girls’ favourite on a
long coach trip. The Im-
perial College Symphony
Orchestra’s annual trip to
Dorchester in Dorset started sweetly
with caramel shortbread and oatmeal
and raisin cookies courtesy of viola
player Owen Davies. His efforts made
the three and a half hour coach journey
much more bearable.
Every year the orchestra heads off
for a free weekend of playing, party-
ing and food. We go to Dorchester to
give a concert of our term’s pieces and
to accompany The Thomas Hardye
School Choir with theirs. Everyone
is hosted in ones, twos, threes, fours,
fives and even a six this year by families
of members of the choir – or just local
residents who enjoy the annual concert
and want to help out.
On Friday night we arrived to find
the ladies of Dorchester hard at work
making a delicious meal for us – many
thanks go to Kate Cumber for all her
hard work and fantastic banoffee pie.
After stuffing ourselves to bursting we
had our first rehearsal of the weekend
and then met all of our hosts. Not to
fall into the student stereotype or any-
thing but most of the orchestra did
make it to the pub that night, as did
some of the members of the choir. You
will be pleased to know however that
we weren’t too late out – our morning
rehearsal was looming…
Saturday was filled with rehearsals,
Wetherspoons and tearooms – in var-
ying amounts. Our lovely hosts pro-
vided us with packed lunches – even
a homemade Victoria Sponge for half
of the bassoon section. Before our sold
out evening concert the ladies once
more convened to make a delicious
buffet dinner for us. As I come from
Dorchester even my mum was helping
out – so thank you to her for stirring
the soup.
The concert opened with Zadok the
Priest, by Handel, conducted by The
Thomas Hardye School head of Mu-
sic James Baker. The choir was in fine
form – boosted by a few members of
the orchestra – and it went without a
hitch. Second in the programme was
Vivaldi’s Gloria, with Louise Way-
man and Ellie Turner as the soprano
and alto soloists respectively, both of
whom used to sing in the school choir.
This was conducted by Peter Oakes,
the organiser of the Dorchester trip
and choir master at the school. A huge
thank you goes to him as well for mak-
ing the weekend possible. Once more
the choir gave their all and the soloists
sounded beautiful in the lovely acous-
tic of St Mary’s Church.
After a brief interval the orchestra
came back on to finish the programme
with Rachmaninov’s magnificent Sym-
phony No. 2, conducted by Richard
Dickins and led, for the first time, by
Mervyn Chong. The audience was de-
lighted for a third time that evening. I
for one thought it was one of our best
ever Dorchester concerts. It was great
to play in such a good acoustic and to
get such a reception for our efforts.
In true Dorchester style the evening
moved onto the pub, The Junction,
where sectional shots were a must.
Thanks to our wonderful social sec-
retary Jacob Brady, when we were
thrown out at closing we all got into
the (only) club in Dorchester for half
price and partied the night away into
the wee hours before (some of us)
stumbled home. I won’t mention the
best dancers of the evening, they know
who they are, and the pictures are up
on facebook to prove it…
A special belated happy birthday
goes to Mervyn – who turned 21 on
the Sunday. Dorchester rang into the
early morning with ‘Happy Birthday’,
progressively more out of tune.
Our dedicated hosts managed to
drag everyone out of bed and onto the
coach for the (approximate) departure
time of 10am, and we were all back in
London for a late lunch and a desper-
ately needed nap. Knowing Peter, plans
will already be in motion for next year’s
trip and I know the whole orchestra
will be waiting for it to come round.
Want to get involved? Email icso@im-
perial.ac.uk for more information.
the festive time of year must be upon
us again. Yes it is only 21 days to the
big event if you celebrate Christmas,
though it’s worth noting that there are
several other festivals that take place
around this time of year.
Regardless of which one or many
that you choose to celebrate, it prob-
ably means it is present time yet again,
but before you dash off to the shops
this weekend for all the Christmas
bargains, think again! What would be
more awesome than to receive a knit-
ted garment! Well you can make some-
one’s dream come true!
NOW is the time to start clicking
away with those knitting needles or
twisting with your crochet hook to cre-
ate some amazing and unique gifts. It
doesn’t matter what level you are- you
can start off with the classic rectan-
gular scarf or hat, or go wild knitting
dinosaurs, lingerie or a multitude of
other-worldly knitted stuff. Don’t for-
get that everything in this world could
do with a cozy- from your tea cozy, to
your iPod cozy, to a walking stick cozy
for your Nan.
You don’t need me to tell you how
cool knitting is. But that won’t stop me!
From the dawn of time - approximately
the dawn of knitting – hot women have
knitted! And it’s a proven fact that men
who knit get the hot knitting women.
Knitsock proudly holds a 50:50 men:
women ratio, a seldom seen occur-
rence at Imperial. So I ask why not
come along?
December will see KnitSock focus on
the lead up to Christmas, and we will
have our customary jugs of Pimms;
masses of scrumptious baked goods;
Cold? Broke? Come and make your own clothes with KnitSock
sexy women; handsome men and lin-
gerie patterns for altogether warmer
and kinkier underwear for yourself or
loved ones during the holiday season.
We are also currently planning a trip
to the land of sheep – Wales – not for
the sheep. That is something for the
rugby boys. This will take place in the
new year, and we’ll spend a weekend
knitting in a mountain retreat and a
visit to The National Woollen Museum
Don’t worry if you’re currently sali-
vating at the prospect but have just re-
alised that you can’t knit. Not to worry!
We will teach you and give you every-
thing necessary for a beginner as well
as some patterns to get your creative
juices flowing!
Come along and meet the family
5pm in the Union Bar every Tuesday.
‘Our lovely hosts
provided us with
packed lunches,
even a homemade
Victoria Sponge for
the bassoon sec-
tion.’
Email: knit.sock@imperial.ac.uk

