R0WING.
By our Rowing Correspondent. (J.F. Levy)
MORPHY CUP.
Before the day, although opinions were divided as to who would win the Morphy Cup, all were agreed that it would be a coxswainÕ s
race. It was! For the first time in living memory a clash occurred, necessitating a restart, and this happened not once, but three times.
In view of this, perhaps a few words on steering the Morphy would be helpful. The Laws of Boat Racing state that the proper
course for a boat to be steered is that which will take it to the finish in the shortest time. This means that the coxswains must try
to keep their boats in the fastest flowing part of the stream. Thus, in the Morphy, the first battle for position,comes at Harrods bend,
where a wi de turn means the outside crew losing the stream, and the second at Fulham football ground where, if a wide turn is made,
the inside crew can gain ½ a length in a few strokes.
Mindful of the way in which, by superb coxing, Guilds had won the Morphy last year, the coaches of the R.S.M and R.C.S crews spent
much time in telling their coxes that they must on no account be pushed out of their courses. As it turned out, the coxes, for once, had
listened only too well, and mistaking injunctions against being pushed for orders to force their way through, they made a fiasco of
what would probably have been the finest Morphy ever.
So much for explanations. What of the race itself?
As the crews drifted under Hammersmith Bridge the sun came out and made conditions for the race us perfect as could be wished.
R.C.S. and R.S.M. made excellent starts but Guilds appeared slightly rushed, but even so rowed stroke for stroke with R.C.S. and completed
the first 10 in just under the quarter Ð a phenomenal rating for heavy clinkers. R.C.S. had their nose in front from the second stroke
and proceeded to take it away well, blades being really solid in the water. As the crews approached Harrods, R.S.M. began to decrease the
inches lead of the R.C.S., and at the lower end of Harrods wharf were about 2 feet up on the R.C.S., with Guilds a further 2 feet behind.
Mines, on the inside of the bend, were a ]ittle wide and a slight clash occurred between R.C.S. and Guilds, which they were able to clear
without difficulty. All three crews were rowing well, particularly the Mines, who with real heavyweights in the middle of the boat were
making best use of them by rowing at a slightly slower rate of striking. As the crews approached the Crabtree, Mines were leading, by
¼ length from the R.C.S., who were slightly up on Guilds. All three crews were very close together, and, in trying to avoid a clash with
Mines, R.C.S. clashed with Guilds. The umpire stopped the race and sent the crews back to the start.
Your correspondent has been informed by members of all three crews that it was their crew which was going up at the time. With
over a mile to go it was still anyoneÕ s race.
The second start was Guilds all the way. They made a perfect start and were nearly ½ a length up at Harrods when Mines, taking
the bend, too wide, clashed with R.C.S., and the race was stopped for the second, time. The only consoling thought forthe crews was how
the vast body of police at Putney must have been enjoying themselves.
At the third start Mines just got their nose i n front, but they could do no more, and a magnificent race ensued with less than
4 feet separating first and last crews, and no more than 2 feet between blade tips. At the Crabtree Mines were just leading Guilds, who
were only just leading R.C.S. At the mile post Guilds were up by a canvas with Mines nearly a canvas up on R.C.S. Approaching Fulham
football ground, Guilds were ¼ length up on Mines, who were a canvas up on R.C.S. The Guilds cox, on the inside of this bend, began to
take it on a long turn, and the R.C.S. followed him round. The Mines cox appeared to think that the other two were making a short turn,
came round too far and too fast, and h i t R.C.S.
The umpire stopped the race and restarted them in the relative positions before the clash. The row-in past the boat houses was
no reflection of the racing that had gone before, and it was decided that the result to be recorded should be that at the time of the
last clash. Guilds, ¼ length, Mines, a canvas, R.C.S.
The time taken was 1 hour 20 minutes, a record for this 7½ minute course.
Crews.
C & G. Bow T.Gilbert, 2 S.Peerless, 3 J.C.Howe, 4 J.Shaw, 5 L.Clare, 6 A.Dawe, 7 P.G.Alliston, Str. P.Arnold, Cox D.North.
R.S.M. Bow C.Barwise, 2 W.Brendum, 3 J.Gordon-Smith, 4 A.Fleicher 5 L.A.Hill, 6 J.Taylor, 7 L.Webb, Str. J.McKay, Cox A.Fable.
R.C.S. Bow D.Ives, 2 R.Hughes, 3 J.Lamerton, 4 D.Lowell, 5 R.Smith, 6 D.Coomber, 7 H.Pushman, Str. F.Moriarty, Cox C.Bracewell.
LOWRY CUP.
The race for the Lowry Cup which followed, in gathering darkness, was a lesson in coxing. Starting from the mile post, all three
coxes showed how it should be done. The Guilds crew, an excellent one, made no mistake and showed that the way it had harried its first
boat in training had made it unbeatable. They went ahead to win easily, leaving a most exciting race for second place between R.C.S and
Mines, in which both crews lead several times by a foot or two only to be pulled back by sheer fighting spirit. The result, justly so,
was a dead heat for second place.
Crews.
C & G Bow R.Clark, 2 A.Waterfall, 3 P.Moffat, 4 B.Davis, 5 W.Bergwerk, 6 P.Sharpe, 7 C.Baines, Str. P.Watson, Cox J.Lewis.
R.C.S. Bow B.Baldwin, 2 R.Measures, 3 J.Midgeley, 4 G.Benson, 5 A.Davies, 6 J.Bray, 7 T.Embleton, Str.H.Metcalfe, Cox J.Holmes.
R.S.M. Bow M.OÕ Connor, 2 J.Harbord, 3 W.Stevens, 4 M.Holt, f5 R.Penny, 6 K.Chandler, 7 H.Morris, Str.T.Hulme, Cox B.Hester.

