43
felix FRIDAY 04 DECEMBER 2009
SPORT
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Skiing, Scotland and Shenanigans at Annual Skifest
On the 12th November, 17 members of
snowsports set off to have some seri-
ous fun in Edinburgh.
As I carried my snowboard into
the union, many kind-hearted people
pointed out to me that, although Scot-
land is chilly, I was being fairly unreal-
istic in my quest for November snow.
I quickly informed them that al-
though Scotland was chilly, I wasn’t
in search of snow; I was in search of
BUDS.
BUDS stands for British University
Dryslope Championship, and is the
first major event of the season in the
university snowsports calendar.
We clambered into the bus and ex-
citedly set off to the tune of the Spice
girls, maxing out at 62mph, and arriv-
ing in Scotland after a scant 9 hours.
The next morning, after an hour and
a half of sleep in one of the friendli-
est hostels in the world, we headed
up to the slope. Now normally at 9am,
you expect most people to be sleepily
scratching their eyes/cracks and hav-
ing a coffee.
Instead we were welcomed by armed
students equipped with water balloons
and a sling shot. So in true Imperial
form we decided to get stuck in a have
a morning beer bong.
The competitions included giant
they had beaten previously in the year.
It turned out to be a straightforward
match for the team, with the opposing
coach constantly setting Essex targets
of small amounts of points to achieve.
Great serve receiving from Lea Seafer,
and effective blocking from Alex
Krieger gave Imperial a comfortable
win in the first set.
The second set was motivated by
coach Ercu’s promise of a drink each if
Essex got less than ten points, but ten
press-ups for ever point over ten they
Men Continue
100% record in
Sussex
Continued from Page 44
Robert Winston, takes the floor to present a talk
based on the content of his outstanding book, ‘The
Story of G-d’. In this groundbreaking book, he ex-
amines this relationship across time, beginning with
the primitive worship of our early ancestors, and
concluding with a vivid portrait of faith in the mod-
ern world.
This event is open to all. To ensure you don’t miss
this talk, please sign up as directed on the bottom
-left of this poster.
Location: Pippard Lecture Theatre - Imperial College, South Ken-
sington Campus, Sherfield Building, Level 5.
To RSVP please email: info@chabadofsouthkensington.org
For more info, call either Mendy Loewenthal on: 07800 639 565
Or Mark Harris on: 07903 609 372.
Chabad of South Kensington is a branch of Lubavitch Foundation (UK), Charity No. 227638.
slalom, big air, slope style, dual sla-
lom and boarder x. Imperial members
competed in all areas with impressive
sive move for the finish” found her feet
come flying out of the shoes.
After a few strokes she had no choice
but to stop to replace her feet before
barrelling on towards the end of the
race in a desperate bid to reclaim lost
time. In the end the pennant went to
Nicky (23:21.73) with Ro taking the
runner-up position (23:33.77). Flat-
mate Chazz Moultrie also claimed sec-
ond in the W.SEN.1x category (288th
overall).
Head Coach Steve Trapmore was
pleased with the results and com-
mended club members on their hard
work so far this season. Well done to
everybody racing and sincere thanks to
all supporters on the day.
received.
Unfortunately, the team just about
ended up doing press ups, but great
hitting from middle hitters Linda and
Alana Johnson, and good linking for
opposite attacks between Ashly and
myself gave the team a comfortable
win, and was a great end to a successful
day. Meanwhile on the second court,
the men were playing the University of
Kent.
Now wearing different shorts, cap-
tain Marc and experienced outside
hitter Christoph Datler linked well to
create some effective play, while Platon
Vogiatzoglou used his powerful hit to
great effect. In the end it was an easy
win for the men’s team, who main-
tained their 100% unbeaten record.
Another victorious weekend for the
club, who continue to go from strength
to strength. The club look to continue
their success at their home tourna-
ment in Bethnal Green this weekend.
Scullers’ Head
shows from all.
The standard of skiing and board-
ing was ridiculously high (the winning
trick for the ski big air was a 1080! In
Imperial terms that’s 6π).
It all started going off in the after-
noon, with the finals of the Big Air tak-
ing place to some massive tunes cour-
tesy of the Red Bull pick-up truck with
a set of decks on the roof and a huge
sound system in the boot.
At the end of the comp, everyone
rushed on to the slope and provided
one of the coolest images I’ve seen this
year, 800 students bouncing up and
down with the sun setting in the back-
ground over the coast of Edinburgh.
The night had begun.
The BUSC committee booked out a
club in Edinburgh that night, and after
an evening kebab (which led to a cer-
tain member of Imperial having a not-
so-tactical chunder on the way into the
club) we headed on into City club.
The scene in the club was similar to
the scene on the slope, a multitude of
drunken skiers, a massive vibe of ex-
citement about the upcoming season,
and fear of the following morning’s
9am races.
Despite an awesome DJ, some amaz-
ing conversations with strangers in the
smoking area, and the discovery of a
secret upstairs bar with no queue, the
highlight of the night had to be watch-
ing snowsports captain, Jamie Perrelet,
walk straight into a glass door.
The next day (again after an hour
and a half of sleep) we reluctantly piled
into the bus again to get back onto the
slope.
Arriving there on time, we looked
out the window, saw it was raining,
and proceeded to have a three and a
half hour nap in the van.
After waking up we decided the only
solution to our hangovers was baked
goods, so we drove down the road and
asked a local builder where the nearest
shop was, he replied with ‘hinka cum-
fae cashore canfeh, Ahl hityi oar hied
‘caw taughtie’.
Not wanting to be rude, we thanked
him, well Tom thanked him and I
chuckled into my bra, and headed off.
The skill on the second day was in-
credible, and despite the rain and the
wind (not much of a surprise in Scot-
land) everyone rode with loads of style.
The collective hangover slowly
merged into another round of collec-
tive drunkenness and before we knew
it, the riding was over, and the partying
had begun again.
Saturday night was the final black tie
ball, after spending a couple of hours
trying to get tickets (they had all sold
out on the Friday), we eventually man-
aged to get in to the ball held in a mas-
sive rugby stadium.
I headed straight to the bar, but about
one minute and thirty six seconds after
our entry, Tom sprinted up to me and
told me that Jack had been a little bit
(a lot) naughty and was kicked out of
the club.
This put a massive downer on the
night, after a twenty quid entry fee
and all our great efforts to find tick-
ets, someone had already been sent
packing. Luckily for us, the bounc-
ers weren’t the brightest chaps in the
world, and we swiftly managed to get
Jack back in.
Everything was looking pretty good
and the awards were handed out, when
five minutes before the end, Jamie and
Amaury were thrown out when Jamie
tried to replicate the day’s freestyle on
Amaury’s shoulders.
All in all an amazing night, a week-
end to remember, and a hangover
that has lasted fifteen days and still
counting.
If you want to spin around on Amau-
ry’s shoulders, get on over to www.
studentskiing.com with clubcode =
‘imperial’ to grab yourself one of the
last remaining places on the imperial
ski and snowboard holiday.
Everyone is welcome and the price
is unbeatable: £329 includes lift-pass,
travel and accommodation. Absolutely
final booking deadline is tonight, no
other chances!
Jamie Perrelet Snowsports
Continued from Page 44
Imperial Snowsports atop the peak of Scotland’s finest artifical mountain. They seemed prepared for that night’s antics.

