felixSport
Send in your sport reports:
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
High resolution photos only
04
.
12
.
09
ICBC’s Jamie Alexander Kirkwood has
become Head of the River after win-
ning outright over the 4 ¼ mile tide-
way race from Chiswick to Putney. The
U23 elite lightweight sculler takes the
title from last year’s winner GB sculler
Alan Campbell. Imperial won four
pennants, had five 2nd placings, and
three 3rd placings as well as nearly all
IC competitors finishing in the top 10
in their categories.
Big Deal status (more difficult to
achieve than an MBE) has officially
been bestowed upon Newcastle Upon
Tyne’s Jamie Kirkwood; a first for the
North. Starting at number 115 Kirk-
wood set out to get a good placing
for next year’s head race, which he
claimed he would win. The 20 year old
lightweight far-exceeded all expecta-
tions by clocking the fastest time of the
day (20:55.38), over 8 seconds ahead
of runner-up R. Dunley of London
RC. IC’s George Whittaker had the
honour of starting the race in respect
of his overall win in 2007 and fourth
place finish in 2008. Whittaker placed
third overall this year taking a pen-
nant, much to the delight of 19 year
old fresher Rory Sullivan who placed
an impressive 5th overall and had to
settle for 2nd in the same category.
In 13th place overall was IC’s Ger-
man lightweight Ole Tietz who claimed
the novice pennant last year. Imperial
managed to retain the pennant thanks
to Henry Goodier who finished 19th
overall. Also racing for the novice
pennant was Trapmore’s former glory
days crewmate Dan Ouseley whose
competitive record includes a World
Bronze Medal in 2003 and 2001 as well
as competing in the 2004 Athens Ol-
ympics. Ouseley finished 73rd overall
and 5th in the novice category; which
has untold comforting effects for Of-
ficer Duffy who finished 7th in Wom-
en’s Novice category
There was tough competition in the
lightweight IM2.1x category with Alex
Gillies (who placed 24th overall this
year compared to 59th in 2008) miss-
ing out on a pennant by a mere 0.02
seconds to Berridge of London RC.
IC’s Andy Gordon finished a respect-
able 4th in category and 35th overall; 9
places higher than last year’s race. With
the IM3.1x pennant assumed a Whit-
taker shoe-in, the race for place was
on. Highlander Johnny Rankin claimed
7th (43rd overall) followed by chest in-
fected Ben Anstiss who coughed home
in 22nd (115th overall).
In the women’s squad Rachael
‘Chewy’ Davies took the honour of
fastest IC girl (148th overall) as well
as fourth fastest lightweight in the
entire head race. She claimed the pen-
nant in a blistering time of 22:57. Dav-
ies has never lost a category pennant
in the three times she has entered the
Sculler’s Head of the River. Appearing
at training on Sunday morning Chewy
was disappointed at the absence of
women’s coach Brian Steele; “I want-
ed to abuse him.” A still intoxicated
Chewster went on to announce her
legendary status to anyone who would
listen before sculling off into the dis-
tance on her “recovery paddle” past
UL. She was not seen again for another
two hours and was still hyper upon
her return. Women’s Captain Mathilde
Pauls came 2nd in category (W.ELI.1x)
and 173rd overall. Zoe Lee, represent-
ing the newly formed Sport Imperial
club for non-student members, fin-
ished 3rd and 182nd overall.
It was the battle of the Smith sis-
ters in the W.IM2.1x category as IC’s
Ro Smith was pitted against older sis-
ter Nicky. Nicky has won two Henley
medals representing IC. She recently
made the move from Imperial to Ox-
ford and was racing for City of Oxford
at this year’s Scullers’ Head. Nicky,
starting last in her category, overtook
all other scullers but could not catch
Ro who led the category out. After a
strong first half Ro came under Ham-
mersmith Bridge and making “a deci-
Kirkwood
wins
Scullers’
Head
Christina Duffy Rowing
Volleyball Success
Jennifer Smith Volleyball
Saturday brought wind, rain and vol-
leyball to the University of Sussex,
where the team travelled to play in
their South East Division 1 BUCS
matches. Despite the 5:30 (am) wake
up call, everyone was in high spirits,
and determined to keep the success of
the season so far going. With the men
unbeaten and the women (mostly) un-
beaten, the expectations were high for
both teams.
First up on court were the women’s
team captained by Linda Vaccari, play-
ing the hosts. Imperial, suffering from
sleep deprivation, lost the first set
to a team that rarely threatened, but
forced Imperial into mistakes. Howev-
er things perked up in the second set,
helped by some amazing hits by new
team member Monica Luegmair.
In the deciding third set, both teams
exchanged points, but some consistent
and effective serves from club captain
Ashly Black gave Imperial the edge,
and they won the final set 16-14.
Next on court were the Men’s team,
playing the University of Essex. De-
spite the incredible volleyball on dis-
play in the warm-up, all eyes were on
captain Marc Schaepertoens‘ shorts,
a rather fetching women’s pair in size
small (see photo).
The men starting strongly helped
by consistently powerful jump serving
from Alessandro Galli and solid defen-
sive play from Marios Chartosias, and
won the first set 25-17. The second set
however was a slightly different story,
and so the game went to a deciding
third set. Some effective quick attacks
from new addition to the team Nika-
loas Nikolaou allowed Imperial to win
the set 15-11 and so the match.
After a three hour break, both
teams were back on court, providing
coach Ercu with a dilemma of who to
support. The women were on court
against the University of Essex, a team
Continued on Page 43
Continued on Page 43

