3
felix FRIDAY 04 DECEMBER 2009
NEWS
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Imperial ‘slaughter’ St. Hugh’s on UC
I
mperial’s University Challenge
team won their way to the quar-
ter finals with an outstanding
280 point win against St Hugh’s
College, Oxford with 80 points.
The programme was shown in Da Vin-
ci’s as it was broadcast, and an excit-
able crowd brought plenty of business
to the Union bar as Imperial’s success
unfolded throughout the episode.
The team, captained by Gilead Amit,
with team-mates Simon Good, Ciaran
Healy, Benedict Nicolson and Edward
Brightman, accompanied by the felix
mascot, answered a majority of the
questions while St Hugh’s appeared idle.
St Hugh’s were also trailing in their first
round match, narrowly taking victory in
a tie break question regarding the Kyoto
Protocol.
The bonus questions tackled by Impe-
rial’s team involved topics such as mili-
tary abbreviations, accidental discover-
ies in Science, Literature and Physics,
the latter of which the team faltered on.
When asked about the unit equivalent
to 10^-28 square metres used to meas-
ure cross sections in Nuclear Physics,
the team conceded, causing a dissatis-
fied Jeremy Paxman to exclaim ‘’you
chaps ought to know this’’
. The unit in
question was in fact the Barn. The bo-
nuses of St Hugh’s included Latin ex-
pressions in Art, Natural Dyes and My-
thology. Of the Oxford team, an excited
Brown was prompted to ‘’calm down!’’
by Paxman for answering enthusiasti-
cally such that she interrupted the voi-
ceover announcing her name.
Once the final gong sounded, Pax-
man lightly mocked St Hugh’s for their
slow start and joked that they had been
“slaughtered”. The Imperial team was
praised by Paxman for their knowledge
in travel literature, philosophy and foot-
ball in the first round despite being sci-
ence specialists. Both the Imperial team
and St Hugh’s were of the youngest
teams in the competition with an aver-
age age of 19.
Future episodes are to be broadcast
in Da Vinci’s by the union to encourage
the supportive environment of students
and the economic benefits which follow
from such quantities of people in a bar.
The second round will be over when the
University of Manchester plays Strand
Polytechnic-I mean King’s College Lon-
don on December 21st, after which the
quarter finals follow. Imperial has pre-
viously won in 1996 and 2001, coming
second in 2002, and we wish the best of
luck to them this year! “Yes, blad. You iz well thick. We just shat all ovaa you, bruv. Stick it!” Team captain Amit was a notoriously poor winner
AlexKarapetian News Reporter
Some think
plenty of time.
We think
use it wisely.
Thinking New Perspectives.
Credit Suisse is an Equal Opportunity Employer and does not discriminate in its employment decisions on the basis of any protected category. To the extent permitted or required
by applicable law, a candidate who is offered employment will be subject to a criminal record check and other background checks before the appointment is confirmed.
© 2009 CREDIT SUISSE GROUP and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
Right now, graduation feels a long way off. So how can you possibly know which career path is right for you?
Our Spring Program has been designed especially for first year students – or second years on a four year course.
Joining either Investment Banking (including Fixed Income and Equities) or our support functions (which
include Investment Banking Operations, Information Technology and Finance), you’ll spend five days learning
about real life at Credit Suisse. Because it’s never too early to start looking ahead.
Take a closer look at www.credit-suisse.com/careers
“Is the Union too expensive?
What happened to Union breakfasts?
Is there going to be any more Sports
nights?”
n
ni
ig
gh
ht
ts
s?
?
What do you
want to ask
the Union
President?
Next term, felix
is interviewing
Ashley Brown,
this year’s Union
President. Want
to give him a piece
of your mind?
Email your questions to
felix@imperial.ac.uk

