4 felix FRIDAY 04 DECEMBER 2009
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
NEWS FEATURE
SW 7:
LONDON’S
INTELLECTUAL
HUB
AMONGST THE CROWDS OF TOURISTS WE RUSH DOWN
EXHIBITION ROAD EVERY DAY. EDITOR-IN-CHIEF DAN WAN
REPORTS ON SOUTH KENSINGTON’S £25m REVAMP
A
s thousands of students
swiftly make their way
down Exhibition Road
each morning, they ca-
reer around tourists
standing in the middle of the pavement,
map at full stretch, oblivious to anyone
else’s urgency.
The main road of Imperial’s campus
is now subject to one of the many rede-
velopments of public areas in London.
Work has already started at the under-
ground station at Thurloe Place; within
the next three years the repaving works
will make its way north towards Hyde
Park. felix spoke to Councillor Nicho-
las Paget-Brown and Mahmood Siddiqi
from the Royal Borough of Kensington
and Chelsea, both leaders of the ongo-
ing ‘Exhibition Road Project’
.
The vision for the new Exhibition
Road is to turn it into a “world-class
streetscape”
. What does that actually
mean?
World-class is an overused phrase, I
think. What it means is that we are very
conscious that Exhibition Road was
once called Britain’s intellectual high
street. It would be, in any other city in
the world, a splendid avenue, but actu-
ally if you look at it at the moment, it’s
not that. It doesn’t reflect the beauties
and glories of the collections inside
these really internationally renowned
institutions, but is a very ordinary road
linking them all together from a small
insignificant underground station. It
was a real opportunity to not just repave
the streets, but to really try and get a top
quality design and feel that could make
an attractive place for the 11.5 million
people a year that visit the area. That’s
the same number of people that visit
Venice, so what we want is a beautiful
road.
Do you see it attracting more people
after the development has finished?
I don’t suppose it will in its own right,
but what we do want is people coming
to see the museums who would like to,
but currently can’t because of the ac-
cessibility issues. Part of the design is to
go to a single surface: instead of having
pavements and roads, we’ll put it all on
one level.
How much consultation was there
with Imperial College and their stu-
dents during the design process, and
ongoing process?
Imperial’s part of the Exhibition
Road Cultural Group [ERCG] so they
are represented on that panel. Profes-
sor Michael Bell and at least four PhD
students at Imperial are working closely
with us with research projects on the
concept of this single surface and how
it will work and interact with vehicles.
A lot of Imperial students get very
frustrated with the lack of space on
the pavements due to excessive tour-
ist crowds, especially by Imperial
The locals’ point of view
College Road. Are there any plans to
widen the walking areas of the new
‘single surface’?
Yes, the plan is that the western side
will be a much wider pedestrian area:
8 metres without a kerb. That should
allow a much steadier pedestrian flow
and provide better access to Imperial
College’s main entrance at the Tanaka
Building. It should be a lot better.
What does it mean for the rest of
Exhibition Road’s carriage way if
the designated pedestrian area is
widening?
The next zone, if you like, we are call-
ing the intermediate zone where you
can drop people off, but it has disa-
bled and cycle parking. It’ll be another
stretch right the way up Exhibition
Road which will be distinct from the
pedestrian zone.
The carriageway for cars will be nar-
rowed to two lanes rather than a dual-
carriageway with parked cars along
each side. It’ll be a 20mph zone.
We’re tending to stick to the term ‘sin-
gle surface’ with this project, there is no
obvious curb or delineation. The way it
has been designed, it will be obvious to
the driver which bit they will be limiting
themselves too.
So it is a rebalance really. Something
we’ve tried to do throughout the bor-
ough, like in High Street Kensington
and Holbein Place in Sloane Square.
We’re trying to rebalance the street in
favour of pedestrians and less in favour
of the motorist.
What stage is the project at cur-
rently and is the project on schedule
so far? When is the project due to be
completed?
We’d like it to be finished early 2012,
before the Olympics and Diamond Ju-
bilee basically. There are 2 main phases
to the project, and the first is nearly
completed. That is the unravelling of
the 1960s one way system round South
Ken station. The traffic signals will have
changed by 6th December and you’ll see
it in its final form. There’ll be also an
environmental benefit. Instead of hav-
ing to go three sides around a square,
there’ll be straight roads, and it should
cut car journeys’ emissions and mileage.
The real benefit is for pedestrians
though. There’ll be a traffic free environ-
ment for pedestrians to step out into.
WilltheSouthendofExhibitionRoad
that forms the corner with Thurloe
Street become more of open piazza
for the small cafes and businesses di-
rectly out of the station?
That’s what we’d like, for it to be a
much more pedestrian friendly area as
you come out the tube station. It should
create the opportunity for the small ca-
fes and bookshops to be part of a very
attractive part of the world as you come
out of the north side of the station and
head towards the museums. The very
distinctive paving will start here too and
will go all the way up Exhibition Road.
Do you think the new shared space
will open Prince’s Gardens up to the
public and passers-by?
Our idea will encourage indiscrimi-
nate movement of pedestrians, and
I think part of the problem is that
you have a dual carriageway running
through the Imperial College campus.
So the project will open up Prince’s
Gardens and locations on both sides of
the road.
So pedestrians are encouraged to
cross at any point?
Indeed, yes. The best comparison is
High Steet Kensington where we re-
moved hundreds of metres of pedes-
trian guard railing, and put cycle racks
down the middle of the road. It posi-
tively encouraged people to cross the
full length of the road. Accident statis-
tics show a reduction in rates.
We also saw this with the new di-
agonal crossings at Oxford Circus. It
was balletic in a way, but it all worked
remarkably well. I suppose people are
looking and taking care and see what’s
going on around them, and that’s what
we hope will happen on Exhibition
Road.
This ‘single surface’ road is designed
to create a safe environment for pe-
destrians, and pushes the idea of ‘giv-
ing back responsibility to all road us-
ers’
. Is it not inevitable that someone
will abuse or ignore this responsibil-
ity, putting the other users of the road
at a much larger risk than on a con-
“We’re trying to
rebalance the street in
favour of pedestrians
and less in favour of
the motorist.”
TheeverydaylifeofpeoplearoundSouthKensington
and Exhibition Road has been and will be largely
affected the ongoing redevelopment works. felix
caught up with the owners of local businesses,
students from Imperial College, visiting tourists and
current residents to see what extent the Exhibition
Road Project has changed their everyday lives.
Plenty of small, independent businesses operate
around the tube station and the south end of
Exhibition Road. In March 2009, work commenced
around Thurloe Place and the roads around the tube
stations were closed off to traffic.
Davina Cheung, manager of Bookthrift bookshop
(pictured), saw immediate detriment to her
businesss, “It was definitely quiet, and the bus stops
moving definitely made a difference.” Buses heading
west (Putney, Roehampton) were also diverted
aroundThurloePlace.“It’saneyesore,buteventually
it will all be worth it.”

