5
felix FRIDAY 04 DECEMBER 2009
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk NEWS FEATURE
So what’s going to be new?
This is the most prominent feature that will be noticable on Exhibition Road. A criss-cross
natural stone paving (pictured left) will stretch across the full width of the carriageway
(building to building), and from South Ken tube to Hyde Park. Pedestrians will have
approximately double the space that cars will be designated. The current dual carriageway
for motorists will be reduced to two single lanes. There will be no curbs, road tarmac or
pavements. The level surface is meant to encourage safer and more fluid pedestrian and
motorist interaction. Between the pedestrian and motoring zones, there will be a drop-off
and cycle rack strip, but there will no place for informal roadside parking. Parking places
will be marked off at 90 degree angles to the majority movement of passing people and
vehicles.
£1m
fromCityofWestiministertowards
the Exhibition Road Project. They
technically govern the northern
half of Exhibition Road.
A paved single-level surface
South Kensington station has notoriously been a busy and
crowded place where people waiting for several buses meet
commuters going into and coming out of the underground
station. Thurloe Street has been an unpleasant experience
for the less-able commuter or parents with children in
pushchairs. The new plans are to make the north and south
entrances to the station open piazzas for local shops and
cafes to thrive.
The idea of this area surrounding the station is to turn it
into South Kensington’s ‘town centre’, whilst Exhibition
Road becomes the cultural avenue and main attraction of
the area. The ‘town centre’ will cater to local residents much
more.
Pedestrianised space has been opened up on the south
entrance to the station, and several large chains of cafes are
reportedly interested in setting up shop in the vicinity. felix
was told by project leaders that the borough are in favour of
rentingpublicpremisestoindependently-ownedbusinesses.
Open piazza around South Kensington station
The crossing used by nearly all Imperial
studentstravellinginbybusandtubemust
crossCromwellRoadtoreachthecampus.
Presently, it involves crossing the road
in two parts, resting on an intermediate
pedestrian island. The Exhibition Road
Project will see a straighter crossing that
will allow pedestrians to walk across
Cromwell Road without halting.
This is the one of two formal crossings
on Exhibition Road.
Cromwell crossing
As part of Boris Johnson’s “cycling
revolution”, one of 400 bike-hire
docks around London will be located
on Thurloe Street, outside South
Kensington station. People will be
able to pick up and drop off bicycles
available from these docks, which are
claimed never to be more than 300m
apart. Proposals to place a dock by
the Brompton Oratory in South Ken
are currently being opposed by local
residents.
Bikes for hire
ventional road?
We’re looking to create a greater
sense of awareness amongst all the us-
ers of the space, and not just relying on
the mechanics and engineering to man-
age it all for you; guard railings in the
middle of the road, traffic lights chang-
ing for you, and places to cross.
Ignoring responsibility can happen at
the moment, but the cars will be going
slower, plus pavements will be wider. If
you were disabled or had a pushchair
coming out of South Ken station, the
pavement is very narrow with buses and
lorries turning through that road. This
space will be not only more attractive to
use, but safer.
The area will be paved in natural
stone; when drivers drive through any
area which looks a little bit different,
they will drive a bit more cautiously due
to an element of uncertainty.
There has been criticism of similar
‘single surface’ schemes. What is be-
ing done to ensure the safety of blind
or partially sighted people crossing
Exhibition Road?
It is specifically the Guide Dogs that
have criticised this scheme, they say the
only differentiator between pavement
and road for a dog is a kerb, but kerbs
are a trip hazard and are not actually an
ideal barrier for people with physical
disabilities. So removing the kerbs can
be very helpful. It is certainly possible
to train guide dogs with a recognisable
strip of corduroy paving all away up.
Shared space schemes have been
largely successful in low-density ar-
eas. As one of the largest and most
prominent stretches of road to be
subject to a ‘single surface’ scheme,
the new Exhibition Road will be
under close scrutiny. It has been ar-
gued that the concept will not work
on such a busy, congested city road.
Does this add extra pressure on the
Borough for this project to work?
Exhibition Road isn’t one of the
busiest roads in the borough, the traf-
fic volumes there are relatively mod-
est, and so it lends itself to this kind of
management.
Access-wise, the idea is that a single
surface removes the obstacle of ups
and downs of kerbs and roads on a
conventional street pattern. The mu-
seums and galleries have invested huge
sums of money making their insides
accessible, but it’s no good if people
can’t get 200 yards from the tube sta-
tion to the front door.
Upon arrival onto the South Kensington
campus for the first time, it may have
seemed like an ironic coincidence to
manyImperialstudentsthattheCollegeof
Science, Technology and Medicine, along
with the neighbouring Science Museum,
both stand in such close proximity to
the rather more arty institutions which
include the Victoria and Albert Museum
and the Royal School of Music.
It might therefore come as a surprise to
learn that this high density collection of
academic and cultural hubs from all ends
of the spectrum were in fact deliberately
concentrated onto Exhibition Road and
its vicinity by the vision of Prince Albert
and the Executive Committee of the
Royal Commission for the Exhibition of
1851.
This Great Exhibition was borne to
congregate the achievements of British
culture, industry and science, as well as
those of its international colonies. Prince
Albert materialised his idea with the help
of architect Joseph Paxton, and in May
1851, the specially constructed Glass
Palace that stood in Hyde Park opened
to the public. The reported number of
visitors The Exhibition received during
its run is thought to be a third of the
British population at the time. Guests
included the esteemed Charles Darwin,
Lewis Caroll, Charlotte Brönte and
George Eliot.
The funds generated by the successful
Exhibition were used to open the South
Kensington Museum in 1857, which went
on to become the V&A, the Science
Museum and the Natural History
Museum. This neighbourhood just south
of where The Exhibition took place was
consequently given the nickname of
Albertopolis. Imperial College, however,
was not yet in existence as we know it
today; in its place stood the Imperial
Institute. The only thing that remains
of the Imperial Institute today is the
Queen’s Tower.
The land on which Imperial College
now sits also existed once as a collection
of landscaped gardens created by the
Horticultural Society, where other
openland exhibitions were also held.
Today, Exhibition Road and its
surrounding area is where the Royal
College of Art; English National Ballet;
Royal Albert Hall; Royal Geographical
Society and the Serpentine Gallery,
amongst many others, are to be found.
The original motto ‘Arts and Science’,
given to the area by the Commissioners
for the Exhibition, can still be seen on
some of the surviving buildings which
include the Royal Albert Hall and the
V&A.
From this road, one may even choose
between going for a nibble on anything
from frozen yoghurt to sushi or curry;
a spot of ice-skating to embrace the
Christmasmood,followedbysometoasty
mulled wine; or, if not in favour of the
physicalexertionthatskatingmightentail,
simply choose to enjoy a film, whether it
be in French or in 3D. The possibilities on
thisroadareendless,somuchsothateven
H.G.Wellsfeltsoinspiredastodescribeit
in great detail for his book ‘The War of the
Worlds’. - Joanna Cai
Royal since 1851; a history of the avenue
Prince Consort
Albert
encouraged and
led the purchase
of 100 acres of
land in South
Kensington for
the purposes of
public eduction
and creativity.
£13m
from the Mayor of London,
as part of his ‘Making spaces
for Londoners’ scheme.
Originally commissioned by Ken
Livingstone.
£11m
from the Royal Borough of
Kensington and Chelsea, the
leading party of the ambitious
project.
Opinion was split amongst Imperial’s students.
Whilst most took an apathetic stance to the
impending works near the Business School, some
werelookingfowardtoImperial’scampuseffectively
opening up. “The new road will allow us to use other
facilitiesdownExhibitionRoad, liketheV&Alibrary.
It’s a great place to work,” claimed Kasia Viass, a 3rd
year Geophysicist.
Local residents such as Anna Ranner (who lives by
South Ken tube) are seemingly cautious about the
drasticchangesthatarecomingtheir way.“Thefocus
will make this area more of a tourists’ haven, and less
of a place to live. Though I am looking forward to
seeing the small shops remain around the station.”
The consensus from tourists visiting this week was
that even though the museums are crowded outside,
inside isn’t, and hence it didn’t seem much different
to them. “I would definitely come back here to see
how things have changed though.”

