F E L I
N E W S P A P E R O F I M P E R I A L C O L L E G E U N I O N
No 181 W E D N E S D A Y , 14th N O V E M B E R , 1962
4
d
M O R P H Y
S H A K E S
DAY
T O W P
Morphy Day dawned cold and wet, and despite blue skies later
in the morning, this initial set-back was enough to deter many from
both sides. However, there were sufficient present to form the tradi-
tional crocodile across the whole length of Putney Bridge.
Guildsmen mustered in the Mech. Eng. Entrance whilst R.C.S.
congregated outside the Chemistry Building, then made their way
to South Ken and Gloucester Road Stations respectively. A t South
Ken., the ticket collector was unable to count above forty-nine,
resulting in about 250 Guildsmen commandeering a whole train ;
unfortunately, R.C.S. tried to board the same train at Gloucester
Road. One gentleman gained entry only to lose his trousers and be
deposited thus attired(?) at Parson's Green.
It was decided this year to make an attempt at renewing interest
in a traditional English game which has declined in popularity
sacks of
over the years, namely
sawdust-collecting thereof." The
two teams, the numbers of which
were not stipulated, faced each
other fifty yards apart and after
the presidents of each had
assaulted each other with a shil-
ling cream flan, battle com-
menced.
R C S appeared to be far better
organised, in the initial stages, for
within minutes of starting they
had five bags (sacks, of course)
behind their lines. However, as
the battle waged to and fro, under
a constant hail of flour and water
bombs, seasonal fruit and sods
(grass variety) the R C S total was
depleted through commando
raids by a few Guildsmen rein-
forced with a few Minesmen.
It was evident that after a few
minutes that the game had taken
a far more personal nature, for
many had found themselves
trouserless much to the delight
of the young ladies present; how-
ever, only one gentleman found
himself in the river.
The game was called to a halt
after twenty minutes, Guilds run-
ning out winners by five sacks to
four.
After a number of final skir-
mishes attention was fixed on the
river, and each crew was sup-
ported enthusiastically by mem-
bers of its College.
Rivalry was soon, forgotten,
and with the commands from
John White's transistorised mega-
phone ringing in their ears, 450
students in assorted attire (un-
dress ?) wandered back across
a convenient Zebra crossing to
Putney East finally returning to
I C despite the efforts of Railway
Police to repossess the train.
A s they crossed Putney Bridge
in the gathering dusk, few will
forget the sight of a youth clad
only in a sweater and his " St.
Michels" making frantic efforts
to retrie" e his trousers which were
billowing gently in the autumnal
breeze some twenty feet above his
head.
Ceremony of the flans
I.C. Christian Union
What think ye
of
Christ
Trousers In the breeze
Bad news for Kensington Patriots
A stiff wind and nine frigid botanists last Tuesday (6th Novem-
ber) finally proved beyond doubt that Kensington might once have
been a colony. It was a chance remark by Michael Bentine on
television that started the controversy, which, by the week-end, had
achieved considerable proportions in the area of South Kensington.
Had, in fact, the Kensington ancestry originated from primaeval
Bayswater by crossing the Serpentine on rafts ? T o settle the argu-
ment, a group of second year botanists, headed by K e n Symons,
constructed a raft that early settlers might have used had they
migrated from the less developed areas of Bayswater. For authen-
ticity, parts were obtained from the decaying Commonwealth Institute
at the cost of 3/10| to produce the I.C. K I raft.
A t 1.0 p.m., the raft and a primitive telephone (for taking
soundings) were finally launched under the watchful eye of a
solitary policeman. A t first attempt, the raft capsized and several
continued on nacre S
LAMLEY'S
TECHNICAL & GENERAL
BOOKS
ART MATERIALS
DRAWING INSTRUMENTS
STATIONERY
PAPERBACKS
I. 3 & 5 EXHIBITION ROAD, S.W.7.

