- 4 F E L I X
PROFILE
The Rector
Sir Patrick Linstead first came to Imperial College as an under-
graduate in 1922 and went on to postgraduate work in Organic
Chemistry. On obtaining his Ph.D. he joined the staff and was
successively demonstrator, assistant lecturer, and lecturer. He was
awarded a D.Sc. in 1930. In 1938 he was appointed Firth Professor
of Organic Chemistry at Sheffield University and at the outbreak
of the war was lecturing at Harvard ('probably the best, and cer-
tainly the oldest University in America'). He returned to England
in 1940 to help in the War Effort and joined the Ministry of Supply
where his work was mainly concerned with the Anglo-American
liaison in scientific matters. H e also worked on explosives. After
the War, he was appointed Director of Chemical Research for
D.S.l.R. at Teddington and in 1949 returned to I.C. as Professor
of Organic Chemistry then to become Dean of R.C.S. in 1953.
When he succeeded Sir Roderick Hill as Rector in 1955 he had
occupied all the positions in the academic ladder at I.C. with the
exception of Reader. He was knighted in 1959.
Two years before Sir Patrick
was made Rector the Government
announced that it had decided to
expand the college. The Rector
was acutely aware of the need for
Student amenities in the expan-
sion programme, in particular the
need for Halls of Residence. U p
to that time the College's policy
had been to provide student ac-
commodation in small units by
converting single houses, eg. Gar-
den Hall and the old Selkirk Hall.
Sir Patrick did not feel that this
was getting to grips with the prob-
lem, which he felt should be
tackled on a big scale. When he
discovered that virtually the
whole of Prince's Gardens was
coming up for sale he persuaded
the University Grants Committee
to support a scheme for its pur-
chase and development as a
student area. There have been
several suggestions as to how the
new Halls should be run but the
Rector feels that they should be
developed on the same lines as the
original I.C. Hostels. In his view
it would be artificial to copy the
" monastic" Oxbridge system.
In addition to Hostel accommo-
dation the Rector is anxious to
provide certain sports facilities in
South Kensington. The planned
sports centre in Prince's Gar-
dens will include squash courts,
a swimming pool and a rifle
range. The Rector has recently
approved plans for a cricket net
on East side. However, while he
is in favour of certain sports
facilities on the new campus, he
intends to set aside several areas
where there shall be " green
grass for the refreshment of the
spirit."
T H E C H R I S T I A N U N I O N
Warmly invites you to it's meeting
next week
See your programme cards
The expansion of Imperial
College was prompted by the
country's fundamental need for
more scientists. Much pressure
was put on the college to develop
into a vast post graduate institu-
tion, with the exclusion of the
undergraduate school. The Rec-
tor was against this policy and
was determined that at least half
of the college should be com-
prised of men studying for their
first degrees. O n the question of
extending the undergraduate
course to four years, he feels that
this can only be achieved at the
expense of numbers and for at
least the next ten years the
country's need for scientists must
take priority. The College re-
ceives more money from the
D.S.I.R. for research than any
other university and the Rector is
proud of the high level of re-
search achieved.
Staff student relations at a large
non-residential college will inevit-
ably leave much to be desired.
The Rector hopes that the situa-
tion at I.C. will be improved when
the College becomes more resi-
dential with more staff and many
more students living in South
Kensington. There will be more
opportunity for informal contact
out of working hours. With re-
gards to his own contact with the
student body the Rector regrets
that he has only the time to meet
the Union leaders. He can only
make typical contacts and not
statistical ones, when such large
numbers are involved. When the
expansion programme is finished
he hopes that he will have more
time for student contact which
will be facilitated by the Halls of
Residence.
The Rector is a firm believer in
giving students the maximum of
freedom in managing their affairs.
He considers that an office of re-
sponsibility in a Student Union is
a very important part of a stu-
dent's training and he is pleased
with the Union's response to this
policy. He realises that students
are young and need an occasional
outlet for their high spirits but he
does find it rather trying when
things get out of hand and the
police intervene. The Rector thinks
that the students should have more
regard for the good name of the
College on these occasions. A
certain amount of ragging is not
a bad thing so long as it does not
interfere with public affairs. H e
is particularly pleased with the
annual charity Carnival and con-
siders that it advertises the Col-
lege very favourably to the resi-
dents of Kensington.
In addition to his considerable
duties in the College, Sir Patrick
also finds time for many other
activities. A t present much of his
time is spent on the Robbins
Committee, which is investigating
the whole system of higher educa-
tion in this country. He is a Vice-
President of the Royal (Society
and also serves as Foreign Secre-
tary to that society, a job that
gives him plenty of opportunity to
travel. When visiting foreign
countries the Rector makes a
point of visiting art galleries and
museums. H e is very interested
in art (his tastes run to Renais-
sance rather than Pollock) and
was greatly 'honoured when he
was recently made a trustee of
the National Gallery. He also
enjoys the theatre but admits to
having only a moderate interest in
music. He has not had much lei-
sure time in the past five years
but when the opportunity pre-
sents itself he and Lady Linstead
like to escape to their country
home in the Cotswolds, where
they are enthusiastic gardeners.
The Rector, however, admits that
nowadays he is rather lazy with
respect to gardening, add prefers
to relax by taking his pet corgi for
a leisurely walk. He played
cricket and squash in his younger
days and also played golf up to
the war, but did not take it up
again afterwards.
It is difficult to sum up the per-
sonality of Sir Patrick Linstead.
He has a quiet manner wheih may
create a first impression of shy-
ness, but soon dispels this impres-
sion, however, and in his warm*
hearted conversation displays a
young and lively outlook, and a
fine sense of humour. H e has
a rare understanding of young
people. Sir Keith Murray, as
Special Visitor to the College on
Commemoration Day, said, " the
last decade has indeed been a suc-
cess story for Imperial College."
The success may well have been
brought about by the £17£ m.
Government grant to the College,
but we owe much to Sir Patrick's
leadership for the considerable
prestige that the College has
gained during this time,

