FELIX 5 -
Big Bangs at Harlington
I C K I —continued from front page
members of the expedition
received early warning of the
difficulties ahead. Their dress
was perhaps inappropriate—one
can assume that the " fez " had
not yet reached London at this
time—and it was soon apparent
that the Serpentine in winter does
not lend itself to shirts and shorts.
By 1.15 the party had made its
way to the centre of the lake, but
a sudden change of wind threa-
tened to take them back to Bays-
water. Then a fleet of oarsmen
arrived, and at length, the bitterly
cold crew arrived on the Ken-
sington shores. Undaunted by
cries of " shame," " go home,"
and " try the bridge," the party
gave a cheerful interview to a
visiting press reporter.
A t 1.37 p.m., the L a w arrived
and 500 agile I.C. members
skipped, the fence back to the
park and relative safety. The
gallant expeditionary force had
their names taken and await de-
velopments. O n returning to the
College, the audience, satisfied
that Kensington is no longer an
island, used their traditional single
file tactics on the Zebra crossings
and entertained some good-
natured policemen till 2.30 p.m.
The sight of an I T V transmis-
sion test card swinging from the
College flagpole at 3 p.m. was
apparently in no way connected
with the research of the botanists.
Members of * the proposed
Karakoram expedition might be
interested to know that the success
achieved by I C K I was brought
about with neither the financial
nor the moral support of the
Exploration Board,
As a result of pressure, rum-
oured to have originated at Bow
Street, the official November 5th
celebrations took place as usual
at Harlington (it was discovered
next day, however, that some stu-
dents had obviously decided that
this was too far away, and had
gone to Trafalgar Square any-
way.)
The expectant revellers were
transported from the Union bar
to the Harlington bar by coaches,
appropriately decorated with the
placard " School Bus." Even
here, however, these innocents
found themselves pursued by the
trappings of civilisation, who,
fortunately removed their helmets
on entering the bar.
It is not generally known, nor
is it significant, at what time the
bonfire was supposed to be have
been lit, but it can be taken on
good authority that it was prema-
turely ignited. It burst into flame
somewhere around eight o'clock,
and this was followed bv a rather
inferior fire-work display, con-
sisting of a few multi-coloured
objects travelling in an upward
direction to the cries of " U p , up,
up, up . . ." Towards the end of
the supply of fireworks, both
official and unofficial, there was a
general trend back to the bar and
the dance, where it was noticed
that in the light of two spot lamps,
several figures in white coats,
rumoured to be Electricals, were
setting up a six-foot gleaming
rocket on a temporary pad in the
middle of one of the games
pitches. After a very long and
involved series of pre-flight
checks, there was a count down
of twenty in which the assembled
crowds took part, whereupon the
base of the rocket burst into
flames. The doubtful onlookers
waited, and waited . . . until the
oversize firework nicknamed
" Kennedy's Klimax," disap-
peared in one glorious bang.
By now it was about nine
o'clock and there was a general
trend back to the dance, where a
rather miserable band was play-
ing rather toned down versions of
twists, chachas and waltzes at
rather infrequent intervals, com-
plaining every now and then of
not being able to play with the
lights out.
Due to the shortage of un-
attached members of the fair sex,
the romantic mood was spoilt
somewhat by a motley crowd of
individuals who insisted on
" dancing" the twist and the
conga to everything from the
" Gay Gordons " to a sentimental
waltz.
The evening was finally con-
cluded with the usual rowdy sing-
song in the coaches on the way
home.
• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • a
• • • • • • • • • • • { • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • R a a a ^
IF you're someone who can't resist asking "Why? " or
"How? ", then the Central Electricity Generating Board
offers you a career with endless opportunities. The Board
has a continuous programme of research in which organ-
ised curiosity is vitally important. This is where you ask
" W h y ? " . The Board's output needs to be doubled every
ten years. To continue to do this economically, success-
fully, the Board asks "How? ".
FOR THOSE WITH A HIGH CQ
There are plenty of openings for those with a high CQ. In research (CURIOSITY QUOTIENT)
and development work, there are direct appointments for physicists,
metallurgists, mathematicians, chemists, engineers. In operational work
— design and construction, generation, transmission — there is a two
year programme of training for electrical and mechanical engineers.
Why not whet your curiosity by spending part of your vacation with
us ? Or come and visit a research laboratory or power station or ask
for information about the opportunities for you.
Just write to the UNIVERSITY LIAISON OFFICER
CENTRAL ELECTRICITY GENERATING BOARD, BUCHANAN HOUSE, 24/30 HOLBORN, LONDON, E.C.1.
nsssssssxsssssssssss

