and employee benefits, as they try to
return to profitability. GM last week
announced plans to shed 25,000 jobs
in and close several factories over
the next three-and-a-half years,
while Ford has announced a cut of
4,000 white-collar jobs, equivalent
to 10 per cent of its North American
white-collar workforce.
Both GM and Ford have spun-off
their parts and components busi-
nesses in recent years in an effort to
reduce over-heads, but GM’s suppli-
er and former subsidiary ‘Delphi’ is
currently under bankruptcy protec-
Toyota, the Japanese car-manufac-
turer, is set to overtake General
Motors as the world’s largest car
manufacturer. The Japanese com-
pany is already both more profitable
and more valuable than GM, and is
set to produce 9.2m cars this year.
GM last week shocked the mar-
kets by announcing that it had over-
stated earnings for 2001 and the sec-
ond quarter of this year. The restate-
ments mean GM has so far this year
lost $3.8bn (£2.1bn). The accounts
for the three years between 2001
and 2005 are also under question,
and GM’s share price has fallen to
its lowest level in since 1992.
Earlier this year the ratings agen-
cies, who determine the cost of bor-
rowing for companies, downgraded
the credit ratings of both GM and
Ford, the world’s third largest auto-
manufacturer, raising their costs of
borrowing for fears that the com-
panies would not generate enough
cash to pay the interest on the their
borrowings.
Adding to the woes of the American
auto-manufacturers are the rising
employee provisions. GM estimates
that its pensions and healthcare
costs total $90bn and $77bn respec-
tively. The powerful United Auto
Worker’s Union (UAW) of the US
has been locked in talks with Ford
and GM over potential cuts to wages
Toyota takes pole position as GM
heads towards bankruptcy
business business.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Simon Jones
High petrol prices have hit sales of General Motors’ profitable SUVs, which include the Hummer H3, above, which returns less than 16mpg.
tion. GM is so dependent on Delphi
that if the supplier was to collapse,
or if its workers were to launch
a strike, GM would have to cease
production, and would rapidly burn
through it $19.2bn (£10bn) cash pile.
At GM’s heyday in the 1960s the
company controlled over 60 per cent
of the US car market, but market-
share has steadily fallen through 40
per cent in the 1980s, to around 22
per cent today. Most recently high
oil prices have sent sales of gas-guz-
zling SUVs plummeting, and the US
manufacturers have had no answer
Simon Jones
A senior Chinese metal trader has
disappeared, after a series of bets on
the price of copper that may amount
to $120 million of losses. Liu Qibing,
who allegedly worked for China’s
State Resources Bureau (SRB) is
understood to have placed bets last
year that the price of copper would
fall from $3,200 per tonne, but the
price has rallied to over $4,200 per
tonne. Chinese officials denied that
the Bureau’s internal controls had
failed to detect the losses earlier.
Mr Qibing “short-sold” between
100,000 and 200,000 tonnes of copper
that he didn’t own, expecting to buy
the metal at a lower price later in the
year, before the metal was sched-
uled for delivery this December.
Mr Qibing’s position was popular
among many traders last year who
Chances of GM bankruptcy 50:50
believed that demand from China
would weaken, and that new sup-
plies would help to depress prices.
The SRB of China has been
accused by some traders of attempt-
ing to manipulate the markets by
over-estimating its copper reserves
and by auctioning-off up to 52,000
tonnes of the metal, in order to
over-supply the market and push
down prices. China claims to have
reserves of 1.3m tonnes of cop-
per, but analysts put the figure at
closer to 200,000. On Monday the
UK’s Financial Services Authority
announced that it was investigat-
ing allegations that China was trad-
ing unlicenced on the London Metal
Exchange.
The world’s largest copper produc-
er, Chile, reported strong demand
from builders and manufacturers in
China – the world’s largest consum-
er – that would exceed supply from
Prices of precious and industrial metals have soared in recent months,
on the back of strong demand from China, and supply problems.
to cars such as Toyotas’ Prius, the
petrol-electric hybrid, and GM and
Ford have yet to introduce a similar
fuel-efficient vehicle to their line-
ups. GM has been offering hefty dis-
counts of around $3,500 per vehicle,
in order to clear swollen inventories
of unsold cars and trucks, squeezing
profit margins on its vehicles.
Of the vehicles that Toyota sells in
the US, more than 60 per cent were
produced there. The weakness of
the Japanese currency, the Yen, is
one factor helping Toyota, but the
companies’ tight cost control and
the efficiency of its manufacturing
processes reflect the fact that the
Japanese company is far more prof-
itable than its US counterpart.
A senior figure at the Banc of
America puts the chance of GM
going bankrupt in the next two years
as high as 50 per cent, predicting
that even in the event of filing for
bankruptcy in the US, the compa-
ny should have ample cash to get
through and re-organize.
its mines, driving prices higher.
The price of gold is currently
at an 18-year high of around $485
per ounce. The price of the yellow
metal has traditionally kept pace
with inflation, and is seen as a long-
term and low-risk store of wealth.
Gold production has been relatively
flat since 1997, when the price was
closer to $200 per ounce. The weak-
ness of the dollar has meant that
central banks – who in recent years
were heavy sellers of gold – are now
turning towards gold as a serious
alternative to currencies.
Platinum prices reached a 26-year
peak of $988 per ounce, on the back
of supply problems from mines in
South Africa where the majority
of the world’s platinum is mined.
Increasingly strict emissions laws
have boosted the price of platinum
– a key component in catalytic con-
verters, which required 3.51m ounc-
es of the metal in 2004. Jewellery
demand has also contributed to a
surge in demand for the rare metal.
Speculative money, from hedge-
funds and other investors accounts
for 73 per cent of all the bets that the
price of platinum will rise next year,
and this influx of money is expected
to push platinum prices over $1,000
per ounce in 2006.
Earlier this year, mining giant Rio
Tinto and BHP Billiton negotiated
a 70 per cent rise in the price of
iron ore shipped from Australia to
China. Other base metals including
Aluminium and zinc are also trading
at multi-year highs.
Trader vanishes
after $120m
losses, Copper
price rallies
6
felix
www.felixonline.co.uk Thursday 24 November 2005

