do because it does provide you with all sorts of
avenues you can explore. However, you must
be connected with the teaching and wanting
to make a valuable contribution to society.
Whether or not Teach First opens more doors
for you really depends on how you approach
it. Some people come out of Teach First and
all they do is teach. Others do networking and
build up more opportunities for themselves. I
feel that with a PhD it’s similar. It depends on
what you personally want to get out of it, at the
end of the day. However, deciding on what to
do after you degree is very personal and it is
difficult to say what is the best advice to give.
Miss most about Imperial
Falconer: Southside Bar. I also miss the Union
on Friday nights. Although I’d hate to go there
now. It was one of those things you did as a
fresher with all your friends.
Parasmand: When I was at Imperial, I enjoyed
my time there. However, after my four years
there, I was prepared to leave. In a way, I kind
of said my goodbyes without looking back;
always look forward, never look back.
Friends from Imperial
Falconer: I’m still in close contact with friends from Imperial,
especially friends from halls. I met up with a Norwegian
friend of mine from halls, having not seen him in 3 years and
nothing has changed. My core group of friends are still from
Imperial. People you meet there are more like-minded, you all
enjoy science. In that way, you create a network of Imperial
friends. I’m actually going to a wedding of two very good
friends of mine who met at Imperial. They got together in
their second year (she was a physicist and he was a biologist).
Now he’s working as an accountant and she’s a laser physi-
cist at Imperial.
Parasmand: I’ve got two separate groups of friends at
Imperial that I still keep in close contact with. One group is
more international and the other live almost around the cor-
ner from me. I don’t really label them as Imperial friends, to
me they’re just my good friends. In fact a friend of mine who
has just finished his PhD at Imperial came to my school to
give a talk. Some of my students saw him and said, “He don’t
look like no doctor!” because their idea of a doctor is a medi-
cal doctor.
Imperial memories
Falconer: A friend of mine, who’s very keen on fitness, had
The Appeal of Teach First
Falconer: During my final year, I was one of the people who
was unsure of what I wanted to do once I completed my
degree. I wanted to make use of my degree in some way,
instead of going into something like accountancy. However,
having worked as a medicinal chemist during my indus-
trial placement at GSK, I also knew I didn’t want to go into
research at a graduate level. The reason for this is that I
didn’t want to commit to 2-3 years of post-doctoral work with
the aim of one career at the end of it, which would be as a
medicinal chemist. There was a lot I loved about labs but also
a lot I didn’t, which was why I was so undecided. This is when
Teach First came along. I saw it as an opportunity to study
a management course and as somewhere I could use my
degree to teach students but at the same time not be totally
committed to a career in teaching. So at the time, it seemed
like the perfect choice for me. Previously I didn’t think of a
career in teaching. I had always wondered what teaching
would be like and I would have liked to try teaching to see if
it was the career for me. In this way Teach First was ideal as
it offered me a taste of teaching and let me give back to the
community (to put it in a cheesy way). For me Teach First
opened up more doors. You get so much out of it and come
out as a qualified teacher. I went into the scheme knowing
that at least for some time I would not become a teacher but
because I have the qualification I could always go back to it at
any time. The way I see it, I didn’t shut any doors but poten-
tially opened several more and I’ve learnt a lot about myself
through this scheme.
Parasmand: I actually took two years out before doing Teach
First. I graduated and started working for the civil service.
I then went to Africa with the charity Raleigh International.
During this time, I was trying to sort out what I wanted to do.
Teach First hadn’t really started yet and I was trying to con-
vince myself that I wanted to become an accountant. Then,
through Milkround I heard about Teach First and out of inter-
est, I decided to apply. Having then spoken to someone from
Teach First, I decided to complete my application. I went
through the interviewing process and got a place for Teach
First, and here I am, teaching. However, if Teach First was
available to me straight after my degree, I probably would
have done the course immediately and not taken the two of
years out.
What appealed to me was that the course seemed like an
exciting way to spend two years. It was a worthwhile chal-
lenge, not just helping the kids but it also helped me. With the
way the course is designed, you’re forced to develop all sorts
of skills and be able to deal with all manner of people. I’m only
a teacher now because of Teach First. Although I’m happy to
be a teacher right now, that doesn’t mean I’m always going to
be a teacher. I feel that there are still many more opportuni-
ties for me out there.
Through Teach First, I’ve met a lot of people that I wouldn’t
have had the chance to meet otherwise and in that sense it’s
given me this network of people. I have to say that working
with children do have its fun moments. In my first year of
teaching, I asked a year 8 class what an organism was. This
girl raises her hand and whispers to me: “Is that what girls
get when they have sex?”
On doing a PhD
Falconer: I did think about doing a PhD. However, if I was to
have done a PhD, it would have been done to benefit a par-
ticular career goal. Although I believe you get a lot of skills by
doing a PhD, it would have led me down a more chemistry-
based career path and in that way Teach First seemed more
favourable for my particular goals.
Parasmand: Although I thought about doing a PhD, I was
seeking new and different challenges and decided that a
PhD was not for me. In a way I would definitely recommend
Teach First for people who aren’t sure of what they want to
Alisdair Falconer & Pedram Parasmand
7
felix
Thursday 24 November 2005 www.felixonline.co.uk
some special fitness equipment in his room. We faked a let-
ter from the housekeeper saying that there have been some
strange noises coming from his room. He received it and took
it very seriously. So he went to talk to the housekeeper about
it, only he didn’t know what he was talking about!
Another good memory, first day of second year, my flatmate
and I went out for a heavy drinking night. The next morning I
looked at my alarm clock blurry eyed and realised that it was
10 minutes to our lecture. So I got up and banged on his door
to wake him up. Then I went back to bed and realised that it
was two hours too early. So I thought nothing of it and went
back to sleep. Later in the evening I came home to find my
flatmate not particularly chuffed. He told me he arrived at his
lecture at 7:10am and so had to help the caretaker turn on all
the lights in our department.
Parasmand: I guess the first thing that comes to me when I
think of Imperial is how international it is. You meet people
from all over the world that you probably never would have
met otherwise.
If you had to do it all over again, would you choose
Imperial?
Falconer: Yes. When you look back on it, you realise I’d rather
have gone there and achieve everything I did there than to
have gone anywhere else.
What they did next
Ruby Chu meets two recent graduates of the highly acclaimed Teach First scheme.
Pedram graduated with an MSci in Physics in 2001 and now teaches in a secondary school.
Alisdair, who also graduated in 2001 (Chemistry MSci), has qualiﬁed with Teach First and
recently begun working for a pharmaceutical company.
For me Teach First
opened up doors.
You get so much
out of it and come
out as a qualified
teacher. I’ve learnt
a lot about myself
through the scheme
Alisdair Falconer is now working for a pharmaceutical company.

