SPECIAL RAG
EDITION
4 PAGES OF
PHOTOS
NEXT WEEK
FOUNDED IN 1949 NEWSPAPER OF IMPERIAL C O L L E G E UNION
No. 436 Friday, 26 November, 1976 F R E E !
It's a RAGing
success
With two events still to come, this year's Rag Week looks
like being declared an all-round success. Attendance at all the
events has been better than expected, and enthusiasm shown for
Rag has greatly impressed the Rag Week organised.
The 'week' started last Thursday with the Rag & Drag disco.
Over 200 people turned up to see IF's Paula Marriott and Mines
Pornographer Stuart Arden win two well fought contests for Rag
and Drag Queen respectively.
The three-legged pub crawl the following evening was even
more successful. Close on 300 people attempted to hobble their
way around twelve local hostilleries. Local publicans, and their
customers took the event in its intended spirit and only two pubs
the Harrington and the Queens Arms, barred their doors to the
•C revellers. Although more a social evening than a race, the
pub crawl was won by John Ashworth and Zinta Krumins from
RSMU.
The tooting of steam engine whistles and the rattling of
collecting cans started the Rag Procession on Saturday morning.
Despite fears about the level of organisation (see last week's
FELIXfront page) the event passed off smoothly. The two'
steam engines present attracted great attention from local
shoppers, as did the continual battle between Dave Lord's
pedal car and the rest of the procession.
The only mishap of the day was when C & G U ' s 'Bo ran out
of petrol just before re-entering College at the close of the
procession. The police, who had marshalled the procession, then
joined everyone for a pint in the Union Bar.
To date the most well attended event was the SCAB evening
Sunday night. Over 350 people warmly applauded Dramsoc's
'After Magritte' production. In spite of complaints from S C A B
Chairman Martin Kessler about the undignified stampede for the
blue films, the event was a success.
150 IC students would have succeeded in drinking the King
George IV pub dry on Monday night, had the pub not closed
early at 10.15pm. The publican was extremely annoyed at the
rowdy songs and boisterous behaviour of the students, who he
felt was driving his normal custom away.
Many people braved the cold weather Tuesday night to gather
around the bar-b-que in Beit Quad. The event broke even.
fcCU rivalry came to its traditional head on Wednesday's
Morphy Day. The pitched battle on the tow path lost its normal
v'gour because most of the action was concentrated on getting
Cartoon: Mike Slone-Murphy
The RCS Rag float with the Lord Mayor's robin.
An n—legged attempt by Steve Braund and friends in the 3—legged
pub crawl.
Morphy Oar. After a 20-minute struggle along Putney embankment.
Mines succeeded in retaining the oar, with a little help from the
police.
On the return journey everyone crowded into one tube train
car — oh what a stench — and passed birthday boy Dave Lord
from one end of the car to another. This dirty, stinking troop of
students they went to tea at Harrods. For once we actually got
served in their way in cafeteria.
Fuller details and more photos of Rag Week in next week's
Rag Felix.
X
inside
RAG Queen Paula Marriot
Photo: Bob de Wart.
GET NEXT
WEEK'S FELIX
FROM YOUR
SOCIAL REP.
5P
ALL PROCEEDS TO
RAG
leitx

