12 felix Friday 29 February 2008
Culture &
The Arts
Arts Editors – Rosie Grayburn, Caz Knight, David Paw and Emily Wilson
Budding culture vulture? Write for us.
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Rosie Grayburn
Arts Editor
I
t seems an age since I was last
here writing my monthly rant.
How are you? What’s that? A bit
sore? That must surely be from
all the running around London
you’ve been doing: following our ad-
vice here at the Arts Desk and explor-
ing the galleries, museums and sights
of the City. No? Maybe I shouldn’t ask,
then…
I recently discovered the National
Theatre thanks to my grandma. I love
my grandma. She is a bit eccentric,
French, and she likes talking about
homosexuality and breasts. Well, she
frequents the place when she can, and
we decided to be spontaneous and see
a play there. Why the hell not? It was a
fantabulous evening.
Alistair McGowan was in the ticket
queue ahead of us and sat in front of
us in the stalls. For all you Alistair
McGowan fans out there, Alistair has
a deep, short laugh, a good taste in
scarves and likes jokes about opti-
cians. Anyway, enough about that –
the NT is a fantastic intuition. Arrive
at 6, sit in the huge foyer and listen to
a jazz trio. Then at half past, waltz to
the canteen and have a very reason-
able meal for not a lot of money.
Yummy in my Belly. At quarter to 7,
the student standby tickets go on sale.
What a treat! £10 for fantastic stalls
tickets.
It was all terribly exciting – a play
without dialogue, 27 cast members
and 450 characters. The set was
an empty, plain, grey town square.
Suddenly, someone walked across
the stage in a hurry. Then another.
And another one. Some characters
stuck around for a while, but most
were headed for the other side of the
stage, by one method of transporta-
tion or another. This continued for 90
minutes.
I absolutely loved it. It was funny,
imaginative and lively. The variety of
characters was phenomenal and the
costumes were equally brilliant, and
even more astonishing was the speed
at which the costume changes had to
take place! ‘The Hour We Knew Noth-
ing of Each Other’ is on for a while yet
so I really recommend it to you.
Meanwhile, we have a feast lined
up for you in this week’s edition. Mr
Tom Roberts, Editor-in-Chief of Felix
was a very naughty boy last week. “He
took out two of my bastard articles,”
claimed a distraught Arts Editor,
Emily Wilson. Tut tut. Don’t worry,
we’ve put one of them back for you.
We have snuck in a very subtle
MTsoc Tour plug under the guise of
a Musical Theatre Weekly. Appar-
ently this tour is jolly good fun. I have
heard stories of tent sex, river dunk-
ing and lemon-meringue ice cream.
Sounds like my cup of tea.
I continue my quest for new writers.
All these fantastic shows we have
reviewed have been courtesy of Felix
Arts, or rather us badgering Press
Offices to give us tickets. If you want
to have a go, please get in touch at
the usual address. If you fail to do so,
I shall set those sailors on you. Ooo
matron!
A
s the lights dim, and the
audience begins to buzz
with anticipation, I can’t
help but feel a little ex-
cited too. This is my first
visit to a circus show. I sit amazed as
I watch little Asian boys (though I’m
convinced they’re midgets!) do back-
flips, front-flips and cartwheels. Con-
tortionists are climbing poles and
holding their bodies in weird and won-
derful positions. In the corner an ob-
scured shape seems to be belting out
a song.
Welcome to the enchanted world of
Varekai! Fluorescent colours are a giv-
en and lycra-clad individuals perform-
ing extraordinary feats of athleticism is
the norm.
At one point, we had 10 men on stage,
all decked out in red lycra, performing
incredible feats of athleticism. Watch-
ing one flip the other on his legs in
time to the growing pace of the music,
I vaguely wondered the consequences
of bad timing. They were moving so
fast I could barely distinguish one from
the other.
The contortionists and balancing
acts are pretty incredible. You’re al-
ways on the edge of your seat, con-
vinced that this time she’s going to fall
or this time he’s not going to be able
to hold on long enough. But true to
form, they always do. I kept wondering
if it really was possible to support the
weight of another human being with
just one hand, let alone while dangling
off the edge of a beam yourself! Maybe
it was a trick of the light. Maybe there
were hidden supports. And maybe
these performers are so skilled that
they transcend the boundaries of nor-
mal human ability. In this mystery the
magic of Varekai is woven.
They use the Icarus story as another
excuse for mind-blowing displays of
athleticism. Watching the story of the
betrothed unfold, you can feel her con-
nection with him. The ensuing dance
is both sensual and calming.
You can never quite decipher a lan-
guage. I gleam smatterings of English
and French. But as surely as I hear
definite gibberish, I know that it’s not
about the words. It’s about the actions,
the music and the flurry of colours all
around. My favourite acts were the
machinations of the Skywatcher and
Magician. The slapstick humour, the
confounded expressions and the stooge
in the audience all served to send the
whole audience into fits and giggles;
the humour transcends all ages.
Amazed, awed, completely flabber-
gasted...there are no words to describe
the way I felt, no ways to capture the
emotions of the audience. As I take in
the looks of wonderment, I can barely
contain my own excitement. I feel like
I’m six years old again.
Cirque du Soleil is a masterpiece.
Everyone who sees it will come out
smiling. How couldn’t you? Even
watching near misses, excellent saves,
and a stretch that might have gone a
little too far, you cannot deny its excel-
lence. I give Cirque two thumbs up. A
definite must-see when the circus next
comes to town!
Don’t try this at home, kids
“Oi, Steve! How did you get up there?” “I feel light as a feather, Dave!”
Oroma Oyewole pops round the corner to see Cirque du Soleil at the Albert Hall
Ah! Greetings, sir! Fancy seeing you whilst swinging on some high wires in the Royal Albert Hall! Ha!
“Mummy, the lady looks funny.” “Yes, she’s a circus freak, dear”

