arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
13
Friday 29 February 2008 felix
Arts
L
ocated on Haymarket, just
a couple of minutes’ walk
from Piccadilly Circus sta-
tion, is the Theatre Royal,
currently hosting Edward
Bond’s “The Sea”. The theatre is housed
in a spectacular building, designed by
the renowned British architect John
Nash (the man responsible for the
Marble Arch and the remodelling of
Buckingham Palace). An exterior of
six raised pillars hides a plushly wall-
papered green interior festooned with
gold leaf, creating an imposing yet lav-
ish location to view a performance.
However, it seems slightly anachro-
nistic for these grandiose surroundings
to be used to house Edward Bond’s tale
which is, superficially at least, a sim-
ple story of the intricacies of bucolic
existence.
The plot opens with a shipwreck
causing the death of a much-loved
member of a small community; this
is presented with the screams of sea-
men and the laughing presence of
none-more-insane local draper-come-
lifeguard behind a semi-transparent
screen onto which the image of a
turbulent sea is projected. Although
this may seem clichéd, the deafening
crashes of thunder juxtaposed with the
delirious laughter of Hatch, the draper,
form a dramatic opening to what is a
slightly muted storyline.
The audience is then introduced to
the populace of the village: a cast of
caricatures which tend to exist only in
plays about rural communities.
Matriarchal figure Mrs. Rafi, played
by the impeccable Dame Eileen Atkins
(recently star of Gosford Park and TV’s
Cranford), leads the women of the vil-
lage in both etiquette and morality.
Forever correcting the behaviour of
her sidekick Mrs. Tilehouse (Marcia
Warren), in a manner similar to that
of Hyacinth Bucket and neighbour
Elizabeth in the “classic” British sitcom
Keeping Up Appearances.
Although that comparison may seem
derisory, there are some genuinely
amusing scenes, not least the rehearsals
for a local amateur dramatics produc-
tion. Naturally the play is scripted and
directed by Mrs. Rafi who (of course)
feels the only appropriate choice for
the lead role is herself. Backed by some
drippy, useless younger womenfolk,
most notably Jilly (Emma Noakes),
she tries to conduct herself in the way
she feels that a woman of her status
should.
In a slightly predictable scene to-
wards the end of the play she confesses
that she has spent her life bossing
about others, as this is what is expect-
ed of her as a respected woman. She,
somewhat egotistically, feels they need
her. This clunky scene is transformed
into a poignant lament by the faultless
Atkins.
“The Sea”, the only play designated as
a comedy by Bond, bases its humour
on the absurdities of the restrictions
of social class and etiquette. Despite
its being set in Edwardian Britain, it
is clear that these issues were just as
present in the 1970s when the play was
written, as indeed they are today.
The tragic nature of the main plot
conceals this, and some may term it
as a dark comedy. It is the descent into
insanity by Hatch the draper, played
excellently by David Haig (of “Four
Weddings and a Funeral” and “The
Thin Blue Line” fame), that provides
some of the biggest yet most poignant
laughs. On the surface, his descent is
triggered by the incessant whining of
regular customers Mrs. Rafi and Mrs.
Tilehouse, who repeatedly request ob-
scure fabrics only to reject them on
grounds of quality.
A standout scene, even in an overall
performance of such acting quality, oc-
curs where Hatch, his mind warped by
both the scolding of Mrs. Rafi and con-
spiracy theories of alien invasions, rips
up several rolls of expensive fabric, ef-
fectively guaranteeing his bankruptcy.
Within the suffocating strict mo-
rality of the small community, some
characters come through and speak
to the audience of their fights for per-
sonal freedom. Evans, an eccentric old
man with more than a gentle fondness
for alcohol talks to the survivor of the
shipwreck, justifying his choice for a
solitary existence by the sea away from
the village’s prying eyes.
The play ends with a discussion be-
tween these two characters and the
sailor’s widow, before the sailor (who,
as expected, falls in love with the wid-
ow) offers to take her away from the
village, the constraints and the hier-
archy. An abrupt end means we never
The fantastic Eileen Atkins and David Haig. Hatch the Draper desparately tries to sell Mrs Rafi some more of his hair. She’s just not having it
James Copley decides to go on a trip to The Sea … but strangely ends up in a theatre on the Haymarket
Insanity, shipwrecks, and black
comedy at the Theatre Royal
“Smell that?” “God, has someone died in your pants?!”
hear her final decision.
It is important to remember that this
play is first and foremost a comedy: al-
though there are scenes which appear
overly familiar to a twenty-first century
audience, there are scenes of outright
hilarity, most notably the funeral scene
which starts with Mrs. Rafi chastising
Mrs. Tilehouse for her over-elaborate
warbling of hymns, and descends into
slapstick buffoonery courtesy of that
perpetual catalyst for horseplay, the lo-
cal vicar.
Deeper themes are explored within
the subplot; Bond parodies the rigidity
of social structure and how conduct-
ing oneself with the correct decorum
can restrict the self and lead to a loss
of sanity. Noble as these points are,
a slightly unoriginal and banal plot-
line causes a few cringes for the audi-
ence. The abrupt ending mid-sentence
comes across not as a salient point
about the issues involved, but rather as
a childish attempt at originality.
Despite these criticisms, the fantastic
acting throughout leads “The Sea” to
be a highly enjoyable evening out, and
a slightly more challenging view than
the more commercial fare available in
much of the West End currently.
The Sea is on until the 19th April

