14 felix Friday 29 February 2008
Sexy art from Russia at the RA
Emily Wilson gets all hot and sweaty at the Royal Academy... all that Matisse and Cezanne... dribble...
P
lugging the From Russia ex-
hibition to you might be a
bit futile. The RA has sold
all online and telephone
tickets well into March. If
you turn up at the door, the queue for
tickets extends across the courtyard,
and it’ll take you at least half an hour (I
had a press ticket but queued so I could
take a companion with me).
But please PLEASE don’t be put off
by this because this is the art event of
the year. From Russia is an exciting
mix of nineteenth century to modern
Russian art, as well as some of the big-
gest names from Impressionism and
Fauvism from France during the same
period. Picasso, Matisse, Rousseau,
Monet, Van Gogh… this exhibition has
them all under one roof. The works
have been loaned out from various mu-
seums in Russia, most of them having
originated in the homes of nineteenth
century Russian art collectors. It’s rare
that such a large selection from over-
seas should be made available from on
our doorstep. The opportunity to see it
is well worth seizing.
After you’ve queued for half an
hour, the exhibition space is painfully
crowded. The whole RA was abso-
lutely crammed when I went early on
Sunday. For the first few rooms, until
the crowd disperses, you can hardly
move. And the crowds mean it’s a bit
like a sauna, but with less nudity and
more art.
The introduction informs me that
the exhibition ranges from Realism and
Impressionism, and from Suprematism
to Constructivism (whatever they are).
The exhibition’s focus is the interaction
between Russian and French art from
the late nineteenth century to 1925.
This period in Russia was one of so-
cial upheaval and political revolution.
Consequently I look forward to some
exciting, revolutionary art, but this
isn’t what the curators are going for.
The exhibition progresses from Russia
to France and back again, highlighting
the effect the latter had on the former.
The exhibition gets off to a good
start, kicking off with works originat-
ing in Russia at the beginning of the
period of focus. “Leo Tolstoy Barefoot”
by Ilya Repin is a treat, because it’s not
every day you get to see Tolstoy with
no shoes on. “Blessing of the Young
Couple Before Marriage” by Pascal
Dagnan-Bouveret is a charming depic-
tion of a young couple getting married.
This is the kind of traditional, folky
subject matter that features heavily in
the earlier Russian art, which can err
on the side of dull. I like the use of light
in these Russian paintings. Some of
them are technically wonderful. An-
other common theme in this Russian
art is the landscape. I can’t be bothered
with the landscapes – they’re all rolling
hills and sheep. It’s all very traditional
and romanticised, in the usual Victori-
an-era way.
There is a revolutionary-ish paint-
ing hung so high, close to the ceiling,
that when you look up it catches the
light and you can’t see it properly. This
is a shame, because from a distance
it looked like a promising piece. An
American woman speaks to me, saying
that if she hadn’t overheard me men-
tioning it she would never have seen it.
This is careless hanging – it’s like the
RA ran out of room on the walls.
“Ruins (Inner Voices)” by James Tis-
sot is a depiction of Jesus bleeding onto
some scrap metal, in the company of
some diseased beggars. It doesn’t rank
highly on the cheeriness charts, and
isn’t very pretty either. The paintings
don’t have proper descriptions on
them, possibly to force you into paying
for the audioguide (£3, and I overheard
a lot of people complaining about it).
This means I couldn’t understand what
the painting was really supposed to be
about, so I cannot enlighten you as to
what Jesus was up to. This is an aspect
of the exhibition I found frustrating.
“The Murdered Tsarevich Dmitry” by
Mikhail Nesterov is next to Jesus. The
Tsarevich is green and ghostly, sur-
rounded by birch trees. He has very
long eyelashes. Again, I’d like to know
more about this haemophiliac prince,
but the RA won’t tell me (unless I pay).
There is a rather charming Pierre-
Auguste Renoir: “In the Garden”. The
background’s brush-strokes of deep
greens and blues are beautiful, with
the girl’s pale striped dress standing
out in the foreground. A less nice Re-
noir, “Portrait of the Actress Jeanne
Samary” is next to it, and is intolerably
naff.
My companion, who also happened
to be my mother, is a big Paul Cezanne
fan, so was delighted to find several of
his paintings. There are a couple of his
landscapes of Mont Sainte-Victoire.
These are beautiful and a real treat to
see. My mother made small whimper-
ing noises of lust (she told me to quote
that). I prefer “Bridge Over the Marne
at Cretail” though, as I’m not a moun-
tain person.
Nearby, “In the Bar” looks like a 14
year old did it, not Edouard Manet.
“The Pond at Montgeron” by Monet is
big. It is better from a distance, but dif-
ficult to appreciate when there are so
many people in the way.
Room three is possibly the best, con-
taining works by Van Gogh, Rousseau,
Matisse and Picasso - the real big ar-
tistic guns of the period. “Nave Nave
Moe. Sacred Spring” by Paul Gaugain
is beautiful. It shows south sea island
girls glumly eating fruit, with rusty red
colours. “Doesn’t do anything for me,
that one” an old lady says beside me. I
disagree. Some of the other Gaugains
are quite sickly though. He comes off
as a bit of a pervert, painting all these
scantily clad islanders. “The Muse In-
spiring the Poet” is by Rousseau, one
of my favourite artists. The cartoonish
muse is rather large and the poet looks
quite frightened, though his hands are
bigger than his head.
I feel a bit harsh when I say the Picas-
so presence here is a bit lacking. “Dry-
ad” is distinctively Picasso, but I don’t
like it. The awkward rusty orange of the
flesh doesn’t sit well with me, nor does
the blank lack of expression of the fig-
ure’s face. “Farm Woman”, its next door
neighbour, is equally uninspiring.
The works by Matisse are far more
pleasing, but then he is perhaps my
number-one-favourite-artist-of-all-
time(-can-I-have-his-babies-please).
“Nude (Black and Gold)” is very nice
for a nude, which I generally don’t en-
joy. The golden colours are fabulous.
“Dance II” takes pride of place in the
exhibition, and quite rightly so. The
colours are more vivid than you could
ever imagine from books. And it is gi-
gantic. Yet “Dance II” is oddly simple,
with flat background and rough lines,
while astounding and imposing.
I have a postcard at home of “The
Red Room” so this was a treat to see.
It is utterly beautiful. The colours, es-
pecially the red, are gorgeous. I love
the simplicity. I also adore the strange
cloud-like trees outside, the simple ap-
ples dotted about on the table and the
token out-of-place onion near them
that you could quite easily miss. I know
my onions.
“The Old Town, Cagnes” by Andre
Derain is down-to-earth in the col-
ourful but simply-formed style that
is prevalent in this room. It is non-
descript, making me feel quite fond
of it. “Saint-Michel Bridge, Paris” by
Albert Marquet is startlingly modern-
looking – it could be an Art on the Un-
derground poster. The simple brush-
strokes to create detail are excellent.
The grey of the sky contrasts with the
white of the bridge and the streets, to
give the impression of the sun glanc-
ing off it.
By this point the crowds have started
to disperse and, thankfully, the ex-
hibition cools down as you progress
through it. Room four is startling. The
walls are a lurid turquoise blue, which
is a bold move for the RA. It houses a
completely different kind of art, much
less to my liking I’m afraid. “The Grave
of the Commander” by Alexander
Golovin is nicely twiddly, but looks a
bit like somebody did it in felt-tip pens.
“The Rape of Europa” by Valentin Se-
rov is nicer than you’d expect from the
title. A young woman riding a big gin-
gery cow - the background is a pleas-
ant mauve colour. I particularly like the
girl’s cheeky smile. “Portrait of Fyodor
Chaliapin...” by Alexander Golovin is
huge - imposing to the point of being
scary, and dazzlingly detailed and in-
tricate. The spots of gold paint shim-
mer in the light, decorating the grand
gown of the bearded subject. The con-
trast between this and its neighbouring
nude is stark (was that a pun there?).
“Ida Rubinstein” by Valentin Serov
looks like a fashion shoot, only without
any fashions. The elegant, graceful Ida
has been painted so simply, with the
background almost the same colour as
her skin.
In the next room, “Date Palm, Egypt”
by Martrios Saryan is crisp and with
smooth, vivid colour. It looks like the
cover to a holiday brochure or travel
guide, and has probably been used as
Henri Matisse’s Dance II masterpiece. I think Matisse got this all wrong. There should be more bottoms! I do like a good, firm behind
A very orange man ‘Bathing a Red Horse’. This is how Kuzma Petrov-Vodkin saw the world. Weirdo
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Arts

