arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
15
Friday 29 February 2008 felix
Arts
Musical Theatre Weekly –
On The Town
History
O
n the Town opened
on Broadway in De-
cember 1944. The
show was inspired by
an earlier collabora-
tion between Bernstein and Rob-
bins (those crazy guys who created
West Side Story): Fancy Free, a ballet
about three sailors on 24 hours shore
leave in New York City.
After this proved a hit, the creators
teamed up with Betty Comden and
Adolph Green, who also starred in
the original Broadway production, to
develop a full-blown musical around
the idea. The show was a smash
and ran for 436 performances, and
in 1949 was adapted into an Oscar-
winning movie by MGM.
The film simplified the plot and
ditched much of Bernstein’s beauti-
ful score in favour of more ‘acces-
sible’ studio-written numbers. It
starred Gene Kelly, Frank Sinatra
and Ann Miller, and was notable for
being the first movie musical shot
largely on location.
Main Characters:
Gabey: The main romantic lead
Chip: Timid sweetheart and your
typical tourist
Ozzie: Sailor obsessed with sex
Hildy: Wise cracking taxidrvier, also
desperate for sex
Claire: Man-eating sexpot who is
desparately trying to stop being a man-
eating sexpot
Ivy: Typical sweetheart
Pitkin: The baddie
Lucy: Hildy’s roommate, happens to be
a nerd with a cold. Well, she’d fit in at
Imperial...
Plot
On the Town is the story of a 24-hour
adventure involving three sailors: Chip,
Ozzie and Gabey who are on leave
from their ship. Chip plans to see as
much of the city as possible, relying on
an out-dated guidebook from his dad.
Ozzie plans to meet a lot of girls. You
might want to take note, Imperial boys.
Gabey is the most serious of the three,
and hopes to meet one special girl.
The three of them go off in search
of Ivy Smith, the girl Gabey finds on
a billboard and believes is the one for
him. He becomes obsessed with her
and gives the three men a mission: in
a city of 2.5 million women, find this
billboard girl: Ivy Smith.
As a policeman chases them because
Gabey takes the billboard off the wall,
the three split up. Gabey heads for
Carnegie Hall (a bit like the Royal Al-
bert Hall) where Ivy takes singing les-
sons, Ozzie heads toward the Museum
of Modern Art where she studies paint-
ing, and Chip tries to find her through
the marketing division of the subway
that made her “Miss Turnstiles.”
Chip becomes distracted from his
search by a cab driver named Hildy
Esterhazy and later on, her roommate
Lucy. Meanwhile, Ozzie gets distracted
by an engaged anthropology graduate
student named Claire de Loone.
Gabey finally finds Ivy; she is stand-
ing on her head during a singing les-
son, waiting for Madame Dilly, her
instructor, to come back from a quick
trip to buy some Scotch. Gabey makes
plans to meet Ivy that night in Times
Square.
Gabey goes to Times Square to meet
Ivy but she never shows up. Ready for
their big night on the town, the three
sailors are short one girl. So Hildy calls
roommate Lucy to join them. The six
go off for night of fun in the clubs of
New York, spending most of their
time running away from Claire’s fiancé
Judge Pitkin W. Bridgework and look-
ing for Ivy.
Gabey eventually finds Ivy on Coney
Island and is joined by his friends. Be-
fore they can relax, they are cornered
by everyone they have encountered
and are arrested. Shit. The next morn-
ing the three are escorted by the police
back to their ship to go back to sea.
Songs to look out for:
New York, New York: Oh come on,
you must know this!! “It’s a hell of a
town”
I Can Cook Too: One to belt out when
the flatmates aren’t around.
Lonely Town: Sweet, poignant song
about being lost in a strange town. One
for the Freshers.
If you liked this, try:
West Side Story: Yes I know we cov-
ered this already, but it is a seminal
musical and it was done by the same
guys that did On the Town.
Anything Goes: It’s another musical
about sailors with some great produc-
tion numbers and general opportuni-
ties for showing off.
How can I find out
more?
Well, interesting you should mention
that! IC Musical Theatre Tour is doing
On The Town as their Summer musi-
cal. What is tour I hear you ask? Well,
after rehearsing in the summer term we
travel to Budleigh Salterton in Devon
for two weeks of performing, eating
cream teas, lazing on the beach and
partying until the early hours. Last
year’s production of West Side Story
was a big hit, playing to packed-out
audiences. This year we hope to be
just as successful and have just as
much fun with On The Town. The
initial meeting where you can find
out more about the show and tour
in general and meet the production
team is on Monday 3rd March in the
Union Dining Hall at 8pm. Auditions
will be on the following weekend
with rehearsals continuing through
the Summer Term.
by Dale Bassett
More information on any aspect
of tour can be obtained by
contacting the MTSoc Tour
Chair. Email robert.felstead02@
imperial.ac.uk
On The Town: The three sailors’ attention was momentarily diverted
as they compared cock sizes with buildings on Manhattan’s skyline
such. “Portrait of the Composer Arthur
Lourie” by Pyotr Miturich is strangely
modern again, while also looking like
it could be a Picasso, possibly demon-
strating the links between the French
and Russian art, which I still don’t think
the RA has fully demonstrated in From
Russia. “Beauty” by Boris Kustodiev
makes me smile. It is a huge portrait
of a large jelly-like pink nude smiling
cheerfully, and sitting on an elaborate
floral bedspread. It’s good fun.
Room six contains Neo-Primitiv-
ism, which is not a very happy move-
ment. Lots of crude images in strong
colours. “The Promenade” by Marc
Chagall stands out though: a grinning
man holding a songbird in one hand
while he whirls his girlfriend through
a bright white sky with the other. She
flies in a deep purple dress above a
cubist village. She is very expression-
less given the situation. I like their
decorative floral picnic blanket in the
corner. “Self Portrait with Pyotr Kon-
chalovsky” by Ilya Mashkov is a wall-
sized painting, mostly in brown, which
features “half-naked strong men” – it’s
fundamentally homoerotic. It might be
the moustaches that do it. Beside it is a
still life of fruit, again by Ilya Mashkov.
The fruits are in screaming rainbow
colours while the rough background is
slate grey. I really like this one, but then
I always love the colourful stuff.
In the room of Cubo-Futurism I
rather appreciate “The City at Night”
by Alexander Exter. It’s so cubist you
can’t tell what it is without looking at
the title. Next to it, I also like the quite
similar “Moscow” by Aristarkh Len-
tulov, which is busy and bustling with
jagged shapes and varied colours.
Room eight is getting all modernist
and abstract. There are a number of
Kandinskys here. “Winter” is not obvi-
ously of his usual style, and is in fact
much better. It’s strange how his pale
pink works so well splotched together
with the darker colours. I thought “Su-
permatism” by Kazimir Malevich was
a Kandinsky when I first saw it. In fact
it’s superior: crisper, cleaner, bolder. It’s
at this point I realise there have been
no sculptures in this exhibition, unless
you count one model next to the exit,
which is unusual in mainstream exhi-
bitions but doesn’t seem inappropriate
at all. I am not a particular sculpture
fan, and do not consider it a necessity.
The exhibition ends in total contrast
to how it started, despite progressing
only 40 or so years in time. Here we
have “Black Cross”, “Black Circle” and
“Black Square” by Kazimir Malevich.
They are what they say they are, on
a flat white background. You get the
impression of a sudden, significant
change in art occurring as the exhibi-
tion draws to a close, which is powerful
in making you thirsty for more art.
To sum it all up, From Russia is a rare
opportunity to see a lot of big names
and iconic works under one roof. It is
important to seize the chance to see
such travelling collections when you
can, as half the UK population seems
to be doing. It is unfortunate that the
exhibition is proving so hugely popu-
lar, but I feel reluctant to criticise it
for this. I want art to be available to
the masses, so restricting the number
of visitors to it would be wrong. In
an ideal world this exhibition would
be open for longer, but obviously the
art is merely on loan from Russia so
the 18th April deadline is inevitable. I
would like to have seen this collection
showcased in a bigger museum more
capable of catering for these crowds,
though I can’t name off the top of my
head a venue that would really be any
more suitable. The RA have clearly
tried their best.
From Russia is on at the Royal
Academy until the 19th April.
Good luck getting tickets, my
darlings!
Black Square by Kazimir Malevich. It really is just that Van Gogh’s Portait of Dr Felix Rey who was probably his psychiatrist!

