Castiglioni’s kooky darlings and glam
geeks rocked a series of unusual and
fascinating colour combinations bal-
anced out with gorgeous silk print
jackets and pleated and folded collars,
topped off with a sprinkling of wacky
oversized cropped pants and John Len-
non sunglasses.
The furs were also a highlight, dyed
in effortlessly eye-catching shades in
concordance with the cool matron-
meets-Cibo Matto vibe. Like Anna
Sui’s shows, Marni’s collections always
manage to be standouts, mixing fun
with chic. We’re already looking for-
ward to next season.
Dolce & Gabbana
In these hard times of understatement
and increasingly cerebral fashion, it’s
reassuring to be able to rely on these
two masters of maximalism to glam
it up. Forget the ridiculous billboards,
hypercamp perfume ads and trashy
offshoots and diffusion lines. Though
business sense can prevail over purity
(those execrable pink Dior J’Adore tees,
anyone?), a true designer will always
return to the source and knock out
eye-poppingly striking designs. Playing
on the theme of country opulence, the
collection focused on full lengths and
sharp tailoring mixing earthy textures
and materials with classic Italian pro-
portions, livened up with flamboyant
Latin touches – a gorgeously colourful
print scarf tied around the neck, per-
haps, or fastened carelessly to a leather
bag. Almost out-gentrifying Christo-
pher Bailey himself, the show all but
confirmed check and tartan as major
trends for fall.
Burberry Prorsum
Ah, Christopher Bailey. The local lad
and most assured yet. The look? Top
heavy – yet floaty – proportion-cen-
tric luxe coats with fingerless gloves
bunched up to the sleeves, hanging
over a pair of matchstick black opaques
clad in teetering leather platforms, or
sleek silk trousers that furrowed to-
wards the ankle before engulfing the
wearer’s shoes.
As the show progressed, Bailey ex-
panded into liberal use of tough, mens-
wear fabrics on coats and as day seg-
ued into evening, svelte satin cocktail
dresses contrasted with layered ranks
of feathers. Other highlights included a
stiff, bodice-like shirt flared abruptly at
the waist and the ever-charming Irina
Lazareanu in a mesmerisingly-creased
olive green dress gathered expressive-
ly in bundles and striking the hem at
mid-thigh.
Prada
Such is the power of such directional
and focused collections – such as
Prada’s fall collection – that both Mow-
er and Cathy Horyn have predicted an
overhaul of the lace industry (more or
less), similar to that of the effect Nicho-
las Ghesquiere’s spring collection for
Balenciaga had on floral printers. Such
statements do not go without reason.
Designers such as the aforementioned
Prada and Ghesquiere have now gath-
ered such influence and an aura of pre-
dictive enigma that where they go, the
rest of the industry follows.
The dominance of patterned lace
was inescapable – it formed separates,
full dresses extending to the clavicle,
and even came in a shade of sizzling
tangerine. The sternness of the shapes
and the innately sexual connotation of
the material formed an uncomfortably
tense dichotomy, and paired with sheer
textures overlying prim layers under-
neath, formed a sort of meditation on
fashion.felix@imperial.ac.uk
20 felix Friday 29 February 2008
Fashion
Fashion Editor – Sarah-Jane Skeete
Milan Fashion Week, Fall 2008
done good, the purveyor of classic,
clean lines and the owner of possibly
the sharpest collection of tailored suits
west of Grosvenor Square. Reviving
Burberry will be one of his greatest leg-
acies and, not only that, but with each
collection, moving from strength to
strength. This was one of his strongest
Marni, Dolce & Gabbana, Prada, Alberta Ferretti: Italian greats. A Milan runway review by David J Paw
M
ILAN, February 19,
2008 – The sight
of an A-list lineup
of editors and buy-
ers trooping into a
6267 show at 8:30 p.m. on a cold Milan
night (and after Prada, too) is proof of
the industry's goodwill toward any sign
of young life springing up in this city –
Sarah Mower
It’s telling when Sarah Mower, Vogue
contributing editor and grande dame
of style.com, starts a review of a rela-
tively minor show with a portrayal of
an industry elite’s overbearing yearn-
ing for a new creative force in this most
venerated city. Though houses like
Alessandro Dell’Acqua and the afore-
mentioned cult label 6267 have built
up their own followings, it is unlikely
that either of them will have the global
impact of their contemporaries from
other cities, such as New York’s Jack
McCullough and Lazaro Hernandez,
or London’s Christopher Kane. The
city, though synonymous with high
style and megawatt glam, has been sti-
fled of new talent for years.
And how. It showed in a mostly dis-
appointing week of toned-down shows
that lacked the sparkle of seasons past.
But it wasn’t all bad news. A few per-
sistent performers showed the inno-
vation and flair that we have become
accustomed to from Milan. With the
city’s self-imposed high standards,
who could expect anything less?
Marni
With Karlie Kloss’s death stare ob-
scured by a pair of huge square sun-
glasses, the Marni show kicked off
with a powder-pink knee length cardi-
gan over a fuchsia skirt and a lighter-
than-air grey blouse, belted securely
for a tight, cohesive look. Consuelo
underwear as outerwear. Of course,
this isn’t unfamiliar – Marc Jacobs’s
controversial collection last Septem-
ber reminded us of its potential, and
Prada even seems to have picked up
cues from Balenciaga in the form of
towering gladiator sandals – but this is
not a woman with anything to prove.
Reinterpretation and shaping new ide-
as from existing ones is integral to the
capricious and oft-convoluted world of
fashion, and though the influences are
evident, the grande dame’s vision is all
her own.
Alberta Ferretti
Clean, feminine, and sensuous. In a
week traditionally associated with the
notion that more is more, Alberta Fer-
retti has always been a welcome respite
to the maelstrom around. Think of her
show as a detox, an holistic cleanser of
palate and retina. A glacier-blue knee-
length dress wrapped and tucked to
perfection and a cascading black tiered,
pleated number with sequin shoulders
stood out in an otherwise unembel-
lished and pure collection relatively
devoid of frills, pretension, or whimsy.
The palette of deep, intriguingly opu-
lent jewel tones and restrained purples
and greens was ideal for the minimal-
ist feel of the collection, though subtle
dramas played out in dramatic use of
volume and proportion, not to men-
tion daring experiments like a remark-
able hot-pink egg-shaped satin coat
with a twisted collar in which the wear-
er’s forearms and wrists plunge into
wide pockets cut perpendicularly to its
“sleeves”. But that would be missing the
point of the collection entirely.With
the sun soaring above on a freshly cool
day outside and the shadows inclining
benevolently in the background, it was
a collection perfect for its time and
place.
(Left to right) Marni, Dolce & Gabbana, Burberry Prorsum
(Left to right) Dolce & Gabbana, Prada, Alberta Ferretti

