film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Film
Film Editor – Alex Casey
Forget the Oscars, they always save the best awards till last
Promotional still from Thelma and Louise: 20 Years Earlier
Nights is Lost in Translation
For a filmmaker who has been screen-
writing since the early 80s and direct-
ing for almost as long, My Blueberry
Nights is an awful move. Let’s just get
that out there now, because I don’t
want anyone getting caught up in the
odd bits of praise I’ll give it here. Al-
though Wong Kar-Wai is probably best
known globally for the relatively recent
In the Mood for Love and 2046, he is
a successful and respected Chinese
auteur. Sadly, in this, his first English
language film, it turns out that some
things just don’t translate.
Fatal Error No. 1: Having Norah
Jones as the protagonist. Like so many
before her, Norah hasn’t seemed to
realise that acting and singing are not
similar skills. In fact, despite having an
interesting voice, I don’t even remem-
ber her really trying to sing, although
I never went looking for it. Her per-
formance here is horrible (although
not consistently as bad as her first
few scenes) and her character thinly
written to become a whiney, one-
dimensional bore. Given that the plot
of the movie is her trekking across the
US meeting various personalities, this
doesn’t make for a fun film.
Fatal Error No. 2: Using the big-
ger names in the supporting cast to
My Blueberry Nights may look like haute cuisine but ends up a total dog’s dinner
fill more interesting, but very mini-
mal roles. Natalie Portman is prob-
ably the best of the bunch here, albeit
with a southern drawl of an accent that
feels like every sentence may end in
“Yee-haw!”. Eugh. Better that than the
equally drippy waiter (Law) who keeps
trying to get in touch with drippy
trekker after one night of meeting her,
or the horrendously underused Rachel
Weisz who just shouts and cries a bit,
although looks great doing it.
F
inally, it’s over. Awards sea-
son has been and gone, and,
starting with Sundance and
Berlin, the Festival season
(which technically lasts until
London in October I suppose) has ten-
tatively begun. Sadly, as we do not live
in either Utah or Germany, it means
that there is very little in the way of
new releases coming your way over the
next few weeks. Damn.
In the end, the Oscars did find some
kind of redemption in their choices.
While everyone else was complaining
about it being too predictable, I was
personally thrilled by the two major
upsets of the night in the actress cat-
egories, and I’d prepared myself for a
Coen sweep for the main awards. It
almost makes sense, I suppose, given
that the voters got so much stick last
year for giving it to over-the-hill Scors-
ese. There must have been part of
them that thought this year, “If we’re
not careful, the Coens will stick to this
downturn in quality and we’ll end up
wishing we’d given it to The Ladykill-
ers” . In that case, better give it to one
of their films that has received good
critical responses overall in case an-
other one never materialises. Hopefully
Scorsese comes out with a masterpiece
next year and shows them they should
have held out that little bit longer.
Giventhe pretty widespreaddistribu-
tion of awards, one of the most amusing
things to come out of the whole thing
is that The Bourne Ultimatum walked
away with the second highest number
of awards. It’s a great film, granted, es-
pecially in a year that showed a block-
buster isn’t as simple to make well as
everyone thought, but I imagine the
Academy wouldn’t have wanted to see
it steal the ceremony. Not that it did,
it simply raised questions over what
is the difference between Best Sound
Editing and Best Sound Mixing. Oh,
and has now paved the way for Matt
Damon and Paul Greengrass to sign
on for a fourth installment. Quit while
you’re ahead, guys.
Other highlights? An all-American
shutout from the acting categories, the
first since 1964, could rank up there as
evidence of xenophobia waning. Mind
you, three of them won for American
films. And I’m still not entirely sure
why Javier Bardem was such a good
thing, much in the same way that
Frances McDormand’s Best Actress
award for Fargo was perhaps a slight
exaggeration. Those Coens must really
have something that I don’t get at all.
Answers on a postcard if you can ex-
plain it in less than 20 words.
The most ridiculous part of the
whole experience, however, is that
winners only get about 45 seconds to
speak before the strings kick in and
their spotlight moves. Why? So they
can play some promotional film about
how great the ceremony is? To fit in
another $10 billion ad break? It’s all a
bit Cinderella - Go to the ball, but leave
by midnight. And don’t drink. And you
have to walk in glass slippers. And then
be asked to try on one glass slipper you
stupidly left behind, after half your vil-
lage has already tried to get into it. Bet-
ter off staying at home, really. No?
Alex Casey
Film Editor
Fatal Error No. 3: Taking subtle direc-
torial motifs and shoe-horning them
into every second of film until another
slow-motion, out-of-focus, neon-lit-
street shot makes you think the projec-
tor has jumped back a reel. Yes, it looks
beautiful and it’s something a bit dif-
ferent, but the sparse use of techniques
like this that was noticeable in Mood
for Love, etc, was sufficient.
As far as this final flaw goes, it’s really
not such a biggie, and given the banal-
ity of the story, it may come as a relief
to have some pretty colours to look at.
At times though, it seems that Kar-Wai
may have had a lot of trouble getting
his point across to his English-speaking
cast, which raises the fish-out-of-water
question that pervades international
collaborative cinema. Maybe he real-
ised this as well, and decided to build
up a portfolio of nice shots instead. Ei-
ther way, this says more about cultural
differences than Sofia Coppola could.
My Blueberry Nights ★✫✫✫✫
Director: Wong Kar-Wai
Writer: Wong Kar-Wai
Lawrence Block
Cast: Norah Jones,
Jude Law,
Natalie Portman
Alex Casey
Just to be difficult, Felix has decided
that it isn’t completely happy with the
dozens of awards that were doled out
over the past two months. Given the
less-than-positive review for No Coun-
try For Old Men (2 stars) that graced
these hallowed pages, it’s not hard to
imagine a general grumbling within the
office walls, and so in order to rectify
this, the Felix Academy have decided
to dole out some of their own ditties,
which after hours of painstaking cog-
turning have been named the Felixes.
And so without further ado, the
nominations are...
Best Picture
Interview
The Bourne Ultimatum
I’m Not There
The Darjeeling Limited
4 Months, 3 Weeks, 2 Days
With none of the frequent Best Picture
candidates in the running, the field
was thrown wide open here, with the
eventual winner being: Interview.
Best Director
Paul Greengrass (Bourne)
Todd Haynes (I’m Not There)
Paul Thomas Anderson (Blood)
Julian Schnabel (Diving Bell)
Cristian Mungiu (4,3,2)
Here it goes to Paul Thomas Ander-
son, robbed by the Coens of every ma-
jor prize until now. Masterful storytell-
ing that outweighed the avant-garde
leanings of some of the other contend-
ers in the field.
Best Actor
Daniel Day Lewis (Blood)
Viggo Mortensen (Eastern Promises)
Tommy Lee Jones (Valley of Elah)
Philip Seymour Hoffman (Savages)
Emile Hirsch (Into The Wild)
Damn, Day Lewis snatched another
one, but Mortensen gets a special men-
tion for being so overlooked amongst
overrated competitors, Johnny Depp
and George Clooney.
Best Actress
Sienna Miller (Interview)
Angelina Jolie (Mighty Heart)
Marion Cotillard (La Vie En Rose)
Julie Christie (Away From Her)
Anamaria Marinca (4,3,2)
More recognition for hitherto forgot-
ten Marinca (4, 3, 2) and the surpris-
ingly excellent Miller (Interview), but
the final winner is Marion Cotillard.
Another kick in the face for Julie Chris-
tie who looked like she’d been belted
round the face on Oscar night when
they chose the French girl.
Best Supporting Actor
Casey Affleck (Assassination)
Tom Wilkinson (Michael Clayton)
Hal Holbrook (Into The Wild)
Casey Affleck, no contest. Mo show-
boating, no undue sentimentality, yet
still a masterful portrayal of the young
Robert Ford and his adulation for idol
Jesse James. Unlucky for Javier not to
glimpse even a nomination. I’m sure
he’ll be crying his eyes out. With his
Oscar in one hand, and Penelope Cruz
in the other. Dick.
Best Supporting Actress
Tilda Swinton (Michael Clayton)
Cate Blanchett (Elizabeth)
Catherine Keener (Into The Wild)
Despite early indications that said
Blanchett would walk away with it,
Tilda Swinton pips it at the last mo-
ment, riding a wave of momentum
At the suggestion of running the tech-
nical awards here as well, cries of pro-
test were heard and so the coverage for
this year must stop now. Further office
favourites seem to lie with The Dar-
jeeling Limited for Best Soundtrack
(especially after someone has been
playing the Juno one on loop so much
that overkill isn’t sufficient) and Best
Drama with a Country House and Ri-
diculous Dunkirk Tracking Scene goes
to Atonement. It had to get something.
This is Britain after all...
22 felix Friday 29 February 2008

