George Pringle
Poor EP
, Poor EP Without a
Name…
★★★★✩
music.felix@imperial.ac.uk
25
Friday 29 February 2008 felix
Music
Pringles cannot swim... IC Radio’s
Singles
Column
The lovely people at IC Radio, limitless
as they are in both eloquence and gen-
erosity, have donated a load of single
reviews.
One Republic
Stop and Stare
★★★✩✩
LA-based OneRepublic are the first
‘rock’ band to be signed to Timbal-
and’s record label, Interscope Records/
Mosley Music Group, and is getting a
lot of media attention in the US – es-
pecially on TV – with ‘Stop and Stare’
following their hit single ‘Apologise’
(which also featured as a remix on
Timbaland’s album Shock Value). Al-
though the band’s been around since
2003, it’s since 2006 and after quite a
few modifications in the line-up, that
OneRepublic’s been gaining popular-
ity, due to online exposure mainly;
it is now definitely one of the biggest
Myspace bands with over 20 million
songs played – and counting.
‘Stop and Stare’ features on their debut
album, Dreaming Out Loud and is one
of those mellow, bittersweet, typical
pop-rock songs, with sentimental lyr-
ics and a simple melodic tune. It is an
attractive track for the mainstream and
will probably get a lot of airplay. But all
in all, there’s not much to rave about,
it is neither the first, last nor the best
of its kind. The band itself, other than
the fact that there are three guitars as
well as a cello involved, is also your
average pop-rock band: very popular,
that does very well for itself and whose
songs will be played a lot at proms and
in TV-series (the latter is already a true
statement).
Kate Agathos
Royworld
Man in the machine
★✩✩✩✩
When the common man’s ears are
graced with the name ‘George Pringle’,
the first image in their mind might be
that of a slightly chubby man who per-
haps has a moustache and is somehow
affiliated with a tasty bag of crisps.
In reality, nothing could stray further
from the truth, as George Pringle is
in fact a young aspiring female art-
ist from the heart of London. This is
perhaps because George doesn’t really
craft “common” music for the ordinary
person. From the very inception of this
four track EP it becomes irrefutably
clear that this artist is completely ob-
livious of any current musical trends
and has absolutely no intentions of
conforming to instantly recognizable
traits of any one genre.
‘SW10’ starts with a child-like play-
ground clapping noise which is then
supported by a distorted electronic
underbelly until George comes in with
a riveting spoken-word story which
seems to have been originally writ-
ten as a poem. Lyrically, the song is a
schizophrenic journey deep into the
dark reaches of her mind as she seems
to mourn the loss of her childhood in-
nocence and heavily reminisces times
gone by. The second song ‘Carte Post-
ale’ doesn’t rely on any such sonic
build-ups and instead commences
straight off with a simple but consistent
drumbeat and a lush ‘electro-poppy’
backdrop combined with George’s po-
etic spoken commentary. A cherubic
background sound of George singing
‘change change’ provides the track an
additional beautiful and poignant aura
which makes the angst and pain she
speaks of all the more palpable. ‘LCD I
love you..’ is musically the most palata-
ble and infectiously groovy song on the
EP, as it seems to tread on Vive la Fete
and Goldfrapp-esque grounds with its
instantlyupliftingdrumbeatandchants
of ‘take me out tonight..’. The lyrical in-
genuity on display in this EP relies on
George’s uncanny ability to convey her
complex introspective voyage through
an uncompromisingly sincere account
of aspects of her everyday life. Over-
all, the sense of urgency exhibited in
Pringle’s music almost wholeheartedly
convinces you that this art is crafted
not so much out of choice as it is out of
a cathartic need for expression. With
the ‘Poor’ EP George Pringle has man-
aged to produce a collection of songs
infinitely more intriguing and visceral
than a billion billboard-topping musi-
cians. George has managed to prove
herself to be a shiny needle in the hay-
stack of mediocrity that seems to be
music these days and rest assured her
words can pierce through to the inner
reaches of your heart. Regardless of
record sales, chart positions or any of
the meaningless irrelevance that seems
to lurk behind music these days, I truly
believe 2008 has the potential to be
‘Year of the Pringle’.
Ushnish Banerjee
‘Man in the machine’ by Royworld is
another of those poppy rock songs cur-
rently invading the airwaves. Produced
by the man behind the likes of Scout-
ing For Girls, and The Feeling, the
song follows a similar style, and will no
doubt attract the same following. How-
ever, the vocals try too hard to sound
striking, and ultimately end up seem-
ing forced; all whilst the usual sprightly
piano part flitters in the background,
contrasted by an occasional pounding
on the drum. All this comes together
as a song which whilst offering noth-
ing new, does nothing old particularly
well either, making a truly forgettable
single.
Nat Roocroft
Singles, singles, singles... we just love listening to M*****
We Are Scientists
After Hours
★★★★✩
Bears Are Coming
Late of the Pier
★★★★✩
We Are Scientists’ new single ‘After
Hours’ is the first from new album
'Brain Thrust Mastery', and also the
first since the loss of their drum-
mer Michael Tapper. The remaining
two piece more than make up for it
with this assured song which draws
strong comparisons with Arcade Fire
throughout. The song maintains a high
intensity, which is mixed with a capti-
vating drum rhythm. Add memorable
lyrics and a straightforward structure
into the mix, and the song possesses
an anthemic quality. Their website
describes the song with no fewer than
sixteen adjectives, which seems exces-
sive when ‘superb’ does the job.
Nat Roocroft
It can be easy to clump Late of the
Pier into the terribly materialistic “Nu-
Rave” genre, but this band from Castle
Donington are much more than that.
The track starts off with pounding,
almost tribal drums, and you know
you’re in for an aural assault of sorts
from the outset. Vocals and synthesiz-
ers ferociously enter, creating a very
funky, danceable verse. It carries on
this way until about half way through,
until we are met with a 60’s-style gui-
tar-led rhythm part. Following this we
get a truly joyous, celebratory digres-
sion complete with choral singing,
sounding not too unlike The Flaming
Lips. This is definitely something new,
and I for one loved it since it is such a
departure from the same-old same-old
indie music we are getting so used to
hearing at the moment. Wonderfully
fulfilling and exciting music.
Mit Shah
Shocking Pinks
Emily
★★★★✩
Shocking Pinks are a New Zealand
band, with Nick Harte being the only
permanent member of a continually
varying line-up. 4 albums in, “Emily” is
their latest offering. It boasts a mouth-
wateringly scuzzy, overdriven bass
which is complemented by sparse gui-
tars and metallophone sounds, creat-
ing a very textured atmosphere. Harte’s
vocals are dreamy, and the back-to-ba-
sics approach works really well on this
single. I absolutely love this song, and
am drawn by its romantic simplicity
and honest cries to “Emily”, presum-
ably a previous lover. All in all, this is
an intimately warm song.
Mit Shah
I picked up ‘Alas, I Cannot Swim’ be-
lieving that I would have an easy time
reviewing it after a friend – who’s taste
in music more often than not clashes
with my own – began frequently men-
tioning Laura Marling’s name in the
lead up to this debut. After all, negative
reviews are so much more fun to write
and any time the words “MySpace”,
“artist” and “young” end up in the art-
ist’s calling card along with your typi-
cal go-to influences for female singer-
songwriters (Kate Bush, PJ Harvey, Joni
Mitchell, et cetera), you just know that
the record will be ripe for tearing to
shreds. So, having said that and unless
you have done what most readers do
by noting the star rating and just mov-
ing on, you can probably guess how the
rest of this article will read.
For the uninitiated, Laura Marling
hails from Eversley, started playing
guitar when she was five, was taught
the blues by her father, and has recent-
Laura Marling
Alas I Cannot Swim
★★★★✩
ly come off her first UK tour as well
as providing support for Jaime T and
cross-dressing folk-kingpin, Deven-
dra Banhart. Like Adele, she has been
gathering an underground following
over the past year, but unlike the South
London warbler who has taken the
limelight seemingly just off the back
of a painfully mediocre single (but isn’t
that video cool!), Marling deserves the
recognition she gets.
‘Swim’ consists of guitar-driven folk-
pop vignettes (half of the songs don’t
even scratch the three minute mark),
that might initially make listeners
dump her into the Starbucks friendly
wasteland of Katie “Terry-Wogan’s-
ho” Melua and Norah “Snorah” Jones.
Sticking with it, however, reveals a col-
lection of thirteen lovely tracks, most
of which possess a slight tinge of dark-
ness underscoring their softly lilting
melodies.
The most immediate element on the
record is Marling’s voice and while she
does not demonstrate an awesome
range, her mature, slightly smoky
tones completely conceal the fact that
this young lady celebrated her eight-
eenth birthday at the start of February!
Tracks like ‘Old Stone’ and ‘My Manic
& I’ demonstrate such an astonishing
amount of world weariness that you’d
have to check the cover of the album
again just to make sure you that no,
you are not listening to a Patti Smith
record. The former track, in particular
has her contemplating the comforting
peace that comes with solitude (“Ten
thousand years and you’re still on your
own…But you love it that way”), while
the latter has her coming to terms with
a wasteful relationship (“I cannot be
your friend/I don’t believe in a fairytale
end”).
If the lyrical content raises this album
above the releases of her peers, then
the beautiful and organic instrumenta-
tion, along with the creaking produc-
tion that makes the thing sound like
its coming out of the bowel’s of an old
boat, make it completely captivating
and transporting. On ‘Failure’, Marling
tackles, amongst other things, religion
(“If He made me in his image, then he’s
a failure, too”), while on ‘The Captain
And The Hourglass’, a driving guitar, a
lightly played piano and urgent fiddles
make this the most country-flecked
of all the tracks as Marling almost
appears to channel Nancy Sinatra.
‘Swim’s most shining and uplifting mo-
ment, however, comes in the form of
the short interlude ‘Crawled Out Of
The Sea’. Starting as an a capella, Mar-
ling’s achingly sweet refrain is quickly
joined by bouncy percussion, accordi-
ons, fiddles, trumpets and handclaps
in a rousing climax that also includes
what sounds like a mariner’s worth of
sailors on backing vocals.
Jorge Costa
Album reviews
George Pringle has rather taken to playing whack-a-badger by sitting
on them just as they burrow upwards through the earth. Tell no one
They are really scientists We Are Scientists. RLY? YA RLY
Some truly dreadful photos

