26 felix Friday 29 February 2008
Compensating cameras
Jonathan Silver wonders: is that a zoom lens, or are you just pleased to see me?
R
ight, lots of news this week
so let’s not wait any longer.
Many of you may have
noticed on Tuesday that
Micro$oft’s servers weren’t
exactly behaving. People worldwide
have experienced severe difficulty
gaining access to Hotmail accounts and
logging into MSN Messenger. Some
pages on the MSN website were also
unavailable. MS have yet to give any
details to what caused this but claim to
have remedied the problem. It brings
forward some questions though. Are
MicroSoft really ready to expand in
the on-line market when they have dif-
ficulties maintaining what they already
have?
Apple have upgraded all their non-
MacBook Air laptops in keeping with
some of its new features. The Pro’s have
had across-the-board system upgrades
including faster processors, cheaper
RAM, larger hard drives, and the new
Multi-Touch pad from the Air. The
regular MacBooks have also received
the same system upgrades, but not the
inclusion of the innovative track pad.
Concerns have been raised over
wind power after a turbine in Den-
mark destroyed itself after its brakes
failed. There is some really impressive
footage of it so I highly recommend
you YouTube “Danish wind turbine”. It
doesn’t seem that bad in the sense that
most of these things are located off
shore or miles from anything but any
of you who have pulled of the M4 at
Reading will have seen the Turbine that
stands amongst a group of buildings.
Apple have delayed the release of the
iPhone (and iTouch) SDK which was
supposed to be released this month.
You think Jobs would be pressing hard
to release this thing as third-party apps
would probably significantly reduce the
number of iPhones being jail-broken.
YouTube is once again available in
Pakistan after authorities there decid-
ed to order their ISPs to ban the site.
This snowballed and almost took out
YouTube worldwide. The reason for
this was due to blasphemous video be-
ing posted on the site. This re-surfaces
the whole freedom of information on-
line in parallel with the censorship of
Google in China and some partial cen-
sorship in Germany. Should nations
have the power to do this?
Sony has announced it has bought
a 1/3 stake in Sharp’s new LCD panel
factory. Currently Sony uses Samsung
panels but Sony and Samsung are com-
peting for the top spot in flat panel tel-
evision sales and this restructuring is
expected to produce a far more com-
petitive market for panels and hence
better prices on the final TVs.
A hugely entertaining argument has
been put forth by the Open Rights
Group that “illegal” filesharers should
be paid. The logic is as follows: P2P
filesharing allows a very cheap method
of promoting low key artists and pro-
jecting them to worldwide audiences,
thus increasing their fan base for free.
For this “service” they should be paid.
I doubt the seriousness of actually im-
plementing this idea and I expect it’s
just been concocted to argue down the
RIAA.
felix@imperial.ac.uk
Technology
Technology Editor – James Finnerty
James Finnerty
Technology Editor
They sure manage to cram a tonne of clever stuff inside these things. Or maybe this is just fictitious propaganda to justify the pricetag?
T
hese days, you’re unlikely
to find me wandering
around College without
a lump of black hanging
over my shoulder.
A digital SLR camera, or DSLR, is
‘one of them big black ones’. They’re the
weapon of choice for everyone from
keen students to paparazzi, reporters
to motor racing photographers. They
are the key to good photography, and
give you status, a badge of office, as
someone who can Take Photos. They
come in all shapes and flavours, and
if you’ve ever been tempted by their
hunky looks, there’s no better time to
get involved.
Why should I care? Compact, or
‘point-and-shoot’ cameras, are de-
signed to sell. They slip into your pock-
et and take party snaps. If you’re lucky,
only most of your photos are blurry,
dark, or all orange. Your ugly friends
will appreciate the blur and your pal-
lid CompSci friends might like the tan,
but if you want them to come out nice-
ly, you’ll have to rethink things.
OK, so I’m being harsh. But even
when your shiny silver camera is ad-
vertised as being fantastic, and has
128 advanced scene modes including
16 porn modes and Endless Creative
Possibilities™, you can still only expect
reliably sharp photos in bright, low-
contrast environments, and they might
not look quite like you remembered.
So what does a DSLR do? It gives you
IMAGE QUALITY, and, more impor-
tantly, FLEXIBILITY.
Image quality? Know how a film
camera works? It’s got a load of optical
gubbins that shines your picture onto
the film in the back of the camera, and
then the film slides along for your next
shot. Guess what: a digital camera is
nearly exactly the same. It’s just got a
chip where the film would be. The size
of this chip, or ‘sensor’, sets compacts
and DSLRs apart. A compact camera’s
sensor is about as big as a tooth, and a
DSLR’s is as big as a big stamp. Each
pixel, while still tiny, is much bigger
and is much more sensitive to pretty
things like light and colour. Result: bet-
ter photos, in lower light, with better
colours.
That’s only part of the story. The im-
age quality isn’t so much about the sen-
sor at all. Quality is really in the LENS.
It MAKES how sharp your shots are,
and how good your colours are. The
small plastic affair in a compact camera
can’t really keep up, and there’s only so
much you can enlarge a photo before
it looks all soft and rubbish. The most
basic DSLR lens destroys it, and sud-
denly pictures have attitude, a punch,
that you never thought possible.
This is essential. Megapixels: bol-
locks! A compact camera with a zillion
megapixels is a fraud; if the lens can
only produce a picture with 3 meg-
apixels of detail, as is typical, having an
8-megapixel sensor is a waste. Still, 3
megapixels go a long way. It’ll make a
lovely 6”x4” photo, or even a respecta-
ble A4 enlargement if you don’t study it
with a magnifying glass. My DSLR has
only a 6-megapixel sensor, but because
of DSLR lens quality, I get to use all 6
megapixels. Even then, the difference
between 6 and 10 megapixels is very
small (it makes photos only 1.3 times
bigger) and so really very few people
need lots of megapixels. Ever.
Flexibility? If all the quality is in the
lens, then surely the camera doesn’t
make so much difference? Right. That’s
why DSLRs are a little bit like electric
whisks. Press the little round button,
and the lens pops off! Why? So you
can get another lens out and put it on
the camera, of course. Your other lens
might be able to zoom in so far you can
watch your neighbour getting changed,
or it could be able to take amazing
close-ups of fleas jumping between
sugar crystals, or it might be as big as
a dinner plate so it can take good pic-
tures in low light. A creative photogra-
pher might change lenses as often as a
golfer changes clubs, as the need takes
them, or they might not. Soon enough,
though, you’ll be wanting to buy your-
self a plethora of lenses for a plethora
of occasions. Long ones, fat ones, it’s
what a DSLR is all about. Generally
speaking, any camera can use any lens
by the same manufacturer, or a lens
made by a third party and dedicated to
your make of camera.
Any camera usually does an awful lot
of thinking before taking a photo. It has
to consider lots of things and if it gets
them wrong, the photo will be rubbish.
How bright is the scene? Which bit of
Generic lens photo used to fill whitespace number 1

