felix@imperial.ac.uk
Travel
Travel Editors – Ahran Arnold, Nadine Richards and Ammar Waraich
Rwanda and the Genocide in depth
Ammar Waraich talks us through his visit to Rwanda last summer. As well as studying the genocide in
some depth he sees another, oft unreported side of the country (The Congo: Part 2 will be back soon!)
A
cabin full of fresh fine
dust and Celine Dion
marked my entrance
into Kigali, the capital of
Rwanda. I was in my own
world, busy trying to shrug off idiotic
visions my mind kept conjuring of wild
gangs with machetes, running around
to the sound of jungle drums. Being
the product of popular culture from
Britain this was proving a difficult task,
especially travelling as I was, alone and
with manifold luggage.
I felt a pang of genuine fear as this
overnight open-window coach journey
from the Ugandan capital Kampala
came to a halt, after many hours, in
a dusty open patch of land in Kigali.
Throughout the journey, the TV on-
board was playing a Celine Dion DVD
on infinite repeat and as I got ready to
alight, I remember trying to force the
infuriating Titanic theme tune out of
my head. French and Swahili were the
languages of choice here and there was
a slim chance that a shared enthusiasm
for Celine could act as a trans-lingual
icebreaker.
Anyway, the fear was in expectation
of being taken advantage of, of being
hassled and harassed as one would ex-
pect in other big cities, namely Mom-
basa or Nairobi, but what I got was the
opposite. Nobody could care less that I
was there, not even the taxi drivers! My
pride was hurt.
After forcing myself upon the clos-
est taxi man, I made my way to a hotel
and then to a swish modern shopping
mall in the centre of town. Gradually
getting acquainted to the surroundings
and the exchange rate, I realised that
Kigali was not a cheap place. Actually
Rwanda was not a cheap place. In fact,
Rwanda was nothing I or you or most
people would assume.
Okay let’s be honest. We have all
been thinking about the genocide
since I mentioned Rwanda and it was
certainly all that I had been thinking
about during my initial days there, but
having visited it, I want to impress on
you how much more there is to Rwan-
da than just that.
In the brief week and a half I spent
there I started at the village of Kinigi
and its Silverback Gorillas, the same
family group that Dian Fossey herself
studied as depicted by the ‘Gorillas in
the Mist’ film, before venturing into
the Democratic Republic of Congo. I
then re-entered Rwanda in the south
and travelled back up to Kigali, in the
process touching upon most of the
small country and its major towns and
cities.
A quick overview of what I got up
to would include seeing chimpanzees
and troops of up to five hundred Colo-
bus monkeys in the dense, hilly, misty
jungles of Nyungwe Forest National
Park; seeing fruit bats the size of men
in Kibuye; trekking the stunning chain
of Virunga volcanoes; visiting the en-
grossing National Museum in the
university town Butare; and of course
enjoying the sights and sounds of the
capital Kigali.
Set on a series of hills and valleys,
Kigali is perhaps my favourite city in
East Africa after Kampala. It is clean,
beautiful and possesses a great mix
of bustle and sophistication, being a
shining example of how Rwanda as a
country is becoming more safe and de-
28 felix Friday 29 February 2008
bearing on society and was a monu-
mental event in recent history, hence it
is important to try and understand this
phenomenon.
To do so, the best place to start is the
Kigali Memorial Centre. Set up by the
Aegis Trust, it is located on a quiet hill
overlooking the centre of Kigali and is
organised into a few dimly lit corridors
that the audience can walk though,
taking the history in.
These corridors detail the back-
ground of the genocide; of how the
introduction of ID cards under Belgian
rule led to previous socio-economic
measures becoming ethnicities, i.e.
how originally someone with owner-
ship of more than ten cows was known
as a Tutsi and less than ten cows Hutu,
became known as Hutu or Tutsi due to
their height, width of nose and eyes.
The Belgian rule went on to purpose-
fully regard this newly-defined race
of Tutsis as superior warriors, giving
them the most powerful positions in
society, effectively sowing the seeds of
resentment in pursuit of a divide and
rule strategy. The result of this process
the whole world saw when it culminat-
ed in the 1994 genocide, where mostly
Tutsis were massacred by Hutu mili-
tias leaving piles of inanimate corpses
littering the Rwandan streets. This,
combined with the inaction from the
international community and the UN,
amounted to more than one million
deaths and countless physical and psy-
chological injuries that still persist.
As I walked through the Kigali Me-
My team of chimpanzee trackers in South Rwanda
veloped. It offers pleasant walks along
its main boulevards and avenues, giv-
ing great views of the exciting suburbs
and the lush evergreen, hilly farmlands
beyond. I personally really enjoyed the
views it offered at night where distant
hills would fool me into thinking that
streetlamps were stars; and I also loved
the food, taking delight in one of the
tastiest Indian meals ever at the ‘Indian
Khazana’ restaurant and great pizza at
‘New Cactus’.
Finally, one should not leave Kigali
without having visiting the actual ‘Ho-
tel Rwanda’ where heroic hotelier Paul
Rusesabagina acted infamously to save
many innocent lives. It was hard to
imagine what most of us have seen in
the film happening there now, amongst
such serenity, which brings us nicely
back to the topic we had just purposely
overlooked - the genocide.
Although it is no good to compart-
mentalise Rwanda solely into the
genocide box, it obviously had a huge
“Nobody could
care less that I
was there, not
even the taxi
drivers! My pride
was hurt”
I ascended the Bisoke volcano in a record time! Crater lake at the top
Kigali at night from the ‘New Cactus’ restaurant
THE Hotel Rwanda
Mr Rusanganwa Francois (right) and the curator of Nyamata (left)

