felix@imperial.ac.uk Travel
29
Friday 29 February 2008 felix
morial Centre, quotes such as “we say
to the cockroaches, if they lift their
heads up again it will no longer be nec-
essary to fight the enemy in the bush,
we will start eliminating the enemy
within… they will disappear” stood
out, giving me goose bumps.
Using roadblocks and ID cards, Tut-
sis were targeted through methods
ranging from humiliation, rape and be-
ing buried alive to machetes and clubs.
The Kigali memorial Centre had tales
of people being forced to kill their own
children and of churches where Tutsis
were told to take refuge being subse-
quently bulldozed. It was shocking to
see how people who lived as neigh-
bours for years had suddenly turned
against each other.
But probably the most eye-opening
quote was that “the number of foreign
troops used in the evacuation of ex-
pats would have been sufficient to stop
the genocide”, and considering the role
the UN played, reducing its force and
limiting its mandate as the crisis wors-
ened, this was indeed a bitter pill for
Rwanda to swallow.
Ultimately it relied on the bravery of
the RPF force, led by current president
Paul Kagame, to end the violence. “The
international community failed. I re-
alised afterwards that there was more
that I could and should have done”
Kofi Annan said somewhat late, when
the RPF had already done the job.
Post-genocide, it appears that the
country has moved on significantly
and no more common mention of past
events takes place. Certainly, nobody
recognises each other as Hutu or Tutsi
on the face of things and maybe this
is to move away from fanning nearly
extinguished flames, but nonetheless
peace has a firm grip inside the coun-
try. This is a great development con-
sidering how recent the genocide was
but it could be that it is only what I saw
superficially as a visitor.
Actually, to me it was almost as if
the genocide had been shelved away
into memorial sites that keep it away
from public emotions but also to act as
a constant reminder for those who visit
it. I came across a few such memorial
sites but the two that stuck in my mind
were Nyamata and Murambi.
Nyamata is a village close to Kigali
where 10,000 Tutsis took refuge in a
church, locking themselves in using
mere padlocks on the iron gates to es-
cape the murderous Rwandan govern-
ment forces and the Interahamwe mili-
tia. However, on the 7th of April 1994,
the forces and militia broke in and
massacred the refugees with grenades,
machetes and rifles. It is pretty grim
but is smaller somewhat in compari-
son to the injustices seen at Murambi.
The story there was a grave one,
when during the 1994 genocide, more
than 50,000 Tutsis came to find protec-
tion and security at Murambi Technical
School under the instructions of the lo-
cal government and bishop at the time,
who were knowingly sending them to
their deaths. The refugees were made
to go on for two weeks without water
or food in order to weaken them be-
fore an invasion by Hutu government
soldiers and the Interahamwe mili-
tia occurred, who descended in their
thousands to slaughter. French soldiers
were also based here at that time, con-
ducting ‘operation turquoise’ and were
under instructions not to stop the Hu-
tus but actually to give them safe pas-
sage into the Congo. They therefore
disappeared and left the Tutsis to fend
for themselves when the invasion oc-
curred. Murambi has a few marked
areas where it bitterly remembers this
when for example a sign points out
how the French soldiers would be play-
ing volleyball metres away from where
the mass graves now are.
Nowadays, Murambi is a memorial
site where they have exhumed some of
the bodies from the mass graves and
preserved them using limestone to re-
member the horror that had gone on
there. The victims are frozen in time,
lying as when killed with machete and
blunt club strikes visible on their skulls
and bones.
The head curator of the site, Mr Ru-
sanganwa Francois, and I had a very
long and frank conversation about
what went on. His was a very moving
story. During the genocide, he him-
self managed to flee to Burundi in the
south, leaving his entire family in the
region and his four brothers, four sis-
ters, his mother, father and uncle were
all killed in the ensuing Murambi inci-
dent. Upon returning in 1995, he went
to look for them all and one by one
found out the harsh truth.
He called his job a “sad job”, and was
“sad about his life”; he told me how
even though he was frustrated, it was
his duty to educate as many people as
possible, especially those from other
countries; he wanted me to know how
he was angry with the UN, Kofi Annan
and the international community. He
also told me how angry he was with the
French for supporting the oppressors
but wanted to convey praise for the
current government and their efforts
to remove the Hutu-Tutsi divide and to
bring progress to Rwanda.
Rusangawa was a simple person with
these few simple observations and in
our exchange he really opened up to
me. He kindly requested that I com-
municate his story and his messages
as much as possible, and I hope I have
done that above.
Rwanda, with its gorgeous lush green
landscape has lovingly earned the nick-
name of ‘the land of a thousand hills’,
but it has one patch of darkness in its
history that has the potential to cast
an everlasting shadow on its future. It
is vital that the world learns from this
tragedy and its mistakes, and to do so
it is important for people to engage
“It is pretty grim
but is smaller
somewhat in
comparison to
the injustices
seen at
Murambi”
with this topic in a constructive man-
ner. Seeing the country as it is now is
part of that process and will help all of
us move on.
A journalist I met on my travels told
me how in Kibuye he had once seen
Hutus dancing with decapitated Tutsi
heads on their heads but now saw
many young people being adopted by
strange families. In fact, he said it was
now commonplace for many orphans
of the genocide to live with distant rel-
atives or complete strangers, and this is
the type of positive change Rwanda has
seen post genocide.
Paul Kagame has been instrumental
in achieving this upheaval in the so-
cial fabric and truly, I am in awe of his
leadership. I was very lucky to find out
that he was giving a lecture at the LSE
when I returned in autumn and went
to see him there. His speech was full
of enthusiasm and mild mannered,
as one would expect of a humble and
great leader, and sprouting from such
governance I look forward to an even
better and safer Rwanda in the future.
Incidentally, The Imperial Col-
lege Union Political Philosopy
Society is hosting its Genocide
Awareness Week next week
where speakers of international
repute will be attending, such as
Dr James Smith CEO of the Aegis
Trust and founder of the Kigali
Memorial Centre, who will be
flying in having just met President
George Bush and Condoleeza
Rice. Don’t miss out. Check out
the advert on page 5!
The dense, hilly, misty jungles of Nyungwe Forest NP
Limestone preserved bodies at Murambi Bullet holes in Nyamata roof Swathes of skulls which can be seen at various memorial sites
A collection of skulls and femurs at Murambi memorial site

