news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
3
Friday 29 February 2008 felix
News
HE Survey: Fee education for all!
ICU funding survey to dictate Union Higher Education Funding policy. Does it represent your views?
Over the coming weeks Imperial Col-
lege Union’s (ICU) Higher Education
Funding policy will be finalised, dictat-
ing the Union’s governmental lobby-
ing strategy on behalf of its students.
The policy is being reformulated after
Union Council decided that the previ-
ous policy “in favour of free education
funded entirely by the taxpayer [was]
unrealistic.” As a consequence, Coun-
cil called for a wide-ranging survey of
the student body to be carried out to
determine what students wanted. The
survey was carried out this term and,
following analysis, a finalised new pol-
icy is under discussion.
However, criticism has been levelled
at the survey and its contents accus-
ing it of bias and for being confusing,
badly designed, and “poorly thought
out.” The survey has also come under
fire for questions that were not asked
and sections of the student body that
were completely ignored (such as in-
ternational students).
In response, Felix carried out its own
smaller survey to ask students face-to-
face about this important issue. The
results appear to conflict, with 52% of
our 54 student sample answering “yes”
when asked: “Do you think Higher
Education should be free?” whereas
only 25%-30% of ~440 students gave
answers that appeared to indicate sup-
port of free education in the HE Sur-
vey. This disparity may be partially due
to the manner in which the question
was posed (Felix’s questions were far
more direct than the official survey),
or our small statistical sample; never-
theless the results pose the question
of whether the Union’s Survey is truly
representative of Imperial students’
views.
Answers from the Union’s Survey
are being used to formulate its latest
Higher Education Funding policy. Poli-
cies democratically mandate the Union
and Sabbatical Officers to lobby gov-
ernment and other institutions to fight
for students on the issues that concern
them. The previous ICU policy was to
campaign for free education and the
abolition of top-up fees. The latest pol-
icy intends to combine the statistical
analysis of students’ multiple-choice
reactions to various statements re-
garding funding (strongly agree, agree,
neutral, disagree or strongly disagree)
with further comments added by in-
dividuals in the relevant section of the
questionnaire.
The current draft of the new Fund-
ing policy resolves to oppose targets
set by the Government to increase the
number of students entering Higher
Education; to support Top-Up fees
capped at £3,000; to oppose the mar-
ketisation of Higher Education; to
oppose a Graduate Tax; to support
initiatives aimed at establishing a cred-
ible funding model based on the cost of
teaching and value of the degree course
to society and the economy; and to de-
fend universities’ rights to determine
their own bursary packages.
Criticism has been levelled at the
survey from many directions but re-
gardless of the survey’s quality this is
the only measure of student opinion
that exists for the Union beyond the
30-40 people that turn up to Council
and the Representation and Welfare
Board (RWB; made up of the welfare
and department reps) which are re-
sponsible for this issue. Therefore it
is the results of this survey that will
dictate the Higher Education Fund-
ing policy of ICU, and thus represent
the views of IC students’ at a national
level.
To make your views known, turn
up to RWB on 10th March or
Council on 17th March. Alter-
natively, contact Felix on news.
felix@imperial.ac.uk or contact
Deputy President (Education
& Welfare) Kirsty Patterson on
dpew@imperial.ac.uk.
Andrew Somerville
& Tom Roberts
Silwood Park’s green glowing greenhouse
The following beliefs are paraphrased from the Union’s draft of its
new Higher Education Funding policy. Students are encouraged to
discuss the points below and contact the DPEW, Kirsty Patterson, if
they think they should be changed or wish to comment on any of
them. Imperial College Union believes:
The £3,000 top-up fees cap should remain and it will oppose any tar-
gets to increase that figure and that the current funding model is the
fairest
The government’s target of ensuring 50% of School Leavers go onto
Higher Education is detrimental to students and the entire country
Vocational training should not be offered at university but on the job
(apart from exceptions such as medicine/dentistry)
That education is not free and that all taxpayers should not bear the
burden of educational funding
Higher education is a privilege not available to all and therefore stu-
dents should be expected to make a contribution to the cost of their
education
If students did not contribute to the cost of their education drop out
rates would increase and resources would be invested in students
who will not benefit from a university education
A market in higher education would discourage students from socio-
economic background to apply to better universities
Graduate tax is unfair as students from Imperial would pay more for
their education than students with less worthwhile degrees
That not all graduates continue into high paying jobs and that those
who enter academia/research/the public sector should pay back less
money than graduates who earn more money
Tuition fees paid by students should go directly to the institution at
which they are studying
Students from low income backgrounds should receive financial aid
from the government
There should be fewer, better-funded places in science, engineer-
ing, maths, english, humanities, languages and arts and that funding
should be allocated according to the cost of running the courses
Institutions should have autonomy over the bursaries they give stu-
dents but must meet a minimum national standard
Key points from the Union’s draft
Higher Education Funding policy
Left, the greenhouse containing the contamination. Right, the no-go area sectioned off with bamboo sticks.
The make-shift warning notice reads: “Radioactive contamination present between canes. 6.12.07”
Tom Roberts
Editor-in-Chief
Students at Imperial College’s Silwood
Park campus were alarmed by the
presence of a sign inside a greenhouse
which had “radioactive contamination
present between canes. 6.12.07” writ-
ten on it. Pictures sent to Felix show
the warning notice next to some dead
plants bordered by bamboo canes.
The students were worried about the
greenhouse’s proximity to the campus
gym and feared that the contamination
may have been linked to the nuclear re-
actor housed at Silwood Park.
The contamination was actually the
result of a plant uptake experiment
involving the radioactive isotope Cae-
sium-137 conducted by students four
years ago. The greenhouse was closed
after the experiment had finished but
recent College plans to re-open it led
to the contamination being discovered
after necessary routine investigations
were conducted.
The discovery was made in Decem-
ber, hence the creation of the warning
sign and the date marked on it, by a
professional health physics company
employed by College. Felix contacted
College Communications about the
contamination, although we were un-
able to talk directly to people from
Silwood Park itself, who said it “is of
a very low level and there has never
been a risk to human health or the
environment.”
Hopefully the students won’t have
to wait decades for the Caesium-137
sample to decay since the health phys-
ics company is working to analyse and
remove the contamination by the end
of April. The Environmental Agency
has also been made aware of the situ-
ation and is satisfied with the proce-
dures so far.
So, next time you’re in Silwood Park
and your forearms suddenly double in
size, your chest expands popping the
buttons on your shirt and your teeth go
off in all directions, it’s probably some-
thing that’s been slipped in your drink
rather than nuclear contamination.
The government will review the Top-Up Fees cap in 2009. ICU’s revised
HE Funding policy supports the £3,000 cap but opposes an increase

