It’ll be alright on iNite (Ahem!)
M. Aggie cordially invites you to this year’s iNite; a celebration of Imperial’s ethnic diversity. Be there
or the cat’ll get you and trust me, you don’t want that because Felix the Cat is one mean motherjammer
32 felix Friday 29 February 2008
A
fter mourning the dis-
appointing number of
attractive women in my
first lecture at Impe-
rial, my next realisation
was the incredible mix of ethnicities.
Growing up in rural South Wales, it
was completely different to anything
I’d experienced in school, and over
the years I have appreciated the privi-
lege of studying in an environment so
varied in culture. However, by the end
of my first term, something had hap-
pened that made integrating with dif-
ferent ethnicities outside my friendship
group difficult. A quick glance around
the lecture theatre and you could see
obvious cliques of people with simi-
lar backgrounds developing; the same
phenomenon can be seen in the JCR
at lunchtime. Although it is not rare
to see all these different ethnicities un-
der one roof at Imperial, it has become
uncommon to see everyone mixing
and sharing in culture. Except for one
night, that is. International Night…
OK, this may come across as a little
cheesy, but I implore the less cynically-
minded among you to read on…
International night, also known as
‘iNite’, is a flagship event organised
every year by the Overseas Societies
Committee, who bring together many
different Overseas and Performing
Arts Societies. Although many large
and well-known Imperial Clubs take
part, it is also a great opportunity to
witness the talented displays of small-
er societies who don’t have their own
large events. There are an incredible
3500 international students from 110
different countries studying at Impe-
rial, and iNite is a celebration of this
ethnic diversity, experienced through
a collection of colourful and exciting
stage acts. It’s a great opportunity to
fully appreciate Imperial’s multicul-
turalism and witness your friends’ dif-
ferent interests and talents on stage.
Every year also sees a great aftershow
party, where performers and audience
members alike get together and dance
to a diverse range of global music. Such
a mixed crowd coming together is
something you rarely get to experience
at other parties and is often considered
one of the highlights of the night.
In addition, the presidents of all
Overseas Societies at Imperial have
voted for proceeds to go towards what
they feel is the most worthy cause. This
year’s selected charity is Médecins
Sans Frontières, an international hu-
manitarian aid organization that pro-
vides emergency medical assistance to
populations in danger in more than 70
countries.
So, if by any chance your friends keep
going on about Japanese plays or Cyp-
riot folk dance and you’re wondering
what the hell they’re talking about, or
if you still haven’t watched the likes of
ICU Dance Company and Funkology
in action, come to Kensington Town
Hall on the 7th of March and embrace
Imperial’s multiculturalism with me…
And maybe meet some attractive peo-
ple at the aftershow party… Imperial has almost 3500 international students from 110 different countries
WaterAID: washing away poverty
On 22nd March 2008 people across the globe will be doing something special: celebrating World
Water Day. Victoria Sanderson wants you to join the par-tay and help raise money for WaterAid
E
stablished in 1992 by the
United Nations General As-
sembly as an international
day of observance and ac-
tion. Why, you might ask?
Well, even in the 21st century, over 1
billion people lack access to clean wa-
ter. That’s around a sixth of the world’s
population. Tomorrow 4,500 kids will
die due to unsafe drinking water.
Though over 1/3rd of people live in
‘water stressed’ regions the problems
are worse in less developed countries.
Here the lack of clean water and basic
sanitation is a major hurdle to progress
and development, impacting upon
poverty, child mortality rates, educa-
tion levels and political instability.
Such widespread impacts have rightly
led to the UN prioritizing water access
amongst its Millennium Development
Goals (MDG).
This year, the international focus is
on sanitation. Imagine a life where you
are forced to defecate in bags, ditches,
or on the roads. This is the reality for
2.6 billion people who live without ac-
cess to sanitation. Poor sanitation and
hygiene spreads disease, and is directly
implicated in over 1.5 million deaths
annually. Sanitation also has wider im-
plications – it affects the structure of
society and social development. With-
out adequate facilities many girls are
forced to drop out of education and
stay at home once they reach puberty.
Though an unpleasant thought, stop
and take a second to think what hap-
pens to waste. Here, once the toilet is
flushed, we need worry no longer; fil-
tered, cleaned, disposed of in a hygi-
enic manner; all is far from our eyes.
But what happens when there is no
drainage, piped water or water compa-
ny? Each year, around the world, more
than 200 million tonnes of waste wa-
ter and solid waste go uncollected and
untreated. It is hugely damaging to the
environment, polluting natural water
supplies and affecting crops, leading
to the increased spread and burden of
disease. Ecosystems are permanently
altered, affecting the productivity of
the land and animal populations. What
is so troubling is that all this is so easily
preventable.
It is hoped that by focusing the
world’s attention on sanitation it will
accelerate progress towards achieving
the Millennium Development Goal of
halving the number of people without
access to sanitation by 2015. It is esti-
the MDG be achieved.
Students at Imperial can get involved
with World Water Day by joining in
with a variety of events organised by
Imperial Medsin Society. All money
raised will be going to WaterAid – an
international charity which improves
access to safe water, sanitation, and
hygiene education by working with
local partners in 17 countries. Events
include a pub quiz (3rd March, Rey-
nolds bar, 7pm), a debate on whether
the Millennium Development Goals
can be achieved without universal ac-
cess to clean water and sanitation (5th
mated that achieving this goal will cost
$10 billion annually. This sum is only
a third of what we spend each year on
bottled water, or less than 1% of world
military funding (2005). The rever-
berations of improved sanitation will
be widespread. According to a study by
the World Health Organization every
dollar spent on improving sanitation
generates an average economic ben-
efit of $7. Financial aid is not the only
solution, though. The UN states that
only through ‘empowering individuals,
households and communities to take
charge of their own development,’ will
March, LT1, SAF, 6.30pm), a Krispy
Kreme sale and events at the union on
the 7th March. Raffle tickets, badges
and further information will be avail-
able from our daily lunch-time stall in
SAF.
A diagram of the world showing annual renewable water
The World Water Day poster

