a serious challenge. We were actually
being blown uphill at one point. Liter-
ally* clinging to rocks by our fingertips
to stop ourselves blowing away we
decided that the only way was down
the ridge. It was disappointing to not
complete the Old Man, but safety must
come first. Happily there was a path
with a gradual descent to take us back
to Coniston village. Visibility was still
bad but expert navigation by Dave and
Chris kept us going in the right direc-
tion. The gusts blowing across the ridge
on the way down had enough force to
take us off our feet, but Nathaniel ap-
parently thought that wasn’t enough of
a challenge and decided to walk with
the sides of his waterproof trousers
open, effectively having a sail attached
to each leg. A few hundred metres low-
er someone dared to say ‘I think we’re
through the worst of it’ and although
the wind still howled it was not strong
enough to unsteady us.
Back at the lower level it was relative-
ly calm, and just as two weeks before
when we emerged from the clouds and
snow in the Pennines it was hard to
believe what conditions had been like
earlier. With a renewed appreciation
for life we arrived at the village with
every intention of continuing our walk
around Coniston Water, it was barely
past lunch after all. However, a 16th
century pub with an open fire looked
too inviting to pass and we went in ‘just
for one’. One was followed by another
and before we knew it the afternoon
had passed while card games were
played; outer layers dried off and one
by one we fell asleep by the fire. I’ve
heard it said that Fellwanderers is a
‘drinking club with a walking problem’,
I’ve no idea where anyone would get
such an idea.
More wandering and imbibing
Malread Skelly chronicles the Fellwanderers’ January expedition to the mountainous Lake District
which gave them an excuse to do a lot of drinking and walking in more or less equal amounts
I
’m writing this report while
watching ‘A Tribute to Edmund
Hillary’, and reflecting on how
Fellwanderers’ experiences have
a lot in common with his. A case
in point is the recent weekend trip to
the Lake District, one of the club’s fa-
vourite destinations.
It began with fourteen of us gath-
ered at the Union on Friday evening,
feeling sorry for all the other students
who would be spending yet another
weekend in London. Much like Hil-
lary’s team we were a very interna-
tional group, having 8.125 nationali-
ties among fourteen people: English,
Polish, Romanian, Hong Kong, French,
Portuguese, German, Irish, and one-
eighth of a Welsh person. Not one of
our respective countries was spared
from President Chris’s insults over the
course of the weekend; delivered with
affection, of course.
When the yellow minibus pulled up,
we crammed onboard for the inevi-
table six hour drive. The M6 may not
sound like the most fun place to spend
a Friday night but mobile phone Trivial
Pursuit; fish and chips in Warwick and
the endless search for a good radio sta-
tion made the journey pass quickly.
We arrived around midnight at our
home for the weekend: High Wray vil-
lage hall. After inspecting the facilities
(record player and ping-pong table) we
settled down to sleep.
To make the most of the daylight
hours we woke before sunrise on Sat-
urday. The weather looked distinctly
unpromising – dark grey clouds and
a constant drizzle. Hellvelyn’s famous
Striding Edge had been a possibility
but the weather ruled that out, instead
the summit of Old Man of Coniston, at
a height of 803 m, was the target for the
day. Neil from the Outdoor Club set
off to run the route while we set a (just
slightly) more leisurely pace, cheerful
in spite of the showers and grey sky. As
we ascended, though, it became stead-
ily windier. Sudden gusts were catch-
ing us unawares, it was getting more
and more difficult to walk against the
wind, and as we entered the cloud
layer we could hardly see the person
next to us. Undaunted, when we had a
choice of two routes, one 6 km longer
and with a more substantial ridge walk
than the other, we took the more dif-
ficult option.
As Fellwanderers’ favourite poet
Robert Burns wrote: “the best laid
plans gang aft agley”. As we ap-
proached Weatherlam (760 m), walk-
ing in a straight line was proving to be
“I’ve heard
it said that
Fellwanderers is
a ‘drinking club
with a walking
problem, I’ve
no idea where
anyone would
get that idea.”
Eventually we dragged ourselves
away from the fireside and back to
the village hall. The Sound of Music
from the hall’s record collection was
the accompaniment to dinner prepara-
tions, followed by the Greatest Hits of
ABBA. While we waited for the food, a
few of us played an energetic game of
table tennis (apparently we hadn’t got
enough exercise during the day), which
somewhat interfered with the commit-
tee members’ enjoyment of ABBA as
the running caused the needle to jump.
No matter, dinner was ready and the
hungry Fellwanderers descended like
gannets. Dave’s goulash was quickly
polished off, followed by Gareth’s ba-
noffee pie (a definite highlight of the
weekend).
Post-dinner we played poker, and
it was no less keenly-fought for even
though we were not playing for money
but pool balls and christmas baubles.
Some reckless betting by certain peo-
ple (i.e. me) paid off once or twice
with large winnings but no-one could
compete with Judith’s merciless high-
stakes betting and by 11pm she had
won everything. That left enough time
for a couple of games of werewolf. The
soundtrack to the latter part of the
evening was Glenn Millar, James Last
and Andy Williams – I don’t think High
Wray’s record collection has been up-
dated for a while.
Waking up on Sunday was rather
distressing as Chris had chosen SOS
by ABBA as the alarm call. However
we didn’t expect any SOS calls that day
as the weather was considerably im-
proved, there were even some patches
of blue sky. We drove to Ambleside to
begin the walk towards Dove Crag,
again Neil left us to run. Everyone
was in a good mood as we enjoyed the
beautiful Lakeland scenery – we did
not enter the cloud layer so we were
able to enjoy the view of the surround-
ing hills and back to Coniston Water
for the whole day. From time to time
the wind got up, and through force of
habit we braced ourselves against it,
but today that wasn’t necessary. It was
a steady ascent to High Pike although
Dave and Nathaniel still managed to
find places to scramble. We stopped
there for a biscuit and then continued
upwards to the high point of the day at
Dove Crag (760 m).
It hadn’t been possible to take a pho-
tograph with the Fellwanderers banner
the day before – we’d probably have
taken off if we’d tried, but it was un-
furled at Dove Crag. It was infinitely
more pleasant weatherwise than the
day before (and as a physicist I don’t
use that term casually), but it never
pays to linger on an exposed peak for
too long in January. As soon as the
banner was put away we moved on
and found a sheltered spot for lunch,
Gareth cemented his reputation as the
man who doesn’t need to eat by skip-
ping lunch for the second day in a row.
We enjoyed the views for a little while
before descending and completing the
circle by walking back towards Amble-
side along the valley below Red Screes.
There was time on the way to stop by
a pretty waterfall to play Pooh-sticks
and alarm some pensioners by disap-
pearing onto some rocks hidden below
the path. Once we had convinced Chris
that yes, we would have to return to
London and real life we piled into the
minibus and left the Lakes behind. So
ended the Fellwandering weekend that
hadeverything:gorgeousscenery,great
walks, games, music, laughter and mild
peril. Never fear – we shall return!
* literally: a word used by football
managers to describe something that
isn’t literally true.
“You’ll come back for me won’t you? I... lo...” <dies>
A lack of snow was the main problem. Trying to ski uphill wasn’t really helping matters
The view from the Dove Crag Ridge
Ouch. Stubbed toe
33
Friday 29 February 2008 felix

