sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
34 Friday 29 February 2008
felix
Sport
IC Women’s football finished 2nd in
their BUSA league, giving them the
honour of participating in the BUSA
plate, an opportunity which had not
happened for a long time despite sev-
eral victories in the ULU cup! They
therefore set out on a 2h30 bus ride
from London to the obscure town of
Cheltenham to play against Glouces-
tershire University. A full team of elev-
en players showed up despite the cold,
including warrior Steph, straight from
Franck Morton, sleep deprived and
probably still drunk!
This game was rough on every level
and the tension was palpable through-
out. The Gloucestershire “ladies” were
much bigger than the IC side, and not
having a brain to worry about, they did
not hesitate to head the ball aggres-
sively. Despite this, the game started
well for the IC ladies, with a goal from
Pav. The ball arrived at the back of
the net from a very narrow crazy an-
gle. She later confessed that she had
carefully calculated the angle of travel
and ball velocity before shooting. IC’s
hopes were short lived however, when
Gloucestershire scored from a throw-
in (really an IC one!) and left a few
studs into Emma’s leg. In front of this
new threat and Emma’s pain, Pav, Lily
and Rita rushed forward. In a slightly
confusing way, Lily was dispossessed
of the ball which was recuperated by
Rita. She passed it immediately to Pav
who deflected it to provide IC with
their second goal.
Quite a few other opportunities came
about, namely a goal from Rita called
offside and shots by Chloe saved by
the keeper. Rita interrupted this trend
by scoring the third IC goal of the day!
Surrounded by Gloucestershire play-
ers, she managed to free herself, like
Nemo’s dad from the jellyfish.The end
of this first half came soon after this
crushing IC domination, but left time
for a few fights, namely one including
Laura. She was fouled by a Gloucester-
shire player and both of them fell, al-
though blame was immediately placed
on Laura. This injustice was severely
felt by Laura who exchanged a few
harsh words with the opposition, al-
most coming to hands.
Second half was quite violent, and
sensitive readers should abstain from
reading the rest of this article.
Gloucestershire called handballs on
a regular basis, even when the ball only
touched part of the chest or boobs.
Being a reasonable man, the ref did
not call these and got abused by the
Gloucestershire side’s foul language.
Their second goal came from the side.
The defence was overwhelmed and
were not able to stop it. Cheryl tried
to complain but was impeded from
insulting the ref and the opposition
players by Yoke’s authoritative finger
shake! To ensure victory, Pav scored a
hat trick by lobbing the keeper. In re-
sponse, Gloucestershire picked up pace
and scored a third goal 20min from the
end, bringing the score to 4-3 in favour
of the IC ladies. With mounting pres-
sure, aggressivity accumulated, with
many b**** fights exploding all over the
field. At the same time, Emily’s goal
was bombarded with corners. One of
them resulted in Kate being deliber-
Ladies’ BUSA Plate success
ately kicked by Gloucestershire player
number 2 who could not handle losing
the ball. She was only booked by the
ref, despite deserving a red.
Another corner saw that same
number 2 kicking the ball (and people
in the way) meters from the goal. Pav
threw herself in front of her despite
the kicks. In this confusion, Emily
came to the rescue and threw herself
onto Pav to grab the ball out of number
2’s feet. Pav was briefly crushed and
lost her contact in the battle. She he-
roically continued however. Steph had
yet another clash with the opposition
by suggesting their player get off the
pitch after receiving a ball in the face.
Gloucestershire did not appreciate
and harsh words were once more ex-
changed on both sides, with several IC
ladies having to almost restrain Steph
from taking it further.
Finally the whistle blew, giving the
IC ladies the satisfaction of not having
travelled to the middle of nowhere for
nothing. They are now on their way to
win the Plate!
Chloe Joyeux
Another chilly afternoon at the For-
tress saw IC fighting for a place in the
ULU cup final. Having been granted
a walkover from UCL just a week be-
fore with a subsequent 4-0 loss in the
friendly we played against them, we
weren’t sure what to expect from the
match.
A nervous start from both teams saw
slip-ups and missed opportunities at
both ends. Fifteen minutes in and UCL
broke the deadlock with a very dubious
goal that bobbled under Plug. Despite
disagreements between the two um-
pires and a quick free-hit by Date Rape
out to Paedo, the goal was awarded.
Moments later and UCL were back
at it, lining up in front of goal from a
few yards out. Shipman was helpless at
the back and Plug had another slotted
between his legs (the most action that
area has seen in a while).
Ten minutes until halftime and the
pressure was on for IC to pull one back.
A sublime play through the middle out
of defence from Diana and Krusty saw
Sid competing for a 50:50 ball up in
UCL’s half. Some may say it was luck
but we all recognized the pure skill that
Sid exhibited against his defender and
the next thing UCL knew the ball was
bouncing across at shoulder height
in front of the goal. Queue 2’s call-up
Ginger Spice, not intimidated by the
monumental crowd of the Men’s 2s
and Ladies 1s, he casually baseball bats
it into the top right. Epic.
IC began the second half strongly
with solid defence from Mountie,
Shipman, Date Rape and Foetus. UCL
was rarely in our half and all the attack-
ing coming from IC; the pressure was
on our opponents. Some great work
up the right side of the pitch by Paedo
Jonathan Tunnicliffe
IC men’s hockey
in ULU Cup final
and Foetus led to balls flying across the
goal but to no avail.
Ten minutes before full-time and IC
were becoming ever more frustrated
with not being able to convert. Out of
nowhere,aquicksidelineballbyMoun-
tie and Skull F*ck saw the ball aerialled
up the left side of the pitch to Diana.
Turning into acres of space, Diana guns
for the D with visions of breaking net-
ting. It wasn’t to be but again Ginger
Spice’s magic saw UCL picking the ball
out the back of the goal.
Despite continuous pressure from
IC, the final whistle blew. With the
scores tied, extra-time was in order.
More pressure from IC throughout ex-
tra-time went unrewarded as the game
headed to penalty flicks.
First up was Foetus. Oh Foetus. The
UCL keeper read him like the Qur’an
and an unlucky near save from Plug
put UCL ahead with a score 1-0. With
Paedo up next there was never any
doubt of a goal and a stellar save from
Plug brought it back to 1-1. A sublime
flick from Skull F*ck and a Krusty spe-
cial (middle and right, standard) led to
a 3-2 lead. Another superb save from
Plug making it 3 out of 5 saves gave IC
the win to set up a face-off against the
medics in the final.
The Medicals went into their last
BUSA league fixture of 2007-08 know-
ing that nothing less than a victory
was required if they were to remain in
BUSA South Prem B.
Even then the Medicals were relying
on other results to go their way need-
ing one of Reading or UWE to lose.
After last week’s disappointment away
at Reading, Cameron Sullivan aksed
primarily the same squad of players to
try and make amends against the Grey-
hounds with the only changes seeing
the hard working Anakan Navaratnam
come into the back row and Harry
Thompson come in at scrum-half for
the injured Tom Maynard. The Grey-
hounds arrived at Teddington with
slightly fewer Blues peppering their
squad than when the sides met at Iffley
Road just after Christmas. However,
there was still plenty of experience in a
team lead by this year’s starting Varsity
match hooker, Dan Rosen.
The Medicals, not wanting to let an
Oxford side with little to play for into
the game, started the game brightly.
With the two packs evenly matched
it was left to the host’s backs to make
their mark on the game with fly-half,
and skipper for the day, Dan Neville
pulling the strings in midfield and the
back three Rory Hutchinson, Huw Wil-
liams and Kevin Ilo looking dangerous
when put in space. In fact right wing
Ilo was to open the Medicals’ account
for the afternoon.
Quick hands by centres Ben Dav-
ies and James Sharples put the flying
wing up against his opposite man. Ilo
was able to beat the cover tacklers with
pace and guile to dive in under the
posts. Neville made no mistake with
the conversion.
Playing some fine rugby the Medi-
cals made the most of their dominant
start by scoring a further try. This
time the creative spark was provided
by left wing Rory Hutchinson. Receiv-
ing the ball in his own half the fresh
faced speedster made good yards tak-
ing play up to the Oxford twenty-two.
After being brought down Hutchinson
stayed alert and was able to spot Harry
Thompson in support. Thompson us-
ing his years of experience on the wing
crashed his way over in the left corner.
Neville was unable to add the extras.
The Hounds then clawed there
way back into the match with a well
taken drop goal from fly-half Stuart
O’Flanagan who also added a penalty
before half-time to reduce the Medi-
cals’ lead to only six points. At half
time those playing their last BUSA
game implored their team mates to
keep going for the final forty minutes.
The senior players words were taken
to heart as the Medicals opened the
second period reinvigorated and once
more on the front foot, which allowed
the hosts to score their best try of the
afternoon. Xander Ancock exploited
a gap in the Greyhound’s midfield
to break through and offload to the
supporting James Sharples. Quick in-
terplay between the Medicals backs
put Dan Neville in possession who,
showing good vision, released the on
rushing Kevin Ilo. Ilo held on to the
difficult ball and used his pace to run
in for his second try of the afternoon.
Neville failed with the difficult conver-
sion attempt.
The Medicals were to extend their
lead even further as all the back three
got themselves on the scoresheet. Full-
back Huw Williams showed that de-
spite now being one of the team’s elder
statesmen he still had the ability and
pace to go in for his first try of the sea-
son. Neville was able to add the extras.
As the game drew on the Medicals were
having to defend while the Hounds be-
gan to gain the upper hand. The host’s
cause was not halped as Ed pickles and
Craig Nightingale were forced off with
minor injuries, however, replacements
Jon Fisher-Black and Jeremy Bartosiak-
Jentys more than held their own.
The Hounds once again started to
play the better rugby and replied with
two trys of their own from flanker Sean
Mackenzie and centre Chris Record,
O’Flanagan converting one. With five
minutes remaining the visitors were
now within a try and conversion of
pinching a victory, but the Medicals
defended their line well and as the fi-
nal whistle blew all attention turned
to trying to find out the Reading and
UWE scores.
When the news came through, via
club captain Ruairidh Crawford’s
brother and the French Alps, that
Reading had been defeated by Oxford
Brookes the Medicals knew they had
managed to complete a, rather more
tense and convoluted, Great Escape
than first hoped.
Many thanks to Xander Ancock,
James Saffin, Harry Thompson and
Huw Williams who played their last
BUSA games for the club on Wednes-
day. Also, congratulations to Cameron
for keeping his side up and for his com-
mitment this year despite the dissap-
pointment of being unable to play due
to injury. Now lets go and deal with
Varsity.
Imperial Medicals survive BUSA South Prem B
Rugby Union
BUSA
Imperial Medicals 1st 24
Oxford Greyhounds 1st 18
Jeremy Bartosiak-Jentys
Hockey
ULU Cup
Imperial Men’s 1st 4
UCL Men’s 1st 2
Close but no cigar: IC women’s football finished 2nd in their league
Winning p-flick

