felix sport Send in your sport reports:
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
High resolution photos only
IC men’s hockey make it to the ULU Cup final. See page 34
After finally having it confirmed that
we had won the southern premiership
by the narrowest of margins, the draw
for the last 16 put us up against the Uni-
versity of Kent, winners of the south
eastern conference. Unfortunately
with all-rounder Joan having suffered a
knee injury (entirely unrelated to fenc-
ing), this left us one person short in all
weapons. With captain Hannah already
fencing all three it looked as though
Emily and Beth would be branching out
into sabre and foil respectively. Whilst
this seemed to amuse everyone, it was
luckily never actually put into action as
Eleni had finished exams and was now
free to fence.
First weapon was foil after a slightly
shaky start for the out-of-practice Eleni
we gradually started to build up a lead
from which the opposition never re-
covered. Sabre followed and was much
closer-fought throughout - in the end
going our way by only 5 hits – largely
Beth Jelfs
IC Fencing team
in quarter finals
down to the efforts of Hannah. Epee
was the final weapon of day and after
much debate over who should, or more
to the point shouldn’t join Hannah and
Emily as the third epeeist, much to
Beth’s relief it again fell to Eleni, who
in her first match back found herself
fencing all three weapons. As it turned
out epee was to be our strongest weap-
on and it soon became clear that there
was no way they were going to be able
to win by the margin needed to win
the match overall. The final score was
135-96 to us putting us through to the
quarter finals where we will be facing
the University of Bristol.
Intimate fencing
Emily Michie
When I told my friends that I was play-
ing a cricket match I was wryly told
“Isn’t this the wrong season?!” That
of course is true - unless you play in-
doors! So, on a day when the medical
schools had already been antagonising
each other, IC Women’s Cricket set out
for deep south London to play our first
indoor game against King’s College
Medics.
An indoor game is simply a mini-
match, played with half the regular
number of players. There are two bats-
men as usual, if they strike the walls it
counts as one run, stike the far wall
and it is four if the ball has touched
the ground and six in the air. If you
make a run between wickets then that
will add to the score. The game is
made up of eight overs per side. If the
bowler bowls wide the batting team are
awarded an extra three runs.
After wining the first toss, we were
batting first. Smacking the ball around
the hall and despite making some risky
runs, we were off to a good start. The
girls sitting out were making some big
noises as the batters slogged on. The
eight overs flew by and we were soon
fielding. We were all given an over to
bowl and tied to keep the fielding tight,
with Aleeza, a debutante cricketer,
showing impressive pace and flair. It
was obvious that the Kings’ girls were
intimidated and we won our game
smashing them by 35 runs!
Daryanani, one of our co-captains,
took charge for the second game. As
the coin was flicked high in the air, she
watched it spin and land on the floor
saying “ah, so that’s the toss” to which
much laughter ensued as she realised
she hadn’t actually called it! On the re-
toss, we lost and were sent to field the
first innings. Kings weren’t to be beaten
twice and out rolled their finest wom-
en. Despite a great fielding effort and
Sian bowling a beautiful wicket, King’s
were able to rack up 75 runs, and it was
our turn to bat again. Batul and Aleeza
batted first. Kings’ best bowler took
the opening over and hurled the ball
down the hall with ferocious veloc-
ity. The fourth ball of the over struck
Batul’s hand causing a yelp and obvi-
ous pain on impact. Refusing to retire,
IC women’s Cricket victory
the game went on. By the last overs we
had all but caught up with their run
score, but alas were short by three as
the final over ended. By the end of the
evening we felt elated. This had been
our first game for over a year, proving
to ourselves that although we’re short
on experience and numbers, victory is
possible.
If anyone is interested in joining in
the fun – then get in touch! Women’s
cricket is fairly new, only being started
last year by our co-captain Sian. We’re
gearing up for a BUSA tournament at
the end of April. If you’ve never played
cricket before, now is your chance to
try. During the winter we practice in
ETHOS and at Lord’s Cricket ground
in nets. Email: icwomenscricket@
googlemail.com for more information.
IC women’s cricket team celebrate wininng their first game
Fencing
Imperial Women’s 135
Kent Women’s 96
One final push

