4 felix Friday 29 February 2008
Comment, Opinion
& Letters
Angry Geek Idol
I
don’t know about you, but I’ve
had some pretty weird Felix-
based experiences lately. First
we had the blank front page a
few weeks back, then I had to
use an old draft of an Angry Geek last
week because my original was unprint-
ably harsh in the context of the Union
Elections (Hey ***!). To cap it off, there
wasn’t even a Felix Games section a few
weeks ago, presumably because they’d
covered Union President Raper IV and
it couldn’t be put in the paper. I’m not
so sure about the last one, but either
way the elections really messed things
up and I think we should all be glad to
have them behind us so that we can fo-
cus on ignoring the Union for the next
eleven months.
Last week, for those of you that read
it, I asked you all not to vote in the
elections, to show that apathy can be a
statement, to show that the Union isn’t
A. Geek
Linnearse
Presenting the finance tart
engaging the student body enough. I
don’t know whether you followed my
advice or not, but this week I have an
entirely different offer for you. I want
you to get involved, but I want you to
get involved Angry Geek style. Now
that the empty promises and unneces-
sary enthusiasm of the campaigns are
over, I feel ready to make you an offer
you can’t refuse.
Let’s face it, the real issues that stu-
dents – that’s you – think about are un-
likely to come to light over a drunken
Hustings in the Union. The best place
to vent your feelings is right here, be
you a staff member, an undergrad or an
old and wisened postgrad. This week,
Angry Geek challenges you: tell Felix
what you care about, and you could
win fifty quid.
The premise is simple; write for
Felix’s comment section next week,
under a humourously-chosen pseu-
donym, about something that matters
to you. It could be funny, it could be
harsh, it could be bitter; it can be about
University, the future, the world. Show
me what matters to you, the students
of Imperial, and I’ll give fifty English
poundstothebest.Anylength,topic,or
tone – just make sure it reaches felix@
imperial.ac.uk by noon on Wednesday
March 5th, with the subject line ‘A Big-
ger Geek Made Me Do It’.
Writing, for me, is one of the most
enjoyable things in life. Writing this
column perhaps even moreso. Sure, I
don’t always make sense, and nor do a
lot of the people in this section. But at
least we say what we think. That’s the
key. That’s the feeling you need to tap
into. And while you’re at it, you may as
well win some cash for chocolate, or
beer, or chocolate-flavoured beer.
With a pseudonym, you needn’t wor-
ry about quality, coherence or polite-
ness. I certainly don’t consider the first
two when I’m scrawling my weekly vit-
riol down. Just think of something that
could elicit a few hundred words from
you – or more – and tell Felix about
it. Who knows, you may find yourself
a regular name here by this time next
year.
Students aren’t meant to have elec-
tions, and offices, and petitions. We’re
supposed to complain, and protest,
and shout our views no matter what
they are or how ridiculous they sound.
The first annual Fuck Off, World con-
test has begun. I look forward to read-
ing about how you see the world.
(In the unlikely event that
swathes and swathes of you
enter, Felix will print a selection
of the pieces, but Angry Geek will
read all entries. The winner will
be notified by the end of term)
H
ello all, Linnearse here.
I bet most of you don’t
get the joke. Or even
know who Linnaeus
was, do you? He was a
taxonomist, you half-educated fuck-
tards. I’ll be following in his hallowed
footsteps this week, by classifying and
presenting to you the finest specimens
Imperial College has to offer.
Maybe you’ll recognise a bit of your-
self in one of them, realise what an
absolute walking fleshwaste you are,
have a quarter-life crisis, drop out of
College and develop a near-fatal crack
habit culminating in some mediocre
self-realisation and pursuit of an artifi-
cially constructed purpose to your life.
Or maybe you’ll just go on being a
first-class shit receptacle. Either way,
it’s on with the show – I’ll let the stars
do the talking:
The Finance Tart (The FT)
Oh hey, how are you? Ok I gotta rush,
bye! I’m so busy with applications and
my CV-serving position in a sham Un-
ion society and ‘networking’ at tacky
overpriced London clubs, I don’t have
much time left for a personality. I’ve
got the attention span of a butterfly
with ADD. I’d love to talk more but I’ve
gotta rush. I’m so not impressed by you
anyway. City guys are so much hotter.
I’m gonna work in the City, I’m vapid
and shallow and whorish (but with
loads of money) – I’ll fit right in!
I’ve got an internship interview with
an investment bank, the guys I know
there are all so nice! Especially the
guy who buys me dinner and gets me
fast-tracked. He’s such a genuinely nice
guy; he likes the fact that I’ve got brains
and ambition. It’s totally not about my
blow-job lips and arse tighter than a
Yorkshireman’s Christmas budget. I’ll
forget about him once I’m in, though.
Hopefully I’ll get my dream job in M&A
or hedge funds. If not then Daddy can
always get me into KPMG…
Better get ready, wearing loads of eye
makeup gives me a totally sophisticat-
ed look – the more the better! Maybe
I’ll get to be in one of the company’s
adverts; nothing advertises financial
services quite like an Oriental girl!
The City is so awesome – it’s the only
place worth working, except New York.
I fucking love New York!
Gonna chat briefly to my friends,
they’re all so cool…unlike the rest of
the losers at IC. I know they all check
out my Facebook, I bet that my albums
totally receive more greasy-palmed
visits per day than the JCR food bins!
I got an offer to work for a major in-
vestment bank today… yay! That was
such a surprise. It’s going to make me
complete and happy, all that effort was
so worth it! Better go treat my knees
for that carpet burn though…
Now, shopping time!! I know, I’m
gonna buy some Victoria’s Secret lin-
gerie. That’ll totally fill the gaping hole
in my soul.
Now I’m gonna do Management in
Tanaka for my final year to get a head
start. That place IS SO a good ‘Busi-
ness School’!
Ok I’m graduating; it was so nice
knowing you all. I promise to stay in
touch but won’t bother. Those 16 hour
days aren’t going to work themselves!
I
hardly ever write to you any-
more without my small white
rectangular chum keeping me
company. It’s incredible for me
to think that until a few years
ago, music was just something that
happened in the background while I
did other things. As a keen reader, I ob-
viously knew about a lot of music, but
I don’t think that I really knew all that
many tunes, and certainly didn’t spend
a lot of my time listening. I was, in fact,
the perfect bore: knowing about a sub-
ject in detail without knowing the sub-
ject itself at all. An impressive achieve-
ment for a child of twelve.
In any case, the advent of the mp3
player coincided rather nicely with
long daily bus journeys to school and,
eventually, fetching black headphones
became an integral part of my look. As
the years rolled by, the light blue mp3
player I loved so well became more
and more prone to reorganizing its in-
ternal memory without my assistance.
After the fourteenth battery charge in
twenty-four hours, that faithful piece
of early 21st Century technology was
Don’t judge a book by its album cover
relegated to the pile at the back of
my desk. In its place came the nEwer,
sLeeker iPod with the purity of design
that smacked gobs and took breaths
away all over the world.
As far as I’m aware, there has never
been a device that has achieved such
ubiquity. Its instantly recognizable
form and at-times-irritating-yet-oh-
so-loveable rolling-touch-menu-se-
lect-thingy have transformed it into a
global icon: and rightly so.
In much the same way as one can
learn a great deal about a person from
the books on their shelves, one can get
a true feel for someone’s character by
a quick shuffle through their iPod. I’ll
admit that I find it a great deal more
enjoyable to rummage through their
actual libraries: pulling out a faded
spine from the bottom shelf behind
the door, for instance, or recognizing
a familiar name from underneath the
bed, but as you’ll have gathered, ‘keen
reader’ is a polite euphemism for ‘so-
cial leper’.
We all enjoy picking on each other’s
tastes, however, and a friend’s iPod can
keep me amused for a good few min-
utes. To be fair, that’s one of the rea-
sons that mine doesn’t leave the snug
enclosure formed by the great-value
speakers on my desk. That and the
fact that I don’t particularly want to go
traipsing through Central London deaf
to the oncoming traffic. My apathy
towards music may have transformed
into a compulsive need to have it play-
ing, and indeed into a tremendous
pleasure derived from it, but my tastes
are resolutely bizarre.
In an attempt to explain away the
fact that I can name more classical
composers than I can current bands I
often cite the fact that I’m a keen read-
er. That usually resolves the issue as
my interlocutor smiles hesitantly and
slowly backs away.
My other defence is that I am not
particularly into ‘genres’ – a shockingly
hard word to pronounce in English.
This is true. Rather than a specific type
of music, I find myself enjoying indi-
vidual pieces from Irish folk to Ger-
man opera and from popular songs
of the 1940s to songs my neighbour
blasts out of his room when I get back
from college. Despite this, my iPod
only really reflects the classical side of
my tastes, which is why it stays pretty
much where it is. I don’t need its help
to have awkward conversations – I can
manage nicely on my own.
It does have some hugely annoying
features, however. Principally its habit
of starting from the first album alpha-
betically each time I turn it on after a
day’s neglect. This isn’t so bad if I re-
member to switch song in time, but
a solitary misguidedly-imported CD
back in 2005 means the whole room
rocks to an unspeakably electric ABBA
single. Having a fanatically organized
iTunes can be a hindrance at times.
Here we are. At the end of this piece
and, coincidentally, at the end of my
album of Andrea Bocelli’s recordings
of a few Verdi arias. Delightful stuff. I’d
highly recommend it if you’re writing
a light-hearted piece on music. What-
ever you do, don’t choose Wagner’s
Walküre – I tried that last week, and
I think that my computer went into
spontaneous reboot as a consequence.
Gilead Amit
Let us know your views: comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Letters may be edited for length and grammar purposes
Views on these pages are not representative of Felix

