science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
6 felix Friday 29 February 2008
Science
Science Editor – Ed Henley
Libby Heaney, a 24 year old graduate of IC, won the HSBC and Institute of Physics (IOP) award for the Very
Early Career Woman Physicist of the Year for the significant contribution she has already made to physics
Sally Longstaff
Libby Heaney, who did her undergrad-
uate studies in physics at Imperial [She
was in my year! - Ed], was awarded the
prize on the 20th of February for her
academic work in the Quantum Infor-
mation Science Group at the Univer-
sity of Leeds, where she is currently in
the final year of her PhD.
Her PhD work concerns the study
of entanglement in non-interacting
gases. Entanglement is a type of non-
local correlation, or ‘spooky action at
a distance’, that occurs solely in the
quantum arena. The aim of her work
was to demonstrate that entanglement
exists between localised regions of
space, in the form of correlations in the
numbers of bosons (a type of particle)
in those regions, and to investigate the
conditions under which this entangle-
ment exists.
This work is particularly interesting
as entanglement is usually thought to
exist between particles themselves or
their internal degrees of freedom, but
not between regions of space occupied
by bosons. Her work has applications
in the exciting technologies of quan-
tum computing, as measurements
on q-bits – the quantum analogue of
a bit in a normal computer – can be
used to drive computations. Quan-
tum techniques are thought to be the
way forward in computing, as quan-
tum computers should be able to solve
problems much faster than current
technologies.
Libby has also made significant ef-
forts to inspire others into the field
of physics. She has participated in
the teaching of undergraduates at the
University of Leeds, which includes
computing and maths classes. She was
awarded the Ogden Teaching Fellow-
ship for Physics in recognition of her
work organising physics projects for
students in local schools, giving talks
on quantum mechanics and and ex-
plaining to them what a life as a theo-
retical physicist involves.
Dr Gillian Butcher, Chair of the IOP
Women in Physics Group, said, “It is
lovely to be able to reward Libby and
hopefully give her the confidence to
continue doing such wonderful work
in both physics and outreach activi-
ties.” Libby received her award of £1000
from Dame Mary Richardson, CEO of
the HSBC Education Trust.
As well as the award ceremony there
were careers talks from women physi-
cists from a variety of careers, which
were both interesting and inspiring,
and which showed the breadth of jobs
available in physics.
Helen Heath from the University of
Bristol described her life working at
CERN. She took part in one of the first
experiments to use solid-state silicon
detectors to look for charmed parti-
cles. Later she worked on the design of
a calorimeter used in the ZEUS project,
which investigated the structure of
proton using electrons. Her current
project involves working on the Com-
pact Muon Solenoid (CMS) experi-
ment at CERN, in the Large Hadron
Collider (LHC). The main goals of the
experiment are to discover the Higgs
boson, to look for evidence of physics
beyond the standard model, such as
supersymmetry or extra dimensions,
and to study aspects of heavy ion colli-
sions. She is also involved with various
outreach projects such as working with
Year 10 girls, encouraging them into
physics. She also works with a project
that brings teachers to CERN and was
awarded a Faculty Teaching and Learn-
ing Award.
Rebecca Barnes studied Physics
with Astrophysics at the University of
Leicester and is now working in science
communications at the National Space
Centre. She had worked on setting up
and running school programmes, such
as the Challenger Learning Centre and
E-Mission. The Challenger Learn-
ing Centres were set up in memory
of Christa McAuliffe, the teacher who
died when the shuttle Challenger blew
up after launch. The centre at the NSC
is the only one outside of North Amer-
ica and school-children role-play a two
hour mission involving science experi-
ments, data analysis, communications
and team working. The E-Mission
involves students as an emergency re-
sponse team, evacuating the island of
Montserrat from the double threat of a
Libby Heaney may only be in the very early stages of her career in physics, but she has already made a mark
both in her research and in outreach. Her prize? £1000 and a significant accolade – inspiring stuff, no?
volcano eruption and a hurricane. Re-
becca also works on outreach projects
such as the Stardome, a mobile inflat-
able planetarium, which is taken to
schools.
Professor Averill MacDonald start-
ed off teaching physics in secondary
schools for 12 years, and then studied
part time for an MA, followed by a
PhD. She is currently a part-time lec-
turer in the Physics department at the
University of Reading. She has co-au-
thored 18 school textbooks, produced
a wide range of free teaching resources
for schools and has pioneered sci-
ence outreach through a wide range of
projects including the well-known ‘Sci-
ence with Coffee and Hobnobs’. She has
also written the Guide to Science Out-
reach for Universities. In 1999 she was
awarded the Bragg Medal and Prize by
the Institute of Physics, London for her
contribution to physics education and
the Royal Society recognised her work
with a Millennium Award.
Joanna Lee, from the National Physi-
cal Laboratory, was one of the runners
up in the competition. She gave a talk
on her work as a higher research scien-
tist in the Nanoanalysis group. Joanna’s
research is focused on the fundamen-
tal issues in the quantitative analysis
of micro- and nano- structures using
Time-of-Flight Secondary Ion Mass
Spectrometry (ToF-SIMS). SIMS is a
powerful technique for the analysis of
complex molecules on surfaces, with
applications in many innovative tech-
nologies such as drug delivery systems,
biomolecular engineering for diagnos-
tics, and personal care products, such
as hair conditioner. SIMS works by fir-
ing atoms onto the surface to be studied
and then collecting the particles which
come off the surface and sorting them
by mass. The resulting mass spectrum
then gives an indication of the compo-
sition and hence the structure of the
surface. She has worked on improving
SIMS by investigating the use of C60
carbon molecules or “buckyballs” in-
stead of atoms in the original beam,
as well as the application of SIMS to
non-flat samples. Joanna’s other re-
search involves simulation, modelling,
analytical approaches and experimen-
tation to extend the measurement ca-
pabilities of SIMS and pave the way for
its use in emerging technologies.
Entering the Award
The 2008 Very Early Career Woman
Physicist of the Year Award, sponsored
by HSBC, is judged by IOP’s Women in
Physics Group. The award is in its sec-
ond year and it was introduced to high-
light the great work being undertaken
by young female physics researchers
all across the UK. Applications were
invited from women at the start of
their careers in physics who have made
a contribution to the subject and also
have undertaken activities to support
or encourage others in the field.
The prize is awarded annually to a
woman who is within three years of
completing her undergraduate degree
in physics and who is either working as
a physicist or is engaged in postgradu-
ate study. To satisfy the award’s entry
criteria, the woman must have made a
significant contribution to the project
she is working on, undertaken activi-
ties to encourage others into physics,
named referees and provided a CV.
The closing date for next year’s
award will be around the end of Octo-
ber, and further information should be
obtained from the IOP.
The Institute of Physics (IOP) is a
scientific membership organisation
devoted to increasing the understand-
ing and application of physics. The IOP
Women in Physics Group is a group
established to encourage women to
participate in physics. It provides a
forum for initiatives to advance issues
of particular relevance to women and
support to female members by encour-
aging professional development in in-
dustry, commerce, academia, teaching
and research.
Ex-Imperial student wins IOP award for women

