politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
9
Friday 29 February 2008 felix
Politics
Dry Wit & Tonic
Samuel Black
You’ve all heard about Mosquito
Alarms. Probably not by that name, but
they are the alarms that emit a sound at
a frequency that young people can hear
but is inaudible to adults. The science
is simple; your hearing range decreases
as you age which means that children
can hear higher-pitched sounds than
adults. The concept has been taken
further, in a radical new piece of tech-
nology created by Dr James Watson
It’s called the ScareBlack; it works
like a scarecrow but uses sound and
scares not crows, but dark-skinned
people. In fact, the parent company has
a range of devices from ScareMuslim
to ScareHobo. The ScareBlack emits
an unbearable sound, which foreigners
can hear but that is completely inaudi-
ble to English folk. Any person within
hearing range of the product is forced
to move away from the sound. I went
to the ScareBlack factory in Stafford-
shire to find out more about the prod-
uct and I was shown the ScareBlack in
action. First I was allowed to hear the
ScareBlack, obviously being the blue-
blooded Englishman I am, I couldn’t
hear a thing.
Then I rubbed some shoe polish on
my face. When the ScareBlack was
turned on, the noise was extremely
unpleasant and I had to move away.
The creator, Dr James Watson, told me
about the product’s conception “I was
on the train one day, and an Afro-Car-
ibbean family got on and sat opposite
me, effectively ruining my journey. It
was at this point that I promised myself
I would find a way of keeping foreign-
ers away from myself ”.
The science behind the ScareBlack
is slightly different to that of the Mos-
quito alarm aimed at children. “Each
demographic group of people have
certain frequencies of sound that they
can and can’t listen to. This is why
women don’t listen to reason, it’s at a
frequency they can’t hear” explained
Dr Watson, “All we do is set the prod-
uct to the correct frequency and voila”.
The British government is very inter-
ested in the possible applications of the
alarm. With immigration continuing at
ever-increasing numbers and an Eng-
lish population that feel like strangers
in their own country, the ScareBlack
provides the perfect solution. Huge
speakers are being erected all along
the English coastline in order to deter
immigrants from entering the coun-
try. A special ScareIllegal-Immigrant
has been developed for the govern-
ment and has been deployed in major
cities such as London, to tackle those
who slip through the net. A govern-
ment spokesman commented “Finally
we have an effective way to get those
bloody foreigners out of the country”.
Local councils and police forces are
also finding Dr Watson’s invention in-
credibly useful. Homelessness in South
Kensington has been eradicated; the
ScareHobo has driven vagrants away.
Police forces across the country have
cracked down on human rights pro-
tests by using the ScareHippie; the no
protest zone around Westminster has
never been so well-enforced. Some
police forces have started installing
the ScareBlack in some homes. If the
trials are successful, there are plans to
install ScareBlacks in homes around
the country. Preliminary results show
a 70% reduction in burglaries. This is
not the only area of law enforcement
that will soon be using Dr Watson’s in-
vention. At airports and in other forms
of transport, the ScareTerrorist will
soon be rolled out, promising to be the
last line of defence in our fight against
terrorism
Despite these obvious benefits, some
have voiced concerns about the new
technology. The British Military would
like to see greater controls about who
can actually obtain the alarms. Cer-
tain areas of Afghanistan have become
no go areas because the Taleban have
modified the ScareBlack into what
appears to be a ‘ScareWhite’. Captain
Rick Wood of the 4th Battalion com-
mented, “We can’t actually enter the
town, they’ve set up loudspeakers eve-
rywhere, in homes, schools and hos-
pitals. The only option is to bomb the
loudspeakers regardless of civilian cas-
ualties”. On a lighter note, Union Presi-
dent Stephen Brown has had some dif-
ficulty entering Beit Quad to get to the
offices. It would appear that a student
has hidden a ScareScot somewhere in
the bushes.
Certainly the ScareBlack is a revo-
lutionary piece of technology, one
that promises to change our society
tremendously. As it becomes more
integrated into our daily lives, will we
notice any difference? This reporter
thinks so, however he also believes that
at a conceptual level; the existence of
a device that restricts exclusively the
right of assembly, of one demographic
group within society, is abhorrent and
entirely inconsistent with the tenets of
democracy that this country is built
upon.
The government has been ordered to
release minutes from two meetings
held in the run-up to the Iraq War in
2003. The order comes from Informa-
tion Commissioner Richard Thomas
after a request under the Freedom of
Information Act was rejected by the
Cabinet Office. Mr. Thomas said that
the release of the minutes is in the pub-
lic interest as they would give greater
“transparency and public understand-
ing of the relevant issues”.
The Cabinet Office has 35 days from
Tuesday to appeal this decision and is
currently “considering” its response. In
his request, Mr. Thomas added that it
is “paramount” that people are held ac-
countable for their actions. The person
asking for the minutes said the Cabinet
Office’s refusal created “a public im-
pression that something not entirely
truthful has been uttered”. The Office
had refused to release the minutes as
they claim information related to the
formulation of government policy is
exempt from disclosure. However, in
this case the public interest in having
the minutes released outweighs the in-
terest in withholding this information;
Mr. Thomas made a point of explaining
that this disclosure does not “necessar-
ily” set a precedent for future Freedom
of Information requests concerning
cabinet minutes. The Commissioner
agreed to allow the redaction – black-
ing out – of various parts of the docu-
ments to prevent damage to Britain’s
international relations.
Following the leaked legal advice to
former Prime Minister Tony Blair from
Lord Goldsmith raising concerns over
the legality of the war, these minutes
are needed in the public domain. The
United Nations regards the Iraq War as
“illegal” without the second resolution
and the Attorney General’s concerns
were not presented to parliament.
Serious questions have already been
asked over whether Britain was lied to
by Tony Blair on the issue of weapons
of mass destruction and it appears that
we as a nation were intentionally mis-
led. The invasion of Iraq followed the
biggest political protest this country
Miscreant deterrent falls into the wrong hands
Iraq War minutes to be released
has ever seen with over 1 million peo-
ple marching in London in opposition
to the war.
The government as yet has not de-
cided the course of action to take; a
spokesman said that “the requirements
of openness and transparency must
be balanced against the proper and
effective functioning of government”.
“At the very heart of that system is the
constitutional convention of collec-
tive cabinet responsibility,” he added.
The way to ensure that those respon-
sible for the war in Iraq are culpable is
to release the minutes into the public
domain, albeit a censored version. The
way the government handled the Iraq
War, throughout all stages of planning
up till today has been secretive and
misleading.
Liberal Democrat foreign affairs
spokesman Edward Davey said: “La-
bour’s wall of secrecy over the Iraq war
is gradually being dismantled brick by
brick. The case for an independent
inquiry into the decision to go to war
is only strengthened by these continu-
ing efforts to delay and obstruct those
seeking the truth.”
James Goldsack

