Electricity and Bubbles
SCIENCE
You met the DeskJet, now meet the DrugJet
Philip Kent Science Editor
Science Editors: Philip Kent,
Laurence Pope, Philippa Skett
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
13
FRIDAY 15 FEBRUARY
Everyone has heard of the inkjet print-
er, you probably have one yourself.
However, one application of the ven-
erable oﬃce supply you haven’t heard
of is printing drugs, recently devel-
oped at the UCL School of Pharmacy.
An inkjet printer works by deliv-
ering small droplets of ink onto the
page, controlled via an electrical sig-
nal. In most inkjet printers a thermal
technique is used: heat vapourizes
ink, which is then delivered onto the
page and dried. A mixture of the col-
ours (and black) are used to produce
the desired output on page.
In this development, the same ther-
mal process has been used to deliver
the drug carbamazepine, a medication
often prescribed to people suﬀering
from epilepsy.
he original synthetic method for
this drug involves delivery of a tiny
amount of the drug. When deposited,
the drug evaporates and crystallises
almost immediately, producing the
desired compound.
In this new technique, the same
method is used, but an inkjet printer
is used to precisely control drug deliv-
ery. his makes use of the ﬁne control
that inkjet cartridges have when de-
ploying ink, with many inkjet printers
capable of printing to 1,200 dpi.
he main advantage of using print-
ers is their ease of conversion to print-
ing drugs, which also has the desirable
quality of being cheap to do. A good
quantity of crystallisation has also
been reported, with even better yields
lowing bubbles from
soapy water has been a
favourite past time for
all of us. Struggling as
we try to catch them be-
fore the breeze takes them higher and
higher provided us with hours of de-
light. We never gave a thought to the
physics behind it, because, well, that
would ruin the fun.
Bubbles usually do not last for too
long, and if we had restrained our-
selves enough, we would have seen
them pulled back under gravity by
their own weight. It’s true, bubbles
do have a mass (a very small one at
that). Bubbles are a good example of
nanoﬂuids; ﬂuids with a thickness of
the order of nanometres. Research has
been going on in the area of microﬂu-
ids and nanoﬂuids, with the challenge
of driving ﬂows through ever smaller
channels.
A research group from the Univer-
sity of Lyon have looked into the elec-
trokinetic properties of soft, deform-
able nanoﬂuids, with some surprising
results. Soap ﬁlms were the ﬂuid of
choice for the team because they are
easy to produce, nanometres thick
and are a perfect balance between liq-
uid pressure and surface tension. he
experiment consisted of balancing a
cylinder of the ﬂuid between two plat-
inum coated glass electrodes. he ﬁlm
is protected from evaporation by her-
metically sealing in a water saturated
atmosphere.
Applying a small potential diﬀer-
ence between the closely spaced elec-
trodes (5.5mm) caused a large electric
ﬁeld to be created within the bubble,
altering its thickness and ﬂow rate.
Before passing a current through it,
the ﬁlm’s thickness and conductance
is recorded, and once energised, the
conductance to a plateau after around
100s, due to the conducting surface
becoming saturated. his provided a
calibration method to infer the thick-
ness of the ﬂuid from its conductivity.
he second stage was to swap the
AC supply for a constant DC one, in
the same direction as gravity. he re-
sult was a net movement of ﬂuid from
bottom to top, against the pull of grav-
ity, a phenomenon known as electro-
osmosis. Interestingly, a change in col-
our in the bubble was observed when
the electric ﬁeld was changed rapidly,
as the ﬁlm’s walls fattened quickly. By
solving the resulting equations, taking
into account gravitational, electrical
and viscous forces, the team conclud-
ed that the thickness of the bubble is
formed in equilibrium from the elec-
tricity and capillary suction. he team
also note: “Adapting this study to a real
foam structure with ﬁlms, nodes, and
plateau borders is a great challenge in
order to use this phenomenon in real
systems.”
So, spare a thought for this sub-
tle balancing act next time you see a
lonely bubble ﬂoating in the sky.
Pavitar Devgon asks what ever could go wrong...
B
This bubble is brought to you through
the power of electricity... or printing
being achieved when multiple passes
have been used.
his development is not completely
without its ﬂaws, however, with cer-
tain solvents having the potential to
wreck havoc with the cartridge ma-
terial. Common solvents used, water
and water/ethanol mixtures, are ﬁne,
The new drug baron? Stringer
Bell better watch out...
however other commonly used sol-
vents may cause more trouble.
DOI: 10.1039/c2ce26519b

