LOLCAT OF TEH WEEK: Finding these is a perk of the job
Tim Arbabzadah
Editor-in-Chief
Council rises up
t was a good thing to see that
Council decided to vote to
have a clear opinion on some-
thing. Especially that peo-
ple came to a decision and
didn’t care what the sabbs thought
and made up their own mind. This
happened on not one but two occa-
sions, which was refreshing. Perhaps
it had something to do with the seat-
ing change, where it was a circle. I
initially mocked it as “being like an A
Level drama class”, but maybe hav-
ing a select few sit at the front of the
room does make people think they are
above them.
I have made no secret of my opin-
ions on the Translation Studies Unit,
and wish them well in their fight. If you
want to know what I think then refer
to my Editorial in Issue 1537. Hopefully
they’ll get some clarity and will be kept
on. I just hope that the Management
Board aren’t too proud to reconsider
their decision. It would be pretty child-
ish to basically just stick it out due to
not wanting to back down.
Hopefully the sabbs will all put
forward the view of Council on their
behalf in meetings, rather than their
own. That is what they are there to
do. It can be a tricky situation to be in,
but hopefully they explain that this is
the view of Council. Of course, they
are free to express personal opinions
too, but should make sure they high-
light what is their opinion and what is
Council’s.
The medicines decision was also
great. The reason to oppose it based
on it being hard to implement in the
current framework is valid, but a lot of
things are hard to do in current frame-
works. It would be good to see just a
tad more idealism. Obviously being
unrealistic and imagining you can do
amazing things overnight won’t help,
but having an ideal goal that you ac-
knowledge that you want to slowly
work towards is a good thing. Ideal-
ism, with a good dollop of pragmatism
is the way forward. Have your ultimate
ideal, and do everything to reach it.
Don’t dismiss a goal as it seems un-
likely. Embrace that it’s a tough chal-
lenge and that it is an aim that you
know will take time and effort to reach.
COMMENT ARTS TECH
Dinosaurs dying? Arts are coming... Is Watson smart?
Comment has three great dis-
cussions going. There’s the re-
sponse to last week’s banking
article, the ongoing discussion
of the EU and equal marraige.
Artsfest is on its way. The image
of art being all free flowing and
relaxing isn’t always true. It’s of-
ten a lot of toil and organising
to put together a show.
Watson, as well as being Holm-
es’ trusty sidekick, is an AI that
can beat human contestants on
a gameshow, but can it some-
how cure cancer? Hint... No.
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB.
Email: felix@imperial.ac.uk. Tel: 020 7594 8072. Fax: 020 7594 8065.
Printed by Iliffe Print Cambridge, Winship Road, Cambridge.
Registered newspaper ISSN 1040-0711.
Copyright © Felix 2013.
TO YOU
THIS
WEEK
WAS
BROUGHT
BY
EDITOR’S PICKS
2
>>18 >>22 >>33
CLASSIFIEDS
FRIDAY 15 FEBRUARY
Editor-in-Chief Tim Arbabzadah Deputy Editor Saskia Verhagen Assistant Editor Matt Colvin News Editors Aemun Reza, Nida Mahmud Features Editors Caroline Wood, Stephen Smith Business Editor Deepka
Rana Science Editors Philip Kent, Laurence Pope, Philippa Skett Politics Editors Padraic Calpin, Marie-Laure Hicks Food Editors Carol Ann Cheah, Sophia Goldberg, Yiango Mavrocostanti Comment Editors George
Barnett, Navid Nabijou, James Simpson Fashion Editors Saskia Verhagen, Alice Yang Arts Editors Eva Rosenthal, Meredith Thomas Books Editor Maciej Matuszewski Music Editors Mark England, Ross Gray, Simon
Hunter Television Editor Lucia Podhorska Film Editors Katy Bettany, John Park, Lucy Wiles Games Editor Ross Webster Technology Editors Jason Parmar, Maximilian Eggl Coffee Break Boss Matt Colvin Travel Editor
Veronika McQuade Sports Editors Oli Benton, Sorcha Cotter, Margot Pikovsky Online Editors Philip Kent, Jonathan Kim Puzzles Commanders Louisa Byrne, Sotirios Karamitsos Copy Chief Annina Sartor Copy
Editors Stephen Ball, Christopher Witham Illustrators Hamish Muir, Outi Supponen, Aaniya Ahmed
Flyer distributors wanted!
Jump&Bounce is hiring a flyer distribution team and we
would love to get the community involved.
Teams will be lead by team managers. Distributions will
be taking place at evening times at Shoreditch, Hoxton,
Southwark, Camden Town, Notting hill, Sheperds bush,
Hammersmith & Fulham and Kensington.
Flyer distribution will start on the 21st FEB and finish
March 7th.
Campaign days THURS - FRI - SAT
PAY £40 per 1000 flyers
For more information: Get in touch with Brendon Kasozi
via events@jumpandbounceclub.com
Email felix@imperial.ac.uk to place Classifieds.
Boy/girl seeking boy/girl also welcome. Pictures of you liking Nutella off of
your finger with “come to bed” eyes not welcome.
I
Write to me to get a tenner
I was pretty happy with the response
to the last call. We actually couldn’t
publish one letter (due to space re-
strictions, but it will be in next week).
All you need to do is give me your
thoughts on something in College,
something in the Union, Felix (what
you like and don’t like; constructive
criticism is extremely welcome!),
how sticky the floors of TigerTiger are
nowadays, anything. Then we will put
all the ones we can fit into the paper,
and the best one each week will get
a crisp ten pound note (crispness not
guaranteed). If you want to be anony-
mous, just let us know.
Why am I doing this? Well. I want
to revive the letters section, and get
people giving a quick opinion on a
matter. Not everyone wants to write a
long enough blurb to become a com-
ment piece, and not everyone wants
to make comments on the website.
I know that you can, but letters (or,
emails) are a great way of giving a
short opinion that will be seen by all
who glance at the Comment section
that week, not just those that look at
that one article online. It seemed like
an oddly opportune time to do so as
you can just get your phone out and
email in straight away.
Nowadays, with the internet, it is
easier than ever to make a snap re-
action and proclaim it to the world.
That’s why I want people to think over
their opinion, word it carefully, and
then send it in. Plus, it makes Felix
a better paper if we know what sort
of thing you are thinking about. The
email to send them in to is:
felix@imperial.ac.uk.

