ARTS
Arts Editors: Eva Rosenthal,
Meredith Thomas
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
ARTSFEST @ImperialCollege–Thereisarttoseerighthereoncampus,allofnextweek.
Findoutmoreatwww.union.ic.ac.uk/arts/artsfest.Febuary18-21.
LaTraviata@EnglishNationalOpera–Traviatagetsasexymake-overinthiswonderful
ENO production, heavy on the purples and reds. The singing is superb, especially from
CorinneWinters(Violetta),whocarriesthetragedyswiftlytoitssadend.The2hoursin
thetheatre(nointerval)couldalmostbefiveminutes.Ticketsfrom£16.Now-March3.
Lichtenstein: A Retrospective @ Tate Modern – The Tate Modern’s spring blockbuster
is a retrospective pop arts premier superhero. His images are totally synonymous with
popartinpopularculturesodonotmissthechancetoseeiconslike‘DrowningGirl’and
‘Whaam!’inalltheirtechnicolourglory.February21–May27.
Through A Glass Darkly @ Stephanie Hoppen Gallery – Four contemporary photogra-
phers explore female beauty through decidedly sepia toned glasses. The exhibition fea-
ture painterly lighting, Elizabethan costumes and carriage-loads of classical references.
February19-March13
Kinetica Art Fair @ Ambika P3 – This annual exhibition is the spiritual home of kinetic,
electronic,roboticandnewmediaartgenerallythemedaroundscienceandtechnology.
Bepreparedtobeastonishedbyshinylightsandthewhirringofservos.Getticketsearly,
itsellsoutfast.February28–March3
Flukeworms
Why work? Instead, doodle all lecture long and then send us your drawings
to arts.felix@ic.ac.uk. This doodle was done by Cyprien de Saint Guilhem
duringanenthrallinghorizonslecture!
FRIDAY 15 FEBRUARY
22
he Artsfest exhibition is an annual in-
stitution that has existed since I arrived
at Imperial. It is an important event for
those who are involved with the Arts on
campus. he show, which is planned to
coincide with Imperial College’s festival
of art, music and dance, features collab-
oration between members of Leonardo
Fine Arts Society and Photographic So-
ciety. Some reader might remember the
maze of string last year or the ﬂock of
paper cranes the year before.
Being a spectator over the past few
years allowed me to marvel at the
achievement of people who managed to
put these breath-taking, genuinely inno-
vative exhibitions up. As part of the Le-
oSoc committee last year I had a glimpse
of the managerial eﬀort it required. his
year the job ﬁnally fell to me, there was a
lot to live up to.
Herding cats is a polite way to describe
the task of encouraging artists to pro-
duce work. When you add photogra-
phers to the mix things start to get really
tricky. Disasters, miscommunications
and frankly fuck-ups are bound to hap-
pen; in fact I believe they are important
facets of the creative process. By that
measure this year should be a roaring
success.
he ﬁrst round of creative ideas was
forged, as all good ideas are, in the pub.
Every Monday LeoSoc gathers for a few
refreshing pints and we persuaded some
photographers to tag along. I started
encouraging the regular photographers
and artists who attend our bar nights to
share their ideas.
Trying to understand the vision of
a fellow artist can be a surreal journey,
more so when it comes to sharing your
own. Bits of paper or the surface of an
iPad become a conduit to illustrate dif-
ferent concepts. Initial rampant, creative
outbursts lead to compulsive googling
of that installation you remember hav-
ing seen or that cool image you saw in
someone’s deviant art’s proﬁle. Soon af-
terwards, the voices of pragmatism rise,
not in short supply at this university, and
cry out to bring all those ideas down to
earth. hen follows the fuss over where
to procure kilometres of wool, or hun-
dreds of LEDs or where to buy a few
thousands polystyrene cubes.
Day-dreaming continued while dead-
lines loomed and in my head a warning
light began to pulse as the day-to-day
running of the society started chewing
up my time and spitting out bones. I
needed to put something together now.
Ideas, once decided started to transform
again and after a brief meeting with Pho-
tosoc a new feasible idea sprung out.
Time is ticking but the aim was clear
now. I was to get sixteen painters from
LeoSoc to paint a piece each. I had to
start making calls to gather the ﬁrst
group of painters, then call CassArt to
ensure there were enough canvases in
stock. I received an image from the pho-
tographers that we were to paint.
his is the part where the fun re-
ally started, bohemian scenes of intense
painting sessions and banging tunes in
succession, by the start of the week we
already had ten paintings.
Hanging day arrives; we still do not
have all the paintings but plenty to get
started. Showing the paintings to Photo-
Soc it dawns on me that there has been
a massive communications breakdown,
our paintings were not what they are ex-
pecting.
he ability to improvise and make of
the mishap a source of inspiration is one
of the things that I adore about this job.
Fortunately the very way we had con-
ceived the exhibition, in terms of pixels,
helped form an idea to salvage the exhi-
bition. As ever the last minute change
proves more interesting than the origi-
nal plan.
As I write, some paintings are still in
the making and the prints are coming
tomorrow but I feel positive. he paint-
ings look outstanding and a few people
have already asked if they are for sale.
If you as curious about the end of this
story as me, the show opens next week
here will be wine and you can meet all
those that put the show together by pull-
ing it out of a spin dive at the last minute.
Opening party on Febuary 19th 8pm,
Blythe Gallery, Sherfield Level 5
Rocío Molina Writer
Facebook shrubs
features literal wall
Eva Rosenthal Arts Editor
Back to
collage
Kurt Schwitters was a key inﬂuence on
the development of pop-art, one of the
most important movements of the 20th
century, but if you have never heard his
name before, do not fear. Tate Britain is
having a major retrospective of his work
and, in any case, it is a catchy name, with
a tingling ring to it that sticks delightfully
to your brain walls so that you could ﬁnd
yourself Schwittering (muttering Schwit-
ters to yourself whilst trying to look sane)
around the sweltering rooms the Tate
Britian.
Schwitters, a member of the avant-
garde art scene in the 20s and 30s, driven
to Britain in 1941 by the Nazis, must
be introduced through his collages and
through the theory that pervades his
work: Merz. his was the belief that any
material was as valid and as valuable as
paint for the creation of a work of art.
Ticket stubs, magazines, porridge and
half-spoons were all used by Schwitters
to create his subtle and delicate collages.
hese are by far the most beautiful
things he made. hey are delicate, intri-
cate and often funny – although always
melancholic. hose collages, made as
he was nearing the end of his life in the
deepest Lake District, are especially love-
ly, abstract representations of the natural
world.
He worked best in miniature. His small
pieces are charming, allowing the viewer
to swiftly imbibe the feeling of the work.
Schwitters’ larger works however, are
dull, plodding creatures. His portraits
and landscapes are unimaginative and
heavy: everyone runs past them without
even meaning to. Enthusiastic art stu-
dents attempt to glue themselves to the
gallery ﬂoor in front of his abstract paint-
ings but are quickly distracted; even they
cannot manage to give them more than a
minute of their time.
Schwitters was an artist with various
interests, dabbling in experimental po-
etry, he was proliﬁc writer. In the context
of the show, what stood out for me were
his views on imitation in art. Imitation
in his (simpliﬁed) view could not result
in anything truly worthy and for him, at
least, this was true: his ﬁnest works, his
collages, were also truly original.

