The Nano Flower
Alex Savell looks at the final Greg Mandell novel
n just a day’s time Peter Ham-
ilton will be arriving for Sci-
Fi’s annual convention, Pico-
con. Before that we are going
to ﬁnish oﬀ our look at the
Greg Mandel series with a look at the
ﬁnal novel; he Nano Flower. Set ﬁf-
teen year’s after A Quantum Murder
there’s plenty that’s changed in that
time. he Nano Flower concludes the
progression of the world around Greg
out of recession. Technology is blos-
soming and the world has started to
move forwards in leaps and bounds.
his is the ﬁrst big diﬀerence with
he Nano Flower. Although the change
in background maintains continuity
with the previous books, it does set a
new dynamic and is certainly the ﬁrst
time that Hamilton pushes towards
a harder sci-ﬁ setting. Asteroids are
hauled into orbit in order to mine new
resources, clean energy sources have
put an end to the climate change prob-
lems of the recent past and in some
ways it’s an extremely optimistic out-
look on the future. However, perhaps
more interesting is seeing the world
move forwards while Greg stays still.
When returning character Julia re-
ceives a strange package and rumours
of new technology that threaten to
throw oﬀ the balance of power across
the globe and bring her company,
Event Horizon, to its knees, it’s Greg
that she turns to for help; pulling him
out of retirement. It’s interesting to
watch Greg face a world where the ad-
vantages he held in previous missions
are mitigated by technology that’s in-
creased without him. While he now
gets to jet across the globe in a hyper-
sonic plane, Mandel also has to cope
with the fact that the world has be-
come a smaller place and the schemes
of criminal organisations can easily
encompass an entire globe.
Not to mention potentially the most
contentious issue of the book; aliens.
he ‘package’ that Julia receives is in
fact the eponymous Nanoﬂower and
it is certainly a mystery. Containing
DNA that is far in advance of any of
our own and with genes completely
foreign to Earth, the Nanoﬂower pre-
sents a dangerous and intriguing mys-
tery. However, for me it was very much
a confusing addition to the Mandel
setting. I wasn’t initially convinced
that the world needed the addition of
any extra-terrestrial inﬂuences. To me
the series had been all the more inter-
esting due to its plausibly near future
outlook so I was going to take some
serious winning over to be convinced
that this was a necessary addition.
I must admit, I’m still a little on the
fence, but Hamilton’s writing remains
engaging and enthralling and he cer-
tainly goes a long way to winning my
opinion back round to the inclusion of
this new theme. I still don’t necessar-
ily understand the decision, perhaps I
will get the chance to ﬁnd out tomor-
row in his talk, but I have a sneaking
suspicion, or at least an inkling, that
it might be to do with the following.
Hamilton has openly said that part of
what he enjoys about writing is creat-
ing worlds and the backdrops upon
which the plots play out. As such I
think it may have been a decision to
– almost aside from Greg, Julia and
Event Horizon – show mankind’s slow
ascendancy into a much larger uni-
verse. hat’s a very optimistic view
from where the world is in Mindstar
Rising; in less than a couple of dec-
ades humanity moves from a narrowly
averted apocalypse to begin their for-
ays into the starts.
Despite several things that, with
hindsight, look a little less than real-
istic, the Greg Mandel series is still
compelling and an excellent read and,
as it hits its twentieth birthday, it’s still
doing extremely well. he covers you
may have seen opposite these articles
are the 2011 incarnation of the series,
where Greg got a bit of a facelift and, in
an homage to the trilogies of 70s sci-ﬁ,
put together, they form one extended
image of Hamilton’s world progress-
ing from ruins through to a skyscraper
clad metropolis reaching to the sky. A
ﬁtting visual for a world that grew up
as I once did while reading it.
Peter F. Hamilton will be at Imperial
College on Saturday. February 16 as
one of the Guests of Honour at Picocon
30. For more information, and to reg-
ister your attendance, visit icsf.org.uk/
picocon
I
Books were better when I was young-
er. I’m sure of it. I don’t know if I’m
becoming more experienced, or
more cynical, or if I was simply lucky
enough to be introduced early to a
large amount of really excellent ﬁc-
tion, but I ﬁnd it very hard to bring
to mind any books in my adult life
that aﬀected me as powerfully as my
childhood favourites.
his book is the exception.
he modern urban fantasy genre
has experienced a resurgence over
the past decade, and in some ways
A Madness of Angels is part of that
movement. At base, it’s the story of
urban sorcerer Matthew Swift, who
wakes up one day with vivid and trou-
bling memories of his own death and
no understanding of how he has re-
turned from the grave or how the city
he used to know has changed. Oh,
and he’s now sharing his body with a
group of powerful entities of elemen-
tal magic, the blue electric angels.
Everybody wants to get their hands
on Swift and his new passengers and
he/they are precipitated into a plot-
line of battles, alliances and betrayal
as they struggle to come to terms
with their new existence and destroy
a powerful sorcerer – Swift’s mentor
and later his murderer – to win the
right to their freedom.
So far, so generic – but what lifts
Griffin’s book above its genre is the
execution. A Madness of Angels is sur-
real. It’s vivid. It’s alive. It’s disturbing
and enthralling and spectacular, the
kind of book that grabs hold of the
reader’s imagination and won’t let go,
long after its been put down. It’s not
only about Swift and his return from
death: it’s about London and magic
and life, and Swift, with his/their
unique, not-quite-human, viewpoint
is the perfect narrator for a London
full of Gaiman-esque urban legend –
graffiti artists whose work comes to
life after dark; the Old Bag Lady who
reads the omens in tattered shopping
bags; the Last Train that travels the
Circle Line eternally, chasing its own
tail. Griffin revels in the madcap fan-
tasy trappings of her setting; but with
a deft twist of perspective she also
uses them to turns the mundane and
ordinary into something glorious.
he book has ﬂaws, of course. he
changes of perspective between
Swift and the angels can be confus-
ing, as can the terse, often unattrib-
uted dialogue, and some characters
don’t receive enough ﬂeshing out,
like apprentice sorcerer Dana Mikeda
– what’s she up to anyway, and why
do we even care? But the book rises
above all this, becoming a delight to
read through the evident fascination
and wonder Griffin ﬁnds in her story.
Above everything else, A Madness of
Angels is full of pure joy.
Kate Griﬃn is a pen name used by the
twice Carnegie-nominated fantasy
author Catherine Webb for her adult
ﬁction. She will be at Imperial Col-
lege for Picocon 30 on the weekend of
February 16-17. As one of the Guests
of Honour, she will give an individual
talk and participate in the main panel
with Steph Swainston, Richard Mor-
gan, Peter F. Hamilton and Jaine Fenn.
For more information, and to register
your attendance, visit icsf.org.uk/pico-
con
We be light, We be life, We be fire
Lucy McGregor Writer
BOOKS Books Editor: Maciej Matuszewski
books.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 15 FEBRUARY
24

