MUSIC
Music Editors: Mark England,
Ross Gray, Simon Hunter
music.felix@gmail.com
FRIDAY 15 FEBRUARY
26
have recently discovered the
real reason the Pope is giving
up on wearing his natty white
gown and driving about in his
suped-up Pope-mobile to de-
vote more of his time to chillaxing. He
must have been present at St Leonard’s
Church last Friday where Veronica
Falls blew away the congregation with
an outstanding set. Evidently it became
clear to him that the best way to get
bums on pews and religion back into
the hearts and tweets of the young is
to be in a swoonsome twee indie band
which specialise in jangly guitar pop.
It is not surprising that this idea must
have dispirited Herr Ratzinger (as he
is more of a dubstep or electo-crunk
kind of guy) to such an extent that he
had no choice but to step down.
Now I have got the frolicking intro-
duction out of the way I must get to
the important part of describing the
actual gig. It goes without saying that
Veronica Falls are more C86 then it is
AMS album of the week
Whenever I have an article to write I find the
first sentences and phrases always come to
me when I’m walking on my own. My rough
draft for this review emerged the same way; I
was ready to talk less about the album, which
was okay, and more about the promise of My
Bloody Valentine recording once more. But
then I listened to it again.
For me and, anecdotally, for many fans of
the band, m b v is a definite grower, and that’s
probably as much the fault of ‘weight of ex-
pectation’ as anything. Unfortunately, being their first new material in 12 years,
it’s consigned to exist in the shadow of Loveless, the album that almost bankrupt
their record label with it’s technical demands, and defined shoegaze as a genre.
But, My Bloody Valentine’s albums have always been the kind of records that
reward repeat listens, the kind of records that don’t necessarily ‘click’ the first
time you hear them. What makes their albums so evocative is not just the music
itself, but the way it blends with your mental state; being able to lose yourself in
its tidal waves of sound, hearing Kevin Shield’s and Bilinda Butcher’s vocals float
around you.
I once saw Loveless described as sounding like “druggy sex or sexy drugs”. If
that’s the case, then m b v is the morning after that hazy fugue. Album opener,
‘SheFoundNow’sgentlyflowingriverofnoisepullsyouintothatlimbolikestate
of a rainy sunday afternoon. From there, the album only opens up, beginning
with elements that would’ve sounded at home on Loveless before branching off
into new territory, that sees the album close with a track that somehow blends
Shield’s trademark ‘Glide Guitar’ with a punchy drum and bass beat.
It says something about the impact that album had that Loveless has been
mentioned in this review almost as much as m b v. But, this is a great record that
deserves to stand up on it’s own. It’s both familiar, but strikes a clear course out
of the shadow of that 1991 epic. Kevin Shield’s said as much himself, explaining
that m b v “really frees us up, and in the bigger picture it’s 100 percent necessary.”
Critical acclaim can crush a group, but My Bloody Valentine have ridden out the
storm; here’s to hoping they keep recording albums like this.
VeronicaFallsatStLeonard’s
Mark EnglandgoestochurchonaFridaynight,andenjoysit...
possible to be but what sometimes can
seen somewhat one dimensional on
record has a much fuller sound when
you hear it live. St Leonard’s suits the
band down to the ground with songs
like ‘Found Love in a Graveyard’,
‘Stephen’ and ‘Wedding Day’ echo-
ing hauntingly around the cavernous
venue.
he purpose of tonight’s show, how-
ever, is to give the ears of Shoreditch
a preview of material of the new al-
bum Waiting for Something to Hap-
pen. I found the title track one of the
more grating but there were some real
gems in ‘Teenage’ and ‘Tell Me’. he
noise pop that Veronica Falls hustle
has evolved to become more muscular
but still keeps its timid, eyes across the
indie-disco danceﬂoor, quality.
he sold out show was crammed full
and you couldn’t even ﬁt another Japa-
nese hipster girl in if you tried. here
was a sense that the band were preach-
ing to the converted but this should
not detract from how accomplished
the band were as a live prospect. he
lo-ﬁ fuzz of the records is lost and is
replaced by a more elegant sheen. he
last time I saw Veronca Falls, admit-
tedly a few years ago now, was in the
basement of a dingy record shop in
Camden and they were bloody terri-
ble. hey had minimal presence and
their lyrics were lost beneath a sea of
Album review: Maranata - Royal Hex
Free-noise duo Maranata have col-
laborated with some big ﬁgures in the
experimental scene including Maja
S.K Ratkje and C.Spencer Yeh. On
this eﬀort, released on a 175 cassette
run (remember that, it’s important),
they collaborate with Sayaka Himeno,
Sakaya Himeno of Japanese all girl trio
Nisennenmondai. his is probably the
main thing that piqued my interest, as
she is a drummer of the highest order
and she shows it with aerobic but tight-
ly controlled drumming which takes
as much from free jazz as it does from
Lightning Bolt.
My ﬁrst impression of this album was
thatithadaverylo-ﬁaesthetic,asmight
be expect. You may recall, however, that
this was a cassette, and after rigorous
cleaning of the heads I discovered that
this wasn’t the case at all, or certainly
much less than I expected. he perils of
using a non-digital format…
If I haven’t exactly been forthcom-
ing in describing most of the album, it’s
because I was a little ﬂabbergasted. It’s
an assault on the ears, ﬁring through
a selection of genres, and while it may
only have appeal to noiseheads, it is
worth noting that it is very diverse and
subtly unlike any other album I’ve heard
to date.
Jon Wesseltoft’s guitar is almost ever
present, bringing in at time punky
and doomy motifs and at times simply
noisy. Dag Stiberg performs saxophone
duties. As well as its contribution to
jazz, people like Mats Gustafsson have
used the saxophone to add noise, and
this is certainly the role here. he sax-
ophone is just as ever present as the
guitar but lower in the mix, sounding a
little like a screamed vocal at low vol-
ume. It does, however, rear its head at
appropriate moments, giving it almost
a tidal feel and any moment where it
prevails seems to have a rather climac-
tic air to it.
It does have some less dense mo-
ments, the start of the second side –
‘Royal Hex’ (each track is a side long)
is a good example, where the sound is
more groove oriented, as the drums
slowly speed up bringing the music
back into the noisier territories where
it belongs.
Aquarius Records compared the al-
bum to Borbetomagus jamming with
Lightning Bolt and, to be honest, I’m
not sure I can top that.
Riaz Agahi Writer
My Bloody Valentine: mbv
I
Padraic Calpin
feedback. I was startled by their trans-
formation into indie heavyweights and
I am sure that their latest release will
be as good as their one time Rough
Trade record of the month self-titled
debut. I have never had so much fun
in a church before (although I am not
sure if this is a large accolade) and I
deﬁnitely have Veronica Falls to thank
for that.

