FILM
Film Editors: Katy Bettany,
John Park, Lucy Wiles
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
29
FRIDAY 15 FEBRUARY
This is love, this is love, this is love
Warm Bodies
Director: Jonathan Levine
Screenwriters: Jonathan Levine,
Isaac Marion (novel)
Starring: Nicholas Hoult, Teresa
Palmer, John Malkovich, Dave Franco
This is 40
Director: Judd Apatow
Screenwriters: Judd Apatow
Starring: Paul Rudd, Leslie Mann,
Maude Apatow, Iris Apatow, Jason
Segel, Megan Fox, Charlyne Yi
Wreck-it Ralph
Director: Rich Moore
Screenwriters: Rich Moore, Phil
Johnston, Jim Reardon, Jennifer Lee
Starring: (voices) John C. Reilly,
Sarah Silverman, Jack McBrayer, Jane
Lynch
Song for Marion
Director: Paul Andrew Williams
Screenwriter: Paul Andrew Williams
Starring: Gemma Arterton,
Terence Stamp, Vanessa Redgrave,
Christopher Eccleston
You may think you know all about the
zombie genre. hey’re dead, they walk
about aimlessly, bumping into things,
and as soon as they smell living ﬂesh,
they will not stop until they get their
share of raw human meat/organs in
their mouths. But have you ever seen a
zombie fall head over heels in love?
hat’s right, here we have R (Hoult),
a zombie who falls in love with Julie
(Palmer), one of the very few humans
on Earth after it is overtaken by the
walking dead. Ha, R+J... Get it? hese
two star-crossed lovers have a lot of
obstacles to overcome if they want to
make their romance work. here is
even the obligatory balcony scene.
It’s certainly an interesting spin on
a genre that isn’t known for creativ-
ity. With some excellent voiceover
A follow-up to Knocked Up without
actually holding onto any of its main
characters, we instead have a closer
look at how aged, mature relationships
work, and in this case, how the “hap-
pily ever after” is much easier said than
done.
Debbie (Mann) is 40 now although
she would never admit it. Impromptu
shower-sex with her husband Pete
(Rudd) on her birthday seemed all
great to start with, until she discov-
ers he took some viagra beforehand.
“I don’t want a turbo penis. I like your
medium soft one” she says, with great
disappointment.
And so begins Apatow’s portrayal of
gradual marital decline as well as his
excellent gags and one-liners. Whether
the ﬁlm itself closely follows what Apa-
A Toy Story for the video-game gen-
eration, instead of having cuddly lit-
tle toys that come to life when no-one
is around to look, we have a bunch of
arcade game characters who are free
to roam around their own little world
via intricately designed trains and
the “Grand Central Station”.
Ralph (Reilly), as his name sug-
gests, wrecks things. In his game “Fix
it Felix” it’s his job to break every-
thing, whilst the player controls Felix
to ﬁx all the damage caused by the
big bad guy. But Ralph doesn’t want
to be the bad guy anymore. He isn’t
invited to any of the cool parties his
“good” characters are having, and
whenever anyone comes across him
outside his game, they are too busy
running away from the brute to even
hear what he has to say.
Wanting to be fully accepted into
“Let’s talk about sex baby, let’s talk
about you and me, let’s talk about all
the good things, all the bad things
that may be, let’s talk about sex!”...
hardly something you would expect
to hear in a choir that consists of re-
tired pensioners but with the OAPZ
(Old Age PensionerZ), formality
isn’t their thing. Led by the bright
and lovely volunteer music teacher
Elizabeth (Arterton), the oldies have
a blast singing away to some lively
music.
Marion (Redgrave) loves these
sessions, although her husband Ar-
thur (Stamp) can’t think of anything
worse to do with his time, and con-
siders this his worst nightmare. Al-
ways refusing to join in on the fun,
this grumpy old man isn’t the least
impressed, more so when his wife
collapses and falls seriously ill.
work from Hoult, who also masters
the American accent, it does raise in-
triguing questions. Here is a ﬁlm that
provides a humane look at zombies
without immediately painting them
as cold-blooded killers. hey all have
their own individual thoughts, they
show potential to change, all in ways
that seem to make some sense, rely-
ing on the audience’s tolerance level
towards the “love conquers all” type of
message.
Hoult, now all grown up from his
About a Boy years, is a likable lead, who
initially appears as a horrendous, goth-
ic ﬁgure (look at the ﬁrst picture on the
right there and see if he’s quite the “Ro-
meo” material) but in fact he success-
fully plays on the goofy, dim-witted
side of his character with maximum
comedy value. A lot of the ﬁlm’s laughs
come from his strange, hunched-over
gait, as well as his inner thoughts.
here are some marked inconsisten-
cies, and some not very well explained
plot strands that lazily go unaddressed
for the sake of getting to the nice and
neat, simple ending the ﬁlm has been
planning all along. And it does have
the tendency to move quite slowly
throughout, somewhat similar to how
the dead walk on a daily basis, although
building up to a rather sizable ﬁnale.
the game characters’ community, he
decides the only way would be to win
a medal, any medal, that will prove
that he can also be a hero for once,
instead of constantly being outcast as
the villain.
He stumbles across a sci-ﬁ shoot’em
up, where he meets the charismatic
leader Sergeant Tamora Jean Cal-
houn (the invaluable Lynch who has
plenty of dry, no-nonsense one-liners
in a true Sue Sylvester style) and from
there after a series of unfortunate ac-
cidents he ends up in another game
land where the sweets-covered Sugar
Rush kart-racing game takes place.
here, it turns out he would need to
win that race to get ahold of his med-
al. Befriending Vanellope (Silver-
man) another outcast/a glitch from
the game, the two unlikely pair form
the sweetest bond to work together.
here’s the whole “be yourself”
type of repetitive and tiresome mes-
sage that gets jammed down every-
one’s throat which marks the ﬁlm’s
only serious misstep. Yes, yes we get
it Ralph can still be a hero whilst be-
ing the villain in the ﬁctional game,
we all need to embrace who we are
blah blah blah.
But there is plenty of imagination,
grand visuals, and head-spinning ac-
tion here to keep everyone of all ages
thoroughly entertained.
With an impending choir competi-
tion, everything depends on Arthur
to sing Marion’s solo. Cheesy yes,
but it deals with Arthur having to
deal with fulﬁlling his ailing wife’s
dream, which mostly works thanks
to the heavy-lifting done by the tal-
ented cast. Stamp is comically cold
and distant but with an easily notice-
able sensitive side that comes out in
his scenes with his on-screen wife.
Redgrave is hugely eﬀective as usual,
with her tear-inducing, superb rendi-
tion of Cyndi Lauper’s ‘True Colours’
showing there is no limit to her abili-
ties. Arterton adds a touch of youth
and vibrancy to the mix.
here are convincing links between
the characters – Marion and Arthur,
Arthur and Elizabeth, and a particu-
larly poignant one between Arthur
and his distant son, James (Eccles-
ton). he father-son relationship is
something that could have possibly
been expanded a little more, but the
chemistry the two actors share say a
whole lot more than you would ini-
tially expect, and it’s a surprising, en-
riching addition to the narrative.
It’s, of course, entirely predictable,
with a rousing, feel-good ending you
will see coming from the very start.
But when everything is handled so
tastefully with a dash of the occa-
sional humour, a lot can be forgiven.
tow may be going through in real-life
we’ll never know, but the use of his
actual wife (Mann) and their children
(Maude and Iris) seems to suggest
there is an element of truth.
Aside from the lack of spice in their
marriage, the family faces ﬁnancial dif-
ﬁculties, stemming mostly from Pete’s
record company that is not doing well
in the modern market, as well as Deb-
bie’s struggling jewellery store where
she suspects one of her employees (Fox
and Yi) is stealing from her. Pete’s fa-
ther (the excellent Albert Brooks) is
also constantly on the prowl, asking his
son for more money, whereas Debbie’s
wealthy but awkward father Oliver
(John Lithgow) makes things tougher.
It oﬀers no great original wisdom
on how a marriage should work, and
despite pondering on the question for
over two hours (a long running time
that is occasionally felt), it goes down
the traditional corny route that in-
volves a seemingly random accident
that makes everyone realise just how
much they love each other. Hurrah.
But Apatow is no amateur when it
comes to writing the gags and ﬁnding
the right people to deliver them. here
are plenty of hysterical moments, along
with some exceptional cameo appear-
ances.
Felix Film get romantic for you as Valentine’s Day passes

