FILM
Film Editors: Katy Bettany,
John Park, Lucy Wiles
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 15 FEBRUARY
30
Goodbye, George
John Park Film Editor
A Place in the Sun (re-
release)
Director: George Stevens
Screenwriters: Theodore Dreiser
(novel), Patrick Kearney (play),
Michael Wilson, Harry Brown
Starring: Montgomery Clift,
Elizabeth Taylor, Shelley Winters
A Place in the Sun shows the tragic
fall of a man who strived to gain eve-
rything in life: wealth, power, class,
love, and ultimately, happiness. He
worked hard; very hard in fact, since
he had to work all the way up from the
bottom of the corporate food chain.
A little misunderstanding jeopardis-
es everything and in a heart-beat, the
man is left with nothing. It shows us
the fragile nature of objects around
us, mirroring our very own human
emotions.
To start with, George Eastman
(Clift) is a not a well-oﬀ guy. His rich
Uncle Charles (the owner of the fam-
ily business (Herbert Heyes)) gives
him one out of sympathy: he’s in
charge of packaging swimsuits. It’s a
repetitive and boring job but he ap-
preciates it anyway. He meets a lovely
girl called Alice (Winters). She’s not
the prettiest of all dames but her per-
sonality wins him over. Which is why,
despite the department policy of “no
dating co-workers,” they start a se-
cret relationship; but only for a short
while. Realising what good work he’s
been doing for the company, Charles
gives him a promotion, a promotion
that would introduce him to the high
and fancy class whilst pulling him
away from his love, Alice. Initially
he believes that nothing will change
but Alice doesn’t quite buy that. She’s
a smart girl and thinks that he will
be corrupted by the spoiled, upper-
class money sharks. he more time
he spends with them, the more sus-
picious she gets. She can’t help it;
she just doesn’t trust him and those
around him.
But it turns out that Alice is right
to be concerned. George has met An-
gela (Taylor), the most beautiful aris-
tocratic young girl who shows inter-
est in him. So George is torn between
two women. he woman he’s vowed
to be faithful to, and the woman who
seems perfect for him. It also con-
fuses the audience. He really does
love both of them. Alice is sweet and
reliable but Angela is beautiful, guar-
antees wealth and gives him plenty
of connections. But eventually, he
starts falling for the ﬂawless looks.
He wants to ditch Alice and live the
life he always dreamed of. Alice is ap-
palled by his behaviour and tells him
that she is in fact, pregnant. A scan-
dal like that can ruin a man of such
reputation. So when she threatens to
reveal this little secret, he panics, and
is desperate for a way out. Acting on
an impulse, he decides that murder
is the best option. But a tragic acci-
dent occurs that paints him as a cold-
hearted criminal with no witnesses
to prove otherwise.
Clift, no matter how many mis-
takes his character makes, is always
the likable victim anyone can feel
sorry for. His camera-friendly fea-
tures work exceptionally well to suit
someone who goes through drastic
changes over the course of two hours.
When he’s poor, he’s humble, willing
to make sacriﬁces, and incredibly
sincere. He evolves, sees the bigger
world and the endless opportunities
to gain something more out of life. He
has a dream, a little far out of reach
of course, but a dream nonetheless.
Clift adds more and more intensity
to his performance building to the
climax, proving to everyone that he’s
not just a pretty face. Just watch the
close-up where George starts hav-
ing second thoughts about killing
his pregnant girlfriend. He’s wrecked
with guilt and fear. Even throughout
the long, sustained shot, Clift is fully
engaged and never ﬂinches, not for a
second.
he two women surrounding
George, providing two opposite life-
styles are perfectly cast. Taylor, from
the moment she makes her ﬁrst ap-
pearance, establishes herself as a
striking character, a lively, energetic,
fun-loving gal. She’s not manipula-
tive as one might expect her to be
– she has absolutely no knowledge
of Alice. Even after the accident oc-
curs, she stands by him, supporting
him through the painful ordeal. She
wasn’t involved in the relationship for
the looks. She was after something
deep and meaningful.
Winters plays Alice, the kind-
hearted, quieter girl. She is also im-
mensely lovable, although she does
become too inquisitive for her own
good. But how can anyone blame her?
It’s no secret that George has been
changing ever since he got the pro-
motion. Alice may have come from
a humble background but she’s far
from blind. She notices that some-
thing is oﬀ and naturally, as a woman
who wants to hold on to her man and
the baby’s father, she tries everything
to make him stay. Her desperation
never appears malicious, but more
heart-breaking, which Winters cap-
tures beautifully.
No true villain exists here, and
no-one is ever fundamentally evil.
he ﬁlm has aged a little, and the
shocking moments have less impact.
George trying to convince Alice to
get an abortion must have been an
unthinkable request in the 50s, al-
though today it’s a common occur-
rence. But the fantastic performances
have withstood the test of time and
still remain as impressive as ever. It’s
a slow-burning melodrama with a
fascinating love-triangle that doesn’t
have a simple answer.
WOOO I’m totally making this my prof pic!
IC Cinema Listings
Sightseers
Chris wants to show girlfriend Tina his world, but events soon
conspire against the couple and their dream caravan holiday
takes a very wrong turn.
Tuesday 19th February at 18:30
Thursday 19th February at 18:30
Artsfest Film Quiz
The legendary annual film-quiz returns. Join us at Imperial Cin-
ema - bring a team (of up to 8) or join one when you get here.
Free to enter and fabulous DVDs to win.
Tuesday 19th February at 20:45
Follow us: @feliximperial
facebook.com/FelixImperial
www.felixonline.co.uk
Email: felix@imperial.ac.uk
Seen a film that isn’t shit? Write about it.
Seen a film that is shit? Write about it.
Send in anything about cinema to:
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
We’re lonely. Talk to us...

