TECHNOLOGY
Technology Editor: Jason Parmar
tech.felix@imperial.ac.uk
33
FRIDAY 15 FEBRUARY
Maximilian Eggl
atson might be be-
coming smarter
than Holmes after
all, if IBM gets its
way.
Watson was ﬁrst unveiled in a game
show Jeopardy two years ago. Jeopardy
is a game show where contestants are
presented with the answers to questions
they are supposed to come up with.
Unsurprisingly, even though Holmes
wasn’t on scene, Watson managed to
beat the two human contestants (who
were widely considered to be the best
Jeopardy players) hands down. Now that
Watson has defeated its human over-
lords in a game of Jeopardy, it is ready to
take on the task of curing cancer.
Developed by IBM since 2005, Wat-
son was always envisioned as having a
higher purpose in medicine. Watson is
an artiﬁcial intelligence (AI) system that
is able to answer questions posed to it in
a natural language (i.e. a language spo-
ken by humans). It does this by analys-
ing connections and trends in data that
humans may not be able to. he clever
Machine used this to play the game
show and is using this now in cancer
treatment. It compares a patient’s medi-
cal records with what it has in its mas-
sive database, before recommending
treatments with conﬁdence levels
on eﬀectiveness. However, Holmes,
and in fact humans like the rest of
us, need not be worried – Watson
isn’t as smart as it seems.
here are things that can stump
Watson. Natural languages pose an
extreme challenge to the AI, with
its use of subtle nuances and implic-
it meanings. his was demonstrated
during the Jeopardy game when
Watson answered several ques-
tions wrongly due to the use of
implicit meanings. Watson also
depends heavily on its database
to be able to generate its answers.
It is fed with data, and using ma-
chine learning algorithms,
‘learns’ the information
to build its database
and make the neces-
sary connections. So
if there is something
that is not in its da-
tabase, Watson would
not be able to know
about that piece of in-
formation. It would not
W
be able to make any ‘educated guesses’
either. his all boils down to Watson
not being what philosophers call a
“Strong AI”.
A “Strong AI” is roughly an AI that
has an intelligence that matches or ex-
ceeds that of humans whereas a “Weak
AI” is simply an AI that can act intel-
ligently. A “Strong AI” would be able
to understand and act on information,
showing signs of sentience. Watson is
not a “Strong AI”. Watson is simply a
machine that is following a set of in-
structions to analyse what it has in its
database. It does not “understand” the
data it has in the same way that hu-
mans do. his situation is illustrated in
the “Chinese Room” thought experi-
ment presented by John Searle.
In the “Chinese Room” experiment,
Searle hypothesised that if a computer
can, given suﬃcient and comprehen-
sive instructions, produce outputs to
input Chinese characters in such a
convincing manner that it passes the
Turing Test, it will be able to convince
a human Chinese speaker that the pro-
gram is itself a live Chinese speaker.
However, the question is whether the
computer can literally “under-
stand” Chinese, or is it merely
simulating the ability to un-
derstand Chinese. his is a
case of “Strong vs Weak AI”.
Sentient AI still remains in
the realm of Science Fiction,
and we are unlikely to see
situations like those
in the Matrix ﬁlms
come true in the
near future. Watson
might be able to en-
able us to cure can-
cer in a more eﬀective
way, but it is not going
to be able to think for it-
self any time soon.
Elementary, My Dear Watson, Now Go Cure Cancer
Yong Wen Chua is wondering if he could beat Watson at Jeopardy
The News Bubble
General news from around the tech world, so you can keep up to date
with the newest, weirdest and most futuristic things around.
Phone for a Pretty Penny
Vertu, the maker of luxury smartphones, has just released its first android
device. Previously owned by Nokia and producing symbian based phones,
the British company has decided on android for its future models instead of
Windows 8. These phones reportedly cost up to £7,000, and sport ruby keys,
a titanium body and a scratch-proof sapphire screen. On the spec side, the
phone does seem somewhat lacking. The big question for me is, who would
want such a thing?
Honey, there’s YouTube on TV
YouTube is becoming a TV channel on subscription free Freesat. However it
will not really be a channel, with shows and set-times etc., but more like an
app on your TV. You will be able to watch videos and clips that you would
normally see on your PC on yout TV. Yay?
DON’T UPDATE YOUR iPHONE
The new ios 6.1 was released roughly a fortnight ago, and it hasn’t come with-
out controversy. According to various European mobile networks, including
England’s Vodafone, iPhone users should not update. Apparently customers
have recieved texts, warning them of the problems coming with the new soft-
ware update. These include decreased battery life, weak 3G signal strength,
loss of calls and throttling of Exchange servers.
Lol Catz on Twittr, Srsly!
Finally Twittr has gots wif teh trend, catz on teh internetz. While it still iz in
beta, dis will be welcome addishun 2 teh micro-blogging siet when it finally
comez out. How lotz da peeps will akshully use dis settin is still up 4 debate
tho.
iWatch the Time.
Yes, everyone, you have read correctly. The next big product is purportedly
to be released by the Cupertino tech giant. To combat the falling revenue on
the iPod side of things, this little gadget is being readied to dominate the new
emerging market of wearable tech. It seems pretty certain that this actually
will come out as well as its role to hook up with your bigger iDevice. However
what the “smartwatch” will actually do is still up to debate. The price voiced
by experts range from $50 to $100, which all falls in the frame of a good watch
anyway. Knowing Apple, the price could be double that though. It could either
come with a touch-screen with in-built apps or used solely with Siri. Other fea-
tures that the internet and consumers want to see are: unlocking your phone
remotely, ringing when it gets to far from your phone (so you don’t lose or
forget it), showing text messages and generally other notifications. Nobody
seems to care about it showing the time though!
Watson is
not what
philoso-
phers call a
“Strong AI”
”
ers call a
ers call a
rong AI”
ong AI”
I have not lived for years with Sherlock Holmes for nothing.
Watson is
ready to take
on the task
of curing
cancer.
Tech editor

