Issue 1540
SPORT “Keep the Cat Free”
felixonline.co.uk
15/02/13
@SportFelix
Ready for a re-match with long-time
rivals UCL, we got to Harlington early,
and had a good strategy session with
Coach Oli, only slightly distracted by
the un-named players who wouldn’t
keep their shirts on. Ears ringing with
assertions that we should play defen-
sively and win with superior numbers
behind the ball, we had a good warm
up and prepared to play running into
strong wind.
With one or two early forays into
ICHC Ladies 1s battle UCL rivals
UCL’s defensive half, we quickly dis-
covered that actually following ad-
vice and playing the way that Oli had
wanted us to all season paid some
dividends as we were able to capitalise
on UCL’s mistakes. he other side of
this was that play was 90% in our own
half of the pitch, with defence under
constant pressure to keep UCL out.
Keeping up with some of the more
boisterous UCL forwards was tricky,
and the defending mids and forwards
looked a bit lost, but our defensive line
was rock-solid, keeping out repeated
long and short-corners, even a cou-
ple of passable attempts at drag-ﬂicks
(she managed to get it in the air and
towards the goal).
Suﬀering bruised feet and barely-
working lungs at the back, it was with
much relief that mids and forwards
got used to defending and organisa-
tion fell into place, leaving UCL con-
tinuously frustrated in their attacking
eﬀorts.
he score at 0-0, we emerged from a
freezing half-time talk determined to
keep up the good work and discipline.
With UCL now playing into the wind
and rain, we got more aggressive, and
more balls made it out to forwards
Hayley and Sorcha. Despite best ef-
forts, they were unable to run through
oppo defence on their own and our
strategy showed it’s weaknesses with
UCL continuing to dominate pres-
sure, though not possession, in our
half. One particularly interesting at-
tack saw a slow lob heading for the
net over keeper Purcy’s head, but was
denied with a “graceful” vertical jump
that saw the ball knocked oﬀ the back
line from near the crossbar.
Showing that we were still in this
game, IC did manage to get the ball
up the pitch and Hazman capitalised
on UCL’s bored and frozen defence to
achieve a deﬂection oﬀ of their stick,
and into the goal over their keepers
head. Our elation was short-lived.
With a crack in our disciplined play,
UCL made it back into our half and
got oﬀ a cracking shot from top D into
the far corner of the net before de-
fence or keeper could react. Both sides
struggled for goal attempts in the re-
maining minutes, but the whistle went
before our attacking short could be
blown, and the game ﬁnished 1-1.
hough disappointed that we had
not kept them out entirely, we im-
pressed ourselves with one of the best
games we’ve played this season, and
certainly the most disciplined. his
was reﬂected in MoM nominations for
nearly every player, though ultimately
awarded to left-back Emma. With a
win, loss and now a draw behind us,
we hope to beat UCL convincingly if
we meet them again in the LUSL cup
ﬁnal. his rivalry needs to be sorted
once and for all!
BUCS Cup Semi-Finals for ICSM Netball!
After winning the BUCS South-East-
ern conference cup 2 years ago and
losing out last year to the dubious
ways of Royal Holloway, this year’s
semi-ﬁnal against Brighton 2s (away)
had a lot riding on it. he journey to
the idyllic retirement village of East-
bourne where Brighton students re-
side was challenge enough, but the
long journey just added to our deter-
mination for coming away with a vic-
tory. We had a ‘nothing can stop us’
attitude and were ready for any chal-
lenge that might await us.
On arrival, we were confronted by a
team larger – mainly in height – than
any we have come across in London.
he average height of the team was at
least 6ft, but we have shown through
our successes that height isn’t every-
thing. We knew that we were going to
have to use our skill and speed though
the court to transfer the ball eﬀective-
ly through the court.
Brighton came out stronger than
we expected and we were only able
to hold down a 2 goal lead at the end
of the ﬁrst quarter. We took our time
to settle into the game and allowed
Brighton to get the better of us, push-
ing us oﬀ the ball and being more
physical than expected. Stepping up
to the Brighton’s physicality we man-
aged to really pull away in the follow-
ing 2 quarters, with the shooters capi-
talising on every opportunity, despite
persistent foul play from the desper-
ate Brighton defence. Our WD, Emma
Williamson, with her speed and agility
had some great turnovers in the cen-
tre court interrupting their attack-
ing play, allowing us to gain a 39-27
lead heading into the ﬁnal quarter
of the game. he challenge was then
to maintain the intensity of play and
close out for a well deserved victory
against 7 angry giants for the remain-
ing 15 minutes.
Congratulations to the team for
pulling together – a combination of
great movement and perfect shooting
in attack, pin point accurate feeding
into the circle and the defence stand-
ing strong, holding space resulted
in a ﬁnal score of 50-37. With this
fantasitic win we are now through to
the semis! Now to get our revenge on
Royal Holloway...
Lindsay Hennah Sports Writer
Jessica Purcell Sports Writer

