NEWS
4 FRIDAY 15 FEBRUARY
News Editors: Aemun
Reza, Nida Mahmud
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
he Royal Institution (RI), one of the
chief catalysts for the development
of British science, has put its May-
fair residence on the market in an ef-
fort to overwrite mounting debts. Sir
Richard Sykes, the current Chairman
and former Rector of Imperial College
London, has had to take swift action
to remedy institutional losses. hese
were in excess of £600,000 in the 2012
academic year.
his ﬁgure is dwarfed by the stag-
gering £2.6 million of losses incurred
in 2010, mainly due to an expensive
renovation of the building.
he priority has been identiﬁed as
the generation of short-term cash ﬂow.
In a recently published article in he
Guardian Sir Richard Sykes identi-
ﬁed the urgent need to replenish the
organisation’s endowment by £7.5 mil-
lion; however there have been insuf-
ﬁcient acts of philanthropy thus far,
with Sir Richard saying: “Support and
oﬀers of help for the Royal Institution
have been welcome, but must now be
converted into action – and income.”
Many believe that the repercussions
would extend far beyond the incon-
venience of having to move premises.
As cited by Lisa Jardine, a former RI
trustee and professor of Renaissance
Studies at University College London,
“We’re going to lose the [scientiﬁc]
equivalent of Shakespeare’s Globe.”
Many would agree, arguing that the
RI is representative of the aﬃnity be-
tween science and society; the two
are inextricably linked. It cannot be
denied that scientiﬁc discovery has al-
ways been fuelled, ﬁrst and foremost,
by research and hypothesis. In spite of
this many believe that without passion
few scientists would have persevered
in order to reach closure in their ﬁeld
of work. he Christmas Lectures, fa-
cilitated by the RI, are perfect evidence
of this, with recent success boosting
viewing ﬁgures to four million in the
UK, opening science to a wider audi-
ence.
Some are concerned that the ambi-
ance created by the RI “brand” could
Give us your fooookin’ money, says Sir Richard Sykes
public eye, saying: “In my opinion, this
is our opportunity to create a national
strategy for science communication,
advocacy and public engagement if we
want Britain to be the best place in the
world to do science.” Questions will
still remain over whether mismanage-
ment has occurred. For now, the build-
ing is still up for sale unless funds are
found from another source.
die with the sale of the premises. For
scientiﬁc research to continue to grow
it must have new recruits; the Royal
Institution is frequently identiﬁed as a
key life-line for this. In this spirit high-
ly regarded ﬁgures of the British Sci-
entiﬁc community have united to ﬁght
for the RI’s cause. Robert Winston of
Imperial College London currently
chairs the recently established Future
Direction Committee. heir cause
is bolstered by the public support of
prominent physicists Brian Cox and
Jim Al-Khalili. he latter has com-
mented that, “It seems crazy that at a
time when science and science com-
munication is riding a wave of popu-
larity not seen for generations, we hear
that the very epitome of a British sci-
entiﬁc institution is under threat.”
It is clear to see that the controversy
extends beyond the ﬁnancial diﬃcul-
ties faced by the Royal Institution,
extending right to the heart of British
scientiﬁc legacy.
Sir Richard Sykes believes that the
current issue could help to initiate the
process of science being heavily in the
MTV Cribs
on steroids
Eoghan J Totten Reporter
Royal Institution forced to sell home
the campaign run by students to save
the TSU; the second was that regard-
less of the outcome of the current con-
sultation, the Union wants the College
to say why the TSU is being closed and
how the students will be supported.
he ﬁrst motion received 21 votes
for, 4 votes against and 8 abstentions;
the motion was therefore passed. he
second motion also passed. Hence,
the Union will be supporting the TSU
students in their campaign to save the
TSU.
he paper was presented by repre-
sentatives of the TSU and the discus-
sion was lengthy. he Management
Board, who are a decision making
body composed of senior staﬀ at Im-
perial College London, made the deci-
sion to close or rehouse the Unit. he
reason for the decision is unclear to
students, who have been informed that
the teaching quality is “high” in the
department and has been evaluated
as an “excellent” department by other
universities. Furthermore, the TSU is a
proﬁtable department. Without prop-
er supervision in place, there could
also be implications for PhD students
outside the TSU as students from
other departments also use the TSU
to translate papers. he MSc oﬀered
by the department is the only Masters
programme in the UK that focuses on
translation within “scientiﬁc, technical
and medical” areas.
he debate started with Michael Fos-
ter, Council Chair, reminded everyone
“the eﬀect on current students” is what
can be discussed, and the impact to fu-
ture students or staﬀ is not the remit
of the Council. he representatives of
the TSU commented that they do not
know how they will be able to continue
without supervisors, College respond-
ed that this has not been decided yet.
Other comments made by the TSU in-
clude the fact that the decision about
Strategy was before a big strategic
review. It was then the suggested the
student input that is being asked for in
a survey about strategy for Education
and Student experience has no use, as
the decision to close the TSU has al-
ready been passed.
A TSU representative also comment-
ed that their degree was devalued as a
result of this, putting their careers in
jeopardy and exposing them to the risk
of losing their scholarships. Paul Beau-
mont, Union President, said there were
“no facts” to back this up. Additionally,
the TSU commented it “Seems like
Debra [Humphris, Pro-Rector (Edu-
cation)] has given us no options”. he
representatives also said that they be-
lieved that it is “irresponsible to do a
consultation now and not in the sum-
mer before [the College] enrolled us”.
During the meeting it was also noted
that History of Science, which was also
moved, had a similar situation, where
they were not given much information
and moved without much consulta-
tion. However, that issue was never
brought to Council.
Becky Lane, Deputy President (Wel-
fare), cited the possibility of an un-
known strategy and said that she “very
strongly thinks forward planning and
ﬁnancial reasons” are the reason.
On the 18 December 2012, the Head
of the TSU was informed “that the Col-
lege Management Board has decided
that TSU activities are not considered
core to College strategy and that the
Unit should be transferred to another
institution. If this solution is not fea-
sible then consideration will be given
to discontinuing translation studies
from the 1st October 2013.” Staﬀ and
students were also informed that there
will be a 30 day consultation period for
the staﬀ from 18 January.
he TSU currently accommodates
96 students; 50 are MSc students, 22
are PhDs, 16 are UCL students and 6
are undergraduates.
he online petition has received
over 6000 signatures, but more are
still needed. he support has been on
a Global level. Irene Ranzato, an Eng-
lish Translation teacher at Sapienza
University in Rome commented that
the TSU ay Imperial “is considered
by teachers, researchers and students
alike a fundamental point of reference
for our studies. For those who study
Linguistics and Translation, Imperial
College is synonymous with Transla-
tion Studies.” Gianluigi Desogus, from
Portugal enrolled in 2001, the year the
MSc was launched; she said “I’ve been
working in translation ever since, ini-
tially in-house and as a freelancer later.
I couldn’t have done it without the skills
I picked up thanks to this excellent
course. I’d be extremely sad to see the
MSc leave Imperial College’s exciting
environment. Please reconsider your
decision!” here has also been support
from across the Atlantic, Sonia Murray
from California emphasised “scientiﬁc
progress is essential to the well-being
of humans everywhere, but commu-
nicating the impact of discoveries in a
way that is easily grasped by the public
at large is often diﬃcult for scientists,
even in their own language. he ability
to transmit new knowledge is a criti-
cal ingredient of humanity’s progress.
We need translators with a focus on
technical and scientiﬁc areas to ensure
the transmission of accurate scientiﬁc
information, which has the power to
generate new discoveries.”
College have no updates on the situ-
ation until the end of the consultation
period.
College to be pressured to explain the decision
continued from the front page
>>
Idellyic summertime shot.
Now you’ve had a good stare,
get back to reading the article.
Imperial College London
Editorial, page 2
>>

