Storm damages IC for
£10 000 bill
An estimated £10,000 of damage was done
to Imperial College by the 100 mile per
hour winds that swept across the city
yesterday. Mr W.D. Evans, chief engineer
of College Estates, reported that the
damage was fairly superficial and would
probably take about a month to repair.
Mr Evans reported that copper flashing
from the roof of the physics department
was ripped off and landed in Prince
Consort road. It did not hit anything,
though the road was closed for two hours
as a precaution.
A metal chimney on the Mines building
was cut down as the chimney started to
look dangerous. Windows were blown out
in various places including Civil
Engineering and in Ayrton road. Stones
from the roofs of buildings were brought
down, though no casualties have been
reported.
A plank from the scaffolding of
workmen on the north side of Princes
Gardens crashed through the roof and
windscreen of a student's car, virtually
destoying it. Falling slates damaged cars
in Callendar road, smashing windscreens
and bodywork.
A sizeable lump of lead measuring about
six foot by two foot was blown from the
roof of the union building and landed
behind the building. It is now in the
posession of Dave Williams in the Union
office.
The storm has had gusts of upto 110
mph, and was described as hurricane force
12. It swept the south of the country,
peaking in severity in the mid-afternoon.
It was responsible for the deaths of more
than twenty people and caused travel chaos
over a wide area, closing virtually all
public transport networks and severely
affecting roads.
Mr Evans said that the damage was
nowhere near as severe as from the great
storm of October '87, though
meteorologists have described it as
'similar' in strength to the great storm at
times.
vflying,wind-powered builder's plank successfully tackles a 1956 Triumph Herald.
Imperial industrial dispute?
Industrial relations are set for a stormy
patch at IC following the college's
decision to make the post of 'Head
Gardener' redundant. This would leave the
present head gardener, Mr Christopher
Speirs, who is 50, out of work and
homeless. Mr Spiers currently rents
accommodation from the college.
The National Union of Public
Employees (NUPE) have made a strong
protest to the college authorities
concerning the action, claiming it was an
'arbitrary decision' and that they find it
'totally unacceptable'.
The college maintain that they need to
cut costs. Mr Robert Letham, senior
personnel officer of the college, was
unwilling to discuss individual cases,
though he said 'the M P G (management
planning group) had decided that it was
in the managerial interest that all
gardening in the college was to be done
by contractors.'
NUPE claim that the college had a duty
to consult with the unions before any such
action and that they failed to do this. Mr
Brian Murphy, the NUPE representative
at IC, said he suspects that the college have
been slowly contracting out such work to
private employers over three years without
consultation so that by this time they could
be seen as unreasonable not to complete
the transition.
Mr Letham bore this out by saying that
as over 90% of gardening work was done
by private contractors they 'couldn't go
back' by not doing the same to the final
college funded gardening post. He stressed
that there was a recommendation to
consult with the unions, but no
requirement to do so.
Mr Michael Jackson, the Area Officer
of NUPE, said in a letter to the Rector,
Sir Eric Ash, that the 'majority of Chris
Speirs work still exists and he still carries
it out to the satisfaction of his managers
and the college', though he concedes that
the job would take on a more supervisory
role. He informed the Rector that, in his
view, because the job is not a highly paid
one the financial benefits to the college of
hiring out the work and sacking Mr Speirs
would be minimal. 'We are always
prepared to discuss the implications of the
financial position of Imperial and the ways
in which savings can be made. However,
we would draw the line emphatically at
enforced redundancies to achieve this,' he
said in a letter earlier this month. Mr
Jackson declined to speak directly to Felix
on any of these matters.
Mr Murphy said that three years ago Sir
Ash explained that the college was £3
million in the red, but denied the
possibility of private contractors being
brought in. A recent report in the Times
Higher Education supplement put Imperial
College in the top eight colleges in London
in most serious financial trouble, with an
expected debt of £8 million by 1992/3.
This is putting severe pressure on college
administration to cut costs.
N U P E accuse the college of
'blackmailing' Mr Speirs to 'go quietly'
by offering a more generous financial
arrangement if he did so. They question
whether the college will contract out other
services in the future, like catering and
cleaning. IC NUPE have managed to raise
231 signatures on a petition registering
dissapproval of the college's proposed
action.
Imperial College Union have decided to
remain at a distance from the dispute, after
a discussion in the Union's Executive
Committee.

