The Delator ColumnBy Paul Shanley
Street
of
Shame
Homophobia hits town. Last Sunday's 'quality' papers
sunk to new depths with their opinion articles
concerning the resignation of. Lord Dervaird.
The worst offender by far was the Mail on Sunday.
It's 'Black Rod' column-supposedly a parliamentary
review-carried a snide eight-line article which started
by claiming 'I could not care less about the sexual
orientation of the Scottish judiciary' and ended by
stating the opposite.
This pails into insignificance, however, on reading
the John Junor column. The author of this nonsense
is an ex-Fleet Street editor. Until a few weeks ago,
he wrote for that bastion of Imperialism, The Sunday
Express. They are rumoured to have sacked him for
being too right wing!
It would be insulting to repeat the comments Mr
Junor made. Perhaps an idea of their nature can be
gleaned from reading the adjacent story-also from
the twisted pen of Mr Junor. The (serious) suggestion
made called upon the Archbishop of Canterbury to go
to Lebanon in search of his envoy Terry Waite. If Dr
Runcie died on this mission, the article reads, there
would be a 'consolation of knowing that in death he
was achieving more than he has ever done in life'.
Utter rot.
One has to question the morals of the newspaper
barons. Only a few weeks ago, The Sun carried the
headline 'Actor dies of AIDS' in bold 72 point type
across the front page. For an actor to die is sad, for
someone to die of AIDS is tragic. The question is, if
Ian Charleston had died of some illness, or if someone
out of the limelight had died of AIDS, would it have
warranted the same attention? It seems a very sick
way to sell copy. The Sun is not the most subtle of
newspapers, anyway. It is The Sun that described
AIDS as 'The gay plague'. It is The Sun that hounded
Elton John over allegations of illegal homosexual
practices in his private life, and it is The Sun that
condoned the tagging of gay prisoners in American
gaols a la Hitler.
The McCarthyism displayed to homosexuals is not
a new problem. It appears a shame that more tact is
not shown by the media, in these post-HIV days.
Ultimately, the public express their opinions of
newspaper credibility by which ones they choose to
buy. The tacky side of British journalism, as
demonstrated by The Sun, the Mail on Sunday et al,
is condoned or at least tolerated by consumers. The
only way this kind of moral, as opposed to political,
prejudice can be eradicated is by refusing to purchase
those titles that pervay the lie. Until this happens, the
public get what they deserve. It is The Sun that is the
top selling newspaper in the country.
Page 10
Rude words
I don't know what all the fuss was about regarding
the Dave Allen show last week. The language was no
worse than that used in a school playground. The
show itself was broadcast at 10.30pm-a time well
past the 'watershed' observed by all channels.
Doubtless, Mrs Whitehouse's National Viewers and
Listeners Association will make a big fuss about it.
However, every TV set has an on/off button. If
parents are acting responsibly, they will exercise their
right to use it or else send their children to bed.
Television companies shouldn't be held responsible.
Incidentally, having watched the programme, I
thought it was one of the funniest things I'd seen in
years.
Tubes
Sorry to harp on about tube barriers again. South
Kensington station managers are now behaving much
more responsibly. A manual gate is now staffed all
times for those who wish to use it. This has
considerably eased the bottlenecks that were
occurring at peak times.
On the minus side, stage one of the refurbishment
of Gloucester Road station is complete. Lots of tube
barriers are in place. As has happened with other
stations, LRT staff see this as an easing of their
workload. They are quite happy to watch people
having difficulty using them, especially the disabled,
elderly and mothers with small children.
At Easter, FELIX will be sending a camera crew
down to Gloucester Road to film commuters having
difficulties. The prints will, of course, be sent to
London Underground. In the meantime, if you use the
station, insist on using a manual gate.
Bad bets
Betting scandals are rife in the sporting world. A
fortnight ago, former Swindon Town manager Lon
Macari was charged by the Football League with
placing an illegal bet. Early this week, snooker star
Silvino Francisco was arrested, but not charged, with
betting irregularities in a match with Terry Griffiths.
Substantial wagers were placed on the match, which
Griffiths later won 5-1. Bookmakers suspended
betting 37 minutes before the game commenced.
In the case of the former, there is no question of
malpractice involved. The bet was placed, it is
claimed, as insurance against Swindon getting
knocked out of the FA cup at an early stage.
Rules, however, have to be obeyed. There is no
essential differences between insuring against a loss
and fiddling the result.
I hope that the action taken will be consistent. If
there is the possibility that a player or club have
deliberately thrown a match, the individuals involved
should be banned from their sport for life.

