Hardened Balloonies
'Scuse me mister, can I have a go?' were the first
inquisitive words of a young Yorkshire lad who
couldn't quite understand why we had just landed a
hot air balloon in his school playing field.
We had driven to Harrogate with GBNRU, the
College's 77 thousand cubic feet hot air balloon. Why
Harrogate? You may well ask. What would possess
anyone to spend their New Year's weekend driving
around the lanes of West Yorkshire, following a hot
air balloon? Once you have flown in a wicker basket,
1,500 feet up, in complete silence, it makes all the
support work worthwhile.
Harrogate was the venue for the Brass Monkeys
balloon meet: three days of organised chaos with
thirty balloons flying from and into Harrogate,
organised by the Pennine region of the BBAC.
My one flight of the weekend started in a pasture
field of a friend of a friend's farm, about four miles
south of Harrogate. The envelope was soon inflated,
ready for take off and the pilot burned lots of propane
to get the envelope full of very hot air to give us a fast
climb. The quick-release open, we shot skywards,
taking us over the PCZ (restricted flying area), and in
this case a stud farm which we had to clear at 1,000
feet. I was navigating, keeping tabs on our position
as the wind blew us towards Harrogate's 'The Stray',
a 200 acre park. The pilot took us down to about 250
feet, making navigation harder, as the view was not
an exact copy of the map.
The impending gloom of the late afternoon and a
distinct possibility of not being able to reach our
intended landing site, forced a premature landing.
Descending again, there was an obvious field ahead
without crops, cattle, power lines or farmers. Passing
over a wood we dropped to 50 feet and looked down
onto a gold course (not a good landing site) and
crossed the road at 30 feet.
Our landing site lay on the other side, and by
opening the parachute vent in the crown of the
balloon, we dropped into the field. Knees bent,
grabbing the struts and rope handles, we braced
ourselves for touch down. A quick burst of propane
softened the blow, and we bumped and bounced
down the field until the balloon was no longer
bouyant. Unlike my previous unceremonious landings,
the balloon stayed upright while we waited for the
retrieve crew to arrive. They were sitting in the lounge
bar of the Granby Hotel in Harrogate, next to our
expected landing site. Marcus went off to use an
onlooker's earphone to give our position, and
eventually they arrived and loaded the gear out of the
field into the van.
That was the last flight of the weekend, and as it
was not dark, we went off to refuel, then back to our
hosts in Otley for a New Year's party. Many of the
other balloonists stayed at the hotel to do a 'night
glow' that evening in the car park, putting the burners
on and taking off to about 20 feet on a tether. This
makes the envelopes look pretty with the balloon lit
up from inside, it also keeps the sponsors happy. Five
bleary faces crawled from their sleeping bags on
Monday morning, 'great party', and staggered to the
van for another dose of the M l .
Ballooning is the sort of sport where you can spend
hours waiting for the right conditions, but when you
finally get airborne it's an incredible thrill. Many of the
IC club members are pilots under training, and getting
your pilot's licence is very possible before you leave
College. If you fancy being a passenger and seeing
what people get so excited about, or if piloting is your
goal, come and see us.
This term, trips are planned to Newbury and
Cambridge and we are planning to take part in one of
the huge European or Canadian balloon meets this
summer. IC Balloon (not condom) Club meet at 1pm
in the Southside Upper Lounge every Thursday.
Student Christian Movement
Alright, alright, I admit it. I have got an ulterior motive.
The new IC SCM group. Sorry, Student Christian
Movement^you know, political, social, international,
questioning, having a good time, that sort of thing.
Anyway, what I was going to say is, people don't
really think any more round here. I mean, look at IC
itself. A formless conurbation of impersonal
technological architectures, (OK, just for you I'll try
to make them a bit shorter) with people too busy to
even (so you're fussy about split infinitives too, are
you) get anything DONE. Or THOUGHT. Where's the
feeling of community? The meeting of minds? The
coming together of disparate cultures? (Yes, I have
been to the Southside Bar. That wasn't what I meant.)
And this preocupation with MONEY. Well I suppose
we've got the Government to blame for that. (What
about Eric Ash? Let's leave him out at this stage,
please.) And frankly it's hard to credit, with all this
frantic Science and (Vorsprung durch) Technology and
(hi there, St Mary's) Medicine going on that some
people actually manage to believe in God. What about
me? Listen, can we leave this till later? No? Well yes
I do, but not like that, much more, well more sort of
vague, magical but kind of practical sense.
No, it's not Religious Pragmatism. Well maybe it is.
What I was about to say is, there's got to be more
to it than that. Say: maybe what's needed is a bit of
space to attack things, ponder them, infiltrate them,
a bit of sabotage of the old preconceptions. And
maybe, perhaps, regain that spirit of
community...who are you calling a bloody idealist?
What's wrong with being an idealist?...Now I hoped
you'd say that. No really, you've got to believe I mean
it. Well it's every Tuesday at half five, in the
Chaplain's Office (you've got to start somewhere),
that's the basement of 10 Princes Gardens.
SCM, yes, I thought I'd told you what it stood for.
And it's going to be brilliant. (Don't be insane! You're
just the sort of person it needs.) And probably good
fun too.
Page 11

