Ten Tors Expedition
Every year the RCS Union enters 1 or 2 teams for the
Ten Tors Expedition. This is a 55 mile hike over
Dartmoor, the object being for the teams of six to walk
from checkpoint to checkpoint, which are situated on
the summits of the many tors, going through ten in
two days. The event has been running for about 30
years now and is open to young people, from both
military and civilian organisations. Too easy? Please
read on...
This year's 'Ten Tors' takes place on the 19th and
20th May and we hope to enter two teams. The
selected few will be driven down to Okehampton on
the Friday, where we stay at the Army base. The walk
begins at 7am on the Saturday morning following a
rude awakening from the Army controllers playing the
theme tune to Chariots of Fire\ Each team will then
walk for 10 to 12 hours, stopping only for food and
'blister control' and should hope to cover about 30
miles (6 tors) by nightfall, when the checkpoints close,
forcing the teams to stop and camp. Another early
start on Sunday morning is necessary in order to cover
the remaining 20 to 25 miles before the finish time
of 5pm.
Bryn Evans' account of last year's successful team
gives a further insight to this challenge:
'...last year's team comprised of Gwyn Jones,
Marco Ciarrocca, Rob Harwood, Lawrence Smith,
Peter Galley and myself .with Dodge Angelidis
organising us in London and Gavin Spittlehouse
managing us in Okehampton. We left London on the
Friday morning and arrived at Okehapton Camp early
that evening. After the kit checks (there are various
compulsory items) and the talk on 'Safety on
Dartmoor', we pitched the tents and ate heartily.
Having been woken almost before we had gone to
sleep by Chariots of Fire, played over the tannoy
system, we got up, packed and had breakfast (Gavin's
speciality, burnt ready-brekll).
We packed our rucksacks and made our way to the
start, where we spoke to other teams who seemed
surprised we had never seen Dartmoor before. Pre-
start chats always make you nervous when others
appear to be more familiar with the course, and this
was no exception! The awaiting teams, about 2000
young people, were addressed by Colin Moynihan,
prayed for by the Padre and then started. We were
off on our way to the first Tor, with map and compass
in hand. Team spirit remained high despite the rough
terrain and the reappearance of Gavin's hot chilli with
a number of us. At each checkpoint we had a five
minute break whilst our 'route card' was processed,
which showed we had covered the ground and is used
as a safety check. Sometimes we were even given
a kit search. We kept walking as fatigue and sore feet
gradually took its toll on our speed and our team spirit.
We stopped shortly after 8pm, totally and utterly
Tennis
Interested in improving your tennis before the season
starts?
The Tennis Club is organising a group coaching
session for beginners-if there is enough demand.
There will be a two hour session on Sunday
mornings from 10.00am-noon at the total cost of £15
(plus £5 club membership if you haven't already
joined). You won't get better value for money
anywhere else in London.
Contact Sam Saad via the Biochem pigeonholes or,
come and find us on the courts behind Linstead Hall
between 11.00am and 1.00pm this Sunday.
Page 12
TEN TORS
EXPEDITION
OKEHAMPTON
'AV1STOCK
knackered, having had only small breaks for lunch,
drink and essential feet and muscle repair!
It was important to get a hot meal inside ourselves
and to get as much sleep as possible, for the next day
would seem longer and more painful. It had been
planned that we would arrive at the 7th Tor when it
opened at 7am, however it was closer to 8 before we
arrived. This put us a little behind schedule, which
meant that if we slowed any more we would be
'crashed out' (forced to retire) at the 9th Tor.
The finish was a sight for sore feet! By now it was
sheer determination and chocolate that got us
through. We all walked in together, as we had been
all the trek, bracing ourselves for each painful step
forward, but in silence as we had run out (or walked
out!!) of conversation except for discussing the map
reading. We were given our medals and met by Gavin,
who nursed us back to the minibus -where we
compared blisters, listened to the Charts and fell
asleep. Although we could hardly walk for 2 days
afterwards, taking part and finishing this gruelling
expedition had definitely been worth it...'
Ladies Football
Barts-(2) 1 IC Dribblers (6)
Sunday dawned full of promise for the Dribblers—
we'd managed to get a full team together (plus sub)
without having to bang on any doors around the halls.
Unfortunately Barts weren't so lucky, their girlies
couldn't take their beer so only 8 hungover Barts
lasses turned up-even the ref didn't bother to show!
(pharr, pharr). So with the two points neatly in the bag
before we'd even left the changing rooms we did the
honorable thing and lent them a couple of strikers and
got down to the serious business of playing a friendly
sort of friendly. The Dribblers took the lead when our
skipper pushed all and sundry out of her way and
If you finish, which many people are unable to, the
euphoria blocks the pain coming from your body and
your mind. This challenge is not for the weak-
hearted. It is a severe test of stamina and
endurance and demands care in planning, hard
training, skillful navigation and above all fitness
and team work.
We hope to begin weekly training in February,
starting with fitness and stamina, and leading into
walking, navigational and team-work skills. The
fitness training will not be time consuming, about 2
hours a week, and we hope to get out into 'wild
terrain' later on.
Priority will be given to RCS students; however
there will be places for C&G and RSM members. If you
are interested please contact:
Bryn Evans, Physics 3
or Peter Gaily, Chem PG, ext 4524
Finally, if the Ten Tors sounds too demanding or if
you think last year's team were a bunch of nancies
and YOU could run round the course, do not be put
off, it is well worth it even though it may hurt a little!
blasted the ball past their keeper who was looking
rather sexy in her 'Fat slags on tour-'89'
sweatshire-l wasn't arguing with her!! Being 3-0 up
at half-time we swapped the two strikers we'd loaned
them for a goalie and a midfield general but we still
managed 5-0 up before the midfield general scored
a consolation goal-traitor! The Dribblers answered
with a sixth and then skipped off to drink a few jugs
of beer and sing a few songs.
By the way we are still looking for new or old
players, talented or like most of us with enthusiasm
more important than skill. Interested? Contact Debbie
Williams via Life Sci 3 pigeonholes.

