F e l i X
The Rector's letter
Before replying to Sir Eric's letter, I feel I should point
out that Mr Shanley's letter was received before the
Rector's. I should also like to apologise for referring
to Dr Russ Clark as Mr Clark in last week's issue and
for incorrectly titling Sir Eric as Sir Ash.
Now for the shock. I agree with the Rector;
companies should contribute a lot more towards the
running of the careers centre. The amount raised at
present is pitiful compared to the vast recruitment
budgets employed by industry. It is sad, therefore,
that a concerted effort has not been made by the
college to obtain such funding. The College's
Management and Planning Group should have
considered this option before imposing the cuts on the
careers centre. With postgraduates running the
library, the chances of attracting revenue will fall.
Wouldn't it have been wise to sell the centre at its
peak rather than run it down and try to market it as
an 'old banger?'
At the risk of repeating myself, postgraduates
cannot do the work of the present Information Officer.
In general, postgraduates have as much knowledge
of the job market as undergraduates. How can they
be expected to help and advise people in their search
for a job when many of them have not left academia?
To aspire to the American careers centres is to ignore
the huge difference in our educational systems. A first
degree in America will often span five years, with the
student working for a large part of the extra time, in
order to pay their way. At last, Sir Eric has found an
advantage to Britain's American-style loans system-
we will receive much older and more experienced
postgraduates, who will be able to run our careers
centre.
If you are a postgraduate, prepared to work for £4
an hour every day from 11am to 4pm, I would be
interested to hear from you. You are just the sort of
postgraduate the careers centre will need-dedicated,
reliable and underpaid; and likely to fail your PhD as
well, I should say.
On the question of my denigrating the departmental
careers services, I would like to know where half of
them are (I have never seen any publicity for them)
and how capable they are of coping with the 100 or
so enquiries the Central Careers service deals with
each day. I am sure these services play their part in
guiding students into their chosen careers, but they
are not sufficient for everyone's needs.
As for my comments on the courses at IC, my point
remains; IC kills imagination in all but a few students.
If the Rector believes that what students say to him
is representative and that the Union's Alternative
Prospectus (AP) is an honest opinion he is very naive.
The AP is written by Departmental Representatives
under the watchful eyes of their Senior Tutors. The
last time the truth was told, in a supplement to the
AP two years ago, the departments slammed the
publication and the College practically refused to help
with its distribution. Needless to say, the supplement
was reprinted after consultation with departmental
senior tutors. How can such a publication be honest
when it is written by a student, who is still studying
for their degree?
Sabbatical Elections
Yes, it's almost that time of year again! Anybody
thinking of standing should see me as soon as possible
to discuss the printing of their publicity. If you require
coloured inks or paper, I will have to order them in
advance. I have left a space in the print schedule
during February to allow for election publicity. I
apologise to anybody who may be inconvenienced by
this but I have to be able to print everyone's publicity
by the papers down deadline. Please note that the
Print Unit is available for photocopying and booking
printing in on Mondays and Fridays only.
Credits
Many thanks to Adam Harrington for News; Charles
Tomkins, JLW, Adam H, Toby Jones, Adam Tinworth,
Ian Hodge and Jay for reviews; Del, Jeremy Burnell,
Richard Scott, and Rufus Isaacs for music; Simon
Haslam for Science; Si Bichara for Arts Week; Andrew
Smith for writing Bagpuss; Paul Shanley for being
Bagpuss and writing Delator; all the clubs and
societies for articles (sorry to all those who did not
get in, there will be a full sports page and more space
for clubs next week); Pippa Salmon for help in general;
Liz Warren for chasing up future features; Doug King,
Chris Stapleton, Jeremy Burnell, Roland Flowerdew
and Richard Eyers for photographs; Jim Lucy, Jackie
Scott, Sydney Harbour-Bridge, BJ, Rufus, Tony
Spencer and Ents in general for helping to collate last
week (great carnival!); Rose and Andy for not letting
me drive them crackers. Sorry if I've missed anyone.
Bumper issue next week everybody!
FELIX is published by the editor for and on behalf of Imperial College Union
Publications Board and is printed by the Imperial College Union Print Unit,
Prince Consort Road, London, SW7 26B (Tel. 01-589 5111 ext 3515).
Editor: Dave Smedley. Business Manager: Stef Smith. Advertising Manager:
Ramin Nakisa. Copyright FELIX 1990. ISSN 1040-0711
MAKE A
Flying START TO THE
NINETIES
from
PARIS
BERLIN
MADRID
NEW YORK
LOS ANGELES
TEL AVIV
HONG KONG
SINGAPORE
o/w
£40
£60
£65
£106
£150
£89
£264
£240
rtn
£65
£89
£108
£198
£300
£149
£528
£480
SKI - ONE WEEK from only £79
WEEKEND BREAKS from £65
D o n ' t MISS OUT THIS SUMMER -
Seats TO ASIA AND AUSTRALASIA SELLING FAST
B o o k NOW TO SECURE YOUR SEAT
U L U T R A V E L
SHERFIELD BUILDING
IMPERIAL COLLEGE
ULU TRAVEL
C
A
T
E
R
P
I
L
L
A
R C
A
F
E
i t ' s really
c o s m o p o l i t a n '
Caterpillar Cafe is open
9am-3pm and
5pm-7.30pm
• hot and cold meals
• sandwiches
•cakes
• wide range of salads.
THE PLACE TO EAT

