The Rector is wrong
Dear Dave,
The decision taken by College to cut funding in the
careers service demonstrates an amazing lack of
interest in students by College administration. The
provision of student services such as careers,
accommodation and welfare are not luxuries; they are
essential services that need to be maintained.
The College should by all means investigate
alternative forms of funding in services but not at the
expense of decreasing the level of support. In
assessing possible sources of funding, the
Management Planning Group could do well to look at
profit-making parts of its own organisation, such as
the College-run companies and bars.
In addition, instead of cutting essentials, why isn't
the Rector looking at trimming other less necessary
services? The salary of an information officer and an
assistant is scant when compared with the cost of
running the HUB Office. It is true to say that the office
administrator, Lady Ash, is unpaid. However, the
same cannot be said of the secretarial support she
receives. Likewise, with the office space and facilities
eg phone bills, Apple Macs, laser printers etc.
Would the HUB Office exist if the Rector's wife was
gainfully employed somewhere else?
College are already in danger of deterring sixth
formers with their high rent levels. If word gets round
to prospective undergraduates about the removal of
the careers service, UCCA applications are going to
plummet.
Yours,
Paul Shanley.
S m a l l A d s
The Rector is right
Dear Dave,
Universities have been subject to an increasingly
ferocious financial squeeze for more than 15 years.
The actions we have to consider in order to keep
afloat, invariably involve the weighing of unpalatable
options. That is the backcloth to the problems of
financing of the Careers Centre, to which you referred
in your column last week.
A few facts: The industrial contribution of £13,000
per annum is not 'profit'. It is a modest contribution
to the overall costs of the Careers Centre. The
possibility which MPG considered was one which is
the norm in the U S A - t o recruit a number of post
graduate students to assist in running the library.
There are pros and cons to this approach. However
there is no possibility of the industrial contribution
being endangered by so doing-I have confirmed this
perception with Mr Russel Clarke.
The problem to be solved is to obtain a more
substantial contribution from industry. At present two
firms provide very substantial help: Kodak in
seconding Mr Terry Mettric, and BP in seconding Mr
Bill Fox. Both of them make a marvellous contribution
to the Careers service, bringing great experience from
industry to bear on the problems faced by individuals.
The contributions from the rest are somewhere in the
range of 'modest' to 'token'. Yet the search for talent
is at present the first imperative for any company. The
recruiting costs for a single graduate are in excess of
£10,000. Now look at the case of a single firm-a
management consultancy enterprise. They recruited
23 of our graduates last year. No doubt they will
recruit as many again this year. It is not unreasonable
to ascribe a figure of a quarter of a million as lying at
the basis of the College's interaction with that firm.
I believe that they could afford a substantial annual
contribution to Imperial College—and by substantial
I mean a significant fraction of the salary of an
Information Officer. So far they have not even been
asked...I believe that we should retreble our efforts
to obtain support from industry and commerce for an
activity which is a vital service to students but equally
vital to their future employers. If we could make
progress in this direction it would ease the problem
faced by MPG in deciding the peoplepower that we
can afford.
I must take issue with you, Dave, in what I read as
a denigration of the role of Departmental Careers
Advisers. I believe the Department to be the natural,
first resource for students seeking guidance on future
careers and employment. The Departmental Careers
adviser is the focus of this activity, but in most
Departments (certainly the one in which I worked at
UCLI, most members of staff are involved. The totality
of experience in a Department, is a very considerable
resource. Most people will give disinterested advice.
But of course they are within a subject domain. It is
a two-edged weapon: on the one hand they may
overestimate the charms of that subject and the
associated career; on the other they will have an
expertise within it which cannot be matched by
anyone outside.
The Central service is essential-quite apart from
the central organisation which is needed in order to
interface with the companies. By commending the
Departmental contribution I do not in any way wish
to undervalue the benefits which students can derive
from professional careers advisers. Their role takes on
particular importance for students who have no clear
notion of what to do next, or students who want to
embark on a career which is not related in any way
to their undergraduate studies.
Finally, your nihilistic assessment of the stimulation
provided by 'every course in the College' simply does
not accord with what I hear from students-even
what you could read in the Alternative Prospectus.
There are sparkling courses there are no doubt some
bad ones, and probably a lot in the middle. Why damn
them all? One reason why a lot of students leave their
subject is because the other options pay well and give
early opportunity of superior responsibility. That is a
challenge for high technology industrial employers.
Some of them, I am glad to say have appreciated the
point.
Yours,
Eric A Ash.
See editorial for reply
Anti-Welsh behaviour
Dear Dave,
What a fine feature the calendar was in this week's
FELIX-so helpful!
However, I'm rather disappointed to see that
although you have St Patrick's Day marked down,
Page 14
you've forgotten St David's Day.
We are outraged, heartbroken and mortally
wounded by this Anti-Welsh behaviour.
Two Welsh Elec Eng 1st years.
ADVERTISE IN THE FELIX SMALL ADS SECTION
FREE IF YOU ARE A MEMBER OF IMPERIAL
COLLEGE UNION
ANNOUNCMENTS
• Bass player seeks band. Will consider anything
Influences Led Zep, Hendrix, NMA, Chameleons.
Previous experience in Rock and Goth. Tel Chris
on 01-674 2264.
• Come and worship God in an ecumenical
service of praise and thanksgiving. Monday 22
Jan, 5.30pm, Huxley 308.
• Anybody interested in learning French at
beginners, intermediate or advanced level with a
recently graduated French university student. £3
an hour, please phone 01-589 8433.
• Anyone interested in taking part in Ten Tors
this year please contact Bryn Evans, Physics 3.
Ten Tors is a two day 55 mile hike across
Dartmore and is on the weekend of 18th-20th
May.
ACCOMMODATION
• Non Smoker required to share a three
bedroomed flat near Fulham Broadway from
January 27. Single room, £43 p/w plus bills.
Phone 01-381 1904.
• Single or Double room available in shared flat
in Hamlet Gardens from early Feb. £ 4 4 or £56 per
week plus bills. Rent rebate up to £ 2 4 pw.
Contact Andy Bannister or Robin Knight, Geol 3,
or Peter Brent, Phys PG.
• Two double rooms available in North Clapham
for four students. £ 3 0 per week. Contact Mr Lai
01-671 1623 for details.
• Third person required for a nice well furnished
flat. West Kensington, near Barons Court tube.
£55/week. Tel 603 8506 (evenings).
FOR SALE
• Going to a ball? Need a dinner jacket? Moss
Bros (28-40") £40, double breasted (42-44")
£40. Both in good condition, contact Peter Galley,
Chem PG ext 4524
• Panasonic stereo music system. Double
cassette deck, FM stereo tuner, five band graphic
equaliser, CD/line input, 2-way speakers. As new.
£125 ono. Contact Sakthi, PG Mech Eng
pigeonholes or 6274.
PERSONAL
• Vibration problems? FAPP international. We
are a powerful, dynamic company. Our service is
flexible and quick.
• To the Ambassadors: Be careful! We know of
your plans. Sister A.
• To the person who stole the paint spray gun
from the Steam Lab (ME042). This is not College
property, it is owned by Mr Paul Ewing of Mech
Eng and was on loan to a student (me) who
cannot afford to replace it. Please put it back and
notify me, and nothing more will be said. Andrew
Smith Elec Eng 3.
S a n d e r s o n
SATURDAY SALES ASSISTANTS
Hours 9.00-5.30
Salary £30.10 per day
Saturday sales staff are required
for our West End showroom
Training will be given to the right applicants
A smart appearance is required
Uniform will be provided
Please contact the store manager
Mr Chris Cameron-Gudge on
01-636 7800

