Storm Damage
Contractors cordon off the road outside the Physics department as debrisfliesfromthe roof.
Montpelier
washed up
There is anger in Montpelier hall after large damp
patches appeared in rooms behind the showers after
a major refurbishment just over a year ago.
Dr Kevin O'Connor, warden of Montpelier hall,
recounted the history of the damp patch, which started
three years ago when Dr O'Connor notified Mr Peter
Hallworth, managing surveyor of residences, about
suspected dampness in rooms near the showers. Dr
O'Connor said that Mr Hallworth denied that it was
damp, but one and a half years later a ceiling collapsed
in one of these damp rooms, narrowly missing the
accupant.
Action was taken, and the showers were totally
redone, including regrouting and replumbing. Dr
O'Connor claims he asked Mr Hallworth why the
original plumbers were not called to account for their
work, assuming that they ought to repair the damage
they had caused. Dr O'Connor said he was intensely
irritated by Mr Hallworth's response. 'He said "thats
totally unreasonable— in the real world it does not
work like that". I've got more qualifications, more
people working under me, than Peter Hallworth—
who is he to say I'm not in the real world?' said Dr
O' Connor.
Two weeks ago large damp patches appeared in
rooms adjacent to the showers, and again the warden
of Montpelier informed Mr Hallworth and asked for
the contractors to make good their repairs. Dr
O'Connor said that Mr Hallworth discounted the
possibility of getting contractors to fix a year old
problem that they themselves created.
Mr Hallworth was unavailable for comment on the
affair, though Mr Jo Dines, the assistant clerk of
works, denied that there was anything out of order.
He said that the contractors, 'Gaydales' would do the
repairs, under guarantee. He offered no complaint
f
their past work.
NUS voted
out
A motion at last night's Union General Meeting has
resolved not to hold a referendum on reaffiliation to
the National Union of Students (NUS). The motion,
proposed by J D Griffiths, found the NUS to be an
undemocratic organisation. Until members are
allowed to opt-in and opt-out, the motion continues,
ICU will not consider a reaffiliation vote.
Quorum was successfully called upon the meeting
as it reached a motion on travel costs when
representing ICU. The proposer of the motion, Mr
J F Lucas now hopes to call an emergency general
meeting to discuss the motion. Mr Lucas will require
120 signatures on a petition to the President in order
to call the meeting. His motion resolves to pay 100%
of IC students' travel costs when representing the
Union inside London and 60% when outside the
London area. Mr Lucas feels that high travel costs
are currently disuading students from representing
ICU in sports.
The meeting closed, unable to discuss motions on
support of the Ambulance workers and support of a
NUS loans demonstration and a motion calling for
a campaign for the College's Careers centre.
Amnesty
talk
Two students who visited the Thailand/Burma border
last year will be giving a talk on the human rights
issues of the area on Tuesday 6th February at 5:45
in the Brown Committee room on the top floor of the
Union building.
The IC Amnesty group have organised the talk, and
there will be a connected slide show.
See no evil
The Rector, Sir Eric Ash, visited the Careers advisory
service last Monday following the article on the
service in last week's Felix. Dr Russ Clark, head of
the CAS, said that there was 'a useful exchange of
views'. He added that he 'would like to think that
he (the Rector) was impressed with the layout and
efficiency with which we operate'. Dr Clark thought
that the Rector would still be committed to the use
of postgraduates, but would reconsider the
appointment of a careers librarian if put through the
Management Planning Group.
Dr Clark finished by saying that he was pleased
that the Rector took notice and hoped that 'the
professionality of the careers librarian would be
recognized'.
Money go
round
This month Professor R.W.H. Sargent of Chemical
Engineering has won the much coveted Research
Grant Stakes trophy. He has been awarded £446,760
over three years from Prosys Technology Ltd for
'Development of SPEEDUP'.
The 'Free market economy Booby Prize' is
presented this month to the Medical Research Council
(MRC), who have given £2881 over one-and-a-half
months to Professor R.R. Killick-Kendrick for study
into the 'Dispersal of the Kenyan vector of visceral
Leishmaniasis'.
Ambulance
support
The Management, Science and Finance trade union,
(MSF) is calling an assembly of all trade unions at
IC. Together with any students who wish to support
the ambulance crews, they are to meet by the Post
office on Exhibition road at noon on Tuesday January
30th.
Students and staff will be asked to stand in protest
for 15 minutes during their lunch hour. An MSF
source said the action was not a stoppage. Some Heads
of Departments were expected to attend, he added.
Humanities
lecture
The Humanities department have arranged a lunch
hour lecture on the subject 'How should science
jounalists write about science ?'
It will be given by Dr Bernard Dixon, formerly the
editor of the 'New Scientist', and will take place at
1:15 on Tuesday 30th January in the Read theatre,
level 5 of Sherfield.
SPORTS RESULTS
UAU RUGBY
IC—12 Swansea—31
Durham 1
1
—
3
2 IC II—0
IC III—7 Exeter III—20
UAU MENS HOCKEY
IC II—1 Nottingham II—3
IC III—2 Swansea III—1
Friendly
IC IV—0 Charing X II—4
LADIES HOCKEY
London Hospital—2 IC II—0
FOOTBALL
IC IV-4 IC V—0
IC VI—0 UC VII-2
Page 16

