Fixx—Terence Blacker
Book
Jonathan Peter Fixx is a self made man, the idealised
product of the Thatcher decade, although he would
have become the same man without our most
infamous leader. He graduated from the school of hard
knocks with honours, learning that the most
financially profitable solution to a is always the best
and that money comes before all else.
Life started hard for Fixx, his father, a war hero, dies
at an early age. His mother left alone to care for her
only child employs a nanny, Aunty Bar-Bar, to look
after him. From here on his life is a roller-coaster of
ups and downs, both financially and personally.
After the removal of the revolting Aunty Bar-Bar,
who sexually abuses him in the bath and in his own
bed, he is sent to a boarding school where he becomes
a teenage pimp. He then moves on to become a small
time gangster and extortionist in some of the less
respectable districts of London.
Moving into business he manages to make lots of
money in various less than moral, if not illegal
methods. Some of the companies that he owns
produce what can only be described as less than
reputable products, ranging from a single dose a
month contraceptive pill that causes cancer to germ
and viral warfare weapons.
Then deciding to settle down he sets out to find a
wife of good breeding with a country estate and a
castle for him to play in. Having eventually persuaded
her father, he marries a young lady but still feels the
necessity to spread himself around, giving other
women the pleasure of his company, normally in their
bedroom's.
Meanwhile, the Inland Revenue and VAT men have
discovered the creative accounting that has helped
him become so wealthy so quickly. As a bribe he is
offered the chance to work for Queen and country,
in return the criminal proceedings would be stopped.
The work involves travelling around the world picking
up and dropping packages and information, in short
he is to become a spy.
With a story line like this you would expect a fast
moving hilarious book that would keep you on your
toes throughout. In places it is like this, indeed it is
an enjoyable read for the most part. There are one or
two things however that I found rather distressing
about the book.
Call me old fashioned, or a winging boring
conservative (with a small 'c') but the idea of making
a cheap laugh out of child abuse seems to be as low
as you can get. References to 'Mr Doodah' and calling
sex 'going to Bedfordshire' are not the sort of thing
that a book should be based on or mention at all.
It is not that the subject should be brushed under
the carpet, it should be treated with tact and respect.
Added to this is one of the most offensive things I
have read in a book for a long time. As I have said
he at one stage owns a company that produces a viral
warfare weapon. One of these is a virus that
supposedly attacks only homosexual men.
Unfortunately during a test trial the virus escapes and
starts infecting most of Africa. Later on in the book,
as he sums up his life he says that he was responsible
for introducing AIDS into the world. The insinuation
that AIDS is only a homosexual problem is not only
wrong but very offensive to me and I expect the
majority of the homosexual community.
After the fuss that 'Satanic Verses' produced I feel
that something should be done to stop offence being
caused by such obvious lies.
Leaving that aside; what about the literary quality
of the book? For the most part it is quite average in
its quality, with none of the characters particularly
well done, although this might be too much to expect.
Fixx himself seems to spent most of his time in self-
glorification, having very little time for other people,
even his wife, and especially his mother.
There are various other sub-plots that add interest,
such as his mother starting a female masturbation
class and his wife's attempts to start an art gallery.
In a book of this type there in never room for much
artistic licence and so there is not very much in the
way of an atmosphere created or very much literary
skill.
Reading the review comments on the back of the
book I find it hard to understand why such respectable
publications as The Guardian would make such
comments as 'overwhelmingly comic'
Overall I find it hard to recommend this book to
anyone, although I expect that some people would not
find it offensive I think the majority of sane 'normal'
people would. Nobody should have to sink to these
depths to try and produce a supposed humours book
and I will certainly think very carefully before buying
any books by this authour in the future.
Ian Hodge,
In Pursuit of the English
Theatre
In Pursuit of the English is a sympathetic satire of the
eccentricities of English life, seen through the eyes
of a young woman, recently arrived from Southern
Africa, where she has lived all her life, to find her roots
in England.
Doris has never considered herself as anything but
English and is surprised to find that Londoners look
upon her as foreign. She soon discovers for herself
that being English abroad is rather different from being
English in England.
After a bewildering time trying to find cheap, good
accommodation, she is befriended by Rose, an
Eastender who takes her back to where she lives and
where her friend, Flo, has a room to let. Flo lives with
her second husband Dan, and her son by her first
marriage, Jack. It is not exactly a happy household-
Dan makes Jack work very hard and gives him no
money, Jack resents Dan because he is not his real
father, Flo has divided loyalties between her husband
and her son. Rose is in love with Dan's brother but
they aren't getting on very well because she won't
give him what he wants. This is the situation in which
Doris finds herself, as friend and confidante of Rose
and to a lesser degree of Flo and Miss Privet (a
prostitute who is also renting a room in the house),
a situation which can become awkward at times.
Although nominally about Doris trying to fathom the
strange ways of Londoners, the majority of the play
is about the problems of those in the house, especially
Rose.
Set in post-war Britain, 1949, shortages are still
very real and Flo and Dan are forever waiting for the
war damage, 'due any day'. Flo would scrounge
anything given half a chance and tries to take
advantage of the kindly Doris, until Rose puts her foot
down. Cigarettes and nylons are still very much
luxuries and Rose cannot believe the kind of clothes
Doris has and takes for granted.
The play does not avoid delicate issues such as
prostitution-it is open about such things, but never
vulgar and deals with such subjects sympathetically.
It also explores the mixed feelings people had about
the end of the war. Of course everyone wanted the
fighting to end but with the cessation of hostilities
came the end of the spirit that united the Birtish people
in a common cause. During the war a working class
person could talk to someone from the middle class
and each would discover the other 'not so bad when
you got to know them-not their fault poor sods'. A
woman could share a blanket in an air raid shelter with
a man and 'no one would think the worst'. But once
the war was over life resumed as before and all this
was lost. In common with many people Rose misses
this and almost wishes there were still a war 'Not the
killing of course, but then I didn't really know anybody
who was killed', 'People liked each other'.
The staging of the play is unusual in several
respects. The scenes are divided by blackouts and
short musical/dance interludes. There is little scenery
but this is very cleverly compensated for by mime; for
instance when Doris travels on a bus; or through the
words of characters: two removal men for instance
describe the decor of a room Doris is looking to rent.
Ingeniously structured asides provide an insight in
Doris's mind. They are said while other characters are
talking to her and they appear to take only a split
second.
This is an innovative, thought-provoking play, not
to mention an amusing evening's entertainment, full
of thoroughly English humour and I definitely
recommend it.
In Pursuit of the English is on at the Lyric Theatre,
near Hammersmith tube station, King Street, London
W6. Tickets for this studio production are £6. Ring
the box office on 01-741 2311 for information on
concessionary tickets. The play runs until February
24.
J.L.W.
Page 3

