Film
Piravi
Film
Casualties of War
Well, here we are, barely a month into the new year,
and already two Vietnam movies. Has Brian De Palma
{The Untouchables) directed a movie that will stand
out from the crowd? He's used a true story, first
reported in The New Yorker in 1969.
Eriksson (Michael J Fox) is the 'cherry' of a squad,
having been in country for only three weeks. An
idealistic young man, he has enough courage to stand
up to his sergeant, Meserve (Sean Penn), when an act
is comitted that Eriksson finds morally unacceptable.
Meserve, unbalanced by the death of a radio operator
in a supposedly friendly village, decides to take a little
'portable R&R' with the squad on the next mission.
They kidnap a young Vietnamese girl and rape her.
The film divides neatly into two parts. The first tells
of the events leading up to the abuse of the girl, and
the second deals with Eriksson's quest for justice,
against a system geared to ignore crime in wartime.
Both the lead actors turn in a strong performance.
Once associations with his past work are forgotten,
it can be seen how well Fox has been cast, portraying
a very young man caught in a moral struggle between
stopping what he believes is wrong, and his loyalty
to the squad, and especially the sergeant who saved
his life.
Penn gives human depth to a character that could
have been a one-dimensional 'nasty piece of work',
allowing us to see the sergeants motivation for doing
what he did.
The rest of the cast are not so lucky though, coming
across as very predictable characters, who never
develop a real personality.
On the whole, the film is very intense with the
tension mounting nicely, but it is marred by several
rather obvious set pieces, portraying what a 'nice guy'
Eriksson is. The opening and closing scenes, set
approximately in the present day are pure corn too.
The main failing of the film is that little or no attempt
is made to portray the true horror of what happens
to the girl. She become merely a pawn in the struggle
between Eriksson and Meserve, without any
semblance of a character of her own, her only role is
to react to what happens to her.
Any film which relegates such a hideous crime as
rape to the sidelines, while investigating injustice is
seriously flawed.
Adam T.
Streetwalker
This is billed as an opera-it is a misnomer in that the
'music' is more sound-effects. There are no tunes, and
much of the dialogue is spoken English, sometimes
seeded with a rhyme or two. There is continual usage
of expletives concering and denigrating sex. There is
often repetition of phrases to pummel the point in, and
frequently the phrases are sung in a monotone, very
loudly, each of the five singers on a different note.
It relies on heavy atmosphere rather than plot to
display the utter nastiness and sordidness of ordinary
lives-in this respect it has similarities to the film Last
Exit to Brooklyn. It is an unusual and stimulating
format.
The 'opera' is based on six engravings by William
Hogarth set in seventeenth century London. They plot
the downfall of an innocent Yorkshire lass on her
Page 4
coming to the big city. She is pulled into harlotry and
various other vices; it is a cautionary tale of first order
hypocrisy and superciliousness. The playwrights
(Christina Jones and David Joss Buckley) are
twentieth century and have overlaid modern values.
The brothel keeper, Madame Midnight-a desanitised
Fagin, is heard to say 'Men are so suspicious of a
woman with wit' when advising her prostitutes on
how to behave in bed. Indeed the most effective
action in the piece is when our fallen heroine is trying
to find custom by opening her arms and shawl, smiling
and closing her arms and then repeating in a very
mechanical and disturbing way.
The ending of the tale is rather impenetrable
although the absolutely final twist is all too clear.
The twist is expected for a while simply because
Do you watch subtitled films for the sex? Bad luck,
this film hasn't got any-just some serious tension.
Picture this; a damp remote village in India,
Chakyar, a decrepit old man, his invalid wife and soon
to be married plumpish daughter. We start with
Chakyar or dad looking forward to his only son
returning from University. Dad makes the arduous
journey to the bus stop by foot and ferry. His son is
not on the bus. Next day he repeats the journey, but
again no son. Then a University friend reluctantly
admits that the son has been taken away by the
police.
The distressed dad now makes the long journey to
the university. He enquires about bis son's
disappearance, but is fobbed off by officials. However
he is naive and returns contented. His daughter is not
so easily fooled and journies to town where she learns
of her brother's fate.
This is director Shaji's first feature film and it shows.
His previous experience was with short films. Piravi
suffers from being too long at 110 minutes. It is
heavily padded with persistent shots of the beautiful
but irrelevant scenery and arty symbolisation.
Shaji has tried to build up tension, but the plot is
not a firm enough foundation. The plot is so weak it
makes Knight Rider look well thought out.
The camera work was often dodgy. Some scenes
gave me flicker vertigo and left me with a headache.
Many of the scenes were too dark, even allowing for
artistic effect.
On the plus side the acting was excellent. The
camera often lingered on just an actor's face for many
seconds. Without exception the feelings could just be
read off the face-absolutely superb.
Would I recommend it? The film is subtle in that all
political events are off-screen, yet the oppression is
always present, with the use of clever parallels.
However to my taste the film is far too long and flags.
The film ends with the father starting to go insane.
We never discover the whole truth about the son.
Piravi won the Charlie Chaplin award at the 1989
Edinburgh Film Festival and the Grand Prix at Locarno.
It opens at the ICA Cinema on Friday 26 January for
three weeks and plays daily at 5.00, 7.00 and
9.00pm.
Charles Tomkins.
Theatre
the play is set in the past and any self-respecting
playwright wanting to write a cutting social critique
is bound to try to bring it up to date.
The acting was good; the singing was adequate for
the music and my only minor complaint is that the
heroine (played by Christina Jones) did not have a
brilliant singing voice and had a very dubious Yorkshire
accent. Also she was the only one of the three
prostitutes that managed to remain attractive even
when she was racked with diptheria.
Streetwalker is on at the Bush Theatre, in the Bush
pub next to the BBC TV Theatre on Shepherd's Bush
Green. The closest tube is Shepherd's Bush. It costs
£4.00 for students and £6.00 for others.
Adam Harrington.

