Eric Clapton
'Brilliant!' I don't think I could describe it any other
way. Yes, I'm talking about Eric Clapton at the Royal
Albert Hall. All seated tickets were sold out by
November so only standing tickets are available. Not
such a disadvantage. All were bopping out of their
seats before the concert was even half-way through.
Ah yes, the concert. About three quarters of his new
LP Journeyman was played, sounding even better live
with just three other musicians. Then we have some
of the old favourites interspersed; / Shot the Sherriff,
White Room, Wonderful Tonight and many others.
Clapton played for well over two hours, finished at
22.55 hours.
The support band was Zucchero Sugar Fornaciari,
currently Italy's biggest ever star. His two most recent
albums have sold more than three million copies
between them. To coincide with his live performances
in the UK, he will be releasing a British LP, a
compilation of his successful tracks, some re-worked
by Zucchero with English lyrics.
Technically speaking, the concert was superb, with
single, but extremely effected lighting and better than
•expected sound quality given the acoustics of the
RAH.
If you fancy a good night out, at exceptionally great
value, you'll need to start queueing outside the RAH
box office by 4.45pm; tickets go on sale from 6.45pm
at £ 1 1 . Note, only 300 standing tickets available each
night, so don't leave it too late.
Jeremy.
Indie pop spectacular
I think everyone who went to last week's Carnival
thoroughly enjoyed the night, even if some of you tried
a reinactment of a Milk Tray advert to scale the back
of the Union Building and bypass security. And all
because the lady loves...The Men They Couldn't
Hang. All of the bands played to rooms heaving with
appreciative audiences, and the spinning mixes from
the fingertips of a guy called Gwyn kept body and soul
on a party high until the wee small hours. Many thanks
to all those who helped on the night to make the
Carnival such a success.
After a weekend of Perrier water, television and
early nights, the Ents crew are fully recovered from
the rigours of last Friday and ready for more aural
assault, starting tonight. It's an Indie Pop Spectacular,
which roughly translates into two bands who play
guitars and things (like drums), a late bar, and a disco
based around independent popular music. (Aren't
Kylie and Sinitta etc, etc on an independent label?)
The bands in question are Rain and The Septembers
who are nothing like Kylie and wouldn't be seen dead
with Pete Waterman. Both play good rockin', guitar
twanging, foot stomping songs, and are currently
touring the London gig circuit. Catch them before they
start recording cover versions of Little Anthony songs.
This gig will be well worth a visit, and there are
rumours of another of the world famous Ents Bar Quiz
competitions. Tickets are only £1.50 in advance, and
FREE to Ents cards holders. Bargain! See you later in
the Union Lounge.
Rufus Isaacs.
Royal Albert Hall 23.01.90
Psychedelic Furs Competition
T w o f r e e t i c k e t s S T I L L to b e w o n . . .
Just answer the questions below and get the answers to the FELIX Office
before Tuesday 30 January to win two tickets for the concert at Brixton
Academy on February 6:
1. Which two members of the band are brothers and what do they play?
2. Who disigned the cover of the band's first album?
3. Tie-break: How many singles have Psychedelic Furs released since
they formed?
The winner will be drawn from the correct, closest or wittiest entries on
Tuesday and printed in FELIX on Friday 2 February,
Clint Poppie Expose
Clint Poppie of mega pop band Pop Will Eat Itself
publicly exposed himself at Camden Palace on
Tuesday 17th.
W a v e d
He waved his tool at two interpid FELIX reporters with
no apparent shame, but detailing the incident any
further would fall into blatant pornography.
M o r e ?
Such an incident along with the fact that it has
happened before leaves one only to worry of the
further consequences for the band.
Will it happen on stage?
Another Jim Morrison flasher scandal?
Only time will tell
NEXT WEEK: Ian Brown of The Stone Roses shows
us his willy!!
F u l l C a r n i v a l r e v i e w n e x t w e e k
Page 6

