Physicists in Japan have discovered a gyroscope effect which couldforce a rethink on
the current theories of mechanics. Stalled from publishing, their results could be as
significant or as unfounded'as 'cold fusion'.
Gyromania
The gryoscope is a curious beast. When spinning it
stands upright effortlessly, as if by magic. It will rotate
horizontally about an anchor at one end. Dancing on
one foot it glides around as if to music.
In fact, all its mystical properties are a consequence
of the conservation of angular momentum law. This
merely says that the angular momentum remains
constant unless acted upon by a torque (a twisting
force). The angular momentum is the momentum
associated with the rotation of a body. For the
gyroscope it is decribed by a vector with magnitude
proportional to the several characteristics of the rotor.
Its direction is that of the spin axis.
In order to change the direction of the gyroscope
a force must act on the rotor, which effectively alters
the plane or direction of the rotor's spin. The action
of gravity when a gyroscope is fixed off vertical at one
end of its axle, means that it will 'precess': the whole
gyroscope will rotate in a circle around this point of
attachment. This is because the force due to gravity
produces a torque around the pivot, which causes the
gyroscope's angular momentum vector to rotate in
this manner, rather than fall downwards.
This outlines why gyroscopes behave as they do
and clearly is not a detailed explanation. What it is
intended to show is that gyroscopes are well
understood. They are an integral part of kinematics
not a separate entity, All their properties are described
by the laws of linear and rotational mechanics.
This said, machines using gyroscopes make
appearances in the headlines at surprisingly regular
intervals. Devices have been designed which claim to
hover above the ground without energy loss or will
speed you to Australia in a few hours. They are often
patented and bought out by large companies
presumably in the hope that one day they will pay off.
According to the present theory of mechanics, there
is no change in weight for a normal gryoscope
between its spinning and stationary states. If the
gyroscope is spinning on a vertical axis its motion does
not produce a force which would contribute in any
way to the apparent weight of the gyroscope.
Last month however an article was published in the
well respected Physical Review Letters (vol 63, No 25
pp2701) contradicting this. The paper was written by
two Japanese physicists H Hayasaka and S Takeuchi.
They claim that a weight reduction can be observed
between a gryoscope spinning in one direction and
one spinning in the opposite direction or stationary.
-This is bizarre.
The experimental arrangement consisted of a
sensitive chemical balance with standard weights and
a small electric gyroscope (with three alternative
rotors of different masses and made from aluminium,
brass and silicon-steel). The apparatus was
contained in a vacuum vessel.
After accelerating the gyroscope up to speed the
power from the AC motor was cut so that the
gyroscope 'free-wheeled.' The rotation speed was
determined using a stroboscopic tachometer. The
weight was measured 10 times for a range of rotation
frequencies from 3000-13000 rpm in 1000 rpm
steps. On alternate steps the rotors were turned
upside down.
In all cases the weight of the gyroscope decreased
linearly with frequency when the gyroscope was
spinning in an anticlockwise direction as viewed from
above. The weight changes were between 2mg to
11mg for the 175g rotor with the sensitivity of the
balance being a claimed 0.3mg. The results from the
gyroscope spinning in the other direction or stationary
show no weight change whatsoever at any of the
frequences of rotation. The data is remarkably well
correlated.
Extensive cross referencing was said to agree with
the results. The apparatus was run in a magnetically
isolated cylinder where the magnetic field was 1 /100
of the strength of the external environmental magnetic
field. This again is claimed not to affect the results.
The lift available on the gryoscope due to the fluid
effect of air was found to be 260mg. However the
pressure during the experiment was between 104
and
107
times lower than this. However the most
convincing argument is that the lift would be produced
in either direction of spin. The experiment was
repeated on different days and with different
orientations (North, South, East, West) and again no
different conclusions were made.
The whole experiment is convincing and at the
same time totally inexplicable. The most fundamental
statement is that if this effect is real then nature is
sensitive to the 'handedness' of things; forces applied
to bodies with right handed properties have a different
effect to those acting on left handed ones. The force
we seem to see is effectively a repulsive 'anti-gravity.'
If such a force turned out to exist the effect on physics
would be profound. We now await further
experiments and confirmation or contradiction.
This
By Simon Haslam
Week
• Solvent resistant plastic has been made by a new
technique whereby the surface of polyethylene
(polythene) is coated with polyfluoroethylene. The
layer is deposited by either blowing the polythene into
shape using a mixture of fluorine and nitrogen gas or
by treating the products with the gas afterwards. This
provides a tough outer layer which makes the plastic
very resiliant to common solvents such as turpentine,
oil and petrol. The latter property means that car
manufacturers such as Volkswagon, BMW and
Peugeot are using the new super-polythene for petrol
tanks. Plastic tanks are less likely to rupture in the
event of a crash but ordinary polythene allows fuel
to slowly escape through the walls. The most
awkward problem however is that fluorine is the most
reactive of all the elements and is obviously highly
toxic. Mixing it with nitrogen makes it more
manageable and there are now several companies
specialising in producing the new plastic.
• A lost glove and camera were spotted just before
being burnt up on re-entry into the atmosphere. They
had been dropped by astronauts twenty years ago and
are among 20,000 objects itemised by the radar
tracking station, RAF Fylingdales, in order to prevent
them being misinterpreted as early warning of a
nuclear attack.
• The American Superconducting Super Collider
(SSC) is to be the biggest particle accelerator in the
world (and will be sited in Texas, of course). Some
members of Congress now believe the 20 GeV proton-
proton collider will need twice the $5.9 billion formally
declared as its final price.
This follows what has appeared to be the almost
weekly increase in the estimated cost of the proposed
high energy physics machine. Instabilities in the
superconducting magnets are likely to require beam
aperture widening and possibly more focussing
magnets which would increase the circumference of
the ring by 2km to 87km. Computer modelling is also
suggesting that the problems are highlighted at low
energies and so higher energy proton injection is being
proposed (at an additional cost of $288 million). At
this rate the SSC may well cost more to build than
the Channel Tunnel.
• NASA's latest shuttle mission (involving
Columbia) has recovered a satellite which had been
in orbit for nearly six years. This will provide scientists
with useful data on how spacecraft survive though
long periods in space from its 57 experiments
contained on board. The satellite was due to be in orbit
for no more than ten months but its retrieval was held
up by the Challenger disaster.
• Irradiated food is the subject of a recent House
of Lords Select Committee report which says that the
'overwhelming weight of evidence is that irradiation
of food on the limited basis proposed by the
commission is safe'. The suggested footstuffs, which
including shrimps and 'poultrymeat', appear to be
chosen arbitrarily but the document states 'such a
limitation will enable the effects of irradiation to be
monitored and suitable regulatory controls developed'.
• 'Chaos Reigns'. A lecture by Professor Ian Percival
of Queen Mary College. Wednesday 31 January,
Physics Lecture Theatre 1.
Page 7

