Arts Week at IC
In just over a week's time, Imperial College plays host
to what is hoped will become an annual event -The
Arts Week. Running between 5 and 11 February, The
Arts Week is a celebration of Christian involvement
in the arts and consists of live events such as music
and drama, an exhibition and a service. Here we
review the week's happenings, whilst below we talk
to Si Bichara, Co-ordinator of The Arts Week.
The main thrust of the week is in the live arena.
Every lunchtime from 12.30 to 1.30 or 2.30
(depending on the day), things will be happening in
the Union Lounge (in through the doors of the Union,
sharp left).
On Monday, singer guitarist Keith Thompson is
performing. Keith's tuneful voice and soulful lyrics
make this event one not to be missed-especially as
he is doing one of his rare solo performances.
For Tuesday, we have been lucky to get Fat &
Frantic, one of the hottest bands playing on the circuit,
with a debut single just starting to climb the charts.
This'll be your only chance to hear them in London
without paying the prices demanded by the Astoria
or Dominion! They'll be going on with Steven Turner,
a poet of no little note. Don't be put off by the word
'poet' as the combination exceeds the sum of both
parts.
On Wednesday, Fresh Claim appear, playing their
own brand of extremely loud funk rock, together with
Griff Pilchard, a veteran of the Greenbelt festival, and
one of the craziest, funniest people this reviewer has
ever seen. He'll hopefully be playing his classic 'I'm
a frog and I like mud' song. This should be well worth
attending-even if just to laugh at Griff.
Thursday sees a more relaxed and unusual
schedule, featuring Sandra the clown (yes, clown!)
and The Imploding Hampsters, who describe
themselves as 'a red-hot jazz trio'. They're a relatively
new combo who look set for big things in the future.
Finally, Friday hosts one of the highlights of the
week-ffW/'ng Lights Theatre Company performing
their acclaimed revue 'World Exclusive'. Riding Lights
have performed all over the UK, and their credits
include the Edinburgh Festival and numerous
television appearances. It has been a major coup to
get them to perform at IC.
The events have been designed to allow you to pick
up lunch at the Union snackbar, then go across to the
Lounge and watch some first class entertainment
whilst eating. All the above performances are free —
courtesy of IC Union and their sponsors, and are
guaranteed to spice up your lunchtime.
During the week, and the week before, a fine art
exhibition will be taking place in the Sherfield Ante
Room, bringing together many contrasting styles of
work. The exhibition is free and will be accompanied
from time to time by musicians. Drop in on your way
to the refectory!
On Sunday there's a closing service to round off the
week and bring the threads of different arts together.
10.00am in the Sherfield Ante Room.
Watch out for the posters, giving up to date news
about what's happening, and for The Arts Week
Graffiti board in the JCR to allow you to give us your
reactions to this new event.
The interview—sort of
Felix: So, can I ask you first why you think Imperial
needs an arts week?
Si: Well, why not? I think it'll give us all the
chance to go to some very good gigs-for free, if
nothing else! I know that I've got a little bored
with sitting around the JCR at lunchtimes over
three years, and these events will provide some
diversion.
Felix: Is that where the idea for the week came from?
Si: No...well...not really. That's how I got
involved, but really it's more a chance to show off
what we can do.
Felix: By we you mean...?
Si: Christians in general. I think what we're trying
to say is that we're not just boring farts who hang
around with long faces all the time, which is an
image people probably have. We're trying to say
that we can have fun, and also that we can
produce high quality music and so on, which is
capable of competing with the best in the world.
Felix: So will this be a religious week?
Si: Not so's you'd notice. All the performers are
Christians, sure, but this week isn't about
speakers or preachers or people trying to shove
God down your throat. Just good art, music,
poetry, clowning, and so on.
Felix: Can we talk about the acts you've got lined up
for us?
Si: Sure. We made a decision in the early stages
of planning that we'd go for the best, irrespective
of cost, and if we had to cut down on the number
of events as a result, so be it.
Felk: So you think you've got the best?
Si: I think we've got some first class people. Fat
& Frantic are a very good band-they'll be big in
1990. Riding Lights are real pros -1' ve seen them
Page 8
perform before and it really is an experience not
to be missed. I mean, everything we've got is
really good, but those two really stand out. And
Griff.
Felix: Who?
Si: Griff Pilchard. He's this nutter who's coming
on Wednesday. I think he's hilarious, but you
either like him or don't. Definitely worth sampling,
though.
Felix: It's all free, isn't it?
Yup. Union Lounge, lunchtimes, 5th-9th.
there.
Felix: What about this 'graffiti board'?
Be
Si: Well it's basically just a big white sheet of
hardboard stuck up in the JCR for people to write
comments on about The Arts Week. OK, some
idiot is bound to write 'Fuck Off, or a similar
witticism, but that's inevitable, really. At least it
gives peope a chance to feed back to us.
Felix: And fine art In the Ante Room?
Si: Yes. Again, all week. Some good painters are
exhibiting-art aficionados take note! And we're
hoping to have some musicians in there on the
odd lunchtime to accompany the perusal of the
paintings with a little light music.
Felix: Sounds terribly civilised.
Si: Terribly.

