Whatever happened?
vjas1
, c a ^ °
^0 \Vdtf a t ^
,d a ^ e
\ . , A vo a a
. „ c , as v
\ V P vJaV
saw
C a \ c ^ W U
Have you ever wondered what happened to that
candle?
Once upon a time, not so long ago, there was a little
girl, and her name was Emily. Now Emily had a shop,
(imagine one of those shops which have all been
turned into antique or tea shoppes, the ones with
beautiful Georgian glass bow-fronted windows), but
it wasn't an ordinary kind of shop, because it didn't
actually sell anything. Everything in the shop was
something that Emily had once found, and had
brought home to Bagpuss.
He was the most marvellous, the most magical, the
most wonderful...saggy old cloth cat, in the whole
world.
One day, Emily found a thing. It was long and thin,
and it was big. It was very big, In fact, it was so big
that Emily had to go and chat up a man she knew,
who had a big truck, so that she could take it home
to Bagpuss.
When she had got the thing home, and had carried
out her bargain with her friend, the man with the big
truck, she put the thing in front of Bagpuss, and woke
him up...
Bagpuss,
Bagpuss,
Great fat furry cat-puss,
Wake up and see the thing that I bring.
Wake up,
Be bright,
Be golden and light.
Bagpus, oh hear what I sing.
She used to sing, but, being a bit tired after her
bargain with her friend, the man with the big truck,
she just shouted in his ear.
'Wake up, you lazy git!'
Nothing.
So Emily did something.
'Wow!' said Bagpuss, 'Do that again! Please!'
'Not until the children have all gone home.' said
Emily.
And, of course, when Bagpuss wakes up, all his
friends wake up, (which can make some of the things
he used to do very embarrassing). The mice on the
mouse organ woke up and stretched. Garbiel the toad,
and Madelaine the rag-doll woke up and stretched.
Professor Yaffle, the woodpecker, climbed down off
his book-end, and went to look at the thing, as did
all the others.
It was indeed a big thing. It was about thirty feet
tall and four feet in diameter, and had some very
derogatory things about the RCS painted on the side.
The mice went off and got their buckets and mops
and other assorted cleaning equipment, and set to
work on the thing, singing...
We will wash it,
We will scrub it,
We will give it a rub, rub, rub...
Except, that is, for Willie Mouse, who suddenly
discovered what an inferiority complex was, and went
off to have it on his own. Professor Yaffle also
vanished. He was, after all, only a little pecker.
The mice were all tired out, when they had finished
with the thing, and they went off somewhere to have
a cigarette. Curiously enough, it seemed even bigger
after the mice had finished.
'What do you think it is?' asked Gabriel of
Madelaine.
Madelaine just grinned, and blushed. So he asked
Bagpuss, instead.
'Looks like an old bit of water pipe, filled up with
wax, and with a ship's mooring line going up through
the middle.' said Bagpuss. 'But I can soon find out,'
he added, and telephoned Shaun Crofton.
'Says it's a candle,' said Bagpuss, three weeks
later, when he'd finally managed to get through.
'Oh,' said Emily, in a disappointed sort of way
'Never mind,' said the mice, 'we'll put it in the
window, anyway.'
And they did, which was pretty incredible, since it
weighed some eight tons, and all of them together
didn't outweigh a bag of sugar. Unfortunately for
Willie Mouse, he had chosen to sit and sulk in the shop
window, and it really was a very big thing. •
'That's got rid of that little shit.' thought Bagpuss,
for Willie Mouse really had been getting to be a pain
in the arse.
Then, Bagpuss gave a big yawn, and settled down
to sleep. And when Bagpuss goes to sleep, all his
friends go to sleep, which rather pissed them off,
because they tended to keep getting caught in the
middle of something.
The mice were ornaments on the mouse organ.
Garbriel and Madelaine were just dolls.
Professor Yaffle was a carved, wooden, book-end,
in the shape of a woodpecker.
And Bagpuss himself, once he was asleep, was just
a saggy, old cloth cat...baggy, and a bit loose at the
seams.
But Emily loved him (at least, until she found out
about him and Madelaine, anyway).
The End.
Andrew Smith.
Page 9

