F E L I X
N E W S P A P E R O F I M P E R I A L C O L L E G E U N I O N
NO. 171 F R I D A Y , F E B R U A R Y 2ND 1962 PRICE 4D.
TROPHY TRAIL
•-IMPERIALCOLLEGE3-The RESTO-1
1. F O O T B A L L
(EASY PASSAGE)
Three victories in a week saw the I.C. near-
er to another clean sweep of the University
sports cups. The football club drew a home
match with Battersea in the 2nd round and
on Wednesday, 17th January, after a
strange toss up decision, Battersea el-
elected to kick against the wind. In the first
half, the I.C. forwards seized on this obvious
error, and within five minutes centre-forward
Denny Vaughan put I.C. into the lead when
he chipped in a hard shot the goalkeeper
was unable to hold. The opposition were not
despondent, and playing a much better brand
of football, soon equalised, retaining control
of the game up to half-time
After tne teams changed
ends, the wind had lessened considerably,
but even without that assistance I.C
once again took charge. Within sever-
al minutes John Preece put l.C. back
into the lead when the Battersea goal-
keeper failed to stop a hard shot from
just inside the penalty area. From then
on it was a very one-sided battle, Battersea's
two University players being blotted right out
of the game. Preece added another and two
solo efforts gave Denny Vaughan a fine hat
trick. Colin Casamore completed the scor-
ing with a wrilliant header. So the I.C. team
continue on their winning way; with an easy
next round against either the School of
Pharmacy or Birbeck the team is again con-
fident of reaching the final.
2. B A S K E T B A L L
(ROUGH HOUSE)
A few hours later in the U.L. gym. it was
the turn of the Basketball team to try their
luck. Their opposition, Northern Poly did not
have an impressive record and the rough-
ness of their play was indeed a reflection of
this. It was in this game that the coaching"
methods of Gordon Leslie were put to the
test, and it was felt that the roughness of
the opposition, and not I.C.'s inability to ap-
$• ply them were the reason for the score being
so low at half-time (H.T. 28-12. In the sec-
ond-half the standard did not improve much,
and when the final whistle went, although the
team won 45-21, there was an air of despond-
ency around.
3. R U G B Y
(WESTON CONTAINED)
The 2nd round of the Gutteridge Cup,
saw I.C. once again drawn against C E M .
After a change in venue, it was decided to
play at Harlington, and with the grounds-
men's work done, and a wary eye on the
sky. the two teams took the field. Play set-
tled down quickly, but in one of the first loose
scrum, an angry fist resulted in a penalty
being awarded to C E M . As Mike Weston
shaped up for the kick, which was just inside
the half-way line, there were a few anxious
faces among the l . C surjpbrters. For Weston,
of England. Durham and Richmond fame
was known to be no mean exponent in the
art of kicking, but his effort came to no good,
and there was a notable sigh of relief. In
one of the first l'.C. attacking movements
the two centres Johnson and Butler sliced
through the defence with arrogant ease, but
a forward pass ended a promising movement.
With the wind against them the I.C. tactics
were to hug the left touchline and they did
this well with scrum-half Alan Smith's astute
kicks being a tremendous asset. But the big-
gest danger to I.C. was still Weston, and
how near he came to stealing the glory in
the first half. With two bursts through the
middle he left the I.C. team flat footed, but
the forwards' covering was magnificent^ and
where the backs failed, they succeeded, and
the England centre was well stopped. In this
first half the I.C. pack played superbly, Mike
Vine's hooking was of very fine calibre, and
ably propped by Chris Liddle, and last min-
ute substitute Bernie Ravano, the front row do-
minated the tight scrums. The wing forwards
contained the C E M halfbacks well, Ray Mil-
ward's tackling of M . Weston being of spec-
ial note. Neither side looked like scoring, al-
though C E M went very close, after a Weston
kick-ahead brought play onto the IC line.
With the wind now at their backs and the
score sheet still blank things looked well for
the College, but that man was at it again;
a kick-ahead, a lucky bounce and Weston
linked up with his three-quarters in a most
dangerous looking movement, but fullback,
John Edwards, whose play in the first half
had been faultless, rose to the occasion, and
with a brilliant tackle nipped another scor-
ing effort in the bud. Mid-way through the
second-half the I.C. pack began to assert it-
self; with Vine in complete charge of tight
scrums. Bob Hunt and John Fairfield, the
line-outs; Ravano ruling the loose, and the
wing forwards now looking after Weston. A
midfield infringement resulted in a penalty
to I.C. but John Fairfield's kick although ac-
curate, lacked length, and the score remained
nil each. Then came a very trying period of
ten minutes with the' play around the I.C.
line, but the pack held out, and another one
of those nagging Smith kicks relieved the pres-
sure. Play then dramatically switched to the
other end and with time running out, I.C
threw everything into attack. A near push-
over try, a kick-ahead, a Smith solo run, re-
sulted in three consequent drop-outs by
Weston. With a minute to go Smith once a-
gain made an inside break, but this time he
eluded Weston linked with the other backs,
and Johnson crossed the line to give I'.C.
the lead. Smith failed to convert, but the fin-
al whistle soon came and victory was ours.
In such a magnificent game it is difficult
to pick out players for merit. Weston of course
showed us all why he has played 10 cons-
ecutive games for England, Smith what a
brilliant and deceptive scrum-half he is; but
special mention must go to Jim Kehoe, who
as skipper led his men in line fashion set-
ting an example by his play and encourage-
ment.

