FELIX
Crossword
by R E G U S
ACROSS.
1. Split this science and get to the nucleus,
which you can split again, leaving (a-
mong other things) a nucleus, or so med-
ical students are taught. (7)
5. His day, a la francaise, turned out to be
only a 24 hour stay. (7)
10. Football boots, cricket boots and horse-
breeding have this in common. (4)
11. Lordly actions proving right to posses-
ion. (5, 5)
12. It is a religious person in this one of
these? (6)
13. Teutonic characteristics make the U N
grimace when you are not there. (8)
14. Dismount Apologetically. (5, 4)
16. The tops in rodents are usually around
ahead of a woman in evening dress. (5)
17. With the sheep tied up in knots? (5)
19. Sleep it off in stacks. (3, 3, 3)
23. H.M.S. Union Jack? (8)
24. In this confused era let us try and co-
ordinate things with each other. (6)
26. Result of the sight of a somewhat patchy
personality in the field. (6, 4)
27. Burnt drink for the cleaner? (4 )
28. I leave a dentist; and he is here at the
meeting. (7)
29. Alternative to sped, actually! (7)
DOWN.
2. This character changes the halfrtones
back to white. (7)
13. Yesterdays' tomorrow's tomorrows' yes-
terday! (5)
4. He was being monitored (from which he
lost a nickel) as he did this down the
highway. (7)
6. American writer expressing surprise at
Harry's antics. (6)
7. Be efficacious and operate with four. (9)
8. The "Druid and our Queen" will supply
the ingredients of better health, making you
this. (7)
9. These are heard by everybody except
those who are not supposed to hear even
though these latter are the nearest. (5,8)
15. "I agree men, you should not be kept
here like wild anknals." (9)
18. She scratches and spits while competing
in the Americas Cup. (7)
20. Resign if you are sick. (5,2)
21. Start things moving at a cute rate. (7)
22. A penny in hell and it becomes darker.
(6)
25. Ill-gotten gains are sometimes called fil
thy. (5)
by COLCUTT
Did you read Kenneth Tynan this week?
I know exactly how he feels. He is worried,
he is not precisely sure what is worrying him
or. even if he ought to be worried; everything
seems to be alright, things are going very
smoothly yet something is wrong. I too have
this feeling. This Union is running smoothly
and yet nothing is happening. It is all so very
like E . M . Focster's "The Machine" but let's
hope this machine never runs down. For two
years now we have been saying that the lack
of major conflict of opinions in the Union
is a good thing, and after the upheaval of
two year's ago perhaps a year of quiet smooth
running was good. But this continuous no-
thingness bothers me. Bob Finch will soon
leave us, the Coxes have gone, who is going
to replace them? Where are the logical stir-
rers? There are none. Thus the efforts of the
"Top People" are not needed to constrict
and fight; this leaves lots of mischief for idle
hands. In addition we seem to have no life
or character at the top. Yet top people need
to justify themselves, and if their character
(or if you prefer it — sport) will not leave
its mark then the only other way to be re-
membered is to make changes. And these big
business methods and regimentations are be-
ginning to worry me, or perhaps even that
is not true, perhaps its just that I ought to
be worried. It's nothing big, but perhaps that
will come, it's just the little things and what
one can infer to have gone on behind them.
For example what an awful lot of time must
have been spent working out plans and
counter plans for this "Publicity Board" en-
visaged by the Executive, and how much ef-
fort must have gone into making the pro-
posed amendment to the „Blue Book" to
create a Deputy President. A n d why? Do
we need a Deputy President, i.e. somone W.K>
can take over the responsibilities of the Pre-
sident if needed. Of course we do, but do we
need to be regimented and have all this con-
stitutionalised. This Union has always prided
itself on being sensible and somewhat mat-
ure, hence the total absence of standing or-
ders etc., yet now I.C. Union Inc. seems to
be coming nearer. T o return to this Deputy
President business, two years ago the Pre-
L A S T W E E K S S O L U T I O N
B n o • B C U D
a • 5 E - E a
• n m urn a
E H U D D
L J I E D D L S B E I O r 3 o n . i i n
u r n a n m a a n
t j 3 3 Q i ! i l a a a a n n Q E E
y i J H G Q Q E B E H t l Q O
sident of I.C. resigned; if ever a Deputy was
needed it was then, so the three Vice-Presid-
ents got together and decided who was the
most capable of standing in. Presumably any
Deputy President will be elected from Vice-
Presidents (we don't seem to have many more
than four presidential types judging by the
dearth of nominations in last yearls elect-
ions) and they are more capable of judging
who is best for any task at the time, so
why elect a man at the beginning of the ses-
sion? Why? — except for pure legislation
and change and"mark-leaving]". I am wor-
ried.
A tribe of Welshmen invaded the Union
last week, supposedly to play rugby. Good
set of boys, though, it can all be repaired.
The Imperial College Carnival Committee are
giving extra points for the Monopolies Com-
misions to worry about and the Government
is considering an enquiry into I.C.'s new
takeover Sidf The trouble'/ The Carnival
Committee is trying to corner the market in
milk bottle tops. A number of different slaves
are available depending on how many tops
you can raise, or if you despise the capitalist
systefn you can join a coalective farm by
placing your tops in the bags provided in
the refectories.
There seemed more haggered faces than
usual around the Union this week-end, the
Engineer's Ball must have been a great suc-
cess. The assault on the Union made things
less peaceful too. Every room seems to be
in use by either the Dram. Soc. or the Mus-
ical Soc., or somebody. Never really noticed
these I.C. Dram. Soc. types before except on
the stage. This acting must do something to
you. They all seem to have nervous twitches
to a greater or lesser extent. There was a
group of about a dozen having tea today,
lead by that hand-waving, hand-rubbing fel-
low who played that queer fellow who did
not quite make it in that queer F6 play they
presented. They all seem to have got some-
thing. Must be quite a istraiin this acting.
Think 111 just go and chew some nails for
supper.
H. Karnae
(books) Ltd.
NEW BOOKS
S E C O N D H A N D BOOKS
and now . . . P A P E R B A C K S
Visit our new paperbacks shop at 56,
Gloucester Road, where a comprehensive
selection of general technical and
scientific paperbacks are on display.
56" 5 8 , Gloucester Mtoad,
S.W.7

