• •• •• m
a am mm mm mm mm
IS H E T O D I E ?
Two thirds of the world's population go
to bed hungry every night.
One third of the world's population never
have the opportunity to see a qualified doct-
or. Many of them are in constant misery from
diseases that could be cured with a couple
of Shots of penicillin.
The average Indian eats about half as much
as we do, mostly rice at that.
These are some of the facts impressed upon
those who visited the War-on-Want Exhib-
ition recently held in the Physics building.
War-on-Want is an organisation designed to
channel gifts to agencies which seek to help
the needy. Every penny you contribute goes
to this end; War-on-Want's expenses are met
from another source.
Last term I.C. Union voted to make War-
on-Want the charity that our Carnival (Mav
5th-12th) will support. The five days January
22nd-26th were chosen as War-on-Want
Week. In addition to the Exhibition, the
Chairman and the Treasurer of War-on-Want
spoke at crowded General Studies meetings,
a film, "The Unforgotten", was shown, and
Professor Blackett led a discussion in the
Weeks Hall lounge on "Technology and
Under-developed Countries."
T H E PROFESSOR'S P L E A
Only in the last two hundred years, said
Professor Blackett, had the standard of liv-
ing in Western Europe and North America
been significantly higher than that of Asia.
The Industrial Revolution had created a vast
gap between the haves and the have-nots.
Success bred success: the gap would inevit-
ably increase, ultimately with disatrous re-
sults for all, if the industrialised countries
were not prepared to lend a massive hand.
Much was being done; much more needed
to be done. Capital, Education and the will
to succeed were the three essential require-
ments for any country that wished to im-
prove the living conditions of its people.
Without Capital, industrialisation was im-
possible; without Education, no leaden* of
industry, no technologists, no doctors could
be trained; without will-power any efforts
would be wasted.
WAR-ON-WANT'S P A R T
The aims of War-on-Want must therefore
be seen as a first step towards helping the
under-developed countries to help themselves.
There is no magic formula, no secret of nat-
ure waiting to be discovered, which will make
a poor country suddenly become rich. Many
years must elapse before a poor country can
start to reap any reward from its efforts. In
the meantime many millions must starve.
Plagues which are unknown in Britain will
sweep through crowded slums. Flood, fam-
ine, war will take their toll. There will always
be a need for organisations like War-on-
Want, ready to do their utmost to relieve
distress.
ISH
E T
O 1!
POVERTY*
W H E R E W E C O M E I N
This week we are publishing no pictures
of Carnival Queens, making no funny re-
marks about the swear box in the bar'. We
wish to show you why we are holding the
Carnival. Take another look at the picture
above.
This is not to say that our Carnival should
be a solemn affair. Of course not. It is a
time of fun, gaiety, happiness, a final fling
before the exams. But if a result of our Car-
nival one life is saved, a life of a man or
woman who has never (heard of Imperial
College, perhaps never heard of London, it
will not have been in vain.
C A R N I V A L W E E K
P R O V I S I O N A L P R O G R A M M E
Saturday, May 5th — Procession
Sunday, May 6th — Car Rally
Monday, May 7th — Barbecue in Princes
Gardens
Tuesday, May 8th — Debate
Wednesday, May 9th — International
Evening
Thursday, May 10th — Film Festival
Friday, May 11th — Dance in Concert
Hall
Saturday, May 12th — Fete, followed by
Hop, in Princes Gardens.

