hWtA to ik Edgb
EditauaC (Lamment
Barron's Back!
We regret to announce the passing of our
late Editor, Mr. Dave Gilbert who retired
suffering from the screaming^ habberjabbers
after the last issue, and died shortly after-
wards in his room.from the fatal disease,
work. He was 21; Mr. Gilbert was born in
Lancashire and was educated at Burnley
Grammar School, and the Thwaittes Rams-
bottom Ladies Finishing School, Lower Dar-
wen. He came to City and Guilds in 1958
to study Mechanical Enginering and while
in his second year, the notorious Mr. Mike
Barron, then the Editor of Felix, remarking
on the high quality of his lecture note dood-
les, appointed him Deputy Production Man-
ager's Assistant. Mr. Gilbert's virtuosity in
the handling of Cow Gum, the vital subst-
ance which has held together countless Fe-
lices, earned him the respect of all, and se-
veral times he was priviledged to carry the
Cow Gum tin in his pocket.
Even allowing for his gullibility, promot-
ion was rapid and in 1961 he was appointed
Editor from a short list of one. During the
latter part of last term it was obvious that
the bucden of his reeponsibilitlies wajs too
much for him and the screaming habberjabber
attacks became more and more frequent, to-
gether with occasional outbursts of Felix-
phobia when he was driven to tearing Felices
into small pieces.
I I
Dear Sir,
We read with bewilderment in the national
press recently of the decision of the author-
ities at Oxford University to allow one of the
college buildings to be modified for use as
a nuclear fall-out shelter, and that the under-
graduates are to be instructed on the pro-
cedure to adopt under conditions of nuclear
war. Several times in the article in question
it is asserted that this is not a panic measure
bn the part of the authorities; in fact this
point is made so strongly that we begin to
wonder- Could it be that this obvious effort
to console the general public by the origin-
ator of this scheme is an expression of his
own fear! Are we to allow individuals such
as this to infect the country with the germs
of nuclear panic as has happened in Amer-
ica? Do we accept the thesis that a nuclear
holocaust is inevitable? Of course not\ The
whole concept is so ridicolous as to be al-
most beyond the bounds of crudelity. Surely
there is sufficient common sense in Britain
to crush such moves as this even if there is not
in America. Such reasoning as led to this
decision can clearly be considered as a vote
of no confidence in the present government's
policy. We, on the other hand, have com-
plete faith in this policy, and should there-
fore like to register our whole-hearted dis-
approval of this scheme.
Yours sincerely,
B.A. TAYLOR, K . J . HEARN
Dear Sir,
I am appalled that a newspaper of sup-
posedly neutral political feelings should print
such biased rubbish as was contained in the
letter about Yorkshire Pudding.
Those blasted Yorkshiremen (?) seem to
think that the whole world revolves around
the making and consumption of the nause-
ous concoction misnamed pudding.
How can anyone of supposedly average in-
telligence consider a mixture of flour and
water, and I know not what else, to be the
nectar and ambrosia that it is made out to
be by Yorkshirmen?
I am making this protest on behalf of the
"League for the Preservation and Perpetuat-
tion of Lancashire Hot-Pot", so that this re-
gally noble dish can have a fair hearing in
your columns (and anyone who had heard a
Lancashire Hot-Pot in full cry really knows
it).
This is really a most wonderful dish, far
superior to that lump of inanimate splodge
called Yorkshire Pudding.
1 thank you for the indulgence of your
columns and remain,
Your obedient servant,
A B D U L B E N M A H M O U D
Secretary to the Honourable League for the
Preservation and Perpetuation of Lancashire
Hot-Pot.
Dear Sir,
During my first few months residence in
your country I have been learning much. I
can now understand the reasons for which
your country ha.i suffered much decline in
these last few decades. A brilliant example
of this was given in your last edition bear-
ing the title "Beware the International Hotch-
potch". The ace reporter Crunnion Lineage
obviously did not know that soon after the
cease of the World War II the International
Student Conference broke away from the In-
ternational Union of Students. This was the
result of the selfish and short sighted attit-
ude of a small but noisy group of right wing
extremists mostly from America. However,
the IUS is best without these people. Your
feporter said that the IUS is a communist
propaganda group concerned with the sub-
version of immature nations which have only
recently broken away from the maternal care
of the British Empire. There are many things
that I am able to say about this. First that the
word "Communist" should be printed with
a big C and not little c. In my country Com-
musism is as important as Socialism or CND
in your country even if not more so. Second,
your reporter is all wrong about the IUS
"subverion of immature nations". He is ob-
viously a stbol pidgeon of the "Daily Ex-
press" or "Guardian" or something like that.
He is right that these nations recently in the
British Empire are immature. This is because
their life blood has been squeezed from them
by grasping British capitalists. Monuments
to their destruction have been built ever since
the time of Christopher Wren. This is not
subversion which your reporter talks about,
this wonderful technical aid made possible
by the great social revolution in my country.
Your reporter finishes his article by reapiting
some words of Lord Beaverbrook. I shall do
this also. Did not Lord Beaverbrook say that
when he took control of the "Daily Express"
he also took control of two million minds.
This shows well how the capitalists are in
control of the masses and cause them to fol-
low their direction. In my coutry this is im-
possible. All the newspaper are co-ordinated
by the State so that the masses are caused to
think in logical positivism.
F.R. N E Y E C H E
C A P T A I N ' S L A M E N T O R C R Y ?
Dear Sir,
It will probably be reported elsewhere in
this, most excellent of papers, that once a-
gain the sporting teams of Imperial College
have sumounted the usual early hurdles and
are now on the the trophy trail again. For
several seasons the senior college athletic
clubs have succeeded in winning their respect-
ive University trophies, so that now a great
many people in the College regard cup ties
as mere formalities, and do not give their
support; there is nothing quite like scoring
the winning try or goal to the thunderous
applause of your own supporters.
This year the clubs, can boast 28 sup-
porters distributed in the following manner;
Rugby 18
Soccer 7
Hockey 1
Basketball 2
or for the statisticians present 1 % of the Col-
lege. All the games were well advertised with
the todays sport board, and seperate notices
too, so the publicity cannot readily be at
fault. In the next couple of weeks we
will be playing in four semi-finals, and should
much appreciate your support. Coaches are
provided to Harlington, and the U.L.U. gym.
is in Malet Stree.
Yqwts truly,
J.Pv K E H O E , I.C.R.F.C. Capt.
D. HARBURN, I.C.A.F.C. Capt.
D. PHILLIPS, I.C.H.C. Capt.
M . BARRON, I.C.B.B.C. Capt.

