FELIX 3 —
Engineer's
Diary
Some entries from an Engineer's diary.
(All excerpts have been censored to protect
the innocent.)
D A T E : Friday, 26th January, 1962.
E N T R Y : Engineers' Dinner Dance.
THE formal function of the year — must
make sure I get a ticket.
TICKETS: Difficulty in obtaining a ticket
— discovered later all tickets sold a fort-
night before Dance. (N.B. for next year, apply
early.). Eventually managed to get one on the
Black Market in part exchange for a Guilds-
Mines Carnival ticket (March 9th) and a
book entitled: "How to Hug". (Recon Mac.
will be annoyed when he discovers it is 7th
Vol. Encyclopedia Britanica . . . )
PARTNER: N O trouble. When I hinted I'd
got an Engineers' Dinner-Dance ticket I sud-
denly got the impression I'd got something
she wanted . . . (Wonder if she'll get it?)
SHERRY R E C E P T I O N : The atmosphere was
"Electric" (And Civil, Mechanical, Chemical
and "Aerated of course.). The formal atmos-
phere was enchanted by the presence of Pro-
fessors, Senior Tutors, Representatives from
Industry, Old Centralians and Chairmen of
the Entertainments Committees . . . Distrib-
ution of red carnations to the Guildsmen set
the tone . . . couldnt believe these were the
same chaps that mashed R.C.S. in the mud
on Morphy Day and pleaded guilty . . .
DINNER: 130 couples present, some had to
dine upstairs but understand that they had
speeches relayed to them. Mooney took
Prince Phillip's advice and put on a wonder-
ful five course dinner (Couldn't get over the
way that trout from Bretonne kept looking
at me which ever way I tackled it), and with
three different wines to aid the digestion the
assembled company could be seen to fatigue
under the gastromical stress.
SPEECHES: Professor A . R . Ubbelohde
proposed the toast to the City & Guilds Col-
lege Union in his characteristic and amusing
style. Lawrie Austin, our President, replied
to this toast. During his speech he asked why
the Civil Engineers above had not applied
their knowledge of structures to communic-
ate with the Dining Hall below — the Union
vibrated — fortunately the Union's natural
frequency was not approached. His speech
finished on on a sincere note with a toast to
the Old Centralians, our predecessors. In be-
tween stories Bernie Liberman proposed the
toast to the Guests and went as far as de-
dicating "An Ode to Sonya Snell" to the
Ladies. Hmmmmmm? Mr. H.J.B. Harding
President of the Old Centralians, an excel-
lent after-dinner speaker, replied admirably
as expected.
DANCE: Suggested Concert Hall renamed
Red & White Ballroom for evening wond-
erful floral decorations — stage converted in-
to a harbour scene with The Spanner Inn
forming the bar (Manned by Minesmen who
later "pushed the boat out"). Coffee-Bar un-
der the stage, attended by R.C.S. beauties . . .
Dancing to an Excellent band — did the
Twist — discovered the difference between
male and femal threads — think it should be
renamed for Engineers as "The Screw" . . .
Revulu cabaret "A Hit" ting . . . Never re-
alised Britain's economy depend upon the
kipper industry . . . Had photo taken on
Bo who was in immaculate condition . . .
Well done The Motor Club Mr. Harburn
(barman) had a smashing time . . . Mr. Hunt
decided to try hiis hand at floral decorat-
ions . . . A t 2.30 a.m. we were still going
strong, finished with a rousing Boomalacka
— partook of soup before leaving for '^The
Flat".
A F T E R T H E DANCE WAS O V E R : Censored...
by Ed.
NOTES: Must remember to write a letter
of congratulation to Chris Liddle, Chairman
of Ents. C. & G . Union Rack.
Must go again next year.
Must try and get another carnival ticket
and flog the rest of that encyclopedia to
Mac
signed,
/
r
UNIVERSITY DRAMA SOCIETY
ONE A C T F E S T I V A L
30TH JAN.-2ND F E B . 1962.
The Festival finishes tonight with two I.C
D.S. Productions — and one from elsewhere
— appearing on the U . L . U . stage at 7.30
p.m. The competion is open to all Drama
Societies in the University, though not many
of them enter every year, and is usually won
by some place called Goldsmiths, where
they're believed to study Drama anyway. For
reasons best know to ourselves I.C. Drama
Society seems to come a close second most
years and so, as has been said before, we
shall try and win. Two productions have been
entered, both appearing together tonight, and
as many people as are interested will be very
welcome in the audience — tickets may be
had from I.C.D.S. or at U.L.U., at the door.
The first play is a new one by David Cain
— better known for his bass playing — who
is directing his own creation and is therefore
presumably, entirely responsible for the re-
sult The play 'Asseveration' shows the trial
of Noah for the preservation of the species
in his arc; it features Richard Rushton as a
tsilent chorus and a magnificent speaking
cast. The other production is a part of 'A
sleep of Prisoners' by Christopher Fry, in its
way experimental, for I.C.D.S. at any rate,
in both lighting and presentation. It may be
seen on Friday just how successful or how
disasterous this can be.
HHI2X III
Part One

