— 6
IT'S N E W — IT'S T H E R S M M C
A C T 1.
SCENE 1.
BRIGHTON ROAD
Six bedraggled but spirited Minesmen ob-
scured by oil, grease, smoke, grit and water
are pushing a gleaming example of the glory
that was England up a 1 in 10 hill. The dia-
logue was unprintable, but the operation a
success, Clementine reached Brighton es
corted by other college mascots (Bo and Jez).
Since the tragic loss of the grand old trac-
tion engine, the mechanical prowess of Mines
had been dormant. Now, with the advent of
the petrol engine, the spirit of motoring has
been fired again.
S C E N E 2.
A CORRIDOR IN R.S.M.
Light ifcdes. Enter our noble President,
Stirling Fairfield.
"The motor clubs of our brother colleges
are falling into decay. The onus rests with
Mines. We must form a Motor Club now."
Cheers of exultations. Elections were held
forwith.
INTERVAL
Please remain seated, our mechanics will visit
all parts of the Union.
A C T 2.
SCENE 1.
IN T H E ENNISMORE
Clustered around a beer mug in a dusty
corner, it was decided that the aims of the
R S M M C would be to care for Clem and to
promote and cater for the interests of motor
enthusiasts (?).
SCENE 2.
B A C K IN MINES
After the rousing success of the first meet-
ing, the membership had doubled its thriving
ranks (and will, both members! please pay
their subscriptions as soon as possible).
(For translation of the above, please see the
Mines Notice Board. Meetings are held
regularly.)
FELIX
Bird's Eye View
A N I C W A R I A N L O O K S A T M E N
. Men can be the most infuriating creatures!
Half the time they act as though they are the
lords of creation, and the rest of the time
they act like spoilt little brats. Not all "f
them are like this, but unfortunately for the
gentle sex, most of them are. Let me try to
classify them.
1. The smooth, sophisticated woman-eater.
This type of man makes me feel ill. He
uses perfumed after-shave lotion, is always
immaculately dressed and, probably, wears
brightly coloured underwear. He tries to give
the impression that he is a wolf, but it usual-
ly turns out that he loves to chase but is
terrified of catching. In America, he's a snob.
2. The beery, rugby-player.
This one can be guaranteed to turn up late,
drunk and unshaven, if he turns up at all
that is. His atitude is unashamedly lecher-
ous, and he's proud of it. Although he can
be an absolute swine, at least his intentions
are obvious, and easily avoided.
3. The answer to the maiden's prayer.
This type is the limit. His conceit is enor-
mous and only exceeded by his bad manners.
He gives the impression that to be taken out
by him is the greatest thing that can happen
to a woman. The only cure is to ignore him
completely. This will puzzle him, and h i l l
hang around for a while trying to find out
why you won't take any notice of him.
will do him nothing but good.
FILM
"THE WAGES OF FEAR"
Friday, Februay 2nd, 7.00 p.m. Concert Hall.
The name of Clouzot, coupled with that
of Bardot, may be familiar to many under-
ground users, for Clouzot directed "La Ve-
rite". It was "Le Salaire de la Peur" ("The
Wages of Fear") that first brought fame and
recognition to Clouzot by winning the Cannes
Grand Prix in 1953. Clouzot followed it with
"Les Diaboliques" ("The Fiends"). A l l these
films seek to horrify the audience and to pro-
duce an atmosphere full of suspense.
"The Wages of Fear" has a simple, direct
plot. In a small town in Central America,
have collected all the tough down-and-outs
who have nowhere else to go — bored, penni-
less and desperate men ready to do anything.
They get their chance when they are offered
money to drive two truck loads of nitroglyc-
erine 300 miles. Four "lucky" men are picked
and the nightmare journey begins. Two thirds
of the film is devoted to this agonising drive
along dirt roads over which a slight jolt might
blow the lorry and men to pieces. Clouzot
develops the excitement so well that the ten-
sion almost becomes unbearable. The film
contains some brilliant derection, photography
and acting by the four men (Yves Montand,
Charles Venel, Folco LuIIi and Peter Eyck).
Its only weakness is an ending far too ironic
and pessimistic, which could have been cut
without altering the bulk of the film. Clouzot
just overdid it. o.J.w.
4. The intellectual.
Passionately interested in the arts, but only
the modern ones, anxious to discuss his views
on sex, and, apparenly, totally uninterested
in anything but a platonic friendship, this
type is dangerous. You will find that having
been lured into agreeing with his "advanced"
views on sex, he will suddenly try a little
practical work on you. To be avoided like
the plague.
5. The reasonable bloke.
If by any chance your lucky star is in the
ascendant ,you might meet one. He won't be
perfect (no man ever is), but he'll be reason-
ably interested in you as a person, and just
masculine enough to be bearable. He won't
t)e too big-headed and with a bit of luck he
might marry you.
1 hope nobody thinks that I'm over-crit-
ical, but I speak from experience and if any
gentleman feels annoyed with this article, per
haps he ought to take a good look at him-
self and see if he can ri dhimself of some,
if not at all, of the qualities which annoy the
gentle sex so much.
I. C. D . S.
After a run of beat, off-beat and possibly
dead-beat — drama, the Dram. Soc. have de-
cided to give both the1
audience and them-
selves a break. The choice fell between
"Charley's Aunt" and "Arsenic and Old
Lace", — the scientific appeal of the latter
won.
Set in Brooklyn, it is soon apparent that
"The sport of my mad aunts" is to extend
charity to the grave1
. A cast of 14 work their
way through every conceivable (and a few
inconceivable) situations created for them by
a master play-wright, Joseph Hesselry. For
once the problem or interpretation does not
exist — the play was written simply (but not
very purely) for laughs.
The formula of "old ones —• young ones"
is being applied again to the casting, the Soc-
iety working on the principle that merit
counts most. If that basketball playing crumb
has crept in again, it's not the producer's
fault.
Dates are 13th to 16th March, and if you
want that seat near the aisle (to facilitate
rolling) you'd better book now.
LAMLEY'S
T E C H N I C A L & G E N E R A L
BOOKS
A R T M A T E R I A L S
D R A W I N G INSTRUMENTS
S T A T I O N E R Y
P A P E R B A C K S
t. 3 & 5 EXHIBITION ROAD, S.W.7.

