FELIX
2*\
S M A L L A D S .
F O R S A L E . 1939 Rover 16. Excellent Mech-
anical Condition. M.O.T. tested until March.
(Taxed until end of April. (£25. No loffetrs.
Contact: P. Williams, Aero 1.
W A N T E D by Film Society, Pianist to ac-
company silent film "The General" on March
16th. Score provided. Fee arranged. A . J .
Wclker via the Union Rack.
Tired of the Saturday Night Hops?
Then come to the
D A N C I N G C L U B H O P
FRIDAY, 9 T H FEBRUARY
Dance Band Trad Band
2 Bars 8.00-11.00 p.m. 2/6
V A C A N C Y I N F L A T . Fourth member re-
quired for cheap roomy flat in Finsbury
Park. Rent approx. 35/- per week. L . T . G
Lait, E E III, C . & G .
Typing and Duplicating undertaken. Thesis,
reports, books etc. Quick service. Contact:
Miss Brock, Int. Tel. 2273 (Botany).
Mr. J.K. Jones (Cosmic Ray Dept.) wishes
it to be) known that he is not engaged.
I. C. M U S I C A L SOCIETY
presents
B^ASTIEl^
and B ASTIENNE
by W.A. Mozart
and
TRIAL B Y J U R Y
by W.S. Gilbert and Sir Arthur Sulivan
M O N . 19TH TO F R I . 23RD F E B R U A R Y
in
T H E C O N C E R T H A L L
IMPERIAL C O L L E G E UNION
Ticket now on sale in I. C. Union.
SKI CLUB
In the hope of promoting an interest in
ski-ing and improving the standard of the
sport within the College, a party of 34 de-
parted,, by train, from London for Solden
in Austria, for 15 days ski-ing, during the
Christmas vacation.
The first two days ski-ing were made dif-
ficult by insufficient snow, ironically at this
time many parts of England had up to a foot
of snow, while many ski-ing resorts had none.
However, on the third day a moderate fall
restored the slopes to a reasonable condition.
There followed a week of nearly continuous
sun which made for the most enjoyable ski-
ing.
It was very encouraging to see the rapid
progress made by the beginners. Several were
indeed quite outstanding in their enthusiasm
and drive. One notable gentleman (I hope
he will not mind being so called) was indeed
only one second behind his instructor over
the Silver Medal course for beginners. Need-
less to say he won a medal and put up the
best time amongst the other competitors.
Several members of the group paid a visit
to the nearby ski-ing centre of Obergurgl. Un-
fortunately the valley gets little sun at this
time of the year, but the facilities are good
and it is certainly to be recommended for
spring ski-ing. On the last day in Austria,
three of our members entered for the Stand-
ard Slalam in Obergurgl, one finished first
thus winning a Silver Mejial and another
came fifth and was awarded a Bronze Med-
al.
Besides ski-fing there were several other
winters sports to be enjoyed, notably skat-
ing and tobogganing. The latter took place
on the tortuous and precipitous road between
Hochsolden and Solden; a distance of 4 kilo-
metres with a vertical descent of well over
1500 feet. Curiously enough there seemed to
be a very high failure rate amongst the to-f
boggans. Similarity several ski tips were seen
to litter the slopes. Whether this was due to
strong bones or weak wood is difficult to say.
Nevertheless, injuries were confined to a few
sprains and one cut knee.
In the evenings those who still had some
energy went out to one of the several hotels
with bands, and there danced and drank con-
siderable quantities of the local wine; the lat-
ter is quite potent, as one or two people found
out the hard way. Unfortunately 8 people,
mostly girls, had to return to England early,
thus the last few days the ratio of male to
female became rather too high. The main
body of the party returned to London a week
later.
J.R.W.K.
I. C. W. S. C.
Despite illness, exam, fever and fixtures
coinciding, ICWSC has continued to do wett
in matches this year. In a new venture the
table tennis team played in a mixed match
against Northern Polytechnic which they lost
after some excellent games with the final
score 7-2.
Other results this term:
Badmington: Beat Q E C by 7-2.
Hockey: Lost to Westfield, 2-3 (Due to
injury we played with one wing for most
of the match).
Netball: Beat Royal Holloway II by 10-6.
Squash: Beat Bedford 4-1, Cardiff Uni-
versity, 3-2.
Special praise to Mary Rawitzer for two
excellent games.
Table tennis: Beat Q E C , 6-3.
P.R.
DEBATING SOCIETY
The Debating Society has a very heavy
programme before it this term, which includes
the Inter-Collegiate Debating Competition
which will be held on Thursday Feb. 8th,
15th, and 22nd. This is the second year the
competition has been held and the holders.
Guilds, will be doing their best to retain the
cup. In addition to this and the usual fort-
nightly debates, we shall be visited in Feb-
ruary by two very experienced American de-
baters who will be touring the country, ft
will be very interesting to compere our own
standards with those of the U.S.A.
Later during the term, the Dinner will be
held, at which the Cup will be presented to
the winning College. It is hoped that the Din-
ner will be as great a success as last year,
and that everyone who enjoys good food as
much as good speaking will come along.
SWIM* Hi
CLUB
After two rounds of the U L Water Polo
League, the two top I C teams stand a strong
chance of coming out on top. If the Firsts
can maintain the form that gave an over-
whelming 7-3 victory against Barts Hospital,
they have a great chance of toppling N C L
and regaining the cup after last year's fall
The Thirds are still with a fighting chance
of coming out on top.
Team P W D L F A
I.C. I 2 2 12 5
I.C. II 2 1 1 — 9 6
I.C. I l l 2 1 — 1 9 3
The I C swimming team suffered its first]
defeat this year at the hands of Bristol Uni-
versity, the polo game resulting in a 3 all|
draw. A n encounter with Bristol Technical
College resulted in a run away win for the
team and the acquisition of a fine wall
plague.
Anyone still able to afford 16/- and with
a clean record sheet is welcome at the Club
dinner at the Chez Mooney on Wednesday
28th February.
B.M.
CONTINUED NEXT WEEK

