S P O R T
RUGBY
Since the last report the 1st X V has played
4 games one of which appears fully reported
elsewhere.
The B3 and B5 still continue their unbeat-
en runs although the B3's have at last had
their line crossed during 20-8 victory over
Osterley " B " .
On the morning of the England-Wales
match a minor International was staged at
Harlington where IC lost by 6-0 to Aberyst-
wyth (the reigning U.W. Champions) in a very
close game. This could have been a win for
I.C. but for the old bogey of poor tackling
which has been with the side for some time.
Of the other two 1st team games I.C. beat
R . A F . Cadets at Henlow and lost to Wasps
Vandals. The Ex. 1st X V have recorded two
wins one of which was a fine 19-0 victory
over Aberstwyth 2nd X V .
The " A " team continue to improve and
how have six consecutive victories to their
credit including a 16-0 win over Brighton
Students an 8-0 win over Avery Hill T . C .
The results of these two teams are much more
indicative of their true form after both had
experienced a poor start to the season.
A 40-3 win over Brighton Students 2nd X V
gave the Ex. A their best result of the season
and even though they turned up with 17 men
(an unheard of thing in I.C. Rugby circles)
tor the following game they still lost 11-0 to
the National College of Food Technology.
Of the other sides the B l's have not a
game for the past fortnight due to cancellat-
ions and i" Jim's Team" the B 2's have pro
duced one win and one draw.
MINES S U C C E E D W H E R E I.C. F A I L S
On Wednesday, 24th January, Mines Rugby
took on the might of " C " Division who had
proved only too victorious in their previous
encounter with I.C. in the region of the
U.L.U. Baths last December.
On this more recent occasion, the Students
proved successful and Mines got home win-
ning by 11 points to 10. Obviously no wasted
energy. Scorers for Mines were Rawlings and
McManus. one try each and Turner with
one occasion and one penalty goal.
" C " Division scored their first five points
after two minutes play, but half-time saw the
score at 8-5 for Mines, and a penalty goal
early in the secondhalf made the game sec-
ure. The game stood at 11-5 with five min-
utes from no-side when an unlucky bounce
from a high kick ahead, which had appeared
well covered, presented an easv try and the
subsequent conversion left the score at 11-10.
For any student desiring revenge in
more concrete manner, we hope that the
fact that one of the opposition finished the
game with no vision from his right eye, after
some pretty rugger tackling by the back row,
will be of interest.
P W L F A
1st X V 12 10 2 155 30
2nd X V 12 8 4 172 81
BASKET BALL
The Basketball Club has continued its suc-
cessful season and apart from an unfortunate
sortee into the National Championships its
record now stand at:
P W L F A
11 10 1 684 437
The team's success is largely due to our
two 6ft 3 Americans David Inkster and John
Rupf and 6 ft. 5, Alex Termanis. Mention
must also be made of our hot-shot Canad-
ians Ray Thomas, Gordon Leslie (coach) and,
especially, Oscar Sigvaldason. The rest of the
squad are George Velissariou, Mike Barron
(Capt.), Mike Coward and Dennis Wicken-
den.
The first game this term against Northern
Poly was a very scrappy affair and IC came
out easy winners, 45-21. Next we travellea
to Watford to play Pegasus and won 40-23
to take over the lead in-the London League
Division I. In Pegasus we came against our
toughest defence for the season and in the
first half were trailing 10-15 in a very low
scoring game. Play continued tough in the
second half and culminated in coach Leslie
being ordered off tor attempting to cream
through three defenders without the ball in
his hands! After that we steadied down and
took control of the game. With David Ink-
ster working wonders under their basket we
took the half 30-8.
The next game saw a welcome return to
form of John Rupf and his 26 points helped
us to beat East Ham xxmvincingly 57-37. The
coming few weeks are the clubs most import-
ant ones as we are now in striking distance
of winning two League competitions and two
cups. During the Easter Vac we are going
to Holland to take part in an International
Universities Basketball Tournament.
SOCCER
The 1st X I moved to the top of the U L
league by virtue of an easy 4-1 win over L S E
last Wednesday, Mike Cox scoring a hat
trick. However, the 1st still remains without
a win on a Saturday after an unlucky defeat
by Reading, 4-3, and a crushing defeat by
Dulwitch Hamlet " A " , 4-0, which would
have been less had the Engineers' Dinner-
Dance not claimed our goalkeeper, Andy
Payne.
The 2nd X I continue to suffer from 1st
team injuries and one victory this term was
achieved with 4 winners on the forward line
when the beat Goldsmiths II, 5-2, in the
league, although the previous week they were
beaten 3-1 by a very strong Q M C II team i "
the U L Cup.
The 3rd X I keep IC hopes alive in the U L
Reserve Cup with a 3-1 victory over Kings
III, and should reach the final of this com-
petition as their next game should be a fair-
ly easy one. Their position at the top of their
division in the league was weakened last week
when they only managed to draw with the
4th X I , 1-1, and lost to Battersea II.
Without a win before Xmas, the 4th broKe
this dismal record by crushing St. Clement
Danes III, 10-0, and they have only lost 1
out of the 4 games sincef Xmas. The 5th X I
have won their 3 League games this term and
consequently are well placed in their divis-
ion of the League.
The 6th and 7th XI's continue their up
and down form, although Ben's men march
on with 5-1, 6-0, and 7-1, victories to their
credit this term.
L7R E P O R T O N T H E E X T R A 7TH
The Extra Seventh X I have had the most
successful season of any of the soccer clubs
eight teams. The record is:
P_14, W—10, D—3, L—1, F—69, A—27.
So far in 1962, the team has won all three
matches:
v. Polytechnic Won 5-7
v. Shuttleworth Won 6-0
v. Barclay Bank Won 7-1
The team has always tried to play football
and have usually been successful. The team
has a good solid defence, strong attacKin,,
half-backs, and devastating forwards who
have paralysed most defences.
The goalkeeper is usually Nash, whose an-
ticipation and agility have covered the few
mistakes made by the defence. The full-backs
have been chosen from Spreadborough, Ken-
delon and McManus. Spreadborough and
Kendelon, both over six feet, have found
many ways of stopping their opponents.
McManus is of the Sellers mould. His strength
and tenacity have been tried in the forward
line where deceiving heading has been most
effective.
The half-backs have been very strong with
the choice of Murcott, Wheeler, Davies and
Webster. Murcott's tackling and passing have
been a joy to watch and Wheeler's ability
to kick the ball anywhere has retrieved many
awkward situations. Murcott and Wheeler
have covered well, especially since Davie and
Webster, both getting on now, have found
the pace too much. However, they do man-
age to put up good shows.
The inside trio is Hendley, Logan and
Bond. Hendley's fine scheming brain has re-
sulted in many goads, whilst Logan and
Bond have taken most of their chances with
accurate shooting. On the left wing Mitchell's
speed has only to be compared with Bra-
brook. Unfortunately in his ability to centre
the ball he also resembles that vastly over-
rated player. There has been no regular out-
side-left, and the selection committee have
even had to resort in playing Wilshaw. How-
ever, this should be remembered in due
course.
BADMINTON
On January 10th our first team arrived
at our home courts to find two teams, Nor-
thern Poly and N E C waiting to play us. No-
thing daunted, IC played both teams simult-
aneously! The result was two 7-2 wins for
IC. There remains but one league game to
be played, against U C and since both teams
are undefeated this year, an interesting game
is in prospect.
The ladies team is also undefeated, their
most recent success being 5-4 against Q E C
The mixed team beat King's despite some
rather indifferent play by 5-4. It is unfortun-
ate that we played U C as the first mixed
match of the season since the team is now
forming a much better combination.
Published by F E L I X BOARD, Imperial College, London, S.W.7.
Plates & offset printing by WEST L O N D O N OFFSET CO., 86, Lillie Road, London, S.W.6. Tel.: F U L 7969

