Meet your GSU Committee!
T
he Graduate
Students’ Union
(GSU) is the
representative
body within the Imperial
College Union for the
postgraduate community
across all Imperial cam-
puses. The GSU works
POSTGRADUATE
Graduate Students’
POSTGRADUATE
FRIDAY, 11TH
JANUARY, 2019 FELIX
22
gsu.president@imperial.ac.uk
ISSUE 1709
FELIX
POSTGRADUATE gsu.president@imperial.ac.uk
alongside the Imperial
College Union President
to ensure that the require-
ments of postgraduate
students are catered for.
The GSU also ensures
that postgraduates’ social
and recreational needs are
met and holds a number
of events during the year
– do look out for these!
Postgraduate students
at Imperial are at the fore-
front of the research done
and the experience they
have as a student should
be the best. Therefore, at
the GSU we ensure that
this happens (and you’d
be pleasantly surprised
how much goes on behind
the scenes to do this!).
The work we do focuses
on the academic, welfare
and social needs of post-
graduates. Below you can
see who makes up the
current GSU committee
with a brief outline of
some of the things they
get up to. However, the
roles are very flexible and
officers help out where
there is a particular area
of interest…or crisis!
Remember, you don’t
have to be an official com-
mittee member to help out
either if there’s something
you’d like to organise
or change on more of a
short-term basis.
Whether you are a
Master, MRes or Doctoral
Research student, you are
automatically a member of
the GSU. If you have any
questions or would like to
find out more please do
not hesitate in getting in
touch by emailing: gsu.
president@imperial.ac.uk
In this vein, we take
this opportunity to thank
you for voting for us and
look forward to serving
you and ensuring your
postgraduate experience
is a well-rounded and
happy one! Look out for
the elections in March
if you would like to get
involved and join our team
to create some rewarding
long-term impact for the
PG community.
I
thrive to ensure PG issues are taken more seriously in both the College and the Union. Ultimately, I want to increase the general wellbeing
of all PGs by improving supervision culture, college infrastructure, mental health services and socialising opportunities. My PhD looks
into how mindfulness can make people change their behaviours and become more sustainable. I am also finalising a two-year yoga teacher
program at Triyoga.
Ute Thiermann - GSU President
I
n my past year as a committee member of the GSU and student trustee at IC Union, I have witnessed the growth of the GSU to better
meet its members’ needs. My previous role included initiating the IC Data challenge by partnering with 7 companies, ICDSS and Imperial
Enterprise lab. We envisage an even bigger event this year!
As DP, I endeavour to improve the employability of all postgraduates by equipping you with in-depth connections in the industry and
helping you turn your lab/simulation outcomes into commercial projects/products by working with corporate sponsors and Imperial Enterprise
lab.
Lingru Zheng - Deputy President (Operations)
Ashley Brooks - Deputy President (Academic & Welfare Representation)
H
i, I’m Ashley, a third year PhD student in the Centre for Transport Studies (Civil Engineering). When not pursuing studies, I can be
seen playing the guitar from time to time!
I’m responsible for working closely with the Academic & Welfare Officers and leading the postgraduate Academic Representation
Network in conjunction with the President. In addition, I would like to celebrate the international diversity of the PG community and
believe that it is a vital part of Imperial College’s campus and life – indeed, it can set the tone for intellectual curiosity and pursuit throughout
the College.
Union Committee
Carina Zhao - Social Media Officer
H
i! My name is Carina Zhao and I’m from China. I’m studying the MRes Drug Discovery and Development in the Department of
Chemistry. As the new Social Media Officer of GSU this year, I’m more than excited to apply my communication skills in raising
awareness of the Union and to make contributions to Imperial Master’s and PhD student welfare and opportunities. I enjoy being
supportive to my GSU colleagues and I really look forward to nailing this year’s challenges with my team!
Clare Chan - Events Coordinator
H
i everyone, I’m Clare and I’m studying Investment & Wealth Management at the Business School. I am the Events Coordinator of
the GSU. I am responsible for organising various events for all graduate students, working closely with the Union Events Team in
order to make sure all events run smoothly and provide the best experience for all participants.
I
’m Sam and I study Investment & Wealth Management at the Business School. As an Academic & Welfare Officer of the Business School,
I am mainly responsible for retrieving feedback from students and increasing the amount of academic resources to all available students.
I am also responsible for connecting PhD/Master’s students from different disciplines, thus expanding the social networking aspect for
every student.
Sam Yu - Academic & Welfare Officer (Business Officer)
Jenny (Yeon Hee) Kim - Academic & Welfare Officer (Faculty of Medicine)
I
’m Jenny and I’m studying public health. I am the Graduate Students’ Union (GSU) Academic & Welfare Officer for the Faculty of
Medicine this year. I work closely with the course and department representatives to receive the student feedback that can be discussed
with faculty and college level staff, GSU committee, and the constituents to resolve any issues faced by the students.
Hence, my role is to represent the students to ensure their voices are heard and the essential changes are made, in order to create a
supportive environment for all students in the faculty.
Sandunika Hirumuthugoda - Marketing & Publicity Officer
H
i everyone! My name is Sandunika, I’m a postgraduate student studying Cardiology and Respiratory Healthcare. I’m the new GSU
Marketing & Publicity Officer. I endeavour to engage a wider interest group and work closely with the Union Communications team
to ensure our events are well-attended and our issues heard.
In that vein, I’m honoured to represent you this academic year and to make a positive impact on your Imperial College experience.
Lorenzo Palmieri - Sponsorship Officer
I
am Lorenzo and I am a 3rd
year PhD student in Mathematics. I’m the new Sponsorship Officer at the GSU. My goal is to engage private
companies and external partners to support new events/projects taking place at Imperial in order to make our university’s environment
even more stimulating and exciting!
Hannah Jones - Events Officer
I
’m Hannah and I’m doing a PhD in Neurobiology. I’m the GSU Events Officer, so I work closely with the Events Coordinator to plan
and organise specific postgraduate events across each Imperial College’s campus. We have lots of things we are planning to run this year,
including networking events, socials, industry sponsored events and a fancy black-tie dinner!
Joseph Tam - Treasurer
I
’m Joseph and I’m a Clinical Research Fellow in Urology and Prostate Cancer. As Treasurer of thr GSU, my job is to budget the GSU
events and activities. I will try to be as transparent as possible to be accountable to the student population.
I
’m Raya and I’m doing a PhD in Material Research. I’m the Academic & Welfare Officer for the Faculty of Engineering. My goal is to
have more PGs reach out to the GSU and be more comfortable expressing their concerns and worries with regards to their wellbeing, as
well as their education.
Raya El Laham - Academic & Welfare Officer (Faculty of Engineering)

