Gene Loves Jezebel
-Tangled Up In You 12"
Gene Loves Jezebel continue their quest
for chart success. In desperation, this
release contains one track from each of
their latest four LPs, but not necessarily
the best (these were released years ago).
The last ditch advert even goes so far as
to include a complete album photo
discography i n the gatefold.
The title track actually sounds good. A l l
the ingredients of chart success are there,
big sound, happy tune, happy lyrics,
nothing devastatingly beautiful. The catch
is Jay's voice w h i c h will only ever be
suited to his effected experiments, but
blight this tuneful attempt. The dead
ending should throw a few DJs but it
could chart if it receives enough airplay.
As the record whines on, the band
World of Twist
I expected a dodgy Manchester band and
I got it. Even the catalogue of visual
effects, which luckily concealed the Shaun
Ryder lookalike, could not make such
insipid music interesting.
Thank God for a support act with a
degree of originality. The first song began
with a never-ending mesh of sampled
noise and ended with a wave of feedback
which left flares quaking in its wake. The
rest of the set consisted of a series of
bursts of distorted, heavily flanged wah-
Dickless
A somewhat strange record with an apt
name for the, dare 1 say, foxcore, band. I
would presume that this is their first
release of the OK's Glitterhouse label
—Subterrania
w a h guitar washing over the bass and
drums. The vocals were magnificent.
Although soft they were clearly audible
over the backing noise. Dr Phibes kicked
butt. Unfortunately whatever they were
on was not generally distributed to the
assembled, flared, fans and their
magnificence seemed to pass well over
their heads.
The rest of it—see Dr Phibes avoid the
Manchester clones like the plague.
Seb.
wind further back into their persistent if
not progressive past. In fact it only leads
to wondering whether the band have
rather regressed. Suspicion and Heartache
both are more typical, more daring and
reminiscent of U2's Unforgettable Fire era
but with more to it. Then, to totally
contradict me, the last and earliest track
here is the worst of the lot, dodgy vocals,
dodgy backing, dodgy track. Sorry,
Stephen.
The odd choice of tracks just prove that
some things don't change. If you are a
fan of Gene Loves Jezebel you will
already own the four offerings here. If
you are not, this will not convert you, but
it may well earn the band a few more
pennies.
SJH
The Big Dish
—Miss America 12"
-I'm a Man 12"
(licenced from Sub Pop USA). It coincides
with the recent vinyl debut of L7 and
subsequent U K tour. Similarities may be
drawn with another bands, The
Lunachicks, w h o are however at the
other extreme.
The best comparison is perhaps Pussy
Galores' bastard child, Boss Hog. The
same bass orientated drawling amble
through the cliched realms of scumrock
dominate and a voice that defies the
name Dickless. Despite all these assets
the music is one dimensional, showing
little initiative. It seems the tried and
tested Sub Pop formula is being used
again. The B side is remarkably similar to
Tad's God's Balls—some achievement
considering the difference in vocalists.
Unfortunately it sounds like Sub Pop, a
little heavier than the Sub Pop of old but
still the same old rock 'n' roll.
Seb.
Side one, the title track, sounds like the
needle stuck. The same line is repeated
ten times, then a different one, then off
they go again!. The result, eight minutes
of reasonableness that needed a little
more energy to convert the monotony
into music. This is a case of a single
being stretched to a 12" that should have
remained at seven.
Side two definitely has more substance
and the needed energy. Both 'The
Mission Bell to the Deep Blue Sea' and
'The T o w n Celebrity' hold your interest in
a way that 'Miss America' fails. This is a
style of music that, in general, I like.
Male vocals suported by a traditional
drums and guitars set up and so thay
would have to be very bad for me not to
like them - w h i c h they're not.
A good effort, hopefully the
forthcoming album will contain something
a little more exciting - keep trying.
IGH
12

