The persistent Pinky and Perky eventually interview..
The Wedding Present MUSIC
'All of a sudden I've had loads of
interviews to do—how long have you
been waiting then?' Well it had been for
over four hours, but never mind, we
finally had an audience w i t h His Royal
Highness of indie pop; M r David Gedge.
For those few who don't know, The
Wedding Present hail from Leeds (sort of),
and are David Gedge (guitar/vocals);
Peter Solowka (guitar), Keith Gregory
(bass) and Simon Smith (drums). So how
did they form? 'Well I've k n o w n Peter for
years and years—I went to school with
him. Actually I've probably k n o w n him
for too long. I've always been in bands
and when I finally got to University we
decided to try and make a career out of
it'. At this time David was studying Maths
at Leeds, while Peter was in Liverpool.
'So I put an advert in the college union,
and we got Keith, and our first drummer
Shaun—put out a single' (Go out and get
'em boy!) 'and we've never looked back
since.' In the early days 'Peter was a
supply teacher, but the rest of us were on
the dole, except Shaun who was still a
student (he was a year younger than us)'.
Shaun on drums eventually left 'because
we asked him to' and was replaced by
the present drummer Simon. 'It's just, for
me anyway, it's really important that you
get on with everyone in the band, and in
the end he was quite difficult to get on
with. Y o u hear stories about the Sex
Pistols all hating each other, and then
making brilliant records, but I couldn't do
that.'
Their early work—the LP's George Best
and Tommy—and numerous singles were
released on their o w n label Reception
Records. The band waited several years
before signing to a major record label, in
spite of several lucrative offers as they
sought complete artistic independence
and control. They finally got this with
R C A 'to their credit' and have since
released an L P Bizarro and the singles
Brassneck (along with an infamous T O T P
appearance) a n d Corduroy. The band
formed over five years ago but Gedge is
still enthusiastic about writing and
performing—'I don't think I'd be doing it
unless I was, it's not something I can
manufacture. I can't sit down and say
right I've got to write a song, it's not like
doing a mathematical problem' (we never
imagined it was!). He claims that he is not
happy with their work to day, as looking
back George Best is a bit disappointing,
and something like Tommy, which is a
compilation of all the old singles is fairly
unlistenable. For me, there's always lyrics
that stick out as slightly embarrassing,
and the sound is a bit cheap.' He believes
his writing and singing have improved
over the years 'and now we're m u c h
better at producing records'. In 1988 The
Weddoes released a session of Ukranian
folk music, w h i c h was somewhat distant
from their o w n musically distinctive style
(but was still excellent). The guitarist
Peter Solowka, who is half Ukranian can
be held solely responsible, but the rest of
the band really enjoyed m a k i n g the
album, and do not regret that particular
venture. 'Peter would probably have done
it anyway', w i t h or without the other
band members.
The band's influences 'change all the
time. Each of us have our o w n musical
tastes, but it's guitar bands really'. Gedge
insists that the band work together as a
team, with each member having their
o w n role, although he writes all the
songs. 'If I write ten songs, the rest of the
band will hear about seven, and then
maybe five will be committed to record.'
'We vote on all important issues such as
signing record deals—we've got a very
complicated voting system—we're quite
democratic really.'
A n d his views on the current music
scene: 'Well, it's alright, but it's not m y
favourite, although I quite like the
Manchester scene.' (Gedge a BAGGY??)
'From a musical point of v i e w I'm all in
favour of music changing.'
The Wedding Present are currently in
the process of getting enough material
together for a new L P 'which will
probably be recorded early next year,
and I imagine it will be out by Spring'.
Finally, we had to ask whether he had
seen George Best's notorious Wogan
appearance, since the band had named
one of their albums after him.
Well: 'No, I wish I had, loads of people
have asked me about it.'
Pinky and Perky.

