Douglas Makhija ponders the future of our public transport.
T r a i n s !
I often find myself assessing the true
worth of m y season ticket while
commuting daily to and from College
through mostly subterranean channels.
Three factors carry the most weight in
my assessment: the comfort of the ride
on the system, the speed at which I a m
conveyed to m y destination and the ease
of changing between modes of transport
(when the need arises). It is clear that
what, in m y view at least, is the ultimate
solution to the problems caused by the
inherent imperfections of the concept of
of public transport (that can be easily
perceived by any old twit w h o travels on
the tube in the rush hour) would require
infrastructure changes so radical that it is
unlikely that they would ever be
implemented.
The first area of public transport that
could be approached (and, in fact, is
being approached—albeit at a very
leisurely pace in the United Kingdom) is
that of the comfort of ride o n the mode
of transport in question. In the case of
the bus, the Leyland Titan of 1977
represented the major leap forward in
performance and ride, but the progress of
the bus is severely limited by the
dimensional constraints imposed by road
widths and bridge clearances. Numerous
improvements can still be made to the
high capacity rapid transit 'toothpaste
tubes' that one has the daily pleasure of
being squeezed into a n d out of, morning
and evening. W i t h modern semiconductor
devices being introduced into electric
traction packages, vehicle performance
has improved a n d better ride quality has
resulted from efforts to save energy.
Inside the trains, problems caused by
antisocial tendencies (similar to the classic
'seats being taken on a bus' analogy that
is often used to explain Pauli's exclusion
principle) have been solved by removing
most of the seats for future designs of
trains. The estimates of packing density in
gangway spaces have also been increased
from 4 to 6 passengers standing, or rather
suffocating per square metre.
Increasing passenger capacity is not
sufficient: the fact that the platforms of
some principal node stations on the
London Underground network can fill up
to 'genocide-on-the-track' point from
virtually empty within 90 seconds does
imply that an increased frequency service
is desperately needed. This means that
more trains are required w h i c h in turn
implies that more money is needed which
means that unless the tube receives a
generous donation of £500m from the
Ikimichinatsubishi Bank of Japan in
return for some advert slots...basically,
not in m y lifetime.
Trains have to be closely spaced in
order to derive full benefit from the
availability of more rolling stock. The
Transmission Based Signalling (or TBS)
concept has gained ground following the
advent of popular, inexpensive
microcontrollers. The trains inform each
other of their relative positions so, if one
train brakes to a halt, a train directly
behind it will be informed of the velocity
change and consequently will
progressively brake to stop a fixed
distance behind the first unit. The system
has also found application in an automatic
motorway driving experiment conducted
by Volkswagen in 1989: three cars were
successfully driven as a 'train' using lane
markings as guideways and, through the
use of radio intercommunication, were
able to sustain 80mph driving at distance
of '/zm apart, without being physically
connected in any way.
Transmission Based Signalling is finally
being turned into reality i n the U K : the
Docklands Light Railway i n East London
is being re-equipped with a T B S signalling
system to increase train frequency in time
for the opening of the Canary Wharf
business development. The Docklands
Light Railway has demonstrated the
ability of light rail transit to adapt to a
rapidly changing environment with ever-
increasing usage. The success of the
Docklands Light Railway has paved the
way for other light rapid transit systems
in the United Kingdom: the Manchester
Metrolink, featuring street-running of
single-deck light rail vehicles through the
city centre, is due to open later this year,
and there are other systems planned for
Birmingham, Sheffield and Bristol, to
name but a few. Current trends seem to
suggest that privately financed light rail
transit will be dominant among new
transport projects in the U K , as well as
worldwide, in this decade.
The final failing of the public transport
system that I would like to dwell upon is
that of changing: between lines on the
tube, between tube, train or bus, etc.
Those of us w h o know what it is like to
be a 'Metro, Boulout, Dodo' zombie
would certainly like to see an end to
having to change between different lines
on the tube: being trampled upon on the
escalators a n d being pushed on the track
in front of an approaching train while
waiting for it on a platform packed to
'fire hazard' point. A simple solution
would be to connect the lines together at
the stations where they cross and to run
through services between them. This
could be taken much further: to avoid
under-utilisation of large capacity
vehicles, w h y not make them much
smaller, say with only four seats and no
straphangers? Eventually, having finished
contemplating Autotaxis, one would reach
the ultimate goal of a unified standard
personal transport system, with a flexible
TBS system being provided by an
observation satellite. A l l vehicles would
be automatically driven to the
destinations specifed by the user. They
would be capable of operating over
railway and standard roadway
infrastructures. With personalised
transport taking over o n such an
enormous scale, public transport would
die an instant death (however, this would
not necessarily mean mass-unemployment
for train staff: take computer scientists for
example; they claim that their job
specification is that of making themselves
redundant, but the ascendancy of the
incomprehensibly complex Unix operating
system means that they are likely to have
gainful employment for m a n y years to
come).
Would all this even be necessary? The
population may all end up w o r k i n g from
home a n d the only item needing
transportation would be information. The
world m a y become full of couch-potatoes
firmly rooted in front of their television
sets (if television is needed by that time).
Ultimately, the question m a y boil down
to whether the industrialised world would
like to sit a n d rot, feeding itself o n a
stream of binary digits, or whether it
would prefer to take both the good and
the bad in life, having something better
to look forward to, rather than dying a
premature death of boredom, not to
mention under-exercise.
I have found that, despite having to
endure daily suffocation, travelling on a
public transport network forces one to
acknowledge that other homo-sapiens are
still in existence (whatever the situation
in the Gulf crisis may be). Public transport
may not appeal to the environment-
unfriendly business executive, but it is
still of vital importance to us lesser
mortals w h o are not granted parking
permits in Central London. M y hope is
that future governments will never
neglect this vital service again, learning
the lessons arising from the excessive
frugality of the 1980s, the lessons of the
worst cases that were previously assumed
improbable; the King's Cross fire of
November 1987 is an example that
forever lingers in m y memory, especially
since 1 can remember riding on the
squeaking escalator, where the tragedy
started, in the morning on the very day
that the fire occurred. It must always be
remembered that nothing is impossible to
irresponsibility: one hopes that the 31
deaths on that fateful evening were not in
vain.
INTERESTED?
W a t c h the d o c u m e n t a r y on ' T h e
Docklands Light Railway' at 1pm
on T u e s d a y January 1 5 (Gulf war
permitting) in the Union S n a c k Bar,
J C R and halls.
14

