E d i t o r i a l
Well. Err.. Hello! I thought that a
manifesto was a tough thing to write, but
editorials are something else! This is the
third try, and it doesn't seem to be going
very well so far. Give me break, it is m y
first one!
Firsts
Speaking of firsts, there are a lot of
them about (how's that for a tenuous
link?). This is the first issue of the year,
m y first issue as Ed, and thus the first set
of mistakes for which I have to take the
blame. It's also the first year of the new
decade, and so what does '91 hold in
store?
War
Yep, the prospect of Saddam 'jolly sane
really and we believe that don't we?'
Hussein actually pulling out of Kuwait
seems about as likely as Sir Eric A s h
saying 'Extend the college day? Nah, I
was only joking'. So, despite President
Bush's 'hard line' (ie 'pull out by ... or I'll
issue another ultimatum'), it seems that
on January 15th things are going to start
to get nasty. Although what exactly the
aforementioned perfect example of
reasoning behaviour (Hussein, not Bush)
hopes to achieve by the deaths of
thousands of people in a w a r he has no
chance of winning isn't exactly clear to
me. Anybody want to let me in on the
secret?
College Day
The working party (possibly one of the
most ironic names for a committee I've
ever heard) has been ominously silent for
quite a while now. It's tempting to think
that maybe the resounding 'f**k off
given to them in the referendum held
before chrimbo hols has halted them in
their tracks. But, with college's track
record for sensible behaviour (see the
news story about calling the police),
somehow I doubt it. W e live in hope.
News
No, not more things that have
happened, but a cry for help! If you've
ever fancied yourself as a well 'ard
investigative journalist, or even if y o u
haven't, but would just like to help out at
Felix, then please, please, please come in
and ask to speak to Chris, Toby, or
myself. What we're looking for is two or
three people to help out with the news,
researching stories by ringing people up,
that kind of thing. Y o u won't have to
write the stuff if y o u don't want to, and
you won't have to actually find the
stories, as we'll tell y o u what they are.
Anyone, come in, see what y o u think.
(Grovel, grovel).
Stuff
A few bits and pieces. Sorry there's no
'All N e w Felix' this week, but he appears
to have had an accident over new year,
involving a bottle of Polish Pure Spirit,
fifteen first year physicists, two hand
grenades, five "policemen, a copy of
'Terminator', a n d an aardverk (which is a
German aardvark). But he'll be back.
Next week. Honest, guv.
Next a quick.tip on what to do when
the siren goes off, and y o u need to get
out of college quick: Run.
By the way, just whose idea was it to
put an exceptionally loud siren on top of
the Queens Tower so that if it ever goes
off everybody in a two mile radius thinks
they've got about four minutes to live?
A n d how does the m a n w h o drives the
snow-plough get to work in the morning?
And..
A n y b o d y k n o w a surefire method for
relieving stress that's free, legal, doesn't
involve a willing member of the opposite
sex and doesn't hurt?
Quick notes on our wonderful sabs:
Shan can't do the entrance test for the
Krypton Factor (spelling his name at the
top was tricky, and after that it all went
horribly wrong). Another competition:
It's The Arts...
With only twelve days to go before the
launch of 'The Arts Week' 1991, here at
Imperial College, here's a chance to take
a look at the acts which will be
performing between Wednesday 23 or
Wednesday 30 January from 12.30pm
every lunchtime in the Union Lounge.
But first, here's what 'The Arts Week' is
all about. 'The Arts Week' is an annual
festival sponsored by the West London
Chaplaincy in conjunction with IC Union
celebrating the arts in all sorts of styles
and forms, including music (from rock to
classical), drama, painting, sculpture,
dance, poetry, comedy and so much
more. These are offered to the students
as free lunchtime gigs in the Union
Lounge during 'The Arts Week'.
This year our multi-talented line-up
consists of: Fresh Claim: regular
performers at 'The Fringe' at the
Greenbelt Arts Festival with a light rock
style, they are returning this year after
popular demand to launch 'The Arts
Week' with a performance and to lead a
rock music workshop on the first
Wednesday afternoon (everyone, very
welcome to both).
Trevor Speaks: A n up a n d coming
singing duo also with a rock style.
The Marianne Derbyshire Band: A
blues/jazz band who hold a resemblance
to Suzanne Vega's performance styles.
Dusay: A young rock band
W h i c h sab is due to be no-confidenced
this term, and why? (Answers on a post
card to the Union Office). Ben's been a
bit of a naughty boy, but if he buys me
lots of drinks, I won't tell all next week.
That's about it, except for:
Credits
Typesetting and Printing and General
Super-Heroeness: Rose a n d A n d y
News Editor and Wicked Bloke: Toby
Reviews Editor (aka Lazy Bastard):
A d a m T, but as he's on holiday some
other git did it.
Music Editor and Pain In T h e Behind:
Sarah (only joking!)
Features Editor: Roland helped by Some
Other Git
Science Editor: Ian
Cartoonist: Temporarily indisposed
Photo Editor: Richard (and I wish he'd
find out h o w to get from his new flat to
the Felix office)
Computer Boff: James 'if it's got a
keyboard I c a n screw it u p ' Grinter
General Bod (at least today): Stef
(welcome back)
The Team: Michael Newman, Ultan
McCarthy, Douglas Makhija, Clare
Poulain, Seb (cool guy), Pinky & Perky,
Liz W. (as ever!), Emily (still bumping it),
Sumit, some other bloke (aka Git)
Collators: Ute, The Snail, Chris Riley,
and all the bods from W L C : A n d y
Cooksley, Peter Garton, Carrie Miller, L e v
Roberts, B e n Irons, J o n Barker. Plus
everybody else, namely the poor
uncredited Felix bods.
Felix is produced for and on behalf of the Imperial
College Union Publications Board and is printed at
the Imperial College Union Print Unit, Prince Consort
Road, London SW7 2BB (Tel 071-225 8672).
Editor: Andrew Butcher, Manager: Chris Stapleton,
Business Manager: Jeremy Burnell. Copyright Felix
1991 ISSN 1040-0711.
recommended by the organisers of the
Greenbelt Arts Festival.
Billy Penn's Brother: A band with a
more 'folky' feel to it.
Andy McCullough: To finish the
spectrum of music with a classical
performance revealing the versatility of
the clarinet.
Also we have comedian Paul Cookson,
poets Steve Turner (back again after last
year's success) and Stuart Henderson a n d
top mime artist, Geoffrey Stevenson.
For this exciting festival to be a success
in this science orientated college, we
need you to take advantage of the free
gigs. So please do come along (with your
lunch and friends) and see what y o u
think.
19

