U n i o n Page
Women's Officer
UNION
There are two courses being held at U L U
this term specifically aimed at women.
The first is a women's assertiveness
training course which, through exercises
and discussion, focuses o n a number of
issues w h i c h include gender stereotyping,
learning to say NO, and coping with
criticism and anger.
The second is a self-defence course,
again specifically aimed at women, w h i c h
involves a mixture of discussion based
theory work and practical self-defence
moves. T h e course covers h o w to avoid
dangerous situations, safety at night and
on public transport, sexual harrassment
and rape.
Both courses last eight weeks and are
being held at U L U , Malet Street, W C 1 .
The cost is only £10, payable in advance,
for eight two hour sessions. T h e courses
were held last term at U L U and proved
very popular. I think that these courses
would particularly benefit w o m e n at this
College as m a n y will be entering a male
dominated workplace as well as the male
majority already at Imperial. Also, y o u
may never have the opportunity to attend
such a course again, especially at this
very subsidised rate.
Assertiveness Training
2.30pm-4.30pm, Room 2C
Self-Defence Classes
6.30pm-8.30pm, Room 3B
Applications and further information are
available from the Union office.
Marrianne Purcell, Women's Officer.
Ents Carnival
What a term Ents has lined up for y o u
lucky people. So much in fact that F E L I X
is not large enough for m e to tell you the
whole term's worth of events, so I'll just
tell y o u about the most immediate Ents
events. T h e first is a welcome back disco
tonight. It is free and will start at 8pm.
There is a late bar till l a m , and everyone
is welcome to dance away those
Christmas cobwebs.
But the most important event is the
New Year Carnival '91 o n January 18
(next Friday). This is a big event
occupying the whole Union Building, very
similar to the Freshers' W e e k Carnivals.
The main act is Desmond Dekker (of
'Israelites' fame from many T V ads). Also
on the bill is Sax Appeal, The Love
Kittens and b y special arrangement w e
have managed to secure a second date
with top moptops Boy, Girl Soup.
Cocktails, a late bar, burgers and casino
will all be in full effect to ensure a great
evening's entertainment. Tickets are o n
sale n o w from the Union Office and cost
£3.50 in advance. Get yours soon to
avoid disappointment. More details will
follow next week.
Of course Libido (the regular Ents disco
on Wednesday) will continue for that
elusive midweek boogie.
BJ, Ents Chairman.
Mac operators
wanted
We are a small desktop publishing company in
Central London, producing technical illustrations for
magazine and book publishers. Almost all of our
work is done using Adobe Illustrator® 3.0 on Apple
Macintosh® computers. Due to increasing demand
we may need freelance Mac operators to do work on
a contract basis using their own machines. Reliability
and meticulous attention to detail is absolutely
essential.
We also produce high quality typeset material by
converting files produced in popular word processing
packages into the 'TpX' typesetting language
(Textures on the Macintosh) and then writing the
format in TgX. We may also need help in this area.
If you think you may be interested in working
with us in the areas mentioned above, or if you have
any questions, please feel free to call us o n
071 229 0107—there's no harm in calling! We look
forward to hearing from you.
IMPERIAL
C O L L E G E
Careers Fair Manager
1 9 9 1
The successful applicant will be responsible for the
organisation and marketing of the 1991 Fair.
He/She will produce literature to advertise the
event, make arrangements for the venue and set
up the Fair, and will be responsible for the financial
management of the event, which has a turnover of
over £100,000.
Experience of supervising and organising others,
and the confidence to deal with large corporations
will prove invaluable.
S a l a r y £200.00 p e r w e e k
To work for up to ten weeks during the Easter and
Summer vacations, for the duration of the Fair and
other necessary preparatory work.
For further details, contact Benjamin Turner,
Imperial College Union on 071-225 8 6 7 0 e x t 3 5 0 2

