|£ Maggie Opens Centre
O n Wednesday, Mrs Thatcher opened the
new Centre for Population Biology at
Silwood Park. Although this was her first
official engagement since her resignation,
she was in a rumbustious mood, saying:
'they want you to be in the photograph,
come along Eric' to Sir Eric Ash, the
Rector. Her first attempt to reveal the
plaque failed; she said 'it's quite
guesswork as to whether you pull the
short one or the long one,' referring to
the curtain pull-chords.
The visit of Mrs Thatcher to Silwood
was a high security operation—even
F E L I X were not allowed to be present—
and her identity was kept a close secret
i l l
•
in view of possible terrorist action. STOIC
(Student Television of Imperial College)
were the only camera crew allowed in
the building to perform a live relay to
another part of the building—exclusive
footage this lunchtime at 1.00pm.
The new centre, funded by the National
Environment Research Council, was
constructed at the cost of £2 million. The
prime feature of the centre is the
Ecotron, a series of chambers in which
populations of insects and plants are
housed, forming small and totally isolated
ecosystems. This enables the gap between
the real w o r l d and computer models to
be bridged, by reducing the variety of
animal-plant interactions to a more
manageable level.
These chambers can also be used to
examine the effect of environmental
changes since all factors, such as
temperature and daylight hours are under
the control of the experimenter rather
than nature. The simulation of
environmental change on a small scale
should give rise to new insights into the
complex interactions between plants and
animals.
The scientists at the centre hope to
develop a more predictive science of
population biology, with the ultimate aim
of applying such knowledge to the
management of the environment. Spin-
offs include results for scientists interested
in closed-environment life support
systems which have applications in space
and underwater technologies. This is
because the Ecotron operates with
recirculated and filtered air flow,
returning up to 98% of the air to the
chambers on each cycle.
Evacuation By-Law Union Lift
Plans Change Stays Down
College have announced an update to
contingency plans to deal with the
evacuation of the College site. If the
whole college is to be cleared, a siren
will sound from the top of the Queen's
Tower. Simultaneously fire alarms will
sound in all departments.
Under the direction of emergency
services, students and staff are asked to
move Eastwards towards Prince's
Gardens, assembling outside the Health
Centre.
A l l exits onto Queensgate will either be
manned or will be locked and it will not
be possible to remove cars from the
Sherfield car park.
No more Union cards will be issued to
research assistants until the By-Laws are
changed, Paul Shanley, Union President,
has announced.
Although some cards have been
released, the By-Laws do not currently
allow the issue of cards to research
assistants. A motion will be put at the
next Union General Meeting (UGM) to
change the situation.
To be approved, the motion must pass
two UGMs and must be approved by the
Governing Body. The first U G M will be
on Thursday 17th January.
)
The Union building lift will be out of
service until late March. The lift, which is
situated in the building's foyer, is used by
both DramSoc and STOIC for moving
heavy equipment and has been out of
order since early last term w h e n a
component unexpectedly sheared.
The delay is due to the time taken
stress-testing the remaining parts and
replacing any deemed unsafe. Benjamin
Turner, Deputy President, said that the
lift should be serviced once every year
but added that he had 'no idea when it
was last serviced'. He has apologised on
behalf of the Union to the clubs
concerned.
2

