Computer Hacking
Crackdown
Computer hacking is now a criminal
offence and will be treated as such by
College. The Computer Misuse Act 1990
necessitates universities to take a serious
view on hacking and the introduction of
viruses.
In a letter to Felix, Peter Mee, College
Registrar, states that although it may be
possible to deal with computer misuse
within college through internal
disciplinary measures, this may not
always be possible.
At the December meeting of the Board
of Studies the following addition to the
Regulations for Students was passed:
'Computer misuse will be regarded as a
serious offence and will be dealt with
under the College Disciplinary Procedure
or, where appropriate, under the
provisions of the Computer Misuse Act
1990'
Under the A c t hacking and the
introduction of viruses into computer
systems and networks are criminal
offences. The A c t identifies three specific
offenses: unauthorised access to a
computer system, unauthorised access to
a computer system with intent to commit
or facilitate the commission of a serious
crime and unauthorised modification of
computer material.
Mr Mee also said that remedying the
damage caused by computer misuse
involves a great deal of work and is a
gross misuse of College resources.
The Act and the new regulation are
already in effect.
Police Calls Union Break-in
Restricted
In any incident not involving danger to
life or property, security must now gain
permission to call the Police. Only Ms
Valerie Straw, Facilities Manager, or
Gordon Marshall, Director of Estates, may
give such permission.
Ms Straw stressed that this will only
apply to non-emergency incidents, stating
that the change of policy was to avoid
calling the Police unnecessarily.
Thieves broke into the Union Office over
Christmas but were foiled whilst trying to
break into the trophy cupboard.
O n the 20th December, whilst Union
staff were in a meeting in the Snack Bar,
two men stole money, credit cards and
cheque books. Whilst trying to open a
cabinet underneath the trophy cupboard,
however, they, set off an alarm. The
cabinet, tidied the day before, was empty.
When staff arrived on the scene, the
men escaped through the stairwell
entrance, injuring Paul Shanley, Union
President. W h e n staff gave chase, one
man ran into The Royal School of Mines
and was lost. The other ran towards
Kensington, chased by T o m Cunnington,
Nick Marley and Benjamin Turner, Union
Deputy President.
Mr Turner caught the m a n outside
Barkers in Kensington H i g h Street after
stopping him from getting on a bus.
A l l of the stolen items except for £30
cash have been recovered. Police are
now questioning a man w h o has pleaded
not guilty.
Iraqis Stay Lost & Found Power Loss
None of Imperial's Iraqi students were
involved in last week's expulsions. Over
80 Iraqi nationals were expelled from
Britain but Mr McClure, the Deputy
Registrar, said 'We have not been advised
whether any of our students have been
affected.' There are aproximately 15 Iraqi
students studying here.
A n honours board, stolen from the Union
Dining Hall two years ago, has resurfaced
at a National Rag Conference, where it
was auctioned off.
Its return to the Union has now been
secured by Union President Paul Shanley
after negotiations with three other
student unions. It will be returned on 21st
January.
Linstead hall was without power last
Saturday due to maintenance work. This
involved the replacement of the main
transformer as the hall had been running
off a temporary supply.
Cultural Link
Finance
A temporary appointment has been made
for the post of Union Finance Manager.
Richard Godden will be w o r k i n g part time
in the Union office for three and a half
months whilst the post is advertised.
The post of Bookstore Manager will be
advertised soon. Neil McCluskey, the
current manager, will be leaving in April
when his contract expires.
Lucky Dip!
Last December £5000 of platinum
crucibles were stolen from the Royal
School of Mines (RSM). This followed an
earlier incident when £25000 worth of
crucibles were stolen. This time, however,
the crucibles were recovered when they
were found, wrapped up, in the R S M
Christmas lucky dip.
Imperial College has signed a reciprocal
agreement with the Middle East Technical
University enabling the exchange of
students for extra-curricular activities
such as sport and cultural affairs.
P l e a !
Yesterday Benjamin Turner, Deputy
President, said 'I must put a message in
FELIX asking the Science Fiction Society
to return the video.' His request was
flatly rejected by outraged staff.
3

