FELIX
Ultan McCarthy explains the history of an ancient art and its modern
form.
Judo—The Gentl
The late 19th Century was a period of
great upheaval in Japan. The old order,
exemplified by the Samurai and Bushi,
stood in the w a y of Japan's progress and
industrialisation. Government restrictions
reduced the power of the Samurai, and
an edict banning them from wearing
swords proved too m u c h for m a n y of
them. While some joined the police
(where they could continue to wear
swords) and others sadly hung up their
beloved katanas, many refused to submit
to this challenge to their authority and
entire way of life. They began to plot
against the Government. There followed a
bloody civil war between Government
troops and armies of Samurai, in w h i c h
the Samurai were utterly defeated;
swords and arrows proved no match for
bullets and grape shot. Japan's rush
towards economic and political reform
continued faster than ever. The civil war
had created a lot of ill feeling towards
'the old ways', and m a n y people gave up
their traditional way of life.
Watching events unfold was a young
professor, Jigoro Kano (1860-1938).
Although a rather weak m a n physically,
he had studied several martial arts,
including a version of ju-jitsu. The origins
of ju-jitsu are u n k n o w n , lost in the mists
of time. It is m a n y centuries old, and was
the most brutal, violent and lethal form of
unarmed combat in the world. Ju-jitsu
was one of the first things to be banned,
and it was some years before a revised,
less murderous version was reintroduced.
One of Kano's chief concerns was the
teaching of physical education in
Japanese schools, w h i c h he considered to
be greatly inferior to that taught in the
Western world. He wanted to introduce
something traditional but acceptable, and
in 1882 he invented K o d a k a n Judo.
The new 'combat sport' of judo
included m a n y techniques from various
forms of ju-jitsu; techniques and skills
which Kano feared might otherwise have
been lost forever. To understand what
judo really is we must look carefully at
the name.
Ju-do is made from two Japanese
words. 'Do' means way or path, such as
in Aikido—the way of A i k i — o r kendo—
the way of the sword (Japanese two-
handed fencing). 'Ju' is more of a
philosophical term than a physical
quantity. It is a w o r d taken from Taoist
philosophy, and is the opposite of 'ken'.
Ken means hard, extreme, unreasonable,
offensive, while ju means soft, gentle,
passive, defensive. Martial arts can
approximately be classified as 'ken' styles
or 'ju' styles. K e n styles include karate,
kendo, bo-jitsu and some forms of kung
fu, where the object is to overpower your
opponent through speed and strength. Ju
styles include taekwondo, ju-jitsu, some
styles of nin-jitsu and judo, where the
i i i i i i n i t i
A powerful throw by Peter Swettenham, scoring ippon.
object is to exploit your oppenent's
weaknesses. Ju does not mean weak—no
judo throw c a n be described as weak.
Rather, it calls for economical, efficient
actions and movement. The weakness we
look for in judo is balance. If your
opponent is even slightly off balance,
pressure in the correct direction will
throw him to the ground w i t h hardly any
effort on your account.
Basically, judo is a style of wrestling.
Some wrestling styles, like Greco Roman,
are 'naked' styles: only allowing grips and
holds on the body. There are belt styles
like Glima and Sumo, where grips are
made primarily on the belt; and there are
fully clothed styles such as Sambo and
Judo, which offer the greatest range of
grips. The object in Judo is to throw your
opponent onto his back, or to immobilise
him by holding him on the ground, or to
gain a submission.
We will look at throws first. W h e n
Kano first started teaching judo at the
Kodokan in Tokyo he taught forty
throws, now k n o w n collectively as the
Gokyo. These were mostly ju-jitsu throws,
some carefully altered to suit the ideals of
judo, and a few were brand new throws
invented by Kano. In the years since then
some of these throws have changed
slightly, and a few new throws have been
invented. One such throw, yama-arashi,
was invented by a student of Kano. He
became so devastatingly effective with it
that it was banned for several years until
somebody devised a manoeuvre to
counter it.
Some of the throws in the Gokyo are
extremely popular and widely use, others
are rarely seen. Particular throws suit
different height or weight of people. A l l
judo players (judoka) have tokui-waza,
favorite techniques they are particularly
good at, but to be successful in fight and
competitions you should k n o w and
practice as m a n y different throws as
possible. A l l the throws depend on the
thrower (tori) getting the defender (uke:
literally 'the receiver') off balance for the
split second necessary for a properly
executed throw to work.
There are six main groups of throws,
although a few throws do not fall under
any particular category.
1. Nage-waza (throwing techniques). In
nage techniques tori pulls uke off balance
in order to throw him. Uke is usually
thrown forwards, over tori's body.
2. Koshi-waza (hip techniques). A s in
nage-waza, tori has turned to face the
same way as uke. Tori squats slightly so
his hips are under uke's. T o r i then stands
up, lifting uke off the ground. (This is
surprisingly easy. M y twelve year old
brother can lift m y 12 stones right off the
ground.) With uke stuck a couple of feet
up in the air, tori can easily throw him
onto his back. A s with nage-waza, uke
usually falls forwards.
3. Gari-waza (sweeping techniques). Uke
is very unstable if he takes a step. Just as
uke's foot touches the mat, tori sweeps it
in the same direction. We call this
'extending the step' and it has the same
effect as if uke had slipped on ice. He is
suddenly completely off balance. Tori
pushes uke, at right angles to his
direction of motion. Uke falls backwards
or sideways.
4) Gake-waza (hooking techniques). In
the sweeping techniques tori's leg is
straight, whereas in hooking techniques it
is bent in order to hook uke's leg. This
provides more power, at the expense of
manoeverability. Gake throws are used in
a similar w a y to gari ones, w h e n uke is
stationary.
5. Sutemi-waza (sacrifice techniques).
These are often affectionately described
as suicide throws. Tori falls onto his back
in order to pull uke off balance and
throw him. If uke is very quick he might
escape from the throw and trap the
prostrate tori o n the ground, otherwise
there is virtually nothing he can do.
6. Guruma-waza (wheel techniques).
Most guruma-waza are leg techniques;
similar to gari-waza except that tori's leg
is stationary, provided a pivot over w h i c h
he 'wheels' uke. There are others, such as
kata-guruma (shoulder wheel). In kata-
guruma tori lifts uke right into the air,
over his shoulders, and throws him on
the other side.
If you manage to throw your opponent
you will get a score of 3, 5, 7 or 10
points, depending on how uke lands. A
ten point score (called ippon) is an
automatic win, and the contest is ended,
any other score is recorded by the
scorekeeper and the fight continues on
the ground.
In ground techniques (ne-waza) y o u
must hold uke flat on his back, and you
get a score of 3, 5, 7 or 10 points
dependent on how long y o u hold h i m (for
15, 20, 25 or 30 seconds respectively)
before he escapes or you w i n . Two waza-
ari (7 point scores) are equivalent to an
ippon. This dates from early judo when
ippon and waza-ari were the only scores
given. Lower scores are only important if
both competitors have one or no
waza-ari.
A very important part of groundwork is
shime-waza (strangle techniques) and
kansetsu-waza (armlock techniques). The
objective of these is simple: to hurt your
opponent so he submits. The range of
permitted techniques is quite restricted, to
avoid injury to uke. Wrist and shoulder
locks were never allowed, and leg locks
were eventually banned because they are
too difficult to control safely. W h e n
strangling someone you may apply
pressure with your forearms or the neck
of their jacket, but you cannot grab hold
of the throat. There are ten basic
strangles and five basic armlocks. Locks
and strangles may be applied while
standing, but these are difficult and
extremely rare.
Judo was an instant hit in Japan, and
around the turn of the century
enthusiastic judoka started to 'export'
judo around the world, giving
demonstrations and exhibitions, but it
spread slowly. The first judo school in
Europe was the Budokwai in Chelsea,
which still thrives and attracts senior
judoka from all over Britain to training
sessions. Its founder, Guni K o i z u m i
(1885-1965), is typical of m a n y judoka. A s
a boy he studied ken-jutsu, but found it
distasteful and switched to ju-jitsu. Much
later he joined the K o d o k a n « n d fell in
love with judo. After settling in England
he opened the Budokwai (then) Royal
Academy, w h o eventually set up their
own dojo. Imperial College Judo Club is
thus the second oldest in the country.
Judo became an Olympic sport when
Japan hosted the Games in 1964, and is
now practised by millions of people in
(probably) every country in the world.
People sometimes wonder w h y we use
so m u c h Japanese terminology in judo.
This is by no means unique in judo, most
martial arts use Japanese words; but in
judo before y o u can get a belt you must
demonstrate an understanding of a few
terms, and there are about a hundred
words a good judoka should understand.
We use a c o m m o n language because judo
is taught in exactly the same way all over
the world—there is only one style:
Kodokan judo. It makes sense for a
particular technique to have a universal
name. Some names accurately describe
the technique, such as ippon-seoi-nage
(one handed shoulder throw) or okuri-eri-
jime (sliding collar strangle); while other
names like yama-arashi (mountain storm)
or tani-otoshi (valley drop) are poetic
rather than practical.
Another unusual aspect of judo is its
etiquette. This chiefly comprises tachi-rei
(standing bows) and za-rei (kneeling
bows). A judoka should give a standing
bow on entering and leaving the dojo or
the tatami (the mat on which all training
and competition if performed), and before
and after a contest. The kneeling bow
formally opens and closes a training
session. There are also specific ways y o u
must wear your judogi (judo suit) and obi
(your belt). A judoka must never question
the referee's decisions in a contest. I've
never seen that happen, but I expect he
would be penalised or disqualified.
A point I should stress is that judo is
perfectly safe. The first thing you learn,
before any throw or hold, is ukemi-waza,
breakfall techniques. These are ways of
dissipating the force of a throw, mainly in
the arms. T h e tatami is cushioned, w h i c h
absorbs m u c h of the impact, and injury is
extremely rare. The permitted strangles
and armlocks cause temporary pain but
no injury. There are no atemi-waza
(striking techniques: punches, kicks etc)
whatsoever, although such techniques
could easily be incorporated into judo to
form a powerful martial art.
Imperial College judo club trains twice
a week in the Union gym (in Beit Quad).
2nd dan black belt Peter Swettenham
takes the class on Tuesday, on Thursday
1st dan Jon Lean. Both classes start at
6.30pm and are two hours long. If you
think you are interested in judo, come
along to a session in loose clothes like a
t-shirt and track-suit bottoms, or (of
course) a judo suit if you have one.
Please note, however, that a karate suit is
not suitable for judo. The judogi is
reinforced to survive the rough handling
it receives, a karate suit is light and will
rip.
For more information about the club, or
about judo in general, please see Peter
(Management MSc), Jon (Pet Eng 4), Reg
Cook (Mech E n g 2), or myself Ultan
McCarthy (Physics 3).
Squaring up: a good grip is essential to control your opponent.

