Ik
REVIEWS
Almost A n Angel
O h dear. Paul 'amphibious lizard'
Hogan plays a robber with
(surprise!) a heart of gold. He gets
hit by a car while saving a child's life. In
hospital, he has a dream in w h i c h God
gives him a second chance as a
'probationary angel', helping the needy.
So off he goes, with an extremely bad
hat, dressed like a character from TV's
abysmal 'Highway to Heaven',
unsurprisingly enough.
Things go from bad to worse. Every
one of the 'moral' points this film tries to
put across is made to be either cringingly
sentimental or embarrassingly 'streetwise',
and in both cases is restated again and
again, just in case we were thick enough
not to figure it out the first time.
'Almost an Angel' is being marketed as
The Garden
Derek Jarman is sitting at his desk,
his consciousness is fading, soon he
is asleep and the camera is to drift
into the man's subconsciousness. The
Garden is Jarman's dreamscope (so
beware!). It is both Jarman's nightmare
and Jarman's wet dream.
The Garden is a reinterpretation of
Christ's life. Here he is represented by
two homosexual men w h o are arrested,
persecuted, humiliated, tortured then
murdered by brutal policemen dressed in
Santa suits. There is also the depiction of
the Virgin Mary and child w h o is
hounded by and virtually 'raped' by the
voyeurism of three balaclavad
photographers kitted complete with
phallic zoom lenses.
There are hardly any spoken words in
the film, but the images are so striking
that words would be superfluous in this
a comedy, but I'd love to k n o w why.
What few humorous moments exist are
ruined by bad timing and direction, even
if they weren't tragically unfunny in the
first place. The entire film relies on
Hogan's earlier success as Crocodile
Dundee - it certainly has little or no
appeal of its own.
To be fair, the film does keep you
guessing about Hogan's angelicness right
to the very end. But what an end: The
morsels of suspense that m a k e it through
the constant barrage of sad and futile
bible-thumping disintegrate in a closing
scene which is, quite frankly, bollocks.
So, to sum up, 'Almost an Angel' is a
bad film. It sucks. Hard.
M L E Bumps It.
film. Jarman filmed in Super 8 originally
and then transferred the print to video.
(The picture thus acquires the right
'experimental' quality which is essential
for the work of any radical film-maker.)
The Garden is harder than many of
Jarman's other films (for example Jubilee,
The Tempest or Caravaggio) probably
because Jarman feels he is making more
and more for himself rather than people
(he claims to be the only real
independent film-maker of his generation!
He also said 'The Garden extends cinema
in a way that is absolutely
extraordinary'). I suppose artistic integrity
comes more easily if you k n o w you won't
be making many more films (Jarman is
HIV-positive).
Go see The Garden if you want to be
challenged.
I.H.
Arachnophobia
Yes.it is about spiders, and yes,
they are nasty ones. It starts in
great 'B movie' style with an
expedition to a remote part of the
Venezualian rainforest that has been cut
off from the outside world for thousands
of... Yes, well, you get the idea. The
upshot of this is that one of the
aforementioned nasty spiders get back to
the good ol' USA, the land of opportunity
(at least, apparently, for spiders). It ends
up in a lazy little rustic town, the new
home of a big city doctor (Jeff Daniels)
and his family, who have moved away
from the stress of the big city. F r o m this
point on everything goes w r o n g for
Daniels (who, surprisingly enough, has an
acute case of the aforementioned phobia),
and right for the spiders (well, at least
until the end of the movie). Several
deaths ensue, the last being that of the
baddies (ie the spiders).
The secret to enjoying this movie (and
it is enjoyable) is to suspend your
disbelief. Scientifically (sorry) speaking, it
sucks. It really is very silly. The spiders
have a hive based biology, w h i c h is silly,
and are jolly intelligent, w h i c h is very
silly. However, the film is very good. It
manages to maintain a Hitchcockian
tension, interspersed with some very
funny bits, mainly supplied by John
Goodman (the husband in TV's Rosanne)
who plays the role of the town's pest
exterminator. The end result is something
of a rollercoaster ride of horror and
humour, well worth the effort. Even if
you are scared of spiders.
Alien Sex Fiend
An Angel (?) in a previous
incarnation..?
It's over there... (The Garden)
ML
If you're a spider, don't mess with
this man!

