Miami Blues
After seeing a certain number of
films y o u start to draw a few
conclusions about various things.
One of mine is that films based on books
are always a bit weird. Often they're very
bad as well, especially if the director
decides to stick very closely to the
original, instead of utilising the
advantages of film as a medium, and
working around the innate drawbacks.
Right, enough of the pretentious film
critic (rave on). Miami blues is a film of a
book of an idea that the writer (no doubt)
once had while sitting in front of his
keyboard and wondering what time the
pubs open. O r maybe not. A n y w a y , it is a
bit weird.
The story follows the adventures of one
Frederick j . Frenger, Jr. (Alec Baldwin),
ex-con, a newcomer to Miami, and a bit
of a psychotic type as well. Once off the
plane he breaks the finger of a pestering
Hari Krishna and walks off. The Krishna
promptly drops dead from shock, which is
a bit unfortunate for Junior (and the
Krishna, of course) as this sets Sergeant
Hoke Moseley (Fred Ward) on his trail.
B y the way, where did they get these
names from?
A n y w a y , Junior meets Susie Waggoner
(Jennifer Jason Leigh, and I'm not joking
about the name..) and off we go on a
sometimes funny, sometimes sad and
sometimes shocking, but ultimately
doomed trip into unwilling Bonnie and
very willing Clyde country. With Junior
getting hold of a cops gun and badge and
using them to commit various criminal
type things
Overall it's a hard film to review. It's
very well done, quite amusing at points
and Fred W a r d is, as always, excellent.
But whether or not you should go and
see it really depends on your feelings
towards the slow but definite sense of
inevitability that pervades the whole film.
Y o u k n o w what's going to happen a long
time before it does, and despite the
traditions of H o l l y w o o d it does happen.
M m m m . . .
Alien Sex Fiend
Three Sisters
The Physics students have
developed a bad reputation at this
College. To wit: they are 'square'
and boring. This is perhaps only true for
6 0 % of any given year, but it is still a
significant proportion. Their grown-up
counterparts, the professors, are, with a
few noticable exceptions, little better.
W h y then is one of the main characters
in this film an attractive, womanising and
likeable bastard of a Physics professor?
It is a question of conflicts, as is so
often the case in 'relationship' movies.
Life and science, man and woman, duty
and desire struggle their way through the
lives of the three sisters—Sandra (Valeria
Golino), an 18-year old medical student,
Velia (Fanny Ardant) a lecturer and Maria
(Greta Scacchi), bored wife of a T V
Comedian—as well as their artistically
frustrated brother Roberto (Sergio
Castellitto). W h i l e the women are the
central charactes, the men are not
reduced to ciphers, but allowed full
characters, if ones which seem inferior to
the women.
The film is handicapped by the twin
disadvantages of subtitles and slow
pacing, yet for those prepared to brave
these a good film awaits. Despite the
language barrier, the film avoids
addressing culture specific problems,
instead relying on universal emotions and
fears, a direction that was no doubt aided
by the fact of its Italian-French-German
co-production. Into this emotional swell
we are swept, with the concept of time
slowly ebbing from the mind, as we come
to care for the characters. Without doubt
a good, if not exceptional movie, and one
that is better than m u c h of the
commercial dross foisted on us by
Hollywood.
Pendragon.
Fred Ward's got those Miami
blues
Texasville is one of those films that
cries out to be described as 'warm,
affectionate and witty' and while it's all of
these things, it's also more calibrated for
the A m e r i c a n psycho-drama market than
for British audiences. A l l the characters
are well-drawn and the plot (for want of
a better word) is entirely concerned with
their various neuroses and love-lives.
A l l in all, a nice film with a fair amount
of appeal but don't expect fast-moving
action. A nice place to visit, but I
wouldn't want to live there.
The Flying Gerbil
One sister - one drink: Democracy The start of a tough day in
in action Texasville

