The Love for Three Oranges
A n d Madam Butterfly
English National Opera at the London Coliseum
The current E N O season has
reached new heights of excellence
with the combination of Prokofiev's
The Love for Three Oranges and
Puccini's M a d a m Butterfly, both in staging
and musically.
The Love for Three Oranges is a well
deserved rapid revival of last year's
production. A nonsensical tale of a
nonexistent kingdom where the Prince is
dying until the faithful jester Truffaldino
makes him laugh. The Prince is then
cursed to fall i n love with three oranges
and sets out o n a quest to find them, o
Needless to say there is a happy ending
as the prince finds his beautiful bride;
along the w a y there are large dollops of
wicked witches, evil relations and plotting
prime ministers.
The production captures the spirit of
absurdity beautifully: the set groans under
the weight of distorted perspective;
Donald Maxwell's contorted walk as the
evil prime minister Leander will make
you wince; and the costumes allow no-
one, least of all the heroes, to appear
dignified or sensible. The audience are
invited to use 'scratch ' n ' sniff cards at
appropriate moments to produce suitable
odours. This is opera at its most fun,
frivolous and accessible.
None of this is at the expense of the
music. A l l the parts are well sung,
especially Stuart Kale asTruffaldino and
A l a n Woodrow as the Prince. A s always
the orchestra are well drilled. This
production is not just recommended, it is
a must for anyone who has a passing
interest in being amused.
The production of M a d a m Butterfly is
different but no less commendable. It
draws o n the darkest elements in this
tragic tale. Pinkerton, the A m e r i c a n sailor
who marries a Japanese geisha, lightly
and frivolously, knowing he can divorce
her simply b y abandoning her, is played
a heartless cad: insensitive, uncultured
and careless. Susan Bullock brings naivety
and childishness to the role of the
bewildered Butterfly, who abandons her
own culture for her husband and refuses
to believe he will not return. She also
brings a powerful and pure voice w h i c h
rises brilliantly to the challenge of
Puccini's score.
The whole production brings new light
to this old favourite, stressing the
alienation between the Japanese and the
Americans and the lack of understanding
between the two worlds. The set is both
stark and o n a human scale, difficult to
describe in a few words, but always
inventive and reflecting the many moods
of the story.
Both productions are a must. The Love
for Three Oranges continues until
January 24th and M a d a m Butterfly until
February 9th. Tickets are from £6, with
100 seats at £4 o n the day and standing
room at £3.50 if all seats have been sold.
The London Coliseum is o n St Martin's
Lane, near Trafalgar Square.
Liz W
mm
Project presentation coming up?
End the agony now!
S p e a k i n g T e c h n i c a l l y
A handbook for professional scientists and engineers
on how to improve technical presentations
by Sinclair Goodlad
ISBN 0 9515673 0 6f 4.95 (P&P U K £1.00, Overseas £2.50)
Obtainable from booksellers or direct from Sinclair
Goodlad, Petersham Hollow, 226 Petersham Road,Peter-
sham, Richmond, Surrey TW10 7 A L .
"It's brilliant" British Telecom World
" W h a t a good and useful book." Imperial College Engineer
" Dr.Goodlad's analysis of this subject is quite the most com-
prehensive and useful I have seen.." The Structural Engineer
" ..tackles a subject which many find difficult or daunting
with personality and charm. There is no doubt that it will
help the great majority of people to prepare and give better
technical presentations." Journal of the Institute of Wood
Science
"We know of many who could benefit from the expenditure
of a fiver on this little treasure!" Flight Safety Bulletin
8

