Michael Newman introduces a new programme of talks
organised by the Imperial College Huxley Society.
Godlessness FELIX
30th January 1991 is the centenary of the
death of Charles Bradlaugh: The man
who made secularism a mass movement
in the 19th Century, a man w h o
successfully entered Parliament as a
Liberal MP, despite a five year battle due
to his notoriety as an atheist and
supporter of sex education, each time
being re-elected by his constituents!
As so many writers, publishers and
booksellers had been taken to court and
prison for blasphemy, Bradlaugh
successfully challenged the establishment
with the fight for his right to represent,
speak and publish. He was one of the
most popular speakers of his day.
The organisation he led, the National
Secular Society, is still campaigning
against the injustices of censorship,
blasphemy laws, religious worship and
schools, the influence of Christian religion
in the media and in our laws. The
figurehead today, Barbara Smoker, is a
tough and sharp-witted lady who, since
her early experiences of Catholicism, has
spent her life fighting religious bigotry
and propoganda.
She, along with other Humanists, led a
march in support of Salman Rushdie, as a
counter-demonstration to the Muslim
protests. She performs non-religious
funerals and weddings, including
weddings between homosexuals and
lesbians. She has written books on
Humanism and the campaign for the right
to euthanasia. For decades she has been
a strident voice in the media defending
the rights of atheists and agnostics.
Many people are under the false
impression that this is a Christian country.
There is an ignorance of the contributions
to our culture and history of those people
who profess Godlessness. (If Michael
Heseltine had won the leadership election
all our political leaders would have been
non-believers!). This ignorance also
includes that of the history of Imperial
College.
Imperial College, or the Normal School
of Science, was set up as a place to train
science teachers. H G Wells w o n a meagre
scholarship here as a student teacher.
This was a part of the Government's
plans to improve our schools, resulting in
the 1870 Education Act that created a
state school system. Amongst those
involved in the campaign for education,
and specifically science education, as well
as helping to implement the Act was
Professor T H Huxley, Dean of the
College. His writings, teaching and
campaigning clearly show the relationship
between his agnosticism, a term he
coined, and his aims in science teaching:
a tradition that can be found within the
staff of Imperial throughout its history.
As an acknowledgement to, and
celebration of, this tradition the T H
Huxley Society has organised a series of
speakers, every Thursday lunchtime this
term. They will cover the history of Wells
and Huxley at the College, the history of
blasphemy, the personal beliefs of those
leading the Secularist movement, the life
of Bradlaugh and the relationship
between science and religion.
The society is also examining the way
we see and understand science. W e are
inviting poets to read and discuss their
works. A n exhibition publicising our first
poetry event, with Jo Shapcott, can be
seen in the bookstore window. Her
books, along with those of our President,
the international poet and scientist Dr
Miroslav Holub, as well as the book
Breaking the Shackles—about Imperial
College, Wells and H u x l e y — c a n be
bought from the Union Bookstore.
The National Poetry Society is involved
with us in organising a resident poet, at
Imperial College, to examine and describe
science here. For those interested in
poetry, the Poetry Society's events are
held on Tuesday or Thursday evenings, at
Earl's Court Square, five minutes from
Earl's Court tube station. There is a good
bar and you can get to meet the poets
after their readings.
Membership forms are available from
the ICU Bookstore.
Look out for the Huxley Society
newsletter, Experiment, coming out soon.
T H E F O L L O W I N G EVENTS A R E T O
BE H E L D IN H U X L E Y 340 A T
1.00PM ON T H U R S D A Y S
17th January—7b Hell with God-
Barbara Smoker explains her life-long
fight against religion
24th January—Bradlaugh—the hero
of 19th Century Secularism—Jim
Herrick, writer and editor of 'New
Humanist'
31st January—Humanist
Ceremonies— Jane W y n n e Willson,
Chairwoman of the British Humanist
Association, talks about the growing
number of Humanist weddings,
funerals and naming ceremonies.
7th February— 'Mainly Christian
Worship in Our Schools' The Current
Battleground—John White,
educationalist, member of interfaith
education group, adviser to LEAs.
14th February (Huxley 213)—
Religion and Science—Professor Sir
Hermann Bondi, international physicist
and President of the British Humanist
Association re-examines Huxley's
theme.
Evening—Love in the Lab—So
Shapcott reads her poetry.
21st February—Breaking the
Shackles—Michael N e w m a n talks about
his book on Imperial College, Wells
and T H Huxley.
CHARTER STUDENTS ARTISTS WRITERS
E N T E R T A I N
The Angry Young Publishing House needs
you to contribute to 'CHARTER' magazine
and other periodicals. A L L material and
every viewpoint is welcome. For more
information, and our contributors guide, send
a stamped, self-addressed envelope to:
Bachelor House, 41 Turnpike Lane, London N8 0EP.
9

