FELIX
Amnesty International report on the attrocities committed by Iraqi
forces in Kuwait.
While W e Stand By
This is a summary of an 82 page external
Amnesty International (AI) report:
'Iraq/Occupied Kuwait: Human Rights
Violations since August 2' (MDE
14/16/90) published on December 19.
The full document is available from
Amnesty International British section, 99,
Rosebery Avenue, London EC1R 4RE for
£4.00.
Widespread abuses of human rights have
been perpetrated by Iraqi forces following
the invasion of Kuwait on August 2 1990.
These include the arbitrary arrest and
detention without trial of thousands of
civilians and military personnel; the
widespread torture of such persons in
custody; the imposition of the death
penalty and the extrajudicial execution of
hundreds of unarmed civilians, including
children.
AI takes no position on the conflict in
the Gulf, and does not condone killings
and other acts of violence perpetrated by
the parties to the conflict. What concerns
the organisation are human rights
violations taking place in that context.
Those violations which have been
reported since August 2 1990 are entirely
consistent with abuses k n o w n to have
been committed in Iraq over many years,
and w h i c h have been documented by A I
in its numerous reports. Iraq's policy of
the brutal suppression of all forms of
internal dissent continues to be
implemented, and the people of Iraq
remain its victims. A I has repeatedly
placed such information on the public
record, and regrets that until the invasion
of Kuwait, the international community
did not see fit to apply serious pressure in
an attempt to put an ftnd to these abuses.
The report has been compiled
principally on the basis of interviews with
some 100 people who fled Kuwait
between August and November 1990.
They were mostly interviewed in Saudi
Arabia, Bahrain and the U K . They
included Bahrainis, Saudis, Lebanese,
Egyptians, Palestinians, Indians, Filipinos,
Britons and Americans as well as Kuwaiti
nationals, former detainees, families and
victims of extrajudicial executions and
those who have 'disappeared',
eyewitnesses and medical personnel.
It is impossible to estimate the numbers
arrested after the invasion. Kuwaiti
sources estimate over 10,000 have been
detained—a figure impossible to
substantiate without further interrogation.
The report contains extensive
interviews with detainees w h o were
tortured. C o m m o n to the testimonies of
most witnesses were reports that:
1. Detainees had to sign a statement
declaring their allegiance to President
Saddam Hussain and the Iraqi
Government, and their agreement to
cooperate with the Iraqi authorities
(principally to act as informers).
2. Release was obtained v i a the payment
of bribes—money and good demanded
included T V sets, videos, etc.
3. Information had to be given about
themselves and their relatives.
4. They were told that if they talked
about what happened to them they would
be killed.
As incidents of arrests and killings
multiplied from mid-August, the families
of those who had disappeared became
increasingly reluctant to m a k e enquiries
about them for fear of being arrested
themselves.
A Kuwaiti Red Crescent worker held for
26 days in September in the Nayef Palace
told AI:
'I saw about 30-40 people every day.
Most of them appeared to have been
beaten or otherwise tortured. The soldiers
routinely kicked the detainees in the
stomach causing m a x i m u m damage with
their heavy army boots. O n one occasion
I saw a man who was urinating blood,
presumably due to a haemorrhage of the
kidney. His facial hair had been plucked
out and his fingernails pulled out. I saw
an old man of about 60 and a young boy
of about 9. Another detainee I saw was
being forced to walk after having been
subjected to falaqa (prolonged beating on
the soles of the feet). He was limping and
screaming from the pain. His face and
clothes were covered with blood...'
1. Beatings on all parts of the body, involving
punching, slapping, delivering karate-style blows
with heavy army boots. Implements used for
beating include canes, metal rods, whips, steel
cables, hosepipes, rubber truncheons and rifle
butts.
2. Falaga: plolonged beatings on the soles of the
feet. Sometimes the detainee is then forced to
walk or run.
3. Suspending the detainee by the feet, or by the
arms which are tied behind the back.
4. Beating the detainee while he is suspended
from a rotating fan in the ceiling.
5. Breaking of the arms, legs or ribs; dislocating
elbow and shoulder joints.
6. Lifting the detainee high up in the air and then
dropping him, sometimes resulting in the
fracturing of bones.
7. Applying pressure to the fingers with a clamp-
like instrument.
8. Slashing the face, arms or legs with knives.
METHODS OF TORTURE REPORTED TO BE USED BY IRAQI TROOPS
9. Extracting finger and toenails.
10. Cutting off the tongue and ear.
11. Gouging out of eyes.
12. Piercing the skin with pins or staplers.
13. Shooting the detainee in the arm or leg at
point blank range, followed by deprivation of the
necessary medical treatment.
14. Rape of women (including virgins) and young
men.
15. Inserting bottle necks, sometimes when
broken, into the rectum.
16. Applying electricity to sensitive parts of the
body, including the ears, lips, tongue, fingers, toes
and genitals. Sometimes the detainee is doused
with water prior to the administration of
electricity. The electrical instruments used include
electric batons as well as wired fitted with clips
(like those used to recharge car batteries but
smaller in size).
17. Burning various parts of the body, including
the genitals, with domestic appliances such as
electric irons, with heated metal rods, or with
naked flame.
18. Extinguishing cigarettes on the eyeballs or on
various parts of the body, including the genitals,
nipples, chest and hands.
19. Pouring hot and cold water alternately over
the detainee.
20. Placing the detainee in a cold, air-conditioned
room for several hours, and then immediately
into a heated room.
21. Pouring caustic substances onto the eyes,
causing blindness.
22. Plucking facial hair, particularly the beard,
with pincers or pliers.
23. Placing heavy weights on the detainee's body.
24. Spitting into the detainees mouth.
25. Exposing the detainee to the sun for several
hours at a stretch without water.
26. Subjecting the detainee to mock execution.
This includes holding the head below water to the
point of near suffocation; going through the
motions of execution by firing squad and holding
a gun to the head or in the mouth and pulling the
trigger.
27. Forcing the detainee to watch others being
tortured, or to hear their screams.
28. Raping or torturing of detainee's relatives in
his or her presence; threatening the detainee with
such acts.
29. Threatening the detainee with torture
methods such as the electric chair, or with death
by immersion in an acid bath.
30. Deprivation of medical treatment.
31. Deprivation of sleep, food, water, fresh air
and toilet or washing facilities.
32. Degrading the detainee by using obscene
language or insults.
33. Boring a hole in the leg, apparently with a
type of drilling tool.
34. Castration.
IP
FELIX
Another Kuwaiti medical doctor
examined the bodies of victims in the
Red Crescent headquarters between
August and October:
'I pesonally examined about 60 bodies. In
addition to those shot through the back
of the head, some of them also bore
marks of torture such as burns on various
parts of the body. Some had broken
limbs, others bore signs consistent with
having been beaten with heavy
implements. One victim had clearly had
his beard plucked out, and others had
their finger and toenails pulled out. I
came across three people who had been
tortured with electricity on their genitals
and back and three others w h o had
cigarettes extinguished on their eyeballs.
In most cases the immediate cause of
death was not a bullet but torture...'
In the appendices to the Amnesty
report are eight detailed testimonies from
torture victims w h o have fled from
Kuwait, and photographs and detailed
medical reports substantiating evidence of
nine other cases of torture and
extrajudicial execution. Iraqi forces at all
levels have been involved in the infliction
of torture, from the army.
Within a m o n t h of the invasion, the
Revolutionary C o m m a n d Council (RCC) of
Iraq had introduced the death penalty for
three more offences: hoarding food,
looting and harbouring Western nationals.
In line with its normal policy the Iraqi
Government has not revealed figures on
the numbers executed. A I is unable to
estimate the extent to w h i c h any of the
executions in Kuwait can be considered
'judicial' i.e. after fair trials that conform
to international standards and to Iraq's
o w n domestic legislation.
In addition to this, there have been
hundreds of deliberate extrajudicial
killings of unarmed people by the Iraqi
armed forces.
In a statement, the Iraqi Embassy in
London did not deny these reports but
advised Amnesty to 'examine their so
called "testimonies" as one-sided stories
would only further expose the intentions
of those involved in this lip-service by the
Amnesty.'
A s a response to this report, Amnesty
members throughout the U K are
undertaking a letter writing action to the
Iraqi authorities via the Iraqi ambassador,
expressing Amnesty's concerns in Iraqi-
occupied Kuwait.
For further information contact Imperial
College Amnesty International Group.
Clare Poulain, ME3.

