Friday 2 December 2016 29
millennials.felix@ic.ac.uk felixonline.co.uk/millennials
felix
M I L L E N N I A L S
DRUGS
DRUGS
Drug Bible | Cocaine
Super C Noseclams
White Horse
Toot
White
Blow
Snow
C
How you use it
The duration of effects can vary, it is dependent on the method
of ingestion. The most common methods are sniffing/snorting
and smoking. Additionally, depending on your own personal
preference for cocaine consumption (we all have one, don’t
we?), you will experience variations of the effects felt. Crack
cocaine (which is generally smoked) reaches the brain faster
than sniffed/snorted cocaine. This enables you to experience
much more intense highs. However, be prepared for the equally
intense comedown. Due to these naturally more powerful highs,
crack cocaine is much more addictive. The effects of smoking
crack have a duration of anywhere between 5-15 minutes,
whilst sniffing cocaine lasts 20-50 minutes. Whilst normally
this writer has no objection to drug use, in the case of crack
cocaine, I draw a line. This writer does not advise trying crack
cocaine.
Legality
The good news is that cocaine is a decriminalised substance in Portugal and Colombia. So
if you fancy taking cocaine without fear of a criminal record that’s where you need to be
heading. The bad news is that the UK is still very much stuck in the late 20th
century (in the
early 20th
century you actually could buy cocaine from shops). Cocaine is a class A drug in
the UK. This is the most serious classification. Being found in possession can result in a seven
year prison sentence and a fine.
Things to do when you’re high
Do
• Go to Metric.
• Go out with friends.
In Metric.
• Make sure you’re
in an environment
you’re comfortable
with. (Metric)
Don’t
• Feel peer pressured. If you
don’t want it, don’t do it!
• Go to Fabric. The new
anti-drug measures sound
a little too heavy handed.
• Take in conjunction with
other uppers. You don’t
want that heart rate get-
ting too high.
What it does
Cocaine is a powerful energising
stimulant. Once taken, expect to
feel stereotypical effects such as
an increased heart rate, sweating,
and dilated pupils (that’s right,
you will feel your pupils dilate).
Cocaine acts by increasing the
concentration of serotonin and
dopamine in the brain. This allows
the user to experience a feeling
of lightness, confidence and alert-
ness. If you see someone with all
of the above symptoms in Metric,
then they’re definitely having a
good time, and that’s not because
they’re enjoying Metric.
Some statistics
According to The Independent, “about one in 24 (4.2%)
of people between 15 and 34 in the UK” admitted taking
cocaine in the past twelve months. This means that Britain
has the highest rate of cocaine use among young adults in
Europe. With an EU average of 1.9% it’s no wonder we
voted to leave. Europe can’t even keep up adequate levels
of cocaine use. The same report also showed that nearly
one in ten people in the UK aged from 15 to 64 had used
cocaine at some point in their lives. So, if you’re struggling
to find friends at Imperial College to share your rampant
cocaine habit with, you are not alone.
Coke
Imperial College has a strict zero-tolerance policy on drugs.
If you’re struggling with drug use, visit talktofrank.com
Glossary
Rushing – Term used when experiencing increased levels
of alertness and confidence. Used in a sentence as simply
“I’m rushing”.
Fiending – Used to express coming down. For example,
“Now I’ve stopped rushing, I’m fiending”.
Gram – The common unit when buying cocaine is a gram.
Larger weights can be bought if you’re richer than the rest
of us. Smaller weights can also be bought if you’re just
looking for a quick hit.
Line – Quite literally a line of cocaine. Lines come in var-
ious sizes, from 0.1 grams (normal) to half-gram lines for
the professionals out there.
Key – Quite literally cocaine on a key (for example a
house key). Prepared by simply inserting a key in to your
favourite bag of cocaine, keys are naturally smaller than
lines. Keys are desirable due to a reduced amount of
preparation required compared to lines.
Prices and Mixing
Cocaine sold on the street is often mixed with absolute shite. In order to increase the amount
they have to sell, often dealers mix or ‘cut’ good cocaine with local anaesthetic, quinine,
or good old fashioned sugar. Although sugar won’t do you much harm up your nose, other
chemicals will. People frequently have adverse effects, not to the cocaine, but the other crap
in there. Be wary of this. The price for pure cocaine in London is AT LEAST £10 a point (£10
for 0.1 gram, £100 for one gram etc.). If you are interested in buying cocaine use some
common sense! If the deal is too good to be true, then it probably is.
Charlie
The Devil’s Persil
Coca
Colombian

