felix S P O R T
felix
S P O R T
34 felixonline.co.uk/sport sport.felix@ic.ac.uk Friday 2 December 2016 Friday 2 December 2016 35
sport.felix@ic.ac.ukfelixonline.co.uk/sport
I
struggle to get out of bed some mornings. OK, most mornings. OK,
OK, I’m still in bed watching Jeremy Kyle yell at someone for having
3 wives and 1 kid whom they all swear is theirs, but we’ve gone
off topic. Seeing as this is ‘disability week’ I figured I should talk to
someone who knows enough about overcoming a disability to be
awarded an MBE, win an athletics bronze medal and participate
in research on their own prostheses. Talk about owning your disability
(which we will actually do, later on)! Meet David Henson. He has
agreed to play host to my first celebrity interview and talk about how
he tackles playing multiple roles at once as well as re-adjusting to
life as a bi-lateral amputee. Why is my lethargic attitude to an
early morning relevant? Well read on and see why asking
“What’s your excuse?” becomes painfully clear.
How do you balance all the research, training and
fame you’ve acquired since becoming both an aca-
demic researcher and Paralympic athlete?
I think the balance is something that’s devel-
oped over time, so certainly when I started
my PhD last year, the balance was too much
in the favour of my PhD and my athletics and
home life suffered. Then, as I got closer to the
Paralympics, my academic and home life suf-
fered as I put too much on athletics. I’ve just
finished the 2015/16 athletics season and I’m just
trying a new way of balancing all of the different
activities I’ve got going on. With a bit more of a
bias towards the academics. Even though I’m a part-
time PhD student, I’d like to push on with my work;
that’s where my career lies. As for athletics, while it’s
a career now, it’s not going to last forever. It’s physically
impossible to last forever. So, when I finish athletics, whenever
that might be, I want my career to be in a good spot to take over.
I actually find all the different elements to be complimentary to one
another. As an amputee pushing into the high level sport that I’ve done,
I’ve found weaknesses and limitations of my body, that take place on a
day-to-day basis, are all amplified at speed. I think it’s easier to identify
functional weaknesses in my body where I can improve and how that
can translate from the track into everyday life and how it can inform my
research. I think that it all works well, but definitely finding that balance
and keeping supervisors happy is a difficult one, but I tend to make it
work by getting up earlier. On a University day, I get up at 4:15 [am]
and I’m in the office by 7:00 [am], sometimes earlier. I’ll try and a get a
training session in either before work or during the day with the fabulous
people in my department [I possibly count as one of these people due to
the single time I went running with David]. A normal training session will
be two hours on the track and an hour and a half to two hours in the gym
and I’ll get those done back-to-back. In the morning, I’ll be on the track
at 8:00am and I’ll have all my training sessions done by midday. Then
I’ll have some lunch and I’ll be working from home in the afternoon. So
it works out but it’s taken a long time to get right.
You mention finding things out about your body. As you’re an ampu-
tee, do you find there’s a more personal than professional drive in your
research looking at amputees?
Definitely, one of the things I perhaps worried about at
the start of the research was a bias but I think it’s OK.
I’m coming at this from a bias point-of-view, it does
provide a massive drive for me. I never really saw
myself as an academic, I never thought I was clever
enough to do that. Before I joined the army I was
a mechanical engineer, then I joined and went
through the officer route and as far as I was
concerned that was my career. That’s what I
was going to do and that’s what I was happy
doing. All I ever really wanted to do was be an
engineer in the army. When I lost my legs I was
forced to reconsider my career route, I could
have stayed in the army and flown a desk for a
while which isn’t quite the same. I joined to be
a professional soldier, to go on operations and
that side of my life was taken away from me so it
became non-viable. Looking back on previous qual-
ifications and the situation I found myself in, with the
prosthetics, I felt that I could use my own experiences
to make things better for the amputee population. [I
have] a distinct bias towards military amputees, as they’re
essentially my extended family – a group I personally care
about on an intimate level – so I came back to Imperial to do a
Masters in engineering and more research into kinds of engineering
systems that can be developed for interaction with the human body.
From the masters I felt I didn’t know enough still, so I wanted to carry on
to a PhD so I knew enough about my own body and my own situation
to try and contribute towards solving the problem, rather than waiting
for someone else to solve it for me. Qualifications aside, it’s been so
beneficial to me from a psychological point of view. There are strong
links between service men and women coming out of that service envi-
ronment, and the lack of contribution you once felt as part of the army,
and depression and mental health problems and I feel that switching
straight into academia and contributing in a different way has kept my
DavidHenson
MBE
Militaryveteran
Bronzemedallist
PhDstudent
\\ Roger Keller
\\ Joe O’Connell-Danes
mental health at a stable and positive level.
With a focus on Imperial College, does access to the College
or the ability to move around campus hamper you at all? How
would you rate the facilities we have here?
For a central London based institution, it could be a lot
worse. We are limited by real-estate, everything has to
go up. So there are lifts and there are old buildings
linked into new buildings, so it’s a very difficult map
to negotiate. I get a parking permit and there are
lifts everywhere, sometimes there are issues with the
access facilities being maintained properly. The lifts
can be broken which causes a number of problems.
[The lifts] are few and far between so there’s a fair
amount of walking but actually the college has gone out
of their way to make sure everything they can do is done
to a reasonable standard. There are a limited number
of toilet facilities and sometimes the disabled facilities are
either broken or occupied and that makes things difficult for
someone with a disability. I don’t feel like it hampers me unless
things have gone wrong. There have been times when a lift has
been out of order and has been for a long time, which massively
affects how far I have to walk. If I have to walk further, then I’m
more tired which affects the work I’m doing. The distance is only
eight or nine hundred metres but as an amputee walking is difficult
because you’ve lost your legs and any extra walking you have to
do is taxing.
And has being an amputee hampered your ability to do research?
No, absolutely not. I’ve benefited by coming through the military
system, whose focus is on rehabilitation and occupational health so
getting someone ready to return to work is massive. I was in a very
good position, mentally and physically, to come back to work. I
never felt any hesitation or dubiousness about coming back to Impe-
rial. I knew I could do it and I don’t think [being an amputee] has
hampered me. I’m in the biomechanics lab, which means we
use [reflective] marker systems and I need to place things
on ankles, therefore I’m down on the floor, so may have
to get someone else to do that for me. But, my brain is
still functioning, the rest of my body is still function-
ing and it’s all about thinking your way through
obstacles that you are confronted with.
If you have other disabilities, such as being
blind, deaf or having lost your arms, do you
think research isn’t as accessible?
There’s definitely no excuse not to do it if it’s
something you want to do as there’s always a
solution. In this science and technology insti-
tution, there are people that can help develop
a solution if one doesn’t already exist. My
Grandad is blind, 90 years old, and completed
his bachelor’s degree five years ago. He did a
degree in Law so he required someone to help him
read papers and get the background information he
needed but it worked out fine. If he can do it, then a
30-year old man who’s lost his legs can do it.
Here at felix, we’d like to get an idea of how individuals are
‘owning their disability’. Do you get many people asking for you
to participate in their research? And because you want to own
your disability, do you approach it as “I’m going to help as many
people as possible”?
It’s a difficult one. You do get asked to do an awful lot
which is why, certainly from a research point of view, I’d
always advocate paying people with a disability to come
and do your study as chances are they’ve been asked
to do a few before. You essentially become someone
with a specialist qualification, so being reimbursed can
save them getting frustrated by what they’re doing.
The individual can then build it into an income which
goes a long way. It’s a weird one as you want to help
the cohort you’re a part of and you want to contribute
to the collective knowledge on that particular disability.
You just have to balance it; you do need to own your
disability which generally means getting back to work.
It means you don’t have all that time available but you do
feel a certain obligation to go and take part. You have to
make sure your delegation and allocation of time is well man-
aged. Otherwise, you can get swamped and you start working
into the evenings which affects your home life. If you start taking
too many hours out of the day, you’ve got to make those hours
up at some point so it’s understanding where you can make them
up and being more flexible. It is all about owning your disability,
whether that’s contributing to society through being a taxpayer, or
contributing to the knowledge of your condition by taking part in
or conducting research.
Do you feel you’re treated differently in research because you’re
disabled?
I don’t know, I hope not. I don’t feel like I have been treated dif-
ferently as a result of my disability. There are other things which I
don’t think give me special favours, but other projects I have going
on outside of Imperial give links to the college so I feel like a have
a slightly different role to that of a normal PhD student just because
of where I’ve come from. I don’t think it’s through disability;
the only special dispensation I get are to do with access
and if I ask for a different chair or lower desk then those
provisions are put in place. But my deadlines are still
the same, still have to do the same presentations,
still have to submit papers and everything is still
the same. They just try and make me feel a bit
more comfortable.
David has in no way let his ‘disability’ ruin
his life. During the interview I could tell he
had spoken enough about the traumatic loss
of his legs that continuing to talk about it only
drives him more to improve the experience for
those who will unfortunately follow him. I am
humbled to have been given an insight into the
everyday life of a man who would usually be
out on the track or sitting on numerous commit-
tees in an advisory role. Here is someone who has
picked themselves up and tackled the problem head
on. His attitude of using his own experiences to help
others is a mantle I hope more take up, not just for the
benefit of others, but allowing them as an individual to truly
own their disability. Maybe I should start setting my alarm.
\\ My brain is still functioning, the rest
of my body is still functioning and it’s
all about thinking your way through
obstacles that you are confronted
with \\
Sam Smith
\\ Joe O’Connell-Danes

