Union Page
imperialcollegeunion.org
We have had a fantastic number of volunteers coming along to our
Mass Volunteering since August. We have had people sorting toys
at Pimlico Toy Library, making a different at Brompton Cemetery,
spreading information about Indian soldiers in WW1 at Diwali in
Trafalagar Square, getting crafty making cards for sick children and
many more. We have filled an amazing 71 places with 62 volunteers!
There is still so much coming up with helping the elderly, heading
back to the toy library, going to a new GoodGym in Hammersmith
and more! They are making a huge difference to our local community
and having fun whilst doing so.
If you want to get involved in mass volunteering please check out
what one off volunteering we have. If there was something you
would love to do and don’t see it please get in touch with the Student
Development Team at volunteering@imperial.ac.uk.
imperialcollegeunion.org/mass-volunteering
Community Connections: thank you to our mass volunteers!
C mmunityConnections
Mass Volunteering
You still have the chance to contribute to the new College-wide
Learning and Teaching Strategy. The team are really keen to get as
many staff and students as possible to contribute to the development
of the Learning and Teaching Strategy.
You can join the Open meeting on Thursday 8 December 12:00-
13:00, SAF G16. Bring your phone or tablet to contribute to the
interactive discussion! If you can’t make it, watch live or catch up on
Panopto. You can read more about on College’s website or at
imperialcollegeunion.org/lt-strategy
Learning and Teaching Strategy - Open meeting, Thursday 8 December
You’re invited to our Frozen Winter Carnival - tickets rise Monday
It might be the middle of December... but the cold never bothered
us anyway!
This year’s Winter Carnival returns on Friday 16 December.
Celebrating the end-of-term with a bang, FiveSixEight, Metric and the
Union Bar hosts their Frozen Winter Carnival with performances from
your favourite DJs and student performers...and snow! Tickets are
just £3.00 and you can save by buying yours in advance - tickets rise
to £4.00 on Monday 5 December and they’ll be £5.00 on the door.
Tickets are selling fast - get your ticket now!
imperialcollegeunion.org/winter-carnival

