Nikita Bathija
Having come to the end of my degree I understand the importance of enjoying university life. In what will be some
of our most memorable years, the Union plays a crucial role and I would like the opportunity to give-back to the
college as DPFS. If elected, I would promote the development of the College and Union Alumni networks in order
to build community and encourage new avenues for club sponsorship. Reform space booking to ensure efficient
use of Union resources. Continue the work of the current DPFS and implement Gift Aid on donations. Actively seek
feedback and student input to plan the events that you want.
My ideas are shaped around bringing you the best experiences whilst a student and also once you’ve graduated.
Being on the committee for ChemSoc last year, I understand the work that goes into building a successful society.
In addition, during a recent internship in the City I demonstrated that I am comfortable dealing with finances.These
experiences, coupled with my strong desire to improve College life, means I will work with student volunteers
to deal with tasks and problems efficiently. Optimising the Union’s ability to enhance the student experience, by
ensuring it is financially sound, is central to my candidacy. I will work hard with the other elected officers to shape a Union that you have a say in and can be
proud of as a student and graduate.
Philip Kurukgy
Hello! I am Phil in 2nd year Chem Eng. My manifesto has 7 goals, that outline plans for a stronger union that actually
makes an impact on your student experience. FUNDING: Enhancing sponsorship funds for activities and societies,
especially small ones to provide funds to grow. Maintaining budgets for societies in real terms (adjusted for inflation).
AIR CONDITIONING: Lobby college to deliver the student petition for air conditioning in the central library. FEES:
Lobby college to freeze fees increases for international students, campaign against any future government increases
for home students and against hall rent prices increase.
REVENUE: Find NEW revenue streams for societies and the union by organising more events and activities, new
sponsorships from external organisations (renown Imperial employers...) and lobbying for college subsidy. FOOD
& DRINKS: Review the union food and drink outlets, parties, reduce costs and enhance quality. EFFICIENCY: My
experience as a hall senior, organising a year of fresher’s activities on a tight budget, has taught me to maximise
efficiency. RIGHTS: Be a strong defender of your rights, raising your views at College and Union council as
I’ve already done as member of council and on FELIX. I am a passionate student activist, the time has come to ensure our views and opinions are properly
represented. A vote for me is a vote to amplify the Union’s IMPACT on your student experience!
Voting opens 12:00 midday, Monday 13 June and closes 12:00 midday, Friday 17 June. Vote online at: imperialcollegeunion.org/vote
Rachel Blythe
Having worked with the Students’ Union for the past four years, as Duty Manager of 568,The Union Bar & Metric
for the past year, I have loved devoting my time at University to improving service, taking care of more than 50
club/society/project events and making each night as enjoyable as possible, whilst jointly accounting £1.76 million
in food and drink sales. VOTE-Experience! Regularly interacting with students has allowed me to fix recurring
issues: Suggesting new wide-screenTVs in 568 and Metric. Expanding diet-specific options, e.g. introducing new
vegetarian items. Reducing queuing time by 10 minutes on ACC and CSP nights. Updating security to ensure
customer safety remains a top priority. VOTE-Progress!
My future policies will continue this progress: Increasing affordable, healthy options across ALL campuses, by
reducing price and average calories by 10%. Using customer surveys to highlight inefficiencies and improve
cleanliness, quality and speed of service. Better rewards and loyalty schemes in Shop Extra, Reynolds Bar, h-bar and
The Foundry. Improving postgraduate events and subsidies, by promoting alongside the Graduate Students Union.
Documenting how money spent across the venues is recycled back to students. VOTE-Funding! Having already helped to make tuition and maintenance fee
payments more efficient, I will further: Lobby to increase the DPFS role in gaining sponsorship and approvals to speed up the annual budgeting process. Provide
equal support to all CSPs. Reduce the ICSMU-ICU funding gap. Ensure first year students decide on their halls budgeting. If you also support these ideas, please
vote Rachel for DPFS!!
Gautam Kambhampati
I would like to see the Union make life easier for Clubs & Societies, and allow them to do what they do best: provide
excellent services to Imperial students. I would also like to see the Union financially justify bar profits and venue hire
by being open and transparent about their profits and how these funds are used to support student activities.
I will introduce variable spending caps for ClubTreasurers, set by Management Groups, to reduce red-tape. A better
room bookings system, instead of the current two-tier system, to reduce double bookings and the large delays in
booking requests being fulfilled. A return to easily accessed free printing for Clubs & Societies and Union-related
activities. Publication of details of bar profits in a readable format so students can decide for themselves whether
drinks mark-ups are value-for-money.
An open door policy for Club Chairs andTreasurers with financial issues. I have beenTreasurer of DramSoc,
managing large budgets for events across the Union. Working with many other Clubs & Societies on budgets,
management, and running events from small karaoke events to the large annual productions by Overseas Societies. Collaborating with Union staff on the
management of large Union-run events such as the annual Summer Ball. Vote for Less Bureaucracy. Vote for MoreTransparency. Vote for a Better Union for All.
Vote Gautam for DPFS.
Your Officer
Elections
When elected my goals for next year are: I will work closely with union staff to further develop
Imperial Plus so the hard work you do gets recognised and accredited. Increase funding for Clubs and Societies.
Funds available to clubs has not grown nearly as much as the membership funds has grown (there is a 30%
disparity between the two since 2011). I will carry on lobbying the college to ensure transparency in how your fees
are being spent. Ensure the processes and systems in place to support club finances are quick and easy to use.To
improve the services at the union and get tangible proof of it; for example Cask Marque for the quality of drinks in
the barsThe DPFS role deserves a candidate of real experience and responsibility.
I was given an Outstanding Service Award for my work as RSMU President particularly for my work in the social
side, relating to union services. In this role I brought numerous papers and reports to Union Council and represented
RSM clubs. Before that I was RSMU Hockey President and their 1st XI Men’s Captain, I was also De La Beche
ClubTreasurer. From this I have learned a huge deal about the way clubs work. Student groups tend to be very
self-motivated and the best way to support them is nurture them to allow their plans to be realised.Thank you for reading, Vote Warnick! #BelieveInBeard
#BeMoreWarnick
Voting opens 12:00 midday, Monday 13 June
Remember to cast your vote! Voting opens 12:00 midday, Monday 13 June and closes 12:00 midday, Friday 17 June.
Benjamin Bell
I believe I have the commitment, experience and passion to make real lasting changes at Imperial. I’ve been at
Imperial for both my undergrad and postgrad degrees and held positions including IC Hockey Club Captain and RSM
VPCS. Below are some of the achievable changes I would like to implement. Sort out the library it is frankly ridiculous
that, despite having planning permission to do so, college refuses to install more air conditioning units in the library;
expecting students to work in these conditions is utterly unacceptable.
Work with DPCS and the College to transfer more responsibilities from Sport Imperial I believe that sports clubs
should be overseen by elected, passionate and accountable students. Increase funding support to clubs and
societies. Funding levels are not keeping up with increases in participation, more support is needed to secure
sponsorship and funding particularly for smaller and ICSM clubs. Improve postgrad participation in union events
starting at a new uni can be intimidating, even for postgraduates. I would make a significant effort to engage with
postgrads, particularly those who are new to Imperial.
Improve the quality and variety of food on all college campuses.There are not enough quality, healthy food choices available for students, particularly vegetarian
and vegan options. Abolish entry fees for standard nights at the Union It’s our Union, we shouldn’t have to pay! Improved support for students looking for
housing finding student housing can be very challenging, particularly for international students and those moving out of halls. http://tiny.cc/VoteBenBell
Benjamin Warnick
Here are the manifestos for Deputy President
(Finance & Services) candidates.
All copy is provided by candidates and not altered by the Union.

