Vote online at:imperialcollegeunion.org/vote
Sampriti Gupta
Hi, I’m Sampriti, a 3rd year Biomedical Sciences student.The Union has played a major role in making my student life
at Imperial fun and rewarding. As the DPFS, I wish to give back and further enrich the student life at Imperial. For this
my policies are: ADMINISTRATION AT-EASE - Improve eActivities, room bookings and mailman to make clubs and
societies’ administration a tad bit easier. ALUMNI DONATIONS - Add a donation button to club pages to streamline
the process of member and alumni donations ALCOHOL
-LESS (non-alcoholic). EVENTS - Improve the Non-alcoholic
events organised by the union to allow everyone to enjoy regardless of whether they drink. ACCLAIMED DJs -
Organise events with well-known DJs at Metric with student input.
This will be in addition to the regular club nights. ASSORTMENT OF FOOD AND DRINKS - Improve the variety of
food and drinks served at Charring Cross cafe. APPROACHABLE AND AVAILABLE - I will strive to be approachable
and available to all students if they have any questions, queries and/or suggestions. AIMING FOR ACHIEVABLEI
aim for my policies to be Simple and Achievable. It is impossible to change everything that we’d like changed in one
year. So my aim is to bring about changes which, whilst seemingly simple, will add on to what we already have and thus, will further improve the holistic student
experience at Imperial. AGREE? If you agree with what you just read and want to bring about these changes, Vote for Sampriti!
Yiya Mao
Hi, everyone, I amYiya, and pledge to be your Deputy President ( Finance & Services). Since I came to Imperial, I
have been standing for student voice, and my passion never stop. VoteYiya for passion: Representing the Business
School at Imperial College. Joined the Deans Advisory Council 2015-2016- Academic Representative Board 2015-
2016. Welfare Representative Board 2015-2016. Attending Union Council Meeting for Policy making 2016- Vice-
Provost (Education)’s Student Forum 2016. Judge Board and presenter of Student Academic Choice Awards 2016-
Ran for Leadership Elections 2016 -Deputy President( Education)- Master’s Success Guide Working Group and
Editor.
I have also been fully involved in many aspects of the Student Union. VoteYiya for experiences:- LeadTutor at
Community Education Forum- Representing Pimlico Connections- Member of the Fencing club-TableTennis
Women’s FirstTeam- Played the British Universities and Colleges Sport 2015 (TableTennis).
VoteYiya for her ideas: Searching for new funding type for club & societies- Alumni/sponsor mechanism- Ensure the budgeting run smoothly each year- be
approachable and supportive- Foster the process and funding for new club & societies- training- Lobbying with Commercial Services team, lowering food and
drink cost- Extending the food service hours to 8pm in H-bar and offering dinner service in other venues - Offering more Student Duty Managers position in all
venues- Use my expertise in marketing support Social Enterprise Programme- Work with student development team to help funding for students with enterprise
ideas. If you rememberYiya, and like her experience, please VoteYiya for DPFS. Visit my website: voteyiya.uk
imperialcollegeunion.org/elections
For more information visit
Voting opens 12:00 midday, Monday 13 June
Voting closes 12:00 midday, Friday 17 June
Zachary Slingsby-Smith
Hi, I’m Zac and I am currently a Materials MEng student. My experience as aYear Representative and Academic
Representative gave me the opportunity to receive feedback directly from students and to transform their ideas into
tangible changes, such as increasing the use of Panopto in the department.
My experiences as a Hall Senior, at Beit Hall have given me extensive insight into organizing activities at Imperial,
through interactions with freshers and international Erasmus students. I will aspire to achieve a smoothly run union if
elected. Adios amigos!

