imperialcollegeunion.org
Union Page
Student Activities will have a waste amnesty, where a skip has been arranged to collect any unwanted items for free at 16:00 on Tuesday 21 June.
If you are a Club, Society or Project Officer, take some time to look through your club storage, removing anything you do not need and bring all waste
items to Activity Space 1 & 2 in the Union building - where it will be kept until the skip arrives to collect it. As you know space is very limited on
campus and it is important that all clubs keep their spaces clean & tidy so please maximise this opportunity to ensure your storage allocation will be
kept next year.
If you have any specific waste requests (i.e. anything other than general waste such as flammable liquids, electrical equipment etc.) please email
activities@imperial.ac.uk before Friday 17 June so we can contact the waste collectors/College in advance.
Waste Amnesty – 21 June
Your Officer Elections are your chance to make a difference at Imperial by
standing for a variety of roles.
We’ll be hosting a Live Hustings for all of our Deputy President (Finance
& Services) candidates on Friday 10 June at 12:30, on our Facebook page.
With both Undergraduate and Postgraduates standing for positions GSU
positions can be filled by Postgraduate students only), you can cast your
vote from 12:00 midday, Monday 13 until Friday 17 June - the results will
then be announced online!
Watch our husting on our Facebook page www.facebook.com/imperialcollegeunion and cast your vote at imperialcollegeunion.org/vote
Your Officer Elections - voting opens Monday 13 June
Our second Impact Report for the year is out! Our Impact Reports detail what the Union and our
members have achieved so far in the academic year, and the impact that has had so far. We’re
so proud of what the Union has achieved so far this year and with one more term to go, we’re
keen to see it be as successful as the last two. Our report contains details about:
A The growth in our Clubs, Society and Project memberships
A Another successful Student Volunteering Week
A Growth of Imperial Plus
A This year’s Student Academic Choice Awards
A Our efforts to improve academic standards across the College
A Our Leadership Elections and how they helped us become the UK’s most democratic
students’ union
A Changes in bursaries for Medics and so much more!
Euro 2016 starts Friday 10 June, and you can watch it with us at the
Union! We’ll be screening matches in FiveSixEight, h-bar, The Foundry
and Reynolds, as well as offering great food and drinks deals throughout
the tournament. For details of the screenings and offers, check out details
in the venues!
Be the first to read our second Impact Report
for 2015/16!
Watch Euro 2016 with us!
To read our Impact report online and download a PDF go to imperialcollegeunion.org/impact

