10 felix FRIDAY 20 NOVEMBER 2009
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
SCIENCE
Regardless of my personal view on cli-
mate change, James Beal’s article last
week really struck a chord with me.
Headlines day after day proclaim the
inevitability of a doomed Earth and
almost invite us to take an apathetic
view on any matter relating to the en-
vironment, including climate change.
It is evident these gloomy promises of
a deteriorating planet are not having
the dramatic effect needed to kickstart
a change in attitudes towards environ-
mental matters. It is all too easy for us
to detach from the Earth and forget
how much we rely on its all-too-finite
resources. A fresh approach is needed
in order to change the public view on
climate change.
By chance, I saw a poster on the un-
derground a few days after reading
James’ article, advertising a new exhi-
bition at the Science Museum entitled
‘Prove it!’ The exhibition promised “all
the evidence you need to believe in cli-
mate change”. After visiting the exhibit
itself, I spoke with Victoria Carroll –
head of content for ‘Prove it!’ – about
the motivation behind creating the ex-
hibit, its aims and the idea of adopting
a new approach to convincing the pub-
lic that climate change is a major issue
facing humanity.
‘Prove it!’ was launched on 22nd
October this year with an appearance
made by Ed Miliband, the Secretary of
State for Energy and Climate Change.
It’s directed at a target audience of
adults and children over 16 with the
following aims, as detailed by Mrs
Carroll: “to raise awareness of Copen-
hagen, allow the public to explore the
science of climate change, highlight
the significance of negotiations in Co-
penhagen, show different viewpoints
on climate change and give visitors the
opportunity to explore these views and
make up their minds as to where they
stand in the debate.”
Upon arrival, I was a bit surprised at
how small the exhibit area was given all
the press and political attention it had
received. However, I was told this was
down to sustainability being a main fo-
cus in the design of the exhibit. The Sci-
ence Museum worked with Ab Rogers
Design to use recyclables and a minimal
quantity of materials in order to achieve
a “balance between sustainability and
retaining impact.” Hence why the whole
exhibit is held up with string!
I asked about the motivation behind
the creation of ‘Prove it!’. The Science
Museum believes that climate change
is the “most important issue facing
humanity” and they were aware that
a different approach to just bombard-
ing the public with scare stories was
necessary. Rather than create a sense
of helplessness, the exhibit aims to
engage the public and “create a sense
of optimism about Copenhagen” – the
climate conference set to take place
this December. The Museum is posi-
tive Copenhagen will act as a turn-
ing point in the fight against climate
change and is committed to being the
“number one destination for public en-
gagement with climate change.”
When visiting the exhibition, I found
a wealth of information on why we
need to act on climate change and the
importance of the Copenhagen confer-
ence. Opposition and alternative views
on climate change, such as the Gaia
hypothesis that the Earth is a self-reg-
ulating organism, were largely ignored
by the exhibition. When asked why
only arguments for action on climate
change had been included in ‘Prove
it!’, Mrs Carroll informed me the Sci-
ence Museum has looked through the
evidence and is convinced that climate
change is “real, happening and caused
by humans.” The Science Museum sees
it as their job to convey what they view
is scientifically-valid information to
their visitors rather than presenting
other views they do not believe to have
hosting dwindling populations of el-
ephants, rhinos, and the like.
Human activities continue to cause
extinctions. What megafauna remain-
ing in North America and Europe are
mostly endangered and only special re-
serves or protections maintain popula-
tions of species such as the Red Wolf
and Iberian Lynx. Many have com-
pletely died out in the wild and survive
only as small captive populations in
zoos. These decay in viability the long-
er they stay in captivity, as sedentary
lifestyles and inbreeding cause them to
lose fitness and forget their survival in-
stincts. Conservationists know that re-
introduction into the wild is essential
for the continuation of these species,
but suitable sites are lacking: they must
be easily monitored, safe from human
interference and often be very large.
To make the matter worse, a hint at
reintroduction of predators elicits hys-
teria from agricultural and safety com-
munities touting risks to livestock and
humans. Yet most people agree on a
responsibility to repair at least some of
the damage we’ve done to ecosystems,
and many support the preservation of
beautiful and iconic creatures like the
panda and polar bear.
Rewilding may be a solution. The
term derives from the practice of re-
All over the world, conservationists
are attempting to resurrect the past.
Against the odds, they are repopulat-
ing open spaces with species on the
verge of extinction, aiming to create
reserves that resemble the natural
world as it was 13,000 years ago. They
call it “rewilding”.
Since humans settled the globe,
hunting and climate change (cyclic ice
ages, not just warming) have pushed
most of Europe and America’s large
animals to extinction. These “mega-
fauna” are considered to include any-
thing as big as a human. During the
Pleistocene epoch, early humans lived
alongside other megafauna, from the
famous sabre-toothed cat and woolly
mammoth to more unusual giant
sloths, birds and marsupials. That geo-
logical age ended 12,000 years ago, and
the fossil record holds clues that the
decline of megafauna coincided with
the rise of humans. Some impressive
beasts only recently disappeared, such
as New Zealand’s massive Moa and the
legendary aurochs, both hunted into
oblivion. Yet ironically, it is in human-
ity’s cradle that most megafauna have
persisted, with Africa and Asia still
training captive animals to survive in
the wild; for instance, Chinese tigers
are being rewilded successfully in
South Africa for eventual reintroduc-
tion to China itself by the Save China’s
Tigers project. In recent years, the con-
cept has been expanded and applied to
the wholesale reconstruction of extinct
ecosystems, typically those at the end
of the Pleistocene – just before human-
ity’s touch had truly been felt. In 2005,
Josh Donlan wrote a provocative piece
in Nature calling for the “rewilding of
North America” to hold off the on-
coming surge of “pests and weeds”. He
proposed reintroduction of the large
vertebrates that previously roamed the
Great Plains, such as camels and chee-
tahs. Donlan and others suggest that
huge “ecological history parks” could
save dying species, restore America’s
prairies and benefit poor surrounding
towns in one shot.
But what of the Pleistocene species
that have been extinct for millennia?
These can be compensated for by re-
introducing existing organisms with
similar ecological roles. For example,
the African cheetah could stand in for
the vanished American cheetah, and
elephants may be good substitutes for
the mammoths and great mastodons
that once trod the prairies.
So far however, it’s in Eurasia that
most progress has been made. Several
rewilding reserves have been set up and
zoologists have been “back breeding”
animals to try to replicate their forefa-
thers. For example, in the Netherlands
there lies an isolated wetland called the
Oostvaardersplassen. In only 40 years
since the land was reclaimed from the
sea, it’s already one of the wildest loca-
tions in Europe. It hosts completely in-
dependent populations of Heck cattle
and Konik horses, breeds that resem-
ble the lost wild aurochs and Tarpan
horses respectively. Those creatures
were ancestors to modern livestock,
and the new breeds have many of their
characteristics. The Oostvaardersplas-
sen has also attracted habitat-deprived
birds like the White-tailed Eagle, and
may soon be enriched with wild boars
and deer from nearby reserves. Simi-
larly, Pleistocene Park near Chersky in
Russia accommodates the threatened
Yakutian horse and wood bison, with
plans for the reintroduction of musk
ox and even the great Siberian tiger,
which is presently confined to a tiny
range in Russia’s far east.
Rewilding is not without its prob-
lems. Like other conservation projects,
reserves are short on cash and lack
clear objectives. Conservationists
monitoring them are usually too busy
to carry out studies, which are essen-
tial for garnering support from the
research community. And what with
most sites still lacking predators, these
ecosystems’ true stability is largely
unknown, making access to funding
difficult. Rewilding may be our last
shot at restoring the world’s untainted
wildernesses, but such inspiring initia-
tives are in dire need of greater public
support.
such concrete scientific grounding.
Part of the exhibit invites visitors to
sign up online and be ‘counted in’ or
‘countedout’withregardstothefollow-
ing statement: “I’ve seen the evidence.
And I want the government to prove
they’re serious about climate change
by negotiating a strong, effective, fair
deal at Copenhagen.” By the time I
spoke to Mrs Carroll, 4700 people had
voted ‘count me in’ against 7400 voting
to be ‘counted out’. I thought this may
be down to the exhibit only containing
information in support of acting on cli-
mate change; perhaps visitors thought
they were being shown a very biased
view of the evidence and therefore
were mistrusting of it. Or perhaps they
simply did not understand the aims of
the Copenhagen conference and how
it may affect them. Mrs Carroll had
other ideas as to why a worryingly
large number of people had ‘counted
out’. “[The poll] suggests a lot of people
are not convinced climate change is a
priority ... we see is as our job to reach
these people.” The Science Museum is
planning more events along a similar
theme in an attempt to do this, includ-
ing a larger exhibit set to open in June
next year.
I’m glad people are being given a
chance to explore climate change in
an environment safe from media tales
of our planet’s impending demise. But
with so many still unconvinced that cli-
mate change is little more than fuel for
the papers on a ‘slow news’ day, organi-
sations such as the Science Museum
will have a major task on their hands
convincing their visitors that this is the
most desperate issue facing our gen-
eration. That’s not to say there’s lack of
trying.
An optimistic approach to tackling climate change
Brigette Atkins
Brigette Atkins Science Editor
Eliot Barford
Eliot Barford Science Reporter
‘Rewilding’: is turning back the clock really a solution?
The longer a species remains in
captivity, the more difficult it is for
them to be ‘rewilded’
‘Prove it!’ runs until 31st January. For more information, visit: www.sciencemuseum.org.uk/proveit

