12
POLITICS
Politics Editors
Politics Editors James Goldsack, Katya-yani Vyas, James Lees and Phil Murray
James Goldsack, Katya-yani Vyas, James Lees and Phil Murray
politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
felix FRIDAY 20 NOVEMBER 2009
Climate debate
is all wrong
T
his week is green week at Im-
perial College. A week when
eco-warriors get high and
mighty about their cause –
saving the planet from imminent de-
struction – citing Al Gore’s ‘An Incon-
venient Truth’ at every opportunity.
Global warming is a big issue both
politically and socially. We are being
told that it is almost too late to change,
that we are not doing enough to curb
our use of hydrocarbons and that we
must watch our carbon footprints.
Isn’t it funny how just a few decades
ago there were warnings about us slip-
ping into another ice age? Many scien-
tists disagree with the claims put for-
ward that global warming is due to our
hunger for dirty fossil fuels. Admit-
tedly, many of these are funded by oil
companies who obviously do not want
the findings to harm their business.
However, the government is much
happier to fund research that shows
the “correct” outcome; that fossil fuels
create global warming.
This politicisation of climate sci-
ence is wrong. Researchers should be
funded not depending on the outcome
of the research or a person’s particular
view but on the quality of the research.
The government wants to send a
“message” that we must cut down on
our use of fossil fuels and halt destruc-
tion of the environment. The message
may be commendable, but politicians
are again perverting science. As was
seen over the last two weeks, this is
an example of politicians digging their
dirty hands into science and playing
games.
I believe that we should cut down on
use of fossil fuels, increase energy effi-
ciency and stop cutting down the rain-
forests, but for different reasons – pol-
lutants are harmful to us; oil will run
out and new energy supplies must be
found; inefficiency is a pointless waste
of resources and money; and destroy-
ing habitats means we will no longer
be able to marvel at the different land-
scapes, flora and fauna.
There are restrictions on the concen-
trations of various pollutants allowed
in the atmosphere. If we rewind back
to the industrial revolution and even as
little as 50 years ago there were no such
restrictions. Yet all we hear is how the
pollution occurring now is causing the
warming of the globe. All the graphs
we are shown to scare us into action
show the rapid increase in temperature
very recently. If it was linked to pollut-
ant emission, would the temperature
not have increased back when pollu-
tion levels were higher?
Many climate scientists point to the
sun as an answer for increasing tem-
peratures. Solar activity drives tem-
perature changes and we are currently
going through a period of high activity
which, guess what, will naturally in-
crease temperatures on Earth. Others
have realised that we are still coming
out of an ice age. How surprising is it
that temperatures are increasing? I am
not saying we have no part to play, but I
think it is very arrogant of us to assume
we are to blame.
I know that I have been banging on
about global warming, and green week
is about more than this; it is about re-
ducing waste, increasing efficiency and
highlighting the need for renewables. I
therefore commend the idea, despite
my reservations about the dubious use
of science to “prove” the necessity of
these moves.
In the end each one of you should
look at the evidence yourselves, and
think very hard about whether you can
live with waste, inefficiency and the
prospect of oil wells running dry in a
matter of decades.
With the Copenhagen conference
fast approaching, many are claiming
that there is no hope for a deal. Gov-
ernments should push for controls on
pollutants to prevent harm to citizens
and for innovation in new technolo-
gies – “clean” coal, renewables. Do it
without distorting science, and for the
non-political reason that it will soon
be necessary to say goodbye to fossil
fuels as our primary source of energy
and household materials. If we can get
over the “messages” and whether we
agree with certain claims or not, we
may get somewhere by looking at the
facts and finding solutions to the prob-
lems we face.
This will not end with international
co-operation and some abstract targets
(we are a long way from meeting our
Kyoto agreement targets), there must
be serious policy changes at home.
The general population cannot be ex-
pected to take control of this problem,
so money must be spent, where nec-
essary, to ensure we have technology
in place to replace current expiring
sources.
It seems almost certain that the sea
level will rise in the foreseeable future.
Why are countries not beginning to
contemplate the effects this will have?
Mass migration is a real threat and
plans must be put in place to ensure
that these kinds of episodes can be
dealt with carefully and properly. It is
very likely that borders will be broken
due to the huge influx of desperate
people.
Equally, it is inevitable that countries
will attempt to tighten their borders,
leaving many stranded. In some cases I
would expect boats to be purposefully
sunk and many people shot to prevent
overcrowding. We as a people must try
our best as far as possible to limit the
devastating effect we will have upon
each other. This is as much of a con-
cern as what to do about limited re-
sources and what to do when they run
out.
To the governments meeting in Co-
penhagen next month, whatever you
do, whether anything is agreed or not,
please do not politicise the scientific
evidence.
James
James
Goldsack
Goldsack Politics Editor
Milk: more than just cow juice!
C
Do you remember the Milk Rounds?
Or the School Milk? (In all honesty,
yours truly was not born when this
was around.) Well this is another one
of those areas where the country has
gone completely bonkers.
Consider what we now get our milk
in: environmentally hazardous plas-
tic cartridges that have to be thrown
out once they have been used. This of
course, is counter productive as the
things are made of plastic i.e. oil, and
may have to be burned, thus releasing
all those nasty gases the Green lobby
keeps banging on about.
What has been done about this then?
Not very much to be quite honest. But
before we get to the Milk rounds, lets
have a look at what some food chains
are in fact offering. Tesco have noth-
ing but the plastic gear which is utterly
useless, particularly if you throw the
infernal thing out with the lid screwed
tight. Some councils now employ peo-
ple-this is not a joke-whose soul pur-
pose is to pop the cartons so as to free
some space in the bins. The same story
is true for most of the big stores, except
Sainsbury’s and Waitrose. They have in
their larger supermarkets started us-
ing bags of milk. Even the bags them-
selves are recyclable which is always
good. But obviously the main benefit
comes from not having a physical car-
ton which you have to smash with your
bare knuckles in order for the damned
thing to become somewhat ‘flat’. Other
benefits include saving plastic and us-
ing that oil on, say, better equipment
for the armed forces.
Sainsbury’s claim that the only way to
open the bag, without ending up cov-
ered in milk, is to place the bag inside a
jug and shut the lid. The special Sains-
bury’s jug has a spike which pierces the
bag releasing the milk. Your humble
narrator can comfort the dear reader
that this is all complete bollocks. You
do not need a special jug. You need a
jug, but not a special Sainsbury’s jug,
and a pair of scissors. Cut off a corner
and pour the bloody milk into the jug.
It is not rocket science and even if it
were the all-mighty Imperial student
should be able to handle it.
It is a bit odd that it only arrived in
the UK about a year ago; you can only
buy milk in bags in Canada. They do
not sell it in any other form (suppos-
edly 60% is sold in bag form, the re-
maining 40% being some unknown
form of storage particular to Canada).
Which begs the question: why are they
intent on destroying the countryside
when they might as well just outlaw
any packaging which does not neces-
sarily have to be made from the most
inconvenient of materials? Do you re-
ally need cereal in a carton, is not the
bag enough? And so on. While not
wishing to be a mouth piece for the
Green lobby bandwagon, (which Im-
perial has happily hopped on – for it
is a very profitable wagon, and as such
suits Imperial College perfectly) we do
need to reconsider the way we pack
things at least to save material.
But now the more pressing of ques-
tions: why have they let the Milk
Rounds fall into despair, when it was
probably the most environmentally
friendly way of delivering fresh, cheap,
locally produced, milk? Bear in mind
that companies like Lidl insist on their
milk being sent from Germany to
some of its stores in Europe. I.e. The
milk you buy from Lidl is not, even by
any stretch of the imagination, ‘local’
if bought in Sweden, for example. The
Milk Rounds use glass bottles (as you
will know by now that glass is 100%
recyclable) and the vehicles they spin
around in are driven by electricity.
This is not to say that the industry
is dead - far from it. From the website
Findmeamilkman.net we have it that
“The UK’s 9,500 milkmen and wom-
en deliver to around 5 million homes
every day. Whilst fresh liquid milk in
environmentally friendly returnable
glass milk bottles remains the corner-
stone of this service, your milkman can
also offer a large range of other goods.
They will be more than happy to dis-
cuss the range of products that can
be delivered regularly directly to your
doorstep.” Now, a normal person in the
UK consumes roughly 2 litres or 3.5
pints of milk each week. This is a fair
amount of milk. But one must wonder
why are only 5 million homes in the
UK getting their milk from this service
which ought to be the Emperors of the
milk trade (and media and government
policy) in the UK, yet are not. A decade
ago, more than 2.5 billion litres of milk
were being delivered to the doorstep
each year, which by 2004 had fallen to
637 million. Only 13% of the milk now
consumed at home comes from deliv-
ery rounds (2006).
We can get pretty nostalgic about
our doorstep milk deliveries. After all,
there cannot be many countries that
have had a record at number one in
the singles chart about a milkman. Co-
median Benny Hill’s record Ernie (The
Fastest Milkman In The West) topped
the charts in 1971 for five solid weeks.
Before the milk float, milk was deliv-
ered on wheeled carts – either horse-
drawn or simply pushed. The milk was
in a churn before the advent of the milk
bottle, and the milkman poured it into
the jugs his customers left on their
doorsteps. A cloth cover over the jug
protected the milk from flies. The early
morning chink-chink of the milkman
or woman and the hum of the elec-
tric float is declining in 21st-century
England, despite efforts to extend the
range of products on offer to include
eggs, bread, juice and more.
Despite rumours to the contrary,
there is no threat to UK milk deliver-
ies from the European Union. How-
ever, as we move further into this
century, it appears that the trend is
being reversed because people are
starting to realise what this article has
been arguing, that there is simply no
way in which supermarket-milk beats
milkman-milk. As such, it is becom-
ing more popular again and it is only a
question of time before an MP of one
ilk or another seizes upon this issue
to include in their portfolio of “green
policies”.
Instead of building expensive “eco-
towns”, perhaps we ought to retrace our
steps to a time when people were far
more sensible (and greener) than they
are now; without having to destroy the
entire economy in the process.
Neil Dhir
Neil Dhir
Remembering the good ol’ days of the Milkman delivering to your front door

