13
felix FRIDAY 20 NOVEMBER 2009
politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk POLITICS
Proactive approach needed on climate
Everyone knows about climate change.
Its buzz words: carbon footprint,
greenhouse emissions etc. Its endless
documentaries, books, songs and con-
stant pleas from celebrities. But, what
are we going to do about it?
There are enough people out there in
the public arena that are all talk and no
action; most celebrity endorsements
are so hypocritical they’re insulting. In
a nutshell, their antics go something
like this: find cause which is poignant
and mindlessly gut wrenching. Attract
huge amount of publicity visiting in-
digenous people and pretending to talk
to tribesmen (plenty of time for a pho-
to shoot); then fly back home first class
on a greenhouse-gas-spewing night-
mare of a plane. Arrive home; next
day do a circuit of all the daytime TV
shows showing lots of emotion over
the subject matter, and plug an album.
That is a pretty cynical view, I know,
but I am sure the celebs care about
their causes, but what I find so stu-
pid and inconsiderate on their part, is
the fact that they then expect us, the
general public, to down tools and get
to work ensuring their futile vision of
a harmonious and peaceful world will
come to fruition. When actually, fun-
nily enough, we don’t have the same
endless pots of gold as a multi-plati-
num recording artist or a jumped-up
model that suddenly cares about things
that the general populous cares about,
just after they’ve been grappling with
the tabloids over a nasty and twisted
divorce. The general public have much
more important things to spend their
precious hard earned cash on, and
there are so many important causes
out there, ordinary people just don’t
have the resources, and when these
pretentious climate messiahs tell us
mortals to do this and that it just guilts
us into feeling bad that we not billion-
aire philanthropists.
Protesters and dreamers at hippy
gatherings of climate camp are preach-
ing more about prudence and an end
to the consumer agenda, than actu-
ally about climate change. They want
a change in the way people live their
lives, and that is a far greater ask.
This is a far too much of a political
agenda, and almost bordering on a new
religious ideology. Again, just making
everyone else feel bad. The solution of
climate change will come from scien-
tists and if they want to help instead
of camping in inconvenient places in
London; play the system, lobby, drum
up public support for ideas that will re-
ally make a difference.
What is needed is not to concentrate
on the emotive side of the problem,
more the rational solutions.
Climate change in the media is ban-
died around so much, but how many
people actually know the science be-
hind it? To your average Joe, and your
Gucci wearing hippy of a celebrity this
probably doesn’t matter, but it should.
Arming people with a knowledge of
how and why the climate is changing
and the technical side of the solutions,
would do more for climate change than
trying to force people’s opinions with
inaccurate shock therapy on TV. With
some basic science, public opinion
would be much more tailored to what
was needed to combat climate change,
and this would get the ball rolling much
faster as to what is needed to solve this
gigantic pain in the arse.
Maybe stuck-up seaside residents
would then be far less hypocritical
Richard Howard
Richard Howard
Continued polution at current levels will lead to a 6o
C rise in global temperaures say the Global Carbon Project this week
when campaigning against the con-
struction of wind farms because it will
ruin their view, while still wanting at
the same time to save the earth. Or
pressurising the people that matter to
invest vast sums in relevant technology
(but nothing in comparison to a bail-
out), like fusion power for example.
My point is that we need to be
more proactive in our quest for
change, and in possession of knowl-
edge we can look to a brighter future,
instead of the frightening one that is
portrayed in the public domain.
Berlusconi’s widespread corruption in Italian politics
There once was a king who very much
enjoyed his reign. He got impunity
from the law, a different damsel in
his bedroom every night and no one
could do anything about it, not even
complain. You could be forgiven to
think that I’m talking about some feu-
dal lord of the Middle Ages, but for
the citizens of a certain country in
southern Europe, this is reality. Wel-
come to Italy, where the third-richest
man holds the reins of power, the di-
rector of the foremost public news
program refuses to air news criticis-
ing him and five out of six television
channels, the most used media by the
majority of Italians, are under control
of the government.
Berlusconi represents the perfect
politician, the union of resources, an
excellent understanding of what ap-
peals to people and enough boldness
to ignore reality. His control of the
media has allowed him to demonize
his opponents and spread his slogan
of “less taxes for everybody”, a strat-
egy that has allowed him to get elected
three times in the past twenty years.
To his credit, he has kept that promise,
despite crippling the economy in order
to make up for the tax cuts that ben-
efitted mostly only the ultra-rich. The
sensible laws however, or indeed any
law that pertained to the country, were
submerged by a sea of acts that had as
their only purpose to take him out of
his legal troubles. Berlusconi is a man
with many ongoing trials against him,
mainly concerning shady takeovers of
companies, illegal handling of wealth
and suspect mafia connections. His
first priority once in power has always
been to protect himself and his friends
by decriminalising whatever they were
accused of, by making them immune
from the law and restricting the pow-
ers of the magistrates. His latest at-
tempt to make himself untouchable
has been declared unconstitutional by
the Italian Supreme Court: no more
than a mere speed bump in his run, as
he is already pushing another law that
would cause all the trials against him
to expire.
The question is why the Italian pub-
lic keeps voting for him. One could
blame the media, which conveniently
hides or downplays all the ad person-
am laws, trumpets triumphantly any-
thing else he does and rabidly attacks
anyone who criticises him. One could
also blame the lack of alternatives,
as the Italian left is lethargic, divided
and trying to be too clever for its own
good. The right-wing parties show
much more loyalty to their bosses and
much less squabbling over inanities.
This allows them to quickly pass laws
in parliament – never mind that they
are actively bad or useless for the coun-
try, at least they are doing something
– the Italian public thinks. But the far
more sinister option is that Italians, in
their hearts, want to be like Berlusconi.
They want to be charming, successful
men who accumulate masses of wealth
and sleep with beautiful women, who
only care for their own good and are
not afraid to resort to illegal means if it
makes them richer. They want to own
football clubs, evade taxes and pro-
mote family values, despite sleeping
with prostitutes.
Maybe this has become a little more
of a rant than intended (although eve-
rything I’ve said is true; you can check
the work of many independent jour-
nalists such as Travaglio and Santoro
to prove this), and maybe you already
knew all of this, or maybe you don’t
care about any of it. Probably what I’m
trying to say is that if you think that
this country’s got it bad, with neo-
Nazis on public television and hardly
any alternatives to the two very similar
main parties, it could be worse. At least
you don’t come from a country where
people are at best blind, or in the worst
case, tax evaders and Casanovas.
Pietro Aronica
Pietro Aronica
Berlusconi with his new barbershop quartet: Obama, Medvedev and Hu Jintao

