14
CULTURE &
THE ARTS
felix FRIDAY 20 NOVEMBER 2009
Arts Editors Caz Knight, Rosie Milton & Lucy Harrold
Arts Editors Caz Knight, Rosie Milton & Lucy Harrold
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
It takes more
than glitter
RosieMilton
RosieMilton Arts Editor
T
his week at felix, the Arts
editors have decided to of-
fer up to our reading public a
new, regular feature: a listing
of any art-related events that we think
will satiate the culture-hungry of you
out there. So try to seek out what we list
and recommend. If there is anything
you have seen recently, particularly
anything interesting, off-the-beaten-
track, do let us know! Any reviews will
be happily received and considered for
selection for future issues.
On that note, this week Bernard
Pereira offers up a review of one of
the National Gallery’s current exhib-
its, ‘The Sacred Made Real’. It brings
a much-welcomed antique element to
our Arts pages this week, for it is my
firm belief that historic art informs
how artists create work today. That
is something you can also judge for
yourself.
Bringing us right up to today, I have
made a brief review of ‘Pop Life: Art in
a Material World’, currently on show at
the Tate Modern. I feel this is an ex-
hibit one needs to see in actuality to
fully gauge the ‘slap-in-the-face’ qual-
ity of most of the artworks. Although
I found it still quite socially and men-
tally challenging, my article hopes to
express the tension between contem-
porary and now what is also sliding
into the historic, with this show.
Moving back up the river to Trafal-
gar Square, my co-editor Caz Knight
reviewed an exhibit currently show-
ing at the National Portrait Gallery,
‘Beatles to Bowie’ – a fairly self-explan-
atory title. I would consider this a sec-
ond part in Caz’s recent exploration of
London retrospective music exhibits,
which she thoroughly investigates for
our reading pleasure.
We are glad to say at Arts, we are
receiving articles regularly from con-
tributors and will try and post them all.
Whatever we think is interesting and
written in a clear and concise manner
will be considered!
Next week, Caz Knight and I will be
attending the press launch of Damien
Hirst’s new show at the Jay Jopling’s
White Cube spaces in the West End
and East End. Hirst is an artist who,
although his artworks do not always
agree with me, is certainly one who
crops up a lot in my critical thinking.
He is an artist who has an impressive
command of the commercial art mar-
ket and never fails to fuel tabloid col-
umns (including these, of course!). So
we shall be reporting back our opin-
ions of his return to painting after the
opening of the show next week.
Next week, look out for a new feature
within these pages: ‘Why I Like ...’ – a
specific focus on artists and other cul-
tural figures who inspire us and why,
spearheaded by our co-editor Lucy
Harrold.
I
was sitting at home recently, lis-
tening absent-mindedly to the
news, when I heard a report
about a ‘controversial’ new exhib-
it at the Tate Modern, which had with-
drawn an artwork even before opening
to the public.
It seems to be to be a rare thing these
days to find an artwork that shocks and
appalls the public to the extent that it
is removed. Saatchi’s collection of el-
ephant poo canvases, blood heads and
portrait of Myra Hindley composed of
child handprints pushed the limits of
what viewers could stomach, but now
that its ‘been done’, is considered blasé
by gallery-goers. However, in the case
of the Tate Modern’s brashy new show
‘Pop Life: Art In A Material World’, it
was not the clamouring public who
had Richard Prince’s photograph (of
a photograph) of a pre-pubescent
Brooke Shields posing, nude in her
bath, heavily made-up (need I go on?)
removed, but the Tate themselves ush-
ered in the Metropolitan Police’s Ob-
scene Publications Unit out of sheer
concern for ‘doing the right thing’.
The exhibit begins, naturally, by
leaning heavily on Andy Warhol – the
‘father of Pop’. Yet it focuses on the
more crude and commercial side of
this artist, his ‘sell-out’ phase, where
he would do a cheap deal on a double
portrait for any willing punter. Damien
Hirst makes an appearance – an artist
recognised for his sheer manipulative
grip on the world art market, having
made over £112 million at a knock-out
sale at Sotheby’s a year ago (even more
poignant being that he made this as-
tronomical sum the same week the fall
of Lehman brothers signaled our de-
scent into economic crisis). Yet apart
from this market ‘phenomenon’, let us
call it, Hirst’s work is still considered
rather tame – not having the ‘shock’
factor. We all saw his pickled shark at
the Saatchi gallery.
My point is this; that although many
of the artworks shocked even me, es-
pecially Jeff Koons’ huge blown-up
fantasy portraits of himself and porn-
star La Cicciolina exposing orifice and
member to all and sundry, these art-
works are now nearly 30 years old!
Does an exhibition such as Pop Life
act as a retrospective for the era of
‘look-at-me’ art? Are we entering a new
age of conservative art? Or will we be
subjected to a new wave of sensibility-
insulting images and artworks?
T
he Sixties was one of the
most riotous, exciting and
revered (at least from a
hedonistic point of view)
decades of the century
gone by: it is hard to refute this fact
especially when one can compare what
has gone before with the time in which
the youth of today is growing up. The
world was shaking off the frugality the
war had imposed and the progeny of
the May 1945 celebrations were at the
helm pioneering the expansion in mu-
sic, fashion and more. It is little won-
der, then, that the National Portrait
Gallery, like many before it, has tried
to capture this exuberance.
Beatles to Bowie travels chrono-
logically, exploring the big bands, art-
ists, models and hangers-on of each
year. Cabinets of ‘artefacts’ such as
magazine covers and record sleeves
punctuate the portraits in an attempt
to make the collection seem less like,
well, a one dimensional photograph.
The first few years of the decade plod
through the early years of pop music as
we know it, filled with faces that few
born after 1960 would remember and
far too many of a chipmunk-faced Cliff
Richard.
It is only after 1965 as the Beatles
started gathering more and more mo-
mentum that the portraits become
slightly more adventurous and it be-
comes harder to tell immediately they
were commissioned for the glossy pag-
es of a magazine or Sunday newspa-
per supplement, as many were. Fiona
Adam’s portrait of the four members
of Gerry and the Pacemakers in the
process of sliding down a playground
slide and the iconic Beatles-jumping-
in-mid-air photograph leap out imme-
diately on account of their playfulness
and sense of spontaneity. Jean Marie
le Perier also creates two atmospheric
and eye catching Beatles portraits:
the four of them peering round their
manager Brian Epstein’s red door and
another where they stand huddled,
the only light coming from matches
used to light their cigarettes, bringing
to mind the atmospheric lighting cre-
ated in a renaissance painting. This
‘old master’ effect is recreated later by
Gered Mankowitz in his portrait of the
Spencer David Group.
By the time 1966 comes around it
is obvious the curator, Terence Pep-
per, has begun to try a bit harder. The
portraits now come with a soundtrack
of Pink Floyd, the Rolling Stones and
the other usual suspects as well as
some unsightly mannequins clothed
in the fashion of the day (mini dresses
mainly). Here, not only does the mu-
sic get better but the photographs do
too, with a more portraits seeming less
staged.
Thorgerson/Hipgnosis’ 1969 pho-
tograph of Pink Floyd (used for the
‘Ummagumma’ album cover) is as off
the wall as its subjects’ music. The
four band members are spread be-
tween a room and the garden it leads
into, with the picture on the wall in
the foreground a near mirror image of
the scene we see, only the band have
swapped positions and attire. Bob Dy-
lan trying on shoes in Carnaby Street
and Donovan sat writing song lyrics on
the south bank with Big Ben a shadow
in the background are more intimate
offerings, as is Tom Blau’s black and
white triptych of John Lennon and
Yoko Ono going in for a kiss.
The gems of the collection only
emerge in the later years of the decade,
a sign of the more exciting approach
to photography (smearing Vaseline on
the camera lens) but also, perhaps, of
the more exciting times when groups
such as the Jimi Hendrix Experience,
Led Zeppelin and the Doors (surpris-
ingly absent from this exhibition!)
were at the forefront of music and the
demure Fifties were a more distant
memory.
The baby boomers of the Forties
were now all young adults, and with
such a high proportion of young peo-
ple in the population it is not surpris-
ing that the second half of the Sixties
became as exciting as it was. It may ex-
plain the insipid, bland youth culture
and music present today in a rapidly
ageing population.
But there was not just only music and
fashion, sex and acid during the Sixties
(not for everyone, at least). There was
also political unrest, war and famine
and it would be naïve to only look at
the music in isolation as contemporary
times will always have effect on artistic
output in any given era. After having
been recently to the British Music Ex-
perience, which successfully includes
music, paraphernalia and politics in
an immersive environment, Beatles
to Bowie seems haphazardly curated,
making the decade seem hackneyed; a
cliché of itself.
Godheads of the ‘60’s
Caz Knight reviews a thematic NPG show of rock and roll stars
Rosie Milton witnesses Pop Art’s final flails at the Tate
Untitled 2009 © Maurizio Cattelan. This artwork acutely embodies a well-known phrase relevent for this exhibit

