15
felix FRIDAY 20 NOVEMBER 2009
ARTS
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
F
unctional art – that's probably
how one would describe the
exhibition at the National Gal-
lery's Sainsbury Wing, which
currently showcases a thoughtful se-
lection of paintings and polychrome
sculptures from 17th century Spain.
On display are works that were created
to, and in Spain continue to, aid wor-
ship and devotion: many were commis-
sioned by churches, monasteries and
religious orders, and most have never
travelled beyond the walls of these re-
ligious institutions before departing
for central London. The short video
that is part of the exhibition shows the
use of the wooden sculptures of Bibli-
cal figures on pasos, large floats used
in Spanish religious parades that are
particularly prominent during Semana
Santa, or Holy Week (the week lead-
ing up to Easter). When these occur
at night, the flickering candlelight and
the swaying pasos breathe life into the
wooden statues – the intention is, of
course, to allow observers to connect
with the higher power above.
What place, then, does all this have
in largely secular London? Why has
the National Gallery chosen to display
paintings of saints and sculptures of
Christ in dimly-lit rooms? In a nut-
shell, these sculptures and paintings
are just as significant in terms of art
as they are in terms of religion. They
represent a slice of culture and his-
tory, but in the past, have only rarely
been viewed from an aesthetic per-
spective, despite the fact that some of
the most important artists of the time
were involved in their creation. As a
matter of fact, the very first work one
sees is a painting, by the famous Diego
Velàzquez, of Juan Martínez Montañés
in the act of sculpting (1635-36). Mon-
tañés was a popular sculptor in his
day, and left his mark on Spanish art
by having a large influence on the next
generation of sculptors.
In the same room stands Montañés’s
The Virgin of Immaculate Conception
(c. 1628), a polychrome sculpture of
the Virgin Mary that attempts to real-
istically depict her as a young 13-year
old girl, as opposed to a some distant
ecclesiastical being. Much of the ex-
hibition shows art that was created
to revitalise Catholicism in light of
the Counter-Reformation, a period of
Catholic revival triggered by the 16th-
century Council of Trent. As such,
the artists attempted to follow the
Catholic Church’s recommendation
that religious art be made realistic and
accessible to the illiterate as opposed
to being intellectually challenging. It
is as a result of this that the term ‘hy-
per-realism’ arose, and that Montañés’
sculpture attempts to literally present
its subject. The realism becomes more
prominent as you walk through the ex-
hibition. The sculpture of the Head of
Saint John (c. 1625) by Juan de Mesa
was probably based on the head of an
executed criminal, and the trachea,
oesophagus and paraspinal muscles
are clearly visible despite the bright red
blood that covers the neck. The torn
skin and trickling blood on Christ’s
back in Pedro de Mena’s sculpture Ecce
Homo (Christ as the Man of Sorrows;
1673) contributes to a graphic repre-
sentation of Christ after his flagella-
tion. The accuracy in the depiction is
extraordinary, to the point where the
ribs of the lean torso are visible un-
der the bruised skin. The exhibition’s
centrepiece, Dead Christ (1625-30),
was sculpted by Greogria Fernández in
order to allow the faithful to meditate
on Christ’s death by his almost-naked
corpse. In an attempt to shock the
viewer, Fernández went all out to make
the corpse as realistic as possible: real
hair is used for the eyelashes and glass
balls for the eyes; the teeth are made
from ivory and the bark from a tree
was painted red to ensure that the con-
gealed blood had a convincing texture.
The perverse attention to detail is no
doubt gory, but the work commands
appreciation in an artistic sense, just as
it would have commanded devotion in
the worshipper.
The sculptures themselves would
normally have been created by two dif-
ferent parties: after the sculptor had
finished sculpting the treated wood, a
specialist painter would take over to
bring the work to life. Painting these
sculptures was a highly-regarded art
in 17th-century Spain, and there were
strict guidelines present for completing
the task. These included instructions
on painting the flesh tones and on ob-
taining realistic lighting perspectives,
as well as on techniques for decora-
tion and realistic representation. Ecce
Homo (1621) sculpted by Fernández
is a good example of this approach; its
painter is unknown, but his broad blue
brushstrokes give the skin a bruised
quality, and he has removed the
smooth layer from parts the sculpture
to illustrate the flesh wounds. The fre-
quent practice of painting sculptures
meant that actual painting its own
right often attained sculptural proper-
ties, such as in Francisco de Zurbarán’s
drawing of a Head of a Monk (1620-
30), in which the attention to shadow
gives the monk’s praying face a real
spatial quality. Likewise, de Zurbarán’s
Christ on the Cross (1627) consists
of Christ hanging on the cross in the
middle of a totally black background
– the work was painted to be hung in
a specific location in a Spanish chapel,
in which the light streaming in from
the windows brought prominence to
the work’s subject, and gave it a three-
dimensional character.
The attempted realism throughout is
something that cannot be missed, and
a visit to the National Gallery is highly
recommended. It is by no means a
‘Christian’ exhibition; non-believers
and people of other religions will find
that the works can be readily appreci-
ated as works of art, and that they pro-
vide much insight into an age where
the Church had so much influence.
That they were created primarily for
devotion cannot be denied, but this,
perhaps, makes for an all the more en-
gaging experience.
Celestial bodies, beatifically rendered
Bernard Pereira reviews and critiques the National Gallery’s current display of Spanish sculptures and paintings
The Crucifixion, Francisco de Zurbarán, 1627. © The Art Institute of Chicago
Listing of events, happenings, doings and things around the city for your interest
Nothing Matters
Damien Hirst
White Cube, 25-26 Mason’s Yard,
SW1Y 6BU
Nov 25-Jan 30 2010 / admission free
A show of Hirst’s paintings, this show
promises not to shy away from
controversy.
How the critics will find his hand at
painting is yet to be decided...
Anish Kapoor
Anish Kapoor
Royal Academy of Arts, Piccadilly,
London, W1J OBD
Until Fri Dec 11 / £8 NUS/ISIC
An exploding cannon of violently
bright red goo is generally the main
attraction to this exhibit, but Kapoor
has more to offer than just the purely
entertaining.
Mainstream Art Exhibitions
Wild Thing
Epstein, Gaudier-Brzeska and Gill
Royal Academy of Arts, Piccadilly, London,
W1J OBD
Until Jan 24 2010 / £7 NUS/ISIC
An exhibition of sculpture from three of
the most prolific sculptors of modern art
history, this exhibit explores the
mechanics of Futurist sculpture and
more.
More Quirky Goings On
Nostalgia
Omer Fast
South London Gallery, 65 Peckham Rd,
London, SE5 8UH
Until Sun Dec 6 / admission free
A futuristic vision of a dystopian Britain,
possibly not one too far off to imagine,
is created by Fast in a film entitled
‘Nostalgia’. The visuals of this artistic
film look enticing.
Ghost Forest
Angela Palmer
Trafalgar Square, London, WC2N 5DN
Until Sun Nov 22 / admission free
Perhaps a more insightful visual warning
to us about the waste of Christmas,
Palmer’s giant dead tree stumps from the
rainforests of Ghana will be installed in
Trafalgar Square for us all to consider.
The Museum of Everything
Various Artists
The Museum of Everything, Corner of
Regents Park Rd and Sharples Hall St,
NW1 8YL
Until Wed Dec 23 / admission free
A quirky little ‘pop-up’ museum of
over 200 works has appeared just off
Primrose Hill to showcase a collection of
Outsider Art.
Shake It: An Instant History of
the Polaroid
Pump House Gallery, Battersea Park,
London, SW11 4NJ
Until Sun Dec 13 / admission free
Sadly the death-knoll of one of the most
fabulous inventions of our time has
sounded. The polaroid, with its instant
visual (and physical) gratificationis
celebrated here at this exhibit. Anish Kapoor, currently exhibiting
at the Royal Academy. Vivid halls of
red plastic material delight the viewer

