18
FILM
Film Editors
Film Editors Zuzanna Blaszczak & Ed Knock
Zuzanna Blaszczak & Ed Knock
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
felix FRIDAY 20 NOVEMBER 2009
This is only one of the hundreds of scences where CGI is implemented with a stunning effect. It’s a shame similar neat tricks can’t be used to write a screenplay.
Special effects & a whole load of clichés
It has to be said that the director, Ro-
land Emmerich, has done a fantas-
tic (albeit ridiculous) job of the latest
Hollywood ‘end of the world’ movie.
The stunning CGI and special effects
pushed the estimated cost of the film
to a cool £120M, and has already raked
in £39M globally in its first week. That
said, this is the director of Independ-
ence Day and The Day After Tomorrow,
and nobody would have expected him
to be conservative in his budgeting.
So, why are we all going to die this
time? Well, to be brief, solar flares are
bombarding the earth with neutrinos
and are heating the earth’s core and
‘cement’ (as it’s described) by a mi-
crowave effect. This cement no longer
holds the tectonic plates in place, caus-
ing massive earthquakes, movement
and breaking up of land mass. I’m quite
sure that there will be several physicists
disputing the cause of the disasters.
The all too familiar multiple narra-
tive scenario from Emmerich presents
the disasters from different people,
who eventually connect, but the sto-
ryline itself is simply awful. The entire
movie is basically a string of horrific
disasters, one of which being Califor-
nia disappearing into the sea.
Don’t get me wrong though, this
movie is thoroughly entertaining on
the basis of the jaw-dropping special
effects. The first ten minutes or so of
the film are not particularly fast-paced,
until it suddenly jumps into the Cali-
fornia disaster. You will definitely sit
there in awe of the collapsing skyscrap-
ers, and of the volcanic eruption of Yel-
lowstone, hence the massive portion of
the budget spent on CGI.
You’re probably now wondering why
I think the storyline is terrible, the an-
swer is simple… cliché, cliché, and oh
yes, a few more clichés. Examples of
these would be the man who falls off
a cliff and everyone thinks he’s dead
until his hand appears from over the
edge (copied from Indiana Jones); or
the man with a few hours’ flying expe-
rience who has to pilot a ridiculously
No point going green this week really, according to the latest Emmerich blockbuster film 2012 the fatal blow to
our planet will be served by neutrinos and there’s nothing we can do about it. So sit back and watch with joy.
large jet to safety (take your pick from
any airplane disaster movie, how about
Air Force One?) and the underwater es-
cape scene at the end. The list goes on
and on.
Now back to the good parts. Yes, it’s
an end of the world disaster movie, but
there are some laughs in there. Howev-
er, I’m not too sure they’re intentional.
Look out for the Russian man falling
down a precipice near the end of the
Their very own Personal Jesus...
I like Depeche Mode. I don’t like
drawing pictures imagining myself
married to the band members. Some
people like both. The Posters Came
From The Walls taught me this and a
whole host of mainly bizarre Depeche
Mode fan anecdotes, yet amongst the
weird and the peculiar on offer, I left
the screening with a much greater ad-
miration for fandom in general. The
film is an interview-based documen-
tary surrounding fans of Depeche
Mode worldwide. Directors Nicho-
las Abrahams and Jeremy Deller zip
around the world as if it were a high
octane action film.
From Basildon to California to Saint
Petersburg, I often expected the next
shot to be of a bearded Russian gen-
eral urgently making a call, order-
ing the execution of some nefarious
scheme surrounding the band, while
simultaneously pouring himself a glass
of the people’s finest fermented pota-
toes. With a little effort I was able to
snap out of this political thriller mind-
set and put my documentary hat on
(which I must admit, doesn’t happen
too often). What I found though, in
lieu of the usual multiplex releases that
I am so very fond of, was a truly genu-
ine and, in some ways life affirming,
documentary.
While Depeche Mode is at the crux
of the issues of the film, the true mes-
sage is that of the extremes of fandom
and the positive and negative effects of
it. Interviews are held with people who
have in some way been significantly af-
fected by their love of Depeche Mode.
The types of their stories are bal-
anced fantastically throughout. High
drama stems from the Russians who
see the group’s music as a soundtrack
to the political upheaval that occurred
during the late eighties and early nine-
ties – with a timely reminder of the fall
JoshPear
JoshPear
MatthewColvin
MatthewColvin
film; the noise he made had the whole
theatre laughing at what was intended
to be quite a sad moment!
The part of the film that I really like is
after all the destruction and loss, there
is that ‘everything will be OK’ sense at
the end. All the characters seem to ig-
nore the fact that nearly 6 billion peo-
ple are dead. But this is fine, as they’re
heading for the new Africa.
Bottom line is, the storyline is dread-
ful, but is totally and utterly dwarfed
by the outstanding special effects, I
personally like the 1500m tsunami
hurtling over the Himalayas. There is
a scene, which you can watch online by
typing ‘2012 scene’ into youtube. On
that basis, I would recommend that
you should go and see it, even if it is
for a laugh. Had this film not devoted
so much to the special effects, it would
have had 1 star.
of the Berlin Wall. Comedy is found
with the German family whose hobby
is to re-enact music videos. The sight
of trumpeters performing a routine to
‘Personal Jesus’ simply has to be seen
to be believed.
These fans seem contented and de-
spite their struggles, political or oth-
erwise, their association with the band
has had a small negative and detrimen-
tal impact.
A fan even talks breathlessly and
with enthusiasm of a near riot in Los
Angeles. But then, I thought that this
was perhaps the point. An underlying
theme present through many of the
stories was the betterment of the peo-
ple concerned and the overcoming of
problems. People had been brought
together and found purpose in their
own lives through this joint love for
music.
The film goes on a very limited one-
day release on December 1st and will
be out on DVD in Spring 2010, but if
you do find the opportunity to go and
see it, take it. Next time I hear some
Depeche Mode, I won’t go to the ex-
treme of some fans and apply some de-
finitively eighties make up, but I will be
reminded of how much of a difference
people can make when they are truly
inspired.

