19
felix FRIDAY 20 NOVEMBER 2009
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk FILM
There’s nothing
green here
Th
A
s you have probably no-
ticed by now, the film
section isn’t quite fol-
lowing the ‘green’ theme
this week. I could try ar-
guing that 2012 fits the bill of a movie
concerning climate change etc. but
seriously, we should all be pretty con-
fident that our beloved planet won’t
be destroyed by neutrinos, we’’ll be a
bit more responsible for the end of the
world than that. With The Men who
Stare at Goats and The Posters came
from the Walls, I have no chance what-
soever of finding any relevant themes.
So I simply have no choice but to come
clean and say that despite Dan’s nu-
merous e-mails, I have forgotten about
the idea of a themed issue this week.
And being a bit lazy I have decided not
to write something on the spot. Any-
way, if you’ve never tried writing in the
felix office you don’t know what ‘tough
environment’ means. Thus all you get
this week from me is a pretty pointless
string of words.
To give some semblance of meaning
to this pitiful comment piece let me
grab this opportunity to thank all the
contributors. I am extremely proud of
the film pages this year and I can’t even
try to fool myself that I’ve had anything
to do with that. No, Ed and I manage
to print pages full of great articles each
week thanks to the students among
you who have the courage, drive, ego
and the slightly masochistic streak that
makes you send in reviews week after
week after week. If you’ve not heard it
from others, at least hear it from me:
thank you. You make my life so much
easier.
ZuzannaBlaszczak
ZuzannaBlaszczak Film Editor
1...2...3..., when I reach 10 you will take of your shirt and make pig noises..4...
Not worth staring at goats
Soldiers who can kill a goat… with
mind bullets! Sounds brilliant, and
a great concept brought to the big
screen. Based on the book by Jon Ron-
son, the film follows a hapless jour-
nalist and a ‘Jedi’ soldier on a mission
through war-stricken Afghanistan… or
something like that.
Ewan McGregor plays Robert ‘Bob’
Wilton who is a small-time journalist
in a small-time world. Suddenly, his life
is torn apart when his wife leaves him
for his one-armed boss, so he impul-
sively becomes a war correspondent in
Afghanistan. His stay is bleak until he
recognises the name of Lyn Cassady
(George Clooney) from a previous
interview. Cassady reveals himself as
a level 3 psychic, who was previously
trained by the ‘First Earth Army’. The
desperate Wilton seeks refuge in the
embrace of the psychic, and they ven-
ture out into the desert to discover
their future, among other things.
Throughout the film, Wilton nar-
rates flashbacks of the story of First
Earth Army. The founder of the unit
is Bill Django (Jeff Bridges), who was
converted into an easy going hippy
after the Vietnam War. The team is
trained by Django with several predict-
able, yet amusing moments. All is well
until a new Jedi (Kevin Spacey) joins
the unit, and continues to betray the
team in an attempt to gain greater psy-
chic power and the unit is disbanded.
The film is essentially a mish-mash of
past and present, which unfortunately
never gains any real momentum. Con-
sidering the film is marketed as a com-
edy, there are far too few good jokes,
and it could be so much funnier.
The film is in fact based upon many
shocking truths. The First Earth Bat-
talion existed after the Vietnam War,
and promoted peaceful methods of
war, including presenting lambs on
the battlefield to comfort the enemy.
The ‘sparkly eyes’ method, which is
referenced in the film, was another key
weapon in their arsenal.
On screen, George Clooney is most
often seen in a tuxedo with a quick
script and sharp wit, yet he seems at
ease inhabiting Lyn’s quirky character.
Clooney’s role is closer to his Oscar
winning performance in Syriana, than
any previous rom-com charmer but
his rugged looks in the film are surely
bound to keep the housewives swoon-
ing on command. McGregor acts a
standard McGregor role, and plays off
Clooney’s character well.
The desolate surroundings of the Af-
ghanistan deserts provide a great back-
drop for a pretty bleak film. There’s an
uplifting soundtrack to back the film,
and you’ll be left with Boston’s ‘More
than a feeling’ ringing in your head
long after the film ends.
Unfortunately, there is little structure
to the storyline, and the viewer is left
stranded in the crossfire of a misfiring
plot with little going on. Even the great
cast cannot save the film from tedium.
Films you never grow tired of:
Once, there was a lonely old inventor
who decided to make a man. He called
him Edward. He gave him eyes, a brain,
and a heart. But the inventor died be-
fore he could finish him, leaving him
with scissors for hands. Years pass, and
the first point of contact Edward has
with the outside world is… his local
Avon lady.
This beautifully quirky fairytale,
concocted by Tim Burton when he
was still in school, is stunning in every
way, with the attention to artistic detail
Tim Burton is renowned for, and a glit-
teringly ethereal soundtrack. Filmed
in 1990, this was the groundbreaking
film on which the magical partnership
of Tim Burton and Johnny Depp was
born, and the first ‘alternative’ film
Depp acted in. The entire film feels like
it has been shot inside a snow globe
containing a generic 1960’s Floridian
suburbia, with identical, Monopoly-
like houses and cars, perfectly mani-
cured lawns and a chorus of gleefully
tacky gossipy suburban stereotypes
providing the perfect backdrop for Ed-
ward’s complete otherness.
Innocent and child-like, all Edward
wants is to fit in with the unexpected
world he has found himself in, which is
met with consequences, at times both
tragic and hilarious.
The story is charmingly adorable in
places, and does have romantic ele-
ments, but its originality and quirky
artiness keep it well out of the ‘girly’
box. A perfect film for a winter’s night
in.
CharlotteIvinson
CharlotteIvinson
StefanZeeman
StefanZeeman

