2
NEWS
News Editor
News Editor Kadhim Shubber
Kadhim Shubber
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
felix FRIDAY 20 NOVEMBER 2009
News Editor
Kadhim Shubber
Medic News Editor
Dina Ismail
Assistant Editor
Jovan Nedić
Layout Editor
Carlos Karingal
Comment Editor
Ravi Pall
Politics Editors:
James Goldsack
Katya-yani Vyas
James Lees
Phillip Murray
Business Editor
Sina Ataherian
International Editor
Raphael Houdmont
Film Editors
Zuzanna Blaszczak
Ed “Who’s there?” Knock
Technology Editor
Samuel Gibbs
Fashion Editor
Kawai Wong
Music Editors
Kadhim Shubber
Alex Ashford
Luke Turner
Travel Editor
Dylano ‘Gigolo’ Lowe
Olivia Davies
Science Editors
Brigette Atkins
Nathan Ley
Nightlife Editor
Charlotte Morris
What’s On Editors
Rachel D’oliviero
Lily Topham
Coffee Break Editor
Charles Murdoch
Clubs and Socs Editor
Alex Kendall
Puzzles Commodores
Sean Farris
Milli Begum
Sports Editors
Mustapher Botchway
David Wilson
Indy Leclercq
Arts Editors
Caz Knight
Rosie Milton
Lucy Harrold
Photography
Ben Smith
Tom Roberts
Alex Karapetian
Games Editors
Mike “The Rook” Cook
Feature Editor
Afonso Campos
Copy Editors
Rhys Davies
Alex Karapetian
Matt Colvin
Lizzy Griffiths
Ayyub Kamaludin
Joanna Cai
Jamie Beal
Richard Howard
Stefan Zeeman
Rox Middleton
felix was brought to you by:
felix 1,445
20
.
11
.
09
Editor-in-Chief
Dan “Gok” Wan
Deputy Editor
Kadhim Shubber
Deputy Editor
Gilead Amit
Copy Chief
Sasha Nicoletti
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB. Tel: 020 7594 8072.
Fax: 020 7594 8065. Printed by The Harmsworth Printing Ltd, 17 Brest Road,
Derriford, Plymouth. Registered newspaper ISSN 1040-0711.
Jigsaw font by typotheque.com. Say hi to Tachyon!
Copyright © Felix 2009.
The world beyond
College walls
By Raphael Houdmont, International Editor
A
merican President Barrack Obama was in Beijing and Shang-
hai this week, as part of his Asian tour encompassing Japan,
South Korea, Singapore and China.
He held two hours of talks with his Chinese counterpart Mr. Hu
Jintao, in Beijing’s Great Hall of the People. The two leaders agreed to work
together to tackle some of the world’s problems, including climate change,
North Korea’s nuclear program, and the economy.
Mr. Obama urged a reluctant China to let the yuan rise in value, at a time
when the US dollar is hitting a new low against other currencies. President
Hu emphasized the need to avoid trade protectionism – a thinly veiled refer-
ence to the US’s recent imposition of import tariffs on Chinese tyres and steel
pipes. Both countries agreed that a strong commitment to fighting climate
change is necessary at the Copenhagen meeting, which will gather the world’s
leaders this December in an attempt to tackle the issue.
Earlier, Mr. Obama was in Shanghai for a question and answer session with
Chinese students. When asked what he thought about China’s Great Firewall
(i.e. the censuring of media by the central government), Mr. Obama replied
that he supported freedom expression everywhere. Ironically, the session was
only broadcast in Shanghai.
China
L
ast week, the House of Representatives narrowly passed a health care
reform bill, the first time in generations that either chamber of Con-
gress has managed to do so.
The Affordable Health Care for America Act garnered 220 votes in
favour, and 215 votes against. This was a narrow victory for the democrats,
39 of whom joined the dissenting ranks. A controversial clause limiting sub-
sidized health insurance for abortions was introduced to ensure the support
of the more conservative representatives. The Act would make it compulsory,
on pain of a fine, for all legal residents to have health insurance, and for all
but the smallest firms to provide it for employees or contribute to a federal
fund. That would extend coverage to around 36m citizens (the exact number
depends on how many will opt just to pay the fine) who are now uninsured.
Government subsidies and the creation of a national exchange would make
premiums more affordable to smaller firms and poorer individuals. Insurance
companies would gain millions of new customers, but they would also face
new rules mandating more generous terms.
A similar bill is now being debated in the Senate. If this too passes, the two
versions can then be reconciled before being signed into law. Reform is much
needed to tackle America’s rising health care costs, which now account for a
stunning 16% of GDP, and rising.
United States
I
mperial’s Harlington Sports
Ground played host to a sur-
prise celebratory gathering on
Thursday 12th when Sir Roy
Anderson visited to honour and
thank some special members of staff.
These staff members at Harlington
have collectively cumulated over 100
years of service at the Ground: Mick
Reynolds (Grounds Manager); Phil
Ramsdale (Grounds Supervisor); Keith
Cooper (Assistant Groundsman) and
Anne Reynolds (Pavillion Supervisor),
who is Mick’s wife.
They were all presented with “Harling-
ton 100” tankards and enjoyed flutes of
champagne as they cast their minds back
to a particular Rugby season in which
Sir Roy himself took up the sport at
Imperial.
Mick, who is the longest server at the
Ground, told us: “Working here I see a
lot of new faces and it’s very nice to see
some old faces too; Sir Roy, for instance.
His first Rugby season was mine too.” Sir
Roy added: “My first visit here was as a
student in 1965, for rugby trials, and it’s
great to be back.
“From my personal experience I know
sports are a very important part of life
at the College. We’ve got an excellent
record for sports facilities here and that’s
due to our dedicated and experienced
sports staff”.
The Harlington Ground consists of
ten football pitches, three rugby pitches
and a floodlit hockey Astroturf, amongst
other training grounds and gym facili-
ties. It acts as the evergreen home turf
for the Queens Park Rangers FC, who
took over from Chelsea in July 2005, and
Imperial students benefit from access to
the QPR’s coaches.
A number of production and broad-
casting companies have also used the
grounds to film TV ads and do photo-
shoots. Clients have included the BBC
May Harlington remain green
(Football World Cup ads), Umbro, Adi-
das and The Guardian.
It was previously feared that the
Ground, located near Heathrow Air-
port, would fall victim to the plans to
build a third runway which would have
seen the whole area and its neighbouring
village of Sipson wiped off the map.
After the airport operator BAA an-
nounced plans to expand Heathrow, over
a decade ago, protestors from ‘Camp for
Climate Change’ took over Harlington
and set-up what they called a “temporary
eco-village”
. This dramatic show of oppo-
sition against the destruction of Harling-
ton Sports Ground, and also against the
overall environmental damage caused by
aviation, took place in August 2007.
For the moment, it would seem that the
Heathrow expansion plans have come to
a halt as BAA has decided not to submit
its planning application for the third run-
way until after the general election.
If the Conservatives were to form the
next government, it is very likely that a
third runway would not be built at all, as
the Conservatives have made their op-
position to the Heathrow expansion very
clear.
Either way, Conservative or Labour,
let us hope that the Harlington Sports
Ground will be the base of many more
green and great university memories to
come.
Imperial Medics battle Imperial College at Harlington Sports Ground every year
Joanna Cai
Joanna Cai News Reporter
T
he United Nations global food summit was held in Rome, as-
sembling leaders from all over the world.
The UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon, said in his opening
speech that the world production will have to increase by 70% to
satisfy the demand of 9.1 billion people in 2050, and stressed that meeting
this challenge was linked to solving the problems of climate change. Many
experts worry that many of the world’s least developed countries will suffer
devastating famines before then.
At the summit, Zimbabwe’s President Robert Mugabe accused Western
countries – his ‘neo-colonial enemies’ – of trying to make Zimbabwe de-
pendent on food imports by pursuing ‘ruinous policies’. Many of Zimba-
bwe’s farms are failing after extensive land-redistribution reforms. Mean-
while, Libya’s leader Colonel Gaddafi paid 200 glamour girls (who had been
selected on criteria such as age, height and beauty), to attend a reception in
a plush residential area of Rome. To their surprise, their host, Mr. Gaddafi,
gave them a long talk on how to convert to Islam and handed each of them
a copy of the Koran.
Italy

