24
GREEN
Green Editor
Green Editor Hannah Theodorou
Hannah Theodorou
green@imperial.ac.uk
felix FRIDAY 20 NOVEMBER 2009
Go, go Eco-Power Rangers!
Over 300 students in halls of resi-
dence at Imperial have pledged to do
to their bit to tackle climate change by
becoming an Eco-Power Ranger! But
rather than running around in spandex
tackling rubber villains, these students
will be taking small actions to save en-
ergy – like switching off lights and ap-
pliances and putting a lid on the pan
when cooking.
This is part of a national Student
Switch Off campaign that is running in
halls of residence over the whole aca-
demic year. The campaign, run in asso-
ciation with the NUS and WWF, gets
halls of residence to compete against
each other to save energy. The hall that
saves the most energy per person at the
end of the year on gets a big party for
their whole hall.
As well as the communal incentive
for the winning hall, individuals who
have signed up as Eco-Power Rangers
can also win prizes such as Ben & Jer-
ry’s ice cream, tickets to London clubs,
as well as energy-saving gadgets. These
prizes can be won by posting energy-
saving pictures on the “Imperial Col-
lege Eco-Power Rangers” Facebook
group.
Photo competition winner Daniel
Jackson commented, ‘Climate Change
and Global Warming are no longer
theories, but facts. Student Switch
Off is a great way to get involved and
do the right thing in so many ways so
SWITCH OFF!’
Last year the campaign saved almost
ten per cent of the energy used in halls
across eleven universities. This year
10,000 students across the country
have signed up, so the savings will be
much bigger.
At Imperial this scheme is being pi-
loted at Southside, Weeks & Garden
and Evelyn Gardens which represents
1,096 students and if successful will be
rolled out to other halls next year.
Imperial’s Halls of Residences are going head to head in a blood-
thirsty battle to reduce their carbon emissions
To become an Eco-Power Ranger
and maximise your chances of winning
some of these great prizes either join
the Facebook group Imperial College
Eco-Power Rangers or e-mail ecopow-
errangers@studentswitchoff.org.
Remember you don’t have to be in the
participating halls to take part- every-
one is in with a chance to win prizes!
For further information contact Andy
Hix on andy@studentswitchoff.org,
020 8287 0227 or 07734 965465
AndyHix
AndyHix Student Swtich-Off
Banning the Bulb?
As we are all no doubt aware the gov-
ernment it trying to take away all our
incandescent bulbs, starting with vol-
untary bans by some suppliers tar-
geted mainly 100W and higher as well
as frosted, but with an aim to remove
them all. In the UK it is expected that
5 - 25 million tonne of carbon dioxide
a year could be saved from the reduced
energy consumption by switching over
from incandescent lighting.
The EU ban is by no means revo-
lutionary. Cuba was the first nation
to put a ban on incandescent bulbs
in 2005/2006 in favour of fluorescent
lighting. The motivation behind this
was to reduce the load on the national
grid and prevent black outs that had
been affecting the island. Ten other
Caribbean countries and Venezuela
have since instigated similar policies.
Australia was the first nation to ini-
tiate a ban of incandescent lights with
purely environmental motives. With
the warm climate of the country it was
seen as wasteful for the heat from in-
candescent bulbs to add to the electri-
cal load required for air conditioning.
The Environment minister predicted a
4 million tonne reduction in the coun-
try’s 513 million tonnes of national
As EU ban comes into force we are forced
to reconsider using CFLs
DavidSharp
DavidSharp Green Reporter
Erica Thompson ponders ‘sustainability’
The adjective “sustainable” seems to be very trendy these days. Sustainable development, sustainable holidays,
sustainable tinned tomatoes - you name it, and the green PR machine will sell it to you, probably at a premium to the
nasty “unsustainable” stuff on the opposite shelf. So you assuage your slightly doubtful guilt by buying “sustainable”
products and forget all about it - you’re doing your bit, right?
To answer that, you have to go back to what “sustainable” actually means. The opposite of sustainable is “unsus-
tainable”, meaning “not able to be sustained”. If you keep doing something which is unsustainable, you will eventually
reach a point where it cannotcontinue, due to physical limits.
If we wish our civilisation to continue on this planet indefinitely, then we must live sustainably - by definition. If we
don’t live sustainably, then our civilisation cannot continue on this planet indefinitely - by definition.
It’s pretty clear that if we have a finite amount of some resource, and we use it up at any rate other than zero, then we
are living unsustainably. On this planet we have a finite amount of oil, coal, natural gas, water in aquifers, diamonds,
uranium, gold, selenium, etc. The only sustainable net rate of consumption of these resources is zero, and in order to
avoid crashing into that brick wall of depletion we must either drastically downscale or shift to reliance on renewable
resources within a couple of decades. Think about the consequences that has for our economy.
We also have a finite atmosphere. The effects of splurging vast quantities of CO2 into it are becoming more appar-
ent by the day. The only sustainable net rate of production of CO2 is zero, and in order to avoid catastrophic climate
change, accompanied by mass starvation and migration, we must drastically cut emissions within a couple of decades.
Think about the consequences that has for our economy.
So a sustainable economy is necessary, but it is possible? Is it possible that within our lifetimes we can re-gear the
entire human way of life so that we really are acting sustainably?
I think it is, but it will be a huge challenge. For centuries we have squandered our most precious energy resource
- oil - on luxuries for the rich rather than on the basic needs of the poor. We have invested overwhelmingly in cars,
fossil fuels and big industry instead of bicycles, renewables and social projects. The lip service fashionably paid to
“being green” has not reduced our emissions - instead, it has created a generation of brainwashed, greenwashed,
“eco-friendly consumers” who truly and with the best of intentions think that offsetting the emissions of their flight to
South Africa make it sustainable and that buying Kenyan green beans benefits the local economy!
There are only a few short years to act on these problems. Sustainability cannot continue to be a marketing tag - it
must become a way of life if we are to survive. Physical limits are not subject to international negotiation; they will
not come up trumps with “bail-outs” for damaged ecosystems or new fossil fuels for countries who cannot wean
themselves off it. We, the scientists and engineers of Imperial College, are some of the best-placed people to bring
about these urgent and necessary changes in the way the world produces anduses energy. We must walk the walk as
well as talking the talk. In our own lifetimes it will become clear whether we have succeeded or failed - this is a heavy
responsibility.
green house gas emissions by 2012 as
well as cutting domestic electrical bills
by 66%. Due to the specialisation in in-
candescent technology use this is not
a blanket ban but will have exceptions
such as oven lights and for medical
uses.
CFLs have been shown to have lower
cradle to grave CO2 emissions and well
as cost. Yet in Europe the ban has been
met with much opposition. Mostly this
comes from European countries which
have driven to use CFL in the last dec-
ade when the technology was much
less mature. Because of the initial fail-
ure excuses are made for not attempt-
ing to give these lights a second go.
This is not helped by companies such
as EDF giving free ultra poor quality
low wattage light bulbs when trying
to be ‘green’. Or the bulbs themselves
down matched in stores (80W equiva-
lent lamp gives out less then equivalent
the 80W of light, a policy aimed to try
and get people to use lower lighting
levels and so less power).
Banished to the archives soon?
I would recommend giving the old
CFL a second chance. Get one manu-
factured by a recognised brand; slightly
higher ‘equivalent’ rating then your in-
candescent and try to have a look at
the different colours and shapes to find
what you like- it’s a way of avoiding dis-
appointment! Some stores will let you
try out the bulbs; most super markets
will not. If you think the government
have gone too far with incandescent
lamps be warned that halogen lamps
and high power torchieres are next!
Lighting the future
LED technology it certainly going to
be a more and more common feature
in lighting and we are not just talking
bike lights and screens, but industri-
ally buy tomato farmers in Canada and
powerfully in the new-year ball in time
square, LED technology has improved
dramatically and continues to do so
and unlike most other technologies are
no where near their theoretical limit of
efficiency. Before you encourage Im-
perial to replace all the lighting with
supper efficient LED’s (you can get
LED arrays to replace, and look like,
fluorescent tubes) there is that issue of
cost, which makes these currently un-
suitable except in very low heat/ power
applications.
‘Hybrid systems’ is a popular ‘solu-
tion’ in most industries but what does
it mean for lighting? We are not talk-
ing a sky light and a dimmer switch,
although that works well (if you get the
correct type of dimmer switch for your
florescent lamp). But the a full spec-
trum hybrid lighting system as pro-
posed by the Solar Energy Laboratory,
University of Wisconsin-Madison,
where you collect solar light separate
the IR out for water heating or ther-
mal photovoltaic and run the visible
around the building with fibre optics
to produce a natural lighting that has
no heat attached to fight with the air
conditioning. Nice when your office
is in Hawaii not the best solution for
frost bitten student accommodation in
London and starting at $4K it will take
some time to see the investment paid
off (about 10 years in Hawaii).
If you like try something different
there are other technologies out their
like the “Electron Stimulated Lumines-
cence” by Vu1 who claim to be sitting
on lighting technology that is cheaper
then CFL and more efficient then
halogens. This could be an enlighten-
ing solution to our energy problems
or simply the next carbon arc lamp.
Aesthetically and functionally they are
similar to incandescent but they are
still less efficient than the CFL.
And for those who still think LED’s
kill the batteries too fast on your bike
light you could always try a USAF nu-
clear powered torch; guaranteed dura-
bility and long life.
So as you toss the refined curves
of the incandescent bulb in the bin,
what you replace it with need not be
sterile or inferior but should be more
efficient.

