26
TRAVEL
Travel Editors
Travel Editors Dylan Lowe & Olivia Davies
Dylan Lowe & Olivia Davies
travel.felix@imperial.ac.uk
felix FRIDAY 20 NOVEMBER 2009
L
ondon. Institute of Education.
Basement dance studio. Sat-
urday morning on which my
logic would have instructed
me to stay in bed. In its stead
I dragged myself to Warren Street to feed
my morals by attending Power Shift, a
youth climate change conference over
the course of the weekend.
Sheepishly following the schedule I
found myself in the room, storeys below
the grievances of gloom and rain, found a
seat and saw the workshop convene.
In our circles, we took turns to present
our story of ‘me’, an exercise on engaging
and inspiring people on a personal level
to become more aware of the environ-
ment and effects of climate change.
It was my go. And so I told them, from
the memoirs and diaries I had main-
tained within my head, the events and en-
counters that shaped the eco-initiatives
that defined my ethics and beliefs.
The lone kayak was hovering adrift, oars
extracted from the clear waters and its
rider reclined, head held high, silent in
admiration of the mighty glacial archi-
tecture. The eyes were shut for a brief mo-
ment, to give room to that bone-crushing
crackle as gallons of droplets glided down
the cascades. Then, as vision rebounded,
the discovery of the perfect synchronic-
ity between hearing and sight, between
sounds and landscape.
I wouldn’t have wished for a better, or
indeed different, way to explore Milford
Sound, the famed fjord that deservedly
maintains a spot as the most-visited tour-
ist site in New Zealand. But it is no less
stunning than the places my family and
I visited on a road trip around the South
Island: from the geological freak-show
of an Abel Tasman National Park, the
icy peaks of Mt Cook that nurtured Sir
Edmund’s mountaineering genius, to
stretches of grape vines scattered across
the pastures of Marlborough and the
crystalline glaciers bearing the names
Fox and Franz Josef, ‘God’s own country’
is simply remarkable.
No wonder, with parents residing in
Auckland and so frequent opportunity to
travel around the country, I have encoun-
tered numerous compatriots who have
flown 23,000 miles to witness nature at
its utmost glory.
But at what cost? Recent statistics have
showed that New Zealand, as a nation,
is amongst those worst offenders of car-
bon emission, which includes Australia
and the United States. Indeed, since
Aotearoa has a heavy economic reliance
on tourism, there is no surprise that the
major contributors of such have been the
two million tourists that visit the ‘green
nation’ annually.
As I paddled furiously towards the
cruise ship, in response to an announce-
ment that dinner was served, I couldn’t
help but wonder how our sheer presence
was ironically destroying the environ-
ment we have come to admire.
Between conserving the natural envi-
ronment and sharing the splendour with
Recollections of an eco-tourist
So what is eco-tourism? Rummaging through his memory bank for the more eco-tastic moments, Dylan Lowe
presents the enlightening instants of his travels, and explains his stance on the new trend of ‘green travelling’
visitors, generating local revenue and
career opportunities in the meantime,
where is the balance?
The thought persisted throughout din-
ner, when I had encountered an equally
avid traveller at the dining table. Over the
immaculately prepared roast beef joint,
he recounted his own experience of visit-
ing the Galapagos Islands. Similar to New
Zealand, a place he came to adore, Dar-
win’s very own fountain of revolutionary
ideas was on the verge of losing the bal-
ance and will soon succumb to the effects
excessive tourism.
This is, he argued, the most funda-
mental question of what he described
as ‘eco-tourism’: should one contribute
to the wildlife’s downfall by visiting and
appreciating its magnificence in person,
or should one seek to preserve and ac-
knowledge it by limiting one’s travels and
not visit the location at all?
He offered a third alternative: in a bid
to quench what was his guilt for – at least
taking part in – driving the Galapagos to
ruins, he participated in a voluntary con-
servation programme and spent three
months assisting in scientific research
that aim to safeguard the island’s future.
That way, he pursued, he could offset the
impacts of his visit.
And isn’t this same guilt that drives
us to mechanically submit our bank de-
tails to flight carbon emission offsetting
services, or take part in projects with an
eco-initiative?
I was baffled by his insights. But then
I was too ignorant, and indeed selfish,
to even spare a thought on whether it is
alright or not to ‘erase’ one’s footprints
by performing self-righteous acts of re-
demption. No, the guilt wasn’t sufficient
to distract my intention to burn off my
three helpings of roast beef with an
evening swim.
*
The guilt level could easily rise above
the thatched bure and corrupt the
stratosphere.
I would walk away from the scene, dis-
gusted with any affiliation I had with the
atrocities conducted without a hint of
remorse traceable on the Fijians’ faces.
Well, walking away was out of the ques-
tion – unless I had enough vigour re-
maining to allow me to swim a distance
a motorboat had managed to sail through
in twenty minutes.
Holding my breath, I went under again.
The Fijian guide caught sight of my ap-
proach and, eager to impress, snatched
a reef shark by its fin and hauled the
creature into his cradle, struck a pose. I
inspected, and sighed – it was the same
shark that had previously swum by me,
playfully rubbing its sandpapery skin
against my belly. I gestured that I didn’t
have a camera; clearly disappointed, he
let it go.
Enough of this regime of cruelty, I
thought as the Fijian kicked the shark
in the head. I boarded the boat, rejected
an invitation to snorkel again and sat in
silent protest. Of course, I couldn’t have
raised my voice and questioned their
modus operandi: not whilst giddy on
the choppy return journey or during the
evening kava session, treated as a guest in
the local village. I couldn’t have so rudely
deprived the other resort guests of what
entertainment they deemed appropriate
– evidently so as they were happily snap-
ping away as the sharks wrestled for their
survival – nor could I have risked offend-
ing my hosts. Though, as I spotted the of-
fenders of hideous animal cruelty across
the grog matt, I found it hard to stomach
my discontent.
Perhaps, from hindsight, I should have
mentioned something.
Eco-tourism has achieved a commer-
cial status that can rival that of Sains-
bury’s Basics; little surprise therefore
whenthepeopleofWayalailaihadnamed
their local-run hotel an ‘eco’ haven resort.
From the unpleasant experience, I
must give a judgemental statement: what
a hypocrisy.
I have noticed that, similar to their ef-
fort to attract tourists by the branding,
the indigenous people are inclined to
model their behaviours on the very peo-
ple they served to please. It was the con-
sequence of our disregard for nature and
wildlife, that the Fijians have forsaken
Wayalailai ‘Eco’ Haven Resort The road to Mt Cook, where Edmund Hilary trained before conquering Everest
their century-old coexistence with their
environment, that they have corrupted
their ideals upon the introduction of
ours.
Fundamentally, as much labelling as
one utilises – voluntary work, conserva-
tion projects – ‘eco-tourism’ simply can-
not exist unless the self-proclaimed ‘eco-
tourists’ have a genuine desire to connect
with nature.
*
The inhabitants of Tanna live out their
lives in the very bosom of nature. It is
impossible to think otherwise when the
largest banyan tree – arguably the largest
organism – resides on the pacific island,
explosion of lava quaking everything
under the volcano’s feet in ten-minute
intervals, primary mode of transport on
horseback, kastom dances and chants the
means of praising nature, and practices of
a peculiar religion which regards Prince
Phillip as a god.
Like an Argentine I met, who had ar-
rived at the island from an odyssey of
self-discovery and unwittingly took up a
six-month placement at the local school,
I became myself infected with the very
mode of life that Westerners perceived
barbaric and sought to purge and rectify
for the past centuries.
That didn’t eclipse my delight of find-
ing a travel companion, as we set straight
the formalities of introduction in the
back of the monstrous cross-islander van,

