27
felix FRIDAY 20 NOVEMBER 2009
travel.felix@imperial.ac.uk TRAVEL
with an Oxford graduate of geology. True
to my nature, I didn’t allow the geological
bantering linger and switched the con-
versation into travelling mode.
And so he told me about his fleet-
ing employment under the Sudanese
government.
I could see the remorse in his eyes –
he had a good reason to feel no pride in
this affiliation. He did redeem himself,
and indeed his soul, when he declined to
work on a controversial project, conduct-
ed by a controversial company of a nation
brimming with ethical controversies.
All whilst Kelson the guide had the
chicken knocked out stone cold, re-
strained and plucked, before I was hand-
ed a machete and committed the act of
murder.
*
The sight aroused some disgust in Anna’s
facial expressions, though I was brim-
ming with childlike awe.
“What is this?” I pressed on. The Mo-
roccan seemed patient – more due to
hard-learnt marketing techniques rather
than the genuine wish to educate a cou-
ple of foreigners.
“Sheep’s head,” he muttered as he
deboned the skull of one and mutilated
it beyond recognition. Oddly, in its more
passable manifestation, my appetite
swelled. So I sat down, Anna by my side
expressing her indifference yet eager-
ness to try, and the stewed meat landed
in our bowls effortlessly on our part, save
the odd afak and shukran to show our
gratitude.
Except for being a bit greasy with a tad
too much fat slithering on my tongue,
I thought it tasted not bad at all. The
aroma, which scented the four corners of
Djemaa el Fna ‒ the evening food market
of Marrakech ‒ was an absolute bonus. I
didn’t know, until then, that a cut consid-
ered waste product back home had such
capacity to satisfy even a strict palate like
mine.
(Though, on a side note, British manu-
facturers are known to include cheeks
or even the entire head of cattle in the
industrial production of beef burgers –
watch out the next time you order one at
your local kebab shop.)
We have fallen in touch with what
we eat. It is evidently so when our meat
comes in plastic wrappings and packag-
ing, plucked straight from the shelves of
Tesco, and when recent studies show that
an overwhelming population of children
in London have not even the faintest idea
of what an onion looks like.
And too many times I have seen tour-
ists give the grimace and decline the
invitation to try something different. In
fact, refusal is a better phrase to describe
their methods of dodging the ‘awkward’
situations; very often not so much a slab
of kangaroo on the plate, or kava in coco-
nut bowl, but familiar culinary ideas that
were managed by the hands of a foreign
chef.
Travelling opened my eyes to the
nature-conjunct cuisines that a city
life would have me blinded to. Venison
reared in grasslands, gigantic turkeys
owned by the Strawbridge family of It’s
Not Easy Being Green fame, metre-long
fish heaved from the Fijian seas, solitary
pineapples from the trees and sweet po-
tatoes from the ground – none of these
were sheer impulses to consume but in-
stead my utmost respect for the natural
form of my foodstuff.
And so, from Cornwall to New Zea-
land, from Morocco to the South Pacific,
I found in my sources of food the means
to rediscover the essentials of life I had
lost touch with.
*
The presentation had me digging deep
into reminiscence. I knew, as soon as I
took on the stage, the stories and pho-
tographic memoirs would have me over-
burdened with nostalgia for an adventure
lost. At least, I consoled myself, I was
there to share them with a group of travel
enthusiasts who would likely themselves
embark on the hitch-hike from London
to Morocco.
And since minimal preparation was
made on the night before – the Power-
Point presentation consisted of no more
than ten pictures and my notes pretty
obsolete – I embraced the role with
full commitment to improvisation. Or
ramblings.
‘Why hitchhiking?’ is next.
“It’s fun, exciting, unpredictable; you
get to meet people along the way…”
I tried to be as persuasive as I could,
though the list of justification was run-
ning dry fast.
Better think of something equally as
fast.
The sparkle of inspiration was as in-
genious as the charity hitchhike itself.
“For the eco-warriors amongst you,
think about the eco-initiative of the hitch:
not only will you be leaving behind zero
carbon emissions by travelling to your
holiday destination by using alternative
transport, you’re effectively reducing the
carbon footprints of those who give you
lifts.”
Although, I must confessed, I had bol-
locked my way out of embarrassment
using ‘facts’ I improvised on the spot,
there is still truth in my claims. You are
reducing your carbon footprint by not
travelling by air, and you are dividing the
carbon emissions of a vehicle amongst
the drivers and his/her new-found pas-
sengers, therefore yet another reduction.
And so I questioned: considering our
impact to the environment by the simple
acts of voyaging, should we travel less, if
not stop travelling altogether?
Am I to be deprived of my rights to
achieve better understanding of cultures
and nature? Surely my motivations are
more noble than those whose sole pur-
poses of travelling are to get plastered on
yet another party island, or absent-mind-
edly peruse yet another museum?
Perhaps selfishness got the better of
me.
Alternative means of transport are
becoming increasing popular due to the
raised awareness for the environment.
But, not disimilar to my hitchhiking
stunt, they remain exclusive to those with
time in their hands.
Will I spare months of my time, trav-
elling over land and sea, to reach home
some 23,000 miles away, just because my
conscience dictates so?
Not a chance.
Face it. Eco-tourism has never been about
labels and marketing strategies, vanity-
driven self-righteous ‘commitments’ to
conservation or CV boosters. Fire away
your accusations of idealism and imprac-
ticality – I am shameless to admit them
all. But, I have gradually come to an un-
derstanding through travelling of the
environment and the impacts of our acts
of greed and ignorance. Eco-tourism can
only be so when the people affiliated to
the trend are receptive to their surround-
ings as they travel, yearn to learn the es-
sentials of life in relations to the environ-
ment, muse about the impact inflicted
by their pursuit of knowledge, and can
return from their journeys and continue
to live out the lessons and inspire others
to do the same.
And so with these I shall leave you, dear
readers, the stories of ‘me’.
Early stages of growth of a mango...you don’t learn that at school do you?
Our victim in its final moments Alternative modes of transport

