3
felix FRIDAY 20 NOVEMBER 2009
NEWS
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Sir Roy Anderson resigns as Rector
As the Rector drops a bombshell on the College’s staff and students this week, Kadhim Shubber and Dan Wan
report on the circumstances surrounding Sir Roy’s sudden and hasty exit from Imperial’s top job
I
n a sudden announcement only
16 months after becoming Rector,
Sir Roy Anderson has resigned.
Despite stating in an email on
Monday that he wished to spend more
time on research, questions are being
asked about the circumstances sur-
rounding his departure.
The decision was announced on Mon-
day in an email sent to students and staff,
followed swiftly by an email from Lord
John Kerr, Chairman of College Council,
in which he publicly accepted the resig-
nation with “deep regret”. However, ru-
mours had been circulating before these
announcements, with the TimesHigh-
erEducation tweeting on the morning of
Friday 13th November: “Big announce-
ment from Imperial College due on Mon-
day. Rumour mill in overdrive…”
Sir Roy recently cancelled his monthly
meeting with Union President Ashley
Brown on the 9th November as well
as an interview with felix on the 2nd
November.
On the same day that the Rector can-
celled his meeting with the Union Presi-
dent, 9th November, a session of College
Council was held. Union President Ash-
ley Brown explained “The President is
invited to attend all sessions of College
Council except when staffing matters are
being discussed, and I wasn’t invited to
that meeting”.
The College have confirmed that the
Council were notified on the 2nd No-
vember before he officially tendered his
resignation on the 9th, when the ‘staffing
matters’ were being discussed at Council.
College officials have also stated Head
of Departments were notified by Faculty
Principals as late as the day before Mon-
day the 16th.
Sir Roy will formally leave his post
on the 31st of December and Sir Keith
O’Nions will take up the position un-
til a new Rector is found. However, Sir
Roy’s day-to-day duties at Imperial are
expected to be scaled back with the re-
cently appointed Deputy Rector, Profes-
sor Stephen Richardson picking up some
of the slack. “I do expect to be busy as Sir
Roy winds down at the end of this year
and prepares to hand over to Sir Keith but
being busy is just part of an academic ca-
reer... and I’m looking forward to getting
stuck in” he told felix. The promotion of
Professor Richardson, reported in last
week’s felix, was seen as a strong hint of
Sir Roy’s imminent resignation.
The impact of Sir Roy’s sudden resigna-
tion is likely to become more apparent
over the coming weeks but it’ll do little
to help push forward Imperial’s many ini-
tiatives. “There’s a long list of things that
need attention, which is going to be more
difficult now. I can’t see there being much
progress between now and December,”
says Ashley Brown.
Brown also indicated that he doesn’t
expect to be dealing with the outgoing
Rector, but rather with Prof. Richardson
until Sir Keith O’Nions arrives in Janu-
ary. He annouced this to Monday’s Union
Council, stating that it puts the Union in
a “weird position” with the upper hier-
achy of College. However, College have
stated an official line that it is “largely
business as usual” with only “some shifts
to activities and duties” in the transition
period before the Acting Rector arrives.
There seems to be concerning ele-
ments of immediacy and reshuffling to
How the rumour mill started spinning...
13th November:
Times Higher
Education Twitter
feed hints at upcoming
news, saying “Big
announcement from
Imperial College due
on Monday. Rumour
mill in overdrive...”
16th November
5.29am:
After unknown insiders
give clues on their
discussion forums, Live!
correctly pre-empt an
official announcement
from the Rector later
that morning.
16th November
11.30am:
Imperial College
staff and students
are sent an official
announcement from
the Rector stating his
desire to return to
academic research
16
The number of months Sir
Roy Anderson was Imperial’s
Rector
10
The usual number of months
it takes College to appoint a
new Rector
Sir Roy’s exit that have got the College’s
staff and students talking. It has resulted
in many rumours circulating around
College regarding the Rector’s departure.
It is clear that his explanation for leaving-
wanting to focus more on research- has
convinced few people at Imperial. The
rumours largely stem from the Rector’s
short time on the job and the fact that he
had continued to advise the government
and get involved in research during his
time as Rector. Some believe that he was
unable to push forward his vision for the
university, and there are signs that Sir Roy
and Lord Kerr had disagreed on a range
of issues including Imperial’s response
for cuts in public funding.
Some have even suggested that he
is leaving in order to distance himself
from the staff cuts in Humanities and
Medicine departments. University and
College Union, who represent a por-
tion of teaching staff at Imperial, stated
that ‘We hope that Sir Roy Anderson’s
replacement will use the opportunity
of coming to a new role to look again at
plans for serious and damaging cuts. We
look forward to engaging with Sir Keith
O’Nions as soon as possible.”
College Council are now due to set up
a selection committee but it’s not known
how long the search for a new Rector
will take. The search for a rector usually
begins around 10 months before the end
of the incumbent’s contract; obviously
in this case, there has been significantly
less advance warning. The Rector of Im-
perial is the second highest paid Rector
position in the U.K; Sir Roy’s salary is
£370,000 a year.
Sir Roy’s peppered past :
Profiling the Acting Rector
Sir Keith O’Nions’ academic record is
scattered across the globe; undergraduate
degree from Nottingham, PhD from
Alberta, and became a Postdoctoral
Fellow in Oslo Other posts he has held is
Professor of Geochemistry at Oxford and
ofGeologyatColumbiaUniversityinNew
York.
Other major roles he has held include
becoming the Chief Scientific Advisor to
the Ministry of Defence, and Director-
General of the Research Councils.In July
2008, Sir Keith joined Imperial to lead
the Institute for Security Science and
Technology. Sathyan Balaji
2nd November :
Rector cancels a
scheduled interview
with felix’s Business
Editor a few days
before it is to take
place. Interview
could not be
rescheduled.
9th November:
Union President
Ashley Brown
unusually omitted
from College Council
meeting & Rector
also cancels monthy
meeting with
Brown.
10th November:
Speculationaboutthe
College’supperhierachy
mountsasProf.Stephen
Richardsonisappointed
asDeputyRector;a
positionleftunfilled
sinceSeptember2007.
This is not the first time Sir Roy has left a job in questionable circumstances.
Whilst Linacre professor of Zoology at Oxford, he was placed on gardening
leave for two months and subsequently given a vote of no confidence by his
department. This came after he accused a colleague of sleeping her way to
herpositionwithintheuniversity.Theresearchersduringhisprofessorship
critisised his management style of “autocratic” and that it caused “very
deep” divisions within the department. Further investigations led him to
resign from his professorship and as Trustee of the Wellcome Trust; the
latter in which he was found to have unfair financial influences.
As a leading adviser to the Government regarding swine flu, he was publically
criticised for his conflicting interests as a £116k.p.a. board member of
GlaxoSmithKline, one of the main pharmaceutical companies producing a flu
vaccine. His strategic mass culling of livestock during the Foot and Mouth disease
outbreak was also heavily questioned and described as “scientifically unjustified”.

