30
FASHION
Fashion Editor
Fashion Editor Kawai Wong
Kawai Wong
fashion.felix@imperial.ac.uk
felix FRIDAY 20 NOVEMBER 2009
Sophia Theallet - new star to watch
Adidas will make €1 trainers for
people in poor country
Gareth Puge moves into SHOWstudio
I
was in Primark the other day
and they now make ‘bags for life’.
The irony, eh? You buy a pair of
Primark knickers and don’t re-
ally expect the seams to stay
stitched for 24 hours. A bag for life that
carries your big Primark shop? You’ll
probably get home with just a big han-
dle on your shoulder. No bag, and defi-
nitely forget about your shopping.
So what do you do with this wrecked
pair of knickers anyway? You bin them.
What about the dress which was burst
at its seams? You got it for £10; a sew-
ing kit costs £5. You’ll most probably
go and buy a new dress. As a result, we
all contribute to the clothing related
waste in Britain.
The colossal amount of wasted
polyesters, viscose and herbicide rich
wool amount to the weight of 240,000
double-decker buses every year. On
this small island, one of the most pop-
ulated countries in Europe, it is not
the immigrants we’re up against. It is
the avalanche of unwanted clothing
that is eating up our habitable lands.
And it starts from our overflowing
wardrobes.
Throwaway fashion’s horrific envi-
ronment and humanity track record
needs no repeating. You can smell the
benzene on Primark’s accessory floor
and feel the child labour in the buttons.
The french born, NYC based designer
has won the prestigious CFDA fashion
fund. The $200,000 prize was previously
awarded to Alexander Wang. Sophie’s
SS10 collection featured tunic dresses.
Bangladesh’s Nobel prize winner
Muhammad Yunus has inspired Adidas to
put the 89p trainers on the market.
The avant-garde designer will set up a
temporary studio space at SHOWstudio
in Bruton Place. Gareth will aim to create
a piece themed around his SS10 collection
and will be sold there and then. He will
be working at the studio on the 20, 21 and
22 of November. SHOWstudio is curated
by the legendary photographer Nick
Knight to broadcast live fashion events
online and to bring people closer to the
fashion world. The site has previously
broadcasted Nick Knight’s shoot with
Natalia Vodianova for Vogue. You can
watch Gareth at work online at www.
showstudio.com
Pitt and Jolie design for Asprey
Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie have
designed a capsule limited collection
for Asprey. Prices start at $525 for the
snake inspired items. All profit will go
to Jolie’s charity. The collection, called
the Protector, will go on sale in Asprey’s
London stores.
Heroin of
fashion
Kawai Wong
Kawai Wong Fashion Editor
The reality is, how many of us can re-
sist a £10 trendy new look? A new out-
fit boosts your confidence like nothing
else, it makes you feel new. There’s no
rehab for throwaway fashion. No one
can help you.
The bottom line is, the more con-
sumers care about eco products, the
more the industry is willing to cater to
them. So you need to know that eco-
fashion is not just about H&M’s or-
ganic and fair-trade cotton. It is about
the environment – treated cotton is
hard to degrade; polywhatever plastic
is toxic to the environment.
Ethical manufacturing allows you to
trace your woolie jumper back to the
sheep that has produced the yarn (then
you know the farmer isn’t keeping his
herd in a cardboard box). And you will
also find that the company pays decent
wages to its workers. Beautiful Soul, a
company that upcycles vintage Japa-
nese kimono, allow asylum seekers in
the UK to make friends and learn Eng-
lish while making money by producing
eco-friendly garments.
Last but not least, our photo shoot
is the final proof against the common
belief that anything ethical is boring.
The craftsmanship and the creativity
that goes into these garments is just as
good as in ‘non-ethical’ fashion. If not
better.
Clothing: Henrietta Ludgate, Stamo; Accessories: Fara Charity; Production: Kawai Wong; Photographers: Alfred Yu,
Andreea Babiuc, Christopher Chan, Jonathan Kim, Slobodan R., Tristan Brown; Processing: Alfred Yu, Andreea Babiuc,
Slobodan R., Tristan Brown; Hair: Holly Sarrer; Make-up: Ainhoa Manterola; Models: Annabelle Harris, Chidi Ilobi, Loukia
Sivena, Lucky Guo; With special thanks: Rohini and PhotoSoc. Fara is dedicated to transforming the lives of the poorest children
in Eastern Europe. Fara provides a home and an education for children and offers training for teenagers. The Fara Charity Shop on
Gloucester Road often stocks designer items such as Ralph Lauren and Gucci from £20. Also spotted recently are granny specs from £3.
Kawai Wong
Kawai Wong Fashion Editor
News Strip
BY SLOBODAN R. FROM LEFT: ANNABELLE
WEARS SILK BLOUSE AND BLACK COAT BY
STAMO; LOUKIA WEARS BOW BLOUSE BY
STAMO AND SKIRT BY HENRIETTA LUDGATE;
LUCKY WEARS DRESS BY HENRIETTA LUDGATE.
BY CHRISTOPHER CHAN. FROM
LEFT: LUCKY WEARS SKIRT BY
HENRIETTA LUDGATE.
CLOCKWISE FROM TOP: BY ANDREEA
BABIUC; BLOUSE AND COAT, STAMO. BY
ALFRED YU; SHEER SHIRT, STAMO; SKIRT,
HENRIETTA LUDGATE. BY SLOBODAN R.;
CLOTHES SAME AS BEFORE.
The green gateway
The green gateway

