32
FOOD
Food Editors
Food Editors Chris Sim & Holly Cumbers
Chris Sim & Holly Cumbers
food.felix@imperial.ac.uk
felix FRIDAY 20 NOVEMBER 2009
Cheese and potato pie
I
know from years of experience
how difficult it is to eat a healthy,
balanced vegetarian diet at uni-
versity. For years I have had an
incredibly unhealthy diet, in-
cluding biscuits, chocolate, breadsticks
and most recently I have fallen in love
with peanut butter sandwiches. My
flatmates over the years have all joked
about my strange eating habits.
However, it is important to at least
attempt to eat healthy and nutritional
meals- as I am sure you already know.
To help you on your way I have in-
cluded a recipe of one of my favourite
Holly Cumbers thought this was tasty! James Kightley changes his views on vegetarianism? Perhaps...
My favourite five green vegetables...
Holly Cumbers explores ways in which you can get your 5 a day!
A
s this is the green issue
I thought I would do a
special article on my fa-
vourite green vegetables.
Seaweed has to be
number 1. Admittedly not to every-
one’s taste (I don’t really understand
why!), this vegetable is packed with
calcium and magnesium (making it
an excellent substitute for milk). I love
seaweed on its own with just a sprin-
kling of herbs on top. It always tastes
best when cooked properly, something
which I can never master-but it should
be fairly easy. This is a perfect dish to
order when you go for your next chi-
nese meal.
Number 2, Popeye’s favourite food-
Spinach. Spinach is jam packed with
iron, calcium and antioxidants- now
I know why Popeye was always so
strong!
Spinach has to be cooked properly
in order to be fully enjoyed. I recom-
mend adding spinach to pizza as it
does actually taste nice- and you don’t
have to feel bad tucking in to a divine
snack.
Although I used to hate it as a kid,
number 3 would now be cabbage. Un-
fortunately, I can never shake off those
terrible memories of school dinner la-
dies slopping it on to my plate. How-
ever, this vegetable shouldn’t be grum-
bled at- it is packed with vitamin C.
4 goes to Brussel Sprouts- again
only for the acquired tastebuds. So
many people find these disgusting
simply because they are overcooked.
I love brussel sprouts with chestnuts
at christmas or in a stir-fry, both are
extremely tasty. Brussel sprouts are
full of protein and vitamin A, which
makes them an excellent replacement
to meat, giving you essential nutrients
that are often difficult to get from a
vegetarian diet.
And finally courgettes (I am not
100% sure whether they can be called
green vegetables but what the heck
they are still nice, and of course
healthy! Very healthy. They are filled
with wholesome vitamins such as
folate acid and vitamin A- and you do
not need to worry about putting on
any weight as they are incredibly low
in calories). I love them when they
are cut into chips and then fried. My
friend also suggested to me the other
day that courgettes are excellent when
they were fried in breadcrumbs.
There are so many creative things
that you can do with green vegetables.
It is really fun to explore new recipes
and different ways of cooking green
vegetables. Not only is it fun but it is
also essential for a vegetarian diet. So
have fun! I am sure you will!
C
amden is famous for its
arty stalls- selling alter-
native dresses, gorgeous
trinkets and most impor-
tantly, so much vegetar-
ian food that it feels almost heaven-
like. There are dishes from all over the
world. On Saturdays and Sundays they
have places where you can sit and eat,
so you can eat your food whilst watch-
ing the world pass you by.
I particulary enjoy visiting Green
Note cafe, although this isn’t techni-
cally a food stall the prices are still ex-
tremely good.
The cafe is both a live music venue
and purely a vegetarian cafe (If you are
a full strung meat eater I would avoid
this place like the plague! As you won’t
get served any meat here!). I tend to
visit this place on a Sunday as they
have open mic sessions where people
just come up and sing for you- you can
get some really random and fun acts
sometimes, which will always brighten
up your day.
I instantly fell in love with the friend-
ly and relaxed atmosphere. You can
really make yourself feel at home here.
The staff make you feel as if this is
where you belong with their compli-
ments and their genuine smiles. You
just know they genuinely want to look
after you and give you the best possible
service.
The menu is full of nutritional and
tasty dishes from all over the world
(they call it world tapas), but they also
have larger food dishes available. We
decided to order several dishes as we
were told that they might be small-
however as the dishes start from only
£3.50 it is what you would expect. We
opted for the mixed vegetable samosas,
which were served with mango chut-
ney, the mixed olives and the mango
and halloumi salad- which caught our
eye as it sounded so exotic! And the tex
mex dips- which were served with to-
mato salsa and guacamole. All the in-
gredients they use are organic.
The food arrived really quickly,
which was good as the divine smells
coming from the kitchen were driv-
ing us crazy. All the dishes were well
prepared.
The food is amazing and I think
that is why I keep coming back to this
little cafe. It always tastes better than
the money I spend on it. The dishes
are always filled with so many different
flavours.
Next time you are in Camden pop
by- I am sure they will be pleased to
see you and they will make you feel like
one of the family. Just bear in mind that
it is closed on Mondays and Tuesdays!
I would advise a lazy Sunday here......
T
hey’ll love you- but will
you love them?
I must admit that when
I received an email this
week asking me to re-
view a vegetarian restaurant to cel-
ebrate green week, my heart sank. I
decided, nevertheless, to put my pre-
conceptions of vegetarian food aside
and began scouring the internet for
something that might inspire me. So
imagine my joy when I came across the
restaurant Tibits. A fully vegetarian
restaurant with the tag line “Food that
loves you back”. How could I possibly
refuse…
Located in a beautiful, bustling,
pedestrianised street called Hed-
don Street, set just back from Regent
Street, Tibits offers a large terraced
area in front of the restaurant, which
I imagine is a joy in the summer. In-
side the restaurant, the atmosphere is
relaxed and the décor colourful and
casual with bench seats in the large
windows, which give the restaurant
a wonderful feeling of extra outside
space. Tibits is a great choice for all
age groups, and a great place to go for
a casual evening with friends.
Tibits is a Swiss concept and is, as
is so popular on the continent, a self
service buffet. This is one of the great-
est things about Tibits, as it is in my
mind what makes it successful. As may
have been obvious from my initial re-
action, I am an avid meat-eater and the
thought of chomping my way through
a large portion of imitation chicken
and cubes of soy was horrifying, how-
ever on entering I was pleasantly sur-
prised. On entry you are immediately
confronted by an enormous “boat”,
heavily laden with all manner of veg-
etarian dishes, and I have to admit that
I was genuinely excited to try each and
every dish on offer. There are over 40
dishes on offer, which take inspiration
from all over the world. These range
from vegetable red Thai curry, to
falafels, dahls, and all manner of inter-
esting cold vegetable and pasta dishes
with exciting dressings. Although no
particular dish jumped off the plate at
me, the quality was very good and the
variety and combinations worked well
to create a very pleasant meal.
I would like to say that the service
was very good. Being a self service res-
taurant however, there really isn’t any!
What I can say is that the staff were
very friendly and helped explain how
the concept worked, part of which was
to pay for the food by weight. Your
food is weighed at the bar area, the
fortunate thing being that vegetables
tend to be light. This means one can
enjoy a full plate of food for around
£8, and a pudding bowl selection for
around £3-£4. There are also various
healthy fruit drinks on offer, you know
the ones I mean, like “Vit boost” etc. I
had a” Tutti Frutti” on the recommen-
dation of the Manager - tasty enough,
but only as good as a smoothie I could
make at home and for £3.30 for a small
glass, I felt that it wasn’t really worth it.
I can assure you, you won’t leave
feeling hungry, the food it is very sat-
isfying, and healthy to boot. There
are different prices for 100g of food at
different times of the day - £1.40 for
breakfast, £1.80 at lunchtime, and £2
at dinner. All in all this makes for a
very affordable meal, particularly con-
sidering the location of the restaurant.
So have I changed my mind on veg-
etarian food? I suppose I have. If a veg-
etarian friend suggested Tibits for din-
ner I would not feel disappointed at all,
and if I were a vegetarian this would
certainly be a place I would frequently
return to. I’m not sure if I love Tibits as
much as it claims to love me… but we
are certainly friends.
Recipe for a scrumptious cheese-potato pie!
(Student Style)
Ingredients:
4 or 5 potatoes- make sure they are washed peeled and cut into quarters
200 grammes cheese- can be any cheese, but I think cheddar cheese works best
1 onion- can be either red or white depending on taste, make sure it is sliced
1 tomato or use two if they are small, again make sure you cut it into slices
Herbs for flavour, I usually add mixed herbs and a sprinkling of salt
Begin by boiling and mashing the potatoes (for a creamier texture add milk) and
add salt for flavour. At the bottom of a casserole dish create a layer of potatoes,
followed by a layer of cheese, then another layer of potato. Finish off with an-
other layer of cheese. Put under the grill for twenty minutes. Then add the sliced
tomato and the sliced onion. Put back under the grill until it goes golden brown.
Enjoy your tasty but nutritious meal!
Vegetarianism in Camden
Holly Cumbers reviews food in Camden
dishes- cheese and potato pie. This
recipe is easy to make, cheap and
warming on a cold winter’s night-
and what’s more you can easily make
enough for at least two meals, which
gives you enough time to do some
more coursework- joy!
Tibits, the best vegetarian food?

