food.felix@imperial.ac.uk
33
felix FRIDAY 20 NOVEMBER 2009
FOOD
How bad is meat for the environment?
Food production is an important
factor in global warming and climate
change. The claim that meat (espe-
cially beef) production is a huge con-
tributor to global warming is certainly
credible; industrial meat production
is responsible for water pollution (due
to the practice of storing waste in gi-
ant lagoons), greenhouse gas produc-
tion and land degradation, as well as
deforestation to grow crops to feed
livestock. As a result we are being told
to go vegetarian to save the planet. In
fact the UN published a report on live-
stock and the environment recently,
with the conclusion that “The livestock
sector emerges as one of the top 2 or
3 most significant contributors to glo-
bal warming”. But let us not throw the
baby out with the bathwater. The key
word here is “industrial” meat produc-
tion. While this is certainly unsustain-
able and damaging, the same is not
true of grass-fed livestock raised in a
traditional way. In fact, certain farm-
ing methods can actually help reverse
global warming, and it could be that
a conscientious meat eater may have
a more environmentally friendly diet
than your average vegetarian.
Grass-fed vs grain-fed
Most animals that are raised for food
such as cows and sheep are ruminants
(grass-eating). However, the practise of
feeding these animals vast amounts of
grain is widespread. Not only is it inhu-
mane (it throws their digestive system
out of balance and makes them more
prone to infection), but it also con-
tributes to global warming in numer-
ous ways.
One way is through increased green-
house gas emissions. For instance,
most agriculture related CO2 emis-
sions come from the fuel being burned
to operate vehicles and equipment,
and clearing woods for crop growing
and livestock grazing. Most Brazilian
deforestation is for soybean cultiva-
tion, with over half of soybean harvest
being controlled by a few international
agribusiness companies who ship it
worldwide for animal feed and food
products. However, small traditional
farms use little machinery and keep
the animals on pasture so have no need
to buy in vast amounts of grains from
overseas (if they do feed grains they
usually grow them themselves so there
are no emissions and no contribution
to deforestation).
Methane, agriculture’s 2nd larg-
est greenhouse gas is 25 times more
damaging than carbon dioxide. In in-
dustrial farming, most of the methane
comes from huge lagoons of liquefied
manure. This isn’t a problem in smaller
traditional farms where animals de-
posit manure in pastures. Further-
more, cows produce more methane
when fed a lot of grains which they are
not designed to eat. Methane produc-
tion can also be reduced by rotating
cattle on fresh pastures frequently.
Other environmental benefits of live-
stock grazing include the ability of per-
ennial pastures used for grazing to de-
crease soil erosion by 80% and improve
water quality, as shown in research by
Minnesota’s Land Stewardship Project.
Even a report by the United Nations
concedes that “There is growing evi-
dence that both cattle ranching and
pastoralism can have positive impacts
on biodiversity”.
Traditional farms have numerous
animal species co-existing harmoni-
ously, which is the natural way of the
world. For instance, farming sheep and
cows on pastures keeps them in better
shape as sheep can eat weeds that are
toxic to cows and vice versa, and they
also help cotntrol parasites that affect
one species but not the other. Chick-
ens on farms can follow ruminants and
take advantage of the short grass and
insect larvae in the ruminant manure,
leaving behind their own nitrogen rich
droppings. Meanwhile pigs can be
used to turn and aerate compost which
can feed the grass. This form of sus-
tainable farming uses resources effi-
ciently, and provides highly nutritious
food for humans.
Using unproductive land
A key argument is that the grain used
to feed animals, which in turn feeds
humans, would feed more humans if
it was directly consumed by people.
It should be noted that grain-fed ani-
mals tend to receive the poor quality
grains and by-products unsuitable for
humans. Doesn’t it make more sense
to convert low quality grains to a more
nutritious product through livestock
rearing, than to consume them our-
selves? The truth is that there is a lot
of land out there that just isn’t suitable
for growing crops, for example moun-
tains, deserts, heath and moorland, salt
marshes and lakes. Most of this land
does however support grass and other
plants we can’t utilize directly. Thus the
land can be used to raise animals which
convert the inedible plants into a form
of food we can eat – meat. In these ar-
eas animal farming is the most efficient
use of the land and can even improve
the health of it. Even in the UK, arable
and orchard farming occupies 30%
Reamika Patel weighs up the pros and cons of the meat industry and asks if giving up the steaks and
hamburgers for good will really be saving the planet
of total land area, while permanent
meadow and pasture (which supports
animal rearing) covers 50%. Sheep are
our major livestock production, reared
almost everywhere. Without sheep
farming the mountains of Wales and
Scotland and the moorlands of central
and northern England would become
largely unproductive. We’d simply have
to import more food.
Animals and ecosystems
Even if more land were suitable for
crop growing, is the planting of
monocrops all that good for the earth?
The answer is a resounding no. In fact,
removing grazing animals from the
Earth’s grassland ecosystems causes
long term damage to the soil, and cer-
tainly contributes to global warming.
Grazing animals provide fertilizer in
the form of nitrogen-rich manure,
root stimulation, pest control and de-
crease soil erosion, thus eliminating
the need for artificial fertilizers which
rely on fossil fuels. Nothing made
from fossil fuels is sustainable. In ad-
dition, permanent pastures act as car-
bon sinks, pushing carbon into the soil
and building topsoil. The grasses and
herbs take in carbon from the atmos-
phere (as carbon dioxide), the animals
eat the plants, which then go back into
the soil via the animal’s manure, and
are trampled back into the soil where
the carbon is absorbed and recycled,
feeding plant roots and enabling new
plants to sprout. This form of farming
mimics the natural evolutionary con-
ditions of the earth thousands of years
ago, where grazers grazed the land
and fertilized the soil with their waste,
then were chased away by predators or
moved on, thus allowing new plants to
regrow. This process is in stark con-
trast to a conventional corn or soybean
field which is actually a major source
of greenhouse gases. According to
a recent Scientific American article
“Future farming: A return to roots?”,
production of high input annual crops
release carbon at a rate of around 1000
pounds per acre, while perennial grass-
lands can store carbon at roughly the
same rate. One analysis published in
the journal Global Change Biology
showed a 19% increase in soil carbon
after the land was changed from crop-
land to pasture. Factor in the fact that
animal grazing also reduces the need
for vehicles, machinery, fertilizers and
pesticides, and it’s not difficult to see
how raising animals on grass, as op-
posed to in confinement, can actually
benefit the environment.
What can we do?
The problem is not as clear cut as
“meat is bad for the environment, so
we should all go vegetarian to save the
planet” . Going veggie may mean im-
porting more food and making us even
more dependent on the industrialized
food chain, which is dependant on fos-
sil fuels and chemicals. Animals are
needed to cycle nutrients and prevent
areas of land turning to desert. The
problem isn’t meat. It’s large indus-
trial corporations and big agribusi-
ness companies. It’s true that as the
world population grows, the amount
of meat eaten will grow. But when
living on pastures as they meant to,
animal foods are healthy, traditional
parts of the human diet that we have
relied on for most of our evolution.
If we want to save the planet and still
enjoy that hamburger, we should sup-
port local, organic farmers who raise
their animals on grass using traditional
methods. All the food we buy should
be minimally processed, in season and
locally grown, and we should not let
any of it go to waste. In terms of meat
comsumption, we should be eating
more organ meats – if we are going to
kill an animal for food the least we can
do is not waste any of it.
Thinking about the issues involved,
and how much more damaging to the
environment that soy burger could be
(can anyone say deforestation, pesti-
cides, fertilizers, etc..?) we can all make
our diets more sustainable and eco-
friendly, whether we’re vegan, vegetar-
ian or omnivores.
Chris Reynolds casts his eye over the fishing industry
Most of our earth is covered by ocean, a rolling expanse of waves that seem to
hold a limitless bounty of fish, forming a staple part of the diet of a huge propor-
tion of people on earth. The worldwide per capita consumption is around 16kg,
more than double what it was during the first half of the twentieth century, and
in Britain, fish and chips have long been one of the most popular dishes. For a
long time, the sea has been seen as an infinite resource that can be plundered re-
lentlessly without any consequences, but after years of unsustainable overfish-
ing, stocks of many fish are running low. A study in Nature found that 90% of
the larger predatory fish such as sharks and marlins have disappeared from the
oceans, and 80% of most of the smaller fish, such as cod and tuna, are gone too,
and this study was performed six years ago.
We’ve already seen the effects of overfishing on the whale population, which
crashed back in the 1960s, and scientists are now predicting that supplies of fish
will run out by 2048 if we continue fishing at the same rate. With levels of fish
dropping, fishing methods have become increasingly intensive. Long-line fish-
ing, where miles of baited hooks are strung out below the surface of the ocean
surface, and trawling, catch fish indiscriminately, killing many unwanted larger
fish. With catches getting smaller, the trawler nets grow ever wider, and the
number of unwanted larger fish, such as dolphins, getting swept up increases.
Bottom trawling, where the net is allowed to scrape along the ocean floor to
catch the cod and halibut that live at the deeper depths, can cause vast damage
to coral and the sea floor ecosystem.
There is a lack of pressure on fishermen to stop overfishing. Fishermen don’t
want to start imposing quota limits on themselves and limit their income, and
governments are unwilling to do anything about it; after all, the fish don’t have
votes, and there is little public pressure. Overfishing is not an environmental
problem uppermost in the mind of most of the public. It’s easy to show people
images of vast swathes of cut-down rainforest, or sodden rock replacing snowy
glaciers, but showing the effects of overfishing are more difficult. The sea looks
the same as ever, while the fish stocks dwindle away, invisibly, underneath.
Overfishing can be very difficult to change. For example, despite all whale-
hunting being banned since 1983, many whales are still near the brink of extinc-
tion, and large numbers of whales are still killed under the guise of conducting
scientific research, presumably into the tastiness of whale meat. However, there
is some good news for whales and fishing bans. Blue whale hunting was banned
in 1960, when 5000 blue whales were left, and only now, 50 years after the ban
are the numbers of blue whales starting to grow again in the Antarctic. This gives
some hope that attitudes, and the march towards extinction of many fish species
can be changed, and you too can help. Try to cut down on the amount of fish you
eat, and if you do eat fish, make sure they are properly farmed from sustainable
sources, and that damaging fishing methods are not used. The Marine Conserva-
tion Society publishes leaflets, available on the internet, which can give you an
easy guide to which fish are properly farmed, not trawled, and dolphin-friendly.

