34
CLUBS &
SOCIETIES
Clubs & Socs Editor
Clubs & Socs Editor Alex Kendall
Alex Kendall
clubs.felix@imperial.ac.uk
felix FRIDAY 20 NOVEMBER 2009
x
A stormy Halloween in the Lake District
The Fellwanderers hike the Lake District on a wet Halloween weekend; Joe Rumer describes the madness
W
e are very blessed
to be in the UK. It
may not be perfect
but we are free to
make statements
like, “I would rather shoot the Andrex
puppy in the face than vote BNP” and
“Gorden Brown’s choice of biscuits
leaves something to be desired.” We
are free to question authorities; for ex-
ample, I am at liberty to question how
much money the Union invests in the
arms trade. If I chose to get married I
can enjoy the same rights as my hus-
band, and can then choose to divorce
with or without his permission (as al-
A
lways look on the bright
side of life, do do, do do
do do do…maxing out
the minibus volume, the
people waiting for buses
just love us. We pile a mountain of
rain-soaked kit onto the pavement, in-
cluding a skull dripping with wax and
a rolling pumpkin with a face only a
mother could love. This wasn’t the only
cheesy song of the weekend, and my
mind remains harrowed by memories
of a Halloween in the Lake District that
will haunt me forever: think gay pirates
in skin-tight pink V-necks, white light-
ening cider and a castle plunging into
darkness before you. Think a Fellwan-
derers’ trip to a beautiful mountain…
11.00am Saturday: the valley floor
swept out before us, over the rocky
foreground a raging river chased the
path down the mountainside back to
the pub where we began, and many
miles later would finish. Left, two
sheep (with their picturesque blue
spray-painted-on numbers) scamp-
ered past a dry stone wall. Right, an
eerie mist washed down over the land-
scape, the peaks of the mountains lost
in the clouds. The wall was wet from
rain and the mist kept coming, so we
kept going.
The day’s conquest was the volcani-
clastic sandstone summit of Bowfell,
6th highest mountain in the Lakes. We
were in good hands: Alex our leader
had kicked off with a pint before de-
parting from the Union and I picked
up a bottle of white lightening cider
on our travels north. We arrived with
all our kit rain-soaked on the top of
the bus at our exclusive residence (an
ageing village hall with an ominous
portrait of some fat, old and now dead
lady hanging above as we slept). Man-
points to Jim for sleeping in a half-
soaked sleeping bag. The hall came
complete with a classic record player
and all those 80s hits on vinyl – sadly
these weren’t played. What’s more, I
had to settle for porridge for breakfast.
I think you have problems if you like
this stuff.
Up the valley, onto a plateau and past
a lake, up a bit more: some nice views,
lots of mist and rain now, but reward-
ing all the same. We find the ‘shelter’
(is it really a shelter if you can legally
smoke there? Two walls – is that a
shelter?!) and enjoy our first lunch. A
small patch of blue sky emerges later
and we all take pictures. After a small
map-reading error, we plough on, only
to confront our worst nightmare – the
other half of the trip emerge from the
mist (we had split into two groups do-
ing the same circular walk in opposite
directions)! a Tolkien-style troll battle
ensued. Later in the afternoon we hit
the summit and bash on down to the
pub which, quite frankly, was a little
disappointing – it had strip lights and
red vinyl flooring (but no, not a strip
club) – not your classic English water-
ing hole. Still, following a plastered
local home because he couldn’t bring
himself to drive above 25mph (60mph
limit) was entertaining, but not as
much as was what lay ahead…
At the hut, butternut squash chop-
ping. Too much squash. But it went
into a tasty pumpkin risotto and pump-
kin pie for dessert, all very Halloween-
tastic. The connoisseurs amongst us
enjoyed our food with a tasty glass of
Frosty Jacks while some of the plebians
settled for fine wine and real ale. Then
there’s the one who always goes too far:
for full appreciation, try the recipe at
home: 1) take a half pint of white light-
ening cider. 2) to the glass, add a brown
sugar frosting to the rim, and dress
with wedges of pumpkin and apple. 3)
heat in the microwave for two minutes.
4) light a candle and float this in the
drink – now enjoy your tasty, steam-
ing beverage, just like mulled wine and
rat’s piss with a rotten cabbage thrown
in. Yummy!
The merriment continued with folk
donning their costumes: Scream was
in attendance, a gay pirate, a bat and
a vampire. An El Presidentes pumpkin
carving contest was hacked out on the
stage (Chris should never be trusted
with a knife like this again) and then
candles were lit and the lights turned
out. This was the ideal time to touch
up freshers.
In a Fellwandering frenzy we em-
barked on a midnight walk to the local
Wray Castle, carrying a sheep’s skull
mounted on a stick and two lit pump-
kins. The beautiful stone gothic build-
ing was illuminated in a deep orange
glow, towering over us. Until, without
warning, darkness instantaneously en-
veloped us. Fearing we had upset the
gods, we marched back to the hall for a
necessitated night’s sleep. No one will
ever know what caused the castle to
vanish into darkness like that…
Sunday morning, pissing down,
drank too much cider. Shit, there’s a
slice of pumpkin pie in the oven still!
Mmmm, oh that’s good. And in the
door of the bus, oh yes, my chips left
over from Friday night. Tasty. None of
that porridge for me.
An aqua-bus journey along roads
that have become rivers, past fields
that have become lakes, and we found
ourselves in Conniston. There was a
choice of three options here, each more
nonsensical than the last: stay in the
pub all day, take a short walk around
the lake and pub lunch, or go for a long
walk up a mountain in the rain to see
a ‘Goat’s puddle’. For the benefit of the
club, contrary to what any forecaster
may have told you, I can assure you we
enjoyed blue skies and sunshine all day,
with panoramic views of jaw-dropping
scenery. We were bounding like lambs
over heather.
We returned to the buses, reluctant
to leave. Still, I knew I would fall asleep
and wake up in London a little later.
Let’s just forget about the road works
and heavy traffic because of stupid
cars full of stupid kids at the end of half
term, and the service station dinner
(KFC/salty soup/expensive sandwich-
es/Friday’s chips re-heated).
Late at night – when only those of
you who got bladdered for the entire
weekend and could no longer move re-
main at the Union – we return: more
mountains conquered, more classic
dishes served up, many more cheesy
songs, countless laughs and dozens of
heroic tales to tell. We returned home
looking on the brighter side of life!
most 50% of our population choose to
do).
In 1988, a group of students in Bur-
ma protested against their military
regime where freedom of speech was
forcibly repressed. The government’s
response was to arrest, kill and ‘disap-
pear’ thousands of people. Their crime
was breaking one of Burma’s most ri-
diculous sounding laws; disturbing
public tranquillity. Other banned ac-
tivities in Burma include; gatherings
of five or more people, discussing fuel
prices, politics, religion, foreign affairs,
peacocks or the colour red.
The internet is restricted by gov-
ernment censorship and you can get
arrested for accessing BBC pages,
Amnesty International information
or other outside literature. When the
freedoms of a people are restricted, it
is the duty of others to use theirs.
In August and September 2007,
members of the original ’88 group,
including veteran activists Htay Kywe
and Mie Mie and a younger member,
Zaw Htet Ko Ko, took part in mass
anti-government protests which swept
through Burma. These much publi-
cized events (in the UK at least) were
brought to an unceremonious end by a
violent crackdown by the military jun-
The Amnesty Column - this Newspaper could get you arrested
ta. Htay Kywe, Mie Mie and Zaw Htet
Ko Ko were arrested in October. Htay
Kywe and Mie Mie were sentenced to
65 years in prison and Zaw Htet Ko Ko
received an 11-year sentence.
As a human rights charity, Amnesty
International campaigns for the un-
conditional release of these prisoners
of conscience. Not only horrified by the
violation of some of the most basic of
human rights (freedom of speech and
freedom of assembly), mistreatment of
prisoners is also a concern. Since 1988,
at least 135 political prisoners have
died either in prison or during inter-
rogations. Past prisoners report police
brutality, the use of shackles and other
mistreatments.
As a group, the Amnesty Interna-
tional Society have signed the petition
for the release of Htay Kywe, Mie Mie ,
Zaw Htet Ko Ko and all other Burmese
prisoners of conscience. But there’s
more than just that; our society is dedi-
cated to informing ourselves and oth-
ers of human rights violations around
the world, including in the UK.
So if you see us around campus do
come over, ask questions and read our
petitions. Sign, donate or join in if you
agree. You are blessed that here you are
free and safe to do so.
Chris and Alex changed a little over the weekend. Maybe it was the rain. Or the pumpkin risotto
‘In a Fellwandering
frenzy we embarked
on a midnight walk ...
carrying a sheep’s skull
mounted on a stick and
two lit pumpkins.’
Scrumpy Jacks IS a cocktail...

