37
felix FRIDAY 20 NOVEMBER 2009
Putting the cat out to dry
hangman.felix@imperial.ac.uk
It’s not easy being green. Shut up, yes it
is. Green is just a social convention, a
fashion, a mating call. ‘Check out that
guy with his eco-friendly shopping bag.
He cares about the environment. He’s
such a caring guy. I love caring guys,
he’ll care for me... blah blah blah...’
Green is a show. No-one actually
wants to do green. The only reason
we use recyclying boxes is because we
love to collect shiny things and arrange
them in height order.
So lets stop pretending that we care
about our children, or our children’s
children. That’s a disgusting amount
of children to be caring about. Lets in-
stead worry about ourselves and how-
we look because the most important
thing in life is to care about what other
people think.
Tip 1 - CAN STAMPING!
You don’t really know the logic behind
stamping on your empty drinks cans,
but you assume it helps the recycling
people in some way.
That’s a lie - you don’t care about the
recycling people. You’ve just seen too
many Blue Peter appeals in your life-
There’s not much you can do. Stop blaming yourself for the world’s problems and start blaming everyone else.
Anonymous
Anonymous Hangman Editor
Beginner’s Guide to being Green
time and your endless can-stamping
was a dire attempt to win the coveted
Blue Peter badge along with the affec-
tions of Konnie Huq. Ahhhh yeeeeahh,
Konnie Huq! (Foreign Students may
need to do some background research
here).
Of course, endless can-stamping,
combined with the bitterness of never
actually receiving a Blue Peter Badge,
soon led to an implacable stamping ad-
diction. There’s nothing better than
picturing the can with the face of some
stupid smug twat and stamping the
smugness right out of that stupid smug
face. Of course Hangman does not
advocate sticking the faces of your fa-
vourite twats onto your disused drinks
cans and stamping them to death.
How to stick the faces of your favour-
ite twats onto your disused drink can
Tip 2 - The Great Chirade
It is imperative that you shun all forms
of fuel-consuming activities, including
public transport. Stop whining about
the late buses and tube-line closures
and use your legs! Go out there and
save the world with your legs because
the world needs your legs and your legs
need a green world to live on. Smell the
Hangman
Hangman
union.ic.ac.uk/acc/football
Hangfan
fresh outdoors and take time to enjoy
the beauty that surrounds you - ah fuck
this, take the bus.
So you’ve just realised that you’re too
lazy to care. Of course you don’t care,
no-one cares. The only thing we care
about is looking like we care, thus a
foolproof plan must be implemented
to pass off the illusion of your green
endeavours.
When going places, make sure that you
always get off one stop too early and
run the remaining distance. Inform
your friends that you are boycotting
carbon dioxide and saving nature by
running everywhere. Your lack of fit-
ness will only authenticate your lies as
a five minute jog will leave you ruddy-
faced and sweating like an African’s
ball-sack. Try to force a small tear
down your cheek as you weep for the
fallen trees.
Tip 3 - Protestors
That’s right, these tree-hugging, sun-
worshipping druid tossers are only
giving you guys a bad name. You can
often find them outside your local
power-station, chanting scientifically
misinformed drivel about the environ-
ment. Remember you are not one of
these people, nor do you want any as-
We love hearing from the fans and have
received some really warm feedback
“I’m not one to ever feel the need to
comment/act/care about the ‘banter’ in
Felix, BUT, I think last week’s article was
spectacularly…wrong/offthemark/too
un-PC. I was pretty disappointed to find out
that the article was a snobbish attack on
the ‘working class’.The content is what it is,
but to put it in Felix with Imperial’s diverse
range of students as your target audience
is just plain stupid. I won’t be supporting
Felix if content such as this continues to be
published.” Die-hard Hangman fan
sociation with them. Despite appearing
to have similar views, they actually do
care about the world (remember that
you don’t!). The problem is that they
stroll around with their natural teeth,
their natural clothes, natural hair and
look naturally disgusting. We haven’t
even mentioned that they period into
mooncups. That’s right, you’ve now got
to look up ‘mooncups’ and whether the
word ‘period’ can be used in verb form.
They’re so freakishly in love with na-
ture that they just look weird. We all
just look at them and think, ‘Thank
God I’m normal’. In fact people are so
scared of looking mildly hippie-like
that they try damn hard not too. In
other words, hippies are putting us off
making an effort to save the environ-
ment. It’s their fault! It’s nothing to do
with our laziness, it’s simply our deter-
mination not to be a hippie.
Well, glad that’s settled. It’s the hip-
pies’ fault that I’m so negligent and
don’t give a shit. In fact I might just
throw this copy of Felix on that pave-
ment over there.
And if you’re still worried, you can
organsise a fuck-off concert with an
extravagant lighting/sound system
and jet celebrities in from all over the
world. That’s a clever idea you Ameri-
can twat!
the_Cuddly_Racist
Just been pwning some nabs on COD Modern
Warfare 2! Epix game! xXx
SexyOsama69
Well he hasn’t killed me once yet lol!
Barack_attack_l33thaxor
Bet you love killing dem terrorists right? :p
the_Cuddly_Racist
Lmao. stfu Osie! I’ve killd u loadz of times. Ur
such a camper! U jst sit in your cave!
So it seems old Roy has left us for
more important things. Now everyone
is starting to question his sudden de-
parture. What’s behind that stern and
threatending face? Does he really care
about diseases and all that? Noose of
the World has the exclusive scoop on
the Real Royboy!
There has been much speculation
over this scandal and rumours have
been spreading faster than Katie Price’s
legs. A favourite seems to be that Roy-
boy has actually started his own pri-
vate crystal meth business. There have
even been reports of him being seen
with Amy Winehouse.
“Him and Winers have been getting
on well recently. Often seen ‘em stum-
bling around Camden at three in the
morning with cans of Frostie Jack”, re-
ported an unreliable source.
FELLOWSHIP OF
THE METH RING
(We’ve gone green for Green Week,
not that we weren’t green before...)
However, closer sources have told us
that Royboy was asked to resign due to
the discovery of him being a giant ant.
Imperial has strict policies on giant ant
rectors and had to take hard action.
“We were very shocked at the news
and regrettably had to ask the giant
ant to step down,” said a high-up Impe-
rial official. “GSK to crystal meth. It’s
money money money with him.”
Linked? Amy and Royboy
TWATTER
TWATTER
union.ic.ac.uk/acc/football
Barack_attack_l33thaxor
Yeh Osie you camper! BTW I’ve sent some
RL soldiers to your RL cave lol! Just for
teh lolz! Just givin u heds up :p

