4 felix FRIDAY 20 NOVEMBER 2009
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
NEWS
felix
£2 million revamp but do we deserve it?
On Tuesday 17th November, ICU Presi-
dent, Ashley Brown, met with College’s
Portfolio Review Board to discuss fund-
ing for phase 3 of the union redevelop-
ment. Phases 1 & 2 have been relatively
dull for the average student; phase 1 saw
a new lift and dodgy wiring being fixed
in the union and phase 2 was respon-
sible for the union offices and the stu-
dent activities centre being moved up a
few floors and a new gym in the union.
Phase 3 is set to be completed in time
for freshers week 2010 and includes
major changes to the area dearest to
students’ hearts; the bar! The union bar
is likely to be largely unchanged; neat-
ening up the floor and ceiling as well as
installing air conditioning.
Meanwhile, Da Vinci’s and dB’s both
look set for a radical overhaul; regard-
ing the current configuration of the
bars Ashley told felix: “The problem
with da Vinci’s is that it’s just too nar-
row, the lino floors are horrible and
the catering area is a complete waste
of space in the evening, reducing the
useable length of the bar.” When asked
about the furniture in da Vinci’s, in-
troduced in a minor refurbishment in
2006, Ashley agreed they’re not really
fit for purpose and are far less robust
than hoped- the tendency for legs to
fall off the tables isn’t ideal. However
he maintained the considerations be-
hind the furniture are still valid: “fur-
niture in da Vinci’s needs to be robust,
perhaps the style should be more
like what’s currently in dB’s, but with
longer tables so that a whole team can
gather around one and the furniture
should survive outside use, making the
space more flexible.” One suggestion
for solving the problem of the unsocia-
ble shape of da Vinci’s is to knock out
the current catering space changing
the configuration to increase efficiency
and improve the layout of the bar.
ICU’s ‘club’ dB’s suffers from a poor
layout which makes it difficult to reach
Alice Rowlands
Alice Rowlands Reporter
We are looking for HAYFEVER sufferers and NORMAL
VOLUNTEERS to help with allergy research
If you are interested in taking part in research to help us understand the causes of
nasal allergies and develop new forms of treatment, and if
you are between 18 and 55 years old please contact us for more information:
a.goldstone@imperial.ac.uk
Andrea Goldstone – Clinical Research Nurse
Department of Allergy
Royal Brompton & Harefield NHS Trust
and NHLI Ethics Commitees
Fulham Road, London SW3 6HP
The research has been approved by the Brompton Harefield & NHLI Research Ethics Committee
Damage to the Union over two weeks: 1. 1st Floor rear office doors, 2. dBs toilets, 3. Union Office door (Floor 2), 4. Da Vinci’s internal door, 5. Main entrance window, 6. Union Bar door
2 3 4 5 6
MISSING
PERSON
Miriam has been missing from Hinton
on the Green, Worcestershire, since 10
November 2009.
There is great concern for Miriam as
she is unwell. Miriam is 5ft 9in tall, of
slim build with hazel eyes and shoulder
length brown hair. When last seen she
was wearing light colour jeans, a green-
blue hooded jumper, trainers and a
knee length beige corduroy coat She
was carrying a blue and beige material
shoulder-bag. Any information?
Freefone 0500 700 700
1
the bar and therefore uninviting to the
casual drinker. As part of an effort to
make dB’s a more inviting entertaining
space, the entire quad is likely to be re-
modelled and the popular awnings re-
positioned in order to make better use
of covered outside space.
Initial plans for phase 3 were pro-
duced when work began in 2006, the
Union realise this refurbishment is a
massive undertaking which can only
be done every fifteen years or so it’s
essential to get it right. Temporary, ill-
planned solutions have resulted in the
current poor use of space, so the Un-
ion are consulting professional design-
ers and students on how best to use the
space.
Major work to da Vinci’s and dB’s will
set the Union back around £2 million,
Tuesdays meeting left Ashley con-
firmed the project will go ahead with
funds raised between College, Union
reserves and a loan to the Union from
college, meaning the Union are happy
press ahead with plans for phase 3.
Excitement over plans for phase
3 has been somewhat soured by
evening revelry resulting in around
£2000 worth of damage to the Union
building over the last two weeks. Last
Wednesday several panes of glass
in ground floor doors and windows
were broken and a door to the Un-
ion offices was damaged, on Friday
night the door to the toilet in dB’s
was pulled off its hinges and this
Wednesday a door near to the Ladies
toilets was damaged to the point that
it will be completely replaced. Talking
about the recent damage, Ashley told
felix: “General wear and tear should
be expected but this much damage
in a few days makes you wonder why
we bother, covering the cost of this
damage is equivalent to 10% on the
price of drinks.”Acknowledging that
the damage is caused by a minority of
‘drunk, stupid people’, Ashley’s mes-
sage to students is: “If you see some-
one you know damaging Union prop-
erty, tell them to pack it in!”

