43
felix FRIDAY 20 NOVEMBER 2009
SPORT
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
BUCS Cup progression for 1st XI
Mustapher Botchway Sports Editor
Imperial College Men’s 1st XI 5
London South Bank Uni 2nd XI 1
H
ere we go again. The quali-
fying rounds for the 2010
football World Cup in
South Africa came to an
end this week, and the stage is now
set for the biggest sporting event in
the world, kicking off next summer.
Thirty-one teams, out of an initial two
hundred, made it through the qualifi-
ers. Even if you couldn’t care less about
Football, this is worth a moment’s con-
sideration. 200 teams is more than the
number of members of the UN. It is
probably even more than the number
of different nationalities at Imperial
College.
The World Cup is one of the most
universal contests there is; something
that literally every country or nation
has tried to take part in. The UK,
and England in particular, comes to a
standstill for those four summer weeks
in a world cup year. The dip in em-
ployee productivity and the rise in beer
consumption are a well-documented
phenomena.
This time round, England easily
made their way through qualifying to
the finals and (don’t say it too loudly)
are one of the more fancied teams to
lift the trophy. Of course, the British
tradition of the underdog means that
any England fan will hugely under-
play the lads’ chances in South Africa.
Nevertheless, next summer, the entire
nation will be holding its collective
breath. In fact, every single one of the
32 countries taking part will be hold-
ing their breaths. Football manages to
bring people together in a way that no
other sport can. I believe it is called the
beautiful game for what it can do off
the pitch as well as for what happens
on it.
Having said that, I now say this:
Thierry Henry is cheating scum. For
those who don’t know what I’m talking
about, French captain Henry came up
with the ugliest act of deceit since Ma-
radona’s famed ‘Hand of God’ to put
his team into the finals . By keeping the
ball in play with his hand, NBA-style,
he managed to set up the goal that sent
France to the finals, at Ireland’s ex-
pense. As a Frenchman, I’m obviously
delighted that my country managed
to qualify but deeply ashamed that it
had to be through such a dishonest act.
As such, I would like to apologise on
Henry’s behalf to any Irish people out
there. You deserved to go to the World
Cup. In the name of our common ha-
tred for England, forgive us. Oh go on.
Guinness? Parfait.
In any case, thanks to my not-so-
distinguished countryman, France
in particular, and football as a whole
are going to be closely scrutinised in
the run-up to the summer. The ink
will flow in newspapers and the la-
ger will flow in endless pub debates.
If the players are allowed to get away
with cheating at the very highest level,
what message does that send to all the
youngsters who just enjoy kicking a
ball about? Hopefully, once the tour-
nament kicks off in June, we’ll let the
football do the talking.
South Africa are the first African
hosts ever, and they’ve promised a
month of revelry that the whole conti-
nent will be able to bask in. Great goals
will be scored, legends will be made
and for a while, people will remember
why the beautiful game is so great.
Until all hell breaks loose as Eng-
land lose the final on a controversial
penalty.
Controversy at qualifiers
felixSport’s Indy Leclercq offers perspective
Win a pair of premium box tickets to the
AEGON Masters Tennis Tournament with
drinks and sandwiches on 5 December!
The hugely popular AEGON Masters, now in its 13th year, is staged at the prestig-
ious Royal Albert Hall from 1-6 December. With confirmed players including Pat
Rafter, Mark Philippoussis, Goran Ivanisevic, Pat Cash & Greg Rusedski plus many
other legends, you can be assured of an exceptional standard of tennis this year.
This tournament offers the perfect combination of drama, tension and skill with
competitive singles taking place in each session. The doubles event is more re-
laxed but still makes for compelling and entertaining viewing, with wonderful dis-
plays from crowd favourites Henri Leconte, Mansour Bahrami, Mark Woodforde.
For your chance to win a pair of premium tickets with drinks and sandwiches for
the afternoon session on Saturday 5th December (Ivanisevic will play Rafter for
the1sttimesincethe2001Wimbledonfinal)pleaseanswerthefollowingquestion:
Which player will make his debut at the 2009 event at the Royal Albert Hall?
A. Pat Rafter
B. Stefan Edberg
C. Greg Rusedski
EMAIL YOUR ANSWERS TO SPORT.FELIX@IMPERIAL.AC.UK
Tickets to the AEGON Masters Tennis are now on sale - to book call Box Office
on 020 8233 5882 or visit www.aegonmasterstennis.com
South Bank 2nd XI were in the way
of Imperial’s first team progressing to
the 3rd round of the BUCS cup, waters
never previously ventured by the club.
Similar to the tie against the Imperial
College Medicals 2nd XI in the first
round, College went into the game cau-
tious, but not complacent or pre-emp-
tive of a victory against South Bank, a
team 3 divisions below in BUCS.
After a sluggish and sloppy start, Im-
perial went 1-0 up on the 15 minute
mark when Chauvet sent in a teasing
cross to Vallin, who brought it down
and shot past the goalkeeper to score
his first goal in his ICUAFC career.
Equilibrium was restored soon after,
when South Bank scored from a loose-
ly conceded corner.
At 25 minutes a high clear out from
Botchway was flicked on from Chau-
vet which led Swain to deliver a deep
cross into Eshun, who capitalised= on
the poor goalkeeping by South Bank.
Five minutes later, Ferrol again con-
tinued his record of scoring in every
game he’s played after reacting quickly
from a through ball from Chauvet.
3-1 up at half time was certainly a
scoreline which flattered Imperial as
sloppiness and lapses in concentration
was the theme of the first half.
The second half brought a slight im-
provement with Ferrol completing his
brace after latching onto a high ball
from Vallin, who on 75 minutes com-
pleted his brace after being a gifted a
goal from the opposing goalkeeper.
With the final score at 5-1 of a game
which would have been closer if South
Bank had a stronger defence and goal-
keeper, the 1st XI progress to the 3rd
round which is set to be a riveting en-
counter against Reading 1st XI.
A special mention to the 2nd XI who
on the adjacent pitch, emerged 3-1 vic-
tors against South Bank 3rd XI.
From Left to Right (Back Row): Theocharis Tofis, David Sapin, Patrick McMullen, Matthieu Vallin, Nathan Ferrol, Leslie
Eshun. (Front Row): Romain Chauvet, William Swain, Mustapher Botchway (Captain), Jonathan Hill, Thomas Fryatt

