felixSport
Send in your sport reports:
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
High resolution photos only
20
.
11
.
09
In their maiden year of top-tier hurl-
ing, Imperial gave a great account of
themselves. Fielding in the Plate com-
petition, they found themselves in a
group with a Birmingham Universities/
Warwickshire select, Cambridge Uni-
versity, St. Gabriel’s (this year’s London
Senior League and Championship win-
ners) and John Mitchel’s (British Inter-
mediate Championships winners).
The two club teams were always go-
ing to be more experienced than us,
but we knew we could give the two
other universities a good challenge.
However, both teams pulled out at
the last minute, leaving Imperial as
the sole third-level competitor in this
year’s Plate.
Not that this bothered us. We were
there to play hurling, and our first
match was against John Mitchel’s.
Driven on by what can only be de-
scribed as a gale behind us, Imperial
played a very hard match against more
experienced opposition.
There was some great defensive work
by David Noonan at full-back and Neil
Clancy at centre-back, both showing
that they were as proficient as their op-
posite numbers. Keith Laverty led the
way up front, with Kieran Heatley and
Mark Jennings applying at lot of pres-
sure in midfield.
As the first half wore on, Imperial’s
lack of accuracy in front of the posts
IC at Hurls
Champs
was beginning to show. Mitchel’s in the
meantime managed to sneak in a goal
and a couple of points. In the second
half, they took great advantage of the
wind, punishing some rookie mistakes
by Imperial. John Mitchel’s proved to
be the clear victor in the end, with Im-
perial learning some vital lessons from
the game.
After a very brief break, St. Gabriel’s
took to the field against us. Imperial
gave a spirited show at the start of the
game with some great challenges made
by Phil Jakeman and Padhraic Com-
erford; in the full-back line, Meath-
man Sean Dunne at corner-back and
Rostrevor native Eddie O’ Hare at
full-back made some excellent dispos-
sessions and clearances under heavy
pressure from a determined Gabriel’s
attack. Chris Farrell in nets made some
vital saves but was eventually beaten by
some well set-up shots from the Gabri-
el’s full-forward line.
At half-time, it was clear that the
London champions would go on to
win the match, but Imperial gave a
committed second-half performance,
with West Belfast’s Stevie Gallagher
eventually scrambling the sliothar over
the line in a goal mouth fracas. Buoyed
by their first score of the day, Impe-
rial continued to apply pressure on St
Gabriel’s but the senior club’s experi-
ence came to the fore again and again.
In the end, there was a clear di-
Finian McCann Hurling
A mixed bag of results for ladies
medicals basketball
The ICSM Ladies’ Basketball team
played two games in the last fortnight.
After the fusion of the two ULU divi-
sions, the ladies are facing tough com-
petition this season, having finished
fourth in the second division last year.
With new players, a new kit and more
games than ever before, the team were
anticipating a challenge. The first
game of the season was played at home
against SOAS. Both sides seemed well-
matched at the start of the game and, at
the end of the first quarter, everything
was even. However, at the start of the
second quarter, ICSM took the lead,
thanks to the scoring of Rachel Carten
and excellent defensive rebounding of
new centre, Mariam Akinpeju. In the
third quarter, the tempo shifted to
favour SOAS and ICSM found their
lead shrinking fast. Losing the lead in
the third quarter gave the medics the
motivation they needed to get back in
the game with a run of three-pointers.
The game ended with a comfortable
10 point cushion for the ICSM Ladies’,
with a final score of 43-33.
The second game was away against
Queen Mary’s, another team who
played in the higher division last year.
The going was tough from the begin-
ning with the fast-paced, aggressive
style of the well-practised team re-
HannahBarrett
HannahBarrett Basketball
Continued on page 38
vealing the inexperience of some of
the ICSM players. The press caused
multiple turn-overs and Queen Mary’s
star players found the holes in ICSM’s
zone. The half-court press gave the
team difficulties, preventing outside
shooters from scoring. Though Akin-
peju, Barrett and Lees opened up the
zone with cuts, nobody’s shots were
falling and, other than the occasional
fast break, scoring was low. The game
went in Queen Mary’s favour and the
final score was 51-23. ICSM Ladies’
captained by Anita Ponnuthurai and
coached by Hannah Barrett intend to
work on the mistakes made in the last
game over the coming week in prepa-
ration for their game against King’s.

