6
COMMENT
Comment Editor
Comment Editor Ravi Pall
Ravi Pall
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
felix FRIDAY 20 NOVEMBER 2009
I
f there were two identical people
except one was a vegetarian, the
greenhouse gas emissions at-
tributable to that person would
be nearly a fifth less.
Earlier this year I became a vegetarian,
at first I thought I would be a ‘meat-
avoider’ where I would try and stay to
a predominantly vegetarian diet while
allowing myself the occasional piece
of meat, however I fairly quickly disre-
garded this and shunned meat forever
more. Lord Stern would be proud. My
reasons were purely environmental:
animal welfare never really bothered
me when you consider the number of
people treated inhumanely due to in-
dustry; meat in moderation is healthy
and I know its tasty. I stopped talking
about how fishing and meat industries
were bad for the environment in many,
many ways and removed myself from
it.
The U.N. report Livestock’s Long
Shadow – Environmental issues and
options calculated that livestock is re-
sponsible for 18% of global CO2 emis-
sions, greater than that of transport.
For all the other changes you could
make: the light bulbs; the recycling;
even the electric cars, a greater impact
on the your carbon footprint would be
achieved by a simple change in diet,
with probably a faster, notable sav-
ing of money. Not only that there is a
whole plethora of other environmental
impacts due to the production of meat
which you would be directly reducing.
Cows and sheep burp and fart out in-
ordinate amounts of methane (a more
potent greenhouse gas than CO2),
contributing to 37% of global methane
emissions. They also produce nitrous
oxide and ammonia on a gargantuan
scale, both of which are environmen-
tally damaging. There is also the CO2
the associated with the meat process-
ing and transporting industry.
There are also disproportionate re-
sources required to produce meat.
There is the classic example of a kilo
of beef requiring at least 13,000L of
water while a kilo of wheat only re-
quires 2000L. Admittedly there are
some much more water hungry plants
out there, and I would not trust anyone
advocating a wheat only diet, they by
no means take as much water as meat.
Currently a sixth of the world’s popu-
lation do not have access to clean wa-
ter and agriculture plays a key role in
this. As water sources become scarce,
those with pumps big enough with-
draw water from deeper water tables
further reducing the availability of
water. Although all agriculture is wa-
ter intensive, meat rearing is more so
by stopping the demand for meat, the
water supply could be used more effi-
ciently and the land used for crop cul-
tivation. Currently 70% of agricultural
land is used for farming animals, either
through grazing pastures or got crops
to feed said animals. The utilisation
of both rainforest and arid areas for
animal production are well known and
would not be required if there was the
constant demand for meat.
It is not just the legged animals we
should stop eating: pescetarianism is
not all that much better as although
this reduces the demand for meat the
world’s fish stocks are in a bad place. At
the moment two thirds of the world’s
fish species are either fully exploited
or depleted. Furthermore, the removal
of key organisms messes with ecosys-
tems in place. Overfishing can lead to
situations where remaining stocks are
unable to restock the oceans properly
and the process of by-catch where the
majority of what is caught is discarded,
as waste is highly inefficient. Although
there are bound to be improvements
in aquaculture, this method itself has
many issues concerning it. Not least
that the reared fish require to feeding,
and often this is in the form of smaller
fish that have been trawled from else-
where. If you do choose to eat fish this
is a good guide to what is sustainable:
http://tinyurl.com/MCSPGFG
Maybe my vegetarianism is a bit
dramatic, that if people reduced their
meat intake at all and therefore had a
decrease in the environmental damage
associated it would be a big enough
gesture. Recently the Belgian city of
Ghent became the first city in the
world to have a meat free day (Veg-
giedag) for civil servant and school
canteens citywide, with initiative to
encourage everyone to have a day a
week without meat.
I’d hope we are all capable of at least
pulling a Ghent, in fact I do not think it
is much a of a push to half ones weekly
meat intake or even attempting to only
eat meat once a week, a Fleishidagg if
you will.
Further still are meat-avoiders and
green-eaters, which are apparently
emerging terms for people who on the
whole try to avoid meat without pro-
hibiting it altogether, and these are
things I feel everyone has the capacity
to easily achieve as it removes the guilt
of the occasional lapse and preserves
traditions such as Christmas dinner.
By reducing their meat consumption
or assuming a vegetarian diet people
reduce their environmental impact
and improve global access to water.
Humans are perfectly capable of sur-
viving without eating meat everyday.
ReubenGibbonsthinksyoushouldbevegetariantoo
“Currently a sixth
of the world’s
population do
not have access to
clean water and
agriculture”
A
pparently I’m supposed
to talk to you about The
Environment this week.
The big E. The G word.
To celebrate Green Week
at Imperial, felix allegedly is going to
have an ecological flavour to things
this week, printed on five thousand
newspapers that will end up blowing
around South Kensington and dumped
in wastebins as a nice garnish of irony,
and so I’ve agreed to go along with the
charade under a gigantic wind-pow-
ered umbrella of protest. I’m not stupid
enough to actually criticise the idea of
conserving resources, of course, but as
far as arbitrarily-chosen issue-driven
periods of time go, I’m well up for a
fight.
Before we go any further - being
green is a great idea and even if the only
change you make is to stop moronically
shoving everything in the black landfill
bins when the red and green bins are
right next to it, like a deranged, feral
toddler who can’t be arsed to solve a
four-piece jigsaw puzzle, then Green
Week will have achieved something.
Although now I’ve just written that
here, it’ll actually be me that achieved
it, but I’m willing to let those guys take
the credit for now.
So yes, great idea. Clearly, I’m not
sure it’s best that Imperial hosts a
week preaching to students about
environmental friendliness when its
own buildings have the worst possible
energy efficiency rating, proudly on
display in the Tanaka foyer, but if Im-
perial stopped doing things that were
hypocritical then it would pretty much
have to shut down altogether. It’s just
that even if we assume all other things
to be equal, having a celebratory week
commemorating conserving resources
is a double-whammy of mental disor-
ders. On the one hand, there’s the prin-
ciple that people actually need a week
of events, smiles and whooping to un-
derstand that they’re needlessly wast-
ing tonnes of material every day, which
if true is a pretty sad indictment of the
general populace.
Not that it’s false, necessarily; I’m
fairly sure you all get your brain cells
from the same place you get your
taste in music. I’m just saying that if
we’ve got to the point where we need
first years to “champion green issues”
alongside John James, a man whose
Imperial Sabbs blog doesn’t so much
speak of a man ready to enthuse peo-
ple into action over key issues as much
as it speaks of several reasons why be-
coming a Sabb is only marginally bet-
ter than being sentenced to death by
buggery. If we’ve got to that point, then
perhaps we need to think about nuking
the site from orbit and starting from
scratch.
But on the other hand from this, the
idea of having a week bullying staff and
students into switching off televisions
in the ad breaks, or whatever the mes-
sage is this year, is entirely futile. Peo-
ple get this stuff shouted at them every
day, and eventually the scare factor just
wears off. You can only tell someone
they’re drowning half of north-east In-
dia by leaving their printer on standby
overnight before they’ll just stop lis-
tening. We’re trained to do it, we’re
trained to tune out the repetitive pat-
terns and droning in everyday life.
So my suggestion is this - instead of
spending all this money on posters and
events and encouraging felix to “write
green”, blow the whole budget on simu-
lating what global warming would do
to Imperial. Pour three hundred gal-
lons of ice cold water in through the
roof of Sherfield and watch as people
get blown out of windows and drown
to death in lifts. Hire a bunch of UV
lamps and use it to slowly torch people
to death as they eat their lunch on the
Tanaka steps. I guarantee you, a week
later those bottle bins will be overflow-
ing and then we can all give ourselves a
pat on the back.
AngryGeekreallyrethinksGreenWeek
“Pour three
hundred gallons of
ice cold water in
through the roof
of Sherfield and
watch... ”

