7
felix FRIDAY 20 NOVEMBER 2009
COMMENT
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
I
think it was Oscar Wilde who
first said ‘it’s not easy being
green’. Then again, it may have
been the Statue of Liberty.
Whoever it was, they were cer-
tainly onto something. It is decidedly
difficult being green, and a great deal
harder to pretend to be green. And, of
course, quite possibly racist.
That’s why, in fine Capitalist style, I’m
going to subtly dodge the issue at hand.
But, in order to avoid being dismissed as
some ivory tower columnist (or should
that be some ivory column tourist?) so far
out of the loop as to receive a negligible
field from the current run-
ning through it, I will deal with the burn-
ing green question in my own manner.
Ahem.
Trains, eh? You can just about live with
them, and you’d be able to live a great deal
slower without them. But they pollute.
Boy do they pollute. Right? I mean, what
do I know? I’ve traveled up and down the
country a few times in a seat opposite the
lavatory and I can tell you that the air gets
pretty polluted. But as for the total carbon
emissions, I honestly don’t know. And if
I’m starting a new trend for honesty in my
prose, I might as well tell you flat out that
fur the purposes of this piece it doesn’t
matter. Not really. At least, it won’t to you.
And that’s the important thing.
Ever since my girlfriend left London to
swing her plan for world domination into
phase two, I’ve been making regular train
journeys up and down the country from
London ‘We’ve Got A Problem’ Euston.
And there are certain things you learn
about train travel once you’ve journeyed
the distance from New York to Salt Lake
City in three months and a half. You get
the chance to learn all the little secrets of
how your railway station of choice works,
and you come to grips with all the tech-
niques for making sure you get a seat on
the train you want.
The most important lesson you learn,
however, is that none of these techniques
works. Ever.
I’m sure Murphy, when he wasn’t met-
ing out sinister laws and generally being
a depressive Irish git, was a commuter. It
certainly would have given him enough
time to come up with his vast literary out-
put of one law:
‘Toast will always fall with the buttered
side down’ and its corollary.
‘Unless you smear the other side with
chocolate spread, honey or Tiptree’s
blackcurrant preserve’
Only a man with intimate knowledge
of trains and their greasy ways could have
come up with so black an outlook on life.
Take me, for instance. Where once
my idealism and naivety were such that
I could watch Strictly Come Dancing in
the belief that I was being treated to top
class entertainment, I am now an ardent
and committed pessimist. I have become
the sort of person who believes we’re all
so damned thirsty that the glass of water
itself is a mirage.
And I blame the railway system. Boo!
You (quite possibly) carbon-guzzling,
smoke-belching harbingers of (what
might well turn out to be) ecological
doom. But where was I? Ah yes, on a
train. Lol. Roffle. Bare, or ‘bear’
, or quite
possibly even ‘bair’
, jokes.
The trouble, you see, starts with getting
to the right platform. At Euston station
there are two ways to find out what plat-
form your train is boarding from. You can
either read it off the massive boards that
hang in the main hall, or off the smaller
departure board that can be found di-
rectly beneath the others. And while the
amateur traveler may see no difference
between the two, those of us who are
familiar with the functioning of Euston’s
delicate ecosystem can tell that therein
lies the difference between life and death.
Don’t ask me how I found this out – or,
more to the point, don’t ask me how my
girlfriend found this out – but informa-
tion appears on the smaller board frac-
tionallybeforeitappearsonthelargerone.
Which means, gentle reader, that a glance
in the right direction at the right time can
get you running in the right direction mi-
croseconds ahead of the hordes of sweaty
businessmen, hoodie-wearing yoofs and
shopping bag-laded old women.
In other words, by the time the ubiq-
uitous, androgynous voice says “the next
train to Manchester will be leaving from
platform 6,” you can be scampering half-
way across the station.
The disadvantage of this technique, of
course, is that it turns you into a neurotic
wreck. The constant shifting of focus, the
innumerable false starts and incessant
nail-biting do take their toll. But, at least
you get to be first on the train, right? And
that’s a good thing, right? Hmm. Well, in
theory.
Tune in next week – same time, same
place – to hear about our hero’s exploits
on on board the Irrelevantly-Named Ex-
press. Will he find a seat? Will he pur-
chase and consume train food? Will a
large hairy dog choose to jump heavily
on his back? Find out all this and more in
next week’s issue.
Gilead Amit andhisbizarretrainofthought
T
he resignation of the Rec-
tor, Sir Roy Anderson, on
Monday morning came
as quite a shock, mainly
because Sir Roy had only
been at the helm for about 16 months.
This relatively short amount of time
at the top, and the wording in his resig-
nation email, has led to many conspira-
cies about his untimely departure. The
main question on a lot of lips, however,
is: Did he jump ship or was he pushed
off the plank? I know a lot of the stu-
dents couldn’t care less, in fact I don’t
think that a lot of students even know
what a Rector is, let alone who they
might be. To put it simply, he’s the boss.
I think that most people do know
who the rector is, maybe you should
say “I know that most people couldn’t
care less but blah blah it’s important”
First of all, let’s get some background
information. Sir Roy was a student at
Imperial in the late 60’s where he stud-
ied Zoology, before gaining a PhD in
Parasitology in 1971. After he had fin-
ished his studies, he remained at Impe-
rial doing research and he became a
Professor of Parasite Ecology in 1982
and the head of Biology from 1984-
1993. Over the years, he generated a
reputation of being a world expert in
infectious diseases. The one thing that
you can take from this is that he is an
Imperial Man. He was a student here,
he knows what it’s like to be an under-
graduate, postgraduate, researcher,
lecturer and head of department. He
knows the College inside-out.
Sir Roy left in 1993 to join the Univer-
sity of Oxford where he was head of the
Zoology. This is where things started
to go wrong for him. In 2000 he had to
resign from the University of Oxford
after he had made allegations that a fe-
male member of staff had slept her way
to her position. An inquiry also found
that he was in breach of rules, after he
was found to have a conflict of interest
as director and shareholder of Interna-
tional Biomedical and Health Sciences
Consortium — an Oxford-based bio-
medical consultancy that had awarded
grants to his research centre. Sir Roy
was also the Chief Scientific advisor
to the Government when the Foot and
Mouth crisis came about, arguably his
advice led to the unnecessary culling
of millions of healthy animals. More
recently, he was on BBC’s Today Pro-
gramme in May 2009, where he spoke
about Swine Flu claiming that “the pan-
demic has started.” When you couple
this with the fact that he was getting
paid £116,000 a year by GlaxoSmith-
Kline, who were developing the vacci-
nation for Swine Flu, some alarm bells
started to ring in many people’s ears.
His most recent bit of controversy was
the interview he gave to the Evening
Standard where he seemed to be in fa-
vor of privatising universities.
His appointment as Rector was by
and large seen as a positive one by stu-
dents, postgraduates, researches and
professors alike, mainly because he was
a student at Imperial.
There was hope that he would
change the business appearance Impe-
rial had and return it to what it really
is, a place for higher education, a place
for ground breaking research, a world
leading university. This was clearly
evident in the interview with that fe-
lix did last year, where he spoke about
wanting researchers to focus on quality
and not quantity, and wanting to give
them the time and space where this
could be possible, in his own words,
he wanted to make sure the research-
ers weren’t “consistently pressured by
performance matrix”. Seeing as I’m
doing research now, that sounds like
a great thing. On the student front, he
highlighted how he wanted to look into
the student satisfaction figures and re-
ally get to grips with what ‘s making
them happy and what ‘s not. All in all,
it seems to me that his objectives were
focused on bringing the university
back to students and take it away from
the business mentality that it had when
he started.
There was one main problem to this
dream, Sir Richard Sykes. The previ-
ous Rector was an ambitious man, he
changed the structure of the college,
made it more business focused. He
hired staff that would enable him to do
this and fired the ones that obstructed
him. His greatest achievement was Im-
perial’s rise to 5th best in the world.
His greatest failure was the fall of Im-
perial’s student satisfaction figures to
the lowest of any Russell Group Uni-
versity (the UK’s Ivy League). Even
though Sir Richard’s gone, his legacy,
and more importantly, the people he
hired to make sure his dreams were
achieved, are still here.
Sir Roy’s appointment was made dur-
ing the credit crunch. 5% budget cuts
were put on all departments, there was
a hiring freeze and also job losses in
the Humanities Department and even
more so in the Faculty of Medicine. To
make matters worse for Sir Roy, the re-
search money granted this year by the
Higher Education Funding Council for
England was half of what Imperial had
received the year before, despite the
fact that Imperial had one of the best
Research Assessment Exercise marks
in the whole country. The government
funded RAE found Imperial to have
many departments that were either
world leading (4*) or internationally
excellent (3*). Our faculties were either
best or second in the UK in terms of
the number of 4* and 3* research, with
many individual departments coming
out on top (including Mechanical and
Aeronautics :-) ). Again going back to
the interview last year, it was evident
that he was unhappy with the amount
of money Imperial was being given for
research, and the £5m decrease from
the government this year certainly
didn’t help.
It seems to me at least, that his inten-
tions were honorable. He truly wanted
to help the students and the academic
staff at Imperial, but his hands were
bound not only by the economic crisis,
but by the business men and women
in the Blue Cube, who didn’t want this
change to happen.
I read somewhere that a Rector say-
ing that he wants to ‘focus more on
his research’ is the same as a politician
saying he wants to step down from
politics to ‘spend more time with his
family.’ So I ask, are you really sure he
wanted to resign?
Whatever you might think, Lord
Kerr is back on the search to find a
new rector, although with a salary of
£370,000 a year I don’t imagine he’ll be
short of applicants.
JovanNedic
JovanNedic Assistant Editor
My take on
the past week
“Lol. Roffle. Bare,
or ‘bear’, or quite
possibly even ‘bair’,
jokes.”

