8
SCIENCE
Science Editors
Science Editors Nathan Ley & Brigette Atkins
Nathan Ley & Brigette Atkins
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
felix FRIDAY 20 NOVEMBER 2009
Let’s set the scene, and stay calm
Let's start with a quick challenge: take
a look around your home and try to
name one item that was not produced
by, with, or from oil.
Easy, you think - anything that's not
plastic! But you'd be wrong. What
about clothes? Sorry, synthetic fibres
are out (made directly from oil) and
natural ones come from plants farmed
using tractors (running on oil). That
apple in the bowl? Unless you picked it
yourself from a local tree, it's probably
been doused with pesticides (produced
from oil) and shipped to you in a lorry
(running on oil).
Contents of your bathroom? Almost
all oil-derived. As are detergents, glue,
paint, medicines, make-up, insulation,
carpet, agricultural fertilisers and most
forms of packaging. We also rely on oil
in the form of petrol, diesel and jet fuel
to transport ourselves and our food
and goods from place to place, and
on oil along with other fossil fuels to
produce our electricity. Our economy,
livelihoods, and lives are totally de-
pendent on oil.
Now take a look at the graph showing
world oil discoveries and world oil ex-
traction. Discoveries peaked in 1964,
and we are not finding enough oil to
replace the stuff being pumped out of
the ground. This means that at some
point, because it is not renewable, the
availability of oil will peak and start
to decline. This will almost certainly
happen in under 20 years, and could
happen within 10 years, according to a
recent report on Global Oil Depletion
by the UK Energy Research Centre,
based at Imperial College.
So, what are the implications of a de-
cline in oil availability? It is easy to say
that we should just start using other
things, but not so easy actually to come
up with a plan for doing that. Substi-
tution by gas and coal is surprisingly
difficult - you can convert them to liq-
uid fuels, but in practice it's just not a
viable large-scale option.
Renewable energy is great but with-
out a huge shot in the arm from the
government (something unlikely to be
forthcoming in the current economic
situation), it simply can't be scaled up
quickly enough even to meet our cli-
mate change targets, let alone give us
true independence from Saudi Ara-
bia. Hydrogen vehicles - well, when
are you planning to buy one? The price
of electricity, transport, and heating
will inevitably rise after the oil peak -
all these we can and will learn to live
with less of. But there is a key area
where we are all truly vulnerable: food
security.
Food contains hundreds of calories
of fossil fuel input for every calorie
that you eat. Plants are grown using
fertilisers, pesticides, tractor fuel for
ploughing, spraying and harvesting,
machinery fuel for processing, plastics
for packaging and diesel fuel for ship
and lorry transport to your local su-
permarket - all from cheap oil.
Britain is currently unable to feed
itself (just read the country of origin
The issue of climate change is one of
the many issues that walks the tight-
rope of a boundary between science
and politics. It may be continuously
on the agenda, but rather like an om-
nipresent smell, you get used to it and
forget it. In fact, it’s built up its own
little hate club. But whatever happens,
environmentalism is not the same as
socialism, and even if it was, so what?
I'll often think about the wildernesses
of this country, such as the Cairngorms
and Dartmoor, and comfort myself in
thinking that man is nothing but a pin
prick in the grand scheme of things.
Man cannot tame the great, wild out-
doors and place a Tesco superstore or
a McDonalds wherever it pleases be-
cause we are not capable of doing such
things. An old saying on the moor goes
"scratch Dartmoor and she’ll break
your back”. This phrase has come to be
due to the number of ventures man has
made to try and tame it: for example
there was a failed, and expensive at-
tempt to build a railway from a nearby
fringe village up onto the high peat
workings.
However, there are those that take
this a little bit too far. Those who be-
lieve that no matter how much man
interferes with the planet, it will al-
ways correct itself as it has been doing
on a cyclical basis for billions of years.
The Gaia hypothesis proposes that
the earth is a single, self-regulating
organism.
This belief is not only incorrect and
the official Republican Party line (and
potentially industry-led), but is also
extremely dangerous. It is the scien-
tific equivalent of a cum rag. And so
because of this idea, the logical policy
goes "Is it worth compromising the
economy for a cause that may actually
be flawed? No? Ok then we’ll just carry
on as we are".
What the world has to realise is
that economic growth, prosperity and
reaching the summit of the capitalism
ladder can’t occur at all when there is
no Earth to build these systems upon.
You would think that a little compro-
mise on everyone’s part would be
the sensible way forward, however
there are those with whom this is just
incompatible.
An angle that this issue must be at-
tacked from is the moral side. Al Gore's
2006 documentary ‘An Inconvenient
Truth’ showed not only that the USA
missed out on having the ideal leader
as a successor to Clinton, but also that
it was possible - through the eloquent
skill of conveying scientific data and
research as straightforward informa-
tion for anyone to understand - to pull
Erica Thompson
Erica Thompson Science Reporter
on the heartstrings of individuals and
make people think about the fairness
of the effect they're having on the plan-
et, without resorting to religion to have
to impose morals.
It had the power and clarity to make
us think about how our actions are un-
doubtedly affecting the sort of world
we might be leaving for generations to
come, and how it is morally incompre-
hensible to leave such a place.
Confronting the issue on another
front, a new UN report suggests that
slowing the growth of the population
could help to combat climate change.
It said that if women were empowered
to take control of their reproductive
health, they may choose to have fewer
chidren and consequently this would
reduce pressure on resources and the
environment.
The 94-page report calls for any deal
coming out of Copenhagen to include
measures to empower women. This re-
port states what we all know to be com-
mon sense, but for some reason people
refuse to be vocal about, for fear of rac-
ism. Well, you can call it racism if you
like, but there’s nothing sensible about
families having ridiculous numbers of
children, with Islamic and African na-
tions mostly to blame for this.
The world clearly has a finite amount
of resources and so it is an angle for at-
tack on the problem of climate change
that is all too often forgotten about. As
Nobel Laureate Harry Kendall stated,
“If we don’t halt population growth
with justice and compassion, it will
be done for us by nature, brutally and
without pity - and will leave a ravaged
world”. Maybe China had it right all
along?
Anyway, whatever your opinion on
these matters, it is a human character
trait to never give up. Even without the
appropriate backing from industry nor
from government, scientists are uni-
versally attempting to find solutions to
the problem of climate change which
is quite obviously real and extremely
dangerous - as it has been for a good
few years now.
With the critical Copenhagen con-
ference a matter of weeks away, here
we present to you a series of arti-
cles that are themed to coincide with
Green Week.
The government needs to wake up to the challenge of peak oil, fast
Nathan Ley
Nathan Ley Science Editor
labels in your next shopping basket).
Now, food and indeed oil imports are
unlikely to collapse overnight, but the
price of oil has been extremely volatile
over the last few years and the price of
food commodities on global markets
has risen to the point that many in the
developing world can no longer afford
to buy it.
Filth, pure industrial filth - a symbol of the over-indulgence of the industrial generation?
World oil discoveries and world oil extraction
These patterns are set to continue
and worsen especially with the im-
pacts of climate change. Peak Oil is a
global problem, and it is enforced on
us by physics, not politics. Unfortu-
nately, physics doesn't have an obvious
solution yet. Our government can no
longer afford to keep their heads in the
sand.
“So, what are the
implications of
a decline in oil
availability?”

