9
felix FRIDAY 20 NOVEMBER 2009
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk SCIENCE
Geoengineering is seen by some as
a quick and easy way out of global
warming, and by others as danger-
ous, unpredictable and just another
excuse not to cut carbon emissions.
But what actually is it? Well, there is
no generally-accepted definition, but
anything that can be classed as a large-
scale scheme to manipulate the effects
of global warming would probably fit
the bill. There are a variety of ways this
manipulation can be done, however
most methods can be split into two
categories: solar radiation manage-
ment and greenhouse gas remediation.
In other words, reducing the amount
of sunlight reaching the Earth, or soak-
ing up greenhouse gases from the
atmosphere.
The first category includes tech-
niques intended to increase the albedo
(or reflectivity) of the Earth, for exam-
ple sending billions of aluminised re-
flective balloons into the atmosphere,
or positioning a giant mirror in space
that would act as a sunshade between
the Sun and the Earth. One of the most
noteworthy of these types of propos-
als is one that aims to inject up to two
metric tons of sulphuric aerosols into
the atmosphere, which would then act
as condensation nuclei and influence
the micro-physical and optical proper-
ties of clouds. This is the idea of Dutch
Professor Paul Crutzen, who won the
Nobel Prize for Chemistry in 1995
when he and his colleagues discovered
the cause of the hole in the ozone layer.
Mount Pinatubo has already shown
that this method would succeed in re-
ducing the average global temperature;
after its eruption in 1991, sunlight
reaching the Earth was reduced by 10%
and temperatures decreased by 0.5°C
Is it all smoke and mirrors?
I have a theory that, in the comfortable
Western world at least, the most uni-
versally appreciable painful experience
is the feeling of ‘if only I had known
then what I know now’. This power-
less longing for the ability to change
the actions of the past would explain
why we grieve, and why we feel guilt
of all kinds. And it would also explain
why we feel such a terrible connection
to the plight of species endangered by
climate change. If only we had known
150 years ago that the comfort afford-
ed by the brave new world would mean
the irrevocable loss of creatures great
and small and, in some cases, whole
ecosystems.
The natural reaction to realising we
have inherited such a dreadful legacy
of short-sightedness is to immediately
stop making things even worse. This
is what informs a lot of environmental
policymaking and in cases where our
actions are the continual driving force,
for example carbon emission forcing
an ever-increased rate of rise of global
temperatures, it is absolutely the right
idea. But helping ease climate change
at the source is, of course, only half
the story of environmentalism. A lion’s
The danger of static
conservationism
taining the ecological status quo, with
species that are native encouraged and
all other deemed invaders and exter-
minated, since the effect of that one
invader on the ecosystem is impossible
to predict, in which case it could be
devastating. But the climate is chang-
ing; no amount of conservation work
will stop that fact. And one of the main
impacts of this is that species will natu-
rally begin to migrate.
Most of the creatures of Earth have
evolved to quite a specific environ-
ment and are almost exclusively found
in this optimal region. But as tem-
peratures and weather patterns shift,
this window begins to creep, moving
slowly across the surface of the planet.
What happens if it crosses into a con-
servation region? Well, they’re invad-
ing species right? I guess they have to
be kept out. The native populations
also seem to be diminishing; we better
exterminate all these invaders quickly,
restore the balance we’re used to.
You can see the problem here; in
blindly looking to the past for our
record of what species are native to a
region, we risk catastrophic collapse in
ecological variety across the Western
world. The very act of trying to cor-
rect the sins of our past would become
a short-sighted failure to rival even
those we strive to put right. Conser-
vationism is now beginning to enter
a new era of crisis policy. This is a re-
gime under which it may no longer be
possible to talk about maintaining the
species of a region but instead consid-
ering the global variety and the viabil-
ity of ecosystems as a whole. An era
when the discussion is not about how
to keep invading European butterflies
out of the gardens of Kent, but instead
focuses on the logistical challenges of
allowing migrating creatures to cross
the many dividing lines humans have
driven across the landscape: railways,
motorways, cities, farmland, etc. We
must fight the root cause of climate
change but at the same time recognise
that the change is here and in dealing
with it we may, at all levels, have to ask
some hard questions.
Inspired by a talk given by Dr. Blake
Suttle at the Grantham Institute for
Climate Change entitled ‘Challenges
in Predicting Ecological Responses to
Climate Change’.
over the globe, staying at their new
level for 3 years on average. However,
ozone destruction also increased sub-
stantially and the average precipitation
worldwide dropped significantly in the
16 months following the eruption.
The second major type of geoengi-
neering method involves enhancing
natural “carbon sinks”. Fertilising the
oceans with iron to stimulate phyto-
plankton growth falls into this catego-
ry, as does reforestation. These proc-
esses aim to attack the rising levels of
greenhouse gases, and hopefully lock
them away for years to come.
There are plenty of advantages to
geoengineering. For instance, a lot of
the methods that decrease the amount
of sunlight hitting the earth would be
very cheap to implement - it would
be possible to create a new ice age for
around 0.01% of the USA’s gross do-
mestic product by decreasing global
temperatures. Also, the changes re-
sulting from applying geoengineering
methods would appear much more
quickly than any changes arising from
cutting emissions, suggesting that it
may be a good way to buy the Earth
some time while we wait to see the re-
sults of emissions cuts.
Criticisms are also easy to come up
with. It has been argued that these
techniques will only put off the inevi-
table, and while doing so risk making
politicians and others complacent
about emissions cuts. What's more,
little detailed research has been done
into some of these methods, so there
may be unintended consequences that
we know nothing about at present. For
example, reducing solar input could
result in lowering crop yields, which
would cause famine.
In an ideal world, to combat global
warming we would cut emissions by
the 60-80% needed to stabilise the con-
centration of CO2 in the atmosphere.
However, from 2001 to 2002 emissions
actually increased by 2% and this trend
doesn’t look set to change much in the
near future. Soon, some geoengineer-
ing methods may become necessary to
stop drastic climate heating before it’s
too late.
Kelly Oakes
Kelly Oakes Science Reporter
ChrisSelf
ChrisSelf Science Reporter
Spraying sea water to create clouds and shield the Earth from sunlight is one of
many geoengineering solutions to climate change
More exotic butterflies, such as this
Queen of Spain Fratillary, could soon
be common in the UK.
It’s becoming commonplace to exam-
ine the carbon footprint of everyday
activities. We all recognise the impor-
tance of reducing carbon emissions.
Airlines offer carbon offsets, car com-
panies are making hybrids and appli-
ances are becoming more efficient.
But what about the indirect emissions
- those associated with computers,
clothes or books? What about the hid-
den emissions of manufactured goods?
Industrial production is based on a
model that was invented over a cen-
tury ago. As you would expect, that’s
now outdated. The assumption that in-
dustry’s effects on the environment are
negligible is definitely obsolete. For
each product industry makes, there’s
a surplus of polluting by-products
that are released into the environ-
ment. They come in various forms:
harmful chemicals, greenhouse gases,
toxic gases or even heat. On top of
that, the inputs required to make the
goods - and the pollutants - are natural
resources. They are required to power
the plant, to be the goods themselves
and to run the manufacturing line. Ir-
respective of which perspective you
take, the natural environment must be
degraded in some form to allow for in-
dustrial production. This growing deg-
radation has led to the current state of
the environment.
Global warming is probably the most
pertinent issue that exists today. In-
dustry accounts for over a quarter of all
the carbon emissions in the UK. And
that’s just their direct emissions. They
also have indirect emissions associated
with each product. Things like trans-
port from the factory, factory heating,
running a shop to sell the product, dis-
posal emissions, etc. At every point in
the life of something that wasn’t grown
in your garden (with some exceptions),
it will end up increasing the carbon in
the atmosphere. The humble Ameri-
can cheeseburger, for example, results
in 3 kg of equivalent carbon dioxide
being released into the atmosphere,
along its journey from cow to mouth.
In addition to carbon footprints there
are ecological footprints. They display
the full environmental effects of human
damage, illustrating all the dangerous
pollutants that litter our water, ground
and air. Industry has a huge ecological
footprint. Production waste is dumped
into rivers and delicate ecosystems.
Factory workers get sick from the
chemicals used. Most of the products
themselves contain toxic chemicals.
One study found antimony, a potential
carcinogen, present in polyester shirts.
Another found teratogenic compounds,
a potential reason for birth defects,
present in computer mice. Another
found phthalates, liver carcinogens for
animals, present in plastic baby rattles.
Why are these chemicals there? Are
they necessary? Apparently not. There
are engineers, designers and scientists
revising the composition of products
and eliminating the toxic chemicals.
Retailers are starting to source their
products from environmentally re-
sponsible companies.
Carbon emissions too are being re-
duced. Many companies are imple-
menting extensive efficiency measures,
trying to reduce waste and sourcing
their power from renewables. Some
have even built their own renewable
supply. Others want to ‘green’ their
suppliers, stores and even customers.
This is good – they are definitely
steps in the right direction. But they
are only ‘being less bad’. Industry still
has a long way to go.
Nick Oakes
Nick Oakes Science Reporter
Manufacturing pollution: The hidden costs
“Ecosystems are in
a continuous state
of flux.”
share of the work done is aimed at
dealing with the affects of that change,
which even now we are beginning to
see. Examples of this being: the melt-
ing of the ice caps, the migration of
populations, and the increasing vio-
lence of weather patterns worldwide.
This conservationist effort centrally
includes helping those species doomed
by climate changes.
But here we have reached a difficulty:
as soon as we start talking about those
animals and insects, creatures of all va-
rieties, the deeply embedded cultural
guilt rushes to the surface. All of a sud-
den, the only acceptable solution is to
entirely stop the change, to somehow
lock the natural world into a perpetual
model of the early 21st century. And in
this case, this is absolutely the wrong
course of action.
Ecosystems are in a continuous state
of flux. The interactions of food webs,
species diversity and distribution, oth-
er spatial factors such as the lie of the
land, plant distributions, etc. alongside
numerous other contributing factors
make the evolution of ecosystems dif-
ficult to predict, and impossible at a ‘by
species’ level. Beyond this, studies have
continually shown that the results of
ecological experiments cannot be gen-
eralised. All of this makes conservation
work incredibly difficult. Put alongside
the widespread belief that species dis-
tributions must be kept as they were
some arbitrary amount of time ago,
this has meant that until recently a lot
of conservation work has been exactly
that. Work has been aimed at main-

