www.felixonline.co.uk
Felix
Thursday 2 December 2004 17
Day out in Londonfelix@ic.ac.uk
By Zaina Nobeebux
Are you a night owl and struggling
to find something to do during the
daytime? Are you a fresher who
knows very little about London, try-
ing to figure out where to explore
next? Or are you one of those people
who never get out of their rooms and
have suddenly decided to make the
most of their time in London before
they graduate? If you answered yes
to any of those, this article should be
the perfect source of inspiration and
ideas for you!
Well, anybody smart enough to
read the title of an article before
the actual text should know by now
that I shall be telling you about the
Notting Hill area. Notting Hill... the
name of this place should strike a
bell in the mind of almost every-
one in Imperial College, not only
because you’ll have spotted it on the
tube map, but also because it has
hosted the movie with Hugh Grant
and Julia Roberts, an absolute must
on Valentine’s Day to make you all
soppy and romantic (maybe).
But let’s get back to the point, or
rather to the place, before I start
ranting about the merits and faults
of a movie. I shall assume that all of
you are normal students and young-
sters who never get up before, say,
10am during the weekends. So, for
all of you who live south of Notting
Hill, I would suggest you have lunch
in Holland Park, and why not spend
a lazy morning in the sun (whenever
there is some) before going to con-
quer the next place.
Holland Park has the advantage of
having plentiful benches and places
to sit (excluding grass), as opposed
to many other parks. A walk through
this park comprises delightful water
features as well as a Japanese gar-
den with a pond, its waters being
very dense with colourful fish mak-
ing a good contrast with the dark
bed. This leads to a little wood in
the middle, and finally towards the
other end of the park. And if you
techies are lucky enough through
your meanderings in the woods, you
may find yourself next to the solar
dial, then onto Holland Park Road
leading to an electric bike shop.
Ladies, this is where we find our
men deeply engrossed in window
shopping. Just a note for cyclists,
there is a bike track on the side of
Holland Park with a steep slope, so
you can just whiz through the park
without bothering with the walk.
After a further five to ten min-
utes walk, you should find yourself
next to Notting Hill Gate tube sta-
tion. Once there, don’t panic if you
can’t find signs leading to the legen-
dary Portobello market. If you are
there on a Saturday, just follow the
masses of people! Otherwise, if you
just go down Pembridge Road for a
couple of minutes, you should find
yourself on Portobello Road leading
to the market.
But before I proceed to the mar-
ket, I would like to mention that
there are other things in the area
which are worth looking at during
the daytime (excluding the common
‘normal’ shops which can be found
on any high street). Notting Hill is
the haven for shops selling anything
‘ancient’, including antiques, retro
and vintage. In fact, around the tube
station are various retro clothes and
book ‘buy, trade and sell’ shops. One
of them is called ‘Book and Comic
Exchange’. I’m not a comic book fan,
which explains why I never went
into that very old and cluttered look-
ing bookshop with rock music blast-
ing, but curiosity and the magnet-
ism of books got the better of me in
the end, and I must admit that I was
pleasantly surprised by the vari-
ety of second hand books there. On
the shelves nearer to the door are
classic books ranging from Austen’s
Emma to Tolstoy’s War and Peace,
with a whole shelf labelled “Charles
Dickens arse chickens” especially
reserved for Dickens’s work. Other
bookshelves contain a vast array of
books labelled literature, cult, phi-
losophy, psychology, art, photogra-
phy and architecture. Comic books
are found in the middle section,
their prices ranging between 50p
to £4, and there is even a section
labelled “really boring books” to suit
all tastes!
All along Pembridge Road are
a variety of unusual shops includ-
ing an art shop, a vintage shop,
lots of antiques shops as well as a
shop selling bits and bobs of African
design, leading to the first stalls of
the market. That Saturday, a sales-
girl was running around trying to
get some spidery piece of metal on
every passer-by’s head to promote
that product, which at first sight
reminded me of a torturing device.
After a lot of convincing and coax-
ing, coupled with the signs “Head
Ecstasy and Orgasmic Experience”,
she managed to get some guinea
pigs to experiment it. They seemed
to like it...
Of course, once one reaches the
main bit of the market, one is nor-
mally overwhelmed by the variety
of things for sale at different stalls,
which are mainly related to antiques
on this side of the market. These
include antique bottles, jewellery,
pottery, clocks, silverware, cameras
and optical instruments, dinky toys,
coins, as well as fine art prints,
metal stamps, handmade soap, lam-
inated posters, silk scarves and CDs
at bargain prices. The main market
hosts smaller “sub-markets” with
similar types of stalls. One of them
specialises in Russian dolls, with the
most impressive set being made of
29 dolls ranging from about 40cm to
5mm in height (I counted them and
I’m not exaggerating!)
One of my favourite bits is an alley
branching from Portobello Road and
containing a few stalls only. They
sell mainly old rusty military objects
(nothing comparable to the posh
Michael German of Kensington
Church Street): hats from the
RAF, police or Russian army, army
boots as well as old dusty pieces
of armoury such as metal body
armours and swords would delight
almost anyone.
The next bit of the market is the
food section, which is full of fresh
vegetables, herbs and exotic fruits,
like fresh dates, yam, cassava and
what appeared to me to be white
pears also known as Chinese pears,
as dutifully corrected by the fruit
seller. Other stalls there are a spice
stall bursting with the aroma of
spices from the four corners of the
world, bread stalls for pastry lov-
ers, and some sweet stalls. Also
present are trailers selling German
and Thai food and hot dogs since by
then every student would be feeling
peckish.
Portobello Road is not just about
the market, but also the shops on
both sides, often hidden by the stalls,
but nonetheless very interesting
and definitely worth a visit. Jessie
Western, as the name suggests, spe-
cialises in western clothes, jewel-
lery and mainly cowboy hats and
boots made of buffalo, frog, ostrich
and even lizard leather! An antique
sports shop sells antique brown foot-
balls and cricket balls, golf clubs,
trophies, and boxing gloves. Art
Deco is a decorative antique shop
selling unusual arty furniture, some
pieces looking like those featured
in movies. One of them is a sofa in
the shape of a boot, which I found
creative, and examined in awe for so
long that the salesman grew suspi-
cious and looked like he wanted to
throw me out.
Muslim students will be glad to
know that there is a halal butcher
in one of the shops near the food
section, and since we are on the
topic of choices on food, vegetar-
ians will find it useful to know that
The Grain Shop does some vegan,
but mainly vegetarian food like
flapjacks, couscous, moussaka and
bakes for take away. I’m sure most
Spaniards here know about Garcia,
the Spanish shop, selling, well, lots
of Spanish food like Arborio rice,
pickled peppers and olives, tortil-
las, whole hams (chorizo, picanté
mortadella) and cheap wine. I also
came across a cacti and bonsai shop
by the flyover near Ladbroke Grove.
For those of you who would like to
dine out, Babes and Burgers is the
place to go if you like burgers, and
Thai Rice offers a main meal for
about £5.
It is worth noting that the market
does not stop at the flyover, but goes
on until Golborne Road which is full
of Moroccan shops for those of you
who have plenty of time to spare.
I hope that I have illuminated
those who have never been to the
Notting Hill area and inspire them
to go there once. For those of you
who have been there numerous
times and have different views, I’ll
just say that I’ve highlighted what I
enjoyed the most there.
Notting Hill
“Art Deco is a decorative antique shop selling unusual arty furniture...”
“One of my favourite bits is stalls selling old rusty military objects...”

