felix C U L T U R E
24 felixonline.co.uk/culture culture.felix@ic.ac.uk Friday 17 February 2017
Seeing Green
Zoo is a bizarre little beast that works wonderfully as a TV show precisely
because all of its individual elements do not. Based on, of all things, a James
Paterson novel, this series chronicles a world thrown increasingly into turmoil
as animals everywhere rebel and begin some sort of coordinated attack on
humanity. In the midst of this, a ragtag bunch of scientists, reporters, and safari
rangers band together in an attempt to sort it all out. Everything about Zoo tries
desperately to take itself seriously despite itself. What results is an absurdist’s wet
dream.
Zoo
Planet Earth II
The sequel to one of the most critically acclaimed nature documentaries of all
time, this latest David Attenborough offering was 10 years in the making. This
series excelled at highlighting the drama and tension in the seemingly mun-
dane, with the first episode’s lizard sequence rapidly achieving memetic status.
Sampling stunning natural beauty from around the world on an unprecedented
scale, the series is a must watch for any aficionados of the natural world.
Produced by Bob Saget of all people, this comedy show chronicles the lives
of various animals that inhabit New York City. Featuring a rotating cast of
comedians, episodes are largely improvised, with participants only being
given an overview beforehand. Animals does not squander its premise,
instead taking full advantage of the unique opportunities offered by the
individual animals’ characteristics. The HBO production credit draws in top
comedians, and the show offers some excellent surreal humour.
Animals
Spy in the Wild
A slightly unique spin on the classic nature documentary, Spy in the Wild
hinges around a series of animatronic spy cameras. These faux-animals are
used to infiltrate herds, and, in-theory, give a never before seen insight into the
animals’ group dynamics. The series recently made headlines for a sequence
where monkeys are apparently so convinced of a camera’s authenticity, they
have a funeral for it when it breaks down. Plus, it’s narrated by David Tennant;
who could ever tire of that voice?
Remember the good old days, when we had the envi-
ronment themed shows like Captain Planet? Well, if you
miss that era, here are some shows that’ll help you get
your fill of green TV.
\\ Claudio Gennari
\\ HBO
\\ NASA
\\ Rennett Stowe

