Union Page
imperialcollegeunion.org
Who has been a great lecturer, or an amazing administrator, or a top-
notch demonstrator? Has someone in College helped you through
tough times, or gone the extra mile to explain a concept or support your
research? If there’s anyone who stands out to you, then let them know
- by nominating them for a SACA. Every nominee will receive a SACAs
mug - and the shortlistees will be invited to the glitzy SACAs Ceremony
in May 2017
.You can nominate as many people as you like, in as many
categories as you like - and if your nominee is shortlisted, you might
win a free ticket to the Ceremony!
imperialcollegeunion.org/sacas
Student Volunteering Week is back: Monday 20 February - Sunday 26 February!
The Leadership Elections 2017 are your chance to shape the future of student life at Imperial. Every single Imperial student, no matter their
subject, degree level, or campus, can cast their vote for the students that will lead the groups that make this student community what it is.
Imperial College Union brings together Clubs, Societies & Projects, Constituent Unions, Liberation Officers, Academic Representatives, and
Community Volunteers into one vibrant and active organisation. Some of the positions are full-time, which means you need to take a year out of
your studies or be coming to the end of your course this academic year. Find out about all of the positions and stand now!
imperialcollegeunion.org/elections
Stand in The Leadership Elections 2017
The long awaited, college-wide anticipated, Student Volunteering Week is BACK! Monday 20 February – Sunday 26 February, Imperial College will
engage in a community-wide celebration of the achievements and impact created by student volunteers. This year’s theme of SVW is Do Good;
Feel Good! Understanding that in serving others in our community, we are bringing forward better change for both the world and ourselves.To
spread this message of kindness, the SVW team has organized a full range of volunteering events throughout the week to ensure EVERYONE has
a chance to do good. Sign up and find out more!
imperialcollegeunion.org/svw
SACA nominations close 26 February
LEADERSHIP
ELECTIONS
The
2017
Friday 17 February

