30 felixonline.co.uk/millennials millennials.felix@ic.ac.uk Friday 17 February 2017 Friday 17 February 2017 31
millennials.felix@ic.ac.uk felixonline.co.uk/millennials
felix M I L L E N N I A L S
felix
M I L L E N N I A L S
SEX? DRUGS
DRUGS
Drug Bible | Modafinil 101
How you use it
The vast majority of study drugs come in the form of a con-
venient pill. Unlike the various brightly coloured pills that
ecstasy may come in, modafinil looks like boring plain old
paracetamol. Modafinil itself claims to keep you at peak
alertness for around 10 hours, with additional stimulation
lasting for a few hours after that. However, due to the
longer lasting nature of these pills when compared to tra-
ditional drugs expect more variation in duration between
people. For instance, having known people who have
taken the drug, I have received reports that the effects can
last anywhere between four and twelve hours depending
on the individual. After taking, keep yourself hydrated, it’s
important to maintain a healthy amount of water in your
system should your body reject the drug and attempt to
flush it out. As stupid as it sounds, it is also important to
remember to eat. Expect to feel a diminishing appetite for
at least the first few hours after ingestion.
Legality
As of the time of writing, in the UK, to possess modafinil is legal. However, it is only legal to
buy if you have a prescription. Providing you have a prescription, it is obtainable from your
local chemist or pharmacy. It is also available from many international websites that stick
two fingers up to drug restriction laws in the UK, therefore this stuff is actually obtainable. It
should be noted that any attempt to import large amounts of substances such as modafinil will
only be considered by the authorities if it is for ‘personal use’. Typically personal use consti-
tutes no more than a ninety day supply.
It is important to be aware about the dangers of ordering drugs from an international
company based in some shady corner of the world. Do not expect everything you order to be
100% every time.
Things to do when you’re high
Do
• Take early in the day to
get the full effect
• Make sure you’re in an
environment ready to
study (no distractions)
• Stay well hydrated and
fed
Don’t
• Take expecting the
effects of ecstasy
• Tell your mates how hard
you are because you’re
taking drugs (you’re
taking modafinil you
prick)
• Take after 6pm, then it’s
pretty much guaranteed
you won’t get any sleep
that night.
What it does
Modafinil is used to increase the
alertness of the user. Whilst it is
normally used to treat narcolepsy
and other sleep disorders, it is
also commonly used as a study
drug. Once taken, expect to feel
more awake and typically less
prone to frustration, allowing you
to become more productive in the
work you do. However, with all this
new-found alertness it is not uncom-
mon to begin to direct your focus
toward less productive endeav-
ours. Expect to be distracted more
easily than normal.
Some statistics
In 2014, a study by The Tab asked 2000 students from 41
different universities about their experience of study drugs.
It found that one in five had taken modafinil, so clearly
there is a potential market here. I am unsure whether that
figure would be higher or lower at Imperial. On the one
hand, Imperial students are unwavering in their attempt
to gain academic success. But on the other hand, students
here have been found to be much more averse to drugs
than their counterparts at various other institutions.
Imperial College has a strict zero tolerance policy on drugs.
If you’re struggling with drug use, visit talktofrank.com
Glossary
Modding – The act of being on modafinil
Daffodils – Pills of Modafinil
Hey Bradley, you got any Apple Pie? – When you ask your
friend Bradley for modafinil
You got Mo’ Da Finil – When you’re desperate for modafinil
Stimmed Out – When you’re stimulated. By Modafinil
Crashing the car – When you’re on Modafinil and you’re driv-
ing your mom’s car and a Britney Spears song comes on and
you get really distracted and you crash your mom’s car
Yeah, we don’t know either. \\ Urban Dictionary
Love
DRUGS?
DRUGS?
L
et’s be real. Love is a drug. It inhibits our
ability to think clearly, turns us into terrible
people, and makes us do stupid things. Face
it, it’s far more harmful than a few hours
gurning at the weekend. But just like with
drugs, there are different kinds of highs, and
so now, in honour of the just-passed Valentine’s Day,
I present you the different people you have fallen in
love with, and the associated stupid things they will
make you do.
You’ll love all of these people, in different ways, but
they’re nothing compared to your one true love: you.
Love is the drug you can’t get enough of
The first love
This is the one you have a crush
on all the way through second-
ary school. You’ll insist that it is
real love, that no one else could
ever possibly understand them.
Although they don’t know it yet,
you are the one. Unfortunately, for
the time being, they will inevitably
have a long-term crush on your
best friend. The stupidity of youth
will have you writing their name all
over stuff. Even if it’s just your diary
where no one else can see it, that’s
not really private, because it’s
going to come back to haunt you
when your parents move house,
pack up your room, and unearth
the diaries hidden under your bed.
The first relationship
This is your first proper relationship, probably
in sixth form, or with someone from your halls
when you’re a fresher. You’ll think you’re so
grown up, when you’re turning down nights
out to stay in with bae, watch X Factor, and
cuddle. You’ll probably gain a lot of weight
because of this (not that that’s a bad thing, but
there are much more fun ways to get fat than
to stay in every night eating pizza), and you’ll
post how much you love each other all over
facebook, both of which you’ll regret when
you inevitably break up just before the summer
holidays, bore everyone with your moping for
six weeks, and then realise that no one really
wants that life at your age anyway.
The one you idolised
This is the one whose attention you can’t
believe you’re receiving. They’re the beautiful
Italian in your tutorial, the one who sashays in
looking effortlessly beautiful and glamorous.
You don’t know why they’re suddenly inter-
ested in you, but they are. Unfortunately, it will
make you cripplingly insecure. Why are they
talking to the others? Are they going to leave
you for them?! You’ll become paranoid, and
eventually break up with them dramatically
before they can dump you. You’ll get over it
pretty quickly, and will always show people
their facebook profile at parties to brag about
this hottie you once scored. You’ll never know
that you broke their heart. They could have
been the one.
The love at first sight
This is the one you’ll meet one Sports Night
at Metric. You’ll see them across the bar, and
your eyes will meet. You’ll start talking to
them. Why have you never met before? You
have everything in common! This connection
must be made to last. You start planning your
future together; they’ll get on so well with your
friends. You’ll make your famous Shepherd’s
Pie to impress their housemates, and you’re
already starting to put together a parent-safe
anecdote to explain how you met. But then
you go to the toilet and when you come back
they’re making out with your friend. Your
friends are always so shit. You should get
better friends. You go over to your friend and
throw your drink over them. Now that was
stupid, wasn’t it?
The one you thought was the one
You’ll think you know everything when you fall in
love with this one. You’ve been around the relation-
ship block, you know the difference between stupid
teenage love and the real love you’re feeling now.
They’re the one who’ll be in your family photos at
graduation, the one you turn down that amazing
consulting job in New York for, because you can’t
imagine a life without them. You’ll make sacrifices
and change your life plans for them. If you’re
unlucky, you’ll get engaged.
When you break up it’ll be unexpected, and you’ll
start to relate to VICE articles and think you’re
interesting enough to start doing drugs and going to
orgies. You’re probably not, but you probably are
better off now. No one wants the same things after
they leave Imperial.
First kiss
Age 14
Leave Imperial
Age 23
Leave school
Age 18
Gap year (lose
your virginity!)
Age 18 3/4
Start Imperial
Age 19
1
2
3
4
5
T H E D A R K Y E A R S
F I N D I N G Y O U R S E L F
I N N O C E N C E

