10 NEWS FEATURE F E L I X W E D N E S D A Y 18TH D E C E M B E R
A rower or a rugby player - who would you like to unwrap?
Many women are absolutely fascinated and completely hooked on rugby
and rowing. The sheer athleticism and highly physical nature of these sports
have most definitely prolonged this fascination.
The rugby teams have the physical consistency of a Reubens nude paint-
ing. The rowers clearly have the bodies of some of Michealangelo's most
interesting paintings; due to their well honed bods, long lithe legs and great
teeth. They arc simply Britain's answer to the surfer-beach boy. In short the
rowers arc certainly "pretty boys."
Meanwhile, the rugby team are not a pretty sight - this is probably due to
the excessive consumption of Union curries and barrels of beer. Regardless
of this fact the rugby boys have cheeky, great, big walloping thighs and a
personality overload. Hence a photographer and 1 went to watch the IC
rugby firsts play St Georges medics last Wednesday. I had expected the IC
rugger boys to be beer-bellied misogynist Neanderthals who would sooner
eat a female journo than speak to her. Instead they were human and almost
gentlemanly.
The weatherj#as bitingly cold and the playing field was a potential swamp.
The match was simply watching thirty men ifdulge in roujjji, f&'tindjp
terone driven wrestling and running; it was great ! By the end of the game I
had developed an acute understanding of the rugby psyche. Basically they
play a grimy, dirty and sometimes painfull) physical game; this explains
why their social life is grimy, dirty, and joyfully physical. The sordid rugby
"sex anthems" reflect the kind of attitude needed for such a gruelling game.
In reality the IC men's rugby team admitted to worshipping at the alter of
the IC Virgins (women's rugby team), and were serious exponents of
women's rugby.
At the dawn of 1997, is there any
goodwill between the women and
men of Imperial?
Afua Osei investigates the state of
affairs between the Sexes (opposite
page), and explores the IC man's
sporting talent (this page).
Originally I had intended to literally investigate the IC male sporting talent by
getting good shots of them in the showers; with as one rugby player politely
said "tinsel around their todgers." The rowers were extremely enthusiastic,
about flaunting themselves to satisfy the female population, but due to the
rowing boys' timing being Off last week, we were unable to liase with them
on the photographic front. We did take some shots of the rugby players in the
showers but unfortunately the camera lenses steamed up. Although do not
despair, if there is sufficient demand I will most definitely pursue this assign-
ment.
To help you decide who to unwrap on Christmas morning, the cream of IC's
sporting talent have kindly given us a few words of wisdom:
The rowing boys insist that they arc fit, last forever, and have impressively
large protruding organs, while the rugby team state that the rowers "can't get
it up after two pints" and are too tall to fit under the mistletoe.
Hmm, tricky one. You decide.
F E L I X W E D N E S D A Y 18TH D E C E M B E R NEWS FEATURE 11
Imperial College Male:Female Public Relations
Out on the streets that constitute Imperial College's campus, the wild groups of predatory men and women stalk one another. But, trapped and with opinions
squirmed out of them, what do the les hommes et lesfemmes of IC think of each other?
The boistrous men seem to think that Imperial women are far too studious. A common jibe is that many good-looking women are too prudish, extremely
arrogant and unapproachable.
But arc these men just intimidated by the powers of female intellect and sexuality?
Perhaps not; others responded more positively:
"There arc a lot of foreign women at Imperial, and they have a great sense of style"
'They are very tasty and I could eat them all"
One response which provoked great hilarity was this gem: "Imperial College should pass a resolution banning women from having any morals or any
boyfriends. This is to enable IC women to adequately satisfy the huge male population" When asked about emotions and feelings, this IC man proclaimed that
"You can feel for them on the night" A rubber blow-up doll was suggested as another solution to his problem, but the interviewee insisted that he already had
one! Elsewhere, another extremely lonely and frustrated man whined that he was unable to find anyone at IC with "A massive chest and long legs." In this
instance a pair of melons from Sainsburys would probably better suit this gentleman, because he obviously feels more comfortable with inanimate objects,
rather than females of the human species!
On the other side of the gender divide, the disappointed women felt that IC men are, in summary:
• Lf f\g J I 4 *» I ? v3M »| 1
0 v * I ^ \) m . JL
Sad and scrawny
"Nerdy and hideous"
"Similar to an array of volcanic pimples"
And to seal the evolutionary death knell for the Imperial College man, a female Cambridge student visiting our union happily guaranteed that the male talent
was better back there.
Despite these reactions, it seems that underneath all the bluff, Imperial men and women have a huge adoration and appreciation of each other, which they will
only confess to when gently coaxed. It also seems unbelievable that Imperial women feel that there are no decent men. Is it possible that they are being over
selective...?
Eitherway, after scouting the imperial campus for seven hours - we have found a sea of gorgeous kissable men for your mistletoe. They're out there some-
where, happy hunting!

