F E L I X W E D N E S D A Y 18TH D E C E M B E R NEWS 3
Meningitis concern causes rush on
university health services
MATTHEW BENNETT
University health services across
Britain have been inundated with
calls from concerned students after
the spate of meningitis cases centred
around the University of Wales in
Cardiff spread to other institutions.
With two deaths and at least five
confirmed cases from the same hall
of residence in Cardiff, 770 studens
were given vaccinations for the C
strain of menigoccal meningitis bac-
teria.
A 16 year old boy at a Manchester
school died from meningitis and a 15
year old girl is seriously ill with the
disease. Students have also died at
Brighton and Bradford. The strain of
the disease at Bradford has not been
identified, so students there can not
yet be vaccinated. There has been no
decision made on whether to vacci-
nate the 18,000 students in Brighton.
Both the Manchester and Cardiff
cases were puzzling, as the affected
students were not close friends. The
disease is most often passed on by
intimate contact, especially kissing,
as the germs are carried in the nose
and mouth. In several universities
where outbreaks have occurred,
many social events have been can-
celled to stop it spreading.
the general population, with freshers
being seen as particularly vulnerable.
There are three strains of meningi-
tis, A,B and C, and while there are
vaccines for A & C, there is none
available for the B strain. The vac-
The symptoms to watch out for are...
Fever
Severe headache
Nausea and vomiting
Dislike of light
Stiffness of neck
Unfortunately, in viral meningitis these
symptoms are mild and may resemble
influenza. In bacterial meningitis, the
symptoms develop rapidly, often accompa-
nied by a red blotchy skin rash followed by
drowsiness and loss of consciousness with-
in about eight hours.
Further cases have been reported
at Southampton Institute of Higher
Education, York, Portsmouth and
Bournemouth universities. Students
have a higher rate of infection than
cines are specific to particular
strains, and not long lasting.
Many cases are not serious, and
can go unidentified, but a rare num-
ber can be fatal. Twenty-five per cent
of patients who recover from the bac-
terial form of the disease sustain
chronic damage to the nervous sys-
tem.
Meningitis can be treated with
antibiotics, if caught early enough.
Students at Cardiff have been issued
with antibiotic tablets for use at the
first appearance of symptoms, which
can occur two to ten days after infec-
tion. After that, the progress of the
disease is very quick, with loss of
consciousness possible within hours.
Many of the symptoms are similar to
influenza, which has caused a lot of
anxiety among the student popula-
tion. Dr Paul Coathup from the
University of East Anglia in Norwich
explained, "We are in the middle of
the 'flu season, and as soon as
meningitis hits the headlines every-
one thinks that they are suffering
from it when really they have 'flu."
Imperial College Union officials
advised students who were experi-
encing severe 'flu like symptoms to
see their doctor.
Nothing less than a great deal more
In return, individuals who match our high standards
can expect nothing less than the very best: exceptional
training; outstanding rewards and benefits; exciting
prospects for career development to Partner level within
a demanding and meritocratic organisation.
For more information please contact the Careers Service
or call our Recruiting Helpline free on 0500 100 189.
A N D E R S E N
CONSULTING
We are the world's largest business and technology
consultancy. To build on our success we must
continue to set the standards that others must follow -
in the quality of our thinking, the quality of our
service and the quality of our people. That is why,
when we recruit graduates, we recruit only those
who can deliver a great deal more than most in
terms of performance and potential.

