EXPLORE
T H E
W O R L D
OF
C A L C U L A T E D
When vou're structuring a major debt funding requirement
or a corporate acquisition, or financing a project the size of
the Hurhber Power Station or the worldwide acquisition of
Duniop Slazenger, the risks are tremendous.
But investment banking is anything but speculation; it's
all about taking calculated risks. It's about building
relationships with clients, planning carefully, evaluating all
the options and bringing sound business judgement to
deliver profitable results.
Worldwide, clients trust our judgement. NatWest Markets
is one.of the largest and best capitalised banking groups in
the world. And a truly global institution employing over 7,000
people in 55 offices in 25 countries. Specialised Finance is a
kev division, providing a portfolio of services covering asset
and project finance, leasing, structured finance for acquisitions
and global trade, and housing finance.
We now have , openings for the most outstanding
graduates of their generation. We have high standards, so
you'll need excellent A-levels and the prospect of a first or
upper-second class degree. You'll need a high level of
numeracy and ideally fluency in at least one other language.
Equally important, vou should be motivated, confident and
articulate, with considerable personal initiative and an
international outlook.
More than anything, vou should have a real fascination
tor the City. This is an environment in which vou will need
the commitment to develop the technical skills and mental
stamina to perform successfully.
The rewards are excellent. You can look forward to a
remuneration package which will compete favourably with anv
offered in the Square Mile. There will be the constant challenge
and high level of professional satisfaction derived from being
part of an achievement-oriented business. And you can expect
excellent prospects tor long-term career advancement.
Make a calculated decision. Write with vour CV, quoting
ref: SF97, to NBS Assessment Services, 10V105 Jermvn
Street, London SW1Y 6EE.Tel: Freephone 0500 1 51 51 1.
Closing date for applications: 31 January 1997.
N A T W E S T M A R K E T S

