“I
f you vote Green, you’re wasting
your vote.” That’s normally the key
argument I hear as to why someone
will not be voting Green in any election. They
consider a vote for a minority party to be a
waste, as minority parties don’t win and if
you vote for them you’ll just (a) let the Tories
win, or (b) give Blair five more years (delete
as appropriate).
Faced with this argument, you can see
why the Green Party has needed tenacity
during its 30-year life. In each election since
1974 we’ve contested seats, won votes, lost
deposits, kept deposits, beaten the Tories
and beaten Labour, but we still haven’t been
elected to Parliament in a ‘first past the post’
electoral system.
But if you vote for a party you don’t believe
in, isn’t that a wasted vote? Voting for a party
with beliefs you share is surely the right way
to vote. There are certainly arguments for
tactical voting, but in most constituencies in
the UK the same old party will win it, pre-
sumably because voters don’t want to ‘waste
their vote’ by voting differently. So we end up
with the status quo. Again.
If I had a penny for the number of times
I’ve heard the following phrase, I’d be a mil-
lionaire, (or at least wouldn’t have an over-
draft): “I agree with everything the Greens
say but I’ve always voted Labour so I’m
going to vote Labour.”
The very implication is that they don’t par-
ticularly want to vote Labour – it’s just like a
very bad habit they can’t give up! So why not
vote in a different way? Did you agree with
the invasion of Iraq, on spurious grounds of
hidden weapons? Or do you think that top-up
fees are the best way to ensure all Britons
get a fair chance at a quality education that
suits them? Perhaps you’d like to know
why National Insurance has gone up under
Labour whilst public spending on health is
still less than public spending on ‘defence’.
Greens approach both foreign and domes-
tic affairs in a holistic manner that would see
public funding given to conflict resolution
without violence and increased provision of
local, familial health care through a univer-
sal benefit, called the citizens’ income.
Take Europe – why are we hell-bent on join-
ing a federal economic model where we lose
national sovereignty over important national
tools like our ability to set interest rates? Or
back to the defence issue, will the proposed
EU Constitution just serve to force us to
put more money towards enormous defence
projects? Looking at the experience of other
nations, Germany for example, we can see
that the single currency has actually caused
them immense national economic difficulties
– rising unemployment, lower labour costs
from intra-EU competitors and the inabil-
ity to set appropriate national interest rates
have given them no end of problems.
Greens aren’t anti-Europe; far from it –
we have a rich history of internationalism
– but we are anti-Euro. Whilst some modern
industries are indeed global – communica-
tions, oil, electronics to name but a few, it
hasn’t escaped us that we still rely on local
economies for a lot of our needs – food,
water, friends, and most of the social fabric
we rely on. Localisation is a key tenet of
green thinking. Local economies, local com-
munities, local food and water production
all serve to keep our own communities alive
and well.
In an age of over-arching globalisation,
aren’t we forgetting something a little more
fundamental to our own well-being? In spite
of ever-growing GDP
, last month there was
the tragic story of a man found dead in his
council flat, six years after he actually died.
The Coroner was reported to have remarked:
“We need to ask what sort of society could let
this happen?” We do indeed. We will never
achieve a just, close-knit, trusting society if
we forget about all the ingredients for such
a society!
Asylum and immigration seem to be emo-
tive issues at this election. Only the Greens
would tackle the root causes of economic
migration, ensuring fairer distribution and
taking a tough stance on the real tax cheats.
Oh, and I almost forgot to mention our
clear commitment to progressive environ-
mental issues.
Whoever you vote for in this election, make
sure you believe in what you’re voting for.
Don’t waste your vote voting for a party you
don’t believe in and can’t trust. Vote Green.
Why you should vote...
GREEN
By Tom Tibbits (Green party national spokesperson for
energy and Imperial College PhD student)
R
espect is a political party born out
of the mass anti-war demonstrations
and opposition to an increasingly
right wing political climate. Since its forma-
tion in January 2004, it has made astonishing
progress. Respect was formed as an alterna-
tive to the three main parties: the warmon-
gering New Labour, the Conservatives who
fully supported them in going into Iraq, and
the Liberal Democrats who turned their
backs on the anti-war movement and backed
the carnage the second it started.
Respect stands on an anti-war and anti-
privatisation platform. When local schools
and hospitals are already under-funded in
some areas, their privatisation will not help
matters by making ordinary working peo-
ple use services that will deteriorate fur-
ther in the hands of big business, putting
profit before people. Respect wants more
investment of funds to provide decent public
services.
The war on Iraq and continued occupation
is still the central issue of these elections.
The Labour Government killed over 100,000
Iraqis and wasted £6bn in a war based on a
lie about the existence of weapons of mass
destruction. This money could easily have
been used to provide the things that Respect
stands for. £1bn would allow for each of
these:
• Scrapping the top-up fees we will see very
soon for university students.
• Raising the basic state pension to £100 a
week (not means tested) and installing free
central heating and full insulation in 370,000
homes.
• Building eight new hospitals with state of
the art equipment.
• Building a family centre in every constitu-
ency providing healthcare and homework
clubs for children.
Respect are targeting 30 specific constitu-
encies, including those where they did fan-
tastically well in last year’s European elec-
tions. For instance, in Newham, Respect
came second with 32% of the vote, being
beaten by Labour with 42%. Respect beat
both the Conservatives, who polled only 15%,
and the Liberal Democrats, with 11%. Just a
5% swing could bring victory for Respect.
Respect is very well placed to win seats
in several parts of East London, particu-
larly in the area of Bethnal Green and Bow
where George Galloway is standing. Also
Lindsey German (convenor of the Stop the
War Coalition) has a good chance of tak-
ing a seat in West Ham, where the Liberal
Democrats recently withdrew their original
candidate and the local press are pitch-
ing the battle as a two-horse race between
Respect and Labour. Respect is also mount-
ing a strong challenge in areas such as
Plymouth, Bristol, Birmingham, Preston and
Leicester.
If any Respect candidate manages to gain
a seat, it would be a massive blow to the
Labour government, and a boost to the
majority of ordinary people who lack real
representatives in Parliament. It would show
that the British public elected an anti-war,
anti-privatisation candidate and that the
majority of the public now believe that going
to war was wrong. It would also place in
parliament someone who is not fed on lies by
their leadership and will be willing to tackle
the other parties on issues such as education
and healthcare.
The Labour Government said they would
rather lose thirty seats to the Tories than
have a Respect MP in parliament. This is
the kind of impact that Respect are having
without any seats. Just imagine the gains
with a Respect MP
.
But seats cannot be won without campaign-
ing. There are people from Imperial going
to help out in East London this Saturday,
and on polling day itself (next Thursday),
and there are many more activists working
around the area. More are still needed to
help in the run-up to the election. If you want
to be part of the Respect campaign and want
to help out, there are many things going on
at the moment. Please email swss@ic.ac.uk
for more information.
If there isn’t a Respect candidate in your
area then vote with your feet and get over
to East London to help campaign for what
are looking set to be some historic results.
If a Respect candidate is standing in your
constituency, then when it comes to 5 May,
make your vote count. Vote Respect.
Why you should vote...
RESPECT
By Kian Sing Low (Imperial College Socialist Worker
Student Society)
The General Election
2005
4-page Felix pullout special ● Thursday 28 April
Local candidates speak to Felix
We interview a candidate from each of the three main parties:
● Mark Field (Conservative)
● Hywel Lloyd (Labour)
● Jenny Kingsley (Liberal Democrat)
Imperial students ask for your vote
We invite five students to explain why you should vote for the party they support:
● Chris Hampsheir (Conservative)
● Tom Tibbits (Green)
● Alex Guite (Labour)
● Gez Smith (Liberal Democrat)
● Kian Sing Low (Respect)
USE YOUR VOTE
ON 5 MAY

