M
ark Field is one of the youngest ever
MPs to represent the Cities of London
and Westminster. He has already had
three careers and is only 40 years old. After
leaving Oxford University, he became a lawyer,
which he found “boring”, and then went on to
be a graduate recruiter before starting his own
recruitment business.
He decided to become a politician because he
“felt politics was too important to be left to some-
body else”. His German mother was a refugee
twice before her 15th birthday. He believes that
professional and articulate Germans eschew-
ing politics was “one of the reasons we saw the
rise of Hitler”.
Field’s political career started with a set-
back, when he failed to win the ‘safe’ conserva-
tive seat of Enfield North in 1997. One wonders
how he went from that defeat to being selected
as MP for the prominent Westminster constitu-
ency. He was lucky.
“In the 1997 defeat,” he told me, “the Tories
lost over half their parliamentary seats. A lot of
the more prominent figures went to the house
of lords... the local party association took the
view that if they couldn’t have a ‘big name’, they
might as well have an unknown.”
Universities
Field went to university at a time when instead
of paying tuition fees, he received a government
grant. He, like Sir Richard Sykes, believes that
universities should be independent of the state.
It is his view that this is the only way to stop the
“brain-drain of our most talented youngsters
getting a scholarship and going to Harvard,
Stanford or wherever”. He believes that a bur-
sary or endowment scheme would remove the
disincentives of studying in Britain. But who
will fund a bursary scheme at Imperial? Field
believes it should be the alumni – so we pay now
and pay later!
His biggest worry, and one that must also
be felt by all of us at Imperial, is the declining
reputation of UK universities.
“Oxford, Cambridge and Imperial are already
rapidly going down international league tables.
That process will only continue if we don’t get it
right. Graduating from Imperial means some-
thing, that’s high currency around the world. If
in 20 or 30 years’ time Imperial College was just
another university it would be a tragedy.”
He believes that the government’s current
target of getting 50% of people into university is
a “bums on seats policy. We should concentrate
more on quality rather than quantity.” He even
cites his own sister as “someone who should
never have gone to university. She got a D and
two Es at A level. She ended up going into a job
that she could have gone into perfectly easily
without going to university.”
I put it to him that surely the Liberal
Democrats’ policy of abolishing tuition fees is
more attractive to students. Field says that
“no-one who votes Liberal Democrat believes
they are going to see a Liberal Democrat gov-
ernment,” and “no-one in the Liberal Democrat
party believes that,” so they can afford to make
promises that haven’t been properly thought
through.
The ‘real opposition’
Charles Kennedy recently declared that the
Liberal Democrats are “the real opposition”. Is
Field scared of the Liberal threat? “The real-
ity of the situation is, Liberal Democrat policy
doesn’t hang together”.
But he is under no illusions with regard to
the failings of recent Tory leaders: “In all hon-
esty, if one looks at Iain Duncan Smith and
William Hague, I don’t think one could really
envisage them walking through the door of
number 10”.
He has more belief in the current Tory lead-
er, Michael Howard: “He’s a credible figure...
[but] people are never going to love Michael
Howard”. Field thinks “Howard is not suited
to the Richard & Judy thing. He should play to
his strengths – the intellectual abilities.” Field
does not believe Howard, 64, is too old to run
the country, although he concedes that “he will
need a young team around him”.
Economic migrants but not refugees
Field believes that the UK should pull out of
the UN convention on refugees “because it’s
not working”. He is worried about maintain-
ing “sustainable numbers” of refugees, despite
the fact that his “own mother was ethnically
cleansed” and found refuge in the UK. In con-
trast, he is a strong believer in the idea of
economic migration. “If they want to make a
contribution, bring ‘em in,” he says.
War in Iraq
The Conservative candidate voted in favour of
the war in Iraq and doesn’t regret it. However,
he wishes that Tony Blair had been up front
about the reasons why Britain went to war.
“If he had stood up and said, ‘look, we owe
America for the last 100 years,’ the people
would have respected that. But he was dishon-
est. He simply didn’t tell the truth at all.”
London
Field has always been against the London con-
gestion charge, despite its’ success at reducing
traffic. “It has not made enough money,” he
argues. He is against the enlargement of the
congestion charge to include the area around
Imperial College, even though this would dras-
tically reduce commuting times for those of us
who travel by bus.
He is not too enthusiastic about London’s
Olympic bid either, and is sceptical as to wheth-
er Tony Blair would be so keen if we were not
in a election period. However, Field is a big
sports fan and supported Bury FC, who cur-
rently languish in League Two. “I think their
fortunes are even worse than the Tory party’s
in recent years”.
His constituency includes Soho, and he is
surprisingly liberal for a Tory, believing in “‘live
and let live’ on gay rights and those sorts of
issues”.
The NHS and MRSA
Like most politicians, Field can wax lyrical
about the threat of MRSA and dirty hospitals,
but he failed the Felix Science question: what
does MRSA stand for? He said: “That’s a latin
question isn’t it? I’m going to have to fail on
that one”.
I’m sure you all know the answer, but just in
case, it’s Methicillin Resistant Staphylococcus
Aureus.
The other candidates
Field is quietly confident that he will be re-elect-
ed, although he is sitting on a majority of only
4,500. He didn’t appear particularly concerned
when I told him that the President of Imperial
College Union, Mustafa Arif, could be standing
against him.
After a few chuckles, Field stated: “It’s a free
country, and he’s entitled to stand if he likes,
but there might be other candidates I’m a bit
more concerned about”. Arif has since decided
not to stand.
If he’s successful in the upcoming election, I
believe we’ll be seeing more of Mark Field. His
political ambitions include holding ministerial
office, for London, International Development
or Foreign Affairs.
“But,” he adds, “we’ll worry about getting
re-elected here and getting into government
first.”
If Blair had said ‘look, we owe
America for the last 100 years,’
people would have respected
that. But he was dishonest
“ “
Oxford, Cambridge and Imperial
are already rapidly going down
international league tables
“ “
T
he trouble with politics and government,
says Hywel Lloyd, is that they always
disappoint. “In politics,” he continues,
“it’s very rare for people to be able to say
‘I’ve achieved what I set out to do, and now I
can stop.’” Nonetheless, Lloyd, who describes
himself as an “optimistic pragmatist”, is aim-
ing to become the first ever Labour MP for the
Cities of London and Westminster. The thought
occurs that he might well be disappointed when
the result is announced on 5 May, but he insists
he has a “reasonable chance” of victory.
Born in 1964 to Welsh parents, Lloyd grew
up with “the sense that I’d always wanted to
be in politics”. He studied chemistry at Bath
University, where he was also elected president
of the students’ union.
After that, he ran a nightclub for two years
and then worked for a charity for the deaf. He
says his varied experiences have allowed him
to “pick up a fair amount of what I’d call real
life. My job now is as a management consultant
in public services, but I’ve worked in the volun-
tary sector, I’ve worked in the public sector, I’ve
run a business, I’ve started one and I’ve had a
couple fall over, so I think I’ve got a reasonable
sense of what it is that really means something
to people.”
Universities
Lloyd claims that the new top-up fees arrange-
ment, which comes into effect next year, is
“definitely a fairer system than existed”, but,
not for the first time in this interview, he reveals
that his own view is different to the party line.
“My personal preference,” he says, “would be
for a graduate tax that applies to all graduates,
including me. But the party and the population
in general don’t accept that way of gathering
money”.
I put it to him that Labour’s seemingly arbi-
trary target of 50% of young people entering
higher education will not only make it increas-
ingly difficult for graduates to obtain jobs but
will also lead to a shortage of workers in key
areas that do not require a degree.
Lloyd counters: “It’s a profound part of
Labour’s philosophy that more and more peo-
ple should gain the opportunities that education
can give them. It might well be more difficult for
graduates to get jobs, but I don’t see that as an
argument for denying others the right to a good
education. You could have a superb service for a
very small number of students, which would be
the academic envy of the planet, but that isn’t
the point.”
However, he accepts that “it would have been
both more understandable and more coherent”
if, in 1997, the government had also dealt with
what he calls “the missing part of the equation”,
ensuring that the other 50% of young people
would have opportunities to level 4 or 5 on an
NVQ scale, be they vocational qualifications or
otherwise.
War in Iraq
If he had been in Parliament at the time, how
would Lloyd have voted on attacking Iraq? He
begins his response like a typical politician, only
to surprise me at the end:
“We did endeavour to use the UN and have
it make a collective judgement on what should
happen. It didn’t go all the way with what
Britain and America wanted, so then we had
to make a judgement – do we go or not? The
Prime Minister made the judgement to go, but
as a back-bencher I would have made the judge-
ment not to. I would have voted against.”
His reasons are interesting, too. “Partly from
an environmental perspective,” he argues, “war
is a very wasteful way of solving problems.”
Going green
Lloyd lists ‘the environment’ as one of his
major interests. He is co-chair of the Socialist
Environment and Resources Association
(SERA), and when I ask him if he has any ideas
on how Imperial can improve its impact on the
environment, he replies with enthusiasm:
“Probably hundreds! There’s got to be a way
– and students can be involved in it – of making
the College sign up to various voluntary codes.
Universities can actually save money, or at least
use resources more effectively, if they have a
better sense of ‘where is our energy use? Are
our buildings properly insulated?’
“I think a lot of student feedback could work
here. You can use a technical or economic argu-
ment: maybe we can save 10% of our energy
budget [and help the environment at the same
time].”
I suggest that, given the emphasis he places
on environmental issues, Lloyd might be more
suited to the Green Party than Labour. His
response is swift, short and demonstrative of
his political ambitions: “The Green party is
never going to be in power.”
Negative campaigning
On a Labour party promotional web page enti-
tled ‘Cities of London and Westminster for-
ward not back’, just over half the text relates
to how bad the area would become under the
Conservatives. Lloyd argues that Labour are
not being negative: “I think the party has got
a profoundly positive message, but what’s dif-
ficult is getting that past some newspapers.”
However, he does take the chance to have
a dig at the Tories. “The point does have
to be made that you’re choosing between a
Conservative government and a Labour gov-
ernment, and if you’re facing that choice you
need to know what the alternative is going to
look like. The Conservative manifesto is pretty
light on anything, in terms of what they’ll do,
how it will work and how it will add up...”
Lloyd expects that Labour will maintain a
large majority in Parliament. “I can’t imagine
people will wake up on 5 May in the morning
and think ‘right, Michael Howard will be better
for Britain’”, he says confidently.
London
Lloyd is backing the capital’s 2012 Olympic bid,
but he urges caution because “Paris already
has most of its infrastructure in place and all
of that.” After a long pause, he says that the
bid is worth the money even though London
is less likely to succeed than Paris, because
the process will help to “drive collaboration”
and “regenerate the north east quadrant of
London”.
And what about the congestion charge? “I
think managing traffic is very important, and
at the moment the congestion charge and road
pricing is the best mechanism we’ve got.”
What are his chances?
The turnout in the Cities of London and
Westminster was just 47.4% in 2001. Less than
22% of constituents voted for Mark Field, the
Conservative MP
, who is standing again this
year. This is just one reason why Lloyd feels
that he can win.
He also points out that “the Liberal vote last
time was greater than the Conservative major-
ity, and the Liberals don’t appear to be fighting
this seat, because they don’t appear to consider
it winnable in their terms.”
I am surprised to discover that, at the time
of the interview, three weeks before polling day,
Lloyd and Field have never met. Lloyd seems
unconcerned by this, and suggests a reason for
it: “I’m out there doing stuff; he’s not.”
Perhaps, with an unexpected victory on 5
May, Lloyd can stave off the disappointment
of politics for a while longer and cause Field to
experience it instead.
Mark Field on
recent Tory
leaders: “In all
honesty, if one
looks at Iain
Duncan Smith and
William Hague,
I don’t think
one could really
envisage them
walking through
the door of
number 10.”
Hywel Lloyd on
the 50% target:
“It’s a profound
part of Labour’s
philosophy that
more and more
people should gain
the opportunities
that education can
give them.”
L
ocal councillor Jenny Kingsley left the
Conservative party in 2003 as she felt she
could not support its views on the war
in Iraq, and because of the “lack of transpar-
ency and accountability” in the Tory-controlled
council’s dealings with the public. Kingsley, now
a Liberal Democrat, is an elected member for
Cremorne, a ward in the borough of Kensington
and Chelsea.
Since she defected, people who she once
regarded as friends now snub Kingsley in pub-
lic. This childish behaviour of Tory councillors,
“many of whom should have retired from the
council by now,” although clearly making life
hard, just reaffirms to her that she made the
right decision.
Not intimidated by the actions of those coun-
cillors, Kingsley, 47, decided to stand as the
Liberal Democrat parliamentary candidate for
Kensington and Chelsea, one of the safest Tory
seats in the country. She has very little respect
for Michael Rifkind, the Conservative candi-
date, or Michael Portillo, the incumbent, who is
stepping down after six years.
She believes that Rifkind, who lives in
Scotland, “is not interested in local issues… he
looked like he’d fallen asleep in a meeting once”
and has been “given this seat because the
Tories see it as less of a challenge”. Yet Rifkind,
despite having had so much trouble finding a
parliamentary seat, is touted as a possible suc-
cessor to Howard, should the Conservatives
lose the election.
One may wonder if Kingsley has switched
allegiance purely out of personal political ambi-
tion. She was a two-a-penny local Councillor
with the Tories, but by switching to the Liberals
she has increased her profile considerably.
She argues that there was “no perceivable
political advantage” to be gained by the defec-
tion, which was “soul-destroying”. She says her
reasons for standing are altruistic: “We need a
local champion to bring local issues to parlia-
ment.”
In fact, her local roots (not in a League Of
Gentlemen way) seem to be her trump card.
She equates Rifkind’s likely involvement in local
issues to “having a girlfriend who you never see
– you can’t maintain a decent relationship”.
Kingsley says she believes in the principles
of the Liberal Democrats. But she does not
ooze liberal ideals: she lives in a sizeable prop-
erty close to South Kensington tube station,
both of her sons went to Eton, and the NHS is
not her family’s primary health care provider.
She admits that although in the past she “did
not view the Liberal Democrats as a credible
political force,” she does now. “They seemed
woolly... they didn’t seem to take themselves as
seriously as they deserved.”
The ‘real opposition’
Charles Kennedy recently declared that the
Liberal Democrats are the ‘real opposition’.
Kingsley believes that the party will pick up
votes from both Labour and the Tories as a
result of the war in Iraq, the public’s lack of
trust in the present government and their lack
of faith in the Tories’ ability to deliver.
According to Kingsley, her leader doesn’t live
up to the heavy drinking portrait painted by the
media. She finds Kennedy “friendly, confident
and extremely focused,” and believes he is “an
excellent leader”. Kingsley believes that nation-
ally the Liberals can “at most win; at least come
second”.
War in Iraq
An American by birth, Kingsley believes that
“what a country might have is not justification
for waging war”. Although she feels the war
was “against America’s spirit of liberty,” she is
not ashamed to be called an American.
Universities
According to Kingsley, “students are the future
of liberal democracy”. She is hardly surprised
that we are sometimes made to feel unwel-
come by our neighbours: “There is a very
unsavoury feeling amongst residents towards
young people.” She suspects that the opposi-
tion against the Southside redevelopment on
aesthetic grounds could be a “pretext” for anti-
student feeling.
She loved her time as a student, studied
Social Anthropology at LSE and received an MA
in International Relations from Georgetown,
Washington DC.
The congestion charge
Kingsley is opposed to the extension of the
London congestion charge, as it will adversely
affect local businesses. She would prefer a
“road pricing” scheme.
What are her chances?
Jenny Kingsley has a considerable uphill strug-
gle to even make a dent in the Conservative
majority – in 2001 Portillo collected 54% of the
vote – but Labour, on 23%, may be catchable.
The Liberals received 16%.
What about the threat posed by minor par-
ties? In 2001, Ginger Crab of the Jam Wrestling
party received 100 votes. I don’t think Kingsley
is quaking in her boots.
I can’t imagine people will wake
up on 5 May in the morning and
think ‘right, Michael Howard will
be better for Britain’
“ “
My personal preference would
be for a graduate tax that applies
to all graduates, including me
“ “
We need a local champion to
bring local issues to Parliament
“ “
Students are the future of
liberal democracy
“ “
Jenny Kingsley on Charles Kennedy and the
party’s chances: “He is friendly, confident
and extremely focused... [We can] at most
win; at least come second.”
Election interviews: local candidates speak to Felix
CONSERVATIVE Mark Field is MP for the Cities of London and Westminster, the
constituency containing Imperial’s South Kensington campus. Here, he discusses
tuition fees, immigration and his chances of re-election with Rupert Neate
LABOUR Hywel Lloyd is set to be Field’s closest rival for the Westminster seat.
The former students’ union president, nightclub manager and charity worker talks
to Dave Edwards about his political views and passion for the environment
LIBERAL DEMOCRAT Jenny Kingsley, running for
the neighbouring seat of Kensington and Chelsea, tells
Rupert Neate about her defection from the Tories
Felix special ● Thursday 28 April 2005 The General Election 2005

