W
e, the people of the United Kingdom,
deserve better. The Conservatives
have made clear promises to make
our lives better. How is it that more taxes
are required to provide the same, sometimes
less, service that has previously been made
available?
Civil service bureaucracy is wasting our
limited resources. Michael Howard has iden-
tified £12bn over the next two to three years
in duplicated and wasted paper-pushing that
can be reinvested into our tired public serv-
ices.
The chief culprits of overspent pen-push-
ing are in the NHS and the police force. It
is surely common sense that there should
be more doctors and nurses than adminis-
trators. Hospitals are places for the sick to
recover and should be run by doctors and
nurses, with doctors and nurses for the better
treatment and recovery of patients. The less
time a doctor has to spend filling in forms, the
more time is available for treating the ill. With
fewer forms, fewer admin staff are required
and in turn fewer managers, all of which frees
wasted cash which can be redistributed to
front line services.
Labour has said that more police have
been recruited. This is true, but rather than
pounding their beat, they are filling in pieces
of paper to satisfy the Home Office. For
example, there is a form that a police officer
has to fill in for trivial matters such as stop-
ping and questioning someone in the street.
Even if this mass of paper is required, the
work can be done by civilians, which will
free up the trained personnel to help protect
the citizens. Yobs need to be brought under
control. Too often, the victim of a crime is the
one punished.
In both the cases highlighted, public serv-
ices should be about serving the public – not
providing needless jobs to help bring down
government unemployment statistics.
Even if you do not believe in his politics, you
should believe in the man that is Mr Howard.
The Conservative manifesto is short and to
the point, with every single pound in the GDP
accounted for. What you see is what you get.
There are no economies with the truth, unlike
the Labour premier, Tony Blair, who says one
thing and does another.
Top-up fees are a prime example. It was
stated that Labour would not introduce them,
yet latest reports show that they are cur-
rently increasing to £3000 a year and will be
increased further in the next parliament.
Why should a medical or engineering student
be charged £3000 per year tuition fees and
then be in the higher income tax bracket?
This person is providing a service to the pub-
lic, helping to save and make better the lives
of those around. Education should be free to
those who want it. By scrapping the ridicu-
lous 50% student target, money can be saved
by removing virtually worthless degrees.
Mr Blair is not the only problem, however.
Gordon Brown has stolen money from pen-
sion funds. My parents should have retired
years ago, but thanks to the depleted pen-
sion funds this is not possible. The dream
that so many couples had of a well-funded
retirement is no longer possible. Some find
it hard enough to scrape together enough for
basic sustenance, all because of the greed of
Number 11.
With state pensions in disarray, hard work-
ing families switched to paying into a private
pension fund. The latest from the Chancellor:
he plans to raid the private pension funds in
the next budget. How long can this disgrace-
ful behaviour be allowed to continue? If an
old aged pensioner withdrew their lifesav-
ings and was mugged in the street, wouldn’t
society demand vengeance? The final nail in
the coffin is that with what little money is left,
pensioners must then pay council tax which
has risen by an average of 78%.
We need to put trust in the people, not
the civil servants. How can pen-pushing
Europeans decide the future of our country?
With self-determination, we can preserve
our history, culture and heritage. We are
British, not European. The same goes for
Westminster too. Wales, Northern Ireland
and Scotland need control over their own
laws and councils, but without the costly
expense of the Holyrood fiasco. Money should
be available for councils to spend as to their
requirements; schools in one area will require
a different amount of funding and different
style of teaching to another.
You have a voice. You can make it count.
Vote for a change. Vote Conservative.
Why you should vote... CONSERVATIVE
By Chris Hampsheir (Chair Elect, Imperial College Conservative Future)
“T
he Government’s support for
research is declining, falling fur-
ther behind that of our main indus-
trial competitors in Europe whose policy is
to increase investment in scientific research.
There is no excuse”.
This was the 1986 plea by a group of univer-
sity scientists, bought together around a com-
mon concern that the then Tory government
was slashing British science budgets, making
it increasingly difficult to fund world-class
research. The response amongst academics
to their half page advert in The Times was
overwhelming and within a year the cam-
paign ‘Save British Science’ was founded.
Today, the picture is very different. In
March, Tony Blair visited Imperial College
to announce plans for an extra investment of
£10bn into British science research, continu-
ing a commitment to sciences and engineer-
ing that has run throughout the last eight
years of Labour Government, based on a
belief that vibrant research is key to our con-
tinued prosperity.
In his budget, Gordon Brown re-affirmed
this commitment with a pledge to continue
increasing the share of GDP invested in sci-
ence, raising us even further above the 1997
levels after 18 years of Tory cuts. Meanwhile,
in the thinnest manifesto by a major political
party in recent times, at a scrawny 28 pages,
the Tories fail to even mention the word ‘sci-
ence’, let alone set out a plan for funding and
encouraging world-class research.
Perhaps it’s fortunate that the Tory’s skel-
etal manifesto isn’t longer. The 28 pages
are terrifying enough: a return to the dodgy
economics of promising to lower taxes and
borrow less, yet simultaneously vowing to
increase spending. Are you thinking what I’m
thinking? It just doesn’t add up: you can’t use
the same money twice to increase spending
and cut taxes. They tried it before, and we got
economic boom and bust as a result.
It might seem odd that as one of the many
members of the student movement who
fought against top-up fees, I’m urging you to
vote Labour. It might even seem appealing
to give the Government a kick in the teeth by
voting Liberal Democrat, but the truth is that
it is a choice between a Labour government
and a Tory government. A choice between a
government that is increasing public spend-
ing on higher education by over a third, or
a party that wants to slash university places
by sending over 100,000 students home and
charging commercial interest rates on stu-
dent loans.
Voting Liberal Democrat only makes it eas-
ier for Michael Howard to walk into Downing
Street as we wake up on 6 May. The Liberal
Democrats make much of their claim to have
abolished tuition fees in Scotland, but it’s not
the full story. Up-front fees were replaced
with a deferred graduate payment, a system
that was condemned by student leaders as a
betrayal of their pledge to abolish all forms of
payment. The Liberal Democrats’ university
funding plans would deny many the chance
to study at Imperial College: to save costs
they have said that they want students to
stay at home and study locally. In abolishing
council tax, they would also abolish the stu-
dent exemption, hitting students who work
hard to fund their degree with their new local
income tax.
Some lucky voters were recently targeted
with a direct mail from the Tories outlining
their ‘plan for action’ should they be elected.
It’s not so much a plan to tackle the big
issues facing Britain today, rather a plan to
dismantle the positive changes that Labour
has introduced since 1997. The Tories have
a record on this: whenever Labour has held
office they have set up a Department for
International Development with a clear mis-
sion to tackle poverty, only for it to be ditched
by an incoming Tory administration.
Hillary Benn, Secretary of State for
International Development, speaking at
Imperial College in February, described how
aid has more than doubled since 1997 and
now, having cancelled the debt of the poorest
countries, Britain is urging others to follow
our lead and offer 100% debt relief. Thanks
to British leadership in the G8, the scandal of
global poverty cannot be ignored by affluent
nations. Similarly, Labour leadership in the
international community has led to action on
climate change. The UK has already met its
Kyoto obligations and was pivotal in persuad-
ing Russia to ratify it.
The Tories are fighting a negative cam-
paign and show more interest in spreading
fear than presenting a positive vision for the
future. When setting out the choice facing you
on 5 May, Sir Alex Ferguson puts it well:
“This Labour government has led this
country into a period of unparalleled pros-
perity. Britain is a fairer, more prosperous,
tolerant and caring country that it ever was
under the Tories.”
Why you should vote... LABOUR
By Alex Guite (Chair, Imperial College Union Labour Society)
Y
OU MAY THINK of the Liberal
Democrats as still the third party in the
UK, but did you know that among stu-
dents, the latest poll figures show Lib Dem
support standing at 47%, higher than Labour
and the Conservatives combined?
Membership of Lib Dem Youth and Students
(LDYS) is rising at its fastest rate for as long
as we can remember, and the number of our
university and college branches has doubled
since the Iraq War. So why are so many stu-
dents turning to the Lib Dems?
From what people tell us, it’s because
we’re honest, open and consistent. We’ve
opposed Labour’s tuition fees and top-up
fees from the start, and have openly shown
where the money will come from to remove
them (a higher rate of tax on earnings over
£100,000). We’ve already removed the fees
from Scottish universities, through applying
pressure in our coalition government with
Labour.
We opposed the Iraq War from the start,
unlike other parties who just criticised it
when they saw how unpopular it was. We
were the first major political party to call
for the legalisation of cannabis and for drug
addiction to be treated as a health issue, not
an issue for the criminal law. We’ve been
fighting for action on world trade injustice
and environmental destruction for years.
But behind our policies, often eventual-
ly ‘copied’ by other parties, is something
unique. We’re the only party that allows all
its members to have a genuine say in what
goes on. Any party member can write a
policy and have it debated at LDYS or the
main party conference, where everyone gets
to vote on it. If it gets passed, it becomes
national party policy! No other party puts this
amount of power and influence in the hands
of its members.
We have a belief in liberalism, a belief
that everyone should be ensured the same
opportunities in life regardless of their
background, that people should be trusted
and encouraged to run their own lives, pro-
vided what they do does not harm others.
Because of this, we also want to see the way
people vote in this country changed to pro-
portional representation, so every vote will
have an impact on the outcome. For us, a
democracy should truly represent the views
of all its voters, not just the wealthiest or the
most vocal.
So what does the rise in Lib Dem support
amongst students and across the country
mean at this election?
Well, there are 14 Labour and 13
Conservative seats around the country
where the number of students exceeds the
gap between the sitting MP and the Liberal
Democrat candidate.
In Norwich, Charles Clarke, the former
Education Secretary responsible for pushing
top-up fees through parliament and current
Home Secretary responsible for the terror
bill and ID cards could lose his seat. There is
a majority of 9,727 over the Liberal Democrats
and a student population of 9,000.
We Liberal Democrats will be campaign-
ing for every vote in every constituency. We
want a fairer, safer, greener Britain that acts
responsibly on the international stage.
Exercise your democratic right and make
a difference.
Why you should vote... LIBERAL DEMOCRAT
By Gez Smith (Vice Chair, Liberal Democrat Youth and Students)
Felix special ● Thursday 28 April 2005 The General Election 2005
USE YOUR VOTE ON 5 MAY

