www.felixonline.co.uk
Felix
Thursday 28 April 2005
6
Comment felix@ic.ac.uk
Electoral system fraught with
problems, but your vote counts
A
ndrew Ireson, writing on page 8, is not the first to describe the
British electoral system as undemocratic, and he will not be
the last. The ‘first past the post’ method currently favours the
two main parties – in 2001, Labour and the Conservatives received
73% of votes between them, but claimed 88% of seats in the process.
The Labour party also seems to benefit from the way in which the
country is divided into constituencies, and a sitting government has
the massive advantage of choosing when the next general election
occurs, provided it is within five years of the last one. In a country of
60 million people, major parties have admitted to concentrating their
efforts on less than one million key voters in crucial marginal seats,
while everyone else seems to be forgotten. Recent fraud scandals
surrounding postal votes in Birmingham and Blackburn have only
served to increase the public’s dissatisfaction with the system.
But despite these problems, and however disillusioned you might
feel with politicians and politics in general, it is important that you
take a moment to cast your vote in the 2005 general election in a
week’s time. Only 39% of 18-to-24 year olds voted in 2001. Students
are the future of this country and, in large numbers, they can make
a noticeable difference at the ballot box. Do you really have the right
to complain about the way Britain is being run if you haven’t tried
to change it? As the Liberal Democrats are so keen to point out,
there are numerous constituencies in which the student population
exceeds the current MP’s majority. Your vote is your voice, and fail-
ure to use it is akin to admitting that you really don’t care who wins.
Turn to the centre pages for our general election pullout.
Wye and postgrads
Beating exam stress
All of us have done exams at one
stage or another. Below are some tips
to help you reduce your stress levels
during this difficult time. I hope you
find them helpful.
Believe in yourself
You wouldn’t have been given a place
on the course if you didn’t have the
ability to do it. Therefore, if you pre-
pare for the exams properly you
should do fine, so there is no need to
worry excessively.
Don’t try to be perfect
It’s great to succeed and reach for the
stars. But keep things in perspective.
If you think that “anything less than
A+ means I’ve failed” then you are
creating mountains of unnecessary
stress for yourself. Aim to do your best
but recognise that none of us can be
perfect all of the time.
Take steps to overcome
problems
If you find you don’t understand
some of your course material, getting
stressed out won’t help. Instead, take
action to address the problem directly
by seeing your course tutor or getting
help from your classmates.
Don’t keep things bottled up
Confiding in someone you trust and
who will be supportive is a great way
of alleviating stress and worry. Make
use of your personal tutor and talk to
them. If you can’t find anyone to talk
to, the door of The Information and
Advice Centre is always open to any-
one who needs it. You may even get a
cup of tea.
Keep things in perspective
The exams might seem like the most
crucial thing right now, but in the
grander scheme of your whole life
they are only a small part.
Tips for the revision period
• Leave plenty of time to revise so
that you don’t get into a situation of
having to do last minute cramming.
This approach will help to boost your
confidence and reduce any pre-exam
stress, as you know you have prepared
well.
• Develop a timetable so that you
can track and monitor your progress.
Make sure you allow time for fun and
relaxation so that you avoid burning
out.
• As soon as you notice your mind
is losing concentration, take a short
break. You will then come back to your
revision refreshed.
• Experiment with several alternative
revision techniques so that revision is
more fun and your motivation to study
is high.
• Don’t drink too much coffee, tea and
fizzy drinks. The caffeine will ‘hype’
you and make your thinking less clear.
Eat healthily and regularly; your brain
will benefit from the nutrients.
• Regular moderate exercise will
boost your energy, clear your mind
and reduce any feelings of stress.
• Try out some yoga, tai chi or relax-
ation techniques. They will help to
keep you feeling calm and balanced,
improve your concentration levels and
help you to sleep better.
Tips for the exam itself
• Avoid panic. It’s natural to feel some
exam nerves prior to starting the
exam, but getting excessively nervous
is counterproductive as you will not be
able to think as clearly.
• The quickest and most effective
way of eliminating feelings of stress
and panic is to close your eyes and
take several long, slow deep breaths.
Breathing in this way calms your
wholenervoussystem.Simultaneously
you could give yourself some mental
pep-talk by mentally repeating “I am
calm and relaxed” or “I know I will
do fine”.
• If your mind goes blank, don’t panic!
Panicking will just make it harder to
recall information. Instead, focus on
slow, deep breathing for about one
minute. If you still can’t remember the
information then move on to another
question and return to this question
later.
• After the exam don’t spend end-
less time criticising yourself for
where you think you went wrong.
Often our own self-assessment is far
too harsh. Congratulate yourself for
the things you did right, learn from the
bits where you know you could have
done better, and then move on.
If you would a like a more in-depth
chat about exam stress, then please
feel free to contact the Information
and Advice Centre on 020 7594 8067 or
advice@ic.ac.uk. We are based in the
east wing basement of Beit Quad.
Don’t let your concern turn in to a
crisis. Make the IAC your one stop
shop for all your welfare issues.
ADVICE SERVICE
NIGEL COOKE
STUDENT ADVISER
This term will hopefully see two
very important sets of elections in
the Union. The first is for the Wye
College Union Society (WCUS). The
second will be for a new postgraduate
sabbatical and a Graduate Students
Association.
Representing Wye
Regular readers will be aware that the
Wye campus is going through a proc-
ess of change. All of the science teach-
ing is closing, with the research being
phased out. However, the applied busi-
ness management course will remain
and a College review has begun to
identify new academic activities to
take place on the campus.
The next few years will therefore see
considerable change at Wye – much
more so, probably, than when Wye
first merged with Imperial in 2000.
The College has made guarantees, I
believe genuinely, that every student
will get the degree they signed up
for. However, in any change process,
cracks develop that might get over-
looked. That’s why the biggest issues
for the Union at Wye in the next couple
of years will be to identify areas where
teaching quality or other student
needs may fall short and ensure that
these problems get rectified swiftly.
The Union’s representation at Wye
happens largely through WCUS and
so it’s incredibly important that next
year’s WCUS officers are level-headed
and able to effectively represent stu-
dents’ needs and opinions. WCUS elec-
tions take place in about two weeks’
time. I hope that every Wye student
takes an interest. The more students
involved in the election process, the
better officers you will get.
Embracing postgraduates
You will have read on the front page
that the College has agreed to fund
a new sabbatical post of Deputy
President (Graduate Students). This
is a wonderful opportunity to kick-
start a Graduate Students Association
and elections are accordingly planned
for mid-June. We hope to have the
new sabbatical in post for the new
academic year. Hopefully we will then
be able to start the work of building a
College-wide representation structure
for graduate students.
STATE OF
THE UNION
MUSTAFA ARIF
UNION PRESIDENT
End in sight for Babar Ahmad
A
British citizen sits in custody accused of committing acts of
terrorism. He has been there since last August, when he was
arrested for a second time.
If he has committed a crime, Babar Ahmad should be tried and
sentenced under British law. Instead, he faces the grim prospect of
becoming the first ever Briton extradited to the United States under
the Extradition Act 2003. He and his lawyers may not respond to
the allegations against him. No evidence needs to be put forward.
Prosecutors must simply demonstrate that a US court believes it
has a case.
The Extradition Act 2003 would appear to be a particularly danger-
ous piece of legislation, yet it passed through Parliament with barely
a whisper of discontent. No other country could extradite a British
citizen under these terms. Britain would not be able to extradite an
American citizen under these terms. And yet these terms are now
the law. On 17 May, a judge is due to rule on whether Babar Ahmad
will be extradited. We await his verdict.
Hospital closure must not
affect teaching
C
urrent and prospective Imperial College medical students
will have reacted with concern to news that Charing Cross
Hospital may have to close. Whilst it is entirely reasonable
that Hammersmith Hospitals NHS Trust needs to look to the long
term and consider its financial situation, every effort must be made
to ensure that any closure or potential closure does not affect
students adversely. The President of the School of Medicine
Students’ Union is right to say that their facilities will be fought for
if necessary.
It would be regrettable if such an important hospital, both to
Imperial students and local residents, had to close its doors. It would
be even more regrettable if, as national newspapers have suggested,
the proposals are being covered up until after the general election.

