www.felixonline.co.uk
Felix
Thursday 28 April 2005 7
COMMENT felix@ic.ac.uk
Energy policy a sign of progress
Simon Bennett welcomes the introduction of Imperial’s Energy Management Policy but calls for
specific targets and student vigilance to ensure that it really makes a difference
Readers who recall the embarrass-
ing gap between the Rector’s rheto-
ric on environmental commitment
and the College’s implementation
record (as reported in Felix on 3
February 2005: ‘Sir Richard and
the Environment’) may also recall
that a College energy policy was
promised. This policy was finally
approved on 22 February and is now
in place to guide staff and contrac-
tors towards achieving a ‘showcase
low carbon heritage estate’.
This is cause for celebration, I’m
sure you’ll agree, considering the
battle that has been fought by the
College’s Energy Manager to have
it implemented. The College should
be applauded for having dragged
itself up to speed with the country’s
other universities, but as students
we must remain vigilant to ensure
that the measures are implemented
as promised.
Imperial’s Energy Management
Policy makes the ambitious and wel-
come statement that the College
“aims to become the leading UK
academic institution in applied
energy efficiency and utility man-
agement”. However, the published
policy consists only of four bullet
points indicating the areas in which
improvements will be made. No
detailed blueprints for the essen-
tial changes are included, though
the policy does refer to a sepa-
rate Energy Management Strategy,
which is sadly not provided.
Thankfully the key areas of concern
are mentioned in the brief text, with
energy efficiency of new buildings,
procurement and energy awareness
all receiving attention.
From the publication of what is
considered a “bold and ambitious
statement”, it appears that the
College is now committed to pursu-
ing good environmental steward-
ship. But if this is really the case
then why not publish the agree-
ments and targets that underpin
meeting the objectives? In this
respect, Imperial still lags behind
its counterparts.
UK universities currently spend
£200m on energy requirements.
This vast sum has prompted the
Higher Education Funding Council
for England (HEFCE), to promote
better energy management prac-
tices through the Green Gown
awards.
On 22 March, the University of
Glasgow was named the most ener-
gy efficient higher education insti-
tution in Britain for an innovative
lighting system. Thirteen universi-
ties received awards or were com-
mended, three of these for energy
efficiency. Unsurprisingly, Imperial
College did not appear amongst
those commended in 2005, but what
is perhaps more telling is informa-
tion that appears on the websites
of some other institutions that also
missed out. Whilst Imperial is far
from alone in having high aspira-
tions for energy efficiency, its lack of
explicit targets seems to distinguish
it from the majority.
For example, Oxford intends to
reduce total carbon emissions by
20% from 1990 levels by 2010 by using
more renewables. It is also monitor-
ing CO2
reductions by measuring
kgC per m2
of floor space. Bristol
University has allocated £60,000 to
identifying energy-saving initiatives
and boasts that it has begun carbon
trading through the EU emissions
trading scheme. Cambridge is even
prepared to publish a breakdown of
energy costs alongside a detailed
energy policy that aims to reduce
energy consumption by 5% over five
years.
Ultimately, adoption of an energy
policy at Imperial is cause for cel-
ebration, as inefficient energy use
campus-wide can now be held to
account. The next step is to make
it clear to the Rector and to the
College that students, staff and the
public deserve to see the full strat-
egy. If Imperial is to successfully
reduce its environmental impact
through its actions as well as its
research, then clear targets must
be met.
So let us now see if the published
energy policy can be increased to
at least match Manchester’s four-
page document. And let us ensure
that the Environmental Policy, due
in 2005, is sufficient to put Imperial
in line for some Green Gowns in the
coming years.
● Simon Bennett is an MSc
student of environmental
technology
IMPERIAL’S ENERGY MANAGEMENT POLICY
“Imperial College London is a world-class teaching and research institution providing
scientific and technical excellence, innovation and solutions for the global needs of the
21st Century. Best practice in energy management will become increasingly important
in support of this position.
The College aims to become the leading UK academic institution in applied energy efficiency and utility
management, demonstrating sound environmental governance and global citizenship, and providing a
showcase low carbon heritage estate.
This will be achieved by:
• Energy management including the implementation of an Energy Management Strategy, clearly defined
objectives, targets, responsibilities and operating principles, and the efficient management of energy in the
estate;
• Energy efficient design including Energy Standards, Monitoring and Targeting systems, continuous
improvement of the estate and best practice in new buildings;
• People solutions including the development of a culture of energy awareness and accountability; and
• Procurement, which integrates low/renewable energy and carbon reduction into decisions regarding energy
purchasing and generation and the purchase of equipment and materials.
The Energy Management Strategy will be reviewed and updated annually.
Energy Management at the College is the responsibility of the Director of Estates. Faculty Heads, with the
support of their Faculty Administrative Officers and the Estates Energy Manager, are responsible for identifying
and implementing agreed priorities within their Departments/Divisions. The efficient use of energy is the
responsibility of all staff and students.”
● If you have any comments or suggestions about energy issues at the College, you can contact the Estates
Energy Manager, Phil Evans, on 020 7594 9652 or phil.evans@ic.ac.uk.
Making poverty history
“Sometimes it falls upon a gen-
eration to be great. You can be that
great generation. Let your great-
ness blossom. Of course the task
will not be easy. But not to do this
would be a crime against human-
ity, against which I ask all human-
ity now to rise up.”
Those were the words of Nelson
Mandela addressing 40,000 people
at a Make Poverty History rally
in Trafalgar Square on Friday 4
February 2005.
For those of you who weren’t
in Trafalgar Square, or around
Parliament Square the other night
when 11,000 turned up for a candlelit
vigil in Westminster Abbey and mid-
night march down Whitehall, and
who haven’t been reading the papers
or watching the news, I’ll start with a
brief introduction...
Make Poverty History is a mas-
sive campaign, launched this year
and backed by over 400 charities,
non-governmental organisations,
faith groups, activist networks, trade
unions and celebrities. The basis
of the campaign, and Mandela’s
emphasis on our generation, is that
today we live in a world that has the
resources and potential to lift the
entire population of the planet out of
poverty. And yet, we live in a world
where poverty causes the deaths
of 30,000 children each day; a world
where 38m people live with HIV; and
a world where the gap between rich
and poor is wider than ever before,
and increasing by the day.
The causes of these global inequal-
ities are not, however, natural. They
lie in the corruption and self-interest
of the world’s major powers, which
in turn result in a glaringly unjust
global trade system and the huge
burden of third-world debt that con-
trasts with pitiful aid donations. This
was highlighted in the wake of the
tsunami crisis that struck south-east
Asia on 26 December last year, when
the total sum of money donated to
the relief effort by the British gov-
ernment amounted to less than one
week’s spending on the Iraq war.
An example closer to home that
draws some of these points together
nicely is that of our beloved Rector,
Sir Richard Sykes. As chair of Glaxo
Wellcome in 1999, he earned, in a
combination of salary and bonuses,
over £3.5m. At the same time, he
was in the courts trying to pass laws
to stop people in the third world
receiving cheaper AIDS drugs, in
what Oxfam described as “an unde-
clared war against the world’s poor-
est countries”.
So now, the aforementioned organ-
isations have come together to chal-
lenge global poverty under the name
of Make Poverty History, with three
central demands: the dropping of all
third world debt, trade justice, and
more and better aid. This year was
chosen to launch the campaign for
two reasons. First, in July, the G8
(the meeting of world’s eight rich-
est and most powerful leaders) will
be held in Gleneagles in Scotland,
and second, Britain will hold the
European Union presidency for the
second part of the year.
The central focus of the campaign
is a massive demonstration that will
be held in Edinburgh on Saturday
2 July, while the G8 leaders meet
nearby. People are already talking
about over a quarter of a million peo-
ple demonstrating. The basic idea is
simple: to make it clear that people
from all across Europe who will join
the demonstration don’t just want
world leaders to pay lip-service to
global poverty... they want them to
end it.
In the run-up to the general elec-
tion, each major party is trying to
trump the others in championing
the cause of the world’s poor. But
from past experience, particularly
of meetings of the G8, there is little
talk and even less action on issues
that aren’t about strengthening the
positions of the eight participant
countries, usually to the detriment
of everyone else. And this is why it is
vital that as many of us as possible
are up in Scotland on 2 July, to make
sure that global inequality is on the
global agenda, whether Bush, Blair
and company like it or not.
All of this is why the Make Poverty
History campaign has just been
launched here at Imperial too. It is
hoped that the breadth of support
nationally will be mirrored within
the college, and the response so
far from clubs and societies, faith
groups and individuals has been
impressive. A large rally is currently
being organised for the third week
of term, but before then, there are
two things you can do if you want to
get involved:
● A motion is being taken to Union
Council, which will next meet on
Thursday 12 May, to obtain offi-
cial backing for the Make Poverty
History campaign at Imperial. To
show the breadth of support, as
many people as possible need to
second this motion, which can be
viewed alongside this article at www.
felixonline.co.uk. If you wish to join
the list of seconders, please email
me with your name, department and
year at cs602@ic.ac.uk.
● Come along to the first Make
Poverty History organisers’ meet-
ing at 1pm on Monday 2 May in the
cafeteria area inside the entrance to
the SAF (medics’ building at South
Kensington).
And remember, as Nelson Mandela
highlighted, that it would be a crime
not to speak out against the inequal-
ity that exists today in our world.
Our government has the means to
vastly change this situation, but as
we have seen before, this won’t hap-
pen without pressure from below,
pressure from us in our hundreds of
thousands marching in Edinburgh
in July.
Finally, if it seems like a daunting
task, then remember the phrase:
“They are G8... we are six billion.”
● Numaan Chaudhry looks
at making poverty history in
this week’s Business section,
page 4
COLIN SMITH
WELFARE CAMPAIGNS
OFFICER

