The election is coming up. Politicians
and the media subject us to an all-
out tirade of facts, figures, sound-
bites and promises in order to allow
us to make an ‘informed decision’
on 5th May. This is what democracy
looks like, apparently.
The last thing I want to do is add
to this clamour, but I would like to
raise a rather awkward point, which
doesn’t get mentioned very often
on the BBC: the electoral system in
Britain is completely undemocratic.
It is well understood and uncontro-
versial that the current ‘first past
the post’ electoral system favours
the two main parties. If in doubt,
just consider the statistics from the
past five general elections, shown
on the graphs to the right (source:
UK Election Statistics, House of
Commons research paper 03/59).
The contrast between the Liberal
Democrats’ percentage of votes and
seats in parliament is stark, and
whilst ‘Other’ parties have more
than doubled their share of the vote
since 1983, their number of seats has
only increased by about a third.
But even these simple statistics
don’t tell the whole story – surely
people would vote differently if they
didn’t have to enter into complex
calculus about whether a vote for X
or Y might be more effective in their
constituency. The voter has one
vote to decide both which candidate
best represents their local interests
and which party best represents
the national interest. So unlike the
United States where the executive is
directly elected, in the UK we have
only an indirect say in who actually
forms the government.
In my mind, this simply amounts
to a system of divide and rule. Does
it matter? Well, at the very core of
western civilization is the proclama-
tion that the only legitimate form of
authority comes from the consent
of the people. So, I would say, yes
it does matter, especially at a time
when we are exporting our supe-
rior values of democracy all over
the world.
So, other than choosing to forget
this inconvenient little flaw, what
can we do? Well, what I am get-
ting at, of course, is the need for
electoral reform. In the long run, I
think that a coalition between the
progressive smaller parties and the
Liberal Democrats is the best way
to challenge the present two-party
dictatorship. They would only have
to win one election to implement a
system of proportional representa-
tion, and could then return to their
separate camps knowing that their
supporters would be fairly repre-
sented in parliament in the future.
In the short term, if you are not
happy with either Labour or the
Conservatives, then I think there is
a way that you can have an impact at
this general election – by tactical vot-
ing. This is where large numbers of
people organise themselves outside
the influences of the mainstream
media and politicians. It is important
that this be a co-ordinated effort if it
is to be effective, so the internet is
the perfect tool. There are numer-
ous websites you can find which
outline such strategies. I personally
like www.strategicvoter.co.uk.
Noam Chomsky describes the
electoral process as an exercise in
marginalizing the public, that is:
“Reducing them to apathy and obe-
dience, allowing them to participate
in the political system, but as con-
sumers, not as true participants.
You allow them a method for ratify-
ing decisions that are made by oth-
ers, but you eliminate the methods
by which they might first, inform
themselves; second, organize; and
third, act in such a way as to really
control decision-making.”
We can accept this if we want to,
but that is a choice we are all free
to make.
● Andrew Ireson is a PhD
student in the civil
engineering department
An election strategy for the dispossessed
As the country prepares to go to the polls, Andrew Ireson argues for electoral reform
Letters to
the Editor
Tanaka trouble
interrupts revision
Dear Felix,
I am writing to you rather than stud-
ying for my finals as my preferred
place of study has been rendered
unusable by persons unknown...
Working in the Mechanical
Engineering reading room this
afternoon, my productivity was
severely hampered by an almost
continuous stream of clattering
and banging as a small army of
caterers set about transforming the
Tanaka building entrance hall into
some sort of Japanese themed din-
ning room. Later on we even had
pleasure of listening to the PA sys-
tem technician repeatedly booming
out “testing, testing, one, two, test-
ing...”, informing us that whoever
was going to be out there later was
going to be armed with electronic
amplification.
However, what finally stopped
me working was the string quartet,
only 20 feet from the windows to
the reading room. I realised that it
would be futile to complain tonight,
but I felt that I would like to know
who organised the event so I could
register my gripes with them some
other time. Sadly when I went to
enquire about about the identity of
the organiser/organisers I was met
by a security guard who informed
me the area was closed. When I said
I was merely trying to find out who
was in charge, he informed me, with
his face two inches from mine, that
I would have to find out tomorrow
and there are other libraries to work
in. I’m not sure whether his close
proximity was intended to aid com-
munication over the din of Vivaldi’s
greatest hits or to deliberately emu-
late the style of a bouncer, presum-
ably in deference to the importance
of the event.
The crux of my gripe is that, not
for the first time, Imperial College
seems to be putting the undergrad-
uate student way down its list of
priorities by hiring out the Tanaka
Building, presumably as part of a
lucrative conference deal. One does
wonder what its future plans are: to
continue as a centre of teaching and
research excellence, or perhaps the
powers that be have deemed it more
profitable to cash in on the name
of Imperial College and go head to
head with the Marriott on Cromwell
Road for the conference market.
Yours sincerely,
Andrew Worrall
4th year, Mechanical Engineering
Send your letters to felix@ic.ac.uk. This is the page where you can make your
voice heard on just about any topic. Letters may be edited for length but not for
spelling or grammar, and are printed at the Editor’s discretion
COMMENT felix@ic.ac.uk
www.felixonline.co.uk
Felix
Thursday 28 April 2005
8

