ICLUBS & SOCIETIES!
STOIC Almanac
STOIC Technical Manager Nick Graham-
Taylor annbunces that the Southside TV set is
working. The South African motion is not
discussed at the UGM because Nick Pyne is
unable to remember how to de-suspend
standing orders. A viewer at Southside rings
the TV Studio to ask what Nick Taylor said as
the sound has gone on the Southside TV set.
Ace film reviewer Rich Copnall states that he
doesn't know anything about films. HIS letter
of resignation is not accepted. Council
investigates discrepencies in the bar accounts.
February
A suntanned Steve Goulder returns from his
two weeks holiday in Bermuda. Ace film
reviewer Richard Copnall interveiws Koo
Stark for starchat. She agrees that he knows
nothing about films. Two are killed as 400
people stampede into the TV Studio. Steve
Goulder says that it's a mystery to him where
the missing bar account money has gone.
Bookshop News
Happy New Year! Welcome back, hopefully
we have all your recommended books for the
coming term. But lecturers please let me know
if you are going to recommned a title; if the
students are told to get a particular title, / need
to know. Last term, one lecturer said they
didn't tell me as they only had ten students.
The Bookshop lost a possible ten sales.
Students, if the book you want is not on our
shelves, tell me. At least, I should be able to tell
|you whether or not we can get it. To all of you,
Imperial College Bookshop relies on your full
co-operation to ensure that recommended
titles are available at your own bookshop.
Bookshop Bestsellers
Encyclopedia of Gardening - Arthur Hellyer,
Collineridge Pub £15
Confessions of an Actor - Laurence Olivier,
Weidenfeld & Nicholson £9.95
American London - Gerald Newson, Q Books
Ltd £4.50
Stranger From the Sea - Winston Graham,
Collins £7.95
Everybody's Boswell - Bell & Hyman £8.95
Rock On - Norm N Nite, Harper & Row £9.50
A Matter of Trust - Nigel West, Weidenfeld &
Nicholson £8.95
Morgans Pride of British - John H Sheally II
Foulsham £16.95
The golden Tore - Julian May, Pan £1.75
Eyes of Darkness - Leigh Nichols, Fontana
£1.50
Rebecca Notebook - Daphne Du Maurier, Pan
£1.75
Rising Sons - Robert Levine, Fontana £1.95
Level 7 - Mordecai Roshwald, Allison & Busby
£1.95
The Spook who sat by the door - Sam Green
lee, Allison & Busby £1.95
The care of time - Eric Ambler, Fontana £1.50
The Benn Heresy - Alan Freeman, Pluto Press
£3.50
Black Sportsmen - Ernest Cashmore,
Routledge £5.95
The Silent Intruder - Panati & Hudson, Pan
£1.75
Check your tax 1982/3 - Finnigan & Kitchen,
Foulsham £1.25
To the Librarian, who shall be nameless, the
book is so battered, I will be putting it in our
Book Sale in February. But if s/he wishes to
make an offer, I will consider it.
March
Nick Pyne wins the presidential election by
one vote thus gaining 60% of the total poll.
Pyne states that his first priority will be to
discover where the bar account money has
gone to. Goulder declares the election null and
void as only five people voted. He appoints
Christine Teller as caretaker President for
next year. Ace film reviewer Rich Copnall sells
the story of what he and Koo did after the
interview. The Daily Star buys the exclusive
rights to it. Martin Taylor says that FELIX
should have been offered the scoop in return
for all the space he gives to STOIC. STOIC
Chairman says he cannot fit it in two inches on
page seven. Ace film reviewer Rich does his
braodcast from hospital following a mysterious
accident. with a Royal Navy helicopter. The
South Africa motion is not discussed, despite
the' recent shooting of 400 blacks at Suweto,
on the grounds that such an important motion
should be discussed at the end. The STOIC
Easter programme is a runaway sensation.
C & G
I hope all the Guildspeople reading this are.
fully recovered from the Christmas festivities
and ready for a full term's work. Just to take
your mind off the more boring College
pastimes, we have organised, for your delight,
hitsquad down Portobello Road this Saturday,
meet C & G U 9:30am.
Then next Sunday (23rd) there are the
rugby sevens. The more teams the merrier!
Submit your teams to P BatesonC&GU by
Thursday. There are prizes. We still need an
LMS coordinator urgently. Plese see me.
Events for the diary: Friday 14: JCR Fancy
Dress Party; Saturday 15: Rag Collection
down Portobello Road (bring towels).
See you at the party tonight.
RSM
*
F
<
D Soc
So, I've been ETed.
Even I, a hardened synic, was biting back
the tears as the wrinkly little alien's body was
found in the cold waters of a stream after his
attempt to 'phone home'.
But on to weightier maters, he beamed
across the subethcr as the crippled ship
plunged into the heart of the black hole. We
will not be showing a sneak preview of The
Revenge of the Jedi but who cares when we've
got Oh Lucky Man (starring that man with the
funny eyes), for your delectation on Tuesday
night. And even more important, articles for
NME 4 are now being accepted. Get yours in
before it's too late!
Alex the Muon
Page 61
Well, I hope everyone had a good new year
and Christmas and you're all set to go now for
the new term. We've got the Mines Review on
January 28 which contrary to popular opinion
really is fun for all the family. It includes a
band, comic, compere, strippers (male and
female!), bar extension and a full length
(naughty but nice) feature film.
We've just had a new lot of sweatshirts in (in
large sizes) so if your're one of the people we
had to send away last term come back and try
again.
Finally, just a thank you to everyone who
turned up to help at the Ball, we couldn't have
done it without you. Hope all those who went
enjoyed it.
Dancing
I This term there will be a new beginners'
I dancing class, every Wednesday at 7:30pm in
the JCR. This class is for those of you who
missed out on last term. No partner is
necessary. So come along and join in.i
Last term's beginners please come to the
intermediate class on Tuesdays at 7:30pm,
JCR. The lessons will continue at the point
where they left off last term.
Also on Mondays there will be additional
advanced class which will be at a higher level
than the present one, which will still continue.
The price will be slightly higher but the
| teacher, who still competes in professional
dancing competitions, will be well worth it.
• • ^ • J a n u a r y 14,1983 • • • •
Audio
This term the Audio Society will be proud to
present, amongst others, Dynavector,
Crimson, Logic, D N M , Questar, and
Heybrook.
Are Dynavector to give away a free
cartridge? (Watch this space.) Is the Logic the
best turntable in the world? Is it true that
Audio Soc are actually presenting lectures by
manufacturers who make equipment you can
afford? The answers to these and many other
questions, including full details of the above,
may be found at our first meeting (Tuesday,
January 18, 6:30pm, Upper Union Lounge).
Third World First
Imperial College Third World First Society
only established itself in Imperial College last
term. Third World First is a national student
movement, campaigning against poverty and
underdevelopment.
Up to now, the society has organised
speaker meetings, and will continue to do so
his term, including speakers from International
Broadcasting Trust, Campaign against the
Namibian Uranium Contract, El Salvador
Solidarity Campaign, and the World Develop-
ment Movement.
If you are interested in Imperial College
Third World First Society, or want to find out
more, contact John Sattaur, Physics 2, or
come to our next meeting—the International
Broadcasting Trust, 5:30pm in the Green
Committee Room, top floor of the Union
Building.
Labour
1983 could well be the year in which Mrs
Thatcher goes to the country to seek another
term of office. Labour Club, with this in mind,
has organised an extensive series of meetings
at which you will be able to learn more about
the policies of the Labour Party.
Among the speakers will be Moss Evans
(TGWU), Jim Slater (National Union of
Seamen), Alan Sapper (ACCT), Jim Mortimer
(Labour Party General Secretary), Frances
Morrell (ILEA) and Mick McGahy (NUM).
All members of the College are welcome to
attend any of these meetings. Further details
will appear in FELIX and on the club
noticeboard (Sherfield Walkway). Copies of
the club's complete programme will be
distributed shortly to all supporters, but can
also be obtained from the Publicity Officer,
Jon Stanley (Elec Eng 4).
wmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmnux

