IREVIEWSI
Bistro Vino
1 Old Brompton Road
589 3888
Open every day from noon to 3:00pm and
6:00pm to midnight
Of all the restaurants within crawling distance
of College, the Bistro Vino offers by far the best
value for money if you are eating on a restricted
budget.
Although there are several branches in the
area, I am going to concentrate on the one in
South Kensington—mainly for the very good
reason that I haven't tried any of the others.
The candelit atmosphere—it doesn't quite
aspire to having an ambience—is pleasant.
The walls are decorated with racks of wine
bottles and plastic bunches of grapes are much
in evidence.
As a tribute to its popularity, you often have
to queue for a table, although if you arrive
before 8:00pm you shouldn't have too much
difficulty. On a cautionary note, it isn't really
suited to a quiet romantic evening out as
couples tend to have to share tables, in rather
close proximity, with other diners. If you go in
a larger group, however—say four upwards—
you can get your own partitioned off eating
space which is far more satisfactory.
As should be the case, the best thing about
the Bistro Vino is the food. The starters cost
from 70p to £1. Most of them are adventurous
and well prepared although portions can be on
the small side. Mushrooms a la Grecque—
button mushrooms in a ratatouille sauce—is
worth trying as is the Whitebait—tiny whole
fish fried in batter. Highly recommended is the
Smoked Chicken Mayonnaise—delicious.
Main courses cost from £1.90 to £3.55 and
are served with your choice of chips,
croquettes or rice. Entrecote Steak Diane with
chips (£3.10) and a side salad (60p) proved an
excellent combination. Gigot of Lamb
Rosemary at £2.85 gives you a fair sized piece
of lamb deliciously flavoured. The Rump Steak
at £3.45 seemed better value than the Fillet
Steak at the same price. Their Chicken Kiev at
£2.85 is an excellent choice for garlic lovere.
Puddings, priced at 60-70p are uninspiring.
My Chocolate Mousse seemed to be
unnecessarily small although at 65p one can't
really complain. The Treacle Tart at 60p and
the Cheesecake were also fairly ordinary. The
best bet is probably the Bistro Sorbet.
The House Wine at £3.50 is no better (or
wose) than one would expect.
Service is generally good although the main
couse can take its time in coming.
You would be hard pushed to spend more
than £5 per head on food and service is not
added onto the bill.
Altogether, highly recommended.
M u r d e r
a n d
S u s p i c i o n
Still of the Night directed by Robert
Benton, now showing at the Odeon,
Haymarket.
Despite the temptation to rest on their ET
laurels, UIP have released another very
passable effort in Still of the Night. Meryl
Streep and Roy Scheider (star of Jaws-the
one without the teeth) are the main attractions
of this intricately woven story of murder and
suspicion.
Roy Scheider plays Sam Rice, a psychiatrist
who is still reeling from his divorce when a
patient of his is murdered (losing your wife is
bad enough, but losing a patient as well is just
plain carelessness). The murdered man's
mistress, Brooke Reynolds (Meryl Streep)
turns up at his office and asks Sam to return
the deceased's watch to his wife, the violins
play and he sweeps her into his arms; well, not
quite, but Sam's blood pressure moves up a
notch or two (and whose wouldn't?).
Hard on her heels comes the tenacious
detective, Joe Vitucci, with just a suggestion of
lasagne stuck between his molars. Thje
evidence points to Brooke, but Sam reckons
there are better things you could do with a
woman like that than put her behind bars. Can
he prove her innocent? Thus the trail of blood
and corpses continues.
Still, this is by no means a violent film, and
the blood and corpses are kept to a minimum.
The main problem with making a film of this
sort must be generating the sense of tension.
Even Hitchcock, the master of suspense,
occasionally failed to deliver, ending up with a
rather limp feeling of resignation in the viewer, '
as he waits for the next thing to go bump in the
night. This film uses some cheap tricks, such
as total silence followed by something hurtling
in from nowhere. There is also a scene in
Central Park; everyone knows that you always
get mugged in Central Park, which removes
the necessity on the director to produce the
tension. I don't suppose Central Park can be
really that bad, but I must admit I have no
inkling to test this theory at first-hand. On the
whole, the atmosphere is well maintained
throughout and rivets one's attention to the
screen.
The climax of the film is well worth waiting
the obligatory one and a half hours for with an
empty seaside retreat being a perfect location
with real spook appeal, and there is a clever
link between this and a dream sequence earlier
in the film. When the homicidal maniac is
revealed, s/he (I'm not telling) is fittingly silent
and menacing; s/he's out to kill you, not wake
up the neighbours. The acting is of high
standard throughout, with Meryl Streep
outstanding. As anyone who saw her screen
debut in the unmitigatingly awful telly-epic
Holocaust will tell you, she's at her best when
being alternately terrified, agitated and grief
stricken; for my money, the best actress on
the screen today. This is a very polished and
refined film all round. Despite the numerous
murders, we are spared the blood and gore
normally associated with this sort of goings on,
the camera just allowing you time to take in the
blooded corpse for the instant shock effect
before moving on, and despite the numerous
sexual liaisons, we are only allowed one all too
brief glimpse of Ms Streep in the altogether,
more's the pity!
Lee Paddon
n u x m a m m m m a m m m m m m m
R e c o r d
L o w
Record companies are traditionally at a low
ebb over Christmas, and the New Year—
maybe hangovers are particularly heavy in that
industry—and this one's no exception; the odd
new release jostling with a handful of last year's
leftovers for your attention.
A few singles for starters. Island launch 1983
with their latest signing, Glasgow's Set The
Tone. Unfortunately, Dance Sucker isn't too
hot; join-the-dots funk embellished with too
much synth trickery. Much better are APB
who hail from Aberdeen, who have just re-
issued Shoot You Down (Oily Records); more
basic, more direct than Sucker, and all the
better for it. How long before the music press
hype 1983 as the year of Scottish New Funk?
In 1980, Postcard Records of Scotland were
going to set the pop world alight, so we were
told, but instead their main bands Josef K,
Orange Juice and Aztec Camera had either
broken up or dried up by the end of. 1981.
Josef K recorded a string of sparkling singles,
• • • • J a n u a r y 1 4 , 1 9 8 3 H M H
and an underrated LP before splintering, with
lead singer and Kafka devotee Paul Haig
retreating to lie low in Belgium. Justice may
have been a good single, but his' latest, Blue
For You (Interference), is unfortunately a
rather monotonous, anaemic disco-ish effort.
And on the subject of bloodless wonders, two
positively weedy efforts: current John Peel
favourites The Farmers Boys sound like fifth-
rate Orange Juice, awash with mannered
vocals and simp-strummed guitars, on More |
Than A Dream (Backs Records), whilst
. Darkness & Jive resurrect the ghost of Marc
Bolan on Hooked On Your Love with dire
results.
On the brighter side the debut single from
Southern Death Cult, Fat Man (Situation 2),
gallops away on some spirited drumming,
propelled along by twangy guitars straight out
of Ghost Riders In The Sky. Theatre of Hate
fans should love it. This week's 'welcome back
from the dead' award goes to Echo and the
Bunnymen; after the unwieldy Back Of Love
single, The Cutter (Korova), is a welcome
return to form, relying in part on those
thematic hooks that dominate Rescue,
Monkeys and A Promise, with a great tune
built around what sounds like an Arabian
' continued on page 8
• B H B B H H B B H H B H B H B Page 7

