continued from page 7
kazoo. Take note Farmers Boys! This is how it
should be done.
The Specials broke up shortly after their
topical number one Ghost Town. Out of the
wreckage sprange the Fun Boy Three who
quickly became Top of the Pops regulars with
a run of increasingly frivolous singles;
meanwhile, Jerry Dammers had crawled off
with a couple of Specials, a Bodysnatcher, and
a few others to form the Special AKA. Their
first single, The Boiler, was a chilling account
of a rape. Predictably, the BBC banned it as
'distasteful', whereas it was anything but a
gratuitous cash-in on the plethora of rape
cases at the time. Nearly a year later, Capital
Radio will only play the instrumental B-side of
their latest single. IVar Crimes (2-Tone 7" and
10") is 'too political', a haunting lament for the
victims of last September's massacre in
Beirut's refugee camps. Meanwhile, FB3
release their most potent single since
Lunatics. The More I See (The Less J Believe)
is a tensely orchestrated piece, specifically
about Northern Ireland (reminding us that
'Belfast's only half an hour away') but also
about sectarian violence in general, and the
consequences for those caught in the
crossfire: '...another attack/leaves a widow in
black/weeping for her bereaved...And they
keep telling me/it's not my concern...' It's out
on Chrysalis as 7" and 12".
According to Cherry Red Records boss Iain
McNay in the Christmas NME, independant
companies are having a tough time facing up to.
the increasingly glossy competition from major
labels, as records seem to sell on the strengths
of a. band's haircuts rather than the music.
Cherry Red seem healthy enough, and to back
this up, there's a compilation LP called Pillows
& Prayers that is fifty minutes long and costs
only 99p (echoes of Virgin's samplers for the
price of a single that ranged from The Faust
Tapes in the early 70s through The Front Line
to the recent Cash For Coics). This better-
thah-average collection—the sr-jndtrack to a
forthcoming film and video—features a
number 6t recent or forthcoming singles, from
the fizzy electronic pop of The Passage with
XOYO, and Thomas Leer's All About You to
the acoustic wanderings of Tracey Thorn's
Plain Sailing, and Ben Watt's Some Things
Don't Matter. Cherry Red have quite a few
acoustic acts, so it's no surprise to find Kevin
Coynt here, fitting in well alongside The
Marine Girls and the Thorh/Watt duo
Everything But The Girl. As with any
compilation, there's a few oddballs: ex-
Nightingale Joe Crow, Piero Milesfs excerpt
from Modi-an Italian Mike Oldfield by the
sound of it; shades of Omma-bleedin-dawn,
and something from Eyeless In Gaza who give
synthesiser duos a bad name, and name
themselves after an Aldous Huxley novel. One
absolute gem is the Monochrome Set's Eine
Symphonie des Grauens, originally a 1979
single on Rough Trade, and included here for
possibly L
W
O reasons: firstly, Cherry Red will
release the early singles on a retrospective
album pretty soon, as the Set—surprise,
surprise—now record for the label. Secondly,
their new material is crap. The curent single is
some juvenile cowboy whimsey called Cast A
Long Shadow. Last year's Eligible Bachelors
album is being re-promoted (as a film tie-in?),
bui this tawdry effort sounds rather dated, like
I jarly Caravan out-takes in fact; limp 'humour'
pitched at the head rather than at the feet, it
falls severely short of its mark. Otherwise, full
marks to Cherry Red for a varied roster of
artists; what with Compact's 60s kitsch,
Factory's corporate chic, and Rough Trade's
^heer drive, maybe 1983 will see the indies bite
nu< k. Nigel Brand
IREVIEWSH
Uninspiring
Laughter
Ducking Our by Mike Stott, directed bp
Mike Ockrent, Duke of York's Theatre.
There are a lot of dotty families about. I
don't think anyone can deny this, it's just that
some families are more dotty than others. The
Coppell family, feature in Ducking Out, are
pretty dotty indeed. In fact the family itself is
almost a flagrant absurdity. (Good phrase that,
flagrant absurdity, I must use it again some
time). ' .
The play is an adaptation by Mike Stott of a
play by Eduardo de Filippo called Natale in
Casa Cupiello (Christmas at the Coppells).
The action takes place in the Coppell's flat in
Derweht Block, the Lakeview Estate, in a town
in West Lanes, over Christmas Eve, Christmas
Day and ten days later. One might infer from
this that Warren Mitchell as the father of the
family is playing an Alf Garnett type character.
Not so. Len Coppell is a jovial easy-going
catholic. Like Leone Galla in Pirandello's The
Rules' of the Game (played recently by
Leonard Rossiter), Len has a rock, an anchor
in life, by means of which he can weather any
storm. His anchor is crib making and we find
him busy on Christmas Eve labouring over a
huge papier mache holy crib, a veritable
magnum opus. His cribs save him from his
troubled, eccentric family, but not for long.
Things reach a peak on Christmas Day and he
is confined to bed with a severe speech
impediment.
Ducking Out is pure 'sitcom' and although a
good laugh it was rather uninspiring. It had
nothing to differentiate it from other comedies
d'uuui eccentric families that one often sees on
TV. However, superb performances were
given by Warren Mitchell (one of this comedy's
most outstanding actors in my opinion) and
Leslie Sands as Arthur Coppeli, Len's elder
but very odd brothe:
Nick Bedding
PS: The-most-obnoxious-person-I-have-sat-
next-to-in-the-theatre-in-the-year award was
conferred upon a neighbour a; the end of the
performance of Duckmg Out. An extremely
high accolade, it is not awarded lightly.
Nominees have to be of the highest calibre.
The winner was a genuine young bourgeoisie
upstart (student). Telling his woman how
many tens of pounds he had spent on buying
Christmas presents at Harrods, he was. Half
closed eyes. Pouting lips. SpeaKing in that
rather silly front of mouth manner. Asking his
friend what Marcus and Gloria and Jeminia
and others with those bleedin' bourgeois
names were giving him for Christmas.
Obnoxious little turd, theatre critics ought to
be afforded seclusion from such people. As if
there weren't enough unpleasant and
distracting. things in the world like poverty,
hunger and the FELIX Editor's brown plaid,
trousers.
Page 81
Flagrant absurdity in 'Ducking Out'
• • • J a n u a r y 14,1983 H i IFELIX

