WALKA80UT-
LOOKS££
Ay Mobile Optics Inc.
IREVIEWSI
Fashionable society, including the Queen
Mother as guest of honour, attended the
private view that launched this winter's major
exhibition at the Royal Academy. 1 too might
have been present—tor the price of a ticket
(£20) and a wardrobe that would not have
been disgraced by Savile Row suits and Paris
couture dresses. FELIX reporters don't yet
rate four-figure expense accounts, so I
contented myself with a visit on an ordinary
Tuesday afternoon!
'Treasures of Ancient Nigeria' contains a
hundred or so bronzes and terracotta from the
Nigerian national collections They span a
period from around 500BC to well into the
second millenium A D and cover several
distinct styles. In fact, the exhibition could well
be subtitled 'Variations on the theme of an
African head, with Pots and Animals for light
relief.
Colonisation rules O K
The formal stylisation of Benin bronzes is
probably the feature of Nigerian art best
known in Europe—and that as the result of
a high-handed exercise of colonial power.
Are you sitting comfortably? Then I'll begin.
In 1897 the king of Benin (the Oba) was
House of Clay
Clay by Peter Whelan, directed by Bill
Alexander, The Royal Shakespeare
Company at The Pit, Barbican Centre.
"1 imagine most people have a countryside
of the mind, some green and tranquil refuge
north of the frontal lobes for escape at times of
pressure." So says Peter Whelan about his
new play, Clay, which has opened recently at
The Pit. Unlike Captain Swing and The
Accrington Pa/s-Whelan's other plays, both
performed by the RSC— Clay is set in the
present.
Three generations share a converted hill
farm turned pottery studio: Bert (Fred
Pearson), Micky (Janet Dale), their sixteen
year old son (John McAndrew) and Micky's
octogenarian mother (Sylvia Coleridge). Win
and Pat, played by Gemma Jones and Jim
Broadbent respectively, arrive from a more
pressurised life in urban West Germany. They
are inseparable teenage friends of years ago.
But the future has slipped in almost
unawares. Whelan has made the main
character, Win, to stand for all of us who have
ever looked for a refuge from that future. But
her 'countryside of the mind' contains people,
the old teenage foursome. Her refuge is mutual
love and affection. The play is a sort of comedy
of embarrassment as the two couples meet
after such a long separation and talk about
their past and future intentions.
But it is the present the play is concerned
about and the way our 'mental refuge' can be
given a nasty jolt by the u n e x p e c t e d
sudden arrival of the future.
The play is very confident and clever, and
quite rich in meaning. Some interesting
parallels are drawn between clay and people (!)
and the production has an excellent cast to
boot. Recommended.
Nick Bedding
FELIXMKMM1I • H I H I I M — B — « H
Bronze vessel - 9th or 10th century
accused of massacring a party led by Vice
Consul J R Phillips. The Oba, though not
involved, consulted an oracle who predicted
the white men would destroy. his city. To
appease the gods, and avert this disaster, he
ordered large numbers of human sacrifices
and the decaying bodies were found by the
Royal Navy expedition when it reached Benin.
Horrified, they exiled the Oba, cleared up the
carnage and then, to cover the expedition's
costs (!), sold off ivories and bronzes found in
the palace. Many were bought by the British
Museum and placed in the ethnological
department where they were exhibited as the
artifacts of primitive savages.
Over the next twenty years the sculptures
were 'rediscovered'—they inspired many
European artists, not least of whom Picasso,
who found them a trigger towards the
development of Cubism.
It is only within the last forty years that other
Nigerian art-traditions too have been seriously
investigated by archaeologists and art
historians. The sculptors' technical skill in
modelling and firing terracotta and in casting
bronze, using the lost wax method,"Was
extraordinary: the gallery guide supplied for
the price of admission, will elaborate on
technical details.
Appreciation back to front?
What I found disorientating, but ultimately
rewarding, about the exhibition was its feeling
of familiarity. I have an instinctive sympathy for
the Cubists' analysis and synthesis of forms:
I've grown up under their influence, sub-
consciously abosrbing cubist posters,
architecture, etc. The Royal Academy
exhibition was rather like meeting a close
friend's family and recognising his mannerisms
and the shape of his nose in his parents. Quite
the 'Wrong' way round—Picasso achieved a
new analysis of reality by penetrating the
romantic haze that surrounded primitive
objects at the turn of the century, and seeing
them for the first time as just another kind of
art: an art with a different concept of form,
concerned not with presenting illusions but
with making ritualistic totems and ceremonial
masks. It is this feeling of art as creation,
rather than some sort of imitation, that comes
across so strongly from the Benin and Tsoede
bronzes. In the terracotta Nok sculptures
(dated 500BC to 500AD) the act of creation is
that of assembling abstract geometrical forms:
the style is one of sophisticated simplicity.
In complete contrast is the striking
naturalism of the metal heads of Ife. Idealised
features represent the stately bearing of the
royal figures and clearly demonstrate that
'black is beautiful'.
The scope of this exhibition is considerable
but as a Walkabout-Looksee it seems tailor-
made—equally fascinating to the archaeologist,
the 20th Century-art-enthusiast and the
amateur of smithing and casting techniques.
Where, When, £?
Treasures of Ancient Nigeria is at the Royal
Academy of Arts, Burlington House, Piccadilly
until 23 January 1983. It's open from 10:00am
to 6:00pm every day, including weekends, last
admission one hour before closing. Admission
is £1.40 for students, £2 for others.
• J a n u a r y 14,1983 Page 9

