Letters
Interesting
Dear Mr Goodwin,
' I am writing concerning the article i n FELIX
dated 22nd March 1989 (copy enclosed) entitled
' A Room With A View'.
. I would like to object to this article in the
strongest possible terms, for the following
reasons:
1. The article states 'Chas has been kind enough
to'write a few words about his room'. I have
never written such an article and did not write
the' article i n question. You have lied to vour
readers in printing this statement.
2. It is quite clear that you or a member of your
staff have gained illegal access to mv room.
Whether this has been facilitated bv the fact that
vou are in possession of a BH1 key (the Beit Hall
master key), or whether members of your staff
who were working as cleaners in the Hall over
the last Summer vacation were able to gain access
is unclear. The fact remains thafyou have gained
illegal entry to my room, and are probablv able
to gain access to other residents' rooms.
3. You or your staff have also looked at my
personal files which are confidential. I regard this
as an invasion of privacy and gross misconduct
on your part.
1 regard the security of my room as having been
seriously jeopardised by your actions.
4. Finally, a joke is a joke, and I would say that
I am fairly thick-skinned after four years at this
College—but on this occasion you have gone too
far. I am going to ask for the appropriate action
to be taken against you.
Charles Brereton, Deputy President ICU.
PS. Just in case you are wondering, the packet
of 'Mates' condoms was left in one of the drawers
bv the previous incumbent M r Alan Rose.
c.c. Dr John Finley, Warden, Beit Hall,
M r Geoff Reeves, Chief Security Officer.
Boring
Dear Mr Goodwin,
Since you have used your editorial powers to
publish, in FELIX, what I consider to be a
defamatory article, I request that you print this
letter i n the next issue, i n full, as my reply.
I have supported FELIX on Council in ensuring
that it maintains its editorial independence of the
Union. I will still do so in future. Your readership
will judge your choice of adjectives and your
predilection for expletives. Meanwhile, I will
support your right to fill FELIX in any way you
choose. There is only one part of your editorial
policy that I will criticise: your distortion of the
truth.
The first paragraph of your editorial subtitled
'Blub Blub Blub' in FELIX 22nd March is your
opinion. I cannot contest it. since I hardly know
you I do not feel able to give an opinion of your
character. I will thus restrict myself to the facts
which y o u so brazenly misrepresent i n your
writing.
Let us examine the second paragraph. There
vou state ' M r Davies is sulking because I forgot
to print an article he wrote'. A t Council you
apologised because you had lost the article. You
did not see fit to apologise to me in the week
before the Council meeting though I informed
you, through your competent Business Manager,
Liz Warren, that I wished to speak to you about
the non-publication of my article. I am told by
Adrian Pagan, Publicity Manager for 'The
Possibilities', that on the Tuesday prior to
publication he enquired whether the article was
going to be printed. A t that time you claimed to
have lost it. However your efficient Typesetter,
Rose Atkins, saved the day by producing a new
copy. Well Mr Goodwin, did you lose it? Did you
erase the copy? Did you forget? What am I to
believe?
Before I describe the events of Council I should
turn to your third paragraph where you note the
indeterminate 'number of times that I have
pointed out in editorials that I cannot guarantee
to include articles in a given issue'. When I first
presented the article to you I asked you if it was
suitable for publication, volunteering to rewrite
or shorten it as required. I did this because for
DramSoc's previous production y o u h a d
commissioned an article and then refused to print
it, because, in your opinion, it was badly written
and trivial. This despite your giving the authors
minimal guidelines as to what they should write.
It was my wish to provide vou with some literate
copy which y o u would at least consider for
publication. It would have appeared in the club's
pigeonhole h a d y o u not preemptied me.
Originally I had requested for the piece to appear
in FELIX on the Friday week after the Monday
I presented it to vou. I made no objection to your
suggestion that I should leave the copy with you
to go in the FELIX that was then in preparation.
You did not make a conditional statement, you
said the piece would appear in the current issue
of FELIX. O n the Thursday I decided to help
collate FELIX. I do not enjoy collating FELIX but
it seemed reasonable to help someone who had
been helpful to me. About ten minutes after I had
started collating you came over an apologised to
me for omitting my article. I accepted your
apology asking if it would appear in the following
FELIX. Y o u replied in the affirmative, again
unconditionally, and I continued collating. I did
not demand publication, though I'm certain I did
indicate that I would be upset if the article was
not published. I believed that your word was a
sufficient bond.
Noting your description of the article as 'one
shitty clubs article' I suppose that the omission
of an apostrophe is intentional but am still unable
to decide whether you consider my prose faeca
or whether the description is to be read i n
cunjunction with 'the good working relationship
FELIX has with DramSoc'. Either way I cannot
comment on your obsession with human waste
products. Your prose is, after all, part of your
editorial policy. A s a point of fact, I note that
members of FELIX borrowed costumes from
DramSoc on the Friday, at lunchtime, when my
article had failed to appear for the second time.
I also note that DramSoc members have been
called out in emergencies to fix ailing FELIX/Print
Unit equipment. The 'good working relationship'
is beneficial to both of us but it depends on our
mutual respect and individuals honouring their
word.
Finally to return to the Council meeting i n
question. M y motion of censure was based on the
fact that vou had, of your own volition, given
vour word to publish my article on two occasions
and subsequently renegued. In the preamble to
mv motion I indicated that 1 did not dispute your
right to control your editorial policy. I only
wished Council to censure what I believe to be
dishonourable conduct. Apart from the factual
error in vour report of the substance of my
motion, in vour editorial vou neglect to mention
that the motion resulted in a tied vote of five-five.
It was defeated because insufficient people voted.
believe there were twentv-six people present.
You have expressed your opinion as to why so
many people abstained. Perhaps I might point
out that these same people did not rush to vour
defence as they did when Nigel Baker attempted
to no-confidence Svdhev Harbour-Bridge at a
past Council.
Your editorial might be excused as a rash
esponse to mv proposal at Council. I make no
apology for that motion. Perhaps if you had taken
an earler opportunity to apologise it would not
have been necessary to move this proposal. Your
editorial went from composition to printing in less
than twentv-four hours. 1 commend vour
efficiency but suggest that when conducting
character assassinations one should reflect and
check one's facts.
Mv thanks to the person who pointed out your
editorial to me on the night it was collated for
allowing me to take his her copy when v o u
refused to give me one.
Yours sincerely.
Roger Davies, SCAB Chairman.
Tragic
Dear Bill.
The FELIX Staff would like to offer their
deepest apologies for deserting you this term but
unfortunately we're all students and have exams.
I hear that vou have an urge to do some revision,
even though you've finished your degree, so I'm
sure vou won't mind helping us with ours. Enjoy
al those late night stints—after all, you'll be able
to survive on three hours sleep a night for the
rest of your life after this term.
Love and kisses,
The Staff.
Amazing and
fabulous
Dear Bill,
I would love to write y o u a letter telling
everyone what a wonderful Easter holiday I had.
I would like to recount all the amazing things I
did and the fabulous people I met. A n d despite
all this I would like to be able to tell you that I
did loads of revision and can breeze through my
exams. However, I can't.
Yours,
Doug King.
Page 2. FELIX April 28 1989

