r
Student Managers
WANTED!
- £8000 per annum
- FREE room in college halls
- Instant FAME
- Influence the future of the Union
Students wanted now to work 1st July 1999 to July 31st 2000
5 POSITIONS AVAILABLE!!
ref PRESIDENT: President, Imperial College Union
The ideal candidate will be of strong character and good public standing. The ability to
speak coherently while drunk is an advantage. The job involves dealing with the
powers that be in College, representing the Union outside the College, and being
ultimately responsible for the actions of the Union.
ref DP(F&S) : Deputy President (Finance and Services)
Not necessarily mathematically gifted, the person we are looking for to fill this position
will need to be organised and authoratative. Responsible for the Union finances and the
allocation of money to clubs, the ideal candidate will be the sort of person who knows
how to say "no" to people. An ideal starting position for anyone considering a career in
the city or in finance.
ref DP(C&S) : Deputy President (Clubs and Societies)
A sociable, person-friendly, generally (but not necessarily) sporting student is required
to keep an eye on the Union's 200+ clubs and societies. The candidate we are looking
for will be adaptable and able to appreciate the interests of all the clubs and societies.
ref DP(E&W) : Deputy President (Education and Welfare)
Not as fluffy as it may sound, this position is important to the average student. Education
is what we are here for and the candidate for this position will have the interests of the
student body at heart. The ability to organise effective welfare campaigns to raise
student awareness on a variety of issues is required. As this is the first year this
position is in existence, the job will involve defining the role further,
ref EDITOR : Felix Editor
You only need to read this issue to realise that the Felix Editor will have to be organised
and genuinely interested in journalism!
To apply for any of the above positions, or for more information, contact Marie
Nicholaou in the Union or sign up on the elections notice board opposite the
Union offices. The deadline for applications is 5pm Friday 12th February.

