The Student Newspaper of Imperial College
1 JJ JJ 1 I LOth April 1993 Issue 964
Smoked out Good Win for Bill?
by J o n t y B e a v a n
Narcotic smokers face immediate
detection following the installation
of new fire alarms. Smoke from
cigarettes containing marijuana or
hashish could trigger the fire alarms
introduced over the Easter vacation,
health and security sources have
revealed.
The installation of the fire alarms
has been prompted by Health and
Safety demands for conference
accomodation. Opening the
buildings to a wider range of
visitors means that they must be
rated ' L I ' for fire safety, the same
as hotels and boarding Houses. The
major alteration has been to
increase the volume of fire alarms
at the pillow head of each bed. The
increase in the number of smoke
detectors has been followed by a
rise in the number of unexplained
fire alerts.
All smoke detectors are screened
so burning tobacco does not activate
them. Though the extra fumes
produced by pipes or cigars can
Road law
by J o n t y B e a v a n
This month Westminster police
have started a drive to reduce the
number of lawbreaking cyclists.
Cyclists who ride without lights,
on pavements, through red lights
and the wrong way up one way
streets could find themselves in
court, warned PC Clive Coleman
recently. Police have been ordered
to crack down on bike crime in
London from the first of May. Until
then, cyclists who are caught
disobeying the law will be warned
and possibly officially cautioned.
Any bike rider apprehended after
cause an alarm to be triggered.
According to security sources, 'any
other smoking substance' will also
set off alarms. M r Graham Cox,
Imperial's Fire Officer, said that
when a new system is installed in
buildings already occupied, some
'teething problems' will occur. M r
Cox added that each detector could
be 'interrogated' to find the source
of the alarm, and that a number of
fire warnings had been activated
that were not caused by pipe or
cigar smoke.
The Warden of Weeks Hall, Dr
Simon Walker, said that there had
been about half a dozen alerts since
students returned after the Easter
break. The disturbances could be
irritating, but the system was new,
sensitive and sophisticated and had
been installed for the protection of
residents. Dr Walker told Felix that
there had been one accusation of
cannabis use, but that those
concerned had denied it and he had
no evidence to disbelieve their
claims.
1st May will be forced to make a
court appearance, and could face a
fine.
PC Coleman said that the purpose
of the campaign was to increase
awareness among cyclists that
traffic laws applied to them, as well
as other road users. The drive will
be backed up by leaflets and posters
emphasising the safety aspects of
obeying traffic laws. PC Coleman
said it was important that Imperial
students were aware of the risks of
flouting the rules of the road as so
many students ride bikes through
Westminster.
The National Union of Journalists has launched a campaign to save a
former Felix Editor. The Bill Goodwin Campaign Fund plans to help Mr
Goodwin take his case to the European Commission of Human Rights.
The case will be heard on 7 September.
Mr Goodwin faced a possible 12 year jail sentence in a case heard in
November 1989. Workingfor The Engineer, he received classified financial
information about a well known company, which for legal reasons we
cannot name. Mr Goodwin contacted a senior executive of the company,
who obtained an injunction banning the publication of the story. The High
Court ordered Mr Goodwin to reveal his source. He refused, and was
found guilty of contempt of court. Mr Goodwin, escaping with a £5000
fine, told Felix he had not beenjailed 'because of the publicity'. The case
was thrown out of the Court of Appeal and discarded by the House of
Lords without hearing. It will now be heard by the European Commission
of Human Rights in Strasbourg. Donations can be sent to: Bill Goodwin
Appeal Fund, c/o the NUJ, Acorn House, 314-320 Gray's Inn Road,
London WC1X 8DP.
5 8 10/11 14-18
Lonely Trip Marathon Reviews
Hearts Away Man and Records

