10 Science Felix » 7 February 2000
Rage against the Machine
Is your computer driving you crazy? John Clifford investigates the how and why of PC rage.
We all know the feeling, with just half an hour to a vital deadline, the
computer replaces all of your work with the blue screen of death. O r that
creeping feeling that you would have been better off using a biro. The
fact is, that although computers are the future of communications,
they're not that reliable. And when your job requires
you to use a computer, many of Britain's workers feel
at the mercy of their machines.
Offices are becoming increasingly dependent on
networked PCs, which is extremely useful when the
entire system works. In the days when typewriters were
the norm, the sheer amount of work that needed to be
done to produce many copies of the same document
required a huge typing pool.
Equally, searching through a large database takes
just a few seconds, compared with a pleasant after-
noon in the archive room. But while technology has
allowed companies to cut down on typists and
archivists, the remaining staff are expected to do the
jobs of many more people, which has lead to a reduc-
tion in job security and an increase in stress levels. So
when a computer fails and stops people from working, the failure can
lead to over-reaction and a great deal of stress. So how do people deal
with a computer failure?
The initial reaction is frequently one of disbelief, and asking col-
leagues for advice. The worst type of crash occurs when a large amount
of work is lost, and the employee will be fairly desperate to get their data
back if possible. But IT departments are often equally understaffed and
overstretched, and several minutes on hold does not help to calm the
user down. Which is why a series of recent surveys have shown that a
large number of people resort to violence. A quarter of under 25s have
admitted to kicking their machines, while 70% have sworn at their com-
puters. 75% believe that they are expected to use computers without
enough support from IT, who frequently treat only the symptoms (without
dealing with the underlying fault), making it likely to
happen again.
Computer crashes are expensive too. The Confed-
eration of British Industry believe that one lost hour per
person per day will cost £25,000 per employee each
year. And increased stress levels result in more days off,
which also costs. So what's the solution?
When a computer goes wrong, the user is made to
|S feel very stupid, particularly if the problem turns out to
be a basic error, such as a forgotten password. 80% of
| employees surveyed believed that they need a lot more
support and training in using certain packages. But
H
H
I even then, computers have a habit of going wrong for
no apparent reason. The onus is on software manu-
facturers to make systems which are a lot more reliable
Ht» and user-friendly (see opposite). If a piece of software
has a reputation for not crashing at random, it will gradually become a
lot more popular. In the meantime, the best way is to take precautions
against crashes - make regular saves, and make sure you have a copy
of your work on several different computers. Failing that, a number of
unions are promoting positive forms of stress relief. For example, UNI-
S O N are running a series of "get even" weekends, where attendees are
encouraged to use a series of highly unreliable old computers, and then
smash them with baseball bats when they fail. Not recommended for the
Felix office.
Glendower Prep School, 87 Queen's Gate, SW7
Telephone: 020 7370 1927
Fax: 020 7244 8308
IT Manager / Troubleshooter required as soon as
possible for the equivalent of one day per week.
Flexibility of hours / days etc negotiable. Hourly
rate of payment. For further details, please
contact the school office.

