7 February 2000 • Felix Science 11
Rebels or Rejects?
As mounting excitement surrounds Installfest 2 0 0 0 , Ewan Jones finds out about Linux
For hours the discussion had been raging, with
strong disagreements about the module's con-
struction giving way to a quieter, more technical
dialogue. For a moment the chat room was
silent, until suddenly a message seethed across
the page. It read "Happy New Year."
This is possibly the most common stereo-
type of the Linux enthusiast. Even the word
"enthusiast" casts up images of bearded, mid-
dle-aged men with personal hygiene issues,
strangely keen to discuss their sole interest with
a number of pimpled, solitary youths. But
maybe the image of the enthusiast is about to
undergo its biggest change since the invention
of the Thermos flask, as it is these people who
pose the biggest threat to the global capitalist
conspiracy.
"Linux" refers to a group of PC operating
systems including Suse (which resembles D O S
to the uninitiated), to Red Hat (which looks like
a funkier version of Windows 98). But there, I'm
assured, the resem-
blance ends. So I
went to Tottenham
Court Road (or TCR to
its inhabitants) to find
out what makes
Linux, and its users,
so different.
Having a desire to type
which is matched only by a similar lack of cash,
I have made a few contacts in the computer
world. Upon entering the computer fair, howev-
er, I was still seized by a natural defensive
instinct to yell "You're all virgins!" and run out
into the sunlight. But my room mate's jumper
and National Health glasses, together with
about four days facial hair, put me more at my
ease, and I headed towards the Linux area.
Unfortunately, having to confess that I had
never heard of a "scuzzy" rather blew my cover.
However, from my conversations with the
scuzzies, I learnt the following about Linux:
Unlike the secretive, shady work of such sin-
ister capitalists as Microsoft, Linux is freely cre-
ated and distributed by an International Broth-
erhood of programmers. This was made possi-
ble by a program written by a man called Linus
Torvatis, called the Kemal, which calls on other
small programs, called modules, to perform all
the individual tasks necessary in order to run a
computer. Unlike Microsoft's Windows, all of
the code behind these modules is freely avail-
able, and Linux's International Brigade will
rewrite these modules (and continually invent
more) in order to make their machines work
better, and will usually then make their work
available.
This system of development has a number
of effects. Firstly, unlike commercial program-
mers (who have "disillusioned idealist" written
all over them), Linux's programmers are moti-
vated only by a desire to make their system work
in the best, most efficient way. As a result of this,
Linux is streamlined, making it use less of your
system than the shaky electronic giants. It also
leads to the well known (and worrying) view-
point that Linux "feels more stable", which
could be a godsend to the user who is used to
seeing an article follow the 2nd law of thermo-
dynamics.
Secondly, it is a well known fact that you
can give a set of computer enthusiasts two ran-
dom three letter acronyms (or TLAs) and they
will debate for hours the relative merits of the
two systems you have just inadvertently
described. The same holds with Linux -as users
debate the merits of one module or another,
Linux evolves into a number of different species,
with many versions of each. Suse is preferred for
many servers, while graphical interfaces such as
Red Hat are the choice of the general user,
allowing a standard wallpaper of a desired
female or component.
In theory, it seems,
Microsoft should
have nothing to
worry about. Hav-
f ing cornered the
market in operat-
I X ^ U V U S . i n
9 systems,
browsers and com-
mon software, and hav-
ing ruthlessly purged its rivals, it could afford to
start annexing small countries by now. But Linux
is not really a commercial venture, and so can-
not, by definition, be driven out of business. Its
main market currently lies in system administra-
tors such as in the Department of Computing,
where Linux machines have pride of place,
while NT machines are hidden away in a less
desirable room (one with windows). Servers,
both local and internet, it seems, prefer Linux,
as a network is much less likely to crash of its
own accord. X% of servers are believed to run
Linux. It also has the advantage that the admin-
istrator can (fairly) easily tailor the system to his
or her exact needs.
An even bigger threat, it is predicted, will
come as more software is developed to run on
graphical Linux systems, providing reliability
and ease of use (and hopefully eliminating the
need for your computer to become an antique
curiosity within nine months) for the ordinary
user without a degree in computing and with
other interests. It has the potential, with some
manoeuvring, to weaken Windows share of the
market.
As the last of the computer fair visitors hurry
home to catch Star Trek, I head back to a wel-
come shave and a date. But perhaps as Bill
Gates' empire begins to lose its grip, it is time
to start looking at the alternatives.
Ewan Jones has never been a member of
the Gloucester Road Popular Front
IN THE NEWS
The US National Institute of Health has expressed
concerns over the number of failed genetic thera-
py experiments on humans. Researchers are sup-
posed to r e p ^ i deaths and failures, but often foil
to because of the commercial nature of the work.
China are believed to be preparing to mark the
new year by launching their Inst astronaut, using
the Sherizhou capsule. The craft is based an reli-
able'Soviet technology.
An international effort has been launched to find
the missing Mars Polar Lander. MPL was believed
to have been destroyed, but new data from the
Christmas period shows two blips which suggests
the probe may '.till be alive.
Horttculturalists tn Cofiforhia} :
te
germinate seeds of the rare Corpse flower The
ffo'wer blooms very rarely, producing a smell
described as a combination of raw sewage and
rotting flesh.
Scientists in China have produced the wcspps
smallest nanotubes. with diameters of just O.Snm
Nahorubes are essentially tubular versions of
"buckybbl^|;Cf:
grouping of carbon atoms in:the
f t e p s of a football,
Genetic researchers have located a gene which
mokes men susceptible to testicular cancer. It is
hoped that the discover/ will allow screening of
vulnerable individuals, with the hope of catching
pPdised;
Sf.i;idrty.
Fragments of a meteorite which fell to Earth in
November have been recovered m Ireland The
rock is believed to be of lunar origin by scientists
at the Natural History Museum, and is the first
meteorite to be recovered in Ireland since 1 3o5
The US Notional Secuntv Agency has admitted
that it suffered a serious computer crash lost week
which affected the processing of intelligence infor-
mation I lotional security is not believed to have
been jeopardised.
.Psion and Motor^ia^ to develop
•.; series of mobile internet products. The device;
should hove integrated voice and data capacity,
and are expected to be launched early next year.
The European Union is considering a total ban on
all US-produced meats, due to fears over hor-
monal contamination The contaminants are legal
in America, but are suspected of causing heal
problems in children.
Nasa have postponed the launch of the Space
Shuttle Endeavoui until at least ne>t Wednesday,
Jut to •computer problems. Meanwhile, a Science
columnist has undertaken not to runarty, more
Nasa features for at least one month.

