12 Union Felix * 7 February 2000
After years of being seen as serving no useful purpose, the C C U that is City & Guilds College Union has decided to d o something
about it. C G C U will turn all its resources towards producing big budget blockbuster movies that will make bigger losses than any
Summer Ball These resources include the C G C U societies, which will produce each individual film. Hollywood, here we come...
C I T Y & G U I L D S C O L L E G E U N I O N
THE H
O
L
L
Y
W
O
O
D M
O
T
I
O
N
; PICTURE STUDIOS
This week's Constituent College Union, C&G College Union, presents their wide range of societies
CGCU Active, Mission: Impossible 2
""Active ore a bunch of ambitious (yet moronic) students aiming to
raise the profile of City & Guilds College within IC. Recently we
launched the C G C U web portal, www.su.ic.ac.uk/guilcJs/, the
M O S T EXCELLENT web site in ICU's history (Feline, kiss my
****).The portal will be systematically built up, so that-all C G C U
AeroSoc, Austin Powers: Aeros Are Forever
AeroSoc is a departmental society run by students for students,
which aims to promote the advancement of the art of aeronau-
tics through information, activities, conferences and careers
ChemEngSoc, Star Wars Episode 2
At last we will reveal ourselves to the Jedi. At last we will have
revenge. The main aim of ChemEngSoc is for everyone to have a
good time while studying in our department. Some of the activities
the society has been organising annually are Concourse Lunches,
CivSoc, James Bond 20
This motion picture is a perfect analogy of our society. It shows the
quality of importance and distinctiveness that our society possess-
es. We are like the treasured and special event of Christmas. This
DoCSoc, The Matrix Prequel
The aim of DoCSoc is to encourage its members to interact and
socialise with other people. We organise video screenings for the
less energetic members, publish Typo (out beloved fortnightly mag-
azine) and arrange the obligatory subsidised meals, barnights and
'services are available online. We are also reviving a 40 year old
Guilds tradition by entering a float in this year's Lord Mayors
Show, and we're involved in the setting up of an internship centre.
Did we mention that C G C U have been trying to do all these Active
projects themselves with little success for the past five years?
liaisons. The society also encourages involvement from compa-
nies and organisations in its activities. Does that make you
HORNY?
where companies give presentations on career opportunities, Indus-
trial Trips, Seasonal Dinners, Parties, Sports Meets and much more.
The society also produces its own newsletter, called Cracker. At last
we will reveal ourselves to the Jedi.
is an excellent motion picture as it indicates the intensity and scale
of the major events we organise each year, all related to Civil
Engineering.
talks. We also encourage and support participation in competitions
(quake... err we mean programming), so members can represent
the department. DoCSoc - We/come to the real world! If you want
to know more or get involved, contact docsoc@doc.ic.ac.uk
EESoc, Monty Python And The Holy Grail: The Really Special Edition
The Electrical Engineering Society is run by some Mighty Knights of
Ni, who are responsible for the several wonderful events organised.
Rest assured that they are not satisfied by the mere acquisition of
strawberries, but spend their time constructively, by organising
MechSoc, Terminator 3
MechSoc has two aims: the first is to promote friendly and syner-
getic interaction between the students of the Mechanical Engineer-
ing department at Imperial; the other is to promote engineering by
providing activities that can give students a wider and more inter-
EESTEC, A Fistful of Dollars (Remake)
Electrical Engineering STudents European association. What do
we do? For A Fistful of Dollars (or Euros rather) we go on trips to
other member cities in Europe, learn about their alcoholic drinks
C & G Motor Club, Mad Max 4: The Road Warrior
City & Guilds College Union Motor Club is open to everyone and
aims to provide a cheap and enjoyable introduction to motor
sport and other motoring activities. It doesn't even matter if you
do not own a car as the club has a Mini that it regularly maintains
C & G Rugby Club, Highlander IV: World Without End
The C & G Rugby Club has a long tradition of achievements. As well
as playing games against other colleges and universities, the Rugby
Club also competes in the Sparkes Cup, in which the club plays
freshers events and Christmas dinners, Ni, booksales, newsletters,
Ni, the infamous EESoc Revue, Ni, distributing past papers, lock-
ers, Ni, organise sports events, Ni, run the very popular EESoc cin-
ema and many Ni more that don't come to mind right now... Ni.
esting perspective of the profession. In addition to academic
events, MechSoc frequently organises a wide range of sports and
recreational activities. All students at Imperial are invited to partic-
ipate in our activities. If you want to live, come with me.
and their electronics industry. All costs (bar transport) are covered.
How? Industry is glad to sponsor us with A Few Dollars More.
We're also preparing for our annual conference this March.
and uses for off-road events. The Motor Club also runs a Kart
Section, as well as Team Bo and Team Derrick, all of which are
clubs within themselves. But, If it's all the same to you... I'll drive
that tanker.
against the RSM and the RCS. However, there can be only one, and
its usually this Rugby Club. There is also an annual tour, where the
club travels to another part of Europe to play rugby.

