14 Columns Felix » 7 February 2000
CUTTING COMMENT
A far as I know, no one from the
/ \ great Imperial College has ever
/ travelled into space. N o w let's
look at the stats. Just over five hundred people
have been fortunate enough to break free
from our atmosphere (no pedanticisms please)
- all very skilled, intelligent and healthy indi-
viduals. If we were to spread that number over
the world's top academic institutions (ignoring
nationality), then IC surely would have had a
few astronauts by now. So, what's going
wrong? Well, Imperial happens to be located
in the UK, and our government is somewhat
visionless when is comes to space explo-
ration.
As you all know, America
heads the way in space.
Despite having its ,,,g
budget slashed for r
the seventh con-
secutive year (last
time I heard it / .
was around $ 1 3 f
billion), the USA
still spends
more than anyone else. Russia still manages to
uphold its own squad of cosmonauts to main-
tain a significant presence as the second
space power. The European Space Agency
sends up its astronauts with either of the two
leaders, as do individual nations that are par-
ticipating in particular projects. In the coming
decade, expect China to start to put its own
people into orbit too. The UK is part of ESA,
but doesn't commit to manned space flight.
The British National Space Centre will gladly
boast about Britain's use of Earth Observation
data, but useful stuff as it is, it's hardly partic-
ularly exciting.
Critics are constantly questioning the need
for space travel, and it seems that British politi-
cians share their scepticism. So why do we (as
a species) bother? I presume everyone has at
some stage gazed at the stars. But have you
ever really looked at them? I'm not talking
proper astronomy here, with its associated sci-
entific buff, rather the point where you've been
gazing at the whole dome of the sky for a
while and suddenly it hits you: the depth. At
this stage, the stars stop being pretty little pin-
pricks of light and take on a whole new sym-
bolism (and you don't have to know their
names to see this). The moon isn't just a
brighter light in the sky - it is another world. As
this perception kicks in, the night sky almost
becomes 3 D in nature, as the mind begins to
visualise the vastness of the universe as well as
its splendour. As your eyes dilate and the milky
way becomes ever clearer, you can see your
place in the greater scheme of things. Sud-
denly you can see yourself lying down, hands
behind your, head looking up from the surface
of this tiny but beautiful Earth, circling the sun
- one insignificant reactor among the billions
of our galaxy. It's a spectacular feeling. This is
the reason to go. Mankind can't be expected
to sit tight on his home planet when there is
just so much out there to explore. Columbus
must have had a similar sort of vision when he
stared out across the Atlantic and wondered
what the hell was out there. That urge is built
into us - a Darwinian survival of the species
instinct, perhaps. Whatever the case, it should
not (indeed cannot) be ignored, although
those individuals in which it is less expressed
>/./
would perhaps beg to
differ. They are the
critics of space
travel. Often their I
arguments seem /
to hold weight.
Use the money to
find cures for dis-
ease, reduce
crime by strengthening the police
(America isn't the safest place on Earth)
or else why not clean up our own planet first?
The money taken from the space budgets of
the big spenders wouldn't all be ploughed
back into such public services
by the respective govern-
ments, and any- ,' '•
one would be
d e l u d i n g
themselves if
they think it
would. The sum
that did would
probably not make
a lot of difference
anyway, a n d it
would be far
more beneficial
to extract funds
from the military (where there are
surely massive eddies where money disap-
pears without having achieved much). Also, by
cutting space programs you would be remov-
ing a lot of inspiration for children and adults
alike. It's safe to say that, unless we destroy
ourselves, we will eventually do it all - so why
prolong it? Ironically, it is likely that people will
only begin to care more for their planet when
we have finally become a proper space-faring
species. Then we will all be able to look back
at the fragile Earth, recognise its uniqueness
(at least in the close neighbourhood) and feel
sentimental enough to care for it. It would cost
the UK £100m to have an astronaut on board
the international space station - a sum that ini-
tially seems a lot, but in reality is insignificant.
It could be taken from the treasury without the
blink of an eye, or else funded by various min-
istries and the lottery. Even private sponsorship
could be sought. Other economically less
sound nations take far greater pride in space
flight. Germany and France have had numer-
ous space travellers, and yet our single effort,
Helen Sharman, was funded primarily from
commercial sources. Its time for the UK's poli-
cies to change.
What will really
»-,„ kick start
space travel
is its com-
mercialisa-
tion. When
someone dis-
covers a way of
making a net profit
from a space bound
activity, it will be like
the Californian gold
rush. Be it space tourism
or mining on the moon,
it's all coming our way.
Expect holidays in space
within fifteen years - and much
sooner for those who are pre-
pared to fork out a fortune for a
ticket. The X-prize is offering
$10m to the first private company
that powers a crew into low orbit
and then does it again within two
weeks, and it has many entrants all
with new concepts designed to lower
the cost of reaching orbit. The
winner is expected within ten
years. Government
agencies will contin-
ue to make the news
though, with a
manned flight to
Mars as early as
2 0 2 0 . Interesting-
ly, we (the present IC student contin-
gent) will all be at the appropriate age
( — 40) for such a trip...
For the moment, that spectacular view of
Earth - with no visual borders between coun-
tries - is oniy available to a lucky few. I've
always believed that 'astronaut' was the best
possible job in the world, and it was even my
aim to become one at one stage. Since I can't
see myself doing a PhD that option disap-
pears, but it is still my ambition to travel into
space. Somehow, I don't think that will be dif-
ficult. I see it likely that nearly all of us IC stu-
dents will one day enjoy the sensation of
weightlessness and witness a sunrise over the
curvature of the Earth.

