7 February 2000 • Felix Columns 15
P o i n t
Back in the dim dark days, when
the College languished somewhere
near the bottom third of the aca-
demic premiership, Sir Ron
Oxburgh stepped onto the great
vessel IC and took the helm. By
attracting big funding and killing
off paper-shufflers, Ron has trans-
formed the College, and we are
now number two. With some more
refining of the yards of red tape
emanating from the Sherfield
building, he could probably push
us close to Cambridge.
Soon, however, Ron will be
gone - and the Council has recog-
nised that even bigger funders are
now required to leapfrog our
friends in the Fens. They needed a
Fund-u-like ™ to finish the job off.
In selecting this new leader to take
Europe's MIT into this bright new
millennium, the College Council
approached one Sir Richard Sykes,
a bluff Yorkshire businessman who
has just executed the world's
biggest pharmaceutical merger,
and has access to the highest ech-
elons, the biggest names, and the
deepest pots. He dutifully thought it
over, and agreed, providing he can
continue playing with his new toy
until 2002 - when he will throw it
out of the playpen and be given a
shiny new academic institution to
keep him happy in his retirement.
But is that truly in the best inter-
ests of the College? No. Ron had
many things going for him when he
arrived in 1 994 - a senior civil ser-
vant in the Ministry of Defence,
before which he was a senior aca-
demic at Queen's College, Cam-
bridge. He cannot be accused of
having no knowledge of student
life and students interests, whereas
the last time Sir Richard was near a
university campus, it was at Bristol,
he was studying for a PhD in
microbial biochemistry, and Petula
Clark was top of the charts with
Downtown. Is it right for an institu-
tion such as IC to be headed up by
somebody who has spent so long
away from the demands of acade-
mia? C a n we expect him to under-
stand the needs and demands of
students when contemplating top-
up fees, for example? A n d
although Imperial has only recent-
ly been through a huge merger of
its own, will he pursue his obvious-
ly instinctive tendency to enlarge
and centralise (with, for example
the Institute of Cancer Research)
and yet again put the interests of
students - or will that be 'consumer
units' - further down the agenda?
Don't get me wrong. The
appointment of a new Rector will
be good for Imperial, as the cur-
rent incumbent is obviously getting
a little stale, and is enjoying his
new seat in the House of Lords. A
fresh start is essential, and could
harmonise the College. Yet we see
from the front page of this fine
journal that one-fifth of the aca-
demic staff of the College were
sidelined by the promise that "it
wouldn't be a medic". How ridicu-
lous. For Breakpoint's money, one
man (a medic) has shown himself
to be a leader of public opinion, a
serious academic, holding the
common-touch, and yet being able
to walk with kings. That man is, of
course, Lord Winston, IC's profes-
sor of fertility studies. Why do we
always assume that the grass is
greener on the other side of the
fence?
C O W CONCERNS
When a group of students from ICU went on a
trip out to Imperial College at Wye, they were
aware that they were going to a college with
quite a different focus to the rest of IC. Howev-
er, these students were still amazed when they
walked past a lecture theatre at Wye and saw a
large picture of a cow on the overhead projec-
tor. The lecturer was pointing at the picture,
apparently explaining what the different bits of
the animal did.
ONION SELLERS
Recently Kevin was in a kitchen shared by a
group of IC Students. Kevin noticed that most of
the cupboards (as well as many of the surfaces)
were piled high with onions. The student who
owns the onions, let's call him Stuart, claimed
to have acquired them accidentally. Stuart had
tried shopping over the internet, but failed to
realise that the quantity field required him to
enter the number of kilograms (not the number
of onions) that he required. Stuart is now look-
ing for ideas about what he can do with a
kitchen full of onions. Kevin would like to warn
Stuart, and anyone else who may be storing
large quantities of onions that they can be dan-
gerous. A n amusing incident occurred when
many Pentagon staff began to feel nauseous as
a strange smell pervaded their offices. Their
building was evacuated as an attack by terror-
ists using biological weapons was feared. The
army and firefighters who were called to the
scene eventually found the source of the fumes
to be a storeroom containing rotting onions.
The room had recently been opened by a chef,
who was immediately overcome, and collapsed.
CURIOUS CROSSINGS
It has recently been brought to Kevin's attention
that many of the local Pelican crossings possess
M i s h
M a s h
A Mostly Harmless Column by
Kevin, a random entity who
knows nothing about nothing
their own individual character. Kevin has recent-
ly been crossing many roads in the South Kens-
ington area investigating. Kevin has concluded
that it would be impossible to find such a col-
lection of quirky crossings anywhere else in the
world. For example, take the crossing in front of
the Albert Hall. Here, as soon as you press the
button, the lights immediately begin to change -
the responsiveness is quite amazing. This partic-
ular crossing also produces a rhythmic bleeping
sound, which Kevin has determined is due to it
possessing two beepers which do not beep in
time. In contrast the Exhibition Road crossing
(adjacent to the north side of Princes Gardens)
does not possess any audible signal. The most
famous local crossing is the one situated at the
middle of High Street Ken. Here the sound pro-
duced to indicate that it is safe to cross is unusu-
ally fast. A number of sources have suggested
that its distinctive sound has been sampled to
provide a sound effect for shoot-em-up arcade
games.
CORROSIVE NUTS
Salt and vinegar peanuts are now available in
the union bars. Kevin had never come across
these before and was not particularly impressed
when he tried them for the first time. They tast-
ed fruity; more salt and apple than salt and
vinegar. An explanation for this was found on
the label, which revealed that citric acid had
been used as the flavouring. Although Kevin is
aware that it is impractical to use vinegar to
flavour items such as crisps and nuts, he would
like to know why hydrofluoric acid - which being
an extremely strong acid can provide a strong
flavour in small amounts, and is normally in salt
and vinegar flavourings - was not used.
To comment or contribute:
http://come.to/mishmash
or email kevin@ic.ac.uk

