20 Music Felix » 7 February 2000
\JS
f r e q u e n c y
And once again it's time for
music. Weil, I hope you've
not been neglecting your
ears recently, and if you've
taken the chance to visit a
few live concerts in the last
few weeks, I'm sure you've
been having an excellent
time. For some reason, the
early months of the year are
often the best time for con-
certs, and if you're pre-
pared to dip your hand in
your pocket you could treat
yourself to a quite a deli-
cious offering sometime
soon.
... frequency...
get, get d
o
w
n
And my last words for this
week must go to the terrible
new William Orbit album
and the satanic majesty of
his production on the new
Madonna record. Not only
does his new album sound
like it's been written on a
school Casio keyboard, but
his new Madonna collabo-
ration is a hideous cover of
the Don McClane classic
American P/e! As well as
being highly unnecessary,
Mr Orbit's production adds
some tones that make the
tune as painful as anything
I've heard in years. Please,
if you've any decency do
not buy these records, and
if you're one of the unlucky
people who bought Orbit's
album on the back of his
excellent Adagio single,
then do yourself a favour
and take it back. Nice.
The Artful Dodger
Rewind - The Sound of UK Garage
(Ministry)
O K , I'm not going to pretend I'm an expert on garage - I mean, a lot of it's
quality, but I wanted to see if what was beneath the surface was good too. And
I can now happily say that it is. O h yes. Garage works, and this latest double
album offering mixed by the Artful Dodger really does come straight from the
heart (ooh, that's poor - sorry) and widens up garage awareness by including
some of the best bits since UK garage really took off around '94.
Striking the match with his own Re-rewind The Crowd Say Bo Selecta, the Art-
ful Dodger spins the tunes ably, running smoothly throughout with a quality mix
full of variety and flair playing from the MJ Cole mix of Another Level's Guess
/ Was A Fool to the pure, unadulterated guest appearance from James Brown
Funk O n Ah Roll (Bump 'n' Flex remix). To my mind anyway, any album that
features Mr Cool himself has to rock. And then there's the fact that it is, after
all, Ministry's own label, and (to be fair) have they ever produced anything
bad? Huh? O f course not. Fluent, infallible sound is manufactured at the
M O S , and this is really no exception.
The two and a half hour session contains some excellent beats and quality
tunes, and from the moment the deft undertones of DJ Luck and M C Neat's A
Little Bit Of Luck shine through the end of Rewind (What DOES Bo Selecta
mean?) you know it's going to play well, and it does. Through Basement Jaxx's
Jump 'n' Shout and Doolally's Straight From The Heart, the first disc also
includes US Alliance, Sunship and Robbie Craig, and the Artful Dodger him-
self presents another two tunes, R U Ready, and Something. His fourth on the
album, Movin' Too Fast, features Romina Johnson, and for me is one of the
best tunes on the entire album - which I guess would make it one of the best
sounds of UK garage. One thing that puzzles me, however, is that the 1 996
tune which really broke UK garage overground, Double 99's RIP Groove isn't
included anywhere. However, tribute is paid to the fathers Karl 'Tuff Enuff'
Brown and Matt 'Jam' Lamont with their own Needs Good Love.
The second disc contains, among others, Tina Moore's Never Gonna Let You
Go, MJ Cole, Danny J Lewis, and one of the absolute best tunes from last year,
Paul Johnson's Get Get Down (as danced to drunkenly on a podium in Spain's
Pacha last summer by me - dohl). Truthfully, the Southampton based Artful
Dodger has worked this well and it really does give a good account of the
quality of the UK garage scene. If you're a Gass club regular, or listen to Ice
or Mac FM (88.4 and 92.7) then you shouldn't be without this, and if not, then
definitely think about it. You know it's a good sound. But what does Bo Selec-
ta MEAN....?
Will Oldham
Guarapero
(Domino)
I've been trying to visualise, whilst listening to
Guarapero, what Will Oldham should look
like. He should be quite small, scraggly yet
huge of hair, wearing a big, woolly, rainbow
jumper, yet (in some strange, folky way) be
visually stunning. This isn't really going any-
where as I have no idea what Will Oldham
looks like, but think of a Bob Dylan type char-
acter as you listen. Somewhat ugly to the ear
on the first hearing, slowly turning into a
strange, mutated piece of beauty on second or
third. You know what I'm talking about.
These songs are a very confusing forty minutes
or so. The tunes are gorgeously emotional,
deep feeling in every note, but with hysterically
funny lyrics at the same time. Titles like Big
Ba//s (yes, in THAT sense), do kind of give the
game away. I've got big balls and she's got
big balls" is the basic lyric, with the odd
rhyming of 'testicles' to change the pace just a
little.
From the very first second the marvel of Drink-
ing Woman, with its "A woman who drinks /
She rests her head and thinks / of drinks / She
thinks of drinks / and sleep / Though it's hours
before she sinks / her head and winks" lyrics,
rings out.
Domino records specialise in the best of the
slightly obscure, with acts such as Pavement,
Smog, The Pastels and Ganger (to name but a
few) - and Will Oldham rightly earns his place
among them. The production in some parts is
very basic, and the live sections are often hard
to follow, but if you're a fan of Bob Dylan's style
and want a slightly more contemporary edge
to it, Will Oldham is most definitely your man.
An outstanding take on 21st century blues.
Pete i n Louise

