7 February 2000 « Felix Music 21
Nixon
(City Slang)
There aren't many albums that come with a list of rec-
ommended reading. Well, there was Moby's Play, but
he's a bit of a nutcase: "If you eat meat you're a bas-
tard". That sort of thing. As you may expect with a
recording called Nixon, the literature has a crooked-
past-presidential feel to it, with titles like Trick/ Dick And
The Pink Lady - but it does say "suggested", so I didn't
hot-foot it down to the library. Maybe you're supposed
to read these books to get an idea of the theory behind
the album. Whatever, I didn't. End of story.
I really don't know what to classify Nixon as. There's a
country thing going on in there somewhere, a little slice
of Blind Melon's particular brand of rock, a kind of
Counting Crows vibe (but more depressed) and a whole
melange of other stuff. But it's those three major ele-
ments that are easiest to spot. Kurt Wagner's sometimes
high-pitched, distressed vocals are very similar to Shan-
non Hoon's, there is extensive use of slide guitar and
strings (fiddle as well as the more classical sweeping
orchestral sounds), and the subject matter and lyrics are
as abstract and beautiful as Adam Duritz's. Tracks such
as (Fearless) The Book I Haven't Read, The Butcher Boy
and The Old Gold Shoe are prime examples.
The melodies that are present throughout give you a
smiley yet melancholic sensation, as if you know that
something good won't last, or that feeling you get when
you've done a naughty thing that you're bound to get
caught for. It's that fusion of contentment and woeful-
ness that makes the album that tiny bit better than aver-
age. I think that they may have overplayed the whole
despair business, because when it came to the final
track I was sobbing into a tub of ice cream and feeling
lonely. O K , so maybe I'm over exaggerating, but it
would be a terrible mistake to listen to this while on
Prozac or lithium carbonate - you'd be climbing the
walls looking for someone to talk to that wasn't inside
your head. O n the other hand, if you aren't prone to
depression, have a listen.
f r e q u e n c y
Raissa
Believer
(Polydor)
Raissa is the latest bright young thing to emerge into the glaring lights of the UK pop
scene. She's pretty, has a great voice, and has a batch of catchy melodic ditties ready
to woo the public with. Sounds like a winning formula. But is it any good?
Alanis Morrissette is the name that jumps into my mind as soon as Raissa starts to
sing. Her songs and style are strongly reminiscent of Jagged Little Pill. Take away most
of the angst and put in acoustic guitars and swooshing strings with a 'modern' beat,
and you're there. Some of the tracks also sound a bit like Madonna circa Ray of Light,
especially Beautiful Glassy Creature.
Believer is nice to listen to. Undemanding and unobtrusive, it makes for good back-
ground music. I played it to my girlfriend who said it was "absolutely brilliant", so
maybe I'm missing something. Certainly the music is distinctly un-masculine. It can
be very touching, and songs like Step On Up bring a lump to the throat when Raissa
gently coaxes us to "Step on up, to the stars / to the stars" over melting strings and
gently plucked acoustic guitars.
The album does grow on you after a few listens - always a good sign. It implies that
there is added depth there somewhere, even if you can't spot it the first time. My
favourite track is Believer, and I wouldn't be surprised if this isn't released as a sin-
gle soon. The only track that has been released as a single, How Long Do I Get is
actually one of the less impressive. It seems quite bland compared to the rest of the
album, but judging from last weeks Top of the Pops, that's what gets in the charts
these days. Either that or Steps clones. Steps. O f all the people to copy, is it really
worth copying Steps? The whole appeal of Steps is their unique and open simplicity,
plus I couldn't put up with more than one. Piss off Scooch.
I love Raissa's cute English accent that creeps in from time to time. There's no doubt
that she is vocally talented - her voice is great, and her adorable, soft, brown eyes
staring out at me from the C D cover almost say, " G o on, give this five, you know you
want to."
Towards the end of the album it all starts to get a bit weird (relatively), with distorted,
computerised vocals. Electronic bleeps mix with a slightly breakbeat rhythm. I like this
bit, especially the track She Bubble, as it is a lot less conventional than the rest of the
album, and it hints that there is more to Raissa than meets the eye.
Overall this is formulaic - it's not particularly original or even new. But it's done well,
by a talented performer, and it's easy to listen to. And since when has originality mat-
tered to the record-buying masses?
Christian Tom 6

