22 Music Felix * 7 February 2000
\fK
f r e q u e n c y
Rachel Stamp
Hymns for Strange Children
(Cruisin')
Mention the name Rachel Stamp in a crowded room, and the chances are most people won't
know who you're talking about. But there'll be some crazy, mixed-up kid in the corner who
has a wicked glint in their eye at the thought of "the Stamp". Rachel Stamp is not a girl, but
3 boys and a girl who play punk rock for the twisted. I'll never forget the night they played
at the Union. dBs was transformed from the usual gentle bopping with Abba to a frenzied
moshpit, with arms, feet, sweat and tears flying everywhere. The band distorted the air with
their crashing riffs and exploding drums, leaving a trail of glitter and feathers behind them.
Each band member was wearing a floral dress, and sported the most intensely coloured hair
you can imagine. There was something vaguely disturbing about a man wearing green
bunches and lipstick snarling at you about being tied up. Did I say vaguely? I meant intense-
ly! I still have the cork he spat out into the crowd. I'm glad to say that the wine that accom-
panied it washed out easily.
But memories like this don't wash out, and I have to say that I was disappointed that their
new album, Hymns for Strange Children didn't have the same intensity. The whole time I was
listening, I was thinking how much better it would sound live. O n C D , the guitars have been
quietened down, and the synth has been brought to the front, giving the songs a gentler feel,
as opposed to the raw glam-punk explosion of their live show.
Don't underestimate this though. The songs are still fast-moving, heavy-rocking, three minute
bursts. Subjects range from sex to music, from regret to joy, all with a large slice of angst on
the side. Singer David Ryder-Prangley has the perfect voice for the music, ranging from
effeminate, breathless, tenderness to raw, snarling outrage.
While there are some great tracks here, such as / Wanna be Your Doll and Ladies + Gents
(with those fantastic lines, "Everybody knows that girls are stupid / Everybody knows that girls
are evil / Everybody knows that girls are the devil'), this standard is just not maintained
throughout the album. The songs also have little variety to them, all being fast and noisy, rac-
ing to get to the end. Tracks such as My Sweet Rose show that they can be subtler if they want
to, but they have chosen not to. I think this lets the album down, and it can get a bit tedious
listening to one angry burst after another.
O n the whole, I think this should be viewed as a collection of individual songs, rather than
an album. There is some quality there, but I know that Rachel Stamp can do better.
Tom
The Third Eye Foundation
Little Lost Soul
(Domino)
Pigeonholes are lovely things, especially when it
comes to music. There's nothing handier when
trying to describe a band to someone who's never
heard them before - "They're indie-rock/pop-
punk/acid jazz etc". And then along comes The
Third Eye Foundation (aka. Matt Elliot) with
another of his "drum 'n' bass/hip-hop/noise/clas-
sical/ambient/soundtrack" albums. At the mo', it's
a pretty empty pigeonhole.
Violins play off wired breakbeats whilst a swarm
of locusts attack in the background. A singer from
the 40s is mauled by a distorted synth riff from
hell. Evil sub-bass rallies round a brass band,
whilst Roni Size falls over some drums in the
background. So, this is truly original, but also
bloody weird and inaccessible. It's too edgy for
background music, and too abstract for close
attention. But still, in Elliot, it is evidence of a
maverick and intelligent musician, with a black
streak of humour (his last album, called You Guys
Kill Me, featured Jesus on the cover) running
through the album. However, there is nothing
here that tops his wicked recent single In Bristol
With A Pistol. There, the marriage of swelling
noise and sweet tune worked wonders, whereas
here it can tend to grate, as another song drifts
past the eight-minute mark.
So it ain't for Steps fans. But there are still some
fantastic and unpredictable moments. There's no
reason why someone who listens to, say, Mogwai
or Tortoise shouldn't dig some o' this ill shit. Pas-
toral Aphex Twin anyone?
• Kunal
If anyone would like to join the music team here at Felix then they should drop into the office
at 12.30pm on Tuesdays and Fridays. On Fridays we sort out the music and on Tuesdays we
sort out the clubs, which with any luck will be back next week. Nice.

