PreviewJzar-Burden of the Crown (PC)
I love being a games reviewer - I get to play games like Tzar months
before anyone else has even heard of them.
O n first seeing Tzar, I have to say I was a little disappointed. O n the sur-
face, it looks like a direct copy of that classic RTS, Warcraft 2. But while
much of the basic structure and game play is copied almost exactly from
the much loved Warcraft, there's enough new stuff here to grab the inter-
est of even the most cynical gamer. The overall effect of the game is kind
of hard to describe: try to imagine a blend of Age of Empires with War-
craft, and you'd come pretty close (I think). It goes beyond the normal
"build farm/mine and get resources" model of other RTS games - your
peasants can fish, keep cows and farm crops to get food, trade goods
with each other and even gamble in pubs if you want them to. I've always
found god games like Caesar and Pharaoh very addictive, and Tzar does
give some of the sense of controlling a whole community you get with
games of that type.
The most striking thing about Tzar is its depth. The research tree is large,
and the number of units available is equally big. The game seems to have
been designed with very large-scale combat in mind - I have had fights
with the computer with close to a hundred infantry on each side at times.
Played properly, a large game of Tzar will take a long time to finish, but
with ever more powerful and expensive units available as you research
and build new structures, there's always something new to do. Some may
find the initial preparation and building a little long-winded, but if you're
prepared to think about strategy games rather than just blindly clicking
'attack', Tzar is great fun to play.
The single player campaign has twenty-five missions to play, which should
keep you busy for a while. The campaign is much more like a role play-
ing game than the traditional RTS campaign - it actually has a storyline
that follows through from mission to mission. My only complaint would
be that you are often left to wander around the map aimlessly, trying to
work out what to do next - which isn't much fun after a while.
While most of the combat in Tzar is limited to charging your swordsmen
in while your archers fire from way back, there are quite a few specialist
units around that require closer control, including some really cool drag-
ons. Even if you can't play multiplayer, the computer players are extreme-
ly hard to beat. They don't fall into the classic RTS computer player trap
of always attacking the same bit of your base - they will actually outflank
your defenses and attack your resource-gathering peasants if they get a
chance. Tzar definetely seems to be a game to look forward to in the year
2000.
Felix • 7 Febuary 2000
In association with
gamesu/ire. com
A WHOLE NEW WORLD
Destruction Derby 64 (N64)
If you've been looking for a decent smash-em-up racer on the N64 these
past years, no doubt you've been very disappointed with the results. Put
simply, before now there hasn't been one. And while Destruction Derby
64 from T H Q isn't exactly the game we've all been dying for, it's certainly
the pick of the current crop out there.
The idea behind this game is to race and crash. You get points for pass-
ing checkpoints along the tracks, and even more for earth-shuddering
collisions between yourself and the rival drivers. There is no finish line as
such - instead cars continue to race until there is only one left standing,
at which time all the points are totalled up and the winner is announced.
Thus you may find yourself caught in the thick of the action and retire
early, only to discover that you accumulated enough points from smash-
ing into your competitors to finish first overall. The problem is that, in
order to have spectacular collisions, groups of cars start at opposite ends
and travel in opposite directions. The first collision will result in a gor-
geous orgy of grinding metal, and it's great fun to be in there. But, as
the race continues and cars drop out, you'll be doing much more driving
and the chances of collision decline. I often found myself swearing when
I missed colliding with a car coming from the opposite direction, since it
meant I'd have to wait a whole lap before I got another chance to hit
him.
Some of the tracks are arenas, and it's here that you'll lap up the most
fun from the game. The basic premise in these arenas is just to smash
into the other vehicles - there are no checkpoints to pass and the cars are
all packed in a small enough area, so there is constant action. In multi-
player especially this is a hoot, and you'll be playing these levels more
than any of the others.
The graphics are alright but we expect more from our machines these
days, and it would have been better if we could have seen the damage
in expansion pak boosted high-res. I absolutely love to see my car tak-
ing punishment from it's crashes, and thankfully real-time damage has
been included. However, there simply aren't enough variations in this
damage, and since most of the collisions are head on you rarely get to
see more than a missing bonnet and an occasional warped back.
Destruction Derby 64 is a great idea for a game, and initially it's great
fun too. You'd just expect that little bit more from the game, especially
when it's already had two outings on the Playstation (with a third in the
pipeline). If, like me, you're really into causing damage, you'll like this
game whatever, although the feeling that it could have been better will
always linger.
Ben Kuthead

