26 Films Felix « 7 February 2000
• s c r e e n
J1 1 J.I
m
n
1 % to «*
The Beach Competition
This week, the Odeon Kensington, Penguin Books and Screen have
teamed up to give you the chance to win a host of prizes. We not only
have five pairs of tickets to give away for Leonardo Di Caprio's new film
The Beach, but we also have copies of the book of the same name by Alex
Garland.
Just imagine being told that a paradise island is out there and you get
given a map to guide you to it. What would you do? This is basically the
premise of The Beach. Richard (Di Caprio) is an American backpacker
who has been told about such an island and been given such a map. He
persuades some fellow travellers to join him in his quest to find it, and
eventually they find this paradise which has a small community of trav-
ellers. Richard and co decide to join these travellers - but all is not as per-
fect as it seems.
Essentially, this has the potential to be an ace film considering who has
written, directed and produced it. Danny Boyle (director), Andrew Mac-
donald (producer) and John Hodge (screenplay writer) have all worked
together before to bring us some fantastic films, so if this is anything like
them, we'll be in for a treat.
So, would you like to win some Odeon film tickets or a book? If you
would, figure out the answer to this weeks question, which is:
Name all the films that Danny Boyle, Andrew Macdonald and
John Hodge have worked on together since 1994
[ Hint: There are five to name ]
To be in with a chance of winning a prize, e-mail your answer to film.felix
©ic.ac.uk before 12pm on Wednesday and keep your fingers crossed. If
you have a preference for a book or ticket prize then write book or film in
the subject heading of the e-mail. The winners of last week's contest
(which offered the chance to win a pair of tickets to see the fantastic Amer-
ican Beauty) were:
L Shankar
P Rowlands
A Tang
G Taylor
J Fisher
Please call by the Felix office to collect your prizes. And for those of you
who are wondering what the answer to last week's question was, the solu-
tion was that Thomas Newman connects American Beauty, The Shaw-
shank Redemption and The Green Mile.
What's On At ICU Cinema
This week at our very own cinema, you'll find the Arnie flick End O f Days
and the high school comedy American Pie. Check the posters on the walk-
way for times and dates of showings
End Of Days
New York City, 1 979: In a Manhattan hospital, a beautiful baby girl enters
the world. That same day the Pope is informed of the birth of the child. Her
birth has been feared for centuries. The scripture has indeed proven true:
the child, Christine, bears the birthmark of the anti-Christ, and has been
chosen for an unholy union. Following an unorthodox baptism in the hos-
pital's morgue, she is returned to her mother. But things are far from nor-
mal. The inevitable countdown to doom has begun. New York City,
December 28, 1999: As the world approaches the end of a century and
the end of a millennium, it is the beginning of the end. Jericho Cane
(Arnold Schwarzenegger), a beaten down ex-cop, wakes up to another
day, oblivious to the struggle that he soon must face. Christine, who has
grown into a beautiful young woman, has spent her entire life on medica-
tion, trying to numb the pain from the disturbing thoughts which haunt her.
Now, as the world stands on the brink of the new millennium, it is up to
Cane to protect Christine - and all mankind - from witnessing the end of
days. And it is in this, the darkest hour, that all mankind must have faith..
American Pie
In terms of crudity, American Pie simply is on a whole new level. This cer-
tainly isn't the kind of movie you'd take your mother to (or your girlfriend
for that matter), but nonetheless it has moments of genuine comic bril-
liance amongst the rapid-fire gags. The premise is simple - a group of four
teenagers in their final year of High School make a pact to lose their vir-
ginity before they graduate, and promptly set about a variety of misad-
ventures in a series of misguided attempts to get their end away. An aver-
age night in the Union you might think, but these guys are sadder, more
desperate and more full of lame chat-up lines than anyone you might have
met at IC - they will, quite literally, do anything. I won't give away too many
of the jokes, for fear of ruining some of the most inspired (or sick, depend-
ing on your point of view) moments, but suffice to say you can't understand
the meaning of the word "depraved" until you've seen a teenager attempt
to shag an apple pie...
The problem, however, is that once you've identified the level that the
movie's operating on, the jokes become phenomenally obvious - and fre-
quently you'll find the entire cinema laughing hysterically five minutes
before the punchline arrives. Admittedly the quality of the stars doesn't help
matters much (the cast list peaks out with Willow from Buffy), but you're
nonetheless left with a distinct feeling that you could probably have writ-
ten something not entirely dissimilar yourself, given about a week off from
College.

