A.
7 February 2000 « Felix
Toy Story 2
When the original Toy Story was released in 1 995, it proved to be a land-
mark production, being the first feature length film animated entirely
using computer technology. It went on to rate third on the all time high-
est grossing animations list (behind Aladdin and the Lion King). Since
then, we've most notably had Antz and A Bug's Life, each of which
appealed to adults and kids by following in Toy Story's unintentional foot-
steps.
So, by telling you that Toy Story 2 is set to be one of the highest grossing
films of all time, you can be rest assured this film is not just meant for kid-
dies. In fact, rather boringly, I can tell you that over 60% of the audience
in America were adults. Yes, it's about toys, and yes, it's Disney, but it's a
winner for both age groups because of two simple facts. Firstly, it is visu-
ally stunning. The animation, by Pixar, is so advanced that you watch it
like a film, not a cartoon. It gives you a visual overdose of stunning
graphics. Secondly, the depth of the characterisation and storytelling is as
good as any real film, due to the novel script and engaging characters.
All the old characters are back, and the same actors as in the original Toy
Story do all their voices. The new characters are from "Woody's Roundup",
a TV show in which Woody (the cowboy) starred during the 1950s. In it,
his sidekick was the cowgirl Jessie (voiced by Joan Cusack), while his
horse was called Bullseye. Kelsey Grammar voices the final character,
The Prospector, a kindly old fellow who is not all that he seems. The story
revolves around a malevolent toy collector, who kidnaps Woody so that
he can make his collection of toys from "Woody's Roundup" complete, in
order to sell them to a museum for lots of money. O f course, this leaves
Buzz Lightyear and co to go and rescue Woody, while fighting a new
enemy, Zurg.
While the story does not seem to be a million miles from the original,
what does make Toy Story 2 different to its predecessor is that it is written
with adults in mind as well as the younger generation. However, this man-
ifests itself in a number of excellent film takeoffs (Star Wars, Tron), and not
really in the dialogue. Occasionally there are jokes that are not aimed for
younger children, but their subtlety means that they are not derogatory to
their intelligence. Indeed, it is they who get their own back by under-
standing some other references far better than we will.
Most family films have a stigma attached to them in student circles -
admittedly usually for good reasons. However, if there was one film that
should buck this trend, it is this one. If you can handle the uncool appear-
ance of yourself going into the cinema to see it, you will be treated to one
of the films of the year.
Drew
Films
s c r e e n •
Double Jeopardy
Happily married couple Nick (Bruce Greenwood) and Libby Parsons
(Ashley Judd) reside peacefully with child in backwoods America. Dur-
ing a dirty weekend on a sailboat, Libby awakes to find blood every-
where and her husband gone. When she is arrested and convicted of
her husband's murder, Libby herself resigns to her fate and gives cus-
tody of her child to her friend Annabeth (Angela Green).
All seems normal, until her friend abruptly uproots and serendipity
reveals her husband is - oh my goodness gracious - still alive. Shocked
and bemused, Libby tries everything to remedy the situation. As her
options peter out and her hope fades, a conveniently convicted law
graduate (who just happens to be incarcerated alongside her) informs
her of the double jeopardy clause. Under this loophole, she can exe-
cute her husband and not face the consequences, as she will have
already served her time in prison for the charge of murder. Duly ener-
gised she lives out her sentence by spending her time working out (cue
cheesy Rocky scenes). Six years later, Libby is finally paroled. Travis
Lehman (Tommy Lee Jones), is a tough parole officer who won't allow
any departure from the rules, and when Libby does try to track down
her son, Lehman pursues her.
As cultured cinema goers, we enjoy fine acting, diverse plots and cap-
tivating scripts. We left the cinema not only disappointed but extremely
empty. The acting was wooden and unconvincing from Angela Judd;
Tommy Lee Jones photocopied his character from the Fugitive and US
Marshals. Their talents were squandered in this waste of cinema roll
which should be burned.
The one-dimensional plot was as sterile as a radioactive panda. It
made sense but didn't flow. The peripheral characters were fitted
around the plot like square bricks in a round hole. Side plots were
briefly glimpsed, but were quickly squashed by the juggernaut central
plot. The script kept a constant rate of one cliche per minute that made
everything that much more predictable, and when not in cliche mode
the dialogue was corny. Although this is a dull film in general, a few
scenes stand out from the crowd, including the sinking red metro and
the atmospheric bloodstained awakening of Angela Judd. Don't worry
about these too much, however, as there should be just enough space
on the trailer to fit them all in.
Although more of a chick flick we still wouldn't advise anyone to spend
their time watching this "See you on TV next Christmas" turkey. In con-
clusion, this boring, meaningless, film shouldn't have been made. I
wouldn't even bother watching it on video.
Chris and Mark

