28 Films Felix • 7 February 2000
David Morgan interviews the director of Stigmata
Born in 1962 and educated at Oxford University,
Rupert Wainwright is an up and coming director
whose most recent work is the new horror movie
Stigmata. Check out this interview and find out
what he's got to say.
You actually came across the script some time
ago. How extensive a role have you played in it
since?
It's one of those stories that people say "how
long did it take to get the movie made". O n one
hand, six years wandering around throwing it at
people and hearing them say "no", before I
walked into a guy's office and pitched it to him in
one line. I said it's about this girl who doesn't
believe in G o d and she gets the wounds of Jesus.
A priest comes from the Vatican and tries to help
her. I sent him the script and he called me to say
it wasn't as good as the pitch. From the moment
the script was bought for M G M , I was very
involved with the writing. It's one of those movies
where there's so much to find out about that I
really became obsessed with it... In the original
draft of the script, there was nothing about this
missing gospel. I started trying to find out how the
movie could end. In the original ending, she liter-
ally hovered up into heaven surrounded by the
Dalai Lama, C N N and the Pope. I thought, well,
this might not work.
There was an interesting bit about half way
through where she spoke Aramaic; she just spoke
the last words of Jesus on the cross. So, I started
rummaging around the New Testament trying to
find out what else she could say or do. I came
across this book called, "Who wrote the New Tes-
tament?" This is a really fascinating book. Essen-
tially, it examines all the strands in the four
gospels. I found out about this gospel that's
sometimes called the fifth gospel, the gospel of St
Thomas. As we said at the end of the movie this
was found in 1945. So, I started working that in.
The words "split a piece of wood and I am there"
are straight from that gospel. It's something I got
obsessed with.
Are you happy with the way the film has been
trailed?
I am very happy with the theatrical trailer. I
thought that did a really good job of indicating the
range of different ideas and storylines. I wasn't
quite so crazy about some of the TV ads. They
seemed to be very Blair Witch-y, which the film
obviously isn't. It's very difficult to sell this film in
thirty seconds. Basically, they went for sensation
rather than story.
How much do you believe in the story of the miss-
ing gospel?
In 1945 two Egyptian guys who were on the
run from the police were digging for peat to take
home. One of them broke the ground with a
shovel and found a vase. He figured there would
be gold in there so he broke it open. This golden
dust spread out. It was leather dust, because there
were one hundred and thirteen leather books in
there. He took them home, but because he was
wanted by the police he couldn't leave the house,
so he gave the books to his mother. She couldn't
read, so she used them for kindling. After a while
they thought they could flog them to a tourist.
They found an antiques dealer and they sold them
to him. He eventually flogged them to a guy was
running a museum in Cairo. They slowly started
translating them. They took a long time to trans-
late as it was just after the war. Gradually, the
word got out that they were copies of very early
gospels. A copy of one of them was smuggled out
of the institute in 1949 and translated in Switzer-
land. That was the gospel of St. Thomas. This
whole treasure trove of early gospels has been
translated. Some of them are a bit mad, but the
gospel of Thomas has stood out as one of the
most apparently authentic. By looking at it, experts
of New Testament theology indicate it may have
been written as early as 50 AD. That means that it
predates the four gospels of the New Testament by
one hundred to one hundred and fifty years. It's
very highly regarded in the world of New Testa-
ment theology as a crucial aspect of trying to
understand what Jesus said.
The film is at times fairly critical of the Catholic
Church as an institution. Was that something you
were keen to address?
Not initially, no. But the more I discovered
about the way the Vatican has hoarded all this
stuff... Basically, there was this guy wandering
around Israel two thousand years ago saying a
bunch of stuff. About two hundred years after his
death, these gospels started floating about, and
no one knows which one is more or less relevant.
When the Romans adopted Christianity in 325 AD
they tried to organise the church, which up until
that time had been a disorganised religion; it was
secret and scattered.
What I say about the Catholic Church is that
it is more Roman than Catholic. They have taken
all the rough edges off Christianity and tried to put
it all into one box. They don't want anyone to
know what's going on outside the box. It's an
enormous shame for Christians and agnostics
alike. It's easy to be anti-Vatican, and I almost
jump on that bandwagon. They have an enor-
mous repository of what they call the secret
archives, which would be fascinating for Chris-
tians and agnostics to know about - but they won't
let any of it out, which is a shame.
Can you describe the style of your film?
There are two styles to the film. One is very
lock down camera, very quiet, just listening to the
words. The other is much more impressionistic. I
was trying to take you inside the head of someone
who thought they were being crucified. I didn't
want to do something that was like masterpiece
theatre, so you fell asleep and described it later. I
wanted to make you understand. I've done a lot
of research about what people say that they felt
when crucified. I wanted to try and make you live
through it.
There are a lot of references in the film to dn
ferent sorts of movies. For example, Altered States
was one of the movies I watched a lot. It takes you
inside the mind of someone who is going mad,
and you understand cultural references that are
going on inside his brain.

