7 February 2000 * Felix Books 29
Don't Read This Book if You're Stupid
Tibor Fischer
In this selection of seven short stories, Tibor Fischer races us through a
selection of Londoners both home and abroad. We meet a failed web-
page designer ogling women tanning on the Cote d'Azur, an unemployed
Wild West enthusiast, and take a look at the underworld of London stand-
up comedy. If this were not enough, we also visit a Brixton prison, a Ger-
man bookshop and Midwest America. Although their activities are differ-
ent, there is a common theme to their lives. These are people who have
not quite made it.
Fischer relates the downside of London. There is a sense of loneliness and
helplessness that pervades the lives of all his characters. More than this,
he offers a new look at Londoners themselves - their sharply honed ignor-
ing skills, the cynicism with which they view life, and their contempt for all
things linked with tourists.
Despite its gritty, pessimistic message, this book is a good (almost com-
pulsive) read. Fischer's unique ability for clever writing keeps you turning
the pages. His stories focus on the moment in much the same way as his
characters live for the now. But, in spite of this, the stories are diverse.
Some are intimate and personal whereas others are off-hand journalistic
accounts. Fischer's skill lies in finding that fine line between wit and wis-
dom, and treading it with ease. To top it all off he throws in a good deal
of realism and acceptance of life's perversities. As Fischer is a South Lon-
doner himself, his stories have also gained a good degree of accuracy.
Added to this there is a wealth of information on offer. You can learn how
to pick a driver in the middle of a Romanian civil war, or discover how to
make people laugh with just your foreskin. There is even a simple guide
to being a serial killer.
This book has been ten years in the making and includes a number of
works previously published in Granta, New Writing and the TLS as well as
several new stories and a novella. However, this is by no means a cobbled
together effort by a desperate writer - each story is able to stand up to a
good deal of scrutiny. The title is less to warn off the stupid than the eas-
ily offended, and even if you are stupid this is a perfect book to first
encounter Tibor Fischer.
Fischer's black comedy Under the Frog about the antics of a Hungarian
basketball team was shortlisted for the Booker Prize.
• Kathehne
b o o k s =
TUESDAY 8TH
BINARY MYTHS 2, Conference Centre, British Library, Euston Road
1 8 : 1 5 - 1 9 : 3 0 . As the readership of poetry is little more than the num-
ber of poets producing poems, what are the motivations of poetry edi-
tors? This and other questions will be addressed by a panel of poets
and poetry editors. £ 5 / £ 4 ; phone: 0207 7412 7332; tube: Kings
Cross St Pancras
CRITICAL STATE Voice Box, Royal Festival Hall, South Bank Centre
19:30. Concluding the current Critical State series, writers John
Banville, Mavis Gallant and Cynthia Ozick celebrate some of the crit-
ics who have influenced their work, and discuss their views on criticism
as a form of literature. £6.50/£4; phone: 0207 9 6 0 4 2 4 2 ; tube:
Waterloo
WEDNESDAY 9TH
GEOFF WEST & CHRIS THOMAS Conference Centre, British Library,
Euston Road 18:15 - 19:30. The late 19th century was a period of
great expansion for the library's foreign collections. West and Thomas
discuss why, focusing in particular on the collection of work by Sergei
Sobolevsky. £3.50 (no concessions); phone: 0207 7412 7332; tube:
Kings Cross St Pancras
JOANNA TROLLOPE Waterstone's, 1 50 - 1 52 Kings Road, Chelsea
18:30 - 21:30. A unique opportunity to meet and learn from one of
Britain's most popular authors, who will be conducting a seminar on
how to write a bestselling novel. £35; phone: 0207 351 2 0 2 3 ; tube:
Sloane Square
THURSDAY 10TH
STEWART C O N N & MICHAEL O'SIADHAIL Voice Box, Royal Festival
Hall, South Bank Centre 19:30. The two acclaimed poets will be read-
ing from and discussing their work. £ 5 / £ 3 ; phone: 0207 9 6 0 4242;
tube: Waterloo
FRIDAY 11TH
TITANIA HARDIE Waterstone's, Harrods, Old Brompton Road 1 1:30 -
12:30. The author will be signing copies of her books Enchanted,
Hocus, Focus and Bewitched: Titania's book of love spells. Free; tube:
Knightsbridge

