30 Arts Felix » 7 February 2000
A m e t h o d
Krapp's Last Tape
New Ambassador - Nearest tube: Leicester Square
Until: 11 March
£5 - £22
Krapp's Last Jape, by Samuel Beckett, is not what could be called easy view-
ing. Although it lasts only one hour, it is one of the most intense and mov-
ing performances London theatre has to offer. Genius in its simplicity, the
play is concerned with Krapp, played by the fantastic John Hurt, on his 69th
birthday. As he records a retrospect of the year that just passed, he replays
passages at random from the earlier tapes. For the occasion, he plays the
tape he made thirty years ago. As Krapp remembers the past events of his
youth, we are treated to a torturous and humbling experience, which
explores the ravages and deterioration caused by the passage of time.
John Hurt is immensely powerful as the aging and cantankerous Krapp. His
gravely, chipped voice crackles out from the stage, beautifully capturing
every intonation in Beckett's script. An overhead lamp illuminates a simple
set, consisting of just a chair and a desk. The enveloping darkness (which
surrounds all) gives the audience a sense of loneliness, both Krapp's and
their own
Samuel Beckett was born in Dublin in 1906, and his better known works
include Waiting for Godot and End Game. He wrote nineteen plays in total
- all of which were performed at the Beckett festival at the Barbican last
summer - and although he is renowned for being difficult, this is one of his
more accessible pieces.
The play is highly autobiographical, with subtle references from Beckett's
own painful past, which leaves the feeling that what is experienced is an
intensely fragile, private world. By introducing the tape recorder, he explores
the use of worlds as a refuge from the gross facts of experience. The pathos
of life and the search for meaning, repressed in society, are openly dissect-
ed. Through Krapp's self-reflection, the audience are individually chal-
lenged to evaluated their own solitude and suffering. By switching off the
tape when painful memories are reached, we are shown his sensitivity to the
loss, which is glossed over by the narrative. He denies certain parts of his
life and dwells on others. The play could be termed as " post-modern" (an
excellent word to drop into conversations at parties) in that it doesn't
attempt to answer the awesome questions which it raises. Indeed, it sug-
gests that there is no universal answer, and that life is spent attempting to
avoid this realisation. It is the responsibility of the individual to find mean-
ing in existence. Hard going! It is the introspection this provokes that makes
it such an unsettling and powerful play. If you think you can handle it, then
I highly recommend it.
Yayoi Kusama
Serpentine Gallery, Kensington Gardens
Until: 19 March
Admission: Free
A room painted in acid-trip yellow and full ofgiant tubes and blobs, as in
a dreamscape. This is really fabulous installation art! After you have taken
off your shoes (are you entering a Buddhist temple?), you can actually
walk about within the sculpture. O r how about the large octagonal box.
Look through its porthole and you see an infinitely reflected kaleidoscope
of flashing fairground lights.
All this interactive art and more can be found in this diverse exhibition from
the artist, poet and novelist Yayoi Kusama. Born 70 years ago in Japan,
Kusama grew up during the darkness of W W 2 and studied art in its ruined
aftermath. She emigrated to the USA, stopping first in Seattle (apparently
to see Frasier and Niles!) before moving to New York City in the summer
of 1958. Pre-1958, she worked mostly in the classical Japanese style
(God of the Wind, 1 955), but the move to New York was the shock of the
new that drove her work to Western abstraction.
In New York, she fell under the influence of the leading lights of Pop Art,
getting to know artists like Claes Oldenburg and Andy Warhol. Even
today, many of her works (Dots Obsession, 1996) continue to show the
monumental influence of classic Oldenburg. The Surrealist and European
Minimalist movements have also informed her work; she even exhibited
with the greatest of minimalists, Yves Klein.
However, Kusama did not simply churn out pale imitations. By her own
admission, her art is uniquely informed by the bouts of psychotic mental
illness that she has struggled with since her adolescence. It is easy to see
the resonances of her often tormented mind: there is something deeply
disconcerting and disorientating. Driving Image (1959-1964), a series of
mannequins painted in vibrant polka dots, struck me as alarmingly sinis-
ter.
Her countless sculptures encrusted with penises, from clothes to a life-size
rowing boat, are amusing - but they do carry a disturbing charge (if only
to the male half of the population). This is especially the case when viewed
in the light of the unanaesthetised corrective surgery performed by the
infamous Mrs Bobbitt! Is this the revenge of the wives and girlfriends
against all the chauvinists? Kusama may well have intended it to be taken
this way, for she was forever slowed by the terrible treacle of sexism, both
in Japan and in the USA. But maybe it is also that terrible treacle which
makes her work so fascinating...
Ally-pally Esq William Burns

