7 Febuary 2000 * Felix Arts
m e t h o d A
Underexposed
Proud Galleries
Nearest tube: Charring Cross
£1.50 Cone.
Dead journalists, cannibals and the KKK at the fes-
tival of Britain. There are even worse pictures at the
exhibition Underexposed. Free press, all in favour
say aye? O r are there some images that are so
unacceptable as to warrant curbing the freedom of
the press by banning them? Underexposed is a col-
lection of images which are... well, underexposed -
due to the fact that they have been banned. Some,
I felt, should be banned - but the vast majority
seemed to have suffered from a shady political
influence. For example, images of the two black
athletes who did the Black Power salute at the
1968 Olympics were banned in the US. Alongside
this, you'll find pictures of the most awful famines
and human rites disasters from around the world -
all pictures which a higher power has decided that
you may not see.
Not only were the pictures horrendous as images in
themselves, they were often horrendous examples
of they way humans treat each other. Scariest of all,
however, was the fact that they could have been
banned in the first place. Not only were atrocities
occurring, but their occurrence could be hidden
with such ease.
the dead man in the electric chair. Perhaps it was
Nazi soldiers measuring an old man's nose -
bizarre as this may sound, it was common practice
to measure noses, as a big nose was seen as con-
clusive proof of Judaism. It was the image of such
a bizarre practice, coupled with the fact that we
now know what will have happened to the man if
indeed his nose was too big. The next picture along
was a train packed with those on the way to the
concentration camps.
The images are often disturbing - so why bother
going? There is no doubt that seeing them is not
particularly pleasant, but the pictures are thought
provoking, scary, and often humbling. There seems
little chance of ever being free from the unseen
powers that be, who decide what we can see and
what we can't. Maybe just getting a taste of the
power that they have is as close as you can get -
this will open your eyes. I like the idea of a com-
pletely free press - but I still think some images
should be banned, hypocrisy I know. The pictures
are not artistic, rather they're more political. This is
a collection with one thing in common - someone,
somewhere doesn't want them to be seen. It hits
hard - go challenge yourself.
OJ Othello
Riverside Studio
Nearest tube: Hammersmith
£10 Cone.
I don't know much about O J Simpson, and
not that much about Othello - but neither of
those facts mattered. There is a rather obvi-
ous parallel; they are both alleged to have
killed their wives, having both suspected their
partners of "playing the field". The produc-
tion was a devised piece of drama, intent on
examining the feelings that the murderous
husband has towards his wife. There was no
doubt that the crimes were condemned and
portrayed as the most terrible of acts. Howev-
er, the main focus was not to persuade the
audience of the hideousness of the crimes -
the production was far braver than that. We
were given the point of view of the jealous,
murderous, husband. At no time were the
actions condoned - but glimpses of under-
standing were there. O J was portrayed as an
insecure, jealous man - the love of his media
"colourless" face was of paramount impor-
tance to him, yet it left him rootless.
There was only one actor in the show (well,
there were two others who did a bit of ran-
dom dancing at the beginning, but that does-
n't count) and there is no doubt that Frank
Sheppard is a brilliant actor - he was the
show. He would speak as the O J Simpson we
know for most of the time, but this was mixed
with some hard hitting sections of Othello. His
darker, unconscious, side emerged as the
jealousy increased, and we would also hear
the voice of the "nigga" from the back streets,
always there to remind him of his roots (and
the fact that he has betrayed them). The strain
of OJ's shallow world and the fact that he saw
his wife as more of a trophy of acceptance
from the white middle classes was obvious
and poignant. This is hard hitting drama; it
deals with a narrow subject but it does it well.
The most powerful image that I saw was probably I I I I D Ben Ben

