34 Crossword Felix « 7 February 2000
T h e F e l i x C r o s s w o r d 1 1 6 6 , b y T u r n i p H e n r y
C o m p e t i t i o n W i n n e r s
The results of the competitions run in issue 1164 were as follows:
NME Carling Premier Tour
The correct answer to the N M E competition was, of course, (b) - Felix's
favourite album of 1999 was Travis' The Man Who. The winner of the main
prize (tickets to the tour's final night at the London Astoria) was Amy Austin.
Congratulations.
Club Lux @ The Lux Centre
Lux is, as you should all know a unit of light - and (b) was thus once again the
correct answer. The winners of two free tickets to the night were: Chris Swain,
Mark Nichols, Steve Bradley, Kevin Walsh, Andy Kingston, Helen Pakes,
Gareth Canty, Thorn Leggett, James Coates and Emma West. Well done one
and all - I hope you enjoy the event.
Independent Travellers World
Fortunately, everyone who entered correctly spotted that (b) was, as ever, the
correct answer, as Canberra is the capital of Australia. The first five names to
emanate from the Felix random prize generator were: M Poulton, C Carroll,
M Hindley, Jackie Kelly and Ruth Loeffler.
Monty Python Wines
Last, and by no means least, we offered you the chance to win one of four
highly-prized bottles of Monty Python Wine. As everyone in the world seems to
be aware that the Norwegian Blue was a parrot, you all correctly spotted that
(c) was the right answer. We had four bottles of vintage Python to give away,
and the winners therefore were: Cathy Selkirk, Brian Flowers, Keith Roberts
and Mathew Saunders.
All winners were notified by email last week, and all prizes have now been dis-
tributed. Watch out next week for another batch of competitions coming your
way.
A c r o s s : thrashing? (7)
1. Complete writings are 2. Wind up string composer?
effective. (5) (5)
4. Pets let up around one of 3. Weapon similar to old
seven. (9) branch? (4-3)
8. Promise the Spanish a let- 4. Schism that spelling mis-
ter. (5) take illuminated. (5)
9. Grove puts character in 5. In favour of weight on tel-
order. (7) evision. (9)
10 Disease one gets in game. 6. In Uncle Arthur you see
(5) something blurred. (7)
11 Trot back around blokes 7. Titanium is passing on,
for anguish. (7) and clearing up. (7)
13 Before lunch on high, 12 Offal is ready to eat after
hello. (3,2,3,7) some time. (5)
16 Brief existence for fly on 14 Quiet noble is precious.
the wall? (1,3,2,3,4,2) (5)
20 Meadow has the right to 15 Problem before chicken
come from cows. (7) made film. (9)
22 Skeleton from piano. (5) 16 Ice cats fall over while
24 Rot about pedestal having practising great self-
no missile. (7) denial. (7)
25 Soldier worker is huge. (5) 17 Where eggs lie is most
26 He who looks after school pointless. (7)
may be cautious? (9) 18 Copy monkey without PR.,
27 Mistake made by fish eggs and eat it. (7)
going back around king 19 Bridge has insect above it.
and queen. (5) (9)
21 Alright bloke. (5)
D o w n 23 Bounder has no right to
1. Dog sounds like it's for a become an animal. (5)
Crossword Competition
It's the point in Felix that you've all been waiting for - the chance
to get something for nothing. Well, actually, it's not quite noth-
ing - we are asking for a little of your excess brain power to be
exerted in this direction, as you struggle to complete this week's
fiendishly difficult (or hopelessly easy, depending on your point of
view) crossword. You'll need to bring your completed grid to the
Felix Office (outside the Physics Department, next to the liquid
nitrogen tank) by 8pm on Tuesday evening in order to qualify,
and the first correct entry drawn from the magic hat will win its
owner a copy of the Collins English Dictionary (RRP £20), cour-
tesy of Felix. The winners name will be printed here next week.
Last week's crossword was clearly far too easy once again,
as a flood of correct entries came pouring into the Felix Office -
if you're still unsure about your solution, you'll find the answers
below. Having waded to the very bottom of the hat, the first entry
pulled out belonged to Catherine Luther, who consequently wins
a copy of the Concise English Dictionary. Please come to the
Felix Office ASAP Thanks.
Answers to Felix Crossword 1165 :
Across: Slime, Vista, Measure, Sauna, Flume, Admit, Ironing,
Youth, Stars and Stripes, Urine, Incisor, Realm, Relax, Nacho,
Bacardi, Minge, Nasal.
Down: Shaft, llluminati, Emperors, Safari, Rummages, Vestry,
Stud, Anarchism, Upper Class, Pseudonym, Nuisance, Restrain,
Enrobe, Camera, Expel, Scan.
Apologylll Sorry, I forgot to write in the number of letters in last
week's ' 1 Down'.

