[ Big Issue Felix « 7 February 2000
H a l l s
DAVID ROBERTS
When Beit Hall is finally completed, this summer
(hopefully no more than three or four weeks
behind schedule) it will be the end of the first
stage in the College's planned redevelopment of
its hall stock. Over the next few years, the rolling
programme will see the refurbishment of South-
side, Weeks and the entirety of Evelyn Gardens,
alongside the sale of Montpelier, Garden,
Brabazon and Olave House, with the ultimate
aim of producing a set of halls which can be both
profitable for conferences and suitable for the
students of the next twenty years.
[ h i s t o r y ]
The main problem with the College's halls (aside
from the innate problems of the cost of land in
SW7 and the difficulty of getting planning per-
mission to do anything new) is that they're all
coming to the end of their lifetimes at a very sim-
ilar time.
Ignoring Beit for the moment, the first of the
College's existing stock of halls to open was
Weeks, which came into being in October 1959.
Designed as the first stage in a comprehensive
building programme which would see similar
halls surrounding Princes Gardens, it only came
into being through a £150 000 donation from
Vickers (designed to provide affordable accom-
modation for students with engineering scholar-
ships). This small start was followed four years
later by Southside, with the first residents moving
in on May 1 1th 1 963 (a mere few months behind
schedule), and then Linstead, which was officially
opened in July 1968. The latter cost £300 000
to construct, a large portion of which was donat-
ed by an anonymous benefactor, who insisted
that the hall should offer its residents catering -
hence the fact that Linstead still provides one
meal per day.
In the same period, Imperial also started to
buy up the houses around Evelyn Gardens, with
the first set (numbers 54-56) purchased at the
beginning of 1967. The "Student Houses" were
designed to be different to halls, in that they
would be student run (usually by senior members
of the Union) and financially separate from other
College accommodation. The buildings were
broken down into a series of small flat units,
which were supposed to house members of all
years, with a heavy emphasis placed on post-
graduates (in order to ensure that the buildings
were occupied for as much of the year as possi-
ble, and thus keep rents down), at a rate slightly
higher than that in the Princes Gardens halls.
Over the next few years, the remaining parts of
IC's current holdings around the Gardens was
leased, but as pressure on bed spaces rose, their
administration moved into line with the other
buildings.
After this period, the rapid expansion came to
an end, and (mergers aside) the College has only
gained a few bed spaces in the last twenty-five
years. The only hall to have been added is Mont-
pelier, just off Knightsbridge, which was acquired
as a postgraduate residence back in 1981. Hav-
ing endured a series of health scares, the build-
ing only just survived threatened closure a few
years ago, when a small-scale refurbishment took
place. Although it has been slated for sale for the
last few years, the overflow spaces it provides (to
replace those lost by the rolling refurbishment
programme) are now essential, and consequent-
ly the sale has now been pushed back to July
2002.
[ s o l u t i o n s ]
As previously stated, the College's problem is
one of design: all of the Princes Gardens build-
ings were constructed to have a lifetime of some-
thing in the region of thirty years (in common with
most large concrete buildings of that time) and
consequently they're all heading towards the end
their usable lives. The Southside renovation, in
particular, has been forced upon the College
more as a solution to the fact that the building's
falling apart - and although knocking the whole
thing down and starting again might seem like a
preferable solution, it's one that's sadly unavail-
able, as the building is Grade II listed (as a clas-
sic example of its kind). Consequently, the Col-
lege is investing £1 4.5 million to fully refit South-
side, complete with en-suite bathrooms and
greatly increased cooking facilities. Although
these changes will result in rent increases (of
around £5 a week, or £165 a year), they're an
essential part of Imperial's business plan, as they
will allow much higher rates to be charged for
conference guests. Moreover, the College plan-
ners insist that all students will be demanding en
suite facilities, and thus the majority of rooms in
all new halls must have individual showers and
toilets - hence the large number of en suite rooms
that are being included in the new Beit.
The need to refurbish, however, means that
the programme will not end with Southside.
Weeks is due for £1.1 million facelift the year
after next, whilst Evelyn Gardens is undergoing a
£12.5 million rolling refit, which should overhaul
most of the older buildings into properties suit-
able for modern living (and modern conference
guests). Meanwhile, due to the College's policy
that all non-academic areas (sports, residences,
catering etc) must break-even, the IC accommo-
dation will be forced to sell-off a series of the
more remote halls, in order to cover the massive
cost of rebuilding. As a result, the College's
investment programme schedules both Garden
and Brabazon Hall for sale in summer 2001, with
Montpelier and Olave House to follow twelve
months later.
As the graph below shows, this will cause an
ever increasing room shortage, which could seri-
ously threaten Imperial's much prized guarantee
of accommodation for every first year. The current
solution to the problem involves discussions with
local housing associations which are designed to
locate suitable flats and properties in which to
house next year's freshers and those deemed by
the College to be deserving of a bed (for exam-
ple, final year medics who enrolled at St Mary's
are currently entitled to a place in hall, as are
Erasmus students). In the long term, the College's
only solution to the problem appears to be their
hope that the number of first years choosing to
take a place in hall will fall as a result of the
imposition of fees.

