6 Feature Felix • 7 February 2000
IS T H E P O R T R A Y A L O F V I O L E N C E O N T H E
As I watched the Tyson v Francis fight last week-
end, the thought suddenly came over me: Why
am I doing this - as far as I'm concerned, I
don't even like boxing... Yet I was sitting in front
of the TV, watching two grown men (of whom at
least one ought to know better) bludgeoning
the hell out of one another, all in the name of
sport. Surely that's not right? With our late
twentieth century idealism solidly entrenched in
each and every one of us, we've all been
brought up to believe that fighting is wrong and
isn't something that any of us should enjoy -
and yet the chance to watch two people beat
each other up is a multi-million pound event,
watched by 21 0 0 0 people in the arena and
tens of thousands more on pay-per-view. So
have we really evolved beyond the need to
revel in violence, or are we just repressing our
true desires?
m e d i a i n t r u s i o n
The first point to realise is that, whilst it was
boxing that first put the idea into my head, this
ever-increasing level of violence is something
that's all around us, enjoyed by the masses, not
just a warped minority. As we keep being told
by the conservative press and major religious
groups, violence in film and television is steadi-
ly increasing - not necessarily a bad thing (the
interpretation which they always attempt to
throw onto their findings) but a fact of life
nonetheless. In the fifties, BBC regulations stat-
ed that a man and woman were not permitted
to be in bed together unless at least one of the
characters had both their feet on the floor. In
the seventies, US network television was so
insanely cautious that regulators insisted that
Happy Days star Henry Winkler could only wear
a leather jacket when sitting on a motorbike (as
a result of which, the show's writers simply
added the bike into every shot, whether indoors
or out). Today, although US television is still
tightly controlled by cautious advertising execu-
tives, British TV is extremely relaxed, with all
manner of sex, violence and swearing permit-
ted after the nine o'clock watershed (and, with
increasing frequency, beforehand).
A similar pattern emerges if we look toward
the movies. In the post-war years, filmmakers
had the ability to convey a sense of cruelty and
violent behaviour without actually having the
need to show it on screen, yet today it seems
impossible to suggest any semblance of vio-
lence without a detailed set of close-ups. Part
of the reason for this is the increase in budget
and effects technology - in the forties and
fifties, it wasn't actually possible to recreate a
massive car-crash or decapitation by a giant
insect, yet today it can be done at the drop of
a hat (albeit a hat containing about ten million
dollars). Nonetheless, there has to be a reason
why our moral standards have now altered to
such an extent that, whilst sex, violence and
bad language was once disallowed, the British
Board of Film Classification guidelines now
state that a movie shall be suitable for a P G
classification where " b a d language may be
used occasionally"; "there may be occasional
nudity"; "there may be some mild sexual innu-
endo"; and "exciting horror scenes may be
allowed".
Part of the issue is a major divide of opin-
ions along national lines. In much of the rest of
Europe, issues of sex and bad language are of
very minor concern, whilst violence is consid-
ered far more carefully. O n the other hand, the
entire issue of censorship is treated much more
cautiously in the US, where religious groups
(particularly the Catholic Church a n d the
National Christian Coalition) have enormous
sway over both Hollywood and the four major
TV networks. Consequently, you'll be hard
pressed to find much evidence of violence or
bad language on main stream US television
(the occasional episode of NYPD Blue aside).
Indeed, so oppressive is the "moral majority"
regime that an NC-1 7 rating (the equivalent of
an 18 in the UK) is deemed to be the kiss of
death on any movie - mulitplex cinemas won't
show them, network TV won't screen their trail-
ers, and major newspapers won't advertise
them. As a result, the major studios will jump
tall buildings in a single bound in order to
ensure that their movies make the grade and
fall into the 'R' category (which means that any-
one can watch, provided they're accompanied
by someone over eighteen). Hence, the net
result of all those attempts to sanitise US media
has in fact been to open up movies like Saving
Private Ryan, Boogie Nights and Starship
Troopers to a family audience. Hmmm...
But, as I've suddenly realised, we've drifted
from the point here - we've moved into the
same realm as the censors, where extreme vio-
lence is treated hand-in-hand with sex, nudity
and bad language. Which is surely wrong. The
increased sexual content of modern movies is
nothing to worry about or bemoan - it's simply
a sign of increasingly liberal attitudes amongst
the populace. Similarly, the reason you'll find
so much heavy swearing in your average main-
stream movie is the simple fact that life's like
that - if your star says "oh darn" when he finds
his girlfriend shagging his best mate, you're not
really going to describe that as decent charac-
terisation, now are you?
Of course, sex sells too - put a suggestive
picture of Sarah Michelle Gellar on the poster
for your latest teen-flick and you've got a hit on
your hands. Include a couple of shots which
imply that she gets her kit off in the trailer, and
you'll start breaking box office records. Howev-
er, this is only the modern manifestation of
something that's been going on since the dawn
of Hollywood. Suggestive shots of Marilyn
Monroe, Lauren Bacall and Rita Hayworth all
helped to sell their fair share of cinema tickets
in their day - the only difference was that the
standards of the day placed limitations on how
far the star could go. In the fifties, if your star
had wound up in a threesome half-way through
the movie, it would have said something very
questionable about her sense of morality. Now
it can only help to increase her status and desir-
ability (as anyone who's seen Denise Richards
in Wild Things will undoubtedly attest). So, is
this a sign of ever-falling standards, or the
acceptance of a more relaxed attitude to life?

