7 February 2000 • Felix Business 9
I n d u s t r i a l S t r e n g t h
I n t e r n e t t i n g
B a s h a r i B a k a r i
This new, new thing (as Michael Lewis calls the
internet) really is a boon to technically minded peo-
ple. Now, I don't want to turn off half my audience
who are not computer scientists or electrical engi-
neers. The whole point is that as we turn from pure
technology to business, IC undergrads are better
qualified than the vast majority of current e-practi-
tioners. Most of the articles that are written on e-
commerce focus on heart warming stories of a per-
son overcoming the odds and becoming paper rich
on the Initial Public Offering (IPO). I don't see any
reason why e-businesses should not be subjected to
the same kind of rational analysis that any other
kind of business would be subjected to. I will not
claim that my knowledge is in any way comprehen-
sive but at least it will be more useful than some of
the mind candy that is passing as analysis.
Have you noticed how many of the new e-
commerce sites are not doing anything fundamen-
tally new, but just doing an online version of an
offline business? There is nothing inherently wrong
with that - the driving force behind business is not
originality but the bottom line. With that being the
case, it is useful to compare the offline and online
sectors of similar businesses. As most e-commerce
sites are just retailers, it is useful to compare them
to their offline brethren.
In 1998, an estimated £194bn was spent in
the high street, while nearly £2bn was spent on e-
commerce. So it is with this background that you
can judge all the adverts for new web sites. As e-
spending grows from this miniscule 1% of our
spending, they know that if they hang on to our
attention for the next couple of years and retain
market share, they will become the Boots, Argos or
WHSmith of the internet.
Profit is equal to revenue minus costs. This sim-
ple little equation always comes in handy when you
are required to do a business case study, as seems
to be de riguer when applying for a job these days.
So why are the vast majority of web based busi-
nesses losing money? Surely, the whole point of
backing a company is that you expect to receive
profits in the form of dividends? This basic business
requirement is being forgotten for the meantime, as
investors are willing to suspend their caution in the
hope that their business will be one of the big boys
left when e-commerce has reached its saturation
level. (It's also very helpful if the rest of the investing
community are similarly willing to suspend their
judgement as well, and allow you to make large
capital gains with your shares in loss making ven-
tures)
The reason that they are making losses is that,
as everyone knows, surfers don't go to sites that are
actually advertised on the web. You need heavy
offline advertising to reach that critical mass that is
so crucial to the success of any web business. For
instance, I've never been to the lastminute.com web
site, and I don't have any intention to for a long time
yet. But inevitably, I have seen their advertising on
the side of the buses running up and down Kens-
ington High Street.
The other side of this particular aspect is that
barriers to entry for web based businesses are
famously low. You can run a state of the art web site
circa 1993 (ie. static web pages) for about as much
effort as writing this article. The next step up is to
usefully process the information that surfers give, so
that they can actually order that widget. This
involves shoving a database on the back end of
your web site, by either a) finding an ISP that can
handle this or b) shelling out on a leased line to
house your own computer. Then you have to think
about the questions that are bread and butter to
computer scientists, such as what is your data
model, what legal transactions are valid, and what
kind of web forms you'll use for transactions. Now,
this is more than a case of just fancy graphics. You
are now facing the questions that PC manufactur-
ers faced when they developed the first Graphical
User Interfaces for PCs. These are issues that the
larger US web companies confronted a few years
ago. For instance, you can trade shares in two
clicks in e'trade once you've registered. Having
said that, the key to web development is speed. The
specifications of web browsers are being updated
continuously, so it is more important to have mag-
net content that will bring users back time and
again, rather than employing the latest gimmickry.
Which brings out another aspect of web based
businesses. In essence, web sites are publishing
business. Granted they have features unlike any
previous publishing enterprises, but nevertheless
publishing businesses they are. The one thing that
kills a site more quickly than anything else is stale
information. Thafs why the e-tailers are suited to the
web, because once you have the data model
implemented, you can leave it up to the database
and your surfers to provide up to date information.
Ifs what has been called the stick and cauldron
phenomenon. You provide the stick and the caul-
dron for preparing a meal and you leave it up to
your guests to bring the vegetables and the meat
for the feast, thereby saving you most of the work.
This publishing aspect also acts as a barrier
and a differentiator between the online sites and
there offline cousins. You can build a community
feel around your site, and have much more infor-
mation about your users than even supermarkets
can dream of. So, even when your offline competi-
tors move online, as they inevitably will, users are
used to your site.
It is interesting to note that the company that
kicked off the whole internet shebang in its current
form, Netscape, was swallowed whole by AOL.
Which begs the question: what is more important
for internet success - knowledge of the technology,
or knowledge of the customer?. Steve Case got his
business training as a marketing manager with
Proctor & Gamble (as did Stephen Ballmer, the
Microsoft C E O , incidentally). This is quite interest-
ing, as P&G has over a century of experience of
marketing to Joe Public, and spends more in doing
so (about $200m around the globe) than any other
company on earth. This marketing know how crops
up again and again in some of the biggest internet
companies. The heads of ebay and etoys are both
ex-Disney acolytes, for instance.
Finally, take the case of last orders.com. This
business was launched last October and just sells
booze, delivering to you if you are within the M25.
Before a bottle was even drunk, the company was
valued at ElOOm pounds. Firstly, I would suggest
that you mistrust journalists valuations of e-busi-
nesses, because if you carefully watch the headline
figure that is quoted and the quoted figures a few
months later it is invariably different. What is essen-
tially taking the place of the corner shop is valued
at such a ludicrous amount because the financiers
were backing the management team as much as
the idea.
Watch this space as I hope to get a scoop on
a pre-lPO straight technology company and one of
the biggest European internet companies. Email
you comments to b.bakari@ic.ac.uk

