IMPERIAL COLLEGE UNION, 28th JANUARY, 1971 No. 296
REFECTORIES SLIDE
Users of the Union Refectory will already have noticed
that the cafeteria service has been replaced by a buttery
service as from the start of this week. Similarly, staff mem-
bers will have suddenly found that their eating facilities in
Southside have been radically altered. These changes' have
had to be made at very short notice in yet another attempt
to prevent the Refectories making a disastrous loss this
coming session; changes which will hopefully achieve their
aim.
In the Union building, the popular cafeteria service has
been replaced by an all-afternoon buttery service. It is
hoped that this move will attract back to the Refectories,
and to the Union in particular, the substantial number of
customers which was lost by the 15% price rise last term.
A suggestion to move Hall Dinners to College Block has,
however, been dropped for the moment in face of strong
opposition.
The Staff buttery and waitress services in the Senior Com
mon Room in Southside have been combined into on%
cafeteria type service, similar to the present student cafeteria,
but serving slightly better quality food at a correspondingly
higher price.
At the Rector's special Review of Refectories held on
January 11th, it was revealed that despite the 15% price
increase at the start of last term, the financial situation in
the Refectories continues to be critical. Takings for the first
two months of last term were down by nearly £3,000, and
on the present trends it was estimated that the Refectories
would make a loss of at least £20,000. (Nearly as bad as the
£29,124 deficit last session).
As was reported in the last issue of FELIX, at the first
Rector's Review, held last term, nothing concrete was sug-
gested to ease the financial crisis, and the general impression
was that another price rise was inevitable. However, over
Christmas when the detailed accounts became known to the
Catering Manager, it was realised that the last price increase
had been too much to be borne by many students and that
more and more were cooking for themselves or going out-
side.
Accordingly, Mr. Mooney came up with three basic sug-
gestions, as the only sensible alternative to a price increase.
In the Union, replacement of the cafeteria service by a
"pie-and-chippie" would not only save £6,000 on wages, but
it would also fulfil the need for cheaper meals. The demand
for buttery meals has been demonstrated by the number of
customers using the pie-and-chips section of the new South-
side cafeteria, while at the same time the number using the
College Block student buttery has not declined. It had been
imagined that serving pie and chips in Southside would ease
the crush in College Block, but in fact it has demonstrated
the need for more buttery services around I.C.
The new Union buttery is open from 11.00 a.m. through
to 6.00 p.m. continuously, and is intended not only to serve
pie and chips, but also fish, dish of the day, salads, biscuits,
etc.
However, since most of the staff have been transferred
to College Block or to Southside, there is not now an ade-
quate number of staff to deal with formal evening Dinners
in the Dining Hall upstairs. On these occasions, extra staff
will have to be brought over from the College Block to a
greater extent than previously, and this has led Mr. Mooney
to suggest that Dinner in Hall every Tuesday night should
be transferred to College Block, where it would be slightly
easier to prepare. However, strong and united opposition
from all sides has led to the idea being shelved for this
term at least, and hopefully being dropped altogether.
The second of Mr. Mooney's suggestions at the Rector's
meeting was that the prices of beer and spirits in the College
bars should be increased by, say, 2d. per pint, to boost
the Refectory finances by about £1,500 per year. Thirdly,
he suggested that the Southside SCR buttery service and the
waitress service dining room should be combined into one
cafeteria. This would save approximately £1,500 on wages,
and should bring back those customers who had been driven
away from the waitress service by the necessary increase in
price last term.
By these actions, said Mr. Mooney, the College could
save itself from quite such a large deficit, though he could
not possibly foresee the Refectories breaking even. He had
dropped his earlier suggestion to close down the Union
building entirely (which would have saved nearly enough
to make the other Refectories pay) because a complete
closure would not only have degraded the College facilities,
but would also have dealt a disastrous blow to the Union
bar takings. Drastic action was, however, needed in the
Union, if the Refectory was to be made into a financially
viable unit.
These suggestions having been pulled out of the hat in
this manner, the Union and the Senior Common Room
representatives were then given only four days in which to
consider the proposals and decide whether to accept them.
Despite the short notice given, both bodies were able to
hold discussions on the proposals, and both agreed that the
changes should go ahead.
However, in the Union's reply to the proposals, President
Judith Walker, while accepting the changes were necessary,
and wishing the new buttery every success, nevertheless ex-
pressed the hope that these changes were not another stage
in the run down of the Union building. This latter possi-
bility has, in fact, been uppermost in the minds of very
many ICU officials, who are concerned that Dinners should
continue to be a major activity in the Union building and
that the Union should not become more under-used than
at present.
S p i r i t s R i s e
A considerable storm is brewing up over the
proposed increased prices of beer and spirits in the
College Bars, which are intended partially to sub-
sidise the ailing Refectories.
The recommended new prices, which have yet to be
approved by the Refectory Committee, would be brought in
on February 15th, to coincide with decimalisation, for con-
venience. Draught beer would then cost 14p (2s. 9.6d.) in
Southside Bar, and 13p (2s. 7.2d.) in the Union bar; whisky,
gin, vodka, etc., would be 15p (3s.) in either bar. A petition
is being organised in R.S.M. protesting against these increa-
ses from the present prices of 2s. 8d., 2s. 6d., and 2s. 9d.
respectively.
As reported elsewhere in FELIX, the price increases were
decided upon at the Rector's Review of Refectories and the
Refectory Committee meeting at the start of term. The
actual level of the increase was decided upon by the 5-man
Bar Committee.
The recommendations made at the Rector's Review were
that the prices of beer and other beverages should be increa-
sed (2d. per pint was mentioned) to bring in an extra £1,500
profit to the Refectory system, to reduce the expected deficit
on catering services. It was also suggested by Catering
Manager Victor Mooney that although the College Accounts
showed the Bars made a profit last year of £926 on a turn-
over of £55,965, in fact the Bars received services from the
Refectory system for which they had not been charged, and
which meant that they were running at a slight loss.
Protests from students and other bar users have been
aimed at both of the above reasons for increasing the prices.
Many regulars angrily ask why the bars should subsidise
the Refectories, and maintain that increasing beer prices is
only an attempt to hide the bad state of the Refectories.
Anger is also directed at the student members of the Refec-
tory Committee, who did not oppose the suggestion of a
subsidy.
Several people have also expressed doubts at the cost of
the "services" received by the bars from the Refectories.
However, FELIX, has not yet been able to find anybody
in a position to seriously challenge Mr. Mooney's claims
and/or produce alternative figures. The services in question
were listed by Mr. Mooney as the cost of looking after the
bar accounts, stocktakers' fees, cost of washing glasses and
towels by the Refectories, etc. Also the fact that the wages
bill was low last year owing to the employment of casual
labour in the absence of enough full-time barmen. Mr.
Mooney estimates that these services came to over £1,000
last year, which was not covered by the profit shown in the
accounts. Moreover, wholesale beer prices were rising
steadily.
In addition to the arguments surrounding the principles
of the price increases, concern has been expressed to FELIX
by many Bar users at the level of the new prices. Although
it was agreed at the Rector's meeting that the new prices
should be roughly half way between the present prices and
those outside, there are numerous complaints that this has
not been adhered to. However, in this context the word
"outside" is very ambiguous, and it is not clear whether
"outside" refers to pubs in the immediate neighbourhood, or
in those areas where most I.C. students live. Regulars also
complain that an increase in prices might reduce custom by
driving people outside the College.
Overall, a considerable body of opinion is being mobilised
against the proposed new price list, in marked contrast to
the last (unpublicised) occasion, when 2d. was added to the
price of a pint without prior warning, and passed virtually
un-noticed!!
M i k e m e e t s M a r i a
- W E D L O C K
After a four year absence,
MIKE (I.C's. giant working
micro-meter mascot) has
been affixed to MARIA, the
Mascot Anti-Removal Indi-
cating System. It is now on
display, on its plinth, in the
Union Lower Lounge. A
brief review of Mike's trou-
bled career would be In
order. Many years ago, oh
best beloved, all the other
London colleges got pissed
off with I.C. pinching their
mascots, whilst I.C. didn't
have one. So I.C. made a
mascot, a micrometer called
Mike. It was designed in
R.C.S., cast in Mines, and
machined in Guilds, and
hence created. (For the
pseuds Mike is a symbolic
representation of the collec-
tiveness of the constituent
colleges, three in one, as
I.C.).
Alarms were (and still
are) necessary to protect it,
and Maria was not complete
when Mike was first ordered
(by I.C.U. exec.) to be put
on its plinth. U.C. promptly
came along and cut Mike
out with oxy-acetylene cut-
ters, and took it away. It
was later rescued from a
lump of ferro-concrete that
U.C. had placed it in. That
was four years ago. Since
then it has been pinched by
Kings Medics and some
idiots in Mines, but has
never been seen on its plinth.
Maria is now complete, and
any attempts to remove
Mike will result in lots of
alarms going off and waking
everyone up, and they'll
promptly rush into the
Union to stop the theft of
Mike!
The door on the plinth is
held in place by three ASSA
locks in conjunction with an
electronic combination sys-
tem. The clamp is unaffected
by filing or sawing (but this
would set off the alarms);
oxy-acetylene and thermic
lances will find the going
tough; liquid helium might
do the trick.
One last word:— Mike
and Maria are looked after
by the Wooden Horse Or-
ganisation (WHO) who also
co-ordinate mascot-pinching
raids. If you're interested,
drop a line under W in the
Union letter rack,
(article by M).

