^ge 2
FELIX January 28, 1971
FRIENDS DESPAIR
Last Summer term, on a sunny afternoon, when people
at College were either relaxing in Princes Gardens enjoying
the good weather, or busily trying to get their computer
programs to work, a very lonely and distressed second
year jumped from the top of Southside, leaving a long note
behind, a sad goodbye to his friends, who never came to his
rescue when there was still time.
This incident shocked the entire College, especially his
tutors and the Health Centre. Where did things go wrong?
What led a person of 20 years of age into such an act of
desperation? That time last year proved to be unusually
bad for I.C. Two more people took their lives within the
same month, and more have followed last term. To avoid
causing any extra hardship on those concerned, all these
suicides are kept a closely guarded secret and no one hears
about them and, as a result, very few people realise the true
extent of the problems of student stress.
T h e S a m a r i t a n s
Life is not only hard for students, it is hard for millions
of others. Consequently about 6000 people a year in Great
Britain alone cannot stand the pace. The problem of human
stress is enormous and there is no absolute solution for it,
but even helping a few people out is worth all the trouble
one puts into it and with time these things add up.
In 1953 Chad Varah, an Anglican priest and a man of
tremendous humanitarian qualities, used his Church (St.
Stephen Walbrook, in the City of London) and a telephone
list of suicidal people. He put a small ad in a London
evening newspaper and received 27 calls in the first week.
He listened patiently to people's problems, showing them
that there was someone prepared to hear their troubles and
that they were not completely alone in an alien world.
Chad Varah was soon joined by hundreds of other vol-
unteers, listening to their clients' troubles and offering help.
The help of a needy friend. His organisation, called the
Samaritans, a non-religious based organisation soon expand-
ed with stations all over the country and today there are
some 12,000 trained volunteers in Great Britain alone. There
are people from all kinds of social backgrounds and from
age groups varying from 18 to well above 70. They are care-
fully selected after an extensive training in which they can
learn to be as open-minded as conceivably possible about
anything and anybody and be good listeners. They work in
strict confidentiality and in collaboration with psychiatric
establishments and professional consultants.
As a result the national suicide rate has gone down and
studies done in 15 'samaritan' towns show a decline of 5.84%
where as in 15 similar 'non-samaritan' towns there was an
increase of 19.84%.
The Samaritans still operate along their original lines. A
telephone (for London—626-9000) and a person at the other
end to answer it 24 hours daily. The caller, or 'client' as he
is referred to, can ask for anything from a piece of fatherly
advice, to some lusty sex talk from a female which will make
him ease off his sexual frustration. Whatever he asks for the
Samaritan is trained to be able to give it. The 'client' is
always encouraged to come to the centre and talk things over,
over a cup of coffee. In certain cases specialist psychiatrists
are called in for help at any hour during the night.
P r e s e n t S i t u a t i o n s at I . C .
At the moment people at I.C. who are under stress can
either:
a) Go and talk to their tutor or supervisor and ask for
advice.
b) Go and see Dr. Grey at the Health Centre in No. 14,
Princess Gardens, who—if he thinks necessary will refer
them to the College psychiatrist, Dr. Storey, who visits the
Health Centre twice a week.
c) Go and see the Medical Social Worker, Mrs. Hartnett,
who has just joined the College, also at the Health Centre
on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Fridays. No prior appointment
will normally be necessary.
d) Talk to their friends and hopefully get suitable advice
and help.
These existing channels cover most troubled people dur-
ing the day. But what about during the night when there is
nobody around to help. If they are in deep distress and feel
suicidal they might call the Samaritans, but some people
prefer to talk to members of their own age group, fellow stu-
dents of the same College and with similar problems.
At the end of last year Harry Fairbrother suggested to
Judith Walker that a scheme, similar to the Samaritans, run
by students of this college, for the members of I.C. should
be set up. Dr. Grey has been very enthusiastic about the
whole idea and a meeting was held between the Welfare
Committee, representatives from the Samaritans, people
from Essex University, who have already started a similar
scheme on their campus called 'nightline'. Dr. Grey, some
Chad Varah, founder of the Samaritans
College tutors and other interested parties, and the basic
lines for the formation of such a group were drawn.
I n t e r n a t i o n a l C o n f e r e n c e o n T e l e p h o n i c A i d
As a result of the meeting, the I.C. Union Welfare Officer
and the Secretary of the Welfare Committee (Steve Cann)
went to a 3 day conference over the vacation. The Title of
the Conference was 'Youth Emergency Telephonic Aid', and
it mainly dealt with the problems of adolescence, suicide and
the setting up of youth services for people in distress. There
were delegates from all parts of Britain, Ireland, France,
Italy, Switzerland, Holland, Denmark, Austria, Norway,
Poland and Germany.
T h e P r o b l e m s o f A d o l e s c e n c e
Adolescence is the psychological counterpart to physical
maturity and occurs in the period between the ages of 14
or 15, right up to the ages of 21 to 22, and is the most criti-
cal time in psychological development.
Before adolescence, children normally trust their parents
with their problems. Although mentally disturbed children
exist, one never hears of a child having committed suicide.
As soon as people enter the stage of adolescence they start
facing all the harder problems of life.
One in 12 people in this Country spend part of their adult
life in mental hospitals. If help were available to them earlier
on, this figure need not have been so high.
Since the last decade counselling services in Britain have
rapidly expanded. Unfortunately this expansion was not very
well planned and the help provided is by no means spread
out.
When a person is asking for help the first thing is for some-
one to listen to his problems and offer him his friendship. To
'befriend' as the Samaritans call it. One should never attempt
to deny the extent of the other person's problem and reduc-
ing it does not solve it. This can cause a certain mistrust on
the part of the other person by making him feel less impor-
tant a human being than the rest.
A person with a mental disturbance is in a very vulnerable
position. This vulnerability is not reduced by simple friend-
ship. He is ready to accept any advice offered and one must
be very careful not to give any direct advice as, if anything
goes wrong, that person's trust will be completely shattered,
as he is unlikely to turn again for help, even to other people.
In such cases professional phychiatric treatment is necessary
for complete cure. Befriending only delays the crisis.
But, as it can be said that just as war is too serious a prob-
lem to leave to generals, the problems of mental health are
too serious to leave to the psychiatrist on his own. Action
by common lay people can go a long way in helping those
who need it.
O t h e r U n i v e r s i t i e s
The Essex University 'Nightline' is the only student organi-
sation running at the moment on a campus. Others are start-
ing at Brunei (London) and St. Andrews (Scotland).
Essex University have a small hut on the campus with a
telephone manned every night. Volunteers enter the scheme
after two weeks training. To provide continuity, a number
of members of staff are engaged in this as well.
When a 'client' calls he is always encouraged to go over.
The events are recorded in a log book, with no names and
no further records are kept. There are group leaders who
can be contacted in emergencies, or whose advice can be
sought afterwards. The number of calls to the centre have
increased as more people come to-hear of it, and a lot of
students who would never have gone to the local Samaritan
branch, ask for help at 'Nightline'.
Various similar groups operate on some Continental Uni-
versities, some of them providing a telephone link only, some,
like Essex, personal contact as well.
G e n e r a l M e e t i n g at I . C . o n F e b r u a r y 4th
Universities tend to be small communities of their own,
with little contact with the outside world. This kind of en-
vironment tends to create rather special problems and I.C.
is no exception. We are all students and have to face either
exams or supervisors sooner or later. Many students in Lon-
don have to live in appalling accommodation at extortionate
rents, miles away from College and other friends. On top of
that I.C. is a highly specialised scientific institution where it
is inevitable that, for some people to excel themselves they
have to be narrow minded and lose their sense of humanity.
Finally I.C. has only 300 women in a college of 4,000 stu-
dents. Sexual frustration and complete lack of contact with
the opposite sex can cause severe depression and create a
vicious circle which can only end in disaster.
There are many people in this College who are socially
aware. Clubs like O.S.S. prove this. These kinds of people,
together with a few members of staff, who can provide con-
tinuity for the organisation, can help run such a group here
at I.C.
The Samaritans have already offered to help with the train-
ing scheme and lectures will be arranged for the first group
of volunteers.
A meeting has been arranged by the Welfare Committee
for all people interested in this, on Thursday, February 4th
at 6.00 p.m. in Physics Lecture Theatre A.
Anyone who feels that he or she, as a member of this
community called Imperial College, can help some of its
members who are now in difficulty, should make an effort
to come along. Be a friend yourself, to others and then you
too can rely on finding a friend in an hour of need.
G. A. C. Assimakis,
I.C.U. Welfare Officer.
NUS USC
The third Universities Specialist Conference was held at
Keele University on 2nd-5th January. This Conference, un-
like the two national conferences whose major job is that
of debating motions and thus preparing national mandates,
is one based on more detailed discussion of a number of
topics, especially important within the University Sector.
Discussion groups were held on Secondary and Higher
Education exams, postgraduate education, the Open Uni-
versity, Continuing Higher Education, Technology—Educa-
tion relationships, Comprehensive systems of Higher Edu-
cation, Strategy for Student Action, Community Action re-
lated Curricula and University Government. Working groups
of a more specialist nature run on grants, Loan Financed
Housing, Quinquennial Planning, Legal Status of Students
Unions, Privy Council and Student Counselling, Also papers
on Bridge Years and four term Years were debated, whilst
the N.U.S./N.C.C.L. paper 'Academic Freedom and the
Law' was investigated, discussed and debated.
Many of the topics were discussed with regard to the poli-
tical environment, but it can be seen that all are important
topics for discussion and action within the student body as a
whole.
Perhaps the most direct advantage gained by the I.C. de-
legates at this conference, I feel, was the meeting of other
delegations and the learning of their approaches to prob-
lems we have at this college—this inter-University feeding of
information is perhaps the most neglected field for action
within many Universities—we all have our problems, but
most have been solved elsewhere. Side effects included meet-
ing N.U.S. services personnel—important matters like the set-
ting up of Endsleigh Insurance bureau, full-time within I.C.
and the nature of I.C./N.U.S. Travel bureaux relationships
were discussed, the former holding promise of much needed
advertising material in both Felix and the Handbook.
Finally, one motion was moved directly forward for de-
bate at a National Conference—this time it was a Counsel-
ling Services motion (problems with respect to Tutors, Car-
reers Advice, etc.)—a problem very relevant to I.C.
C i t p ant» <§utfog (Engineering H>otietp
A
n
n
u
a
l Btnntr
Tickets 30s. each
fen
7 for 7.30

