January 28, 1971 FELIX Page 3
EDITORIAL
The prospect of increased bar and refectory prices, to-
gether with general price increases, is disturbing to students
as well as to others with relatively fixed incomes. It appears
that no matter what policy is applied, the refectories cannot
but lose almost £20,000 every year. It's a vicious circle that
is universally applicable — if prices rise their sales inevitably
drop and turnover cannot be improved.
However this college is not a good proof of the theory.
This part of London is an expensive and fairly highbrow one.
Unlike those colleges situated elsewhere in Greater London
there are no local popular inexpensive cafes which can com-
pete with college refectories. Mr. Mooney realises this and
can thus feel confident that his price rises will be effective.
Todays news is nevertheless a warning that increased prices
cannot indefinitely be met.
The idea, first suggested by Harry Fairbrother, of a
scheme to try and help depressed students in a similar man-
ner to the Samaritans, is a good one. It seems that at last
people have admitted that I.C. does have some tremendous
faults, some of which can lead perfectly normal people into
deep depression.
The scheme's intention of course is to prevent suicides,
the most ironic form of death. What I.C. now also needs is
some sort of organisation to probe why young people should
want to take their own lives. It's a long complex and en-
vironmental question which cannot simply be answered by
one person. What answers are discovered should be quickly
applied to our college, the sooner the better.
S u m m e r J o b s
We have been sent copies of two books published by an or-
ganisation known as Vacation-Work of Oxford. The "Directory of
Summer Jobs in Britain" claims to include 30,000 vacancies for jobs
to occupy your idle summer months. Of these, about 20,000 appear
to be hotel jobs such as chambermaids (£6 a week), dishwashers
(£12 a week), etc. Farmworkers and fruit pickers also appear to
be in demand. Some voluntary and social jobs are included. As-
suming that all the jobs will not be gone by the time you get round
to buying the book, it seems a reasonably Good Thing, although it
costs 14 bob (would you beilieve 70p?)
Very similar in appearance but wider in scope is The Directory
of Summer Jobs Abroad, which, by a coincidence, also contains
30,000 vacancies. A wide selection of countries is featured including
Andorra, (Waiters and Hall Porters) and Ghana, (Voluntary Work-
camps). The book also contains details of Visas, Work Permits and
that stuff, together with some cheap travel facilities; all for 14
shillings. It does not include anything about the U.S.A. Apparently
there is another book available, costing 39 shillings, with 80,000
entries at wages up to £100 per week, in all parts of the U.S.A., but
they did not send us one of these, so I'm not going to mention it.
Get your copy from your friendly neighbourhood bookshop —
the 1971 edition was published on January 18th.
P h o t o s :
C i r c u l a t i o n :
F E L I X
N E W S P A P E R O F
I M P E R I A L C O L L E G E U N I O N
E d : A n t h o n y J o h n S i m s
A s s t . E d : M i k e Y a t e s
C o l i n H a r v e y
Dave S u g d e n
M a l c o l m B a i l e y
P e t e M o r g a n s
A r n o l d D a r b y
S p o r t s : M i k e Adams
Not to mention: Susan Parry, Tony Kirkham,
John Ackers, Charlie Hulme, Steve Heap, Pete
Johnson, Rify Abdulla, Dennis Taylor, N . E.
Body, Els I. Missed.
Jokes by kind permission of the British Museum.
Printed by F. Bailey & Son, Dursley, Gloucester-
shire.
National Advertising: University Press Rep-
resentation, Grand Buildings, Trafalgar Square,
London W.C.2.
Published by the Editor on behalf of I.C.U. Pub-
lication Board, Imperial College Union, London,
S.W.7.
LETTERS
F i l m C r i t i c s
Dear, Sir,
With reference to the showing of the Carnival Film
"Ulysses", I must protest about the standard of behavior
of certain members of the audience. As the film was being
shown, there was a continuous barracking of crude puerile
humour and paper darts. This sort of "criticism" was never
deserved by the film and constitutes a serious breach of in-
dividual liberties and rights. It is well known that "Ulysses",
both film and book, is a difficult work of art to under-
stand, and so it must be asked why did certain anti-social
members of I.C. attend for the sole purpose of destroying
the enjoyment of the majority of the people?
I have noticed that Film Soc has also been plagued by
similar audiences so that films of artistic quality can no
longer be satisfactorily viewed. I feel that the complete lack
of appreciation of the Arts in Imperial College is a tragedy
and I hope that everybody will agree with me in condemning
these infantile disruptions.
Yours sincerely,
Peter Lewis.
Dear, Sir,
I should like to add some comments about "the com-
plete lack of appreciation of the arts" which Peter Lewis
observes in Imperial College. I don't think that audience re-
action at the Film Society is anything like as bad as he
implies. There is a natural ambivalence towards foreign films,
and the consequent subtitles, which is due to unfamiliarity
and conditioning by unimaginative major distribution policies
which almost totally exclude the foreign language film from
the commercial circuits. The committee of the Film Society
is anxious to overcome this by mixed programming — a
variety of the "art-house" and better commercial releases —
and I think that this policy has been largely successful over
the past two years. For instance last year "Elvira Madigan"
and "Closely Observed Trains" were enthusiastically received,
and this season, after perhaps initial scepticism towards the
unknown, "Capricious Summer", "Stolen Kisses" and "The
Truce" were very popular. There is a danger of becoming
so keen on "artistic quality", a term which applies to many
popular English-language commercial films as well as to
foreign-language films, entertaining or not, that such vital
factors as print quality and sound synchronisation are ignored.
These can turn scepticism and minor irritation into restless-
ness and antipathy, and quite justifiably so.
With regard to "Ulysses" in particular (which the Film
Society arranged to screen on behalf of Carnival), I should
stress that this film was thought by Dennis Taylor and my-
self to be that capable of raising the maximum funds for
Carnival. There was quite a fuss when it was first released,
and "Ulysses" achieved an undeserved notoriety, which I
think we were justified in cashing in on for the sake of a
worthy cause, so there was presumably a faction of the
audience for whom the film didn't live up (or down) to their
preconceptions.
It is a pity if "barracking of crude puerile humour and
paper darts" is not confined to the films shown by H. G.
Wells Society apparently to satisfy this basic need (as well as
to raise money). Most of the "load-of-old-corn" films shown
by them, which presumably do not fall into Peter Lewis'
category of "artistic quality" would indeed be deadly dull
if it were not for the audience exposing every ambiguity in
the dialogue — the vast majority of the audience encourages
"infantile disruptions" which are an absolutely Vital in-
gredient of the shows.
However I agree with Peter Lewis in deploring any
audience behaviour which detracts from the enjoyment of
others.
John Ackers
(Chairman, Film Society).
JUDITH
G R A N T S
As a result of NUS pressure the government has agreed
to a major grants review in September 1971. (Details in Sen-
net and later Felices). In order that the negotiations be really
successful, students (i.e. we!) will have to campaign — to
draw attention to grant inadequacies; to influence public
opinion by publicity; to win support from other groups; to
influence government, local authorities, parliament. Legisla-
ture changes as well as more money are required because
worse off than us are the students e.g. HND, HNC, whose
grants depend on the whims of their local authorities. Since
there are few sanctions students can apply we have to win
support.
Our standard of living has been substantially cutback
in recent years and inflation has hit harder. The Rectors re-
fectory meeting realised that the prices could not increase —
we had no more money.
ICU Will have to plan its own strategy and USK action is
also called for. One suggestion has been to write to local
papers (Sth. Ken. and your own town) and perhaps publicise
hardship cases — so although this might sound sensationalis-
tic if there's anyone who has very bad grants difficulties come
and tell us. We will have to mobilise effectively — this cam-
paign affects us all.
C O M P U T I N G
With the establishment of a Dept. of Computing and
Control has been suggested another set of college committees
(yipee!). One, the computing policy committee consisting of
6 profs and the Rector, will plan the development of com-
puting at IC — finance, facilities etc. Whereas the computing
services committee, subordinate to the first but still dominated
by professors (9/11) will deal with more mundane matters
— quality of service, publicity, co-ordinating depts teaching
and research requirements. These proposals were drafted by
'senior personnel' and there was little consultation with others
likely to be affected. The Board of Studies was then pre-
sented with the complete plan — the usual case with BoSt
business.
The assumption has again been made that only profes-
sors are capable of directing services and ascertaining the
college's needs, although we have successfully challenged
this 'right' many times (e.g. BoSt itself). Students as major
users for teaching and research purposes should be involved
in deciding computing priorities and development. A system
of representation is being worked out so pass on any com-
ments through your dept reps.
S E L K I R K W A R D E N
Due to Mr. Seaford's resignation (only from his warden-
ship!), the machine is now geared to 'evolving' a new war-
den.
It would seem only logical that students should parti-
cipate in a proper selection procedure. Wardens are obviously
closely involved with students' lives. Only because urgent
representations were made to the Rector for student involve-
ment have we been consulted — not on the choice as yet,
but the procedure. It has been suggested that the next ap-
pointment be made for a 5 year term only, however the
actual selection procedure we will have to discuss.
Halls have begun to break out of their traditional
straightjacket. Residents, through hall committees and the
Union can now make decisions instead of being dictated to
by wardens. With this development the role of a warden has
changed — he should now be more an advisor than guardian.
The next warden we must ensure to be of this new breed.
Union Meeting next Thursday, 28 January — grants.
I.C. T e l e v i s i o n
Dear All,
Contrary to rumours spread about by our publicity
STOIC is alive and well and living in Elec. Eng. 306. The
studio is almost completed and we can now start making
programmes again. If you've got any ideas or would just like
to help — camera pushing or in front of tele camera appearing
or anything — get in touch with us via the Union Rack.
As it doesn't look like we shall be getting our line to
College Block installed in the near future we shall be making
programmes for stock-pile and showing when ICTV gets
underway in 1972 and for our own use from next year —
i.e. September 71.
We also want some very good folk/Jazz/Blues musicians
to help us put together some Light Entertainment pro-
grammes so if you are bent that way let us know.
There will also be meetings with TV producers and such
people so that we can pick their brains about the right way
of doing things.
Still, I must go and make programmes.
Yours visually,
STOIC
WRITE/DRAW FOR THE NEW STATESMAN.
See current issue for details of Student Journalists
— — — ~
NEW STATESMAN
Politics, books, the arts. Edited by Richard Crossman.
STUDENT SUBSCRIPTION: year £4; six months £2.
Details of college, course, final year, with payment,
to NEW STATESMAN, Great Turnstile, WC1V 7HJ.

