Page 4 FELIX January 28, 1971
ENGINEERING SOCIETY What's On ?
P R E S I D E N T I A L P R O F I L E
As stated in the last edition of "Felix", the City and Guilds
Engineering Society invites an eminent engineer to be Presi-
dent of the Society for each Session. One of the tasks of the
President is to address the Society, and it is by way of intro-
duction to this year's Presidential Address, "Invention, In-
novation and Design" by Mr. G. B. R. Feilden, CBE, FRS
on Tuesday, 19th January (at 1315 in ME220), that this
article outlines Mr Feilden's distinguished career.
Born in 1917 and educated at Bedford School and King's
College Cambridge, Mr Feilden graduated in 1939. After his
"graduate training" with Lever Bros., he quickly became in-
volved with the design, testing and manufacture of Whittle
engines for Power Jets Ltd., during the War.
After the War, he moved on to Rushton & Hornsby where
he set up the gas turbine department and published a num-
ber of papers on gas turbines.
Just twenty years from graduation, he became a Director
of Hawker Siddeley Industries Ltd., before moving to the
post of Group Technical Director, Davy-Ashmore Ltd. in
1961, where he was directly involved in a number of their
subsidiaries. The next stage in his career took him to the
British Standards Institution, where he is now Director
General.
Throughout his career, Mr. Feilden has had an interest
in engineering design and this is demonstrated in the long list
of engineering advisory and research committees of which he
has been, and still is a member. He became an FRS in 1959,
and was Vice-President of the Royal Society from 1967-
1969. He was awarded the CBE in 1966.
He says that one of his recreations is 'efficient' car repairs,
which might imply that even at the top end of industry, an
engineer is still a man who can wield a spanner!
D I N N E R F O R E V E R Y O N E
Well, almost! While a student here at I.C. there are very
few opportunities to enjoy a reasonably inexpensive formal
dinner with a group of friends or associates, and to hear a
good after dinner speech. Yes, I know that there are Hall
Dinners every Tuesday, but there is no "sense of occasion"
to them, and you don't get any speeches. There is also vari-
ous Balls, but they are expensive.
However, for those of us fortunate enough to be in City
and Guilds, there is the Engineering Society Annual Din-
ner. Here is the golden opportunity to attend a good formal
(well, lounge suits) but friendly dinner, which is also an ex-
cellent occasion to introduce your wife or girl friend (or vice
versa) to your College and friends if you wish, and to meet
some members of staff informally. There will also be guests
from various Engineering Institutions—if you want to talk
about your chosen profession, from the Old Centralians—if
you want to see what old students do with themselves, and
from other Colleges' Engineering Societies—if you want to
see how much better off we are here at I.C.! Even if you
just want to savour a Mooney Grade 1 and get quietly merry
on sherry, wine, port and beer afterwards then this is the
"happening" for you.
We are still negotiating at great lengths with a certain
well known public figure to come to speak to us after the
dinner, but we are assured of a good after-dinner speech.
So, you come on your own, or bring a friend, or lots of
friends. Tickets are available at 30 shillings each (new pence
are not necessary as our D-Day—Dinner Day—is on Wed-
nesday, 10th. February), from any Committee Member. It
will probably be "first come, first served" so buy your
ticket (s) early, and come to enjoy yourself.
A m n e s t y I n t e r n a t i o n a l
Amnesty International came into existence as a result of
an article in the Observer (London) in May 1961, which drew
attention to the increasing number of people imprisoned
solely because of their opinions. The fact that Governments
frequently camouflaged their political motives by accusing
those arrested of criminal charges showed that they were
sensitive to public opinion. An international campaign was
proposed, not tied to any religious or political grouping, and
ready to act as rapidly as possible before the repressive posi-
tion of governments hardened.
An office was established in London to assemble infor-
mation about 'prisoners of conscience'; that is those physi-
cally prevented by imprisonment, from expressing their
opinion, PROVIDED THEY DID NOT ADVOCATE
VIOLENCE. Spies or persons working to overthrow their
own government were excluded.
The statutes of AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL pledged
to support all international movements supporting human
rights. More directly, the movement would send investiga-
tors to establish if human rights were being violated and
would publicize infringements. In addition to group work
the movement would make representations to governments
and international organizations and send lawyers and observ-
ers to trials.
In 1968 additions were made to the statutes; these being
two other articles of the Universal Declaration of Human
Rights and AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL states its
objects shall be to ensure for every person to freely hold
and express his convictions and in pursuance of that object
secure throughout the world the observance of the provisions
of Articles 5, 9, 18 and 19 of the Universal Declaration of
Human Rights and irrespective of political considerations to
work for the release of and provide assistance to persons
who in violation of the aforesaid provisions, as to freedom
of opinion, are detained, imprisoned restricted or otherwise
subjected to physical coercion by reason of their political,
religious or other conscientiously held belief or by any rea-
son of their ethnic origin provided they have not used or
advocated violence.
The movement now consists of 21 National Sections, 700
groups and 1500 individual members. Each of these has a
job to do in the AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL work. By
becoming a member, your subscription is used to bring some
form of relief, be it food, clothes or money, to the families
of these prisoners, for it is normally the breadwinner of the
family who is imprisoned.
By joining a Group, you become one who helps to obtain
the release of the 'prisoner of conscience' entrusted to them.
Each group adopts 3 prisoners selected for them by the In-
ternational Secretariat with special attention to the need
for political balance. Groups use direct pressure by writing
to Embassies and Ministries of the country involved and in-
directly by enlisting the support of Trade Unions, profes-
sional associations and, when appropriate, the Press. The
Groups also help with the moral welfare of the prisoner and
his family.
Members can also join the 'Postcard Campaign' which
asks them to send three special cards each month each for
an urgent case—prisoners who may be under sentence of
death. Cards are sent to authorities from members all over
the world, proof of the mounting weight of public opinion.
Finally money is always needed. Prisoners can be re-
leased. Their lives can be saved. Their families can be
cared for—but it costs money.
AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL needs help. Could you
help my forming a group in I.C.? Would you join the 'Post-
card Campaign'? Further details can be obtained from
AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL, Turnagain Lane, Farring-
don Road, London, E.C.4. Anybody interested in forming a
group please contact me.
G. Peam, Civil III
Friday 29th January
FILMSOC: Roger (The Trip) Corman's WILD A N -
GELS; Albert Finney in CHARLIE BUBBLES; S.W.B.
Members only, no enrolments at the door, guest tickets sold
out. 19.15, Mech Eng 220.
Monday 1st February
WELLSOC: The case for Airships
fly? 19.30, Mech Eng 220.
to fly, or not to
Tuesday 2nd February
GENERAL STUDIES: The British Ideology by Frank
Lea, Four hands on the Keyboard by Dennis Mathews and
Brenda McDermott.
Wednesday 3rd February
FOLK SONG CLUB: Hamish Imlach, Members 3/-,
non-members 5/-. 19.30, Union Upper Refectory.
Thursday 4th February
Incredible WELLSOC film show! THE GREAT RACE;
SEVENTH VOYAGE OF SINBAD. 19.30, Mech Eng 220.
GENERAL STUDIES: Art and Science — 4 by Patrick
Carpenter. Face to Face by the Rt. Rev. Trevor Huddleston
— Bishop of Hackney.
Monday 8th until 12th February
IC Operatic Soc. presents: PATIENCE by Gilbert and
Sullivan in the Concert Hall TCU — 7.30 p.m. Tickets: 4/-
and 61-.
Every Tuesday and Thursday after 1.00 p.m.
FELIX press meetings: all staff please come early so as
not to miss a seat.
N o r t h L o n d o n ' s S e x
S u p e r m a r k e t ?
B I R D S & B E E S
16, T h e B r o a d w a y Parade N 8
Write NOW for free price list
T H E U N I V E R S I T Y O F W A R W I C K
B u s i n e s s G r a d u a t e ?
Increasingly this question will be asked. When planning
your own career you will want to consider the possibilities
yourself.
The School of Industrial and Business Studies offers twelve
month programmes leading to Masters degrees in Manage-
ment and Business Studies, Management Science and
Operational Research or Industrial Relations.
About 90 places will be available in these programmes this
year. Applicants, normally in their twenties, should have an
honours degree or equivalent professional qualification; two
or more years business experience is also an advantage.
Grants are available from the Social Science Research
Council and other sources. Some companies also sponsor
promising young managers.
Write for details to:
THE REGISTRAR,
UNIVERSITY OF WARWICK,
COVENTRY CV4 7AL.
stating area of interest and quoting reference M/71/35.
S T U D E N T E C O N O M Y A N D
C H A R T E R F L I G H T S
WEEKLY (DAILY IN SUMMER)
TO AND FROM NORTH AMERICA
ONE WAY £40 ROUND TRIP £65
(OPEN ROUND TRIP £65)
AND OTHER PARTS OF THE WORLD
EXPO INTERNATIONAL
81 Cadogan Gardens, London, S.W.3.
01-584 0064/5

