Page 8 FELIX January 28, 1971
Carnival Week February 12th to 20th
The long awaited extravaganza is due to hit I.C. in a
fortnight's time. The idea, brilliant, revolutionary and mind-
bending though it is, is not original and was first used by
Ted Heath not so long ago when he conned a majority
in the House of Commons.
Do you want to see,
1. Emerson, Lake and Palmer in the Great Hall?
2. Stones revival concert at the Royal Albert Hall?
3. Monty Python live at I.C.?!!!
4. Arts Festival with poetry/music/films and plays?
5. AH leotures cancelled for a week?!!!
6. Judith's underwear?
Obviously you want all of these things and would pity
anybody who tried to organize (or get) them. The above
events would take a cool £5,000, and £2,000 for the last
two. Carnival week doesn't have any big-name concerts or
"non-return" events. After discarding the original idea of
having a conventional rag week a fun dedicated intelligentsia,
after hours of painstaking market research using an IBM
7094 computer and Aristo 12in. slide rule, came up with the
brilliant idea of setting aside a particular week in this term
to collect as much money as possible with the least organiza-
tion and expenditure. Carnival Week is the result, I.C.'s
answer to the Coronation, Eisteddfoddddd and Neasdon
Parish Hall Fete.
The total expenditure for the week is about £100, (except
for I.C. Ents do and R.C.S. Carnival—which are events in
themselves). We hope to realise £2,000. That may sound
unrealistic but if EVERY year in each dept. does its bit,
organizing a collection during this week, we*ll not only break
all previous records by the end of the year but will help
the Westminster Council of Social Services to:
(a) Build an adventure playground,
(b) Provide a Citizens' Advice Bureau,
(c) Provide transport/outings/reoreational facilities for
people who are living under hardship.
So you don't agree with Charity and the way it is collected.
WELL IT IS NEEDED (take a short tube journey to
Paddington and see). WE CAN PROVIDE IT. It doesn't
take much to organize your year. Collections can be great
fun if there's a stunt or "twist" involved. From playing
marbles in Ken. High St. to a sponsored swim in Trafalgar
Square . . . DO SOMETHING—ANYTHING. Fines of up
to £100 payable by Carnival.
SUPPORT CARNIVALS-ORGANIZE—FEBRUARY
12th—20th.
WHAT'S HAPPENING?
Collections: AH you need to do when you've thought of
a way of dragging your year out is to see one of the know-
G E N E R A L S T S
Originally this was to be an attempt to inform the apa-
thetic masses about General studies lectures, but recently 1
have found myself squashed into the corners of crowded
lecture theatres, so I will concentrate on pointing out whal
is happening Tuesday/Thursday lunchtimes this term. Main-
stays of the programme are series of talks by Patrick Car-
penter (art), Patric Dickinson (poetry), and Frank Lea
(philosophy), plus one-day stands by, inter alia, Trevor
Huddleston (rehgion), Robert Thorne (architecture), and
Derek Wright (sex).
If you are fired with enthusiasm on reading this (don't
turn over the page until the lecturer turns to the blackboard)
you will be just in time to catch the third of Patrick Carpen-
ter's "Art and Science" series. Mr. Carpenter has been visit-
ing Physios Lecture Theatre for several years, and has built
up quite a following—arrive early for the best seats.
Patric Dickinson, poet and playwright, has chalked up
quite a tally of books and broadcasts since the war, and
intends in his talks to deal with poetry in four categories,
titled T. S. Ehot/Childrens/John Betjeman/Underground. For
deep thinkers, Frank Lea, of Elec Eng, will this year deal
with the thoughts of the British philosophers.
If, like myself, you wish you could understand Classical
Music, I can recommend the last of the series by Denis
Matthews and Brenda McDermott, to be given next Tues-
day. Mr. Matthews punctuates his extracts from four-hand
piano works with lucid technical explanations and anecdotes,
making up a very listenable whole. Other musical items are
a Question Period with Colin Davis, wel-known as con-
ductor of the "Proms", and now musical director of Covemt
Garden Opera, plus a two-part talk on "Tristan and Isolde"
by the amazing Else Mayer-Lismann (and her piano).
On a critical note, I know that MechE 342 is the only
lecture-theatre with a piano, or vice versa, but it is very
subject to extraneous noises off from the heating system,
falling scaffolding, etc. which must distract both performers
and audience. If any of these events sound interesting—don't
be put off; refuse cups of coffee, ignore union meetings (about
diversification), even put away your problem sheets. Let's
make this Mr. McDowell's boom year!
CHARLIE HULME.
CARNIVAL LIVES
ledgeable people below who will set you up with tins and
licences, etc. (We've just got another 1,000 licences—brand
new and legal.)
Mascots: Any from other colleges will be most gratefully
received by Carnival. Try University College's amazing
Post Office Tower. "Jelly" provided.
Lyceum All-nighter: Zero expense on our part—just a
gesture of goodwill by Mecca Ltd. Tickets 15/-. We get
10%. On sale NOW.
Five Capitals Hitch-hike: Starting from Euston station at
8 a.m. Details later—raffle tickets on sale at 1/- each to
guess the time taken by the winning team. Imperial College
v. King's v University College. The winning team takes 50%
of the net raffle profits.
Fete: Saturday afternoon. Clubs and societies, halls of
residence and years needed to run stalls. Contact Carnival
Fete Committee.
UNIVERSITY OF SURREY
Applications are invited: for
a Research Studentship in con-
nection with a .programme: oif
research in teaching and learn-
ing in university science courses.
Candidates should have a good
honours degree in a science sub-
ject, and some experience in
education is desirable, although
not essential The studentship is
oif value £550 p.a., initially for
two years and may be increased
through dependents' allowances,
postgraduate experience allow-
ance or older students allow-
ance. Students are permitted to
earn an additional £100. The
successful candidate will be ex-
pected to register for M.Phil,
or Ph.D. ApplicationstoyFebru-
ary 22 to Professor L. R. B.
Elton, I.E.T., University of Sur-
rey, Guildford, Surrey, from
whom further particulars and
application forms can be ob-
tained.
Above: Amazing Carnival
Feet . . .
THE PLAN
Sunday, Feb. 7th, 6 a.m. Boat Club (well-supported by Chem Eng
members) sponsored row from Reading to Putney. 70 miles. Help
needed, to dig eight graves.
Friday, Feb. 12th. Five Capitals Hitch-hike, Lyceum all-nighter.
Saturday, Feb. 13th. Oxford Street Stunt; proposed Rag Rally. I.C.
Enlts "Every Which Way"—Union.
Sunday, Feb. 14th. Mixed Rugby, Hyde Park 3 p.m. "Lecturing"/
CoEecting at Speakers Corner. St. Valentine's Disco.
Monday, Feb. 15th. Tube Collections, all station. Details later.
Tuesday, Feb. 16th. Mop-soc Disco—JCR College Block, Disco "T".
Wednesday, Feb. 17th. Carnival XI versus Met. Police at Worm-
wood Scrubs—BBC TV Coverage. Drink-a-pub-dry (evening).
Thursday, Feb. 18th. C & G Carnival Revue—stripper.
Friday, Feb. 19th. "Bacchanalia", RCS Carnival and 'Taney dress".
Saturday, Feb. 20th. Fete in Princes Gardens and Linstead Hall.
I.C. Ents "Uriah Heap"—Union.
Sunday, Feb. 21st. +£2,000.
COLLECT!!!—2 barrels of best Tartan to the year who collects
thei most during the week (or cash equivalent).
HELP is needed in every conceivable form. Anyone; who wants
to do/organise anything should contact any of the celebrities
below. Specific help is required for the Fete, Stunts, C & G Revue
(sketches) and to preserve my vanity. We also intend breaking a
dozen or so Guiness records this week and at the Fete. Anybody
proficient in the followingfieldsshould contact Rob Mullion, Keogh
278.
Car-cramming (34 in a VW). Hitch-hiking (John o'Groats—Land's
End in 18J hours). Post box (26 people on a double, oval, pillar
box). Shower bathing (168 hours).Beer! 2 pints 6.4 sees, 1 pint 2.34
sees, 2 pint yard 6 sees, 3 pint yard 12.4 sees. Nosh: 10 steak and
kidney pies (one after t'other), 2 pints of milk in 13.3 sees, crisps
30 bags in 29 mins 50 sec, sausages 25 x 2 oz. in 4 mins 37 sees,
spaghetti—not attempted/Mooney plateful.
THE STORY SO FAR
Carnival is healthy with about £2,000. Another £300 was made on
the RCA dance last term. The total could have been much higher
with PARTICIPATION. HELP CARNIVAL, ONE WEEK.
FUTURE EVENTS
The traditional multi-thousand ticket raffle will be drawn after
Easter with big cash prizes and an even bigger illegal profit.
Rag-Mag originally scheduled for Carnival week could not come
out due to power cuts, the Tory government, the "Gryg" effect (a
delayed reaction) and the Neasdon Riots. "Tonic will be out before
Easter but oodles of help is still required for layout, typing and
general artistry. All potential advertisers gratefully received (no
porn please). Contact R. Gryg, 411 Garden.
PEOPLE TO SEE
Dennis Taylor—co-ordinator—Linstead 416; Sue Bonell—Secretary
—Beit 107; Rob Molton—Treasurer—Keogh 288; Rob Mullion—
Stunts—Keogh 278; Rich Gryg—"Tonic"—Garden 411; Steve Man-
tlry—Publicity Geology 3; Stevej Bugg—5 Capitals—Geology 3;
Scruff Thomas—C&G—Tizard 438; Blind Mick—RSM—Selkirk 688;
Nick "Boy Wonder" Wilkinson—RCS—Tizard 522; Lynne Beyon—
ICWA—Beit 89; John Cantle—Fete—Chem PG.
Carnival Committee meetings 6.30 p.m., Tuesdays, Comm Room A,
Union Lower Lounge. Bring ideas, offers of help and yourselves.
The above personalities will receive advice free of charge.
USA
Are you interested in
North America?
join UNIVERSITY
STUDENTS ABROAD
International House,
40 Shaftesbury Avenue,
London, W.l.
Telephone 01-437 5374
nissued
Belgian
urForce
COATS
C l e a r w a y t o M a n a g e m e n t
w i t h B r i t i s h R a i l
Unbelievable
value. New
and unissued
in good
quality Blue/
Grey material
MIDI or
MAXI length.
Beautifully
tailored,
fitted waist,
half back
belt. Models
for both
Men and
Women. Only
£5 each
post
paid.
CHABGLEN LTD.
(Dept. FEL)
7
6 Cromwell Road, Luton, Beds.
"Every major firm will follow this lead" predicts Monty Meth, Daily
Mail industrial Correspondent, describing the British Railways
Board's search for young high flyers to manage the railways of
the future.
If you think you measure up to the challenge of the 70's - the era
of the Advanced Passenger Train - with British Rail, find out about
the management opportunities for graduates in the Traffic,
Engineering, Finance, and Estates departments, and in the fields of
Planning and Marketing, Operational Research and Data
Processing.
Ask the Secretary of your University Appointments Board for
booklets describing the opportunities and have a talk with the
railway representative when he visits your university, or write
directto:The Principal Management Recruitment Officer,
British Railways Board, Royal London House,
22-25 Finsbury Square, London EC2 P2BQ.

