10 felix Friday 13 June 2008
Comment, Opinion
& Letters
Let us know your views: comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Letters may be edited for length and grammar purposes
Views on these pages are not representative of Felix
Should ICU remain affiliated?
NUS affiliation referendum
1. Read the following comment pieces
2. Check out www.live.cgcu.net for a televised NUS debate and further comment
3. Consider the question: ‘Should ICU remain affiliated with the NUS?’
4. Vote yes or no, online, from 17th June: www.imperialcollegeunion.org/vote
With voting in the latest referendum on NUS membership due to open on Tuesday 17th June, Felix hears
from both advocates and critics, to help inform your opinion when you come to cast your vote next week
is voting No
Steve Brown
ICU President
Vote yes to ICU by voting No! to NUS
R
egular readers of Felix will
have noticed that I have on
several occasions this year
wrote about what was go-
ing on in NUS. Voting to af-
filiate by 53% to 47% hardly represents
a ringing endorsement for the NUS
from Imperial students and through-
out this year I have attended countless
events to attempt to make the NUS
better. My own perspective on this was
that I was “taking one for the team”. I
would be the last student from Impe-
rial ever to have to sit through some
tortuous meetings where everything
has to be dumbed down to the point
where any meaningful debate is not
possible. I took the view that this was
worth the effort as if the NUS changed
then it might have stood a reasonable
chance of becoming a respected na-
tional voice for students.
Looking ahead for the foreseeable
future NUS will continue to operate
in a farcical manner. I could take an
idealistic stance and raise the notion
of some sort of consensus could be
reached if only we hung around for
another year. The reality is that those
political activists with a vested inter-
est in how the NUS operates have no
intention of changing their position
and I feel that this would be a naive
stance to take. For the avoidance of
doubt, these are the same people who
continuously attempt to waste every-
one’s time on pointless debates about
esoteric issues in far off lands.
I would love to sit some of them
down and talk about pressing issues
such as assessment feedback and stu-
dent housing but whilst they are more
interested in ranting on about what a
great job Hugo Chavez is doing run-
ning Venezuela and why students
should go on strike for no reason at-
tempts to do so are futile.
It is quite right that there are now a
lot of people questioning the legitima-
cy of NUS. Indeed, over the Christmas
holidays I was forwarded an email that
had been sent by the Chief Executive
of Universities UK to the College ad-
vertising the Student Juries scheme
which is being run by the government
via the Department for Innovation,
Universities and Skills. The NUS will
tell you that they are the only show
in town when it comes to talking to
the government and that they are re-
spected as the authoritative voice of
UK students. It saddened me to read
the following excerpt
“UUK has been working to raise
issues of concern over this agenda
through our position on the stake-
holders working group and are partic-
ularly keen that the students selected
to take part in the juries should be
representative of the full range of stu-
dent voices. We have argued that care
should be taken not to include merely
"politicised voices" through organisa-
tions such as the NUS.”
Is an organisation that is dismissed
by the umbrella body for all UK Uni-
versities as unrepresentative and dom-
inated by voices that are needlessly
politicised really something that we
want to subsidise? Both these state-
ments are inferred by the above text
which raises serious questions about
the NUS as the marvellous student
voice that they claim to be. £46,000 is
a lot of money to pay for an organi-
sation which is treated with such dis-
dain. NUS’ 2008/09 budget indicates
that they are spending £502,073 on
taking decisions which is £200,000
more than what they intend to spend
on campaigning and advocacy. That’s
right folks, the NUS thinks it is bet-
ter to spend huge amounts of money
on political events where officers can
whinge at each other than it does
spending the money on delivering out-
comes for students. This represents a
chronic waste of cash that I would like
to see spent on what ordinary students
want.
Just because we can afford NUS af-
filiation that doesn’t make it a good
use of funds. I can afford the latest
Girls Aloud CD but it doesn’t follow
that I would be wise to spend some of
my money on it.
In October this Union supported
NUS reform on the condition that this
year was the last year of waste and
farce. We stipulated back in Novem-
ber that if things didn’t change then
we would re-consider our member-
ship. This is an uncontested fact and
being aware of the amount of effort
this Union has dedicated to changing
NUS this year. I find the accusation
made that disaffiliation would repre-
sent a reactionary step not compatible
with this Union’s work over the past
12 months. I am now of the view that
the NUS is now well past saving and
attempting to do so will just be a waste
of our time and money. Next week,
vote No to NUS affiliation is you want
to send the strongest of messages
that Imperial College Union thinks
that students deserve better and that
£46,000 could be better spent.
vote online imperialc
It is very important that you vote in this referendum, read the views and opinion
discussion and then vote online from 00:01Tues 17 June until 23:59 Mon 23 Ju

