comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
11
Friday 13 June 2008 felix
Comment
“A
s a product of Im-
perial College and a
member of its Court,
I have never doubted
either its strength or
excellence. The Court attracts brilliant
students and its academic work is sec-
ond to none. That’s why NUS benefits
from ICU membership. But 25 years
as a journalist and in government have
taught me that the best are stronger
when they work with the rest. The re-
ality is that governments of all colours
pay attention to NUS; and unless ICU
has a place in the national union, its
students are, in effect, voiceless. We
can all argue about how best to make
the case for student finance, improved
housing, higher standards of teaching;
but that’s a debate that ICU students
can only have if they are inside NUS.
In essence, NUS needs ICU; but ICU
also needs NUS. Anything less and you
short-change yourselves.”
These are the words of Trevor Phil-
lips, but they also reflect my own
thoughts as ICU embarks on a refer-
endum on affiliation to the National
Union of Students (NUS). As the new
President of NUS, I can only implore
you to vote no to this attempt to disaf-
filiate from NUS so you remain part of
the national debate on issues that af-
fect you today and will have an impact
on students for generations to come.
With the new higher education fund-
ingpolicypassedatourAnnualConfer-
ence in April, NUS has taken the initia-
tive and we are challenging all political
parties and stakeholders in higher edu-
cation to come up with radical ideas
and solutions to the current funding
crisis. I know ICU doesn’t agree with
every aspect, but it ultimately means
that NUS isn’t a broken record just
calling for free education. Instead we
become a realistic and respected voice
at the national table, shaping a fairer
and easier system of fees and support.
That is something that I’m sure all stu-
dents will be glad their national union
is doing.
NUS makes an impact. We have won
council tax exemption for students,
doubled the disabled students allow-
ance, reined in unscrupulous landlords
with a new national tenancy deposit
scheme, and run a successful campaign
to convince HSBC to back down over
their plans to end interest-free student
overdrafts. This alone saved students
an estimated £22 million.
NUS needs to change and ICU has
been an unwavering supporter of NUS
reform. With you we have already re-
structured internally, bringing in new
management and making £300,000 in
savings as well as putting an end to
successive years of financial deficit. It
hasn’t been easy, but the organisation
has come out leaner and, with a new
three-year strategic plan, much more
focused on the core issues of defend-
ing and extending students’ rights and
developing and championing strong
students’ unions.
The next step is to pass the reforms
needed to make these changes perma-
nent. The Annual Conference this year
narrowly missed the two-thirds major-
ity needed. But reform has not failed –
its just stalled. Nor is it time to throw
in the towel and admit defeat. NUS will
change and it will do so soon. But let’s
be clear, if ICU disaffiliates, the people
celebrating loudest will be those that
benefit from our broken structures.
Now is the time to hold fast and see
this change through to the end.
ICU also benefits greatly from NUS
in more than just national representa-
tion and campaigning. NUS trains your
elected officers, develops networks to
promote best practice between our 600
members with ICU President Stephen
Brown attending a residential with oth-
er presidents from across London and
the South, and provides expertise on
issues such as the major legal changes
currently affecting students’ unions.
NUS produces weekly briefings on
education issues which support your
sabbaticals to represent you. Recent
topics have included the taught post-
graduate experience, feedback on
assessments and league tables. Fur-
thermore NUS is provided the central
information for when students need
to register with the charities commis-
sion, and getting legal advice on issues
such as the employment status of sab-
baticals and the pension scheme for
our union staff – legal advice on this
alone cost another London union over
£100,000 when they sought it alone. All
this information is cheaper by sharing
resources with other unions through
the NUS. NUS saves you money.
Earlier this year, Bill Rammell, the
Minister for DIUS, attended a debate
at a campus, and a student asked him
about the point of NUS.
“What I can say,” he explained, “is
that if NUS didn’t exist, the lives of
politicians would be whole lot easier.”
We know NUS is not perfect. Repre-
senting the diversity of seven million
students across the UK is an enormous
challenge. But if you really want the
student voice to be heard nationally,
then we must not become divided. Say
no to this attempt to leave NUS.
Wes Streeting
NUS President
would vote Yes
NUS makes an impact
would vote No
Chris Mullan
KCLSU President
elect
Leave this ridiculous organisation
A
ny discussion about the
NUS can quickly and eas-
ily descend into obscu-
rity and opacity for the
wider spectator as those
unfamiliar with the sphere can quick-
ly be baffled as the premises taken as
read broaden and multiply. So lets get
clear a few things that otherwise might
be forgotten or left un-elucidated. The
primary role of any Union is to repre-
sent its members interests. Your Un-
ion, Imperial College Union, works to
improve the educational experience
for all students at Imperial college. The
NUS was founded to give all students
in education representation nationally,
so in essence this whole debate, despite
what you may hear, comes down to rep-
resentation. Representation is about
delivering a message to those that can
make the decisions, and making sure
that the decision taken is in line with
those you represent. In order to be ef-
fective at this, the representative must
be taken seriously, something the NUS
currently has problems with.
Rather than welcoming Imperial in to
NUS membership, and the substantial
new funds it allowed, for petty-politi-
cal reasons, a plethora of fairly extreme
people to slag off ICU, it’s members
and it’s beliefs, instead of champion-
ing their return to the embrace of
membership. They figured it was more
worthwhile for their own ends to let
ICU students to be universally labelled
as villains who eat puppies for break-
fast rather than for standing up and
welcoming the fact that they chose to
come to the table to discuss NUS re-
form. Even the self-styled “moderate”
leadership of NUS are still of the mind-
set that the very existence of excellent
Universities like Imperial College un-
dermines the more recent additions to
the University sector. They constantly
argue for money to be taken away from
places like Imperial and spent in line
with their own highly subjective defi-
nition of what is “fair” in line with the
tired dogma and rhetoric that they have
been mulling over since the late 70’s.
They seemed to want to disown you
politically while keeping your money
all for the sake of maintaining a false
sense of “unity” amongst the compet-
ing socialist sects that currently oper-
ate in and lead NUS.
The NUS also claims to hold a mo-
nopoly on all non-local representation,
a fact which is completely untrue. One
of the ‘triumphs’ of NUS so proudly
displayed is the U-turn by HSBC with
respect to their graduate accounts.
But to say that the NUS led on this is
like saying you or I runs their favour-
ite football team by joining in with the
crowd and screaming words of en-
couragement at the players. The HSBC
demonstration was organised and led
independently of the NUS, and by and
large was a result of facebook, word of
mouth, and national press attention.
We see time and time again that noth-
ing gets things done better than when
a small group of organised people get
together to try and get change, be it
in the form of the HSBC groups that
came together in agreement over that
issue, and then dissolved when a so-
lution was found, or London medical
student groups getting together to run
their own protests about changes in
their housing situation whilst working
for the NHS.
WithbreathtakingarrogancetheNUS
will offer you the false choice between
NUS membership and being complete-
ly disconnected from the wider world.
Next year when I take up my post of
President of KCLSU I would be failing
in my duty if I childishly refused to work
with Imperial or any other Union that
has seen sense and left NUS. It should
not be membership of a club that unites
Unions. All Unions have a duty to work
together when an area of common con-
cern affects students at different insti-
tutions. This can quite easily be done
outside of NUS. ICU doesn’t need the
NUS in order to pick up the phone and
talk to other sabbaticals about working
together on shared goals.
Why pay £46000 when large groups
of NUS delegates will not even listen
to ICU delegate simply because they
are from Imperial? Why pay someone
else to talk to your local MP when you
already have your own full-time sab-
baticals? Why pay so much money to
an organisation that NUS President-
Elect Wes Streeting has called broken,
ancient, and unrepresentative?
The NUS is a nice idea in theory
but in practice their working practices
make it very difficult for sabbaticals
like the ones at Imperial to get involved
as they generally would rather spend
their time doing their jobs than playing
NUS politics. ICU gave NUS a chance
and despite their spin NUS have in re-
ality been an organisation that doesn’t
deliver, doesn’t represent, and happily
slanders the students of Imperial Col-
lege when it suits. Stop wasting both
your time and money and vote to leave
this ridiculous organisation.
ollegeunion.org/vote
ns of both sides of the
n.

