12 felix Friday 13 June 2008
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Comment
is voting Yes
I
don't really give a toss about Un-
ion politics. I'm an average stu-
dent who just wants to have fun,
get a good degree, and do some-
thing I excel at and enjoy. Now
I'm being asked to choose whether or
not the Union should stay with the
NUS. What do I do?
Some people tell me that the NUS
has done great things for students in
the past, and that it provides us with
a strong voice when issues affect stu-
dents throughout the UK. Other peo-
ple tell me that the NUS is mismanaged
and doesn't always represent Imperial’s
views. After doing a bit of research, I
found out that most of this is pretty
true.
So it's an organisation that scores big
Kilian Frensch
victories but stumbles along the path,
why the fuss about staying affiliated or
not?
The reason why Imperial’s Union
wants to leave is simple: some issues
adamantly fought for by our dearest
delegates didn't make the cut, as other
members of the NUS disagreed with
them. One of the reasons this repeated-
ly happens is because the NUS encom-
passes Higher and Further Education,
which clearly aren't all too compatible.
So should we leave on the back of not
always getting what we want? Sounds
a bit like a petulant toddler who's un-
happy that mummy wouldn't buy them
the newest toy. How about we accept
the fact that we can't always get what
we want, as, in this case, decisions are
democratic. If democracy doesn't suit
you, I hear Zimbabwe are accepting
citizenship applications.
All these endless discussions bring-
ing up reasons to stay and reasons to
leave are really just smokescreens. The
crux of the issue is very simple, do you
want to:
1. Have a national voice
2. Not have a national voice
I don't know about you, but No. 1
sounds pretty good to me. Some peo-
ple will tell you that the £46k affiliation
fee can be better used by clubs and
societies, but considering that most of
the Union's £1.3m of income doesn't go
to C&S anyways, that seems unlikely.
The money will probably be lost some-
where funding some stupid float for
the Lord Mayor's Show, or yet another
merry-go-round for me to throw up on
during the Summer Ball.
At the end of the day, affiliating with
the NUS is kind of like taking out an
insurance policy. When you don't need
it, you feel like you're wasting money.
But every so often you do make use of
it, and then you're pretty damn glad
you had it in the first place. And there-
in lies a major reason why we keep hav-
ing this discussion.
In times where we feel like we're
not getting anything in return, we act
childish and cancel our policy. So don't
listen to the gibberish about “value for
money“ or “diverse opinions“ and just
keep the insurance in case we need it
in the future.
Insurance for the future
is voting Yes
Camilla Royle
I
mperial joined the NUS as a
result of a college wide autumn
term referendum 18 months
ago. We have been fully ratified
members, able to participate in
NUS democracy, for just over a year.
This term we face leaving it as a re-
sult of a further referendum called by
the ICU leadership in a recent council
meeting. The disaffiliation campaign is
asking students to make a huge deci-
sion about the fates of students in years
to come.
Leaving the NUS now would be
taking away the rights of future stu-
dents to be part of such an organisa-
tion. Taking them away when they
need them most- when education
is becoming more marketised with
universities being thrown into com-
petition with each other for funding
and an increase in top-up fees being
considered.
I opposed the recent attempt at a
governance review by the NUS, not be-
cause I think the NUS is fine the way it
is- I don’t think anyone does! But there
were many aspects of the review which
I disagreed with, mainly the introduc-
tion of a trustee board to NUS govern-
ance. These reforms aimed to turn the
NUS into something more like a pro-
fessional lobby group than a union,
they were described as a union voting
to destroy itself.
I also disagreed with the way the
governance review was carried out. An
emergency conference was held where
one of the two rounds of voting need-
ed to pass the review could be carried
out- Imperial selected its delegates to
this by mini-bus driving ability and
names pulled out of a hat. I also don’t
remember any kind of consulting proc-
ess for ordinary students to express
their views on it.
The National Union of Students was
proposinganewstructurewhichwould
have meant that minority student
groups would potentially be excluded
from the decision making structure of
the NUS. Put simply, the Nomination
Committee which would have been
selected by the Board of Trustees (one
of the most powerful bodies in the new
proposed structure) would have been
responsible for recommending who
should sit on the Board of Trustees. Ef-
fectively, the Board of Trustees would
be a self-selecting body. There would
not have been guaranteed represen-
tation of the smaller student groups
such as those who are part of the Lib-
eration campaigns (Women, Black
students, disabled students and LGBT
students).
The NUS needs to have more of a
presence on campuses, be more rel-
evant and ask students what issues
they care about. Tweaking the way the
NUS is governed would ultimately do
little to change this and risks making
the situation worse by alienating peo-
ple that aren’t interested in governance
structures.
The NUS is our chance, as students,
to have a voice on a national level. It is
our chance to stand up and be count-
ed. It is our chance to ensure that the
government hears us loud and clear.
The fact that the governance review
did not pass this year should not be
used as an excuse to throw all our
toys out of the pram and disaffiliate.
We need to be involved to make a
change.
Whether you were for or against the
governance review is irrelevant in this
debate, the fact is that the NUS is our
voice. If we disaffiliate today, we don’t
lose a discount card, we lose our voice.
It’s your vote, use it wisely.
Stay in and change it for the better
is voting No
Matty Hoban
There’s currently no ‘us’ in NUS
W
hen I go back to my
hometown, I inevi-
tably end up talk-
ing politics with my
dad: He is a Tory, I
am a Lefty; He reads the Telegraph, I
read the Guardian; He loves Boris, I
voted for Ken; However, we both be-
lieve that tuition fees are negative to
education, so did any of the previous
information matter? In short, no, and
this appears to me to be the problem
with the NUS.
Whether ‘right’ or ‘left’, these labels
actually begin to define you to the
point where your initial philosophical
liberation by discovering politics be-
comes an imprisoning experience; you
are subjugated to each other’s expecta-
tions to the point where the only thing
driving your idealism is your opposi-
tion of the other’s viewpoint. Now, do
not get me wrong, I believe that argu-
ment and disagreement are healthy for
politics, but with the caveat that they
are about the issues and not the people
themselves. For example, many in the
NUS ascendancy want to give the BNP
no platform from which to speak. Now,
I hate the BNP more than anything,
but the fact that they were elected (no
matter how flawed the democracy, as I
shall discuss in a second) means they
deserve to speak. Such petty issues dis-
tract from the business of representing
students.
Many complain that the far-left are
ruining the NUS, I would argue that
they are a symptom of deeper prob-
lems. Firstly, eight delegates (that are
sent to NUS conferences) is too many.
For Imperial this is around 1500 stu-
dents per delegate: about the turnout
at a sabbatical election. This allows ex-
tremist factions to form due to the low
amount of votes needed for them to
be elected. Attempts at reforming this
failed at the last convention. Although,
I still believe even if reformed, that the
divisions within the NUS are so deep
as to still render it ill-suited to repre-
senting students.
Naturally, I would support the NUS
as an organisation for positive change
and a platform on issues such as af-
fordable housing, equality, financial
support for the poor and education
quality support. However, when I look
to an institution, I look for decisive-
ness and self-belief, not the bickering
that emanates from all elements of its
political spectrum.
I think Henry Kissinger put it suc-
cinctly when he said, “University poli-
tics are vicious precisely because the
stakes are so small.” I would add that
the stakes are not small. However, the
NUS seems to continue the image of
Kissinger’s student politics. This leaves
the government uninterested and un-
challenged. A government that happily
increases tuition fees.
There have been some victories over
the years such as the Council Tax stu-
dent exemption, issues that transcend-
ed the spectrum and affected everyone
– things can get done. Our sabbatical
officers get trained and also we can
get discounts (at a price) whilst being
part of the only large student-led or-
ganisation in the country. Despite all
of this, we cannot avoid the fact that
voter turnout at any higher education
institution is well below substantial
and the NUS representatives are elect-
ed with small mandates no matter how
many of them are elected.
This is a fundamental problem of
student activism and politics, and then
if turnout is increased then maybe the
NUS will have earned its reputation as
the national student voice. Trust needs
to be restored in student representa-
tives that they can actually change
things for the better. Until then the
‘right’ will constantly talk about rep-
resenting ‘normal students’ who just
want a well-paid job in the City after
university, and the ‘left’ will talk about
‘normal students’ who cares about the
exploitation and evils of capitalism in
the City. Both sides invoke an imagi-
nary ‘normal student’ who is actually
typically the person who does not vote
for them, so it is a matter of second
guessing.
I have two solutions: firstly, bloody
vote in the referendum, even if it is
during exams (which does suck), it will
show everyone that you care and give
those who try to represent you some-
thing to represent you on; secondly,
and more fundamentally I propose re-
building the NUS as a de-centralised,
regional and apolitical organisation
that only deals directly with issues of
welfare and educational standards of
higher education institutions. I believe
that politics is integral to how we live,
but we can do without party politics
that only serves to compromise our
already fragile platform. Our nation-
wide institutional differences are not a
matter of elitism in my opinion but in
general of geographical location, Lon-
don universities share a lot of the same
problems regardless of their stand-
ing in the flawed league tables. These
regional student unions can then be
brought together to resolve larger is-
sues and hopefully we can finally prove
Kissinger wrong.

