comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
13
Friday 13 June 2008 felix
Comment
is voting No
Ashley Brown
Lack of reform is not the problem
A
lthough this is an arti-
cle asking you to vote
‘No’ to continued NUS
membership, I’m not go-
ing to trot out the same
tired lines about NUS being guilty of
financial mismanagement, being full
of career politicians or having failed to
reform. The fact is, the financial mis-
management has been brought under
control in recent years and the other
two problems, while true, are not the
most compelling reason to vote against
NUS. I no longer believe reforming
NUS will resolve the deep-rooted cul-
tural issues it faces.
Mediocrity
The NUS seeks to represent over 7 mil-
lion students, most of those in Further
Education colleges around the country.
The rest come from over 100 universi-
ties, both good and bad. With such a
diverse membership, consensus can be
difficult to achieve, but the NUS will
take a stance even in the face of strong
objections. NUS must reflect the needs
of the majority of its members, the vast
majority of whom have nothing in
common with Imperial’s students. As a
result, NUS can be nothing more than
what it represents: the average. The
majority of members are not in high-
er education, and most of those that
are come from average universities.
NUS does provide a national voice,
but that voice is – and always will be
– ‘average’.
Our voice at Annual Conference was
shouted down by those, including the
new VP (Higher Education) Aaron
Porter, who branded us “elitist”. Our
crime was wanting to keep tuition fee
money paid by our students within
Imperial, rather than handing it over
to a National Bursary Scheme for dis-
tribution to other universities. The
scheme is only necessary because the
government regulator failed to ensure
universities spent enough of their tui-
tion fee income on bursaries, yet hav-
ing failed in this respect NUS proposes
we give them the money to dish out
themselves.
Institutional mediocrity means NUS
is incapable of being our national voice,
no matter how much it reforms. Our
students want to be the best, the NUS
speaks for the average.
Hypocrisy and Division
The NUS has a culture of division, dis-
crimination and blinkered ignorance
which was shown at annual conference
in April. A motion called for opposi-
tion to anti-terror laws and moves to
have universities spy on their students
– not because they infringe on per-
sonal freedoms, or because they herald
the start of long periods of detention
without trial, but because in the cur-
rent climate they are being used to tar-
get one group.
Two people called instead for a wider
discussion on national security, point-
ing out that the new laws may be nec-
essary to keep people safe. This could
have been a good debate on how na-
tional security issues affect academic
freedoms, but for one problem. Those
speaking for opposition to the laws
were Muslims, those calling for a wider
discussion were white men. In the NUS
it seems important to keep track of the
race and gender of those speaking.
NUS President Gemma Tumelty had
spottedthese“whitemales”(herwords)
and condemned them for challenging
the other speakers, as they could have
no idea what it was like to be on the re-
ceiving end of anti-terror laws. While
true, they had every right to express
their concerns about being blown up
by terrorists. She turned it into a race
issue when it needn’t have been one:
terrorism affects Muslims just as much
as is affects white males, bombs are in-
discriminate. The implementation of
these laws has a disproportionate focus
on the Muslim community currently,
but they can affect everyone. For thirty
years the #1 terrorists in this country
were white males, and the last person
to blow themselves up in a (bodged)
terrorist attack was the white male
Nicky Reilly.
Rather than having a sensible debate
on national security issues, hearing the
concerns of both sides, Tumelty chose
to discriminate against a group based
on their gender and the colour of their
skin. NUS uses racism issues to whip
people up into a placard-waving fren-
zy, but is not interested in listening to
diverse views.
In Conclusion
A culture of excessive political cor-
rectness, where the majority are con-
demned for expressing their views,
stifles open debate and prevents what
could be important input into the deci-
sion making process.
Attempting to represent such a di-
verse range of students means the NUS
cannot be the voice we need it to be, as
the bursary issue shows.
NUS suffers from institutional medi-
ocrity, hypocrisy, division and contra-
diction. Don’t vote ‘No’ because NUS
reforms failed to go through, vote ‘No’
because the problems are so deep they
wouldn’t have mattered anyway.
A longer version of this article can
be found at http://live.cgcu.net/
editions/nus/1782
is voting Yes
Salman Waqar
Once more, with feeling!
I
’ve always thought of the NUS
as a bit like Marmite. You either:
love it, hate it, or haven’t heard
of it. But even amongst the Mar-
mite population, you get this
odd batch of people, who don’t really
care or have much to say. I hope that I
can provide some insight as to why we
should be just a little bit less apathetic
on this matter. Let’s start with a bit of
history.
In 2006, the college voted to re-affili-
ate with the NUS. One of the main sell-
ingpointswasdiminishednationalrep-
resentation, as we were leaving ULU. It
was thought that without the support
of ULU, Imperial’s voice in the wider
world would be lost; and we would
become isolated and unable to cam-
paign effectively. And of course, there
were some who thought that the NUS
Card would herald a prosperous era of
student discounts – unfortunately this
didn’t quite happen, although the 5%
discount on Amazon is quite handy.
I can’t really comment on the level
of support that ULU offered, but I’ve
heard it wasn’t much. What’s interest-
ing is why was there no furore about
ULU affiliation before the disaffiliation
took place. Correct me if I’m wrong,
but we left ULU because we decided
that for Imperial to progress, we need-
ed to be our own institution, and thus,
our motives were academic. It seemed
like sacrilege back then to mention get-
ting out of ULU.
Anyway, we decided to jump back
on the NUS bandwagon. But when we
joined, the NUS was in the middle of
a governance revolution. The so-called
Governance Review was designed to
radically alter the way the NUS was
structured, in an attempt to cut down
the amount of time spent talking.
Instead of having one policy and de-
cision making body; the new structure
would split the work into two. This
gave an executive body – the Senate,
consisting of the President and other
executive members, and a 14 mem-
ber legislative body – the Board. The
theory was that the board would pro-
vide some accountability and ensure
that everything was legally and finan-
cially sound. The NUS delegates would
then draft whitepapers in conferences
called Zones, and present them to the
Board, who would analyse them. The
annual conference would vote on the
paper and then the Senate would im-
plement it.
The problem with this was that the
Board itself had little accountabil-
ity. Furthermore, Board membership
could be manipulated to suit political
needs – external non-student trustees
could be appointed onto the Board.
Others were not too happy with veto
powers of the Senate and Board. This
gave them the power to reject anything
that was passed up from the Zones, in
the name of financial and legal peril.
The lack of representation from LGBT,
Disabled and Black groups on the
Board caused further irritation, as they
had dedicated positions before.
In the end, the review was defeated
by just 25 votes
In some ways the call for referendum
was expected, anyone who was at the
conference would know how much of
a joke it was. I was also there this year,
but not with IC – and I completely
sympathise with the cynicism that the
delegates expressed.
People think that the NUS talks too
much about Palestine, Darfur etc. If
you look at the agenda for the con-
ference, all these issues are the VERY
LAST things that are discussed. This
year, only Darfur was debated because
conference ran out of time! The NUS
might think that it’s the UN, but it’s up
to us to stop it from thinking like that.
Imagine if there were plans afloat
to rid of international students at Im-
perial. Could ICU with its limited re-
sources muster a campaign against it?
Even if they could, wouldn’t a unified
student’s body echoing our voice be
more effective? Surely it’s a bit naive to
think that we are perfectly fine on our
own. Because once we are in trouble,
it’s going to be a rude awakening when
we realise that we are alone and with-
out support. People question what the
NUS has achieved for us. The trouble
is, we haven’t really been part of the
process for long enough to see any
results.
It is a gamble, but it’s not down to
chance. If we decide to stick with the
NUS, we need be proactive and not
just sit back and see what they can of-
fer. It seems that this referendum has
been called as a reactionary response to
something that hasn’t gone our way. If
we keep up with these charades, Impe-
rial will become known as some spoilt
sport that throws a tantrum every time
the other player gets the prize.
And then we might just end up tast-
ing like Marmite.
“Should Imperial College Union remain affilated to the National Union of Students?”
Now you’ve read the comment pieces, head to live.cgcu.net to watch last night’s televised debate
between members of the Yes and No campaign teams
Then, from 17th June until 23rd June, head to imperialcollegeunion.org/vote to cast your vote

