Vote
Vote No
No!
! to NUS
to NUS
Myth - The NUS gets you discounts
Facts - The NUS no longer offers a free discount card
and now asks that students pay £10 for one in order
to balance NUS’ books. Imperial College Union has
sold less than 600 of these cards in total which sug-
gests that the overwhelming majority of Imperial stu-
dents do not think that this represents a good deal.
All companies who offer student discounts are legally
obliged to give them on production of a valid student
ID so we don’t need the NUS Extra rip off.
Myth:-It will cost ICU tens of thousands of pounds to
register with the Charity Commission.
Facts:- The £100,000 figure quoted by Wes Streeting
as the cost of another London Union registering with
the Charity Commission mostly consisted of consultan-
cy work that was not part of the registration process
and that ICU would not be required to repeat. In any
case, NUS does not provide you with tailored advice
and ICU would still have to pay our own bills as we
did with the legal advice we sought last year when ICU
reviewed our decision making structures despite be-
ing NUS affiliates.
Myth:- The NUS will reform before Christmas.
Facts:- No timetable for the next attempt to change
NUS has been set
Myth:- It is possible to enter in to a debate with the
opponents of a new NUS.
Facts:- Hard left groups such as Student Respect rep-
resent the worst excesses of NUS and they will con-
tinue to shout and scream that changing NUS so that
more money is spent on campaigning and less on
political meetings is “undemocratic”. Re-opening con-
sultation on this assumes we are dealing with reason-
able, rational people who are willing to compromise.
This is not the case.
Myth:- NUS’ officer training programme is impor-
tant to ICU.
Facts:- There are several companies who can pro-
vide training tailored to our needs, in most cases
costing far less than the £500 per officer that the
NUS charges on top of our affiliation fee. Network-
ing opportunities to meet sabbaticals at other
relevant Universities are provided via organisations
such as the Aldwych Group where ICU officers can
exchange ideas with officers from other leading
Universities.
Myth:- If we leave NUS we will not have a voice.
Facts:- Unions that are not affiliated to NUS such
as Southampton and Glasgow are free to work
with any other relevant Unions if something im-
portant comes up. Leaving the NUS is not to say
‘no’ to national student issues or national debate
– it is simply to say ‘no’ to an ineffective vehicle
of representation in this field.
Myth:- The NUS is good value for money.
Facts:- ICU pays a disproportionate amount in NUS af-
filiation on account of the fact we receive a generous
block grant from the College. The NUS is not a gov-
ernment of Students’ Unions but is arrogant enough
to act like one by taking money from some Unions
to subsidise others. It is ridiculous that we pay many
times more than students at Cambridge despite Impe-
rial having far less students.
Vote
Vote No
No!
!
Vote online at www.imperialcollegeunion.org/vote
00:01 Tuesday 17 June until 23:59 Monday 23 June 2008
Lets instead spend £46,000 on
what Imperial students want and rel-
evant academic representation!

