15
Friday 13 June 2008 felix
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk Comment
Caz Knight
Genetically different baby
I
n the Science section of last
week’s Felix, Laura Starr report-
ed on the discovery of a gene
thought to be linked to obesity.
The gene in question is one that
encodes the G-protein coupled recep-
tor, Melacortin 4 (MC4R), involved in
relaying intra-cellular messages within
the hypothalamic cells in the brain. Ac-
tivation of this receptor leads to the in-
hibition of food intake and so a muta-
tion in this gene and subsequent fault
in how the receptor functions could
lead to the excessive consumption of
food. Obesity here we come.
Blaming the obesity pandemic on
genetics is a convenient way of mak-
ing humankind feel as if the affliction
is beyond our control and eliminates
the need for us to take responsiblity for
our own actions.
“Genetics” (I use the inverted com-
mas as the term is thrown about rather
too liberally in non-scientific litera-
ture), that is to say our genome, pre-
cisely what genes we are made up of,
has been the key factor in our physical
manifestation since the dawn of time,
since that beautiful double-stranded,
right-handed, 3.4 base pair per turn
DNA molecule came to be. If genes
were the deciding factor in our weight
and the amount of delicious cheese
topped calories we masticate and de-
vour had little significance, then our
obesity rates would not have changed
over the last hundred (plus) years. (I
write this hypocritically, stomach re-
plete after enjoying a 12” four cheese
pizza).
ThisisassumingourgeneshaveNOT
changed. Perhaps the rate of mutations
in this particular gene have augmented
over the last century (due to increas-
ing carbon emissions, perhaps?) and
so the increase in people with volu-
minous derrieres is because of those
devilish nucleic acids. Until the mass
change in our genetic make up can be
proved let us assume that the popula-
tion’s ‘genetics’ has remained more or
less constant.
As Laura’s article informed us, muta-
tions in the promoter of the gene (that
is the sequence preceding the gene that
controls its expression) were 30% more
common in Indian Asians rather than
European lineage. How is is then that
America (and Britain in close competi-
tion), with only 0.5% of its population
Indian-Asian, suffers most profusely
from excessive adipose tissue?
Lifestyle is the answer. And that is
the factor which has not remained
constant these hundred odd years. I
needn’t elaborate on why lifestyle has
changed and how it has changed. You
are at Imperial, go figure. Only to say
we Westerners eat more as more is
available; we eat food pumped full of
crap; we move less because of our jobs.
Once ensconced in our daily habits it is
hard to break them especially if greater
priorities do not allow it. Some people
are not aware of what a healthy lifestyle
entails: their parents have brought
them up on TV dinners and sloth and
they have only ever encountered fi-
bre in the form of a wilted lettuce leaf
drowning in the viscous embrace of a
ketchup doused burger. For others it is
not for want of trying. If you are try-
ing to juggle a hectic career in order to
sustain a family, pilates will not be top
of your ‘to-do’ list.
Perhaps I am a little/lot jaded in my
view of things. I suffer none of these
misfortunes: I have access to a wealth
of healthy food and exercise options
and being a student I have endless
hours at my disposal to work on my
tush. I am also very fortunate to be
educated so that I know exactly what
happens to my endocrine system when
one heavenly mouthful of cream and
jam laden scone pervades my ileum.
Others do not. However, in a few years
(and maybe as of now) due to the gov-
ernment vehemently campaigning for
healthy living, the ignorance excuse
will not hold.
This government aims to have free
swimming for all by 2012 to encour-
age exercise. As far as I am concerned
every able bodied person has access to
round the clock free exercise: walking.
Again, my abode in cosy SW6 allows
me to amble carelessly. My young, sin-
gle female counterparts in SW9 are not
in such an easy position. As advised in
my previous column, bedroom raving
is another option if the streets outside
your door are crack-addict addled.
(Warning to those living in W14: lots
of crack addicts around that area ap-
parently, as I was so informed walking
there late last week).
I know in a very small number of
cases obesity is completely out of the
control of the individual. Conditions
such as Bardet-Biedl syndrome are
characterised by obesity. Jordan’s son
Harvey is thought to suffer from sep-
to-optic dysplasia which has an effect
on movement and so his weight gain is
unavoidable. These are rare cases and
anyone who is in a position to loose
weight should. Let me clarify about
whom I speak. I am not thinking of
the people with a little bulge here and
there. I mean the critically obese. A lit-
tle bit of a belly can be quite cute and
attractive in many cases. What I fear
for is people’s health. When the sheer
effort of walking is too much and leth-
argy leadens each lumbering footstep,
that is when one should rethink the
way one lives one’s life. Our appear-
ance says a lot about us and the way
in which we operate. I know of a CEO
who never employed the over-weight
secretaries because they exuded an air
of slowness. Harsh, but possibly true.
So, the solutions. Laura’s article men-
tions drugs which target these mutat-
ed, malfunctioning proteins. Another
drug, tensofensine, was seen to reduce
weight by 10% over a six month period
by altering appetite-controlling neu-
rotransmitters serotonin, dopamine
and noradrenaline. These are indeed
solutions but they do not teach people
moderation and how to lead a healthy
lifestyle. Why bother eating less and
exercising if we can just pop a pill? It
will take time to undo the bad habits
which have crept up on us, and even
longer to bring the incidence of obesity
back down but we must start towards
this goal.
“
When the
sheer effort of
walking is too
much, that is
when one should
rethink the way
one lives one’s
life
” The Cow
David Stewart
I
think it is time that someone set
the record straight on what ex-
actly a cow is and how it came to
be the popular meat it is today.
To begin the history of the
cow, one must go back millions of
years to the Vikings. Not many people
know that the word ‘vi’ is actually just
a shortened form of the word ‘bovine’
and it is indeed true that Vikings con-
sidered themselves to be the Kings of
the Cows; this fact is documented in
the Qaran (see p97).
It is not so unreasonable a conceit
however, as it has been shown using
carbon dating that the Vikings actu-
ally selectively bred mice for millen-
nia, getting them fatter and fatter with
each generation until eventually they
looked like the creatures they are to-
day. In fact if you speed up the sound
of a cow moo-ing you get precisely the
sound of a mouse squeaking. However,
it was not out of desire for food that
the Vikings bred cattle but out of their
notorious love of sailing. They discov-
ered early on that mice float, which is
why they chose to inflate mice through
breeding. (Cats for instance sink.) It is
due to the fat content of cows that they
are so sea-worthy. There is a Viking
expression which roughly translated
is "If a cow should sink then it is Bud-
dha himself that willed it so"; such was
the faith that the Vikings had in their
cows.
The popular misconception that Vi-
kings sailed in longboats is probably
due to the fact that cows were sailed
(ridden) in a long thin formation which
scared off potential predators like
plaice, since the cows together looked
from underwater like a giant centipede.
Moreover, the males were particularly
useful in this respect as they had horns
which could be used to direct them.
Scholars now believe that the etymol-
ogy of the word ‘steer’ is directly re-
lated to this. These formations were
mistaken by native Englishmen for
'long-boats' from far away. Another in-
teresting consequence of this mode of
transport is that the first place the Vi-
kings landed was on the Isle of Wight,
having drifted a long way off course by
an incorrect assessment of the overs-
teer of the lead cow. They moored at a
port now known as Cowes. To this day,
no-one knows how the extra 'e' ended
up in the modern day name, but it is
a commonly held belief that it was put
there as a joke.
Cows have a special place in British
society. The cows, which from centu-
ries of Viking berserking were vicious,
unreasonable animals and would ter-
rorise towns unless fed vast amounts
of sorrel. The cows were finally de-
feated in the Guerre de Boeuf of
AD1121, when an uprising was caused
by particularly bad crop of sorrel. A
pregnant cow called Firebrand led
the revolt against the prevailing rul-
ers, successfully storming the Norman
castles, apparently by 'simply walking
through the gates'. The cows, who had
dressed themselves in 'vêtements fron-
cés de fille’ (frilly girls’ clothes) looked
so ridiculous that it was impossible to
look at them without collapsing into
a giggling heap. It was then that they
were able to kick the shit out of the op-
posing forces. The Normans quickly
developed a technique for telling each
other jokes which were so bad that it
was impossible to laugh for five hours
afterwards. Thus they were able to sub-
due the uprising and, to prevent fur-
ther revolts, fed the cows vast amounts
of cannabis until they suffered brain
damage and have the docile nature that
we currently expect from them. Indeed
the fact that the cows were so high all
the times led to quite a lot of cattle fall-
ing from cliff-tops. Local Anglo-Saxon
peasants would collect the animal and
smoke it in wooden pipes, therefore
getting high. The subsequent munchies
led to the taste for beef which is una-
bated even today.
Current uses of modern cattle in-
clude incorporation into laser technol-
ogy, where it has been found that they
refract light.
FACT: Cows smoke da reefa, just like this mellow fellow
“
Vikings
bred cattle but
out of their
notorious love of
sailing
Apologies that there is nothing from either A Geek or Gilead Amit
this week. Neither submitted anything. Weird that... eh?

