science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Science
Science Editor – Ed Henley
17
Friday 13 June 2008 felix
Lone refugee kids’ mental health
Think Imperial is bad? Young asylum-seekers have it worse. Laura Starr puts exam stress in perspective
Not the sort of asylum they were looking for. But it might beat what we provide to lone refugee children
U
pon arrival she was only
16 years old. Her mother
had passed away as a re-
sult of a neurological dis-
order, she doesn’t know
who her real father is and after a decade
of cruel detention in her home country
of Burundi there was only one option –
to escape, and escape she did.
Lana is not alone: there are an es-
timated 5,500 lone asylum refugees
residing here in the United Kingdom
– their destination in a quest for pro-
tection and shelter from danger. How-
ever, upon arrival in the country she
felt extremely lonely, shocked and con-
fused, while suffering from a number
of health problems and unable to ac-
cess the help she needed. This is not
unusual.
For the first time, British scientists
have conducted an investigation com-
paring the post-war experiences of lone
asylum-seeking children with those
that had been accompanied – their
results having recently been published
in the Journal of Child Psychology and
Psychiatry.
Dr Matthew Hodes, lead author of
the study from the Division of Neuro-
science and Mental Health at Imperial
College London, explained how the
work was “also the first to clearly relate
the associated psychological distress
to quality of care, reflected in living
arrangements.”
These unaccompanied asylum-
seeking children have been sent away
from their families or made to flee as
a consequence of persecution, violence
and war. Those aged between 16 and
18 are in most instances placed in bed-
and-breakfast accommodation where-
as those of a younger age are entered
into a more supportive care system,
including foster families and children’s
homes – monitored environments
where appropriate treatment can be
administered.
The team of Imperial scientists
found that the solitary asylum-seeking
children were at a significantly greater
risk of developing a range of mental
health problems, increasing the likeli-
hood of unpleasant experiences such
as frightful flashbacks and nightmares,
compared with their accompanied
peers. Many more of the lone children
were found to have been involved in
combat, having experienced torture of
some kind as well as having been im-
prisoned. As a result more than half of
the male and nearly three quarters of
the female lone asylum-seekers were
found to have a high risk of developing
post-traumatic stress disorder – these
figures being significantly higher than
those for the male and female accom-
panied refugees, which were around
14% and 35% respectively.
Tim Spafford is a freelance refugee
education consultant and has provided
consultancy support to schools and
local authorities across the UK since
2003. Mr Spafford explained how the
study’s “findings support what many
practitioners in the field know; unac-
companied asylum-seeking children
and young people have experienced
enormous stresses and risks. The
losses they have endured and the lack
of a caring, nurturing and safe envi-
ronment in the UK means they can at
times suffer poor mental health.” In his
view, “the research demands renewed
scrutiny of the care arrangements pro-
vided” for these individuals.
Dr Hodes also emphasised the im-
portance of his research, stressing that
“the findings are significant as they in-
dicate that the legal claims for asylum
of the unaccompanied children should
be taken very seriously. From a health
perspective, they illustrate the impor-
tance of assessing physical health in
this group as many had been tortured
or in combat and injured. They high-
light the psychological difficulties and
importance of high-support living
arrangements.”
Spafford expressed further concerns,
describing how “the research findings
serve as a warning to those working
in education that the legal processes
[associated with seeking asylum] can
increase the refugee’s fear of, and pre-
occupation with, the persecution they
have experienced. The new Home Of-
fice reforms emphasise a ‘twin track’
approach, engaging schools and col-
leges in preparing the unaccompanied
asylum-seeking children for possible
return to their country of origin. This
may significantly increase anxiety and
undermine learning and security.”
This novel study powerfully illus-
trates the importance of supporting
those who seek asylum. Children ar-
riving in the UK often have a past
filled with terrible experiences. It is a
necessity to reduce their vulnerability
and sense of isolation and it is crucial
to help them acquire a sense of self, al-
lowing them to integrate into society.
Admittedly, monitored living arrange-
ments are a costly alternative for the
local authorities however it seems that
they provide the support so vital for
the thousands of children who have no
choice but to escape and flee for safety
in their search for protection, shelter
and a better quality of life.
“More than half
of lone asylum-
seeking children
have a high risk
of developing
post-traumatic
stress disorder”
“The Home
Office asks
schools to
prepare lone
asylum-seeking
children for
possible return.
This may
increase anxiety,
and undermine
learning and
security ”

