18 felix Friday 13 June 2008
Culture &
The Arts
Arts Editors – Rosie Grayburn, Caz Knight, David Paw & Emily Wilson
Budding culture vulture? Write for us.
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
A
rt: it is anything you
want it to be. Rather like
Kinder Bueno. However,
that is a rather broad,
blanket statement which
does not really answer the question. I
hate using the term ‘art’. It is much too
vague a word and rather suggests I am
not quite sure what I am talking about:
“I like art”. Do you really?! Well I hope
you do by now, especially if you seek
weekly solace in these “arts” pages. If
you do not like any form of art then
why don’t you start your own form of
art: start a movement for which you
will be lauded in years to come. If
you are having trouble getting off the
ground then look no further than this
week’s beautiful section. Inspired by
The Anti-Colouring Book, its pages
full of inspiration ideas to get the crea-
tive juices surging, we have dedicated
some space for you to let your scien-
tists hand, hitherto clad, constrained
and suffocated beneath nitrile gloves,
metamorphose into one of a crea-
tive genius. Rebel against your school
teachers of old and colour (or indeed
‘monochrome’) outside the lines, per-
haps meandering into the news section
and fashioning a moustache, or worse,
on your least favourite Felix editor. A
shame we are no longer running the
centerfold: perfect chance for some of
your own “airbrushing”. If you have any
back issues of Felix, I give full permis-
sion and openly encourage you to cus-
tomise my centerfolds. I’d be extremely
interested and delighted to see any
work you produce!
An equally non-descript term is ‘art-
ist’. Sure, it gives people a brief idea of
what someone may have done or does
as a career or in their spare time, but
nothing else. ‘He is a cardiologist’, gives
a huge amount more away, especially
to those with even a slight knowledge
of science and/or the medical profes-
sion. ‘Artist’, gives nothing away even
to people with reams of art degrees
and experience in the world of paint-
ings, sculpture, literature, music, dra-
matics…. I think the majority of peo-
ple, when using the dreaded ‘A’ word,
mean is paintings and ‘all that jazz’.
(Perhaps not the best idiom to use here
given that jazz itself is a whole other
art form). In my opinion, an artist is
anyone who creates art in any manner
of ways be it for their eyes only, as a
hobby, as an outlet or as a profession.
Someone who transforms their anxie-
ties, joy, happiness or grief into a poem
is an artist. Someone who just feels
the urge to break open a pot of paint,
pour it over themselves, roll around in
leaves and then video the whole thing.
I have never known anyone to do this
but its sounds like great fun and may
even try it. Watch this space for how
that went.
This week is designed to be a slightly
‘lighter’ edition for those, like me, still
revising (good luck) and for those who
have turned off their brains for the
summer period. Enjoy!
Caz Knight
Arts Editor
Segal is blinded by the lights
Ben Segal gives us another perspective on some well known London landmarks and
turns conventional perspective on its head in some of his eye catching photographs
View of St Paul’s from Millennium Bridge
London Eye from bug’s eye view I’m a little tea pot, short and stout
The Next Jimi? Guitarist envelopped by light and sound Light and Darkness
I
t is rather refreshing to come
across a shy artist. Albeit, irritat-
ing when their reluctance to big
themselves up means that your
Arts Supremo has to do all the
leg work and write something interest-
ing when all Benny Boy has given me is
a strained ‘interview’. Bastard,
I jest, of course. Ben is extremely tal-
ented, although his GCSE Art grade
does not reflect his immense talent
and interest in photography (for his
reticence in exploring his work in
writing).
Spontaneity is how Ben works best,
not giving too much thought into what
he will capture and how he will carry
this out. And why bother when the re-
sults are so stunning.
“The reason I like photography
doesn’t go any deeper than me liking
taking photos of cool looking things. I
don’t do it to express my feelings.”
This is a contradiction in terms to
what a lot of people think of art (see the
“Cencus” overleaf). And why should
art always seek to capture emotion. In
this city of stabbings, LondonLite and
grime, it is glorious to behold some-
thing and just appreciate it for how it
looks. No thought about the artist’s
alterior motives and the message he is
trying to send.
The photographs of the London Eye
and St Paul’s capture London’s beauty
perfectly: and London does have beau-
ty. One must look for it in sometimes
hidden places, trying to block out the
bustle of tourists and commuters.
Save for the “Teapot”, most of Ben’s
pictures are taken at night. One of his
favourite places is the South Bank after
sunset (where he has spent many an
enthralled ‘trip’). A passion for music
production fuelled by a love of club-
bing has enabled him to exercise his
atility at capturing moments as the
club environment is ideal for taking
in the contrast between faces and the
dazzling light which illuminate the
subjects. For some of Ben’s aural art:
www.myspace.com/circa90music

