20 felix Friday 13 June 2008
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Arts
Caz’s quest for The Meaning of Art
“Art is a physical/auditory representation of a person’s thoughts and or
emotions. My favourite artists are Salvador Dali and Andy Grey, whose an
amazing psychedelic artist, full of colour.”
Ben, Photography Student
“Art is unique, subjective. Independent in each viewer’s eye. Favourites are
Jean Michel Basquait and Warhol: repetitive art in its own unique style.”
Krisi, Interior Design Student
“Banksy is my favourite artist, as he is an artist who produces pieces which
everyone can relate to. I particularly like the controversy that some of his
pieces create and the way that his work does not necessarily fit into the
dictionary definition of art.” Nikhil, Civ Eng
Art is one person’s perception of the world that surrounds them.
Cavemen drew bison because their world was all about surviving;
the Pre-Raphelites saw beauty all around them and put it on
canvas. I draw the world with cloud-like trees and stick people
because that’s all I can do.
I’m an old fashioned gal – my favourite artist is Diego Velazquez. His
paintings are regal, full of attitude and very technical. My flatmate
and I agreed that Velazquez was good at doing water which is very
hard to do. It may sound cliched but I’m a huge fan of Leonardo
da Vinci. He was a ‘Jack of all Trades’ and a very forward thinker.
I would love to have met him – I bet he was really eccentric and
quirky, just like your average artist/scientist/inventor.
Rosie, Chemistry
“Art is something that causes a reaction or makes you feel something. I am a fan of Monet...
don’t really know why though.” Alex, Chem Eng
“NOOO! Please not now, I’m too stoned. Really, too much effort.”
Alex, Mech Eng
“Art is anything that produces an emotion in the receiver of the art. In the classical art
sense, as in painting or drawing. I don’t really have a favourite, probably Dali as it’s weird
and cool at the same time.”
Malcolm, Bio Chem
“Oh god, hardly know any artists at all. Guess it’s a piece of work usually drawn,
sometimes with colour, to show a picture or expression or meaning.”
Emily, Language Student
“You’re so asking the wrong person. I guess art is any form of decorative
or illustrative media if i’m going to avoid lengthy hand-wavy definitions.
I’m not sure i know any specific artists well enough to be able to name a
favourite. Perhaps, William Blake. Couldn’t tell you why, I’ve just always liked
his paintings: multi-talented, you’ve got to respect that, although Da Vinci’s
work as an inventor and an artist rank him pretty high.”
Sam, Theoretical Physics
Felix’s art supremo, Caz Knight, sets off on a mission to ask Imperial students what they think of art, and
how their opinions differ to those ‘others’ studying subjects outside of Imperial’s scientific curriculum
Gala of the Spheres by Salvador Dali
Walking in Water by Velazquez
The Houses of Parliament by Monet
The Ancient of Days by William Blake

