arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
21
Friday 13 June 2008 felix
Arts
T
o continue on from
what I started discuss-
ing in my column, art
is a very vague term
and can spark off days’
worth of debate as to ‘what’ it is. By
saying “art is anything you want it to
be” I mean that it can inspire, fasci-
nate, calm, take you away to far away
lands, save you from insanity, induce
insanity, provoke thoughts and de-
bate, distract you, make you happy,
decorate a room, send a message,
evoke memories and more. It can
do this visually, through sound and
in writing. Art affects us through
most senses, sometimes through
more than one sense at once. This is
one girl’s opinion. I was rather disap-
pointed with the answers I got from
my fellow scientists. I was expecting
apoplexy or at least vehement reluc-
tance at the prospect of being asked
a more abstract question, especially
as I was disturbing revision for many
of them. Instead, I was offered very
comprehensive answers from a couple.
Others gave pretty ‘textbook’ answers
which were all very similar: art as a
medium of expressing emotion.
This common perspective on art
may be a product of how we have been
brought up on art in schools and how
it is presented to us in the media? Al-
though this is very true I would have
to disagree as in many instances the
artist has created their work solely to
depict beauty and not necessarily as
an emotional outlet. Perhaps they wish
to purvey a message. It surprised me
that very few people mentioned mu-
sic, drama, sculpture and other forms
of creative processes given that music
is enjoyed extensively by young peo-
ple. It was very interesting to see what
the scientists had to say in comparison
to the artists. Judging by the answers
it should not necessarily be assumed
that artists are any more clued up on
what art is or how much they know on
the subject. My “best” answers came
equally from arts students and Impe-
rial students.
I would have to agree “without a
shadow of a doubt” that Giger is a stu-
pendous artist and has replaced poor
old Vincent (Van Gogh) as my top art-
ist. Giger is another multi-dimensional
creatordelvingintopainting,sculpture,
architecture as well as inventing new
concepts and ideas whilst managing to
draw in a huge range of admirers.
It was cheering to to see that a mu-
sic band was seen as another form of
art especially one that I happen to love
and were innovators in their own time.
Pink Floyd pioneered psychedelic rock
using strange noises, experimenting
with the sound to create something
truly unique. Their philosophical lyr-
ics, inventive cover art and impressive
live shows as well as the fact that their
fan base is ever growing and spans
many generations only deepens their
gravity as artists.
Editor’s Comment: Caz reflects on the census
“Ummm, what is art? Everything is art, theres a good one. My favourite
artist is Pink Floyd, well its a band. Apart from that Patrick Demarchelier.”
Emerson, ex-Physics
“What is art? Something for the perception of the people who view it and
an expression for the person making it. My favourite artist is Dali. I’ve been
to his house and really liked his exhibitions. I’ve seen his work in lots of
places where I’ve had fun.”
Anne-Katharine, Classics Student
“Ooh, good questions. I’ll have to think about that because I have not
engrossed myself in art for quite a while!”
Mustapher, Physics
Henri Matisse. His art is always so cheery and colourful, but
very varied and technically brilliant too. My earliest art memory
was seeing ‘The Snail’ – it was the first art postcard in my now
vast collection, and I still visit it to say hello every time I go to
Tate Modern. ‘Red Room’ is also astoundingly beautiful. Oh, and
Henri Rousseau is another fond favourite.
Emily, Biology
“What the hell? OK, art is something visual. It’s a way to
connect the viewers with the artists both emotionally and
physically. I like William Turner because he went to medical
school and did physics and still managed to be a famous artist.”
Dickson, Biochem
“Ooh let’s get philosophical. The externalised, or physical impression that an
artist has got from the world around them.
My favourite artist is Giger without a shadow of a doubt. The band Tool
do crazy 3D art. It’s wicked, mate. Art is vital because the expression of
creativity makes you healthier; a healthier and happier brain.”
Rach, English Student
Album Cover, Pink Floyd’s Darkside of the Moon
Fishermen by William Turner
H.R. Giger, taken from his book Necronomicon

