22 felix Friday 13 June 2008
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Arts
Pizza Express Jazz Club
There’s something slightly disheartening about heading to a club to hear a great new singer, head-
ing down the dark stairs in the dimly lit restaurant, cosying up to the table and opening the menu
to find identikit pizza staring you straight in the face. Soulless? Formulaic? Don’t bet on it. De-
spite appearances, Pizza Express has been an avid supporter of the UK jazz scene in many of its
larger restaurants and as a taster or a happy compromise with your other half, it’s hard to beat
the relaxing surroundings of this small club. All the essential ingredients are there – soft lighting,
great acoustics, an intimate atmosphere and a terrific line-up of acts. The music definitely leans
towards the vocal, but that’s no bad thing. Forget the jazz nazis and enjoy the friendly atmosphere
and music with a favourite pizza dish.
Ronnie Scott’s
Yes, it’s a tourist trap and yes, there are plenty of posers to be found, but this Soho insti-
tution didn’t become one for no reason. Once you’ve booked ahead and paid the cover
charge, shrugged off the pricey drinks and settled down, you are treated to some of the
world’s greatest jazz and soul acts. With an almost-unrivalled star power, the venue has
some of the best live music in town – no amateurish efforts, no bum notes, just slick,
passionate and seasoned players playing the life out of their instruments for your aural
delectation. Scheduled for the coming weeks are excellent jazz guitarist Martin Taylor,
Pharoah Sanders, Larry Coryell, Kenny Garrett and Steve Howe. Even if you haven’t had
the time to keep up with the scene or become acquainted with some of the acts, more
than likely the show on any given night will be more than enough to blow you away.
Recommended.
The Great Culture Crawl
Chapter Thirteen – Jazz clubs, nice
Le Quecum Bar
For those who like their jazz with a little more attitude, this little bar/brasserie on the Battersea High Street is the
perfect antidote to the multitude of banal “smooth jazz” (read: background music) currently swamping the market.
Inspired by the sounds of the Left Bank and the heyday of the Hot Club of Paris, the main draw here is the gypsy
jazz and live jams held virtually every night of the week.
Gypsy jazz is a style that was made famous in 1920’s Paris, in particular by the energetic Quintette du Hot Club
de France, fronted by the prodigally gifted guitarist Django Reinhardt and equally talented violinist Stéphane Grap-
pelli. Characterised by tantalisingly energetic guitar and violin melodies and improv over a driving and shuffling
rhythm guitar section, this style is ideal for aspiring jazzers wishing to expand their horizons beyond bop. The bar
serves light brasserie-style food and has an extensive wine list, and despite the nostalgic references to said Parisian
institution, the star of the show is the music.

