arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
23
Friday 13 June 2008 felix
Arts
Vortex Jazz
How far is too far in the search for a great venue far from the crowds? How about N16?
Though for most the trip to Dalston is only slightly less of a trek than overlanding through
Africa, the effort is well worth it. Your endeavours are rewarded with one of the slickest in-
teriors of any club in London and a great drinks list as well as a strongly progressive policy
towards educating and expanding the local jazz scene and nurturing young talent. These guys
are passionate about their art, and they want you to be too. Crossing from classic bop styles
to gypsy jazz, the club also hosts open mic nights for aspiring musicians/singers as well as live
poetry readings.
Jazz Cafe Camden
Probably one of the most broad-minded jazz venues in the world (lacking only in the experimental
side of the genre), the Jazz Café is a must for anyone who appreciates the spirit of jazz but cares lit-
tle for purist pedantry. The world’s finest musicians come here: cutting-edge fusion acts like Allan
Holdsworth, Tribal Tech, Victor Wooten and Mike Stern have all played here. It’s electronic creden-
tials are excellent as well – influential high-priests of nu jazz Jazzanova commonly play live sets here,
and international denizens such as Kyoto Jazz Massive often play floor-filling DJ sets here.
In addition, the Jazz Café is the best spot in town for acid jazz – genre definers Incognito are fix-
tures here. Hip-hop is also a big draw, as is its impressive bevy of international and world music acts,
and the blues is also well-represented – luminaries John Mayall and Keb’ Mo are both scheduled
to play in the coming weeks. And finally, for the faithful, amongst the freeform and refreshingly
egalitarian attitude to the genre are traditional bop and swing acts – an affectionate touch to a com-
prehensive to a vast sea of styles.
Written by David Paw, concept by Rosie Grayburn
606 Club
Real jazz in Chelsea? Who would have thought? But look beyond the rules (non-members have to dine) and somewhat
pricey international menu (teriyaki in a jazz club?) and you will find a music venue of the highest calibre. Located under-
ground, it is crammed enough full of music-lovers and musicians to give it considerable cred. Order a short drink from
the bar, imagine the smoke lining the low-lit ceiling and get caught up in the random audience members (also musicians)
joining the jams. Or, if you too know your way around the modes and melodic minor, head down and give your chops a
serious test.

