felix@imperial.ac.uk
Travel
Travel Editors – Ahran Arnold, Nadine Richards and Ammar Waraich
Communism and China’s capital
Nadine Richards consumes copious amounts of dumplings whilst pondering the effects of communism on
China’s society as she continues her travels in Beijing. Warning: contains immoral behaviour for your benefit
T
hink of a communist
country. Did Cuba, Laos
or North Korea spring to
mind first? Most likely not
– most likely you would
have thought initially of China. Alter-
natively, think of China. Most likely
“communist” is one of the first things
that you associate with it.
As a tourist venturing into a commu-
nist country for the first time, I was ex-
tremely curious to see if it was an im-
agined label for the country, or whether
it was something more tangible that
could be seen to affect people on a daily
basis. Obviously, my short trip (and my
ignorance of politics) meant that it was
not enough to answer this question in
any great depth, but it was interest-
ing for me to see superficially at least,
whether this country seemed different
from others in a way that could be at-
tributed to its communist label.
Taking it to the extreme, some of my
imagined “signs” of a communist coun-
try would be a heavy military pres-
ence; a reliance on official documents
that makes the NHS appear to be free
of bureaucracy; and a solidarity and
unity within the country’s population.
When it comes to official documents,
my personal experience left my opin-
ion unchanged. Two hours of waiting
at the Chinese Embassy (thankfully
shortened by the presence of a very
attractive guy I chatted to – if you are
him, get in touch), three days with-
out a passport and 40 pounds sterling
lighter finally got me a Chinese visa,
and easy entry into the country – or
so I thought. Upon arriving at immi-
gration control however, the officer
scrutinised my photograph closely.
“This doesn’t look like you,” he told
me. Well of course not, I thought, no
grimacing, miserable creature ever re-
sembles their true selves on their pass-
port. “Do you have any other ID?” he
asked me. Well, no I didn’t, as I thought
my passport would suffice, but having
no choice I pulled out my oyster card,
various library cards and my Imperial
card, all with marginally better pho-
tos of myself on them. (Incidentally, it
is the Imperial card that I believe was
24 felix Friday 13 June 2008
and so, thankfully, I was allowed into
the country. A tendency to rely on of-
ficial documents? Check.
Two issues ago I mentioned my ini-
tial two days in Beijing, so let’s skip for-
wards to the third day. I was on some-
thing of a whirlwind tour of the city.
The third day of my tour proved an
interesting one since I had to pose as a
student from Oxford. Before you shout
“traitor” and hurl stones at me, please
understand that this was the only way
I could take full advantage of the tours
offered by Beijing University to the Ox-
ford students on exchange there. And
this meant a free tour guide, and free
entry to all the sites. Was my loyalty
the most important. Having a similar
problem in Singapore, I pulled out this
particular magic card, and the officer
says “Oh! You go to Imperial!” and I
was waved into the country. So the
card may be defunct when it comes to
printing at the IC library, but I now be-
lieve it holds special magical power in
sticky situations which nobody could
have imagined).
Anyway, after examining my various
cards, the officer must have concluded
that the bespectacled, blurry version of
my passport-self did not resemble the
person standing before him, but my
angelic countenance could not possi-
bly have posed a threat to his country,
to Imperial such that I refused to don
such a ridiculous guise for the entirety
of the day? Nope, of course not.
So I brushed up my accent, my wit,
my sense of smugness, and adjusted
the way my scarf was wrapped around
my neck, and I was ready to go. I’m
sure I could have fooled Oscar Wilde
himself... The only problem (and as
it turned out, it was quite a big prob-
lem) was that the tour guide, I swear,
seemed specifically intent on catch-
ing my eye when it came to addressing
questions towards the group. ‘Er...’ was
the best I could manage on every occa-
sion, much to the bemusement of my
fellow Oxfordians. Thankfully, some-
one would normally step in before I
exposed myself as being an Imperialite,
and being thought of as the most clu-
less and ignorant of students seemed
a small price to pay, seeing as this is a
daily occurance for me at Imperial any-
way. I made a mental note to brush up
on my Chinese history however – one
never knows when the knowledge that
the Ming dynasty ruled from 1368 to
1644 could come in so useful.
Our first stop was the Heavenly
Temple; so called because the temple is
built specifically to symbolize the con-
nection between Heaven and Earth.
Circles represent heaven and squares
represent earth. The unity of the two
was clearly carefully thought out dur-
ing the temple’s construction. I’m sure
I couldn’t appreciate the architectural
effort, but the temple itself is certainly
heavenly for the eye to see.
It is not the temple however, that
remains foremost in my memory, but
more the congregation of Chinese
people gathered within the temple
grounds, which is nearly 3km big.
The people were all engrossed in their
various sports and activities, and the
superb talent on display meant that
strolling the grounds was something
akin to watching a free variety show.
Like something out of Crouching Ti-
ger, Hidden Dragon, all sports were
carried out with a combination of in-
spiring grace and amazing acrobatics.
There were people practising a sort
of bat-and-ball game, which involved
keeping a dimpled ball balanced on a
racquet whilst swirling and twirling
it in all directions around the air and
oneself. If this wasn’t difficult enough,
there were many people practising
Jianzi – like keepy-uppies with a foot-
ball, only the ball is substituted with a
giant weighted shuttlecock.
There were mini-plays being per-
The view across Beijing’s Forbidden City, albeit on a very smoggy day
Mao’s Mausoleum in the rather gray Tiananmen Square The entrance to the Forbidden City

