felix@imperial.ac.uk Travel
25
Friday 13 June 2008 felix
formed, colourful cloths being waved
and twirled in the air, not to mention
theswathesofelderlywhohadgathered
en massé to participate in aerobic-style
exercises to music echoing over the
temple grounds through loudspeak-
ers. Unanimously, we all agreed that
with its undeniably great community
feel, China would be the best country
to grow old in. The unity displayed by
people gathering and socialising for a
relaxing afternoon was deeply impres-
sive, and a stark contrast to the sedate
sunbathers littering London’s parks.
In a completely different setting to
the Heavenly Temple, was Tiananmen
Square. The square itself, I felt on ar-
rival, had very little charm to offer
– consisting mostly of a square block
of concrete. But considering its role
in Chinese history, perhaps it is more
important as a symbol of Chinese
politics than anything else. From the
proclamation of the People’s Repub-
lic of China by Mao Zedong in 1949
to its mass rallies during the Cultural
Revolution, Tiananmen Square has
been the centre for echoing the politi-
cal situation within China. Of course,
most Westerners would now associate
Tiananmen Square with the Tianan-
men Square Massacre of 1989.
As we approached the Square, we
rather unscrupulously started placing
bets on whether our tour guide would
mention the massacre. I was somewhat
disappointed to find that no mention
was made. This shouldn’t have been too
much of a surprise, however, consider-
ing how well publicised it is that China
has attempted to erase this particu-
lar event from history. I had assumed
however, that people in China were still
aware that it had happened, although
it may not necessarily be talked about.
One person that I talked to however,
straightened my opinion on this. He
was teaching in Southern China, and
told me that out of his whole class, only
one of his pupils had any inkling that
the massacre had ever occurred. This
was the first incident that truly made
me question how much of an impact
the Chinese government have in con-
trolling their people.
Interestingly, I caught an episode of
‘Paul Merton in China’ upon arriving
back in England. In the programme,
he dined with China’s top socialites
and asked them about their views on
freedom of speech in China. They all
agreed that China was a free country
when it came to expressing opinions
and views, but having just seen for my-
self something that appeared to repre-
sent the opposite, I was disappointed
when the documentary did not really
explore the topic further.
The last, and the most stunning of
the places I visited whilst in China was
the Forbidden City. I had always as-
sociated the glorious palace with The
Last Emperor (which I urge you all to
watch, as it is fantastic and one of the
only films which has been licensed to
be filmed in the Forbidden City), and in
life it is certainly as vast and impressive
as displayed on film. Being the largest
palace in the world, and consisting of
a never-ending complex of halls, walls,
gates and courts, it is definitely one of
the most exhausting and rewarding
places that I have ever visited. Sadly,
the only fact I can remember about
the palace from our tireless tour guide
might be classified as trivia – but it’s
interesting nonetheless. The Starbucks
built within the Forbidden City in 2000
(because there are not enough Star-
bucks in the world already) was forced
to close down in 2007. I’m not sure
whether I marvel more at the fact it
was allowed to open there, or whether
it remained for 7 years. I’m not going
to comment that Starbucks is a symbol
of capitalism either... happily though,
it’s now been replaced by a teahouse
[it’s equally out of place and overpriced
though! – Ed].
So, if one were to read my previous
paragraph then perhaps you’d be hard
convinced that China is a strict com-
munist country as one would imagine.
Going back to my somewhat imagi-
nary ‘signs of communism’ though, I’d
say they are irritatingly strict on entry
into their country. Either that, or I do
indeed portray a shady character and
it has taken me this long to realise. As
for military presence, this was heavily
felt within the airport and Tiananmen
Square, where the surly guards and of-
ficers who glared at my friend when
she tried to ask for a photograph. As
for the unity of people: if the Heavenly
temple is anything to go by, then the
Communist party have not failed in
this area.
Many people claim that China will be
the next world superpower. As the host
of the Beijing 2008 Olympics, it seems
that China has announced its entry
and role as a global first world coun-
try. However, many questions remain
about how this will be possible with
a government which, to the Western
world, is still rife with propaganda and
censorship.
It seemed ironic to me that Star-
bucks, a modern symbol of capitalism,
was allowed to be built within Beijing’s
most cultural site. At the same time,
the Tiananmen massacre of 1989 was
not that long ago, and seemed to be
China’s way of telling the Western
world that the communism regime was
to continue far into the future. My time
in Beijing opened my eyes to question
whether a country which seemed full
of contradictions could become the
next superpower. I would be really in-
terested to hear more opinions from
Chinese people, as my views really are
limited. My belief is that it will become
the next superpower, although like the
rest of the world, I am curious to see
how the everyone will coexist. The first
step, perhaps, is to see how the Beijing
2008 Olympics will be handled.
One more thing – communism is
not the first thing that enters my mind
when I think of China, in fact. The first
thing is dumplings. Big, fat, juicy, de-
licious, delicious, dumplings. Call me
greedy, but I could eat about 10 Jiaozi
right now.
The Hall of Prayer for Good Harvests inside the Heavenly Temple Locals play Jianzi in the grounds of the Heavenly Temple. The aim is to keep the shuttlecock off the ground
The Circular Mound Altar inside the Heavenly Temple. The temple complex was built during the early 1400s

