31
felix
Friday 13 June 2008
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk Sport
What was effectively the 2XI’s ULU
semi-final game, started in stark con-
trast to that of the 1XI who had played
theirs the previous weekend. Having
arrived a respectable two hours before
the game in order to warm up thor-
oughly, they systematically sabotaged
their chances of winning with the bat,
ball and in the field.
Our tale begins with my arrival at the
union at the supposed meeting time of
10.30, where I was greeted by glori-
ous South Kensington sunshine, the
rasping shrieks of the Kendo club and
a respectable total of FOUR players.
As the sky quickly turned an alarm-
ing shade of grey the scent of trouble
began to loom in the air. Slowly gath-
ering more of our PUNCTUAL mem-
bers we were subjected to a series of
unfortunate setbacks involving the
minibus keys, which finally resulted
in us abandoning our scheduled mode
of transport and frantically letting
loose on public transport ALMOST 2
HOURS LATER. The team tactically
split up as we travelled to various un-
derground stations in order to get lifts
from our better connected teammates.
All in all in spite of this commotion we
managed to arrive SAFELY before the
forfeit deadline of 2.30.
On arrival at the UCL ground near St
Albans we were greeted to a well mani-
cured, lush looking sports complex.
However, unsurprisingly, the football
took pride of place as they trained on
the Wimbledon perfect outfield of the
main square and we were relegated to
the contingency pitch. Two prior days
of rain of this less thoroughly tended to
wicket had left us with horrible posi-
tion of playing 80 overs on a pitch as
moist as a peat bog. Closer inspection
with the fingers nearly resulted in them
been swallowed whole into the earth.
UCL won the toss and wisely elect-
ed us to bat. The sensational talents
of Adnan (9) and Suraj “Fatty Batter”
Dhanani (15) were no match for the
troubles possessed by the pitch. Suc-
cessive battering by their bowlers and
our swiping shots resulted in large cra-
ters and excessive amounts of rubble
on its surface, forcing our openers to
avert attention to their green fingers.
The unprepared feet of slippery toed
Captain Slow (Ali Najefi) (28) cut short
the fine display of our very own Bol-
lywood hero Kavington (30), as he
seemed poised on the verge of making
a big score. It was no matter as Sabah
(re-elected President and ‘God’ to
many of us) made short work of excep-
tional bowling. His fifty was reached in
double quick time, despite agile cap-
taincy and shrewd field placement by
the opposition. He relieved the pres-
sure from our lower order and brought
up his fifty with an all-run four, barely
raising a sweat and certainly not out
of breath. Jeeves (29), author of this
piece, played a valuable second-fiddle
etching his name in divots near the
cow corner boundary. This gave our
innings a much needed acceleration
helping our score from 70 at the half
way mark to a formidable 210 by close;
taking into account the shambolic state
of the wicket.
However errors detected by the op-
position due to the poor mathematical
prowess of our inexperienced scorer,
medic Hemant the destroyer Laxaman
provided an early interruption to our
bowling. A mothers meeting ensued
on pitch resulting in a more reserved
estimate of 200-7 finally being agreed.
All involved fear that their runs may
have been noted down as extras or
even worse, given to Sabah, with a con-
fused Jefi adamant this he was robbed
of a grander score (he wasn’t).
The afternoon in the field was largely
uneventful. Catch after catch was
dropped behind the stumps that led to
some inspirational, if not slightly un-
orthodox tactics by the master crafts-
men Khayam. His string of beamers
unnerved the batsmen and forced er-
rors on more than one occasion. The
cat-like reflexes of Adnan at gully were
matched by the comical galloping of
our captain PORNO as his success-
ful back peddling helped preserve his
100 percent catching stats. Bowling by
Mezza and Nihal along with Hemant
and myself ensured that UCL never
came close to our target as the game
slowly fizzled out.
The preparation prior to the game
was far from ideal, but by tackling
these challenges as a team undoubt-
edly help exercised our wits. Each
member stepped up to play their part
in a win that still leaves us unbeaten in
ULU and out and out favourites to win
the cup. Bring it Queen Mary’s.
Rajiv Shah
Convincing win as Imperial bat down opposition
Ved smashing the opposition for six
Rubbish. This is not a word associated
with Kendo. Especially not with our
10th anniversary weekend. The social
event of the calendar year began one
Saturday morning not so long ago with
a three-hour open practice session.
Present were three senior sensei- a 4th
dan from the University of Kent, a 5th
dan (our very own Emiko Yoshikawa),
a Japanese 6th dan as well as around
35 armoured lower grades. Together
all helped make the Union Gym oscil-
late to thumps and cries whilst trying
to bash the spots of their opponents.
By the end of the session shinai splin-
ters were strewn about and a few more
holes existed in what is already a pretty
beat up floor (Take note union penny
pinchers!).
Following this workout the Imperial
kendo crew took a trip to the nearby
V&A where they were given an in
depth tour of the Japanese section by
their multi-talented sensei, Yoshikawa-
sama. As if this wasn’t enough for a day,
the lucky members of Imperial’s finest
club took a trip to the plush surround-
ings of the ‘Thai on the River’ restau-
rant in Battersea for a commemoration
dinner. Amply provided for with wine,
rice and cake these fortuitous few cel-
ebrated the successes and challenges of
the past ten years. Naturally more was
yet to come.
The following day saw the main event
of the anniversary: a unique seminar
and competition combo held in Ethos.
For this, the great and the good came
from all over the country to have a
go. Kendoka from Cambridge, Kent,
UCL, and the University of the Arts
formed the backbone of the contend-
ers with a smattering of old Imperial
Alumni from Japan to add spice to the
mix. Leading this competition was the
7th-dan Japanese coach of the British
National squad (Matsumoto-sensei). A
friend of the club, this gentleman has
featured before in this paper.
The morning began with a training
seminar focussing on basic techniques.
Like all martial arts the key to Kendo is
to rigorously understand and apply the
basics- something Imperial’s club has
always put at the front of its practice.
After this “tuning-up session” we sat
down to a free bento-box meal provid-
ed by the Japanese food shop ‘Natural-
Natural’. Nothing quite like a bit of cold
fish of a lunch time to put you in the
spirit for hitting your friends.
After this, and a year in the plan-
ning, came the competition. Unique
in its layout a fight’s winner stayed in,
and for dan grades, if there was a draw
elimination beckoned. The 50-odd
attendees happily filled the hall and
demonstrated some pretty nice kendo.
Of interest were the fights amongst the
higher grades since, not content with
just watching, referees joined the fray.
We were treated to the spectacle of our
sensei (5th-dan) having at the sensei
from the University of the Arts (Lon-
don), a 5th-dan and former captain of
the Korean National Ladies team. Fun-
nily enough neither could draw a point
out of the other so they both fell out
of the competition. It is good to know
your teacher is amongst the best. This
led up to the final match.
Matsumoto-sensei (7th dan) against
a Japanese 6th dan from the Univer-
sity of Kent. Unlike other matches that
revolved around physicality (heated
thrust, rapid retreat and pushing) this
match was almost serene in compari-
son. Minimal movement was made
with emphasis being on sensing small
openings made by the sword tips. Then
in a flash it was all over.
Matsumoto cut a rapid hit to his
opponent’s kote (wrist) and took the
match. Winners took home special
gifts including Imperial College ten-
egui (head cloth) and for one lucky
UCL student (viewed to have put up
the longest series of fights) a bento box
stuffed to the brim with fresh sushi- all
courtesy of our main sponsor the Japan
Centre.
Looking back it was a fine weekend
and helped reaffirm friendships, as
Kendo Club celebrate 10 year anniversary
Tim Simpson well as make new ones. There is a spe-
cial Kendo term for this: kou ken chi
ai (knowing others by the crossing of
swords). So there you have it. Ten years
on and still going strong. Here’s for the
next ten!
Repeat: Kendo is not rubbish. Kendo is not rubbish.

