felix sport Send in your sport reports:
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
High resolution photos only
IC Women’s cricket team bat their way to history
This term has seen us make history
for the IC Cricket Club. The women’s
team having been newly formed last
year, entered it’s first official tourna-
ment, the BUSA south-east league.
This was a great opportunity for us
ladies to develop our game and gave
match experience to some of the more
novice players. The teams we were up
against were UCL, Kings, and South-
ampton. We had previously played an
indoor friendly against Kings in the
winter, but UCL and Southampton
were unknown to us, so the tension
began to build before our first sched-
uled match away at Southampton. We
put long hours in nets, had the minibus
booked and were ready and assembled
early one Sunday morning for our trip
down to the coast.
Rain stopped play. It was all very dis-
appointing when we got a call to say
our game was cancelled due to a flood-
ed pitch and unrelenting rain. Cricket
is just not possible in the rain, and as
is obvious when playing the sport here
in the UK, the wet-weather strategy
can play an important part. Unfortu-
nately neither side could offer a team
for an alternative day and so it ended
in a draw.
Next up was UCL at our home
ground in Harlington, but the weather
was failing to improve and alas another
match was called off by rain. Our ladies
swiftly agreed to an alternative date to
be played away, but UCL were unable
to put forward a team, giving us a de-
fault win. Although we were frustrated
at the lack of play, we were looking
healthy on the league table and confi-
dent to take on Kings in the next home
match. Sun was shining and we finally
thought we’d get out on the field, but
Kings called last minute to cancel due
to a lack of players, giving us the win!
Disappointed but undeterred we
packed up a lovely tea and headed to
Harlington to play Southampton. Fi-
nally, this gave co-captains Sian and
Dharani a chance to make some deci-
sions! We lost the toss and fielded first,
we kept their run rate low and man-
aged to get them all out for 69 runs,
with Tara getting us a key wicket. Af-
ter tea our batters headed out to the
crease, but things started looking wor-
rying when the top end of our batting
crumpled early. Realising that it was
staying power we needed rather than
runs, Priya and Clare kept cool heads,
forming a good partnership and held in
to give us the win we were after.
In glorious sunshine the following
Sunday we took a train up to Potters
Bar followed by a bus that confusingly
dropped us on a bridge over the M25,
and navigated our way to the UCL
sports ground. We were all a bit nerv-
ous taking on UCL who had a repu-
tation as a strong side. Winning the
toss we batted first, and put in a much
better performance than our previous
match. Making 40 runs for 3, on the
fourth wicket we decided to up the
run rate and start smashing it around
bringing us to a total of 82 before tea,
Dharani and Georgie top-scoring. De-
spite the great effort, we were unable
to defend our run rate and UCL nar-
rowly took the win.
For the next fixture, we headed to
play Kings. With greater match expe-
rience now, there was a calmer feeling
amongst our players and we knew what
we needed to do. We won the toss and
took on the Kings bowlers first. Karm-
ani and Clare opened forming a strong
partnership they made a fantastic 53
runs together. The wicket was incred-
ibly slow, with little or no bounce and
we worked hard and finished our in-
nings with an incredible 151 runs. This
was our first triple digit score as a team
and it felt great. With great wickets
from Sian and Flo and some awesome
catches, we easily defended our score,
finishing the game ahead by 110 runs.
Narrowly missing out on winning
the league, we still qualified for the Na-
tional BUSA Shield knock-outs.
We were set up to play Bournemouth,
who were rumoured to have an Eng-
land reserves player and an England
1st XI coach. With another chance to
take a union minibus down to the sea-
side, we packed up our bats and pads
and gathered outside the union early
last Wednesday morning. Down came
the rain again, and washed our hopes
away, as they predictably called to can-
cel and rearrange the game for the Fri-
day. Sadly the rescheduled day was not
convenient for some of our girls and
we could only put out a team of eight.
We won the toss and opted to bowl
first. Starting with eight players, Clare,
arriving straight from her presentation
half way though the first innings took
us up to a total of nine! All the bowl-
ers really showed how good they could
be, Flo, Dharani, Priya and Clare all
bowled brilliantly, with Priya taking
her first of what will hopefully be many
wickets for Imperial. Although some
quick thinking and fielding by Aleeza
caused an early run out we could not
shake their best player, the England re-
serve, who got most of their runs (103
of a 181 score) so it was with much
satisfaction that Sian caught her off
Clare’s bowling in the last over. Eve-
ryone preformed amazingly well, con-
sidering it was Aleeza, Thubeena and
Christina’s first ever cricket match.
Veena too showed her potential, suc-
cessfully stopping a number of bound-
aries. Following a great start at chasing
their total, we lost a few wickets early
and could not quite keep the run rate
up to what it needed to be, falling a few
runs short of the total.
Considering most of our cricketers
have been playing for less than a year,
we aim to be even bigger and better
next season! A special thanks should
go to our founding member and cap-
tain Sian Fogden for her amazing en-
thusiasm and cricketing talent. She
has worked tirelessly for the team for
the past three years and will be sadly
missed!
Although the fixtures are over, net
sessions will continue into the summer
and some possible friendlies to be or-
ganised. If you are at all interested in
joining in, or just to see what cricket
is like, please contact the newly ap-
pointed captains Priya and Dharani
at icwomenscricket@googlemail.com.
We welcome anyone from newcomers
to the sport to oldhands.
Emilie Michie
Rain, rain go away
IC women’s cricket make triple figures against King’s Medics

