4 felix Friday 13 June 2008
Sykes’ Imperial: Jan 2001 – Jul 2008
Next month, the 13th Rector of Imperial is due to hang up his lab coat and hand over his test tube tongs
to Rector-elect Sir Roy Anderson. Felix charts Sir Richard’s comments, controversies, and the changes he’s
brought to Imperial during his seven-year stint as leader of our dear institution. Bottom’s up etc, etc
Jan 01: Sykes appointed
13th Rector of IC Aug 01: Intl. Brand
manager appointed
Feb 01: Sykes merges Biology
and Biochemistry departments
Mar 01: Rector says
universities should
charge top-up fees
May 01: Major
faculties reshuffle
May 01: Rector gives first
talk to student body and
attends Union Council.
Suggests top-up fees are
“burden” on students
Oct 01: Rector sighted
in Felix office!
Nov 01: Rector writes for Felix,
promises: “close contact with
staff and students”
Jan 02: Rector announces
intention to make IC
independent university
May 02: Sykes steps down as
GSK Non-executive Chairman
Nov 02: Imperial-UCL
merger called off, sigh
Jan 03: Imperial
rebranding fails to impress
Oct 02: IC-UCL
merger on the cards?
Nov 03: College senate debates
leaving University of London
n as
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
News
A
fter four months in office, Sir Richard Sykes
made his presence felt by ordering the biggest
shake-up in the College’s history, when he
completely reshuffled the make-up of Imperial’s
faculties.
Biology and Biochemistry were merged into
the Faculty of Life Sciences; Medicine remained
unchanged; and Engineering swelled as the Royal
School of Mines was completely swallowed by new
the Faculty of Engineering, much to the dismay of
hundreds of Miners. The remainder of departments
formed the Faculty of Natural Sciences.
Further dramatic shakes-ups were outlined for
the Finance, Security, Registry and Personnel
departments who were asked to make 10% cuts to
their funding, otherwise, they would have to justify
their budgets.
Sir Richard also made clear his enthusiasm for
“blowing up Sherfield”, although he admitted this
was infeasible. Instead the building would be
refurbished at a cost of £6m to “encourage greater
communication.” Before this refurbishment would
happen though, he promised priority to be given to
building a new sports centre in Prince’s Gardens and
the refurbishment of the crumbling Southside halls.
A
fter four weeks of discussions, the spirits
of thousands of Imperial students hoping
for a well-balanced university lifestyle were
crushed, when it emerged that the proposed merger
bringing Imperial and University College London
(UCL) together as one ‘uber-versity’ had been called
off.
Sir Richard claimed that it had “become clear
that the best interests of our two institutions are
not served by a formal merger.”
However, this was more of an assumption on the
Rector’s part; one senior academic from UCL told
Felix about IC’s political intention, describing the
proposals as a takeover rather than a true merger.
The academic referred to the situation as “more of a rape than
a marriage.”
Ultimately, the merger crumbled since many UCL academics
feared that it would leave many of their scientists without jobs,
whereas Imperial’s staff would suffer far less.
C
ontinuing in his attempts to push and increase
Imperial’s global presence, Sir Richard entirely re-
branded College, ditching the traditional crest for
today’s more corporate, minimalist blue logo.
Back in 2003, the logo was branded “embarrassing” by
students, who felt it smacked of “Welcome to London
Polytechnic!”
New signs were initially constructed, “Blue Peter style”,
as College staff members sticky-taped new signs over the
old ones. The rebranders declared “the white is an impor-
tant colour in our clean, modern [society].” However, the
clean look was severely hampered only eight hours later
when one sign outside Huxley began to peel off.
College also introduced new writing guidelines to help
members“understand”thebranding,includingthediscour-
agement of using ‘IC’ instead of ‘Imperial’ and that com-
munications ought to be “authoritative, not dictatorial.”
S
ir Richard made his intentions for Imperial
even clearer when he appointed the very first
Pro-Rector (International Relations).
Professor David Ewins was appointed and tasked
with promoting Imperial abroad to industries and
potential students. The Rector wanted to make
Imperial’s brand much stronger, in order to pull in
more funding to help remedy the financial problems
College had back at the turn of the millennium,
and so that Imperial could compete better with the
world’s leading institutions.

