Written
&
designed
by
Tom
Roberts
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk News
7
Friday 13 June 2008 felix
Mar 08: Rector receives
annual pieing for charity
Mar 08: Sykes’ salary tops
pay chart for university heads
around the country, at £348,000
May 08: Rigging in National
Student Survey tables. Are
we a happy bunch afterall?
Jan 08: Library redevelopment
delayed until summer 2008
Jun 08: Rector
announces IC may
set entrance exam
Jul 08: A new era dawns.
Where next for Imperial? by
Tom
Roberts
O
nce again, the Rector received a plate full of shaving foam to the face
because he just happened to be walking along the Sherfield Walkway
on that unfortunate day in March, at that unlucky time of day that he
somehow manages to repeatedly find himself in each year.
The ‘pie’ was dispatched by the City & Guilds Hit Squad during RAG Week
which raises money for various charities every year.
Rumours that Felix ordered the flan to be laced with chloroform af-
ter the Rector’s comments during his Centenary lecture are completely
unsubstantiated.
L
ast week, Sir Richard announced that future IC ap-
plicants may have to go through yet another exam
if they want to study at Imperial. The Rector de-
scribed the difficulty in differentiating between students
since so many achieve four or five necessary A-levels.
The announcement was accompanied with a wider
attack on the UK education system, in which he said it
was “frightening” that 40% of Imperial undergraduates
came from the 7% of the student population that attend
private institutions. He said that drastic action is needed
to “save” the other
93% of children
who are not getting
the education they
deserve, and one
method for doing
this is to remove
these pupils from
state schools and
then put them into
private institutions
with government
funding.
I
mperial’s 14th Rector, Sir Roy Anderson, is due to
start his tenure next month in July. Felix had hoped
to bring readers an interview with Sir Roy this
week, however, he cancelled at the last moment,
citing his busy schedule travelling the globe saving
humanity from numerous diseases, and that he will “un-
fortunately have to move the meeting to July, when [he]
has become Rector.”
Professor Sir Roy M Anderson FRS, FMedSci to give
him his full title, is currently a member of the Faculty
of Medicine, more specifically the Epidemology depart-
ment. He graduated from Imperial with a degree in Zo-
ology and after completing his PhD he spent much of
his early career working at Imperial before obtaining his
Professorship in 1984.
Sir Roy went on to work for numerous organisations
outside of College, notably as a governmental advisor
when he was put in charge of controlling the 2001 Foot
and Mouth outbreak during which he controversially or-
dered the culling of approximately 6 million cattle.
Eventually, after a three year secondment to the Min-
istry of Defence as Chief Scientific Adviser, Sir Roy re-
turned to College as Professor of Infectious Disease Epi-
demology in October 2007.
Compared to the current Rector, Sir Roy is much more
of an academic, lacking the heavy business experience of
Sir Richard, but excelling in both research and academic
policy. He will have to quickly gain the trust of the stu-
dent body and staff, following Sir Richard’s divisive ap-
proach to “the university business.”
With Imperial currently languishing close to the bottom
of the UK’s student satisfaction tables and widespread con-
cerns that Imperial has lost its student focus and become
business-like, Sir Roy will have his work cut out to make IC
a more enjoyable place in which to learn and study.
It will be interesting to see whether the incoming Rec-
tor will follow Sir Richard’s authoritarian approach to
governing a university, or whether Sir Roy will adopt
more of a hands-on approach, engaging the College in a
bit more discussion over its direction.

