8 felix Friday 13 June 2008
politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
International
Headlines from around the globe
The world beyond College walls...
Aeroplane Crash
Sudan
A Sudan Airways Airbus crashed in Khartoum airport earlier this week, leaving almost thirty people dead.
Though the available reports are quite heavily conflicted, the most recent figures indicate that some 171
passengers survived the explosion and the fire. The number of people unaccounted for has gone down from
66 on Tuesday to 14 at the time of writing, in the second Khartoum plane crash since May. The crash has since
been attributed to bad weather, with both sandstorms and heavy rain interfering with the plane’s ability to land
safely. The plane, built in 1990 and having twice been passed between airlines, is supposed to have had 217
passengers on board.
Negotiations with Iran?
Germany
While staying in Germany, President Bush has met with Chancellor Merkel
to discuss the future Western attitude towards Iran. The President would like
to maintain his policy of diplomacy and negotiations, but has warned that “all
options are on the table”. Chancellor Merkel, for her part, has announced that
the possibility of future sanctions cannot be ruled out, but insists that such a
decision rests with the Security Council. Though sanctions may or may not be
put into effect, consensus is growing that an Iran with nuclear capability would
make the world a more dangerous place.
Counter-Terrorism Bill
United Kingdom
The House of Commons has narrowly passed a bill to extend the number of
days terrorism suspects can be held without being charged. The limit, which is
currently of 28 days, may potentially be raised to 42 if the bill is passed by the
House of Lords. The debate over the extension has raged in recent weeks, with
manyclaimingthatthislatestproposalofGordonBrown’sisbothunnecessaryand
unjust.VarioushumanrightsgroupscitethewayinwhichotherWesterncountries
deal with terrorism suspects, rarely needing to keep suspects uncharged for more
than a week. Many have also mentioned that few terrorism cases so far have even
reached the 20 day limit, raising doubts about the necessity of a future extension.

