politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
9
Friday 13 June 2008 felix
International
Hashish Find
Afghanistan
The world’s largest drug bust took place earlier last week in
Afghanistan’s Kandahar Province. Almost 250 tons of hashish
were found in the region’s trenches, an amount with a net
worth estimated at some 200 million pounds. According to one
American commander, the seizure of the stockpile will “seriously
cripple the Taliban’s ability to purchase weapons that threaten the
safety and security of the Afghan people and the region” The size
of the stash, which has led to expressions of frank amazement
from even the most hardened officials, meant that the only way
to safely dispose of it was to bombard it from US Air Force planes.
The entire supply has since gone up in flames.
War Criminal
Arrested
Serbia
Stojan Zupljanin, one of the four Serbian war criminals still
wanted for trial by the Hague, has been arrested near Belgrade.
The outstanding accusations are for mass extermination and
murder, as well as for his command of troops guilty of a variety
of atrocities during the Bosnian war. The 56-year old Serb is
expected to be extradited to the Hague within the week, a move
likely to be shortly followed by his trial. Now that Zupljanin has
been arrested, the Hague are still searching for General Ratko
Mladic, Radovan Karadzic and Goran Hadzic, still at large after
thirteen years.
Friendly Fire
Pakistan
A US airstrike near the Afghanistan-Pakistan border has left
11 Pakistani soldiers dead in the worst case of friendly fire in
the region since fighting began in 2001. The Pakistani military
have presented a formal complaint to the Tripartite Comission
(comprised of US, Afghani and Pakistani military commanders)
over the incident, considered to be a profoundly humiliating
gesture. While the US claim that the deaths were the result of
a legitimate cross-border pursuit, the Pakistanis claim that no
possible justification for the incident exist, and have formally
expressed their anger to the US ambassador to the country.
Designed by Gilead Amit & Kadhim Shubber

