WALKABOUT-
LOOKSE£
by Mobile Optics lac.
The flowering of the Italian Renaissance took
place against a background of Humanism, a
I revival of Classical learning and Greek
j philosophy and a new spirit of free thought and
scientific enquiry. It originated in Tuscany and
centred on Florence: Dante Alighieri chose the
Tuscan language to write his epic poem 'La
Divina Comedia' and described a fellow
Florentine. Giovanni Cimabue, as one of the
\ most famous painters of the day.
Cimabue was active between 1272 and 1302
and was the first great artist of the Florentine
School: together he and Giotto, his pupil and
more famous successor, mark the break with
the 'maniera greca' — the rigid aesthetic
conventions of the Byzantine style which had
maintained its influence in Italy since the early
Middle Ages. Currently on show at the Royal
Academy is the great Cimabue Crucifix,
commissioned in 1287 for the new Franciscan
church of Santa Croce in Florence. The
Crucifix is over 14ft high and originally hung on
a choir screen which crossed the whole width
of the church at the 5th bay of the nave.
3 November 1966
So, OK, it's an artistic landmark...but why
should Olivetti be financing the Crucifix on a
tour round Europe? As a testimonial, maybe,
not only to a superb work of art, but also to the
love (even, the need?) of civilised man for such
art.
Let me expand.
On the night of 3/4 November 1966 the
Arno broke its banks flooding the city of
Florence with mustard-coloured water, sludge
and diesel oil. In some parts the oily mess
reached well above first floor level: one of the
worst affected areas was that round Santa
Croce. Only after three days was it possible to
reach the Cimabus Crucifix in the church's
Museo dell'Opera. It had been almost
completely submerged and the flood waters
IREVIEWSI
had washed away considerable areas of paint,
as well as soaking through the painted surface
to the gesso and canvas beneath and
waterlogging the wooden support.
Over the next ten years the Crucifix was
painstakingly restored and one room at the
Royal Academy is full of photos recording each
cliff-hanging step of the process. The areas of
missing paint have not been touched-up but
filled in with a cross-hatching of primary
colours, a technique called 'colour abstrac
tion'. These are integrated by the eye to
produce the same tone as the surrounding
painted areas—well that's the idea—it works
far better close up than from a distance, but
hardly detracts from Cimabue's achievement.
No chocolate-box sentimentality
Cimabue's Crucifix gives artistic expression to
the humanising ideology of the Franciscans.
Christ crutified suffers-He is no triumphant,
immortal saviour. His body hangs heavily; the
curves are eloquent under His transparent
loincloth; His face is an agony of chiaroscuro.
If you believe in the Christian version of
God, perhaps 'sublime' is an appropriate
adjective. Setting aside religious connotations,
this image of raw emotion is profoundly
moving. It's a great pleasure to have an
exhibition built round just one work—it's
possible to spend time absorbing it gently,
without the pressure of '4 more galleries before
closing time'.
Where, When, E?
The Cimabue Crucifix is at the Royal
Academy, Piccadilly, W l , until April 4; open
10-6 daily, including Good Friday and Easter
Sunday. Admission 50p for students,
otherwise £1.
IC
Orchestra
IC Orchestra's ambitious programme
consisted of three works: Walton's Ports-
mouth Point, Tchaikovsky's Piano Concerto
No 1 and Mahler's First Symphony.
IC
Choir
I walked into the Great Hall last Friday evening
for IC Choir's 100th concert clutching my
complimentary ticket and accompanied by
three 'complimentary' friends, and thought for
a moment that some strange supernatural
force had transported us to the Royal Albert
Hall for the last night of the Proms: a profusion
of "flowers decked the stage and a number of
'promenaders' were milling about trying to find
seats.
1 pounced on the last reserved seat, but my
friends had the doubtful privilege of being
seated on the side aisle steps, where they bore
a high risk of being trampled by the inevitable
contingent of concert-goers who get caught
short three minutes from the end and leave the
auditorium as noisily as possible.
•In the silence following the entry of the
conductor, Eric Brown, I waited in trepidation
for the choir' opening B minor chord, which,
according to rumour, had caused the choir no
inconsiderable difficulty during rehearsals. But
jf the choir tp a man (inevitably embracing
woman), applied the ancient maxim, 'if in
doubt, belt it out', and the reluctant noise, to
my untutored ear, bore a very close
resemblance to the desired effect.
Unfortunately, this promising start was not
sustained beyond the first few bars, marred by
a conflict between sections as to the correct
tempo to take the first fugue and by a sufficient
number of sopranos singing anything above an
E half a tone flat.
In fact, throughout the first half (Kyrie and
Gloria), the sopranos tended to be strained
and slightly, but markedly, flat and I received
the impression that of the 60 or so nominal
sopranos on stage, only about 20 were making
an effort to sing above a breathy whisper.
Apart from an isolated tenor entry in the
second Kyrie eleison, the choir's performance
throughout the first half was rather insensitive,
heavy and wooden, and the dynamics bland,
although this did improve as the performance
progressed.
As for the soloists, Ann Mackay (soprano)
was a disappointing choice, being breathy and
weak; Ann Mason (mezzo-soprano) and
Michael George (bass-baritone) were both
very pleasant to iisten to but Andrew King
(tenor) excelled with superb tone quality and
greater musical expression.
By the interval, while it would probably be
too harsh to say that all 1 was looking forward
Portsmouth Point is an overture taking a
programme from an early nineteenth century
print which apparently portrays the town 'as a
place ol considerable rowdiness' and 'drunken
revelry'. It one did not know the rhythimic
complexity ol the parts and the orchestra's
sober reputation one might imagine some of
them to have taken their interpretation too
seriously: within the first few bars one of the
percussionists had split the skin of the bass
drum in her enthusiasm (a feat of greater
impact than our Editor ever managed).
However the conductor Richard Dickins
valiantly kept order making it an exciting
opening to the concert.
The Tchaikovsky fared less well. As a
romantic concerto in the grand style it
demands panache of the orchestra as well as
the soloist and this was not forthcoming.
Although there were only a handful of violins, a
much bigger sound was needed. The young
soloist Barry Douglas missed this support. His
playing was fragmentary whereas a more
complete interpretation would have benefitted
the orchestra as well as the audience. This was
particularly evident in his unconvincing
changes of tempo.
In contrast to the first half, the Mahler was
stunning. From the very start it sounded like a
different orchestra. Admittedly, there were a
few problems, such as the general unres-
ponsiveness to changes of speed and some
occasionally dodgy intonation. But in general
there was greater enthusiasm and much
livelier playing. The symphony offers a lot of
scope for soloistic wind which was well
matched by the execution. There were notable
performances by principal trumpet, oboe and
flute and the extensive horn solos and tuttis
more than made up for that section's timid
start in the Tchaikovsky.
In spite of a rather slow beginning the finale
of the Mahler was an exuberant climax with all
players at last seeming to shake off any
remnants of timidity.
On the whole the evening, especially the
Mahler, was a credit to the orchestra and its
conductor who did a remarkable job to
achieve such a performance from the small
pool of good players available.
Tim Pigden
to was my free glass of wine and the tenor solo
(Benedictus qui venit), the standard thus far
was something of a disappointment and
considerably less than one has come to expect
from IC Choir-.
But I am happy to say that the choir retrieved
their reputation to some extent during the
remainder of the performance. Whether it was
the wine or the music which inspired them, I
know not, but the singing was a great deal
more spirited.
On the whole entries were confident and
strong, apart from a particularly ragged tenor
entry in the Credo (et incarnatus est) and even
more ragged and entirely unconvincing alto
entry (et expecto resurrectionem) which,
together with a flat soprano entry (confiteor
unum baptisma) spoilt the effect achieved by
the preceding bass-baritone solo.
To my mind the high points of the evening
were the Sanctus, which the choir performed
very creditably and the Benedictus for tenor
solo, accompanied by solo violin (Pamela
Howard) and continue
Finally, mention ought to be made of Eric's
special orchestra, who gave a consistently
good performance and special congratulations
should go to the orchestra's IC contingent who
compared very favourably with the semi-
professionals surrounding them.
Isobel Collins
FELIX is published bv the Editor for and on behalf of Imperial College Union Publications Board, and is printed by the
lei 0/-5S9 5111 Ext 1048 or Internal 28S1. Editor: Martin S Tavlar; Business Manager: Peter A Dodgers; Adverti
Union Print Unit, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB.
sing Manager: Nick Thexton. Copyright FELIX 1983

