I . C . S T U D E N T S G E T C O L D F E E T !
SEND
IMPERIAL TO THE ARCTIC
BE GENEROUS
TOMORROW!
Gary
Johan Giovanni Franco M i k e
£* A S
Marianne
Mel
Janet
From parts of Iceland the tops of the
Greenland mountains can be seen on a clear
day, and it was two Icelanders who mounted
the first recorded expedition to the largest
island in the world, when, in 980 they led a
small party across Denmark Strait, landed
on the east coast, and spent the winter there.
The first true exploration of the coastal
regions was carried out by Eric 'the Red'
Thorvaldsson. During his three year exile
from Iceland, for murder, he visited and
explored much of the east and west coasts of
'the land to the west'.He was extremely
pleased with himself, believing that he had
found the answer to Iceland's population
problem. On returning home he embarked
on a highly effective publicity campaign for
the colonisation of the country he
calculatingly named Greenland - it sounded
so much more friendly than Iceland.
Settlements were indeed formed, but by
about the 15th Century, the visible signs ofa
Norse culture had disappeared as a result of
the settlers' absorption into the Eskimo
population.
Davis, Baffin, Hudson, Ross, Pirry
Franklin, Nordenskjold. Peary - the r il of
honour of explorers - all visited and explored
the Greenland coast. But, when the great
Nansen first accomplished the crossing of
the ice-cap in 1888. it was still thought that
fertile valleys and green pastures lay
somewhere in the middle of this polar
subcontinent. Now, there are only Early
Warning System radar stations. Since then
much invaluable geographical and scientific
research has been carried out by a large
number of countries, primarily on
expeditions such as the one at present being
planned at College.
Imperial have already been to Greenland,
the largest island in the world (the area of
which is nine times that of Britain ) but
whilst the expedition in 1966 went further
North and remained on the ice - free coastal
mountains, this latest scientifically
orientated venture will experience the ice -
cap, second in size only to Antarctica, at
PogelOl
much closer quarters when half the team of
eight leave the permanent base - camp and
head inland and on to the ice. They are
expected to take four weeks to complete
their investigation of the spider population
on the ice - surrounded outcrops of rock. .
They will be self - sufficient during this
period and will manhaul sledges through the
three main crevasse belts which form the
coastal ice-fall.
All eight members will be together for the
other two weeks spent in the field; training
reconnaissance and acclimatization all have
to be completed, and arrangements will be
finalised so that the base-camp team will be
successful in the major undertaking of
carrying out a plant distribution and
interaction survey, during the four weeks
that they are alone.
But what does all this expedition stuff
involve, anyway? Is it all 'Boys' Own'-type
heroes, all alone against the force of nature?
Will there be 1 ! carpets and a band, there to
greet us, upon our return to Heathrow?
Will our bold and beloved leader be
knighted?! No, but the multi-departmental
team will be facing temperatures as low as
-40° (effecive), winds of up to 100 miles
per hour, ..nd all this on only one Mars Bar
per day! Spending seven weeks in a tent may
be some peoples' idea of fun — it isn't
too bad; until you find yourself having to go
outside in a blizzard to clear the tent of
snow, every two hours; until the zips freeze
just when you need to go outside; until the
icicles start forming on the inside of the
tent... No doubt we'll all be craving for a
Mooney's, long for the wide open spaces and
privacy of a Beit Hall shared room, lectures
will be a welcome break in the excitement (!).
Why go then? Why choose to inflict so much
discomfort (and danger) on ourselves?
Pass (!).
The time spent in the field, however, is
only the public side of the expedition; the
majority of the work and effort takes place
at home, planning the expedition. In order
that the expedition is able to leave for the
H H H H I H l March 23, 1 9 8 3 M M B
chosen country, funds have to be raised
(through sponsorship, gifts in kind, hire or
loan of articles, etc) and this is possibly the
most difficult and important thing of all;
the team has to be sure that they and their
equipment are good enough to cope with
the actual expedition period (training and
choice of equipment) and that everything
and everybody will be in the right place at
the right time (travel and freight arrange-
ments), etc. So, how is the East Greenland
expedition doing? We've won the support
and backing of various influential people
and organisations, including the official
'go-ahead' from the Danish government.
We've received various donations to date,
including radios from Marconi, dehydrated
food from Ravenscroft, syrup and sugar
supplies from Tate and Lyle, and photo-
graphic film from Kodak. About half the I
actual capital required has been raised, I
primarily through our personal contribu- I
tions and an Exploration Board award, but
the situation is becoming rather worrying
since potential sources of money are
beginning to run out! It is because of this
that we are turning to you, the Imperial
College student, and beg you to help us out:
tomorrow, Thursday, the team members
will be in their respective departments, and
throughout College, appealing to your
generosity and asking you to contribute to
our funds. Melanie Hiorns, the leader of the
expedition, will be collecting in Mech Eng;
Gary Wong and Mike Fletcher in Physics;
Giovanni Vaciago in Civ Eng; Johan
Kuylenstierna, Marianne Parkinson and
Janet Horrocks in Life Sciences; and Franco
Turrinelli in Chem Eng. We're sure you
agree that it would be a shame if this
genuinely ambitious and interesting project
were to be grounded without being given a
chance, and, as it states in our request-for-
sponsorship letter, 'the smallest contribu-
tion is of enormous importance to us'.
Please help send Imperial to Greenland.
Franco Turrinelli
IFELIX

