Letters
More sport:
Lack of
enthusiasm
QMC III—1
IC II—6
After an epic journey into the heart
of Essex, IC lacked the enthusiasm to
demolish QMC totally. Having
already beaten weak teams in their last
two games, SOP (3-0) amd New III
(5-1), IC struggled to find their rythm
against another. Only playing 35 mins
each way because the ref had to go
back to work, left IC thankful on an
energy sapping pitch. Despite this
poor start, it was IC who dominated,
and it wasn't long before the goals
began to fly. Guy Phiri opened the
scoring, Alan Glass powered two and
Pip Peel made it four by half time.
After the switch, IC continued, except
the goals weren't so forthcoming.
Alan Glass completed a fine hattrick
to make it 5-0, and then the day was
spoilt as QMC scrambled a lucky
goal. Mark Woodgate came close
with some fine headers, Micky
Plumber also nearly scored and Guy
Phiri was off-side, before Guy
sneaked the sixth goal. A tough
display from IC, from Andy Allen in
goal, Russ Dark and Chris Burton in
defence through to Ed Coates, Chris
Morris and Darren Bolland in
midfield. With 25 points from 14
games, IC look to be certain
champions.
Impressive 3rds
IC III—9
MXUC II—0
The 3rds continued their league
revival with an impressive win against
bottom-of-the-table M X U C . The
goals began right from the start, Dave
Clarke made a good run down the
right and Neil Lennard headed home,
then skipper Kev Graves scored two
in quick succession, both from
corners. MXUC managed to hold on
until half time at just three down, but
there was no stopping the IC team in
the second half, a goal from Paul
Neville, three from Fergus Batstone,
a great run from Neil Vandenbegin
and an excellent finish as well as a
penalty that gave Kev Graves his
hattrick all contributed to a
marvellous team performance and a
well-deserved result. Thanks go to
Dave Clarke, Alan Sinclair and Jerry
Edmonds who made their debuts and
watch out seconds, your title isn't safe
yet.
Hell hath no fury...
Dear FELDC,
There is no place for women in IC's Boat Club. This
was proven to be the case at the weekend when Imperial
College Boat Club, correction, the male members of the
Boat Club, competed at Burway Head of the River.
The women's Senior C IV, who have been training
rigorously throughout the Winter, arrived at Burway last
Saturday to be informed by the Club Captain that their
boat had been deliberately left behind at Putney. The
reason given was that there was insufficient space on the
trailer for all boats; and it had therefore been decided,
in their absence, that the women's boat should be left
behind.
Did Imperial really expect their female members to
compete without a boat? Of course not, the Club Captain
offered an alternative boat, although this was felt to be
only as a token gesture. The women's crew were given
the 'honour' of sharing one of the Top Squad's boats; a
boat which the girls are normally not even allowed to
practise in because it is considered too 'good' for them.
Built and rigged purposely for its 14 stone male crew,
it was clearly totally incompatible for any other crew, least
a women's crew, and under the circumstances a total waste
of time racing in it.
Unfortunately this is only one example of the
chauvinistic attitude that now prevails within the Boat
Club. At present the women members of the Boat Club
are given the lowest priority irrespective of their
commitment and achievements. The Senoir C IV who
should have raced last Saturday, three members of which
came second in their division at the IV's Head this season,
have been forced to practise in an old, twisted wooden
boat and to compete in boats that the Boatman Bill Mason
has kindly managed to borrow from other clubs. In
contrast, Novice men's crews, who train less often and
are less experienced, have been allocated, it seems
automatically, comparatively race worthyfibreglassboats.
Clearly, there are certain members of the IC Boat Club
who are not benefitting from the money that the Union
is putting into the Club. In its present state, the women
members of the Club feel they have no alternative but to
join a different rowing club. At a time when Imperial is
actively trying to encourage women to join the College
I think that it is important that College is made aware of
the situation which currently exists within one of its
costliest and most prominent clubs.
Yours sincerely,
Mandy Phillips, ME3
Ladies' Boat Club Captain
Copies to: Mr John Smith, College Secretary
Sydney Harbour Bridge, Union President
Robert Gee, Boat Club Captain
Mr Gee would like me to ask any ladies to see him so
that he can discuss the situation with them. He is very
anxious that things should be sorted out between the
men and the ladies.
Misguided tories
Dear Ms Hackney,
On coming into College on the morning of Tuesday 16th
I spied a poster reading 'Hitler had a no-platform policy
as well—the Conservatives protect free speech'.
I had to ask myself if this was a joke perpetrated by
an opposition group, a sick attempt at humour from IC
Conservative Society, or a sadly misguided though
sincerely felt opinion.
Like many others I laughed to myself as I tried to
reconcile this statement with the facts of the seven-year
Thatcher tyranny as I know them.
We are talking about a government who has 'lost'
important documents concerning the sinking of the
Argentine ship 'Belgrano', who have, in their goulish guise
as Norman Tebbit, tried to dictate broadcasting policy to
the British institution the BBC. We are talking about a
government who lost two ministers during the shady saga
of 'Westlands'—both who left of their own accord as they
felt they could no longer take part in the covert dealings.
We are talking about a government who have recently
wasted millions of pounds of taxpayers' money in a futile
and embarrassing attempt to bar 'Spy Catcher' which
documents highly controversial material about underhand
dealings of the security forces against the Wilson
government.
We are talking about a government that will not allow
us, the public, to hear Mr John Stalker's evidence in the
alleged RUC 'shoot to kill' policy and of a leader who
quickly stifles any disenting voices in her cabinet by
mysteriously reshuffling.
We are talking about a Prime Minister who justifies
denying public access to potentially embarrassing topics
by using the catch-all phrase of 'not in the public interest'
and hoping that will justify the public and the media.
This is a government whose youth wing, the Young
Conservatives stifle speeches by the Federation of
Conservative Students, some of whose members illustrate
the hard right reality that underscores their actions.
I had to laugh as I considered that this poster related
to a government who refused to sanction a Freedom of
Information Act.
I am both angry and sympathetic to the poor fools who
take these posters seriously and I think it will take a miracle
if the Tories don't try to censor this letter before it reaches
print.
I am all for free speech but when will the government
be?
Yours in sincerity,
Matthew Salter (Chem 1).
Hell hath no fury II
Dear Judith,
You may have been confused so far by the
correspondence coming from Tizard Hall. Until now we
have been sworn to secrecy about the bizarre goings on
in the hall, under threat of having to spend an evening
with these three notoriously interesting people—Dracula
J, Grumph and Ken McC. Well, I am now daring to break
the silence and tell all.
The truth of the matter is that they are involved in a
love triangle and these 'incoherent mutterings' are in fact
codes, arranging meetings for their secret society 'Radio
Bonk', (they have obviously misunderstood the meaning
of 'Sachs in the Afteroon' on Capital).
They were quite happy until Grumph had an affair with
his teddy bear and, although he pleaded that it didn't mean
anything, the bitching started. (Hell hath no fury like a
fag scorned!)
This brings me onto the question of why girls in Tizard
Hall are single. The boys are obviously far too busy
playing with pen and paper to play with the girls.
But don't despair, there are some real men out there.
Love, The Shark.
FELIX Friday 26th February 1988 17

