tters
Petty vandalism
Dear Judith,
It's a great pity that we at SFSoc have had to write this
letter, especially in view of the success of Picocon, but
recent events have made it an unfortunate necessity.
It's well known that the life of posters around IC tends
to be short, especially on the walkway, but it has become
clear that in the case of SFSoc publicity someone thinks
that even a couple of days is too long for our posters to
stay up. Atfirstwe were inclined to blame missing posters
on over-zealous cleaners or high winds and insufficient
blu-tac, but this week it became clear what was really
happening. On the Thursday prior to Picocon some twenty
posters were put up along the walkway between Mech Eng
and the bookshop. By Friday morning they had gone and
so were replaced. By lunchtime the replacements had gone,
and so more went up. By 3pm they too had been removed.
Whoever did it wasn't remotely subtle—adjacent posters
from STOIC, ICSO etc that had been up since Wednesday
were left untouched.
We don't know what motivates this person (we hope
it isn't another group); maybe they don't like one of us,
or they hate SFSoc as a whole. We don't much care. Every
week we have to produce over 100 posters to have enough
to re-poster the walkway up to twice a day—and it's the
Union's money—your money—that is being wasted.
Twenty posters removed is a pound down the drain, and
we are getting sick of it. We would like to remind those
responsible that defacing or removing other club's
publicity is a Union disciplinary offence, and if you're
caught you could well end up paying a sizeable part of
our publicity budget. It's a pity that this letter had to be
written, but enough is enough. Whoever you are, you
might feel clever and proud of your petty vandalism, but
just lay off before you're exposed as the idiot you are.
Simon Bradshaw, ICSF Publicity Officer,
Nancy Reading, ICSF Assistant Publicity Officer,
Tom Yates, ICSF Chairman,
Charles Rainey, ICSF Treasurer,
Dave Clements, SCC Chairman.
S'il vous plait
Dear Editor,
Are there any IC students out there who would like to
take part in an exchange with the ESPCI in Paris.
There could be the opportunity to study for a year to
gain a MSc or DEA in the fields of Materials, Physics,
Chemistry, Chem Eng, Elec Eng or Computing.
The ESPCI (Ecole Superieure de Physique et Chemie
Industrielle) is one of the top 'Grande Ecoles' and is in
the Latin Quarter of Paris.
If you are interested, please drop me a note as soon as
possible.
Clive Benham, Mech Eng 2.
Do not pass Go
Dear Judith,
I am writing in response to the piece on Rag in your
editorial in last week's FELIX (794). While it is fair for
you to comment on the actions of Rag, I think what you
said was unbased and unjustified. It was a shame that there
was no mention of Monopoly which was the next day,
consequently only forty people turned up and we only
raised £1,800. We in Rag believe that we should put on
a balance of different events, collecting externally is a lot
of hard work for the individuals actually doing it (ask
anyone who was on Monopoly) and if we only collected
externally we would soon burn out the people involved.
For the rest of this term there are at least five external
collections a week (although most involve only two
people), a few large sponsored events and some 'fun'
events (like eat Fatso's bare on March 1) that are not aimed
to raise that much money. Instead of putting people off
Rag (or its sponsored events) as an ex-VP of Rag you could
have devoted the space to highlighting the other things
Rag does.
Just for the record, Rag has raised in total £22,600 this
year (calculated at 3am last Sunday) and the next Rag raid
is on Saturday to Chelmsford with free tickets to the
pyjama party afterwards—there are still some places left,
more details at the Rag meeting today (Friday), 12.30pm,
Union Lounge. We, like you yourself, prefer people to
come and talk to us before they write their own opinions
in FELIX. Anyway it's all water under the bridge.
Yours constructive debate and all the rest,
Hal Calamvokis, Rag Secretary 1987-88.
PS. They say charity starts at home.
/cial aspects. » ' publishers. —.ed-i- lo-n-Jl-Jj
C the opinion ol trie eoiior or n.c v
V—.ed-i-'tu ri-al'h/
From
Collins
English
Dictionary
A fan letter
Dear Judith,
With reference to the letter from Mr Salmons and Mr
Wood in FELIX last week. I fully support their efforts
to regain their money; taken by FELIX over a bad job
done, in printing their membership cards.
Last term, Hamsoc also requested that FELIX print
membership cards, These cards, it was agreed, would be
in two colours. When the cards arrived, it was found that
about one third of them were unusable; most of these being
completely blank! Also, the cards were only in one colour.
We have not been asked to pay for these cards. Why is
it then, that Mopsoc and Astrosoc have been asked to pay
for similar (or worse) goods that they received?
P Hopkins, Hamsoc QSL Manager.
It was obvious to me that your cards were unusable
and that it was our fault. Hence no charge. This is very
different from the complaint Mopsoc and Astrosoc have
with us. See FELIX 794.
Another fan letter
Dear Judith,
Could you please explain why there is a total lack of
new photographs in FELIX?
There hasn't been a photograph accompanying a leading
article all year, this seems very suspicious to me perhaps
there is a staff revolt, this might explain the wacky letter
from Andy Bannister printed earlier this year and the call
for new hacks.
Yours observantly,
Jon Morgan, Chem 1.
Have you been reading the same newspaper as the one
that I've been editting?
i l l
ANNOUNCEMENTS
• International Week-Fri Feb 26, 10.30am to
6pm, JCR. Friends of Palestine Society present
Palestine Exhibition with embroideries,
caricatures, artprints, handicrafts, books,
posters, all welcome, admission free
• Guilds' May Ball tickets are on sale from
March 1.
• Jumble jumble jumble Please sent your
jumble, unwanted books, bric-a-brac, clothes
toys and tasty cakes to IC Nursery, 8 Princes
Gardens by Thursday March 3.
• CKy & Guilds plus Fullers present the rugby
seven-a-side competition. This is your last
opportunity to sign up your team in the Guilds
Office To be held at Harlington on Sunday
March 6. All teams must be signed up by
March 2 if they wish to compete
• Anyone interested in forming an American
football team contact Max Hallious, Mech Eng
1.
ACCOMMODATION
• Single Room in flat for rent. All mod cons,
£40 p/w plus bills. Phone Matthew on 789
7391 after 7pm.
FOR SALE & WANTED
• One pair SX90 ski boots, size 360, £20.
Contact J Biddle (Biochem 2) or 371 0249.
• 1 pair red leather thigh boots. Reason for
sale: owner's legs too short. See M Mukherjee
(Physics 2). Also for sale: leather blindfold with
thongs and studs.
• Wanted—Second-hand practice amp.
Contact M J Virdee, Aero 2 pigeonholes.
• Atari 520 ST-1MB memory (upgrade to
2MB possible on board). 720k disk drive and
lots of software Offers to Steve Black, int
4642.
PERSONAL
• Shorty the Giraffe needs no clue to stick to
his plastic monkey-this fixture's permanent.
• Monica-I luv u, Jimba
• Monica-I'd like to take you out. Your two
friends are welcome too! - Jimmy.
• Dinner for 2? Monica 4 Jim (2).
• Monica-lf you stand up again I'll faint!
Jimmy.
• Are you a member of the Rhino Club?
• Do you know where Rayleigh House is?
• Answers on a postcard to box 7/141!
• Picture the scene; 1.45am in a quiet room
in Princes Gardens...IT spoke—37 Mad
Gardeners.
• Where does IT go on the
weekend?-37MG's.
• Hey Wottadick, how was your 'bite' to eat?
37MG's.
• You think AAOs are bad? Well, Dep Reps
are worse
• Frightened to go to the toilet? Remember,
we're here to save the world. AAB.
•Yishu-Roses are the best shade of red, But
you are the best in bed—xxx.
• Wap me with the red spatula, man.
• Ooh! ooh! Not the egg whisk.
• Put that cheese grater away, Julian.
• Definition of a beanfeast: mass orgy with
red kitchen utensils.
• Wanted: SM partner, Must provide own red
fishslice Apply M Mukherjee, Physics 2.
18 Friday 26th February 1988 FELIX

