: —
vC3
«T7
• To my secret admirer (alias the woman who
wants it): don't be shy, please tell me who you
are! Richard, Life Sci 1 pigeonholes.
• To my secret admirer: thanks for the
Valentine's card. Who are you?? From your
'secret admiree'-xxx
• U think IC Amnesty meetings at 5.30 in the
Brown Committee Room are boring? So do we,
se we're now having them at 1.30pm in Elec
Eng.
• Never mind pilchard factories, when are you
getting your Scottish church or Welsh farm?
You need to be elligible as well! (only kidding).
• Bargain-for as little effort as signing a
petition you can send a letter to a genuine
dictator or tell him how useless he is—IC
Amnesty letter stall, 1pm Thursday, JCR.
• Pyjama party—Saturday 27, 8pm. Be there
or be a square!
• Get pissed till 1am at the Pyjama Party,
tomorrow.
• Stage Two Roadshow, with DJ? Yes at the
pyjama party.
• Missed the DSD get your Guilds May Ball
tickets on Monday from the Guilds Office—
cost £42.
• Feeling hungry? Help eat Fatso's bare Meet
Southside Bar, 7pm, Monday.
• David Bradley, Thumping Incorporated, Beit
Hall, Room 89.
• To the 254 flat-tops—what colour next week
guys?
• Darren—is it an 'armed robbery' degree
you're taking.
• Surinder-is IT really small, or have you
been spoilt.
• Try harder Rachel, you might get him!
• Following a recent vote of no confidence in
Andy, the post of LLO is now open. First
candidate with a proposer gets the job.
Penthouse Club
• Become a straight thinker—wish the vogon
had never been born. The Penthouse Club.
• Dear PK, you're right-spin, dive, crash,
burn. Andy, LLO candidate
• Andy-bet I get the job PK.
•Light bulb power increased by patent
method. See mark; the Penthouse Club.
• Wanted: Replacement flatmate for M J
Virdee Contact the Penthouse Club, 130 HG.
• Graham's is so solid he can wop it on the
floor and it makes a loud noise
• Manoj-Do you ever awaken? We love your
pyjamas—The Second Floor.
• Mike-have you been to Benetton lately?
• Mike—congratulations on 5254 (or is it
5354?).
• Mike—congratulations on three months—my
longest ever.
• Paul—you don't have any. I'm sure you
don't—I know you don't.
• Boys on the second floor get down on the
rug and do it together.
• ICWBC-Imperial College Women's Boatless
Club.
• Q: What have men got that women
haven't?
• A: A boat.
• ICBC (men only).
• One o'clock, two o'clock, three o'clock,
thump!
• There was a young sailor named Rick,
whose boyish good looks were a trick, such a
mad foolish caper, with an ad in this paper,
left both of us feeling quite sick.
• To the least eligible Electrical Engineer:
'Where do you get your strength from now?'
Phew, what a scorcher!
Dear Judith,
Poor you! I sympathise with your views that most
Council members are little better than nodding dogs. Still,
at least they do ask some questions. If you are really
concerned that the President is not submitting reports for
FELIX, why didn't you ask him to justify himself?
Perhaps Mr Sydney Harbour Bridge (the late Mr Ian
Howgate) doesn't submit reports because he doesn't like
the way that you snipe at him every week in both the
editorial, and the 'Libel' page that you also write. Perhaps
he is too busy with other things to write a report which
may not be printed anyway.
For someone who writes 'I don't invite criticism. I invite
constructive debate' in their editorials, where in reality
the reverse is true, do they deserve the effort? I don't know
what your personal vendetta is against Sydney, but I find
it offensive and unnecessary to see it sprawled all over
the pages of FELIX.
If the cat is going to be factually incorrect, is it worth
keeping him free? You state that all past Presidents have
written regular reports. Bullshit! Christine Taig may have
done a reasonably regular job, but previous Presidents like
Carl Burgess and Ian Bull did not. Burgess' literary efforts'
were even left out, when submitted, by the then editor.
The FELIX Editor is not God. The Editor is accountable
to the electorate in just the same way as any other
sabbatical. An Editor for such a publication should reflect
the true views of ICU rather than the distorted personal
views that you seem to hold.
Perhaps other people also agree, and this is why
everybody gets three credits, to hide the fact that a lot
of FELIX staff have drifted away under your dictatorship.
I would hope that FELIX would aspire to being a quality
newspaper rather than a Sun—News of the World—Sunday
Sport rip off. Next year's Editor please take note!
Yours sincerely,
Tony Spencer
1) I am an observer on Council. I report on what
happens and do not involve myself with its running.
It is not my place to question the President at Council.
Surely as an ex-student, you should know that Tony.
2) I do not write the Libel page, I only add space fillers
if not enough text has been submitted to fill the two
columns allocated.
3) I would print any report Ian submitted except if it
expressed an opinion (hence it is not a report) or he
submitted it after the Union Page had gone to press.
4) Check your eye sight.
5) Would you like to be my page 3 fella next week?
One more fan letter
Dear Judith,
I feel I must reply concerning your bias and inaccuracies
in your contentious reply to the letter of complaint last
week from MOPSOC and Astrosoc.
Your reply gives nothing but poor excuses for bad work,
a common enough occurance for anyone using the Print
Unit. (There were even errors in the MOPSOC letter).
The Print Unit this year has not only botched this job,
but also work for Broadsheet, Hamsoc, the Postgrad
Prospectus covers and the Silwood tickets for RCSU to
name but a few. For a Unit that pretends to be professional,
I find the cavalier attitude towards paying customers and
producing substandard work distasteful.
The two societies gave you the least hassle possible and
agreed that they would let you print their cards on the
Balloon Club plate that you already had, although it would
cost more. They did you a favour. The result was a bad
job, for which they were then charged 2.6 times the
original verbal estimate.
Many clubs and organisations decide to go ahead with
printing on the basis of an estimate or quote supplied by
the Print Unit Manager, to fit in with their budgets. Since
FELIX refuses to give written quotes for some reason,
they rely on the trust of a verbal quote. They are rewarded
with bills sent out weeks later which are then at least
double those quoted. This is not only breach of trust but
highly dubious business practice. Standard bill differences
for professional printers will differ only by plus or minus
ten per cent, not an order of magnitude greater. A 'guess'
is just not good enough.
I will also quibble with the statement that there is no
labour charge in the Print Unit's 'at cost' printing. For
those not aware, the Unit charges for a plate, plus artwork
costs plus the paper, PLUS a charge for each time a sheet
is run through the press (and this is twice if both sides
are printed). If this latter is not a labour charge (quoted
as 'machine time') then I don't know what is! Ink and fount
solutions are not that expensive!
As for Mr Salmons 'having changed his mind', it is
obvious that as two clubs were involved, two people were
responsible for rejecting the work. Since only one of them
picked up the job, Mr Salmons was not able to return the
defective cards until 9.00am the next day. At least they
communicated with each other, which it is obvious that
the Print Unit Manager and Business Manager did not!
For a printing facility that likes to think it runs on
commercial lines, this is not good enough. Everybody
makes mistakes but you should be man enough to admit
them, and not pass the charges for your incompetence onto
the customer. Proper written quotes would not go amiss
either. If you have any courage you will print this letter,
or else it will be submitted to the CCU publications, who
do understand what a free press is all about.
Publish or be damned!
Tony Spencer
1) We have never 'pretended' to be a 'professional'
print unit. How can we be when the Manager is a
sabbatical and most of the equipment antiquated and
inadequate. What we do offer is cheap printing for
clubs and societies. At least our printing is distinctive!
2) We have never refused to give written quotes.
3) How can we quote an accurate price for cards when
we don't know how much artwork the club will use
and how much of the plate they will take up?
4) The 'impression charge' (not 'machine time', dear)
covers not only ink and fount solutions but machine
maintenance (servicing costs us nearly £2,000 pa),
machine depreciation, blanket wash, plate Cleaner,
damper cleaner, roller paste, oil, grease, anti-offset
spray, hand cleaner, barrier cream, anti-skin spray,
blankets, blanket reviver, dampers and paracetamols.
Thefinalone
Dear Judith,
I'm fed up with reading people slagging off you and
the Print Unit!
If they want perfect printing at an hour's notice, with
smiling jovial staff they should go to a print shop whose
staff are paid decent wages and who can go home at five
o'clock and forget about work.
Perhaps a 'real' print shop would appreciate the arrogant
customers insisting on constant attention to their job but
I doubt even they'd stand for it.
Pippa Salmon.
FELIX Friday 26th February 1988 19

