THE EDUCATION REFORM BILL AND ITS IMPLICATIONS
This document details the implications of the Education Reform Bill from the
viewpoint of Imperial College Union. It should be noted that these points are
are restricted to the direct effect that it will or may have on Imperial College.
It is felt that sufficient information is available on its implication to the education
system as a whole.
Of the 142 clauses in the Bill only 12 have direct relevance to Universities,
although many set precedents that could ultimately affect Imperial College, whilst
a large number include phrases which allow the Secretary of State to change a
proposal that has been passed without reference to Parliament.
In the 12 clauses which have relevance to Universities, Imperial College should be
concerned about only three but they are, in fact, very crucial clauses. A t the
same time, we should be gravely concerned about other clauses in the Bill which
give the Secretary of State unreasonable powers over other educational institutions.
There are far too many of these to discuss in full but Clause 139 illustrates the
matter fairly well:
139. - ( 1 ) . The Secretary of State may by order make such
modifications in any enactment relating to employment
and, in particular, in any enactment -
(a) conferring powers or imposing duties on employers;
(b) conferring rights on employees; or
(c) otherwise regulating the regulations between employers
and employees;
as he considers necessary or expedient in consequence of the operation
of any of the provisions of this A c t mentioned in subsection (2) below
(2) Those provisions are -
(a) sections 33(2) and (3) and 34(9) and Schedule 2; and
(b) subsections (2) to (8) of section 10*.
Needless to say, Sections 33, 3* and 10* are the major sections concerned with the
appointment and dismissal of staff. The Secretary of State, in proposing Clause
139, is suggesting that he should have the power to overrule anyone else's decisions
on staffing matters. Luckily for Imperial College, the Secretary of State is bound
by Crown legislation on universities and cannot intervene in this area as yet.
It is the opinion of the Union that Imperial College should at least register its
dismay over such proposals even if they do not affect us.
The three clauses about which Imperial College should be particularly concerned are
Clauses 92,9* and 130. The remaining nine clauses affecting universities merely
give teeth to the bodies established by this Bill to enable them to carry out their
duties.
The summary of Clause 92 in the Bill states:
Clause 92 and Schedule 6 provide for the establishment of the
Universities Funding Council, to be responsible for the administering
funds made available by the Secretary of State for the purpose of
providing education, research and other activities at universities.
Schedule 6 makes provision for the powers, composition, staffing
and organisation of the Council'
What this actually means is the provision of a body empowered to distribute funds,
allocated to them by the Secretary of State, to universities around Britain. This
body will have no power to ask for more money than it is given and is not bound
by any regulations on what it should or should not fund.
Paraphrasing Sections * and 5 of this clause to rid it of all legalistic jargon leaves
it reading:
"Council shall be responsible for administering funds made available
for the purpose of providing financial support for activities eligible
for funding. The activities are:
(a) provision of education and research
(b) provision of other activities by universities in
connection with education and research."
Part (b) is the only section of this Bill which could possibly be interpreted as
suggesting that some body should fund student unions, let alone other welfare and
recreational facilities. In fact, it does not even define that they should be funded
but merely that they are eligible to be funded if the University Funding Council
(UFC) feels like doing so.
Once paraphrased Section 7 reads:
"Council shall have power -
(a) to keep under review activities eligible for funding"
This means that any time the Council does not feel like funding these activities it
can stop doing so. This could mean no clubs or societies, no Haldane Library, no
student representation, no Welfare office, no Accommodation office, no support for
students and no student body to oppose government legislation such as this.
The members of the U F C are personally selected by the Secretary of State and
the Council is made up of 15 members, of which between 6 and 9 are to come
from areas involved in industry, commerce and finance.This, in many ways, is likely
to be a good thing for Imperial College and could possibly mean that the Council
will have a bias towards Imperial College when distributing funds, but that is yet
to be seen. Unfortunately, what is demonstrated is an inclination to move towards
privatisation of the higher education system as a whole, a move which threatens
not only to preclude many people from gaining further education because of their
background but also the funding of welfare services and student unions. The rest
of the Bill shows a distinct tendency towards laying the ground for such a move.
A move such as this would be disastrous for education in the fields of arts and
humanities and, at the same time, endanger research and study in areas which do
not give short-term financial gain, such as the Departments of Maths and Pure'
Physics, sections of Geology, any long-term research project and many more areas
at Imperial.
The summary of Clause 9* reads:
"Clause 9* empowers the Secretary of State to confer additional
functions on the Funding Councils, and makes supplementary provision
for the payments which they make and the grant which they may
receive from the Secretary of State."
Three very important sections are contained in this clause:
Section 2 allows the U F C to require repayment of any part of a
University's funding, including any interest that would otherwise
have been earned on that money, if any condition specified by the U F C
at the time of issuing the fund is not complied with.

