Section 3 states "The Secretary oi State may make grants to each
of the funding Councils of such amounts and subject to such restrictions
as he may determine."
This means that the Secretary of State is free to make cuts in University funding
as and when he sees fit without anyone having any recourse to question him. It
should be noted that he intends to increase student numbers by 5% whilst cutting
funding by 126 million pounds, by the implementation of this Bill.
It also means that the Secretary of State is free to impose restrictions such as
"You shall not fund student facilities" or "Funding shall only take place under a
system of contract funding." For those who don't know, contract funding which
has been discussed in relation to this Bill, would mean that each Department would
have to put in competitive tenders in an attempt to gain funding, the U F C being
more than likely to accept the cheapest. The first areas to be cut in an attempt
to educate the largest number of students at the least cost would be those
concerning student facilities.
At the same time the Secretary of State is also giving himself the power to cut
specific departments. The Finance & Executive committees of Imperial have
already been under considerable pressure from Government to cut four departments
who are grossly overspending their budgets. These departments and their overspend
are: Maths - £525K; Physics - £333K; Materials - £205K and Chemistry - £! 21K.
If the new system was in place now the Secretary of State could cut Imperial's
budget by the same amounts, whilst specifying that these Departments will not be
funded.
Section (<*) states: "Funding Councils shall comply with any directions given to
them by the Secretary of State."
"You shall be my puppets and I shall pay you for being so," says the Secretary of
State. Enough said!
Clause 130 is summarised in this manner:
"Clause 130 and Schedule 9 establish a body known as the University
Commissioners, set out considerations to which they are to have
regard in exercising their functions, and define the institutions in
respect of which they are to exercise those functions."
In fact, what this is doing is setting up a body to implement the removal of job
tenure for College staff. This would allow a university to dismiss staff for reasons
of redundancy or "good cause".
In many ways something of this nature has been needed for some time as there
are quite a number of people who work for College to do very little and get paid
a lot because they have job tenure and know they can get away with it. This
lack of commitment to the job has meant it is nearly impossible to run an
efficient institution as someone is always going to mess it up.
Unfortunately, this clause also provides the machinery for the dismissal of any
member of staff who simply does not agree with the system, or as a way of saving
money. The reason for this is that we do not know that the commissioners are
going "to apply the principles of justice and fairness", (whatever that may mean
from the Government's viewpoint) as stated in Section 2(b) of Clause 130, simply
because they are selected by the Secretary of State. It is not reasonable for us
to trust the Secretary of State, as he has proven by the way he is trying to push
this Bill through with very little consultation, that he is untrustworthy.
We would be far happier with Clause 130 if the commissioners were appointed by
the Privy Council or an independent academic board.
There is very little doubt that this Bill in its present form poses a fundamental
threat to University and Student Union funding and autonomy. This is in many
ways a great shame as a shift in the education system towards Science and
Technology has to be beneficial to this country and this Bill actually proposes to
do that.
Unfortunately, so little time has been allowed for ironing out the flaws in the Bill
that we must protest now in order to secure the future of student facilities.
An attempt has been made to give each Departmental academic year the option of
joining in any protest and it was decided that Imperial College Union should act in
a manner independent of the N U S . Hence, each set is to be asked if it will support
a half-day abstention from lectures on Tuesday, March Ist, between 10.30 a.m. and
4.30 p.m., the time when Association of Universities Teachers, your lecturers, are
aiming to lobby Parliament.
Give your lecturers the opportunity to exercise their right to lobby Parliament.
Absent yourselves from the lectures they are not allowed to cancel. A t the same
time, support the A U T and this document by taking this simple action. It's not a
lot to ask in order to defend 40 years of an education system, the future of
your department and student facilities.
SYDNEY HARBOUR-BRIDGE
President
Imperial College Union 25 February 1988
* * * * * * * * * * * *
Will academic reps please remember to inform
if their set has voted to abstain from lectures.
If you have any problems please contact the Union

