• NAUGHTY Nigel Whitfield tried
to play hero this week by ringing the
Standard to tell them of the fault on
one of Mercury's telephone lines. He
had discovered that by dialling
131-0000000000 followed by any
number in the world, he could
telephone free from any payphone to
anywhere in the world! He asked the
man at the Standard to try and secure
a donation to Rag from Mercury for
the information. When he had heard
nothing for a few days he decided to
telephone Mercury direct. When he
mentioned money, he was told to go
away or be arrested for blackmail!
• WHY DID FELIX centrespread
Andrew Waller get his hair cut on
Wednesday? Rumours that he wished
to disguise himself were scotched
when he confessed 'when my mother
sees this she'll say 'I hope you've got
your hair cut since then!"
Ah, what a sweetie!
• J U D I T H 'DICTATOR' HACK-
NEY has taken to standing on chairs
to exert her authority over the
cowering staff.
The rule of terror was shortlived,
however, when the Business Manager
hurled a roll of masking tape at her.
Ah well, the bigger they come, the
harder they fall!
THE B
A
R
O
N
Derek sat in his padded ceil
(sorry, office) looking at the
furry little creature running
around on its wheel, nibbling at
its food and drinking from its
bottle.
'There, there, my little friend.
Uncle Derek's going to look
after you, I won't let that nasty
Sidney Spanker get you.'
Just then John Secretary
walked in. 'Excuse me, your
most magnificent baron-ness',
he said very sincerely, 'but who
are you talking to?'
'Oh, err..., nobody John.'
'Yes you were, I distinctly
heard you.'
'OK then, I admit it. I was talking to this pet that someone gave
me to look after.'
Derek moved aside and showed John the small cage. Inside was
a large gerbil.
'What on earth have you got that in here for?' said the stunned John.
'I was given it last summer, when it was just a baby, to look after
while some friends of mine, Margaret and Kenneth, went on holiday.
They haven't been back to collect it yet and it just keeps eating and
getting fatter and fatter. Now I hear that Sidney Spanker wants to
kill it.'
'Why should Spanker want to kill a gorgeous little creature like
this?', said John Secretary, putting his fingers through the bars of
the cage to stroke it. Unfortunately the gerbil didn't want to be stroked
and sunk its teeth into John's finger instead.
'Ouch, the little bastard bit me', howled John.
'Yes, it didn't used to do that. Let me tell you the whole story. When
I got it, it was just an ordinary gerbil, it didn't do much and didn't
say much. Then after a few weeks it started to talk. First of all just
things like 'Hello Derek' and other niceties, but then more serious
things like 'Section 1, Scientists and Engineers are great, artists are
a waste of money.'
'That's incredible', gasped John, 'have you managed to train it to
say anything else.'
'Well, I managed to change section 1 to 'Scientists and Engineers
are great, especially the ones at Cheapskate, artists are a waste of
money, except electricians who play violins.' Apart from that it just
keeps on saying things like 'I love Kenny and Maggie and Uncle Derek
is a cutie.'
'So why does Sidney Spanker want to kill it?'
'Oh, I don't know, more stupid publicity I suppose.'
'What's he going to do?'
'They had an extraordinary citizens' meeting and voted to go on
strike one day next week. They're going to gang up and try to kill
my gerbil, and what's more, if all the citizens go on strike then the
torturers will have no one to torture for the afternoon so they will
join the citizens.'
'So how many will attack do you think?' asked John, who was being
strangely inquisitive because he knew more than Derek but liked to
see Derek sound impressive.
'About three or four if they're lucky', laughed Derek, 'so we'll just
get you, Arthur Michael, lain Bore and Rob McNorthey to mount a
round the clock bodyguard on my gerbil.
Will Spanker kill the gerbil?
Will McNorthey put it in a QT burger?
Will Derek get a peerage for looking after Maggie and Ken's gerbil?
Find out in the next episode of the Baron of Cheapskate.
Li bel
• IT'S NICE TO SEE the IC Union
Executive are getting on so well. At
the E G M last Tuesday, Guilds
President Dave Tyler spoke against
President Ian 'Spanker' Howgate's
proposal for the half day strike. Mr
Spanker immediately turned to his
right and exclaimed to the aghast Mr
Tyler 'Why don't you turn over and
die?'. Some wag present then
shouted, quick as a flash, 'Let's vote
on it...'.
• M R T Y L E R was equally popular
at the recent Union Finance
Committee, when they were
discussing the ridiculous RCS Union
Estimate for next year. President
Clare McErlane was valiently trying
to defend the astounding £6,000
increase while Mr 2nd Lt. Tyler,
armed with all the facts from some
RCS mole, was tearing into it left,
right and centre. The other members
of RCS present were passing notes
discussing slightly more direct action
however—the best way of eliminating
Mr Tyler from this earth forthwith.
Mines President Geoff 'Jumping
Jehosophat' Parsons was considerably
more sussed. Before the committee
started to discuss his claim, he told
the assembled hacks 'There's a few
things I've forgotten but if you cut my
claim, I'll add them on again'. Suffice
to say his estimate was passed with
little further ado.
• H A V E Y O U HEARD of Kelso?
'Yes', said Martin Prick, 'it ran a
good race last week!'.
• WE HEAR THAT the University
of East Anglia have just elected a
gerbil as President. IC beat them to
it by a year...
FELIX Friday 26th February 1988 5

