by Steve Black
Physics lost one of its greatest writers last week, when Richard Feynman died
of cancer. He had a Nobel Prize but he could still explain complicatedphysics
to ordinary people. For example: 'The neutrino is almost, but not quite, totally
useless; take your son-in-law as a model... '. He may have been a smartass,
but that made his books (he wrote good textbooks and good popular books),
a delight to read. He also played the bongos, as readers of his textbooks will
know. He made physics a more popular and more humane subject.
Books
and
Science
Science is too important to be left to
the scientists. We have, for too long,
done our best to keep our knowledge
to ourselves. The excuse is that 'a
little knowledge is a dangerous thing'.
We have been content to let the public
remain completely ignorant of our
subjects, assuming that our work is
unaffected by their ignorance.
We can no longer afford the luxury
of our ivory towers: we have to come
down to earth and tell people what we
have been doing with their money.
Science needs a constant supply of
new scientists to keep it going, and
in some subjects the supply is drying
up because no one has bothered to tell
anyone outside the profession how
interesting it really is.
Ignorance breeds suspicion. For
example, the public's monumental
ignorance of chemistry has created the
belief that any food containing
'chemicals' is poisoned in a reckless
attempt to increase chemical industry
profits. We only have ourselves to
blame when this happens. Our lack
of interest in the day-to-day relevance
of our science to the man in the street
inevitably leads to such anti-science
attitudes.
This week's column is a brief-
review of some of the books that have
tried to fill that yawning chasm in
public understanding.
My first choice is Molecules
(Scientific American Library, 1987).
This is a book about chemistry for
people who don't know any
chemistry. The author, Peter Atkins,
is well known for his textbooks on
Physical Chemistry and Quantum
Mechanics. But, instead of starting his
book with an explanation of chemical
bonding or reactivity (which is highly
offputting), he concentrates simply on
the structure of molecules. He
describes the structures with the aid
of colourful 'portraits' built from
touching spheres representing the
individual atoms. He is careful
enough not to assume that the
readership will understand the sort of
shorthand notation usually used by
chemists to describe molecular
structure, so he gives a very gentle
introduction to the interpretation of
the pictures.
It is truly amazing how much
chemistry can be appreciated just
from these structural portraits. Even
experienced chemists can gain new
insights into common everyday
chemistry by glancing at the pictures.
The book is a guided tour through
the chemical makeup of the everyday
world. Atkins starts with the air we
breathe (and stops to mention some
of its common pollutants). Then he
shows us the structures of the things
that we use as fuels for our cars and
our bodies (the structure of petrol is
not so far removed from the structure
of margarine). He talks about the
molecules that go into plastics, and
the molecules that make our food taste
the way it does. There is a section on
the chemicals that make nature
colourful, and finally a selection of
good and bad chemicals (everything
from aspirin to TNT).
This book demystifies chemistry: it
shows that the molecules made by
chemists are the same as the
molecules used by nature. It deals in
generalities and leaves many
questions for inquiring minds. The
style alone (never mind the quality of
the diagrams), literate, humourous
and exciting. It is probably the first
ever book to make the mysteries of
chemistry as accessible as the over-
hyped mysteries of cosmology and
particle physics.
In short, it is one of the best
introductory science books I have
ever read (and the first one ever
written by a chemist). Chemistry
would be in less trouble than it is now
in if there were more books like it.
Another classic of unpretentious
explanation is: The New Science of
Strong Materials: or Why You Don't
Fall Through the Floor, by J E
Gordon (Penguin, 1977). The title
gives away the style of the book: it
is the sort of book that asks and
answers obvious everyday questions
without bothering to obfuscate the
answers with technical gobbledygook.
Its answers are, however, sound
enough for it to be an Open
University set book.
The book is about the mysterious
interface btween chemistry, physics
and engineering called material
science. The important questions are
why are some things weak and others
strong? Why is everything weaker
than it ought to be?
The book neatly explains the
difference between stiffness and
toughness (something that we had a
lot of trouble with at school). It also
goes into the details of what
microscopic properties make
compounds behave as they do. Steel
is tough and strong, concrete is
sometimes strong, but is brittle and
sometimes weak. Wood is tough, but
relatively soft. If you want to know
why, but you don't want to be buried
by technical jargon, then this is the
book for you.
My final recommendation is
Richard Dawkin's recent book The
Blind Watchmaker (Longman, 1987).
Dawkins already had a reputation for
controversy and clarity of exposition
because of his earlier book, The
Selfish Gene. This book again
demonstrates his ability to describe
obscure facets of the process of
evolution in a way that anyone (except
a diehard creationist) can appreciate.
For example, he uses pictorial
computer models to demonstrate that
unexpected new forms can arise
through the process of natural
selection. His illustrations go a long
way towards breaking down the
intuitive barrier that prevents most
people from appreciating how
evolution works.
He is a skilled and careful writer,
capable not only of producing
grammatical English sentences (rare
enough in the world of science) but
of producing the sort of clear
explanation that is a joy to read.
These are three of my favourite
writers. There are only a few more
in their league. We need more, or
science might not have much of a
future.
8 Friday 26th February 1988 FELIX

