CLUBS & SOCIETIES felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 02 NOVEMBER
10
packed out itinerary in-
volved travelling over
2000 miles and visiting
8 diﬀerent states on the
13-day tour. From NYC,
we headed north to New Haven to visit
Yale, where we were able to experi-
ence the oldest and most established
a cappella scene in the world. We sang
a set outside, amongst their beautiful
campus buildings in the baking sun,
before watching a ‘singing dessert’
concert from one of the 17(!) a cap-
pella groups there, before attending an
amazing house-party thrown for us by
our guests there. For more detail of all
these events, see our tour blog at: www.
union.imperial.ac.uk/arts/acappella/
techtonics.
From Yale, we continued onwards to
Providence, RI and Brown University
to visit our friends the Brown Derbies.
We hosted and performed with these
awesome guys when they were in Lon-
don as part of a European tour earlier
this year, and they aptly returned the
favour, providing another amazing
evening of education into American
culture, student life, and a cappella
music.
he next day saw a change in direc-
tion as we headed back south through
6 states to Georgetown, near Washing-
ton DC. It let us experience the feel of
a true American road-trip, and spir-
its remained amazingly high, despite
hangovers, heavy traﬃc, and a 300-
mile diversion taken by one car whose
sat-nav had an aversion to Delaware.
We stayed with a lovely host family
just outside the town and caught up
on some sleep missed on the last three
nights.
Now the tour turned to business, and
the Techtonics arrived at the ﬁrst of 4
schools we would visit on the tour. Our
visit to Georgetown Day School saw us
perform in the high school assembly
before taking workshops for their mu-
sic classes and a cappella groups. he
reception was incredible! he British
boy-band eﬀect took over and we were
mobbed for photos and autographs
after every performance; a new experi-
The A Capella Tour 2012: Ea
ence for most of us. his also gave us an
excellent opportunity to sell a few cop-
ies of our debut album: Groundbreaker,
which was released just before we left
for the USA.
From Georgetown, we headed back
north to Philadelphia and to the won-
derful hospitality of Tom and ‘Broad
Street Line’ from Temple University.
he evening’s not-so-secret ‘super-
secret activity’ involved going to see
the Pentatonix; one of the best and
certainly most famous contemporary
a cappella groups in the world at the
moment. he gig was incredible, and
afterwards a few of us even managed
to get photos with the group as well as
palming a copy of our album to them.
Still buzzing, we headed back to our
host’s house on the subway, and were
shown yet another amazing house-par-
ty; we were so spoiled by the generosity
of our hosts.
Following another deep yet brief
night’s sleep, we were shown a whistle-
stop tour of Philadelphia by Tom and
Molly, our fantastic hosts. his includ-
ed experiencing Philly cheese steaks
and running up the Philly Museum
of Art steps, as seen in Rocky. Sad to
leave just as we’d settled in, the group
headed back on the road and back to
NYC and Columbia, where we met our
host Eliana from another group called
the Clefhangers. We sampled some
more greasy (cheaper) local cuisine
before heading onto the picturesque
Columbia campus where we took part
in an informal concert of a few songs
each with the Clefhangers. By the end,
a hefty crowd had gathered, including
people from the far side of the campus,
who had heard the music and seen it
as a good excuse to take a break from
their studies. We then headed down
to a (fairly) local bar, where we got to
know our hosts a little better despite
the extortionate drinks prices. Pleas
from some of the harder group mem-
bers for a longer night out were quickly
quenched, as the group had seemed to
hit the proverbial wall, so we headed
back to the rooms where we were stay-
ing for some well overdue sleep.
he next day’s schedule gave the
group a good chance to spend a prop-
er tourist day in the Big Apple. Some
group members awoke early to take
one of the cars across to a free parking
space (hard to ﬁnd) at the school we
were to sing at the next day, and also to
get in line for Broadway matinee tick-
ets. Others slept in more, before head-
ing out to see all the sights. Between the
group, we covered most of the major
NYC monuments, but the real special
moment of the day was for the lucky
6 of us who just happened to bump
into our biggest idol, a cappella and
musical legend, Bobby McFerrin. he
group sang for him, which he said was
“a real gift” before giving him a copy of
our album. he rest of the group were
devastated at missing out, and despite
8 time Tony Award winning Broadway
show, Once, being amazing, it did not
compare to meeting such a huge idol.
he evening saw us meet our hosts
for the next 2 nights, the wonderful
family that is all the people at Leman
School, Manhattan. We were to spend
the next day giving classes, workshops,
discussions on studying in the UK and
ﬁnally a concert at the school. he fam-
ilies were the best hosts that anyone
could ask for – from skyscraper pent-
houses, to why-would-I-want-to-keep-
my-Emmy-anywhere-other-than-my-
upstairs-guest-bathroom, we had such
a wonderful experience. he evening
saw us hosted at a beautiful BBQ with
a chance to meet some of the teachers,
parents and kids for the next day.
After a night of the best rest on
tour so far, we joined our respective
hosts’ children on the school run to
the amazing school. Situated about 2
blocks from Ground Zero, and with
360 degree views of the best skyline in
the world, this was some school! We
took two music classes in the morn-
ing and were received extremely well,
by the students and music teacher
alike. After a chance to eat their amaz-
ing school lunches, some of us took
time to head to Ground Zero and Bat-
tery park (to see the Statue of Liberty)
while others talked to some students
interested in studying in the UK, and
others prepared the amazingly set out
theatre (also in the school) for the gig
that evening. his was possibly one of
the best gigs that the Techtonics have
ever performed, and it has given us
new ideas about the impact that a good
and well used microphone setup can
do for our performance; this is prob-
ably going to be a major project for the
year ahead.
We were mobbed by kids and par-
ents alike afterwards, and sold many a
signed CD to the families. We then said
our temporary goodbyes and headed
for Stone St. where we joined the high
rollers of NYC in some appropriately
pricey drinks. We then returned to our
families (via an excellent ﬂorist) and
were able to relax and get to know our
hosts a bit more. One more amazing
night’s sleep, a couple of loads of laun-
dry, and another early morning later,
we were saying some very sad good-
byes.
We jumped back in our cars and
headed to Brooklyn and Poly Prep
School, where we were to perform in
two separate assemblies, for the high
school and middle school. he recep-
tion was incredible once more, the kids
(and especially the girls) absolutely
loved it, and the sheer enthusiasm for
music, a cappella, and the English ac-
cent never ceased to amaze. Straight
from the school, we headed north to
upstate New York, where we would
spend the remainder of tour. We ar-
rived in somewhat ominous thun-
derclouds to Syracuse, and met our
hosts in a greasy pizza place that we’d
become accustomed to. he evening
that followed was fantastic once again;
on dropping our bags at respective
hosts’ houses, we met up for an a cap-
pella house-party with 4 of the a cap-
pella groups from Syracuse. he loft, a
venue which ﬁt up to 100 people, com-
plete with makeshift stage, bar, and
ping pong table was up there with the
best venues we had the pleasure of per-
forming in. Also the party afterwards
was incredible, and lots of new friends
and contacts were made.
he next morning gave us the op-
portunity to see how Varsity is done
properly; Syracuse, generally consid-
ered the NY state capital for college
sport, was out in force to support their
team, and considering that events like
that occurred at every home game of
the year, the diﬀerence in college spirit
value was clear to see. Leaving yet an-
other set of lovely hosts at Syracuse, we
took the short (by comparison) drive to
Rochester to meet our next hosts, the
Yellowjackets. Competitors on hit US
show, ‘he Sing Oﬀ’, the Yellowjackets
are both very talented and very well
known. However, it was clear to see
that in essence our groups were very
similar, which was a good indication
to us that we were somehow doing it
right! After a lovely free canteen din-
ner, we headed with the Yellowjackets
to the venue (an ex-frat house) and
shared the stage at their homecom-
ing gig. Even though we had improved
so much on the tour, it was clear that
there was always more room for im-
provement, and the Yellowjackets
showed us some of the ways to do this.
As became a tradition on the tour,
we were not only treated to an incred-
ible gig but our hosts then threw yet
another amazing social occasion for
us afterwards. he following morn-
ing, we headed with the remainder
of the Yellowjackets to the incred-
ible ‘Sled Dog Studios’, in true (sitcom
style) American suburbia. he team
there was amazing; all professionals
in the a cappella and music industries,
they hosted us amazingly all day, with
endless amazing food, conversation
and enjoyment, with the added bonus
$500,000 recording studio in the base-
ment. We spent the whole day there,
with a short break to head down to the
RIT campus for a casual performance
with RIT 8 Beat Measure, and as with
many places we experienced, it felt like
we could’ve spent at least the week. We
then headed for our ﬁnal hosts of the
tour, the lovely Juli, and the local fami-
lies that lived around her.
he next morning saw our last prop-
er chance for a morning oﬀ, which we
thought it would be a shame to take
when Niagara falls are only a short
(again, relatively) drive away. Up at the
crack of dawn (with a couple of slight
alarm-missing incidents) all but 2 of us
headed out to the falls with the plan of
heading to the Canadian side (a bet-
ter view, plus why not make the tour
international!!). However, the mixture
of an early morning and a long tour
meant that not all members managed
to remember to bring passports for this
international border crossing. Not de-
terred by the thought of trying to clear
Canadian Immigration (or even US Im-
migration on return) without said ap-
propriate documentation, Eugene con-
ﬁdently drove across the bridge only to
be met by less-than-impressed Cana-
A

