CLUBS & SOCIETIES
felix@imperial.ac.uk
11
FRIDAY 02 NOVEMBER
ast Coast of USA
dian border guards, who sent us back
to the even-less-impressed US border
guards. After some relatively quick
questioning, we managed to safely reu-
nite on the US side, and those of us that
did remember passports walked across
to experience the best side of Niagara,
leaving those that forgot to watch from
the still very impressive US side.
Following this eventful morning,
we headed straight back to Roches-
ter to do an assembly performance at
Rochester School of the Arts, a local
public school. We were once again to
perform, John Lennon bare-foot style,
at a school assembly, and, becoming
fairly used to the celebrity lifestyle by
now, were mobbed by the high school
students for photos and autographs af-
terwards. We then had the full school
tour from one of the assistant heads,
and found that despite it’s slightly
rough exterior and challenging situa-
tion, it was a thriving and interesting
school. Once our guide remembered
that we were not actually prospective
parents and stopped selling his school
to us, the tour was completed and we
headed back to Juli’s house for a nice
relaxing afternoon. After some sleep/
skype/dinner/choral music around a
piano time, we began to prepare for
the ﬁnal gig of our tour; an intimate
performance to the locals in Juli’s back
garden. he setup was beautiful, and
with the clear night sky above and the
perfect acoustic, this was a really ﬁtting
gig to end a fantastic tour. he families
were fantastic and really enjoyed our
performance, which showed by the
CD’s that we managed to sell after-
wards. We had a really lovely evening
getting to know our hosts properly and
reﬂecting on what an amazing time we
had had.
Another early morning, another very
sad goodbye and we were back on the
road, headed for JFK and home. Stop-
ping only for one last artery clogging
Wendy’s, we made good progress, re-
turned our two hire cars, and made
it to departures. A four hour delayed
ﬂight gave us time to issue some tour
awards, ﬁlm a music video for one of
our songs, and to reﬂect on the amaz-
ing 13 days we’d had as well as looking
forward to the next year. Despite plans
for having a load of fun on the ﬂight, it
seemed that the tour had ﬁnally caught
up with us, and we all crashed only to
wake up at home in Heathrow. hus
concluded an amazing tour which
none of us will ever EVER forget for
the right reasons.
• To meet and network with the ex-
tensive a cappella community in
the USA East Coast area, gaining
contacts, experience and ideas to
improve our group in the future.
• To perform and give workshops at
schools in order to generate rev-
enue for the group to be used to
subsidise the tour.
• To promote and sell our newly re-
leased album, Groundbreaker.
Aims and Objectives

