Tantalising talks
IC Snowsports
CLUBS & SOCIETIES felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 02 NOVEMBER
12
Indoor skydiving is a bit like putting
your head out of a car travelling at
100mph or so... Essentially, it is a big
hair dryer pointed upwards, allow-
ing people to balance on the stream
of air to simulate the feeling of sky-
diving. It’s pretty awesome stuﬀ and
a surprisingly nice feeling (not really
like putting hundreds of angry wasps
in your clothing, more like getting
an overly aggressive body massage.
Hmm...), which is why we took a
bunch of tunnel virgins and initi-
ated them into the world of human
ﬂight (or falling!). We descended on
to AirKix in Milton Keynes in force,
a whole 24 of us, and everybody got
a little over two minutes in the tun-
nel, which is sort of equivalent to the
freefall time of three skydives. Peo-
ple spent most of that time grinning
wildly, as spittle dribbled up their
face! Everyone managed to get sta-
ble, belly down and arms out, with
the help of the instructor and when
the instructor felt they were ready,
people got to ﬂoat around the tun-
nel on their own. here’s no talking
in the tunnel as the wind whips the
words from your mouth (both physi-
As term really kicks oﬀ and we all start
getting stuck in our routine, ICDC
are coming at you with more projects
and talks than you can shake multiple
sticks at to get into a creative state of
mind.
Fresh from having the heads of Gen-
esis bikes judging and aiding our suc-
cessful last project looking into cycling
and the city of London, we found ideas
ranging from simple eﬀective gadgets
to reorganising traﬃc systems, this
really showed how ICDC is a brilliant
platform for us to use our technical ex-
pertise within the design realm allow-
ing quick development time and de-
tailed concepts to emerge in just under
4 hours! However as you all must know
by now, we don’t just have workshops,
we also had Andrew Waugh coming to
talk to us about his architecture ﬁrm
‘Waugh histleton’ architects. In the
talk we were given some insight into
how Andrew, instead of entering into a
large corporate entity, built up his own
ﬁrm doing what he wanted to do from
the very beginning. He has just ﬁnished
building the world’s largest timber resi-
dential structure in Shoreditch and is
now leading the way for cheap and
green architecture across the globe.
We now look onto the coming weeks
and we have just launched our sec-
ond project ‘Interactive City’ which
has been planned in collusion with
Andrew Shoben (TEDX Speaker and
world’s only professor in public art,
so no big deal..) who is behind www.
greyworld.org. Here we will be look-
ing at how to engage citizens of the city
through fun and inspiration to respect
and enjoy their respective realms. For
more information on our workshops
be sure to check out our Facebook
page (link below).
Whilst these workshops continue we
will also be having a talk held by Impe-
rial’s very own Professor Peter Childs,
on the subject of future aircraft cabin
design. With projections indicating an
increase in mobility over the next few
decades and annual ﬂight departures
expected to rise to over 16 billion by
2050 there is a demand for the aviation
industry and associated stakeholders
to consider new forms of aircraft and
technology. his presentation will de-
scribe a collaboration between a large
team of Innovation Design Engineer-
ing students from Imperial College
London and the Royal College of Art
and Airbus to explore and develop
concepts for future aircraft.
he talk will be held at the Royal
School of Mines room LT G20 on
hursday, 1 November 2012 from
18.00 until 19.00. Again make sure to
check the event on Facebook where we
can be found at: www.facebook.com/
ICDCollective
I hope you’re as excited for Imperial’s ski
trip as we are. It’s already snowing in the
Alps and with the booking deadline (9th
November) fast approaching it’s time to
book on! Last year we sold out a week
early and places are going fast so don’t
hesitateandputyourdepositdownnow!
From the 14th - 22nd December, we’ll
be heading to Val horens to hit the
slopes and the apres ski, with hundreds
of other students from London unis as
part of the London Snowoperative. Base
price is £329 which includes transport,
accommodation and lift pass. his is our
cheapest trip yet.
Val T has got it all, with over 600km
of piste to choose from as well as an in-
sane night life! We have parties sched-
uled every night with the other London
students. here’s a huge opening and
closing party and on Wednesday night
we have drum and bass big-dog Danny
Byrd from Hospital Records headlining
with free entry to anyone on our trip!
To book, you need to buy your Snow-
sports membership for the year at:
https://www.imperialcollegeunion.org/
shop/club-society-project-products/
snowsports-products/234/snowsports-
membership-12/13 hen, go to https://
accounts.nucotravel.com/create and
create an account. Book on the Impe-
rial London SnowOp holiday at: https://
booking.nucotravel.com/sy/london-
snowop
It doesn’t matter if you’ve never skied
before - there’ll be people of all abilities
going. And yes, you can bring friends
from other unis by buying associate
membership of the Union for December
at https://www.imperialcollegeunion.
org/your-union/how-were-run/mem-
bership. See you on the slopes!
cally and mentally) so there are a set
of hand signals the instructor gives to
you that become surprisingly hard to
remember when falling at speed! he
most common hand signal used was
“relax!”, which, at ﬁrst, is quite a chal-
lenge for someone new to the sensa-
tion of falling. By arching your back
and throwing your limbs out wide,
you can control your fall and small
movements make a strikingly large
eﬀect on the movement of your body.
It may take many hours to master this
and become a pro, but we all got 2
mins on the way! By next year, I want
to see back-ﬂips and all kinds of crazy
tricks, guys... Sadly, such an awesome
pastime comes at a cost, but SportIm-
perial gave us lots of money to make
everything really cheap. Don’t worry
if you missed out on this trip, we are
running more subsidised wind-tun-
nel trips for those interested in liv-
ing life to the full! Get out there and
ﬁnd something that takes your breath
away. Just like what indoor skydiving
deﬁnitely did to all of us on the trip.
We all had incredible fun with our
clothes on and many of the beginners
are now interested in doing the real
thing from a plane. Anyway, a big well
done to all the beginners for your ﬁrst
freefall! he beer’s on you!
Piste about in the Alps
Tenner says he’s drawn
at least one nob on that
whiteboard
Breaking wind
IC Skydiving recaps on a
rather awesome beginner
wind tunnel trip
Isaac Gentle IC Skydiving Chair
Imperial College Design Collective
Udderly ridiculous
Bottom left:
excellent using-
helmet-to-hide-
erection skills. A
true professional

