TECHNOLOGY Technology Editor: Jason Parmar
techology.felix@imperial.ac.uk
omewhere in a dank base-
ment, a high school white
American teenager smiles
to himself for discover-
ing a cute picture of a cat,
worthy of sharing with his peers. He
ﬁres up his browser and heads to a
website called reddit (www.reddit.
com) where he posts a link to his up-
loaded image in a corner of the web-
site called “Awww”.
his is the stereotypical image of a
reddit user that most of the internet
and media would like you to have: a
young, white American adult living
in the basement of his parents. But
reddit users, or redditors, would like
to dispute that claim, and perhaps
rightfully so. Whilst the average user
on reddit might ﬁt the stereotype
(according to some study), reddit is
much more than just a website to
post cute pictures or to plot the next
nefarious internet mischief (like the
“Anonymous” attacks on the internet
last year), it is, as redditors argue,
one of the bastions of free speech on
the internet.
To put it simply, reddit is a website
where users can post links or textual
content to anything (well, almost
anything that isn’t banned by the
rules). he community decides what
content is worthy, or not, by using a
voting system. Any content that is
highly voted, and thus highly regard-
ed by the community will surface
to the front page of the website and
gain much prominence and traﬃc.
Free speech is especially valued in
the community. he community re-
lies on the voting system to weed out
the junk from the good, in theory at
least. he community is divided into
diﬀerent interests groups known as
subreddits. Redditors have an eclec-
tic range of interests: from the geeky
Android to the, arguably, mundane
politics and even the eye-raising
pooping advice. he website has
seen massive adoption by leading
ﬁgures and celebrities. Most promi-
nently, President Obama did a Q&A
session on the website. But behind
all this glamour, lies the dark side
of the limits of free speech of which
reddit is ﬁnding itself embroiled in
yet another controversy.
A redditor who goes by the pseu-
donym ViolentAcrez (pronounced
violent acres) has been infamous
over the last few years on reddit,
even garnering an “award” for be-
ing the worst redditor. ViolentAcrez
was infamous for creating several
oﬀensive subreddits, with the most
“famous” of them all being “jailbait”.
Jailbait was an avenue for, suppos-
edly horny males, to post snapshots
of teenage girls who were, most of
the time, scantily clad for the scru-
tiny and enjoyment of the other us-
ers. his caused a controversy when
networks like CNN “discovered” the
subreddit and hoisted it into the
limelight of national news. When it
was discovered that child pornogra-
phy has been posted and traded via
the subreddit, reddit was forced to
ban the subreddit and institute a rule
on prohibiting child pornography on
its website, albeit reluctantly. From
the perspective of the site’s owners,
this was a curtail on free speech that
they were reluctant to engage in. he
second major curtail on free speech
was to happen right after media site
Gawker posted an exposé of Violen-
FRIDAY 02 NOVEMBER
16
S
tAcrez, who turned out to be one
Michael Brutsch.
Anonymity is the other core ideol-
ogy of reddit and this was threatened
by the exposé posted by Gawker. Im-
mediately, a storm brewed on the
website. Moderators of various pop-
ular subreddits scrambled to ban any
links to the article, and even the en-
tire Gawker network of sites. Some
of them cite the rule of no doxxing
(the slang term for the revealing of
personal information) as the reason
whilst others are doing this simply
“in solidarity”. he website adminis-
trators even instituted a temporary
site-wide ban on the article. he
community is split on the issue.
Users are split on a couple of is-
sues: the rightfulness of the exposé
and whether there should be any
censorship of links to the exposé.
Proponents of the exposé argue that
naming names is one of the few ways
to stop the stream of oﬀensive con-
tent. Many redditors are not exactly
fond of the questionable content in
the ﬁrst place. Opponents of the ex-
posé argue that this is a violation of
reddit’s rules, and most importantly,
the threat of having their identity
exposed will cause users to withhold
speech and practise self-censorship,
threatening the very essence of free
speech on reddit. Users could even
be in danger for merely posting. his
ties in directly with the second is-
sue. Proponents argue that the arti-
cle was a legit and quality article as
a product of investigative journalism
(which this author must admit: the
article was very well written). Op-
ponents argue that the article was
merely an attempt at doxxing one
of the users. here were allegations
that the author of the article has
blackmailed ViolentAcrez, which
turned out to be untrue. Dissidents
of the moderation policy have been
banned (and then restored). Even
moderators weren’t spared.
Reddit’s administrators appear to
be unsure of how to deal with the sit-
uation. After keeping quiet for a few
days, reddit’s CEO posted an internal
memo that announced that reddit
will not ban legitimate investigative
journalism. In the memo, the CEO
wrote that “[they] stand for the free-
dom of speech” while continuing to
ban any attempts at doxxing. He rec-
ognises that the banning of Gawker
sites on reddit has not put the site in
a good light and that it would be in-
eﬀective in preventing the spread of
the news. he site owners still seem
to be rather unsure on how they are
going to handle the situation. hey
are playing a diﬃcult game trying to
balance between the aspects of free
speech: where does one draw the line
(or even if there is a need to draw the
line) between acceptable and unac-
ceptable content? Add this to the
fact that reddit is trying not to com-
mit the same mistakes that led to the
downfall of one of their competitors,
Digg, and you can see how hard it is
for them to toe the line.
he face of the controversy, Mi-
chael Brutsch, seems to be taking
things well. Other than allegedly los-
ing his job, he has turned to CNN to
apologise for his actions whilst de-
fending himself by saying that “[he]
was playing to an audience of college
kids”. He admitted getting “a thrill”
when posting content on reddit. he
user drama on reddit is no less ex-
citing. Brutsch has since deleted his
account, and in doing so, dragged a
number of other less known, though
no less prominent, users into some
sort of a drama. his drama is docu-
mented fully by a user on reddit no
less!
Free speech is problematic. Does
one have an unlimited right to say
his mind? If so, does he have to face
the consequences of his right to say
anything? Should we curtail free
speech to prevent any form of rac-
ism, harass, abuse, or sexism? he
United Kingdom is struggling with
this issue over the various “Twitter
arrests” whilst internet communities
like reddit are also struggling with
this issue over questionable content.
Commonly, the issue of free speech
in this digital age arises from a single
source: the web. he web has em-
powered us all with a voice, but how
should we wield that voice?
Reddit are having a pretty hard time at the moment, as demonstrated above with their new logo. See what I did there? I totally turned that upside down frown upside down.
Reddit: Freedom of speech?
Yong Wen Chua summarises the controversy currently plaguing Reddit
“”
Should we cur-
tail free speech
to prevent any
form of racism,
harass, abuse,
or sexism?

