LOLCATZ OF TEH WEEK: Finding these is a perk of the job
Tim Arbabzadah
Editor-in-Chief
Don’t diss-repute me
Once more I find myself writing this
right at the last minute. Standard spell-
ing error warning. Maybe this is good as
it lets me just be completely honest.
This week, my hands were tied (met-
aphorically, not some kind of thing I’m
in to) and I had to put a Union story right
up there on the front page. For those of
you who don’t care about the Union at
all, and don’t register it as existing: I’m
sorry. For those who find it really inter-
esting: Huh? Really? You do? Oh, okay.
I joke, of course.
The Constitution has changed. Sort
of. It needs to go to the Trustee Board
and is then sent off to College Council.
Obviously the Trustees are going to
pass it, and then College probably will
too.
Contentious points? Well, the one
that catches the eye is the disrepute
one. It is actually already in the College
documents that bringing the name of
Imperial into disrepute can mean you
are disciplined, and the President can,
and does, intervene in such disciplinary
matters. I would like the meaning of
‘disrepute’ to be clarified, so that people
are protected if they want to speak out
and give an opinion on the Union with
no fear. It’s possible, in my view, that
people could be deterred from speak-
ing out if they know they can be disci-
plined. Although it wouldn’t make good
publicity for the Union when it gets out.
It is just worrying that it could be used
in a twisted way years on down the line.
Although it is unlikely to occur, it should
be protected against. I’m glad that there
is protection for those reporting things,
but it should also be cleared up that it
does not curtail someone’s free speech;
it should be made apparent that people
are still allowed to criticise the Union.
Obviously any organisation needs to
protect itself from lying, and it’s good
to have less formal measures than be-
ing taken to court for libel, but it doesn’t
hurt to have extra protection in place to
stop abuse of rules. This could be in the
form of an extra line or two, much like
has been done to protect people report-
ing on matters to do with the Union.
It is important to note that, as with
other rules, I would assume that if you
say “the Union are xyz-ist” you are al-
lowed your opinion, and it would be the
people doing the xyz-ism, if they were,
who would be disciplined (rightly so)
for bringing the Union into “disrepute”
(legal chat for “making them look like
a bunch of wankers”). Crucially, I AS-
SUME this. I like to think I’m a reason-
able person, but what if the people in
charge were not so easy going? That’s
why you need to make sure assump-
tions are incredibly hard, nigh on im-
possible, to make.
I should mention that you can always,
if wrongly accused, say “nah, fuck this
I’m opting out”. Although you won’t be
allowed in the Union (they don’t ID eve-
ryone at all times, as it’s hard to, and so
you can probably get in pretty easily),
and wouldn’t be allowed in any Clubs or
Societies(whowouldtellonyouturning
up to an event though? Again, in prac-
tice easy to get around). I only mention
this to show how, in real terms, while
important, these are all so minor in the
grand scheme of things. When you’re
worrying yourself about your next lab
report at 1am, tell me how much you
care about point 2.342321235. ab. iii.
Not saying that priorities coming up
means that you don’t care, or aren’t al-
lowedtoforgetit,I’mjustremindingyou
that, after however many years, you
leave this place and the Union behind.
In an out-of-character move I’m going
to say that the only good thing about
thewholedisreputestuffisthattheUn-
ion can protect you from College by dis-
ciplining you for them. This is what the
Union should always do: protect you
from College, and stand up for you and
your rights to make everything better.
Now back to frantically pulling out my
hair while I attempt to finish the paper.
Also, I left my glasses at home today.
That was really annoying. Not news-
worthy, but just really irritating.
TECH SCIENCE COMMENT
Apple’s keynote Biodiversity? So many opinions
My old iPhone 3GS is dying
on its feet. Should I upgrade?
Also, worth a read to hear
about Jason, out Tech Editor,
getting free Beats.
Is there a crisis? Do
we all need to chip in
regardless of whether
or not we think we
can feel the changes?
Angry Geek is back. Also, we
have some interesting views
ontherecentdebacleinvolv-
ing scientists in Italy. Plus
Will Prince in Grenoble.
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB.
Email: felix@imperial.ac.uk. Tel: 020 7594 8072. Fax: 020 7594 8065.
Printed by Iliffe Print Cambridge, Winship Road, Cambridge.
Registered newspaper ISSN 1040-0711.
Copyright © Felix 2012.
TO YOU
THIS
WEEK
WAS
BROUGHT
BY
EDITOR’S PICKS
2
Medical Summarizer Wanted
Looking for 4th, 5th or 6th year medical student with medical under-
standing.
15 hours a week.
Crompton Medical Centre
London W2 1ND
For further details please contact Mr. Faisal Ahmed on 07776126204
Job Description - Sum marizing all medical letters and discharge sum-
maries from Secondary Care (Hospitals) into the medical records for
each patient at the practice, clinical software used is EMIS LV.
Part-Time PA/Tech Person
Good with Apple computers and technology
Someone who wants to come in ground level start-up with new tech
company and dealing with tracking device sector.
Researcher and highly organised to work with the proprietor and
teams in London and Silicone Valley, California
General Oice duties
Preferably CRB checked
Start off at 2 days per week
Total 8 to 10 hours per week at £10 per hour
Please send CV to kimrortiz@aol.com
>>17 >>19 >>44
CLASSIFIEDS
FRIDAY 02 NOVEMBER
Editor-in-Chief Tim Arbabzadah Deputy Editor Saskia Verhagen Assistant Editor Matt Colvin News Editor Aemun Reza Features Editors Caroline Wood, Stephen Smith Business Editor Deepka Rana Science Editors
Philip Kent, Laurence Pope, Philippa Skett Politics Editors Padraic Calpin, Marie-Laure Hicks Food Editors Carol Ann Cheah, Sophia Goldberg, Yiango Mavrocostanti Comment Editors George Barnett, Navid Nabijou,
James Simpson Fashion Editors Alex Ramadan, Saskia Verhagen, Alice Yang Arts Editors Eva Rosenthal, Meredith Thomas Books Editor Maciej Matuszewski Music Editors Mark England, Ross Gray, Simon Hunter, Íñigo
Martínez De Rituerto Television Editor Lucia Podhorska Film Editors Katy Bettany, John Park, Lucy Wiles Games Editor Ross Webster Technology Editor Jason Parmar Coffee Break Boss Matt Colvin Travel Editors
Veronika McQuade, Simon Carnochan Sports Editors Oli Benton, Sorcha Cotter, Margot Pikovsky Online Editors Philip Kent, Jonathan Kim Puzzles Commanders Louisa Byrne, Sotirios Karamitsos, Dan Timbrell Copy
Chief Annina Sartor Copy Editors Al Norman, Matt Colvin, Christopher Witham, Stephen Ball, Lizzy Griffiths, Julia Gherman, Illustrators Hamish Muir, Outi Supponen

