ARTS
Arts Editors: Eva Rosenthal,
Meredith Thomas
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Random International: Rain Room @ Barbican Centre – Love walking in the rain
but hate getting wet? Then this is the room for you. Now – 3 March 2013.
Rothko/ Sugimoto: Dark paintings and seascapes @ Pace Gallery – They juxtapose
Rothko’s late paintings with Sugimoto photographs. Think melancholy and sky-
blending into sea. A good opportunity to see privately owned Rothko’s for free.
Now – 16 November 2012.
London Horror Festival 2012 @ Etcetera Theatre & Wilton’s Music Hall – Scary
fringe theatre. I think it is for the more bravely inclined of us. Although fringe thea-
tre loves comedy too. So maybe there is something for everyone. Probably cheap.
Now – 7 November 2012.
Alice Instone @ Because a fire was in my head – Paintings on the extensive subject
of the female muse or thoughts from a female artist on viewing women. From £5.
2 - 20 November 2012.
Empress Stah in Space @ Jerwood DanceHouse – A performance where someone
(an artist) called Empress Stah goes to space and stops along at some red light
district for fun times. Cabaret fun perhaps? Buy tickets quick. It’s this weekend.
Arianna Sorba
The naked truth
about the late works
Hamilton’s coolness disappoints at the National
Why work? Instead, doodle all lecture long and then send us your draw-
ings to arts.felix@ic.ac.uk. This doodle is by Eleanor Vincent.
Writer
Hotel du Rhone, Richard Hamilton
FRIDAY 02 NOVEMBER
26
“One of Britain’s most inﬂuential art-
ists”, “the father of pop art”, “one of
the most innovative and audacious
printmakers of the age”. hese phras-
es have all been used to describe the
late Richard Hamilton, creator of
such famous collages as Just what is it
that makes today’s homes so modern,
so appealing?, widely considered as
the ﬁrst ever example of pop art. You
can see, then, why I was so interested
to explore his ﬁnal works, currently
on display at the National Gallery.
You can also see, perhaps, why I
was so disappointed. Famous for the
political engagement and social com-
mentary in his art, the present collec-
tion was frustratingly abstract, and
at points, self-indulgent. His fascina-
tion with interior spaces, and their
possibility for perfection and regu-
larity, was clear, and he cleverly used
diﬀerent perspectives, shadows, and
repetition to produce aesthetically
pleasing works of art. An image that
dominates one piece of art is subtly
duplicated in the background of an-
other, for example, and throughout
his works stairs, columns and struc-
tures stretch out into inﬁnity with
satisfying uniformity. But without any
meaningful subject matter to ﬂesh
out these works, they become mere
studies in the powers of computers to
create perfect, regular images. In one
interior, a naked woman stands hold-
ing a hoover in a ﬂawlessly created,
computer-modelled hotel room, all
straight lines and block colours and
perfectly outlined furniture. Is Ham-
ilton making a social comment on the
objectiﬁcation of women, their per-
ceived imperfections, their domestic
roles appointed them by a backward
society? To be honest, I think he just
really likes naked women and he re-
ally likes hoovers.
Apparently Hamilton was pro-
foundly moved by a short story by the
author Honore de Balzac, in which
an artist attempts to create an im-
age of the perfect female nude, but,
according to his peers, fails, and thus
commits suicide. his idea, culminat-
ing in his unﬁnished trio of works,
he Balzac, is a recurring theme – at
least, naked women are.
We ﬁnd them in bath tubs, in ho-
tel lobbies, in a rather confusing im-
age depicting the National Gallery
itself. he nude female form, cre-
ated by painting over digital photo-
graphs with total accuracy, appears
in almost every piece in this small
exhibition. heir positions are not
suggestive, their expressions are not
emotive; they are just there. How can
a viewer have an emotional response
to that?
he artist’s insistence on using
harsh, realistic photographs for the
nudes, when even the faces of the
walls around them have been in some
way changed by his creative input,
rid the images of any essence of emo-
tion, or self-expression, and I can’t
help wonder what it is he is trying to
say with them. He may have achieved
his desire of producing the perfect
female nude’, but at the expense of
any true meaning or power to his art.
When the rest of the National Gal-
lery is so full of artists screaming out
to express themselves, Hamilton’s
clean cut interiors and cleverly or-
dered compositions just don’t cut the
mustard.
Just sit on the tumble dryer,
it’s not worth the trip to A&E

