ARTS
Arts Editors: Eva Rosenthal,
Meredith Thomas
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
How do you deal with a heartbreak?
Somepeoplegoandpartyitaway.Others
merge with their sofas until the tears dry
out and some develop a freakish emo-
tional attachment to a spinning bike…
hat’s what happened to Clement,
your French spinning class teacher. I’m
saying ‘your’ because the comedy Sink
or Shpin, which ran from 10-27 October
at Boom Cycle studio in Shoreditch, sets
the audience in a spinning class. In fact,
you sit on an exercise bike! While this
could deter most of us from attending
such a performance, no level of ﬁtness is
required – you can even take a beer in.
From the moment you arrive, the two
members of staﬀ – Clement and the
‘manager’ of Boom Cycle – treat you as
though you were really going to a spin-
ning class; giving you a locker, a water
bottle, stretching a bit, etcetera. Co-writ-
er and performer Donal Coonan intro-
duces himself as Clement and his other
half, spin bike Bridgette, as the new ad-
dition to Boom Cycle’s spinning instruct-
ing team.
He left his home of Perpignan for new
horizonssoheslursinaheavyFrenchac-
cent. We soon discover the reason for his
move, and throughout his ‘seven deadly
modules’ exercise plan we relive the ups
(but mostly downs) of his breakup with a
cheating ex-wife. To ﬁll the emptiness in
his life post-Emilie, Clement clings to his
new ﬁtness mania: a spin bike will never
leave you, and it always waits for you at
home (alone). Plus it makes you ﬁt.
he whole experience is charming,
endearing even. You have a good couple
of laughs as Clement mends his broken
heart and attempts to raise your heart
rate. But unfortunately, the setting it-
self feels like the best part of the show. I
found myself expecting more. he script
is smart and well played, but it uses a
few too many clichés about breakups
and French people and lacked any sur-
prise factor. Let’s just say I didn’t fall oﬀ
my bike laughing. Relying a fair bit on
interactions with the crowd, maybe the
play simply belongs in a smaller room
than the half-ﬁlled professional studio of
Boom Cycle.
Directed and co-written by Josh
Azouz, the piece still has been collect-
ing hurrahs ever since it ﬁrst played at
the Edinburgh Fringe in 2011. So there
is scope to think that a Sink or Sphin
2 could bring some wittier upheavals.
With that in mind, while there are no
next shows announced at the moment,
I expect we will hear more from Clem-
ent and Bridgette so keep an eye on their
website www.sinkorspin.co.uk.
Turner sur-prizes
The ever controversial prize succeeds this year with
evocative and thought provoking nominees
Alongside death and taxes, one
certainty in life is the controversy
generated every year when the Tate
releases the shortlist for the Turner
Prize. With past winners including
Damien Hirst and Grayson Perry,
the shortlist has always trod the line
between great and gimmicky. How-
ever this year, all the work exhibited
is pretty incredible.
The exhibition starts with Paul
Noble, whose drawings depict the
buildings of ‘Nobson Newtown’.
These are extremely detailed and
somewhat reminiscent of archi-
tectural plans, but with a humor-
ous air about them. Beginning each
piece with a word, Noble uses the
buildings to form that word before
expanding out into the intricate
landscape; this means that, as well
as focussing on the finer details of
the drawing, the viewer must move
far away in order to be able to read
the word at the centre. There are no
people present in his landscapes, the
only vaguely human-looking figures
being small blob-like forms dotted
around.
The smaller details Noble places
in his work – such as the abandoned
table-tennis game in Paul’s Palace
– add a depth to the drawings. The
desolate landscapes have a menac-
ing air, the lack of people calling into
question whether Newtown is some
kind of post-apocalyptic wasteland.
The surreal wit of Newtown is best
described by Noble himself, who
calls it “a play without acts or actors”.
Luke Fowler is the next artist to be
displayed. The first of two video art-
ists competing for the prize, Fowler
works mainly with archive footage,
and subverts the traditional form of
the documentary film by presenting
a non-fixed, fluid view of the subject.
His work, All Divided Selves, is a 90
minute long film about the Scottish
psychiatrist R.D. Laing. Just as Fowl-
er challenges the traditional idea of
video art, Laing’s ideas challenged
orthodox psychiatry, championing
the role of social and cultural factors
alongside biological ones. The film
is similar to a collage, using a myriad
of sources whilst also touching on
issues such as social housing and
poverty. Although it drags on a bit,
the film is beautifully edited, as well
as informative. Laing is a figure who
I had never heard of, but I left the
viewing feeling that Fowler had not
only told the audience about Laing’s
Fred Fyles work, but allowed us a rare insight
into his character.
The Woolworths Choir of 1979, a
20 minute long video by Elizabeth
Price, is exhibited next. The be-
ginning of the film focuses on the
church choir and the area between
the altar and the nave. Photographs
of wooden carvings are cut across
by text describing the features, and
the entire piece is backed by clicks
and handclaps, building up as the
piece advances. As pictures of twist-
ing statues are displayed, a chorus of
voices begin to sound and the im-
ages segue into footage of the 1960s
girl group The Shangri-Las writh-
ing and wriggling to the chorus of
“Out in the Streets”. The singers be-
gin waving their hands as the music
fades out, and then another waving
hand appears, this time poking out
of a window billowing with smoke.
This time it is a woman signal-
ling for help at the 1979 Manchester
Woolworths fire, which left 10 peo-
ple dead. Silent footage of witnesses
is spliced in with images of the police
report describing the fire and the re-
peated shot of the arm waving. The
work is evocative yet cold, beauti-
ful and haunting, leaving the viewer
feeling a deep sense of unease, and
meriting a second viewing.
The final artist is the only perfor-
mance artist to ever be nominated.
Spartacus Chetwynd’s work is pro-
vocative; while the other works in-
vite you to look in on another world,
Chetwynd’s piece Odd Man Out lit-
erally drags the viewer in. The work
is primitive and absurd: performers
dressed in green rags dance around
the exhibition space, which has been
papered with enormous posters, and
invite the audience to speak with
the ‘oracle’, a mandrake root puppet
which whispers future predictions.
It feels like being in a LSD-fuelled
am-dram class. The costumes and
sets are homemade and the perfor-
mance deliberately amateurish but
it is completely charming and lib-
erating. Chetwynd seems the most
likely artist for critics of the Turner
Prize to dismiss as a publicity hun-
gry provocateur, but her work is
the least heavy and the most fun of
all the pieces shown. Whether that
merits a win remains to be seen.
All the artists shown are extremely
talented, and I would be happy for
any of them to win. Art is a deeply
personal thing, and I urge you all to
make the trip down to Pimlico to de-
cide on a winner yourself. You will
certainly leave entertained.
Writer
FRIDAY 02 NOVEMBER 27
Pedal
powered
comedy
Luke Fowler, All Divided Selves, 2011 © Alan Dimmick
Spartacus Chetwynd, Odd Man Out, 2011 © Sadie Coles HQ
Public Toilet, Paul Noble, 1999© Paul Noble, Gagosian Gallery
Emilie Beauchamp Writer
Mountain gets more action than Imperial boys
Imperial College’s
Next Top Model
Don’t let your
friendship die
on the road

