Pandering to every whim
Max Eggl eats shoots and leaves
veryone has heard of,
scoﬀed at, ridiculed,
played, dominated (cross
out the ones that do not
apply to you) World of
Warcraft. For those of you who chose
the two latter choices, this is the ar-
ticle for you. For all the rest, you can
stop judging, get yourselves an ac-
count and then read this article!
So now to set the scene. After the re-
lease of Cataclysm, many players (in-
cluding yours truly) were a bit disap-
pointed and annoyed at Blizzard. his
move was motivated by the attempt to
have new players join the 10 million
strong online community, however
it did frustrate those die-hard vanilla
players, who had expected more from
the expansion. Once you had killed
Deathwing (I currently stand at 19),
there was not much to do apart from
Twinking.
Mists of Pandaria was Blizzards way
of saying sorry and thus a lot of pres-
sure was mounting on MoP to deliver.
Reports from the beta did nothing to
stay the hype and ﬁnally on the 25th
of September, MoP was released, al-
lowing the average player to explore
Pandaria, level up to 90, play as pan-
das and monks, and even more. So did
MoP really live up to the expectation?
In the humble opinion of this writer
(level 90 Pala), I must say, YES. From
the oﬀ, Mists of Pandaria was a suc-
cess. I played from day one, and, I
must say, I felt like I always had some-
thing to do and never was it tedious.
Also, my opinion was shared by many
others, who I questioned (mostly
Guildies). Usually the verdict included
the words “amazing”, “incredible” or
any other expletive that you can think
of. For all you raid leaders, guild mem-
bers and newbies, here is your guide
to the main points of MoP and how
they will enrich your gaming experi-
ence.
So the ﬁrst port of call is the new
continent, Pandaria. Pandaria is not
actually a land mass, but in fact a giant
tortoise. From the shape on the map
you can vaguely make out its contours.
Seven regions will lead you through
your quest to gain max level. Most
of these are absolutely stunning (my
favourite is the valley of four winds),
which just highlights all that blizzard
put into this expansion. Cherry trees,
mountains and typical Chinese archi-
tecture dot the areas that you have to
traverse, which just adds to that exotic
eﬀect. Another positive is that you
can’t just ﬂy through the continent.
‘You CANNOT ﬂy?’ I hear you scream.
‘hat’s a positive?’ you wonder. Well
just think about it, in Cataclysm, most
of the new regions were quickly ex-
plored, but not actually seen. With
your trusty ﬂying mount, you just ﬂew
easily over Mount Hyjal, Uldum, etc.
he big question is, do you remember
ANYTHING of those areas? I don’t.
However I can recall with vivid detail
my journey on my chopper through
the Jade Forest. Not only did I see
more than I would have ﬂying, it was
also signiﬁcantly more diﬃcult and
consequently more impressionable.
For all those who can’t live without
their ﬂying mounts, don’t despair, just
make it to level 90 and then you can ﬂy
to your hearts content. One con that
is not really a con, but personal prefer-
ence, is the that some regions did feel
repetitive, but that may just be me.
he quests are, for the most part,
extremely fun, although you do get a
healthy mix of the “kill bad guy, get
loot” type quest that we all know and
just grind through. he fun quests in-
clude helping to brew a barrel of beer
(the ingredients were not so tasty)
as well as inﬁltrating a brewery and
sucker-punching various demons. I
did ﬁnd them quite enjoyable, and
there were enough new elements to
stop me from getting bored. In fact I
would have been quite ﬁne with just
questing to level up.
However I did do the dungeons,
which not only helped me gain XP
that much faster, they were genuine-
ly FUN. I mean, who doesn’t like the
sight of your ﬁne companions barﬁng
their guts out into buckets while evad-
ing huge streams of alcoholic bever-
ages and healing/DPSing/tanking at
the same time (I couldn’t stop laugh-
ing... until I was the one heaving)?
Another aspect was that you actually,
genuinely, hate some of the bosses in
the dungeons, most notably the “Sha”.
hese are black masses of emotions
come to life usually anger or hate.
hese things look, for a lack of a bet-
ter word, evil (yes I am aware of the
cliché), but I actually felt like a better
person when I had ﬁnally destroyed
one of those things. All in all, I enjoyed
the dungeons a lot and will be doing
them many more times.
Now about the new class. When
Blizzard ﬁrst announced that a new
panda race would be introduced, most
critics laughed about this decision.
I however applaud it, as not only are
the Pandaren ass-kicking cool, they
also provide some comic relief for all
those of us who take ourselves too se-
riously (myself included). hey come
in multiple varieties and colours, with
the females even getting a tail. hey
have several abilities having to do with
cooking, which will probably be ner-
fed in the next update as right now it’s
overpowered. Also for all those want-
ing to start a new Pandaren char, you
get a bonus on your rested XP and
this makes levelling quite a bit more
eﬃcient. he biggest thing with the
Pandaren race is the fact that you can
choose to be an ally or a horde. Now
that is deep, think about it, you have
the choice to become an amazing ally
or a horrible horde. Seriously now
though, it is quite cool as this means
that you can see pandas on both sides
of the war!
he monk is... epic! hey are fun to
play and if you play a Pandaren Monk,
it just adds to the whole epicness.
Most of the variations you can play
of the monk, are also quite creative,
including: Brewmaster (Tank), Mist-
weaver (Heal) and Windwalker (DPS)
For me, who already plays a Pala, I love
classes that can perform many diﬀer-
ent roles and thus the monk is a cool
addition to the hybrid classes. Not
only that, but all diﬀerent specs have
this really awe-inspiring kung-fu ﬁght-
ing style which is really fun not only to
play, but also just to watch. Combin-
ing this with the racial XP bonus of the
Pandaren, expect many monks in your
raid in the foreseeable future.
Now for all you casual gamers, or for
the times between your raids. here
is the new pet battle system. Stolen
shamelessly from Pokémon, it still is
an amazing addition. I actually had a
hard time deciding if I wanted to level
up, or my gorloc pet. So most of the
pets that you already own are battle
ready and you can use these to ﬁght
other wild pets, speciﬁc trainers and
other players. You can also catch these
wild pets, which makes it so much
more easy to collect those pet related
achievements and titles. he pets also
have diﬀerent types, and these have
strengths/weaknesses against other
types. hus a certain element of strat-
egy is included in the battles. All in all,
since I really enjoyed Pokémon as a
child, this is just a welcome addition
to WoW.
Another rip-oﬀ that Blizzard has
incorporated into MoP is a Farmville
one. Yes, my dear readers, you can
now farm your own crops, rip out
weeds, water your own plants and
then harvest them to use in your vari-
ous cooking recipes. It takes quite a
while to build up a substantial farm to
actually spend time in, but once you
do it is quite rewarding. his also has
a positive knock-on eﬀect on the sec-
ondary profession of cooking (which
also has been modiﬁed quite heavily,
now being split into 4 categories, e.g.
master of the Wok), allowing for you
to level more quickly and have ingre-
dients easily at hand. For all of those
with a business sense, the farming
was a really good money maker, as
you could sell produce in the auction
houses, for incredibly inﬂated prices. I
do not know if this is still the case, but
maybe you wanna check it out!
here is so much more that I could
say, including the talent tree, the new
ﬂying mounts, the new cities, etc. But
I am afraid my fellow games writers
would appreciate me not hogging the
whole issue with my ramblings. I must
say this is one of the best expansions
of WoW, if not THE best, that Blizzard
has released and it is really worth the
money! C’mon what are you waiting
for?
E
WAA WAA WAA I HATE COMPE-
TITION. LET’S SUE THEM YEAH
GAMES Games Editor: Ross Webster
games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 02 NOVEMBER
28
Breathe deep. Channel your inner
panda. Kill those 12 year olds.
I’m here to kick ass and chew
twigs. I’ve still got some leafy
branches to scour, so you’re
fine. For now.

