A rock and a hard place
his week, I played a game that saved
my life.
It was a dark night. he stars were
smothered by the sodium-lit clouds
and the rain had ﬂushed the vermin
from the street. It was a quiet night.
I kept on walking, a silhouette against
the bright shop fronts, welcoming the
shadows of the houses. Passing home-
ward-bound, amorous couples after
their nights out, I kept on, steadfast. I
couldn’t aﬀord to be late.
My contact was to meet me outside
the oﬃce, come rain or shine. hat’s
what we’re paying him for. We don’t
call him Timmy the Squirrel for noth-
ing. Two unremarkable, grey streets
later and I was under the cover of the
arch and past the gates. Leaning on
the wall, towards the end of the tun-
nel, I saw him. He’s well known around
these parts as the go-to guy for news.
You don’t mess with him, or you’ll ﬁnd
your face plastered around town. As
I got closer, the light from the court-
yard highlighted his trademark stripy
jumper and the cigarette hanging
from the corner of his mouth. Only it
wasn’t a cigarette. It was a maoam.
“Here’s your latest shipment”, that
familiar voice squeaked, as he handed
me a box. “Payment’ll be as usual”
I replied, stuﬃng the box into my
coat pocket, away from prying eyes. I
didn’t want to be caught carrying such
a risky package. Not since my prede-
cessor Ricky the Flounder was found
ﬂoating in the hames. He couldn’t
live up to his name.
I bid the Squirrel farewell. What I
didn’t tell him is that I’d be rocking all
night long with that little box of his
and I couldn’t wait to get back to my
desk to try out the goods. He doesn’t
need to hear about my night-life. He
has enough snitches to do that for
him.
I turned back into the rain, retrac-
ing my steps. he streets were cold,
but the night was warm as I hurried
my way back to the apartment, staying
away from sight.
My apartment door was still locked
and the seals hadn’t been broken. I was
safe. I sat down at my desk, turned on
my computer and poured out a glass
of cheap whisky. Once my computer
had booted, I pulled the package out
from my jacket. It took me years to
ﬁnd it. Stone Quarry Simulator. he
genuine article.
After a quick installation, my night’s
pleasure was ready. No need for those
Marilyn Monroe impersonators to-
night.
I started with the basics, jumping
into a large truck with a couple of saw-
blades stuck on the front. I’ve never
driven one of these machines before,
but it should be easy. Straight into the
water. Darn it. Next try. I rammed
into the wall, like a sailor away on
shore-leave, into a call-girl, drilling
away. Rocks ﬂew everywhere and the
ground shook beneath me.
My next task was to pack the van
with dynamite. Needless to say, after
the unfortunate ice-cream van ex-
plosion that took out the Mysterious
Brown, I’m well-versed in packing
vehicles full of explosives. I drove to
the target and drilled into the rock.
here was no instruction manual for
the pneumatic drill, so that was an
interesting and unproductive initial 5
minutes. With the explosives packed
into the holes and covered up like a
shallow grave, I drove the van over the
explosives. Detonator in hand, I saw a
warning about my vehicle being too
close to the dynamite. It was too late
to stop the explosion.
It seems they make these vans out
of metal stronger than that in ice-
cream vans, as my get-away vehicle
was untouched. And ﬂoating above
the ground.
Growing tired of being told what
to do, I decided to start my career in
rock pushing. My ﬁrst task was to buy
a quarry. With 100,000 bucks spent on
a piece of land, I started my life, poor-
er than the bums you see on the street.
My secretary handed me a note - col-
lect 120kg of armorstone for an anon-
ymous buyer. Ten minutes of drilling
and transporting later, the shipment
was complete. My pay was wired over
to me. 2000$. Sixty more jobs like
that and I can buy a new quarry. No
thanks. I’m not a shmuck. his line of
work aint for me. I’d only go down this
route if I was looking for a slow and
grinding lifestyle, that is quite easy
and almost the deﬁnition of repetitive.
Fine, that ﬁrst sentence might’ve
been a lie.
Next week’s choices are Bridge Pro-
ject (“Planning - Construction - Test-
ing”) and Police Force (“Combat city
crime and experience law enforce-
ment like never before!”). Let the vot-
ing begin - games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Ross Webster Master-at-harms
GAMES
Your games section needs
you!
Whether you’re a die-hard Commander Keen fan, or your parents are able to
beat you at Wii Boxing, we want to hear from you! What keeps these sections
fresh and flowing, is the writers, their opinions and their unique styles of writing.
You don’t even have to play games regularly to be able to write for us - we’re not
all about the reviews of the most recent games. If you want to vent about the im-
maturity of online gamers, or why prices of games have always increased and the
quality is consistently dropping, in your opinion.
Felix is a good way to get your message out, so if you want to find people to start
a Borderlands 2 co-op, your clan’s looking for new members, or you’re looking for
a team to create your latest game design, let us know.
If you get writer’s or gamer’s block, then you’re not excluded from taking part.
Game-inspired work (food, art, etc) is always welcome in the Felix office (espe-
cially if review copies of the food are sent our way) and we’ll give you pride of
place in the next issue.
Drop us a line at games.felix@imperial.ac.uk and you can get your opinion out
there. Get your hustle on!
Ross Webster
A Haunted Holland Halloween
It was a Wednesday afternoon like
any other. Laptops, consoles and “You
n00b!” screaming across the room,
marking the start of the training ses-
sion for this week’s UCL vs Imperial
gaming tournaments. his was just
the beginning.
In the dark depths of the Sherﬁeld
building (beneath Holland Club, to be
precise) the Gaming Club committee
was scheming. hey were setting up
for a night that would even give vet-
eran My Little Pony players, night-
mares. his was going to be a Hallow-
een like no other.
In the function room, the consoles
were set up and the computers de-
ployed. On oﬀer: a variety of games
made to have you scream like a little
girl. When the clock struck 6pm, the
doors creaked open, unleashing the
horde into the basement of the con-
demned Holland Club.
he night started slowly - bringing
in casual games of zombie slaughter
to the masses. Nazi zombies grabbed
out at you, as you emptied your last
clip and the dogs dashed for your
throat, as you ran away.
Adjacent, the screen ﬂashed blue as
energy swords dropped the survivors
to the ground, shields and armour de-
pleted.
he night wasn’t always that peaceful
however. In a dark, dark corner of the
room, the atmosphere became much
more bleak. Isolated from the rest of the
room,ourvictimstooktheirturns,one-
by-one to face the Slender man. Alone.
Running through the woods, ﬂashlight
bobbing, trying to ﬁnd the notes of the
last survivors. Just don’t look at his face
and you’ll be ﬁne.
Once all sanity (and the spare un-
derwear) had been depleted, we moved
into the abandoned European castle
of Amnesia. Followed by shadows and
chased by the darkness, you make your
way through the libraries and cellars of
the god-forsaken fortress. Only when
you reach the ﬂooded tunnels and you
see the water ripple, as some invisible
stalker makes his way towards you, do
you realise that all hope is lost.
For those who hadn’t wimped out and
run oﬀ to the comfort of pizza and the
Holland Club bar, one challenge still re-
mained. SCP Containment Breach. We
covered SCPCB last year, but for those
whomissedit,it’sbasedoﬀtheSCPuni-
verse (duh!). It all started with a massive
wiki page, containing hundreds of list-
ed items - any of which could ruin your
day. hink of the premise of Warehouse
13, but where everything is Lovecraft-
ian e.g. a neverending staircase and
for SCPCB, monsters where you can’t
blink, or you’ll die (don’t even bother
pointing out the similarities to Doctor
Who). Crying and screaming over, it
was time to go home.
It’s a shame that the future of the Hol-
land Club is uncertain - it’s a great ac-
tivity space for club events. Let’s hope
we don’t lose our way.
Ross Webster
The headless,
horseless man
FRIDAY 02 NOVEMBER 29
Games Editor: Ross Webster
games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Yo dawg, I heard you like trucks?
Truck-ception?
Any help would be welcome.
No quarrier has the right to
look that happy, unless he’s
drilling something special.

