FILM
Film Editors: Katy Bettany,
John Park, Lucy Wiles
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
30 FRIDAY 02 NOVEMBER
It was towards the end of a long,
drawn-out evening at a festival dur-
ing the summer, and totally by chance
Practically every Bond ﬁlm in the last
50 years has the same ﬁnal promise
before the credits roll: “James Bond
will be back”. But that’s all we ever
know – and the expectation sur-
rounding this latest 007 endeavour
was at an all-time high before its re-
lease last Friday. Sure – we knew it
was Daniel Craig, and we knew what
the baddie looked like, and the ever-
present Bond girls, and the new geeky
Q…. but that tells us nothing really.
And after the slight disappointment
of Quantum of Solace (probably not
helped by the brilliance of Casino
Royale, nor by the competition of No-
lan’s excellent he Dark Night), Skyfall
needed to be something spectacular.
Well, it’s safe to say that this one
certainly hit the target.
DirectorMendes(AmericanBeauty,
Starter for Ten) takes us on an almost
classically familiar journey with some
excellently spun twists. We join Bond
in one of the best opening chases ever
– racing motorbikes over rooftops
in Istanbul in a desperate and hair-
raising attempt to retrieve a stolen
computer disk that holds the secret
identities of NATO agents working
undercover in terrorist organisations.
Despite Bond’s best eﬀorts, the disk is
lost – and, heart-stoppingly, for a mo-
ment so is 007 himself. But, of course,
it’s all a ruse and our eponymous
hero returns after Adele’s cracking
opening sequence – older, unkempt
and distinctly oﬀ his game. In the
wise eyes of M (Dench), however, he
is still the best man for the case, and
is retrained and retested under the
watchful eye of the new Chairman of
the Intelligence and Security Com-
mittee, Gareth Mallory (Fiennes). To
solve this latest case, Bond is sent oﬀ
to some of the most exotic parts of the
world: Macau, Glencoe and Shanghai
to name a few…
Six years on from Casino Royale,
you might be forgiven for expect-
ing Craig to have waned somewhat.
his is so far from the truth; Craig
gives a truly stirring, funny, action-
packed performance… even if he does
run a bit like an ostrich. Surely this
conﬁrms that Craig is the best Bond
ever to grace our screens. Whereas,
in Royale, Bond was a cocky, trigger-
happy Oxford graduate, in Skyfall
our man has matured but not lost his
touch. he one-liners make a tenta-
tive but very welcome return, and
Bond’s rapport with his colleagues is
sharper and wittier than ever. Script-
writers Purvis, Wade and Logan con-
stantly remind us that Bond’s physi-
cal prowess is diminishing, but his
verbal sparring with both M and new
bad guy Raoul Silva (Bardem) is quick
and as nimble as it has ever been.
Silva himself – a disaﬀected ex-
agent with several emotional is-
sues – is horriﬁcally creepy. Bardem
portrays this latest madman with a
wonderfully unnerving camp turn,
making Silva one of the strangest vil-
lains since the Roger Moore ﬁlms.
His ﬁlthy, blond, nicotine-stained
hair (which awkwardly brings Julian
Assange to mind) only enhances his
performance as it hangs nauseat-
ingly around his face. Along with his
‘courtesy’ and his constant ﬂirting,
Bardem creates a tension-ﬁlling char-
acter whose next move just cannot be
predicted.
Backing up the main pair is an abso-
lutely stellar supporting cast. Dench
is back for yet another outstanding
performance as M – in trouble over
her decisions yet, as always, ﬁercely
defending them. With a lot of new
faces, Dench’s arrival is almost reas-
suring, and she makes much more
of an appearance in this ﬁlm than
in any of the others, and with much
more emotion. Fiennes’ appearance,
though new, is also hugely welcome.
Mallory is stuﬀy, uptight, and argu-
mentative – but you can’t help liking
him. Which is good… but no more
said here.
he new gadget-man Q is unveiled,
and is the epitome of ‘geek chic’. With
his ﬂoppy, tousled hair, stylish specs
and Scrabble mug, it’s probably safe
to say that, while the gentlemen in the
cinema were focusing on the latest
palmprint-identifying handgun, the
ladies… weren’t. Nerdy good looks
aside, however, Q (Ben Wishaw) is
another man with a fast line in patter,
and strikes up an instant, and recip-
rocated, loyalty to Bond. He is deﬁ-
nitely a favourite new character, and
one that many will be looking for-
ward to seeing again. Only two Bond
girls worth mentioning – pretty ﬁeld
agent Eve (Naomie Harris), who has
a warm and sexy vibe about her and
is something more than Bond’s col-
league (but what is her surname…?),
and the beautiful but expendable
Sévérine (Bérénice Marlohe).
Mendes and the writers let the qui-
eter moments pause, but they have
also proved rather good at the ‘loud
bangs’ side of things too. Nine-time
Oscar-nominated cinematographer
Roger Deakins makes the ambitious
action sequences – which had the
potential of being utterly ridiculous
– the most beautiful in all the ﬁlms.
he wonderfully tense opening scene
in Istanbul is soon beaten by the ﬁght
in Shanghai, where Bond chases an
assassin through a glass skyscraper
which constantly ﬂicks between pitch
black and bright light thanks to the
rolling neon adverts outside. And
frankly none of the ﬁghts even come
close to that in the Komodo dragon
enclosure.
Fifty years down the line and the
world is still utterly hooked on Bond.
Times have changed, terrorists have
advanced and nobody believes that
Bond needs to go to the moon any-
more – and the new ﬁlms prove,
beautifully, that the 007 franchise is
moving spectacularly forward. “We
don’t go in for exploding pens any
more,” quips the new Q – and nor do
audiences.
Lucy Wiles Film Editor
Bond 23: The Skyfall of M
Director: Sam Mendes
Screenwriters: Neal Purvis, Robert
Wade, John Logan
Starring: Daniel Craig, Judi Dench,
Javier Bardem, Ralph Fiennes
We not only get one sexy Bond but TWO sexy Bonds!
some good chums and I came across
a cinema showing Fritz the Cat. I co-
incidentally had only read about it a
couple of days earlier so I suggested
to the cohort that we catch the clos-
ing 15 minutes. As we loitered around
the back, someone else walked in
and asked what the ﬁlm was about. It
seemed appropriate for me to answer
the question with the following:
“It’s an animated ﬁlm in which a
hedonistic cat is used as a metaphor
to explore various social issues that
were particularly relevant in late 60s
and early 70s urban America”
What I ﬁred oﬀ sums up the ﬁlm
fairly well, but I had made two big
mistakes. Firstly I had gone in too
high brow and soon found myself in
a conversation I wasn’t particularly
keen on having. Secondly, I had not
mentioned that the ﬁlm is also about
enlightenment. Admittedly, that is an
aspect that wasn’t very obvious in the
last 15 minutes, but when my friends
and I watched the ﬁlm in its entirety
we realised that the whole plot con-
sistently revolves around it.
he storyline of the ﬁlm is largely
based on the travels of Fritz whilst he
is on the run as a fugitive. hrough-
out his adventures, Fritz often tries to
ﬁnd answers to the more challenging
questions in life; however, as hinted
earlier, a lot of the ﬁlm is concerned
with subjects that were acutely topi-
cal such as protest and civil rights.
here are moments that are very
aesthetically imaginative, such as
pool balls being pocketed to represent
a dying man’s ﬁnal heart beats and
scenes easily escalate in absurdness
at a quick rate; ﬁghter jets bombing.
being an initially small street distur-
bance is just one example that comes
to mind.
So, if you’re at a loose end I person-
ally would recommend watching a
ﬁlm about a tabby cat that goes about
achieving illumination by indulging
in an excess of sex, drugs and rock &
roll.
Christian Franke Writer
Fritz the Cat
Director: Ralph Bakshi
Screenwriters: Ralph Bakshi, Robert
Crumb
And real men pluck their own chest hair...

