FILM
Film Editors: Katy Bettany,
John Park, Lucy Wiles
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
31
FRIDAY 02 NOVEMBER
13 December 2012. his is a date that
should be imprinted into everyone’s
mind – from those who know that by
divine law, Olórin is not allowed to
use his magic directly against orcs to
those who only know him as Gandalf.
For it is on this day that he Hobbit:
An Unexpected Journey will ﬁnally be
released in the UK.
hough many may take this date
for granted, it was not always certain
that he Hobbit would ever become a
reality. Let us look back and remind
ourselves how lucky we are to be able
to see a hobbit that is directed by Pe-
ter Jackson.
Peter Jackson wanted to make he
Hobbit as far back as 1995. But the
distribution rights belonged to one
studio, the production rights to an-
other, and no-one seemed ready to
sell anything. So New Line Cinema
(who owned the rights to Lord of the
Rings) told Jackson to go ahead and
make the Lord of the Rings trilogy
ﬁrst.
When he Return of the King was
released in 2003, the issue of he
Hobbit resurfaced. New Line Cinema
however, at the time, had their hands
full with a number of lawsuits; Peter
Jackson, he Tolkien Trust, and Saul
Zaentz (producer of the 1978 Lord of
the Rings cartoon) were all suing New
Line Cinema for ‘withholding proﬁts’.
Fortunately, by 2007, most of these
were settled, and remarkably New
Line Cinema soon after decided to
partner up with MGM (who together
owned all the necessary rights on he
Hobbit) to co-produce and co-ﬁnance
the ﬁlm.
his immediately brought up the
question: who should direct the ﬁlm?
Ever since Peter Jackson’s trilogy
appeared in the cinemas it was pretty
obvious to the public that he was the
best man to also make he Hobbit.
he studios, however, did not share
his view, they chose Guillermo del
Toro. A terrible choice. he man was
previously quoted saying “I don’t like
little guys and dragons, hairy feet,
hobbits” and “I don’t like sword and
sorcery, I hate all that stuﬀ”.
Pre-production began in 2008 and
for the next two years, as expected,
Del Toro managed to continuously
ﬁndspectacularwaystoruinheHob-
bit. Amongst these were redesigning
wargs because he found they looked
too much like hyenas and making
animals speak so people would not be
less weirded out by a speaking dragon
at the end. He even spent a lot of time
watching WWI documentaries be-
cause he thought that many elements
in he Hobbit represented aspects of
WWI, despite Tolkien explicitly stat-
ing this is not true.
hankfully Del Toro got ‘fed up
by too many delays’ and left in early
2010. Again, the studios got into a
huge discussion about who should
be the director, considering almost
everyone from David Yates (Harry
Potter) to David Dobkin (Wedding
Crashers).
However, due to overwhelming fan
pressure, and a sudden surprising
wave of common sense, the studios
eventually settled for Jackson. Jack-
son was ﬁnally on board as director.
But the drama had not yet ended.
In late 2010, after building of the
sets had already begun, the actors
unions suddenly begun protests and
ordered their actors to stop working.
Strikes were so extensive that Warner
Bros (who by then had merged with
New Line Cinema) threatened to
move production elsewhere (the Har-
ry Potter studies in the UK were men-
tioned at some point). But eventually
that cleared up as well and produc-
tion remained in New Zealand.
Very soon after the failed union
protests, in October 2010, the budg-
et was announced at $500million,
higher than any movie that has gone
before it and almost twice the budget
of the currently most expensive ﬁlm
(Pirates of the Caribbean: At World’s
End).
In November 2010 Peter Jackson fa-
mously ordered 30 red EPIC cameras
(each costing some $58,000). hese
record in what is called 5k, a resolu-
tion that most cinemas don’t even
have the equipment to display at.
In April 2011, in another controver-
sial move, Peter Jackson revealed that
the movie will be ﬁlmed in 48 frames
per second (fps), deviating from the
standard 24fps – which has been
used for almost every movie since the
1920s. his should reduce ‘strobing’
and immerse the audience even more.
But critics who saw it at the April
2012 cinemacon were sceptic and said
it looked almost ‘too real’.
But perhaps the most controversial
choice of all was just recently, in July
2012, when it was announced that he
Hobbit would be made into 3 ﬁlms
and turned into a trilogy because ap-
parently ‘there was too much material
to cover in one ﬁlm’. his meant that
he Hobbit, which consists of only
about 300 pages in its original hard-
cover, would be made into the same
number of movies as the 1600 page
Lord of the Rings. Whether this is just
a typical money-milking stunt, or
whether there really is three movies’
worth of material, only time will tell.
All in all, we can be very glad that
Peter Jackson did end up directing
and he even managed to get most of
the old team back. I’m really excited
to see what Peter Jackson and his
team have come up with and can’t
wait to see the ﬁrst instalment of he
Hobbit.
But before we watch the prequel,
and as we anticipate its release, what
better time is there to rewatch the
Lord of the Rings? – To refresh our
memory of Legolas and Gimli before
we meet their fathers (yes, that’s right,
hranduil and Gloin are appearing in
he Hobbit).
Now, back on home ground, in
a clever move by the ICU Cinema,
they will be showing the Lord of the
Rings marathon on the 2nd ﬂoor of
the Union, on the 4th of November,
just a few weeks before the release of
he Hobbit. he marathon should last
from 1pm to 11pm. his is a lengthy
ﬁlm session for sure, and lasting all
ten hours is known amongst the cin-
ema staﬀ as a feat of manliness only
surpassed by staying awake for the
entirety of their December all-night-
er.
But Frodo’s journey from he Shire
to Mount Doom took over 6 months
in real time. And so anything under
ten hours wouldn’t really do the jour-
ney justice.
his will probably be the last chance
to see the trilogy on a 33 foot screen
in professional 35mm quality before
he Hobbit is released. And for a ﬁver
online or six at the door all I can say is
I’ll see you there!
Size doesn’t matter
Paavo Schafer Writer
Based on true events, Affleck’s latest
directorial is a darkly comic mixture
of thriller and political satire.
When the US embassy in Tehran
is stormed in November 1979 in re-
taliation for American interference in
Iranian politics, six diplomats, nick-
named ‘the house-guests’ take shelter
in the Canadian ambassador’s (Victor
Garber) private residence. With the
rest of the embassy staﬀ held hostage,
and their captors looking for the es-
capees, the US State Department fac-
es the task of safely extracting them
from the country.
CIA operative Tony Mendez (Af-
ﬂeck) is brought in to consult, and de-
vises a plan so ridiculous it becomes
the only viable option: indeed it is the
“best bad idea” that they could dream
up. he trapped embassy workers
needed a valid reason to be in the
country, in order for them to avoid
arousing suspicion when trying to
leave. Inspired by his son’s love for
sci-ﬁ, Mendez and Hollywood make-
up artist (Goodman) enlist the help
of ﬁlm producer Lester Siegel (Arkin),
serial scene stealer who delivers some
of the ﬁlm’s best lines with expert
timing; and together set up a fake
ﬁlm studio and begin to create hype
around a pretend ﬁlm, Argo. Set on a
planet with a Middle Eastern atmos-
phere, it is a hilariously cheesy ﬁlm: a
case-study into all that’s wrong with
Hollywood.
he embassy workers are assigned
new Canadian identities: they are
production staﬀ members location
scouting for the ﬁlm. Mendez ﬂies
to Iran to meet the group, and then
together, the seven have to convince
the Iranians that the ﬁlm is real, and
that their identities are genuine. he
group faces a race against time to get
out of the country before they are dis-
covered.
his is a little known piece of his-
tory that seems made for ﬁlm: the
juxtaposition of the satirical farce of
Hollywood is all the funnier against
the serious and rather gritty situa-
tion unfolding across the other side
of the world. Which is just as well –
too serious and the ﬁlm would be too
heavy and oppressive, yet something
too comic would be inappropriate,
given lives were always at stake. he
ﬂipping between locations keeps the
screenplay dynamic and pacing ur-
gent. Amusing similarities are drawn
between selling the ﬁlm’s legitimacy
to the Iranians, and feeding the ﬁlm
to the American media: it’s all for
show, all just a goal directed business
(as Mendez points out, ﬁlmmakers
would shoot “in Stalingrad, with Pol
Pot directing” if they thought it would
make money): contrast against Af-
ﬂeck’s ﬁlm, which is beautifully con-
structed and full of heart.
Attention to detail is clearly impor-
tant to Affleck, as the actors chosen
to play the embassy workers were
surprising like their real-life coun-
terparts, as shown from real life stills
of the group, well played by the little
known actors Tate Donovan, Scoot
McNairy, Rory Cochrane, Clea Du-
Vall, Kerry Bishé and Christopher
Denham. he weeks the group spend
in captivity are oppressively claustro-
phobic and fraught with tension and
fear; visually conveyed with cramped
sets, tight close-ups and hazy light-
ing. he actors themselves no stran-
ger to isolation: Affleck had the group
held in captivity for a week prior to
ﬁlming, to add to the authenticity of
the piece.
Affleck plays the pivotal role very
subtly – he is restrained and at times
almost bland and too underdevel-
oped. But that’s okay: this isn’t a ﬁlm
about characters, it’s a ﬁlm about a
plot too good to be true (and prob-
ably is), and by stepping back Affleck
gives the ﬁlm room to shine. But his
direction is ﬁrst rate – he executes
the complex story perfectly; driving it
forward; maintaining the sense of ur-
gency, weaving together satire, classic
escape ﬁlm, historical and political
commentary with absolute precision
and balance. he period feels authen-
tic, with grainy cinematography, ter-
rible fashion and the perpetual fog of
cigarette smoke. he ﬁnal sequences
are (literally) nail-bitingly, edge-of-
your-seat tense; a testament to an
entirely absorbing ﬁlm that keeps its
audience gripped and emotionally in-
volved right until its conclusion. Argo
is about intelligence winning out over
violence; about the importance of
good relations with political allies,
and has modern day signiﬁcance for
the American-Iranian relationship.
“Argo F*** Yourself”
Katy Bettany Film Editor
Director: Ben Affleck
Screenwriters: Chris Terrio, Joshuah
Bearman
Starring: Ben Affleck, Bryan
Cranston, Alan Arkin, John Goodman
We like to drink with freshers, cos freshers are our mates

