FILM
Film Editors: Katy Bettany,
John Park, Lucy Wiles
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 02 NOVEMBER
32
2012 London Kor
John Park Film Editor
Yes, I’m Korean. My surname is Park.
hat automatically means I’m Korean.
And so I watch Korean ﬁlms. Not ex-
actly the most accessible to western
audiences or appealing I’m sure, but
slowly there have been growing inter-
ests in Asian cinema and noticeably
ﬁlms from Korea have caught the at-
tention of various prestigious festi-
vals and prizes.
he London Korean Film Festival,
currently in its 7th year, hopes to cel-
ebrate the latest break-out hits from
the east with a wider viewership, and
has put together a 10-day programme
(whilst also further extending its du-
ration by taking the festival to Glas-
gow and Bristol) of excellent choices
full of variety and plenty to oﬀer.
hieves
Currently the second highest grossing Korean ﬁlm of all time in its native country, this star-stud-
ded spectacle (Kim Yun-seok, Kim Hye-soo, Lee Jung-jae and Gianna Jun are all considered top
stars) serves as the Opening Night Gala followed by a Q&A session. After oﬀered a job in Macao,
ﬁve of Korea’s most successful, ambitious thieves team up with an equally competent Chinese crew
to undertake their most challenging heist of their careers: stealing a diamond worth over $20 mil-
lion. Let the thrilling back-stabbing and double-crossing begin.
Masquerade
Only seven Korean ﬁlms have had the honour of crossing that must coveted line of 10,000,000
ticket admissions in South Korea, and the latest to break that barrier is this year’s Closing Night
Gala. South Korea is well known for its lavish, big-scale period pieces dealing with the shady, murky
backdrops of dynasty palaces. Here we have the paranoid and insane King Gwanghae (Lee Byung-
hun of G.I.Joe) who after a failed assassination attempt falls into a coma. he King’s double is placed
on the throne, although the sudden shift in behaviour raises suspicion from the King’s opposition.
Opening + Closing Night Galas

