FILM
Film Editors: Katy Bettany,
John Park, Lucy Wiles
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
33
FRIDAY 02 NOVEMBER
rean Film Festival
Dancing Queen
It’s a ﬁlm that shows what an all-round entertainer Uhm Jung-hwa is. With a career spanning almost two decades now,
this singer/actress/dancer/performer has done it all, and shows oﬀ her polished skills in her latest ﬁlm. As a housewife
facing that scary age of 40, Jung-hwa fantasises of once again jumping into the spotlight of a concert stage, an unfulﬁlled
ambition she had to give up in her youth when she married her dim but dedicated husband, Jeong-min. A chance of a life-
time is oﬀered, although the only trouble is, her husband, a down-to-earth and honest lawyer, is being groomed to enter
the political circles of Seoul; and having a singing/dancing politician’s wife is very much frowned upon. An easy-going
mix of comedy, drama and satirical portrayals of the Korean pop culture as well as its political games, here is a touching,
oftentimes funny and somewhat inspiring ﬁlm that tells us we’re never too young to pursue our dreams.
Eungyo
An intense story of lust, obsession and jealousy, it starts oﬀ with an intriguing premise: a 70-year-old, highly respected
and successful poet and author (Park Hae-il) and his keen but not exactly gifted apprentice/butler (Kim Moo-yeul) one
day stumble across a 17-year-old female high-school student Eun-gyo (Kim Go-eun), and face diﬃcultlies in their already
rocky relationship. It’s about odd people doing odd things which does provide some odd fascination in its frustratingly
slow telling of a potentially powerful story. Hae-il, who himself is only 35 years old, never quite convinces in the scenes
where he is supposed to be the seasoned, intelligent and deep-thinking professor. Excelling in her debut performance
however is Go-eun, who perfectly captures the essence of these two men’s contrasting, but equally potent, desires. It’s
essentially a love-triangle of mixed, complex intentions, and the outcome is an inevitably dense and depressing one.
Gabi
After his wife, Empress Myeongseong, is brutally slain by the Japanese, King Gojong ﬂees to the Russian consulate and
ends up with a taste for coﬀee, and sets his eyes ﬁrmly on his personal barista who has the uncanny ability to brew the
new and mysterious drink from the west he’s captivated by. But barista Tanya (Kim So-yeon) is in fact a coerced pawn in
a far sinister scheme hatched by a Japanese socialite, Sadako (Yoo Sun). Her intimate relationship with the King is to be
used as her advantage here and her lover Ilyich (Joo Jin-mo) also ﬁts in in this widely convoluted, tonally confused period
drama that can’t quite make up its mind about the story it wants to tell. here are no thrills, very little passion, which is
why even the impressively mounted climax does very little to move. Plus this must be the worst, most poorly decorated
and designed ﬁlm that tries but fails to show a very intricate feel of 19th Century Korea.
Deranged
here most certainly is something in the water – citizens of Korea start dying mysteriously. First they start eating lots.
hen drinking lots. hen they die. Quite daringly for a health disaster ﬁlm like this, the director gives away plenty of
answers in the ﬁrst half. But it’s only because this ﬁlm has a lot more to tell. Focusing mainly on a single family, the story
is mostly set around Jae-hyuk (Kim Myung-min) a lowly cubical worker in a pharmaceutical company, and his struggle
against the clock and eventually, deadly conspiracy, to save his family who are showing the early symptoms of the condi-
tion. It’s incredibly fast-paced, with brief but adequate bouts of scientiﬁc jargon/explanation driving the plot forward.
he less you question the teeny tiny details and nitpick, the more you’ll enjoy this tightly structured, solid eﬀort that
wants to be the South Korean version of Contagion.
Black Eagle (R2B: Return to Base)
K-Pop superstar Rain (a.k.a Jung Ji-hoon) continues his career on the big screen as he takes over more or less the same
role Tom Cruise immortalised almost 30 years ago. As a hot-shot ﬁghter pilot who likes to show oﬀ, Tae-hun (Ji-hoon)
gets into a lot of trouble for making some dangerous choices. he ﬁrst-half is spent on character building as well as oﬀ-
beat, farce humour, whilst also ﬁnding time for romance. he ﬁnal segments concentrate on a surprise attack North
Korea inﬂicts on the South, and a missing pilot who needs to be rescued. Shamelessly patriotic, naively simple, there is a
lot of cheese in its awkward dialogue, and hardly any tension builds whilst the bad coup d’etat soldiers in the North start
planning something malicious, but the action sequences are top-notch, ﬁlmed incredibly with high octane energy over
the many tall buildings of Seoul , as large powerful aircrafts narrowly avoid disaster on many occasions.
As One Korea
In order to beat China, the dominant sports team when it comes to table tennis, the two Koreas decide to unify their
two national teams and take on their biggest nemesis in the 41st World Table Tennis Championships in 1991. Of course,
this idea does not go down well with the players, as there are obvious culture clashes, personality diﬀerences and social
divide. And yet a special bond forms as time goes by, and they realise ultimately the only thing setting them apart is the
big military line dividing the two countries. he scenes showing the various table tennis matches are sensational, as each
grunt, each bounce, each serve and each smash is captured with so much convincing energy. And in the more human
aspects of the ﬁlm, the two lead actresses (Ha Ji-won, Bae Doo-na) give it their absolute all, and succeed in creating a
powerful ﬁnale. Lots of diﬃcult subjects are glossed over, but as a sugary sweet, feel-good sports ﬁlm, it’s truly smashing.

