MUSIC
Music Editors: Mark England,
Ross Gray, Simon Hunter,
Íñigo Martinez de Rituerto
music.felix@gmail.com
FRIDAY 02 NOVEMBER
34
Gonzales at the Barbican
In the full ﬂow of a performance
Chilly Gonzales is a sight to behold.
Dressed in a black satin dressing
gown and wasabi green slippers his
unkempt, sweaty hair hangs across
his face as he hammers the keys of
a beautiful Steinway. his is a man
who loves to let his wild imagina-
tion gallop and two weekends ago, in
the Barbican Hall, he was given the
BBC Symphony Orchestra to, in his
words, be his “sixty musical slaves”.
To say that Gonzales’ imagination
and showmanship are greater than
his musical talents is not to do the
man a disservice. Chilly Gonzales has
released pop albums and rap albums,
he set a world record for the longest
continual playing of the piano, had
his music used by Steve Jobs to sell
trillions of ﬂashing pieces of glass and
metal, and even made an “existential
sports comedy” ﬁlm focussing on
the little-known sport of jazz-chess
( ...and breathe). However his most
successful release has been the Solo
Piano album he gifted the world in
2004. In this work he put the bravado
aside to record half an hour of beau-
tifully delicate piano melodies, show-
ing us that behind all the madcap rap
lyrics and ridiculous attire lies some
serious talent.
It was with his second, recently
released solo piano compositions
that he began the Barbican show.
With Gonzales illuminated by a sin-
gle spotlight and positioned centre
stage the crowd hung on every creak
of the Steinway’s hammers. Solo Pi-
ano II carries on where the ﬁrst left
oﬀ; melancholic and touching, Gon-
zales’ love for the minor keys is on
full display. Indeed it was this prefer-
ence over the “politically conserva-
tive” major keys that he proceeded to
demonstrate by shifting classics such
as ‘Happy Birthday’, ‘Frere Jacques’
and ‘Chariots of Fire’ into the minor
realm, whilst making jokes about
World War II and his jewish heritage
amongst other things. You wouldn’t
get that on “Later... With Jools Hol-
land”.
he entertainer extraordinaire then
composed a piece, live, with the aid
of a child plucked from the audience
before debuting his rather ambitious
project of composing a piano con-
certo. I’m not used to appreciating
extended pieces of classical music,
my initial wonder tends to wane after
a few minutes and my mind drifts oﬀ.
Unfortunately Gonzales was unable
to prevent this fate with his eﬀort.
hings picked up again, however,
as Chilly used the orchestra to full ef-
fect in creating a barn-storming ver-
sion of his electro-rap epic ‘Take Me
To Broadway’. he show climaxed as
Gonzales instructed, through con-
ductor Jules Buckley, the creation
of pop music’s equivalent of Frank-
enstein’s Monster. he bass line of
‘Another One Bites the Dust’, a pitch-
shifted variant of the ‘Billie Jean’ riﬀ
and the strings from Britney Spears’
‘Toxic’ were all combined and rapped
over. And it pretty much worked. Not
content with that however, Gonzales
descended into the crowd and tried
his very best at ‘surﬁng’ the Barbican;
almost certainly the ﬁrst time crowd
surﬁng has been witnessed at a ven-
ue more used to playing host to the
high-brow end of live music.
After much applause for the BBC
Symphony Orchestra and a standing
Simon Hunter Music Editor
The best use of a
satin dressing gown
since Hugh Hefner
Cave Painting: Votive Life
Cave Painting are a Brighton based
band signed to hird Rock Record-
ings. heir debut album Votive Life
released on 24th September this year
certainly promised much, but did it
really deliver? here was a lot of hype
surrounding the album prior to its re-
lease because of the popularity of their
pre-released tracks, such as ‘Rio’ and
‘Gator’. Not to mention the fact that
they have played a few dates with Mer-
cury Prize nominees (and favourites
to win) Alt-J, who actually have one
of the best albums I’ve heard this year
so far. It really does feel like Votive Life
will meet the hype at ﬁrst…but then it
starts to get less convincing.
he album opens with ‘Leaf’ which
begins with an assault of noise then
cuts into the softness of singer Adam
Kane’s voice. It’s a solid song and a
great opener to the album. Nuﬀ said.
Next is ‘Gator’ which is without doubt
one of the stand-out tracks of the al-
bum. Kane’s lilting vocals and the Af-
rican glockenspiel sums up their dis-
tinctive sound – swaying, atmospheric
indie rock. If that makes any sense at
all. his is the track to listen to if you
want to know what they’re about. ‘So
Calm’, my personal favourite, includes
Kane’s soaring vocals and chiming
chords courtesy of guitarist Harry
Smallwood. he repeating line “I’m
not wasting time” sticks in your head
for hours, especially if you’ve been
procrastinating when you’ve got a load
of work to do. Jonathan McCawley’s
drums in ‘Handle’ match the tribal
namesake of the band to produce a
slightly darker sound than the previ-
ous songs. To me, this song in particu-
lar acted as a bit of a metaphor for the
whole album really: it starts oﬀ really
well, lulls, gets good for a bit, and then
drops again.
It’s when we reach ‘Only Us’ that the
appeal of Kane’s drawn vocals starts
to wear oﬀ and it gets a bit exasper-
ating. As a standalone track, it could
work but here I feel it blends into the
background of the album. Also, at 3:23
the music cuts oﬀ and his voice has a
bit of a David Gray tone to it (remem-
ber him? yeah, I cringed too) and the
fact that this is the best bit of the song
says it all really. ‘he Gator’ interlude
is a nice break in the album and a re-
minder of how well it all started, and
then we move onto the (sorry, it’s got
to be said) distinctly average ‘Pair Up’
which feels more like an album-ﬁller
than a genuine track. hey could do
without it to be honest. Similarly, I
found ‘Simoleon’ forgettable and the
guitar reprise at the end sounds no-
where near as epic as it should have
done.
But then we’re gifted with ‘Rio’ and
it feels like there’s hope yet! his is
where his vocals really work, with the
best bit being the line “Who would
have seen my face, when I was a hol-
low man?”. Deep stuﬀ. he sheer vul-
nerability in his voice when he sings
“Riooooo” and “I won’t go” and the a
capella “So loooong” at the end makes
you fall in love with them again. But
that feeling’s short-lived, as the ‘Me
You Soon’ interlude is a major anti-
climax that doesn’t ﬁt as well as the
other interlude in the album, followed
by ‘Nickel’. Just…disappointment. To
close the album we have ‘Forming’–
an average song to end an average al-
bum which, I hasten to add, is a real
pity seeing as Cave Painting is a band
with so much potential.
here are some incredible tracks on
this album (Leaf, Gator, So Calm, Rio)
but you might as well not listen to the
rest of it because although it starts oﬀ
promising, by the end it has ultimately
failed to deliver. Many of the other
tracks do just feel more like album-
ﬁllers than anything else. It could
Jeni Pillai Writer
Does this much anticipated release live up to the hype and early promise?
have been terrible had it not been for
those aforementioned gems. Singer
Kane’s vocals are the focus of the
band’s sound and they deﬁnitely have
a lilting vulnerable charm, but it does
start to wear thin midway through the
album. Nevertheless, I still look for-
ward to what Cave Painting will do in
the future. Any band that’s so actively
involved in their own art and design,
and can write a song about a girl called
Rio without mentioning trivial things
like how she dances in the sand, have
got my respect.
Look at how
pretty this cover
is. It is 3D!!!
“
”
d b i
d b
ovation for the man himself, Gonza-
les returned to the stage to bewilder
the audience one last time by reciting
a medley of ‘Gogol’ and ‘Overnight’.
Sat on the ﬂoor. With his head under-
neath the piano.
his was a performance in which
one of the greatest imaginations and
entertainers in music was given the
tools he’d previously only dreamt of.
he result was beautiful, hilarious,
stupefying and brash. Chilly Gonza-
les: a true entertainer.
behind all
the madcap rap lyrics
and ridiculous attire
lies some serious
talent
Mark Allen

