Obama and Hip-Hope
MUSIC
Music Editors: Mark England,
Ross Gray, Simon Hunter,
Íñigo Martinez de Rituerto
music.felix@gmail.com
35
FRIDAY 02 NOVEMBER
M
usic and the Presi-
dent of the United
States of America
has always had an
interesting rela-
tionship. Music being played in the
White House is a long standing tradi-
tion, dating back to ever since the Ma-
rine Band were invited to perform in
the Executive Suite for President John
Adams on New Year’s Day 1801. Fast
forward to 20 January 2009, President
Barack Obama was elected and that
evening as part of the Inauguration
the Wynton Marsalis Quintet played
at the White House for the new Presi-
dent and 100 of his guests. Since then,
the on-going White House music se-
ries has zig-zagged across the musi-
cal spectrum inviting a wide array of
artists to perform at 1600 Pennsylva-
nia Avenue including Earth, Wind
and Fire, Stevie Wonder and Ziggy
Marley.
In May last year, Michelle Obama in-
vited rapper, actor and poet Common
to perform at a poetry reading for kids.
Common is known to hip-hop fans as
the “king of conscious hip-hop” with
his two decade long career focusing on
topics including aversion to violence,
positivity and fatherhood. However,
the poetry and reading was doused in
controversy with the usual rightwing
pundits fanning the ﬂames by citing
Common’s ‘A Song for Assata’; a track
sympathetic to activist Assata Shakur,
who was convicted of murdering two
New Jersey State Troopers. Sarah Palin
claimed the White House “lacked class
and decency”, with Fox News alleging
Common to be a “vile rapper” despite
describing his music as “very positive”
in a special report a few months previ-
ous. Common responded to the con-
troversy through Twitter saying that
“apparently Sarah Palin and Fox News
doesn’t like me”; however, I wonder if
it’d be more worrying if Sarah Palin
and Fox News did like Common.
Obama’s association with hip-hop
can be traced back to his election cam-
paign of 2008. Before his nomination
as the Democratic nominee, he re-
vealed his iPod playlist showcasing his
wide-ranging musical taste. Among
the likes of Bruce Springsteen, Bob
Dylan and Miles Davis was Jay-Z who
Obama even invited to perform at his
Inauguration Ball. In April 2008, Oba-
ma referenced Jay-Z’s “Dirt Oﬀ Your
Shoulder” when he famously brushed
his shoulder oﬀ, in response to criti-
cism by then rival Hillary Clinton, to
wild cheers at Raleigh in North Caro-
lina. Once elected Obama was even
labelled the “ﬁrst hip-hop President”
and dubbed “B-Rock” by Vibe Maga-
zine, however his 29-song campaign
playlist for the upcoming election had
not a single hip-hop song. A glaring
contrast can be seen between not only
Obama’s outlook towards hip-hop,
but perhaps more interesting, is the
change in the hip-hop community’s
response to Obama since his election.
Rewind to before the 2008 election,
and “95 percent of the hip-hop com-
munity [was] singing his praises” with
ﬁgures such as Sean “Diddy” Combs,
Russell Simmons and Jay-Z actively
campaigning in support of Obama.
References to Obama were widespread
in hip-hop during this time, with rap-
pers Ludacris, Common, Talib Kweli,
will.i.am, Young Jeezy, Lil Wayne,
Jadakiss, Big Boi, Busta Rhymes and
many, many more mentioning Barack
Obama in their songs. Common had
set the trend through namedropping
Obama back in 2004 with the lyrics
“Why is Bush acting like he trying to
get Osama? Why don’t we impeach
him and elect Obama?” on the remix
of the song ‘Why’ featuring Jadakiss,
Styles P and Nas. Hip-hop legend Nas
endorsed Obama extensively through
his song ‘Black President’ which con-
tained samples from Obama’s ac-
ceptance speech as well as Tupac’s ‘I
Wonder If Heaven Got a Ghetto’ for
the hook (“Although it seems heaven
sent, we ain’t ready to see a black Presi-
dent”). Nas revokes Tupac’s cynicism
and scepticism, renovating it into a
message of hope and optimism, much
in line with Obama’s campaign.
he hip-hop celebrity endorsements
were obviously worth their while. Po-
litical scientist Darrell West of the
Brookings Institution claims that “ce-
lebrities can help in particular niches...
you can match a celebrity and target
and appeal to those types of com-
munities”. An analysis by Centre for
Information and Research on Civic
Learning and Engagement (CIRCLE)
showed the voter turnout for African-
Americans aged 18 – 29 in the 2008
election was the highest in American
history at 58.2%; up by 8.7% from the
previous election. he turnout for this
particular voter demographic was
higher than any other eligible racial
or ethnic group in that election, which
was a ﬁrst in the history of American
voting.
However, as Obama’s term pro-
gressed the tide turned and voices of
dissent appeared amongst the hip-
hop crowd. Jay-Z and Obama have
had an enduring relationship that has
even been described as a “bromance”
with Jay-Z declaring he has Obama on
speed dial. Nevertheless, Jay-Z admits
that some of the criticism directed to-
wards Obama is “fair” acknowledging
that “numbers don’t lie” when asked
about unemployment during a Watch
he hrone promotional interview
with GQ. His fellow Inauguration VIP,
Sean “Diddy” Combs told he Source
earlier this year that “I love the Presi-
dent like most of us. I just want the
President to do better”.
Perhaps the most critical attacks
on Obama came from Chicago based
rapper Lupe Fiasco. In an interview
with CBS in 2008, Lupe Fiasco called
Obama “the biggest terrorist” in the
United States of America, who went
on to further state that the terrorism
in foreign states is directly related to
Obama’s foreign policy. Furthermore,
Lupe Fiasco’s single “Words I Never
Said” expands upon his criticism by
referencing Obama’s silence upon Is-
rael’s 22 day bombardment of Gaza
through the lyrics “Gaza strip was get-
ting bombed, Obama didn’t say shit.
hat’s why I ain’t vote for him, next one
either”. he disapproval of Obama in
hip-hop isn’t just limited to American
artists. London based political activist
and rapper Lowkey labelled Obama
as “handsome face of an ugly empire”
and released two tracks entitled “Oba-
manation” (part 1 & 2), which launch
scathing condemnation of Obama. In
“Obamanation (part 2)” M-1 (of politi-
cal hip-hop group dead prez) declared
Obama “a master of disguise, expert at
telling lies”.
With less hip-hop artists promot-
ing Obama, many hip-hop artists have
changed their tune. Veteran rapper
KRS-One and Mobb Deep member
Prodigy both lent their support to
Texas Congressman and former Re-
publican presidential candidate Ron
Paul during the GOP primaries. Rap-
per Speech, of Arrested Develop-
ment, who supported Obama in 2008,
said he felt “disillusioned with some
things that Obama has done” and that
he would support Ron Paul. Snoop
Dogg had posted a photo of Ron Paul
on his Facebook page with the caption
“smoke weed everyday”, although he
recently posted on Twitter a list of rea-
sons why he was voting for Obama as
opposed to Romney.
Earlier this year, cult underground
hip-hop ﬁgure El-P joined forces with
Southern rapper Killer Mike and re-
leased the album R.A.P. Music. he
combination of El-P’s trademark sonic
and aggressive production and Killer
Mike’s introspective and emotive lyr-
ics took critics and hip-hop fans by
storm and is a shoe-in for hip-hop re-
lease of the year. he track “Reagan”
attracted a wide deal of controversy as
it vehemently criticised Ronald Rea-
gan and his presidency, in particular
the Iran-Contra scandal. Killer Mike
also panned Obama calling him “just
another talking head telling lies on tel-
eprompters”. However, in an interview
with HipHopDX, Killer Mike stated
that he hasn’t jumped oﬀ the Obama
bandwagon and that he’s “still ﬁrmly
on the train in the ﬁrst class” but he
won’t be voting in the upcoming elec-
tion. He isn’t alone. Compton based
rapper Kendrick Lamar revealed that
he wouldn’t be voting in the upcom-
ing election, with Lupe Fiasco and
SpaceGhostPurrp taking the same
stance.
Voting or not, the election goes
ahead next week. With Obama not in-
cluding any hip-hop songs on his elec-
tion campaign play-list, it’s clear that
he is having a “Sister Souljah moment”
and taking a moderate role up against
Romney. he lack of hip-hop endorse-
ments that Obama had had in 2008,
may be an indicator of Obama losing
the “cool factor”, begging the question
on everyone’s mouth for next Tuesday:
Hasaan Choudry discovers that the President has lost his mojo
I grew out of
my hip-hop
phase when
I was 16.
Way ahead
of you man
Happier times
in 2008

