MUSIC
Music Editors: Mark England,
Ross Gray, Simon Hunter,
Íñigo Martinez de Rituerto
music.felix@gmail.com
You Don’t Have To
Call It Music
Pt. 4 elektronische Musik
by Íñigo Martinez de Rituerto
While the Parisian advocates of musique concrète exposed the song of every
day sounds, elsewhere in Europe, the avant garde was focusing on the musical
potential of electricity. While the French has used the tape reel as a medium for
samplingandmanipulatingnaturalnoises,theGermans,perhapsunsurprisingly
forapeoplesorenownedfortheirtechnicalprowess,setaboutdevelopingnew
waysofartificiallysynthesizingsoundscompletelyforeigntothehumanear.The
whimsofafewvisionariesweretocompletelyrevolutionizethepotentialofmu-
sic,openinganewdomaininwhichsoundcouldbemade.
In 1948, Meyer-Eppler, a phonetics academic, met Dudley, an American re-
search physicist at Bell Labs. Dudley brought with him from Bell the newly de-
veloped Vocoder, a device that allowed for speech analysis and synthesis. The
groundbreaking 1970’s electronic group Kraftwerk were one of the first ‘pop’
bands to use this Vocoder for musical means, rather than for speech research.
TheinfamousAuto-tunetechnique,whichcorrectsasinger’spitchdigitally,isits
modernanalogue.FollowingMeyer-Eppler’spublicationofhisthesisElektronis-
cheKlangerzeugung(“electronicsoundproduction”)thenextyear,thetwostart-
ed a conversation between musical and technological communities that would
captivate many artists and scientists in the region. An increasing frequency of
lectures and conferences would foster a network of composers and researchers
pioneeringnewmethodsofsynthesizingsoundsfromelectroniccircuits.In1953,
ahandfulofthemfoundedthenowiconicColognestudioforelectronicmusicin
theWestdeutscherRundfunk(WDF)headquarters.
By far the best known member of the Cologne studio was Karlheinz Stock-
hausen. Perhaps the most prolific proponent of elektronische Musik, he com-
posed from 1950 until his passing in 2007. The following year, the Southbank
Centre curated a week-long festival dedicated to him, where audiences were
treated to his vast repertoire ranging from piano, percussion and tape perfor-
mances, to a series of recorded lectures where the composer’s unique vision of
modernmusicisstunningtobehold.Someofhisinstructionsforimprovisedcol-
laborationarestronglyreminiscentofJohnCage:“Playavibrationintherhythm
of your body; of your heart; of your breathing; of your thinking; of your intui-
tion;ofyourenlightenment;oftheuniverse.”Othercompositionsareofbaffling
ambition, such as his Helicopter String Quartet. With Mikrophonie, he ventured
tousethemicrophoneasamusicalinstrument(sic),usingittorevealotherwise
inaudiblevibrationsoftraditionalinstruments.
The German technocrats were not in complete disaccord with the concrète
schoolhowever,thoughsomerefusedtouseanysoundthatwasnotpurelyelec-
tronicallyfabricated.WhatPierreSchaefferandhisfriendsinParishaddonewas
reveal the nature of sound, and to some extent attempt to formalize it. It was
only from these foundations that the Germans could then build the electronic
devices to replicate such sounds and give them more than a robotic character.
Indeed, it was Schaeffer himself who coined the Attack/Delay/Sustain/Release
envelope, ubiquitous in modern synthesizers, in his seminal 1952 publication, A
larecherchéd’unemusiqueconcrete.
This regional obsession with technology was certainly passed down to the
younger generations. After the summer of love and the hippie movement that
came with it, there was a similar psychedelic turn in German rock music. One
notable difference was the propensity of the krautrockers to use new synthesiz-
ersalongsideatraditionalpowertrioline-up.Theresultwasaformoretripped-
outversionofwhattheAmericanshadachieved,remindingmoreoftripstothe
end of space than the backyard garden. For a prime example of the krautrock
phenomenon, try lending your ears to Can’s Ege Bamyasi or any of Tangerine
Dream’searlyrecords.
The exploratory urge of elektronische Musik remains strong today, with mu-
sicians like Keith Fullerton Whitman (breakcore alias Hrvatski) and Florian
Hecker (recently awarded a grant by the MIT Media Lab to compose Chimeri-
zation, a tryptich in English, Farsi and German) wreathing stunning noises from
custom modular synthesizers. Berlin based record label PAN have recently re-
leased some incredible records from people like Ben Vida, who takes a similar
approachtointricateelectronicsynthesis.
Withtheadventofthepersonalcomputer,thechallengeliednolongerinhow
farourinstrumentscouldtakeus,butwherecouldthemindextend.Whileobvi-
ous barriers lie on the way to realizing one’s vision, it is now possible to create
virtually any sound possible. Whether in wood, brass, hardware or software,
thereexistthemeans.
FRIDAY 02 NOVEMBER
36
King Krule: Live
King Krule, a lonely rider of the
current music scene, the only one
that is really talking about being in
pain (his own words), is the alias of
an 18-year old South Londoner, Ar-
chie Marshall, accompanied on stage
by a bassist, drummer, saxophon-
ist and guitarist. Archie ﬁrst caught
people’s eye last year with the track
‘Out Getting Ribs’, and a self-titled EP
that blended jazzy, dissonant chords
and the emotional ache of the blues
with spoken words of existential dis-
content.
But after that release and a small
set of gigs in the States and at Euro-
pean festivals, Marshall dropped oﬀ
the map completely until now, play-
ing a set of three shows ending with
his ﬁrst London gig in nearly a year
at Electrowerkz on October 18th.
he venue was a small, low-key place,
built into an arch in Angel, with art
school kids hanging out at the stage,
wrapped up in sketching in their
Moleskines.
he support act was another young
band called Haraket, who blended a
range of musical inﬂuences to pro-
duce some interesting and experi-
mental sounds that channeled every-
thing from post-dubstep to spanish
jazz. heir live mix of physical and
pad drums, guitar, synths and a
muted trumpet seemed noisy at ﬁrst,
but quickly settled down into some
promising and more complex tracks.
As the crowd milled around before
the main act, we noticed Marshall
himself chilling out in the neighbour-
ing bar, but felt too starstruck to ap-
proach with anything meaningful to
say. Our frustration didn’t last for
too long, though, as he was soon on
the stage. he contrast was astound-
ing; he looked frail and delicate, with
strikingly red hair and bright green
eyes, but when he spoke, his deep
voice was slow and assured, bring-
ing to mind a wise, wounded warrior.
Words were used sparingly; “Hello,
London”, and “hank you for com-
ing” are the few he uttered aside from
song titles. he transformation was
complete when they launched into
a ﬁerce rendition of ‘Has his Hit’,
a track written when Marshall still
went by the name Zoo Kid.
It was an astounding opening: ‘Has
his Hit’ pulls through a range of
emotions the presence of which was
felt more strongly and completely
live. It set the tone for the rest of the
gig, as they wound through a set list
covering everything from the EP, ear-
ly Zoo Kid tracks and the latest single
‘Rock Bottom’.
During the chorus of ‘Baby Blue’, a
cry from the crowd went out: “You
guys are fucking beautiful!”. A prod-
uct of the moment, this honest ex-
pression seems to perfectly capture
our notion of King Krule – expansive
sound and voice (he describes his
music as a soundscape) which, com-
bined with lyrics that brim over with
existential reﬂection and profound
sadness, paints a portrayal of bleak
urban existence and brings to the
surface something that is both, heart-
breaking and beautiful.
WinticketstoOuiLoveExchange
A night of some of the newest
French acts is about to rock up onto
the shores of the Great that is Brit-
ain in an attempt to maintain the
only reputation for which France is
unconquerable: electronic music.
Oui Love Exchange shows their
support for three new bands hop-
ing to follow in the steps of past
promoted acts such as The Shoes,
Anoraak, and Kitsuné golden boys
Housse de Racket.
Jupiter are a groovy two piece
hailing from Paris who have so far
released an EP entitled Juicy Lucy
(Needs a Boogieman) and whose
sound are described by the Ex-
change as “disco and electro-funk”
- pretty spot on.
If you are looking for “something
akin to a new wave Scott Walker”,
Juveniles should be right up your
street. Having already released two
singles through uber-cool Paris-
ian label Kitsuné, Juveniles are due
to release an album with Universal
next year. This is a great chance to
check their happy-go-lucky, synthy
sound.
Being slightly less poppy and
darker than the other two acts,
Franco-American Yan Wagner will
no doubt add an interesting ele-
ment to the lineup. It is will be well
worth checking out whether his live
performance will live up to his top-
notch producing.
All contributing with their unique
styles to a showcase of exciting new
electro, the Oui Love night is defi-
nitely one not to miss for all French
electronic music fans.
Padriac & Polona
Lily Le Writer
In researching this
article it came to my
attention that Alexis
Taylor is also the
name of an American
adult film actress
Competition
Details:
Oui Love Exchange
21st November 2012
Shacklewell Arms, East London
How to enter:
To be in with a chance for you and a
friend to win tickets to this years event
simplyemailusatmusic.felix@gmail.com
with the subject as “Oui Love Competi-
tion”.Itisaseasyasthat!

