The Cribs are back on top
MUSIC
BE SURE NOT TO MISS
Music Editors: Mark England,
Ross Gray, Simon Hunter,
Íñigo Martinez de Rituerto
music.felix@gmail.com
37
FRIDAY 02 NOVEMBER
AMS album of the week
Titus Andronicus’ first two albums are both fantastic. An eclectic brand of
lo-fi punk done with furious passion and intelligence. A key theme of Titus An-
dronicus’ lyrics is nihilism. You can look at the first two albums as the first two
steps in accepting nihilism. First you get really pissed off, and then you have a
bit of a cry. If we take Local Business, Titus Andronicus’ third album, as an exten-
sion of this, it turns out that the next step of coming to terms with nihilism is to
become the Gaslight Anthem.
My reviews generally take the form introduction, positives, negatives and
conclusion. Sadly I have absolutely nothing good to say about this album so I’m
diving straight into the negatives. It’s straight up shit. The first album makes you
want to get fucked up and throw yourself around a sweaty venue, the second
makes you want to get fucked up and sit in a corner and sob. This one makes
me want to go to the pub and have a quiet shandy, specifically without this on
in the background. Patrick Stickles used to write clever lyrics with a knack for
black humour and a heavy sense of irony. Now we’re treated to the lines “your
dick’s too short to fuck the world”, “feeling like we live on diarrhoea planet” and
a whole fucking song about being an electric man (he has everything but an elec-
tric van). The songs used to slot together whilst all having their own aesthetic.
On this album the brief forays out of bad Hold Steady songs are just bizarre. The
last few minutes of ‘My Eating Disorder’ is the sort of thing you imagine Kyuss
might have found after a recording session where they took the stoner in stoner
rock a bit too far. ‘Tried to Quit Smoking’ uses all the worst parts of The Pogues
for nearly 10 minutes.
It’s clumsy, it’s crass and it’s certainly not clever. It’s bizarre that a band could go
from being so vitriolic to being so unbelievably bland. It’s like they’re happy now,
which might be great for them but it’s really ruined the band. This album sounds
like Tenacious D ironically parodying Bruce Springsteen as Titus Andronicus.
Itisofcourseentirelypossiblethatthatiswhattheyweregoingfor,inwhichcase
they are all cunts. – Stuart Masson
Titus Andronicus: LocalBusiness
he Cribs are a band of many contradic-
tions. hey are a band who pack their
shows with huge choruses that bring
the roof down whilst also getting long
poetic spoken word pieces into one of
their songs; they are a band who manage
to satisfy those fans who want the more
visceral punk rock side of the spectrum
whilst also inspiring devotion in pop
purists; they are a band who have never
really belonged to any trends but, with
the release of their latest album In the
Belly of the Brazen Bull, also seem as rel-
evant as ever. Despite these many con-
tradictions, or perhaps because of them,
it seems that the Cribs are as vital as they
have ever been before.
he Wakeﬁeld boys are the type to
inspire true devotion in their fans, and
tonight was not to be any diﬀerent. he
Q Awards show at the HMV Forum in
Kentish Town was a touch on the expen-
sive side in my view, with tickets coming
in at around £30 each, but the Cribs’ loy-
al following turned up in droves to watch
their favourite indie heroes. Edywn Col-
lins (of Orange Juice fame) started the
night oﬀ in ﬁne form. ‘Losing Sleep’ and
‘ A Girl Like You’ went down very well
but it was ‘Rip It Up’ which really blew
me away. It is an extremely simple song
containing a maximum of about twenty
words but it is a piece of pop perfection.
You can tell that Edwyn Collins is a com-
plete don because he manages to include
a cheeky saxophone solo without mak-
ing me want to claw out my own ears.
Also, anyone who can look cool with a
cane is okay in my book. Kudos to you
sir!
he Cribs bounded on stage with to-
tal authority, it was clear they knew that
tonight was going to be a great show. I
felt that around the time of Ignore the
Ignorant (largely ignored in the setlist to-
night) the band had become somewhat
of a homage to their former selves but
now with the release of In the Belly… it
was clear that they had recovered that
essence which made them such a thrill-
ing proposition. With ﬁve albums worth
of material to choose from there was not
space for any lulls tonight, only electri-
fying pop hits fuelling mayhem on the
danceﬂoor. It has been so long since I
have seen so many crowdsurfers at a
London show, so often a city plagued by
chin strokers and plaid-shirt bloggers;
tonight was made to bring hipster Lon-
don out of its esoteric coma with a blast
ofindierockandawholelotofinfectious
energy.
At a time when so many people are
whining that guitar music is dead, I
would refer these idiots to the fantas-
tic trio of songs near the beginning of
the set which really set the tone for the
evening: ‘Our Bovine Public’
, ‘Glitters
Like Gold’ and ‘Back to the Bolthole’
.
he crowd was going absolutely bal-
listic for the massive choruses and even
sang every word back of a lesser known
b-side. When ‘I’m a Realist’ started up,
the crowd erupted into further frenzy
and the band lapped up the adoration
coming their way. One of the highlights
of the night was the spoken word epic of
‘Be Safe’
. As an album track it is a strange
proposition but live it makes perfect
sense; the slow burning anger of Lee
Ranaldo (from Sonic Youth) backed by
anepicthrashofguitars.Iwascaptivated
and it was only slightly marred by tech-
nical disruptions with the video feed but
the song was so powerful that no-one
seemed to care.
he night came to a climax with some
of bigger hits in the Cribs’ armoury. ‘Hey
Scenesters’ is always a joy to watch and
‘Men’sNeeds’wasarallyingcryforevery-
one to throw their ridiculously expensive
pints in the air. he relatively newer song
‘Chi Town’ had an amazing energy about
it; Ryan’s punk leanings asserting them-
selves on this balls-out number which
could have come straight out of the Ra-
mones’ catalogue (and this is perhaps a
perfect complement to give.) By the end
of the night Ryan was ended up dressed
in various bits of clothing thrown to him
by the audience including some sort of
sweat doused cape. He exclaimed to that
crowd that he didn’t mind sharing bodily
ﬂuidswiththembecausethatisthebond
which they had. his image of him stood
wailing his heart out dressed in disgust-
ing sweaty rags embodied everything
I have come to love about the Cribs;
they don’t care about looking cool, they
only want to make amazing pop songs
for people to jump around to and, most
signiﬁcantly, they were having so much
fun that I wanted to be in their gang. As I
saidatthebeginning,theCribsareavital
band once again, but I did not realise just
how vital they would be.
Mark England Music Editor
Jump if you are hav-
ing fun. No not you!
Keep drumming!
ATP bring a fantastic show to
West London (Shepherd’s Bush Em-
pire) on the 28th November when
they hit us not only with the incred-
ibly energetic Dirty Three, lead by
big-bearded Australian mentalist
Warren Ellis, but also with inde-
scribable (seriously, I’m not sure
how to describe even their studio
stuff) Bristol trio Zun Zun Egui.
For those not currently aware,
Dirty Three are, I guess essentially,
a post-rock trio with a drummer,
bassist/guitarist and a crazy man
full of ridiculous anecdotes who
plays violin. I would describe their
studio stuff as generally morose but
live it’s a completely different ani-
mal: a huge amount of energy runs
through every performance, per-
haps emphasised by Warren Ellis’s
stage antics.
Even if you have absolutely no in-
terest currently in their music you
should definitely check this out: the
live show is absolutely incredible as
a musical and theatrical experience,
possibly one of the best in the world
today.
– Ross Gray
Dirty Three/Zun Zun Egui
Who said that London is the only
place which knows how to put on
great shows? The very first Fear of
Fiction Festival is here to show you
that Bristol is an amazing place for
up and coming bands. One of the
bands to definitely watch out for
are headliners Toy whose brand of
reverb drenched shoe-gazey pop is
sure to be a massive hit. I know this
is lazy journalism but the similari-
ties with The Horrors are hard to
play down.
Labyrinth Ear play the sort of
stripped down electro that most
bloggers would wet their cool East
London pants for. DZ Deathrays,
the totally incredible metal band
that it is okay for hipsters to like,
have just been added to the bill.
And to top all of that off Egyptian
Hip Hop, whose album was given a
glowing review last week in these
very pages, look set to recapture the
hype they had a few years ago with
their set.
This one day festival is all hap-
pening in Stokes Croft in Bristol
with tickets being sold from £15. It
is a great opportunity to check out
Fear of Fiction Festival
some of the best alternative bars
and venues in the area. Felix Music
will hopefully be there so take a day
trip out of the big smoke for a day
and have an amazing time.
– Mark England
Stoke’s Croft is the best
place for tribal noise,
hipsters and graffiti of
skulls

