BOOKS Books Editor: Maciej Matuszewski
books.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 02 NOVEMBER
38
Mitchell’s Cloud Atlas
loud Atlas, to refresh
your memory, is David
Mitchell’s 2004 Booker
short-listed novel whose
ﬁlm adaptation is due
to release in the U.K early next year.
he novel is, to put it mildly, a com-
plex book, composed of six diﬀerent
narratives spanning time and space,
from the 19th century South Paciﬁc
to early 30s Europe, late 70s America,
early 21st century Britain, near future
dystopian Korea and post apocalyp-
tic distant future Hawaii. Each story
ends abruptly where the next picks
up and once the reader reaches for-
ward in time to the sixth narrative he
is pushed back through the ages while
each story is neatly resolved, ending
where the book begins.
It is testament to Mitchell’s skill as a
storyteller that once you ﬁnish Cloud
Atlas you’re pleasantly surprised that
it was such an easy read. It helps that
the book is inhabited by at least six
radically diﬀerent protagonists – the
credulous lawyer Adam Ewing, an
oversexed and wily amanuensis Robert
Frobisher, a driven heroine reporter
Luisa Rey, English publisher Timothy
Cavendish, clone and future martyr
Somni 451, and the distrustful primi-
tive Zachry. Not all of these characters
are particularly likeable but they are
all remarkably well formed given the
limited space accorded to each.
he tale begins with excerpts from
the journals of Adam Ewing, a lawyer
crossing the Paciﬁc in 1850, describ-
ing his encounters with savage Mao-
ris, diﬀerently savage missionaries
and his befriending of the unsavory
Dr. Goose. he second story takes the
form of letters from a Robert Frobish-
er, a musical talent, to his lover Rupert
Sixsmith. Frobisher recounts how he
convinced an old genius to take him
on as an amanuensis and proceeded to
bed the dying man’s wife and daughter.
Sixsmith appears in the next narrative
as a nuclear scientist who helps a te-
nacious journalist, Luisa Rey uncover
a dangerous nuclear conspiracy. In
the next part Luisa Rey’s story ﬁnds
itself in the hands of a moderately
successful publisher called Timothy
Cavendish who through a series of
unfortunate events is imprisoned in
a nursing home. A slightly longer leap
forward in time brings the reader to
story number ﬁve, an account of an in-
terview of captured clone Somni 451
who attempted rebellion against the
rather Orwellian totalitarian state that
exploited her kind. he central story,
and the only one not split in two, is
that of a tribesman called Zachry liv-
ing in a village after a doomsday event
called the Fall.
hese six tales are all connected to
Devang Mehta talks about a fascinating multi-layered novel
C
the next via physical links as well as
the presence of an identical “birth-
mark” on all the protagonists. he
“birthmark” in Mitchell’s words is “a
symbol really of the universality of hu-
man nature”.
Reading each story individually (and
especially the ones set in our future) it
becomes obvious that the author has
not written anything truly original.
hematically, the stories ﬁt well within
established science ﬁction canon but
it is the narration, the versatility of
the prose, the eﬀortless stylistic varia-
tion and the perfectly nested structure
that set this book apart. his book is a
must-read, if only to enjoy the writing.
Explaining the title, Mitchell says,
“… the cloud refers to the ever chang-
ing manifestations of the Atlas, which
is the ﬁxed human nature which is
always thus and ever shall be. So the
book’s theme is predacity, the way in-
dividuals prey on individuals, groups
on groups, nations on nations, tribes
on tribes.” his “predacity” and its re-
currence through time and through
diverse human societies is pretty evi-
dent in the book and Mitchell’s rather
pessimistic view of human nature also
comes across equally well. Almost
each tale shows a majority of human
ﬁgures as corrupt, cruel, manipula-
tive and stupid – the whole gamut of
negative traits. While his protagonists
exhibit some redeeming features, hu-
man society as a whole is consigned to
a dystopian past, present and future.
he theme of the book emerges to be
both an acceptance and a subtle cri-
tique of the Darwinian “survival of the
ﬁttest” paradigm.
And then in the very last pages of
the book Mitchell oﬀers us a ray of
hope. hrough an impassioned and
rather preachy soliloquy, Adam Ew-
ing warns, “Belief is both prize &
battleﬁeld, within the mind & in the
mind’s mirror, the world. If we believe
humanity is a ladder of tribes, a col-
osseum of confrontation, exploitation
& bestiality, such a humanity is surely
brought into being… If we believe that
humanity may transcend tooth & claw,
if we believe divers races & creeds can
share this world as peaceably as the
orphans share their candlenut tree, if
we believe leaders must be just, vio-
lence muzzled, power accountable &
the riches of the Earth & its Oceans
shared equitably, such a world will
come to pass.” Mitchell’s contention is
that without a fundamental change in
human nature, mankind is doomed to
end back in the primitive jungle from
whence it evolved. Although History
would argue against this proposition
(and successfully in my opinion),
Cloud Atlas does make its point force-
fully and poignantly.

