The Goalie’s Anxiety
Alejandro Torrado Pacheco discovers Peter Handke’s great novel
eter Handke has been a
very proliﬁc artist dur-
ing his lifetime, leaving
behind several novels,
plays and ﬁlm scripts.
He started his career working closely
with the German literary avant-garde,
which promoted works of post-war
authors, unknown at the time, of the
calibre of Günter Grass and Heinrich
Böll.
His 1970 novel, he Goalie’s Anxi-
ety at the Penalty Kick, is one of his
most notable works. It tells the story
of the Austrian construction worker
and former football goalkeeper Jo-
seph Bloch, beginning abruptly with
the protagonist being ﬁred from his
current job: at least, this is what Bloch
understands when he notices that
only one of his colleagues looks at
him upon his arrival at the construc-
tion site. his reaction, devoid of any
rational justiﬁcation, immediately im-
merses the reader in the particular at-
mosphere of the novel.
A spoiler alert should probably
make an appearance at this point, as
I am about to reveal the story’s turn-
ing point: but the truth is, the unfold-
ing of events is the last concern one
should have when reading this book.
Rather, what matters is the way that
all happenings are approached and
interpreted by the main character –
the novel really takes place in Bloch’s
consciousness, perception and feel-
ings (or absence thereof). After a ro-
mantic night with a cinema clerk in
Vienna, he spends the morning in her
company and, suddenly, strangles her.
He then leaves the city and reaches a
small town on the southern border.
Here he spends several days, while
seemingly random signs, barely ac-
knowledged by Bloch, tell us that the
investigations on the girl’s death are
slowly leading to him.
During this time we get to know
Bloch and the absurd, dreadful anxi-
ety that pervades him. he latter
manifests itself in diﬀerent ways. For
one, the predictable paranoia of the
fugitive; but this is relatively mild.
A major part of Bloch’s mental pro-
cesses denote a cold detachment from
the world. his is not due to a con-
scious estrangement on his part, but
to an obsessive tendency to search
for meaning in the objects he sees
and people he meets, along with his
incapacity of ﬁnding it. His interpre-
tation of external events is free and
irrational (like when he assumes he
has been ﬁred at the beginning of the
novel). his is particularly evident in
his interactions with other people,
characterized by a sense of unreality,
as if seen through a thick lens. here
are rare exceptions: Bloch indulges
in provoking others into ﬁghts, espe-
cially after a few drinks, and in those
instances he seems to forget himself
and be immersed in the events. his
is brilliantly and simply translated by
the author into a lack of the usual de-
scriptive frenzy.
Bloch is compelled to spend large
chunks of his time maniacally noting
details about his surroundings. his
is accompanied by his perception of
language as artiﬁcial, absurd and dis-
connected from reality. He often tries
to describe things he sees with words,
but these always fail him. A passage
reads: “Bloch grew nervous. On one
hand this intrusiveness of the sur-
roundings when his eyes were open,
on the other the intrusiveness, worse
yet, of words for the surrounding ob-
jects, when he closed his eyes!”. Eve-
rything appears to him present in that
place and time for an obscure reason
unknown to him, and every attempt
to make sense of things, to make them
accessible again through language
and description only contributes to
increasing his sense of alienation.
he book’s last pages are worth a
thorough look. he story is truncated
so that we don’t know if Bloch gets ar-
rested (although it is the most prob-
able conclusion). he last scene takes
place by a small-town football pitch.
Bloch is talking to another specta-
tor, and he invites him to try out an
exercise: when a team is attacking,
to concentrate on watching the op-
posing goalkeeper and observe his
movements rather than the strikers
and the ball. I think what is meant
here is that Bloch feels, in the world,
just like that goalkeeper on the pitch,
condemned to respond to something
removed and detached from him. At
the end, a penalty kick is awarded: the
goalie stays still and the ball is kicked
into his hands. And like him, Bloch
the murderer does not try to escape:
but accepts that no movement is pos-
sible in response to a world that has
become meaningless and stranger to
him.
he novel ﬁts into a tradition of
works through which the authors
have wanted to convey human anxi-
ety, inadequateness and estrange-
ment; the creeping feeling that true
understanding and communication is
impossible – or a mere artiﬁce. It in-
vites comparisons with Camus’ Stran-
ger and, in more recent times, John
Banville’s he Book of Evidence. It is a
compelling and interesting book, and
leaves the reader with a disturbing
uneasiness inside.
P
Peter Handke is a renowned
avant-garde novelist and playwright
BOOKS
Books Editor: Maciej Matuszewski
books.felix@imperial.ac.uk
39
FRIDAY 02 NOVEMBER
Email us your book reviews, author
profiles and other book related fea-
tures.
books.feilx@imperial.ac.uk
WANT TO SEE YOUR NAME
IN PRINT?
I really need to pee,
but the toilet is just
so far away. Sigh

