NEWS
4
News Editor: Aemun Reza
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 02 NOVEMBER
Oh for BUCS sake
Tim Arbabzadah Editor-in-Chief
Following on from a very brief report
in Felix earlier this year, there are still
problems with Bucs.
here are currently two options be-
ing given to all of the teams, with a
lower possibility, at the present time, of
keeping the current status quo.
he two options are to do with how
the membership of sports teams is. he
ﬁrst option is that all teams will be split
with only medics allowed in the medics
teams, and only non-medics allowed in
the non-medics teams. his means that
students have a restriction on which of
the options they are allowed to choose.
he other option is that the two
teams are not split, and allowing med-
ics and non-medics to choose which-
ever team they want. However, as both
would fall under the umbrella of Impe-
rial, there are issues with what happens
if a team were to forfeit their match. It
would also mean that there is a limited
number of teams that could be allowed
in each individual league. his means
some teams could be ‘promoted’ only
to not go up and play at a level more
appropriate for them.
Currently, the system allows for a
student to make a decision between
the two choices. It also allows a student
to pick a diﬀerent team based on what
sport it is, meaning a student could
play IC football, but Medics rugby. his
would also go.
he changes only aﬀects a handful of
universities around the UK.
Graduates
When it comes to the Gazprom Marketing &Trading business, there’s a lot waiting to be discovered. Rather than
go into too much detail about our exciting graduate career opportunities here though, we’d like to point you
towards our website. Once you’re there, you’ll be able to learn how we take a diferent approach to assessment,
hear from some of our current graduates, and take a tour around our amazing new oices.
To discover more, please visit gazprom-mt.com/graduates
It’s Russian for ‘explore our world’
Èçó÷èòå íàø ìèð
The Energy to Succeed

