SPORT
Sport Editors: Oli Benton,
Margot Pikovsky, Sorcha Cotter
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 02 NOVEMBER
46
Just keep running, running...
On Wednesday 17th October saw 42
runners from Imperial College make the
journey to north London to take on the
“mountains” of Hampstead Heath. his
marked the start of the annual London
Colleges Cross Country League, with six
races taking place around London over
two terms.
A race rich in tradition began with a
shout of “Gary Hoare” a legend within
the club, followed by a slightly dubious
starting gun. It was then up to the nomi-
nated ‘King of the Hill’ (Sam O’Neill)
wearing the obligatory orange t shirt to
take on the ﬁrst hill, aiming to reach the
top of the hill in ﬁrst position. He took
on the challenge with immense spirit but
sadly St Mary’s had cottoned on to our
plan, and they sent some beastly looking
runners to chase him on up Parliament
Hill. Despite reaching the top of the hill
in 2nd position and sacriﬁcing his race
for the good of the club, Sam completed
the two lap, 5 mile course to ﬁnish in
32nd position in a ﬁeld of 140 runners.
Star performances came from Men’s
Captain James Ellis ﬁnishing in 18th po-
sition closely followed by fresher Chris
homas in 25th, showing great promise
for the coming season. he men’s ﬁrst
team ﬁnished in a creditable 5th posi-
tion, the ﬁrst non St Mary’s team, who
are all practically pro runners, and ahead
of UCL which is the most important
thing!
In the 2.5 mile Women’s race, the ﬁrst
team again ﬁnished in 5th position and
with a record 15 women from Imperial,
the future looks bright! he ﬁrst team
made up of Sophie Kirk, Josie Bowler
and Imogen Keane all ﬁnished within
one minute of each other in 19th, 21st
and 27th position respectively.
he highlight of the day had to be the
post race celebrations with cake, burgers
and the traditional sports night at the
union, where a certain fresher (who shall
remain nameless) really showed how
well he will ﬁt in with the club!
WiththemajorityoftheImperialteam
madeupofnewmemberstotheclub,we
are very excited for the coming season,
and are looking forward to moving up
the leader board throughout the league!
Sophie Kirk Club Captain
Charlotte Fencing Captain
It’s a cold Saturday morning as IC Fenc-
ing Women’s 1st‘ makes their way over to
Oxford. It’s the ﬁrst weekend out of two,
andthey’regoingtofenceCardiﬀUniver-
sity, University of Oxford, University of
Cambridge and UCL, the other 4 strong-
est teams in the South of UK. he epee
team, ﬁrst up on piste, consists of three
new recruits: Paula Heister, Kat Young
and Caitlin Jones, and an old member
Charlotte Levin. he nerves are tense,
for the past two years, women’s 1st has
remain unbeaten; will they do it again?
First opponents are Cardiﬀ, newcom-
ers in the league who prove very strong
in epee. Despite best eﬀorts from the
Imperial girls, they have to face a 39-45
defeat, already putting some pressure
on foil and sabre. Determined to still do
their best, they focus on the next match;
Oxford. Kat and Paula prove their new
alliance as they watch their old team lose
by 44-31, and the team’s conﬁdence is
put more in to balance. Unfortunately
it starts wobbling again, and they lose to
Cambridge by a mere single hit, 43-44.
In the last match, against UCL, Kat has
had to leave early and Paula is not feel-
ing well, so with a team slightly out of
balance IC lose 35-45. Feeling slightly
guilty, they pass the baton to the sabre
team with team captain Zoe Robinson,
the fresher Emma Horrix and Jing Xiao
(Jingles) who fenced for the Women’s
2nd last year.
hey don’t have to worry for long. Zoe,
Emma and Jingles set the bar already in
the ﬁrst match and prove exactly how
strong they are by demolishing Cardiﬀ
45-13. hey continue to impress as they
ﬁrst beat Oxford 45-38, grow stronger
against Cambridge with 45-38 and ﬁ-
nally gearing up even more against UCL
to land at 45-19. With the epeeists reas-
sured that everything is under control,
and the sabreurs with a strengthened
conﬁdence the day comes to an end, and
the foilists can look forward to being a
few hits ahead.
Sunday morning presents foil. Zoe
is joined on the piste by Alice Mitchell,
4th year running on the team, and Outi
Supponen who have just returned from
a year abroad. hanks to sabre’s impres-
sive performance the day before, they
have a 26 hit lead to Cardiﬀ as they start
their ﬁrst match. It’s extended as they
win by 45-29, resulting in the season’s
ﬁrst overall victory: 126-87! hey con-
ﬁdently continue by beating Oxford 45-
39,countingthesecondoverallvictoryof
134-108. Cambridge, on the other hand,
has gained some new foilists, and beat
the Imperial girls by 34-45, but with the
aggregated scores being 122-114 Impe-
rial remain calm and conﬁdent.
he weekend is coming to an end as
the girls have the ﬁnal match against
UCL.Havingdonethemathsinadvance,
Zoe, Alice and Outi know they need to
score at least 29 hits to secure the overall
victory. However, how can you say no to
winning if the possibility is there? hey
end it at 45-34, summing it up to a total
of 125-98 and keeping the Women’s 1st
unbelievablestreakof27wonmatchesin
a row, over more than 2 years’ time.
ICSM Netball’s storming start to the season
Knights in shining armour win again!
Nerves were rife as we sized up our
ﬁrst opposition of the season, all over
6 feet tall. It was the ﬁrst match of the
season with a new squad and whilst
we had the home advantage, we knew
it would be a tough game. With the
ﬁrst blow of the whistle, the icy rain
started to pour and our nerves were
washed away as the shooters sank the
ﬁrst few goals. We comfortably ﬁn-
ished the ﬁrst half leading 25-14, with
the whole team getting back into the
swing of things as if our summers of
inactivity had barely existed. During
our third quarter, the towering oppo-
sition came back to within a 5 goal dif-
ference after an obviously invigorating
half-time talk. But it was not enough
for them, and ICSM secured the win,
ending the game with a quarter of
ICSM 1s 45
Brighton 4s 29
ICSM 5s 33
Roehampton 5s 19
ICSM 5s started their new BUCS season
last Wednesday with a convincing win
against Roehampton 5s 33-19. It started
oﬀ as a perfect day for netball, blue skies
and with the team showing up perfectly
on time, calming their captain’s pre-
match jitters. ICSM turned over Roe-
hampton’s ﬁrst centre-pass leading to
them scoring the ﬁrst goal of the match.
At the end of the ﬁrst quarter the ICSM
narrowly winning 7-6, a score line that
didn’t reﬂect their dominating play. In
the next quarter, ﬁrst time shooter Ifrah
Hussain, was on ﬁre, doubling ICSM’s
goal count to 14. With ICSM’s defence
being equally red hot “roeey” fell behind
brilliance and the ﬁnal score was 45-
29. Everyone played excellently and a
huge well done to our new players.
Sarah Grantham-Hill
Netball 5s Captain
Louise Thornhill Netball 1st Captain at half time leaving the score 14-9 to
ICSM.
In the third quarter the heaven’s
opened making for less than ideal play-
ing conditions. he combination of a
slippery court and a scramble for the
ball led to an awkward fall for centre
Lizzy Kostov, and she had to be carried
oﬀ with an injured ankle. Losing Lizzy a
minute before the end of the 3rd quar-
ter led to concern for how ICSM were
to continue their great form. Despite
injury and driving rain they persevered,
scoring more goals in the last quarter
than any of the previous. Goal shooter
Ifrah thoroughly deserved man of the
match for her amazing ﬁrst game at
ICSM. his was an amazing start to the
season, lets hope they can keep it going!
Nothing sexier than a woman in
a beekeeping suit with a sword.
Superman auditions contiune
at ICSM netball
Usain Bolt didn’t show, despite the
offer of a night out in Metric

