SPORT
47
FRIDAY 02 NOVEMBER
Sport Editors: Oli Benton,
Margot Pikovsky, Sorcha Cotter
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Following a good performance but
bad result against Kingston 2s in their
ﬁrst BUCS MARS South Eastern 5C
league match, Imperial Men’s football
2nd team hosted St Mary’s men’s foot-
ball 5th team at Fortress Harlington
on Wed 24th, looking to pick up their
ﬁrst points of the season. Due to a
host of injuries and absentees, Imperi-
al were forced to make several changes
to their starting line-up. Consequent-
ly Pete Nugent, Andy Smith, Bilal
Nasim, Luke Butler and Kume Feese
replaced Dom Aﬀron, Bilal Abou Ela
Bourquin, Dan Moxham, Alex Dale
and Josh March.
Imperial started brightly, with Kume
Feese earning a penalty after being
ruthlessly taken down in the penalty
area. Kume conﬁdently stepped up,
only to hit one of the worst penalties
in footballing history, passing the ball
down the centre of the goal to the de-
light of the St Mary’s keeper. A cagey
15 minute period followed, with both
teams exchanging blows. Imperial
looked assured at the back marshalled
by club captain Sami Dabbagh, and
Bilal Nasim asserted his authority in
the centre of midﬁeld. Imperial ﬁnally
broke the deadlock when a wicked
cross from Sam homas was inadvert-
ently headed into his own goal by the
St Mary’s left back. Imperial contin-
ued to press and a move that started
from the left with Sam homas and
Luke Butler was swiftly manoeuvred
to the right, followed by a neat inter-
play between Alex Hassan and Bilal
Nasim giving Bilal the opportunity to
thread a through ball to Kume, who
made amends for the earlier penalty by
burying the ball low across the keeper
into the bottom corner. Immediately
after, Jon Mitchell nearly scored one
of the ﬁnest goals of the season with
a run past 3 St Mary’s defenders down
the left wing, before cutting inside and
shooting just wide of the far post. Half
time, 2-0.
he emphasis from captain Will
Wright at half time was to keep com-
posed in the ﬁnal third and the goals
would continue to come. his was to
come true within 10 minutes of the
restart, with Sam homas carrying
the ball inﬁeld from left back, ﬁnding
Kume in the box who backheeled the
ball to Jon Mitchell, leaving Jon with a
diﬃcult opportunity that he took ﬁrst
time, smashing low and hard into the
bottom corner. Ten minutes later Im-
perial completed their scoring, sub-
stitute Tim Tolkmitt seeing his shot
saved, allowing Kume to follow up
for his second of the game. Substitute
Tom Greenwood, entering with 25
minutes remaining for an impressive
Luke Butler, could then have added
three more goals for Imperial, his live-
ly movement getting him into good
positions but his attempts on goal
being denied by the St Mary’s keeper.
Overall, a very good performance and
a comfortable victory. With a point
to prove, Kume Feese was a constant
threat and caused problems for the
St Mary’s backline all game, and as a
result was deservedly awarded man of
the match by his teammates.
he day started with Phil spreading
speculative rumours that a certain
dreamy ex-Club Captain would be
making a cameo appearance for Im-
perial 4s. Unfortunately, the deal was
scuppered at the last minute when
Lambe’s current club (his parents)
decided that he was too important
a player to let go of. To make up
for lack of a deadline day deal team
nutritionist, Cann made pre-match
pancakes for his captain.
he news got worse for captain
McGrath when Nwobu and Marks
pulled out at the last minute requiring
an emergency loan deal from the 5s
with Varanese slotting in at left back.
After transport issues for the oppo-
sition, the delayed kick oﬀ provided
ample time for Imperial to warm
up and get used to the question-
able pitch. A cock-up by the current
Fixtures Sec. meant the game was
moved to the darkest corners of Har-
lington (a better Fixtures Sec. would
never have let such disorder occur).
On the plus side, McGrath had the
foresight to bring some speakers for
the changing room. hese, combined
with a playlist full of some of the dut-
tiest choons known to man, allowed
for an increased motivational pres-
ence in the changing rooms.
he match started with Imperial
applying pressure from the oﬀ. he
4-2-3-1 formation was set up with a
continental style in mind. Tiki taka
was the order of the day. However,
the Nou Camp is never expected to
have a trench dominating one half of
the pitch. Several bobbles also made
a crisp passing game diﬃcult. With
Gassier dominating in the air the ball
spent much of the ﬁrst twenty min-
utes in the St. Barts half but without
any conversions. Gusty conditions
limited much of the play to the right
hand side of the pitch with Strampelli
and Faisall creating some good link
up play down the right side. he best
chance came when McGrath sprayed
a ball to a free Strampelli who sub-
sequently played a lovely through
ball over the centre back’s head to
an advancing Bizzell. However, the
Barts goalkeeper rushed out quickly
and blocked the shot. Moments later
a push in the back on Bizzell in the
box resulted in screams of ‘penalty!’
being directed at the referee. Alas,
these proved to be fruitless as we had
been provided with a referee who,
perhaps, was just the wrong side of
lenient.
Sadly, the tide of the game soon
changed with the ﬁrst goal coming
from a Bart’s throw in. With the op-
position midﬁelder given ample time
to cross the ball in and with the Im-
perial defence outnumbered at the
back, a free man headed the ball into
the near post. Late goalie call-up
Stillwell was unable to do anything
about this.
With only 5 minutes of the ﬁrst half
remaining Imperial were desperate
to get a quick equaliser. hankfully,
just two minutes later Strampelli
took it upon himself to change the
corner kick taker to himself and then
produce quite possibly the worst
corner ever witnessed on a foot-
ball pitch. With the ball bouncing
along the ﬂoor quick thinking from
McGrath meant he was the ﬁrst per-
son to reach the ball at the near post
and play it across goal. Luckily, the
goalkeepers ﬂailing arms were not
enough to prevent the ball landing in
the back of the net.
After a brief half time team talk
both sides returned to the ﬁeld of
play hoping to start the second half
the stronger. Imperial failed to do
this though and, within the ﬁrst ten
minutes, found themselves a goal
down again. After a pathetic attempt
at a throw from Stillwell the ball
ended up at the feet of the opposi-
tion left back just thirty yards from
goal. A quick ball seared the defence,
with the striker lobbing the ball over
the goalkeeper. However, Stillwell
thought his blushes would be spared
when he saw Cann running back to
attempt to prevent the ball going over
the line. Yet Cann seemed to momen-
tarily forget which side he was meant
to be playing for as he proceeded to
boot the ball into the back of his own
net with a ﬁnish that Alan Shearer
would have been proud of.
After unjustly falling behind for the
second time, Imperial had to dust
themselves down once again and
press for another. Once more, this
happened relatively swiftly. A quick
thrown in from Strampelli found
Bizzell in the penalty area. He laid
it back to an open Faisall who just
needed to ping the ball into the emp-
ty net. hankfully, this was done with
no hiccups.
Imperial could sense blood and
brought on van der Bie for Strampel-
li to add another striker on to the
pitch. he chances came thick and
fast. A cross from the byline by Bi-
zzell evaded everyone, including the
goalkeeper, and was only prevented
from going in the back of the net
by the woodwork. Further pressure
from the wings courtesy of Samad
and Bizzell piled the pressure on the
Barts defence, yet the next chance
came from an unlikely source. Find-
ing himself with acres of space on the
right hand side of the pitch Watkin
bombed forward with the ball. On
reaching the opposition penalty area
he took his chance yet the goalkeeper
was quick to rush out and block his
attempt.
Tempers were clearly ﬂaring with
the Bart’s players seeming most likely
to lose theirs. he ﬁrst incident oc-
curred when Bennett kicked the ball
into his own head with Stillwell pick-
ing the ball up. Clearly, some of the
Barts players were unfamiliar with
the rules of Association Football as
cries of ‘pass back’ were heard. Luck-
ily, these were quickly shot down
by the referee. Soon after, a fracas
developed between the opposition
right back and Strampelli, in his new
position of linesman. Despite being
at least 15 yards oﬀside, the Barts
player decided that this wasn’t good
enough and demanded to know why
Strampelli was doing exactly as the
ref had instructed him to do. he
referee gave him a stern talking to.
However, Barts were not the only
team to lose their heads. Samad re-
ceived a warning after swearing at
the referee.
he grand ﬁnale climaxed itself
with just four minutes of the game
remaining when a Barts attack broke
down and a quick counter attack
presented itself to Imperial. Samad
received the ball on the half way line
before turning his opponent and
playing a sumptuous ball through to
van der Bie. With Bizzell screaming
for the ball it was dutifully played
through. Several Barts players were
closing down the ball yet Bizzell
reached it ﬁrst and knocked it over
the goalkeeper. he ball seemed to
hang in the air for what seemed like
an eternity. When it ﬁnally reached
the goal it became clear that it had
just sneaked its way inside the post.
Cheers of delight rang round with
McGrath running the length of the
pitch to provide hugs and kisses. By
the time he had made it into his own
half for the kick oﬀ he was clearly
done for the day and told Gassier that
he would be doing no more running.
Had Lambe been present we would
surely have heard calls of ‘Justice’ as
Imperial had certainly had the better
of the game.
Moments later the ﬁnal whistle
went. here was clearly stark con-
trast between the two teams’ emo-
tional states. Whereas Imperial play-
ers were ﬁlled with a mixture of relief
and pure ecstasy, Barts looked under-
standably downtrodden. However,
the Imperial players did not seem to
care about this. With Imperial win-
ning 5 out of the 6 games Little Har-
lington was a rainbow of happiness
after the games. Even Arctic condi-
tions in the showers could not damp-
en the spirits. A post match choon
session occurred before a night of
getting merry with the Old Boys in
the Union. Overall, it was fantastic to
get a ﬁrst win of the season underway
but harder challenges will present
themselves this season with UCL 4s
next up in the Saturday league.
Will Wright Football 2s Captain
Footballers beat Mary’s and Bart’s
Milo McGrath Football 4s Captain
Ladies, would you? I wouldn’t. Not
even if it got me served quicker in 568.

