“Keep the Cat Free”
Issue 1529 felixonline.co.uk
02/11/12
SPORT
Max Chalmers &
Shyam Pankhania
Sports Writers
Imperial Mints pot black in Nottingham
Over the weekend of the 27th-28th
October the Imperial College English
8 ball pool team began their prepara-
tions for BUCS success in February
2013 by participating in the third Eng-
lish Universities Pool Championships
in Nottingham. Team Imperial (the
so-called ‘Mints’) were conﬁdent of
success and arrived at the tournament
ready to rumble. here were 128 en-
trants for the individual tournament
and 25 University teams in the Team
Championship.
Max Chalmers – or “Chamlers” as
the organisers misspelt it – was the
ﬁrst Imperial member to play in the
ﬁrst round of the individuals against
an inexperienced Will Dean (York 2).
Chalmers won a cagey opener, howev-
er Will Dean levelled the scores after
Chalmers accidently potted the black
in the second frame. In the ﬁnal frame
Chalmers edged ahead and didn’t look
back to send Imperial into a winning
start.
Next up was team captain Shy-
am “Sharm-el shaken, not stirred”
Pankhania who brushed aside his op-
ponent Jason Dalton (Captain, Not-
tingham Trent) 2-0 and then Elwin
“the Whirlwind” Carlos was given a
tough test but some very competent
tactical play saw him progress to the
next round after a 2-1 victory against
Dan Younger (Nottingham 3). Unfor-
tunately Rob “Rob-ot” Speller and Ed
“he Grinder” Graham met tough
opposition and couldn’t quite secure
victory. In the round of 64 Carlos and
Chalmers battled through with 2-1
victories. he Captain made it a round
without casualties by securing a “shy-
amtastic” 2-0 win over Laurence Shaw
(Nottingham 2). his set up exciting
last 32 encounters which were to be
played later on Saturday.
he team were in high spirits for
the start of the Team Championships
group stage in which Imperial were
drawn against Plymouth 1 and York
2. his rubbed oﬀ in the ﬁrst match
as Imperial stormed to a 7-3 win over
Plymouth. However, It looked like
complacency was setting in against
York when, in the second and ﬁnal
group match, the team let a 4-1 lead
slip back to 4-4. Cool heads were re-
quired from Chalmers and Speller in
the last two frames and they delivered
to send Imperial into the last 16 as
group toppers.
It was late in the day and a jubilant
team went for dinner at Nando’s,
which is somewhat of a Nottingham
tradition for the team now. However,
play was not over yet as the organis-
ers decided that the last 32 of the in-
dividuals should be played before the
day was ﬁnished. All players were cer-
tainly fatigued by this late stage in the
day after being awake for nearing 20
hours, but adrenaline kept them going
late into the night.
Carlos had a tight match with Adam
Sykes (Manchester Metropolitan 1) in
which he fought back to 2-2 after go-
ing two frames behind but was disap-
pointed to lose 3-2. Pankhania met a
talented opponent in Todd Neilson
(Manchester Metropolitan 1) who
ran out a 3-0 winner and Max faced
Ben Parslew (Manchester 1), Carlos’s
conqueror last year, and lost 3-1. Each
Imperial player had established their
A-game at the business end of the
tournament but they were simply out-
classed.
he tournament entered Sunday
and Imperial continued their pursuit
of championship success with a last 16
knockout match against the University
of East Anglia 1 (UEA 1). A poor start
left the team trailing 4-0 and from that
point something special was required
and Speller delivered it. he frame
he played resembled more a game of
chess than a pool frame where he used
his genius to win it and keep Imperial
alive at 4-1. Some dogged play from
Pankhania and Chalmers closed the
score to 5-3, however UEA secured a
6-3 victory.
Although Imperial had aspirations
to win this year’s tournament, it must
be said that they improved considera-
bly from last year. he addition of “he
Grinder” brought solidity to the team
and “Rob-ot” provided the stroke of
genius that was missing last year. One
thing is for sure, the ‘Mints’ reputation
is growing and the team look forward
to further improvement in the future.
Many thanks should go to Notting-
ham University Snooker and Pool
Club for organising the event.
For further details of events, as they
happen visit ICU Snooker online.
Sports Writer
Gaelic Football girls score at double header
Ruth Reynolds
How does a division 3 sport’s team re-
spond to the challenge of playing two
division 1 standard teams back to back
within the one day?
Surely they wouldn’t possibly dream
of accepting and should redundantly
assume their inevitable defeat? his is
not how ICGAC Ladies operate. So on
Sunday the 21st October the 9 aside
team made their way to Tír Chonaill
Gael’s pitch in Greenford – with the
mantra “ah sure why not!” at the front
of their minds and love of the team at
the forefront of their hearts. No one
knows what they are capable of until
they try, and with the majority of the
team having only been playing for a
matter of weeks, this was the perfect
opportunity for us to try everything!
St.Alban’s were ﬁrst on the agenda,
and ﬁrst on the scoreboard as Impe-
rial struggled through a rocky ﬁrst
half. his was all to be rectiﬁed how-
ever in the second half, by placing the
amazing Hester Corne in goals and a
reshuffle of positions throughout the
ﬁeld enabled Imperial’s true potential
to shine through.
With Hester creating an imperme-
able barrier in the place of where
our goals should have been and Ci-
ara O’ Callaghan swiftly ensuring the
ball made it safely up the pitch, Ami
Shirley and Ruth Reynolds got to work
on conversion. Captain Ruth managed
a point from play whilst newcomer
Ami created a complete turn up for
the books in hammering home Impe-
rial’s ﬁrst goal (3 points) in well over a
year! his from a girl who had literally
been playing for 3 weeks! he hype,
pure shock and amazement created
by this move by Woman of the Match
Ami provided the catalyst for a vigor-
ous, heartfelt and inspiring comeback
from Imperial.
Despite Imperial clearly dominating
the latter half of the game, regrettably
St.Alban’s were the eventual victors on
the day, as the mistakes of the 1st half
proved too much for even the most
rejuvenated transformed and deter-
mined team to reconcile.
Ignited by our performance in the
latter stages of the St.Alban’s game;
the 5 minute break between games,
the ominous proposal of playing
Mary’s (the most successful team of
the last two decades in British Univer-
sities Ladies’ Gaelic football History!)
and certain fatigue didn’t even register
with the now steadfast Imperial team.
his self belief and dogged determina-
tion proved invaluable in creating a
much more evenly contested game of
football. he ﬁrst half in particular was
particularly balanced as it was now
Mary’s with their newly formed team
who were struggling to settle into the
game. he half time score was 0-3,
0-1 to Mary’s, obviously for a team of
their standard this was very encourag-
ing for ourselves. he experience and
admirable skill of the 8-time division
1 champions did present itself in the
second half of the game with Mary’s
going on to win the match.
Mary’s left Greenford deserving
winners that Sunday, but Imperial left
with something else – an unquantiﬁ-
able belief in what we are actually ca-
pable of.
In most sports, and I know Gaelic
football is no diﬀerent you never give
up until the ﬁnal whistle. hat’s pre-
cisely what ICGAC Ladies did and
from this I know, we can go on to
achieve anything we set our minds to
in the future. Roll on championships
in March!
Gaelic football? No, I don’t
know the rules either.
One Direction play
pool? Who knew?

