NEWS
An architect’s image of the Imperial
West development. Well, that, or
video games have become really dull
5
News Editor: Aemun Reza
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 02 NOVEMBER
A marathon Council
A £150 million partnership aiming
to support the development of the
new Hammersmith-based Imperial
West Technology Campus has been
announced.
David Willetts, Minister for Uni-
versities and Science, revealed the
£150 million partnership between
Imperial and property company
Voreda, alongside six other univer-
sity and business research partner-
ships, on Wednesday 31 October.
Following a bidding process that
took place over the summer, the
Higher Education Funding Council
for England has awarded £35 million
to contribute towards the develop-
ment of the new campus’ centrepiece
Research and Translation Hub.
In addition, a partnership between
Imperial and Voreda will result in an
additional £90 million contribution
from the investor. he remainder will
be funded by the College.
his project is one of the two big-
gest capital projects supported by the
government’s Research Partnership
Investment Fund. David Willetts said
of the research partnerships:
“It is fantastic that our top busi-
nesses and top charities are queuing
up to collaborate with our world-
class universities. hey want to work
together to deliver innovation, com-
mercialisation and growth, which
will help make sure the UK competes
and thrives in the global race.”
In a statement released by the Col-
lege, it is stated that the Research
and Translation Hub “will serve the
needs of London’s enterprise com-
munity, expanding support for in-
novation drawn from Imperial and
other leading universities” and that it
has “an emphasis on the commercial-
isation of research to bring beneﬁts
to society and the economy”. Work
on the Hub is due to begin in Janu-
ary 2013.
his week’s announcement follows
the recent granting of planning per-
mission for the new seven acre Im-
perial West campus, situated in the
BBC’s former Woodlands site.
As previous reported in Felix, there
have been some concerns raised by
local residents of the surrounding
area, with the St Helen’s Residents’
Association opposing a potential in-
crease in traﬃc to the area and pos-
sible overshadowing caused by the
campus’ 110m tall residential tower.
In a statement, Sir Keith O’Nions,
President and Rector of Imperial
College, said of the planned Hub:
“With space for 50 spin-out com-
panies, we will be able to support in-
novation drawn from Imperial and
other leading institutions at a scale
unprecedented in London and the
UK generally. We expect the Hub to
become a magnet for businesses and
universities in the UK and beyond,
keen to ﬁnd a foothold in London
and to tap into Imperial’s world-lead-
ing expertise in science, engineering,
medicine and business. [...] It’s now
game on to realise the potential of
Imperial West.”
Matt Colvin Reporter
£150 million partnership for Imperial
continued from the front page
>>
who were only recently elected, had to
make. It had previously been questioned,
by the Court, as to whether it was too
soon for such an important vote to occur,
and if they realistically had had enough
time to actually look over the proposals
in full. It was argued that the time frame
was too short, and that there was no way
that people would have sufficient time to
study the new and old Constitutions in
full (especially considering the ever pre-
sent, ominous Imperial work load). The
retort by Beaumont was that the papers
were all widely available online and were
circulated to all candidates, as well as the
emails encouraging everyone to read
them. Beaumont said that everyone had
had ample time. The concern that the
additions made over the weekend were
not properly seen were also raised.
Council Chair, Michael Foster, stated
that the Council’s discussion would be
run by the following procedure: a mem-
ber of the floor posing a question and
then receiving an answer from Beau-
mont. The reasoning given was that it
was assumed that everyone had read
everything beforehand and therefore
seen both sides of the arguments. How-
ever, Felix has found out that there are
members of Council who did not read
everything beforehand. This decision
was questioned by the Court, with the
objection swiftly brushed aside.
There were a few contentious points in
the new Constitution. The fact that the
Union now is able to discipline members
for bringing the Union into disrepute
was one. This was brought up at Council,
and the response was that it was already
in the College Ordinances. The addition
was said to be nothing new due to this,
with no new powers given to anyone.
It was not actually defined what ac-
tion could be considered to be bringing
the Union into disrepute. An individual
accusing the Union of acting in an un-
toward manner could not be punished
if the matter was found to be true: those
participating in said action would be
disciplined.
Diving deeper into the matter to see
how this could affect anyone, it is a copy
and pasting from the College’s Discipli-
nary Ordinances. In the College’s Ordi-
nances, which stood before the current,
new Constitution, anyone bringing the
name of the College into disrepute can
be disciplined by the College. As stated
in Ordinance D8 point 29. It states in
another part of the Disciplinary Section
that any matters to do with the Union
are dealt with by the Union President.
The Union therefore will discipline an
individual instead of College. This has
happened as recently as the PhysSoc in-
cident. This can be seen as a positive for
students, as the discipline will not be on a
permanent College record. The negative
is that the disrepute rule does now have
the potential to discourage those want-
ing to criticise from doing so. Although
those reporting the criticism are pro-
tected from discipline, the person saying
something negative could still possibly
be at risk. The point of what can be con-
strued as disrepute has not been cleared
up yet, although it is likely to be the same
as found in the College Ordinances. The
decision would, however, not be made by
just one individual. There is also a poten-
tial loophole, in that one could just opt
out of being in the Union
The Sabbatical Officers are now on
the Trustee Board, as well as the elected
and, now, appointed Student Trustees.
This was argued by the Court to be
handing power to the Sabbatical Team
and making them more powerful. The
Court opinion, which was presented in
written form, and also in spoken form.
The Court said that the Sabbaticals could
ignore decisions at Council and use the
Trustee Board as a way to force through
unpopular policies that they want to cre-
ate. Beaumont reiterated that the Sabbs
were the “least powerful in the country”
and that the “President has too much
power”, also stating that the other Sabbs
did not have a vote, and therefore not a
proper voice, on the Trustee Board. He
also said that any Trustee could be re-
called and that their can be a motion of
no confidence against a Sabb found to go
against Council. Although motions of no
confidence are very rare.
It was also put forward by Court that
there is a danger that the changes could
be misinterpreted by future generations,
saying: “there is a real risk that it could
be misinterpreted what is meant”. Beau-
mont claimed that the current document
is much clearer.
When discussing finance, which, due
to the money being crucial to how the
Union is run, is very vital, Court put
forward the opinion that it seems to be
that it is not sure who and what approves
the money. Saying that the Trustee Board
now has too much say. Beaumont said
that it was still the Executive Committee,
as it was before, who decided the budget
and can take it to the Trustee Board. He
added that before the Executive Com-
mittee could overturn the decision of
the Trustee Board and undermine them,
even though the Trustees are legally
held responsible for losses. Beaumont
said that this was wrong and that is has
been cleared up, but that the budget
still must be decided by students. Beau-
mont argued that the changes “removes
bureaucracy”.
Losses such as the Summer Ball 2011
were sighted as reasons for the changes
and the need for the losses not to be
made again. Court argued that it should
be those responsible for the losses, not
the systems, that should be blamed for
them.
The Student Trustees and two other
Trustees were also present. The Chair of
the Trustee Board, Julia Higgins, and Lay
Trustee Janet Rogan were in attendance.
They gave their point of view on the
changes. Both citing the “different view”
that they had, due to serving for longer.
They both praised the idea of changing
the Constitution and said that it was con-
fusing beforehand. Higgins said the “sys-
tems weren’t fit for purpose”. Although
the only big change that is admitted to be
an outright change is getting rid of Court
and creating a Sub-Committee of the
Trustee Board.
An interesting point to note is that
Court did not appear on the website
when it was relaunched, following the
server being corrupted while backing up
over summer.
Beaumont stated that: “I’m obviously
very happy that Council voted it through
unanimously, but this is just the first
stage of many”. Saying that the Consti-
tution and Bye-Laws should have many
stages to approval as they are important.
The new Constitution now has to go
to the Trustee Board (although, as stated,
key members were there: it is therefore
extremely unlikely that those praising
the changes would reverse the decision),
and then to College Council.
The Constitution can be found online, as
can Council documents.
Imperial College London
The X-Factor
judging panel re-
ally has changed

