Carl Kent-Smith and Susan Appleby interviewed the Prims in November. Stick with them, says Car
got even more to give us in the 90's.
Interview—The Primitives
The coldest day I can remember since the hot summer
erased my cold day memory cells. Inside the Town
& Country Club it's nearly as cold, with a harsh sound
check doing little to warm the atmosphere. Our wit
is tempered by a debate into everything; sex, drugs
and the Prims worth. I feel like a minority amongst my
company, still starry eyed about the whole thing,
excited, overawed and wanting to be here. Wanting
to be cool, but faced with meeting and talking to a
band I've admired for so long. You could say I was
a little nervous. Would they be difficult, doing the big
start thing? I was desperate not to be disappointed,
and....I wasn't.
T=Tracy (vocals)
P = Paul (guitar, vocals)
A=Andy (bass)
Do you all still live in Coventry?
T: Paul and I do, and Tig, the drummer also, but
Andy's still in Sheffield.
What's the nucleus of the Prims, these days, who
are the original members?
P: Well, there was Pete Tweeder, he plays drums in
the band third on the bill tonight, See See Rider.
Stever, Stever Dulahugn, he's doing various things
around the Midlands. He's working with a guy called
Martin Baker.
After Crush, and you got a lot of exposure on Top
of the Pops, was it worse then?
T: Yeah, there was a bit more then, with posters
plastered around every corner, on every street, so
people were quite aware of us...they'd stop and stare
and stuff.
Are you still getting lots of comments about your
hair, you must be pretty sick of it by now?
T: It's a bit of a pain in the arse really.
So what were you up to between Lovely and Sick
of it All coming out?
P: We did loads of tours abroad. We did go to America
for two weeks, but we did mostly Europe. We were
recording the album over that period of time, when
we weren't in the public eye or whatever. It wasn't
like a solid recording session, but a week here and a
week there. That's the way we work, we don't like
doing it all the time.
The second album wasn't difficult to produce in
any way?
P: Not really. We had a lot more say in it, and we knew
what we wanted when we went and started it.
T: We had a more relaxed atmosphere as well. Just
the producer and the band, and we weren't being
interfered with by other people.
What was it like pulling all the material together?
The first album seemed more like you had
everything ready, a collection of singles and the
B-sides. Pure seems a bit different, did you write
it in one go, or while you were in the studio...?
P: No, we never write songs in the studio, that's when
you're desperate. They just happened as they always
have done, sometimes two songs in a week. It just
all came together.
Paul, you seem to do most of the writing, do you
write the lyrics as well?
P: Yeah, I just sit down with a guitar at home and write
a song, and give the rest of the band a cassette. But
the actual finished product is like a band effort,
everyone puts input into it.
I've noticed that Pure seems a lot deeper subject-
wise and in the song structures. Are we ever
going to see a return to the good time thrash stuff
of Stop Killing Me and Really Stupid?
T: We want to get away from that 2 minute sickly sort
of pop song.
P: We probably like bits of that still, but we want to
bury that a bit now. Although Stop Killing Me is alright.
Spacehead, you're not too keen on that I gather?
P: Yeah, the newer stuff, we wanna kick all the sugar
out basically.
Is this going to be your approach to the 90's? A
lot of people would say that you're rooted in the
80s, specifically all the bands that came out in
1986.
T: I think we're constantly changing really. Most of
the new material isn't commercial, but then again it
could be. We're just sort of moving on really.
Are you not ever forced to take a more
commercial part? Possibly if the singles aren't
doing so well, do you not get outside suggestions,
especially major label suggestions?
T: In the beginning yes. Obviously with the success
of Crash they thought that everything else would
follow like that. But there's so much variety within
the Primitives that it just didn't happen. They're more
aware now that they might get a single that does
really well, and the next one might not.'
So, do you think you've got the stamina and the
necessary longevity to go on for a few years, and
carry on right into the 90s.
P: We're not struggling at the moment. We've got
loads of new songs happening and things.
How do you feel about the way the music press
is treating you at the moment? Ever since you
made it into the charts they've completely turned
against you.
P: Well, not completely, but we've always had our
enemies and suffered backlashes all along the line
What bands are you listening to at the moment,
I would've though they'd be slightly different to
what you listened to before you recorded Lovely?
Are these band influences?
P: Not really. We're not really influenced by anyone
these days. You listen to stuff, but when you start
out you tend to copy bands more because you're
finding your feet. But the stuff we listen to doesn't
really influence us anymore.
What about for your own enjoyment, what do you
listen to at home?
T: A lot of old stuff really. I still listen to T-Rex,
Teardrop Explodes, it's really varied. I like some acid
house music as well.
All your record sleeves, and most of the Lazy
releases have a pretty definite image, and you can
always identify them as Prims releases. The
designers. Flat Earth, who are they?
P: I think Wayne, our manager, found the guy who
is Flat Earth.
T: He's been with us from the beginning really. We
sort of work with him to get what we want.
Was the transition from indie label to major pretty
seamless, or did you encounter any problems?
P: there was a lot of confusion at the start really. A
lot of people trying to have their say in things. It seeon
got sorted out though.
Did it hold up what you wanted to do at any stage?
P: Not really, no.
Drugs seem to be portrayed as fairly trendy in the
media at the moment, and I noticed that in
Melody Maker it seemed to suggest you were out
of your heads on ecstacy in the last video...
T: Was it true?
P: Yes, I'm afraid so.
T: Tut, tut, smack our wrists.
Did you ever expect to be this successful?
P: Not really. Not at the start. Everything went up in
little steps. TOTP and all that lot was just like the next
step. When it got to that point.
T: We've got a lot of determination and a lot of new
stuff and we're happy and we're going to carry on into
the 90s.
What about future plans, is it going to be another
long wait until we see you play again?
P: We want to record an EP in January. If we do do
that, then we'l do like a really quick tour of the UK.
It'll be like small clubs, just a really buzzy kind of tour.
T; Intimate little holes.
P: No, no (laughs).
Are the Primitives sexy?
T: Yes. Would you say we were (to Paul)
Fairly erotic
T: Everybody's sexy aren't they? If you're a band I
think you can be extra sexy.
How do you make yourselves extra sexy then?
T: It's hard to say really.
A: I wear black stockings.
What, all the time?
A: Well, yeah.
P: I don't wear anything when I'm in the bath.
Have you done your Christmas shopping yet?
T: No. No, we're not going to have time to either, 'cos
next weekend we go to Spain and then we go to
America for a couple of weeks, so we won't really
have time.
Well, with no more burning questions to ask,
thanks also for the interview. Hope the gig's good
tonight.
T&P; Thankyou.
Page 11

