The Calumny Column
by Caroline Toynbee
• News of sexual perversions reaches my ears from
male-dominated Holbein House. A stock of
transsexual magazines were found by an observant
cleaner on the Third floor of house 61. The cleaner
also complained about a blockage in one of the toilets
in house 63. The source of the problem was dredged
sopping wet out of the U-bend-two ladies bras.
Without wishing to point the finger of suspicion, I can
reveal that the culprit may well be posing as a re-app.
More on this chap next term.
• A very old tale indeed from two years ago. A
resident of Linstead Hall thought it would be a jolly
wheeze to bug people's rooms and spy on them from
his Southside room using his binoculars. Ho, ho, ho,
what a laugh. He obtained the various bits of
surveillance equipent from STOIC-of which he was
a member. One of his victims was ex-Conservative
Society chairman Nicky Fox, hee, hee, hee. Now the
offender's name can be revealed. It is a present STOIC
member, Neil Humphreys. Who's laughing now?
• Cock-up of the week is from Andy Bannister,
gorgeous, pouting member of the Geology 3rd year.
Mr Bannister has been working too hard lately which
accounts for his discovery that there is oil in Peckham
Rye.
• FELIX borrowed a dictaphone from the Union Office
last week for use in a highly covert interview. It was
sent to us with some very interesting contents. The
cassette tape left in the machine contained
confidential details of a bar-brawl in late October. The
tape goes on to name the offenders and
recommendations for their punishment. Being an
upstanding organ, FELIX will not print any of the
details contained thereon. Furthermore, we have
returned the tape to its supplier, Mr Dave Williams.
Most frightening of all was the B-side of the
cassette-this had last year's Hon Sec, Ian Morris
singing a collectiong of songs from his latest album!
• Time to reveal the vodka scam. Seasoned drinkers
have been rushed into Southside in recent weeks to
sample a promotion of Poznozce. This column can
now reveal that all the glasses used were left sitting
on a tray of vodka to give a slight flavour of vodka.
Why? Because Poznozce is the same stuff that the
Government has been trying to flog you-London Tap,
with a hint of filtered Tobasco sauce for the burn. The
cunning plan, at 50p per shot, is estimated to have
raised £80 for Rag.
• How long will Linstead Warden Jan Bradley last?
Rumous are flying around that Ms Bradley will be
resigning from her post in the very near future. A case
of did she jump or was she pushed.
• Union Academic Affairs Officer, Athos Ritzbiscuit
is said to be deep in the sticky brown stuff following
the issue of FELIX a fortnight ago. A letter written by
the Christian Union was apparently signed by ten of
its members. It now transpires that nine of the
signatures were false. So crafty was Mr Ritzbiscuit
in the letter, that he signed himself halfway through
the list of names. The hapless AAO is being reminded
that he has broken the eleventh commandment-
'Thou shalt not forge other people's names and then
tell porkies about it'. Beware of any low-flying
thunderbolts, folks.
Page 12
• Last year's Editor Bill Goodwin, has been involved
in some heavy legal wrangling at the high court lately.
Mr Goodwin, answering a charge of contempt of court
for his part in the leaking of sensitive company
information, is lucky to have such a loyal bunch of
friends. So concerned about Bill's well-being are they,
that a sweepstake has been organised in theFELIX
Office. The pot currently stands at £40, most of
which came from present staff. So far, the Guilds
Office have been the cruelest, hoping Bill gets sent
down for 2 years or more.'
• The Union Internal Services Officer was
propositioned recently. Walking home to his
fashionable Archway flat, Christ Stapleton (for it is
he) was stopped by a handsome young gentleman.
Seeing Chris's leather clad body, the youth stated,
'Excuse me, I find you very attractive, can I come
home with you?' Mr Stapleton's reply has not been
recorded but he was sighted running at top speed
through Highgate Cemetery.
• A complaint was made to Union Deputy President,
Dave Williams, by self-made woman Nicky Fox on a
matter of security. La Fox complained about the lack
(i.e. none) of rape alarms in the ladies changing rooms.
It is three weeks since Mr Williams was approached,
but so far nothing has been done. Doubtless Mr
Williams is considering the matter with his usual
efficiency.
• Scandal reaches my ears of one Bharterdu Vyas. He
resigned from India Society when they wouldn't elect
him as Chairman and formed Asian Society. Despite
protestations from his previous club, due to an overlap
in membership, Asian Society is now thriving with
some 150 members. It is a pity that the same can't
be said for the club's finances. Asian Soc's first event
of the year involved hiring a band for £300 and
handing out a large number of free tickets. Asian
Society is now in debt to the tune of...£300.
• My good friend Peter Leeson, Superintendent of
Evelyn Gardens has been mentioned lately. Mr Leeson
has been under mounting pressure to leave from the
Gardens wardens. Now I hear he may be involved in
the maintenance services forthcoming Easter
reshuffle.
• Beit Quad was evacuated on Wednesday when a
fire alarm refused to be silenced. Despite hunting high
and low, both Deputy President Dave Williams and the
extremely competent body of College security,
couldn't locate the switch to disable the alarm. The
control panel was eventually found, hidden under the
bags and coats of the ladies football team. Nice to
know that if a real fire breaks out, we'll all be in safe
hands.

