The Delator Column
Going underground
By Paul Shanley
In my first column, 10 weeks ago, I expressed my
angst over automatic ticket barriers on the
underground. The feedback was good-most people
seem to share my view that these gates should be
scrapped. The whole issue of 'progress' by London
Regional Transport is a much wider one.
Action is being taken to improve facilities for
passengers. I can't help feeling that London
Underground have got their priorities wrong. There are
two areas they are concentrating on. The first is in
marketing. New style trains are coming into operation,
more aesthetically pleasing than their predecessors.
Stations, mainly central ones, are being given new
licks of paint. This is obviously necessary to financially
secure LRT in the long term and to create an
environment for travellers that is, at worst, tolerable.
But it is by no means a priority.
In terms of change, there are numerous tasks that
must be placed above cosmetic refurbishment on the
list of priorities. This leads me to the second area that
LRT are ploughing money into; the closure of certain
stations that require essential maintenance. Mansion
House has just been closed for an estimated 15
months. The escalators are being refurbished and the
safety level of the station as a whole is being brought
up to scratch.
The changes taking place at Mansion House are
welcome. LRT, in a bid not to inconvenience its
customers (they are no longer passengers) only closes
a number of stations at any one time. If such
alterations are necessary, for safety reasons, it seems
silly to close down some unsafe stations and leave
others open. The real solution is to close down all
dangerous stops so that the Underground will pass
safety checks in a few years time. The worst stations
appear to be those on the older lines such as the
Bakerloo and the Northern ('Misery') line.
A TV programme recently highlighted this. A day
in the life of... went to Angel station (Yes, it's The
Misery Line again, folks). Angel remains open, despite
frequent breakdowns of the lift. The programme saw
a couple being told that the lift was broken and that
they would have to use the stairs-all of them. The
woman was 81. Her husband was 85. It is stations
like Angel that have to remain closed until lifts can
be in operation 100% of the time.
In the interim, London Underground must liaise with
its other arm, London Buses and provide shuttle buses
to cope. This will inconvenience passengers
considerably. But if a station is unsafe, isn't it better
to close and repair it than to leave the station open
and wait for an accident to happen?
Last month Transport Secretary Cecil Parkinson
unveiled plans for an extension to the Jubilee line
running into Docklands. This is analogous to a small
business expanding too rapidly. By diversifying, one
ends up with a sub-standard operation. The solution
is to consolidate one's resources first, before
expansion. LRT is being hasty in branching out
without bringing its existing service up to an
acceptable level, as I shall demonstrate. There are
solid political reasons for this argument. More party
points can be scored by moving into yuppie-infested
Docklands than less well off areas such as Vauxhall
and Lambeth.
Page 14
There are other areas which LRT must improve. Not
at the expense of safety-this must be the highest
priority-but before cosmetic considerations are
looked at.
Fire equipment must be renewed and maintained.
Adjacent to this is the need to familiarise all staff with
fire-fighting procedure. Recent reports suggest that
this area has been neglected. Again, the worst
offenders appear to be the oldest stations such as
those on the extremities of the Northern line.
More tubes must be put into passenger service. This
is because of the wider problem of an increase in
underground usage. The system has now reached a
ceiling. One of the good policies that the late GLC
implemented was promoting public transport. The
problem now is that at peak hours demand has
outstripped supply.
Part of the problem here is the increase in
congestion on the roads. My belief is that this is partly
due to the introduction of one-man operated buses.
One need look no further for evidence to support this
than the tube and bus strikes over the summer. On
the days where a tube-only strike was in effect, the
roads were bedlam. Conversely, when the buses were
non-operational, driving into work was a breeze.
When commuters are questioned on what part of
the system concerns them most, the majority mention
their own personal safety. Easy access to emergency
stop buttons may help. Extra staff vigilance,
particularly late at night would be an asset. The
answer, though, has to be an extra police presence
on the tubes. The London Transport police needs to
undergo a massive expansion. Its current staffing level
is 400 officers, 32 of whom have been seconded from
the Met represents only a token presence. Londoners
will only feel safe on their public transport system if,
for examble, lines such as the Northern have a
minimum of three officers per train.
One often hears of how rough the New York
Subway is. Having travelled on it, I have to say I felt
more at ease than coming home on the Northern Line
in my native South London.
Of course minor refurbishments are needed. We
need better PA systems, cleaner train indicators, less
litter, brighter ticket halls but these can wait.
Okay, but who's going to pay for all this? Well LRT
spent a total of E206M last year on investment. It also
received a Government subsidy of £212M. This could
subsidise some of the cost. There is also the question
of their advertisement budget-do we really need
adverts telling us to use the tube-when we have to
anyway? Realistically the public coffers are going to
have to bear a significant brunt of the cost. London
has the oldest underground railway in the world. In
order for it to be the best, either the Exchequer or the
London boroughs will have to delve into their pockets.
In conclusion, the overriding aim has be for a safe
public transport system. Once this is achieved, the
mechanics of the system should be honed. Only then
shOud cosmetics be looked at. At present LRT is
operating the Stock, Aitken and Waterman principle:
The packaging may be great but the contents are crap.

