D
a
y
t
i
m
eTVt
w
a
d
d
l
e
I've been videoing a lot of daytime television lately.
The programmers who claim standards will decline
when de-regulation comes into force need look no
further than their own back yard.
The day usually gets off to a start with a game
show. The ITV regions excell at this sort of
programming. From the channel that brought you
AVame that Tune and That's My Dog comes Keynotes.
Presented by a redundant D J - a s nearly all these
shows are-our first glimpse is of the contestants.
From then on, it's downhill all the way.
The idea of Keynotes appears to be to guess the
next word in a song. The contestants are clearly hand
picked from Mensa's finest judging by the challenging
questions. (7 want to be a part of it, New York, New
****'!. Last week's programme featured Jim, looking
remarkably like the token 'lovable cockney character'
one sees in every sitcom Thames produces. Jim was
clearly getting carried away with it all. So much so,
in fact, that he kept clapping his hands throughout the
whole show-even when he got an answer wrong.
This pales into insignificance, however, on flipping
channels. Every morning, that guardian of morals, is
there to promote everything that is good -Kilroy!
Robert Kilroy-Silk interviewing technique has
apparently been gleaned from the Daily Mirror School
of Journalism. In comes the camera for the close-up
of the victim's face, dim the house lights, speak in
a soft melancholy tone-watch those tears start
flooding. The main feature of Kilroy! that sets it apart
from the other crap talk shows is the resident nutter.
It is a little-known fact that a researcher is employed
to scour the tube for headcases in order to reach a
quota of five per week.
During remembrance week, Kilroy-Silk interviewed
a studio full of war widows demanding a higher
pension. With the whole audience in agreement, our
Robert must have been thinking of ways to pad the
programme out to an hour. To his rescue, up jumped
a fruitcake.
'I wouldn't give any of you a penny. Your husbands
knew they might die—it's your own fault'. A verbal
melee promptly broke out. One old dear, fighting back
the tears, wished Mr Fruitcake was dead.
The same nutter appeared a week later disguised
as an 80 year-old army vet. The subject was
vandalism. The old boy told a moving story of how
his garden was continually ruined by 'young thugs of
subnormal intelligence'. His story started to go sour
on telling of how he'd frightened them off with his
shotgun.
'And they got away did they?' asked Kilroy through
feigned concern. 'Well, one of them did', replied the
nutter, 'but I blew the other one away'.
What sort of producer would allow this form of
entertainment? Yes, you've guessed. The producer of
Kilroy! is one Mrs Kilroy-Silk.
Warnings of naff television will doubtless go
unheeded. Sky and BSB may bring programming
budgets down to pocket money; deregulation will
probably bring standards plummetting. But in terms
of really good, bad television, BBC and ITV will be
scooping the awards for years to come.
Giveaway
Calculating
There has been a lot of talk lately of the national
curriculum. This catch-all syllabus, which is being
introduced into all state-funded schools, is subject to
much debate.
Many aspects of it are worrying. The need for
teachers to be good administrators instead of able
tutors is one that springs to mind.
Having read the maths section of the curriculum,
I have to say that one tiny detail horrified me. Children
from the age of six upwards are being taught how to
use calculators.
Calculators and computers work very well. They
allow complex sums to be carried out quickly and with
ease. What they were not designed for was replacing
traditional mental arithmetic.
The rot started four or five years ago when some
bright spark realised that Britain had gone metric. As
the base of this new system is ten, it was no longer
necessary to continue with duodecimal practises.
Times tables only went up to ten. If you wanted to
work out 11 x 11 or 12 x 12, you had to write it down.
Presumably the same high flyer at the DES is
responsible for this new situation. Mental arithmetic
is not an asset or a useful tool-it is essential. Children
must, of course, be taught how to use calculators and
the like, but it should be a second priority. The
overriding one is to learn the methods of how sums
are computed.
One day the batteries will run dry. Unfortunately,
so will the brain power of this generation's kids.
Roll up, roll up! Join in with the latest Government
giveaway!
From the party that brought you:
• Japanese nee British Gas pic (name changed in aid
of foreign investors; tell Syd).
• H 2 0 (the only share offer guaranteed to be floated,
because everything floats in British water, even the
fish), and
• British Telecom ('Melvyn? It's your mother. Can you
pay my phone bill? I can't afford it, because I'm a war
widow'), comes Christmas. Yes, your very own
festive season is soon to be privatised. The various
yuletide activities will be delegated to separate
companies:
• Christmas trees courtesy of Amazon Rain Forest
Destruction Ltd.
• Christmas Television courtesy of Kilroy & Wife pic
(in association with R Mellie of Fulchester).
• Santa Claus will be played by Ronald McDonald.
The only Xmas tradition to remain is the part of
Ebeneezer Scooge. Her position is unasailable.
Have a good Christmas and get prepared for next
term-it's going to be a good one.
Page 15

