Every bloody year it's the same, a time to dread as the family reappears.
Why I hate Christmas
Christmas is a time when we rejoice in the birth of
little baby Jesus and exchange gifts in memory of this
great event, or so we are told. I say rubbish!
Christmas is a time when we all try our damnedest
to get as drunk as possible in an attempt to ignore the
whole sordid affair.
What makes the whole thing so unbearable? Old
people, that's what. Every year they trapse round in
those shoes that 'will last them out,' and those
dentures which will clatter throughout Christmas
dinner. Even before the great day they will waddle in
front of you down Oxford Street, like some
amorphous jeily, intent on buying their bath salts and
socks before you get there. And why are you slaving
through the cold in the first place? To buy their bloody
pen and paper set (again). It should be added at this
point that the one good thing about old people is that
they always forget what you have bought them
previously. My grandmother usually forgets by the
Queen's Message.
This leads on to the great day itself. Having reached
a suitably inebriated state, it is usual to be greeted by
an old person's kiss. It is a little known fact that
grandparents take 60 years or more to perfect the wet
kipper effect required, and you really shouldn't be too
ungrateful for this gesture of goodwill. Instead you
should casually stroll to the bathroom at a suitable
opportunity, or attempt to persuade the dog to lick
the offending area, the dog, after all, has more sense
of etiquette and a full set of teeth. Do not, however,
expect the worst to be over. Dinner is only around the
corner.
This raises a lot of unanswered questions. Do you
attempt to get the grandparents drunk at this stage?
There are dangers in both directions. If you slip them
an extra sherry they will probably babble on for hours
about the cost of bread, oranges in stockings and how
the winters were always much colder. If you don't,
they will babble on for hours about how nice it was
to see Charlie and Fergie back together again and how
the Sun says it won't last. Either way, you cannot
win. The only sound advice is if in doubt, get them
plastered. A granny in the armchair is worth two in
full vent.
Now we reach that tenuous subject of hot air. It is
a well known fact that Brussell sprouts are an
essential part of Christmas dinner. It is a very sad fact,
therefore, that they are packed full of pump worthy
victuals. Yes, one mouth-full and the Grandparents
will probably be able to accompany the National
Anthem at the end of the Queen's Message. The
answer to this problem is simple. Old people always
have badly fitting dentures. They spend long evenings
grinding away at them ready for this great day, to give
the most ill-fitting effect. The end result of their
endeavours is invariably a sound akin to the machine
which steam cleans the tracks on the underground.
They do this to annoy you. They know this will be the
last time you invite them round for a long while and
they want to make the most of it. The ploy is double-
edged, however. Few people know that old people
CANNOT EAT NUTS OR ANYTHING WITH SEEDS IN.
They get under their plate. To avoid the
aforementioned sprout problem, simply sprinkle nuts
onto the offending items on their plate. This should
work. It carries the danger of THE WORST THING
THAT CAN HAPPEN AT CHRISTMAS DINNER,
however.
Page 16
The worst thing that can happen at Christmas
dinner, is that an old person discovers a seed or piece
of nut under the denture plate. They will initially
squirm, as you can look on in glea, and raise the
denture sound level by a few decibles. If this does not
work, you should leave the table instantly. If you do
not you will be treated to the sight of granny getting
her dentures out. With a sound like the birth of a small
whale from a common field mouse a lump of pink and
white matter will emerge, dripping saliva everywhere.
Any hopes of saving the rest of the turkey for Boxing
Day will drift away forever.
Now is your chance to rush away from the table,
raid the drinks cabinet and look back at what you have
received this year. Amongst the bottles of Brut and
Old Spice for the blokes and Marks and Spencers Gift
Sets/Cheap Boots Perfume (especially Charlie) for the
women, there lie the endless streams of socks and
handkerchiefs. However much you stress to people
that you do not need any more of these offending
articles, they still find their way in. Very few people
know that once you go beyond the age of 60 you lose
the ability to purchase anything other than socks, ties,
handkerchiefs and of course gift tokens. Old people
only live next to crap shops. That is why they always
send record vouchers for WH Smiths and
Woolworths, and gift tokens for Marks and Spencers
(because they sell socks and....) If your Grandparents
could make the trip, they would probably get vouchers
for the Mother Gradenski's Polish reject shop in
Gdansk, just for the sheer inconvenience.
Try it, it's true. Work in a shop over Christmas and
see if you can refuse to sell an old person a pair of
socks. Soon you will find yourself approaching the old
dears and asking 'What size socks would madam like
to purchase?' This is why socks come in such large
size ranges. When granny can hardly remember what
day it is, she hardly has much hope of remembering
your shoe size, does she? One last point. Old people,
if at all possible, will always go for the terry socks,
which you have avoided and grown out of so long ago.
('But they're very warm and sensible, deary.')
The only hope you have of salvation is to cancel the
whole event. This is actually very easy. When you go
to collect the grandparents say something like 'What
a lovely speech the Queen made this year, and what
a nice pair of socks you bought me.' With their
inherent bad memory, they will instantly assume they
have forgotten the whole day. If this fails, say, 'And
didn't you drink a lot this year? We had to carry you
home.' As they gaze forlornly at their offerings of
socks and handkerchiefs, simply add 'and you haven't
even opened your presents yet,' and hastily rip the
gift tags off. No more will your Christmas be one of
geriatric doom. Go home and get drunk and enjoy
yourself instead.

