The story continues.
Christmas Carol II
'God rest ye merry gentlemen,
Let nothing thee dismay,
Remember Christ our Saviour
Was born on Christmas Day...'
'Ah...Christmas,' said Scrooge to the world in general,
'a time of peace and goodwill to all men. Happiness
and Joy'. He waved cheerily to the ensemble of carol
singers in the street below and, his heart light with
the thought of what was to come, he closed the
window and began to change for bed.
It had been exactly a year since that fateful night.
The night when his old colleague Marley and the three
spirits of Christmas had opened his eyes to the evil
of his ways. He was a changed man.
Well did he remember the horrors of that night and
waking the following morning with a new joy. He
recalled giving a whole shilling to a passing urchin,
urging him to buy the biggest turkey he could find as
a present for dear Bob Cratchit. The fact that the
urchin had promptly run off with the money and not
returned did not seem to matter.
Cratchit, loyal Bob Cratchit: Scrooge had given him
Christmas Eve off. Thinking about it, Cratchit had also
been off the week before. Indeed, Scrooge had not
seen him in the office since mid November, apart from
when he collected his now generous pay. Perhaps it
is as well that I no longer crave money, he thought,
for I have very little money left to crave.
Scrooge wrapped himself in his nightgown, fitted
his nightcap upon his head and clambered into his
warm welcoming bed. He settled down amid his
sheets and blankets and closed his eyes. Within the
twinkling of an eye, he was asleep.
'Ebeneezer... Ebeneezer Scrooge.' The voice was
cold and musty, like old books. Its very sound chilled
the bones. Scrooge awoke, shivering.
'Who.. Who is it?'
'It is I, your partner Jacob Marley'. The spectre
floated into view. A smile crossed his deathly white
lips. His chains clanked as he moved. 'I am back,
Ebeneezer'
'Marley! Gracious! What brings you here? Am I not
a transformed man?'
'I am here upon a second, more important mission.
You recall that three hundred and sixty five days yore,
the spirits of Christmas and I visited you.'
'Yes, vividly, and I will be forever grateful.'
"Tis Good. But, now we have had a little time to
think upon it... We were wondering... if you would...,'
the shade seemed momentarily lost for words, 'if you
would... return to your old ways.'
Scrooge was flabbergasted. 'My old ways!,' he
exclaimed, 'Pah! Never! Never in a million years!'
Marley shrugged his transparent shoulders. 'I was
afraid this might happen, I knew they should have
been more careful,' he mumbled and with an
expansive gesture and a rattle of ironmongery, he was
gone.
Scrooge hid his head beneath his blankets. What
was to become of him? He mused. Why had Jacob
changed his ethereal mind? Why were the spirits so
damned inconsistent? Why? He lay back and slowly
closed his eyes, around him the room filled with a
shimmering fog.
His eyes snapped open. A crowd had gathered at
the end of his bed. Scrooge looked from figure to
figure. Several of the apparitions had strangely familiar
faces. Two had no faces at all. There was a stirring
and from the centre of the gathering stepped a large,
jovial man. He cleared his throat.
'Remember us,' he said, 'Spirit of Christmas Present
at your service. My acquaintances Past and Yet-To-
Come, I believe you have already met.' He pointed to
two of the shadows moving behind him. 'The Others?
Well, the fellow with the blood stained axe and the
dead virgin is the Spirit of Christmas Prehistoric. Poor
soul. He doesn't get out much these days. Oh, and
the little fellow with the hood, that's Yet-To-Come's
younger brother, A- Little-Bit-After-That.'
On cue, A-Little-Bit slowly manoeuvered his way
through the assembled ghouls, then in a single
smooth, sudden motion he grabbed Scrooge by his
bony wrists and dragged him through his own
bedroom wall...
Scrooge fell and fell, his body turning and twisting
as he felt the decades fly past. He screwed up his eyes
in terror just before he landed with a thump on cold,
hard ground.
Too fearful to open his eyes, too terrified to breathe,
Ebeneezer Scrooge listened. He heard a screeching.
'Jingle Bells, Jingle Bells, J-J-J-Jingle Bells
Jingle all the way
Oh what fun it is to ride
In a one-one-one horse open sleigh...'
A nauseatingly cheerful voice interrupted 'and that
was Kylie and Jason in Stock, Aitken and Waterman's
Jingle Bells-The Remix. Welcome to Safefare
Supermarket during this, the last Christmas of 1989.
Please buy everything you can...'
Scrooge shook his head and reluctantly opened his
eyes. All around him he saw gold, shining streamers
of gold, and, in among them, crowds of people,
wandering aimlessly in all directions, their eyes blank
and staring. Above him he saw, inscribed in letters
half the height of a man, the words 'MERRY
CHRISTMAS TO ALL OUR CUSTOMERS.'
There was a rustle and, from behind needle clad
bows of one of a dozen dead pine trees, popped A-
Little-Bit. He beckoned Scrooge towards him. From
the depths of his cowl he spoke, in a voice from the
edge of time. ' 'Ere we are then, son. Christmas
Nineteen Hundred and Eighty Nine. This, me old mate,
is what Christmas will become.'
With that, he grabbed Scrooge's wizened arm and
dragged him into the lumbering mass of humanity.
They travelled swiftly, Scrooge had seldom more than
a glimpse of what was happening around him. But
what a glimpse it was..
He saw scantily dressed young women, selling
bottles of scent to balding, sweating middle aged
men. He saw children fighting over tiny mauve toy
horses. He saw a dozen fat white- bearded men, all
clothed in red and all shouting 'Ho! Ho! Ho!'
And the sounds, the shouted conversations: 'Your
mother would hate it... It'll never last 'till New Year...
I WANT a Barbie Doll.'
Scrooge stared blankly at the milling crowds. Never
had he seen so many people suffering together. This
was Christmas... Christmas...
He awoke with the daylight streaming in on him
through the bedroom window. It was Christmas Day.
In the nearby houses, people were already awake,
celebrating the birth of Christ. Scrooge threw off his
bedclothes and, storming to the window, slammed it
open. He took a deep breath, and at the top of his
voice bawled 'Christmas! HUMBUG!'.
Page 17

