FELIX investigates the semiconductor IRC at Imperial
Interdisciplinary resej
It is a sort of Government ministerial mantra that
industry and academia should work more closely
together and it was at least partially with this in mind
that the Interdisciplinary Research Centres (IRCsl
were formed. These are large, university- based
'centres of excellence' where researchers from a wide
range of backgrounds can work together on
commercially viable projects. They will do no
fundamental 'blue-skys' research.
The Government hopes that these centres will be
able to make more efficient use of the available public
money and attract industrial sponsorship. Ministers
even claim that the centres could become self
supporting.
In the two years since the IRCs were first mooted
seventeen have been set up, three of them at Imperial
College. IC's IRCs specialise in process control,
population biology, and semiconductor materials.
They have even been deemed important enough to
warrant a visit from the Prime Minister. The largest
of the three, and the oldest, is the IRC for
Semiconductor Materials. Its director is Professor
Bruce Joyce.
Professor Joyce's group is based in Imperial's
Physics and Chemistry departments although it
includes researchers working at University College,
Queen Mary College and at what has been described
as 'a small outpost' in Oxford. It has a budget of £13
million and a staff of around thirty academics.
The IRC proudly claims to be truly interdisciplinary
involving physicists, chemists, material scientists and
electronic engineers in both theoretical and
experimental work. Their aim is to produce
commercially viable semiconductor devices a few
atoms wide, accurately and with the lowest possible
level of impurities.
Semiconductor materials such as Silicon |Si| and
Gallium Arsenide (GaAs) have been used for decades
in everything from the simplest transistor to the most
complicated 'silicon chip'. Semiconductor research is
sellable and, the IRC hopes, an attractive investment.
The most important technique used by Professor
Joyce's Group is Molecular Beam Epitaxy (MBE), a
method for growing layers of material as little as one
atom in thickness on the surface of a slice of
semiconductor crystal. It relies for its effectiveness
on the volatility of single atoms of semiconductor.
Unless tightly held in place, such as in a crystal
lattice, these atoms can easily be dislodged. So when
such an atom strikes the target it will normally
rebound. It will only stick if it lands in exactly the right
place to form part of a crystal.
If there is a steady stream of atoms.hitting the
target many will rebound but a few will stick and a
layer of new material will slowly form. By changing
the source of atoms, layers of different materials can
be built up, one on top of another.
In reality MBE is much more complicated. The
process can only work under very clean conditions at
very low pressures, so all the essential apparatus must
be contained within an ultra- high vacuum chamber.
The beams of atoms are produced by heating samples
of material in small ovens and allowing atoms to
diffuse out. Under such low pressures, an individual
Page 20
atom can easily travel the half metre or so from the
oven to the target without colliding with another
particle.
Usually, a number of separate ovens are used, each
providing a beam of different material and with
mechanical shutters to control the flow. In the midst
of all this, the target is heated and steadily rotated to
ensure an even coating.
Atoms which miss or rebound have to be caught.
This is achieved by cooling the walls of the chamber
with liquid nitrogen: at these temperatures, atoms
which strike the walls stick.
Producing a thin, even layer of atoms is a delicate
balancing act. A beam of electrons reflected off the
sample's surface can be used to examine its structure
and the temperatures of the ovens and the sample
adjusted to give the best results. Typically, a single
MBE machine costs between £0.5 million and £1
million to build and can lay down material at a rate
of one new atomic layer a second. The IRC
researchers plan to install two or three new MBE
machines.
Much IRC research will revolve around achieving the
best performance from MBE and the alternative gas-
based Metallo Organic Chemical Vapour Deposition
(MOCVD). The IRC staff will have a wide range of
detailed and sophisticated techniques at their disposal
ranging from high definition scanning tunnelling
microscopy to computer modelling.
In a normal semiconductor most electrons are
tightly bound to the atoms; however, due to impurities
in the material or excess energy from the
surroundings, a few will always escape. If the
semiconductor is large enough, these can travel freely
in all directions, allowing a current to flow. In effect,
the solid contains a three-dimensional 'gas' of
electrons.
This gas is not a perfect conductor: impurities and
flaws in the crystal and atomic vibrations can deflect
and slow the electrons. Devices made from impure
semiconductor are intrinsicly slower than those made
from purer material.
MBE has enabled researchers to build slices of pure
semiconductor just a few atoms wide. Under these
conditions the electrons are constrained to move in
a plane. This too is an electron gas, a two dimensional
electron gas (2DEG) with its own special properties.
By building a layer of a pure semiconductor on top
of impure electron-rich material, it is possible to
confine the 2DEG to the cleaner region where the
electrons can move more freely. A 2DEG based
device, such as the High Electron Mobility Transistor
(HEMT), will respond faster than its simpler
counterpart but at a price. There is a limit on the
amount of excess energy the electrons can have and,
as energy is heavily dependant on temperature, a
maximum temperature beyond which the device will
not work. Practical HEMTs have a working
temperature near 4 Kelvin.
Semiconductor sandwiches can be used to produce
miniature tuned lasers. There is a comparatively large
difference between the energies of bound electrons
ch centres at IC
st-
and those of the free electrons so when an electron
is 'captured' energy will be released in the form of a
photon. For a large slab of material, this energy
difference is fixed and, as the frequency of light is
related to the photon energy, the released photons will
have a certain energy.
As the thickness of the slab decreases, a number
of distinct discrete energy 'levels' form. Electrons
jumping between different levels can produce photons
of different but constant frequencies. The slab will
become a tuned laser almost too narrow to be seen
by an electron microscope.
Using other techniques it is possible to further
constrict the electron gas to make the electrons flow
rapidly along one dimensional 'Quantum Wires' or hold
them fixed in 'Quantum Dots' to build up complicated
multi-layered circuits on the scale of atoms.
Most IRC research will have an eventual commercial
end product but Professor Joyce does not believe that
finding applications is its primary aim. He argues that
only the sponsoring companies have the experience
necessary for this. He sees the IRC as collaborating
with rather than working for industry. Government
pressure to make the work more immediately
commercial will be strongly resisted.
No-one is claiming that the £13 million provided will
support all the IRC's work and the group will have to
look for other sources of funding. British Industry may
help, the electronics company Phillips is already
donating an MBE machine. Some cash may come
from the various European Community projects but
the area of most interest must be Japan.
Unlike the UK, the Japanese have invested
enormously in research in recent years. Everyone in
Japan who can do research is already doing so and
companies who want more work are looking outside.
Professor Joyce hopes that they will look to the IRC.
The Japanese may not need too much
encouragement. In 1992, the much vaunted European
single market will become an economic reality and it
will become more difficult for companies outside
Europe to compete. Of course, if Japan becomes a
major investor in British research, it will not be outside
any more.
The concept of an IRC is only about two years old
and it has already come in for some criticism. The
recent 'Flemming Report' was critical of the way the
centres were set up although, according to Professor
Joyce, it was 'quite favourably disposed' to the IRCs
themselves. Nobel laureate Dennis Noble of the Save
British Science campaign is openly hostile. He believes
that IRC research is over-controlled and that extending
the idea further could damage British Science.
The Semiconductor IRC is under a year old and has
at least another three years before it is due to be
assessed. If it survives the assessment it will receive
Government funding for another four years but from
then on it will have to be self supporting or fade away.
It may not be until the mid 1990s that we finally
discover whether or not the IRC experiment has been
a success.
This
Yfeek
• The major industrialised countries will have to
reduce carbon dioxide emissions by three-quarters by
the year 2030 according to a recent report. The
report, from the California-based International Project
for Sustainable Earth Paths, proposes a system of
carbon dioxide 'budgets'-limits on the amount of the
gas which any one country is allowed to produce.
The researchers propose a global budget of 300
billion tonnes, split equally between industrialised and
developing countries. Each country will have a quota
based on its population. The scheme deliberately hits
the wealthier industrialised countries hard while
allowing the developing world 25 years before it has
to make serious reductions.
It is estimated that the industrialised nations will
have to reduce their emissions by 20% by 2005, 50%
by 2015 and 75% by 2030. The figures assume that
the tropical rain forests can only survive an increase
of 0.1 °C per decade, if the rise is any higher the
forests, responsible for recycling and removing much
of the World's carbon dioxide, will start to die out.
• Like the infamous watched pot, a Quantum
Mechanical system will do absolutely nothing if
examined closely enough. This apparent
contradiction, known as the Quantum Zeno Paradox,
has been known of in theory for decades. Now
researchers at the National Institute of Standards and
Technology (NIST) in Boulder, Colorado claim to have
experimental evidence.
The NIST team examined several thousand berillium
ions held in a magnetic trap and subjected them to
a 256 millisecond burst of a radio frequency field. This
should have raised all the ions from their lowest
possible energy to the second lowest. The number of
ions in the lower level was counted by subjecting them
to a brief flash of precisely tuned laset light. This
excited all the atoms in the lowest state up into the
third lowest. This third energy level is very unstable
and the ions rapidly release the extra energy as flashes
of light. The number of lowest energy state ions could
then be found by simply counting the flashes.
The researchers found that if they looked only after
the full 256 ms, all the ions were at energy level 2.
But when they 'sneeked a glimse' at 128 ms, then
after the full time only half the ions had made it to level
2. The single look had effectively reset the system.
In classical physics the experiment and the
experimenter are completely seperate but in QM there
is no such thing as an impartial observer.
• An international team of geneticists have found
the defective gene that causes Hypertropic
Cardiomyopathy, the thickening of one wall of the
heart. The team has also found an associated genetic
marker inherited with the gene which can be used to
warn potential sufferers.
• Artifical seeding of clouds may account for up to
15% of rainfall in the USSR, Soviet meteorologists
have claimed. Seeding, the technique of spraying
clouds with a chemical reagent around which water
can condense, has been known about for years and
there are a number of current research programmes.
Some experts are sceptical about the Soviet claims
saying that the increase could only be around 5%.
• Job Offer. Anyone who fancies writing this column
next term should contact Dave Smedley at the FELIX
Office.
Page 21

