We wanted to know how gullible people in College were, so we rang them up to find out. What would
do if somebody told you, you 'd won a Christmas hamper in a raffle you didn't know about, and what w
you want in it? Of course there was also the question of the Christmas Caper... (All the 'lucky' winners
actually won a bottle of wine courtesy of FELIX.)
Rob Northey—Refectories
Felix. Hello is that Mr R Northey?
Rob Northey: Speaking
Felix: I've got some rather good news for you. You've
won a Christmas hamper worth £35 via the HUB
Office.
Rob: Oh God! what do I have tq do for it?
Felix: It's been done through the payroll slips and your
number was the lucky number.
Rob: Jolly good.
Felix: The thing is we actually need a list to submit
to Harrods to tell them what you actually require, so...
Rob: Oh, I tell you what, if you send a list down to
my secretary and she'll sort it out.
Felix: OK we might have to phone you back on that.
We haven't got an actual list, it's just a matter of
taking down what you would prefer. I mean Harrods
is quite a big shop. Have you got any particular, for
example, favourite champagne? We could stretch to
that in the £35.
Rob: I don't want any food because I'm away. I'm out
of the country for Christmas.
Felix: Right so wine and spirits would probably be best
for you.
Rob: Wine and spirits would be the nicest thing.
Felix: Anything in particular?
Rob: No I'll leave it all to you.
Felix: OK. It makes it rather difficult actually because
I'm just a temp and I need to...
Rob: Chortle, chortle.
Felix: ...get a list from you. So what shall we say then?
Moet and Chandon champagne? Do you drink
champagne for example?
Rob: Yes, yes we drink champagne.
Felix: OK champagne, and, for example, whisky, err...
Rob: Whisky or brandy don't mind which.
Page 22
Felix: OK, I suppose if you're away you won't want
any kind of relishes.
Rob: No thank you (laughs).
Relix: Cigarettes for example?
Rob: No, no I'm going to buy duty frees on those.
Make it up with some wine.
Felix: Right OK.
Rob: But don't buy the Liebfraumilch.
Felix: err....
Rob: Don't buy me Liebfraumilch or something like
that.
Felix: No Liebfraumilch, OK.
Rob: Dry whites or nice reds.
Felix: Preferably French I suppose.
Rob: Yes. Yes.
Felix: We'll have to stick to that then.
Rob: How did they do this then, sort of...
Felix: I'm not sure, as I say I'm just a temp for a couple
of days...
Rob: How many people have won?
Felix: We've got three. The hampers are worth
different amounts. Yours happens to be the medium
one.
Rob: Oh, well. Thank you very much indeed.
Felix: The thing is that you might have to collect this
from the Christmas Caper. Because it's being run in
conjunction with HUB.
Rob: Chortle, chortle. I'm not here then. I'm away that
weekend.
Felix: Oh that's quite fortunate, ha ha.
Rob: Unfortunately I've got to go to my parents for
Christmas before I go away, so...
Felix: Oh never mind.
Rob: So I shan't be here unfortunately.
Geoff Reeves
Chief Security
Officer
Geoff: Security.
Felix: Hello yes, could I speak to Mr G Reeves please?
Geoff: That's me.
Felix: Hello, I've got some rather good news for you
actually. You have won...via the HUB office...a
Christmas hamper.
Geoff: I have?
Felix: Yes, I'm phoning from personnel. We are
running a special payroll raffle in conjunction with the
HUB office. And you've won a Christmas hamper
worth £35 which is the 2nd prize.
Geoff: Good grief! How did I do that? I didn't go in
for a raffle.
Felix: No it's actually just done through the payroll
numbers apparently, so I've been told.
Geoff: Hee! Heel Ha! Ho! Ho!
Felix: And I've been given the job to phone you up and
ask you what you would like in the hamper. Have you
got any preferences? It's actually being ordered
through Harrods.
Geoff: From Harrods?!?
Felix: Yes, so I mean you've probably got quite a broad
range of things. Other people seem to have gone for
wines and spirits. I don't know if you have any
preferences there at all.
Geoff: Yes, yes a jolly good idea, ha ha, ho ho.
Felix: Brandy, scotch, whatever?
Geoff: Port.
Felix: Port?
Geoff: Port, yes and brandy, erm....crystallised
fruits...
Felix: (controlled laughter and long pause) Yes.
Geoff: All the things I never normally get like
homemade chocolates?
Felix: Homemade chocolates, yes I think they do quite
a nice range.
Geoff: And then if there's anything left...wine.
Felix: OK, so wine made up with the remainder?
Geoff: Well that will probably take care of it I would
think.
Felix: I would think so at Harrods, yes.
Geoff: Yes, I'll probably get two chocolates!! Ho! Ho!
Felix: I don't know. For £351 would think you'd have
quite a range.
Geoff: Yes quite extraordinary. How did this idea
come about?
Felix: I'm not really sure actually. To be honest I'm
a temp and I've just been given the job to phone
people.
The thing is the arrangement for collecting the
hamper might be from the Christmas Caper. Will you
be there?
Geoff: Er, I can't come along I'm afraid, but it can be
left in my room, no problem.
Felix: Well we can come to some other arrangement
on that. OK? Thanks, bye.
Geoff: Bye.

