IC Union President 'hacked off with student apathy
Educational suicide
Students will be deterred from taking up higher
education if the Governments Student Loans proposal
goes through, according to a survey published by the
National Union of Students (NUS) this week. Ms
Maeve Sherlock, NUS president, pointed out that the
scheme was unpopular and would be no cheaper to
the Treasury than the present grant system.
The report claims that 24% of pupils with semi-
skilled parents would drop their plans for higher
education if the loans were introduced, compared with
an overall average of 16% for all 18 year olds. 5.5%
of students with semi-skilled parents said that their
parents could finance a college education, compared
with 22% of the professional groups.
The N U S stressed that these results indicate that
the Government's scheme would have a strongly
deterrent effect on higher education, and a marked
class bias. Ms Diana Warwick, general secretary of
the Association of University Teachers, commented
that the loans scheme would be 'making universities
more middle class than they already are.' Statistics
show that despite that 56% of 18 year olds come from
manual or semi-skilled backgrounds only 18% of
higher education students come from the same group.
The boycotting of banks involved in the loans
proposal is going ahead, with the full approval of the
NUS. Already 100 students from Loughborough have
transferred their accounts to LLoyds bank, who are
not involved in the scheme. In addition, thousands
of students have written to the colluding banks to warn
them that they will withdraw their accounts if the
banks continue to co- operate with the government
in the matter.
Qualifications
questioned
Anxiety in the City and Guilds reached new heights
this week after the City and Guild London Institute
(C&GLI) announced its intention to award the letters
'ACGI' (Associate of the City and Guilds Institute)
to students not of Imperial College.
At the moment only those students who are taking
City and Guilds courses in I.C. are eligible to have
these letters on graduation, which is comparable to
the letters 'ARCS' (Associate of the Royal College
of Science) for those student graduating in courses
in the Royal College of Science. Students fear that
the uniqueness and value of the qualification will be
lost.
Professor Patrick Holmes, Dean of the City and
Guilds at I.C. expressed worries that there would be
no way of knowing if the value of the qualification
was the same through the different routes that non-
I.C. students would take. He cited the recent report
in which I.C.'s Engineering Department was voted
the best in Europe, and graduates from this department
would apparently have the same qualification as
students from elsewhere if the C&GLI's proposals
go through.
He finished by saying 'Of course, there is
considerable concern'.
The Union General Meeting (UGM) held in the
Junior Common Room last Thursday debated a
number of motions apertaining to student loans. M r
Neil McCluskey I.C. Union president proposed a
motion that IC Union should support the governments
proposals on student loans and also their proposals
to remove students from the welfare benefit system
as from this September. He explained that the motion
was put forward because he was 'totally hacked-off
with the apathy of I.C. students. The motion was
overwhelmingly defeated, with the consensus of
opinion that the point had been taken.
A further motion was passed asking the National
Westminster bank to remove their name from their
declaration of co-operation with the loans proposal.
It also asked the ICU president to implement a scheme
to facilitate the switching of bank accounts to another
The Physics Department at Imperial College has been
under attack in a report in the 'Times Higher
Education Supplement' as too unproductive in relation
to its size. The paper claims that a recent report by
the Science Policy Research Unit (SPRU) shows that
bigger departments do not necessarily produce more
results, and the IC Physics Department is the biggest
in the country.
The report claims that the size of the department
is no index of its productivity, though the SPRU
admits that they asessed 'productivity' only as the
number of research papers published by members of
that department, and is not concerned with teaching
or any other factors.
Professor J.B. Pendry, Associate head of the
Physics Department, countered by saying T disagree
with it of course ... it's quality that counts; our claim
to being a good department is not that we are the
largest.... its the quality of people we have'. He
stressed that though it was important to write papers,
the report probably did not weight papers according
to their importance. He claimed that his department
was amongst the best; 'Our productivity is high. -
we dont need to be the highest'. He added that Oxford
University's Physics Department was the largest in
the country, not Imperial College's, and that his
department has both experimental and theoretical
physicists. Theorists tend to publish more papers -
bank, to inform the college authorities of their
opposition and to remove all signs with the word
'NatWest' on them from the campus.
A late motion was passed enabling the Publications
Board chairman, M r Doug King, to 'look into' the
funding of a scheme whereby stickers with the logo
'GnatWest - No Money? No Job? Then Fuck off,
created by the comic 'Viz', could be used to cover
up the NatWest advertisement on the back of IC Union
cards.
The loans will be phased in from next September,
and will eventually make up half the maintenance
grant. The second reading of the Student loans bill
took place last Tuesday. The government has used
a one line clause to enable the implementation of the
loans, so it is unlikely that it will be amended in any
way.
but this does not mean that they are more 'productive'.
Dr B.L. Morgan, Associate director of planning
commented that S P R U figures are always
controversial, and that their aspersions were 'not true
on a number of levels'. He cited the Sunday Times
employer's poll in which IC Physics Department,
came out as being popular with employers looking
for graduates.
Healing old
wounds
Dr • Charles Phelps, Pro-rector of International
Relations at Imperial College, was one of a number
of representatives from the first British business
mission to Argentina for seven years.
The mission was arranged by the 'Latin American
Trade Advisory Group' under the auspices of the
Department of Trade and Industry and the Foreign
Office. It was completed earlier this month and it is
hoped that trade links between the two countries will
become stronger.
Page 3
Physics department slurred

