Reggie
Blennerhassett
Union Finance
Officer
John Harrison-
Warden of Wilson House
Felix: Hello I'm phoning from the HUB office.
Apparently you've won £35 worth of Christmas
hamper.
Reggie: Really?
Felix: Yes, it's a raffle that they run in conjunction with
the pay office.
Reggie: Oh thank you very much.
Felix: What would you like in it, because we've got
to make a list for Harrods.
Reggie: OK.
Felix: Today if that's possible.
Reggie: Oh I see, OK my god...
Felix: It's £35, so drink for instance, what would you
like for that?
Reggie. Erm...oh dear...God dum diddy dum diddy
dum dum dum dum...err, oh god...shucks...erm. ah
ah.
Felix: Would you rather I started on the food side?
Reggie: Yes, do.
Felix: Yes?
Reggie: They do some quite nice preserves don't they
in Harrods?
Felix: Yes.
Reggie: Some of those. That would be nice that
would.
Felix: Yes.
Reggie: Maybe some...oh god...some pate or
something.
Felix: Yes. Have you thought of any drink yet? Brandy,
scotch or something like that?
Reggie: For drink? Erm...brandy, actually that would
be right...well done.
Felix: If there's any money left over, what in the way
of wine?
Reggie: Yes, maybe a bottle of red wine or whatever,
you know.
Felix: OK. You'll probably have to collect it at the
Christmas caper. That's the HUB organised thing.
Reggie: Oh, right.
Felix: You'll be around then?
Reggie: I don't know, when is it?
Felix: Next Sunday.
Reggie: I may be out. If not I'll send my apologies.
Felix: OK.
gie: I'll see what I can do.
John: Hello, John Harrison.
Felix: Is that Dr Harrison?
John: Well this is Mr Harrison, but which one?
Computing or MRE?
Felix: It's the warden of Wilson House, I think.
John: That's me.
Felix: I'm ringing from personnel. You'll be pleased to
know that you've won a prize in a raffle we've been
organising with the HUB office. They've taken all the
numbers on the payroll and they've worked them all
out and done a lucky dip. Several people have won
a prize. You've won a £35 Christmas hamper. The
thing is, I've rung to find out what you want in it. We
have to order it and I have to find out today what you
want in it.
John: Goodness me. This is very good but just let me
make sure this is the right one. This is John Harrison
of Mineral Resources Engineering.
Felix: That's right.
John: That's certainly me.
Felix: J.P. isn't it?
John: That's right. Well, this is outrageous. I don't
know what to say. Ho ho! Right carry on, tell me what
I've got to do.
Felix: Well, basically just tell me what you want in the
hamper. You can have anything you want. We're
ording it from Harrods, so they stock pretty well
anything.
John: Do they not have a standard one for that
particular value?
Felix: They don't really have a standard one as such.
They make them up. You can have anything you
want. Food, wine...
John: Erm...This is incredible. I don't know. I honestly
don't know. Just a mixture of things for Christmas
will do. Food and wine I would have thought.
Felix: You see the thing is that I have got to give a
list in and it's a bit difficult for me because if I don't
give them a list they'll only make me ring back.
John: I've got no idea what the sort of prices are.
Felix: Well about what you pay in the shops. Harrods
isn't that expensive.
John: No that's right. When do I need to tell you.
Felix: I need to know now, that's the thing.
John: Are you sure you're not pulling my leg?
Felix: No.
John: Ho, ha, ho.
Felix: Do you want, bottles of whisky, wine, that's
the sort of thing people have gone for.
John: Yes, but I wouldn't be interested in whisky.
Certainly a bottle of red wine and a bottle of white
wine. Just the job.
Felix: Any particular sort?
John: No. French or German. We'll have some
Christmas pudding and some Christmas cake.
Felix: You've got plenty left yet.
John: Erm...A duck.
Felix: A duck?
John: Yes, yes D.U.C.K.
Felix: OK, Do you want a big one? We could go for
one big enough to take up the rest of the money if
you like.
John: Well no there'll only be me and one other eating
it. It needs to be, I would have thought, 3lbs in weight.
Felix: Yes, a sort of medium sort of size.
John: That takes it down to err...let me think. That's
about twenty quids worth. So another fifteen. What
sort of things do you have for Christmas. Some mixed
nuts.
Felix: Mixed nuts. OK. You can stick anything in if you
like we can stick crackers in.
John: Oh, no no no. You can't eat those. Ha ha ha.
Erm...some sort of sweets in there as well. Some
chocolate sweets.
Felix: That should be a long enough list anyway. OK.
John: How have they done this draw?
Felix: Well the HUB office basically just said that they
were going to do it. The thing is, will you be coming
to the Christmas caper? Because they're giving them
out there.
John: Well, I will now. Ho ho ho.
Felix: OK.
John: I'll have to get my ticket won't I?
Felix: We'll let you know by Wednesday about it.
John: Right, amazing. Thank you very much. Bye.
Felix: Bye.
Page 23

