Men's
Hockey
IC II — 1 St Barts 1-1
In a top of the league tustle against the team that
hadn't dropped a point yet, a strong IC 2nd team,
bolstered by a random from the 1st team (Mark
Random), were unlucky not to win, in a game where
there were several lost balls.
IC started well, but a quarter chance from a half
shot by Colin Wright, back in the team from a serious
drinking disorder, was put wide by Dave Millard.
However, mickey-mouse defending by IC led to their
goal, as everyone was more interested in plane
spotting than takling the opposition! We fought back
well with several chances but it was Mark who finally
broke through with a good run, outpacing the
unmarked police car behind him, and lobbing the ball
30ft in the air, just over the Bart's keeper, to make
it 1-1.
The second half started with the switching of
people to their more natural roles-Steve Burton to
centre-forward and Dave Millard to umpire! We fought
well and, despite a goal from Dom Howard being
disallowed and Andrew Talby having a case of PE only
to find he'd hit the post, we couldn't break through.
And nor could Barts as the 7 short corners in a row,
given to them by umpire Dave were wasted.
A 1-1 draw was a good result for IC 2nds and IC
1 sts who will have to play them for the UL title at the
end of the season.
Sailing
A quick summary of the last few results:
The conditions at Queen Mary Reservoir were
almost ideal for IC's match against Kent, the team put
in a strong performance, beating the mediocre team
4-nil.
A trip to Cardiff at the end of November saw the
fledgling second team in (unsuccessful) action again,
but the first team managed .to pull off a fine win
against Bristol ladies, though Cardiff University proved
too strong for us.
The beginning of December found the team stopped
by the police less than a hundred yards of their journey
to Southampton, which spurred them on to a 2-1 win
over the University of London team, followed by an
exhilerating match against Southampton, in which IC
deserved to do better than their 2-0 loss.
Football
IC II-I2) 2 RFH-(O) 1
IC 2nds bounced back to winning ways after having
lost their two previous games. A determined first half
performance was rewarded with goals from N Leonard
and A Anwar, who was making his return from injury.
IC could have gone in with a goal or two more, but
shots from J Fordham and a thundrous effort from E
Coates were well saved.
IC found themselves under more pressure after the
interval, but soaked it up well and still managed
several efforts at the opponents goal, the most
notable being an overhead kick from R Martinez, who
Page 26
showed all the agility of a very agile thing to create
the chance.
Incidentally, Royal Free Hospital scored midway
through the second half from their only clear cut
attempt at goal.
Cross
Country
The latest adventure for the intrepid members of the
Cross-Country Club took place on the all too familiar,
battle scared Parliament Hill. This time it was under
the auspices of the University of London with the IC
team determined to show that they were true Harriers
and carry off the team prize. All the stalwarts of the
London Colleges League were entered and there was
little to fear. It was widely hoped that the fresh faced
Alex Gaskill would follow up several striking efforts
by flying into the top three but he crash-landed to 6th
with the outstanidng Paul Northrop taking the
individual first prize with another savage
demonstration of pain acceptance. David Ngugi loped
through to 8th place in a typical fashion and Stefan
Ledu made his way to 11th, Lol stormed to 12th and
Jimmy rounded out the team in 19th position. Perhaps
the most surprising performance was the placing of
Steve Berry in 29th; what an athlete. IC thus rescued
their ULU team title and would also have had a 2nd
place if a better attendance had completed the 2nd
team. With the next race after Christmas there is
plenty of time for the injury interrupted careers to be
restarted and for the strict dominance of the London
scene to continue.
Table
tennis
Three events to report on this term:
1. In the IC Closed Table Tennis Championships, Ng
Keng beat Kjell Rosvoll 21-10, 21-16 in the final; Ian
Matthews and Francois Decobert were the beaten
semi-finalists. An exhibition match was played
between Mohammed Uneeb and an England
International player before this event which resulted
in a 1-1 draw.
2. Mohammed Uneeb distinguished himself and the
club by coming third in the UAU individual
championships held in Manchester 25-26 November.
He narrowly lost his semi-final to a loughborough
competitor 21-18, 22-20, after winning seven other
matches to reach this stage.
The total entry was 150 players, including several
England ranked players.
3. The TT Club will be acquiring a robot to use to
improve the quality of training sessions. If you want
to take advanatge of this opportunity and are not
already a club member, contact Mohammed Uneeb
on ext 6261 to join.

