F e l i X
This has been a hectic week. At times it has looked
like this issue would not come out. The printing press
has been a pain in the backside, and I never want to
see it again.
Dinner
Many thanks to everybody who came to the FELIX
dinner on Friday. It was great event and anybody who
did not go missed out on a very drunken evening.
Thanks also to everybody in the Snack Bar, who did
an admirable job on the catering front.
Lights
More thanks! Two heros from estates came into the
office on Monday and fixed our lights. Many thanks
to them and Dave Williams for organising it. Merry
Christmas.
Goodbye
College Secretary, John Smith is leaving College this
Christmas. His retirement marks the end of an era.
Over the years, FELIX and the Union have fought
battles with him over such areas as who owns the QT
Burger Bar and what rent should be paid on the
Bookstore. Although we have been at odds at times,
John Smith has always supported our editorial
freedom, for this he has my heartful thanks.. The cat
wishes the mouse the best of luck in his retirement
and many happy years to come.
Loans
I have been accused of not doing anything about
loans. I have not written to my MP. The reason for
this is not a simple one. My MP always insists on
passing me on to another. I am on the border of an
electoral area and nobody seems to know where I
vote. So every time I send a letter I get sweet FA. I
get the strong feeling that it would get binned
anyway. As for the people on Council who are feeling
so righteous about writing their letters-wouldn't it
have been more personal if you had written your own
letter instead of copying Joe Fernley's letter word for
word?
I agree with the sentiment of changing bank
accounts as well. The problem is that Lloyds et al are
now undecided on whether to join in with the other
banks as well. Admit it, the banks are bound to
conspire with the Government wlien they are being
offered £12 a time to adminster overdrafts which they
already run. The hope of defeating the bill is failing
as people realise that a one line bill cannot be easily
amended. The bill currently says there will be loans.
The regulations will be passed in a separate bill. The
last time that such regulatory legislation was thrown
out was in 1968, when the House of Lords caused
such a furore they have not dared to repeat the action
since. I hate to say it, but I believe we will have to
persuade people to make the system awkward to
adminster.
For the record I wrote to my MP last year and went
on two of the marches. This year I am trying to
produce a newspaper which lets people know about
the problem. If you want students to know more,
please come in to the office to talk about writing a
feature.
Credits
The staff have been fantastic this term. I am not going
to embarass them all by writing reams of thanks, but..
Thanks to Adam Harrington for sterling work on the
news; Toby Jones and Adam Tinworth for Reviews;
Ian Hodge for paste up and books; Stef for the
business; Chris Stapleton for sorting out the
photographic section, producing features and being
an all round star; Liz Warren for, features, pasting up
and producing 'instant features'; Jason Lander for
science, cynicism and coffee consumption; Sydney
Harbour-Bridge and Jackie Scott for collating too
many times to mention; Andy Thompson and Rose
Atkins for being the most dedicated people I have ever
had the pleasure to work with; Chris Leahy and Neil
Lavitt for listening to some awful records along with
the good ones, and still surviving to write a review;
Susan Appleby and IC Radio for interviews and
general help; Simon Haslam for being an all round help;
Andy Bannister for bringing a little sanity back into the
office; next year's president, Paul Shanley for Delator
and wit (get well soon Shan); Bill Goodwin for being
somebody with advice I could ignore; every who has
written anything this term or helped collate (they're
too numerous to name here); all the clubs who sent
somebody too collate or wrote a bit for the clubs
section; Dave Millard and all the teams for sport;
Emmanuel Saridakis for not writing too many letters
this year (I've binned your article on abortion, it was
crap); all the photographers, most of whose names
I can never remember (sorry!) and the anonymous
sources who shall remain forever so.
Sorry to anyone I have forgotten and Merry
Christmas to you all.
FELIX is published by the editor for and on behalf of Imperial College Union
Publications Board and is printed by the Imperial College Union Print Unit,
Prince Consort Road, London, SW7 2BB (Tel. 01-589 5111 ext 35151.
Editor: Dave Smedley. Business Manager: Stef Smith. Advertising Manager:
Ramin Nakisa. Copyright FELIX 1989. ISSN 1040-0711
ULU TRAVEL
* L o w cost w o r l d w i d e flights • Special fares for students
* Expert advice for independent travellers
• Tours, short breaks it s k i holidays • Group bookings
* Over 70 offices w o r l d w i d e
T H E S T U D E N T
TRAVi
From
ULU Travel
Shertield Building
Imperial College ^ _ „ —
London SW7 A E3
01-581 1022 Intercontinental
01-581 8233 European
ULU TRAVEL
Thankyou
Sylvester & John Smith hope
that all those who have been
so kind and generous in so
many ways in seeing them off
on retirement will accept this
notice as thanks, albeit
inadequate.
A very happy Christmas
to everyone and may the
College flourish in the
nineties!

