THE
B A R O N of
'Ho ho ho, Derek!' said Mad Dash festively, as she
pinned up another length of tinsel. Her husband, Derek
Dash, sighed. It was hard enough being Baron of
Cheapskate without having to be jolly as well. Now
he was going to have to dress up in a silly red and
white suit and a glued-on, curly beard. All the tiny
citizens would tug at it and spill jelly over him. It was
most unpleasant.
'I'm going for a walk,' he said gloomily, shaking off
the piles of baubles and crackers which had fallen on
him. 'But Derek, you've got so much to do for the
Christmas Party!' cried Mad Dash in an anguished
voice. She couldn't understand why Derek wasn't as
enthusiastic as she was about the party. After all, he
always seemed to have so much fun with the tiny
citizens...
Meanwhile, in the PHALLIX Office in a dingy corner
of Bite Polygon, Rave Smuggly was opening his post.
The biggest item was a huge box of orange paper
chains. '
I didn't order a huge box of orange paper
chains,' he said, sounding puzzled. 'In fact, I didn't
order any paper chains at all.'
'Just a minute, there's a note', said Rose Petal, the
PHALLIX typesetter operator. 'Dear Rave, thought
you might like some decorations for your office. Merry
Christmas, love Prof Dicks, Head of the Doctor and
Nurse citizens,' she read. '
I recognise that shade of
orange,' said Inky Thompson, the PHALLIX printer.
'Oh look, if you look really closely you can see naughty
pictures on the chains!'
But before they could discuss the paper chains any
further, a tiny citizen came hurtling through the
PHALLIX office door on its tricycle. 'It might have
opened it first,' thought Rave sourly, surveying the
wreckage. But without saying a word, the tiny citizen
handed Rose a small piece of paper and pedalled away
very quickly.
'Come to the Mad Dash Christmas Bash,' said the
message on the paper. 'Come one, come all-come
young, come old-if you like jelly and screaming,
sticky-fingered tiny citizens you'll have a whale of a
time!' Rave, Rose and Inky looked at each other in
horror. 'I'd better put it in PHALLIX,' said Rave, 'or
we'll all get dragged along.'
John Secretary took a final, sad look around his office
in Surefield Castle and switched out the light for the
last time. On his way down the corridor he passed the
office of House of Frazer, the new Manager of
Cheapskate, who was taking over Secretary's job.
Through the cracks around Frazer's door, John
Secretary could just make out the glow of the flashing
neon sign which had been installed in the window.
'Cheapskate-probably the best school in the
world-unbeatable value,' it said. Suddenly a
pounding disco beat started up. 'La la la...Cheapskate,
Cheapskate, Cheapskate, the one for meee! Now I'm
happy as can beee! Derek the Baron is number one!
We're all having lots of fun!' crooned the singers.
'Oh hello Secretary are you off, then?' asked Derek,
who had just stepped out of the lift. 'That's the new
Song for Cheapskate-good isn't it?' He said, shaking
off a piece of tinsel which was stubbornly entanlged
in his hair. 'Houseof had it mixed by Stock, Aitken &
Thingybob I think. It's going quite well in the charts,
too. Anyway, I was just off to talk to him about the
new Cheapskate theme park we're planning. Houseof
thinks it'll be terribly profitable.' He stopped, and his
voice took on a softer tone. 'Well, we will miss you,'
he said insincerely. 'Keep in touch, eh?' Then he
walked off, humming the 'Song for Cheapskate".
Secretary sighed and shook his head, then he turned
and left Cheapskate forever.
• Will anyone survive the Christmas Bash?
• Will John Secretary buy any shares in Cheapskate
pic?
tWill there ever be another episode of....
THE BARON OF CHEAPSKATE!
The Christmas Caper
So, you think it's all over on December 15th? Lectures
and labs may have finished, but the fun goes on...
On Sunday December 17th at 2.30pm, Father
Christmas will roar into Sherfield on a magical sled,
no reindeer necessary, and the best kid's party in town
will be underway.
The Imperial College Christmas Caper is an
afternoon of Christmas food and fun with a uniquely
scientific flavour. There is a Science Games Grotto to
test the imagination and skill of young and old, with
all IC departments engaged in various forms of
madness joined by the Science Museum Launch Pad,
St Mary's and Olave House.
You can make your own Christmas presents in the
craft workshop-capture your handprint in plaster or
your sillhouette on paper and give to all your friends
(to sell for huge sums when you're famous); or design
and print your own personalised Christmas cards on
an Apple Mac.
For entertainment, John Smith will make his last
spectacular official appearance as MC; Dramsoc
should be sufficiently recovered from Woyzeck to
engage in a Christmas pantomime; Geoff Parsons and
his RSM cohorts will present a Merry Miners
Entertainment; and various other erstwhile serious
types will be wandering around in silly costumes
(watch out for Jim Gibb of Physics making his debut
as Father Christmas and Martin Douglas of Mines
modelling the latest in haute couture for Christmas
elves).
Christmas food in abundance and the draw for the
Christmas Caper raffle (first prize a Z88 computer) will
top off the day.
Proceeds of the Caper go to St Mary's Open Clinic
Playspace, which supports homeless and 'bed and
breakfast' families. We also ask that gifts be brought
by children to be given to Playspace and St Mary's
Children's Ward.
THE DETAILS
Imperial College Christmas Caper
Sunday 17th December
2.30pm - 5.30pm
Tickets £2 adults £1 under 14s
under 5s free
Available from Departmental
Superintendents or
HUB, Sherfield 355, ext 3021

