Paddington Holier
bares than
reply thou?
Dear Dave,
re: FELIX issue 851
There was-much said against our Dean in this issue.
We feel that what precipitated the attack is a lack of
understanding as to the way of life at St Mary's. In
order to explain and justify actions that have taken
place and to prevent similar problems occuring in the
future, you must have more information from us about
Mary's and you should communicate this information
to the student body through FELIX.
Information
The Medical School is very conscious of its role within
the hospital and always bears in mind the image it
portrays to the general public. Concern for this image
is exhibited by staff and students, particularly clinical
students who are an integral part of the health care
system. Being part of a team is therefore important
to patient welfare, and the attitude of the students
is one of being part of the institution, as opposed to
working against it. This attitude continues beyond the
confines of the ward and, in issues concerning the
public image of the Medical School, the Union and the
Medical School administration work together.
Applying this to the events surrounding FELIX issue
850, displaying pornographic material in a hospital
environment would have caused public offence, and
would have damaged the relationship between St
Mary's and the community that it serves. We
therefore fully support the Dean's efforts in trying to
uphold public respect for the Medical School.
Communication
Clearly many things are done differently in Paddington
as opposed to South Kensington we should not miss
the opportunity to inform people about how St Mary's
is run, and what it is doing. We talked some time ago
about having a regular contribution to FELIX from St
Mary's. We feel that this would do much to prevent
problems occurring in the future. Also, by having
something relevant to Mary's life in FELIX, more
people at Paddington would start reading the
publication. This would help people at St Mary's to
start to understand the way of life at South
Kensington.
With best wishes,
Rhydian Hapgood, President SMHMS SU.
Andrew Klava, Vice President lExt).
Simon Smith, Vice President (Int).
Up yours
Alumnus
Office
Dear Dave,
Do you think that the 'Welcome Back' Alumnus
poster is supposed to look like a two fingered salute
from a distance?
Yours sincerely,
Ralph Greenwell.
Page 30
Dear FELIX,
As I am not a member of IC Christian Union, I cannot
argue from exactly their standpoint, but as a Christian,
i feel sure they will agree with at least some of what
I have to say.
It seems to me that Rupert Sheldon (the 'Satanist'
FELIX 1st Dec) is the one that does not understand
what sex or sexuality is. I believe that since God
created us all, our sexuality is an integral part of our
everyday lives, and no one can really live without it.
However, I am talking about sex as an expression
of love and affection, and not the act of sexual
intercourse. Sexual intercourse is a 'uniting of flesh',
and as such should only be indulged in when the two
people concerned are totally committed to each other,
ie, have taken the vows of marriage. Sexual
intercourse outside of marriage can be a very
damaging experience emotionally, aside from the risks
of pregnancy, STDs etc.
As for God not loving him because he doesn't know
God, try this example: if a rich Japanese businessman
(whom Rupert had never seen beforel decided that he
would pay off every IC student's bank overdraft,
would that not be a sign of the businessman's love
and care for IC students, even though none of us
knew him? I think the parallels are obvious.
'Men and women concerned about their personal
rights should stand up and say' YES to God's
forgiveness, and His promise of eternal life, by
admitting their mistakes and turning to Christ.
Yours sincerely,
Neil Dinmore, Mech Eng 2.
PS. My opinion on the 'offending' issue of FELIX,
is that the article was very good, but that the pictures
on the cover were completely unnecessary.
Fisher's
fucking
freezing
Dear Sweetie-pie,
How's things with you? 'Cos it's bloody freezing
down here in flat 18 Fisher Hall. Regarding the articles
in last week's FELIX on living standards in the
salubrious residences of Evelyn Gardens! Having
overcome the initial problem of entering the flat,
fighting our way through a jungle of rubbish, (which
was eventually removed after complaining for several
days), the fun begins:- .
The one and only .jdiator does not work, leaving
the whole flat to be heated, by two mini convection
heaters situated so high up that levitation seems to
be the only answer!
Meals cooked in open pans on the cooker hobs have
the occasional added ingredient of plaster falling from
the hole in the ceiling above the cooker. Fortunately
the shower water that also .fell from the
aforementioned hole has ceased; a result of the
shower above being locked, not fixed, thus limiting
the number of showers in operation even further for
the residents of Fisher Hall.
The fan, the only possible source of ventilation in
the bathroom, has been broken since we arrived,
contravening health laws.
Likewise, fire regulations are not being enforced, as
the fire alarm failing to operate during a fire test at
least four weeks ago is still out of order.
We have repeatedly complained about each
problem as it occurred; which in each case was at
least three weeks ago. We have been informed by the
sub-wardens that these faults have been reported to
house 44, but nothing has been repaired.
Yours shiveringly,
The occupants of flat 18 Fisher Hall.
PS. Many thanks to the workmen, who, today did
nothing, but left a wooden ladder suitable for
firewood-we considered burning it to gain warmth,
but realised that this was potentially dangerous,
especially since the fire alarm does not work.
Apathy
rules OK?
Dear Dave
I am writing this letter sitting in Tuesday's Council
on which I am an Ordinary member as elected at a
UGM last year. It is the middle of Neil McCluskey's
report. It seems to me that Neil, amongst other
officers, is getting pissed off with the attitude of the
normal IC student.
By writing this letter I am pre-empting the UGM on
Thursday. I think that the UGM will be not be quorate,
and even if it is, it will only be because of a
contentious motion. Perhaps to get people to attend,
a UGM might have to decide on its future in each
UGM?
As you are a student you are entitled to join any ICU
club or society. Most of these clubs rely on other
officers of the Union to promote their interests. It is
therefore in the interest of any club or society member
to turn up at UGMs and question the officers and
sabbaticals. Even if you are not a club or society
member, the Union is acting on your behalf when
representing you to College and external bodies. The
fact that you are reading this letter means you have
a FELIX and are therefore using some ICU facility.
It is about time that some of the ordinary students
of IC bothered to get interested, to show up at UGMs
and to ask their representatives what is going on.
Without the officers of the Union, and therefore
without your representation, clubs, societies, bars,
bookshops etc. your time as a student at IC will be
crap to say the least.
Either turn up, get interested or let apathy rule IC
and lose your club and your rights.
Yours,
Joe Fernley
Elec Eng 2

