There go your job prospects...
Dear Editor,
Having not had the opportunity to read the original
article on Pornography (I am one of those Mary's
medics seen by Professor Richards as being incapable
of deciding for myself what is or isn't suitable reading
material) I found M G Johnson's letter (issue 851)
anything but well reasoned. Ignoring his somewhat
pedantic argument on the definition and aims of
pornography, I quote the defininition given by CAP
(Campaign Against Pornography). Pornography is 'any
depiction of women or parts of women's bodies which
objectifies them, dehumanises them, portrays them
in a sexually humiliating and degrading manner and
subjects them to sexual violence with the message
that women enjoy this'.
You may hold that 'models' have a choice: Firstly
it is to be questioned how much of a real choice they
actually have-if you are faced with the alternatives
of a poorly paid job and the chance of earning vast
sums (MGJ says £200 as a one off payment) the
pressures to become involved in the 'meat market' are
enormous. Secondly, if the women involved are seen
to have a choice, and taken that they do, then that
choice is exercised by them on behalf of all women.
They define the way society percieves women and
women's bodies making it impossible to 'ignore it if
you don't like it' as he suggests.
If MGJ really believes pornography portrays women
as 'sensual beings' then I suggest he has never been
subjected to pornographic material. One is left with
an impression of women as passive sexual objects,
willing participants in sexual violence, enjoying rape,
saying 'no' when they mean 'yes', as bodies without
minds, feelings or personality. In short 'tits & bums'.
Liz Warren has not conducted sufficient research;
the links between pornography and sexual violence
against women and children cannot easily be
dismissed. Recent studies show this more
conclusively than those linking smoking and cancer.
If my letter is beginning to sound like feminist
propoganda then let me redress the balance.
Pornography is not solely a degrading treatment of
women. Surely men too are exploited by the porn
industry. To suggest that men are controlled and
motivated by their sexuality and are subject to
uncontrollable sexual drives is to say that men are little
better than animals. Some argue pornography
provides some men with a release which would
otherwise be turned against women. I argue that
sexual violence should not be 'treated' with
pornographic material which encourages the very
attitudes towards women which result in the problem
in the first place.
A stand against pornography is not an example of
'Anglo-Saxon prudery', and does not deny women
and men their sexuality; it is saying that people should
be able to define their own sexuality and not be
subjected to images in magazines which define how
they will be seen and how they should act.
J C Woodhouse.
|"""MACINTOSH "Ifustrators" " "
j
j wanted j j
• Are you fully familiar with the A||)||Macintosh?
• • Could you produce high quality Illustrations for text
books and journals?
| • Do you want to:earn money from \li>ur Mac in your
| spare time?
—Then we may have some work for you. Ideally you I
I should be familiar with packages such as, Adobe Illustrator, I
although we can train you. You should be reliable and
meticulous with your work. Why not fihd but more
without obligation? Phone 229 0107 soon (daytime).
I I
Page 31

