Liz Warren gives an account on what to do when the parents get too much.
London over Christmas
If you are in London over Christmas or you have to
escape from the parents by new year, why not try
some of the ideas below.
For the strong willed there is the old traditional
favorite of going to Trafalgar Square to see the new
year (and indeed the new decade) in. Although this
is probably worth doing once in your life it can be very
unpleasant. You will almost certainly find yourself in
the middle of a large, mostly good-natured crowd, but
crowds have a mind of their own and can be extremely
dangerous when, after all the excitement of midnight
has gone, the surge to leave the square begins. It's
best to go in a big group, but you have to link arms
very firmly to avoid getting split up. Watch out for
groups of 'steamers' who attempt to break groups up
and pick pocket them. As the end of the decade, this
is probably not the year to try Trafalgar Square.
fairground rides, and in Carnaby Street, where there
will be shows, music and carols until December 22nd.
Carnaby Street also promises an alternative Christmas
Grotto.
For more leisurely entertainment indoors, BBC
seems to have the pick of the films, with Crocodile
Dundee on Christmas Day and the Name of the Rose
on Boxing Day. The latter is not to be missed if you
haven't seen it yet. Videos which have just been
released which are worth getting out are Who Framed
Roger Rabbit (the animation is very clever), Rainman
and Twins. Venturing out to the cinema, the best bets
are Back to the Future II,, a sequel which is as good
as the original, Wilt, Dead Poets' Society (a real
weepie) and the Dream Team (see reviews). If you
haven't seen Batman yet, go and see it. Jack
Nicholson steals the film, but it's also a good no-
cost you two pounds to get in.
For taking in some culture, most of the museums
are open around Christmas, although not on Bank
Holidays. The Museum of the Moving Image at the
South Bank is a 'fun' museum with lots of interesting
things for anyone who has even a passing interest in
films. At the Royal Academy on Picadilly, The Art of
Photography 1839-1989 is highly recommended and
continues until December 23rd.
An alternative to Trafalgar Square is to find a nice
pub and see through midnight: you'll end up hugging
and kissing people you've never seen before and will
never see again! Recommended, if crowded, pubs are
the Punch and Judy in Covent Garden, any of the pubs
on the river near Hammersmith Bridge, especially The
Dove (although it's very small), downstairs at The
King's Head on Wardour Street and any Firkin Pub.
k i t
• M B
A more civilised alternative is to go to a pantomime
and prove that you're still a kid at heart and like booing
and hissing with the six year olds. There are traditional
pantos, such as Cinderella (Duchess Theatre £9),
Babes in the Wood (Beck Theatre) or Dick Whittington
and His Cat (Shaw Theatre £5.5-£8 with Bill Oddie).
There is a ballet version of Cinderella at the Royal
Opera House if you fancy a cultured version. For the
alternative panto, try the Drill Hall Arts Centre's
lesbian version of The Snow Queen, the Latchmere
Theatre's adaptation of The Rose and The Ring (see
Reviews for both) or the cult version of Return to the
Forbidden Planet at the Cambridge Theatre.
There will be street events at Covent Garden on the
East Piazza until December 24th, which should include
Page 32
nonsense adventure film that doesn't strain the brain
too much. Whether you think it's worth all the hype
is up to you.
After you've overindulged in the turkey and
Christmas pudding, why not go for a walk in one of
the parks. You can feed the remains of dinner to the
ducks in St James Park, wander along the Grand
Union Canal which runs from Little Venice to Camden
through Regents Park or visit Richmond Park and
make believe that you're not in the city at all. While
you're in Regents Park, you might like to visit London
Zoo, although there aren't any bears there at the
moment. Another fun day out is to go to the races
at Kempton Park on Boxing Day. You can catch a train
from Waterloo to Kempton Park BR Station, and it will
You could try a day trip to France to stock up on
the Christmas booze. It's about ten pounds return by
Sealink from Folkstone to Boulogne, and you'll have
to get to Folkstone first. Or why not go the whole hog,
forget Christmas altogether and book yourself a nice
holiday to a sunny Caribbean paradise.
BEANS CLUB
Intimate dinners for four
arranged personally
Contact P . Shanley
c/o M a t h s 3

