Guilds can
fetish
The City and Guilds Union (C&GU) are continuing
their aluminium and steel can recovery service. They
have collection points (green rubbish bins with can-
sized holes in the lid) in the Guilds office, Tizard hall
and the Junior Common Room (JCR).
They hope to be able to keep up a regular supply
so that outside recycling firms can make regular
collections. A spokesperson from the union explained
that the aluminium variety would be sent to Blue
Peter, and the steel ones would go towards rag. If
anyone would like to set up another collection point,
the C & G U would like to get in contact with them.
Oriental
Fly me to the
moon
oddities
Imperial College's Humanities department is to open
an introductory course in Japanese, starting in the new
year.
As places will be limited, the department ask all
those interested to contact Mr David Cairncross (Int.
7022) of the Japan-Europe Industry Research Centre
in Mech Eng 323, or the Humanities office (Int 7051),
Mech Eng 313C as soon as possible.
UGM Sketch
In the choosing of the British cosmonaut to take part
in the USSR's much publicised 'Juno' mission,
Imperial College's Dr P.Q. Collins managed to reach
the stage where six were left, out of the original 4000
applicants.
Dr Collins said that his near success in the mission
was probably because his area of research was in the
space industry and that he could speak some Russian.
'Basically I'm well qualified', he said.
He added that the personality tests came to the
conclusion that he was a 'stable extrovert with below
average tough-mindedness and emotionality' and
apparently good at abstract and mechanical reasoning.
He said the fact that he was fit was helpful too.
He said he realised the mission was more of a public
relations exercise he added 'NASA's greatest success
has been to make space boring - Juno has made it
interesting'. He saw no reason why cosmonauts
shuoldn't be the target of high-finance advertising any
more than Boris Becker is.
He went on to say that a 'Juno Mission Control
Centre' may be built in the near future next to the
entrance to Mechanical Engineering on Exhibition
road. This will contain displays which should interest
those coming to see the Science Museum, where there
will be a notice directing tourists to the 'Mission
Control'.
The worms that turn
The riproarmg, action packed, fun-filled frolicking
Union General Meeting (UGM) last Thursday made
Mr Paul Shanley the new U G M chairman. This
confirms that he is well on the way towards winning
the 'Howgate - Harbourbridge Megaprize for
Unashamed Self-Publicity 1989'(HHMUSP).
There were more important matters, generally
revolving around that hardy perennial of student
matters, money. Our beloved Union President, Neil
McCluskey, is going to expound and explain rents
in the next Alternative Prospectus, with the
expectation that recruitment for the year who read
it will plummet below the 20% drop that occured this
year. This will display the truth in the old addage that
crime doesnt pay - the truth will surely turn the
University of London into a fusty old corporation
entirely devoted to milking Alumni to fund obscure
research projects, removing the minor irritant of
students altogether.
The great and good Big Mac also said that students
living in college accomodation cannot expect a fall
in their rent when the poll tax (occasionally known
as the 'Community Charge') is introduced. This is
obviously because it would be sensible and ethical
to do so. Unlike most establishments, Imperial doesn't
pay rates, so cannot deduct rates from the rent. This
makes sense; though why rents in College
accomodation are so exorbitant even when rates are
not passed onto the tenants can only be explained with
a lot of arm waving and unintelligible statistics.
The Harlington Gravel saga continued with the
announcement that the proceeds of converting a nice
green rugby pitch into a life- like representation of
the surface of the moon would probably be about £1.6
million. It was not said that this was because Metro-
Goldwyn-Mayer had bought it to film a remake of
Jules Verne's 'From the Earth to the Moon'.
Next year's president, M r Paul Shanley,
HHMUSP, forwarded a motion in which all ICU
policy that is more than three years old should be
abandoned, and motions that need to live any longer
should be rescucitated at three year intervals at UGMs
in the normal way. The great and good ICU president
was instructed to list all the motions that would be
executed in this way. As the resulting list would make
even a hardened Nazi jew-killer feel faint due to its
length, the Big Mac consented on the condition he
wouldn't have to do it. Which seems rather strange
really.
A vote was taken to decide whether a paper ballot
should be held on the subject whether there should
be a two-thirds majority of voting students acceeding
to affiliation to the NUS before affiliation becomes
a bye-law as a two-thirds majority is needed for
disaffiliation and as a two-thirds majority is virtually
impossible to obtain at a U G M this would make it
impossible to join the NUS, or to leave it if already
joined. Or something like that. The paper ballot failed
to give the two-thirds majority needed to allow to
make the change to the union bye-law so that the vote
on affiliation needed a two-thirds majority to be
passed. The idea behind these extraordinary
contortions is that if the bye-law was changed (so a
two-thirds majority is needed to join the NUS, not
the simple 51 % as presently needed) it would become
much more difficult to join the NUS. As it now stands,
at the next vote for NUS affiliation, it only takes 51 %
of voters to hand over IC Union's cherished
independence to the NUS. That the paper ballot failed
was not particularly surprising, as it had already been
said that it was virtually impossible to obtain a two-
thirds majority at a U G M . Ours is not to reason why.
Jolly old loans, that whoopy-do initiative from our
wise and beloved overlords, caused a number of
motions. The most unusual was probably the one in
which Neil McCluskey appeared to throw in the
towel, along with the Felix editor, Dave Smedley.
There were piteous cries and tearing of hair amongst
the assembled children, which apparently were piteous
enough to melt their stony resolve, and amidst
jubilation and reconciliation the two custodians of our
bank balances admitted that they had only done
because they were sulking.
An attack of righteous indignation fuelled the
motion in which all icons to the pagan god 'Natwest',
the son of Mammon according to ancient mythology,
were to be removed from the temple. This was
prophesied by the scriptures in which it said 'and so
it shall come to pass that the Guardians of Pelf,
Natwest and all his brothers will be consumed by their
parent Mammon. And the scurrying masses of
students will call on their champion Nemesis to calm
their teeth-grinding indignation. And Nemesis will
have no bloody effect at all so the scurrying masses
who are held in thrall to Natwest and his brothers will
run away to other countries'.
A close second to Paul Shanley in the self-publicity
stakes, Doug King, thought it would be a jolly good
idea to cover up the adverts for the unmentionable
bank on the back of our Union cards with a ' V i z '
sticker. I am so stunned by the scale and grandeur
of this silliness I cannot satirise it further.
Page 4

