Ents—Energy Orchard, Friday
Don't go home for Christmas. Well not yet anyway.
At least stay until this Friday (15th), when you can
see The Energy Orchard live on stage at the Christmas
extravaganza in the Union Lounge. This fine band play
a mixture of hard-rocking songs and slow lilting tunes
telling stories of love, hate and Belfast. Playing North
London pubs two years ago, Energy Orchard were
recognised for the talents they have and soon had gigs
at major London venues, including The Marquee and
Imperial College.
After much media interest and attention from record
RCC bonanza
Ladies and Gentlemen, I would like to introduce the
great Recreational Clubs Committee bonanza. The
failure of anyone to admit their existence means that
I am able to announce vacancies for Chairpeople of
the following clubs:
Air Cooled Volkswagen; Bridge, Chess; Waterski.
These clubs have Union grants and assets available
to support their operation. If you wish to take on the
duties of caretaker Chairperson contact me. I can give
you details of what is on offer. The best time to find
me is at the RCC Treasurer's Meeting, in the Union
Office, 12.30 to 1.00pm every Wednesday.
All I will ask is that you write an article for Felix to
company spies, they finally signed a huge deal with
MCA and are on the brink of releasing their debut
album. After the New Year the band are off to
America for a tour of just about every corner of every
state. Watch out for the lead singer's death defying
speaker stack jump. Be there! Tickets are £2 in
advance. From the Union Office. Disco and late bar.
See you at the Christmas extravaganza, doors open
at 9pm.
Rufus Isaacs, Ents Publicity.
introduce yourself to potential members and to invite
them to attend a start-up meeting. Funds for
additional publicity may be provided by the RCC. If
you can hold committee post elections and collect
subscriptions from 16 people, the club grant will be
released. So then, budding recreationalists, get
organised and collar me.
Finally, if you think you are running any of the above
clubs, you better have a good reason for ignoring the
procedures that the Union has for helping its
members. See me soon or you may lose control of
your club.
Tim King, RCC Chairman.
Dance club balls
Imperial College Dance Club has done very well this
term. We have exceeded our full quota of 140
members already and hope new members will join
next term.
The lessons will continue as timetabled this term
with a few exceptions. The Jazz class has been
cancelled as there was not enough interest. The
second beginners' Rock 'n' Roll class, started due to
popular demand, has been brought forward to 2.15pm
on Wednesday. A new 'Total Beginner's Ballroom
Class' will start next term for those of you who want
a crash course for your balls! This is being held at
6.00pm on Tuesdays in the JCR. PLease note that the
Rock 'n' Roll and Latin American classes will not start
until week three (Jan 22nd) as our instructor, Vicki
Cunniffe, is taking two teams to compete in America.
The Ballroom lessons, however, will run as from
January 8th. For those of you who don't already know
the full timetable please see the What's On section
in each FELIX edition, or consult the Dance Club
noticeboard (Sherfield Walkway).
In addition to the lessons we have run two major
events. The first was the BBC Children in Need
24-hour sponsored dance, where we raised over
£50C_. The second event was the London Ball held
on December 2nd which was attended by of 250
people. Before the year is out we plan to host a Barn
Dance and our Annual Dinner Dance. Everyone is
welcome.
Finally, I would like to thank everyone who has
helped out, with particular thanks to the instructors
Vicki and Christine.
Have a happy Christmas and hope to see you all
next term.
Environment friendly
What does 'conservation' bring to mind? Green wellies
and Range Rovers? Wrong!! Tim Boote from the
British Trust of Conservation Volunteers (BTCV)
dispelled that myth at last Thursdays' Environmental
Society lecture, as he described their work.
BTCV is the largest practical conservation group in
the UK. They differ from the usual image of
conservationists because they involve everybody, i.e.
if you are old enough to walk or young enough to wield
a spade and you care about your surroundings then
you're welcome to join in. Projects vary nationwide-
everything from drystone walling, to building
footpaths and bridges-there is a very successful
urban conservation scheme. This involves creating
local habitats and gardens on any available bit of
waste ground, tucked away behind office blocks and
tenements including Tower Hamlets and Cambridge
Circus (on Charing Cross Road), where urban nature
areas were created, not to mention old cemeteries
such as Highgate which have unique wooded and
grassland habitats to manage.
The best thing about many of these projects is that
they involve children and both racial and sexual
minorities, not just white middle-class people, who
usually have the monopoly on environmental issues.
Expertese isn't' necessary either, you're taught
everything you need to know for the day, there and
then.
The fun doesn't just stop at weekday and weekend
one day projects, BTCV run a whole series of working
holidays all aroi id the country involving every aspect
of conservation and management, and plenty of
coffee breaks!
So, if you feel like getting muddy, learning the
intricacies of woodland and wildlife management,
how to use various tools, or fancy trying your hand
at a bit of drystone walling or you want to improve
your local environment, then get involved with BTCV.
For more details contact:
Tim Boote-01-278 4293.
S m a l l A d s
ADVERTISE IN THE FELIX SMALL ADS SECTION
FREE IF YOU ARE A MEMBER OF IMPERIAL
COLLEGE UNION
ANNOUNCEMENTS
• St Mary's Hospital Medical School presents
'Gut Girls' from 12-14th December. Starts at
7.30pm. Prices £2.50-£3.00.
• Real Ale Society Christmas Party. Thursday
14th December. 7.30 Union Crush Bar. 3 winter
ales and traditional cider. £5 all you can drink (£6
non-members). Be there and get drunk.
• Splot Soc goes to Electrowerkz paintball.
Tuesday 12th December, 6pm, Southside. Be
there or be splotted!
• Choir Concert, 8pm Great Hall, 8th December.
ACCOMMODATION
• Room to let in large house. Available for one
month from January 20th, maybe longer. Contact
Graham on 622 3290 evenings.
FOR SALE & WANTED
• Hi Fi for sale-Morantz amp, receiver &
speakers, pioneer t/t, Shure cartridge, JVC
cassette. Mature. Good condition. £20 ono.
01-609 7051
• For sale, Nad amp, dual turntable, KEF coda
speakers, 12" TV (B&W), Yamaha classical guitar.
Any offers please contact Farshad (int 4351).
• Wanted-set of 10" pram wheels. Finantial
incentive will be available. Contact Guy Mayer
through Mech Eng 2 pigeonholes.
• Cox wanted for a casual rowing VIII. Training
once a week. Call Ed Hewitt at 937 4827 or write
to Mech Eng 1.
PERSONAL
• Thanks to all the hosts who made the Cocktail
Party such a success.. Love Murray & Ralph.
• But if you didn't turn up, we hope your next
shit is a hedgehog. Hate from Murray & Ralph.
• Especially if you gate crashed (you know who
you are!).
• Caving Club-if you want to see your sing in
one piece again, pay £20 to Rag by the end of
term...or else...B.U.M.P.
• Jane's not happy
In fact she's grim
'Cos she went sailing
And went for a swim.
• Scrooge was conned!
• Carol is short
Carol is sweet
but, dear oh dear
What smelly feet
• Wanted: Presentable young man to take
attractive first year to C&G Ball. Will pay share.
Interview will be required. Apply Miss W (Life Sci
pigeonholes).
Cartoonists
Do you fancy drawing a cartoon
strip for FELIX? We are hoping
to produce a comic as a
supplement to FELIX soon. If you
would like to contribute, contact
Dave Smedley in the FELLX
Office. Why not work on an idea
over the holiday?
Page 34

