In Country
After the glut of Vietnam films a few years ago
[Platoon, Full Metal Jacket et al), In Country takes a
somewhat different approach.
Samantha Hughes (Emily Lloyd, with an American
accentl has just graduated from High School in
Hopewell, Kentucky. She lives with her uncle Emmet
(Bruce Willis),'. ,er father having been killed in Vietnam.
Her mother has since remarried and moved to
Lexington. While searching through the things her
mother left behind, she finds some letters written by
her father, while he was in Vietnam. Her need to
discover more about her father will touch three
generations of her family, herself, her uncle and her
grandmother, and leads to them eventually coming to
terms with the legacy of the war, at the Vietnam
veterans' memorial.
The small town American backdrop is beautiful
recreated, with many incidental characters, who
contribute little to the plot, greatly enhancing it. Emily
Lloyd overplays things a little at first, but soon settles
down into a very competent performance. Bruce Willis
is the big surprise, giving a very sympathetic portrayal,
with a character that has a remarkably small screen
presence.
The photography is often superb. The Vietnam
flashbacks are all shot at night, with present day
scenes in bright daylight. Occasionally as characters
mentally move back to Vietnam we do have present
day shots in the dark-a clever and dramatically
effective device.
The pace is always slow, suiting the mood of the
film perfectly. Thoughtful and intelligent, it carefully
interweaves moments of tragedy, drama and humour,
to provide a thought-provoking and moving whole. It
is always totally convincing, and the final scene at the
Vietnam veteran's memorial is very emotional, while
steering well clear of corny sentimentality.
A superb film, well worth the asking price and which
I can genuinely recommend. It opens on Jan 12.
If 1990s releases continue like this, we're in for a
good year.
Adam T.
Silent Thunder Loren D Estlman
Set in Detroit, a city descibed by the author as 'the
city that the American dream stalled in and sat down
to rust', it is a story of murder and gun smuggling that
at points becomes hard to believe but is always
gripping and compelling. Constance Thayer is accused
of murdering her husband while he lay drunk and
asleep on the floor. She is claiming it was self-defence
as there had been a history of abuse, both physical
and sexual such to drive anyone to commit justifiable
homicide. Unfortunately she does not have the most
pure of backgrounds, having been involved in both
pornographic films and drugs.
Added to this, the fact that the dead man was the
son of one of the city's wealthiest man and you can
see that the lawyer, one of the best in the country
is in for a hard time.
His job seems to have been made very much easier
when the police discover a stash of arms in the
basement of the couple's house, but to make sure a
private investigator is called in to dig as much dirt as
he can.
Amos Walker is a man with a thousand friends but
a thousand and one enemies. He is a detective of the
old school,dark raincoat pulled tight against the chill,
hat dipped to cover mysterious eyes with sinister
Page 6
happenings in dark dank allies. Sent out to find as
many skeletons in the cupboard as he can, he soon
becomes entangled in a net of shady figures who for
some unknown reason become resentful and try to
kill him.
The book then details events until the timely
intervention of the police saves the day and everybody
lives happily ever after, (except all the unfortunates
that get killed on the way).
Overall the book is well written and as, I have said,
as believable as a book of this sort can be, things do
become a little stretched when a Polaris missile
becomes involved!
The narrative is well done with the typical PI
observations faithfully used, but without the
fashionable puns and jokes. It keeps the story
interesting even through the inevitable slow parts,
meaning that there is always something worth reading
through the whole of the book.
Character development is a little shaky but the main
characters are detailed enough for you to understand
their actions in relation with the rest of the book.
Amos himself is actually quite well described although
much of what you discover about his character is from
his actions rather than the narrative. He is the sort of
The Chocolate
War
The Chocolate War takes place in a Catholic school
for boys called St Trinity's and concerns the annual
fund raising chocolate sale. But do not be misled by
the apparent innocence of the setting, this is a tale
of power, avarice and sheer malevolence. The acting
headmaster, Brother Leon, in a bid to further his
career, decides to double both the price and sale
quotas. In order to ensure success, he enlists the help
of the local syndicate of bullies, named 'the Vigils',
whose leader, Archie, readily accepts the challenge,
as a means to increase his own power and
recognition. At first the sale goes badly, hindered
especially by the refusal of a particular boy (Jerry) to
sell any chocolates. But Archie exploits his
individuality, and identifying Jerry as s symbol of hate,
unites the school against him.
The film is an intricate study of dictatorship in
miniature, containing all the principal elements of its
larger brothers: quotas, secret police, idealists, witch
hunts etc. But present in this abstract, allegorical
form, it perhaps allows us to see the issues with
greater clarity. Brother Leon, driven blindly toward his
goal, will stop at nothing to achieve it. His is a
solipsistic world, inhabited only by him and his dream,
people are mere counters on the board. Archie, the
leader of the Vigils, is more conscious of others, but
this realisation serves only as a means to a greater
evil, in his cruel manipulation of Jerry. What is
particularly chilling is the frank admission of evil, and
total lack of compunction in releasing it. Both John
Glover as Brother Leon, and Wally Ward as Archie give
commendable menacing performances. Unfortunately
their victim, Jerry (played by Lian Mitchell-Smith) is
not quite so convincing. His is a role that demands
a great deal of pathos, and what sympathy we feel
for him, comes more from the malice of his
tormentors, than from his own efforts.
This is a very emotive film, and one which is likely
to make you sit and reflect. The music which
accompanies it is excellent, but with names like Kate
Bush, Peter Gabriel, and JS Bach (who he?), that is
not particularly surprising. If the subject matter is of
interest then this is undoubtedly a film to see.
Matthew G Johnson.
person that won't let sleeping dogs lie and so even
when he is fired he continues to search for clues that
become vital to the case.
The rest of the characters, from the gun dealers to
the police and the other incidental people, are
reasonably well done although, with about three
different types of police, it is hard to know who
belongs to what.
The book is well structured although the ending I
feel was slightly rushed and overall the book felt rather
cramped being only just over 200 pages long. Perhaps
an extra 50 pages would have given the book a more
rounded end and tied off some of the loose ends that
were left dangling.
One glaring example of this is the fact that the
outcome of the trial is never given, in fact the trial
does not even begin, perhaps another book is on the
way?
Loren D Estlman has written eight other Amos
Salker books with much critical aclaim, much of which
I am sure he deserves, but as far as this book goes
it is fairly good but not brilliant, wait for the paperback.
Ian Hodge.

