The Dream Team
Take four inmates of a mental hospital. Abandon them
in the city. Put their doctor in hospital with two bent
cops attempting to kill him. You've got the Dream
Team.
Putting an out-of-place person/group in a city and
'see how they cope' is a theme that has been used
in many movies, from Crocodile Dundee to Star Trek
IV. In this case, it works particularly well. Each of the
four 'lunatics' is well defined, the characters
enhanced by some delightful acting. Michael Batman
Keaton as Caulfield, uncontrollably violent author and
Christoper Lloyd as Sikorsky, who's not sure what
side of the Doctor/Patient relationship he is on, to a
certain degree carry the film, but the supporting acting
is well above average.
The plot is a bit wooly, but then that's not what the
film is about. Instead, watch the relationship between
the inmates change, as they come to terms with their
own, and their companions' problems, and start the
long climb back to sanity.
There is also a liberal sprinkling of humour and
action throughout the film, but it always seems
perfectly natural. The one worry that this film does
provoke in me though, is that much of the time we
are being encouraged to laugh at people with a serious
mental disability.
This is partially off-set by the sympathy with which
they are treated the rest of the time, and some
moralising about the use of drugs in psychiatric
treatment, and the establishment's attitude to
sufferers trying to reintegrate themselves into society.
Overall, a good comedy, well worth seeing, and
certainly the best thing Keaton's done so far.
Adam T.
The cook, the
thief, his wife
& her lover
Superficially this film can be seen as a simple tale of
love, lust and revenge: The Cook heads a high-flying
restaurant, 'Le Hollandais' famous for its innovative
cuisine. It is taken over by gangland boss, The Thief,
whose spouse, His Wife, falls in lust with a reclusive
intellecutal, Her Lover. Lust leads to love, and from
love to jealousy, to revenge and counter-revenge.
From another viewpoint it could be seen as a clash
of cultures, Philistine vs Athenian. One typified by the
vulgar Englishman who aspires after style and class,
but who cannot possess either. The other by the
French cook, for whom desire is the source of life.
Hunger and lust are the foundation of all that is
beautiful and glorious. But The Thief is blind to this
world of sensual pleasure, and he despises the base
impulses which ensnare him. To one the delights of
sex resemble those of eating, to the other they are
more like shitting.
However the strength of this film does not lie either
in the story or any particular moral that one might like
to draw from it, but rather in the way that it is told.
Greenaway, who both wrote and directed, masterfully
exploits his medium, perhaps even surpassing it, he
stimulates all five senses, rather than the mere two
which fate has allowed him. The smells of the food
(and other things) seem to pervade the film. His
theatrical use of colour is also important. Each setting
is characterised by a tint, whose change often signals
a transition of mood in the characters.
The acting is also of a very high standard, Michael
Gambon, and Helen Mirren as Thief and Wife, are
particularly notable. It is pleasant to see a beautifully
sensual role going to a more mature actress than
perhaps Hollywood would have considered. She is
certainly no disappointment. Costumes by Jean-Paul
Gaultier and music by Michael Nyman, add the final
touches to this already beautiful work.
The Cook, The Thief, His Wife & Her Lover is a
sensual extravaganza. I should however point out that
it does contain some rather gory moments that some
people might find disturbing. But with that aside, I can
thoroughly recommend it. Its images will remain with
you for years.
Matthew G Johnson.
How to analyse handwriting
My first reaction on seeing this book and reading the
first few pages was that it seemed very simplistic,
much more so than any other book of this type I have
read before. Having done a little graphology before,
I expected quite a detailed book such that anyone with
the time and patience could perform a detailed
analysis of a sample of handwriting. Instead the book
is very basic, concentrating on the letters 'i', 't' and
the personal pronoun T with a passing mention to the
style spacing size and pressure of the sample.
Once you begin to use the book the simplistic nature
of the contents reveal themselves by the fact that
very few personality traits are revealed except the all
important SEX characteristics. A whole chapter is
given over to sexuality and lust, perhaps this shows
her priorities?
There are some summary tables through the book
allowing a hasty analysis of a sample, although it is
best not to do it to friends or family for not only do
you think you know them too well but also any bad
signs in the sample will make you feel awkward as
to whether or not to tell them.
Unusually for a book on this subject she does
include a couple of chapters of doodles and in
particular trees. This is a novel and interesting idea,
and is perhaps one of the book's better parts. It does
seem strange, almost contrived that the roots of the
tree mean the past, and conversely the foliage the
present. This, along with other obvious points (such
as fast, hurried writing means a fast active
personality) often lead to scepticism.
Finally, there are the chapters that are devoted to
self glorification, 'oh look what famous people I have
met', with character analysis that anyone in the street
could make from the way the people act and talk.
After saying this, as a general introduction into a
subject that you must take seriously it is quite good
in places (afterall many employees use graphology
with other methods for interview pre-selection). It is
a bit expensive and, at only one 150 pages, not
particularly good value for money.
If you feel that you would like to find out more about
an interesting subject then try the library first and later
on if you want to, find a good book and perhaps start
climbing the ladder of Wl meetings to the heady
heights that Ms O'Hara has.
Ian Hodge.
Page 7

