The Rose
and the
Glad Rag Dolls
The (theatre) is a newly formed touring company
committed to 'exploring the fantastic in literature'.
Their production of an adaptation of Thackeray's The
Rose and the Ring was a stylish debut.
Best described as an adult fairy tale, The Rose and
the Ring centres on two imaginary kingdoms, where
two evil kings, Valoroso and Padella, have usurped the
thrones from their rightful owners, Giglio and Rosalba.
Rosalba, a destitute waif, turns up at Valoroso's court
and becomes a chambermaid to Angelica, Valoroso's
spoilt daughter who is adored by all. All is smooth until
the arrival of Padella's son, Bulbo to woo Angelica.
Then the magic ring and the magic rose, which make
their bearers irresistable, fall into others' hands...
Needless to say everything comes right in the end.
Giglio and Rosalba gain their kingdoms and the
spoilt Angelica and Bulbo learn valuable lessons in
humility. But this is not a morality play. The (theatre)
approach the play robustly. In a banquet scene, we
see the cast miming the advancing drunkeness of the
court. In Giglio's speech to the troops who have come
to drag him away, he apes Shakespeare and Churchill
to win them onto his side.
The cast are uniformally strong and have a good
sense of comic timing. Billie Reynolds is especially
good as the horrendous Countess Gruffanuff, who
tricks Giglio into agreeing to marry her, aided by a
great deal of strategic padding. Allie Burns as the Fairy
Blackstick carries out the difficult job of maintaining
the thread of the story.
Duncan Watt's set is elegant and sparse (and needs
to be in the confined spaces of this theatre) and is
used to good effect, three pieces of furniture
masquerading in a multiplicity of roles. The costumes
also complement the style of the production in their
simplicity. While it is apparent that this show has been
mounted on a limited budget, this seems to have
spurred the inventiveness of the design and is a source
of pleasure rather than dismay.
The Rose and the Ring is suitable for children, but
would be wasted on them: the satire and sublety of
many of the lines will entertain even the most
embittered adult. If you're sad that you can't go along
and boo and hiss at a traditional pantomime, then go
and see this play, a real Christmas treat.
The Rose and the Ring is on at the Latchmere
Theatre until 23rd December at 8pm Monday to
Saturday. The Latchmere Theatre is on the corner of
Latchmere Road and Battersea Park Road and can be
reached by Clapham Junction BR or buses 44 or 170
from Vauxhall tube. Tickets cost £4.50, plus £1
membership of the theatre club (although they have
reciprocal membership with other fringe theatres).
Liz W.
Page 8
Opening the programme for this production, by
Robideez and transferred from the Edinburgh festival,
is a frightening experience. Over twenty songs in one
play? Are they actually going to have time to say
anything? Thankfully, they do. The musical interludes
are short, but well integrated into the structure of the
play. The mixture of old pieces, and specially
composed pieces works, and help enhance the
atmosphere.
The cast of three make good use of the limited
space available, tricking our imagination into seeing
anything from a flat in soho to a seedy nightclub
stage.
Against this backdrop a story involving a
transvestite, and transexual, and a bag lady unfolds.
We learn of their past and future. Two have risen from
the gutter, one has fallen into it.
The unusual nature of the characters is handled
well. They never come across as stereotypes, except
when they are mocking themselves. The spoken
dialogue is naturalistic, and the scenes in which
characters, unseen and unheard, converse with the
actors are surprisingly effective. Remarkably, the play
is never judgemental, but merely presents us with a
situation, and lets us judge. It is rare to be both
entertained and left thinking by a play.
The end of the play is optimistic, without being a
corny 'happy ending'. Well worth a visit.
Glad Rag Dolls is playing at The Man in the Moon
theatre club on the Kings Road, about 20 minutes to
half an hours walk from College and runs until
December 23. A concessionary ticket is £4.
Adam T.
A note about theatre clubs
There are many theatre clubs in London, which
face an uncertain future, as the laws relating to
them are ambiguous. To see a play in one you
must be a member, and membership may have to
be taken out sometime in advance in some cases.
Check with the theatre in question. The Bush
(FELIX Issue 851) is also a theatre club.
The Snow Queen
Ahh, Christmas. The panto season is on us once more.
The pantomime dance, the principle boy, the ugly
sisters, that's what you expect isn't it? Not in this one.
The Snow Queen has an all-female cast and crew,
and only two, briefly appearing, male characters. This
panto has always been female dominated, and it has
only taken a minor bit of tweaking to make it
completely female. The dame (Bryony Lavery) is now
a somewhat bolshie actress who complains about 'the
management' and discusses her motivation playing a
rose. Believe me, it's funnier than it sounds. Indeed,
the entire play is done firmly tongue-in-cheek and is
clearly targetted towards the adult audience. This is
made abundantly obvious by the lesbian theme that
threads its way through the play. Gerda goes to
search for Kay because of her 'love' for her. The Snow
Queen's reward is a kiss. Even the robber girl wants
to 'play' and 'sleep' with Gerda. It's never overt,
though, and will only offend the most fanatical
homophobe.
The stage design is effective, and mixes well with
the lighting, which transforms it from a snowy waste,
to a riverside garden. There is a sprinkling of music
which adds little to the play. Nicola Kathrens (Gerda)
does a fine job of protraying the mannerisms of a
young girl, and Sarah Kerney is splendidly evil as Wolf,
eclipsing even the Snow Queen (Donna Champion)
herself. The simultaneous dialogue of the
grandmothers is beautifully executed and very funny,
as is the dame's Scandinavian accent as the Reindeer.
There are one or two throwaway political lines, but
thankfully no male bashing.
Definitely one of the better Christmas shows, from
which the lesbian overtones fit naturally, and one
which is well worth a visit.
You can see The Snow Queen at the Drill Hall Arts
Centre, 16 Chenie St, WC1. Performances Tue-Sat
at 8pm. It runs until Jan 6 and a concessionary ticket
costs £4.
Adam T.

