'I don't sing them I destroy them!' is what Jalacy
Hawkins said of his stage performances. He started
out in 1953, singing ballads and blues in a small way
until he hit the headlines in '56 with / Put a Spell on
You, the song that made him famous as Screamin'
Jay Hawkins. He grunts, screams and bubbles his way
through this heavily rhythmic, necromantic track. The
words, sung in a gravelly baritone, are all about
threatening his girl with voodoo spells to prevent her
leaving him. The song created an uproar at the time
and was kept off the charts, despite sales of over a
million copies.
The following years showed a drift towards highly
theatrical horror rock and songs such as Alligator Wine
and Frenzy. The stage acts became increasingly
animated with coffins and halloween-style rubber
spiders and snakes, garish and fake, strewed all over
the stage, and a pet skull called Henry who smoked
Husker Du were a widely acclaimed American noise
band and Bob Mould used to play electric guitar with
Husker Du . He's begun his first tour of Britain as a
solo act-he's all on his own apart from the backing
band.
Mould arrives on stage to confront a slightly
bemused audience who are tyring to come to terms
with a strange set from the support band. Said
support, House of Freaks seemed to have lost some
of their members on the way to the gig being bereft
of everything except a singer who owned a guitar and
a drummer. These two contrived to perform for over
half an hour leaving no impression other than
confusion.
At first sight Bob Mould certainly doesn't look as
though he will reassure the audience, he looks even
more awkward than they do. He plays guitar like a
man being electrocuted by a flymo, spasmodically
cigars and set off sheets of flame from pieces of flash-
paper in the Screamer's palm.
With the sixties came hard times, and Hawkins
spent the best part of fifteen years out in the
wilderness before re-emerging in a film in 78 which
set him off on a tour of America, Australia and Europe,
with performances only marginally more restrained
than in the past. 1979 and '83 saw two new albums.
Screamin' the Blues was a smooth collection of old
songs, and Real Life showed characteristically original
lyrics with a return to blues ballads in a gentler, almost
nostaligic style betraying some hints of age and
reason.
The more recent years have seen Jay Hawkins
involved with director Jim Jarmusch. Stranger than
Paradise, Jarmusch's bleakly funny tale of wandering
Hungarian immigrants looking for paradise in America
features / Put a Spell on You as the title song. Tom
jerking this way and that. However, the material itself
shows a remarkable breadth of vision. It is rather like
watching an artist splashing paint on a canvas in an
apparently haphazard manner, yet managing to create
a rich and coherent whole.
There are rough edges: some of the songs aren't
quite there, they either harp on a particular riff for too
long or, alternatively, seem to have little structure. All
the same, the main impression is one of highly
charged creativity which builds towards a climax that
is Whichever Way the Wind Blows the searing last
song of the main set. We think the concert is over as
Mould lies on his back at the end of this song, a
cascade of feedback reverberating around him. But
no! After the smoke has cleared he returns to play a
short, but very sweet, acoustic set. Again the
audience is confused.
Joseph Andrews.
Waits' similar whiskey-soaked voice provided the
music for Down By Law, the next Jarmusch film, but
Hawkins returns in Mystery Train, the third major
Jarmusch film, which opened in London in November.
The soundtrack is again due to Tom Waits, and
Hawkins plays the receptionist of a seedy hotel in
Memphis where two young Japanese tourists in
search of paradise and a good time are shipwrecked.
Screamin' Jay is now touring with the full weight
of his sixty years behind him. He was at the Town &
Country Club on Halloween (photo), with the usual
mechanical spiders crawling around on his piano, the
skull Henry producing clouds of smoke and flashes of
flame and ear-splitting shrieks rending the air around
his spellbound audience. He will probably be back:
don't miss him.
James Connolly.
Xmas mix
Those wacky people at Food Recordings have decided
to give us all a really zany Xmas present this year. Not
a Jive Bunny megamix of the labels premier hit singles
but three bands covering each other.
So we get current media darlings Jesus Jones
taking the axe to the Crazyhead song / Don't Want
That Kind of Love with surprisingly sophisticated
results. Jones is obviously starting to take this music
business thing a little bit seriously. Crazyhead get the
chance to do a real demolition job on the Diesel Park
West track Like Princes Do. It works so well they
should consider adopting it in their live set. Diesel Park
West meanwhile can only prettify the classic Jesus
Jones single Info Freako and in doing so they lose its
brutal sarcastic wit which provides the only
disappointment of this festive free for all.
CDL.
Page 9
Bob Mould

