Various
Electronic and
New music
Some Music is Private Music is a sampler of 'new
music'. It is not exactly New Age, (i.e. random
arpeggios and birdsong) but sophisticated ethereal
background muzak for the frustrated thirty
somethings and young fogeys who have outgrown the
venerable (or should that be venereal) rockers
currently feathering their retirement nests in
America's stadia. FM rock it isn't but with the
exception of Shankar's psychedelic curry house music
Parambh, the 13 pieces have sufficient similarity to
make this a pleasurable 70 minutes.
Tangerine Dream, Andy Summers and Eddie Jobson
provide mainstream credibility and their contributions
are much as one would expect, although Summers the
soloist lacks the inventiveness of his Police days.
Elsewhere, sax symbols Michael Brecker and David
Sanborn guest on Michael Colina's Joy Dancing.
As a sampler it is cheap and good value and
although little here will make you rush out and buy
the entire back catalogue of this label it is still a cut
above the technopap that Jean Michel Jarre churns
out. It also works much better than the new sampler
by Virgin Music's Venture label, Music Without
Frontiers Vol 2.
Again long and exceptionally low price (the artists
apparently donated songs and waived royalties to
keep the cost down), it is such a diverse mixture of
styles that it is difficult to listen to in a single sitting.
Jazzy fusion, Adult Orientated Chanteuses (this
means that they are trying to be sophisticated, not
that there are nude photos of them or that they sing
about sex) tend to clash with the more avant garde
musical pieces by such composers as Michael Nyman
and Ennio Morricone.
One of the principal problems of this compilation is
that the standard is not as high as included on the first
sampler. Few of the tracks are good enough to make
you want to listen to the whole on their strengths
alone. Contributions by Mike Gibbs and Itchy Fingers
are pleasant enough but there is no natural flow
through into the downright strange Llano by Cassell
Webb. Of the middle seven tracks only the ambient
Snow by Electric Circus stands out but the final side
picks up with New Age folk by Michael O'Suilleabhain
and the peices by Nyman and Morricone showing the
difference between serious composition and
experiment.
It would be nice to recommend this but in all
honesty Music Without Frontiers 1 or Private Music
are better samplers. A- for effort but only C for
attainment.
CDL.
Page 10
Various
Singles
Apparently the script for Roadhouse required a Blues
band with a blind guitarist. In the wildly eclectic world
of Rock 'n' Roll these are not exactly ten a penny. You
can get fat black, Mississippi bluesmen called King in
twelve packs from any record emporium but young
white Canadian guitarists deficient in the sight area
are a rare commodity, this year at least. This leads
me to believe that Jeff Healey's uncle or some other
close relation wrote the script for Roadhouse.
When the Night Comes Falling from the Sky is a Bob
Dylan song covered by the Jeff Healey Group for the
film. It is a cut above standard twelve bar Blues. Tight
and full of balls it has more energy than Dylan's
shuffling original and Healey treats us to some wicked
sixth string tickling. This should keep Healey's fans
content until he records the follow up to See the Light,
which has now gone double platinum in his native land
(probably 250 copies sold).
In a completely different groove (good Rockspeak
there), Sydney Youngblood has a new 12" out, (not
his wanger) called Sit and Wait. Were I in the disco
looking to pull; dressed in my white suit with my chest
wig neatly stuck on and my medallion gleaming, I
would probably do exactly what the title says until
Scratch 'n' Sniff Megamixer Pete Waterman put on
some decent music. I'd rather squeeze my blackheads
than dance to this mindless tosh. Bobby Brown must
be laughing his cock off if this is the best that the
opposition can come up with.
CDL.
Rush
Presto
For years Rush have been something of an enigma.
Largely ignored by the popular media (TV & Radio)
they have been happy to ignore the attentions of
music journalists after countless misquotes and poor
press. Despite this they have endeared themselves to
a large part of our generation and retained the staunch
support of this audience whilst growing from science
fiction and mythological hippies into elder statesmen
of adult orientated rock. They have been called the
world's biggest underground band partly because of
their refusal, or inability to tailor their music to the
singles market.
Presto is their thirteenth studio LP in 15 years and
marks no great departure from their style of late.
Keyboards are used less as a focus and more as a
backdrop to the guitar-bass-drums arrangements but
they are still evident throughout. Neil Peart's writing
theme seems to be deception and hidden things be
they magical as in the title track, political [Red Tide),
or emotional [Scars) but his lyrics are typically cryptic
and either incredibly intelligent or toally pretentious
according to your degree of cynicism.
The album opens with Show Don't Tell and Chain
Lightning which are both typical classy Rush songs.
The music is nervous, never settling into a mundane
verse-chorus-solo sequence but darting between
rhythms and tempos as Lee and Lifeson pass the lead.
When the style does relax on The Pass and the
strangely titled Anagram (For Mongol it does so
melodically but never approaches the anthemic stadia
rock of Bon Jovi. Producer Rupert Hines adds backing
vocals on the obvious single Superconductor but the
best is saved to the end of each side. Both Presto and
Available Light are songs of the highest callibre that
have a timeless quality which will make them instant
favourites for the faithful.
Presto is unlikely to win Rush new fame and fortune
but it will not lose them any old fans for whom the
problem is now having to wait at least twelve months
before there is any possibility of a tour.
CDL.

