www.felixonline.co.uk
Felix
Thursday 5 May 2005
4
Comment felix@ic.ac.uk
Backing the ball
A
lmost traditionally, the Imperial College Union summer ball
comes in for a lot of stick in the pages of Felix. This year, as
ever, we hope that criticism will not be necessary. At this stage,
the signs are promising, and it would appear that large scale student
support is all that is needed to make the event a big success.
The entertainment is booked, detailed plans have been released,
and tickets are on sale soon. The only question mark hangs over how
many students will attend and how enthusiastic they will be.
By attending events such as this, and bringing your friends along,
you can play your part in changing the stereotype of bored, apathetic
Imperial students. Only by being positive can a real ‘summer ball
culture’ be created within College. So, if you like the sound of what’s
on offer this year, buy a ticket, go along and enjoy yourself. We’ll see
you there.
Politics and brinkmanship
Don’t move into the
house of horrors
When finding a new house or flat, as
well as looking at the area you want to
live in and the people you want to live
with, it’s important to bear practical
issues in mind as well.
It is also important to make sure
that your landlord keeps to his or her
responsibilities under the law. Some
of these are mentioned below. If you
think that your new landlord is bit
dodgy or if you would like some advice
on the agreement you are about to
sign, please feel free to contact the
Information and Advice Centre as we
offer a comprehensive contract check-
ing service and will be able to advise
you if your agreement is fair to you,
the tenant.
Don’t be nervous to ask your pro-
spective landlord the questions you
want answered, no matter how awk-
ward they are for him or her.
• Is the deposit refundable? This is
the money you pay to cover damage
to the flat or non-payment of rent.
This is usually around the same as
one month’s rent. Make sure you get
a receipt for this. It will be returned
to you when you leave. You may also
have to pay the first month’s rent in
advance.
• Check your tenancy agreement
thoroughly. Make sure both you and
the landlord agree on the details.
How much will you pay and when?
How long is the contract? What is the
notice period? Does the contract set
all this out?
• Under a tenancy agreement the
landlord must make sure the property
is in good repair, with adequate water,
gas, electricity, sanitation and heat.
If the landlord says he will be fixing
something before you move in, can he
confirm that in writing?
• Check your obligations. What exact-
ly does the landlord expect from you?
What aspects of the upkeep of the flat
does he expect from you? Preferably
this should all be in writing in the
contract.
• Get the landlord’s contact details
in case something goes wrong. Take
as many details as possible, including
who you should phone if he goes away
on holiday.
• What are your rights? If something
does go wrong, it’s useful to know
exactly what you’re entitled to. To find
out, why not contact The Information
and Advice Centre.
• Do the gas appliances have valid
‘approved’ certificates? Landlords
must have them checked annually
by a registered CORGI (Council for
Registered Gas Installers) engineer.
Ask to see the certificates. Faulty gas
supplies can be fatal if they result
in carbon monoxide leaks. The law
states that your landlord must pro-
vide a safety check certificate within
28 days of the gas check taking place
and it must be produced before you
move in.
• Will bills be in your name (collec-
tively)? Will your landlord inform the
relevant offices? Were readings taken
when the last people moved out? Were
they accurate?
• Check if you are insured, either on
your parents’ or your landlord’s insur-
ance.
I hope you have found this arti-
cle helpful and that you will find a
property that is suitable for all your
student needs. Just remember that if
you have any issues whatsoever while
house hunting or if you just have a
quick question with regard to hous-
ing rights, please do not hesitate to
contact The Information and Advice
Centre on 020 7594 8067 or advice@ic.
ac.uk. You can also visit the centre in
the east wing of Beit Quad on a drop-in
or appointment basis.
ADVICE SERVICE
NIGEL COOKE
STUDENT ADVISER
More than just doughnuts...
In case you haven’t noticed, there is a
general election going on. There are
no gimmicks available to entice you
to vote today (yes, today is the day),
other than, hopefully, the conscience
that comes with your sense of citizen-
ship. (And before someone writes in
to tell me that we are all subjects, not
citizens, I’m a Republican!)
Being in a university environment
can be quite liberating. Many of us
will broaden our horizons and experi-
ence many new aspects of life during
our time here. However, the depth of
our immersion in this liberal culture
can be quite insulating. We can easily
forget that there is a wider world out
there, one that we shall soon be mov-
ing into. A world in which issues that
we glaze over in news reports really
do matter.
It’s true that many of us are disil-
lusioned with politics – particularly
the mainstream political parties.
However, that’s not good reason for
sitting on your posterior. Politicians
already ignore us because they know
that young people do not vote. You
may well believe that the main par-
ties are just as bad as each other.
You may, like me, wish the UK would
adopt the Single Transferable Vote
(and the inclusion of a New Election
option) in parliamentary elections.
But even if you just spoil your bal-
lot paper or register a ‘protest vote’
by voting for a no-hoper, you are
sending a clear signal: you are not
apathetic.
Firearms can hurt
When I was first elected, Andy Heeps
(President 1997-1998) warned me that
the day would come when the College
would “put a gun to your head” to get
their way. I took Andy’s advice guard-
edly and haven’t really had to face that
sort of situation – until the future of
Linstead hall came into question.
Linstead is the only catered hall
in South Kensington, and conse-
quently, despite some perceptions, the
most oversubscribed hall we have.
The College proposed moving the
Southside shop to the ground floor
dining hall (ending catering for resi-
dents, whilst providing no replace-
ment kitchens). They also proposed
opening up Linstead’s first floor bar
into a public College bar, operated by
the Union. This would have the effect
of leaving Linstead residents with no
private communal space. The Union
Executive asked me to oppose the
proposals.
When I met College officials to
discuss the situation, they were in
no mood to compromise over the
ground floor. They did offer me a
choice with the first floor – I could
either choose to have a College bar
there or else choose to have the area
refurbished for residents’ use, but
with the existing hall bar closed. For
reasons of “fairness”, the Weeks Hall
bar would close with the Linstead
one.
In the interests of the hall residents
(and given the underused bar capac-
ity on the rest of the campus), I had
to choose the hall bar closure option.
Both the Union Executive and the
Warden endorsed my stance, in the
circumstances. I do not understand
why College are taking this position.
Perhaps they thought I’d back down?
Anyway, that’s why the hall bars are
closing.
STATE OF
THE UNION
MUSTAFA ARIF
UNION PRESIDENT
Southside Bar will be missed
A
fter over 40 years, the Southside buildings will finally be demol-
ished this summer. Undoubtedly, large scale refurbishment
of the site is long overdue, especially given the current sorry
state of the halls of residence. But the reconstruction project brings
with it several knock-on effects that were not anticipated. It is dif-
ficult to escape the feeling that students will be worse off as a result
of some of these changes, and that more could have been done to
improve the situation.
Southside Bar – popular, award-winning and with an unrivalled
atmosphere – will not be replaced. The College claims that having a
bar in the new Southside is a ‘low priority’, but how many of the stu-
dents and staff who regularly frequent the present bar would agree?
In the short term, the students’ union claims to have been faced with
“a stark choice”: either move the bar to Linstead Hall, resulting in
the loss of communal space, or close the bars in Linstead and Weeks.
The latter option was chosen, as the President and the Executive
believe that there are enough public bar facilities on campus and
that it was more important to protect the private communal space
in Linstead.
Why does the Union appear so keen to see Southside Bar become
consigned to history? Could it be because Southside is often more
popular than the Union bars? More people should frequent the
Union building, but preventing choice is not the way to achieve this.
Improving what the Union has to offer is the only way to go.
Southside Bar will be fondly remembered and sorely missed by
many. It is disappointing that the College and Union have not worked
harder to find a place for it, both during the reconstruction and in the
longer term.
Library disappointment
M
echanical engineering students will be saddened to discover
that their departmental library will close in the near future,
especially having received assurances that it would remain
open after we first broke the story in January.
Bizarrely, the department claims that the decision was taken in
students’ best interests. It is doubtful that the 400-plus students
who signed a petition against its closure would share that view. The
library will be converted into a reading room, as the current read-
ing room is being taken over by the Business School. But surely the
library’s books, collections and specialist service are of greater value
than an empty room designated for private study.
Students and their Union must continue to fight for highly valued
resources such as this. The library may have been lost, but recent
battles for a place on the governing Council and sensible work-
ing hours have been won, at least in part. This demonstrates that
although the College may seem to be placing financial or other
concerns ahead of educational ones, the voice of the students can
still be heard.

