www.felixonline.co.uk
Felix
Thursday 5 May 2005
6
COMMENT felix@ic.ac.uk
What the bleep do they know?
A documentary about quantum physics, psychology and spirituality has become a huge US box office hit.
Thought-provoking entertainment, or dangerous abuse of science? Edmund Hunt knows where he stands
Last Thursday, ICU Cinema hosted a
free preview screening of What The
Bleep Do We Know? which I attended
with a couple of my friends. We were
happy to take advantage of the offer
of a free movie, and the film prom-
ised to be a Horizon-style discussion
of purported links between science
and spirituality. Unfortunately it
turned out to be sinister propaganda
for a bizarre New Age cult called the
‘Ramtha School of Enlightenment’. I
would urge people not to pay money
to see this film, because if you do,
you are unwittingly enriching some
very shady characters.
The movie follows the narrative of
a photographer, containing such per-
ennial human musings as the mean-
ing and purpose of life, control over
one’s future, and her problems with
a distorted self-image. So far, so fair.
However, it’s interspersed with com-
ments from ‘scientific experts’ and
such luminaries as a failed Catholic
theologian and a cult leader claiming
to be a channel for a 35,000-year-old
warrior spirit.
Most of the film is simply a deluge
of high-speed computer graphics
and meaningless phrases, designed
to wow the audience into thinking
something new and profound is
being said. However, it’s really a
half-baked concoction of ideas from
humanist psychology, misrepresent-
ed quantum physics and fuzzy New
Age thinking about the nature of
consciousness. To be fair, I suppose
the film is somewhat entertaining, in
the same way that watching a bellow-
ing televangelist makes you chuckle:
these people really do believe their
own hype.
We were privileged to have one of
the talking heads in the film, Fred
Wolf, come and do a Q&A at the end
of the showing. Unfortunately, his
hypocrisy – urging us to be ‘open-
minded’ in one breath, mocking
those with serious questions about
the film’s poor science in the next –
really left a bitter taste in the mouth.
It ought to remind us that even PhDs
aren’t immune from arrogance and
self-delusion.
Now, believe me, I’m not against
an open discussion about spiritual-
ity – philosophies on the nature of
reality from the likes of Plato and
Buddha are fascinating and thought-
provoking. Indeed, I think an aware-
ness of them is beneficial to the
thoughtful scientist. But what’s dan-
gerous about this film is the way
it contains some genuine science
and some sensible attitudes – giv-
ing it the veneer of respectability
– and then proceeds from there to
make completely unjustified, unex-
plained and unfalsifiable conjectures
that are presented as scientifically-
endorsed fact.
Alas, the filmmakers seem to have
little time for such quaint concepts
as measurable results and scien-
tific proof. The theory of quantum
mechanics does provide for such
startling ideas as quantum superpo-
sition, where a quantity may take on
several values until observed, when
it will be ‘collapsed’ onto one of the
possible values. However, the film-
makers take this idea and interpret
it as humans literally creating real-
ity with the power of their conscious
thoughts. From here we get to such
wacky self-help notions as ‘create
your own day’, recognizing your own
‘god-like power’. Now, encouraging
positive thinking is to be applauded,
but telling people that they can walk
on water if they ‘really believe it’
strikes me as a little disingenuous,
to say the least.
Regrettably, Bleep may be a popu-
lar release in Britain. I think it’s
a duty of the scientific community
– especially those at such respected
schools as Imperial – to speak out
against the aggressive, intentional
misuse and misrepresentation of
science. We mustn’t be unwitting
stooges of cultists; one of the physi-
cists quoted in the film, David Albert
from Columbia University, claims
his views were “radically misrepre-
sented” through selective editing of
his interview. We need to be vigilant
and proactive in explaining to the
unwitting public what theories like
quantum mechanics do, do not and
cannot entail for our world-view as
conscious beings.
With quantum mechanics becom-
ingpopularbuzzwordsinthewest,it’s
clearly going to be an uphill struggle
to explain the necessary limitations
– and remarkable explanatory power
– of the scientific method. However,
if science sits idly by while society is
infected with misleading ideas about
its work, all humankind will suffer.
Well, all except perhaps the likes of
the Ramtha leader, who has already
made her millions.
● Edmund Hunt is a physics
undergraduate
Stop the terror trade
Maya Chowdhury, of Imperial’s Amnesty Society, argues for tighter worldwide gun control laws
“One day we argued. I was with
some other people, planting veg-
etables, and he shot me through
the leg... Then he shot me through
the chest, and the third bullet just
skimmed my hair, it was so close...”
These are the words of Yem Para,
from Phnom Penh, Cambodia, who
was viciously gunned down outside
her home following a disagreement
with someone she knew.
“At first everyone was afraid to
intervene, but when he’d finished
the rounds, the neighbours came
and stopped him bashing me with
the butt of the gun. I still get pain
from my wounds. And now I can only
do about half what I used to.”
Covert arms shipments from China
and the USA to Cambodia’s anti-
Vietnamese factions started arriving
in the 1970s. An estimated 500,000
small arms are believed to remain
in Cambodia – half of them control-
led by the official military and police
forces and the other half unaccount-
ed for. Yem Pera’s case simply high-
lights the tip of an iceberg affecting
the entire global community.
There are in the region of 639
million small arms and light weap-
ons worldwide today. Every year,
approximately 500,000 men, women,
and children are killed by armed
violence worldwide – that equates to
one person being slaughtered every
minute. A further eight million more
arms are produced each year, serv-
ing only to add to the misery and
horrors resulting from armed vio-
lence. It is estimated that, by 2020,
the amount of fatalities and injuries
from war and violence will surpass
the number of deaths caused by
infectious diseases such as malaria.
The unregulated flow of arms
allows criminals to unleash their
butchery and makes it easy for sol-
diers and police to murder arbitrar-
ily. Although illicit wartime killings
are a cause for concern, soldiers,
paramilitaries and police are also
misusing military gear to commit
terrible atrocities against civilians
during peacetime.
In the absence of sufficient control
of the arms industry and without
measures to protect people from
their misuse, the unregulated arms
trade will continue to be the trigger
of a tirade of catastrophic tragedies.
Easily obtainable weapons will only
help more violent crimes to occur.
Greater numbers of people will be
forced to flee their homes and aban-
don their livelihoods in an attempt to
escape brutality. The vicious cycle of
human rights abuses, suffering and
poverty will continue.
Gun control is currently in the
hands of national governments.
Unfortunately, their legislation and
authority is too frequently inade-
quate to command reasonable arms
control. Amnesty International takes
the stance that an international arms
trade treaty is required to overcome
the carnage caused by unregulated
arms commerce and use. Such a
treaty would create legally binding
gun controls and ensure that all gov-
ernments control arms to the same
basic international standards.
Kofi Annan, the Secretary General
of the United Nations, justified his
support for such a treaty when he
explained that “the excessive accu-
mulation and illicit trade of small
arms is threatening international
peace and security, dashing hopes
for social and economic develop-
ment, and jeopardizing prospects for
democracy and human rights”.
In spite of this view, and perhaps
unsurprisingly, much of the blame
for unregulated arms trading can be
placed at the doors of the five per-
manent members of the UN Security
Council. The UK, US, France, Russia
and China account for up to 80% of
reported arms exports. From 1998
to 2001, the US, UK and France
secured a greater income from the
sales of arms to developing coun-
tries than the total amount of aid
they donated to them.
Politicians in this country are well
aware of the problem of arms con-
trol, as can be outlined by Norman
Lamb MP: “The Government has
been hypocritical on this issue...
and British companies are profit-
ing from it. There’s blood on the
Government’s hands over this.”
Similarly, in the US, former
President Jimmy Carter complains:
“We can’t have it both ways. We can’t
be both the world’s leading cham-
pion of peace and the world’s leading
supplier of arms.”
Clearly the public needs to show its
support for greater gun control and
help to apply pressure on the gov-
ernment to encourage such action.
Similar public drives over political
issues have been successful, for
example in banning landmines and
cancelling third world debt.
Amnesty International has
launched a Million Faces petition
campaign in conjunction with Oxfam
andtheInternationalActionNetwork
on Small Arms in an attempt to
show the international governing
bodies that there is a great public
demand for tighter gun control. It
is hoped that if one million people
join the petition before the next UN
arms conference in 2006, sufficient
pressure will have been applied to
ensure the adoption of an interna-
tional arms treaty and better gun
control. The campaign was launched
a year ago and already has the sup-
port of over 225,000 people world-
wide. It is vital that the targets are
met to highlight the world’s largest
popular movement against the mis-
use of arms.
For more information, or to add
your name to the Million Faces peti-
tion, visit www.controlarms.org.
Alternatively, come along to Imperial
College’s Amnesty International
group meetings in the Union on
Wednesday lunchtimes where this
and other human rights abuses
are discussed. Contact oscar.
dahlsten@ic.ac.uk for further
details.
What The Bleep Do We Know? At a cinema near you soon
Send your letters to felix@ic.ac.uk. Letters may be edited for length but not for spelling or grammar, and are printed at the Editor’s discretion

