PAGE 26 PAGE 27
SATURDAY 3rd
OCTOBER 2015 felixonline.co.uk felixonline.co.uk SATURDAY 3rd
OCTOBER 2015
THE STUDENT NEWSPAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
ARTS arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
ARTS
Victoria and Albert Museum
The V&A is so close to campus and halls that there is really no
excuse not to visit. It houses everything from punk rock fashion to
classical sculpture, by the way of jewellery and tapestries, so there’s
something for all tastes. In addition to the permanent displays, free
themed exhibitions are staged regularly in the Porter Gallery. The
V&A is the perfect place to go to sketch, explore or escape the rain.
Plus the café is pretty great.
Free! Special exhibitions from £9.
National Gallery...
This is truly the bastion of all visual art in London,and the country.You are guaranteed to
see Monets, van Goghs and da Vincis for free whenever you go, where else would that be
possible? Just wandering around the galleries is a master course in art history, only there
are so many galleries that it would be impossible to see it all in one visit. Whilst you’re
there, make sure to check out the Fourth Plinth in Trafalgar Square for a quick modern
art fix.
Free! Special exhibitions from £8.
...and National Portrait Gallery
Just around the corner from the National Gallery, the NPG is the ultimate illustrated
who’s who. It is home to the fantastic BP National Portrait Awards, and numerous well
known paintings, among them the controversial Duchess of Cambridge painting. The
NPG is a must-visit for anyone who’s interested in boundaries between celebrity and
fine art.
Tickets from £6 on Thursdays.
Tate Britain
Tate Britain is placed bang in the middle of the tourist heartland; minutes
from Big Ben and the Palaces of Westminster, it is home to the Turner
Prize. That’s not all, The Tate Collective London which works with Tate
Britain and Tate Modern run free events and festivals for students. On the
first Friday of October, November and December there will be workshops,
talks, live performance, even a DJ as part of Late at Tate Britain.
Free! Special exhibitions typically from £14.
National Theatre
One of the great arts institutions in the country, the National
Theatre is at the forefront of British theatre. A major collaborator
both internationally and at home, the NT is an essential component
of the UK’s arts scene with its shows frequently transferring to the
West End and beyond. Although the NT isn’t the biggest risk taker,
its shows are always accessible and of a consistently high quality.
Tickets from £5 with NT Entry Pass.
The Young Vic
Consistently brilliant and constantly pushing the boundaries of
modern theatre, the Young Vic showcases the best of the best on the
British stage. Having stolen the show at the 2015 Olivier’s, the YV
unsurprisingly approaches the New Year with sky high expectations.
With two shows transferring to New York after a sell-out season in
London, the YV might be one of London’s smaller venues, but they
carry a big punch.
Tickets from £10 for students and under 25s.
The Comedy Tree
Having recently relocated from Putney to Hammersmith, the
Comedy Tree starts a new season of Thursday night stand-up.
Despite not being a particularly well known venue, the CT has
welcomed a number of big names including Milton Jones and
Reginald D. Hunter. While I doubt it lives up to London’s more
famous comedy clubs, the bar is open until 1am and the tickets are
surprisingly cheap. Who can complain?
Tickets from £6 for students.
Barbican
A world class arts organisation with a stellar reputation for
innovation and learning, the Barbican covers all areas of the arts
with one of the greatest purpose built venues in London. Home of
the London Symphony Orchestra and Cumberbatch’s Hamlet, the
Barbican represents the best of the best in British creativity.
Tickets from £5 with Young Barbican.
Tate Modern
One of the best collections of contemporary art in London,
and part of the Tate Collective London, there’s plenty of
opportunity to enjoy the art and get involved more actively.
Free! Special exhibitions typically from £10.

