PAGE 28 SATURDAY 3rd
OCTOBER 2015 felixonline.co.uk
THE STUDENT NEWSPAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
ARTS
Recommended:Things to see in London
Photograph 51 (Noel Coward Theatre, Until 21 November)
In recent decades, as the sexism in science has become more recognised, Rosalind Franklin has been increasingly
brought up as an example of an under-credited player in the all-important discovery of the structure of DNA.
In Anna Ziegler’s new play, Nicole Kidman portrays the scientist’s life and career in her return to the West End
stage. Many critics have praised her precise performance in bringing out Franklin’s ambition, dedication and
intelligence.
Wildlife Photographer of the Year (Natural History Museum, 16 October – 10 April)
One of the most important competitions in wildlife photography in the world, the winners and commended
pieces from the Wildlife Photography of the Year are exhibited yearly in the Natural History Museum. From
intimate portraits to grand landscapes,the works on display tell compelling stories from the natural world around
us in beautiful ways. With over one hundred images on display creating an immersive experience for the senses,
this is definitely not an exhibition to be missed by anyone interested in photography, art or nature.
The World Goes Pop (Tate Modern, Until 24 January)
Pop Art has become synonymous with western consumer culture, but its history as a global medium of protest
has been largely forgotten.The Tate’s new exhibition explores the unseen side of Pop Art and its diverse cultural
adaptations. From Latin America to Asia this exhibition delves into the rich history of this global phenomena
and celebrates an art form whose subversive message is more relevant now than ever before.
Hamlet @ NT Live (Various Cinemas across London, From 15 October)
Whether Cumberbatch’s Hamlet is an exciting, fresh staging or not – and consensus seems to be that this
production isn’t hugely special – Hamlet is still the greatest play ever created. Though I firmly believe that
Cumberbatch is simply too old to play the great Dane, Ben is still a seasoned, powerful performer who I’m sure
will go to great lengths to put his unique touch on Hamlet.Whether it’s worth the several hundred pounds you’d
pay to see it on stage is difficult to judge, but NT Live offers a well produced filming at a fraction of the price.
National Poetry Day Live (Royal Festival Hall, 8 October)
The theme for this year’s National Poetry Day is “Light”, and in line with this Southbank Centre and The Poetry
Society have teamed up to organise an afternoon of events celebrating up-and-coming young poets and artists
presenting their take on light and its manifestations. There will be poetry readings, workshops and installations,
including performances by Karen McCarthy Woolf,John Hegley and many more.There will also be an installation
by poetry light artist Robert Montgomery and opportunities to create your own light-inspired artwork.
Ai Weiwei (Royal Academy, Until 13 December)
Arguably more famous for his political dissidence than his art, Ai Weiei was put under house arrest and tortured
due to his vocal opposition of the Chinese government. The RA has given over many of its main galleries to
showcasing his work; this is a chance to judge the art on its own merits, and it does not disappoint. Filled with
powerful political messages and humanity, Ai combines the remains of Ming and Han dynasty artefacts with his
own minimalist constructions in a witty and moving re-imagination of Michel Duchamp’s ‘readymades’.

