PAGE 32 PAGE 33
SATURDAY 3rd
OCTOBER 2015 felixonline.co.uk felixonline.co.uk SATURDAY 3rd
OCTOBER 2015
THE STUDENT NEWSPAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FILM film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FILM
FELIX Film’s Guide to Cinema on a Budget
Fred Fyles on how to see the most films on the least cash
B
eing a film-lover in London is both a dream and a nightmare. Sure, you may be able to achieve your goal of seeing all the latest arthouse releases as soon as they hit distribution, and be
spoiled for choice in terms of preview screenings, but unless your budget is at a Ridley Scott level, you’ll soon find yourself living off cereal in order to make that Les Enfants du Paradis
screening you’ve been hyping up. Don’t despair – here at FELIX we have used our years of experience of the London cinema scene to discover the best deals in the capital, so you’ll have
more money to go clubbing, splash out on new clothes, or just buy emergency Library Café jacket potatoes. We’ve all been there...
5. Picturehouse Cinema – £5.60
While the Picturehouse chain’s
latest opening, the Picturehouse
Central in Leicester Square, has
hit the news for charging £18 per
ticket at peak times, once you get
out of the centre, things tend to be
much more reasonable. The closest
branch to Imperial, The Gate, is
located just by Notting Hill Gate
station, about 30 minutes from
campus. They offer a £15 student
membership, which includes two
free tickets (peak price for students
is £11.60,so you’re already making a
saving). This membership will then
give you access to £5.60 tickets all-
day Monday.
Nearest Station: Notting Hill
Gate
With the building functioning as
a cinema since 1912, Whitechapel’s
Genesis Cinema offers a piece of
local history, along with ludicrously
plush seats. They show a mixture of
blockbuster and independent fare,
as well as a number of special events
– this year it hosted the annual
Twin Peaks Festival,a celebration of
all things Lynch, and similar things
are planned throughout the season.
Student tickets are £6.50, but if you
want the best deal you should go
along on Mondays, when tickets are
£4 only.
Nearest Station: Stepney Green
2. Genesis Cinema – £4
Whitechapel’s Genesis Cinema, where you can view in style. Photo Credit: Ewan–M
A hidden gem in the London
cinema world, the Institute of
Contemporary Arts on the Mall
offers two small screens, showing
the very best of arthouse and
international films. A student
membership will set you back
£15, but is well worth it for the
benefits: £3 cinema tickets before
6pm Wednesday to Friday, and £3
tickets all day on Tuesday, as well
as discounts in their café and bar.
They also offer up special seasons
on the regular, from a retrospective
of Kieślowski to an exploration of
women filmmakers working today.
Definitely one to visit.
Nearest Station: Piccadilly
Circus
1. ICA Cinema – £3
The ICA Cinema – London’s cheapest arthouse venue. Photo Credit: Victoria
Erdelevskaya
3. PeckhamPlex – £4.99
Sure, south of the river may sound
like a scary place, but with ever-
improving transport links, and a
propensity for edgy overpriced
cafes to pop up overnight, make
sure to get the most out of the
PeckhamPlex before East Dulwich
is unrecognisably gentrified. The
cinema offers all the latest big-
budget showings, with tickets
costing only £4.99,all day,every day.
By the time of writing, it may have
been replaced by a branch of The
Breakfast Club, or maybe another
motherfucking Foxtons, so hop on
the overground fast!
Nearest Station: Peckham Rye
The PeckhamPlex’s cheap tickets are worth making the journey south of the river.
Photo Credit: Time Out
4. Barbican Cinema – £5
Part of the BarbicanCentre’s jaw-
droppingly large offering of cultural
activities, the Barbican Cinema sits
apart from the Ballardian towers of
the estate, in a squat building off
Silk Street. They offer a mixture of
mainstream and arthouse cinema,
mainly focussing on independent
films made by well-known directors.
The Young Barbican Scheme is free
to join for those aged 14-25, and
gives you access to £5 tickets all
day, Monday through to Thursday,
as well as numerous other discounts
on art, dance, and music events
organised by the Barbican Centre.
Nearest Station: Barbican
The brutalist Barbican Centre’s newly developed cinema. Photo Credit: Mihai
Andrei
Just a short walk from Imperial, The Gate is one of the closest independent
cinemas that doesn’t cost the earth. Credit: Our Screen
Imperial Cinema: AutumnTerm Line-Up
I
t’s a brand new academic year and here at Imperial Cinema we’ve come up with a fantastic line-up of films to keep you folks entertained. Whether you’re looking for some high-octane
post-apocalyptic action or are more of a classic Shakespeare kind of guy/gal, we have something for all your cinema taste buds. As usual we’ve kept our prices at just £4 a film (or £3 with
our bargain discount pass) so you don’t have to forgo next week’s dinners for some quality entertainment.
Week 1: 6th
& 8th
October
Inside Out
In this Pixar adventure, the five
emotions come alive; Joy, Sadness,
Anger, Fear and Disgust all have a
part to play when 11 year old Riley
is uprooted from her home in this
riveting and touching story.
Mad Max: Fury Road
Our favourite anti-hero Max
is imprisoned by the gang the
War Boys. But when the warrior
Imperator Furiosa escapes with the
War Boys’ leader Joe’s five wives, he
will stop at nothing to recover them.
Week 2: 13th
& 15th
October
National Theatre Live: Coriolanus
The sell-out Donmar Warehouse
production returns to cinema
screens. Starring Tom Hiddleston
in the title role with support from
Sherlock’s Mark Gatiss, this is
a powerful, unflinching take on
Shakespeare’s classic tale.
National Theatre Live: Hamlet
Benedict Cumberbatch takes
on the Danish Prince in this sell-
out production. Hamlet’s father,
the King of Denmark, has been
murdered and usurped by his
own brother, the evil Claudius.
Can Hamlet allow this to go
unchallenged?
Week 3: 20th
& 22nd
October
Jurassic World
In the fourth instalment in the
Jurassic Park series, Isla Nublar is
yet again the home of a fantastical
dinosaur theme park. However,
when the latest attraction proves
to be too much to handle, it’s up
to dinosaur expert Owen Grady to
save the day.
Spy
When the list of all active CIA
agents falls into the wrong hands,
desk jockey Susan Cooper takes
to the field in an effort to locate a
dangerous suitcase nuke, in this
hilarious action comedy.
Week 4: 27th
& 29th
October
Ant Man
From the Marvel Cinematic
Universe comes well-meaning thief
Scott Lang, inadvertently caught
in a battle between shrinking
technology inventor Hank Pym and
his former protégé Darren Cross.
When Cross perfects his own
shrinking suit it’s down to Lang to
save the day.
Week 5: 3rd
& 5th
November
Mission Impossible: Rogue
Nation
The IMF is disbanded and Ethan
Hunt left a fugitive. Despite this
he and his team face off against
criminal organisation the Syndicate,
who will stop at nothing to establish
a new world order.
Man from U.N.C.L.E
In this film adaptation of the
classic 1960s TV show, a mysterious
criminal organisation hopes to upset
the delicate balance between the US
and the Soviets. A CIA agent and a
KGB agent must work together to
prevent a global catastrophe.
Week 6: 10th
& 12th
November
Straight Outta Compton
In 1988, the group N.W.A.
revolutionised the music scene and
pop culture with the titular album.
This biopic tells the story of their
rise to fame as the five members use
their swagger, bravado and talent to
fight back against the authorities
trying to keep them down.
Week 7: 17th
& 19th
November
Maze Runner: The Scorch Trials
In the second chapter of the Maze
Runner, Thomas, our hero, has
escaped the Maze but must now
face a new set of trials.Will Thomas
and his friends survive The Scorch,
a desolate landscape filled with
challenges in a world contaminated
by the deadly disease known as the
Flare?
For detailed times visit our
website. For screenings find us on
Level 2,Union Building,Beit Quad.
Smart. Nice. Driven.
These are the words we use to define who we are,
what we value and what we seek in individuals.
Unconventional thinking. Real impact.
Find us and join the conversation
•Parthenon-EY Info Session: Wednesday, 14 October 2015 – Time: 18:00
Location: Imperial College London Campus
•Application Deadlines:
Tuesday, 3 November 2015 – Full-time Associate Position
Thursday, 7 January 2016 – Summer Intern Associate Position
Interested in strategy consulting? Learn more about Parthenon-EY.
Come meet the team to explore opportunities on these important dates:
To learn more about Parthenon-EY please visit parthenon.ey.com
Parthenon-EY is a leading advisory organisation
focused on strategy consulting. We are
committed to combining our unconventional
thinking with our clients’ smarts to deliver
actionable strategies. Successful candidates
are intellectually curious and hardworking
with an entrepreneurial mindset.

