PAGE 7
felixonline.co.uk SATURDAY 3rd
OCTOBER 2015
COMMENT comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
They’re all the same: why arguments for not
engaging in student politics are baseless
Despite growing turnout, fewer
than half of 18–24 year olds
believe they have a duty to vote
Eamonn Postlethwaite
Comment Writer
Jeremy Corbyn won the Labour leadership election with a surprising 59.5% majority. Photo Credit: Huffington Post
I
t has been a tumultuous year
for British politics. We had
a surprise majority appear
after the general election, the
Labour leadership campaign played
out exactly opposite to how people
expected, the Liberals have gone
back to the ‘70s and we came within
a whisper of having the British Isles
trimmed at the neck.
For politicos like me, this is such
stuff as dreams are made on, and yet
time and time again the data shows
that the younger the age bracket,the
less people seem to care.This article
is not one of statistics and figures
though, but of arguments against
political apathy. The interested
reader who wishes to add context
might be interested in The Hansard
Society’s annual audit on the subject
or any number of useful documents
from the Commons Library or
Parliament websites.
Here are a few common maladies
the younger voter may suffer from:
“Voting won’t change anything.”
Whether a lazy excuse or a genuine
belief, it is false. It is clear that the
act of voting decides the constituent
parts of the government, which may
radically change the direction the
country is taken in. Whether we are
talking large individual issues, such
as the Commons’ 2013 rejection of
airstrikes in Syria (285-272,against),
or multiple small related changes
which follow a clear and distinct
direction from that of a hypothetical
alternative administration, such as
the many alterations and reductions
in the scope of legal aid we’ve seen
over the past five years, just because
an individual’s life isn’t altered
drastically over the course of one
parliament says nothing about the
state our country is left in.
“My vote won’t change anything”
(a slight refinement).
It is often said that absolute power
corrupts absolutely, and there’s no
quicker path to absolute power
than an electorate who think their
voices carry no weight. I don’t know
enough about the subject (and don’t
have time to sufficiently educate
myself).This can be quite an earnest
argument at times, stemming from
an understanding of the majesty and
importance we should all attribute
to our democratic system. However
I believe that firstly we should allow
our conscience to inform, at least
in part, our vote, without worrying
solely about hard facts and figures,
and secondly someone who realises
the importance of voting in an
informed manner should probably
take a look at their priorities and
set a little time aside, they may even
find they find politics interesting!
Furthermore we live in a democracy
(and all of the problems that
may come with it) rather than a
geniocracy, so perhaps we should
not worry about our relative or
assumed ignorance about politics.
Plato’s dialogue Protagoras, in
which he recalls Socrates asking the
sophist Protagoras why we consult
only shipbuilders about building
ships, only architects about house
design etc. and yet all citizens about
the running of the state, is a far
more intelligent exposition on the
subject.
“The voting system is flawed.”
Yes it is, terribly terribly so (or
you may not think so), and yet
to change it democratically we
can only work within the system
by voting or applying pressure
through other democratic means;
such as petitioning the government
or peaceful protests, all of which
require far more political nonse and
engagement than simply voting
every few years.
“None of the parties represent me.”
The usual responses to this are
unreasonable even to me. They vary
from “start your own political party”
to “join the one closest to your
views and change it from within”.
Neither of which are feasible for
the vast majority of us, and certainly
don’t help you if you need to vote
tomorrow!
Instead I would suggest going to
spoil your ballot paper. It’s quite
fun to come up with inventive
ways to invalid your ballot and if
the 34% of adults who didn’t vote
all spoilt their ballot, vote hungry
established parties would sit up
and take notice and there would
be massive incentives for newer
parties to innovate and try to
harness this sudden outpouring of
dissatisfaction.
It would also create a boom in
grassroots politics, desperate to
engage the same, suddenly vocal,
unhappy majority. All of the above
can do nothing but fuel direct
democracy, perhaps then a party
might start to represent you more
accurately. You can’t be represented
unless people know what you want.
Hence this is my plea to you,
especially those of you just starting
your time at this wonderful place,
get yourself registered to vote and to
damn well do so, and if you decide
to exercise your democratic right
by drawing a massive hairy cock on
your ballot paper, then hurrah!
You can register to vote if
you’re a British, EU or qualifying
Commonwealth citizen. Visit
aboutmyvote.co.uk to find out if
you’re any of the above.The London
Mayoral elections are next May.
Really don’t want to vote for anyone? Spoil the ballot. Photo Credit: mirror.co.uk

