HRH sees white elephant
The Chancellor of the University of London, Her Royal Highness Princess Anne visited Imperial College on Wednesday. The
Princess toured the College's Electrical Engineering department as well as the new Interdisciplinary Research Centres on the South
Kensington site.
After a lunch attended by the Vice Chancellor and ex-rector of IC, Lord Flowers and other notables, she visited St Mary's
Hospital Medical School. Princess Anne's last visit to Imperial College was for the celebration of the merger of the College with
St Mary's Hospital Medical School.
IRC £0,3m underfunded
The most recent of Imperial College's
three prestigious Interdiscipliary Research
Centres (IRC) is already experiencing
financial difficulties and may be over
budget by as much as £300,000.
The IRC, in Process Simulation and
Control, is to be situated in the Chemical
Engineering department. The costs of
setting it up have risen steeply after plans
for housing the Centre were changed. The
original plans, which involved building an
extension on the roof of the Aeronautical
department, had to be abandoned
following a surveyors' report which found
that the existing building was not strong
enough to support the weight of an extra
floor. New proposals involve using more
of the existing Chemical Engineering
department.
Professor Sargent, the director of the
IRC, said that the College was negotiating
with the surveyors, Norman & Dobler, to
try to reduce the cost of the structural work
that was required. He said that he was also
talking to both the Science and
Engineering Research Council (SERC),
who are providing the majority of the
funding for the IRC, and College
Administration in an attempt to obtain
extra funds. Money is also being sought
from organisations outside College.
He blamed the difficulties on the way
in which departments were forced to apply
for IRCs. He said that the grant application
was made on the basis of rough estimates
and a simple study, and that during several
months of discussion about the grant level
with the SERC they had still believed the
original scheme for housing the centre on
the roof was feasible. The grant was
announced in April of this year and the
surveyors' report was not received until
about a month later.
Brian Dennis, Imperial College's
Building Planning Officer, said that 'all
the works that were required were too
expensive' and that negotiations were
progressing on reducing the cost of the
building works generally. He said that he
was unsure what the final cost would be
but that the figure would be 'finalised
within the next month'. He refused to
disclose the figure budgeted for the
building work in the application.
Some ancillary work has already started
on the Centre, which officially opened on
the 1st August this year. Dr Rodney
Eastwood, College Planning Officer, said
that it was a 'six to ten year project' and
that it was 'expected to take a long time
to set up'. He said that College was
'always going to provide funding for some
of the initial phases', but that SERC was
providing 'several hundred thousand for
the initial setting up'. The total value of
the SERC grant to the IRC is £9.3 million.
In his speech at Commemoration Day,
the Rector, Professor Eric Ash, said that
'having three IRCs centred at Imperial
College is a marvellous victory...yet,
because of the restructuring which it
requires, the initial impact is to add
significantly to our financial difficulties."
A recent government report has criticised
the way in which the IRCs have been
awarded and set up.
Issue 8 4 8
Friday 3rd November

