Azhar Ali Abidi tells the tale of his travels on his...
Journey to Kashgar
Journey to Kashgar Long journeys have difficult
beginnings. In the early morning the alarm pierces
through your dreams and shatters your sleep. You eat
your porridge with a foul taste in your mouth. Look
at yourself in the mirror and hate what you see. But
slowly the apprehension of what is to come awakens
your senses. You make a last check of your backpack:
water purifying tablets, insect repellent, water bottle,
camera and films, change of underwear, diary,
sleeping bag, passport, and two hundred dollars
hidden in three different places. Everything in order,
and ready to go.
'Have you packed your toothpaste?' 'Yes mother.'
And you put your toothpaste into an already bursting
side pocket. 'Let us know when you get there son.'
'Sure father.' I was on my way to China.
I had first been on this route at the age of
seventeen, when a group of us were taken
mountaineering on the Rakaposhi. For the uninitiated,
this is an arrogant twenty seven thousand feet high
mountain and rather difficult to climb. It also proved
a little bit too much for some of us, and our rag tag
expedition had to turn back at the base camp. We had
run out of water, one chap had lost his helmet after
he dropped his chocolate in a valley and went looking
for it, and I faced the wrath of the accompanying
mullah who found out that I had been feasting on a
tin of preserved pork meat. That was also thrown
down the valley. We had to content ourselves with
climbing some insignificant peaks, fishing in the river
and eyeing the indigenous females.
A bus took us to the Chinese border. While climbing
a steep hill, it momentarily stopped (we held our
breaths) and then started rolling downhill (we yelled
and jumped out of windows). The driver muttered
'Inshallah' and managed to stop the bus, a feat which
he sincerely ascribed to the help of God. We had to
walk a few miles uphill before a military truck gave
us a lift to the Pakistan-Chinese border. A small
reconnaissance team went with the truck to the
Chinese post five miles inside the border. I stayed
back with some friends at the border where we took
. pictures and stood in a row to relieve ourselves in
Chinese soil. An angry reconnaissance party returned
after an hour. Their fraternising with the Chinese
soldiers (who possessed wine) had been frustrated by
the diabolic mullah.
Caught in the London rush hour traffic, or while
waiting in a supermarket queue, I look back upon
these memories with nostalgia. In the daily web of dull
routines, even the worst moments of exotic journeys
seem bearable. Now I had returned to see if the Silk
route still held the romance that had captured me as
an adolescent. This time however, I was travelling to
the Chinese city of Kashgar.
Our odyssey started at Islamabad airport. A friend
and I boarded a Fokker flight to Gilgit. We were flying
PIA. A German gentleman in the cabin made an
attempt at a joke, 'Zat means Please Inform Allah,
ya!'. My friend was not amused. The Teutonic sense
of humour, unlike their beer, lacks ingredients. Flights
were heavily booked in early August and we were
lucky with the American Express travel agents to get
two seats. The inflight service was without a smile
and purely functional. A waitress tossed us little trays
containing sandwiches and tea-cups. These were
Page 10
Pakistan—Gilgit
promptly snatched away after ten minutes. An English
language newspaper told of U.S. warships closing in
on Iran. My ancestors are Persian. Being a witness to
the game that politicians play with our lives often
proves too much. Refraining from any expression of
outrage in the small cabin (also lacking the tools
thereof), I silently cursed all politicians to the seventh
ring of hell.
From the plane I could easily see the Karakoram
highway running the length of the river Indus. Just
before we touched down at Gilgit airport, we saw an
awesome sight. The Nanga Parbat, a mighty
mountain, stood no more than five miles away,
towering above us like a Queen of Titans. Tourists
fumbled with their cameras and took many pictures.
I merely gazed.
Gilgit is a hot and arid city. Small Suzuki vans
operate a taxi service between the airport and the city
centre. They take you to a hotel of their choice, after
having struck a deal with the manager there. Morever,
they give the impression of a Jong ride by driving
around the town once and then demand a lot of
money. We found that it was better to walk a little
and settled in a pleasant inn run by a nice, plump man.
A broad road runs through the city centre. There are
dozens of roundabouts at junctions where narrow
streets join the main road. Traffic wardens hang about
lazily and guide what little traffic comes their way.
Colourful buses and big lumbering trucks rumble past
small shops, belching smoke and blaring horns.
My travelling companion suggested that we hire
bikes and explore the surroundings. The landscape
outside Gilgit is very beautiful. Little villages and
houses blend perfectly into the countryside. Little
children rolled in dust amid laughter and tears.
Occasionally a Suzuki van or jeep tore through the
silence. We stopped at a fishing spot called Kargah.
This area is off the beaten track and definitely a rock
climber's paradise. Nearby a large Buddha had been
carved in the rock face of a mountain by ancient
Buddhist piligrims.
Our bus to China was a colourful body. Written on
its backside were flowery verses that spoke of a
maiden with long black hair. Hand painted also was
the maximum speed of the vehicle and its age. The
former beyond the machine's capacity, and the latter
impossibly tender. The bus reminded me of ageing
beauties who sit in the London Underground looking
repeatedly at their window reflection to make sure
that the wrinkles are hidden, the lips pout and their
eyes do not show their desperation. The luggage was
bundled on the roof and tied down with ropes.
Backpacks were tucked between our legs. A vicious
looking character claimed my seat and before I could
argue intelligently, he pushed me in the chest. An ugly
scene very nearly followed, but not quite. Some
elderly gentlemen with flowing white beards
intervened, and stopped a punch up. The Vicious
Character later apologised and became very friendly.
That prevented me from giving him a good nose job.
I shall always regret that opportunity in the crowded
bus.
We were finally on our way to Karimabad, the
capital city of Hunza. Landslides on this route can
often hinder progress, as happened to a Dutch student
whom I met later. He had to walk two days to get
there. Our bus took three hours. I must also mention
the kind tractor driver who towed us for a short
stretch. The natives of Hunza drink water of grey
colouration, and encourage outsiders to do so, much
to the latter's consternation. I met several emaciated
tourists who fell ill after having drunk such liquid. They
had believed that it was the elixir of life. Yet people
in Hunza do lead vigorous lives. There were some
living specimens sitting by the roadside, gazing at
nothing in particular (undoubtedly performing mental
acrobatics of Zen), and they were born before the
Great War. We chose to purify our water with chlorine
based tablets. I continued to do so all the way to
Kashgar. It tasted like swimming pool water but I
never had any stomach problems. My friend stayed
at Karimabad and returned home in a few days.

