My stop was the Pakistani immigration and customs
checkpost of Sust. The bus arrived there in the
evening. I had now joined up with an English student
from Oxford. Calum was on his way to Bejing
intending to take a ride on the Trans-Siberian. He was
studying Chinese at college and as things turned out
later, showed that he could also utilise it. He became
a very fine travelling companion.
At high altitudes, food is often not properly cooked.
Our chicken curry was a Piece de Resistance.
Feverishly we pulled and tugged at the dead bird,
trying to render it into small edible pieces. This proved
useless, so we returned it as if nothing had happened
and asked for another dish. I had put some rehydrating
salts in my water bottle, and the pure liquid had now
acquired a sweet taste. Calum thereafter lived with
drinking very little water. We were always hungry and
scavenging for food. This was also due to the fact that
we travelled light; I had a can of hard cheddar cheese,
and Calum carried a packet of Peak Freans biscuits.
There was never enough clean water to drink. Once
a Chinese waiter filled my water bottle with hot green
tea, which came as a shock. But these problems were
minor and did not slow us down.
At 35p a night, our hotel room was the cheapest
in the whole of Sust. The hospitable staff served us
with brimming cups of delicious hot Chai. Presently
Calum dived into the sediment at the bottom of his
rucksack and emerged with a copy of Viz. We flicked
through it to catch up on the slimy jokes. As things
turned out, the magazine became (as it ought to be)
substitute toilet paper. We were asked to fill in the
guestbook. Previous entries included Dutch whores,
English plumbers, Japanese magicians and American
astronauts. To this were added a Crown Prince
accompanied by Dr. Indiana Jones. 'Good night your
Highness', I croaked. Amid sensations of insects
crawling up our legs, we drifted into sleep.
The next morning we headed to the Customs post.
A large crowd of Pakistani traders had gathered here.
Amid excuses and abuses, we shoved and pushed our
way to the front. Calum was to learn that in this part
of the world, there was no concept of queues
whatsoever. Seeing that we looked like innocent
backpackers, the officials cleared us in no time. Now
came a bigger problem. We were to head to the
Chinese border in a red Toyota Landcruiser. Calum
wanted to get the best view. The front seat had
already been taken by the Vicious Character. After
much ado, Calum chose to sit behind the driver. This
did not work out as everyone had been given seat
numbers and ours were right at the back. Our view
was hence limited through the rear windows. Calum
asked the Punjabi sitting in front if he would mind
swapping seats. But he did not want a stranger to sit
next to his wife, 'Wot! Noo. I sit vith the ladiez.'
Calum was immensely displeased by this situation
as he had no intention of seducing the fat woman. His
acid reply remains unprintable. To compensate for the
loss, we persuaded the driver to stop at all scenic
spots, and promised to put him in a lot of pictures.
En route we passed several people who were walking
and one odd American who was mending a puncture
on his mountain bike. The scenery was simply
magnificient. The mountains were larger than those
we had seen before. Goats grazed in small patches
of grassland. Out there somewhere, snow leopards
lurked in the terrible wilderness. The Punjabis were
playing Indian pop music on the stereo. Calum was
not amused by this breach of the aesthetic and
announced so. I expressed our mutual disgust in
gentle words, and asked the fellow passengers to turn
it off. They were kind enough to turn down the
volume. The pass that connects China and Pakistan
by road is called Khunjerab, or 'Valley of Blood'. The
road is dangerous in some places, and first time
travellers might be intimidated by the shear drops into
the river, or the constant hazard of landslides. Yet an
Elizabethan explorer had dismissed it as '...an
excursion for the ladies...'. We stopped there to fill
our water bottles with virgin snow and took some
pictures.
Our jeep arrived at the Chinese post of Pirali after
roughly two hours. Officials stamped our passports
and made a cursory check on our backpacks. They
are usually quite lenient towards tourists. Their wrath
shows itself upon the Pakistani traders who bring in
a lot of goods, and do the same while going out.
Outside the Customs building we were met by a
Chinese television crew. Obviously they were making
films to show people that despite what happened in
Tianamenn Square, tourists were still coming to
China. Hating to find ourselves in propoganda
newsreels, we stayed well away.
The Chinese monetary system is complicated and
those who hate finance should skip this paragraph.
At the border we changed our dollars into FEC (Foreign
exchange certificate). It should be noted that dollars
and FEC fetch a high value in the Chinese black
market. The ordinary currency inside China is called
China—Kashgar
The Abakh Khoja Tomb
Rimimbi. We exchanged our FEC for Rimimbi in
Tashkurgan and Kashgar. If you look foreign enough,
shady characters are bound to approach you sooner
or later and try to sell Rimimbi. These 'illegal' deals
are negotiated with a pen and a piece of paper.
Exchange rates may vary between 1:1.6 to 1:2. The
shady characters are seasoned conmen. We always
counted the money before accepting it.
Kashgar is a long way from Pirali. Long bus drives
ain't no fun. When you sit for endless hours in a bus
full of pale foreigners, imposing Pathans, and babbling
Punjabis, a musty smell of sweat and unwashed
bodies can become quite overpowering. The absence
of proper 'facilities' in these areas means that you
have to take your toilet roll (or Viz) and wander out
to find a deserted spot near a river. Squat and
comtemplate the waves. Or hide behind a clump of
bush and observe insect life at close hand. Either way
hope not to be detected and be quick.
Tashkurgan is the first settlement inside China. It
is ninety kilometers from Pirali. The population mainly
consists of Central Asian Tadjiks. They are fair and
have green eyes, probably traces of early Aryan
origins. Tadjik women are very attractive - almond
eyes in chiselled faces. They wear bright silk skirts
and colourful hats, and walk with an elegant gait. A
contingent of PLA soldiers maintains a constant
presence. They fill their empty hours with tobacco and
snooker. On the furthermost end of town, the Tadjiks
live in mud houses, much as they have lived for
countless centuries. They are a quiet folk and do not
show much interest in outsiders. Indeed they regard
the Han Chinese and their protagonists as intruders
upon their land.
A thousand years ago, a princess of Cathay had
come this way and erected a fortress on top of a hill.
Little now remains of the fortress except mud walls
in ruins. It is believed that beyond the northern
perimeter wall ran the original Silk route.
It was getting dark and a thunderstorm was
approaching from the east. Unperturbed we scaled the
perimeter wall and landed a thousand years back in
time. Calum was ecstatic. 'Marco! Eat your heart
out...' he yodelled and pressed his palms onto the flat
ground. We stood on a dust road that was bounded
by a five foot high wall on its outer side. So this was
the silk route whereupon once turbaned merchants led
camel caravans to the golden cities of Samarkand and
Xanadu. What mighty kings and fearsome armies
must have trodden upon this path, and turned into the
dust that now lay under our feet? We left when the
rain turned into a hailstorm
Officially all China runs on Peking standard time.
Page 11

