Rebel natives however keep local time, and many
others simply do not care. We always synchronised
our watches with the bus driver, or the people in the
ticket office. It took us six hours to reach Kashgar.
The Central Asian landscape has a beauty which is
too wild to describe. It is a measureless wilderness.
There are vast swamps, red mountains, sand dunes,
and numerous boulders strewn like a million pearls.
Wild camels roam in the backdrop of the Pamirs.
Peter Fleming undertook this journey in 1935. His
travel account is described in a classic book called
'News from Tartary'. In those days, the journey from
Gilgit to Kashgar took something like thirty days.
Thanks to the Karakoram Highway, this has now been
cut down to three. Fleming's Kashgar was teeming
with Russian spies, British agents, Swedish
missionaries and all other sorts of colourful characters.
Amid intrigue and conspiracies, lavish banquests were
thrown by rival Powers, and people got killed. The
present day town is tame in comparison. You run the
risk of being run down by a donkey cart, conned by
a Shady Character, or falling victim to stomach
problems.
Kashgar is an Oasis town on the rim of the
Taklamakan desert. The population is predominantly
Uyger by race, and Muslim by faith. This is a medieval
city with an extreme climate. We rode in a donkey cart
to the Seman hotel. This used to be the Russian
Consulate. A couple of stunning hostesses greeted us
at the reception. In their native costumes they looked
'...dressed to kill...' in the words of wide-eyed Calum.
A man of good taste. I wondered at the nature and
extent of their services but could not find out more
as the room charges were quite expensive, and we
had to leave this charming place for a cheaper hotel.
I changed into shorts and shot out of the hotel like
a bat from hell, straight to the 'Oasis cafe'. This is a
Parisian style restuarant opposite Seman. There I
ordered a beer and settled next to an attractive young
lady who looked very colonial with a square green hat
on golden blonde hair. 'May 1 borrow your guide
book?', she asked. 'Sure.' I settled back in my seat.
I finished my golden nectar and she ate her yoghurt.
'So you lived in Notting Hill ?' She envied me. 'Yes
I used to. Isn't it a nice place?' 'There are so many
cosy little restuarants. Oh yes...' She hummed to
herself. I ordered a yoghurt. 'Will you go back to
London?' 'Yes I think I will.' She mused, 'But first I
want to go to my parents' home in New Zealand. They
have a big house and.a garden, you know. A change
from my grotty flat in Ealing.'
She returned my book, and we ate our yoghurts.
'Where do you plan to go ?' She asked. 'I am not quite
sure. Maybe I'll travel upto Turfan. What about you?'
'Me and my girlfriend are thinking of going to the
Russian border. There is a lot of raw beauty there you
know, and some sort of lake as well.' For a while I
seriously considered including the Russian border in
my itinerary. A silence followed. She wrote something
in her diary and finally got up. 'Are there any good
places to eat around here ?' I asked. 'Try the shops
down the road. We do. They serve nice dinner.'
The Eidgah is a big mosque in the centre of town
and forms the focal point of many activities. The
faithful sit placidly on the front steps and wait for the
call for prayers. Street hawkers sell bracelets, old
coins, and rings under the shadow of the minaret.
Little children dance gleefully around lone tourists and
beg them to take their pictures. Old men with chiselled
weather-beaten faces and pointed beards, shuffle
past in long boots, conical hats, and warm thick black
coats. There attire has not changed since the times
of Genghiz Khan. In the dusty sun-lit alleys, "... slant
eyed Kirghiz and bearded Tadjiks from the hills move
with a hint of swagger among the self-effacing Turkis.
Here and there a stiff black horse-hair veil, a brightly
striped rope betrayed a woman from Andijan or
Samarkand..." Nearby is a medieval market that is a
labyrinth of numerous narrow lanes. Bazaaris sit in
Page 12
little cluttered shops and sell curved knifes, fur hats,
jade, silk, carpets and hashish.
The next morning, we found to our disgust that
there was no water in the toilets and the loos were
choked. Indeed, in the sincere words of Gabriel Garcia
Marquez; "...a tender breath of human shit, warm and
sad, rose above the city and stirred the certainty of
death in the depths of ones sou!".
We hired bicycles and went to the bus-stop. It
looked more like a chicken farm. Calum plunged
straight into the mass of small statured people and
had an animated conversation in Chinese with the
woman behind the counter. He succeeded in getting
a ticket to Turfan for the next morning. I bought a
ticket back to Sust and asked what time the bus left.
We spent that evening at the Oasis cafe and chatted
with some French tourists and a couple of Pakistani
girls.
Much later I ventured out alone towards the Eidgah
mosque. It was very dark and crowds were thinning
out in bars and restuarants. But the Square bustled
with a thousand people: shadows in the night with
no faces. This was a scene stolen from 'The Arabian
Nights'. Strange aromas drifted from dark alleys and
melted into the cool night air. Old men sitting on the
ground sold Turkish sweets. Little groups of
philosophers chatted at the mosque entrance. A few
men sat here and there, playing cards in the orange
light of lanterns. Women peeked secretly from green
shutters, but vanished before one could catch a
glimpse of their unveiled faces. Tired men sat on the
steps of their houses, their fingers round a cigarette,
and the bright ember would light up their crinkled
eyes. Shish kebabs were being roasted on red hot
coal. A man practised the strings of his guitar. I
stopped at a street vendor's shop and asked for Qulfi
(ice-cream made from milk and sugar). The
shopkeeper borrowed my camera and took a few
shots at crazy angles. He also charged me for the
Qulfi.
The next morning Calum was up early and looked
in poor shape. His lips were parched, and he kept
complaining of a throbbing headache and a severe
stomach upset. We bade goodbye and he hurriedly left
on a donkey cart to catch his bus. I had a quiet
breakfast. Half an hour later, on my way to the bus-
stop, I heard noises in the hotel lobby. A heated
argument was in full tempest. The hotel staff were
muttering apologies to Calum who was fuming and
red in the face. The Chinese had assured him that the
bus would leave on Sinkiang time. It had departed on
Bejing time and was gone for several hours. As things
stood then, I believe he chose to hitch-hike. That
would have taken him through a part of the
Taklamakan desert. Eager not to miss my bus, I left
early and could not find out how he managed.
My camera was stolen on the way. Luckily the
precious films had been kept separate and remained
untouched. I did not discover the theft until late that
night, and raised the alarm next morning. Everybody
in the bus showed concern, including the thief,
whoever he was. My neighbour was an ignorant
peasant who was baffled by my rage and wore an
expression of bovine stupidity. The Customs at Pirali
searched the passengers but found nothing. The
Chinese police also proved quite incapable of
retrieving anything and were much frustrated by their
impotence. I told them not to worry and made my exit
from their smoke filled room with a smile on my face.
My last roll of film was lost with the apparatus. It
contained few shots,,but among them were those
taken by the Qulfi seller in Kashgar.
I had brought back with me a bottle of Chinese red
wine (best drunk when dying of thirst). Taking liqueur
inside Pakistan was of course illegal. However when
the Customs people heard my story of the stolen
camera, they were sorry and let me go without
checking my gear. I chose to hitch-hike from Sust to
Gilgit. The first jeep stopped after I had walked seven
kilometers and dropped me off at a village between
Sust and Karimabad. They advised me not to go any
further as it was getting dark. I nodded
understandingly and left with an excuse to pluck some
apricots. Another jeep stopped after three kilometers.
The driver was a dubious character. He asked me
nothing and spoke little. I felt slightly uneasy and lit
up a cigarette. Soon he stopped the jeep in the middle
of nowhere. I remembered my Kung-fu lessons well
and slowly tightened my fists. Now here was a chance
to give somebody a nose job, I thought. One move
and I could land a punch in his face, and another
behind his ear, in rapid sucession. The chap opened
his glove compartment, took out a piece of newspaper
and rolled up some dope. He lit up the joint and started
driving. This experience proved to be more hair-raising
than riding the roller coaster in the Munich beer
festival.
I started from Karimabad the next morning. A bus
dropped me off near Rakaposhi. I stared at my
mountain for many silent minutes and longed to climb
it. A dozen kilometers further down the road, a car
gave me a lift. The land journey from Gilgit to
Rawalpindi is long and very tiring. Road conditions are
regrettably poor. Buses take at least eighteen hours.
The scenery is monotonous - a wall of mountains on
either side, and a river down below.
We reached the Swat valley at two o'clock after
midnight, and were stopped at 3 police checkpost.
Apparently bandits lurked in this area. So the
policemen who carried vintage Lee Enfield rifles
assembled a convoy and we departed under armed
gaurd. A scared driver in the car in front of us
brandished a Kalashnikov through his window. If the
bandits were to strike, he was the first to go. We
quickly established some distance between us. I took
turns at driving and we did the stretch in fourteen
hours flat. I was home in the morning of the twelfth
of August.
Most journeys seem to have abrupt endings. This
realisation came from all too familiar words. 'Son,' my
dear mother started, 'you forgot to take your slippers.
Why do you keep buying things that you never wear?'
Azhar AM Abidi
1. 'News from Tartary'; Peter Fleming.
2. 'Love in the times of Cholera'; Gabriel Garcia
Marquez.
3. After many adventures, Calum is back at college
in Oxford, and can be found in pubs near Blackwell's.
Exploring and sporting expedition leaving England July
to explore rivers in dug-out canoe; Amazonia. Room
four more guns; highest references expected and
given; contact writer via Elec Eng III pigeonholes.

