President, Neil McCluskey writes on the latest progress
on the loans issue and other more down to earth affairs
Big Mac reports
Here we have another lengthy report to describe what
I've been doing over recent days.
External Affairs
Loans-The Ongoing Saga
All the letters regarding the Price-Waterhouse affair
have been written and sent as instructed in the motion
passed at the last EGM. For those people who did not
attend, the decision was taken to refuse Price-
Waterhouse admission to the Imperial College Careers
Fair. Writing to Price-Waterhouse had a marked effect;
within 48 hours of them receiving a letter, myself and
David Smedley were talking to two of their partners.
This meeting lasted 41
/2 hours and ended with
everybody having a fairly healthy respect for each
other. Price-Waterhouse seemed pleasantly surprised
that we could conduct a rational, sound argument at
their level. Now that one company has realised that
we are reasonable to talk to and hold genuine doubts
about the loans scheme working then maybe we will
be introduced to others and finally actually get
somewhere.
The last word on loans for this issue is...
The loans scheme will affect you. You will lose your
rights to benefits. You will be the worst paid person
in this country (including YTS people!). Get off your
bottoms, find out about it and do something about it.
Questions can be asked of me on this matter at next
week's UGM. Thursday 1pm in the JCR.
The NUS will be persuading the constituent
members to hold a week of action next week with
regional demos on November 16th and the London
Regional Demo on November 29th. Further details on
the demos will be available shortly.
NUS Referendum
I've asked the NUS to contact me so that we can sit
down and talk to them about the pros and cons of
joining the NUS. I hope they do eventually contact me.
The referendum is likely to be held some time in
February with a debate on the matter some time in
late January.
Poll Tax
General Union Council (re reps from each London
College Union) has brought to the attention of its
members that some colleges may be in breach of the
data protection act in releasing students' names and
addresses. I have checked with my sources and I
don't think we have a case that will stand up against
our College. General info on Poll Tax (and how to
obstruct it!!) will appear shortly. In the meantime, if
you're being asked to register; ask as many questions
of the CRRO as possible, smear butter on the bar
code, say you've lost the form, ask for your address
not to appear on the public register. Information on
how to deal with your landlord with respect to your
rates element in your rent will be released in February.
Accommodation
Committees concerning student accommodation are
just starting, so things aren't really happening yet.
Well, apart from the usual that is...Complaints have
taken the usual format ie rents are too high,
allocations weren't altogether perfect, the halls aren't
the best you've seen, Hamlet Gardens is even worse
etc etc. The aspect of rents will be coming up at
College committees soon. I am of the opinion that if
rents go up any further then students won't bother
to apply to halls of residence and the residences will
lose out even further. I also think Olave House is a
complete waste of money losing over £100,000 alone
last year!
For those in the private-rented sector Yve Posner
has put together a housing rights information pack
which is available from the Union Office. I have every
intention of putting wheels into motion to improve the
services for students looking for private flats etc and
will be putting a full report to College on my ideas
shortly.
Insurance and Security
Over the last few weeks there have been a number
of thefts of personal property from the Union Building.
We have the difficult situation of students wanting
security to be better but not wanting want to have
access restricted: not an easy problem to solve.
Personally I would like to see entry to College and
Union premises by valid members and their guests
only; this would certainly improve security. A word
of advice, however: students' personal property is not
insured under the Union policy so students should
think seriously about taking out their own insurance
and/or looking after their property.
Vans
I have received a number of complaints about one of
the Union vans (OLE-the big green one) being in a
state of disrepair. It is, but this is the van that is due
to go when the new van arrives. It is pointless paying
out more money on repairs at this point in time. If
people are so unhappy about it then the van will be
kept in the carpark and not used thus reducing the
number of vans available. I am doing my best to speed
up delivery of the new van but it's out of my hands.
Welfare
The housing and benefits rights days went extremely
well. My thanks to Jackie Scott, Union Welfare Office,
and Yve Posner, Union Welfare Adviser, for all their
hard work. The next campaign is due in December and
its aim will be to promote awareness of over-
indulgence in alcoholic excess!!!
Parking Permits
The permits awarded to those who appealed should
have been printed last week but they weren't! They
appear this week. If I receive any more hassle I think
I'll go insane.
International Student Conventions
I have received information and invites to the
following student meetings:
*ISFIT-90, Trondheim, Norway, 17-22 April 1990.
Deadline for applications 10.12.90.
ENSTA, Paris 16-16 Jan 1990. Deadline asap.
Semaine Europeene, Paris 19-23 Feb 1990. Deadline
30.11.89.
"Individuals can also apply
All of the above meetings are organised free of charge
and the only expenses to find are travel costs. The
Industrial Relations Committee has agreed to put aside
part of the profits from the Careers Fair to subsidise
the travel by 40%. In return for the subsidy all we ask
is that you produce a report on the meeting and that
you attend in the capacity of a representative of
Imperial College Union. Applications are invited for
which forms are available in the Union Office.
Information on the conventions is available for reading
in my office but this cannot be taken away.
Finally, I would like to say a public thank you to the
CCUs for inviting me to their Departmental Freshers'
dinners. Those I managed to attend I enjoyed
immensely and I appreciated the opportunity to talk
to academics and students together. The biggest
thanks must go to the organisers of each dinner, they
must have put in a lot of work to make the evenings
a success. On the subject of thanks, I must thank
Fiona Nicholas, the ICU Hon Sec for organising the
Commemoration Ball, held in the London Dungeon.
The event was a storming success and I'm sure
everyone must have enjoyed it.
13 Page

