Deputy Dai's timely warnings
Illegal Timetabling
This is an issue which has generated a lot of publicity
recently. It is College policy that no lectures or lab
tutorials or seminars should be scheduled between
12.30pm and 1.30pm on Monday and Friday,
between 12.30pm and 2.30pm on Tuesday and
Thursday and from 12.30pm onwards on a
Wednesday afternoon. If you have anything
timetabled during this time, come and see me
immediately. This space is set aside so that you can
take part in sports, club activities or humanities
courses and, of course, to have lunch. This applies
equally to undergraduate and postgraduate courses.
It has come to my attention that certain departments
'ask' the class if they 'mind' moving classes to these
times. If they ask you, stand up for your rights. Your
departments cannot force things on you, just don't
be afraid to say no.
External Bank Accounts
This year I have discovered a number of illegal external
bank accounts, which I am endeavouring to close
down. There are a number of people who think that
external accounts should be allowed. A tale about one
of these accounts shows clearly one of the arguments
against them.
Last year a club closed their account which
contained nearly £750. This money was then,
transferred, not to the Union's account, but to the
treasurer's personal account. Luckily the treasurer
was honest enough to eventually pay the money back
to the Union, but he could have easily taken a holiday
in Rio with YOUR money.
Security
There is a considerable crimewave hitting the Union
Building and, probably, the rest of College. We are
averaging two thefts per week of personal property.
Please keep your valuables on your person or in a
secure place. If you see someone acting suspiciously
tell security or a Union Officer. It is a problem which
cannot be easily solved, it needs individual awareness
and response.
To all ladies reading this article; if you have not yet
picked up a rape alarm then please do so. They are
completely free. If you had one last year; we have the
gas refils. Please note, the gas is ozone friendly!!
Dave Williams, ICU Deputy President.
Fiona
knackeredless
Phew! What a month October was. I never thought
it was possible to survive on so little sleep...
Parking Permits
Here is the Appeal and Reserve list for parking permits
combined. Please come and collect them from the
Union Office by 5pm on Friday, 10th November.
TPJ 673X B331 CKJ
OLG 66V A305 DOP
DLL 6623 A260 VOV
CFC311Y C662 VLE/PMX 4DF
JGJ 389Y AUU 668T
LYO 656 C771 CUD
B140EGP ST2 817
BLM 366Y/D383 WCU B350 GTN
XTV 228Y BAA 326V
B561 WBK OOC 604X
MKX 721V F347 CGP
B589 VYL MXK 7435
F553 TLO KLY819P
PGH 325V MSF 26T
Action Time
Are you good at quizzes? A new quiz game, Intellect,
is being launched in November and requires teams of
three people comprising a lecturer, a postgraduate and
an undergraduate. There will be a practice run-through
on 27th November and contestants should have a
sense of humour as well as a high IQ. Please come
and see me as soon as possible if you'd like to take
part.
University Challenge
More about quizzes. On December 14th BBC Radio
4 Science Now team are hoping to record University
Challenge in the Concert Hall.
This will be an informative skit on developments in
science over the last ten years. There will be free
tickets available for this event nearer the time. There
is a £50 book token available for the best poster
design for the quiz. The design should be in two
colours and be of A3 size. Talk to me if you're
interested.
Rag Week
This is going to be ace and everyone should at least
go to something or you're dead boring.
Lots of love, your squidgy Hon Sec.
Page 14
Postgraduate meeting to
discuss affairs
The first meeting of the Union Postgraduate Group will
be held on Tuesday 7th November at 1 pm in the Union
Dining Hall. Tea and biscuits will be provided.
The Postgraduate Group has two objectives:
1. The representation of postgraduates, at all levels,
with ICU and College.
2, To provide social activities for PGs in College and
to provide finance for departmental postgraduate
groups.
Membership (free, of course) is open to all PGs
registered within College. If you are interested in being
involved in PG affairs, please come along; there are
several vacant positions on the Committee for
enthusiastic members. If you want to organise some
activities within your department, come along and we
can give you any help that we can, and possibly
financial assistance. If you have some problem you
would like to discuss or ask our help with please come
along and talk to us. The PG group needs people to
come and tell us about their problems as a PG student
at Imperial or else we will never know and therefore
be unable to help. All are welcome: by helping the PG
group you can help yourself and all the other PGs in
College. Break the apathy and get involved.
Martin Gans, PGAO.
Dave Williams, ICU Dept Pres.
Turnip's twaddle
Ron: Two years ago, we went for a break to Guildford,
didn't we Ron?
Ron: Yeah, Ron, but there was a spo' 'ov bovver,
wasn't there, Ron?
Ron: There was, Ron 'ad a bi' ov' a run-in wiv' the
Old Bill.
Ron: They said we were enjoying our Break too much.
Ron: Yes, Ron.
Ron: Who' this bloke in Guildford, then? Cox, I fink
'is name is.
Ron: I 'erd he's 'coxed' things up this year so we can't
'ave a break in Guildford.
Ron: An' we don't like people who stop us enjoying
a break , do we Ron.
Ron: No Ron.
-
Ron: They seem to get breaks that they don't enjoy,
Ron?
Ron! Right, Ron. I 'erd he plays Rugby....
Ron: ....so they should soon be 'Coxless', an' I don't
mean their 1st eight.
Surrey University have misplaced their UAU spirit
somewhere, or someone drank it. More likely
someone poured it down the sink 'cos it was only 5%
by volume anyway.
But I think I've worked out why this chap Jason Cox
(their Athletic Union President) is so sore with us. It
wasn't the sound thrashing doled out on them by
Imperial. It wasn't the boisterous singing in their
Union, even though that was awful. It wasn't the bar-
diving from the first floor of their split level bar. And
do you think we would complain about a fight with
a barman or a shopping trolley through a refectory
window?
Nah, what really p* * *ed them off was the fact that
we shouted down all the correct answers during their
Union Bar Quiz, and then when they finally cottoned
on (which took them some time), we started shouting
down all the wrong answers!
So that's it. We can't go to their Union this year
bacause it clashes with a bar quiz. I reckon they'll sort
it out in two years time.
Anyway, what sort of Union organises a bar quiz
in the evening after a UAU game?
Ben Turner, ACC Chairman.

