Hockey
IC 1-5 LSE 1-1
The first UAU match of the year saw IC Men's 1st
team continue their unbeaten run with a 5-1 victory
over LSE.
The first half started slowly, but when IC managed
to adapt to the bumpy grass pitch from the 'astro'
which they were used to, they immediately looked the
better side.
IC's first short corner of the match just went wide,
but it wasn't long before the second 'shortie' was put
away by Mike Marshall. Short corners proved to be
the decisive part of the game with all 5 IC goals
resulting from them.
The combination of Mark Rayfield pushing out, Hari
Vamadevan stopping and Mark London striking
worked extremely well with Mark getting 3 goals.
Mark Rayfield got the final goal after doing an
impression of a beached whale while flicking the ball
over the keeper from a saved short.
The game may have been won on short corners but
they wouldn't have resulted but for excellent play in
the half back line.
IC were unlucky to concede the single goal when
an awkward bounce set an LSE player free. Until then
the defence had coped more than adequately with
Paul Lowercombe marking their centre forward totally
out of the game.
Hopefully this fine performance can be repeated in
the other UAU matches to come.
IC 11-1 LSE II—0
After waiting a considerable time for the 1st's game
to finish, the 2nd's went into the game with great
confidence as the result last year was 8-0 to IC, but
they only ended up just beating them 1-0.
The game started extremely scrappily, partly due
to the bad grass surface and partly the umpiring which
was generally very bad throughout the game. IC
would have done better but they lowered their play
down to LSE's worse level. A few chances were
squandered for IC but LSE never looked like scoring.
IC started the second half with more vigour as they
needed a good score against LSE to win their group
in the UAU. A hit was given to IC halfway through
the second half which was taken about 10 yards
outside the LSE 'D'. Colin Wright struck the ball hard
and Dave Millard poached a goal from almost nothing
by creeping behind the defence and deflecting the ball
into the net to score a goal. A good win for IC?
Mixed Tournament—Motspur Park
Who ever thought of getting up on a cold, wet
morning to play a few games of mixed hockey after
a heavy session in the Bar the night before? Well, it
was Hassan Majid and Kevin Hill—they were the ones
who organised the greatest mixed hockey event of the
year.
IC managed to drag two teams from their beds and
a mad cyclist who didn't enjoy the ride there and back.
Despite the sense of humour lost by several teams
who managed to take a full strength 1 st team, we all
had a good time by 'switching' positions on the field
and getting seriously pissed off with the rain.
Stars of the day were Colin Wright who managed
a couple of magnificent saves in goal, Dave Millard
for a great comeback to his natural centre-forward
position by scoring twice and Lisa Preedy who took
his sexist comments all day.
IC II brilliantly executed their ploy of lulling future
opposition into a false sense of security with a 2-1
defeat against LSE.
IC went in with a 1 -0 half-time lead after N Leonard
had managed to get his fringe onto an A Pinto corner.
His delicate touch confused the LSE defence, and an
ensuing deflection was punched into his own net by
the keeper.
The second half was used to good effect to bring
the IC ploy into action-a more relaxed performace
allowing LSE to score 2 goals midway through the
half.
With opposition now suitably confused it is time for
IC to respond and reveal their true excellence. Yes
folks, they lost 2-1.
Six-a-side
Tournament
IC 1 sts fell at the last hurdle in the annual ULU six-a-
side tournament at Motspur Park, going down 2-0 to
St Thomas' in the final.
IC finished top of their first-round group after
beating QMC 2-1, LSE 3-0 and going down 2-0 to St
Thomas', all the goals coming from Pat and Felix. The
quarter final brought IC's best performance, against
a UC side that had yet to concede a goal. IC won 2-0
with one goal each for Pat and Felix.
The semi-final against LSE was a gruelling
encounter with IC well on top but unable to break the
deadlock. At 0-0 after extra time the match was
decided on a sudden death penalty shoot out. Si
Holden saved LSE's first effort and was off on a
victory lap before being ordered back by the ref, who
adjudged that the IC skipper had moved before the
ball was kicked. Justice was done two shots later
when LSE hit the bar and Chris Burton cooly slotted
the winning penalty home.
IC had the better of the first half in the final and only
a brilliant save from the St Thomas' keeper kept Pat
Fancokc out. However, in the second period the legs
began to tire and it still took a cruel deflection off the
boot of Chris Burton to give St Thomas the lead. IC
pressed forward in search of the equaliser but could
find no way through and St Thomas were able to grab
a second goal on a counter attack. IC's achievement
in coming second was all the more remarkable as they
only had the minimum of 6 players instead of the usual
squad of 8.
A spectacular thirty yard own goal by Ollie Guerkin,
LSE's right back, in the first minute of the second half
gave IC the points in this crucial UAU/ULU league
game.
IC had fallen behind midway through the first half
after a long kick from the LSE keeper caused
confusion at the back, allowing one of their forwards
to nip in and score. A period of confusion followed
when IC, not finding their usual rhythm were unsettled
by the blustery conditions. LSE nearly extended their
lead when Stu Miller managed to put LSE clean
through but Si Holden saved well. IC gradually settled
down and deservedly pulled level with a great goal
from Femi Omatoya just before the interval.
The second half opened with Mr Guerkin's effort:
under pressure, he turned and smacked the ball over
the keeper's head from thirty yards. This bolstered IC
and they pushed forward well, Tim Fisher hitting the
bar with a beautiful free kick and Mike Patton the post
in a goalmouth scramble. LSE continued to play with
some confidence but, despite some indifferent
goalkeeping, failed to breach the IC defence.
IC Vl-(0)1 St Thomas 11-(0)1
IC VI struggled hard in the first half of this match
against gale force winds with keeper Mike Potter
making some excellent saves to keep the score 0-0
at half-time.
In the second half, with the advantage of the wind
behind them, IC strode forward with some good
midfield work by Narhinda Sangha. Then, from a
classy build-up, Phil Caldwell curled the ball past their
advancing goalie into the far corner of the net.
LSE-3 IC-2
The IC Men's UAU Squash squad were narrowly
defeated last week by a traditionally tough LSE
opposition. Nick See, our no. 5, put in a credible but
nervous first performance and lost. Rawle Adams won
easily 3-7, not as easily though as Joe Devereux who
thrashed his opponent 3-0 (Joe was a draft-in from
St Mary's). Our Mauritian no.2 Colin Taylor looked like
taking the match for Imperial, but narrowly lost 3-2.
The match then hinged on Craig Robinson beating
Jason Fletcher. A tired and lacklustre performance
from the injured Imperial no.1, Robinson, meant the
match went to LSE.
Page 15

