Dance in popular demand
Dance Club has started off very well. We already have
120 paid up members after just two weeks of lessons
and even more people have turned up to the classes.
Due to popular demand a second beginner's Rock 'n'
Roll class has been set up on Wednesday at 3.15pm
in the SCR (Union Building). The jazz is now at 3.30pm
in the Union Gym Isee What's On page).
For those of you unfamiliar with Dance Club we
offer lessons in Social Ballroom, Latin American, Rock
'n' Roll and Jazz at all levels.
As well as giving lessons we also offer you the
chance to compete against other universities. Last
year the Imperial College Dance team came second
only to Cambridge at the intervarsity competition.
On November 17/18 we are hosting a 24-hour
sponsored dance to raise money for the BBC's
Children in Need Day. The event starts at 6.00pm on
Friday in the JCR. Anyone interested in participating
or wanting more information should contact a member
of the Dance Club committee. Sponsorship forms are
available at all the lessons.
One more date for your diary-the Annual London
Ball is being held on December 2nd. Details of this
event will be announced in a later issue of FELIX.
If you have thought about joining the Club but
haven't got around to it yet, it is not too late, just
come along to any of the lessons-we would love to
see you.
Debating—Afghanistan
On March 6th 1989 the religious fanatic group, the
'Mujahedin' declared 'jihad' (holy war) on Jalalabad.
Between March and July 40,000 of their troups
marched on Jalalbad, and the city was bombarded by
5,000 rockets, causing 973 houses to be damaged
along with 150 government buildings, shops,
markets, mosques and temples. The casualties
included 1993 injured, and 1002 killed, half of them
children. It all ended on July 7th, as thousands of
Afghanistan citizens marched to celebrate victory over
the mujahedin chanting 'Afghanistan Zindabadl' Hong
live Afghanistan) and 'Marg ya Watan' (death or
country). The front has now been pushed back to
Samarkhel, some 12-15 km further east. Samarkhel
used to be a tourist spot, renowned fortts beauty, but
now the streets lay strewn with debris from the
damaged schools and shops. Could this devastation
have been avoided? The Sparticist League thinks so.
They argue that the USSR peace keeping force should
not have withdrawn from Afghanistan, and are
prepared to debate their point of view with the British
communist party. They believe that the Mujahedin are
backed by the CIA, and are also campaigning for
women's rights to cast off the veil. The debate will
be on Thursday November 9th at 1.30pm in Huxley
341.
Ten Pin Bowling
Last Saturday (28th Oct), the Ten Pin Bowling Club
team played their second match in the University
Bowling League against Southampton University.
Despite the fact that Southampton have a notoriously
good team, our team beat them 6-4. The match was
very close throughout but was finally decided on
pintail, over the whole 12 games played. The ladies
team especially did very well beating Southampton by
over 300 pins. This was partly due to a very high
Page 16
series by Katie who played better than most of the
A team. The A team itself also won against, arguably
the best A team in the league. All the players did well
and Southampton were more than just a bit miffed.
The B and C team both came extremely close to
winning on several occasions with a difference in one
game of only 3 pins. Finally Phil Wren (A team) must
be mentioned for the highest series of the match with
a 500.
Real Ale
Enterprise
By the time you read this we will have had yet another
successful Real Ale enterprise, namely our trip to the
Greene King Brewery in Bury St Edmonds. The
excursion commenced at the hideously early time of
12.30pm. Two enthralling, bum-numbing hours later
we were in time to be a mere fifteen minutes late.
There followed a mind-blowing look at the brewing
process which we all enjoyed. We then had an
opportunity to sample one or two of the fine ales
brewed there except Jon who was driving (hee, hee,
hee). After some heroic drinking by the rest of the
exec and other members proving it was possible to
drink when standing, walking and talking.
Film Soc
-Croc II
This Thursday IC Film Society is showing Crocodile
Dundee II with Paul Hogan reprising the role that made
him a star. Luckily this sequel does more than just
reprise the script of its successful predecessor,
however. This time there is a much better defined
plot, with Mick and Sue taking on a gang of evil drug
peddlars. Sure there are still plenty of laughs, but there
is plenty of action too.
The film starts at 7.30pm in Mech Eng 220. 50p
to members, £1.50 others. Membership is £5.00, a
bargain considering that we will be showing at least
16 more films before the year is out.
Train
Spotting
Have you ever felt that guilty thrill as a Greasly 462
Locomotive thunders past drawing a full passenger
train or the surge of arenalin as diesels shunt and
thrust in the shadowy sidings of Clapham Junction?
Then this club could be for you.
We are a small but growing group of dedicated
trainspotters hoping to form a club in direct
competition with Sci Fi Soc. Our aims are to promote
a greater understanding of the British Railway
Network and its locomotives and rolling stock. With
a membership of 15 at present, we currently meet in
the Computing Common Room every Wednesday to
compare notes and look at each others anoraks. We
only need five-more people to form a Onion Society!
In the future we hope to visit the Kings Cross
Shunting Yard and the Signalling System recently
installed at Ormskirk Station. With a bit of luck we
will be holding weekly spotting competitions; bring
your own Clearasil.
So far we have two rare Gunthorpe 20 diesels to
our credit, and we hope to catch a sight of the even
rarer Bradshaw 482, which uses the revolutionary
Walschaerts valve gear, next weekend.
If you are interested, please give your name to
Michelle Bigun in the Union Office, or leave a message
in FELIX box 280.

