Personal Exciting committee letter
Dear Dave,
Just to prove that the Life Sciences Department
aren't horrible to all of their students, I thought I'd let
you know how nice they are being to one in particular.
Second and third year Applied Biologists have to do
placements, and last year they were forbidden to do
them overseas. Because some of the mid-year exams
last year were postponed due to the AUT action, some
third year Applied Biologists had to revise during the
course of their placement and had to take days off
to return to London for exams. Not everybody,
however. One enterprising student decided to do her
placement in Gambia in spite of the warning from the
department, and obviously could not be expected to
take books with her to revise from, nor return halfway
through to sit exams with the other students. When
she finally returned in the autumn (with a nice tan),
the understanding Life Sciences Department decided
to allow her to sit her exams when she'd had time to
revise for them-after about a term of College and
then at approximately two-week intervals.
So may I suggest to all Life Sciences students that
if you want to have the department on your side, you
should learn how to simper and flatter the male
lecturers-I'm sure you'll be guaranteed a first, but
we'll have to check next year's degree lists to find out
for certain.
Name withheld by request.
Plastic man
Dear Dave,
Delaware not Tupperware!
UROP really does exist; last week's article was not
a spoofI Opportunities at the University of Delaware,
and UROP generally, will be described at a meeting
in Mech Eng 342 at 14.00 on Wednesday 8
November.
Yours sincerely,
Sinclair Goodlad.
Apathy
Dear Dave,
When I came to Imperial I naively believed that
student unions existed to help students, now I am not
so sure.
Like most students I did not attend the Union
Meeting on student loans, I did not know about it until
I read last week's FELIX, and I doubt that I would have
gone to it anyway! I was even more surprised to find
the news that Price Waterhouse had been banned
from the Careers Fair, tucked away in a sentence at
the bottom of the page.
Now I don't particularly like the idea of loans, what
sane person wants to be given less money? But there
are both sensible and stupid ways to fight them. Do
the fools that thought up this little scheme really think
that banning Price Waterhouse is going to stop loans?
Of course it isn't, it's only going to make it harder for
us to get jobs.
What brilliant ideas are they going to dream up
next? Ordering all students to cut off both their legs
so that they become disabled and don't have to pay
the Poll Tax?
Yours,
Michelle Codill, Chem 1.
Dear Dave,
Re. In response to Editorial of 27 October, 1989.
As an ex-student member of the Undergraduate
Studies Committee IUSC) I must set the record
straight concerning your editorial on departmental
reviews by external assessors:
1. The USC has 5 student reps (1 sabbatical and
4 Academic Affairs Officers) out of a group of 16
people-the highest proporton of student reps on any
College committee.
2. Of all the bodies in College it is the USC that has
the greatest commitment to the improvement of
teaching standards-the very reason for its existence.
Since its inception in 1985 all of its members have
worked extremely hard to improve teaching standards
thoughout College and have achieved a great deal
(though, of course, there still remains much to be
done). I am sure, like myself, that these people will
be grossly offended by your unwarranted and
unjustified criticisms.
3. To suggest that the USC is a censorship body
is ridiculous. It is they who organise the whole
departmental review process by eminent
industrialists, educationalists and academics (who
during their visit meet with groups of students to
gather their opinions). It is an extremely worthwhile
process, bringing many benefits to students in the
long run.
Nor is this review process carried out for the
Universities Funding Council as you stated-it is done
to help departments to improve the standard of their
Undergraduate courses and thus benefit us-the
students.
4. Yes, representatives of the department under
review (including the student Departmental Rep) are
invited to discuss the reports of the external assessors
with the USC. The purpose is for them to demonstrate
ways in which they are or will be taking account of
the assessors and USC's criticisms and suggestions,
not to censor bits that they don't like. The discussion
also provdes excellent feedback to the USC on the
attitude of the department to positive change and
draws out many 'problem areas' which the USC is
able to highlight to the Board of Studies.
5. Folowing the review process the department is
tasked by the Board of Studies to go away and
address all the ciriticisms of both the external
assessors and the USC and to report back on
progress.
6. Overall, the student body has a very significant
and worthwhile input to the review process-probably
one of the most effective methods at our disposal to
induce change. However, this is not the only function
of the USC-it is active in many areas.
• Comprehensive assessment of lecturing
standards by College-wide questionnaire which, over
time, will have a great impact on teaching standards
(in this respect we are the most advanced institution
in the country).
• Ongoing work on other forms of teaching
evaluation and improvement leg tutorial/lab work, self
assessment/peer review, training for lecturers etc).
• Other areas of concern such as student
workloads, European qualifications, timetabling,
demotivation and underachievement, assessment of
new courses, failure rates etc.
The USC represents a vital resource to which
everyone, staff and students, should offer their
wholehearted support.
Richard A Spencer,
ICU Academic Affairs Officer 1988/89
Unbiased? Party invite
Dear Dave,
Since last Easter Joe Cartwright, the Warden of
Willis Jackson House, has suffered much from
criticism voiced through FELIX. Whilst not, in a
position to comment on the allegations of fina'neial
mismanagement, as ex-residents of Willis Jackson,
we feel that our views on Joe's wardenship are of
relevance.
The atmosphere in Willy-J was one of relaxed
cooperation rather than deference to a distant
authority. Joe was genuinely concerned and friendly
to all residents, offering advice and help whenever
needed.
Many social events were organised in the House,
ending with the Willis Jackson Ball, a highly
successful event, to which Joe was particularly
concerned that all residents should come.
In short, we were very happy during our year in
Willis Jackson and would be sorry to see the character
of this house changed.
Yours sincerely,
M Hewit-Booman, Grad S Smith, Phys 7
G Neare, EE2 S Gamett, ME2
P Wren, EE2 M Cudworth, Mat 2
C Brown, EE2 A Gregory, Phys 2
R Bestilleiro, Comp 2 G Bury, Phys 2
I Morns, Phys 2 A Grace, Phys 2
P Martin, EE2 S Kohol, Chem 2
J Lowther, Chem 2 U Pgial, Chem 2
Dear Dave,
I note Sinclair Goodlad is operating a Tupaware
exchange (Felix 847). I have two biscuit containers
and a swing bin. Would anyone care to swap for a
cake dish?
Yours sincerely,
Paul Shanley.
Very weird
Dear Dave,
With reference to your letter from Mark Whiting last
week, I think I clan help. The Guinness heir was the
late John Guinness, 2nd Earl of Moyne. He met the
Beatles in the Cavern Club, circa June 1961.
I was told that following a row with his father,
Viscount Moyne, he deliberately ploughed his car into
a Charrington's lorry delivering to the Hoop and Toy
in South Kensington. The accident happened just
outside South Kensington Station in Thurloe Place.
Writing of the accident in 1972, John Lennon
mentioned that 'My Sweet Lord' was dedicated to the
late Earl.
I hope this is of some help.
Yours faithfully,
Sally Hupena.
Page 18

