F e l i X
I am not going to say a great deal this issue, since I
wish to devote this space to a guide to Bonfire Night
in London. I should just like to apologise to Don
Monroe and everybody on Explo Board for missing out
their Ad in issue 846-sorry, we're all human though;
even if I don't look it on Friday morning. Secondly a
few words on the Print Unit.
The Print Unit
As well as being responsible for the editing of FELIX
I am also required to run the Print Unit. It can be
difficult to keep the two jobs separate at the best of
times, that is why I have to instigate a few rules on
when I can deal with Print Unit enquiries.
I am available for Print Unit enquiries and bookings
on Mondays and Fridays only. Any weekdays outside
these are strictly for the production of FELIX. This
means that if you want something photocopying on
Tuesday, Wednesday or Thursday you will have to use
the Union Office smudging machine or a departmental
copier. Similarly, Rose does not need people pestering
her for typeset on these days since she is too busy
setting FELIX. Please stick to Mondays and Fridays-I
don't want to have a nervous breakdown and I'm sure
you don't want to be there if I do. By the way this
does include Rag-I don't eat disabled children
because of it either.
Finally, if you want something printing you must
see me about it at least two weeks before your
deadline. Since we can only print work other than
FELIX on Monday and Friday the timetable is quite
strict and fairly crammed. Photocopying can be done
on the spot once you've joined the inevitable queue.
If you wish to do work at the weekends, please let
me know beforehand since I cannot always guarantee
to be around all weekend. (The Print Unit will be
closed for the whole of this weekend-I need a break.)
Have a good rag week and try everything at least
once. Let's make a load of money for those charities.
Dave
FELIX is published by the editor for and on behalf of Imperial College Union
Publications Board and is printed by the Imperial College Union Print Unit,
Prince Consort Road. London, SW7 2BB (Tel. 01-589 5111 ext 35151.
Editor: Dave Smedley. Business Manager: Stef Smith. Advertising Manager:
Ramin Nakisa. Copyright FELIX 1989. ISSN 1040-0711
Credits
Thanks firstly to all of last week's collators. I have to
make a huge apology at this point. The list of name6
has been mislaid. If Rag would like to drop in a list I
will give everybody a credit by name next issue. A
huge thanks, in the meantime, to Stef Smith and
somebody who shall remain nameless for staying up
all night last Thursday. Sorry and double thanks to
Rose Atkins for typesetting (I missed her out last
week) and Printer Andy Thompson, who stayed up
until a ridiculous hour printing. Last week was hell—
everybody was fantastic, but FELIX does not require
an extra editor for Thursday afternoons thank you.
Thanks in no particular order this week to Ian, Steve
thingy, Jim, Chris S, Liz, Simon, Adam, Pippa, Chris
L, Ramin, Stef, Neil, Andy B, Adrian, Dominic, Dick,
Hal, Caroline, Jason, Toby, Paul, Azhar, Dave M, all
the Union Officers who submitted reports, and the
anonymous sources, who shall remain forever so. If
I have missed anybody, I am immensely sorry; let me
know and I'll give you a double credit next week.
ULU TRAVEL
•k L o w cost w o r l d w i d e flights * Special fares for students
• Expert advice for independent travellers
• Tours, short breaks & s k i holidays • Group b o o k i n g s
•k Over 70 offices w o r l d w i d e
THE S T U D E N T
TRA
From
ULU Travel
Sherfield Building
Imperial College
London SW7 Zt ;E3
01-581 1022 Intercontinental
01-581 8233 European
ULU TRAVEL
Bonfire
bonanza
Tonight sees one of the best of London's organised
displays in Ravenscourt Park, Hammersmith. Perfect
for students living in Hamlet Gardens, the display is
organised by the local council and is free with a charity
collection at the entrance. Gates open at 6.30pm with
live entertainment and refreshments from 7.30pm.
The fireworks and bonfire start at 8pm. Well worth
a visit.
In Beit Quad, FELIX Club are holding a barbeque and
firework display tonight. The event starts at 7.30pm
with food and mead provided for a small charge.
Everybody is welcome.
Saturday hosts the majority of this year's displays,
the nearest being Battersea Park. Battersea's bonfire
will be lit at 7.30pm with fireworks from 8pm.
Refreshments will be available. Admission is free.
If you live out in Hounslow, Lampton Park will be
the nearest display to you. Entertainment comes care
of Albert the Idiot and the Excelsior Band with
fireworks and bonfire from 8.30pm. Once again,
admission is free.
Wimbledon Park will be holding two firework
displays at a cost of £2 entry. The displays will be at
8.15pm and 8.45pm, with a funfair, carnival etc on
site to boot.
If you still haven't had enough of the whole affair,
there will be a display at IC's Silwood Park. Coaches
will be arranged to transport people there. Details in
next week's issue. Contact the Union Office for prices
and booking.
CITY AND GUILDS C O L L E G E
UNION
presents
^Tfie Great TLgg %ace
c
i
6
a
c
o
•
•
B
•
•
B
I
I
8 a
I
Represent your department in a
competition testing your design
and construction skills.
Tuesday November 21st
Thursday November 23rd
Tuesday November 28th
6.00PM. MECH ENG FOYER
.V<V noihi'.s in departments lo sign

