Star System Union theft Bar brawl
Imperial College have bought a new booking and
billing system at a cost of £35000. The package, called
'convocate', is a computer program designed to make
the allocation and running of residences more efficient
and centralised.
The package was bought last March from 'Star
Computer Services' with money from the college's
equipment grant fund. It will be working fully by next
October at the latest, according to Mr. John Rowe,
Systems Manager of the operations group at I.C.
Mr. Rowe said that the system has had to be tailored
to IC's needs. It was going to be used in parallel with
the present system as from this December to ensure
that no problems would arise when the new system
eventually takes over from the old.'We aren't going
to commit ourselves to any system coming down from
convocate in error', he said.
He added that the old system is rather inefficient
and involves a lot of manual data hunting. The new
system will speed up the booking of accommodation
for students and for conferences during the summer
vacation.
There have been problems with the implementation
of the system in Strathclyde (Glasgow) and Edinburgh
Universities, though both M r . Rowe and Star
Computer Services assured FELIX that neither of
these problems rested with the program. Mr. Dave
Beer, of Star Computer Services maintained that
'computers are only as good as those who operate
them.'
Fox bolts
The Chairman of ICU Conservative Society (Consoc),
Ms Nicky Fox, has resigned because of personal
objections to some of the latest Govemement policies.
She told FELIX that she felt compelled to resign
when she realised she could no longer guide Consoc
as since she was opposed to policies on Student Loans,
the Poll Tax and the charisma-cult of Mrs Thatcher.
Ms Fox will remain as political representative to
Social Clubs Committee, advising all political
societies on funding and the Union.
Caterpillar
Cafe
Tasty, hot vegetarian and meat
dishes every day
also a stunning variety of
salads, pizzas, burgers and
pies
Rounded off with sandwiches,
yumny cakes andfreshcoffee
THE UNION BUILDING, BEIT QUAD
Bags and clothing were stolen from the Union
Building changing rooms last Friday in the latest of
a series of opportunist thefts. The thieves searched
their horde for cash and valuables before dumping
it in a disused lavatory on the third floor.
Thefts from the building are now running at the
rate of over two a week. College Security Officer,
Terry Briley believes that the thief or thieves know
their way around the building and may even be
students.
IC Union Deputy President, Dave Williams is
planning an anti-theft publicity campaign and steps
are being taken to make entry to the building more
difficult. People found in the building may be asked
to show their union cards. College Security is
investigating the possibility of installing a 'selective
entry system' for the changing rooms.
A student was taken to hospital after becoming
involved in a fight in the Union Bar on Friday
evening. The incident is being treated seriously by
the Union. President Neil McCluskey told FELIX that
'certain individuals' have since been suspended by
College and will be brought before the College
Disciplinary Committee. The Committee is IC's
supreme disciplinary body and has the power to expel
students.
Rector goes
green in old
Female safety ?0E
Two lectures on 'Personal Safety for Women,' will
be held in the Read Lecture theatre this month. The
lectures are to give 'Practical Advice on increasing
awareness, confidence and self-protection.'
Miss Christine Wright, Training Officer, said that
this is the second year that the lectures have been held.
Last year they were well attended. Miss Wright added
that she hoped they would become annual events. "The
emphasis is not on rape, a lot of it is common sense.'
The lectures are on Tuesday 7th November from
1.15 to 2.00pm and Wednesday 8th November from
j 12.30 to 1.15pm.
TWF banned
Members of the 'Third World First' pressure group
were asked to leave the Careers Fair following
complaints from Fair organiser Ranjan Da Silva. They
were distributing a list of companies which they
claimed had South African connections.
The group had set up a stall opposite the entrance
to the Great Hall on the first floor of the Sherfield
building, although the area had already been booked
for the Fair. Some of the companies present
complained and Mr De Silva asked security to ask
the group to move. Chief Security Officer, Geoff
Reeves told FELIX that it would have been possible
for the stall to have moved to the ground floor but
the offer was not taken up. Third World First moved
on quietly and without causing trouble.
Plane appeal
Civil Engineer, Andrew Chipling is hoping to raise
money for Great Ormond Street Children's Hospital
with a paper aircraft competition on Tuesday 17th
November. The contest will be held in the Hydraulics
Laboratory of the Civil Engineering department.
Prizes will awarded for distance and flight times.
Entry costs 50p. Anybody wishing to participate
should contact M r Chipling on extension 4748.
Entrants are requested not to litter the College with
their prototypes.
Last week's Commemoration Day saw the first
presentation of the new Associateship of St Mary's
to IC's medical graduates. Students from St Mary's
Hospital Medical School were presented to the
Chairman of IC's Governing Body, Sir Frank Cooper.
The Rector, Professor Eric Ash spoke at the
ceremony on a selection of issues ranging from 'a deep
sense of injustice' in the academic community over
salaries to a closing comment on the ecological
problems which graduates will be asked to tackle in
the future. Professor Ash also spoke of his fears over
the future funding of university fees and the loans
system.
Help piglet!
The pigtail of Mr David Williams, IC Union Deputy
President, is under threat. The Editor of FELIX, Dave
Smedley, hopes to raise £1000 for Rag in return for
the Guilds Hit Squad carrying out the contract to cut
Mr Williams' hair.
A spokesman from the City and Guilds Union told
FELIX that anybody wishing to take part in the hit
squad should present themselves at the Guilds Office,
Mech Eng.
Fireworks
FELIX CLUB
Presents a vast array of
pyrotechnical delights for you to
experience. A barbeque and
mead will be available. A small
charge will be made.
Tonight!

