Kate Bush
The Sensual World
The first new material from Kate Bush since the
Hounds of Love album of 1985. This is definitely a
progression in style. A whole host of musicians have
worked on this album from ageing rock stars like Dave
Gilmore to young promising classical musicians like
Nigel Kennedy.
The result one might think, would be a masterpiece,
unfortunately this is not. A definite Celtic influence
is present within her music with instrumentation
taking in Celtic harps and Villean pipes. In places the
music is confusing and difficult to follow with a
tendancy to sound like it is droning on a little, this
could be due to poor production, which on this album
is in the hands of Kate herself.
Her childhood appears to be the subject of many
of the tracks on this album like The Fog and Reaching
Out and This Women's Work which is the only other
track besides The Sensual World I can see making
another single.
Overall this sounds like one might expect from Kate
Bush. However she does not seem to have captured
the magical moments of previous albums such as The
Dreaming or The Kick Inside. I feel this album could
be one of those 'better after a few plays' albums.
Worth thinking about.
NEML
Sugarcubes
Last Friday the Sugar Cubes, Iceland's second name
in entertainment played at the Brixton Academy. The
support group played enthusiastically to a growing
audience but were only saved from total banality by
the sheer volume of their music.
When the Sugar Cubes first came on, things looked
more hopeful. Their songs were vibrant and well
delivered but then the male vocalist began shouting
to the crowd in pidgin English which heralded the
collapse of the performance. The beautiful lead singer,
dressed in a sixties mini dress, sang Birthday and
sounded good, but then began flapping her arms and
jumping around the stage while the male vocalist, in
a vivid yellow shirt, barked into his microphone. The
keyboard player was good but her thoughts-seemed
to be elsewhere most of the time.
There were a couple of good songs but it took the
inspiring theatrical splendour of the Academy to make
the evening worthwhile.
Simon Elliot
Mudhoney
All the way from Seattle to 'F**k Up' Mudhoney
are a lively fourpiece with an ear for a tune and a
penchant for guttural grunts and axe torturing which
results in a noise just the right side of musical. There's
Blues in there but you'd never catch BB King playing it.
Flat Out Fucked, Magnolia Caboose Bayshit and
Here Comes Sickness exhibit a cheerful sense of
humour but there is nothing frivolous about the music
which hits hard and fast without degnerating into the
white noise of hardcore. By Her Own Hand sounds
Page 4
like REM at 78 rpm and there does seem to be some
sort of songwriting prior to recording as the racket is
too disciplined to be toally improvised. However,
judging by their recent gig at the London School of
Oriental and African Studies, when singer Mark Arm
invited the audience on stage with him and it promptly
collapsed, live performance is total chaos and great
fun if you like anarchy.
CDL.
De La Soul
Town & Country Club
They're a strange beast, support bands. Sometimes
their sheer energy and joy to be playing outshines the
main band and at other times you're gald you stayed
in the bar, tonight being one of those nights.
Hip-Hop isn't normally my flavour, but at its best
it's essential and at it's worse forgetable. She Rockers
and Third Base were to me all that Hip-Hop isn't. They
looked like they didn't want to be there and spent ten
minutes each conveying this to the audience with their
bland delivery, unoriginality and lame DJs, though this
crowd came to party and when told to 'wave your
fucking hands in the air', they dutifully did so.
When DJ Aitch B (of Soul II Soul) came to the decks
he didn't play records, he made the turntables sing.
Anyone that can play Julie Andrews singing Do Re Me
to a Stephanie Mills backbeat is a serious talent.
De La Soul are to me the only Hip-Hop group to hear
(exceptions being Big Daddy Kane and Ice-T). Their
songs are a breath of fresh air to a sound that buries
itself in repetitiveness. Their sharp use of rap, melody
and some of the best samples from sixties soul
classics lifts them feet above the mainstream. Their
album Three Feet High and Rising being the
benchmark of the sound. Their live set conveyed all
of this but was marred by the fact that one of the
turntables continually refused to behave and ruined
at least three of the songs, which out of an eight song
set just wasn't up to scratch (pun intended), especially
with tickets at £9.50 a throw.
Dominic Wilkinson.
Lemonheads
Lick
This LP has been reviewed and praised so much that
it's hard to say anything that hasn't already been said.
If, however, you happen to have been sampling the
delights of a Mongolian holiday or waiting to get
served in Southside Bar it's like this.
The Lemonheads third LP nods it's head to the past
glories of Husker Du and REM then skateboards up
your garden path through your bowl of Shreddies and
straight down your throat. Having been fortunate
enough to see this band at the enormous, stylish Art
Deco venue of the Fulham Gryhound (screams of stop
being such an elitist git echo around the living room)
they transcend the accusations of being plain copyists
by sheer enthusiasm and lack of pretention. These
geeks look so much like geeks they could hardly put
on a 'rock and roll image' if they tried, and luckily they
don't (even their haricuts are crap and we all know
this is crucial to success).
The only criticism of the Lemonheads is their failure
to try anything new, but who cares when they sound
like they're having one hell of a time going nowhere.
The one major problem track on this record is an
extremly dodgy cover of the Suzanne Vega 'classic'
Luka. A song which deserves to be dragged screaming
to the floor and soundly thrashed to within an inch
of its life. Guess which track was released as a single,
although fortunately rather limited?
So if you harbour secret desires to hang around in
parking lots, chewing gum and watching the tumble
weeds roll past the deserted petrol station, book a
holiday in the USA. If you can't afford this buy the
Lemonheads LP instead. Lemon crush anyone?
Dick Savage.

