Rag Chairman, Hal Calamvokis gives a run down on this year's Rag Week.
Rag Week Special
This year IC Rag has had it's best start to the year
ever; around £10,000 has been raised in the last 4
weeks alone! Tiddlywinks made £2,000 for Action
Aid, monopoly made £6,100 for MENCAP, the Rag
Raid to Guildford on the 25th made £500 for BIBIC
and £ 1,000 was raised on Saturday in Covent Garden
for the World Wildlife fund. Rag now moves into
serious overdrive for Rag Week:
Rag Week
Rag Week, which starts on the 8th November, is
when the largest chunk of money is raised for the
year. Actually Rag Week is ten days long (we at IC
like to be different) and is the best excuse to have a
wild time and do very little work, that anyone has ever
come up with.
The RCS beer festival in the JCR on Wednesday
afternoon is the traditional start to Rag Week. Last
year 1,100 people consumed in the region of 700
gallons of beer, cider and perry and this year around
two and a half tonnes of beer has been ordered. The
event runs from midday to 11 pm and what you do is
you buy your official beer festival glass which has the
Rag Logo on the side and then you quaff your real ale
from this. During the festival there are all the culinary
delights that you would expect at an event like this
including curries and burgers.
The Beer festival is also when the now infamous
IC Rag Mag comes out and this years' looks to be a
real corker even if I do say so myself. The Rag Mag
will be on sale at the Rag Stall where you can also
buy your Rampant Rhino 9-0 tee-shirt, Rag Week
tickets and other delights, so be there or be a total
and utter social dropout.
On the night of Thursday the 9th is the Rocky Horror
Disco in the Lounge, so if you're a sweet transvestive,
enjoy doing the time warp or being Janet this is a
must. The hypnosis lecture, on friday the 11th in the
Great Hall is not to be missed. Martin S Taylor's act
is constantly changing: Last year we saw Cosmic
(a.k.a. Dave Clements) talking Martian and seeing
elephants, so if you're sceptical about hypnotism or
just want a brilliant night's entertainment Martin is
your man. If you're not sure about Volunteering as a
• l l l l ' i u u u u
subject there is no need to worry as Martin has plenty
of credentials that he would lose if he did anything
naughty and he doesn't make you do anything too
embarrassing anyway. Please get there fairly early as
it fills up quickly.
Saturday is the Royal British Legion's collection day
and we are going on a Rag Raid to Maidstone for the
Poppy Day collection. If you want to go please come
to a Rag Meeting or sign up at the Rag stall at the beer
festival. Back at home is the Sci-Fi marathon starting
at midday in the SCR with films, games, videos and
lots more to satisfy any intergalactic wanderer. SCAB
V
is on the night of the 11th and is totally
evnironmentally friendly. SCAB is the organisation
that encompasses all the producing societies at
Imperial like Dramsoc, Opsoc, Rocksoc, Jazz Club etc
and they all put on one big production.
Sunday is traditionally a CCU day. First there is the
three way tug-of-war between the three onsite CCU's
in Prince's Gardens and then there is the Raft Race
across the serpentine in Hyde park.
On the night of Monday the 13th there is the
comedy night in the concert hall: Malcolm Hardy will
be compering Simon Bligh, Otis Canaloni and Lee
Evans which should be a very good night.
The Guilds Slave Auction is on Tuesday the 14th
in Mech Eng 220 and is well worth going to even if
you are not going to make a purchase. If you fancy
doing a bit of bidding for the more tastier morsels on
display remember that 'group bidding' gives you more
spending power. Hopefully Rugby Club will be making
their traditional sexist bid. Immediately after they have
been sold, the execs of the three CCU's and ICU get
bundled into a mini bus for Exec Initiative: where we
drop them off somewhere very poetic and they are
tied together in pairs and they have to make it back
to College in time for the Dirty Disco: which is
organised by RSM and has got itself the reputation
as being the wildest party in Rag Week. 'Dirty' is the
key word so, fundamentally, anything goes as long
as it doesn't involve live/dead animals/children,
vacuum cleaners or sharp kitchen utensils i.e. it's an
awfully good evening all round. If this isn't your scene
you could go to the Sci-Fi Soc film in Mech Eng 220.
Wednesday the 15th sees Hit the hit squad in
Covent Garden, they'll tell you more if you want to
know. In the evening there is the Bar Quiz in the snack
bar which is fairly self explanatory.
Page 5

