On Thursday lunchtime there is a lot of activity in
Beit Quad: Exec Torture will be happening (that is if
the execs don't chicken out) where for a fee you can
pour unplesant things over the Union and CCU execs.
On the roof of the Union building Aerosoc will be
running their usual darts competition; there is a
modest prize for the paper aeroplane that flies the
furthest and that stays up in the air the longest. To
wrap all of this up there is the Monster Boat Race:
Wadworths have kindly donated a firkin of 6X for
which the CCU's will theoretically race against each
other.
In the evening there is The RCS smoking concert
which is a collection of interesting but somewhat
dubious acts and anything amusing will be put in, so
if you have any ideas please contact John St Hill or
Syd in the RCS office.
Guilds Carnival is the last really big event in Rag
Week on Friday the 17th. This is much like the other
carnivals, with The Man From Delmonte, Howlin' Wilf
and the Veejays playing, films, videos. Discos, a
casino and much more. At 6pm on Friday Dance Soc
start their Dance marathon for Children in need in the
JCR which will continue on until Saturday evening.
Saturday morning (yes it does and will exist) sees
the first half of the 24-hour collection also for Children
in Need, but more importantly thfere is the world's
most wild and wakky sponsored event ever; namely
the sponsored nude kamikazi parachute jump. The
parachute jump itself is not the hard part: it being only
2ft of freefall out the back of a mini bus. The mini bus
is actually outside Harrods at the time and the
participants are only wearing a crash helmet, a static
line parachute, a reserve and a pair of boots as they
exit the mini bus. The challenge is to get back to
Prince's gardens without being arrested. As the saying
goes, you need balls to do something like this.
In the evening, as the second part of 24-hour
collection, there is the Leukaemia Research pub crawl,
which they have got a door to door licence for. And
so ends rag week, ten days of mayhem which might
just kill me, then we can all at last catch up on all the
sleep and work we've missed out on.
Events going on throughout Rag Week:
Guilds Hitsquad will be operating Flanning so if you
want to get a shaving foam pie shoved in someone's
face, take out a contract in the Guilds Office for £2
(contact lens wearers can get a badge that means
they don't get hit directly in the face). RCS will be
running Grim Reaping and Gnoming: what happens is
that for £5 your target will be followed around by the
Grim Reaper or by a Gnome all day or until they pay
them to go and follow someone else. Contracts can
be taken out in the RCS office.
Killer will be running from 12 midnight on
Wednesday the 8th after beer festival. What happens
is that to join you pay £2 and hand in 2 passport
photos of yourself and you get given a target and a
set of rules on how you can legitimately kill them.
Once you have killed them you take over their contract
and so the game goes on until there are theoretically
two very nervous people stalking each other around
College (or it just degenerates into gang warfare like
2 years' ago). Either way it is a pretty good game if
it is played properly. You can sign up at the beer
festival or earlier as advertised. The prizes for killer
are pretty good and may involve a free game of
Skirmish for you and your friends.
Rag will hopefully be running 'kidnap-a-lecturer-a-
gram' whereby, the authorities permitting; a lecturer
is kidnapped during his/her lecture and is held as long
as possible, £2 a minute is raised from the class (when
no more donations are received, they are returned).
Page 6
Postscript:
It is past 10pm again and I'm still in College. What
Monopoly proved to me is that if a lot of people just
contribute a small amount of time and effort, great
things can be done. I hope you go to some of the
events in Rag Week, I hope you go to all of them, but
more importantly I hope you enjoy them; because if
you're not enjoying things you might as well give up
and become a tug boat captain.
Love and damp mackerel,
Hal Calamvokis, Rag Chairman 89-90.
The
Charities
These are the five charities that Rag is going to
support: The Guide Dogs for the Blind Association
obviously train and supply guide dogs to blind people.
This, however, is a lot more than it sounds. To its
owner, a guide dog is much more than a surrogate pair
of eyes, it is a means of self-reliance and
independence.
The Imperial Cancer Research Fund is one of the
largest charities around, ICRF conduct pure research
into the fields related to gaining a better knowledge
of cancer and how and why it happens.
The British Insitute for Brain Injured Children
(BIBIC) is based in Somerset and is an old favourite
with IC Rag. They are a small charity, with a turnover
of less than £200,000. They give remedial help to
mentally handicapped children, attempting to give
them back control of their bodies, teaching them how
to use their muscles and limbs.
The British Bone Marrow Donor Appeal is a trust
committed to supporting the compilation and
maintenance of a fully computerised tissue library
from potential bone marrow donors. This is needed
to provide help for Leukaemia sufferers and people
with other bone marrow related diseases.
The World Wildlife Fund (WWF) was established
as a channel for popular concern about conservation
to create effective action. This covers conservation
of the global environment alongside that of
endangered species.
DATE EVENT PLACE TIME PRICE
Wed 8th RCS Beer Festival JCR 12-11pm £2.50
Thur 9th Rocky Horror Disco Lounge 8-1pm £2.00
Fri 10th Hypnosis Lecture Great Hall 7.30-11pm £2.50
Sat 11th Poppy Dag Rag Raid Maidstone 10am -
Sat 11th Sci Fi Marathon SCR 12pm £1.00
Sat 11th SCAB Night Concert Hall 8pm-2am £2,50
Sun 12th Tug-of-War Raft Race Princes Gardens/Serpentine 11am-2pm -
Mon 13th Comedy Night Concert Hall 8.30-11.30pm £3,00
Tue 14th Guilds Slave Auction ME220 12.45-2,30pm -
Tue 14th RSM Dirty Disco JCR 8-1.30pm £2,50
Tue 14th Sci Fi Soc Film/Poss Wargames ME220 8pm- £1,00
Wed 15th Hit the Hit Squad Covent Gdn -
Wed 15th Bar Quiz Snack Bar 7,30pm £1,00
Thur 16 Exec Torture Beit Quad 12,45-2,30pm -
Thur 16th AeroSoc Darts Beit Quad 12,45-2.30pm 20p
Thur 16th Monster Boat Race Beit Quad 1-7.30pm FREE!
Thur 16th RCS Smoking Concert Concert Hall £2.50
Fri 17th Dance Marathon JCR 6pm- -
Fri 17th Guilds Carnival Union Bdg 8-3pm £4,00
Sat 18th 24-hour Collection 7 10am-
Sat 18th Nude Kamikazi Parachute Jump Harrods ?
-
Sat 18th Leukaemia Research Pub Crawl Snack Bar 6-10.30pm -

