'£>' is for Douglas and T ' is for Turner. Next week, 'E' please.
The Calumny column
This week's initial is 'D'. We need look no further for
scandal than the Royal School of Mines' very own
Martin Douglas. Over the summer holidays, Mr
Douglas got wind of an exciting offer that he couldn't
let pass by. The Union Bookstore were giving the first
video away free for everyone joining their new video
club before the start of term. Mr Douglas rushed off
to the Bookstore and joined on the spot. The problem?
Mr Douglas does not possess a video recorder.
Robinson Crusoe of ICU chess club has been
randomly selected to be picked on this week. On
Monday week he disrupted a meeting of Publications
Board three times by walking in and out of the room
to get chess sets. The sets were held in a locked
cabinet. Undeterred by this, Mr Crusoe ripped the door
off and helped himself to the contents, which included
a bottle of Grenadine and a packet of digestive
biscuits. The Union could do well to examine Mr
Crusoe's credentials. He has never studied here and
the only union card he possesses is a bent one he
'obtained' from Carl Burgess (ex-union president) in
1985. Maybe he should be taken on as a crime
prevention officer, since he has such a fine knowledge
of lockers.
Nice to see that ICU Hon Sec Fiona Nicholas is
playing the field again. She has been spotted around
town lately in the company of one very eligible
bachelor. The gentleman concerned wears 'sexy
bicycle shorts'. FELIX conducted an interview with Ms
Nicholas on Tuesday regarding her recent sexual
exploits. When pressed, she revealed that her Romeo
possessed something that was 'wet at the end'. The
identity of Mr X is a closely guarded secret. Nick
Marley is 19. Mylan Lester is 105 and has never
played the 'biscuit game'.
Following last week's news story of Elec Eng's
Professor Turner and the exploits of a phantom
photographer, the culprit has crawled out of the
woodwork. FELIX has received a letter from 'Red
George'. This was accompanied by a photograph
(reproduced here) and a very interesting story about
the aforementioned academic. We are currently trying
to verify the tale, which concerns an incident at the
start of term. Watch this space for further
developments.
Physics Dep Rep, Andy Waller had one lemonade
too many at the department's freshers' dinner last
week. The normally reserved Mr Waller could contain
himself no longer when one of the speakers started
getting boring and promptly subjected him to a
barrage of abuse. The speaker? Royal College of
Science Dean, Professor Jim Barber.
On the same topic, a cautionary tale from the Civil
Engineering dinner. Wendy Kite, Civ Eng Dep Rep,
tried to get acquainted with everyone present. Her
tactic was to rush up to unfamiliar faces and
announce herself. One encounter is worthy of mention
:"Hello, I'm Wendy Kite, Civ Eng Dep Rep, who are
you?". "I'm the head of department", replied
Professor Dowling.
ACC Chair Ben Turner had an interesting experience
over the summer. On a trip to a club specialising in
'adult entertainment', he got involved in some
audience participation. Live on stage, he performed
an act of some contortion with a stripper, his mouth
and a freshly peeled banana. It is rumoured that some
pictures are available of the event. Five pounds to
anyone providing them.
Finally, this week, back to Professor Jim Barber. He
has explained the reason why he was in such a
confused state at the Commemoration day service.
The learned professor left his briefcase unattended
outside his house in an act of uncharacteristic absent-
mindedness. The local neighbourhood watch
telephoned the police to report a suspicious package.
The bomb squad duly arrived at the professor's home.
Ignoring the protestations of his wife, they proceeded
to make the parcel safe. Meanwhile, Professor Barber
returned home to collect his case and had to explain
to the boys in blue exactly why he had tried to scare
the residents shitless. His appearance at
Commemoration Day was thus under much duress,
which probably accounts for his babbling state. It also
explains why he announced last year's RCSU
President Stephanie Snell as 'Stephanie Snail' during
the ceremony. Allegations that the real reason was
due to the consumption of half a bottle of Bells
beforehand are believed to be completely unfounded.
Caroline Toynbee
* K s:
l v
J
*
* K s:
l v
J
*
7 Page

