Paul Shanley presents
The Delator Column
The future of education in this country has never been
in as much trouble than the present time. A number
of upheavals are taking place which will have far
reaching consequences for both ourselves and the
next generation of students. These changes are a
result of both national and local factors.
A fundamental right of every person should be the
right to be educated to the best of their abilities
regardless of their sex, age or creed. This has been
accepted for years. What has also been accepted has
been the right to be educated irrespective of ones
wealth. This is a principle that I would label 'free
education for all'. Britain, as it heads for the 1990s,
is evolving into a society where this principle is slowly
being eroded.
This is not necessarily an attack on the present
government (although my personal view is that they
bear the brunt of the blamel. It is also an attack on
many other bodies, particularly the institutions
themselves in not facing up to this.
The introduction of student loans looks to be the
first stage in a series of measures designed to make
further education pay for itself i.e. with very little
subsidy from the government. In sight is the next
proposal ; that students will not only pay their own
grants but will also be liable for their fees as well.
Okay, so far no surprises. But let's extend the
argument a bit further and look ahead.
If fees are to met by students, then industry will
undoubtedly come to the rescue. To a certain extent
they do already, in the way of sponsorships.
Prospective undergraduates will look to large
businesses to meet their full costs. It only has to take
one employer to innovate such a scheme and all the
others will follow. Once fees have been met, the
employers have quite a lot of leverage within the
universities and polytechnics. Indeed, some of the
courses that are not so popular now will become even
less popular. Industry will dictate to students which
course they should major in. An undergraduate
electing to study in a course not vocation-related will
experience difficulty in finding a sponsor.
The next step is for industry to apply clout to the
institutions themselves. Certain courses will end up
being sponsored by large companies, it will not be
uncommon for departments to have such items as the
Ferranti Solid State course appearing on their
timetables. This would be the beginning of the end
as far as traditional syllabuses are concerned. Smaller
courses, like the Humanities options or very abstract
courses, may vanish altogether.
Bearing the main brunt of these radical changes will
be the arts based colleges. These are already suffering
from smaller and smaller grants each year. In the
forseeable future, unless a charitable sponsor can be
found (as with Sainsbury's endorsement of the arts),
these colleges may be forced to close. Alternatively
they will become establishments for the elite. Their
academic populace will consist of those students who
can well afford the fees and can contribute to the
solvency of the college.
Another financial dagger through the heart for
institutions is the accommodation crisis. With rent
levels as they are at the moment in both London and
many other provincial cities, it is becoming
increasingly hard for institutions in these places to
attract students. Their only hope is to find more
residences. One way is by merger. This has happened
8 Page
already. It will happen again. How long wiil it be before
London University means just that-a single university
serving the whole of London with each intercollegiate
college specialising in one very small area of study-
Imperial College of Physics, Queen Mary School of
Electrical Engineering etc., each with its student
intake dictated by housing places available. The other
hope is that industry provides accommodation for
students. Anyone undertaking a course in Computing
will be housed in a purpose built hall courtesy of IBM.
Sound far fetched? It's happened already. Weeks Hall
was paid for by Vickers pic on condition that a
proportion of their sponsored students be
accommodated within it.
That is one possible scenario if governments (of any
political persuasion) do not place a greater importance
on education and its associated problems in their
future plans.
But is government to blame? Are the institutions
themselves entirely faultless? Let's now look closer
to home-at what Imperial College is doing to attract
more undergraduates and better standards.
My main concern is that this college is becoming
more and more postgraduate orientated. There is no
harm in this but is being done to the detriment of the
undergraduate population.
Imperial has an abundance of bad lecturers. The
young lecturers, and the ones who take their job
seriously, are not at fault. By and large, the standards
they set are excellent. The worst offenders are the
Nobel and field medallists who are so wrapped up in
research, they have little or no time for
undergraduates. They attract research contracts to
the college. They spend all their spare time on said
contracts, There is no onus on them to lecture
conscienciously because they act almost
autonomously of the college structure. If the college
decides to reprimand them for bad lecturing ( and
that's pretty unlikely ), then they will take off to
somewhere else that wants them and is more tolerant
of their teaching deficiencies. An incident of this
nature happened in Electrical Engineering at the start
of term. Two lecturers were in competition for a
sponsored chair. The one who didn't get the
appointment promptly left taking all his research staff
and contracts with him. The section is now suffering
from a severe lack of staff primarily because college
upset one of its academics.
The research contracts recently announced in the
college Gazette seek to back this up. One lecturer in
Biochemistry has beervgiven £470,000 for three years
research work. That the college has been awarded
such a contract is highly prestigious. Imperial would
not dare upset the lecturer involved for fear that he'll
leave taking his precious work with him.
We attend a college which is geared to financial
gain. The emergence of IMPEL—Imperial College
Exploitation Ltd, IMPACT—Imperial College Activities
Ltd, and the creation of the new post of college
Managing Director reinforce this.
We have an accommodation service which is self-
financing. The college insists that residences must pay
for themselves and will not be subsidised. If some of
the more profitable areas of the college such as
IMPEL, conference office and bars (all externally
generated income) were made to cover some of the
cost of accommodation, Imperial as a whole would
seem far more attactive to prospective
undergraduates.
In conclusion, government must look to education
as an investment in the country's future-not as a
commodity that can be quantified in material terms.
Education itself must look at itself in an objective not
stagnant way. It must adapt and change. Without this
sort of reform, the education in its present form, under
the ethos of 'free education for all', will become
extinct.

