FELIX interview...
Professor Colin
Blakemore
Professor Colin Blakemore is one of that rare species,
the scientist-in-the-public-eye. His BBC2 television
series 'The Mind Machine' brought Neural Physiology,
the study of the mechanisms of the brain, to a wide
and largely unscientific audience. IT brought HIM
unwanted attention and a flood of defamatory articles
in the tabloid press which stopped only after he
successfully complained to the Press Council.
Unsurprisingly, he is a man with strong opinions as
to how science should be presented to the general
public and how far science and politics must mix.
FELIX spoke to him during September's British
Association meeting at Sheffield.
A manufacturing country such as the UK, he says,
must live off its 'wits and ideas' and its innovations
in science and technology. Yet he believes that there
is a nebulous unofficial 'anti-science movement' in
this country, though this is by no means an organised
campaign but more a willingness on the part of the
general public to treat science as a convenient
scapegoat.
There are many reasons why such an attitude has
developed. It can be attributed to unfavourable
publicity in the press who tend to concentrate on
emotive issues such as animal experimentation.
Professor Blakemore especially criticises the 'knee-
jerk, blame science' reaction of certain media hungry
pressure groups. Politicians, ever on the lookout for
somewhere to pass the buck, find research an easy
target. There are, he says, only a 'handful' of
scientists in the public eye and they are expected to
comment on every issue.
The Professors attitude to the press is obviously
coloured by its attitude to him. He admits that
unfavourable publicity is a hazard of 'putting your
head over the parapet of your ivory tower', but it was
the bias and inaccuracy of the reports that incensed
him. He was accused, among other thing, of being
involved in the use of animals for cosmetic testing,
a completely different field to the one he is working in.
However, things are slowly improving, notably on
television. Professor Blakemore's 'The Mind Machine'
and the regular science slots 'Horizon' and 'Antenna'
are broadcast during prime-time, albeit on BBC2.
Twenty-five years ago there was no science
broadcasting, now it represents 5% of the total BBC
output. But Professor Blakemore is still worried about
the future and deregulation which, he claims, can only
make things worse.
He is critical of science education. He thinks that
science learnt at school can soon become out of date
and useless, and argues that more emphasis must be
placed on teaching people how science works, in
what it 'can and can't' do. There is a tendency for
people, even when they have been bombarded with
facts, to ignore the scientific basis. Smoking is a good
example. The vast majority of people now accept that
smoking is harmful, yet many still smoke. They still
prefer 'folk statistics' of the 'my father smoked 60
a day and it never did him any harm' school to hard
scientific fact.
Professor Blakemore believes that the national
curriculum COULD have been used to improve things,
but the opportunity was missed. He dismisses the
Government's City Technology Colleges as
'insignificant'. He argues that it is impossible to teach
traditional Physics and Chemistry up to the age of 16
without frightening people away.
Much of the malaise can be blamed on the attitude
of the Government. The Government, Professor
Blakemore says, is laying down a disaster. Assorted
groups, including the Confederation of British Industry
(CBI), have openly complained that science funding
is inadequate. Highly respected senior scientists talk
of the 'intransigence' of the Prime Minister.
The politicians, he says, are far too interested in
'fads and fancies'. They think in terms of 'flavours of
the month'; two years ago Interdisciplinary Research
Groups were in, now after only two years the
Government has moved on. Proper science needs
proper consultation, good funding and a chance to
prove itself.
Professor Blakemore argues that scientists must
involve themselves in the politics of science. They
must exploit the few good Government ideas and
emphasise the importance of uncommercial 'blue-sky'
research. They must fight against the uncompetitive
salaries and the antiquated working conditions and
oppose 'ridiculous' monetarist funding policies. This,
he says,is the only way to stop the Brain Drain to the
USA.
He claims that science is losing respect.There can
be few high-flying academics who have not received
offers of higher-paid jobs in America. Yet many
remain; they still feel that they are doing something
worthwhile and important. How long will they stay
on, he asks, while the Government now openly
accuses scientists of being lazy and disinterested and
of being uncooperative with Industry?
Colin Blakemore gave up a career in medicine to
become a research scientist. He felt that the respect,
the job security and the freedom made up for the poor
conditions. He believes that science teaching in this
country is excellent-students from all over the world
come to the UK to learn. In fact, it is their money
which keeps the Universities going.
However Professor Blakemore believes that things
will improve; all the major opposition political parties
have better science policies than the present
Government, and no party, not even Mrs. Thatcher's,
can last forever.
• Since the earthquake, all sorts of researchers have
been to California, and many agree that the worst is
still to come. Theoretical models of the fault are
predicting that the 'quake is only the first of many.
• The Earth's atmosphere is never still: it wavers
and shakes and distorts the light from the stars: This
limits the accuracy of Earth-based observatories; until
recently, the only way to avoid the problem was to
launch telescopes into space. Now, astronomers from
the European Southern Observatory (ESO) have found
a way to counteract distortion at ground-level.
The ESO team have applied the technique of
'adaptive optics' in which the mirrors in the telescope
are physically moved to compensate for the vagaries
of the atmosphere. The system relies on a computer
to process the image that the telescope produces and
to correct for distortion using a deformable silicon
mirror just 1mm thick. The first test, on the 1.52m
telescope at the Observatorie de Haute-Provence in
Southern France, is said to have raised the telescope's
performance to near its theoretical maximum. It is
estimated that an adaptive optics system could be
installed in a ground-based telescope for around
$270,000, many times less that the cost of one of
its space based counterparts.
• The nationwide survey of sexual habits, recently
vetoed by the Prime Minister, is back. A medical
research charity, the Wellcome Trust, has agreed to
provide £900,000 for work to start. The project is
partially the brain-child of Imperial's Professor
Anderson.
• On 18th October, NASA finally launched its Galileo
probe to Jupiter from the shuttle Atlantis after
overcoming legal action by environmental groups. The
environmentalists were worried about the plutonium
powered probe crashing to earth if there was a second
Challenger disaster (See 'This Week', FELIX 845).
• 'America has subsidised the rest of the world too
long in science' claims Jim Watson, the DNA pioneer
and now director of the Human Genome Office of the
US National Institute of Health. Watson has asked for
international help in the project to map the Human
Genome, the DNA which makes up mankind.
• Accidents will happen, but it would appear that
they happen more often to left-handed people than
to right-handed, according to recent work.
Statistically, someone who is left-handed is 54%
more likely to damage themselves with tools and 20%
more likely to suffer from work- or sport- related
injuries. It is worth noting that in our rightist world
13% of 20 year olds are left-handed but only 1 % of
80 year olds.
• Plans are afoot for the worlds largest ozone
friendly freezer. A scheme has been announced to
store seeds from the world's most important crops in
a disused mine-shaft under the Norwegian permafrost.
It is estimated that under these conditions, barley
seeds could survive three centuries while certain elms
could last only 14 years.
• For those interested in such things, there will be
a talk on gravitational lensing on the 7th November
at 1 pm in Physics LT2. This column is always available
for plugs.
Page 9

