Page 8 FELIX November 21, 1972
thes
p
o
i
l
s page
KINGS DETHRONED (yet again)
At Harlington on Saturday the 11th November, I.C.
opened their campaign to retain the U.L. Cup when
they met King's College in the preliminary round (why
the holders have to play a preliminary match is quite
beyond me). This was the third year running that these
teams had met each other in their first cup matches,
and for the third time I.C. proved to be the better side.
King's had made a good start to the season and must
have been one of the favourites, along with Imperial,
to take the cup.
After winning the toss, I.C. played into a very strong
wind for the first half. The early stages of the game
were at a very slow pace and this seemed to suit King's,
who had most of the early play. The I.C. defence was
a bit shaky atfirst,and but for a fine save by Gerwyn
Edwards, King's would have taken an early lead. How-
ever I.C. weathered this storm successfully and once
the defence settled down the game became more even.
On the left wing Pete Lonnen was ojearly too fast for
his full back and I.C. created a few chances this way
but their only reward was several corner kicks. Towards
the end of the half Billy Milne should have put I.C. one
up when put through by Ronkill, however the score
was still 0-0 at the end of an evenfirsthalf. Mention
should be made of Ian Pos, who did well to win most
of the ball in the air for I.C.'s defence despite the
swirling wind.
With the wind behind them in the second half, I.C.'s
midfield began to give better service to their forwards
who came close to scoring several times. Byron Smith
was thefirstto try his luck, with a drive from 30 yards
which the keeper didn't even see until it came back
off the bar—just too far away for Johnny Kelly to
reach. A free kick on the edge of King's penalty area
gave Maurice Hastings a chance to show his shooting
power, and produced afinesave from the King's keeper.
Fifteen minutes into the half Billy Milne atoned for
his earlier miss when he put a low shot into the corner
of the net from twelve yards. This goal gave Imperial
the confidence to go with their determination and for
the first time in the match one side was now in control.
From a well flighted corner, lam Postlethwaite was un-
lucky not to score when he soared above everyone else
only to see his header bounce off the bar into the
keeper's hands.
The King's keeper seemed to be getting a little
anxious about his defence's inability to keep the ball
away from I.C.'s forwards, and this may have been in
part the cause of his poor clearance from which Steve
Bates beat the King's defender and drove the ball
smartly into the far corner of the net from 25 yards—
a really great goal. Within a few minutes of this, Maur-
ice Hastings left the field with a thigh injury and was
replaced by Steve Wells. Almost immediately King's
pulled one back, although this might just have been
coincidence. The King's goal was a well taken affair
but all the same, some blame must attach to the I.C.
defence for hesitation. King's newly found vigour did
not last long for their keeper failed to hold a shot from
Pete Lonnen and Billy Milne made it 3-1 from close
range.
This was by far the best performance seen from Im-
perial this year and if they can only keep it up there
must be a good chance of completing a hat-trick of cup
wins at Motspur Park later this season.
Also on Saturday the seconds were surprisingly
beaten 4-3 in the reserve cup by U.C. 3rds (at least that's
who they claimed to be!). The 5ths, playing a man
short against LSE 3rds went down 4—2. The 7ths had
another close game with U.C. 7ths and for the second
time they won, this time by 1-0
Wednesday the 15th saw I.C. travelling to Collier's
Wood to play Chelsea. Thisfixturelast year had been
a little one sided (8—1 to I.C.) but no one expected any
easy game this time, and no one got one. Chelsea got off
to a great start when, after 15 minutes some very weak
tackling allowed their centre-forward to walk through
the centre of the Imperial defence. This setback stirred
I.C. into action but fate was not yet on their side, and
neither was the Chelsea keeper who made good saves
from Mick McConvey and Byron Smith (must mention
him to get picked for Wednesday). I.C. had most of the
play for the rest of the half although the Chelsea
keeper's big (wind-assisted) kick did cause trouble from
time to time.
In the second half I.C struck quickly. Pete Lonnen
made a good run down the left and his hard hit cross
well left by Billy Milne allowing Mick McConvey to
hammer home the equaliser. Almost immediately Steve
Bates ran onto a through ball (from whom, I forget)
and in the ensuing collision he laid out the right back
and the goalkeeper. Oh yes!—he scored as well. Now
2
—
1 up I.C. relaxed a little and Chelsea began to come
back into the game. Just as it seemed that they might
gain the upper foot, Ron Kill did his, rarely-seen, im-
pression of Terry Cooper for 50 yards down the left
wing before drawing the keeper and slipping the ball
inside to Billy Milne who scored with little trouble
from 3 yards. Now 3
—
1 up I.C. relaxed even further
and Chelsea pulled one back when slack marking of
the right let their No. 10 in to score from close range.
Gerwyn Edwards was nowhere near to saving it, but
no-one else would have been either so we'll let him
off this time.
Also at Collier's Wood, the 2nds found themselves a
goal down early on. Obviously Chelsea would have to
pay for daring to score so early, and in the ensuing 7-1
thrashing they received, Pete Willey took his total this
year to 13 by grabbing a hat-trick.
The 3rds having made a flying start to the season,
with 7 points from 4 games and another 2 pts with a
good win over a strong King's 2nd team. King's scored
first, again this was after some slack marking in defence,
but the 3rds fought back strongly and eventually forced
the opposition to concede an own goal. The second half
saw more pressure on the King's goal and Russ Smith's
hard work was rewarded when he scored after coming
close twice before. King's tried to come back after this
but the 3rd fought them off well to win by 2—1.
The 6th team, playing the side which was picked for
the first time this season, showed their true potential
afterfindingthemselves a goal down against King's 4ths.
Just as Chelsea 2nds paid for their affrontery so did
King's. The annihilation which followed gave Mick
Whitfield and Brian Causey hat-tricks, and although
King's scored a disputed goal, the result was 11-2 to
I.C. 6th, which is the biggest score by any I.C. team this
year.
R. KILL
hockey
On a very cold afternoon at Harlingtoh the I.C. cup
side had a simple passage into the second round of the
U.L. Cup by beating Royal Free 5-2.
From the start Royal Free were under almost con-
tinual pressure but most of the attacks broke down
around the 25-yard line. In fact, it took ten minutes be-
fore thefirstgoal came from John Schofield, converting
a cross from Dick Whittington. Soon after John Scho-
field added the second and I.C. became totally disinter-
ested in the game.
Allowed to attack, the spirited running of Royal Free
produced a few anxious moments around the home D
and they eventually scored from a short corner that
flew just inside the post. I.C. were again allowed to at-
tack at will which resulted in Iki Kullar adding number
three a few minutes before half-time.
The second half was one big drag lasting for about an
hour—or so it seemed. I.C. managed to score two more
from Iki Kullar — a penalty flick — and Jaz Missan,
whilst Royal Free were presented with the weekly gift-
goal.
A very scrappy game easily won by I.C. but concern
must be shown for the number of chances missed, lack
of cohesion in attack and the complacency in defence.
TEAM:— S. Boulton, G. Popple, D. Browne, D.
Richman, J, Missan, C. Gaukroger, D. Whittington, S.
Tucker, I. Kullar, J. Schofield, J. Astley.
On Saturday I.C. 2nd XI crawled to a 4-1 win over
QMC 2nds. Within three minutes, C. Gaukroger, making
a rare guest appearance, put one in the net. Unfortun-
ately, for the rest of the match, he had great difficulty
keeping his feet. Towards the end of thefirsthalf Colin
Dyerfinishedafinerun down the left wing with a shot
which made it 2-0. During the second half Dave Neal
scored two excellent individual goals while the defence
managed, in an incredible mix-up, to let on© in.
On the same day lst XI went down 2
—
1 to QMC—
Jaz Gahir scoring—whilst the 3rd XI lost to Woking by
the same score—a report next week please.
MIXED HOCKEY
On Sunday 12th November, I.C. mixed XI paid their
annual visit to Guinness. Before the serious business
could begin, the hockey match was played in abysmal
conditions and eventually ended in a 1-1 draw.
With Wonder Boy in goal, I.C. wisely contrived to
keep the ball in the opposition's half and Sid Boulton
even managed to score after about ten minutes of play.
However, the superior player-power of Guinness caused,
on a few occasions, some concern inside I.C.'s 25, but
with a little luck, the goal was kept intact until half-
time.
The second half was much the same as thefirstwith
both sides going very close on occasions. Terry O'Sulli-
van eventually beat the apprentice I.C. goalkeeper with
a close-range scoop to even the score.
After the match the celebrations continued well into
the night: during which time Guinness—and a few
from I.C.—were taught such games asfizz-buzzand
clap-clap with signs and numbers. Special mentions here
for Brian's lack of counting ability, Hazel's preoccupa-
tion with getting the chairman sloshed and, in parti-
cular, Janet Peacock's sign.
Without doubts this was one of the social games of
the season, so I extend thanks to Guinness, including
Hazel, Brian, Terry, Charles, Sue and Bernie, and the
I.C. side: Dave, Mick, Pop, Bob, Helen, Janet, Tim,
Linda and John, and especially to the Guinness lady
who played for I.C., but whose name I have forgotten.
LADIES' HOCKEY
Wednesday, 15th November was indeed a beautiful
day for I.C. Ladies Hockey. The sun shone at Harling-
ton (and im a few other places, for that matter), and
we had a full team for about thefirsttime this season.
Our thanks are due to Christine Brown (of I.C.W.A.
fame) who made a welcome return to the game and for
a guest appearance by Hilary Yates, the netball cap-
tain.
For this was no ordinary match! This was a CUP
MATCH! Eleven, eager I.C.W.S.C. Ladies, complete
with an umpire (it must have been a special occasion
since we don't normally have one) met to do battle
with University College Hospital in the first round of
the Cup.
An additional boost to the general air of enthusiasm
was received when it was learnt that UCH were one
player short.
I.C., therefore, were the stronger team from the start
and used their eleven players to full advantage. Hilary
Rowson, sorry, Adams (Left Inner) soon opened the
scoring after a mistake by the UCH defence and
Lynne Beynon (Centre Forward), playing in typical
good form, then made it 2—0. Towards the end of the
first half, Chris Brown (Right Wing) scored from a
corner.
UCH started the second half in determined manner
but IC defence was never seriously threatened, dealing
confidently with any attacks. That most of the play was
in the UCH half can be verified by the great number
of corners in favour of IC and the fact that Jacqui
Buzzard (Goalkeeper), nearly froze through inactivity
during the match. Anne Purvis (Centre Half) eventually
succeeded in scoring the goal that had eluded her in
thefirsthalf, thus making thefinalscore: IC 4, UCH 0.
TEAM: Chris Brown, Hilary Yates, Lynne Beynon,
Hilary Adams, Geraldine Bowden, Mary Hill, Ann©
Purvis, Shirley Fairweather, Jane Purvis, Janet
Manfield (captain), Jacqui Buzzard.
Felix no 319 Tuesday, November 21, 1972,
Edited by Oliver F. Dowson, with contribu-
tions of words and labour (in alphabetical
order): Philip Amodio, Sid Amor, Bob Carter,
Peter Crawford, Derek Cummings, Dave
Gribble, Dave Hobman, John Horsefall, Paul
Hosking, Graham King, Andy Mafeld, Ross
McBeath, Colin McCall, and the rest of the
cast of millions.
Contributions for "Felix" are always wel-
come and should be addressed to the Editor,
(residence Weeks Hall 14).
National Advertising contractors are Uni-
versity Press Representation, Grand Buildings,
Trafalgar Square, WC1, 01-930 132.
London advertising by Felix Advertising,
Imperial College Union, London SW7 2BB,
01-589 5111 Ext 2229.
Printed by F. Bailey and Son Ltd., Dursley,
Gloucestershire.
Published by the editor for and on behalf
of the Imperial College Union Publications
Board.
All material copyright© 1972.
" F e l i x " is a founder member of the London
Student Press Association.

