FELIX FRIDAY 15TH NOVEMBER LETTERS 11
LETTERS TO FELIX
replied to this week by David Roberts
A new perspective on
Clayponds spending
Dear Editor,
I would like to reply to a number of
points made by Andrew Payne in his
letter last week. His general com-
plaint was that the management had
got its priorities wrong in spending
£160,000 on new carpets when the
money would have been better spent
on security. The point has been made
by Daniels on a number of occasions
that many of the carpets at
Clayponds had become so damaged
that they presented a significant safe-
ty hazard, particularly on the stair-
ways. They clearly needed changing
urgently. On the other hand, many of
the carpets in the study bedrooms
were in surprisingly good condition.
It is possible that a significant
amount of money could have been
saved if a comprehensive survey had
been carried out, leaving some of the
carpets to give a few years more ser-
vice. This money could then have
been ploughed into security
upgrades.
I do however, take issue with
Andrew's conclusion that the most
urgent upgrade is in the form of front
door locks. There were 12 burglaries
at Clayponds in the three month peri-
od July-September this year. Of
these only one was through a front
door with the kind of lock Andrew
mentions (in fact, the only burglary
ever at Clayponds in which entry was
through a front door). In that case the
glass panel of the door was broken,
which is very unusual. Of the others,
in one case entry was through a back
door which had altogether four locks
on it (the flat had been burgled
before and extra measures had been
taken) and for all of the rest entry
was through windows. I agree that
the front door locks are, in principle,
inadequate but in practice they are
simply not our major problem.
Andrew suggested that money set
aside for our proposed common
room would more appropriately be
spent on security upgrades. It is clear
to me that Andrew's views are out of
line with those of the vast majority of
past and present residents. This has
been made abundantly clear to me
during my five years as Warden at
Clayponds. By a mile, the single
most frequently voiced complaint
about Clayponds is its lack of com-
munal facilities. When the College
was seeking planning permission for
the 'village hall' project last year
some of the residents organised a
petition in favour of the village hall.
About half of the residents signed
this petition. This represented all but
two of the people who were asked. It
would seem that Andrew was either
one of these two or was not at home
at the times that the petitioners
called. The other possible explana-
tion is that he agreed with the project
at the time but has since changed his
mind. If any other Clayponds resi-
dents support Andrew's view I
would very much like to hear from
them. One of our major problems
with security derives from the lack of
community spirit a Clayponds. I am
sure that a village hall would help
greatly in promoting such a spirit.
Danny Segal,
Warden, Clayponds
Wilson House wardens an
endangered species
Dear Felix,
I have heard tonight that some
rumours regarding the Wardens and
their lack of impartiality have been
circulated to you about allocations of
student rooms at Wilson House.
These allegations are untrue. The
Wardens had to do the allocations for
Wilson House due to the lack of
understanding of the special circum-
stances of Willy House by the IC
administration. The Wardens, espe-
cially the Assistant Warden at Willy
House, are extremely upset about the
lack of support from the students on
this matter.
As both Wardens are only moti-
vated by the welfare of students, hav-
ing no remuneration for the
Wardenship over and above free
accommodation, they are at the point
where, if this non-cooperation con-
tinues, they will cease to mediate
between Mary's and IC in respect of
student accommodation and will
abrogate this task. The response of
IC to this is likely to be to put pro-
fessional managers in to do the job of
the Wardens and if any students
think that managers will have the
best interests of the students in mind
in their deliberations they are seri-
ously naive. The Wardens have bent
over backwards to try to accommo-
date the wishes of students, in the
case of accommodation spending
many unpaid hours of work to get it
right, and to have unfounded criti-
cism directed against them is deeply
offensive. If the Wardens of Willy
House leave, as is likely in the pre-
sent climate, then the students will
have to deal with the beaurocracy of
IC directly. The Wardens have a
direct line to the Pro-Rector and the
Dean of Mary's and still have prob-
lems fighting the battles on behalf of
the students - the students have no
such links. I do not therefore see IC
admin v students as an equal contest.
Do you?
Yours sincerely,
A mole in the Wardens camp
Unions call the whole
thing off
Dear Felix,
Over the last few weeks, staff in all
eight trade unions represented in UK
universities have been voting on the
current pay dispute. We've just
received the results, and we thought
it was important to let students know
as soon as possible that all eight
unions have voted "yes" to industrial
action.
It has been more than ten years
since lecturers at this College have
gone on strike. We have been driven
to it this time because the UCEA, the
body that negotiates with us on our
employer's behalf, has withdrawn
from all discussions.
They won't talk about changing
their current offer of 1.5%, or even
setting up a pay review body; amaz-
ingly, they've even refused to dis-
cuss - not even to implement, merely
to discuss - some minor technical
changes to pay scales we've pro-
posed. Other unions have had similar
experiences.
Faced with this aggressive
approach we've had no alternative
but to take action. Our aim is simply
to get the employers' representatives
round the table once more, or at least
to get the case to arbitration.
The first effect of all this is that
there will be a one-day strike on 19
November in which all the staff
unions, both academic and ancillary,
will be taking part. We expect a vir-
tual closure of the College except for
essential and emergency services.
We will be asking the College to
donate any deducted staff pay to the
Student Hardship Fund.
We hope that this will be enough
to get us talking again. But if it isn't,
the next phase will consist of a boy-
cott of College bureaucracy. We've
taken great pains to minimise the
harm to students from our action, and
we think we've achieved that with
our current plans. If you have any
questions or worries at all, however,
please don't hesitate to get in touch:
we're in the College phone book.
Phil Ramsden,
Imperial College Association of
University Teachers
So, the decision would appear to
have been made - and despite
every effort from the unions, and
virtually no effort from the
Government, the strike seems to be
going ahead. Sad to relate, the con-
tinued decline in university fund-
ing has had just one up-side - it's
earnt us an extra day in bed next
Tuesday, and the prospect of many
more to come.
Letters may be edited for length.
The guest editor's opinions
are not necessarily those
of the editor.
Deadline for letters in Felix 1070
is Monday 18th November.
Please bring some form of identi-
fication. Letters may be e-mailed
to our address: felix@ic.ac.uk
Produced for and on behalf of Imperial College Union Publications Board
Printed by Imperial College Union Print Unit, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road,
London SW7 2BB. Telephone: 0171 594 8071
Copyright Felixl996. Telephone/fax: 0171 594 8072. ISSN 1040-0711
NEWS: MARIA; FEATURES: THE NEWS TEAM, PUZZLES: DUNCAN;
ILLUSTRATIONS: STAVROS; GRAPHICS AND LAYOUT: MARK, DAVID AND
CHRIS; PHOTOGRAPHY: LING, ROBIN AND MATT; SPORT:DAVID; COLLATING
LAST WEEK: MARK AND PIERS; SECRETARY: SARAH

