2 NEWS FELIX FRIDAY 15TH NOVEMBER
News in Brief
Boat House expansion: 1
Holts Villas: 0
PHOTO: LING
Imperial College Boat Club's boat house on the Thames at Putney Reach.
In order to expand the premises to accomodate all the teams the club now
fields, the adjoining building, Holts Villas has to be demolished.
The demolition, being undertaken piecemeal, should be complete early
in the new year allowing construction of the boat house's extension to
begin. The previous occupant of the Villas has been relocated to Bexhill-
on-sea by the College as part of a planning deal with the local borough
council.
One consequence of the method of deconstruction is the opportunity
for souvenirs from the building. Always with an eye on saving pennies,
Ian Caldwell, College's Director of Estates, has suggested that some form
of fixtures and fittings auction could take place with proceeds going
toward the new boathouse. "Perhaps old-boys would like to buy-a-brick"
he commented.
Draconian College
discipline applied
MARIA IOANNOU
An Imperial College student faced
the firing squad at a disciplinary
hearing recently, charged with hurl-
ing a full can of beer from the top of
Southside and through the window
of a local resident (Felix 1065). The
offender, a PhD student, was
described as "naturally upset" by his
actions, having been invited into
Tizard Hall as a guest during
Freshers' Week.
The wrongdoer was sentenced to
the IC equivalent of three years hard
labour, as the incident was taken
"very seriously" by the College.
Chairman of the Disciplinary
Committee, Professor Rhys
Rawlings, adopted a fair-minded
approach; "We had no punitive wish
to ruin his student career for what
was an foolish and isolated incident."
The student suffered three penal-
ties, namely a suspension from all
College premises for two months,
exclusion from all College social
facilities, ie all bars, refectories and
the sports centre for the remainder of
his time as a student. The third penal-
ty metered was financial, the student
being required to reimburse the resi-
dent for the replacement of the glass
and to give the equivalent to a Union
charity (though a maximum limit of
£300 has been agreed).
When questioned, the "upset and
frightened" householder, who by
coincidence is a member of the
Knightsbridge Local Residents
Association, said "...it's past and
gone" and would make no further
comment on the matter.
The student is unlikely to appeal
as there is little question of either his
guilt or the circumstances surround-
ing the incident.
UNIVERSITY C H A L L E N G E
This year's Imperial College
University Challenge team suffered
defeat with the very last question of
Tuesday's first round clash with St
Catherine's College, Cambridge.
After a poor start, Imperial College
quickly caught up, and went on to
put up a goodfighton the BBC2 stu-
dent quiz show.
When the gong eventually sound-
ed, both teams finished up with 200
points. The Imperial team, captained
by Ian Bayley, lost the unprecedent-
ed tie-break question, which was
swiftly answered by St Catherine's.
While Jeremy Paxman's former
College qualify for the second round,
the IC team will have to wait and see
whether they progress as one of the
first round's highest scoring losers.
NO S W E A T FUNDING
Concerns over the failure of Imperial
College to capitalise on their special-
ist areas (Felix 1068) have been
refuted by senior College sources.
Speaking to Felix, Professor Bill
Wakeham, Pro-Rector of Research,
sought to clarify IC's position on
income from research. Under the
classifications used by HEFCE and
polling companies, IC carries out lit-
tle 'applied research' but conducts
much basic and strategic research
funded by the national research
councils that brings in considerable
income. Studies, such as that pub-
lished in the Times Higher
Educational Supplement and quoted
by Felix show that Cranfield
University tops the league for
research income. Professor
Wakeham contends that this is due to
Cranfield's reliance on applied
research and industrial earnings and
not income from research councils.
Moving on to the income received
from intellectual property rights, he
again highlighted the commercial
value of the researches involved -
Institutions which had a large
income from this source had almost
always got one single large earning
invention, rather than a wide range of
modest earning items. Although the
earning from this source at IC has
fluctuated greatly from year to year,
Professor Wakeman stressed that it
was on an upward trend, and the
College was still hopeful of the big
winner.
B A R M A N INJURED
Gerald Monohoe, Senior Bar
Steward at IC Union, was taken to
casualty last Sunday after injuring
his back whilst attempting to pull a
pint. Though one of the two Union
members of staff trained in Health
and Safety, Gerry failed to notice
that the pump had not refilled. This
meant there was an unexpected lack
of resistance when he pulled and he
ended up on the floor.
Gerald will be back at work on
Friday and pulling more than ever.
M O R E FIRE A L A R M S
On Friday afternoon the Blackett
Laboratory was rapidly evacuated
after fire alarms sounded. College
Security once again demonstrated
their efficiency by ordering all stu-
dents to cross Prince Consort Road.
The alarm had been raised when a
group of 3rd and 4th year Physics
students entering Lecture Theatre 2
found it filled with a "very thin
smoke." That session's lecturer,
Professor A McKinnon, arrived on
the scene and became so distressed
that it was necessary for a nearby,
quick-thinking student to advise the
setting off of the alarm. There was in
reality no need to panic as the
"smoke" turned out to be steam
released by the ventilation system.
S C A N D A L A T G U Y S A N D
ST T H O M A S ' S
Playing rugby against Guys and St
Thomas's medical school will be
considerably easier for the next six
months after most of the squad were
barred from playing after a particu-
larly gruesome tour incident.
Whilst staying in a hotel in
Portsmouth during a tour, a morning-
after drinking party was in full swing
when somebody suggested Bloody
Mary's. This in itself is not that
unusual, but these medics, being
resourceful people, had brought their
intravenous equpiment with them,
took the suggestion literally and an
orgy of bloodletting and drinking
ensued. Back at home, nothing was
said until hacks at The Sun got wind
of the story and exposed the medical
students to the full glare of publicity.
The least of the punishments doled
out by the now irate Dean was a six
month ban on rugby, and many of
the medics got severe reprimands.

