4 N E W S FELIX FRIDAY 15TH NOVEMBER
Drunken antics of senior MP
could bring down Government
SIMON WISTOW
It was announced last week that the
Kensington and Chelsea Conservat-
ive MP, Sir Nicholas Scott, was to
be replaced after a drunken binge at
the Tory party conference left him
unconscious in the gutter. Imperial
College falls within the Kensington
and Chelsea constituency.
Sir Nick, the former Northern
Ireland and Social security minister,
has had previous convictions for
drink driving and failing to stop after
an accident last year that trapped a
toddler in his crushed pushchair.
Controversy seems to have followed
him throughout his political career;
his wife announced that she was
leaving him soon after his election in
1974 despite appearing happily mar-
ried just days before and in 1977 he
nearly lost his place when members
became worried about his drinking
problems and neglect of constituency
duties.
Kensington & Chelsea constituent-
cy executives voted 55 to 45 not to
endorse a confidence vote in the 65
year old MP saying that they were
shamed by his recent antics and in
particular his being found face down
in a gutter outside the Irish Embassy
in Bournemouth. Sir Nicholas is to
speak at a specially convened meet-
ing of the Conservative Association
to answer his critics. However, it is
believed that replacements have
already been lined up. Fore-runners
are thought to include Councillors
Joan Hanham and her Royal
Borough colleague Daniel Moylan.
Other possible successors to Sir
Sir Nicholas Scott MP facing a barrage of questions over his dispute with
the Kensington and Chelsea Conservative Party. The local party could
deselect him, prompting Sir Nicholas to threaten to resign.
Nicholas include Chris Patten, cur-
rently Governor of Hong Kong and a
favourite of Conservative Central
Office. Sir Nick has indicated that he
would stand aside at the next
Election to allow Mr Patten to run for
the safe seat of Kensington and
Chelsea. The seat was returned in
1992 with a majority of over 20,000.
Sir Nicholas claims that, following
a fall in the shower which resulted in
an injured back, he was prescribed
painkillers. "My wife Cecilia tried to
persuade me not to go to the party
conference because I was in so much
pain, but I felt duty bound to go." He
then, rather stupidly, made the mis-
take of mixing alcohol and
painkillers which allegedly caused
him to pass out. "I decided to pop
into the Irish Embassy because I have
a lot of friends there from my
Northern Ireland days. I had a couple
of glasses of white wine and began to
feel dizzy. I suffered from vertigo. It
was the painkillers. The next thing I
remember was a policeman helping
me up. I am kicking myself now for
going to the conference when I was
feeling so ill. The publicity thing was
acutely embarrassing. All this would
never have happened if I had listened
to my wife."
Apart form local embarassment,
the deselection of Sir Nicholas could
have far reaching ramifications for
the Conservative Government. The
MP has threatened to resign his seat
if deslected by the constituency
party, forcing the Government into a
difficult situation with Parliamentary
mechanics. Currently, the Govern-
ment's majority in the House of
Commons stands at two, up from one
after the death last week of a Labour
MP. If Sir Nicholas resigns, the
Government will lose it's majority,
and will depend on the goodwill of
the Ulster Unionist Party to avoid
defeat in any Parliamentary division.
Over the next few months, the
Government's position will become
more fragile, and it will depend upon
smaller parties for support in impor-
tant votes or issues of confidence.
The outcome of Sir Nicholas's spat
with his constituency party could
well prove the downfall of the cur-
rent Government, and trigger an
early General Election.
Jerry Hayes breaks Tory line on AUT pay claim
continued from front page
just don't want it to escalate."
With the Imperial College Gun
Club President attending the meet-
ing, the former Parliamentary Private
Secretary was questioned about the
upcoming Government Firearms
Bill. Mr Hayes expressed his disap-
pointment that the Bill was being
introduced but explained its necessi-
ty by saying that, "we would be pil-
loried in the newspapers" if the
Government did not react to the
media pressure.
With Mr Hayes recently appointed
as the newest member of the
Standing Committee on Firearms, he
was ideally placed to agree with sug-
gestions that the new measures
would affect law abiding enthusiasts
saying "a lot of people will lose their
sport". Mr Hayes did suggest that
current proposals might be watered
down during the Bill's passage
through Parliament, expressing his
hope that "we can sort it out in
Committee."
With the Government's slim
majority, individual Members of
Parliament are able to exert consider-
able pressure on the Government for
amendments and the Essex MP stat-
ed his intention to "cause trouble on
the Firearms Bill." Coupled with the
limited legislative time in this
Parliament before the Election, this
will ensure the Bill will have a rough
ride through the Commons. While
admitting that current proposals are
"rubbish", Mr Hayes refused to con-
firm whether he would be voting
against the controversial Bill but did
say that he would "do what I can on
the old gun thing."

