6 NEWS FELIX FRIDAY 15TH NOVEMBER
Lord Sherfield dies, aged 92
JOHN PICKRELL
Lord Sherfield, an important figure in the recent
history of Imperial College, passed away last
Sunday at the age of 92. During his career he
worked alongside many historical figures, includ-
ing Prime Ministers Atlee, Churchill, Eden,
Macmillan and US Presidents Truman and
Eisenhower.
More widely known as Sir Roger Mellor
Makins, Lord Sherfield was born in 1904. His
father a Brigadier-General and Conservative MP,
owned a Victorian mansion house on Queens Gate,
where the young Roger Makins spent his child-
hood. The house was later demolished to make
way for the expansion of the College. He went on
to study at Winchester and Christchurch Colleges,
Oxford, where he later became a Fellow of All
Souls in 1925.
In 1928, Makins joined the Foreign Office, with
his first overseas assignment coming just three
years later when he was appointed Third Secretary
in Washington. Makins rose quickly through the
ranks, excelling in a number of positions including
time as Administrator of British Affairs in Oslo
and the prestigious post of British Advisor to the
League of Nations. In 1939, he ran the western arm
of the Foreign Office before joining the staff of the
Minister to West Africa in 1942. During the
Second World War, Makins headed up
Macmillan's "Mediterranean Allied Force
Headquarters" in Algiers.
After the war, the future Lord Sherfield returned
to the States, this time as Economic Minister in
Washington, but left within a year to pursue a sci-
entific career. In 1946, he became Under Secretary
in charge of North American Political and
Economic Developments. This involved liaising
between the British and United States
Governments during the highly confidential early
development of the_ atomic bomb (then known as
'tube alloys'), preventing a breakdown in commu-
nication.
In 1953, Makins returned to the USA for a third
time, as British Ambassador to Washington. A per-
sonal friend of President Eisenhower, his arrival in
the US was well-received and he proceeded to con-
solidate the good relations he had previously estab-
lished. On his return to Britain, he become Joint
Permanent Secretary to the Treasury, a post where
he found himself out of the public eye.
Between 1960 and 1964 he returned to a sci-
ence-based position becoming Chairman of the
Atomic Energy Authority. This and other later sci-
entific achievements led to his nomination to The
Royal Society. During this time he forged a formal
link with IC, taking on the position of Head of the
Board of Governors.
Makins retired from official duties in 1964 but
was far from the end of his career. It was in this
year that he was given his hereditary peerage,
becoming Baron Sherfield.
He took up the position of Chairman of the
Industrial and Commercial Finance Corporation,
followed in 1966 by his Chairmanship of a major
merchant bank. Lord Sherfield became a Fellow
and Warden of Winchester College, Oxford, and
between 1990 and 1982 was Chancellor of Rading
University. He reaffirmed his commitment to sci-
ence in 1987, by setting up a Select Committee in
the House of Lords for Science and Technology.
His impact on IC is still visible today. The
Sherfield Building (formerly the College Block)
was renamed in his honour in 1975. Bryan Lloyd
Davis, Deputy College Secretary during Makins'
time remembers Lord Sherfield ".. .he was a very
good Chairman and a man of considerable pres-
ence, physically and mentally. The College bene-
fited greatly from his leadership."
On his departure from Imperial College in 1974
it was said of him "no-one who dealt with him here
would imagine that he had any greater concern
than the College. His energy and enthusiasm is
unlimited and he has never grudged time of trou-
ble."
Roger Mellor Makins, diplomat: born 3rd
February 1904; Fellow All Souls, Oxford 1925-39
CMG 1944, KCMG 1949, GCMG 1955, KCB
1953, GCB 1960. Chairman of the Governing
Body of Imperial College 1962-74; created 196
Baron Sherfield. Died 9th November.
"Top Flight" engineering bursaries cut
JACKIE S K E A T E
The Government is yet again causing
distress to Universities across the
country, after making the decision to
cut the "top flight" engineering bur-
saries for promising students. As
from 1997 high-acheiving students
will not receive the £500 awards,
which are viewed by many in the
engineering world as essential incen-
tives in a climate where recruitment
to engineering is proving increasing-
ly difficult.
The view shared by many is that
for the scheme to have any real
impact it would have had to be oper-
ated for several more years. Robin
Bond of the Engineering Council
expressed his disgust at the the
Government pulling out, "It is con-
trary to what is in the best interests of
the country. The scheme suceeded in
wooing bright young people away
from more fashionable subjects such
as communication studies and leisure
and tourism whose contribution to
wealth creation is dubious."
At Imperial College, about 900
students, from all areas of engineer-
ing, receive the extra funding from
the Engineering Council on the basis
of their A Level results - the require-
ment is two grade As and one grade
B. Lorna Richardson, Assistant
Registrar, was keen to stress that
those students already receiving
these bursaries will be unaffected,
and that only students hoping for an
award from 1997 onwards will be
disappointed.
The Government's withdrawal of
the funding is in line with their origi-
nal policy to implement the bursary
for only three years.

