8 N E W S F E A T U R E FELIX FRIDAY 15TH NOVEMBER
NHS LONDON
According to reliable sources at the University of
London Union, colleges of higher and further
education throughout the capital have responded
positively to the setting up of a new London NUS
regional representative body. The motion to
investigate the feasibility of such a venture was
passd a the GUC meeting of ULU three weeks
ago.
THE PAST
The idea of having an NUS regional representa-
tive body in London is not new. In fact, it did exist
until last year. Unfortunately, it was the opinion
of most student representative groups at the time
that their views were not given due consideration
by the regional body. In the end, amidst allega-
tions that thefinancialregulations laid down by
the NUS had not been followed, the organisation
was put under severe financial difficulties.
Unhappy with the situation, some of the bigger
colleges withdrew from this pact, and the NUS
London folded soon after.
IC AND THE NUS
The relationship between Imperial College Union
and the NUS has never been smooth. IC graduates
helped found the NUS back in 1922. However, a
row over affiliation fee prompted the withdrawal
of ICU. It rejoined again in 1939, but pulled out a
few years later due to their dispute with the NUS
over the Government's policy of graduate con-
scription. After the war, the Union had rcaffiliat-
ed with the NUS four more times. The most
recent walk out dated back to 1977 - scepticism
over the radical policy pursued by the NUS led to
the disaffiliation motion being passed by a narrow
margin of 5 votes.
THE PURPOSE
Currently, 150 colleg
cation in London 1
and further edu-
presentatives to
forum where members from different universities
in London can exchange their ideas regularly.
Networking of this kind not only helps to promote
inter-college co-ordination in fighting for the
interests of the general student population, but the
sheer number of students represented by this body
(around 200,000, of which 70,000 arc from
University of London) will also provide more lob-
bying power.
For colleges already affiliated to ULU, it offers
them the valuable opportunity to communicate
with people from the further education sector,
many of whom will eventually end up studying at
the University of London. Concerns over ULU
overstretching its limited manpower by taking an
active part in this forum are unfounded. Sources at
ULU confirmed that only their vice-president,
Paul Bates, would be involved in this. It has also
been pointed out categorically by Sarah White,
current president of ULU, that time spent on each
project is carefully monitored.
Whilst nationwide issues such as the threat of
top-up fees, poverty among students, and resur-
gence of extremism on campuses will be dis-
With all the recent press concerning the
National Union of Students and their change
of policy over Higher Education funding,
Felix explores the history of the NUS and its
ill-fated London Region.
On this page Kent Yip takes through the
last throes or NUS London, and opposite,
Simon Wistow reveals the extent of discon-
tent across the country.
CONCERNS
Cynics argue that the NUS has a history of pursu-
ing impractical policy. They came to their sense
last year and abandoned their campaign for the
return to full grants after a long fought campaign
by those espousing free education. The futility of
their effort was evident. Related to this was the
suspension of Clivc Lewis, the ex-Vicc-Presidcnt
Education who disagreed with this change of pol-
icy. The leadership of the NUS was labelld as "a
disgrace to all students" by Labour MPs Tony
Benn, Ken Livingstone and Dennis Skinner
(London Students, volume 17 issues 1 and 2).
Furthermore, the NUS is also regarded by some as
merely a lauchpad for future Labour politicians.
They pointed to Jim Murphy, the ex-prcsident of
the NUS, as an example. His proposal of "gradu-
ate tax", enthusiastically adopted by Labour as
their official party policy, has earned him the can-
didacy to represent Labour for the parliamentary
seat for Eastwood in Strathclyde. All of these
have led people to cast doubts over the represen-
tative nature of the organisation, and wonder if the
whole business is merely a big publicity stunt.
m mm
4tS~t T/» T/» yOT «
mm
reflect the views of their students, and the mair
role of the NUS regional body will be to rectify
this worrina situation. Moreover, it will also be <
cussed in their regular meetings, attention will be
focused on matters specific to students in London,
eg, difficulties in finding suitable accomodation
and negotiations for transport discounts.
THE TRUTH
It is a well known fact that the majority of stu-
dents are not interested in politics. The discounts
available in purchasing food, alcohol and other
items is the main reason why most unions choose
to belong to the NUS. This is also why IC has
opted out; because we already have contracts with
several big purchasing groups, it would be point-
less to switch to the NUS. Their recent call for
a nationwide student strike has been endorsed
by most student unions across the country,
ut in truth, who in their right mind would
view it as anything other than an unscheduled
day-off. If the government is not responding to
pressures from vice-chancellors and princi-
pals of the colleges, it there any chance they
would even know of such a "strike" planned
by the NUS?
WHAT NEXT ?
The Utopic ideals they hold have somewhat been
overshadowed by their unprofessional attitude
towards non-affiliated members. Any detected
bias against the NUS in this article can partly be
explained by their lack of co-operation in answer-
ing my questions during my research. Since the
previous London NUS regional representative
body failed to leave behind an illustrious track
record, it is sad to see them turning down an

