Music 7 June 1999
Albums
INDIAN ROPEMAN
Elephant Sound
REMY ZERO
Villa Elaine
Indian Ropeman. Same label as Norman, you know.
W
ell this is a rather quiet release
from the same stable, Skint,
that brings you all of your
cherished and much hyped fatBoy Slim
releases. However, it is obvious from
the first that Indian Ropeman is without
the constraints that the fat one's seem-
ing Adidas sponsorship brings.
Elephant Sound, although I am still try-
ing to find one on the album, instantly
comes racing out at you like a champi-
on stallion. The first track. Chairman of
the Board, is a booming, dark tune with
the excellent, pre-requisite vocal sam-
ple, full of self-belief and adulation.
And as not to disappoint, with a
moniker like Indian Ropeman, the tune
is laced with an eerie Asian vocal
melody. In fact, the whole album has as
ethnic a feel as a Big Beat album can
have.
Now as far as I am concerned Big
Beat is solely a preserve of the dance
floor. Alright, I admit it, it is good for
those preparatory early Friday nights,
getting you in the mood for a hard
night's clubbing, but more than that?
Oh yeah, I almost forgot, as Fat Boy Slim
and now Bentley Rhythm Ace have
found, it is also excellent advert music!
For me, Big Beat is throwaway music.
The Fast Food of dance, instantly acces-
sible, rarely memorable and often
accompanied with a whole load of limp
lettuce and nasty gherkins to bulk it up!
Unfortunately, it is close to this ter-
ritory that Indian Ropeman's Elephant
Sound lies. The tracks have all the Skint
hallmarks: phat, pharty bass lines and nat-
urally that big drum beat. But it is not the
dance floor fillers that make your ears
jump for joy on Elephant Sound. No,
Indian Ropeman's quirky excellence is
best demonstrated on the slower, more
funky little numbers, of which there are
quite a few on the album. These include
an interesting cover of Sunshine Of Your
Love; so deep and dark it's almost at the
point of being drum n' bass, Do Not
Deviate From Your Course and the excel-
lently live sounding Your Own Enemy,
which could be a NinjaTune release.
Indian Ropeman's album is not bad
at all, although nothing astounds you
enough to call for the rewind. This breed
of Big Beat is a little older and more
complex than that employed by others.
The ethnic sounds and darker melodies
contribute an added dimension to a
genre that can be so featureless. Getting
back to the Fast Food analogy Elephant
Sound is more like a decent take-away
curry than a nasty commercial burger.
Not too bad, that is if you don't mind
what it does to your bowels the next
morning! B
Ramzi
TRINA & TAMARA
Trina & Tamara • • • •
W
e all know very well that chart-
successful boy-bands sing
nothing but love songs and
their success Is likely to be attributed to
this, along with their compulsory boy-
ish looks of course. In the same respect,
you could say that r&b bands sing main-
ly about sex and steamy foreplay and
that it's of black origin. This is all true
with Trina & Tamara.
T&T draw a fine line between gospel
and r&b, so although they do go all out
with saying things like 'Joanne, Joanne,
stop trying to fuck my man' on Joanne,
they also sing Almost acapella and slow,
which sounds like something that Eter-
nal would sing. Speaking of Eternal, I pre-
ferred their debut material much more
than the gospel they became so pas-
sionate about with their later albums.
Luckily, T&T features little of this and con-
tains some fine r&b.
The opening track, What'd You Came
Here For, sets the standard: stylish and
good fun. Judging by the vocals T&T
sound quite young - not quite as young
as Madonna's sign-up Cleopatra, but also
not quite as mature as Mary J. Blige.
Nevertheless, they produce a harmo-
nious sound and the beats are always
there to show it off. At times though, the
music needs to project the vocals rather
than being left for us to pick out.
The melody in Nothin' New, and
many other tracks, is so fresh. The sexy
keyboard loop is brilliant and the vocals
are Inevitably smooth.
Given that r&b is slowly getting more
and more chart-attention, due to artists
like Missy Elliott and TLC, T&T have a
good chance of getting some recogni-
tion and the material on this album cer-
tainly has potential to break into the
public limelight. If you're an r&b fan you
should definitely try and give this a listen;
it will not disappoint. If you're an r&b vir-
gin then this is a great album to indulge
in. It displays everything that goes into
making the sound that is r&b. There's fast
and slow tracks, hard and soft beats,
sharp and smooth vocals, and of course,
no shortage of dirty talk. EJ
Asad
F
or a band hailing from Alabama,
where it's not unusual to be mar-
ried to your horse and be having
an affair with your sister at the same
time, Remy Zero sound remarkably
British. I'm not bad-mouthing the
States but the current crop of talent is
British and American artists are either
well established or nothing special.
While Villa Elaine is an exception to that
rule, it's still not incredibly different.
Even though the emphasis is on
overdriven guitars and subtle effects
such as flangers, choruses and (my per-
sonal favourite) vibrato, Remy Zero
aren't afraid to show their softer side on
tracks like Life In Rainwitb some delicate
vocal harmonies. The lyrics and indeed
the vocals on Hollow ate reminiscent of
the late Shannon Hoon from Blind
Melon, with hints of (gasp) Brian Molko,
while the rest of the song has a huge
feel to it. The effects are taken into
industrial/ experimental territory by the
inclusion on many tracks of what I can
only call noise. You know when some-
one holds a mic too close to an amp and
you get a banshee screech? Well, it's like
that, and there's just no need unless the
sound of squealing brakes is on your
agenda. The single Gramarye, however,
is one of the top tracks on Villa Elaine.
It's intensely dark and pretty scary (or is
there just something wrong with me?)
but it has a slight 60s retro-ness to it, as
do all the tracks on the album. From the
whole feel of the album although not
typically American, it's not hard to hear
the influence of Adam Duritz of Count-
ing Crows in those guitars and the some-
times-wistful lyrics. But perhaps the most
enjoyable track is the closing Goodbye
Small WorldThat smacks of an early tou
Reed and the Velvet Underground at
their deceptively upbeat best.
With this album Remy Zero have
managed to imitate a hell of a lot of
musicians, all the while keeping an iden-
tity of their own. And even if it's not ter-
ribly ground breaking, there's fun to be
had guessing who they'll sound like
next. El
Christian

