7 June 1999
Albums
HOMEUFE
a****
Music 1
1
KHAN
1-900-Get-Khan
T
his is the first release from
Homelife, a collection of musos
from different backgrounds
who all decided to have a jam together
and record the result. You would think
that this could make it unstructured and
tedious, but the whole thing remains
very tight. The first thing you notice on
listening to the album is the astonish-
ing array of instruments - everything
from cello and violin to stylophone and
saw.
There are vocals, but these are kept
Singles
to a minimum, and the album is mainly
instrumental. A whole mix of styles live
happily together, with elements of jazz,
latin, funk and reggae. The overall theme
is definitely chilled. Summer-time-ls-here-
again kind of tunes. Homelife has some
absolutely gorgeous melodies, that you
just want to chew on and swallow In the
hope that a part of that soul will be inte-
grated into your own.
I love the way they strip down a
melody to its bare essentials and show
it off to the world in all its naked beauty.
They then set it against a flowing back-
ground of upbeat rhythms and beautiful
noises that complement in a way rarely
heard.
There's very little to complain about
here, but if I have one complaint, it's that
it sometimes gets a bit surreal. Towards
the middle of the album, random
instruments pop up all over the place.
Coupled with the occasional distorted,
trippy vocal, I did start to feel a bit dis-
orientated. It's not long, however, before
they get back on track and it seems like
the whole thing actually does fit in, and
it's just part of a bigger plan. There is def-
initely more concern with the feel of
the album as a whole, father than for
each individual track.
In places, it sounds like some of the
instrumental tracks on Beastie Boys' /
/
/
Communication, especially Track 11 with
its scratching. But my favourite track has
to be Haddows Cizz, with its catchy gui-
tar riff and shuffly rhythm. This will make
a fine single one day.
If exam stress is getting to you, just
put on this CD, lie back and let the
melodies flow around you. 1
3
1
Tom
T
he album cover has to be seen
to be believed. Those of you
choosing to buy this album
must unfortunately suffer the indignity
of doing so in public. It'll be one of
those moments when you think no-
one is around but as you pick it up,
you'll find a small crowd of people
looking at you as if you're some kind of
sick weirdo. I thankfully procured the
album in the confines of the Felix
Office (once I'd pulled it away from the
sweaty palms of an aroused Joel).
t-900-Cet-Khan is a collection of
minimalist-chilled-out beats and bleeps,
perfectly suited to a Swedish-furniture-
emporium concourse or a nouvelle-cui-
sine eatery. Precise, exact, anatomically
correct and oh so lifeless and insub-
stantial. Palpable cleanliness, alabaster
veneers, n o grit, n o grim, no soul.
Sounding like a poor-man's Lil Louis, it's
the perfect music for doing something
to when you're so involved in your task
you're oblivious to aural sensations. In
fact, word has just reached m e o f
Roche's intention to market the album
as a replacement for Rohypnol. E3
Chris
The Frames - Pavement Tune
Track 1 is the trashy one, track 2 the medium-paced one
and track 3 the slow burning acoustic number. Earnest,
workman-like rock. Dull, Insipid, hackneyed. Delete as
appropriate.
No Doubt - New
The major players in the unforgettable ska-revival of
1997 that lasted all of one weekend on MTV are back.
This time around the word is SKIFFLE! Yes, all herald the
great skiffle renaissance! Only joking, or am I?
Muse - Uno
A voracious guitar and cymbals ago-go intro gives way
to an aching vocal track with bouncy bass, tremulous
guitar and shimmering drums. Very good indeed,
shame about the B-sides.
Corduroy - Moshl Moshl
Plinky, plonky, all aboard the toy-town train. Enough
said, really.
CTD - Keep A Lid On Things
Whispered baritone and falsetto vocals call and respond
over smooth synthetic drums with a hint of tabla. I
haven't a clue what they're on about but it sure sounds
good.
Barker - Fireside Conversation
Vocal, guitar, bass and drums. A tried and tested for-
mula, yet still it astounds and often amazes. It also fails
and bores, this being a case in point.
T H E E S S E N T I A L C H O O N
Chemical Brothers - Hey Boy, Hey Old
'Hey boy! Hey girl! Superstar DJs! Here we go!' opines
the vox over a refrain not too dissimilar to a KLF tune.
And the heaving masses of disco-dwellers from Clacton
to Kavos shake their bits all summer long. A fine tune
indeed.
Cooler - Disco Sucks
Funky basslines, rhythmic beats and soulful keyboards
- rather like a disco track. O h it's a joke, right I see....
Boom-Boom Manclnl - Super Model Human
A very fine, infectious poppy number with a singer who
doesn't sound too dissimilar to the one out of Magoo
(if that means anything to you).
Simon Fisher Turner - Oh Venus
The bass reverberation of the first track resonates at a
frequency similar to that of my ear drums. Hence the
blood, hence the pain and hence my inability to hear
the remainder of the tracks. Which is a good thing if
the face of my cat is anything to go by.
Dark Star - About 3am
Another great song from Dark Star whereby a tale of
inconsequential existence is enveloped within guitars
that chime and also guitars that roar.
Fridge - EPH
At 8 tracks long this is hardly a single and a bit of a mixed
bag, alternating between John Barry compositions for
the thitd millennium and discordant tosh that gets
played at Plastic People every Saturday.
The Miracle Mile - Heroes and Misfits EP
God this is painful, will this stack of substandard CDs
ever be exhausted? I feel like Sisyphus, will my task ever
end or bring reward?
Witness - Audition
Hey, what do you know, a decent song. Witness, may
you join the Gods on Olympus and leave these pitiful
mortals in whose presence you are found. El
Chris

