7 June 1999 Clubscene 13
Donnatella s£ 4
Very catchy summer tune and yet another strong release from the Distinctive
team. The Radio edit and the Original Mix both play around effectively with
a great little piano score, and some cheesy, but not too grating, vocals. These
are the mixes that will deservedly propel this happy hark back to '95/96
straight into the charts and the minds of clubbers all summer.
But beware of the Mirrorball Vocal 12" Mix. This slightly more underground
version is disturbingly easy to listen to, despite its main pieces sounding
like a retake of some horrible '80s Depeche Mode-style effort. Very worry-
ing. The adoption of '80s musical influence by the dance community
would be a very bad thing. Please don't let it happen.
Out 21 st June
Nab Twins Nab Twins
The March (Nab Twins Remix)' 0
Nab Twin 1: "Hey, Nab, I've got a great idea for a wicked tune!"
Nab Twin 2: "Yeah, what's that bro?"
Nab Twin 1: "Well, y'see, what you do is you get a really annoying bass drum.
You know, one of those really harsh ones that penetrates your skull and
gives you the biggest migraine you've ever had. And then you just stick
lots of stupid sound effects over the top. I mean you could have any-
thing...like electric guitars, like played by Van Halen or another set of shitty
soft-rock weirdos. Doesn't matter who. And some shitty little tweekln' noises
like the sort aliens would probably make. And what you do to cap it all off
is have a horn section from an Italian football crowd playing some gimpy
little tune. Great! So what do you think, Nab? The dog's bollocks or what?
Nab Twin 2: "Yeah, I'm with you! Fantastic! We're gonna be famous!"
Someone with a brain: "Oh dear, I don't think so."
Pierre De Terre Pierre De Terre
'DJ Spin'
(Dlsques Bleu) 1
following on from the ultra-fabulous Pipi Le O u i , this can only be
described as a totally disappointing effort from the normally funky French
disco-house label. Apparently 'DJ Spin' is a nineties take on Blondie's 'Rap-
ture', but personally I can't see it. The press release also claims that this
tune has enough flare to keep John Travolta happy. Hmmmm! The only
way this tedious number could possibly keep Mr. Travolta happy would
be as a sedative should he ever happen to suffer from a little insomnia.
1 star
Out late June
Blanks Jones
'Cream'
(Deviant)
Huge monster tune inspired by the Scouse superclub. With its filtered beats, deep
bass and obligatory synths this track is a massive favourite with Oakenfold, Sasha
and Digweed. The best mix is the Paul Van Dyk remix, which comes with his trade-
mark kick-drum and signature breakdowns. Out 14th June.
Moogwal
'Night Out'
(Platlpus)
Excellent epic tune - with its deep, dark melody and filtered, rich beats this makes
for a great track in the mould of 'Northern Exposure'. Already being hammered
by Sasha and Digweed, 'Night Out' is everything you could wish for in an epic
house tune. The flip side is a completely different track, 'Moogwai' but isn't
as good as 'Night Out'. Out at the end of July.

