7 June 1999
Reviews & competition
Film 15
The King & I • • •
Starring : Miranda Richardson, Christiane Noll, Martin Vidnovic, Ian Richardson
Director: Richard Rich
I
t makes perfect sense to animate
Broadway musicals. The songs are
already market tested, the titles are
pre-sold and there's only one hitch: Their
stories appeal mostly to adults, while
most feature-length cartoons are aimed
at children. It need not be so. In Japan,
adults buy more tickets to animation than
children do - and as a result feature car-
toons, with their glorious freedom over
space and logic, represent up to a fourth
of ticket sales.
But here animation is mostly linked
with bold heroes, cute little animals and
colourful sidekicks. And one of the prob-
lems with The King and I, which has been
animated by Richard Rich for Warner Bros.,
is that the story is not intrinsically interest-
ing to kids. The Rodgers and Hammer-
stein classic is concerned with a romance
between a British schoolteacher and the
king of Siam; a parallel romance takes
place between the prince and a servant girl.
Both romances involve defiance of class
and convention, and kids aren't much
tuned into that.
This animated Ihe King and/does add
Yul Brlnner meets Jimmy Hill. Kinda.
some characters designed for children.
There's the roly-poly Master fittle, assistant
to the evil prime minister. He's flossing his
teeth the first time we see him, and then
it's a running gag that he keeps getting
them knocked out. Alas, he has so many
teeth that the gag runs out before the
teeth do. The movie also has a fire-breath-
ing dragon, a hot-air balloon adventure,
fireworks, a black panther and a lot of
royal children. But still it lacks energy, and
the story's barriers to romance aren't that
interesting to younger viewers.
Yet I applaud the experiment. The chal-
lenge is to make adaptations that are
intended for adults, and then attract adults
to the theatres. Go into any video store and
you will find long shelves of Japanese ani-
mation aimed at grownups. The tapes rent
like crazy. Now to find a way of porting that
audience over to the movies. D
Janine
Win tickets to The Matrix with the
KENSINGTON
If you ever read any of the leading
film and reviews magazines then
you're certain to have noticed the mas-
sive buzz surrounding the impending
release of The Matrix. It's an utterly
astounding movie, repleat with bril-
liant action sequences, fantastic effects
and mind-warping plot - so see it any
way you can. However, there's only
one way to win a free pair of tickets,
and that's by answering the following
question:
What links The Matrix with
Sylvester Stallone?
Email your answer to fllm.felix @lc.ac.uk
before Wednesday evening. The first
five names out of the virtual hat will
win a pair of tickets.
Well done as ever to all those people
who correctly identified the answer to
last week's competition. As you all spot-
ted, Julia Roberts starred alongside Alan
Rickman in Michael Collins, whilst Hugh
Grant shared billing with Mr Rickman
on both Sense & Sensibility and An
Awfully Big Adventure. The first five
correct entries to be drawn at random
were:
Helmy Rahman
Edward Bray
Tim Grant
Syariza Kamsan
David Morlarty
They each win a pair of tickets to see
Notting Hill. Please drop into the Felix
office to collect your prize.
PDATE
Dead Man's
Curve
On recent evidence, when it comes to
hamming it up, Mathew Llllard is clearly
Hollywood's overactor of choice. In She's
Like That he steals every scene he
appears in, thanks to comic timing,
appaling dancing and being thoroughly
obnoxious; in Scream he hammed his
way to the big time in prime psycho
mode; and here, in Dan Rosen's low
budget thriller, he's finally offered full
reign to throw his weight about in a
movie entirely based around his ability
to draw every last thread of emotion out
of a scene. Sadly, It's let down by being
too clever for it's own good, but its
worth renting for the finale alone.
The Negotiator
Despite being a perfectly adequate
movie, The Negotiator feels like a real
let-down simply because you're con-
stantly calculating what it could have
been. After all, the combination of Kevin
Spacey and Samuel L Jackson should be
an award winning o n e - particularly
when combined with some taut direc-
tion in the shape of F Gary Grey, fooked
at from the opposite point of view, how-
ever, it's lifted from utter mediocrity by
two of Hollywood's finest throwing lines
at each other with an incredibly intense
fury. So, what are you left with? Two
damn fine performances and a fairly
silly plot, that's what.
Saving Private
Ryan
The Spielberg-ster's back, and he's trying
harder than ever to make everyone love
him, mixing Schindler's List depth and
attention to detail with Jaws set-pieces
and Jurassic Park effects. He even throws
In a few hundred buckets of blood for
good measure. Yet whilst what remains
is undoubtedly a quality piece of cellu-
loid - the first twenty minutes are the
work of a master film-maker - you never
connect with the characters, and thus
never really care what happens to them.
In a way that's Spielberg's aim (soldiers
are just a bunch of ordinary guys etc
etc), yet it defeats the point of his movie.
Which is a shame.
Dave

