16 Sport & Crossword 7 June 1999
Predictions count for nothing
Hmmm. Last time I make predictions.
Some of you may remember that earlier
this term I predicted that Manchester
United would fail to win the treble.
Ahem. I also predicted that Zimbabwe
had absolutely no chance of getting out
of the group stages of the Cricket World
Cup. O h dear.
First off, many congratulations to
Manchester United on a tremendous
season that will hopefully put English
football firmly back on the map, and
give the national team the impetus it
needs to qualify for the European Cham-
pionship finals. Watch out for Tottenham
next season as they emulate Man U's
achievements (Well I can hope can't I?).
The second prediction that I made also
failed miserably. Unfortunately it had far
worse consequences for English cricket.
By beating South Africa, Zimbabwe not
only qualified for the second round with
a maximum 4 points, and a good chance
of making it to the semi-finals, but they
also eliminated an England team who
could not beat India at Edgbaston. What
makes the whole thing much sadder
was that this was the perfect chance for
England, at home, to put English cricket
back on the map. But they failed, and I
am afraid the blame can only be attrib-
uted to the fact that England does not
produce cricketers of a high enough
standard, somewhat perversely because
they play too much cricket. English
cricket must now look for new, stronger,
classier players if they hope to try again
in South Africa in 4 years.
The other sides in the world cup still
give the tournament an exciting look,
and now no team has an unbeaten
record. India have the best batsmen in
the tournament, South Africa the best
bowlers and Pakistan the best all round
team, plus the comedy that is Inzamam-
ul-Haq's running between the wickets. I
will push the boat out and say the semi-
finalists will be Pakistan, Zimbabwe,
South Africa and Australia, and Pakistan
will win the cup.
Closer to home, Imperial's 1st XI
ULU cup semi final was postponed last
Wednesday and rescheduled for yester-
day. The result was unknown as Felix
went to press.lf IC won, then the final will
be on Wednesday.Full reports next week.
Clayponds give Brabazon a beating
23 May saw Clayponds prepared to take
on the might of Brabazon house in what
promised to be a meeting of epic pro-
portions. The advantage however was
slightly with Clayponds since they were
playing on home soil and had a squad
of Manchester United proportions with-
out any less skill (I sense bias here)
The game started briskly with Clay-
ponds seeking to make their home
advantage tell. This proved to be diffi-
cult against a solid Brabazon defence
who held out fot some time. Then the
incessant attacking paid dividends as
the defence paused momentarily and
the ball was slipped to Kilroy who ham-
mered it past the helpless keeper. Ten
minutes passed and a beautiful ball
found Brabazon's star striker Parag who
fired a shot which would have screamed
into the top corner had it been a proper
set of goalposts and not just M O T cones,
expertly "borrowed" by Wilma. Fuzzy
was then presented with a golden oppor-
tunity in front of goal but managed to
slot It neatly passed the keeper. A fur-
ther goal for Clayponds from Kilroy made
it 2-2. With a minute of the half to go,
the ball got fed through as Kurt and
Benny managed to tackle each other
rather than Chris who was left to blast a
shot past the keeper into the top corner
of the goal; 3-2 at half time.
Brabazon showed their true colours
in the second half. When they won a
free kick on the edge of the area it was
down to the midfield maestro Fuzzy to
show what he could do. A solid defen-
sive wall was in front of him, but with this
man it didn't matter as with David Beck-
ham-llke precision, he drifted the ball
over the wall past the keeper. How-
ever, Clayponds then began to show
their dominance, scoring 3 more goals
to make it 6-3 to Clayponds. Tony "I think
I'm Pavarotti" scored the day's final goal.
Final score 7-3.
The game was played in fantastic
spirit in front of a capacity crowd (well
almost). Despite the result the game was
fairly close for most of the match and
only Brabazon's lack of fit blokes let
them down at the end. Afterwards
Brabazon were treated to cheers and
booze in Clayponds' communal garage
- any chance of getting a village hall?
Last week's crossword was won by Robert Chatley. Please drop by the Felix Office to claim your prize.
CRYPTIC CROSSWORD
by Sheep Across
(7)
11
A hairy ceramic is productive.
See Alps go past. (7)
Advertisements about Imperial have
abundant free protons. (5)
The union is in the middle,
Of a confusing riddle,
And someone has taken the piddle. (7)
Trust George Michael to have it. (5)
12 A tercel young lady killed mother. (7)
13 Plants need drainage point. (9)
15 Capri's may hide and can split light. (5)
17 Wait! We are in five hundred and fifty
twice. (5)
19 This spicy man should know about
laws of motion. (9)
22 Soft leather is macho? (7)
24 Three steps in single file, followed by
a kick can go badly wrong. (5)
25 In weights, to go French. That is they
exhibit. (9)
26 An acoustic vibration is one. (5)
27 Rear a broken net. You are twice
intermingled. (7)
28 Basic characteristic seen in excess
encephalopathy. (7)
Down
1 Mist engulfs mother, back in making
froth. (5)
2 Harness ram to strengthen. (9)
3 Give enthusiasm in steeple. (7)
4 Soil planet (5)
5 Send yells forever. (9)
6 Crack fifty in saliva. (5)
7 Misread a small weapon. (9)
10 Tacky pile by the sea. (5)
14 Stolid donkey chases elf for I heard
Beethoven's second. (9)
16 Copy a million mutations after one
and a thousand and one. (9)
17 Dog. Cane has ten corners. (7)
18 Toilet with points at large. (5)
20 Sinning when you bat. (7)
21 Elute no solvent. (7)
23 Mishaped bra contains the French for
more skill to do something. (5)
24 A sect or status. (5)
Entries for this week's crossword
should be received by
Wednesday 5pm.
Answers to 1147
Across: 1 Bigamously, 6 Wall, 10
Azimuth, 11 Agendum, 12 Notations, 13
Out-go, 14 Mardi, 15 Seduction, 17 God-
desses, 20 Laser, 21 Infer, 23 Iterative, 25
Endings, 26 Spiraea, 27 Sash, 28 Trans-
gress.
Down: 1 Brain, 2 Glittered,
3 Mountaineering, 4 Unhooks, 5 Liaised,
7 Audit, 8 Lampooner, 9 Reconciliating,
14 Mugginess, 16 Instigate, 18 Scissor, 19
Stepson, 22 Fades, 24 Exams.

