News 7 June 1999
Strike Pay Withheld from Students
Imperial College has refused to
donate the pay from members of the
Association of University Teachers
(AUT) who striked last month to the
student hardship fund. The move was
suggested by the AUT at the time of
the strike, and has been taken up by
many institutions in Britain who were
affected by the strike.
Academic staff who took part in
the strike are due to lose a day's worth
of pay, although there has been some
dispute as to whether this should be
1 /365th or 1/260th of their annual pay.
College responded to the request that
the deducted pay be given to student
hardship funds by stating that it will
"remain in departments for its proper
purpose - to pay for the salaries of
By Ed Sexton
staff and other costs of providing edu-
cation". Laura Barker, Imperial's AUT
representative, said she was "very dis-
appointed" with the decision. David
Hellard thanked the AUT for trying to
give the money to students, describ-
ing It is "a great sign... of their com-
mitment to the students of the
college". Responding to College's
decision to withhold the pay, Mr Hel-
lard remarked "it's a nice way to save
a bit of money". He cynically contin-
ued "having known IC for a year, I
don't think they would ever pass a
chance to make some money."
Meanwhile further AUT action is
expected this month. According to a
press release dated 31 May, AUT mem-
bers will "boycott a range of bureau-
cratic procedures in universities",
starting on 1 June. The press release
promised, however, that "teaching
and research will remain unhindered".
Further action on exams, lasting up to
four days, is also threatened. Exactly
what action will be taken at Imperial
remains to be seen, and was subject
to an AUT meeting last Thursday after
Felix went to press. David Triesman,
general secretary of the AUT, was cer-
tain that academic staff were behind
the AUT's proposals; "the determina-
tion of members to see this action
through increases daily."
KEEP THE CAT FREE
7 June 1999
Editor: Ed Sexton
Assistant Editor & Films: David Roberts
Music Editors: Dennis Patrickson
& Jason Ramanathan
Sports Editor: Gus Paul
Clubscene: Giles Morrison,
Gurminder Marwaha & Joel Lewis
Arts Editor: Helena Cocheme
This issue is brought to you by
Marlboro and the letter F.
Last Issue comes out on 23 June. If
you have any ideas, now's the time...
AGM Elections Street Crime Increase
ICU's Annual General Meeting took place
on Friday 28 May in the Union Dining
Hall. Although almost certainly not
attended by the requisite 200 members,
little attention was paid to the techical
details of ICU regulations and the meet-
ing was over in under forty minutes.
Union officers for the 1999/2000 year
were elected at the meeting; these offi-
cers sit on the relevant Union and Col-
lege committees, and generally
represent and promote students' inter-
ests in specific areas of university life.
Accommodation Officer
Katie Gummow
katle.Qummow@ic.ac.uk
Runs a committee of hall reps and
helps with student accommodation.
Community Action Group Chair
Nada Yousif
nada. yousif@ic.ac. uk
Oddly enough, runs the Commu-
nity Action Group, organising the soup
runs and suchlike.
Council Chair
Leonardo Monzon
leonardo.monzon@ic.ac.uk
Chairs Council and the Executive,
keeping unruly sabbaticals and others
under control. If you want to bring up an
issue at Council, it is a good idea to
speak to the chair before hand.
Equal Opportunities Officer
George Constantinldies
g.constantinides@ic.ac.uk
Responsible for enforcing the
Union's Equal Opportunities Policy.
Haldane Music Buyer
David Hellard
d.hellard@ic.ac.uk
Has £750 to spend on CDs for the
Haldane Library. Anyone with album sug-
gestions should contact the Music Buyer.
Postgraduate Committee Chair
Helen-Louise Windsor
h. windsor@ic.ac. uk
Chairs the Postgraduate Committee,
which co-ordinates postgraduate repre-
sentation and social events.
Rag Chair
Martin Lord & farhad Cooper
martin.lord@ic.ac.uk
farhad. cooper@ic.ac. uk
Organises RAG events and In par-
ticular RAG week.
Summer Ball Committee Chair
VACANT. Come along to Council tomor-
row if you want to stand.
Responsible for getting together a
committee, finding sponsorship and basi-
cally organising the entire thing.
Transport Officer
James Watts
j.l.watts@lc.ac.uk
Looks after the Union minibuses,
keeping them running and addressing
any problems that arise.
Welfare Officer
Douglas Graham
douglas.graham@ic.ac.uk
Runs the welfare committee, repre-
senting student welfare issues to col-
lege and other bodies.
Women's Officer
Christine Grant
christine.grant@ic.ac. uk
Responsible for highlighting and rep-
resenting women's issues in the Union
and College.
There has been a recent escalation in
street crime around Imperial College.
The increase in crime appears to be
targeting men from ethnic minorities.
According to Ken Weir, Head of Secu-
rity at the College, young men of for-
eign origin are perceived to be more
affluent than other groups, and are
therefore being targeted by a small
number of criminal gangs, intending
to steal watches, wallets and such-
like. There seems to be no evidence
that there is an increase in violence
associated with the crimes. All Impe-
rial students, and in particular those
most likely to be at risk from the
thieves, are reminded to be careful
w h e n going to and from college, par-
ticularly at night and w h e n travelling
alone. Students are advised not to
carry expensive personal items in an
ostentatious manner, and if possible
they should leave them at h o m e
altogether.
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB Internal tel: 58072 Internal fax: 48072 External tel & fax: 0171 594 8072 URL www.su.ic.ac.uk/Felix E-mail: felix@ic.ac.uk
Printed at MCP Litho Limited, Units B2 & B3, Hatton Square, 16- 16a Baldwins Gardens, London EC1N 7RJ Felix is a registered newspaper: ISSN 1040-0711
Felix is produced for and on behalf of Imperial College Union Publication Board. Copyright © felix 1999. Photographic copyrights remain with photographers.'

