7 June 1999 Editorial & competition Results
Does College Have a Heart?
Apparently not. It does, however, seem to
have a tight and insatiable wallet. I have
absolutely no idea how much money a
day's pay for all academic staff who took
part in the strike is, but I would guess it's
a medium five figure number. A lot of
money for students, not a lot of money for
College (fairly similar to the Clayponds Vil-
lage Hall cost, as it happens).
OK, so I know the reply: The money
will be ploughed back into our educa-
tion. Does this mean that staff will see a
surprise Christmas bonus? I doubt it. Will
Biology suddenly see an influx of spec-
trophotometers? Unlikely. What will prob-
ably happen is the money will b e
absorbed into Imperial's millions and
quietly forgotten about. Perhaps it will
resurface one day as a flower bed...
Bad Bouncers
I've been resisting the urge to say this all
year, but the time has finally come. The
Bouncers at the front of the Quad on
Wednesday and Friday nights really piss
me off. Not just because they keep you
waiting for five minutes, won't listen to rea-
son and refuse to recognise me on a
weekly basis, but because they are per-
petually obnoxious and seem to think
they are superior to anyone without a
staff swipe card. The ICU stewards, on
the other hand, I find only occasionally
irritating, and generally very helpful. Has
anyone else had a bad bouncer
experience?
Oh, by the way, the last issue is
approaching... if you've got any features
etc for it, please drop by this week. Ed
Railcard Competition
firstly, may I apologise for choosing a
highly ambiguous question. The first
railway was opened to the public in
1803, but it didn't actually go anywhere
useful. The first proper route was the
Darlington line, opened in 1825. Any-
way, many people entered and some of
you got one or other of those dates, so
we randomly chose some winners, and
they are;
Yin Loong Chao
Simon Brennan
Jonathan Carter
Stephen Harris
Edward Coccon
Could you please email Felix your
addresses asap, and the promoters will
send the railcards directly to your homes
in about two weeks. Cheers.
Tutor Required
Undergraduate wanted to tutor Quan-
tum Mechanics to Open University
Student. Only a few hours a fortnight
required, and generous pay on offer.
Phone 0181 470 8831
New Frontiers
In Science
The latest scientific research, on dis-
play at the Royal Society.
(Wednesday 16 & Thursday 17 June
6 Carlton House Terrace, SW1Y
Editorial Assistant Required
[To help compile Research Funding Guide for 'Research Fortnight'
Applicants should be: - a thorough researcher, with organised web searching
skills and a lucid telephone manner
- able to compose concise factual text, and edit it tightly
- observant, with a good eye for spotting typos and errors)
- an accurate typist, preferably with database knowledge
- a hard and diligent worker, able to stay calm and cheer-
ful under pressure
- able to grasp new concepts quickly, and appreciate
what our readers want
The job Is full time, from 8 September for about 8 weeks; offices In Shoredltch
Contact Emma Bottomley, Editor, on 0171 972 0396
The Imperial College 'mfflmk H •
•••\rr:
--^f:--r^-- : :
Alexandra Palace releases more tickets.
First come first served, while tickets last!
Prize Draw today at 5.00pm for Free Dinner Suit Hire
and Ladies Haircut (Worth £40)
iCU
IMI'HtlU Oil.I K i t I Nil IK

