Columns 7 June 1999
Right Angles to the Rising Sun
Japanese Television
I
f you've got a minute maybe you'd prolonged raising of the
help me out with a little survey that eyebrows a la Roger
I'm conducting. Which of the fol- Moore in "You Only Live
lowing would you say, preys most heav- Twice", but worse (in the sense of really
ily on your mind at this moment in time: bizarre) was still to come. Flicking
a) The problem of burgeoning Third through the channels I chanced upon,
World debt with all the implications that in turn,- a Chinese cookery programme
it carries for peace and stability in sub- which was making use of scanning elec-
Saharan Africa b) The emergence of tron micrographs to explain the best
terrorist states with nucleat capabilities way to fry beansprouts; a programme
in the new world order resulting from enticingly advertised in the Japan Times
the end of the Cold War and the col- as "variety show with couples", which
lapse of Soviet c o m m u n i s m c) The consisted of a Swiss bloke telling the
alarming increase in the number of bac- watching public about the first time he
terial strains that are resistant to all but had sex with his Japanese girlfriend
"last line of defence" antibiotics such as (who was sitting giggling at his side
Vancomycin d) The way Coke goes all gripping his hand like someone drown-
fizzy and froths over the side of the ing) whilst her parents slept in the room
glass when you pour it onto ice cubes, above; and a music show, the grand
Bit of a tricky one isn't it? finale of which was a half-hearted ren-
If, like me, your nocturnal hours dition of "The World is Waiting fot the
are assailed by terrifying visions of bar- Sunshine" performed by a five-piece
beques and cocktail parties laid waste ukulele orchestra complete with Aloha
by uncontrollable outbreaks of carbon- shirts and ties,
ated beverage supereffervescence. At this point I could stand no more
worry no longer - help is at hand, and was forced to pull the plug on the
Because Incredible though it may seem, magic eye and gulp down a handful of
it was this very topic which was the Ibuprofen to ease what had now turned
subject of a 20-minute special report on into a migraine, before hurrying off to
TV Osaka just the other day. A whole the bathroom to try and drag my poor
parade of experts, from a group of eyebrows, which by this time were on
female office work- the verge of disap-
ers - whose profes- a Chinese cookery pearing into my hair-
sional lives are line, back into their
apparently made hell p r o g r a m m e W h i c h original position,
by this problem By now some of
when preparing their WaS maki ng USe 01 you might have got
superiors'elevenses- the idea that I don't
to a professor of SCannin 0 electron have the highest
Fluid Dynamics at the opinion of Japanese
highly prestigious micrographs tO TV that there ever
Tokyo Institute of was. Others might
Technology, were explain the best Way be mumbling that
wheeled out to give I'm skating on decid-
their opinions on this to fry beansprouts..." edly thin ice on this
20th century scourge one, coming as I do
of mankind. The secret of the perfect from the country which forced such
froth-free Pepsi-on-the-rocks apparently televisual narcolepsy as "Ready, Steady,
lies in washing the ice cubes btiefly Cook", "Vanessa" and "Noel's Housepa-
prior to pouring on the drink. This pro- rty" on a largely undeserving public,
cedure, proved live on the programme The former charge is wide of the mark
by the examination of high-magnifica- whilst the latter comes dangerously
tion before-and-after photographs of close to piercing a major organ. Please
the ice surface, leads to the elimination don't run away with the idea that every-
of all the little jagged bits on the outside thing on Japanese TV is intellectual
of the cube, which normally act as candy-floss, it's just that when they
nucleation sites for bubble formation, make banal programmes over here,
The last time I saw a subject treated with they don't leave anything to chance,
such seriousness and reference to cut- The truth of the matter is that there is
ting-edge technology was when Jules actually a lot of really good viewing to
Bergman was trying to explain the dif- be had. News programmes and docu-
ficulties that would be encountered by mentaries in particular abound, fronted
the crew of Apollo 11 on their forth- by presenters who obviously know their
coming Lunar Orbit Insertion manoeuvre, onions and frequently interview over-
By the time this item was over I seas contributors using a range of well-
had developed a mild headache due to known foreign languages such as
English, Russian and Chi- ludicrously unrealistic fight scenes
Matt Salter nese. Especially welcome between groups of thoroughly pissed-
from the point of view of off men wielding huge samurai swords
the ex-pat is the practice of broadcast- and barking incoherent insults at each
ing news from foreign stations in the other. My kind of show. In fact, the
original language to which you can lis- only thing that would increase my view-
ten providing, that you've had the fore- ing pleasure still further would be if I
sight to purchase a TV set with a stereo could understand a blind word that the
option that allows between main and characters were saying. Economic
"sub" channels. In this way one can reports, desperately dull morning soaps
watch ABC (America), CNN, KBS (Korea), whose storylines seem to revolve
ZDF (Germany), TVE (Spain), RTR (Rus- around housewives struggling to repay
sia), CTV (China) and just about any large sums of money which they bor-
other station with a three letter rowed from loan sharks for their daugh-
mnemonic, including the good old BBC, ter's tango lessons, sumo commentary
whilst one is struggling with one's break- and even the dubbed version of "Little
fast noodles. This can of course work House on the Prairie" present few prob-
against you. It can be quite discon- lems, but when it comes to under-
certing to wake from your slumbers in standing 'Great Expectations'-style early
a Japanese-style room, turn on the box 19th century Japanese, I haveaDickens
and come face-to-face with Sir Leon of a job making out what's going on,
Brittan sporting a 5 o'clock shadow and It's almost as difficult as explaining the
banging on about trade quotas when LBW rule to an American,
you're still a bit groggy. Food for the On which topic, it's somewhat corn-
brain is continued on NHK Kyoiku Terebi forting to note that for all their cultural
(education TV) which bristles with richness the Japanese have also failed
enlightening programmes on every con- to resist the US invasion. I still surprise
ceivable subject from foreign language myself occasionally by tuning in in the
learning to Japanese sake appreciation, hope of catching a riveting documen-
taking in watercolour painting, sign Ian- tary about the historical role of eels in
guage tuition, physical fitness insttuc- Japanese cuisine or "Burmese for begin-
tion and lessons on ners", and find myself
"shogi"(akindofChi- "...When it COITieS tO confronted with an
nese chess) en route. episode of "Ally
In addition to this understanding 'Great McBeall". Of course
there exists a all foreign pro-
plethora of "how to" Expectations'-style early grammes have either
programmes full of subtitles or Japanese
people, who judging 19th century Japanese, dubbing, which can
by the looks of _ often provide an
pained seriousness I have a Dickens of a additional and unin-
on their faces, are t tentional source of
suffering from acute job making out what's amusement. Believe
appendicitis, stu- me, you've never
diously trying to relax gOing On... seen "ER", "Beverly
and enjoy a variety of Hills 90210" or "Wal-
leisure pursuits - golf, fishing and rock lace and Gromit" till you've watched
climbing being amongst the favourites, them in translation.
Quite how much use these shows are Anyway, listen to me rabbiting on.
to someone living slap bang in the cen- All this and we still haven't mentioned
tre of Tokyo where golf courses, lakes Japanese sit-coms (there aren't any),
and mountains are conspicuous by their stand-up comedy (the closest you get to
absence, is not at al! clear. it is "Rakugo" where the performers
But unlike Labour's 1997 Election kneel rather than stand) or sport (base-
Manifesto, it's not all "education, ball, baseball, sumo, motor racing and
education, education". My particular baseball again). Discussion of such
favourite amongst the less cerebral weighty topics will, I fear, have to wait
options are historical dramas called "jidai for another day as time's getting on
geki" - a sort of Japanese "Upstairs and there's something on the box I
Downstairs" if you will. Not only do want to see. I've been having a lot of
these programmes provide a unique trouble with my Haagen-Das take-aways
insight to the social mores and customs melting on me on the way home
of the Japan of yesteryear and present recently, and I've a feeling that this pro-
a spectacle in terms of gorgeous gramme just might have the solution
costumes and breathtaking views, but I've been looking for.
they always feature a fair number of

