7 June 1999 Columns 7
Here are a couple of Ideas which come together nicely
for a summer dinner. The whole thing is fairly easy, and
should take an hour to prepare. Served with a little salad
the whole thing looks stunning, and tastes pretty good too.
If you're careful In choosing the cheese, it should satisfy
even the most particular vegetarian.
Roast new potatoes are unusual, but fast becoming
a firm favourite of mine. In traditional cooking, onion and
thyme make a great gray/. The combination comple-
ments roast potato surprisingly well.
The choice of Dolcelatte on the peppers is important.
Its creaminess complements mushrooms perfectly. A
non-creamy blue cheese would destroy the effect.
Peppers Stuffed with Mushroom and Dolcelatte
Serves 4
4 red peppers
12 medium sized mushrooms
200g dolcelatte
butter
double cream
black pepper
Heat the oven to to 200 degrees/gas mark 6. Divide the
mushrooms into segments of about a centimetre. Melt
enough butter in a fairly small pan to coat the mushrooms.
Leave the mushrooms to sweat over a gentle heat for a
couple of minutes, until the butter has soaked through,
and a juice starts to accumulate in the bottom of the pan.
Add a tablespoon of double cream, and loads of ground
black pepper.
Use a large sharp knife to slice the peppers in half. I
like to cut right through the stalk, leaving half on each shell.
Cooks
Corner
Remove only the bulk of the core, by making a single cut
under the stalk then pulling gently.
Spoon the mushroom mixture into the peppers, then
place on a greased baking sheet. Slice the dolcelatte thinly
then lay on top. Cook the peppers for 20 minutes, until
the skin starts to turn black.
Roast New Potatoes with Onion and Thyme
Serves 4
750g waxy potatoes (such as Jersey Royals or Charlotte)
3 medium onions
thyme (a handful of fresh leaves, or 1 tbsp dried)
butter & olive oil
Preheat the oven to 230 degrees/gas mark 8. Place a high
sided, thick based baking tin over a medium heat, and melt
a generous knob of butter (40g ish) with a tablespoon of
olive oil. Skin, then half the onions between the ends. Cut
each half into eight, leaving small segments. Add the onion
and thyme to the pan then cook (stirring regularly) until
the onion starts to brown. Transfer the pan to the oven,
and cook for another 20 minutes. After this time, they be
caramalised and wonderfully sticky.
Cut the potatoes so that all the pieces are bite-sized,
then add to a pan of boiling, salted water. Bring the water
back to the boil and simmer for five minutes.
When the onion is ready, add the potato to the bak-
ing tray and stir. Lower the heat to 200 degrees/gas mark
6. Cook (stirring every 10 minutes) until the potato skins
are brown and shrivelled. This will take about half an hour.
Simmer for an hour, then season and serve with rice
or a baked potato.
Next week: Death to diets, and perfect mushrooms.
Kevin, a random entity who
knows nothing about nothing
ICU Annual General Meeting
Kevin attended the recent ICU Annual
General Meeting where predictably,
there was a good showing of medics. It
is at this meeting that some of next
year's Union Officers are elected. One
highlight was the wannabe doctor who
stood for Equal Opportunities Officer,
with the aim of eliminating discrimination
between students because they are from
different Constituent Colleges. In other
words non-medics should be welcome at
medic events and vice-versa. Unfortu-
nately, the other medics in the room
were not too happy with this proposal
and he was not elected. Kevin hopes he
will not have been put off by his defeat.
The Union needs people like him, to
ensure that they are providing a service
for, and representing all members of
our university, and not just the fraction
of students based in South Ken. Another
interesting event was the election of
next year's Haldane Music Buyer, who
promised to purchase all albums that
were requested by Union members.
Obviously with this reckless attitude
the budget will not last for long, so Kevin
suggests getting your requests in early to
president@ic.ac.uk
Website Superiority
Imperial college has to have the coolest
phonetically pronounceable web / e-mail
address of any university. Perhaps it
should be used in the prospectus: "come
to IC and become <yourname> at ick ack
uck." I'm sure everyone reading this
would agree that it sounds much better
than mit.edu or ox.ac.uk however you
say it. Kevin also noticed that
http://www.mit.edu gets you to MIT's
students website and the non-intuitive
http://www.web.mit.edu is the location
of the official website. Perhaps IC stu-
dents should lobby for:
http://www.ic.ac.uk to be handed to the
students.
Send ideas and contributions to
kevin_mishmash@hotmail.com
Why Wye?
At the Chelsea flower show, there was a
stand from Wye College. A prominent
sign on the stand advertised the prospec-
tive 'merger' with Imperial College. On
being questioned by Kevin as to why
the word 'merger' did not read 'takeover'
staff manning the stand shied away from
comment.
Library News Service
Town Criers, with their loud voices and
clamourous hand bells drawing atten-
tion to themselves as they bellowed out
the news stories of the day to captivated
audiences used to be a common sight in
towns and cities across the land. These
relics from the days before newspapers
and televisions have all but disappeared
from the rest of the country. However
their methods have be resurrected by IC
security in the central library. It is now
common for security to bring library users
the news "faster than Felix".
Recently Kevin has noticed
announcements have started to incor-
porate 'and finally' style quips, as well as
more serious information.
And Finally
Last Sunday evening, Kevin heard of a
rather exclusive event. I assume that
somewhere in this issue of Felix, I will be
able find a review of "Episode L The
Phantom Menace", written by our presi-
dent. Kevin guesses that the review will
read along the lines of; "FANTASTIC!".
Presidential Talk-Back
L
ike Felix, I really
don' t have David Hellard,
much to harp
on about this week, so I thought I'd
spice up my column a bit and go com-
petition crazy. The hard bit about this is
being able to offer any decent prizes, but
as I look around my office, there are a
number of random goods that could be
on offer, ranging from an Isostar drinks
containet to winning a pair of tickets as
special guest to the President's dinner.
Last week the best answer to what
should go into Pandora's Box was sent
in byjeoff Cliffard, the wonder boy. Who
would of thought that Jeoff would be
willing to entomb himself in the box, in
an effort to become part of the History
of Imperial College Union. Your prize will
be awaiting you in the Union Offices
Jeoff.
Now to win one of the numerous
aforementioned prizes all you have to do
is either:
a) Be the person with the most orig-
inal end to this sentence:
'I want to go to the president's din-
ner to meet Chtis
ICU President Ince because...'
b) or write the
best caption to these two pictures
Answers to president@ic.ac.uk- the
ruder, the better.

