8 Feature 7 June 1999
Fly American!
Neil Mothew describes the start of his trip across America at the controls of a light aircraft
Car rental companies don't like under-25
year olds. Many won't even serve them.
If they do, they charge ridiculous
amounts for insurance. They just don't
trust us. So, what does a 21-year-old with
a passion for travelling do to get around
the US?
Hitchhiking? That's dangerous. Grey-
hound buses? They're slow and uncom-
fortable. Trains? They're infrequent and
expensive. Solution: rent a plane. There
is no such age discrimination with light
aircraft rental. All you need is a pilot's
licence and about four weeks of holiday
job wages to pay for it. No check-in
means you can wake up when you like
and go when and wherever you want.
You get a great view of the country when
cruising below 10,000 feet, and it's quite
quick as well.
We hired a Cessna 182 from
Meacham Field, an airport just West of
Fort Worth. This is a single engine, four
seater aircraft which cruises at around
155 mph. I shared the flying with Russ,
a pilot I met at flying school. This meant
we could split the costs, making the trip
slightly more affordable. Plus, being
American, he had lots of family and
friends who we visited along the way,
thereby avoiding the cost of hotels as
much as possible. We were on a tight
budget after all.
Dallas - Fort Worth
Dallas has two claims to fame - one
being J R Ewing and the other the JFK
assassination. It was also to be the place
we would start our journey.
The schoolbook repository - the
famous building from where Lee Harvey
Oswald supposedly assassinated JFK in
1963 has been preserved as a museum.
The book storage books are stacked as
they were on the day. The window is
open and Lee Harvey Oswald isn't there.
You can't go near the window - it is
glassed off. If you could, then you would
wonder how on earth L. H. O. fired that
shot with such accuracy. He must have
been quite a gifted contortionist.
Other places of interest include the
Fort Worth Stockyards. This used to be the
centre of trade for cattle, but now is
more a hangout for wanna-be cowboys
(and girls) and country music lovers. It is
also where Walker Texas Ranger is filmed.
I was lucky enough to catch Tanya Tucker
performing at Billy Bob's Honky Tonk;
famed as being the World's largest
'Honky Tonk' (whatever that is!)
In the summer, the average temperature
is around 10OF (37C) which may be a bit
of a shock to the system. Everything is
very spaced out and public transport is vir-
tually non-existent, so a car with air con-
ditioning is an absolute necessity. Whilst
there, I asked what it took to get a Texas
drivers' license... the response was that
you had to "be a good shot and a bad dri-
ver". Watch out for the pick-up trucks
with shot-gun racks in the back window!
Refuelling Stop - Tyler, Texas
Normally I wouldn't mention a routine
stop to fill up with fuel, but this one
sticks in my memory. On landing we
were intercepted by not one, but two
golf carts from different companies with
'FOLLOW ME' signs on the back. Each cart
was driven by a beautiful girl in a cheer-
leader outfit - one wearing Texaco
colours and the other Exxon colours. So,
on choosing Ms Exxon, we followed and
parked. She rolled a red carpet up to the
plane and asked us how many gallons
we wanted. With the fuel tanks in the
wings, I'm glad we had a high-wing air-
plane! That's what I call service.
New Orleans, Louisiana
Arriving at night, I can't say I saw much
of New Orleans from the alt. We flew
into Lakefront airport - a mere three
miles from the centre of town. Our hip-
pie taxi driver (he had just left a com-
mune) took us to the Longpre
guesthouse. Planted firmly in the lovely
Garden District, this hostel'is within easy
travelling distance of the French Quarter
via the streetcar.
With an average of four murders a
day, New Orleans is one of the most dan-
gerous US cities. Unless you have a death
wish, the area to walk around is the
French Quarter. Certain areas of the city
are particularly dangerous and it is
extremely easy to wander from the seem-
ingly safe tourist areas into dodgy areas.
As we discovered, many street people
make a good living preying on tourists
who might stray. O n e of these people
approached us rather forcefully, demand-
ing a dollar to let us live. I only had 75c
in my pocket, so I negotiated and
seemed to avoid any trouble. Even the
muggers are cheap in New Orleans.
New Orleans is an amazing, unsleep-
ing party town. Numerous bars, Jazz
clubs, oyster restaurants, strip joints and
the occasional voodoo shop make for
lively trade on Canal Street. Vendors dis-
pense lethal cocktails, going by the name
of "The Hurricane", in pint cups. After
imbibing two of these "extra loaded"
beverages, I discovered where this drink
got its name from - it wipes you out like
a hurricane! Yes, this was the first (and
hopefully last) place I had a blackout. I
don't know which higher power guided
me back to the hostel, but I couldn't eat
for three days.
Lacking a sense of smell whilst walk-
ing along Canal Street is a definite advan-
tage - it is quite nauseating unless you
enjoy an aroma of fresh vomit. Roaming
among drunk tourists and students, you
will soon relinquish control of your legs
and let the flow of pedestrian traffic take
you to the next worthy establishment.
Moonlighting cops serve at bars, so as
long as you don't stray from the crowds,
things are reasonably safe; you are
unlikely to come to much bodily harm.
After a thorough recovery from alcohol
poisoning, it was time to file the flight
plan and move on.
El Paso, Texas
I was immediately struck by the urban
desolation of El Paso - and that was in the
city's downtown business district. Many
people opt to run for the botder in search
of action, as the schmaltzy Mexican town
of Juarez is only a mile away. We spent
a night there eating Tacos and then flew
north to Albuquerque.
This part of the desert requires very
careful navigation. Restricted and military
operation areas are no-fly zones and air-
craft are restricted to flying in designated
narrow corridors. This is the place where
the supposedly top-secret Lockheed
Skunkworks and Area 47 are located.
Stray and you might be intercepted and
escorted out by military jet. If you don't
get shot down, you will certainly get a
stiff talking to once on terra firma if you
get the map reading wrong.
Albuquerque, New Mexico
The staff at Albuquerque airport were
extremely helpful and friendly. Before
we even asked, they told us where to
stay, where the happening nightlife was
(there wasn't) and even where the $5
hookers worked.
There is plenty to do downtown and
on trendy Nob Hill nearby. We were told
the historic old town was also worth a
visit, but we didn't make it there.
We got our kicks on Route 66. The
famous highway passes through Albu-
querque. Here, you can spend an
evening just watching boy racers in their
turbocharged drag cars cruising Main
Street and revving their engines in the
hope of instigating a race. Occasionally,
when they met similarly-minded individ-
uals, they get their way.
We woke up the next morning at
6am to beat the desert heat and thermal
waves, which give unbearable turbu-
lence in the afternoon. One plane check,
one flight plan, and one weather report
later, we were airborne and on our way
to cross the barren desert.
Truth or Consequences, New Mexico
O n e town we noticed en route was
called 'Truth or Consequences'. The
name was so interesting that we decided
to take a refuelling stop, and investigate
why on earth it was called that. The town,
formerly named Hot Springs, changed its
name in 1950 to that of a popular radio
show. The deal was that the radio show
would broadcast to its thousands of lis-
teners from the town, thus attracting the
attention of an unlimited tourist base. Just
remember this was in an era before sell-
ing out was considered unfashionable. T
or C also has some interesting ghost
towns, cliff dwellings and mountain out-
posts surrounding it, which ate well
worth exploration.
And so, we fired up the six cylinders
and took off for the West Coast to San
Diego...

