7 June 1999 Arts 9
IMPERIAL COLLEGE UNION CHOIR CONCERT
Holy Trinity Church
Bouquets and bubbly - Soloist Miranda Keys, organist Andrew Earls and choir performers Alex Cope, Stuart McDermott
and Philip Angell graciously receive the accolades of success and appreciation
T
he venue for the choir's perfor-
mance on Friday 28 May was the
Holy Trinity Church on Prince Con-
sort Road - a contrast to The Great
Hall in the Sherfield building, where last
term's Verdi Requiem was so vigor-
ously performed. The small church was
very quickly filled with friends and fam-
ily of choir members a n d once the
benches had been shuffled about to
create the required legroom, everyone
settled back to enjoy the concert.
The performance began with Ben-
jamin Britten's Te Deum in C- imme-
diately the church filled with the sound
of the organ and with the breathtaking
harmony of the well-balanced four-part
choir. The acoustics inside the church
ensured that the listener was at once
surrounded by music. Soloist Miranda
Keys required little effort in order to lift
her voice above the organ and choir.
There were captivating solo per-
formances from members of the choir
during Britten's Rejoice in the Lamb.
The words to this piece are based o n
extracts from an eighteenth century
poem by Christopher Smart about a
petson subject to bizarre visions. We
were assured twice that "the M o u s e is
a creature of great personal valour".
And this particularly feisty animal obvi-
ously was, as it was ptepared to
engage a cat (no doubt in order to
teach it a lesson) which had just
attacked its missus! The conflict was
given a d d e d flair by the organist,
Andrew Earis, who characterised the cat
and mouse in his playing.
Next the Chamber Choir per-
formed Agnus Dei by Barber. This is the
choral arrangement of Adagio for
Strings. Here the sopranos managed
superbly and the church filled with a
continuous flow of notes that touched
even the deepest of emotions (and
periodically put the stained glass in
serious danger).
An assortment of strings joined the
choir for Monteverdi's Beatus Vir, which
added warmth and depth to the perfor-
mance and formed a bass continuo
essential to the music, which varied from
solo phrases to those for the whole
ensemble.
Immediately after the interval, it was
apparent that the choir had become
somewhat depleted and fearful of the
audience as they were huddled together
at the back of the choir stand. Once the
piece A Hymn to the Mother of God by
Tavener began, we realised that the rest
of the choir was located at the back of
the church with the audience sitting in-
between. As you may imagine, this
posed a bit of a problem for conductor
ThereesTkach Hibbard who turned side-
ways to face the west wall. This enabled
her to direct the group at the front with
her right hand and the group at the
back with her left hand. Many in the
audience followed her example, swivel-
ling in their seats for the best position to
listen. But this hardly mattered as the
chords rolled over the walls and across
the high ceiling to produce a wonderful
'surround sound' effect - a characteris-
tic of the whole evening.
The concert ended with Mozart's
Vespers, composed in 1780 before he
moved to Vienna. The choir sang the
Psalms beautifully (with characteristic
diminishing seventh in Laudate pueri
that I had been instructed to look out
for). There were notable performances
from the ICUC soloists who deservedly
received gifts and great applause from
the audience at the end. It was obvious
to all present that the choir had relished
performing these pieces and the
evening was a great success. Thank you
to all involved.
Rachel
Conductor Therees Tkach Hibbard, with musicians and choristers accepting the audience's applause

