Page 6 FELIX October 31, 1972
_ _ in the last issue of "Felix", Chris Perrott and W. Price ex-
A mm mm. 1 mm m M i l l M i r i M I V plained the basic of applying for a job. In this, the last of their
B% IIIjl V WW r i l l II2f two articles, they explain in detail how to prepare your Curricu-
How to compose your Curriculum
Vitae
Personal Specification
List all your past history and ex-
perience. Your education, past em-
ployment, sport, hobbies, voluntary
work, and anything else you can think
of. You probably have experience in
more fields than you realise. If you
are a retiring member of one of the
services you will certainly have ex-
perience which will be useful in many
types of civilian employment. If you
have been a salesman your exper-
ience will be important in many jobs
which do not directly involve selling.
Your list will serve two purposes:
a. It forms the raw material of
your Curriculum Vitae.
b. It will give a lead to your abili-
ties, and may help you in de-
ciding just what type of new
vocation you want.
Job Specification
Having listed your own experience
you now need to determine exactly
what type of experience is necessary
for the type of job for which you are
looking. So make out another list de-
tailing qualifications, experience and
special skills which you consider
necessary for the job.
If you compare this job specifica-
tion list with your own specification,
you are now ready to compile your
Curriculum Vitae.
Compiling your Curriculum Vitae
Select from your personal specifi-
cation the details which are most im-
portant for the type of job you are
seeking. In other words match your
persoanl specification to the job
specification, stressing the experi-
ence which is most relevant. The re-
sult should give you the details which
should be incorporated in your Curri-
culum Vitae.
Laying our your Curriculum Vitae
Your Curriculum Vitae should be
presented in tabular form under clear
headings. This enables the inter-
viewer to refer to any particular part
quickly and easily.
Every copy of your Curriculum
Vitae must look as though it has been
individually typed. Curriculum Vitae
which have been photo-copied or
stencil duplicated may give the im-
pression that you apply for a large
number of jobs, without taking too
much trouble. The best way to pro-
duce your Curriculum Vitae is to have
it expertly typed and printed by off-
set litho, this will give the appearance
of each page having been separately
typed. (Details of our service for do-
ing this are enclosed).
At the top of your Curriculum Vitae
you should clearly set out your Name,
Address and Telephone number, (re-
member it may become detached
from the covering letter of applica-
tion), and your age, marital status
and number fo children. (Don't list
childrens names, etc., it's of no in-
terest at this stage).
Always leave at least one and a
half inches in the left hand column,
papers are frequently filed and holes
may be punched in some important
part of the information. Now list the
rest of the information under the fol-
lowing headings:
Education. List schools attended
with dates and examinations passed.
Higher Technical Education. List
Universities and degrees. Also any
professional or technical qualifica-
tions which are relevant to the type
of job for which you are applying.
Write your qualifications in full—do
not give a list of "letters".
Military Service. Give dates and
Regiment, but do not go into too much
detail unless it is specifically connec-
ted with the type of job for which you
are looking. Never use service termin-
ology.
Career. List the post you have held
with the dates. Your most recent ex-
perience is almost certainly the most
important, and you may wish to go
intointo brief details. Otherwise sim-
ply list the Firm, the position held and
the time involved. You may emphasise
the position which you feel has the
most bearing on the type of job for
which you are applying, but no one
will be particularly interested in how
much you earned as an office boy 15
years ago. If your income has shown
a good steady increase in your last
two or three positions, indicate this;
particularly if the money offered for
the job you are applying for will con-
tinue this progression.
Miscellaneous. Finally indicate any
other points which you consider rele-
vant. These may include languages,
travel experience, sport, committee
memberships, etc.
You now have a completed Curri-
culum Vitae. Read it through and cut
out anything which is not essential.
If possible try and fit it onto one page.
Obviously, however, the more exper-
ience you have the more space you
will require to set it out. The impor-
tant thing to bear in mind is that the
prospective employer has a lot of
applications to read, and if you
ramble on and bore him you don't
stand a changes. A Curriculum Vitae
which conjures up a picture of you,
interesting enough to invite you for
an interview, and taking as little time
as possible to read, is ideal from the
readers point of view. As a rule let's
say that a single page Curriculum
Vitae is probably better than two
pages, but two pages are better than
three!
Your Curriculum Vitae is your ad-
vertisement of you. If it interests the
prospective employer sufficiently to
invite you along for an interview,
then it has succeeded. The details
will be discussed at the interview.
Method of Approach
You now have prepared your letter
of application and your Curriculum
Vitae. The letter of application states
why you are applying for the job, and
refers to the Curriculum Vitae for
more detail. The Curriculum Vitae
should sufficiently whet the readers
appetite for him to invite you along
for an interview. The interview is the
time for more detailed examination
of you and of the job for which you
are applying.
Seeking a new job is hard work.
It also demands a reappraisal of your-
self and your future expectations. If
you follow the foregoing advice you
will find that the composition of your
Curriculum Vitae is valuable not only
in presenting yourself to a potential
employer, but also in clarifying your
own ideas about yourself.
Job hunting is essentially a market-
ing operation. Your plan of action
should be as follows:
1. Evaluate the product, i.e. your-
self.
2. Evaluate the market, i.e. the
position you are looking for.
3. Prepare your approach to the
market. These will include:
Replying to advertisements.
Direct approach by letter to
selected companies.
Personal introductions.
Ask your friends for advice.
Employment agencies and
Consultants. You cannot have
your name on too many
peoples books.
Personal Approach
However you make your approach
the more personal you make it the
better it will be. People are flattered
if you bother to find out their name.
It impresses them and it proves that
you have gone to some trouble. Be-
fore you write to any firm, phone up
find out who will be reading your
application, and then address it to
him personally.
Follow Up
Few people bother to follow up
their application. They send them off
and then leave it to the prospective
employer to contact them, either in-
viting them along for an interview, or
else sending a letter which begins
"We regret to inform you". Originality
and determination are useful quali-
ties, and if you phone up your pros-
pective employer a few days after
sending him your application, he is
sure to be impressed. He may have
had so many applications that he is
finding it difficult to decide on a list
for interview, and your telephone call
may help him to make a decision. At
any rate this way you must establish
a more personal contact, and your
name will become more meaningful in
his mind than the other applicants
who are simply names on the top of
pieces of paper.
References
There is little point in naming re-
ferees in your Curriculum Vitae. You
will almost certainly be required to
give a business reference and a char-
acter reference when you are finally
offered the job, but not before. The
days of Testimonials starting "To
whom it may concern . . . . " are
over, and today's references are more
personal and specific.
It is as well to have a list of suit-
able people prepared, who you know
will give you a reasonable recommen-
dation, and it is good manners to
warn these people that you may be
using their names, (and thank them
afterwards). Relatives are not usually
acceptable as they are expected to
be biased (one way or the other).
Coming Events
MONDAY 30th
9.30 Consort Gallery, College Block: Paintings by Andrzej Kuhn
-17.30 (until 10 Nov.).
9.30- Huxley Building Centenary Commemorative Exhibition (until
-21.30 3 Nov.). Lyon Playfair Level.
19.30 H. G. Wells Society: Dr. T. H. Tarling "New Global Tectonics
and New Resources", Mech Eng 220.
TUESDAY 31st
12.45 Stoic Television Service: Feature Film —- "Carry on Cabby"
J.C.R. and Southside Channel 21.
13.30 Dr. K. Mellanby (Director: Monkswood Experimental Station),
"Pesticides and the Environment—Physics Theatre 1.
Mr. J. B. Thole: The British in World War II. 1 The Battle of
Britain, Mech Eng 220.
Mr. Michael Hird: The Symphony 4. Beethoven, Mech Eng 342.
13.15 FELIX Meeting, Felix Office, 3rd Floor Union Building.
19.30 NIGHTLINE lecture by Mr. Michael Butler (For all those in any
way interested in helping 'Nightline'), Physics Theatre 1.
WEDNESDAY 1st
13.00 IC Transcendental Meditation Society: Introductory Talk, Elec
Eng 606.
13.30 The Rehearsal Process: Oedipus Rex (Penguin Translation). A
Rehearsal by students of R.A.D.A. Great Hall.
16.30 London Student Press Association "Sennet" Get-together. Fun
event of the week with the combined talents (?) of 15 news-
papers.
THURSDAY 2nd
12.30 Felix Meeting.
13.00 I.C. Union Meeting. Great Hall.
13.30 Lunch Hour Concert: The Georgian Quartet—Beethoven Recital
Lib. 53 Prince's Gate.
FRIDAY 3rd
13.00 STOIC Television Service: "Ever Popular Monochrome Show—
"Solar Plexus"—A Mixture of jazz and contemporary Dance,
J.C.R. and South Side Channel 21.
18.00 STOIC Television Service: Repeat of 13.00 transmission, J.C.R.
and South Side.
19.15 IC Film Society: Great Hall, "The Birds" and "Dynamite
Chicken" (non-members 20p at door).
SUNDAY 5th
20.00 Rugby Club Bonfire at Harlington.
TUESDAY 7th
NEXT FELIX OUT.

