October 31, 1972 FELIX Page 7
Live TV:
"Full House"
"God, it must be awful!" we thought as the
BBC handed us 50p each in payment in order to
persuade us to sit to the end of "Full House", a
BBC2 arts programme that is transmitted live
on Saturday nights. "Felix" had been invited to
form part of the studio audience for the second
programme, and I had given up my Saturday
evening to spend a few hours at the TV centre.
It was nothing like as awful as expected. Not
having seen the first programme (or, for that
matter, any TV at all for two months at least) my
only knowledge of the programme was what I
had heard from people who had seen it (who had
very mixed opinions) and the information that I
had been sent. The general impression I had got
was that it was rather long and at times very
boring.
Well, two and a quarter hours is a long time.
But it seems to pass very quickly, sitting in the
studio. The programme is of the magazine var-
iety, combining films, plays, poetry and art held
together in the studio by Joe Melia with this
audience of 100 or so who are meant to discuss
the art forms shown on the programme. The
only discussion, in fact, was about some "Con-
ceptual Art" by Stuart Brisley, who, we kept be-
ing assured, was not a looney . . . despite the
fact that his concept of conceptualism was to
rise from a bath filled with black paint and
animals' lights as Dracula from the grave, and
then proceed to chuck the lights on the carpet in
front of him. I'm afraid it conveyed nothing to
me, other than that Mr. Brisley lacked the integ-
rity that he was meant to possess. It seems that
he's been sitting in this bath of muck for months
now, and rising at frequent intervals for the
benefit of the multitudes.
Both the film (of "The Two Gallants", by James
Joyce) and the play ("Juvenalia" by E. A. White-
head) seemed incoherent, and the former I
found very difficult to grasp the meaning of. This
was doubtless partly due to the obscured view
that I had and the distraction of moving cameras
and booms and things.
However, I enjoyed the play: it surprised me
how well it worked in such a setting. Maybe I
should explain: the audience is arranged in
clover-leaf formation around a small area in
which all the "action" takes place; all the time
that you are watching something on film on your
telly set, things are being moved into this area
for the next live bit. Thus one gains on the live
happenings by being in the studio, but loses out
on the filmed parts—it's very difficult to concen-
trate.
I really did enjoy, most of all, the other sec-
tions: Charles Causley's poems, "Cantores in
Ecclesia" singing Vaughan Williams' settings
of Shakespeare songs, and the Cannonball Ad-
derley Quintet, a really tremendous jazz group.
It is certainly an experience, and if you feel
loquacious, there's no reason why you shouldn't
be heard and seen on millions of TV sets across
the country. "Felix" has been assured of a regular
supply of tickets to the Saturday night perfor-
mances, and if you would like to go, please con-
tact the Editor. The supply is VERY LIMITED—
first comers only! In future weeks the Ballet
Rambert, Julian Bream and John Williams,
Gladys Knight and the Pips, the Netherland Wind
Ensemble and Roxy Music will all be appearing:
there will be a varied diet of plays including
"After Liverpool" by James Saunders and the
final one of the E. A. Whitehead trilogy, and
many original forms of visual art. The full details
are not available until nearer the time; if
come along to the "Felix" office, we'l
all the details.
Finally, the BBC is to be applauded for putting
on an arts programme in the middle of Saturday
evening instead of the usual midnight midweek
slot reserved for interesting programmes. I hope
that it will get the ratings that it deserves.
you
give you
Records
JOHN CALE: "The Academy in Peril" (WEA-
Reprise)
Last week someone remarked to me that more
people would read my reviews if I reviewed
something with more mass appeal, so here I go
folks. "Top of the Pops Volume DXXXXIV" is
a superb collection of spiffnificently delivered
tunes so much like the originals that you'll wish
you never bought a single in your life. It contains
Xerox-copy versions of. . . ."
Right! Now after my little sell-out to the snivel-
ling masses I can continue with this classic of
obscurity that makes "Lumpy Gravy" (see issue
315) seem a veritable "Top of the Pops Vol-
ume (cont.) P.DXXXXIV).
John Cale was, like Lou Reed, one of the
founder members of the Velvet Underground,
and left after the second album. Since then his
output of music has been varied, to say the least;
he produced an album by the frightful Iggy and
the Stooges, and two Nico albums. He made
a solo album of pop songs with avant garde
lyrics, "Vintage Violence", and a duet album
with that master of the avant garde, Terry Riley
("Church of Anthrax"), and now this one, which
is completely different to any of his previously
recorded work.
"Academy in Peril" is Cale playing his roots;
there are three sweeping orchestral pieces, and
three essays into pianism which I find at the
moment totally uncommunicative. This paying
of classical dues takes up over half the album,
and it's the remaining four tracks which interest
me particularly. "The Philosopher" which opens
the album, is very difficult to describe—over a
"backing track" of bass drum and percussive
acoustic guitar a trumpet and a violin fade in,
and out; occasionally there's a rumble on the
kettle drums. It reminds one of "Children of the
Revolution" by T. Rex—is that a recommenda-
tion or otherwise?—and I like it. "Legs Larry
at the Television Centre" features that famous
ex-Bonzo Dog Band drummer commenting on
John Cale playing a cello solo, like a queer T.V.
producer "Tch Tch Silly Cat smudged his make-
up now. Mind your boom love, mind your boom!"
It's a bit of a laugh.
"Intro/Days of Steam" is another piece that
it's almost impossible to describe, you just have
to listen to it, but "King Harry" really is worth
a mention. It begins with the sound of thunder.
Then a xylophone strikes up a phrase and con-
tinues it till the end. The only other instrument
is a trumpet, but Cale cackles into the micro-
phone a sort of gloating lament for Henry VIII,
although it isn't historically completely accurate.
However it's guaranteed to spook you.
When this album was played on a "What's
New" radio programme the reviewer made pass-
ing mention of the music and proceeded im-
mediately to the cover. This is indeed remarkable
and was designed by Andy Warhol. It shows
various views of Cale through what look like
colour slides, and may draw your attention to
the album as you thumb through the selections
in a record shop. If you do find it, bring it from
its obscurity and enjoy. It's well worth a listen.
Something with lots of mass appeal next week
folks.
Paperbacks
The Preserving Machine and Other Stories
Philip K. Dick (Pan, 35p).
I must admit that normally I would not put
myself in the group of readers that read masses
of science fiction. Sometimes I find SF interest-
ing: but most of the time it seems to be just a
boring variation on a theme.
It reminds me greatly of a revamped cops and
robbers amongst the stars where the hero is
generally humanoid and the villain is the shape-
less alien. Although in some of his stories Mr.
Dick falls into some of these traps, he generally
has the knack to give his story a realistic zing
to it. Where he cannot do this then his plot is
so viable in a scientific (physics, etc.) sense as
to grip the reader the same way that science
grips some of us.
From the outside the book doesn't attract
much attention: in fact, the jacket is quite boring
in relation to other recently reviewed books. The
first story, some ten pages long, is an excellent
beginning: it is clever, frightening and reaches
its climax sufficiently soon for it to attract one
further into the book.
The stories range from the testing of alien
toys exported to earth (tested to see if there is
any secret psychological weapon cleverly hidden
to injure, or subvert children) to the job of stand-
by President of the United States, which surely
must be about the greatest non-job around.
If you fancy a change from the recent spate of
Mafia and Hi-jacking novels, then the "Preserv-
ing Machine" would make an obvious choice.
The "Sunday Times" thought that Mr. Dick's
characters were highly credible: I would go fur-
ther and say that they were highly human . . .
or Martian . . . or Venusian . . . or, well, read the
stories and see for yourself.
Classics
-
Of October's classical release perhaps the
most exciting has been the Phillips' issue of
Chopin's Piano Concerto No. 2 in F minor, No.
SAL 6500 309 — soloist Claudio Arrau. Mr.
Arrau's playing makes compulsive listening and I
can recommend this record to anyone who wishes
to add to their collection a first class performance
of this work.
Chopin's music is open to two extremes of
interpretation — that of the exaggerated, soul
ful, romantic style or that of the rather crisp
matter of fact approach. Claudio Arrau seems to
strike a path in between the two and the result of
his interpretation, together with the London Phil-
harmonic Orchestra's very sound accompani-
ment, is beautiful to listen to.
The second movement especially shows Mr.
Arrau at his best. Here his keyboard sensitivity
truly expresses the lyrical beauty of the Larghetto.
The other piece on the record is the less well-
known Krakowaik, written one year before the
concerto in 1828 and the contrast between the
two musical styles is very noticeable. Again the
playing is of the highest standard revealing the
Krakowiak's rather elaborate and effervescent
character.

