Page 8 FELIX October 31, 1972
SPORT SPORT SPORT SPORT SPORT SPC
Rugby
On Wednesday, 18th October, I.C. 1st X V played
City of London Poly, and annihilated them by 75—3.
CLP were not in the same class as IC or anywhere
near it, and the general feeling in the IC dressing
room after the game was one of disgust. It must be
noted that IC played with 14 men for nearly all of
the game, as McDonough left the field with a knee
injury but it made no difference, as can be seen from
the result. The general opinion of the 1st X V is that
if better Wednesday fixtures cannot be found then
we might as well train by ourselves in Hyde Park,
because that's all this game was — a glorified training
session. One can only sympathise with a team so
hopelessly outclassed. An improved Wednesday fixture
list would be obtained perhaps if funds were available
for travel to play such university sides as Southampton,
Bristol, Birmingham, etc., which are all within easy
reach with the present Motorway system, but this is
only speculation. Hopefully the other London colleges
will provide better opposition than did City Poly.
Team: — D. Rimmer, J. Hunt, J. Rose, R. Stern,
J. McDonough (captain), A. James, C. Flanagan, B.
Bradley, D. Robinson, K. Horseman, C. Humphries,
A. Smith, I. Partridge, R. Matthews, M. Adams,
Scorers: —'Tries: Matthews (3), Rose (2), Hunt (2),
Flanagan (2), Stern, Adams, Humphries, James.
Conversion: Rimmer (10).
Penalty: Rimmer.
•They must have been bad — even Humphries scored!
Well, it had to happen. I spoke too soon about the
I.C. lst XV's unbeaten record. The 1st team did in
fact lose to Old Surbitonians last Saturday by 19 points
to 0. After the easy win on Wednesday (see abovie\
IC were far too complacent: there was too low a work
rate from the forwards and far too many tackles were*
missed in the backs and it was on the whole a very-
disappointing performance by the first team. Old
Surbitonians were a well drilled side and very fit and
mobile, and fully deserved their victory. It might be
noted that James turned up with ONE boot (typical)—
the only thing worth laughing about in the whole after-
noon.
Team: D. Rimmer, D. Osborne, T. Bradbury, R.
Stern, J. Hunt, A. James, C. Flanagan, B. Bradley,
D. Robinson, K. Horsman, C. Humphries, A . Smith,
J. Partridge, R. Matthews (capt.), A. Walton.
However, a far better performance was put up by
IC on Wednesday when we played King's College away
from home and defeated them by 55-3. The game was
reasonably tight for the first half hour and in fact the
score at one stage was 4-3. However, the big IC pack
began to dominate the game and the ball flowed freely
to the King's line on numerous occasions. Yet again
Matthews managed to poach 3 tries out of the 10
scored altogether. The fluent handling (sometimes)
of the IC backs led to both wings, Jim Hunt and John
McDonough, bagging a pair of tries each. A good
all round performance by IC then, and this mustt
augur well for their defence of the Gutteridge Cup —
provided the dangers of complacency are recognised.
Team: D. Rimmer, J. McDonough (capt), J. Rose,
R. Stern, J. Hunt, A. James, C. Flanagan, B. Bradley,
-R. Ransom, K. Horsman, A. Smith, R. Matthews, D.
Osborne, R. Parker, M . Adams.
Scorers: Tries—Matthews (3), McDonough (2), Hunt
(2), Flanagan, Stern, Adams. Conv.—Rimmer (6). Pen.
—Rimmer.
N.B.: l.C. Rugby Club would like to offer congratu-
lations Jo Mike Adams and Miss Hilary Rowson on
the occasion of their marriage on Saturday, 2%th Oc-
tober.
ALJ (Who's he—Ed.).
Hockey
After five games, I.C. lst X I are still searching for
their first win. During the past week they suffered de-
feats at St. Cath's, Cambridge, 1—2, and at U.C., 1—7.
On Saturday, October 21, the lst X I travelled to
Cambridge with some confidence after a good game at
WANTED
This man has dis-
appeared with a pair of
knees belonging to
" F E L I X ' V front page
and other miscellan-
eous photographs. If
found please knock into
last Sunday afternoon
and return to Press
Room.
Guys on the previous Wednesday. However, from the
start St. Cath's took control; their inside-left, unmarked
in the. centre of the D, scored after a mix-up in the
right of the defence.
In the rest of the first half, the game flowed from
end to end, even the opposition goalkeeper was called
into action on a number of occasions with a lot of
good work done by the wingers, Gaukroger and Rich-
man.
At the start of the second half St. Cath's again came
strong with continual pressure for the opening minutes,
but the game again became' fairly even with I.C. equal-
ising from a short corner, Dave Richman being the
executioner.
A draw seemed the likely result until, in the last
minute, bad judgement by Boulton in the I.C. goal
allowed a very weak shot to creep in past the post.
Wednesday, October 25, saw the death of I.C.s
3—3—4 system. U.C., with a couple of tricky stock
players — and also ones that could stop the ball —
completely over-run I.C. with three goals in ten minutes
and four by half-time.
The second-half was the same one-way action with
U.C. adding three more. However, on one of the few
occasions he received the ball, Dave Rickman man-
aged to round all the U.C. defence except for a full
back who used his legs on the line. John Astley con-
verted the penalty flick.
At least one I.C. team won last week, namely the
mixed XI who visited QEC and struggled to a 3—1
win. The goals all came from the Feline family — two
for Mr. and one for Mrs.
Ladies' Hockey
Wednesday, 18th October saw a home match for I.C.
Ladies (?) lst (and only) X I against Westfield College.
We managed to field eleven players after persuading
our umpire to play (we have a desperate shortage of
players particularly forwards so if anyone is interested,
please contact the captain, Janet Manfield: Int. phone
number 2508).
Since we for once, had a full term, it came as a great
disappointment when only eight opposition members
turned up. Undeterred and in need of practice, we lent
them a player and played nine-a-side with an umpire
for fifteen minutes until the three Westfield lost sheep
arrived. When the match resumed, it was decided to
play the remaining fifteen minutes of the first half and
a thirty-minute second half on the grounds that most
of us wouldn't have lasted a full half an hour each way.
The exact moments when the goals came cannot be
remembered but I.C. scored three and let Westfield have
one so that they wouldn't. feel too badly about being
beaten.
RESULT: I.C. 3. WESTFIELD 1.
TEAM: Janet Peacock, Margaret Cunningham (also
the umpire), Lynne Beynon, Hilary Rowson, Geraldine
Bowden, Mary Hill, Anne Purvis, Shirley Fairweather,
Jane Purvis, Janet Manfield (captain), Jane Gywn.
Wednesday, 25th October was another match at
Harlington, this time against King's College. Faced
with our usual lack of players, we fielded only ten;
King's even less fortunate, had only nine. The only diffi-
culty about this game was that we, as usual, had no
umpire. Margaret Cunningham umpired and played for
us in the first half and a member of King's team um-
pired the second half. As a result, there were many
minor infringements of the rules (apologies for things
like delayed tackles and deliberate fouls were made
afterwards) but I.C. still swept on to a decisive 6-2
victory, Lynne Beynon (Centre Forward) scoring four
exceptionally good goals and Margaret Cunningham
(Right Inner) accounting for the other two.
RESULT: I.C. 6. KINGS 2.
TEAM: Janet Peacock, Margaret Cunningham,
Lynne Beynon, Geraldine Bowden, Mary Hill, Anne
Purvis, Maureen King, Jane Purvis, Janet Manfield
(Captain), Jacqui Buzzard.
Tiddlywinks
On Sunday, 22nd October, a band of intrepid winkers
comprising 6 members of Maths 3 and 3 human beings,
set forth on the road for Folkestone. Armed with
squidgers we attacked a social club, where the opposi-
tion trembled at the sight of l.C. Winks Club. We
played up to our normal brilliant standard, amassing
a total of 1\ points to their 55J, thus retaining our
unbeaten beaten record.
One game in the final round caused a sensation—
never before in the history of winks have both players
gone for the pot. These tactics bamboozled our oppon-
ents and produced an incredibly fast game which ended
in a discussion about Helen's assets, while all the others
were still playing pot-squop.
After demolishing sandwiches and beer, we headed
straight up the A20 to Southside Bar, only to be foiled
by a faulty water pump in one of the cars. If anyone
sees five lonely souls still wandering round the South
Circular Road, please direct them to Huxley basement
where a tense world awaits their return with bated
breath and problem sheets.
Thanks to Glyn and Mike for transport.
Team: — Helen Isaac, Bob Douglas, Chris Cart-
ledge, Tony Bush, Mike Ixer, Glyn Jones, Neil Gray,
John James and Derrick Lowe.
Pedal Cars
Sunday, October 22, saw the Jaguar Grand Prix held
between the V12 E-types at the Jaguar works in Cov-
entry. (No. they are NOT serious, Ed.) The race was
a quick five hour sprint round a simple and pleasantly
flat track. Four I.C. entries consisted of our usual two
Guilds' cars and two from Mines.
No. 14, "Little Bo", ran as consistently as ever to
take first place on handicap. No. 15, "Big Bo" came a
creditable sixth despite brazing the crankshaft together
twice. I've no idea what happened to the Mines cars
but they seemed quite happy messing around in the
background.
Guilds' teams consisted of:
Little Bo
Stewart Moult
Phil Smyth
Keith Reynish
Pete Wilkins
John Coxon
Andy Stevens
Big Bo
Dave John
Dave Willey
Steve Wright
Pete Cramb
Ian Jennions
Paul Cotter
Thanks to everyone for coming along.
(Ed's note: Apologies to Mines for this report being
biased: please send us a report next time yourselves —
and that goes for everyone else too!)
small
a d s
* * * A RED FOLDER was re-
moved from outside the but-
tery in college block on
Wednesday last at lunch-
time. This folder contained 3
weeks' lecture notes and the
log book and M.O.T. of my
car. This folder can be of no
use to anyone but me. There-
fore I'd be grateful if anyone
knowing the whereabouts of
said folder could return it to
DAVE RAMSEY, Chem Eng
1.
***DID Y O U KNOW that
Vandalism CAN and DOES
exist at l.C.? Unfortunate
though it may be, nasty
things are done to cars: tyres
slashed, windscreens white-
washed and other such de-
lights. Beware the next vic-
tim could be YOU. However,
a donation to Paul Hoskins
at the Rag Office will ensure
the well-being of your vehicle
(see page 2).
* "WANTEDI Gramophone ad-
dict needs high grade mahog-
any off-cuts suitable for
sharpening into gramophone
needles. Contact H. )fi, Elec
Eng 5.
* "INSURANCE of every kind
can be effected by your local
branch of Endsleigh. Contact
Ted York, your friendly in-
surance adviser, at the Ends-
leigh desk in the College
Block JCR any lunchtime.
**IF YOU HAVE A SERIOUS
SMALL AD (or any other
kind) you can put it in FELIX
FREEH Send it to Felix c / o
Union to arrive on Friday
morning or before for next
Tuesday's issue.
FELIX no 316, Tuesday, October 3 1 , 1972.
Edited by Oliver F. Dowson, with contributions
of words and labour by (in alphabetical order):
Philip Amodio, S i d Amor, Bob Carter, Peter
Crawford, Martin Doughty, Dave Gribble, Dave
Hobman, John Horsefall, Paul Hosking, Dave
Leachman, Andy Mafield, Ross McBeath, Colin
McCall, John Oliver and the rest of the cast of
millions.
Contributions for " F e l i x " are always welcome
and should be addressed to the Editor, (resid-
ence Weeks Hall 14).
National Advertising contractors are Univer-
sity Press Representation, Grand Buildings,
Trafalgar Square, W C 1 , 01-930 1322.
London advertising by Felix Advertising, Im-
perial College Union, London S W 7 2BB, 01-589
5111 Ext 2166.
Printed by F. Bailey and Son Ltd., Dursley,
Gloucestershire.
Published by the editor for and on behalf of
the Imperial College Union Publications Board.
" F e l i x " is a founder member of the London
Student Press Association.

