Page 2 F E L I X 5th March, 1974
ELECTIONS
Below are the manifestoes of most of the candidates
tor the elections being held today and tomorrow. A l l
candidates were allowed 300 words and have been
listed jn alphabetical order throughout.
PRESIDENT
J O H N E A S T
X am Standing for President to putt across other
polidies in the interests of students, these are i
Grants:
No action whatsoever has been (taken Whits year 'to
secure the aims of the campaign. To win a higher grant
we must move away from a campaign based on protest
politics, or pressurising the Viee-Chancellors and other
"allies" of students. Throughout the country (these
people have shown that they are on the side of the
Government, not of Students.
It is time for us to realise that only direct action
produces results (c.f. (the re-instatement of Joe Cotter at
Kent University by an Occupation). We must use all
applicable methods to iwin, Ithese 'include Refectory
Boycotts, Rent Strikes, Lecture Boycotts, Demonstra-
tions, Sit-ins, etc.
Accommodation and other cutbacks in Education :
If we win Ithe Grants Campaign, we are likely to: find
the money eaten up by higher rents, food prices, etc.
There will also be a general cutback lin (the facilities in
the college because of the cult tin Social Expenditure
announced at Christmas.
We must fight against these cutbacks, and against
higher costs, because it is no use having a higher grant,
if lit is immediately eaten up by higher prices, and if Ithe
facilities to study in deteriorate.
Overseas Students:
These students must be drawn into ithe union more,
and as the only candidate Who has any links with Ithem
and who has been active on their behalf, I believe I can
draw them in.
I have proposed a motion for N U S Conference about
overseas students calling for Full Grants for all students
of all nationalities and deploring the proposed increase
in Overseas Students fees.
Because no other candidate is putting iorward these
policies, I urge you to vote for me as President, for a
Democratic, Fighting, Union.
P H I L H E M M E N S
I.C.U. needs a President capable of returning control
and debate to the floor of the Union. It needs someone
seeking an alternative forum for discussion, such that
Union policy is given the time for formulation by the
students Whom it will represent.
lit needs someone capable of sustaining goodwill be-
tween the C.C.U.'is and I.C.U., such that I.C.U. is kept
informed of current student opinion, and thus sever the
need for C.C.U.'is to become political pressure groups,
enabling Ithem to resume itheir original roles.
lit needs someone to optimise the workings of I.C.
Council, reducing Ithe number of members to a more
realistic Size for a decision making body.
It needs someone to accelerate our acquisition of
Union Flats and Houses 'in times when loans for the
new Halls are far from forthcoming, through someone
who will continue the search for such loans.
It needs someone fighting Ito increase our self-suffic-
iency, with control over Our Bar and Refectory.
It needs someone willing to use every communication-
al aid in ithe interests of exec/student/college relations.
I.C.U. needs a President willing to concent himself
with fighting for the needs of I.C. students, and through
this for all students.
I think I am the President you need: I hope you agree.
T. JOHNSON
Failed to produce a manifesto—Ed.
T R E V O R PHILLIPS
External Affairs, I.C.; U.L.U. Executive; Joint Com-
mittee Senate and Students.
ii) Confidence in the Union leadership (exec and Coun-
cil) is low, this is a chance Ito restore it.
lii) Long-overdue improvement in the Union's finan-
cial and admin structure are taking place; services are
being expanded and istreamMned.
iii) The aftermath of the General Election, definitely
restrictive, with the threat Ito Union autonomy and
reduced likelihood of Government action on Grants.
Clearly how effectively we are able to react to
latter, depend on the first itwo aims toeing successful.
The crucial thing here is ithe question of leadership.
This falls primarily on ithe President, Executive and
Council. 1 see ithe President's role as fourfold: initiator
of policy, iGO-ordinator of Unlion activities, negotiator
and representative at College, University and National
levels, and as an administrator.
It's not always possible for the President to be avail-
able. Maybe visits Ito labs, etc., would toe a good idea—
it would also help to have a President who was easily
recognisable (plug, plug).
The Exec should be expanded to include P G officer
and a woman (President of I.C.W.A.), (the Office Man-
ager as an observer, and possibly the E A O and Chair-
man of the Floor Reps. This makes an executive of
nunc, possibly eleven; given a degree of commitment, toy
the Exec, this is not unwieldy. I would like Ito see Exec
members holding specific responsibilities, e.g. overseas
Students, catering, and would introduce Itermly "Exec
weekends" to review policy and plan for next term.
Council is not too big; it just buggers about too much.
Major campaigns, grants, student houses, catering,
academic affairs.
The above policies can only be carried out by a
strong, autonomous Unlion. The prerequisite lis a good
team of Union Officers who are committed to the
Union's work. So volte, and vote carefully.
HON. SECRETARY
J. G E R R A R D
(nee Brown)
Today and tomorrow the voting for ithe posts of
President, Hon. Secretary, Deputy President and Felix/
Publication Officer will take place. The job I am Stand-
ing for (secretary) mainly involves being Returning
Officer ait all next year's I.C.U. elections, sitting on
numerous committees including Union Finance and
Council and also the organisation of some of these.
Apart from all this, many Other small, but itime-con-
sumiug, jobs arise.
The experience I have gained this year as an active
member of I.C.U. and R.C.S.U., I feel, has certainly
equipped me for a job of this nature. I am at present
Junior Treasurer otf R.C.S. Unlion and hence have
played an important role on many committees and am
familiar With the administration of unions.
The administration of I.C. Union is for ever getting
more complex: Ithe turnover is increasing annually. The
prospects of taking over ithe unlion building refectory
and bar, the Southside shop and the bookshop are
going ito present even more problems. Hence it lis
essential that someone with financial experience is
elected on Ito ithe executive.
Next year the Felix editor will also toe taking on the
extra job of Publication Officer. Much of this lin the
past has (fallen to the Hon. Secretary ito dp, hence to
maintain continuity, I will have to work in close liaison
especially at the beginning of the year, with this officer.
I ItruSt you will all vote for me as someone who is
representative of the majority of Students alt this college.
P. M O R G A N
This manifesto briefly lays out my ideas for improving
I.C.U. through the position of Honorary Secretary.
U G M s
The most Obvious area for reform lis at ithe Union
General Meetings. Lowering the quorum is self defeating
and reduces ithe representativeness of the U G M s which
is the overall governing and policy making body of the
Union.
The meetings themselves must be improved. Proce-
dure must toe cult Ito a minimum to get on with the
business in hand. Long motions with many parts should
be replaced by shorter motions to reduce long and bor-
ing debates.
Executive reports must be concise and strictly factual
and introduce no new business. To reduce disorder and
time wasting ithe Standing orders must be strictly applied
by the chair.
Students tend to only come Ito union meetings which
directly concern Ithem, by trying to cut down on political
motions and introducing more I.C. related motions and
by a lot of hard work toy the Exec, we can get quorate
meetings again.
CCUs
Due to ithe failure of I.C.U. tills year ithe C.C.U.S
have become much more political. If Ithis trend con-
tinues it could result in I.C.U. splitting into three fac-
tions. The C.CU.s are much more effective 'in their
roles as social institutions (organising rag, etc.) and
conveying opinions to I.C.U. from the grass roots.
Grants
I fully support Ithe NUS grants campaign. We need
more executive action in organising the campaign with-
in I.C. If a decision has been taken to hold a Rent
Strike say, or there is a demonstration, regardless of
personal opinion, the executive must take ithe most
effective action to organise ithe action.
Sabbaticals
The purpose of a sabbatical year is not to take a year
off to improve one's degree (as some candidates seem
to think). The year should be spent in trying to improve
I.C.U.
These are my plans for I.C.U. But remember, whether
you vote for me or not. For I.C.U. V O T E .
DEPUTY PRESIDENT
R. K I L L
Ron Rill has, for the past year, been the Vice-Presid-
ent of R.C.S.U., which has enjoyed a more successful
time ithis year than ever. I know from first-hand know-
ledge that this success is due in no small way ito Ron's
enthusiasm and capabilities. In Ithe past the C.C.U.
Vice-Presidents have dealt almost solely with Rag. This
year Ron has not only produced Ithe best R.C.S. Carnival
performance of recent times but has also taken a full
part as a member of the R.C.S. Exec., Widening the
aspect of the posit of Vlice-lPresidenit as never 'before.
As chairman of Ithe R.C.S. Clubs* committee, Ron has
demonstrated the ability to deal with people of widely
varying interests. Coupled with the administrative know-
ledge he gained as secretary of Tizard Hall last year,
this exiperience gives Ron a solid foundation from which
to tackle a job which I believe he can do very well.
One of his primary aims will be the tightening up of
security in the Union areas. In the last year the Union
Exec, have been confronted with a sharp increase is.
violent incidents. This must toe checked before someone
is seriously injured.
More frequent card checks by duty officers lin tooth,
the Union and Soulthslde, and a ban on large outside
conferences which have been associated with many of
this year's incidents would go some way Ito doing (this.
I hope that these few words, the hustings, and per-
sonal knowledge will persuade Y O U to V O T E , and to
V O T E for R O N K I L L , who I know is the (best man.
for Ithe job.
Paul Gee {Proposer*
J. W O O D
Jim lis a second year student in Electrical Engineering,
whose entry into University was delayed by a Itrainee-
ship with a leading electrical engineering company.
For the past 'two years Jim has been a very friendly
and approachable leading light In one of ithe student
houses in Evelyn Gardens and currently runs his house's
bar as well as sitting on the house committee.
Up to now he hasn't taken a vast interest in the
political side of the Union's affairs and firmly believes
that [politics 'doesn't come Into his ideas on running the
Union from the Deputy President's post. He is often to-
be seen somewhere in ithe Union building or bar and
having enjoyed the social side of his two years at I.C.
he now wants to put something back into I.C.U. He
wants to protect the interests of ordinary fellow uniott
members enabling Ithem to have a good time, using fthe
Union building as T H E I R O W N (building, and using ifc
to its fullest potential. Last year he was present at the
Hustings when he proposed his brother, Bill Wood, for
President Of I.C.U., and now sincerely hopes you w i t
give him ithe opportunity to work for you A L L as
Deputy President.
FELIX/PUBLICITY
M . W I L L I A M S
First, lets make it clear that ithe sabbatical post for
which I am standing has had its role modified: ithe new
pulbMclty/putollications officer will toe Ithe co-ordinator for
the communications media and publications of I.C.U.—
Felix, .Stdic, EC. Radio, -the Bluebook, Union Directory*
Phoenix, Ragsmag, etc., ithough he will only have direct,
control over Felix as Editor.
I have been Interested in publicity and communica-
tions ever since arriving at I.C. and last year I set up
a Council working party to get some ideas on how to
improve publicity and communications. One proposat
was that the publicity officer's role should toe expanded
and re-defined. The idea of having it sabbatical came
much later.
Despite Ithe cock-up by last year's Felix editor over
the .Rag-mag, I still managed ito produce it single-
bloody-handed. I learned a helluva lolt about editorial,
layout and the process of publication during that 'period.
Clearly one has to ask what I intend to do if elected;
1. Work hard at the job and do it properly.
2. Establish a solid communication network
amongst the media of I.C.
3. Search ouit every possible method of improving
attendances at U G M s and stimulating interest
in I.C.U.
The next question is: Where do I stand politically?
The answer lis I don't! Politics has its place in I.C.U..
but debate will be fruitless if tooth sides are always at
an impasse. I should like to re-Structure U G M s so that
this is less likely to happen.
I'd like to sum up my saying that if I get elected, I
shall work damned hard. There'll be no odd afternoons
spent lalt U.L.U. looking for extra perks. I shall Ibe
accessible all day, every day.
Thanks for listening.
C. W R I G L E Y
I am standing for Ithis post because over the year*
Felix has been an i l l read, much abused paper. Why?
Simply because successive Editors have been out of
touch with I.C. students. From the Felix Office in the
top of the Union Building it has been too easy to aspire
to the mighty clouds of journalism, but College life m,
down here on Ithe campus. The three years I have beea
alt college have given me every opportunity to know
people and the college way of life. I have managedl
College publications 'before and have only met witfe
success. If Felix is for ithe students of I.C. then I feel
I am more than capable of taking on the job. Also, next
year, due to a proposed change to Offiselt-Litho the jot*
is going to itake on a more practical nature and hera
again I feel I am in a capable position of offering the
necessary expertise and know how.
Now ito move on to, perhaps (the better half of ithe
job: putolicity. The state of I.C. Union at the moment its
appalling and only promises to get worse. I hope nexl
year leadership will appear, but it will only toecom*
frustrated without the right support. Communication*
are, as every candidate for a sabbatical post back M$
the year dot 'has said, very essential. Good, but as Pub-
licity Officer this would now toe specifically my lot a n i
as such I feel I could capably utilise all the media at
my disposal: why for publicity read posters where thew
are things like Felix, STOIC or even Student Radii»
available alt our disposal. AH of these can ibe co-ordinat-
ed under effective leadership to provide comprehensiv*
broadcasting of all I.C. Unlion news and events.
So unless you want all communication to come dow*
with Moses from the mountain make sure you vote for
me, Charlie Wrigley, today or tomorrow.

