Page 10 FELIX December 12, 1972
Phosphorous tin* Jobrot
and
Ferocious Hin
Part three of a nine-part
serialisation of the book by
Steven Swaiies
CHAPTER THREE
The Twigworm stood over 12 feet tall—
even sitting down—and still looked like a
pile of old tractor tyres. He had black
wrinkled skin, draped about his misshapen
body like an ill-fitting overcoat. His eyes
were the size of soup plates, from which
poured a waterfall of tears down through the
great creases in his skin, forming a muddy
pool, in which he sat, sobbing sonorously.
"Don't tell me," said Ferocious, "you,
huge sir, are the Tiny Twigworm."
"Yes," cried the Twigworm, "and no-
body loves me, and nobody wants me, and
t'm lost and homeless, and . . . boo hoo
hoo." He sobbed quietly, the ground trem-
bling slightly at each sob.
Phosphorous was genuinely moved.
"Please stop crying," he pleaded, "Fero-
cious and I are here to help you. We'll find
your Twigwormery and take you home."
"Speak for yourself, dear boy," muttered
Ferocious under his breath. But the Twig-
worm had not heard him.
"Thank you, thank you," he shouted,
sniffing violently, and causing a small sand-
storm. "You are true friends!" He leapt for-
ward to embrace Phosphorous. Luckily the
nimble Jobrot jumped aside, just in time to
avoid being crushed to death.
"Hold it," shouted Ferocious, " A s you are
our Adventure, so to speak, dear vast old
person, we will try to get you back to your
home. However," he held up his hand to
stop the Twigworm, who was about to clasp
him in its arms, "there will be the minimum
of bodily contact. Do not even try to shake
my hand, O.K.?"
"Oh, certainly," said the Twigworm, "I'll
try and remember, but I'm afraid I'm rather
clumsy. Down at the Permanent Adventure
Reception Centre I did break rather a lot of
things."
"Well, there's not much you can break
out here," said Ferocious, "except Phosphor-
ous and me. Just avoid treading on us and
everything will be all right.
So Phosphorous and Ferocious stood clear
while the Twigworm got to his feet, and the
three of them set off along the beach. Fero-
cious went first, striding along, Phosphorous
trotted behind him, and the Twigworm
stumbled along on its great rubbery legs in
the rear.
Time passed, and Phosphorous, who had
stopped to examine an interesting shell,
dropped behind. He was just starting to run
to catch up, when two strange figures step-
ped out from behind a palm tree and accos-
ted him.
'Hey, sonny," said the first, "You wanna
earn a cool buck?"
"I beg your pardon," said Phosphorous,
staring in amazement at the creatures in
front of him. The larger of the two wore a
belted trench coat, had a huge broken nose,
and a scar on his cheek. A tiny moustache
decorated his upper lip. His companion was
even shorter than Phosphorous, and appar-
ently covered in short brown fur all over—
or at least on the bits that protruded from
his tiny trench coat. He wore a huge trilby
from beneath which stuck out a pointed
nose, and a magnificent set of bristling
whiskers.
'Don't play funny with me> kid," said the
first one, "This here is the undeniably nasty
Joe (Whiskers) Stoat, and I have the hon-
our to be the much-hated Dino (Washing-
machine) Confetti. So there."
"Yeah, man," said Whiskers.
"What do you want?" asked Pohophor-
ous, a little shakily.
"Don't crowd me none, kid," said Dino,
"me and Whiskers got a proposition for
you. We works for Luigi Rabbit, maybe you
heard of him, and he needs a bright lad
tike you for his Incredible Floating Device.
Whaddya say, kid?"
"Yea, whaddya say kid?" said Whiskers.
"Well, it's awfully nice of you to ask
me," answered Phosphorous, "but you don't
even know me, and actually I am on an
adventure, so I'm afraid I'll have to say no."
" K i d , " said Dino, "No-one says no to
Luigi Rabbit—leastways not if they want
to stay healthy. You'se coming with us
whether you'se likes it or not."
"Yeah," said Whiskers, pulling a huge
carrot from the pocket of his trench coat.
"You stupid rodent," shouted Dino,
"what's that supposed to be; you gonna
poison him if he makes a run for it, ha?"
"Sorry, Dino, dat's my lunch."
'Mamma mia, they send this idiot on an
important job like this. Where's your gat,
you daft furry thing?"
"I musta left it in the canteen, Dino."
"You want anything done, you gotta do
it yourself." So saying Dino extracted a
pistol from under his left armpit and
waved it at poor Phosphorous. "O.K. kid,
let's get moving."
Phosphorous had no choice really, so
raising his hands above his head, he set
off in the direction indicated by Dino's point-
ing gun. They had not gone very far before
Dino let out a shout.
"O.K. kid, stop right there." Phosphorous
stopped right there. They had come to a
halt by one of the larger palm trees. Dino
reached forward and knocked three times
on the trunk. Nothing happened.
"Drat!" said Dino. He knocked again.
Still nothing happened. "Whadda these guys
think they're playing at?" he demanded.
He leant his face close to the tree and
shouted, "Open this dor, you dimbo. It's
me Dino Confetti, I gotta important guest
for Luigi.
"Yeah?" said the tree, unbelievingly,
"How do I know you're not an encyclopedia
salesman?" Dino turned slowly purple.
"You dumb tree!" he shouted, "do I
sound like an encyclopedia salesman? You
open this door immediately, or I'll have you
pruned, you mouldy old plant."
"Dino," said the tree, "you have just
identified yourself. Do come in."
As the arborial tones died away, a sec-
tion of the trunk swung inwards to reveal
an iron gate.
"Call the lift!" ordered Dino.
"O.K." said Whiskers, "LIFT!" he shout-
ed, "here lift, nice lift, come to Whiskers."
Dino's huge fists clenched spasmodically.
"Push the button you hairy hedge-creat-
ure, do I have to do everything myself?"
"Sorry, Dino," apologised Whiskers, and
pushed the button. There was a faint hum-
ming deep within the roots of the tree, and
with a slight clatter the lift arrived. The
three of them squeezed in and the lift began
to drop. With it dropped Phosphorous'
spirits. He was becoming distinctly worried.
"Where was he going? Where were Feroci-
ous and the Twigworm? Who was Luigi
Rabbit? Don't miss next week's exciting
instalment," he thought; missing next
week's exciting instalment was fairly high
on his list of priorities.
As he worried and pondered, the lift
came to rest.
"Out you get, kid," said Dino. Ahead of
Phosphorous lay a long curving tunnel, lit
by candles, and smelling of damp earth.
The trio began to walk along the tunnel.
Every now and again a side tunnel branched
off, but they kept to the main passage.
Phosphorous felt that they had been walk-
ing for an age, when they rounded a cor-
ner and were confronted with a set of huge
wooden doors. On a brass plate, in the
middle of one door, was written "L. Rabbit
—Boss."
"Here we are, kid," whispered Dino,
"now you act real respectful to Luigi and
you'll be O.K." He raised a fist and knocked
politely on the door.
"Enter," came a muffled voice from inside.
The doors swung open and Phosphorous
walked in.
"Oh, hello, how are Y O U ? " asked Luigi
Rabbit.
Luigi was not tall, even for a rabbit, and
wore a beautiful scarlet smoking jacket.
From between his two enormous front teeth
protruded an ivory cigarette-holder from
which a tiny menthol cigarette was pro-
ducing delicate puffs of blue smoke.
"Do come in, dearie," he smiled, "so
you're the lad that's going to work my
divine Incredible Floating Device."
"Well, actually—no," said Phosphorous
bravely, "you see I'm on an adventure, with
my friend Ferocious Din, so I don't really
have the time."
"Oh, tut, tut," squeaked the Rabbit,
"there's no question of that, dear, you're
working for me now and no mistake. You
wouldn't like me to hand you over to Dino,
would you? He's awfully rough when he's
cross.
"Oh dear," said Phosphorous, "I don't
really know what to do."
"Just tootle along with Dino, sweetie,"
said Luigi, "and get in the Device, like a
good boy. Take him away with you, Dino,
it's time for my little rest."
"O.K. boss" growled Dino, "Come on
kid, let's go." So they went. Phosphorous
and Dino (Washing-Machine) Confetti, with
Joe (Whiskers) Stoat scuttling along be-
hind, brandishing his carrot.
The floor of the tunnel began to tilt up-
wards.
"At least we're getting back towards the
surface," thought Phosphorous. He would
be glad to get out into the fresh air, after
wandering around in this dank rabbit war-
ren. Suddenly the tunnel came to an end.
An iron ladder led up the earth wall to.a
trapdoor. Dino went first, and heaved open
the trap door. A grey light brightened the
tunnel, hurting Phosphorous' eyes for a mo-
ment. He went up the ladder and out
through the trap door. He seemed to be in
some kind of tent, the smell of soggy can-
vas was everywhere, and there was a great
deal of mud under foot.
Taking up most of the space in the tent
was a large and complicated piece of mach-
inery. It was mostly constructed of polished
brass tubing, with great megaphone-like pro-
tuberances. It hummed quietly, and an occa-
sional blue spark would jump, with a crack
between the polished domes which sur-
mounted the Device. A little old man
crouched at the back of the machine, squirt-
ing oil onto a silently spinning wheel. He
looked up, wiped his hands on a piece of
oily rag, and came across to where Dino,
Phosphorous and Whiskers were standing.
"Good day to ye," he said, "I'm Haggis
MacPlumbing, the engineer here—is this the
new laddie?"
"Yeah, he's all yours," said Dino, "We
gotta be going now," he turned to Phos-
phorous, "You behave yourself, kid and
you'll be O.K." He and the little Stoat
opened the trap door in the floor, and with
a last wave to Phosphorous disappeared out
of sight.
"Thank goodness they've gone," said
Haggis, "I dinna rate that Dino laddie at
all. Have ye had any experience of this kind
o' thing?"
"What kind of thing?" asked Phosphor-
ous.
"Why floating, laddie," replied the old
engineer.
"Only in the bath, I suppose,' 'said Phos-
phorous.
"Och, ye'll take to it in nae time, dinna
ye worry. In ye get".
"Look" protested Phosphorous, "nobody
will listen to me. I can't get in your rotten
machine—I have to go and look for my
friend Ferocious Din and the Tiny Twig-
worm. I just don't have the time." The old
man was obviously moved.
"I appreciate your position," he said, "but
it's more than ma job's worth tae let ye go.
Look, just get in the machine for a wee
while and I'll have a word wie that weird
rabbit, and see what I can do." Phosphor-
ous was getting tired of arguing.
"Alright," he said, "but just for a little
while."
Focus, along with the Mahavishnu .
Orchestra are for me the most exciting
and original band to emerge this year
from a stale and unimaginative rock
scene. It is not surprising that they are
from outside the established Anglo-
American dominated rock culture. For
the uninitiated, Focus are a four-piece
from Amsterdam formed in '69 by
Thijs Van Leer, their organist and flaut-
ist. All come from a good musical back-
ground, Van Leer having taken up
music at the tender age of three and
having been awarded a degree on flute
at Geneva Conservatoire. Jan Akkerman
studied guitar at Amsterdam Music
Lyceum for five years and Pierre Van
Der Linden was taught for seven years
by various top orchestral percussionists.
Bert Ruiter is the only member of the
band that has not received classical
training.
The only regret I have about their
third album is that it is not a live re-
cording. Having had the pleasure of see-
ing Focus four times I think that a lot
of their excitement is lost on a studio
album. Still, perhaps the next one will
be live.
The most commercial track on the
Well folks, that was the last concert
at I.C. for 1972, and if you didn't see
it you should kick yourselves. The
Kinks always have been a very polished
group, and to go with their music, they
produced the best stage act I've seen
since Brewers Droop, quite some time
ago. Ray Davies captured the audience
with his loose approach to the show, de-
manding applause for everybody and
everything else on stage (including his
jacket). There were also some nice flour-
ishes produced by the 3-piece brass sec-
tion, led by Mike Cotton.
Inevitably they played several of their
golden oldies since their first hit over
8 years ago, including "Dedicated Fol-
lower of Fashion", "Till the End of the
Day", "Sunny Afternoon" and "Water-
MacPlumbing led him towards the mach-
ine.
"Stand between these terminals, laddie,"
he urged, "and I'll turn up the field."
Phosphorous stood where he was shown
and old Haggis disappeared round the back
of the Device. The hum of the machine rose,
and Phosphorous felt a strange tickling sen-
sation in the soles of his feet. He looked
down. He was floating about ten feet .off
the floor of the tent.
"Oooooh!" he said.
"Och, lovely," cackled the old man, "It's
going like a dream, laddie, the new main
sensors are running something beautiful."
Phosphorous was still too stunned to say
anything. He drew a couple of deep
breaths, and thought hard of dentists—a
technique he had used often in the past to
take his mind off things.
Slowly he looked about, and took stock
of the situation. He began to experiment.
Although he could go neither up nor dowrT,
he found he could move from side to side
by waving his arms and legs.
"Dinna do that, ye daft sporran," shouted
MacPlumbing, "Ye'll get outside the field
and break a leg." Phosphorous stopped
wriggling. Just floating was not an un-
pleasant sensation, rather like being im-
mersed in thick spongy mud—not that
Phosphorous had ever been immersed in
thick, spongy mud. As the Jobrot was be-
ginning to relax and enjoy himself, he saw
Haggis MacPlumbing making for the door.
"Hey, where are you going," he shouted.
"Just popping out for a while," answered
the old engineer, craftily, "I'll be back in no
time at all." And he was gone. Phosphorous
was a trusting sort of person, but he had a
distinct feeling that he was being duped.
On the beach Ferocious had finally
noticed his friend's absence.
"Where has that dozy twit got to?" he
demanded.
"Well, you were going rather fast," sug-
gested the Twigworm," perhaps he just got
left behind."
"Possibly, dear old hugeness," mused
Din, "but I surmise unlikely. The lad was,
shall we say, fired with enthusiasm for this
Conf. p. 9.
double album is 'Sylvia' which surpris-
ingly enough doesn't open the album. It
is common practice to open an album
with the most striking track on it. (Re-
member 'Moving Waves'). 'Sylvia' be-
gins with a heavy repetitive chord se-
quence which then makes way for some
very melodic guitar creating a mood of
floating serenity that is a key to much of
their work. There is peace and tranquil-
lity too in 'Carnival Fugue', Van Leer's
showpiece which finishes off side one.
This starts as a Bach-style fugue with
Van Leer on piano and develops a
Latin-American flavour, Van Leer play-
ing piccolo and organ. Side Two is de-
voted to 'Focus III' and 'Answers?
Questions! Questions? Answers!' The
latter features some imaginative guitar
from Akkerman.
'Anonymous II' takes up the whole of
Side Three and spills over into Side
Four. This track is the best on the
album. It features an excellent bass solo
and more superb lead. The album finish-
es with 'Elspeth of Nottingham' which
gives Jan a chance to play some Eliza-
bethan lute music and 'House of the
King', a favourite from the first album.
This is rock at its best.
loo Lily" as well as their not so old
material such as "Apeman", which was
deliberately taken much too fast, and
"Lola", in which Ray Davies had little
trouble in inducing audience participa-
tion. During "Alcohol" he emptied the
remains of his beer mugs, which were in
constant use throughout the set, into the
front rows, though no-one seemed to
mind, and for the last two, "You Really
Got Me" and "All Day and All of the
Night", most people took their seats,
from the chairs and floor provided, as
the band pounded away to Ray's sing-
ing. On its completion he dashed from
the stage to escape from several maidens
wanting to kiss their hero. For their
encore, Dave Davies took the spotlight
for "Good Goly Miss Molly," proving
Cont. on p. 11.
CONCERTS

