Page 12 FELIX December 12, 1972
thes
p
o
r
t
s page
hockej/
At Harlington last Sunday a strange apparition was
observed by all those fortunate enough to be present.
Not only did the I.C. team contain its full quota of
both men and women, but we also provided an umpire
—this latter person being easily distinguished from the
rest by the. beautiful emerald green fait hat perched
upon his head. Having checked that his pea was work-
ing well, the umpire blew up and the game started.
Straight from the bully R.V.C. attacked. Unfortunately
I.C. were still asleep and allowed the Vets captain an
open goal. However, so surprised was this individual,
that he missed. At this stage Wonder Boy struck with a
superb goal. R.V.C. fought back and from a short
corner, Richard Cameron, our star goalkeeper opened
his legs, the ball went through and the score became
1-1. I.C. regained the lead when W.B. scored again and
increased their score when Alan Brown (at the third
attempt) put the ball in the goal. Unfortunately R.V.C.
scored again before half time from a penalty flick after
-the I.C. left back-cum-captain-cum-cripple kicked the
ball off the goal line. At the start of the second half
I.C. surged into the attack and increased their lead
when another W.B. thunderbdlt trickled over the line.
The rest of the match was uneventful apart from W.B.
missing many more open goalls and some most peculiar
umpiring decisions which seemed to get worse as the
match progressed — thanks for making the match,
amusing Mike. The result of the match—I.C. won 4-2.
Comment by W.B. after the match:— I want pne
female for bull ! ! ! !
foorball
Kings II 2 I.C. IV 3 (HT 0-1)
A day of persistent rain and wind at Mitcham saw
IC IV's achieve a splendid and well merited victory
against Kings II in a ULU reserves cup lst round tie.
Captain Dave Wilbeck won the toss and chose to
play with the slope and against the wind. In the open-
ing 20 minutes the exchanges were fast and furious with
IC however looking the better side. Despite this they
were nearly caught out when Tim Ryan in goal lost
the ball at the edge of his area and an accurate shot
was headed off the line by Chris Pattison. Steve Han-
cock had also to clear off the line but on at least
three occasions Kings defenders had to perform the
same task in periods of severe IC pressure.
The game developed into a pattern where the IC
midfield of Higham, McConvey and Colbeck were inter-
passing neatly and playing the ball wide with Bill
Joiner on the right wing especially effective whereas
the Kings midfickl were prone to play the ball forward
too early and their forwards made littfte headway
against a determined and resolute IC back four.
IC were creating good situations, but after their
early close misses looked unlikely to score until a
through ball enabled the Kings right back to slide the
ball neatly past his goalkeeper to give IC a half time
lead.
The second half opened with the pattern much the
same but on the hour a fortunate bounce from a tackle
set a forward free on the Kings left and he scored a
fine equaliser with a rocket of a shot.
Kings made their big effort now but the IC defence
were covering well and tackling strongly with plenty
of assistance from the rest of the side at dead ball
situations. In fact at one corner Mike (Kamikaze)
Butterworth made a name for himself tackling Kings
forwards with his head.
This pressure was lifted when half way through the
half IC scored two fine goals in a five minute period.
The first of these came when Mike Selwyn fed Bill
Joiner on the right wing whose fine run took him
behind the defence and his accurate cross enabled Colin
Higham to strike home a fine goal.
IC's 3rd goal came a few minutes later from a corner
which was allowed to drop for Mick McConvey to
smash home a superb left foot volley.
From then on IC maintained control until with the
last kick of the match Kings pulled back a consola-
tion goal. All in all afinevictory.
Team: Ryan; Selwyn, Davies, Pallison, Hancock;
Colbeck, McConvey, Higham, Joiner, "Ranger," Butter-
worth.
Mike Selwyn
On Wednesday the 6th of December, the football club's
tame historian pulled off a remarkable feat by having the
pitches at Harlington playable even after the storms of the
previous two days — thank you Arthur. Now back to busi-
ness, the 1st team played Chelsea and despite the gale and
the rain the game would have been a good one to watch. It
was a very open contest with both sides playing good foot-
ball at times. I.C. took the lead in the first-half when Mick
McConvey beat two defenders before sliding the ball (as
opposed to rolling it) into the corner of the net. Later in the
first half Chelsea were lucky to score when G.E. (full name
and address supplied) dropped a very awkward cross into
his own goal. In the second half the game was less even and
I.C: 'began to make more chances. However none of these
were converted, instead Pete Lonner scored with a diving-
cum-falling header to give I.C. a win which they merited
and also a margin of victory which reflected the evenness of
the first-half.
Also on Wednesday the 2nds beat Chelsea 2nds 4-0 with
little trouble. The 4th went down to Goldsmiths II 6-4 in an
exciting battle. The 5ths avenged this defeat in beating Gold-
smiths III 7-3, and finally in an undistinguished match the
6ths took two more valuable points when they beat Chelsea
III 3-2.
R. Kill
I.C. 3rds arrived late for the kick-off in their first round
U.L, cup match against Goldsmiths 2nds, last years winners.
This was to have its effect when the later stages were played
out in gathering gloom. Early in the game I.C. slow to settle
were subjected to strong pressure by the Goldsmiths team.
Just as I.C. were beginning to play more confidently they suf-
fered a setback when Alan Wilkinson had to leave the field to
replace a contact lens. While down to ten men they also
unfortunately gave away a goal. Alan Peterson, back covering
for Wilkinson, was dispossessed at the edge of the area and
the Goldsmiths' forward made no mistake with his shot.
I.C: were jolted into action by this setback and once back
to full strength they took complete command of the midfield
and goals began to look very likely. Indeed, the first goal
came following a free-kick just outside the penalty area. Ian
Hyslop won in the air but his effort was blocked and Peterson
following in had a shot blocked before Russ Smith came on
the blind side of the defence to score a deserved equaliser with
a well placed shot.
I.C. were now in complete control of what was a very hard,
but fair game and they went close- several times before a sec-
ond goal eventually arrived. Alan Pearson cut in strongly
from the left and a great crossfield pass put Geoff Gilbert
through to score with an unstoppable low shot into the far
corner. This was the score at half-time and I.C. were now
very confidence of victory. They began the second half as
they had left off in the first, allowing Goldsmiths very little
time or space. The Goldsmiths front line was well held by
the I.C. back four, Andy Jackson being outstanding in the
middle while Rob Young and Adrian Johns gave their
wingers no freedom at all.
A third goal came just as things were beginning to settle
down in the second half. A superb run by John Miles came to
an abrupt end when he was brought down inside the area
and a penalty was awarded. .Smith volunteered to take the
kick and he blasted a shot which the 'keeper dived to save.
However, the referee judged that the goalkeeper had moved
before the ball was kicked and I.C. were allowed a second
chance. This time Smith adopted the 'cool' approach and suc-
ceeded in sending the goalkeeper the wrong way to put I.C
3-1 ahead. From this point on I.C: merely had to keep things
tight in midfield and the game was theirs. In fact most of
the subsequent action was in the Goldsmith's half and sev-
eral times I.C. were unlucky not to increase their lead. The
game ended in near darkness with I.C. 3-1 winners, and so
Goldsmiths, who last year beat I.C. 3rds in the semi-final and
I.C. 2nds in the final, were out in the first round to an I.C.
side who must now have a great chance of lifting the trophy
themselves.
Team: M . Clark, A . Johns, R. Young, A . Wilkinson, A.
Jackson, T. Hyslop (capt.), G. Gilbert, A . Peterson, R. Smith,
J. Miles, A . Pearson.
Also on Saturday the 6th played Westfield 2nds in the
L.R. Cup at Harlington. The game was played in. an in-
cessant drizzle and the small pitch and greasy conditions gave
neither side the chance to play good football. The first half
was fairly even with I.C. just about having the advantage and
although Johnny Black went close twice the score was still
0-0 when the teams changed around.
In the second half Westfield looked more purposeful and
a mistake by Ian Bell followed by a goalkeeping error gave
Westfield a deserved lead. Another defensive muddle allowed
the lead to be increased shortly afterwards.
As the half wore on the 6th began to find their feet (in-
telligent team, the 6ths), and Johnny Black pulled one back
with a fine goal after beating two Westfield defenders on the
18-yard line. Inspired by this the 6ths forced a series of
corners and from one of these Dave Ivell picked up a half-
clearance and shot home from 15-yards.
Teams often claim they cannot win if the referee is on the
opposing side and when Ron Kill picked up a ball (you mean
there were more than one, Rob?) on the right and strode
through the dusk to hit a pile driver home from 30 yards,
Westfield felt a little pissed off!
After the match the 6th team manager, captain and sup-
posed shirt washer Rob (call me Sir Alf) Carty refused to say
what his team's chances were of winning the cup.
Team: R. Colston, I Bell, G. Gull, D. Crane, R. Kill (also
the unpaid ref.), A . Kang, R. Carty, I. Franklin, J. Black, D.
Ivell, E. Heap.
R.C./R.K.
crosse
Pete shines in new boots
On a wet and blustery Saturday afternoon, IC Lac-
rosse team faced a formidable task in maintaining uTeir
unbeaten record against Kenton, one of the strongest
teams in the league. With his usual panache, Paul
Spooner chose to start the game facing in the direction
of the incoming flight-path to Heathrow, obviously
hoping to distract their goalie.
That this was going to be no ordinary game was
demonstrated, in the first few minutes, when Bob
Strangeway "using" his head for once, stopped a shot
at goal, and was reduced to a mere shadow of his usual
ferocious (?) self. As usual IC insisted on presenting
Kenton with the first two goals, but Imperial soon
pulled one back when Tony Hallett was given the five
minutes he needs to position himself and place the ball
in the net.
Kenton continued to score regularly, but the IC team
was never more than two goals behind thanks to the
efforts of Steve Norris, who produced somefinetwenty-
yard shots (a pity he's not fitter).
With only a few minutes of play left it looked a
hard task for IC to make up the two-goal deficit. How-
ever, continuous pressure from the IC forwards levelled
the score and when a shot rolled along the ground, hit
an opponent's foot and bounced past their goalie's right
ear into the top corner of the net, IC went into the lead
for thefirsttime in the match. This goal provided Pete
Drury, mercurial in his new boots, with his hat trick for
the match. > -
Valiant play by Ian Gulliford, who had a magnificent
game in goal, could not prevent Kenton from just man-
aging to score the equaliser in the dying seconds. Final
score 9-9.
IC Team (signed at small expense): Ian Gulliford,
Jack Katzberg, Frank Craven, Bob (puff, puff) Strange-
way, Pete "the hoots". Drury, Paul "Whizz Kid" Spoon-
er, Ray Elms, Lionel Clarke (Asst. Secretary!!), Steve
Norris and Tony Hallett.
Paddy
Pathfinder
Picture this: 'tis dead of night in the most inclementl)
wit weather when a solitary appears out of the murk.
Suddenly an unlit parked car looms up in front of the
rider (our star runner) forcing him to swerve, and he
ends up sprawled across the road, viciously hitting the
petrol tank with his ankle in the process. Thus did the
Fates rob IC of their chance of medals in the UL
championships.
Despite the loss of Joe Keating and many others of
our best runners, we still managed to field a team (Pete
Johnson, Dave Jones, Ian Isherwood, Stuart Littlewood,
Rob Allinson, Paul. Clarke and Rob Parker) when, after
a five mile slither through ankle-deep mud, finished
fourth ("narrowly" missing 3rd place). Included in this
race was the intercollegiate championship which was
won by RCS: C&G had no runners, and RSM had one,
and he was lost.
Last Wednesday's race, the Osterley Park Relay, was
even muddier. Our 'A' teamfinished27th; positions and
times after each 3 mile lap were: 16 Rob Parker 15m
51s; 28 Dave Payne L8m 10s; Chris Haines 16m 17s;
27 Rob Allison 17m. 53s. The 'B' team was started off
by Dave Jones (41st and not last) in 19m 6s and he
handed over to Paddy Donnelly who returned 32 min-
utes later. Suddenlyfindinghimself on the M4, Paddy
turned back before he reached Wales and proceeded
along the course by a highly skilful application of the
inspection of footprints. Unfortunately the effect was
somewhat spoiled by his following them in the wrong
direction. Meanwhile, back at the start, Steve Webb
had become so damp and cold that he set off without
waiting for Paddy. One can only imagine the look of
questioning that passed between them when they met
halfway across afieldof mud.
On the way home Steve had a hand-waving argument
with the driver of another vehicle — a strange way of
expressing his remorse at not being able to race.

