Tuesday, December 12,1972 FELIX Page 3
A Merry Christmas and a Happy
New Year to all our readers
A n o t h e r ooj^estlon
for n s m g y o u r
Presenting . . .
FELIX'S FREE CHRISTMAS
GIFT TO YOU
In past years Felix readers everywhere, and especially in Imperial College
have enthused over the free gifts that have been regularly given away in
the Christmas issue of "Felix". You've taken the Felixpill, got high on Felix
Grass, rolled your own contraceptives, built the Felix model of the Albert
Memorial, and pasted the Council Christmas Tree poster on your wall.
Now, to prove that we're still absolutely and utterly mad, we are proud
to present this year's gift to you A s usual the gift has myriad uses — but
as a special offer this year, we're doubling our gifts — every reader gets
TWO MAGIC FELIX CHRISTMAS LIGHTS.
MAGIC FELIX
CHRISTMAS LIGHTS
Yes, light up your tree with these lights. First obtain a box of ordinary
safety matches. Strike the black knobbed end of the MAGIC FELIX CHRIST-
MAS LIGHT stick against the black phosphorous stuff on the side of the
matchbox, and the light will magically activate. Hold the MAGIC FELIX
CHRISTMAS LIGHT stick under your tree, and watch it light up!! And you
can do it twice since we're giving you two MAGIC FELIX CHRISTMAS LIGHT
sticks.
Or use the other stick for another groovy Christmassy use. Try inserting
it between two eyelids as a prop on Boxing Day morning. Try sticking it into
a potato and making a single-spined hedgehog. Get a lot of other Felix readers
together, put your MAGIC FELIX CHRISTMAS LIGHT sticks together, and you
can play Nim. Try ringing 01-937 0102 and tell them you've got the perfect
match and that you're striking up a new relationship, and tell them what you
think of their computer. If your girl-friend wears acetate-framed spectacles,
strike the MAGIC CHRISTMAS LIGHT as in the instructions above for light-
ing up the tree and hold it to them . . . and watch her eyes light up instantly!
You can magically transform this print into illuminated script, just by holding
the magic stick under it. You can boast to your friends, that, even if you
hadn't already, you've now got a blackhead — and a white stem.
Get the whole family together to play this super game — buy a box of
things called "Safety Matches" from a reputable tobacconist — it will only
cost you a penny or two — and pop the FELIX MAGIC CHRISTMAS LIGHT
stick inside. Then play hunting the MAGIC CHRISTMAS LIGHT STICK!!
Hours of fun for all the family. And, having indulged in all these festivities,
you will be able to delight all your acquaintances with you new found fiery
temperament.
Have fun, and happy Christmas!

