Tuesday, December 12,1972 FELIX Page 5
FELIX FINANCIALLY
our new Halls
esidence ?
The problem of student accommodation is a con-
tentious subject about which almost everyone in
the land is aware. Last month, the National Union
of Students' conference at Margate involved itself
in some pretty fiery discussion about it, and saw
themselves splashed in the headlines by passing
resolutions to stage rent strikes and so forth.
Yes, almost everyone is aware of the problem,
but that is not to say that everyone can define
it.
What it really comes down to is a difficulty in
finding a reasonable place to live at a reasonable
rent — a difficulty made almost an impossibility
as long as student grants remain fixed and the
cost of living and the level of rents continues to
rise.
In short, what is glibly referred to as the prob-
lem of student accommodation, is the personal
anguish of a student trying to stretch his meagre
income sufficiently to pay the rent.
And there's little comfort for him in knowing
that the problem can only get worse. The enormous
pressure of more and more young people leaving
their parents' homes and looking for a place of
their own is already swamping the pool of available
accommodation. The inevitable effect is that rents
are rising and will continue to do to.
There is only one way to get off this weary
treadmill — and that is simply to build more places
for students to live.
Of course, it's obvious.
But perhaps it's so obvious that we get blinded
to the possibilities of simple solutions. Of course,
there are enormous difficulties involved, and even
to think of them is enough to make most people
shudder and dismiss the idea as beyond achieve-
ment.
But is it really impossible?
You may remember that last month in this col-
umn, FELIX FINANCIALLY's consultant DEREK E.
C U M M I N G S promised to put forward a solution,
suggesting what could be done, how it could be
done and by whom.
This is his blueprint for action.
So you're thinking of a rent strike.
You, and the National Union of Students to
which you belong, have grown impatient with the
situation that rising costs have dropped you into,
and you are going to express your frustration and
dissatisfaction by organising a protest.
All right, you have every right to be unhappy and
have every right to protest about it.
But in my view you are wasting your time.
A rent strike may well make a good headline. A
protest march with banners flying may well make
good television pictures. But in the end, what are
they likely to achieve for you?
I think very little.
Because whatever you do to draw attention to
the problem of student accommodation does not
alter the fact that there isn't enough accommoda-
tion to go round and that such accommodation as is
available will get more and more expensive.
Just analyse the problem as it exists at Imperial
College, among four thousand students.
Twelve hundred of you live in halls of residence.
Another thousand or more 'live either at home or
in apartments which might Just suit your pockets.
That leaves, say, fifteen hundred of you with a
problem.
This sort of arithmetic can be applied to any
number of other universities and colleges through-
out the land, but let's concentrate on Imperial Col-
lege just now.
What would be the ideal answer to the dilemma
of those fifteen hundred of you who have a struggle
to pay the rent and thereby to live in reasonable
comfort?
It is simply to build more halls of residence —
wouldn't you agree?
No, I am not out of my mind. I know it could be
done, and I know how it could be done.
What is required is the money to build them, and
the land to build them on. I know where both exist.
And I have a very good idea how they can be
brought together for the purpose of creating three
or four purpose-built halls of residence for the stu-
dents of Imperial College.
A pipedream? Not at all. I say again, it can be
done.
First, let's consider the land?
There are, between Imperial College and London
Airport, vast chunks of land owned by the Greater
London Council. Some of it has no kind of plan-
ning permission for any kind of development, some
has permission for the building of homes and some
of it is designated for industrial purposes.
Land which has planning permission for dwelling
houses attached to it is the cheapest. But you can
get only 8 to 10 houses per acre and most of them
will be two storeys high, thereby wasting enormous
possibilities for vertical development.
Industrial land is infinitely more expensive, but
in either case, the GLC holds the trump card. It
has the land.
Of course, the GLC is embarrassed by its failure
to provide enough of the type of accommodation
that students need. But it is a great deal more em-
barrassed by its lack of money. Even with the land,
it can't afford to build.
So now, let's consider the money. Who has it?
Why, of course, the banks.
Now, all students know that these vast institu-
tions spend a small fortune every year in trying to
persuade students to open accounts with them.
They offer this facility and that advantage, and they
throw in credit cards on top, hoping, of course, to
attract the potential top-income man while he is
young.
The most the banks can hope for is to hang on to
a sufficient percentage of such accounts in later
years, to make the expenditure worthwhile.
Personally, I am always horrified at the stupidity
of the banks. The National Westminster, for ex-
ample, as we all know, has a virtual monopoly at
Imperial College and yet they do almost nothing to
encourage their student customers to put their
faith and their money in their hands.
Any of you who have ever had to queue for
twenty minutes to cash your grant cheque will know
what I mean.
They're in a lovely position, and it makes other
banks green when they think about it. I went, for
instance, to the Midland Bank and found them
bleating about not getting student accounts.
But the chance to get those accounts is entirely
in their hands. They could get the lot, I should
think, if they stopped to think about how they
could really help the students they so badly pine
for.
If you're ever lucky enough to get a look at the
vaults of any bank in the City, you'll find the strong-
rooms littered with gold bars. They're just laying
there, doing nothing in particular except looking
yellow and interesting.
I'm talking figuratively, of course. Those gold
bars represent the idle capital which all banks have
on hand, waiting to be put to good and profitable
purpose.
And that is the crux of the matter.
I on'ly suggest that instead of leaving it there, the
bank—that is, any bank with sufficient imagin-
ation — take several cartloads of their gold bars
and turn them into bricks and mortar, upon which
they would earn money.
In short, use them to put up the money to build
halls of residence. Now, we have a useful equation.
The land held by the GLC plus the money from the
banks equals more student accommodation.
Furthermore, there is benefit to each of the parts
of the equation.
The GLC can fulfil its obligation to provide ac-
commodation for students: the banks will be
putting their gold bars to use and earning money on
them: and the students will have somewhere to
live.
Additionally, it is very likely that any bank which
has the foresight to fund such an operation will
reap the additional benefit of gathering the ac-
counts of the students they are helping.
It seems to me there is logic in this argument
as well as considerable advantage to everyone con-
cerned.
How much would it all cost? Based on the
estimates for the hall of residence now being built
for the college — roughly three-quarters of a mil-
lion pounds for a block accommodating 300 stu-
dents — I estimate that a new hall capable of hous-
ing three hundred students on GLC land would
cost one million pounds. For four blocks, four
million.
The accommodation would, of course, be
rented, the rents to be collected and handled by the
Students' Union in much the same way as it now
handles rented accommodation elsewhere in Lon-
don.
Thus far, then, we have an idea. The next ques-
tion is how to translate the idea into action.
And this is where we came in.
Imperial College students union would be well
I believe the National Union of Students and the
advised to apply pressure where it is most likely to
produce a reaction.
Rent strikes? Demonstrations? Fine. But would
it not be more useful and much more positive to
twist the arm of those who really could do some-
thing to ease the problem of student accommoda-
tion?
Wouldn't it be better, in fact, to put pressure.on
the banks?
For example, you remember the terrible trauma
which gripped Barclays at the time their colonial
interests were the subject of student indignation
and thousands of students closed their accounts?
Of course, it is not part of my interest to get into
that kind of political argument, but it was a clear
illustration of the power students have and can
use.
A concerted effort to persuade a bank to think
along the lines I have sketched out might yield con-
crete results. Even to get such an idea considered
would be a beginning, but I feel quite sure that a
unified campaign to promote it would make it diffi-
cult for the parties involved to resist. For my part,
I am perfectly prepared to assist any group which
felt strongly enough about the problem to try this
solution.
One thing is sure. Nothing at all will be done
unless you, the students, get up off your backsides
and make it happen.
So my advice is just this.
Strike —- by all means. But if you are going to
strike — strike at the right target.

