Page 6 FELIX December 12, 1972
EG 1
votes
to
boycott
Distillers'
products
Tuesday's Extraordinary General Meeting voted
overwhelmingly to boycott all Distillers' Company Ltd.
(DCL) products in view of their attitude towards the
Thalidomide victims.
The motion, put forward by Rob Armitage, Exter-
nal Affairs Officer, in its original wording called for
a boycott of all DCL spirits. DCL have a monopoly of
whisky production — they make or market 95% of all
the whisky bought, including names such as Johnnie
Walker, Black and White, Dewar's, Haig, etc. — and
have a large share of the rest of the spirits market. A
full list of their spirits appears elsewhere in this issue
of "Felix".
Beer boycotted also
An amendment from
the floor, tabled by Oliver
Dowson, Felix Editor,
called for the boycott to
be extended to the beers
produced by breweries in
which DCL have interests,
and was equally over-
whelmingly passed. Ano-
ther amendment called on
the College to order other
products, such as liquid
gas, that they buy at pre-
sent from DCL compan-
ies, from other sources.
College obduracy
John Lane, Union Pre-
sident, explained that it
was going to be more than
difficult to persuade the
College to implement this,
and told the meeting of
the reception Rob Armi-
tage's proposal of a Col-
lege boycott of DCL
spirits had got at a recent
Refectory Committee
meeting. The College is
apparently loath to do
anything that might upset
DCL, since they run scho-
larships and give other
aid to the college.
A shortened version of
an article, "Why Boycott
Distillers?" by Jeff Stani-
forth (NUS Treasurer),
appears on page ?? of this
issue of "Felix". This arti-
cle explains the reasons
for boycotting DCL _pro-
ducts.
Delighted
Rob Armitage, explain-
ing to "Felix" that the
boycott would be a vol-
untary one, since the Col-
lege would not ban DCL
spirits from the bars, said
that he was "delighted"
that the motion had been
passed. "I had completely
misjudged the mood of
the meeting" he said, and
went on to say that he
would have gone further
had he realised how easily
the motion got through.
Most other college
Unions throughout Bri-
tain have passed similar
boycott motions, and, in
many places where the
bars are controlled by the
Union, DCL products
have been completely
banned". Here they are
likely to be marked with
a red star to make them
easily distinguishable." •« -
W H Y ?
TEN YEARS AGO Distillers Company Limited
marketed the drug Thalidomide to expectant mothers.
Over 400 children were born with terrible handicaps.
DCL denies negligence. No newspaper can discuss
that question, for fear of prosecution by DCL. The
enormous power DCL has because of its wealth is an
effective deterrent. It does not occur to DCL that its
enormous wealth would be better employed helping
Thalidomide victims.
Last year DCL made a profit of £64 million. Their
latest increased offer to the parents is a lump sum of
£5 million — provided the parents sign away any rights
against DCL in the future. The sum, when divided
among all the children, gives each child about £200
for each year of its life.
DCL can prevent us from discussing publically
whether or not it was negligent. But this much we can
say. DCL marketed the drug. DCL is huge and rich.
The company could easily afford £20 million from its
profits, and that is all the parents are asking for.
Instead DCL has decided to fight the parents. It has
consistently made the smallest offer it thinks it can
get away with. It has used threats. It has splashed
money around to subdue those people, few of them
wealthy, whose lives have already been blasted by the
drug DCL marketed. Faced with human suffering,
DCL has reacted with writs. Faced with deformed
children, it has reacted with attacks. It has fought
and wriggled for ten years to avoid parting with one
penny more of its enormous profits than it can possibly
help.
And what about the children? For ten years parents
have fought for the future of children without arms,
without legs, with brain malformations, with a host of
crippling deformities, and without hope. Those chil-
dren are now reaching what may be the most difficult
period of their lives: their adolescence, when they will
begin to grasp the full horror of what has been done to
them.
They will reach it without sympathy from Distillers
Company Limited.
The worst may be to come. It has been suggested
that, with their parents to look after them, thalidomide
children will be all right on DCL's £200 a year. But
what happens when these children reach the age of
40—when their parents may 'be dead, or no longer
able to work to support them?
They will have no arms, no legs, and £200 a year—
if the money hasn't all gone by then.
What can we do? You could have a whip round
now, and raise a little money to help them. But are
those children to rely on charity all their lives—or
ought we to try and make DCL dip into its huge
profits for them?
But what can we do to force DCL?
If the pharmaceutical industry were owned by the
state, and responsible to the people, the violence of
public reaction would ensure a little humanity. But
DCL is responsible to no one but itself.
A huge, rich, powerful combine can get away with
anything — even pinching pennies from deformed
children to swell its already massive profits.
But if enough people act together, we can achieve
something. In Germany, after eight years of legal wrig-
gling, the company which marketed Thalidomide there
agreed to pay its total profits for ten years into a trust
fund for Thalidomide victims. So far, Distillers' best
offer is about 8
% of its profits for one year.
The usefulness of appealing to DCL's better feelings
seems remote, and that is why the NUS Conference has
given its support to a boycott of all DCL products. The
only way we can help the parents of these children to
get a settlement which will be acceptable to them is
to show DCL that we can make a real dent in its sacred
profits.
Britain's N
e
w
National
A
n
t
h
e
m
(For Susan W., a brave and beautiful girl)
They failed to sing "The Queen" one day
In Britain's old traditional way;
Instead of Princes, Queens and Kings
The British thought of other things.
They wrote an Anthem new and bold,
Outside the monarchistic mould;
They set a plaintive human plea
To music in a minor key.
Then all the country rose to stand,
Each one with empty glass in hand,
To sing the Anthem far and wide
As women wept and strong men cried.
What British Anthem now was heard
Which made the other less Preferred?
—"God Save the Kids . . ." they sang and
cried
"Whose mothers took Thalidomide".
© Nigel Racine-Jacques, 1972
This is not easy. £64 million is an almost unassailable
profit margin, and on hearing about iNUS's boycott,
DCL's press office told reporters they had "absolutely
no comment" to make. One can see why. They own
80% of the whisky market for a start. It's not exactly
a monopoly, but if you refuse to buy DCL's whisky
you may find yourself going without whisky in a great
many pubs. And it's not as though drink is DCL's
only interest. The list of the companies it owns occu-
pies two long columns in "Who Owns Whom". It has
its fingers in pretty well every pie or soft drink you
are likely to buy. Its assets are enormous, its interests
extensive, its tentacles everywhere. The power of this
enormous combine, both to do harm and to resist
attack, is enormous. „
Over the next few months we must make sure we
find every single way in which we can hit DCL where
it will hurt most. And the best time to start is now —
when this soulless Leviathan is trying to make room in
its vaults for the traditional bonanza it makes out
of Christmas the season of good will.
Spirits sell in enormous quantities at Christmas time.
We have a very few weeks in which to out as far as
possible into the huge profits that Distillers are going
to make
SO
BE CAREFUL WHAT SPDUTS YOU BUY
FOR CHRISTMAS.
DO NOT BUY any of these brands of whisky:
VAT 69; Johnny Walker; King George TV; Old
Scotch; White Horse; Black and White; Dewars.
DO NOT BUY any of these brands of Gin:
Gordons; Booths; High and Dry London; Tanqueray.
AND DO NOT BUY
Cossack Vodka; Pimms No. 1.

