December 12, 1972 FELIX Page 7
Editorial
It's reassuring to have a President again. One could
feel the tension amongst the Union Exec relax almost
instantly the news of the ratification came in. But relax
is the one thing we can't do.
Imperial College Union has lost a lot of ground and
a lot of credibility in the last term. This has mainly
been because it has been disorganised: at least, it has
seemed so to the casual onlooker. The set-up of the
bureaucratic background has been impeccable: it has
been so good it has been invisible, which is really just
the way it should be. But since all we've had is the
bureaucracy, the whole union activities have been just
as invisible to the mass membership.
Now we have a President perhaps we can get down to
some ACTION. The active side of the Union, the side
that the membership and the general public notice, is its
political side. The clubs and societies fall into the
bureaucratic sector — they just go on and on and on
as long as the money's there. They might well be
Union activities — but the membership couldn't care
less who runs them as long as they're there.
The Sovereign body of the Union is the Union Gene-
ral Meeting — the meeting of all its members, or a
representative sample of them — a meeting of all of
YOU. That's where the action must be seen to happen.
Tuesday's EGM proved that students here are in-
terested in politics. Not necessarily the revolutionary
politics the public expects of us (only 15 people at the
last SocSoc meeting) but politics generally. It doesn't
matter how conservative and reactionary our politics
are (and I hope some conservative ad reactionary poli-
cies are passed by UGM's in the coming months, for
that is the general political feeling of ICU) as long as
we have some. For it is politics that makes UGM's, and,
being really the only debating forum that exists in Im-
perial College since the sad demise of DebSoc, political
UGM's should be encouraged.
UGM's are not for the reading of long executive
reports. These should be printed in "Felix" for every-
one to read. UGM's are for the discussion of matters
that are important to students, and for the formulating
of Union policy . . ; a policy that is representative
of the Union's views — your views.
Now we have a President — a political President —
perhaps we can move rapidly towards this kind of
UGM. I certainly hope so.
Twitching Whiskers
While we're on the subject of politics, you will prob-
ably notice that, with this issue, not only has Felix
been twitching his whiskers rather more than usual, but
has become decidedly political in one way or another.
I hope this show of sudden virility in a 23-year-old tabby
cat does not alarm you: it was not deliberate, but just
happened.
For many weeks now the Letters page of "Felix"
has been unprecedentedly full. It would seem that,
even compared to other weeklies Felix has a more ac-
tive Letters page than other student newspapers. Let's
keep it that way. I only apologise for having to print
them in such miniature type.
And now it is truly heartening to see contributions
in the form of articles also flooding in. There's some
pretty controversial stuff, by Felix standards, in this
issue, and I hope there'll be some reaction.
Coming just at the right time, with the subject of
Rent Strikes being regularly mooted, is our "Felix Fi-
nancially" feature on student housing. Derek Cum-
mings' solution to this cardinal problem has certainly
never been raised or even suggested before. It bears
careful consideration. It's all very well to demand that
the Government pays for all new halls . . . but will we
ever get any that way? We need somewhere to live, who-
ever pays for it SOON. We want your reactions to the
scheme: do write and tell us what you think — NOW,
while it's in your mind.
EGM
Confirms
l.C. Gounci
votes to
Lane as withdraw
President from SUK
John Lane was once again ratified as President of
Imperial College Union by Tuesday's Extraordinary
General Meeting. The meeting, convened as a result
of the fiasco of the previous Thursday's Union Gene-
ral Meeting, reported in "Felix" last week, overwhelm-
ingly voted to accept Council's recommendation that
Mr. Lane be confirmed in his post. Council had at
their meeting the previous day voted to refer the motion
back to the EGM with this recommendation.
The only question raised of the Union voiced their
was whether the College ,• , t , •
° disapproval ot making
would agree to accept the
ratification: Martin Black, t h e s c
changes after the
Union Secretary, said it e v e nt, both at the Council
was very unlikely that they m e e t i n g a n d l h e E G M
would not. Readers will
, ,, , , , Paul Hosking, Rag Chair-
remember that John ° °
Lane was elected on man, said that it was a
a poll of only sharp practice, and that
928 votes, 30 short of the having created a prece-
prescribed "quorum" of 25 d e R t > t h i s c o u ! d b e d o n e a t
per cent of the electorate , . . . .
any election, and indeed
(1,012). To elect him, it
,, other changes could al-
was necessary to alter the •
schedule to the Constitu- w a
Y« ™ w
t* made after
tion which specifies this the event. Paul Jowitt,
"quorum". Since it was Deputy President, pointed
only a schedule to the con- v x ...
out that this was an un-
stitution and not part of the
Constitution itself, ex- u s u a l
circumstance, since
plained Martin Black, it this had been only the
was only necessary to have third presidential election
a two-thirds majority at a ^ y e a r a n d h e ^ t f a e
single Union meeting; con-
... . . . . . Union as a whole were
stitutional changes require
the same majority at two g e t t i n
§ s i c k o f t h e w h o l c
consecutive UGM's. business and wanted a
Several leading members President now.
Rag
Imperial College Union Council voted to discontinue
its participation in USK Rag next year. The Rag
Chairman will once again become the Carniva* Co-
ordinator, and IC Carnival will be ressurected.
The main problems with USK Rag has been the
lack of participation by other colleges. The City and
Guild's Carnival Ball was cited as an example — 95
per cent of those attending came from I.C. Council
concluded that if I.C. were responsible for all the acti-
vity, it may as well be the I.C. Rag. Apparently USK
Rag has not been a financial success either.
Rag Chairman Paul Hosking revealed the accounts
to an expectant audience. Income this term has been
£1,968.18, of which £1.669.54 came from street collec-
tions. Expenditure came to a paltry £55.62.
Council N
e
w
s
.m
in
A meeting is to be or- r e fc c t 0 ries and standards
ganised to allow students of food,
to question Mr. Mooney T h e R i g h t Honourable
in person, and to put their the Viscount Gough has
complaints to him about become a life member of
_ Imperial College Union.
T w o G o o d
T h i n g s
Last Monday (December
4th) there was yet another
Students' Representative
Council meeting at which
two useful events took
place. Firstly, a motion
was proposed to the effect
that there should be an
SRC Murray Open Meet-
ing held next term, to
which every student in the
University should be in-
vited, and at which all who
attend should be given full
voting and speaking rights.
This meeting will take the
form of a discussion on
the Murray Report, and it
is hoped that it will help
the SRC to formulate pol-
icy on the Report. In spite
of an amendment which
argued that non-SRC stu-
dents' present should not
be given voting rights, the
original motion was even-
tually passed. This could
be classed as the most rep-
resentative decision the
SRC has taken this term.
The second Good Thing
was the reaction of the
SRC to the article in the
latest edition of "Sennet".
This points out that the
Council is not at present
representative, in that
members are rarely elected
by their Unions, but are
often appointed instead.
Once this had been demon-
strated to the delegates
they appeared quite will-
ing to consider Constitu-
tional Amendments, which
will be presented formally
at the next statutory meet-
ing, to be held at Chelsea
College on 17th February.
The Ents Committee is
£1,250 in the black. This
is a result of booking big-
name groups this year, a
policy which has reaped
rich rewards. All profits
are to be ploughed back
into Ents next year.
POST-GRADUATE
wanted for
Part-time Teaching
of O-level Maths.
1 morning per week.
Good hourly rate.
Ring:
Ian Mackenzie, Int. 3887

