Union Page
Get your Spring Carnival ticket before the price goes up!
Roll up, roll up and join us at Imperial College Union’s end of term Spring
Carnival! We’ll be celebrating the end of term with all the fun of the fair,
with live music from IC Jazz & Rock and GuitarSoc. DJs on the night
include headliner AntzintheJam, as well as Steve Basher, James Rogers,
Kieran Sampson and Georgios Konstantellos.
Entertainment will also include stilt-walkers, juggling and a popcorn
cannon, so get your ticket now for just £3.00 before the price goes up to
£4.00 on Monday 14 March.
To buy your Spring Carnival tickets go to:
imperialcollegeunion.org/spring-carnival
Remember playing on the Playstation? SNES? Megadrive? Finally we
have a PGI Friday Retro Gaming Night on Friday 18 March from 17:00.
Come along and play on your favourite retro consoles down at the h-bar.
While you’re at it grab two great cocktails for just £6.00, all night, from
our bespoke cocktail bar!
imperialcollegeunion.org/retro-gaming-night
Student Experience Survey – Phase Two starts Monday
Last term saw the launch of a new Student Experience Survey at the College. Phase One
focused on students’ welcome to the College, and Phase Two contains a wide range of
questions about your experience of College support services and the Union.
Feedback will be used to shape the College and the Union’s services, and your answers will be
vital in helping to do so. If you’re an Undergraduate student in your penultimate year of study, or
second year postgraduate research students, you will be sent an email inviting you to take the
survey which will be open from Monday 14 March – Sunday 3 April.
Further information can be found on Imperial’s website imperial.ac.uk/students/academic-
support/student-survey.
PGI Friday - Retro Gaming Night, Friday 18 March
Reynolds Battle of the Bands 2016 -
THE FINAL, Thursday 17 March
Who wins? You decide! Support the winning bands from our heats and
see the talent Imperial has to offer at the Reynolds Bar on Thursday 17
March from 19:30. There’ll ba an eclectic mix of bands fight for your vote!
There’s £500 up for grabs for the winner of the final, plus the chance to
play at the Union’s Summer Ball.

