21 REDCLIFFE STREET The Redcliffe Street house has been set aside as a postgraduate house
whereas other head tenancies can be applied to by both undergraduates
and postgraduates. It is situated at the lower end of Earls Court but still
within walking distance of College. The house consists of single bedsits
with a communal lounge and kitchen.
COLLEGE FLATS
College Flats
Although these are distinct from Head Tenancies, they are let and
managed in the same way as the Head Tenancy flats.
Southside, Penthouse Flats
These two flats used to be occupied by wardens, and consequently, offer
a very high standard of accommodation. Each flat consists of two single
bedrooms, one double, sitting room, kitchen and bathroom. The flats are
suitable for up to four people. The rent is inclusive of heating, lighting and
panoramic views of London.
78 Princes Gate Mews
By far the trendiest flat on offer, it consists of two double bedrooms,
lounge, kitchen and bathroom. It also contains the most bijou attic single
bedrooms that you are ever likely to see. The flat is suitable for four and
comes under the supervision of one of the Southside Wardens.
9 Princes Gardens
Situated next to Garden Hall, this house contains five flats for four, one
for three and one for five. These flats are not available for letting
F e b r u a r y / M a r c h as it is likely that they will be occupied by new
undergraduate students next session.
Robert Pryor House, 53 Evelyn Gardens
This house, comprising three flats for four, one for five and two for two i c
being reserved for new undergraduate students.
Property"^—Fl£t^size 1 . 2 3 4 5 6 7 8
HAMLET GARDENS - 1 3 - 2 5 8
CAMBRIi3GE GARDENS - - - 1 - 1 - -
LfXHAM GARDENS 24 4 2 3 9 - 1
85 LEXHAM GARDENS - - 1 2 - - - -
EARLS COURT SQUARE 14 4 - - - - - -
REDCLIFFE ST (PG's ONLY) 11 - - - - - - -
SINCLAIR GARDENS - - - - 2 - - 2
GERRARD MANSIONS - 5 - - - - - -
PENTHOUSE & M
E
W
S - - - 3 - - - -
Above is a tabulated summary ol the Head Tenancies showing the number of units of different
sizes each has to ottci .11 present. It is likely that some of these will be dropped in the course of the
current negotiations.
7

