HOW TO APPLY
Points to Remember
Applications for flats will only be accepted from groups. This means that
if you want to live in a flat or a double room/flatlet, you will need to apply
as a group of two, three, four, five, six, seven or eight. If you apply on
your own, you can only be considered for a single room/bedsit.
If you are also applying to a Hall of Residence or to a Student House,
your application to the Hall or House will be withdrawn once you have
been allocated to a place in a Head Tenancy.
You can only make one application to Head Tenancies.
This means that if, for example, you apply in a group, you cannot also
make a separate application on your own, nor can you make an
application with another group.
Group Applications
1. Y o u will need: one orange form for the whole group and a grey card for
each member of the group—so a group of four would need one orange
form and four grey cards.
2. The person whose name is at the top of the list on the orange form will
receive all correspondence relating to the application. Thus the two
sticky labels should be filled in, one giving that persons departmental
address so that we can notify him/her of the outcome of the application
at the beginning of the Summer term. The other label should be
addressed to his/her expected whereabouts in early September so that
we can send any additional information that may be necessary.
3. Look through the table of Head Tenancies and see which ones have
accommodation suitable for a group of your size. If there are more than
one, place them in order of preference by writing " 1 , or 1, etc." in the
appropriate spaces on the form. If there is only one, put " 1 " in the
appropriate space.
4. Fill in the rest of the orange form.
5- Each member of the group must then complete a grey card.
6. Return the orange form together with A L L the grey cards to the
Student Services Office by Friday, March 12, 1982.
Single Applications
1. Y o u will need one orange form, one grey card and two address labels.
The labels should be completed as follows: one with your departmental
address, one addressed to your expected whereabouts in early
September so that we can send any additional information that may then
be necessary.
2. Lexham Gardens, Earls Court Square and Redcliffe Street both
have accommodation suitable for people applying on their own. The
chart shows the number of places that each has. Indicate your preference
by placing " 1 " or "2" in the appropriate places.
3. Return the completed form and card to Student Services, 15
Princes Gardens by Friday, March 12, 1982.
General Points
1. The way the allocation system works, the chances are that you will
either get your first choice or nothing. The only exception to this is that if
you apply for the Penthouse or Mews flats and don't get in, then you will
be considered for your highest subsequent choice .
2. If you are applying in a group, experience has shown that problems
arise when smokers share with non-smokers. Please give this point
careful consideration when choosing your group.
All students who accept accommodation in double rooms and flats will
be jointly and severally responsible for the whole rent for their
accommodation.
Halls and Houses
You need to fill in 2 address labels and the appropriate form and card.
There are different forms and cards to fill in depending on whether you
are a new-applicant postgraduate, a new-applicant undergraduate or a re-
applicant.
These are as follows:
New applicant postgraduate: yellow form and card.
New applicant undergraduate: green form and card.
Re-applicant: blue form and card.
The address labels need to be completed as follows:
One label addressed to yourself in your department so that we can tell
you, at the beginning of the Summer term, whether or not you have got a
place.
One label addressed to yourself at wherever you will be in early/mid-
September so that, if your application is successful, we can tell you
which room you will be in.
WHAT YOU WILL BE PAYING
Here is a table of rents for this session. Like everything else, they will
probably be higher for the next session, but at least it will give you an idea
of what it costs per week.
Halls
Beit £15.50-21.00
Southside & Weeks £23.00
Linstead Singles £30.50
Linstead Doubles £24.50
Student Houses and Garden Hall
Singles £20
Doubles £15.50
Triples £11.50
Head Tenancies
Hamlet/Cambridge Gardens
Singles £17.50
Doubles £14.50
Lexham Gardens
Singles
Doubles
£19.00-23.00
£18.50-19.50
Earls Court Square
Singles £19.00-22.50
Doubles £16.50-17.50
Recliffe Street
Singles £17.00-18.50
Gerrard Mansions
Singles £15.00-20.00
Sinclair Gardens
College Flats
9 Princes Gardens
Robert Pryor House
Penthouse Flats
Mews Flat
From £19.00
From £16.50
From £16.50
£100 per week
£80 per week
Closing Dates for Your Diary
Friday, M a r c h 12, 1982: A L L undergraduates applications, all
applications to Head Tenancies and Student Flats (including Redcliffe
Street) and all re-applicants: postgraduates and undergraduates.
Friday, July 16, 1982: Applications to R E S I D E N C E (i.e. Halls and
Houses) from new applicant postgraduates.
A L L A P P L I C A T I O N S R E C E I V E D B E F O R E T H E C L O S I N G D A T E A R E G I V E N E Q U A L C O N -
SIDERATION. S O , D O N T R U S H . GIVE Y O U R S E L F TIME T O THINK A B O U T W H A T Y O U A R E
G O I N G T O A P P L Y F O R A N D W H O Y O U A R E G O I N G T O A P P L Y WITH.
ALTERNATIVE ACCOMMODATION
If you don't want to live in College Accommodation, or if your application
is u n s u c c e s s f u l , y o u need to c o n s i d e r other ways of finding
accommodation.
Intercollegiate Halls
Most of these Halls are situated in Bloomsbury which is conveniently
placed for travel to College.
Intercollegiate Halls differ from Imperial College Halls in that they give
you an opportunity to meet students from other Colleges and to mix with
people who are not all scientists. All the Intercollegiate Halls provide full
board (except for lunches Monday to Friday).
Names and addresses of Halls
Men Only
Commonwealth Hall, Cartwright Gardens, London W C 1 H 9EB. (01) 387
0311.
Connaught Hall, 41 Tavistock Square, London W C 1 H 9EE (01) 387 6181.
Women Only
Canterbury Hall, Cartwright Gardens, London W C 1 H 9EE. (01) 387
5526.
College Hall, Malet Street, London W C 1 E 7HZ. (01) 636 8982.
Mixed
Hughes Parry Hall, Cartwright Gardens, London, W C 1 H 9EF. (01) 387
1477.
International Hall, Brunswick Square, London, W C 1 N I A S . (01) 837
0746.
Postgraduates (mixed)
Lillian Penson Hall, Talbot Square, London W2 I T T . (01) 262-2081.
How to Apply
Apply on one form to all those Halls for which you are eligible (on the
basis of sex and postgraduate/undergraduate status). The application
form can be obtained from any of the Halls and should be returned to the
Warden of the Hall which you would most like to live in.
Closing Dates
Students already at the University: April 30, 1982.
New male students and mixed Halls: May 31, 1982.
New female students: May 15, 1982.
Private Sector Flats and Bedsits
Addresses of places which you can book for next session should be
available from Student Services during the Summer term. Most of this
kind of accommodation, however, is not advertised until September. If
you want to know more about private sector housing come into Student
Services and pick up a copy of our accommodation guide.
Hostels and Hotels
There are a number of student hostels run by organisations other than
the University. In addition, there is a variety of Hotels which give special
reduced rates to students living there on a long term basis. Lists of these
are available from Student Services.

