What's On
Friday, February 19
•IC Angling Club, 12:30pm, Southside Upper Lounge.
•Industrial Society talk 'Coal—Fuel of the Future'
with Mr Parker of NCB, 1:00pm, Chem Eng LT1.
•Soup Run, 10:30pm, Falmouth Kitchen.
Saturday, February 20
• C r o s s Country Club last Reebok League Race
(Oxford). See noticeboard for details.
*Railsoc visit to Old Oak Common Loco Depot (WR).
See Southside noticeboard.
Sunday, February 21
•City & Guilds Motor Club Autotest, 10:30am, Car
Park by Civ Eng. Spectators free.
•West London Chaplaincy communion service
Preacher Richard Harris, Dean of Kings College,
Consort Gallery.
•Wargames club meeting, 1:00pm, Union SCR.
Monday, February 22
• H a n g - g l i d i n g club meeting, 12:30pm, above
Southside Bar.
•Badgesoc meeting, 12:30pm, Southside Bar Lounge.
•Chemsoc lecture with Dr M.F. Perutz FRS Nobel
Laureate (laboratory of molecular biology, Cambridge)
on 'Haemoglobin', 4:30pm, LTC.
• T M soc meeting, 5:30pm, Huxley 411. Come along for
a group med. Drinks afterwards.
•Dancing club advanced class, 7:30pm, JCR.
Tuesday, February 23
•Boardsailing club meeting, 12:30 and 6:15pm,
Southside Upper Lounge.
•Catholic mass and lunch, 12:30pm, Chem 231.
Nominal charge for lunch.
•Nat Hist soc lecture Prof E.R. Laithwaite on
'Butterflies', 1:00pm, Botany Basement LT.
• S T O I C transmission with an interview with Timothy
Hutton, whose current film Taps will be opening in
London shortly, 1:00 and 6:00pm, JCR, Southside TV
Lounge, Southside, Beit, Linstead. and Weeks Halls.
•Dept of Humanities presents
1. Films: The Private Lite of the Robin; The Private Life
of the Wandering Albatross, 1:15pm, Read Theatre.
2. The Origins of Astronomy
Pt 2: The Development of Greek Astronomy, Dr D.R.
Dicks, Bedford College, London, 1:30pm, Pippard
Theatre (Arranged by IC Hellenic Society).
•IC Amnesty group meeting, 5:30pm, Green Comm
Rm.
•Wine-tasting society meeting as usual, 6:00pm,
Union SCR.
•Free! Cheese & Wine at Industrial Soc presentation
by Barclays, 6:00pm, Chem Eng LT1.
•Socialist society speaker meeting: Communist
Party, 6:30pm, Green Comm Rm.
•Photosoc B & W competition, 6:30pm, Mines 303.
Entry fee 30p per print.
•Dancing club beginners class, 7:30pm, JCR.
• I C C A G Soup Run, meet 10:30pm Falmouth Kitchens.
Wednesday, February 24
•Railsoc visit to Clapham Junction Signal Box. See
noticeboard.
•Cross Country Club last London College League
event—turn up and improve our league position. See
noticeboard for details.
•Wargames club meeting, 1:00pm, Union SCR.
• T M soc meeting, 1:00pm, Huxley 411.
•Anti-apartheid meeting, 1:00pm, Union Upper
Lounge.
•Astrosoc observing meeting, 3:30pm, 'Waveguide',
Physics Building, level 1. Free to members.
•IC Trampoline soc meeting, 5:30pm, Courtauld Hall,
QEC, Campden Hill Rd.
Thursday, February 25 j
•Talk on wine-tasting, 12:30pm, Mines 303.
• S T O I C presents NEWS-BREAK, 1:00 and 6:00pm,
usual places (see Tuesday).
•Christian Science group meeting, 1:00pm, Seminar
Room, Level 2S, Botany.
• C h i n e s e society A G M and elections, 1:00pm,
Huxley LT213H. Membership cards required.
• S F Soc presents a talk by CHRIS PRIEST, 1:00pm,
Union Senior Common Rm. Free to members. See SF
Bulletin for details.
• I C U SDP soc presents a talk on 'Electoral Reform' by
an ERS representative, 1:00pm, Huxley 144.
Socialist Society
by N Willson
One of the more active, but not very well
funded societies in this College, is the Imperial
College Socialist Society. Recently they
distributed a six page photocopied newsheet
called "Radical" to advertise themselves to the
students at IC. The sheet contains an editor's
introduction, eight articles varying in length
from about one hundred to eight hundred
words, ten cartoons, a joke, and an invitation
from the editor to send comments and
criticisms.
The ostensible purpose of the sheet is, of
course, to persuade us to support the socialist
movement and to convince us of the failure of
capitalism. And some of the writers really have
tried to address a wide audience and have
made concessions in their articles to the
apathetic or conventional-minded atmosphere
at IC. The writer of an article on the Scarman
Report, for example, seems to have realised
that if you simply denounce the police as a
bunch of racist thugs then three-quarters of
the readers will dismiss it instantly. So
although the police 'have racist tendencies' it's
because of 'the pressures we and the
government put on them'. But even this writer
can't resist ascribing the most fantastically
devious and cunning motives to the socialists'
political enemies. Of the idea of letting under
qualified people into universities (a Scarman
recommendation) we're told: 'It is just a way
the government can save even more money by
ensuring more people get kicked out after one
year!' Elsewhere it's stated that '(multi-
nationals') methods are so insidious (that) very
few people even seem aware of what they get
up to Be on your guard.' There's an
unwillingness on the part of 'Radical' writers
(and this is true of left wing writing in general)
to admit that their enemies are normal people.
Instead, multinational company directors, right
wing politicians and so on are portrayed as
monsters of greed and cunning, eager to
destroy the whole world if it gets them a better
dividend. But a lot of students at IC can expect
As the husting and election season is here
again, many of you, like me, will remember
previous aspiring presidential candidates
talking a lot of hot air, and making unrealistic
promises.
As I see it, the minimum service that we can
expect from any president is that s/he tries to:
improve refectory conditions.
better the accommodation situation.
improve lecturing standards.
fight education cuts sensibly.
get a fair deal for oversea students.
oversee welfare work in College.
These are broad headings and undoubtedly
you will be able to think of many others. These
duties are 'ex officio' and no fuss should be
made about them during the campaign. By
to work for a big company when they graduate
and they'll tend to identify with the very people
being attacked in 'Radical'. (And the articles
attack them personally, not the system they
have to work within). So a cartoon showing a
disgustingly fat white man (the West) carelessly
scattering crumbs to a starving black (the
developing world) is hardly likely to awaken
s o c i a l i s t s y m p a t h i e s a m o n g the future
managers and industrialists at IC. It's just
going to cause irritation and resentment
a m o n g p e o p l e w h o m i g h t be o p e n to
persuasion.
Again, a comment in the Editor's Intro
pointlessly antagonises some of his readers:
' P l e a s e e x s c u s e (sic) a n y s p e l l i n g or
grammatical P T O S as we can't all have a public
school education ' Why insult people who
went to a public school, as if it was their fault?
Apparently the kind of people who write for
'Radical' regard ex-public schoolboys as s u b -
human, just good for being sneered at. Y o u
aren't going to get people on your side thai
way, but a great deal of Radical and other
'socialist' literature is written without any
intention of persuading the reader to join the
cause. Throughout the whole sheet there's an
underlying holier-than-thou atmosphere that
says something like 'we're good socialists and
you're all apathetic nobodies, and don't you
forget it'. This is sometimes stated almost
explicitly. F o r example in ' O u r G l o r i o u s
Union Leadership?' we're told that 'the recent
rejection by IC Union of N U S is just one more
example (what are the others?) of Imperial
College students sticking their heads in the
sand'. Articles like that are hardly more than a
list of prefabricated slogans, highly effective for
putting people off socialism. But a great many
socialists don't care whether they put people
off or not. The writing of articles denouncing
capitalist exploiters, American imperialists,
etc., etc., is for them an end in itself, a sort of
ritual that you're expected to take part in if
you're a good socialist. They seem to regard it
as beneath them to try a n d get popular
support.
A t a leftist meeting in the College recently
someone was suggesting that Left candidates
for Union post should stand without saying
that they were leftists because then they'd
have a better chance of standing unopposed.
T h e p e r s o n w h o a d v o c a t e d this ' s e c r e t
candidate' approach was grinning as he put
forward the idea. T o him, dishonest political
manoeuvrings are more important than policy
c o n s i d e r a t i o n s or t r y i n g to get p o p u l a r
s u p p o r t . T h i s is the l o w level at w h i c h
politically inclined minds tend to work. A n d left
wing clubs are full of peoplle like that. What do
they expect to a c c o m p l i s h ? T h e Socialist
Society might succeed in getting a few people
to join them, but they won't get very far so long
as they remain hardly better than a mutual
admiration society.
which I mean, let's cut out the rubbishy
rhetorics e.g. from last FELIX, the three
articles generalized and claimed, I quote " it
is of vital importance to elect a President who
is not going to let himself be pushed
around " or " leading in a definite
direction " or " The Union needs strong
leadership "
It is therefore important that we press all
candidates to state exactly how they aim to
achieve their goals, what methods and routes
will they use and what effects will this have on
us students.
Remember they are elected by you to serve
you, and we are entitled to know how and
what they are going to do, not what they
dream of doing.
How to choose a President
by Aung Htun
Page 4 FELIX, February 19, 1982

