8.8. Wolffrs.
8if Black Book
Hi there, old B.B. is back in action after a
short rest. I'm still on the lookout for any'
juicy bits of scandal, so if you have any
material for exposes (including dirty half-
truths) then drop them in at the FELIX
Office. Anonymity guaranteed, of course.
Anyway, this week I thought I'd take
another look around the darker recesses of
the College. With a little help from talkative
people it is quite amazing what you can find
out. F o r instance, did you know the
background to a front page story of two weeks
ago..
Whilst the story "Theft in Lexham Gardens"
made the front page of FELIX 604, there are a
few details which the Editor, in his wisdom,
failed to mention.
Soon after it was discovered that three flats
had been broken into, the student manager of
Lexham Gardens, Sean Giblin, arrived to
investigate. In the room of RCS Academic
Affairs Officer Tom Owen he couldn't help
noticing a collection of glossy magazines
(bearing such titillating titles as "Victorian
T e m p t a t i o n " and " M i s s Sadie Stern's
Monthly") which had been strewn across the
floor by the thief. They had been torn out of an
envelope by the mystery assailant and Sean, in
the true Sherlock Holmes spirit, couldn't resist
checking them over for vital evidence.
Later in the evening Sean returned with a
detective and discovered that Tom had
already rome back and "tidied up", obviously
to avoid any unnecessary embarrassment.
The detective produced a little metal box-
and dusted the room for fingerprints, but to no
avail. As he was about to give up he said what
he really needed was a piece of paper or a
magazine which had been gripped firmly,
hence leaving a good impression.
At this point Sean casually reminded Tom
about his little collection, which was soon
produced for dusting. He was a little surprised,
to say the least, that exhibit A in a trial could
be his delightful selection of tasteful adult
literature!
However, he had nothing to fear: when the
covers of the books were brushed with the
detective's fine powder, a surprising result
appeared. "These are no good," the detective
cried. " T h e y ' r e absolutely covered in
fingerprints!"
Ok my G M t
A few weeks ago a rather amusing practical
joke was played on Pallab Ghosh, H.G. Wells
Society Chairman, and Mr Len Moulder,
Chem Eng photographer.
Pallab, who is not renowned for his speed of
thought, unwisely asked the FELIX staff for
suggestions about a speaker for the H.G.
Wells Society as there was a date free which
he had to fill at short notice. Whilst he was
away fetching the necessary bribes for their
co-operation (tea in this case) the Editor
cooked up a scheme to fool him.
On Pallab's return, laden with his liquid
treat, Steve Marshall suggested a well-known
speaker who was highly talented and amusing.
Len Moulder, he said, was a linguist of great
note whose celebrated lecture on British
regional accents was very popular, mainly due
to a fascinating demonstration in which
Moulder could pinpoint someone's origins (by
their accent) to within ten miles. The other
staff members all agreed that Len was the ideal
man to get and heaped praises on this amazing
man's talents. "He's just like Professor Higgins
out of Pygmalion!" Steve Marshall added for
good measure.
Fired with such glowing reports Pallab
phoned Mr Moulder the next morning. Len
was most surprised to be put forward as a
possible lecturer, explaining that as a
photographer he had a keen eye for human
response, but that he was no academic.
Eventually after a lot of persuasion he agreed
to consider the idea. In a subsequent phone
call Len explained that he would like to give a
few opinions about student life at IC (which
may not, for reasons of sensitivity, be repeated
here) and also something about "finding
knickers in the offices of certain Professors".
However, he finally withdrew and neither he,
nor Mr Ghosh, were aware of the little joke,
that had been played.
B e O t o k T w d i
Somebody noticed a strange coincidence the
other day. When Mr Peter Rodgers took on the
post of ICU Handbook Editor, he became the
third Irishman to do the job in succession. His
predecessors were Paul Donovan and Dave
Crabbe, both of whom hail from the emerald
isle.
Thinking about it, the Handbook is a very
difficult thing to put together and involves a lot
of hard manual labour. Rather like building
motorways I suppose!
However a further Irish link came to mind
which smacks of a conspiracy. Last year a wee
Irish lass, Liz Lindsay, was ICU Honorary
Secretary. This year of course we have
another well-known Irishman in the post—
Marc O'Ledwold.
Speaking of Marc O'Ledwold, have you ever
considered the connotation of the adjective of
his title? Scaramouche has pointed out to me
that, according to Chambers Dictionary,
'honorary' means "without performing
services or without r e w a r d " . Now as a
sabbatical, the secretary certainly receives a
reward, so we are forced to conclude
Scupp&ieA
If you've ever arrived at a room in the Sherfield
Building expecting to play your badminton
match or have a meeting, only to find it already
occupied by several hundred inscrutable
orientals chanting mantras and smoking
opium, then you have no doubt already heard
of the College Bookings Office.
This delightful Office is responsible for the
hire of College facilities for conferences,
parties, etc., to staff, students and outside
organisations (who pay well for the privilege).
Mid-way through 1981 a new bookings
manager, Mr Tony Schaffner, was appointed
who was a salesman in every sense of the word
and immediately started to book out every
room in sight. This resulted in a series of mis-
matched and ill-timed events (for instance the
R C S Centenary Ball clashed with an IC
Symphony Orchestra Concert).
However, shortly before Christmas Mr
Shaffner mysteriously disappeared!
Senior members of the College admin-
istration were questioned and all seemed to
give the same answer: "He was here one day
and gone the next. We don't know what
happened."
Intrigued by such obvious evasion from the
lickspittles, I broke off from my search for
Lord Lucan and was soon hot on the trail.
What actually happened on that fated day
was pieced together over the intervening
period.
One thing is certain. Mr Shaffner was
sacked by C a p t a i n Lindley, Domestic
Secretary and his immediate superior. The
Bookings wizz kid was summoned to the old
salt's presence and soon returned in a temper,
slamming the doors as usual. He threw his files
and dentures into his tatty briefcase, gave a
cry of "Skupperedr and hasn't been seen
since.
The horrendous crimes which he must have
committed to have been sacked are not
known. But jobs are protected like gold in the
Sherfield Building and most senior people are
usually well on the road to senile decay when
they're put out to grass.
But perhaps his views on Captain Lindley
were a contributing factor. Once he was heard
to remark "When I first came I thought FELIX
were being a bit hard on the old duffer. But
after working with him for six months I've
found out that he's a complete idiot."
Stem WlmkM^ E n i c f a
Cmm
The Oily D o w s o n Memorial Prize for
misleading headlines was today presented to
Mr M.A. Smith, the FELIX Editor. He takes
the title from the current holder, Mr S.
Goulder, who rose to fame last year with John
Passmore's Halitosis.
Q
u
o
t
e
*
"We're not here to entertain people!" Paul
Belford, Secretary of IC Ents.
Re the new hand-dryer in the Union Bar
toilets: " M r Mooney assures me that it's
practically impossible to bugger this dryer."
Nicholas George Davis, BSc (failed).
Page 6 FELIX, February 19, 1982

