10 Science 23 November 1998
WHY SCIENTIFIC PAPERS ARE SO HARD
TO UNDERSTAND: A POLEMIC.
A.Jha1
' Imperial College of Science Technology and Medicine, University of London.
Summary: Why do scientists feel that they have to write in exceptionally compli-
cated and unwieldy English? Is it necessary for efficient communication
to take place between them or is it simply to make sure that no-one else
can understand what they could possibly be on about?
INTRODUCTION
Before you go home tonight and start reading that paper for your next lecture
or practical (stop laughing, there must be a few of you who do), just step back for
a minute and think about what you are about to read. Scientific papers are one of
the strangest pieces of communication around. Unless the paper is exceptionally
well written and has the reader in mind, you'll need to read it at least twice before
you begin to understand anything. At that stage, you will be subconsciously using
all the technical jargon that you've learnt over your years of study and incorporat-
ing it into your view of the paper. Still, it's unlikely that you'll understand it all with-
out answers to a few questions you may have come up with. Try and get lay people
(or even someone from a different field) to read, never mind understand, it and
you've got a whole load of new problems. What makes this bunch of words and
diagrams that, after all, are meant to represent the nature that evetyone lives in seem
like a brick wall? A cynicist would say that this is the way scientists keep themselves
distant from the public. They've done years of study and they need some sort of
status symbol to show it. Whether or not this is true, what is certain is the fact that
the language of science is a very different animal to that of everyday speech.
METHOD
A paper usually follows a standard-ish format. You probably know this already,
but I'll run through it for thc uninitiated. It starts with an introduction that sets out
the background of the field that is about to be studied. A method section then fol-
lows and sets out, in an obective manner, what the experimenters actually did. The
results section indicates, well, results in a totally cold and factual manner. There is
no room for opinion here. The discussion or conclusion part at the end then gives
the writer an opportunity to talk about the significance of what they have discov-
ered.
This structure itself is not what causes the problem. This ordering of informa-
tion helps more than it hinders. What causes most people problems is the language.
Scientific grammar is notoriously difficult to get your head around. Some feature
of this include noun phrases, excessive use of the passive voice and ovcrdescrip-
tion.
Noun Phrases. These are, as ther name suggests, a grouping together of nouns.
Things like 'red light diffraction data' or 'nuclear particle decay rate'. Phrases like
these are simple enough on the surface. Look deeper, though, and you open a
whole can of worms. Each phrase requires a lot of background information and it
would be assumed that if you were reading the paper, you would have it. If you
didn't have any background, you'd immediately have trouble. Take the first phrase.
Does it mean the the data obtained from diffracting red light? Or is it that some
light has been diffracted and wc are looking at some part that has been labelled
as Ted'? To get rid of this type of ambiguity, a much longer statement would be
required. This 'solution' does not seem to be any better than the problem itself.
The Passive Voice. Ehis is where the scientist will detach themselves from the
experiment, lor example, take the following statement: "The two solutions were
mixed in the test tube and the gases produced were collected." It is a grammati-
cally correct sentence but something is missing. Who is actually doing thc experi-
ment? Did thc solutions mix themselves and the gases somehow collect themselves
into other test tubes? Of course, this is unlikely but the sentence does not imply
that any sort of experimenter was involved. Any active sentences, where thc sci-
entist themselves are doing the experiment in the write-up, seem to be positively
discouraged.
Overdescription. Quite simply, this adds a lot of description in places where it
is not entirely necessary. The sentence then ends up unnecessarily long and con-
tains too many ideas for anyone to actually have a chance of understanding any-
thing. For example, "epidemiological and microbiological investigation of a possible
association between infection in sporadic cases and consumption of eggs is
extremely difficult since eggs are eaten often and recall of egg consumption fades
rapidly." What does this mean? Well, a lot of people eat a lot of eggs and it isn't
easy to wotk out which eggs cause infection.
There is nothing really wrong, per sc with these types of grammatical structures.
It makes things sound formal and seems to give them a lot of authority. Hey, if a
scientist can write in a complex manner, surely he has complex thoughts going
through his head and is clever. That's good isn't it? Table 1 shows a nursery rhyme.
This will be translated into 'science-speak' and the results are in table 2 and a pic-
ture of the subject, Miss Muffet appears in figure 1.
TABLE 1: Nursery rhyme: "Little Miss Muffett'
Little Miss Muffett sat on a tuffett,
eating her curds and whey.
Along came a spider
and sat down beside her
And frightened Miss Muffett away.
Figure 1: Miss Muffett during the spider attack.
RESULTS
TABLE 2: Translation of nursery rhyme: 'Little miss Muffett" Into 'Science-speak'
An immature female human, M. Muffet, aged 5 years and three
months was observed at rest on a small area of slightly raised grass,
radius 0.5m. On further observation, it was noted that the sub-
ject was attempting to satisfy her appetite by the ingestion of semi-
fermented bovine lactatory by-products. The introduction of the
venomous black widow arachnid, 2cm span from leg to leg,
resulted in a marked behavioural reaction in the subject. Muffet
displayed classic fight or flight responses, including raised adren-
alin levels and, In turn, increased heart rate, sweating and pupil
dilation. The subject accelerated away from the arachnid at the
rate of im/s2
until she reached a steady velocity of 5 m/s in a
northeriy direction. The results suggest that the subject suffers from
the mild psychological condition arachnophobia. We suggest fur-
ther Investigation to determine the extent of this condition, per-
haps using choice chambers.2
Even though this exercise is a little ridiculous, the idea is clear enough. Noun
phrases, the passive voice and overdescription all play their part in converting a very
simple nursery rhyme into a pseudo abstract for an experiment.
CONCLUSIONS
People will argue that a lot of the features present in thc writing of scientific
papers are very necessary - they need to be filled with jargon and they have to assume
some background in the subject, otherwise they would run to hundreds of pages.
Papers are written for professionals by other professionals with the intent that if the
reader wants to repeat the experiment, they can do so without any ambiguity. All
they need is the paper and the equipment. But what's the need to complicate things
to such an extent that it takes hours to get through and even then with a massively
fine toothcomb? Scientists the wotld over will tell you that they don't actually read
papers unless its absolutely necessary, they seem to get filed away and consulted
as and when necessary - sometimes never again. Surely this can't be a good thing
for science. And it's definitely no good for the public image of science, a debate
that's far too large except to touch on here. As the scientific paper gets more and
more incomprehensible to the lay person, they get more and more alienated. The
'us and them' mentality starts to creep into the public perception of science and
the two groups of people simply drift further apart.
And so what's the point of this? No more than to make you think a little mote
about what you read (and perhaps what you write). You can get back to that paper
now.
2
J. McNish, Imperial College of Science Technology and Medicine, 1998

