1 2
Books 23 November 1998
Filth
Irvine Welsh
Jonathan Cape
R
arely does the title of a book so
aptly describe its content. This
book, the most recent offering
from Irvine Welsh of Trainspotting' fame,
is without doubt, one of the most offen-
sive that you'll ever read - unless all of the
morals and ideals of society are com-
pletely alien to you.
Essentially, the author uses the main
character. Bruce Robertson, as a vehicle
to put into print some of the most racist,
sexist, biggoted and egotistical ideas that
have ever passed the censor's pen. It is
'Filth' in the sense of what is written,
and then there is the double meaning,
refering to the Police. Whilst they are nor-
mally undeserving of this title, in the
case of Bruce and his colleagues, it is
more than apt.
But then why is this book on the
'best seller's' list, lining shelves in W Ft
Smiths up and down the countty as an
'essential buy'? The fact is, this book is
NOT trash. The skills of the author are
clearly demonstrated by his ability to cap-
ture the dialect of Edinburgh (beware any
one who speaks English as a second lan-
guage - if you can wade through the
Remote Control
Andy McNab
Corgi Books
fttfPW..... „
T
his is an above average page-turner
about an ex-SAS soldier now work-
ing for British Intelligence on deni-
able operations. He becomes involved in
a formulaic 'one man against thc system'
chase across thc USA. The hero has a the
standard incompetent heroine alonside,
slowing down his progress. Thc twist is
that, in this case, the girl really is one -
the seven-year-old daughter of a mur-
speech and the rhyming slang without
pause for thought, you deserve a medal).
On top of that, he manages to deal with
the topics that he docs, without making
the reader just give up in disgust.
The plot follows, for a relatively brief
period, the life of Bruce Robertson, self-
proclaimed 'model policeman' of the
fothian force. A murder, suspected to be
racially motivated, has been committed,
and Bruce is appointed to oversee the
investigation, which is particularly sensi-
tive given that the victim was the son of
a diplomat. It does not seem to occur to
anyone else that Bruce's racist outlook on
life may hinder the investigation. At the
same time, a promotion is on the cards
for Bruce or one of his colleagues, and
very quickly, the investigation becomes
a test to see if Bruce is worthy and capa-
ble of the post. Bruce however, does not
prioritise things as one might expect.
His commitment to thc investigation is
lacking, not least because he resents
the fact that Amanda Drummond ('she's
nae been polis') is on the team and,
also, he cannot see much wrong in the
murder of a foreigner (as anyone not of
dered ex-colleague.
As you might expect, the book is
high on non-stop action and fairly low on
character. I got the Impression that the
novel had almost been written as an
embryonic film script, since certain
episodes are described in slow motion.
There were fewer SAS trade secrets than
I had hoped foe presumably the writer
used them all up in his earlier non-fiction
works (Andy McNab, himself a veteran of
the Gulf War, recorded his experiences
in the best-selling Bravo Two Zero and
Immediate Action).
However, what I will remember most
about this book arc the amazing textual
errors by McNab and his editor. Three
passages, relating to some of the lead-
ing charactets, occur in the prologue
and are repeated word-for-word in the
first chapter. Indicative perhaps of an
author who, while admittedly mastering
all the functions of a Dragunov sniper
rifle, doesn't know thc difference
between the 'move' and 'copy' keys on
his word processor.
Simon
Scottish decent is in his eyes). Instead, he
uses his time to drink, cat and to work
out schemes to discredit and destroy
any potential rivals... and to sleep with
as many women as he can - Bruce con-
siders himself a stud, and no one is
going to keep him from fulfilling that role
... except maybe his rash. Then there is
the trip to Amsterdam, the phone calls,
Bunty, Claire and the wig, but I've said
too much already.
One thing is for sure -
1 never wanted
to put the book down until I got to the
last page. At first, I simply had to see what
happened to Bruce in the end. The way
that he uses every one that he meets,
even his 'friends' whom he steers
towards self destruction, believing that
he is better than the rest, made an inde-
scribable hatred of him develop in my
mind. And things just kept going from
bad to worse.
Then the end of the book came,
and I was poised for the ritual sacrifice of
Bruce as a fitting end to this sad person's
life. But the tables turned. Suddenly,
things appear in a different light. Why is
Bruce like he is? All at once, you feel sorry
for the man, and desperately want him
to sort his life out and, somehow, pull
through.
One of the most commendable
aspects of the book is the way that the
author combines a plot that evokes two
contrasting emotions for the main char-
acter in such a plausible way. But of
course, you have to believe that a worm
can think, philosophise and understand!
You really should read this book. Buy it
as a Christmas present - you'll read it so
quickly that it will still be in a decent
state to give someone else (preferably
not to a grandparent), saving yourself
£9.99!
SJB
T H U R S . 2 6 T H N O V . 5 - 9 . 0 0 P M

