23 November 1998 Books 13
The Right Man
Nigel Planer
I
f this book were obtained under nor-
mal circumstances, it would be either:
a) thrown under my bed and forgot-
ten about until the library wrote a letter
of complaint, or b) thrown under my bed
and forgotten about until I realised it was
Uncle Gerald's birthday the coming Tues-
day (the ideal opportunity to get rid of
unwanted or extremely boring books).
Twenty-two pages of it were just
about the limit for any sane mind. How-
ever, I had unfortunately agreed to write
a review of this novel; therefore custom
dictated that I tried to read as much of
it as humanly possible. So another 198
pages later, did my opinion of the book
change? Yes. It was still boring, but now
I found it incredibly irritating as well.
The book is written in the first per-
son by the character Guy Mullins, who
is a married father of one with his own
theatrical agency. At the beginning of
the story he discovers that his wife is hav-
ing an affair, so he moves out. This
more or less seems to be the only event
in the entire book, despite the various
group therapy sessions and suchlike that
Guy attends, and the subplots involving
clients of the agency and Guy's family.
This is due to the very bland, flat way in
which the narrative is constructed - Guy
seems to have no emotional ups or
downs whatsoever, and treats each area
of his life in more or less the same way.
So there we have the boring. Now
we come to the irritating. As some of
you may no doubt know, the author of
this book, Nigel Planer, once starred in
a rather popular comedy television pro-
gramme, The Young Ones. This is his first
novel. In the programmes, one of the
characters in the aforementioned sub-
plots is supposedly a well known TV per-
sonality who is writing his first novel,
interestingly entitled The Right Man.
This, and other similar tendencies (such
as saying "I'm sure you remember the
last film XXX [a random client of the the-
atrical agency] was in so and so...") gen-
erally makes you feel like screaming at
the wall (or whoever) and having a ner-
vous breakdown. At least they had that
effect on me.
Despite all these, I have to admit
that the book did contain the odd
moment of light relief. Unfortunately, I
don't think they were intentional, lor
example, one section of a chapter
bizarrely ends with the sentences "I got
up and fetched the Yellow Pages. I could-
n't stand it in the office any longer."
Even more peculiarly, the next para-
graph sees Guy visiting a prostitute. I had
no idea that the Yellow Pages had
expanded its range so much. If I were
you, I would nip out and obtain a copy
for your next holiday reading. They
would be a far better read than this
novel.
Rebecca Tupper
Boardersnakes
James Crumley
Flamingo
B
ordersnakes revolves around the
experiences of two middle-aged
guys who both share a common
purpose. Revenge. The first of the two
that you meet has just stepped out of jail
after having spent the last ten years of
his life in there. His name, Milodragov-
itch, gives away his Russian heritage
but his friends have it easier and get to
call him Milo for short. Ihe story behind
his lust for revenge is that he had been
scammed out of his substantial inheri-
tance and understandably he was not
happy. Sughrue is the other half in this
double act and is determined to find the
people who gut shot him and left him
on the btink of death.
You are taken on the road around
the border between Texas and Mexico
with a small detour via LA as Milo and
Sughrue investigate, in their own way,
the scant evidence at their disposal.
Hold onto your seats as you are about
to be taken on an action packed,
cocaine fuelled and sublimely intricate
adventure that is certainly worthy of film
material. Especially effective is the inter-
changing of the two characters. The first
part of the book is written from the per-
spective of Milo, bolder and more of a
chancer than his buddy, and Sughrue's
perspective is alternated every few chap-
ters.
This sort of book is easily film mate-
rial, and if a film like 'tear And Loathing
lin Las Vegas' can do well then this book
.which is on a similar theme, ie. two guys
on the road loaded with numerous
drugs, will probably be coming to your
cinema screens as a major motion pic-
ture any day now.
Jason
Habitus
James Flint
Fourth Estate
P
erhaps you shouldn't judge a book
by its front cover, but the back
often makes illuminating reading.
The edition I reviewed is in paperback,
which should mean that all the proper lit-
erary critics of this world have already
had the chance to pass judgement on
the hardback edition of James flint's
Habitus. The usual form is then to plas-
ter the back of the paperback edition
with glowing recommendations from
gushing Sunday broadsheets, and if pos-
sible a respected author writing in the
same genre. While your reviewer is not
in the habit of slavishly following the
mores of the lit. crit. establishment, it is
helpful to glance at the back cover
before beginning, in order to get some
idea of what you're about to wade
through. Sadly, however, the paperback
and hardback editions seem to have
came out simultaneously. Oh dear. I'm
already starting to forebode.
Flint has obviously read widely, but
sadly he doesn't seem to have under-
stood how a novel works. A decent plot
is often helpful, especially if you're trying
to churn out an epic, while one-dimen-
sional characters are a burden if the plot
is lacking. One of these characters is
Laika, the dog that the Soviet Union sent
into space in 1957. Defying every law of
physics, this dog survives by "drawing
sustenance from the barrage of media
that encases the planet". Perhaps this is
intended to be some sort of biting satire,
but it comes across as merely rather silly.
An unfortunate symptom of Flint's lit-
erary meandering is random intellectual
name-dropping throughout the novel.
Each gem of insight is spectacularly inap-
propriate, adds nothing to the story and
is often popped right into the middle of
a scene or dialogue. Lor example,-
"Certainly the great logicians of West-
ern metaphysics - Plato, Descartes, Mar-
vin Minsky - might well have argued for
such an interpretation. Others, however
-1 leraclitus, the German Romantics, Paul
and Patricia Churchland - might have
pursued a more complex interpretation."
The publishers imagine Habitus lo
be "an epic satire of the digital revolu-
tion". An epic waste of time is closer to
the mark.
Etienne Pollard
m wmw $mmm mm$-mr?
W/mS 2SXH
. 11 -
1"
wim UWK ttr FROM
Lovetpsin
»-t. mm ©«i t
mmm mm mmmmm mmm$
mm® INDIVIDUALS
iQ\J\wmwm mmm - mmm mm wmw

