16 Music 23 November 1998
AUDIOWEB
Fireworks City
ESSEN
King Size Blues
I'm sorry, mate, but those
shades are ridiculous.
A
udioweb arc one of those diffi-
cult to categorise bands that
emerged after the Britpop
explosion ran out of fuel and dwindled
into happy memories of Blur versus
Oasis hysteria. They have always found
themselves a couple of steps behind
the limelight drifting around in the
shadows of larger more successful acts
such as the Verve and Radiohead. Now
with their second album they hope to
gain a foothold on the ladder to the big
time, which they didn't achieve with
the first attempt.
The first track off the album, also the
first single lifted from it, Policeman Skank,
gets you into the right mood immedi-
ately with Just the right amount of
energy. The following track, Test the The-
ory continues this trend with Martin's
ragga vocals lifting this song from a
pretty drab semi-funky rock out to a
more in yer face effort. Shame he only
starts on the ragga tip at the end of the
track - it could have done with it a lot ear-
lier on.
Audioweb seem to be very keen on
attempting to write epics, and let me
stress that they are attempting to do
this. Firstly you have the failed attempt
with previous single Personal Feeling
followed immediately by 77y which also
tties to be an epic but lacks that certain
edge which makes an epic so catchy and
uplifting. Don't assume that the whole
album is full of dire tracks because you
would be completely mistaken - there
are moments of brilliance with tracks
such as Sentiments For a Reason and the
beautiful Control which has to be the
next single - I'd be willing to place most
of my money on that.
Trip hop rears its head on Freefall (it
crops up all over the place nowadays)
and seems to just trudge along with the
obligatory strings included to produce
that epic effect yet again.
To sum up I have two questions for
you. One - how can a lead singer who
could make you brick your pants if you
met him in some dark alley have such a
beautiful voice? And two - how can they
write such beautiful ballads like Control
and at the same time write pretty aver-
age plod alongs? Overall the album
sounds as though it has been rushed
and Audioweb were told to get an album
out in November. Maybe they should
have changed the album name and
given themselves that little bit of extra
time. H
Jason
ssen are oh
of bands or
could c
area's
New A<
time. (
a reason tc
linking
ver on
.rise vou. I also
SUPER FURRY ANIMALS
Out Spaced (Selected B-Sides & Rarities 94-98)
If you're happy and
you know It, close
your mouth
O
ut Spaced is a slightly weird, but definitely
wonderful tour through the Super Furry back
catalogue, none of which have featured on
the two albums - Fuzzy Logic and Radiator. Four tracks
are from the In Space and The Moog Droog EPs that
were released on the Welsh Indie label Ankst, prior to
the Furries signing to the Creation record label in
1996. Subsequently all Furry singles have had English
title tracks with the B-sides predominantly in Welsh,
hence the majority of the tracks on this CD are in
Welsh. Language should be no barrier, as the ability to
successfully experiment with so many different styles
is something "that sets the furries apart from many
other bands
The tracks, which are probably most familiar to the
average punter are The Man Don't Give a Fuck and
Smokin', the latter coming from the recent EP entitled
Ice I lockey I lair. The Man Don't Give a Fuck is the open-
ing track here - it starts gently but then unleashes into
the chant-like phrase which has become the standard
(and very popular) Furry encore at live gigs. It's just the
sort of adrenalin rush that is sadly missing from the large
amount of British bands that are floating about the live
circuit nowadays. It's tracks and bands like these that
restore faith in the musical system by inspiring a new
generation to stand up, grab a guitar and make them-
selves heard.
Guacamole (even though it has nothing to do with
a Mexican dip) is a moshing /rock 'n' roll influenced
track with vocalist Gruff giving an excellent, Great Balls
of Fire impression on the chorus. Focus Pocus borders
into the realms of progressive rock with hammond
organ and flute-like solo bits in the intro but even this
is tastefully done.
The Furries' origins as a techno outfit shine through
only slightly in the ambient style of some of the tracks
but particularly on Dim Brys Dim Chwys and ArnoFio/Glo
in the Dark. There are several tracks thrown in which
are in an easy listening vein. These nicely compliment
the tracks around them but would also stand well on
their own. In particular, Don't be a fool, Billy and Carry
the Can show the furries laid-back side at their best.
This CD shows the Furries at their most diverse yet,
but this definitely isn't the case of bundling together a
load of album rejects. If they do have some ropey mate-
rial in the back catalogue, then they've kept it well hid-
den, fhey still aren't the household name that they
deserve to be, but this is probably due to their refusal
to stick to one tried and tested formula. If you haven't
listened to much of them before, this really Is an excel-
lent place to start. For the already converted, things just
got better. CI
Katherine

