23 November 1998
MINISTRY OF SOUND
The Annual IV
Ministry of Sound.
Can you not read?
J
udge Jules is in charge of mixing CD1. It kicks off
with David Morales' presenting The Face and
Needin' IS. I never heard this Original Mistake ver-
sion before; somehow I always seem to hear the full-on
remixes. If you know this one then you're gonna love
the slow intro building up to the smash - it just teases
so much, and then he lets you have it - classic! A fault-
less mix takes us into Ultra Nate and Found A Cure. I'm
sure you all know the follow up to the chart hit Free -
still sounds so fresh. Bini & Martini's Dancin' With You
quickly passes by, as does the eighties-sound of Joey
Negro featuring Taka Boom with Can't Get High
Without You. They do nothing at all for the mix.
Jose-Nunez featuting Octahvia did a good round in
the clubs with In My Life. Again, this full on vocal mix is
one that I haven't heard before. Sounds just as good
without the vocals though. The Don's Horn Song is a
thumping tune but without life. But Blockster and You
Should Be seems even more of an anti-climax! I just
couldn't wait for Take Controlby State of Mind. The M&S
production shines through and the vocals just drive you
insane. The beats are all there. Curse the Judge for only
playing four minutes of it!
Then, there's The Tamperer featuring Maya tam-
pering with'Michael Jackson's Feel It. I'm not going to
say anything about this one apart from that I think she'll
look rathet stupid with a chimney on her! The Golden
Girls did well with Kinetic and they still do. tove the elec-
tronics on this one. You can probably see a trend here;
some good tracks then some bad, and then some good
ones again.
Jules concludes his mix with Blue Adonis' Discocop.
It's as party-funky as it gets on a house compilation, allow-
ing Boy George to take to the turntables. The old Boy
starts with fatboy Slim's Rockafeller Skank; say no more.
I le cuts this one up to spin Run DMC vs Jason Nevins.
I'm sure you know what It's Like..., and who wins. Sau
Paulo (Be Yourself Be Free) and Baby Bumps (Burnin')
sound so used by now. These are definitely not some
of the better tracks of this year. Juliet Roberts' / Like is
hardly house music - the vocals are given too much
emphasis and just destroys the track. Since we're talk-
ing vocals, you must hear the helium voices on Thinkin'
About Me by The MPC's. It's hilarious, and shouldn't be
here at all. Fortunately Mousse T saves us with Horny and
his master production. And there's more in the form of
Cevin Fisher and The Freaks Come Out.
The overall choice of tracks was better done by Boy
George. They may not be all wicked but we don't hear
no pants. Some of the better tracks are from Ruff Driverz
Shame, Furry Phreaks featuring Deva Soothe, Lovestation
Teardrop and the unmistakable Freestylers with B-Boy
Stance -so rough and chillin', and that Oasis sample with-
out permission. Interestingly enough, Georgy boy uses
Fatboy again with Gangsta Trippin'. Maybe he just put
this in to show he can mix this out to The All Seeing I
(Beat Goes On), and he does so most impressively. The
Jungle Brothers scratch in and Jungle Brother spins to an
end.
The Annual is always a competition between the two
DJs and Boy George wins easily. I le ain't MoS resident
for nothing! In conclusion, The Annual is a decent com-
pilation, but the tracks that I really like I already have so
I wouldnt go out and pay sixteen odd quid for this. Of
course, if you don't have ' them or you're just a fan of
MoS material, then buy it before the limited edition pack-
aging sells out. El
Asad
THE PSYCHONAUTS
Time Machine • • • •
T
ime Machine is a retrospective
mix album from those demonic
decksters the Psychonauts.
Featuring various Mo'Wax Dj's and
musicians such as DJ Shadow, DJ Krush,
Unkle and Money Mark this album aims
to ease a new Mo'Wax convert into the
label's hallowed halls of massive beats
and wicked cuts.
It comes as no surprise then that this
album is a mixed bag. There are classics
and previously unheard tunes all in vary-
ing lengths. The Psychonauts let some
tracks play out and only give tantalising
glimpses of others - the old Mo'Wax
favourite of interplaying weird 50's retro
style samples of earnest voices talking
about the 'Solar System' with thumping
percussion and heavenly, tuneful guest
vocalists.
The mixing skills on display on this
record are just insane - switching
between mulitple records and samples
with dizzying speed and attention to all
aspects of each separate channel. After
listening to this album you feel that a lolt
of planning has gone into the structure
and the progression through the tracks.
The Psychonauts build the beats up
only to knock them down again with a
blast of chaos and then its on to the next
track - with another Mo'Wax classic with
a twist, if you are not ready for a lot of
variety in your beats don't buy this album
- you get the lot here - from african
drums, to kazoos, to washboards and
some foot stomping too.
The best bits of the album were the
(fairly frequent) parts where the Psy-
chonauts got there hands on some DJ
Shadow and Unkle mixes - Rock On (Dj
Shadow) is given a nice twist and my old
fave Organ Donor (DJ Shadow) starts off
the album. The less well known artists
ftom the Mo'Wax stable don't lie as well
upon my ears but they do provide an
interesting contrast to the mote estab-
lished sounds of Unkle et al. Basically,
this album is all about rythym and the
Psychonauts have it, Mo'Wax has got it
and they show it all off here. Just be
ready for a big variety to go with your big
beats. El
Joel
JONNY L
Magnetic
I
t has almost been a year since Jonny
L's highly acclaimed debut album,
Sawtooth, was released on the now
legendary Xt label. After a brief period
of producing material such as Make me
Work, he was back producing break-
beats again, alongside producers such
as Roni Size and Carl Craig. Back in the
early days of d&b, Dj's such as Fabio,
Grooverider and Bukem didn't really
pay much attention to Mr f's material
and it wasn't until Piper was released
last year-that he gained full respect and
was finally regarded as a 'true player'
on the drum and bass scene.
Ms new album, Magnetic, is likely to
confirm that he still is a very prominent
figure on this scene which is slowly
beginning to exhaust itself. I lowever I
feel if material like this is anything like
future releases, then d&b will continue
to be a form of alternative music to lis-
ten to. I le has co-produced a few of the
tracks on this album with other artists,
such as DJ Optical, to create some excel-
lent sounding music. 'Viper', for exam-
ple, is a combination of a simple
breakbeat and two minimalistic bass
lines. Combine this with a perfect intro-
duction, and you have drum and bass at
it's best. 'Focus', the fourth track on the
album is a dark, dirty combination of
distorted kick drums and muffled snares.
It has the most basic of basic bass lines
and in conjunction with the eerie sam-
ples, it creates yet another brilliant tune
from the man himself.
I lowever, the first three tracks do not
do the album any justice whatsoever,
being monotonous two step beats with
a lack of a melodic bassline. I do, how-
ever like the interludes (Hard Clip and
Exabyte), which let you chill out to the
half speed beats before the next portion
of upfront, unadulterated breaks kick in.
In general, I believe the album has
some great potential to do well, and it
may well be a good time to use the
'program' function on your CD player to
enjoy it at it's best. In conclusion, I think
it would be safe to say Jonny L has come
a long way since busking in Covent Gar-
den with his Roland TB 303. El
DJ Sianide

