23 November 1998 Music 19
VELOCETTE
Four Fold Remedy
PLEXIQ
velocette
Spoiled Children. The
mellow single from
Four Fold Remedy
V
elocette supported Kenickie on
their recent tour. Kenickie split
up soon after. Whether
Velocette's dreary durges had any influ-
ence on the break up is debatable, but
I must say listening to their new album
Four Fold Remedy did not exactly leave
me invigorated with a will to do great
things.
Velocette have obviously put a lot of
effort into the production. Too much, in
fact. They try so hard to produce what
they think is an intriguing patchwork of
melodic beauty, that they miss the point
that the songs are actually supposed to
be enjoyable to listen to. So much con-
centration is devoted to making each
Singles
phrase, bar and note sound 'nice', the
whole song suffers as a whole.
So often, the songs start off with a
beautiful, mellow intro, only to be ruined
by the vocalist's annoylngly "gentle" and
"lilting" voice. The lyrics don't do the
album any favours either. It was a mis-
take to have them printed on the sleeve.
It just draws attention to how tedious
they are.
Maybe I'm being a little unfair. Like
all music, it gets better the more you lis-
ten to it. There are occasions when it
does work, and the music just seems to
flow. Notably, La Sirena and Where are
we?. an instrumental piece with plenty
of Hammond organ and congas, are
particularly stirring. On first listen to the
album, I was sure that I wouldn't get any
enjoyment from it, so this was a nice sur-
prise.
To give some idea of the style, if you
like Kristin Hersh (post-Throwing Muses)
or early Belly, you might appreciate this,
for me, it was like listening to Kenickie
but with all the energy, wit and vibrancy
removed.
All in all, there's a distinct lack of orig-
inality. This album could have been
released ten years ago and nobody
would have batted an eyelid. Four Fold
Remedy is not going to change any-
one's life. H
Tom Bailess
H
mmm...German electronica.
Okay...not really my sort of
music. Lots of dodgy samples
over the top of wandering, heavy, elec-
tronic beats. Mix with it the odd
German vocal or too, perhaps expres-
sions about Neo-Nazism or chants
about happy hard-core drugs and a per-
sons right to fall over a lot, and you get
the kind of music that, frankly, the
Germans can keep. Perhaps a little
extreme, but this is what I was expect-
ing when I saw the cover of Blech, the
debut album from Frankfurt outfit
Plcxiq. I was only partially wrong. It IS a
collection of dodgy samples over some
heavy beats, both drum and bass, break
beat and plain dance. However two or
three of the tracks are actually pretty
good. Memories stands out for its
wicked guitar riffing over cool break
beats, whilst Mais a really funky bass
line and some amusing sounds that
combine with the sampled lines 'god
speed, god speed John Glenn' to good
effect. The title track - Blech - is a
decent, nifty little number, with boom-
ing drums and interesting backing that
definitely makes your toes tap.
Unfortunately, this is about exiting as it
gets. Most of the samples sound an
awful lot like they have been taken
from an old Spectrum arcade game. I
was constantly reminded of a small yel-
low ball bouncing along on lop of
music lyrics, whilst a dodgy video plays
in the background and some really
drunk kareoke singer proceeds to make
a complete dick of him/herself. Boing
boing bing bang plopppp
screech...nice. Okay, it's not that bad, I
am just a bit pissed off because I didn't
get to review the latest U2 album
(thankfully I didn't end up with Robbie
Williams), but it really isn't good either.
In fact it's a bit neutral really. A few
songs begin to titillate my senses but
too many are just, plain, boring, repeti-
tive and completely uninspiring. Plexiq
should be Swiss, not German, d
Eddie
Rocket From The Crypt - Break It Up
Very middle of the road. Sort of walking along the same
way as Status Quo. Doesn't appeal to me but if you like
your stuff a bit heavier than indie music then you could
do a lot worse.
Alabama 3 - Converted
Any single that has a 'perverted' and a 'missionary
position' mix has to be worth a listen. It's a guy singing
about going to church. Actually if it wasn't for the
words this might even be able to transform itself into
a half decent single.
Cable - Arthur Walker
Run of the mill indie song with a not very catchy cho-
rus. Let's hope they don't give up their day jobs. Same
old story down Indie Street.
Salanko - The Midnight Radiates A Purple Glow In His
World/Go On Then Enlighten Me
Mellow toons which are very summery. Reminds me of
picnics in the sun. Both songs on this double a side are
floral and hippie. Peace man!
The Jon Spencer Blues Explosion - Magical Colors
Say hello to the trying and failing new Roy Orbison.
Again, a seventies flash back. Not really my cup of Earl
Grey.
T H E E S S E N T I A L C H O O N
Ash - Wild Surf
Sounds a lot like That Thing You Do by The Wonders.
You know, the one written by Tom Hanks. Has the Ash
touch - lots of guitars - with tons of melodious har-
monies. Heavy rotation on the MTV loop. Destined to
do well.
Snow Patrol - Absolute Gravity
Interesting single-triple A-side with no B's. Very chilled
out indie music. Snow Patrol were definitely coming
down when they thought this one up. Don't listen to
this if you're depressed.
Lebanese Blonde - Thievery Corporation
Love the sitar sample! Apart from that all you've got is
a drum beat and some woman singing in sultry tones.
Good if you're Lebanese. I suppose.
Nine Yards - Loneliness Is Gone
Virgin yet again have picked up more potential, com-
mercial talent. Very promising R'n'B tune. Check out'I ha
Bomb in Felix 1126 for a more in-depth look at these
boys from Peckham.
Beverly Knight - Slsta Slsta
You get what you expect I'rom Beverly Knight - chill out
soul music, fantastic vocals with a catchy beat.
The Rottentrolls - The Rottentrolls March
Apollo 440 meets kiddie tv show. Following in the
trend of teletubbies but lacks what it takes to be any
good. 131
Helen

