2 News 23 November 1998
Rifle Range Draws a Blank in
Sports Centre Development
By Ed Sexton
The college's plans for thc further devel-
opment of the sports centre have caused
concern recently, as it appcats that they
may leave the Rifle and Pistol Club with-
out a practice range. The weights gym
in Southside, currently used by the
Weights Club, is also set to go in favour
of a new area within the sports centre.
Originally a new sports centre was to be
built on what is currently Ptince's Gar-
dens tennis courts. The plans, however,
are to extend the current sports centre
with the addition of a new floor. The pro-
posals include a large sports hall, which
will benefit the majority of indoor clubs,
as well as a possible fitness studio and
weights gym. However the plans appear
not to include a rifle range.
The current range utilised by thc
Rifle and Pistol Club is in thc sports cen-
tre near thc swimming pool, but this is
set to be transformed into another facil-
ity, possibly further changing rooms.
This could lead to problems for the club;
Charlie Joynt, Athletics Clubs Committee
Chair and former Deputy President
(Clubs & Societies), commented that the
removal of the range would "almost cer-
tainly lead to a fall off in membership and
a loss of interest". He did admit that thc
archery section of the club may be able
to use the new hall, while most ACC
clubs would benefit from the proposals.
Meanwhile the planned removal of
Southside's weights gym leaves the pos-
sibility of the Weights Club having to
pay to use the sports centre's facilities.
Ben Maddison, President of thc Weights
Club, stated that he had been informed
that thc club would- be able to block
book any times during the week for club
use, fearing for his club's future he stated
"the upshot of all this is that we will no
longer be a weights dub but just a fig-
urehead". He commented, however,
that the club's expansive membership
(over 300 members) made it difficult to
restrict use to particular times of the
week; "The system we have now is able
to cater for all our members but if we
moved then there would be serious
problems."
Summer Ball '99
By Sunll Rao
Following the grand success of the last
Imperial College Summer Ball, a far more
spectacular event is being planned for
next summer. With the huge influx of
medical students, the ball promises to be
bigger and better than before.
Last year, over 1300 tickets were sold
with nearly 400 people on a waiting list,
for this year's bash, plans are afoot to
book the main hall of Alexandra Palace
- with a capacity of over 5000. The ball
presents students with a unique oppor-
tunity to herald the coming of the sum-
mer - especially for the final years who
have finished their courses. Last year's
guest speaker, children's TV host Johnny
Ball, was quoted as saying that he liked
it so much he plans to bring his daugh-
ter, Radio 1 DJ Zoe Ball, along next lime.
Rumours arc also circulating that thc
Union are looking to book Michael Palin
as after-dinner speaker for the event.
(We've also heard rumours that "Essex
Girl" aka "Basildon Babe" Denise van
Outen is going to turn up as well.) Of
course, nothing has been confirmed yet.
Along with a live band, the organis-
ers arc hoping to arrange a full funfair as
well. Amir Hasan, spokesman for the
event, says: "The Summer Ball is a great
end-of-year event. Everyone's finished
their exams and is looking forward to
starting the summer. It's a great oppor-
tunity to get dressed up smartly and
head down to an amazing venue with
the whole college with good food and
great ents."
An arts aspect is to be introduced to
the show through the world of fashion
and design. The organisers are hoping
to give the ball more of a grand appeal
- to make a more glamorous and excit-
ing event. The current plan is to hold the
event on a Saturday to avoid traffic prob-
lems and allow adequate preparation
time. The organisers are determined not
to repeat the problems of last year with
buses - London Underground has quoted
prices on hiring entire tube trains for
after the event.
The Summer Ball Committee con-
sists of a group of eight committed and
enthusiastic individuals looking after
everything from corporate and product
sponsorship to the entertainments. Any-
In brief.
Careers Galore
Around fifty companies were present at
the Careers Fair, held in thc Union and
Beit Quad last Wednesday. This year's
fair was generally more successful than
previous years, with thc addition of a
marquee in the Quad allowing more
space for students to see what was on
offer. The event was well attended,
with several thousand students taking
the opportunity to gain information
about employment in finance, IT and
industry. Companies and student alike
seemed satisfied with the event.
Consoc Visit
Last Wednesday Cheryl Gillan voiced her
concerns over Nuclear Power safety in
Russia and the Millennium bug issues,
particularly as she visited power stations
in her capacities at the DTI. Leaving
Europe aside, the possible abolition of
hereditary peers, Mayor of London and
Proportional Representation issues were
all raised. Gillan was more open about
her life in politics than previous speak-
ers, and in addition a little less reserved,
resulting in a more informal occasion.
She gave the impression that politics
can be fun, and wants to encourage
more women to enter politics, although
at this meeting the fairer sex weren't rep-
resented.
K E E P 1 II I: C A T I' Rf I • • EST. 1949
issue 1127
23 November 1998
Editor: Ed Sexton
News Editors: Andy Ofori & Jonas Lindsay
Photographic Editor: William Lorenz
Music Editors: Jason Ramanathan and
Dennis Patrickson
I ilm Editor: David Roberts
Sports Editor: Gus Paul
Arts Editor-. Helena Cocheme
Games Editor: Gary Smith
Clubscene: Giles Morrison
Photo Editing: Joel Lewis
Ents News
Who's a bad muthar? That'll be that bloke
Shaft again....and he's taking his disco
inferno to the sporting masses this week
for a very special midweek one-off on
Wednesday the 25th, featuring Eove-
train. There'll be prizes for the groovi-
est dressed sports club, and the funkiest
individuals. Best of all it's still free.
For those of you that are wondering
about the words "Lion, Witch, Wardrobe"
on advertising I'd suggest a trip to thc
bookshop and looking under C.S. Lewis.
If we added the words bands, casino,
temporary tatooist, 8 colour laser, snow-
board machine, snow, and flying sleighs
would that help? The Narnia themed
Christmas Carnival is on December 18th
tickets are £6, available from the Union
now, at Charing Cross Campus on Dec
1st, and Gladys' at St. Mary's on a date
one who has input to offer is invited to
get in touch with the Committee at
summerball@ic.ac.uk. The organisers
would also appreciate comments from
those of you who attended last year's
event.
"Thc Summer Ball is a ball for every-
one here at Imperial - from every nation-
ality, from every department, from every
campus. It's going to be large - a blinder
- and make sure that you're a part of it.
We want you all to have a really good
time, and believe me, you will!"
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB Internal tel: 58072 Internal fax: 48072 External tel & fax: 0171 594 8072 URL: www.su.ic.ac.uk/Felix E-mail: felix@ic.ac.uk
Printed at MCP Litho Limited, Units B2 & B3, ITatton Square, 16 -16a Baldwins Gardens, London EC1N 7RJ Felix is a registered newspaper: ISSN 1040 - 071 1
Felix is produced for and on behalf of Imperial College Union Publication Board. Copyright © Felix 1998. Photographic copyrights remain with photographers.

