22 Film 23 November 1998
Reviews
Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas * * * *
Starring : Johnny Depp, Benicio Del Toro
Director: Terry Gilliam
F
or nearly thirty years, I lunter S
Thompson's seminal novel has
been considered un-filmable - and
when you watch it, you'll soon see why.
The plot is minuscule, and virtually van-
ishes after the first five minutes, when
all semblance of normality disappears
and is replaced by a stream of images
of a hideous, hilarious, drug-induced
fantasy world.
In any normal film, drugged-up
would be a simple enough description -
a bunch of blokes out of their heads on
the Class-A product of their choice. Take
Trainspotting for example. In this case,
however, it's taken to a whole new level,
with more narcotics than you probably
realised existed. Gilliam utilises the pos-
sibilities that this presents to the fullest
possible extent, with images of gentle
fantasies rapidly turning into full-on
visions of hell when the next dose hits.
In cinematic terms, this puts Tear and
Loathing on a completely different vision-
ary plane to any film you've ever seen.
All this, of course, requires a top-
notch performance from Johnny Depp -
and this he duly delivers. Stumbling
through this crazy world, he is slowly
drowning in a haze of illusion, tie por-
trays I lunter S Thompson's semi-autobi-
ographical anti-hero without a trace of
the deliberation or self-belief that fuelled
Trainspotting. At no point in the movie
does he attempt to construct a logical
argument in favour of taking drugs - he
simply does it because he enjoys it.
All of which makes for a refreshing
change, and leaves Depp free to explore
the full range of his character. I le flies
from explosive anger to hyperactive
lunacy to delusional coward in a matter
of minutes, without a trace of overacting
or irony. Of course with Johnny Depp's
recent series of visits to rehab, the rea-
sons for his great performance might
have more to do with personal experi-
ence than talent. Or perhaps I'm just
being cruel.
Fans of Gilliam will not come away
disappointed, with his trademark weird-
ness in full effect - indeed Fear and
Loathing owes far more to his Python
cartoons than any of his more recent
work.
On release in the States, Fear and
Loathing received very mixed reviews
from critics - and Terry Gilliam himself has
described it as "a movie you'll either love
or hate". With a paper thin plot it's easy
to see why, as your feelings about the
movie hang on your feelings about
Gilliam's masterly use of visuals. Yet even
if you find much of the film unbelievable
or massively over the top, you can't help
but admire moments like the snake pat-
tern on the carpet crawling up Depp's
legs, or his visualisation of the clientele
of his hotel's bar as real lounge lizards.
Undeniably weird; undoubtedly cool;
definitely original. If you don't want to
experience madness first hand, this is as
close as you're ever going to get. Q
Dave
Blade • • • •
Starring : Wesley Snipes, Stephen Dorff, Kris Kristofferson
Director: Stephen Norrington
A
lmost everyone must know the
rules concerning vampires. I loly
water, crosses, garlic, stakes
through the heart, rightful owner of the
house, kill the head vampire, jumpers
for goalposts. Marvellous. Blade chucks
most of that superstitious stuff out of
the window.
OK, so garlic, sunlight and stakes
still work. Silver bullets do too, though like
the sex machine in Dust 'til Dawn, I
thought that was for werewolves. But
you can forget crosses and holy water
straight away, along with most of the
other stuff. Plus, modern technology has
brought us sun-block and the science of
haematology. These are the nineties you
know.
Blade himself is a far cry from a
medieval witch-hunter too. Based on the
lesser known Marvel Comics character,
he's got more in common with the sex
machine than he has with Stoker's van
I lelsing. I lis mother was bitten by a vam-
pire shortly before she went into labour,
you see, so he was born a 'Daywalker',
Blade: definitely not to be messed with.
with the strength and regeneration of a
vampire. I le's still able to walk around in
daylight, however, and he's generally a
good bloke. Now he whiles away those
lonely nights hunting vampires in the
hope that he may one day avenge his
mother's death...
Assistance is offered by the token
babe and some old bloke who picked
him up off the streets in his youth. But
let's face it, it's Blade who we came to
watch, and Wesley Snipes was perfectly
cast in this role. Though his acting may
sometimes be on the more wooden side
of an exceptionally large block of oak, he
makes Jackie Chan look like a rather
quick moving weakling. Stephen Dorff's
not bad in the supporting role either, and
both contribute immensely to the over-
all style of the film.
At the end of the day, style is what
it's all about. There's probably a plot or
something in there somewhere too, but
what there is turns out to be patently
ridiculous, cheesy and ridden with holes.
Yet as Blade minces another army of
rock hard, super strong vampires with a
flick of his wrist, little will be going
through your mind other than "I luh...
huh... that was cool!" As for the finale....
well, the cinema was cheering for most
of it.
Blade is the kind of film which is so
stylish and quick paced in parts that you
don't want to wait until it comes out on
video or even on TV (unless of course
you have your own Barco projector) - it
just works so well on the big screen.
The supercilious amongst you will no
doubt hate it, but the MTV generation
majority won't be disappointed. Q
Andy

