23 November 1998 News 3
Live In The Great Hall
An innocuous power socket masked the
nasty shock laying in wait for lighting
technicians last week - literally. On Sat-
urday 14th technicians from the Dra-
matic Society were preparing the lighting
for today's 'East meets West' show in the
newly refurbished Great Hall. When
attempting to set up the power supply
they discovered the switch for the large
3-phasc, 125 amp socket was spinning
freely; as a result the internal safety lock
mechanism was jammed.
The unrelenting team investigated
further, and were astounded to find the
plug's circuitry completely unearthed,
leaving the system live. This in con-
junction with the fact access holes to the
wires were left uncovered, presented
the possibility of a 415V shock for some
poor unfortunate. The root cause was
founds to be the attachment of the exter-
nal switch to the Internal pin with tape;
a makeshift attempt to remedy highly
dubious workmanship. The lighting
experts then found an adjacent socket to
be completely unfused, rendering it use-
less, one of the DramSoc members com-
menting the system was "blatantly
dangerous."
The incident's significance is height-
ened by the fact the DramSoc were given
the go-ahead by the refurbishment's
By Andrew Ofori
architect, who thought the electrics to be
sound. The College electrician, who
assessed the fittings was of a different
mind. He could only suggest the sock-
ets were work in progress, finding diffi-
culty in believing any electrician would
The offending Wires
leave the sockets in such a state. He pro-
filed the case as a "Health and Safety risk"
The Great Hall's electrical fittings
were installed by contractors, leaving
some doubt over who currently bares
responsibility. Nick Towers from the
Drama Society began with Security in his
quest to establish accountability. He
was then referred to the defects hot-
line, Estates, yet more electricians and
from there to maintenance who refused
to get involved with the work as it was
not yet 6 months old and consequently
did not qualify as a maintenance job. It
appears the problem is finally being
addressed by the Supervising Project
Engineer.
The summer's refurbishments seem
to have turned out well short of the
resounding success hoped for. with a
number of problems surrounding the
controversial installation of manually con-
trolled retractable seating (Felix 1123) as
well lighting being attached to fixed
length ceiling cables, leaving them com-
pletely inaccessible. Problems have
plagued the project to such an extent
that a 'snag' list has been drawn in a con-
certed effort to resolve the issues.
Promises of restorative equipment
have left the DramSoc quietly confident
as to the outcome of this recent set-
back; things now look hopeful for the
East meets West event, although Nick
Towers warned, "If we don't get the
power supplies it's going to be a very
dark show."
Bradshaw Bikes It Winks World Champ
Flicks Into Action
By Patrick Hayes
On Tuesday, ICU Labour Society hosted
a speaker meeting with Ben Bradshaw,
MP for Exeter and a keen and radical
campaigner on environmental issues.
He impressed many present with his
hands-on commitment to the cause,
cycling to the meeting from Parliament,
then jumping back onto his bike after-
wards to table a question to the Secre-
tary of State for the DETR, deputy Prime
Minister John Prescott. He spoke briefly
about the transport white paper, and
the negotiations at the international sum-
mit in Kyoto with the aim of reducing car-
bon dioxide emissions world-wide,
praising the deputy Prime Minister's work
there, and his hopes for the future.
He then took questions on a range
of environmental issues including build-
ing on 'brownfield' sites, transport in our
cities and moves towards integration,
as well as the strategic rail authority.
Although a motivated and passionate
environmentalist (you'd have to be to vol-
untarily cycle from Westminster to South
Ken) he accepted that there were many
other demands on the Government's
time in the Queen's Speech, citing in par-
ticular Lords reform. He added that with
the overwhelmingly lory hereditaries
out of the frame, Government legislation
could be passed much quicker, and pri-
orites such as the strategic rail authority
could be addressed.
The next speaker meeting is on the
10th Dec and will feature Mark Leonard
of Demos; the man who set out to re-
brand Britain and modernise the monar-
chy.
lllllf
illlll
i l l !
lllSii
tjifisi
Ben Bradshaw Photo: Jonas
By Andrew Ofori
Amongst IC's numerous sporting virtues
lies a world champion who last week
attempted to defend his crown. It may
seem somewhat of an anticlimax to learn
this individual holds his title in tiddly-
winks, but the sporting version leaves the
widely known children's pastime in the
shadows.
Silwood Park's Andy Purvis rose to
the mantle of World Champion in April,
overcoming his American opponent.
The World Society Research fellow and
lecturer in biology picked up his first
wink 13 years ago admitting "At first I
thought the it was daft...and it is daft, but
it is a really good game." He is currently
the coach and strategic advisor of the tid-
dlywinks club at Silwood Park and
explained the game's attraction as a mix-
ture of "technical skill, practical ability
with a bit of luck thrown in."
Last Wednesday Mr. Purvis was
preparing for the next day's clash Cham-
pionship match with a simultaneous dis-
play, much like the multiple matches
chess masters often undertake,- he
played around eight games concurrently
against his Oxford rivals. The pretender
to his throne is the American Larry Kahn
who flew specially from Washington D.C.,
for the scheduled best of seven match.
With each game lasting 35 minutes Mr.
Purvis was prepared for an awkward
match predicting "It won't be close...
he'll either stuff me or I'll stuff him," but
with a 2-1 record in his favour he con-
cluded that he had the "psychological
edge"
The match had not taken place as
Felix went to print, but rest assured if
given the result is available it will be
printed next week. The Silwood ParkTid-
dlywinks Club meets every Monday at
5pm in the Summer Room.

