6
Letters 23 November 1998
World AIDS Day
Dear Felix
I am writing to draw the attention of the
readership to thc majot world event that
is approaching on 1 December, World
AIDS Day 1998. It is the eleventh such
day and this year the international theme
is young people, 10-24. The United
Nations Joint Programme on AIDS
(UNAIDS) have decided on this cam-
paign for three reasons:
1. Over a third of those infected with
HIVin the world today ate young people.
(That's about 10 million.)
2. About half of those infected after
infancy are under 25.
3. Young people are seen as a force
for change.
In the UK the major affected group
has been gay/bisexual men, though the
reported spread in the straight popula-
tion has risen dramatically from 9% of all
UK cases in 1987 to 31% last year. With
this in mind I would like to ask the read-
ers to be aware of AIDS and show this by
wearing a red ribbon and putting dona-
tions in collection tins that will appear
over the next few weeks.
Thanks
Stef tvans (IQ Secretary)
A Final Word? Please?
Dear Ed,
What now? Can it be that Mr Emohare is
resorting to muddying the name of one
of his fellow medics, in order to try to pre-
serve some degree of authenticity? This
wouldn't have the smackings of a man
desperately seeking excuses having
been humiliated by a balanced editorial?
Surely this isn't the same fine upstanding
individual, that tried in his 1st year S.U.
elections to curry favour with the voters
by offering pints for votes?
We freely admit that we and some of
our colleagues have in the past found
some Felix articles laughably inaccurate,
but would like to add that the editorial in
1125 was warmly received by many of
our number at the Cross due to its fair
appraisal of the situation.
Those that he accused of "defacing"
his letter were trying to save him and
those he aimed to represent some humil-
iation by correcting the grammar and
spelling, which he subsequently chose to
ignore. It seems rather presumptuous
then, to say that as 60% of the CX 2nd
year signed the letter that it can be safely
assumed at least 60% of them must be
supporting him.
Yours sincerely,
Alex Fletcher and Mark Ballard
(CX 2nd Year)
Dear Felix,
I was present in the lecture when Mr
Emohare handed round his petition and
a few copies of the accompanying letter.
He did indeed state that no-one was
under any obligation to sign it and the let-
ter was circulating for people to read -1
have never disputed this.
However the fact remains that some
people did sign thc petition before or
without reading thc letter, this is not Mr
Emohare's fault but neither is it mine. It
reached me having had numerous com-
ments written on it by fellow students,
some querying his facts, spelling, gram-
mar and others expressing their opinions.
I had not intended to become involved
in the matter. However since many com-
ments had been added I added a para-
graph at the bottom in which I stated that
I agreed with some of the points that he
had made but disagreed with others and
thought that a petition was not perhaps
the best solution to the issues raised. I
hardly think that this constitutes deface-
ment. The letter was passed on after-
wards along the row and since according
to Mr Emohare there were several copies
of the letter circulating I can hardly be
accused of "hogging" the letter either.
From my view, I hope this is the end of
thc matter.
Yours,
Clare Ashwin
(Medic, felix reporter & letter defacer)
Dear Felix,
With reference to the letter submitted by
Mr Karan Kapoor in issue number 1126.
I speak, hopefully, on behalf of all the
members of Imperial College, in saying
that we are in no manner biased against
medics, or against anyone in ICSM. Wc
put it to you, Sir, that for your personal
satisfaction, you are undoubtedly driving
a wedge between all the Imperial facul-
ties. It is purely immature to state the
passion of medics is far greater than that
of the other students. Imperial College
has a history of excellence in virtually all
its fields, and it is for these reasons stu-
dents, such as myself, have come to this
institution, to attain not only academic
strength, but strength in all extra curric-
ular activities.
Your secret admirer
Dear Mr Sexton,
In retrospect, I suppose it was rather sui-
cidal to take on the Felix Mafia, even with
over a hundred signatures backing mc.
So being up against the likes of Simon
Baker, who have a whole page dedi-
cated to the airing of the thoughts that
emanate from their musty brains, it came
as no surprise then when he dedicated
half his article to slating mc. I refuse,
however, to be drawn into answering his
provocations.
At no time in my famous letter did I
accuse lelix or any individuals of being
racist. What I was against was the sen-
sationalist tone taken by your articles.
Another point which could have been
more clearly expressed was the fact that
the majority of medical students at The
Cross were from the ethnic minorities,
not IC as a whole.
I hope we can now draw a line
under this episode and move on. No
hard feelings (but no apologies either).
Mr O Emohare
Stick It Out!
Dear Ed,
In response to the front page article last
week I would like to state that I feel that
this was entirely due to lack of committ-
ment from the individuals concerned
and not because of failure of the ICSM
student union body.
Whilst fully appreciating the work
that members of the medics student
union do, I think that if elected into a
position they should put their heart and
soul into the job. I do realise that their
work may have been made particularly
difficult by some of the students and
staff who find the merger a problem, but
dropping out because they "did not want
to be a part of a union that was failing"
just serves to demonstrate lack of staying
power.
On the other hand I would like to
congratulate the other members of the
medics student union for their very hard
work in what is not exactly an ideal situ-
ation.
My second point is in response to
Simon Bakers comment that medics think
that they are 'very different' because of
the length and nature of their course.
Dissection of thc human cadaver, caring
for terminally ill patients, talking to
bereaved relatives etc. are extremely
emotionally draining and upseting things
to deal with, and as far as I am aware do
not form major elements of any other
course at Imperial. Some students often
find sharing these experiences with fel-
low medics, those in other years who
have been through the same traumas
and problems, a great help.
Yours sincerely,
Alex Cope
(Medic 3rd year SM)
Comic is Cool
Dear Felix
The comic is ace, simple as that. Okay,
maybe using the C word was a bit strong,
but apart from that it was ptetty cool. The
bit with the lecturer in a bathtub of baked
beans was bloody good I thought. Okay,
moronic the comic might be, but remem-
ber, not everyone at IC is a complete
genius. Some of us only just made it past
the A level entry requirements, like yours
truly.
Yours truly,
Richard Ferris
JCR Stuck in the Past?
Dear Felix,
I've noticed the LED scrolling message
display in the JCR, next to the QT snack
bar whatsist a few times now, and find
it rather amusing that it is STILL advertis-
ing "The Addams Family" at ICU cinema.
It also advocates visiting an Anderson
Consulting careers meeting. Given that
the date is in 1994, I reckon that there's
a fair chance that this meeting has been
and gone... Heck, even the clock on thc
display is wrong!
How about running a competition to
see if anyone can come up with a more
useful message on it. Oh, and correct the
clock too.
Cheers,
Richard Hopkins (EE UG3)
More Erroneous Editing
Mr Sexton
I agree with Mr Mark and think you
should edit letters for speling and;
gramma,
Seriously, it is distracting to see
spelling mistakes and basic grammatical
errors while reading any document and so
easy to overlook them while proofreading
one's own work. Unless the meaning of
the letter is ambiguous I don't think there
is any reason to allow obvious errors onto
the pages of Felix. In the case of more
subtle points of grammar I would see it as
acceptable to leave these in since they are
unlikely to distract the reader from thc
meaning of the letter.
Also, could you introduce Mr Baker
to the concept of paragraphs; his last
piece appeared to be constructed from
3 huge ones. Although his lucid style
allowed the meaning of the first 2 to be
clear, the third was rather difficult to fol-
low.
Ross Newell

