A Sister No More - page 6
ULIIHOCKEYFINAL
NARROW VICTORY
Last Week the Wooden
Horse Club rose at
7.30 a. m. to make a
daring raid in the
heart of the West End
Apathy reigns at other colleges too, it seems. At least, King's
had little interest in the loss of their mascot on Monday morning,
1st March. But the capture of " Reggie " scored the first success of
the year for the Wooden Horse Club.
The final briefing for the escapade took place the previous Thurs-
day, when more than 30 IC'students were told their various roles.
Few were deterred by-the early hour or bitter air. when they made
their rendezvous at 7.30 a.m. by Southside entrance.
Continued on Back Page
by N . J . W a l k e r
After a tense and exciting match, with the result in doubt until
the final whistle, IC regained the U.L.U. Hockey Cup, after a lapse
of some years, by beating West Ham Polytechnic 1—0 in the final
this afternoon at Motspur Park.
Throughout thefirsthalf West Ham were on the attack, although
not looking particularly dangerous, with the occasional I.C. break-
away. Indeed from one such breakaway by Hough, and a short
comer caused by a West Ham foul, Phillips went very close with
his shot.
On ma^y occasions it seemed that West Ham should at least
have a1
shot but there was always an I.C. defender on hand to tackle
and clear. Indeed throughout the match the I.C. covering was of
the highest standard with all the forwards coming back to assist in
defence.
As the half went on, I.C. began to settle down and play as a
team, although one felt that West Ham were in complete control.
Half-time—No score
Straight from the restart LC. went into the attack. There was
far more punch and cohesion than before the interval with the forwards
striking deeper into the West Ham half—whose covering was not up to
LC's standard.
Cont. on p. 9. cols. 1 & 2
South Side
PIPED
SOUNDS
Strange sounds may currently
be heard echoing up and down
the staircases of Tizard and Sel-
kirk Halls. Sounds such as
" There's cross-talk on the prog
line . . .," " Yourfiveten's oscil-
lating » . .," " Stop feeding back
. . .," " This is wonderful Radio
Tizard . . .," and "Super Sel-
kirk, first and best. . ."
What's it all about? Rediffu-
sion. An idea that was started
last summer term in Selkirk Hall
has in recent weeks expanded on
a wave of enthusiasm throughout
Southside.
Basically it consists of a net-
work of wires distributing pro-
grammes from a few rooms'which
act as studios. A second circuit
allows the "studios" to talk to
each other and provides "cueing"
facilities without interfering with
the programme.
The programmes vary from the
simple relaying of BBC F M
broadcasts to the production of
regular two-hour record request
shows. Even advertising jingles,
acquired from a Canadian radio
Cont. on .p. 12 " Reggie " leaving King's College under safe escort.

