F E L I X
felix
NEWSPAPER
OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE UNION
Circulation, 1700
EDITOR
ASSISTANT EDITOR
D. I. WILLIAMS
Production Manager Alan Oxley
Sports Editor Dare Hunt
Late News Editor Ted Needham
Photographic
Editor John Cawson
Asst. Sports Ed. Bob Grundy
Subeditor Melvyn Owen
N. J. WALKER
Business Robin Webster,
Peter Combes,
Geoff. Bean,
Barrie Pichler
Sales Andrew Mayo,
Jocelyn Mackintosh
Production Asst. Mike Leppard
Secretary Miss G. Steele
Hooliganism
Are we schoolboys or grown adults ? • A lot of people tend to
think themselves the latter and act like the former. As was reported
briefly in the Late News of the last issue a student dropped the
Libyan Embassy Parking Sign (with a concrete base) from the Tizard
Balcony in Southside. Tins is a stupid and an extremely dangerous
thing to do—someone could have been killed, and the offender then
prosecuted for manslaughter.. . . The offender has not revealed him-
self, and those who it is rumoured know him have so far kept quiet.
Luckily, no one was injured, but this does not alter the irrespon-
sibility of the act, or of those who knew about it not reporting the
incident. It is one think not to tell who poured beer down some-
body else neck, but another to aid and abet an almost criminal act!
Far too many students in this College live in their own little
world and care not a damn for anybody outside it. Others act as
if they own everybody and jeopardise every students' freedom to live
his own life by participating in hooliganism. If someone does some-
thing daft, obviously members of the staff responsible, as the Senior
Warden and the Hall Wardens, have to tighten up on discipline.
At the end of the last academic year there was a possibility thai
Proctors would be appointed to patrol around Southside at night;
surely this idea must come into force if we continue to disregard
authority and material property in the vicinity. If hooliganism con-
tinues we deserve to go back to school and have " masters " con-
trolling us.
The great thing about a University is its freedom. Members of
the staff try to treat us as intelligent human beings and their equals.
We seem to think there is something wrong if we are seen fratern-
ising—because we were told at school that " sucking up " is a bad
thing.
This so called " sucking up " is not a bad thing—we can learn
a great deal from the staff, and if we were prepared to learn, the
staff would become more interested in us as human beings. At the
moment all they hear about us is rowdyism, hooliganism and irre-
sponsibility. It is about time we took a pull on ourselves and started
to act our age rather than likefifteenyear olds.
No Sister
Following the Government Statement on Education on the Mon-
day of last week, I.C. will not become a SISTER as the Government
have decided not to proceed with their introduction. What will
happen to us now ? Will we become a University in our own right,
or some kind of Technical College, or stay as we are ? The latter
seems the most likely, with the Architectural Association joining us
withinfiveyears, we will at least become a little less specialised.
ing the "House matters of the
Union." This means that the job
is as big as the man. The quan-
tity of work done by the Deputy
President depends very much on
the enthusiasm of the individual.
With a post as young as this it
does not follow that next year's
officer will see his duties in the
same way as Mr. Mair does.
This year he is dealing with
routine matters such as those
listed above and in addition many
others. His responsibility for
security involves, as he puts it
" quelling riots." The organisa-
tion of such yearly events as the
pancake race also fall into his
empire.
STUDENT OFFICERS
Deputy
President
Staff, furniture, catering, bar,
buildings, and thefts—some of
the duties of the Union's first
official dogsbody. Last year the
post of Deputy President was
created. The rather dubious plea-
sure of holding the post for the
first year to Mr. Barry Mair.
When the post was created it
was vaguely stated to be concern
COMMENT
I enjoyed seeing Iolanthe, but was somewhat disappointed by
an exceptionally pathetic rendering of God Save the Queen at the
beginning. The G & S Society are, of course, far from being alone
in perpetrating this crime. In fact, the only really outstanding ver-
sion of our National Anthem that I have heard was produced by
the Red Army Choir and Band at the Albert Hall. There must be
a moral to this somewhere.
Have you noticed how every time you get an urge to play a
piano, they're all being used ? Well, to be frank, neither had I—
but never fear, General Studies have! They are about increase the
number of pianos in union buildings from five to six. One wonders
whether there aren't better ways of spending the money.
GOLGUTT
TO BE OR NOT TO BE
One or two important things seem to have *
:
>
e
e
n
overlooked in the recent discussion on N U.S.
(such as it was). The effect of the motion passed
at the last Union meeting is to convey to Council
the Union's wish to join. It is now up to Council
to decide what steps are necessary to execute this
wish. Although an " act of affiliation " will prob-
ably not have to be included in the constitution,
rules will certainly have to be written in to cover
the election of representatives to the N.U.S. Con-
ference, and possibly the election of an N.U.S.
representative on Council. These changes will
need a two-thirds majority at two consecutive
Union meetings, and it' this vote is not reached
I can see no prospect, or indeed point, in
affiliating.
I would be a lot happier about the whole busi-
ness it I felt that there was a genuinely large
majority of people in College who really wanted
to join, or for that matter, who really wanted to
stay out. What we actually have, I'm afraid, is a
genuinely large majority of people in College who
haven't, and don't want to have, the faintest idea
about the subject. This promotes the ludicrous
situation where one tolerably good speech at a
Union meeting can, by oratory rather than in-
formation, attract a ridiculously high number of
votes.
Returning briefly to the point raised at the end
of thefirstparagraph, the supporters of affiliation
have assured us that I.C. would certainly have an
effective say in the affairs of the National Union.
This I doubt, but unless the vote for entry is large
enough to prevent disaffiliation motions coming
up for, say, the next five years—we are highly
likely to start bouncing in and out like a yo-yo.
If this happens, N.U.S. will, quite rightly, not be
very worried about what we think.
It is only fair that I should conclude by saying
where I stand on this issue. I am against joining
for mainly selfish personal reasons—altruistic
student politics is rather a waste of time ! Any-
way, I won't be here to reap the rewards (or
otherwise) of the Union's folly (or otherwise)!
RALLY ROUND THE FLAG, BOYS
One delightful example of petty bureaucracy came to my notice
the other day. If a sports team wins some honour that they con-
sider merits flying the college flag, then they put in a request to Miss
Sherwood for this. This is then typed out in triplicate, one copy
retained, one copy sent to the Rector's office, and one copy to some
official in the registry.
Approval for the great event comes from some mysterious
source, often less than two weeks after it has taken place, and the
flag is duly flown (unnoticed) accompanied by a note on the Rector's
board stating what is there for. If flags must be flown in this
way, it would be a lot simpler to use theflag-staffon the Union
building, and lay down the rules ourselves.

