8 FELI X
how do you feel about ivory towers?
Perhaps you have learned that where there are such
towers there are usually white elephants too. If you like
such a combination read no further for we can offer you
neither towers nor elephants. Instead, a career at the
Radiochemical Centre expects participation in the ad-
vancement of the science and technology of radioisotopes
and often a personal contribution to Britain's reputation
in this branch of science. It offers in return ever increas-
ing scope for your own development and to go with it,
a progressive career. This is a uniquely science based
industry which has nearly 25 years of development
behind it. Progress depends on continuous research and
our senior staff are acknowledged authorities in their
field whilst our standards are world standards. We offer
no narrowing specialisation, but a chance to broaden
your scientific knowledge. You will be faced constantly
with technological problems and commercial challenges
to be met and dealt with in a truly scientific environment.
The posts we are offering carry starting salaries of up to
£2,000 although recently qualified graduates must expect
to start in the range £1,000—£1,250. A competent man
may expect to attain a salary of over £3,000 before he
is 45. Examples of the posts available are
BIOCHEMISTS
or organic chemists to work on the biosynthesis of
tritium compounds or to develop an interest in the pre-
paration of natural products, in particular the utilisa-
tion of chlorella' by-products.
INORGANIC CHEMISTS
to pioneer the production of new isotopes in nuclear
reactors. Most of the radioactive materials in common
use are derived from reactors and the development of
new products provides a constant flow of problems.
A first or good second class honours degree is required.
Post-graduate research or industrial experience would be
an additional advantage.
Our prospectus deals in more detail with the openings
available at the Centre. Why not write for a copy to-day
to : —
The Personnel Officer,
The Rad:
ochemicai Centre,
White Lion Road,
Amersham, Bucks.
THE RADIOCHEMICAL CENTRE
A M E R S H A M BUCKINGHAMSHIRE

