O
v
e
r
s
e
a
s s
t
u
d
e
n
t
s
a
t r
i
s
k
The planned introduction of the Poll Tax or Community Charge in 1990 is a cause for concern
for overseas students. Aside from the financial implications there are fears that the PoH Tax
registry, which is publicly available, may be used as a reference book by those groups who
like to indulge in racial harrassment. FELIX Postgraduate Correspondent, Youssef Samrout !ooks
into the matter.
Felix
A bore writes
Dear Bill,
I am replying to Clare Crippen's criticisms of
the new style of Union Cards in last week's
FELIX.
Regarding last year's cards, I have yet to find
a resident of a Hall of residence who found that
the system worked in practise. The issuing of the
cards themselves, with different coloured backs,
was an administrative nightmare. As a resident
of Beit Hall last year, I was not challenged once
by a security guard to produce my Union card
within the Hall, let alone have the right coloured
back on it. (Whether the security guard knew
what colour back the card was supposed to have
is another matter!)
It was for these reasons that I decided to change
the format for this year. In my opinion, the Union
card should not only be one's identification but
could also serve another useful function—so I
decided to expand the telephone numbers
section. If Miss Crippen does not think that she
will need any of those telephone numbers at any
time this year, I suggest that she thinks again.
Several students have commented that the
telephone numbers section is an excellent idea;
I can't please everybody.
Yowrs Sincerely,
Charles Brereton, ICU Deputy President.
All's well...
Dear Bill,
I apologise unreservedly to all Wellsoc
members for the absence of Eric Laithwaite at the
Wellsoc meeting on Monday. Circumstances
beyond Professor Laithwaite's control meant that,
sadly, he had to withdraw from giving his
presidential address. He has, however, expressed
his hope that he will be able to talk later this term.
I am sorry for all inconvenience and
disappointment caused.
On a brighter note, the Aetherius Society was
able to step in and give us a lively and
controversial talk about flying saucers!
Yours sincerely,
Simon Smith, Wellsoc Chairman.
A token silly
letter
Dear Bill,
Do you need any silly letters?
Yours sincerely,
Andrew Daglish, Penthouse Club.
Students who think they may be subject to
physical attack will be able to ask for their names
and addresses to be taken off the public register
for the poll tax. There are still fears, however, that
overseas students may suffer harrassment unless
more protection is built into the legislation. Draft
regulations governing the implementation of the
poll tax, which operates in Scotland from April
and in England and Wales a year later, made the
concession that anyone who felt they were
vulnerable to physical violence or harrassment
could ask for a 'special entry' so that their name
and address could be kept private. But the actual
regulations have dropped the word 'harrassment'
because it was felt this was too difficult to define.
University and college authorities and students'
unions fear this may leave overseas students, in
particular, in some danger.
Both the Vice-Chancellors' Committee and the
Polytechnic Director's Committee, which have
been discussing the regulations with the
Department of Environment, called on the
Foreign Office to support their case concerning
overseas students. A Vice-Chancellors
spokesman said 'this is a serious problem. Some
overseas students who come here are persona-
non quota in their own country. Some embassies
have used means to try to find out who and
where they are". According to the National
Union of Students in Scotland; 'Many overseas
students are subject to surveillance by their home
government or opposition groups.
In recent times many Irani and Iraqi students
have had to use adopted names; even the
Welcome to what will be a regular column to let
you know what RCSU is doing around the
College.
So far Rag is going quite well. We managed to
raise just over £1000 on Tiddlywinks as well as
having the top collector in Robert Harwood of
Life Sciences 2. Last Saturday, October 15, RCSU
went out to collect for Mencap, despite the poor
turnout we still raised £483.
The Spanner and Bolt treasure hunt is going
according to plan. The Guilds Exec entering into
the spirit of things well. So far they have raised
money on their pub crawl, showing people their
knees, busking and running a coffee machine in
the JCR. This week they have had to collect scrap
metal from around College and sell it for scrap.
Tonight they will be carol singing in Leicester
Square.
institutions which they attend hold thier real
names in strict confidence, using their adopted
names in all their affairs. It will be up to the
registration officer to decide whether to agree to
an individuals request to take his or her name
and address off. The regulations give some
protection to women1
who may fear physical
violence from a former partner, but there may be
difficulties in proving that a threat exists. Vice-
Chancellors told government officials they would
not supply names and addresses on a voluntary
basis, so the legislation was explicitly amended
to make them do so. The law says they will only
have to provide information 'in their possession
or control'. So, for example, they will have to
divulge names and addresses of people in halls
of residence and those in private accommodation
where it is known, but they will not have to check
whether the information is true, or keep tabs on
students who regularly move.
Colleges will, however, have to give all
students a certificate so the registration officer will
have a means of checking whether they are
entitled to the special concession for full-time
students. Colleges are hoping that current
student forms of identification, such as students'
union cards or library tickets, will suffice for poll
tax purposes. In Scotland the poll tax register will
be published this month and it will be the duty
of everyone to ensure they are on it. Moreover
fines for failure to register are greater than the
poll tax payments themselves.
Unfortunately, the Maths Freshers' Dinner has
been cancelled. All mathematicians can buy
tickets for next Friday's Life Sciences Dinner from
Departmental Representatives and the RCSU
Office.
Ents has been busy; so far organising burgers
during Freshers' Week parties, going ice skating
with Guilds and a trip to the Laserium (which
was unfortunately closed).
Ents are now looking for acts and offers of help
for the Smoking Concert during Rag Week.
Anything goes, so think of something, even if
you are not in RCS.
Finally, Ents are arranging a trip to the cinema
this Monday, to see A Fish Called Wanda, with
John Cleese. The cost will be £2.50 and we are
meeting in the Bar at 8pm.
RCS Union Blues
Page 2 FELIX October 21 1988

