11
felix FRIDAY 12 MARCH 2010
BUSINESS
Business Editor
Business Editor Sina Ataherian
Sina Ataherian
business.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Muzaffar Khan to talk at ICFS lecture
Successful financier, entrepreneur andphilanthropistMuzaffar Khan will deliveratalk this Tuesdayon hislife coaching
work with students and professionals. The talk will be hosted and organised by the Imperial College Finance Society
N
ext Tuesday, Imperial
College Finance Society
(ICFS) will be welcom-
ing Muzaffar Khan to
talk to students about
a number of interesting projects that
he is currently engaged in. Muzaffar is
Principal and Board Member of Space
Energy AG, a company with an ambi-
tious aim to develop Space-Based So-
lar Power satellites that generate and
transmit electricity to receivers on the
Earth’s surface. This fits well with his
extremely confident and ambitious
outlook on life, which he has tried to
pass on as a mentor to a range of peo-
ple of diverse ages and backgrounds.
Many of us remember his most suc-
cessful case, Jan Sramek, from last
year’s popular ‘Inside Trading’ panel
organised by ICFS.
The two of them have recently pub-
lished a book called Racing Towards
Excellence. This is a common sense-
based guide for individuals, especially
young people and students. It deals
with academic, career, financial and
personal success, as well as factors that
may prohibit this. The clear, simple
language and structure of the book is
supported by new results from emerg-
ing sciences, especially behavioural
psychology and neuroscience. Many
topics are covered, with broad con-
cepts ranging from the importance of
love to ways of inspiring oneself.
The book then deals with more
specific issues, ranging from physical
wellbeing through networking to mak-
ing the most out of leisure time. One
of these sections in particular – “Men-
tors and Buddies” – benefits from the
relationship of its two co-authors,
and the insight that this gives to both
of them. Some reviews have been im-
pressive, whilst others have questioned
the ability of Jan Sramek as a final year
undergraduate student to be offering
advice on life. Muzaffar explained that
this misses an important point, which
is that the life experience comes from
him and not Jan. What Jan brings to
the book is a great personal example of
how far using the experience of a good
mentor can take you.
Muzaffar’s own background started
in finance. He then developed his in-
terest in environmental issues and so
got involved with a green charity, be-
fore entering the highly risky field of
carbon trading before a market for the
asset class had even been established.
In conjunction with these business ac-
tivities, he has also maintained a long-
term interest in mentoring. His CV is
extensive, and you can find out more
about him at muzaffarkhan.org. Last
week he sat down with felix to discuss
how each of these varied interests be-
gan, as well as the ideas that are im-
portant to him and guide his current
goals.
Back in 1993, Muzaffar and two of
his brothers were heading towards suc-
cessful careers, having achieved strong
academic results. Their other brother
however, was struggling at school. The
four of them were boarding in a British
school whilst their parents had to live
abroad. This gave Muzaffar, the oldest
of the four, a great amount of respon-
sibility for the others. When the school
talked to him about his younger broth-
er’s struggles, his lifelong commitment
to mentoring began. That brother end-
ed up at the prestigious University of
Edinburgh, and many others followed
him in benefiting from Muzaffar’s
mentoring over the years.
Muzaffar plans to return to Imperial
on 18 May to discuss his Space Energy
company, but the talk this Tuesday will
mainly be on another project, which is
Alchemy Ventures.
This is his attempt to encourage chil-
dren from underachieving schools to
aim high and aspire towards some of the
successes that are discussed in Racing
Towards Excellence.
If you attended the trading panel event, you will likely remember Jan Sramek, Muzaffar’s co-author. Growing up with
modest means, Jan now works for a leading bank. He credits advice included in his book account for some of this success.
Will the talk be worth going to?
Aside from Muzaffer’s record of supporting young people as they
progress academically and professionally, there is another good reason
to attend this talk. Last year, Racing Towards Excellence co-author Jan
Sramek, who is a trader at a leading investment bank, participated in a
trading panel event. Jan’s articulate sharing of key insights helped make
this one of my favourite ICFS events of that year. Since Muzaffar has
been described as Jan’s mentor, he will also have useful and interesting
ideas to share.
The panel last year shared many valuable pieces of advice. Some of these
were new to most attendees. But just as important were the many reminders
of things that most people probably know but do not consistently factor into
their decision making. For example, they reminded us that company cultures
vary greatly, so it is important make sure you work somewhere that is suited to
your personality. This may seem obvious, but for instance at that time I assumed
that firms in similar industries share similar cultures. One panel member, Ben,
explained that this was not true: whilst he loved where he worked at the time,
staff at his previous employer made him eat Big Macs until he got sick, just for
laughs.
The panel also helpfully shared a good reading list for students looking to enter
the financial industry, or go into business in general:
- Extraordinary Popular Delusions and the Madness of Crowds - published in
1841, this book on people’s irrationality contains one of the earliest histories of
financial market crashes.
- McKinseyQuarterly.com - A great business magazine by the world’s most
prestigious management strategy consultancy, available free online.
-Afewwell-recievedandeasy-to-read“insider’sguides”totheworldoffinance:
Inside the House of Money; Barbarians at the Gate; Liar’s Poker; Traders, Guns
and Money; and My Life as a Quant.
- They also recommended some reading on asymmetric information in markets,
formal logic, and cognitive science. They suggested The Paradox of Choice as
offering a good insight into how people actually make everyday economic
decisions, rather than how they do it according to numerical models.
- I am fairly sure that if the talk was held today, Racing Towards Excellence
would also make it on their list:
This talk by Muzaffar on the 12th will
of course be very different. It will
cover more topics, offering a variety
of anecdotes and lessons learned from
an interesting life in business, politics,
and philanthropy. His message is
worth hearing, and certainly differs
from a typical self-help talk. The talks
will however, share in common an aim
to get students tothink about high-
powered jobs in the city, Muzaffar
will explain why and how it is possible
to succeed in finance and other areas,
using examples that range from the
general, such as Muzaffar’s philosophy
onlife,tothespecific,suchasUNICEF’s
listofkeylifeskills.

