12
CULTURE &
THE ARTS
Arts Editors
Arts Editors Rosie Milton, Caz Knight & Lucy Harrold
Rosie Milton, Caz Knight & Lucy Harrold
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
felix FRIDAY 12 MARCH 2010
A
pologies for the absence
of my editorial column
this term from felix arts.
Life as an Imperial Col-
lege Business School
Masters student is not the languid time
that life as an undergrad at Imperial
was! Nevertheless I have been continu-
ing with my layout duties and making
sure that our writers are being sorted
out with free tickets to plays and gal-
leries so that they can review them for
our reading pleasure.
While my writing may have taken
a back seat these last few months to
make time for a course I have actually
paid for, I have still been getting my
regular cultural exercise, albeit pre-
dominantly from the comfort of my
couch: reading!
My latest obsession at the moment
is Russian literature. I think people
are either ignorant of what the Ruskis
have to offer or else they are put off by
the sheer size of stalwarts such as War
and Peace. While Tolstoy’s most fa-
mous work is still sitting unopened on
my bookshelf, I have devoured Cancer
Ward by Solzhenistyn and Crime and
Punishment by Dostoevsky already
this year and I can not overemphasise
just how spectacular the latter is. Yes,
it is deep and dark and brooding- a tale
giving an account of the psychologi-
cal workings of a half crazed, impov-
erished student as he plans, executes
and deals with the consequences of a
murder. I read it in under a week, so
gripping it was.
Most of my equally over-worked
peers lament the fact that they no
longer have time to indulge in read-
ing other than that for dissertations
and essays, but when one manages to
find the time, once realises how ben-
eficial it is to give ones eyes a rest from
staring endlessly at computer screens.
So please send us your book reviews
of anything you may have read, high-
brow or not.
Before you go on to enjoy this week’s
arts section I would like to offer a hum-
ble and profuse apology to Bernard
Pereira who wrote an excellent review
of the Donmar Wrehouse’s Seranad-
ing Louie for Friday 26th February’s
felix. Due to a mix up, the review
originally stated that it was I who had
written it, but it was, in fact, Bernard.
Apologies Bernard. Keep writing!
Never too cold
for culture!
CazKnight
CazKnight Arts Editor
I
mperial College Union’s annual
Festival of the Arts, or “Artsfest”,
is an event that seems to pass
much of the student body by.
After all, Imperial is a collection
of engineers and scientists who spend
their days in dark labs or huddled over
a keyboard or fiddling about in a work-
shop; why should such brilliant minds
bother themselves with such trifling
nonsense as music, dance and drama,
and lower themselves to the level of an
arts student (hack, spit).
Perhaps it’s such a misguided attitude
that meant that the Artsfest Showcase
concert, in the Great Hall last Thurs-
day, saw such a disappointing turnout.
With enough seating for over 500, less
than 20% of which had bums on seats,
the ratio of participants to audience
was close to 1:1. There’s some Maths
for those of you who somehow prefer
Pythagoras to Puccini.
The concert, for the bargainous tick-
et price of a fiver, gave a platform for a
broad range of the Union’s arts clubs
and societies to show what they were
all about. These students, bucking the
aforementioned trend, showed exactly
why arts at Imperial are worth your
time and interest with a showcase that
had something for everyone and dem-
onstrated a flair for creativity in their
routines, arrangements and artistic
decisions.
From the orchestral and instrumen-
tal camp, we had offerings from Impe-
rial College String Ensemble (ICSE),
Windband and Classical Guitar. ICSE
demonstrated exactly how an ensem-
ble adept at classical music can ap-
peal to an audience of geeks by tak-
ing us through a fun medley of retro
video game tracks including Zelda,
Pokémon, Tetris and Mario. Wind-
band appealed to the movie buffs with
a beautiful, spine-tingling arrange-
ment from Pirates of the Caribbean,
perfectly conducted by Gilly French.
Classical Guitar’s piece, imaginatively
entitled “Medley of pieces we like”, was
excellent and showed off the tremen-
dous skill of the small group of per-
formers with a stunning performance
that nicely rounded off the first half of
entertainment.
There were two dance groups in the
showcase – Bellydancing and French
Modern Dance. Bellydancing com-
pletely disproved any notion I ever had
about Imperial being a place devoid of
beautiful and sexy women. Their two
routines showed off that these girls
were talented as well as fit, flexible
and fun. Worth the ticket price alone.
French Modern Dance are three of my
least favourite words. However, I really
enjoyed their routine! It was intelligent,
creative and well executed. Yet another
example of talented performers getting
out there and entertaining the audi-
ence whilst enjoying themselves at the
same time.
Filipino Martial Arts and Wushu
presented two outstanding, but very
different, martial arts demonstrations.
Filipino Martial Arts, accompanied
by a thumping drum and bass track,
staged a number of sparring sessions
with a wide range of weapons which
segued into a demonstration of beating
off muggers with whatever you have
to hand – umbrellas, belts, scarves,
newspapers, cups of coffee. A high en-
ergy and highly skilled performance.
Wushu’s demonstration was a more
traditional demonstration of skill, bal-
ance, elegance and finesse performed
with jaw-dropping precision. The pas-
sion, skill and drama from both dem-
onstrations firmly confirmed their
place in an event dedicated to the cel-
ebration and performance of art.
One of the highlights of the show-
case, for me, were the Techtonics. A
twelve-strong, male, close vocal har-
mony group, these guys sum up what
arts at Imperial are all about – taking
an idea and making it a reality, execut-
ing it with flair and fun. Less than two
years ago, students Christian Carter
and Ed Brightman decided that they
wanted to set up an a cappella group,
found ten willing recruits and made it
happen. Their performance was hugely
entertaining, as the guys confidently
worked the audience, enjoying every
minute of it and producing a fantastic
sound. I will definitely be making the
effort to see this group again.
The show was rounded off in style by
a performance from the Musical Thea-
tre Society who gave a sneak preview
of their upcoming production of Hair,
which, by the time this goes to print,
will have been on this week, Tues 9th –
Sat 13th March. If this preview was an-
ything to go by, the Union Concert Hall
is in for one of the best performances
of a musical from one of the strong-
est casts I’ve seen in years. The hippy
rock musical, Hair, sees the company
tackling the iconic show complete with
60’s-perfect costumes, fantastic vocals,
top choreography and, of course, long,
flowing hair. Don’t miss it.
The whole showcase was held to-
gether by the excellent compèring of
Billy Feenan. Completely at home on
the stage and well clued up on the dif-
ferent acts performing, Feenan was the
perfect ambassador for the talent on
display in this concert. As he observed,
the importance of Artsfest cannot
be understated for Imperial students
– after all, at a dinner party or when
networking with future contacts, a dis-
cussion on the Large Hadron Collider
is never going to be as interesting as a
discussion about art, dance, music, or
martial arts.
The arts are crucial for the students
of Imperial. As important as it is to fur-
ther your studies and research, the arts
clubs and societies are a place that wel-
come students with one major thing in
common – the desire to participate,
have a go and enjoy yourself. Imperial
harbours a huge amount of talent; a
fact that couldn’t be made more clear
by the performances at the Artsfest
showcase. With groups that not only
perform to a high standard but have a
great time doing it, it’s no surprise to
see the same faces coming back to the
societies year after year. And it’s why I,
although no longer a student, will con-
tinue to come back and enjoy the tal-
ent on offer. Don’t make the mistake of
missing it whilst you’re still a student.
Swap your keyboard for one with black
and white keys, your labcoat for a black
belt, your Schrödinger for some Sond-
heim. You’ll thank yourself in the years
to come.
Would you like to swap π for Puccini?
Seb Junemann reviews an Imperial arts explosion featuring sexy, gyrating Belly dancers and the Mario tune
I got all the girls I got all the girls...... Imperial College’s very own gyrating Belly dancers

