13
felix FRIDAY 12 MARCH 2010
ARTS
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
T
wo tramps, Vladimir and
Estragon, wait in a blast-
ed, seemingly postapoca-
lyptic wasteland seem-
ingly devoid of any other
life. It could be the aftermath of the
Blitz (Godot was written in the Fifties)
or a natural disaster. The raw material
is there and as with the best plays, each
production can breathe new life into
it with its own cultural and political
context. In this case, Haiti could easily
spring to mind.
What are they waiting for? They're
waiting for a chap called Godot.
Vladimir and Estragon may have a
long and storied history, such is the
comfort and familiarity of their rela-
tionship. But they wait from morning
to evening. Each evening at the height
of their anticipation, a young boy ap-
pears for a brief period offering only
the most sparse information regard-
ing Godot's whereabouts, and when
Godot fails to show up, they return the
next day with the promise of the titu-
lar character's appearance. It happens
again the next evening with a simi-
lar sequence of events - it is said that
Waiting for Godot is the only theatrical
production in which nothing happens
- twice.
And what do the main protagonists
discuss while they wait? Not much, ad-
mittedly. Such is the ease of Beckett's
dialogue it could easily pass as banter
to the casual listener. So what is the
point of Waiting For Godot?
As many of you who studied English
Lit at school may recall, Godot was
a standard text at many schools. For
some reason my teacher, the affable
Ms Shepherd, went for Coleridge or
Carol Ann Duffy or something of the
sort. It felt interesting at the time, but
not the canonical and epic prospect
something like Godot or The Waste-
land might have presented. Having
said that, most of my friends who stud-
ied these said the texts usually left their
English classes in full FML mode.
So let's sum it up so far - there are a
total of five characters, there's no plot,
the setting is epically depressing and
nothing happens - twice. So why would
you want to see it? But seeing it people
are, and in droves. Beckett's formerly
(and still) obscure play has been run-
ning at the Theatre Royal Haymarket
for coming onto a year now and has
attracted the talents of Patrick Stew-
art, Ian McKellen and, er, Matthew
Kelly. It has been accepted into the
establishment.
Historically elusive and baffling,
breathtakingly minimalist yet achingly
rich, Waiting for Godot has been con-
sidered almost universally one of the
greatest theatrical accomplishments of
the last century. Why?
The brilliance of Beckett's play is
that it is both non-specific and incred-
ibly concrete, endlessly elusive and yet
universal. With this quartet you feel
the play's realness: they're not trying
to embody metaphysics, they're act-
ing people – people like ourselves who
continue to wait, even as we ponder
what we're waiting for. People have
interpreted the setting as a kind of
metaphysical state of purgatory, with
the titular character the resident deity
of sorts.
Some have interpreted an underly-
ing message that waiting - for God, for
release, for absolution, for resolution,
anything - is futile and that life is for
living, not waiting. These are all most-
ly speculative and Beckett himself has
said that audiences and critics often
overanalyse his, and the play's, rela-
tively straightforward intentions.
Ian McKellen's Estragon and Roger
Rees' Vladimir are a joy to watch. Of
course, the majority of audiences will
recognise McKellen from his film work
but this is not the first time he and di-
rector Sean Mathias have worked to-
gether on the stage, having previously
collaborated on Uncle Vanya, Dance
of Death and Aladdin. A Bolton na-
tive, he reverts to a distinctive Lancas-
trian drawl as he conveys a character
so affable and charming, yet so irasci-
ble, mercurial and perhaps above all,
confuddled.
Rees' Vladimir is the rock of the play,
drawing patience and resolve with a
soothing gentleness and warmth de-
spite a mounting sense of desperation
that is repeatedly extinguished, albeit
temporarily. Matthew Kelly's Pozzo
is wonderfully exuberant, an explo-
sion of colour and sheer physicality in
the stark and confined world Mathias
paints.
This is a Godot that is full of compas-
sion and pathos. Other reviews have
lauded the performances of individu-
als while deriding the play's accessi-
bility and humanity. But Mathias has
achieved a considerable feat in making
something previously relatively elitist
and obscure appreciable by the aver-
age individual while maintaining the
integrity of the original.
If the intention of all art is to com-
municate an idea, a vision, a mark, a
scar, then surely artistic and commer-
cial success is ideal?
Regardless, if you're a serious the-
atregoer, you'll probably have already
seen it. If you only have a casual inter-
est in theatre, Godot is not the impen-
etrable lump you may have expected.
Hurry though. The run ends in early
April...
Wait for me and I’ll wait for you...
David J Paw exorcises his English Literature demons with this wonderful rendition of Beckett’s classic play

