19
felix FRIDAY 12 MARCH 2010
Enchanté, Paris Fashion Week Summary
Yves Saint Laurent
You may think that she is vulgar. You
may think that with what little cloth-
ing she wears there’s not much style in
question. You have to look outside the
tabloid images of Rihanna.
Her screen persona is hard and
fierce. An alter-ego as a result of being
a victim of domestic violence. She has
come a long way since her girl-next-
choice of using British designer Bryce
Aime’s spikey T-Rex top from her CSM
graduate collection has received na-
tional newspaper coverage.
She does no fashion faux pas when it
comes to accessorising. The fuschia bra
under a knit top is a calculated move
to add an edge to a comfy outfit. Her
shades aren’t RayBan. They are sta-
tus glasses from Grey Ant, Beyonce is
also a fan. Nothing about Rihanna is
the norm, she wore a pair of laced lens
glasses by A-Morir to spice up a Jas-
mine di Milo sequin playsuit. Russian
Roulette? Not a game Rihanna plays
when it comes to fashion.
Gareth Pugh
ThePugh womanthistimeisatoughfu-
turistic soldier, uncompromising, cold.
Chevrons all point to the face with the
models wearing deadpan expressions
and a dark aura above the brows. Mod-
els were tucked and bound into leather
boots and highly structured chevron
padded jackets. The show culminated
in a floor-length frock that drew 20s ref-
erence and decorated silver chains that
sway as you walk.
Giles Deacon
Another British crown jewel – Giles
Deacon – also shows in Paris. Giles
continued to exact the subtle deco-
rations in his designs, this time with
cloud like edges. The clothes are girly
and in a fluro, as well as candy-floss,
palette. Mildly 60s influenced and
many bra top tu-tu dresses. Bags take
centre stage - from last season’s dino-
saur bags to this Totoro’s soot ball!
Cute and huggable ball of desire!
Talbot Runhof
Johnny Talbot and Adrian Runhof have
created a gothic-but-cute collection
with brocade fabric and tulle mate-
rial that the duo became adept at using
after designing for the Dortmund Op-
era House. Ruffled layers of tulle were
strengthen and made the complex
structure of the finale dress possible.
What are the boot holders doing tho?
Balenciaga
Without a doubt Nicolas Ghesquiere,
the house’s creative director, has reno-
vated the legendary house. A futuris-
tic theme connects last season to this.
While many houses played it safe, Ba-
lenciaga became the only house that
braved novel silhouettes - box shape,
with bulky arms and straight waist;
sports style cinched waist. But how
wearable, really, is a bullet-proof style
jacket?
Do you know...
that Nicolas Ghesquiere has shown
the red card to Carine Roitfeld and
her team, the ever so lovely editor-in-
chief of Vogue Paris. Balenciaga has
refused to lend anymore clothes to
the magazine as well as withdrawing
all advertisement. WWD asked Car-
ine to elaborate, she replied, ‘We’re
blacklisted. It’s too bad, it’s a beautiful
house and it’s French. I hope that it’s
not forever.’
Giambettista Valli
A collection of what Giambattista
does best: 1.Turning women into
beautiful swans with tulle ruffles 2.
Giving young women this jaunty fri-
volity in floaty silk 3. Producing show-
stopping red carpet contenders. The
final exit saw a black mermaid in a
dinner jacket and a see-through bra.
The dress, made entirely of black
feathers. My heart just stopped.
Givenchy
Undoubtedly wearable, silhouettes
that will most certainly inspire Zara’s
in-house designers. Collection consist-
ency is out of the window, as a few
pieces emulate Maison Martin Mar-
giela; a few look similar to the mosaic
motif used in last season’s Balenciaga.
A few even incorporated the Impe-
rial China’s underwear look, with what
looks like the traditional paper cutting
technique. If you’re taking anything
home, take the minimalist peacoats in
scarlet, shiny gloves in patent leather.
Yves Saint Laurent
Nuns walking out of a nunnery on a
rainy day, in PVC capes and a goldie-
looking chain with a YSL silhouette. A
pure and fervent YSL look, and a pair of
arm length fuschia gloves is hidden be-
neath the angelic white cape. Catholic-
ity is gradually replaced by a burst of
colours, blue satin, bright green and
sea urchin yellow. All very elegantly
done indeed, as you can expect from
the house of Yves Saint Laurent. Mod-
els are all Caucasian, as you can expect
from the ‘eugenicist’ Stefano Pilati.
Celine
Creative director Phoebe Philo has
sent the fashion world into a tweeting
frenzie. ‘Want want want’, ‘love love
love’ – all lustrous adjectives were used
in multiples of three. What she’s re-
ally done was to have a nip here, a tuck
there. A traditional peacoat is given an
unusual opening , a turtle neck is given
a roll up, a sheepskin cloak is given a
gold buckle. The clothes aren’t earth-
shattering but combining comfort and
that edgy chic; words cannot describe
the genius of the whole experience.
Hermes
The French firm - which is more re-
nouned for its Birkin bag now than
the silk scarves that once propelled it
to fame - has come up with a new way
to generate a new set avid followers.
Mini birkins that can fit a BlackBerry,
a few coins and not much more are set
to become one of the hottest bags on
earth. The collection draws reference
to Margritte’s Son of a Man. Models
don leather suits and bowler hats.
Should there be more female bankers
in the boardroom?
The month long fashion marathon has finally come to an end. Spanning half the globe, the fashion packs finally
arrived in Paris, the city of glamour. Kawai Wong counts the prêt-à-porter collections that open eyes.
fashion.felix@imperial.ac.uk FASHION

