TRAVEL
Travel Editor
Travel Editor Dylan Lowe
Dylan Lowe
travel.felix@imperial.ac.uk
23
felix FRIDAY 12 MARCH 2010
S
etting: in the middle of no-
where. Green and brown grass
in the foreground with hills
providing the horizon in all
directions. Clouds were not a
common occurrence and this day was
no different. Our journey was nearing
an end as we were returning to the capi-
tal, Ulaanbaatar, to fly back home. Only
things had suddenly got a little more
complicated. Our present position in-
volved a lot of mud, which had not been
visible before, and a van that was not
going anywhere fast. And did I mention
that we were off-road on a two-wheel
drive minibus?
Piling out of the bus to survey our pre-
dicament, silence fell as we surrounded
the crash site unsure of what to do. Apart
from the clothes and tents we were car-
rying with us, we had limited resources
and options. Several phones materialised
to check for signal but to no avail; who
would you call anyway in an exotic coun-
try for an accident in the middle of no-
where? While we huddled around, help-
less, I started to think about the other
unusual times we had had over the past
few weeks.
“Who would you
call anyway in an
exotic country
for an accident
in the middle of
nowhere?”
We had arrived about three weeks pre-
viously with no idea of what to expect. Of
course we had all read the Lonely Planet
guide on the flight, but being in a new
country was thrill enough that every-
thing we had read flew out the window.
We only had two days in Ulaanbaatar
before we needed to catch a train to our
next destination. In search of a super-
market for food and supplies we ended up
finding out a lot more about the country
we were now in. Standing in some sort of
market square next to a main road while
deliberating which street to head down
next I found myself people-watching. The
first observation was that a lot of people
seemed to be driving large cars: in a short
space of time we saw several Hummers,
new Discoveries, and many other four-
wheel drive vehicles. It turned out that
petrol was dirt cheap, something like 12p
per litre. The second observation was
much more interesting; the pedestrians
seemed to have no concept of ‘waiting’.
A nearby news kiosk had a mob besieg-
ing it, every individual jostling to be at the
front of the queue. A family crossed the
road as soon as they reached the roadside
without hesitation; the mother stepped
out in front of the cars with her arm out-
stretched to stop the traffic, while her
children walked casually across without
breaking stride.
Our next glimpse of the local people
came about a week later and about 400
miles away. This time we were midway
through a five-day horse trek through
some foothills and, on such rare occa-
sion, we had had glorious sunshine and
blue skies all day until evening when
the heavens had opened and drained
its sewage. This put a dampener on the
mood but the cards came out and Texas
Hold’em was the name of the game. The
evening was going fine but the rain didn’t
look like it was going to stop and we had
dinner to cook – a laborious process in-
volving lighting a fire (with some very
wet wood), boiling the river water for a
couple of minutes (without the fire go-
ing out), and then simmering the food
for another 30 minutes while stirring
continuously (in the pouring rain). Af-
ter a very wet hour and still no success
we decided to take a different tact. Some
locals nearby very kindly allowed us into
their yurt. Considering they numbered
seven – including three generations –
and us thirteen it was a bit of a squeeze.
“...the pedestrians
seemed to have
no concept of
‘waiting’”
We cooked on their stove and ate inside,
probably making everything they owned
very moist in the process. We were eter-
nally grateful, being very hungry by this
time, and I think they found the whole
situation mildly amusing. Still very wet,
but now much warmer and with ap-
peased stomachs, we returned to our
tents for some well deserved rest.
Another ten days or so later we wan-
dered into a seemingly empty town as
dusk began to fall. We knew where we
were going but the emptiness was still a
little unnerving. We had just completed
a 100 mile walk over the course of 5 days,
we all had blisters, we all smelt pretty bad
(maybe that was the reason for the poor
welcoming committee) and we were
all too tired to care about anything but
sleep. We had arranged beforehand to
stay at the local school that was closed
for the summer holidays. Twelve hours
of deep and dreamless sleep later we
woke up. The town had clearly been up
for some time already. People were every-
where, children playing football in what
seemed to be the ‘main road’, the elderly
standing and sitting on front porches,
while the middle-aged wandered through
the market that was seemingly raised out
of the nothingness of the school’s play-
grounds. These were people who were
much less accustomed to visitors, and
this became increasingly apparent as
we drew attention to ourselves. Many of
them spoke no English and as a group we
were linguistically ignorant as well, but
we didn’t need to understand them to see
the gestures and glances being thrown in
our direction. Soon there was a throng of
eager faces around us, the women trying
to sell handmade necklaces, the children
wanting us to join them in a game of foot-
ball. They were far too polite to reach out
and grab us, but with an almost choreo-
graphed motion we were separated into
those most likely to spend money, and
those looking eager to play a game we rec-
ognised. It quickly became apparent that
they were experienced in communicating
with visitors; enough English to negotiate
prices and, where necessary, exchange
My Mongolian misadventures
A trip to somewhere a little different? Peter Mason brings tales from the remote corners of Mongolia
rates, as well as a pretty accurate idea of
what a ‘typical tourist’ would pay for their
commodities. We learned from some of
those with better English that the town
saw at least a few visitors every couple of
weeks, and that the school was a popu-
lar resting place for travellers during the
summer.
A few days later we left that town, head-
ing in the direction of civilisation again
with the impression that our long journey
was now approaching an end. We hired a
couple of minivans to transport us with-
out our bags on the roof and set off on the
three-day drive across the countryside.
Under normal circumstances, the oth-
er minivan would have driven back to a
town we passed earlier in the day for help.
Unfortunately, as we approached the
“These were people
who were much
less accustomed to
visitors, and this
became increasingly
apparent as we
drew attention to
ourselves”
town the local radio station broadcast a
warning: the town had been quarantined
to prevent the outbreak of something
whose description we never managed
to translate. Undefeated, we found a few
pieces of wood and some ingenious ideas
and, between the lever technique and
the other minivan towing from behind,
we eventually broke free. Sitting on the
grass around the crash site, it was clear
why the driver had been unable to avoid
the accident – there had been no sign of
the patch of ground being any different to
the next. When we left it looked like we
had taken a bath in it, and to look at some
of us, that might not have been a poor
assumption.

