24
CLUBS &
SOCIETIES
Clubs & Socs Editor
Clubs & Socs Editor Alex Kendall
Alex Kendall
clubs.felix@imperial.ac.uk
felix FRIDAY 12 MARCH 2010
x
ICSO’s 5 day dash to South Africa
Eleanor Berry and Hannah Short report back on 3 concerts at the 2010 Mozart Festival in Johannesburg
N
ever before has a musi-
cal society been given
the approval of the Rec-
tor and all the heads of
department to travel
half way across the world for five days
during term and give no less than three
concerts, one of which was broadcast
on national radio. At the end of Janu-
ary ICSO did just that on its whirlwind
tour to the Johannesburg International
Mozart Festival, South Africa.
Last year IC Symphony Orchestra
was invited to play in the Mozart Festi-
val in 2010. The orchestra’s conductor
and director of music, Richard Dick-
ins originally thought the idea would
be impossible and permission for the
students to miss four days of college
would never be given. Luckily the Rec-
tor agreed that the trip would be an
amazing opportunity for us all. Thanks
to the hard work of our excellent Chair,
Treasurer and Tour Manager (Will
Cowley, Leo Martins and Tom Bud-
den respectively), as well as the festival
administrators, the tour went ahead
without a hitch.
Our eleven and a half hour plane
journey (with a four hour stopover
in Paris) began on the afternoon of
Thursday 28th of February. Thanks to
the complementary drinks from Air
France on both flights and their exem-
plary service we all made it to Johan-
nesburg in good spirits, bar possibly
the three people whose luggage was
left in Paris and just made it to South
Africa in time for our first concert the
following day…
Throughout our time in Johannes-
burg we were looked after superbly by
our host families – most of whom were
members of a local choir run by Rich-
ard Cock, the festival administrator–
who obligingly ferried us to and from
our rehearsal venue and fed and wa-
tered us until we could take no more.
The day we arrived in the country, af-
ter briefly meeting our hosts, we went
straight into a rehearsal at our concert
venue, the Linder Auditorium at the
Witwatersrand University in Johannes-
burg. The next day – that of our first
concert – most of us were up bright
and early with our hosts visiting the
local African craft markets to do some
haggling or at some of the prestigious
museums in the city, such as the Apart-
heid Museum and Constitution Hill.
The afternoon rehearsal was followed
by a fantastic pre-concert dinner put
on by the organisers of the festival for
which we were all incredibly grateful.
The first concert, with a programme of
Elgar’s “Cockaigne” Overture, Finzi’s
Ecologue for piano and strings Op.10
with soloist Malcolm Nay, Elgar’s
Pomp and Circumstance March No.1
and Rachmaninov’s Symphony No. 2
in E minor Op.27, went down excep-
tionally well with the audience – who
even gave us a standing ovation after
just the first half. Encores of Pomp and
Circumstance, with audience partici-
pation, ensued!
Many of the members of the orches-
tra spent the night partying out with
their hosts, most notably Sam Lev-
eridge and others who were out cel-
ebrating his 21st birthday to the extent
that he was unable to make the early
start the next day for our safari trip to
the Pilanesburg Games Reserve. De-
spite what was considered a late start
for a safari by our guides (about ten
o’clock in the morning by the time we
got there) we were fortunate enough
to see three of the Big Five game – el-
ephants, lions and rhinos – and many
other animals, not least of which were
the giraffes, hippos and zebra. It was
an amazing experience to see these
animals in the wild. Once again in the
park’s shop we were all bargaining over
the gifts we wanted to take home, be-
fore heading back to the park’s resort
for an amazing buffet lunch and a re-
laxing afternoon in the sunshine by the
pool!
Monday brought with it another free
morning with our generous (and very
trusting!) hosts, one of which allowed
some of the more senior medics in the
orchestra to borrow their car so they
could explore the city some more by
themselves. A car in Johannesburg is
unfortunately an essential, as they do
not have a public transport infrastruc-
ture as in London, and in some areas it
would not have been sensible to walk
around as tourists. The afternoon re-
hearsal brought us our first meeting
with the soloists for the evening, Lidia
Baich (violin) and Matthias Fletz-
berger (piano), who were both with-
out doubt fantastic performers. It was
also a chance for the orchestra to get
used to playing alongside a rock band,
as the concert was entitled “Rock me,
Amadeus”. Another excellent meal was
provided for the orchestra and we all
got to watch the most amazing sunset
over Johannesburg before going in to
play. The programme consisted of Mo-
zart’s Symphony No. 5 and Symphony
No. 37, followed by Mozart’s Violin
Concerto No. 4 with Lidia Baich. The
rock band then joined us to perform
the andante from Mozart’s Piano Con-
certo No. 21 and then Saint-Saens’ In-
troduction and Rondo Capriccioso for
orchestra and rock band, arranged by
Lidia Baich to round off the evening.
Once again the audience loved the
concert and, unbeknownst to the or-
chestra, it was in fact broadcast live on
South Africa’s Classic FM.
The members of the orchestra then
spent their last night with their host
families, giving gifts and cards and
much gratitude. The following morn-
ing we set out for our final concert in
South Africa in the township of Alex-
andra, just outside the city, in the local
community centre. The audience con-
sisted mostly of local school children
who came up on stage to sit amongst
the orchestra and got a chance to play
some of the percussion instruments
and to conduct. We played excerpts
from most of our pieces, with Richard
Dickins introducing the different in-
struments and getting them the play a
little something to the audience. High-
lights included a version of ‘In the Jun-
gle’ for bassoon quartet and a mariachi
band tune from the brass section. The
ICSO perform in Johannesburg at the Linder Auditorium, Witwatersrand University.
entire orchestra loved playing for the
children and having them come and sit
with them – one of the young girls was
so good at conducting that we almost
didn’t need Richard for the rest of the
concert!
Before heading back to the airport
we had the most fantastic end to tour
in the form of a buffet lunch (once
more paid for by the tour organisers)
and pool side antics at the Johannes-
burg country club. Prizes were given
out to the Tour Couple (you know who
you are!) and Tour King and Queen
amongst other things. The orchestra
got an opportunity to say thank you
to the organisers for our time in South
Africa –Richard Cock, Florien Uhlig,
Caroline Kennard and Samantha Mc-
Grath – and we even got an invitation
back to play in both the Cape Town
and Johannesburg Festivals next year.
There was not a single person who
did not enjoy their time away; the trip
may have been short but it was worth
every moment and everyone is more
than eager to go back. It is hard to
describe just how amazing the experi-
ence was and how much fun everyone
had just being away together on tour in
a place so far from home. All we can
do is to say another huge thank you to
all the people that made the trip pos-
sible and looked after us so well while
we were away.
If you would like to hear more of
ICSO our next concert is on Friday
12th March at 8pm in the Great Hall,
with a programme of Juan Pablo Mon-
cayo’s Huapango (for which we will
be joined by IC Dance Company),
Beethoven’s 2nd Piano Concerto with
soloist Shuang Wang (Medicine, year
6) and Holst’s The Planets. Tickets are
£3 in advance (£4 on the door) for stu-
dents and are available from any mem-
ber of the orchestra, or from the Blyth
Centre. We look forward to seeing you
all there!
A safari opportunity turns into an occasion for the cat to meet some bigger cats.

