25
felix FRIDAY 12 MARCH 2010
clubs&socs.felix@imperial.ac.uk C & S
felix
Amnesty for Fair Trade Fortnight
F
air Trade Fortnight (22 Feb-
ruary-7 March) has recently
drawn to an end, and you
may be familiar with the Fair
Trade movement. It aims
to improve the lives of producers in
the developing world by paying them
more, as well as promoting higher
social and environmental standards.
Where producers have in the past
been exploited, Fair Trade aims to
right wrongs and ensure producers
are able to live well. A Fair Trade pro-
ducer will be paid a greater and fairer
amount for what they produce and
proceeds from sales of this produce
will also be put into community de-
velopment – for example, scholarships
and health care programs. Fair Trade
certification also ensures safe working
conditions, greater environmental sus-
tainability and more of an opportunity
for small producers to be heard. All
sorts of goods have been certified as
Fair Trade, from bananas and coffee to
wine and handicrafts.
What you may not be aware of is how
Amnesty International supports Fair
Trade. Really, they go hand-in-hand
– they are founded on similar princi-
ples of fairness and justice for all, even
though Amnesty does not explicitly
campaign on behalf of the Fair Trade
movement. For example, the Universal
Declaration of Human Rights, which
Amnesty adheres to and cites in many
cases of human rights abuses, states in
Article 25 that “everyone has the right
to a standard of living adequate for the
health and well-being of himself and of
his family”. While the low wages and
poor working conditions provided by
some unscrupulous companies con-
flicts with this fundamental human
right, Fair Trade certification seeks to
redress the balance by increasing wag-
es and improving conditions. Amnes-
ty’s Demand Dignity campaign, against
the human rights abuses that go with
poverty and social injustice, is another
example of a crossover between the
principles of Amnesty and Fair Trade.
Amnesty even sells items it rigorously
certifies as being Fair Trade in its shop.
As part of a programme of Fair
Trade-related events to tie in with
Fair Trade Fortnight, Imperial’s Fair
Trade and Amnesty societies teamed
up to put on a tea party. The evening
began with a presentation on the Fair
Trade movement, then moved on to
the more pressing matter of food and
drink. Copious amounts of tea, cof-
fee and chocolate were served (all Fair
Trade, of course!) and party-goers
were even treated to a fabulous view of
the sun setting from the physics com-
mon room.
Money raised from entry fees were
split between the two societies, help-
ing the Amnesty society on its way to
a spot on the leader board of Amnesty
UK’s Student Raise-Off, while a raffle
of two hampers of Fair Trade goods
helped to raise both money and aware-
ness. Everyone enjoyed themselves a
lot and the evening provided much
food for thought (*groan*) - hopefully
many more at Imperial will be inspired
to “make the swap” to Fair Trade!
Faiths Unite for Haiti
In an inspiring display of interfaith action, dozens of students, representing 8
different faiths and philosophical backgrounds, hit the London Underground
for the first event of Imperial Interfaith’s Interfaith Charity Action Network
(ICAN) initiative. Buddhist, Hindu, Muslim (Sunni and Shia), Sheikh, Christian
(Catholic and Protestant) and Atheist students united for a common cause,
collecting money for the DEC’s relief operations in earthquake struck Haiti.
From an early start at 8 in the morning through to gone 9 in the evening, 6
of TFL’s stations were almost continually manned by enthusiastic volunteers
and, 524 one penny pieces later, over a thousand pounds was raised for a
great cause. Indeed several volunteers were actually approached by Haitians,
who commended them for their efforts, giving a moving personal side to so
impersonal a disaster.
This was the first of three interfaith events this month in aid of Haiti, still to
follow are an interfaith sports night (with massive sumo suits!) and a variety
concert. The organisers would like to express a huge thanks to all those involved
in Wednesday’s collection, hopefully the first of many successful interfaith
charity events!
A never-ending buffet of laughs at IC?
Charlotte Ivison gives us a preview of ICDramSoc’s upcoming production of Michael Frayn’s Noises Off, a brief
history of British comedy and interviews director, Fran Buckland
N
oises Off began as an
idea Michael Frayn, a
British playwright, had
whilst standing watch-
ing a performance of his
farce ‘Chinamen’ in 1970. He realised
that the play was actually funnier when
watching it from backstage, and so de-
cided to write ‘a farce from behind’ -
Noises Off.
Since its conception in 1977, Noises
Off has gone on to entertain thou-
sands, being nominated for numerous
Tony and Drama Desk Awards and
causing one critic to say: “In Act 1, I
laughed. In Act 2, I hollered, and in Act
3, I’m pretty sure I left a bit of lung on
the back of my seat.”
The plot centres around a troupe of
professional actors who are doing a
tour of the (fictional) show, Nothing
On, a bad carry-on type comedy set in
a country house and featuring scantily
clad shenanigans, and uses the concept
of ‘play within a play’.
We watch Nothing On from both
‘backstage’ and front of house as the
dysfunctional cast and crew (complete
with love triangle) stumble through
the tour. They may be professionals,
but things soon start to unravel as off-
stage chaos affects on-stage perform-
ances with hilarious consequences.
Act One sees the actors in a dress re-
hearsal the night before opening, still
fumbling cues and forgetting lines, Act
Two sees them performing in a mati-
nee show in the middle of the tour, as
personal conflicts lead to even more
mayhem, and Act Three sees them
perform at the end of the tour, when
everything has gone so wrong that
even they have noticed, and try to
cover it up which just leads to even
more hilarity.
CI: Why did you choose this play?
FB: I chose a play that people would
want to come to, watch and enjoy –
people can often be put off going to
see theatre because they think of dusty
Shakespeare tomes or modeplays try-
ing to make political statements, and
Noises Off is nothing like either of
these – it’s just a bit of a laugh and
good entertainment.
CI: What was your vision for it?
FB: Noises Off is very well written
comedy and because of that, I didn’t
feel that it needed to be too “clown-
ish” – the text is subtle and sarcastic
(we discover new jokes every rehears-
al!) and so my vision was definitely
to make the settings to feel as real as
possible.
For the characters to be people who
are so absorbed in their own actions
that they don’t realise how stupid (and
funny) they look.
CI: How has the experience been for
you - what advice would you give to
aspiring directors?
FB: Plan ahead and make sure that
you can trust your producer! To di-
rect a show takes a lot of time and ef-
fort and it is really important that you
keep in constant communication with
everyone. It would be better to ask
this question after the show, because a
week before is always the hectic stage
when you can’t ever imagine the cur-
tain going up successfully on the first
night... but I’m really excited about it.
This play is going to be great.
British comedic theatre through the ages
1535- Nicolas Udall writes the first English comedy, Ralph Roister
Doister, a play about a bragging soldier who tells amazing tales of brav-
ery, makes love to numerous women, freely offers to fight when there
are no opponents, and flees when there are.
1592-1594- Shakespeare writes what is believed to be his first comedy,
The Comedy of Errors.
1892- Oscar Wilde’s Lady Windermere’s Fan is first performed- a play
which uses comedy to criticize the social codes of the time.
1930- Noel Coward and Gertrude Lawrence star in the West End in
the Coward-written Private Lives, a comedy of marital complications.
1958 - Harold Pinter’s first West End play, The Birthday Party, a ‘com-
edy of menace’, closes in less than a week, but goes on to be considered
a classic.
1982- Michael Frayn’s farce Noises Off opens in the West End.

