3
felix FRIDAY 12 MARCH 2010
NEWS
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
T
he age-old tradition of
Engineers and Scientists
hating Medics will be re-
newed once again next
Wednesday when Varsity
2010 kicks off.
In its 7th year since inception, Im-
perial College vs. Imperial Medics
have fought for boasting rights every
year on the sports field across several
sports. This year, an unprecedented
ten sports will decide if College are
still sporting superiors to their Medic
counterparts across four venues, in-
cluding a new venue for the flagship
game, next Wednesday.
The Medics are looking to finally
break College’s six-year unbeaten run
at Varsity, but this may prove difficult.
In the past couple of years College
have won comprehensively overall, fin-
ishing 14.5 – 8.5 ahead in Varsity 2008
and then went onto improve score dif-
ference in 2009 with a 14.5 – 7.5 win.
This year, Badminton Mixed teams
have been introduced to complement
the tradition Men’s and Women’s var-
sity at Wilson House.
Despite College’s dominance across
the majority of sports, the JPR Wil-
liams prize-winning game has always
been out of College’s reach. The JPR
Williams cup game is contested be-
tween College Rugby Men’s 1st team
and Medics Rugby Men’s 1st team, and
the Medics have won every year since
2003. The closest College have come
to lifting the trophy was in 2008 when
they forced the Medics into extra-time
at 19-19. Despite a battling display
which saw Wales and British Lions 70s
legend and Medics alumnus JPR Wil-
liams commend the College team af-
ter the game, the Medics scrambled a
22-19 win after converting a penalty in
extra-time.
The Medics got back into the swing
of winning comfortably last year with
a 15 -7 win.
Tighter than ever before
College Rugby Men’s 1st team cap-
tain James Petitt envisages this year’s
JPR Williams match a much tighter
affair.
“I’d say the gap between us [Medics
and College 1sts] has certainly nar-
rowed over the last two or three years.
Last year the Medics proved that they
were still top dogs,” he said.
If this season’s meetings between the
two sides is anything to go by, he will
certainly be correct. Two matches be-
tween them have been played this year
and for the first time in years, College
beat the Medics last November. They
couldn’t quite do the double over the
Medics however and drew with them
in the reverse fixture in January; a re-
sult that meant the Medics won the
league and return to Premiership next
year.
Andrew Mowat, Medics Rugby 1st
team captain agrees the battle will be
close next week, but is unconvinced
that College can finally topple the
Medics’ Varsity crown.
“What has gone before is of little
relevance.
“The first fixture against the College
brought a reality check as we turned
out a weak performance and deserv-
edly lost to the better team.
[The results this year] have simply
confirmed that the game will be a tight
affair.”
Varsity 2010 will test if College 1st
team’s luck has run out as this rugby
season comes to a close. The task will
be made even harder as they look to
deal with the loss of Tom Carroll, their
influential inside centre, but Petitt
knows that if they are to complete this
season successfully, one that saw them
finish second in their SE1A league to
Medics, it will be their own doing on
the night.
“The lads have worked incredibly
hard this season and are ready to top
it all off, knowing full well that the only
thing stopping them from the big win
is their own mistakes.”
Mowat rallying call is more of a mis-
sion statement and he gives off the im-
pression nothing other than a win will
do.
“The varsity match is the pinnacle of
our season. It means a lot to the play-
ers to be involved and competition for
places has been intense. Our aim is
simple. To win, preferably within the
confines of normal time, and retain the
JPR Williams cup,” he demanded.
The match will take place at a larger
venue than in previous years. London
Scottish’s stadium Richmond Athletic
Association Ground has been replaced
by London Welsh’s Old Deer Park for
the JPR Williams game. Old Deer Park
stadium lies about a kilometre up the
road from Richmond Athletic Associa-
tion Ground, but Head of Sport Impe-
rial and principal Varsity organiser
Neil Mosley promises the night to be
“the biggest varsity ever.”
He sees varsity as something to sa-
vour. “We’ve got 10 sports and a great
new venue..It really is unmissable for
all Imperial students. If you have not
experienced the special varsity atmos-
phere before make sure you don’t miss
out,” he said.
Varsity kicks off on 17th March at
10.30am at Ethos and Harlington with
Netball 4ths and Hockey Women’s 2nds
opening the day’s events at the respec-
tive venues. Badminton will take place
at Wilson House sports hall, whilst the
day will be capped off in Richmond at
Old Deer Park when Rugby Men’s 1sts
go to battle at 7.30pm.
As College rugby catches up with the Medics this season, will the
Medics be able to topple College overall at Varsity 2010 next week?
Dan Wan
Dan Wan Editor-in-Chief
“The Medics are
looking to finally
break College’s six-
year unbeaten run at
Varsity, but this may
prove difficult. ”
felixSport Varsity 2010 special
See pages
32 -40
Medics 2009 team captain Dan Neville kisses the urn of Michael Jackson as JPR Williams looks on. Bloody Medics....
A
United Nations Se-
curity Council re-
port has found that
nearly one-half of
all food aid sent to Somalia
does not reach those for whom
it was intended.
Nearly £330m worth of food
is sent to Somalia each year
through the World Food Pro-
gramme. The report alleges that
this aid is hindered by the programme’s reliance for distribution on what
it calls a corrupt group of cartels. The authors of the report call on the
U.N. to open an investigation into the programme’s operations in Somalia
and to rebuild them. One distributor has been accused of staging hijacks
on his own delivery trucks, stealing food from these vehicles, and then
selling this food on the black market. A large part of the problem with
the programme seems to be driven by Somalia’s lack of political and mili-
tary structure which makes donated food distribution by honest organisa-
tions difficult or impossible. Somalia’s government is reportedly planning
an offensive, headed up by General Mohamed Gelle Kahiye, to control
Mogadishu. Kahiye’s position until a few months ago was assistant man-
ager at a McDonald’s restaurant in Germany, but but he is reportedly held
in high repute by Somali soldiers.
The world beyond
College walls
By Tom Greany
U
S authorities arrested a woman who called herself “Jihad-
Jane” over a plot to kill Swedish artist Lars Vilks. The
woman, Colleen LaRose, was arrested as seven others in
Ireland were also arrested in connection with the plot.
LaRose, 46, converted to Islam, fashioned her “JihadJane” pseudonym
in YouTube videos and apparently had visited the region of Sweden where
Vilks lives. Vilks controversially drew depictions of Mohammed in the
manner of a roundabout dog, which is a popular form of Swedish street
sculpture. These drawings were rejected from two Swedish exhibitions for
fear of extremism, which then led to a debate in Swedish media over free-
dom of expression. Several newspapers went on to publish Vilks’ work,
sparking international fury, particularly in the Muslim world. Vilks is now
living is a state of high security, and carries an axe for extra protection.
Sweden
I
ndia’s upper parliamentary house voted to reserve one-third
of all national legislature and state assembly seats for women.
The vote took place on Tuesday and was passed 186-1.
The bill was first introduced in 1996 and has been somewhat
controversial ever since. India’s first female Prime Minister was elected
in 1966, and its first female President and female Speaker of Parliament
were both elected last year, but women represent only ten percent of the
legislature. This week, members of various parties who believe that the
bill has not gone far enough to benefit minorities, Muslims, and lower
caste peoples withdrew themselves from the coalition government and
were forcibly removed from parliament. This development has threat-
ened to bring the coalition’s lead to a very narrow majority, which could
possibly threaten the passing of other important bills. Critics claim that
the mandatory seats will favour wealthy women over poorer minorities.
The bill does not take effect until ratified by the lower house, approved
by fifteen of Indian states, and also signed by the President.
India
Somalia

