39
felix FRIDAY 12 MARCH 2010
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk VARSITY PREVIEW
THEIR LEADING VOICES
How has your season been so far?
We’ve had a strong year, not too much to complain about really other than a couple of slip ups.
What has your experience of previous Varsities been like? Is this your first as captain?
Previous Varsities have always been very loud. I never really remember much of the games I play in.
But I do remember that we have lost three in a row while I’ve been here. I was Captain last year, it’s
hard work, but good fun.
How does this match differ from the previous head to heads this season?
I’d say the gap between us has certainly narrowed over the last two or three years. Last year the
Medics proved that they were still top dogs; however we got one over on them back in November,
and then we drew in January. We’ve certainly learnt a lot about each other with regards to how we
play so in that respect previous games are a massive help.
How much does your course get in the way of rugby? (and not vice versa!)
All in all it’s not too bad. If anything gets in the way of Rugby then I just generally kick up a big fuss
and act like a bit of a dick until I get my way. Sometimes it works, but on reflection its has nearly cost
me a few friendships. Perhaps I should think of another way.
Any thoughts on this year’s 6 Nations?
Regrettably, I think the French will take this one.
Do you keep an eye on the other Varsity results, or is it all about the rugby? What’s your
favourite?
I’ll have a look at all the results the next day, but generally I don’t get to see too much of it. We’ll wish
the other Rugby guys good luck before they play and try and watch as much of them as we can.
Rumor has it that College have two new mascots (yes, more grown men in animal suits) for this
year’s Varsity... your thoughts?
Perhaps the most memorable moment of Varsity last year was when someone nailed the Medic
mascot. The head went flying and everyone saw that inside was dazed medic girl. Sad, yet funny. The
attempt to bring alive the Medic Phoenix just looked like a big chicken. A good rule of thumb is that
if it needs explaining it’s not cool.
Do you think Varsity is accessible enough to get the average student interested? A lot of people
think paying 8-10 quid to see a match between university teams can be a bit much.
I certainly agree, I think it is a lot to ask. It’s great that people come and watch, it really means a lot,
but you can go watch Premiership Rugby for the same amount. I suppose the University
needs to cover some of its cost and you get more than just a
Rugby game for your ticket. I would be very surprised if
the University turned a profit from days like this at the
student’s expense.
Last but definitely not least, what are your post-
match celebration plans?
Reynolds Bar!
How has your season been so far?
Very good. We have secured promotion back into the BUCs premiership narrowly pipping Imperial
College to the top spot. We suffered an early set back losing to our arch rivals at the beginning of the
season but have gone unbeaten since.
What has your experience of previous Varsities been like? Is this your first as captain?
This is my first as captain. Last year is my only other experience of the occasion. It was an intense
fixture which could have gone either way which made the elation of victory all the sweeter.
How does this match differ from the previous head to heads this season?
It’s one match. What has gone before is of little relevance. We know we severely underperformed
at the start of the season and have progressed steadily since then. The second fixture was a better
marker as the game had a Varsity “Winner takes all” feel to it provoked by the league situation. They
have simply confirmed that the game will be a tight affair.
How much does your course get in the way of rugby? (and not vice versa!)
It varies sometimes rugby is a welcome release, at others it can be a distraction. At the moment I’m
delivering babies which is pretty intense so time management is reaching melting point.
Any thoughts on this year’s 6 Nations?
FairlydisappointingfromanEnglishperspective.Itisuncleartomewhetherweareunderperforming
or simply lack the calibre of player we once possessed.
Do you keep an eye on the other Varsity results, or is it all about the rugby? What’s your
favourite?
I’ll be passing a cursory eye over the other results. Women’s rugby was pretty entertaining last year.
Rumor has it that College have two new mascots (yes, more grown men in animal suits) for
this year’s Varsity... your thoughts?
I pity the guys who have to get inside those things.
Do you think Varsity is accessible enough to get the average student interested? A lot of
people think paying 8-10 quid to see a match between university teams can be a bit much.
I wasn’t aware of the price. That does seem a bit steep. Though
the crowd can hardly claim not to have got their money’s
worth in the last two years.
Last but definitely not least, what are your
post-match celebration plans?
Back to the Reynolds.....trying to plan such events
is futile.
JAMES PETTIT
COLLEGE RUGBY 1ST TEAM CAPTAIN
ANDREW MOWAT
MEDICS RUGBY 1ST TEAM CAPTAIN
V

