5
felix FRIDAY 12 MARCH 2010
NEWS
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
The Department of Civil and Envi-
ronmental Engineering has come un-
der heavy criticism this week after it
was revealed that its students were
forbidden from participating in a col-
lege-wide questionnaire. Taught post-
graduate students were not allowed to
take part in the online survey MOLE
(Master’s Online Evaluation) during
the 2009 Autumn Term. In addition to
this, it has also been shown that the de-
partment declined the opportunity to
send results from TOLE (Tutorial On-
line Evaluation) to personal tutors, the
intended subjects of the survey.
MOLE and TOLE, which both run for
the first time during the Autumn Term
of 2009, have been designed to col-
late the opinions of students regarding
educational aspects of university life
and, in doing so, improve the quality of
teaching across the college. MOLE in-
cludes questions for taught postgradu-
ate students to answer anonymously,
relating to the content of course mod-
ules and the quality of lecturers them-
selves, alongside the relevance and
timeliness of coursework feedback.
This survey is identical in questions
and format to SOLE (Student Online
Evaluation), another newly introduced
survey which represents the under-
graduate students of Imperial College.
TOLE questions undergraduate par-
ticipants on the quality of their per-
Matt Colvin
Matt Colvin
Civ Eng Dept defy College with MOLE
sonal tutors and tutorials in general.
The results from TOLE, again anony-
mous, are typically sent to the individ-
ual members of staff concerned so that
they can efficiently receive feedback
and respond accordingly to it.
The Department of Civil and Environ-
mental Engineering has stated that the
surveys, recently rewritten by College
statisticians in order to improve valid-
ity, are “statistically invalid”, and have
insisted that their own teaching sur-
vey is of better quality and statistical
relevance. Professor Susan Eisenbach,
Dean of Learning and Teaching, in-
formed the department when they an-
nounced their plans that if MOLE was
not implemented then at the very least
their own survey questions and subse-
quent results must be sent to College
Registry. This was requested in order
to ensure that the department was
complying with basic quality assurance
procedures. The department has, as of
yet, not satisfied this wish and with
only a short period of time until the
next Spring Term session of surveys
commence, it is widely acknowledged
that the likelihood of this happening is
small.
The issue has raised some concerns
regarding the representation and wel-
fare of students in the department.
Jonathan Silver, the current ICU Depu-
ty President (Education), believes that
the department’s refusal to cooperate
with the college has several “negative
implications” for students and staff
alike, stating that, “[The Department
of Civil and Environmental Engineer-
ing] think they’re too special to al-
low their students to do the Autumn
Term’s MOLE”. Elaborating on the de-
partment’s choice of gravitating away
from the use of college surveys, Mr.
Silver claims that, “this disenfranchis-
es the students, who miss out on the
most important way of giving teaching
feedback, and disenfranchises the staff,
who will be at a great disadvantage
when applying for promotion, without
the survey evidence of being a good
lecturer.” Also discussing the issues
surrounding TOLE, Mr. Silver com-
ments that ‘there is little or no point
in the survey at all if the results never
come back’.
The Autumn Term 2009 MOLE survey
saw a 35% turnout of taught postgrad-
uates across the college departments,
excluding Civil and Environmental
Engineering, while the Autumn Term
2009 TOLE saw 44% of undergradu-
ates across Imperial College as a whole
take part. Civil and Environmental
Engineering in fact had an above aver-
age turnout for TOLE with 47% of its
undergraduate population (equating
to 178 students) providing opinions on
tutorials, yet with these results never
reaching the intended targets. This
renders a significant aim of TOLE in-
effectual; the aim of communication
with staff and subsequent evaluation
and improvement within the depart-
ment. Although the main areas of
concern that surfaced from the results
were found to be in the departments of
Chemistry and Chemical Engineering,
Mr. Silver states that, “it’s still a great
shame that the feedback never got [to
personal tutors]”.
Despite the unwillingness of the De-
partment of Civil and Environmental
Engineering to participate in MOLE,
discussions are ongoing between Pro-
fessor Eisenbach and Professor David
Nethercot, the head of the department
in question, with regards as to whether
the department will consider taking
the opportunity to participate in the
Spring Term 2010 MOLE, which is
currently scheduled to take place dur-
ing the remaining two weeks of this
term. It remains to be seen whether the
department will continue to rely solely
on itself in order to gauge the satis-
faction levels of its taught postgradu-
ates, and whether it will continue to
restrict feedback from undergraduate
students.
The Skempton Building, where them rebellious Civil Engineers are rising against College’s barbaric MOLE ruling
Benjamin Stubbens, a candidate for the
Deputy President (Education)(DPE)
position has officially withdrawn from
the Sabbatical Elections 2010. This
comes after he was offered a graduate
job by prestigious automobile engi-
neering company Rolls Royce this past
Wednesday (10th March).
News broke late on Wednesday
evening, two full days after voting had
opened at 00.01 Tuesday. His with-
drawal leaves Meera Ganeshadevan
unopposed for the DPE role.
Stubbens was unapologetic as he an-
nounced his withdrawal to felix.
“So, it turns out Rolls Royce want to
offer me a job. In such a turbulent time
in the graduate job market I took a de-
cision at the beginning of this year that
if I did get any decent offer from any
decent company with any decent repu-
tation I would be crazy to turn it down.
I hate to tell you that I am indeed not
crazy and will be accepting this job,” he
explained.
Some may see him as turning his
back on the Union, but he explains that
the guarantee of securing a future for
himself was too much of a temptation
when pitted against the uncertainty
of winning the sabbatical position for
Deputy President (Education).
“Although I want to work as a sabb
in the union making real changes to
students’ experiences throughout their
time in uni, the job on offer is in the
exact area I want to work, and at the
end of the day I have to be selfish and
do what’s right for me,” he said.
“I’d like to think I’ve already made a
big difference to many students in the
Faculty of Engineering, but especially
the Aeronautics Department where
I’ve whinged and moaned for far too
long! I know that I was more than
qualified to take on this role and know
that I would have made a lot of positive
changes to the way students are repre-
sented throughout IC,” he continued.
Regarding the rest of the election,
he warned that “the role of DPE is no
place for amateurs.”
Now Stubbens has officially with-
drawn his name from the elections, he
has put his support behind the RON
campaign.
He continues: “That is why I would
encourage you all (well, at least those of
you who haven’t voted yet) as strongly
as I can to vote RON and re-open nomi-
nations for the summer term. This way,
students who actually care and will
make a difference can have the oppor-
tunity to run. Is your education worth
such a big risk not to vote RON?”
Ganeshadevan’s only comment was
“DEARY ME! [sic]”
Dan Wan
Dan Wan Editor-in-Chief
Ben Stubbens (left) at Hustings with ex-opponent Meera Ganeshadevan
DPE candidate withdraws from
Elections after real job offer
Varsity hero JPR Williams given
17 month drink-driving ban
Welsh rugby and British Lions legend
JPR Williams has pleaded guilty of
drink-driving charges, resulting in a 17
month driving ban.
It has been additionally reported
that in an attempt to interfere with the
breathalyser, he sucked copper coins
which he refused to remove several
times whilst being held in a police car.
This sentence comes just days before
Imperial College’s Varsity 2010 kicks
off; the prize-winning game is named
in honour of Williams as he was also
an Imperial College School of Medi-
cine alumnus.
The JPR Williams cup match sees
Imperial College rugby men’s 1st team
take on their Imperial Medicals equiva-
lents. Imperial College have never won
David Harrison
David Harrison the title that JPR Williams traditionally
hands over to the victors himself.
Blood samples taken from Williams
showed that 142 mg of alcohol was
present in 100ml of blood, nearly twice
over the legal limit (80mg)
Williams was on his way home from
Old Deer Park, home to London Welsh
and the same venue in which the Varsity
finalewilltakeplaceonthe17thofMarch.
Williams had an illustrious career in
international rugby spanning 12 years
after his first appearance for Wales in
1969. He is also a qualified doctor, who
graduated from a founder college of
Imperial College School of Medicine
in 1973.
His solicitor said that “he hopes some
good will come of today and that oth-
ers, both young and old, will not fol-
low his example and will refrain from
drink-driving.”

