7
felix FRIDAY 12 MARCH 2010
COMMENT
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
I
have a tendency for liking things
other people don’t.
James Blunt, for example.
While other people might
sheepishly admit to liking
Goodbye, My Lover or 1973 after
much persuasion and arm-breaking,
I’ll happily confess that I’ve bought
both his albums and am anxiously
waiting on a third. Egg mayonnaise
as a sandwich filling is another. Way
back in primary school, none of the
other boys and girls wanted to sit near
me at lunchtime. They all thought –
and hoped – that I was dying of some
atrocious bowel disease. Even the
teachers gave me a wide berth.
Another thing close to my heart is
the London Underground.
Now, for someone who lives in Lon-
don, and thereby uses the Tube, this
might seem like a very strange thing
to say. They say that the one reliable
thing about it is its unreliability, that
the only time the trains run on time
is when you’re running late, and that
they run a timetable you can set your
calendar to. But I don’t care. I like the
London Underground and I’m not
afraid to say (write) that.
Perhaps I should explain:
For one thing, when you travel on
the Underground, you’re not just trav-
elling through space – you’re travel-
ling through time! (And faster than
the usual one second per second) A
good example of this is the Jubilee
line. Start off at Stanmore in the wilds
of Middlesex, a fairly ordinary sta-
tion with a penchant for crosswords.
By the time you reach Westminster,
you’ve arrived a hundred years in the
future (though, paradoxically, still
twenty minutes late). With polished
steel and glass abound, and strange
doors between the platform and the
trains, it’s the perfect setting for a
cautionary tale of dystopian woe.
Keep on going to Canning Town and,
like the scientist from The Time Ma-
chine, you’ve travelled too far in time.
The majestic, Orwellian architecture
has been replaced by simple concrete
blocks while Morlocks and the driver-
less tin cans of the DLR skulk nearby.
There’s also the aspect of travelling
itself. Everyone assembles on the plat-
form, the train arrives, doors open,
the masses pile in – then silence! The
sacred rules of the Underground,
which must be obeyed, are that you
don’t move, you don’t talk and you
especially don’t breathe. You’re per-
mitted to read the Metro or even a
paperback if you had the foresight
to bring one but heaven help you if
you dare start to laugh. Everyone re-
treats inside themselves like a clutch
of socially inept tortoises. John Donne
wrote that no man is an island; maybe
so, but there’s a very interesting archi-
pelago chain in the next carriage.
I actually find this rather amus-
ing. For reasons even I don’t entirely
comprehend, I have found myself rid-
ing the rails in quite bizarre apparel;
a vampire, a gangster and – worst of
all – a tree, among others. I can tell
by the way the other passengers furi-
ously bury their heads in The Evening
Standard that they are worried about
me and my mental health. But it’s sim-
pler than that – they’ve acknowledged
my presence and I find my existence
ratified. It’s rather nice actually, to
know I exist.
But I think there’s a lot of poten-
tial on the Underground. More than
three million people travel on the
Tube every day and most of them
do...nothing. Just think of what could
be accomplished with three million
idle minds; professors and plumb-
ers, bankers and buskers, solicitors
and shop assistants. We could solve
the conundrums of our age: global
warming, the middle east and why
exactly toast seems to land butter-
side down.
And Transport for London seems
to be cottoning on to this as well. I
saw a poster in South Kensington
Station the other day of Gandhi with
the quote, “There’s more to life than
increasing speed.” The idea behind
this was to provoke a philosophical
reverie in commuters. And I strongly
believe it will. That, or a murderous
rage from passengers on the Circle
Line.
But what I love most about the Un-
derground is the mystery of it. Of all
the time we spend in those carriages
do we consider what’s on the outside?
It’s a brave new world on the other
side of the Perspex, of disused tracks
and abandoned stations, forgotten
improvements and remembered sew-
ers. What I wouldn’t give to go explor-
ing down there, late at night after the
trains have stopped. Who knows what
I might find? I’m still banking on the
outside chance that there’s Nazi gold
in a boarded-up station on the Picca-
dilly Line.
So I reiterate. I love the London Un-
derground. Time-travel, philosophy,
adventure!
Just try getting any of that on the
No. 10 bus to Hammersmith.
RhysDavisadmitshissoft-spotfortheTube
“The sacred rules of
the Underground
which must be
obeyed, are that
you don’t move,
you don’t talk and
you especially don’t
breathe.”
T
he night before writing this, I
went to see MTSoc’s produc-
tion of ‘Hair’ in the Union
Concert Hall. And for your
sake, I hope that the night af-
ter reading this you go see it yourselves.
I realise, of course, that by indulging in
such a shameless plug I leave myself open
to charges of nepotism and insider trad-
ing. I cannot deny my heavy involvement
with the dramatic side of life at Imperial,
and I like to call myself a friend of many
in the show’s cast. But if there is any dou-
ble dealing going on in these column
inches, and if there are any interests that
I am deviously trying to promote, then
those interests, devoted reader, are yours.
The opening night performance I at-
tended was possibly the most powerful
and moving theatrical experience I have
enjoyed since coming to London three
years ago. I hope that my friends in the
production will forgive me for setting the
expectation bar precariously high above
the Union bar, but I know from painful
experience that I can’t be sued for ex-
pressing a personal opinion.
Some others, I know, came out of the
auditorium mildly impressed. Many
emerged with the feeling of an enjoyable
evening well-spent and there may have
been one or two who would have pre-
ferred to be elsewhere. Mainly among the
technical crew, I’ll wager.
I cannot, of course, speak for you. You
mayloveit,youmayhateit,youmaywalk
out halfway through the performance or
skip down the aisle strewing flowers to
the cry of ‘make love, not war.’
Now I have given you the legally man-
dated space to form your own opinions
and indeed eagerly invited you to do
so. There is now no power in the world
which can stop me from saying that the
experience played chords of unbearable
plangency on the sleep-deprived and
malleable clavinova of my emotions.
Art has the power to inspire and in-
timidate in equal measure. And for un-
derstandable reasons, it is often artwork
in one’s own medium of choice that im-
proves technique and encourages crea-
tive growth. On rare occasions, however,
even the most reclusive kayaker charting
his own course along the creative gulf
stream will come across detritus jetti-
sonedfromsomeotherartisticcraft.And
the collision can be difficult to handle.
As an occasional writer, I use words
and, once in a while, the odd dab of punc-
tuation to lighten the monotony. Power-
ful tools, you would be tempted to think.
Direct hand-me-downs from Shake-
speare by way of Keats, Wilde, Shaw,
Nabokov and countless others. If the Old
Testament’s account of Genesis is to be
believed, these are tools which predated
and indeed generated the cosmos. Not
bad equipment for an artist.
But then I turn the radio on. Or I catch
the end of a trailer advertising a new film.
Or I stroll through an exhibition at the
Barbican. Or I sit in during the opening
night of a stage musical.
One’s own tools fade into insignifi-
cance when confronted with a supreme
emotional experience. There is nothing
you can say, no words you could write,
no pictures you could draw which rival
the message carried by a simple tune. No
music which can recreate the impact of
the most delicate marble figurines.
The original GPS coordinates on this
piece were set to bear left through a
contemplative account of the ‘60s hippie
movement before turning right in three
hundred metres to a discussion of mod-
ern apathy and stopping in front of your
final destination to urge you to vote in
the ongoing Union elections. But I have
lost faith and interest in the power of lan-
guage, and have neither time nor space to
indulge you even if I wanted to.
Whatever you do, Go Vote. Then Go to
see Hair. I’ll see you there.––
GileadAmitwoulddiscussapathy,only...
“I hope that my
friends will forgive
me for setting the
bar so high above
the Union’s”

