SCIENCE
Science Editors
Science Editors Nathan Ley & Brigette Atkins
Nathan Ley & Brigette Atkins
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
9
felix FRIDAY 12 MARCH 2010
Miriam Frankel
Miriam Frankel
The city of Concepcion in
Chile has been translated
10 feet to the west thanks
the the huge earthquake
that struck near Maule (in-
cidentally the fifth most
powerful since seismic
measurements began). The
event, which was measured
to be of magnitude 8.8,
also shifted other parts of
South America as far as the
Falkland Islands and Brazil. The impact caused on February 27th
was measured by comparing precise GPS locations from before
the event and after. Santiago had moved 11 inches southwest, and
even Buenos Aries - 800 miles from the epicentre - moved an inch.
The Large Hadron Col-
lider is to close down
to repair mistakes that
were created during its
construction. Dr Steve
Myers of CERN told the
BBC that the collider
will close at the end of
2011. “It’s something
that, with a lot more
resources and with a lot more manpower and quality
control, possibly could have been avoided but I have
difficulty in thinking that this is something that was a
design error,” he said. The collider is expected to reach
world record power later this month at a power of 7 tril-
lion electron volts (TeV), as it attempts to replicate the
conditions from the begining of the universe.
For the first time, ancient DNA has been exctracted from the
fossilised eggshells of birds, from which it is hoped that in-
formation will be extracted as to their physiology, diet, and
also how they went extinct. DNA has been collected from
fossilised eggshells of birds that died thousands of years ago,
the oldest being that of an Australian emu that died around
19000 years ago. This is the first time that scientists have suc-
ceeeded in extracting ancient DNA from fossilised eggshells.
A technique called confocal microscopy was used which
enabled researchers to see exactly where the DNA is located
inside the eggshells. It is then hoped that he total DNA make-
up of an organism (the genome) could then be extracted and
sequenced. Eggshells from both the Little Bush Moa and the
Heavy Footed Moa were estimated to be older than 3000
years, but attempts to collect DNA from a 50,000 year old
flightless bird failed due to excess degradation.
In
brief
LHC to shut down DNA from extinction? City moved by 10 feet
The most expensive substance ever
produced by mankind - antimatter -
will be easier to make in the future. All
it takes is a short-pulse laser and some
gold.
'Antimatter' certainly has a mysteri-
ous ring to it - no wonder it's a popular
theme in science fiction. In "Star Trek",
it is antimatter that powers the space
crafts, and in Dan Brown's recent best-
seller "Angels and Demons", antimatter
is stolen from CERN in order to create
a bomb that can destroy the Vatican.
But antimatter is not just science
fiction; it actually is being produced
in small quantities at laboratories like
CERN, using huge particle accelera-
tors. It is claimed to be the most ex-
pensive material ever produced, with
an estimated cost ranging from 25 bil-
lion up to 60 trillion USD per gram,
depending on the type of antimatter
created.
What researchers have been waiting
for is a cheap, simple method of pro-
ducing greater quantities of it - and
they may not have to wait long. Last
year, a research team from the Law-
rence Livermore National Laboratory
in California was successful in creat-
ing a large number of antiparticles by
simply shooting a laser through a gold
foil. And by improving their method,
this year the team is hoping to create
even more.
Antimatter is composed of antipar-
ticles, in the same way that normal
matter is made up of particles. Anti-
particles are simply regular particles
with an opposite charge. The positron,
for instance, is the antimatter compan-
ion of the electron. But, as soon as an
antimatter particle comes into contact
with a regular particle, they are con-
verted into pure-energy radiation in a
process called annihilation.
The Livermore researchers discov-
ered that, when shooting a short-pulse
laser through a millimetre-thick gold
foil, electrons from the material are re-
leased. The laser accelerates the elec-
trons so they move around at very high
energies, colliding with the particles in
the foil.
The collisions cause the electrons to
lose energy, which is given off as ra-
diation. In the end, this radiation gets
transformed into positron-electron
pairs due to interaction with the gold
nuclei. This process is simply the re-
verse of annihilation, and is called pair
production. In that way, over 100 bil-
lion positrons are created using simple
laboratory tools. "This is far more than
has ever been detected in laser ex-
periments before," says Hui Chen, the
Livermore physicist leading the team.
In order to detect the antimatter par-
ticles, the researchers used a regular
electron detector. Since positrons are
just electrons with an opposite charge,
the detector could easily be converted
to register them.
The results of the measurements
were published in The Physical Review
Letters last year. This year, the team
is hoping to create even more posi-
trons: a second measurement using a
slightly different experimental setup is
underway.
Very little antimatter has been creat-
ed in the laboratory so far. In fact, even
if all the antimatter that has ever been
produced in accelerators around the
world were annihilated with normal
matter, the released energy couldn't
even power a light bulb for a day.
More is certainly needed - scientists
think that antimatter may even have
practical uses, for example in the fu-
ture in astrophysics and medicine. An-
other possibility further down the line
is to create a gamma-ray laser based on
the induced annihilation of electron-
positron pairs.
Antimatter researchers face fasci-
nating challenges. The universe, as we
know it, is composed of far more mat-
ter than antimatter. This is very puz-
zling, since current theory says the two
should have been almost equally abun-
dant at the time of the Big Bang. But if
that is true - why didn't all particles an-
nihilate each other immediately in the
early universe?
Scientists have speculated on the
causes of this so-called asymmetry
since it was first discovered, but it has
remained one of the greatest mysteries
in physics to date. Peter Beiersdorfer,
a Livermore physicist working with
Chen, has high hopes about the ex-
periment's use in understanding the
asymmetry: "By creating this much
antimatter, we can study in more detail
whether antimatter really is just like
matter, and perhaps gain more clues as
to why the universe we see has more
matter than antimatter".
Hopefully, the upcoming Livermore
experiment will produce more anti-
matter particles than the previous
one, and offer deeper insights into the
asymmetry problem. It seems that in
order to understand the matter from
which we emerged, antimatter really
matters.
The unusual shape of so-called dwarf
galaxies has long been a mystery to
dark-matter cosmology. But research
recently published in Nature has now
revealed the missing piece of the puz-
zle: exploding stars.
The star-studded sky may look daz-
zling, but most of it is composed of
invisible matter. A successful theory of
cosmology, known as the “Cold Dark
Matter (CDM) model”, states that 85%
of the universe’s mass is made up of
an invisible, cold, and unknown sub-
stance called 'dark matter'.
According to CDM theory, a galaxy
typically forms as a spinning halo of
dark matter pulls in surrounding ma-
terial to its core - resulting in a bulge
of stars and dark matter at the galactic
centre. But dwarf galaxies lack such a
lump, and have for this reason posed a
threat to the theory.
“It was definitely a red alert kind of
threat,” explains Fabio Governato of
the University of Washington. “The
inability of the [CDM] model to re-
produce the properties of dwarf gal-
axies might have required changing
Newtonian gravity […] or required dif-
ferent properties for the dark-matter
candidate.”
Exploding stars
throw new light on
dark matter
Antimatter research
strikes gold this time
3D map of the large-scale distrbution of dark matter in the observable universe
Miriam Frankel
Miriam Frankel In the end, it was exploding stars
- supernovas - that saved the day for
cosmology. Governato’s research team
showed that winds generated by super-
novas near the center of a dwarf galaxy
can ‘push out’ the matter surrounding
it. When this effect was added to the
CDM model, super-computer simula-
tions could finally predict the shape of
dwarf galaxies.
Supernovas cannot, however, disturb
the massive centers of large galaxies.
Dwarf galaxies are different because
they have such a low mass - their gravi-
tational pull can't overcome the out-
ward flow of matter generated by the
supernova winds.
The new computer model has suc-
cessfully matched several observations
of dwarf galaxies. “The ability to match
multiple observations is a crucial test
of models such as ours, and gives us
much confidence in our results” says
Chris Brooks of University of Central
Lancashire, UK, who was part of the
research team.
The next challenge for the team is to
use the model to more accurately re-
produce bigger galaxies, such as our
own Milky Way.
It looks like scientists may still be in
the dark concerning the nature of dark
matter - but at least they are now more
convinced of its existence.

