Sport MkWkWaWBMmWkW/tamWkW§maM
T h e H y d e P a r k R e l a y
Anyone visiting the Union Building on
, Saturday and finding conditions resembling a
' refugee camp could have been mistaken for
thinking that Evelyn Gardens had been
nuked'. The real reason was that for the 36th
year the Cross-Country Club were staging the
Hyde Park Relays. The semi-arctic condi-
tions, with snow flurries, were only held at
bay by the free Nike thermal T-shirts given to
competitors. After a mornings labouring, at a
time when most sensible students are still in
bed, the Union Building and three-mile
course around the Serpentine had been made
ready by club members, old boys and
hangers-on.
When the race started at 2:30pm it proved
to hold no obstacles for the Loughborough
team who clocked another victory in 84min
03sec ahead of the whinging Birmingham
Univ squad who seemed to think that they
were the only team composed of bone-fide
students, a fact which is undoubtedly true.
Third place went to the West London
Institute of Higher Education. The
Loughborough team lead the way among the
afternoon's victors by not returning the
trophy they won last year—rumour has it that
it was melted down to buy matching
tracksuits and 'wet-look' satin shorts. Fastest
. lap went to Dave Clarke of W L I H E with a
b y N i g e l F e n w i c k
time of 13min 19sec. Clarke in his late
twenties and running for about the tenth time
has allegedly become a 'student' again after a
few years on the staff team.
The ladies race was won by W L I H E , who
also didn't return the trophy they won last
year having pawned it to buy matching Nora
Batty tights, in a new course record time of
46min 57secs. It was thus surprising that the
fastest lap went to Crewe & Alsager's Kay
Barringham, who was neither man nor ex-
student and so received the prize uncontested.
Her team finished nearly 3mins behind
W L I H E and in second place due to a very
neat vanishing act performed by Kent ladies.
In amongst all this you may ask was there
an IC team and where did it finish? The awful
truth is that they were roundly hammered by
an aging old boys team more noted for their
receeding hairlines, faded vests and alcoholic
tremors than ay athletic ability. All the same
they finished in 34th place.
No report last week for those of you who
wondered as not much happened. This week,
however, a bumper edition.
Team 1 lost despite maintaining that they
really are trying to avoid relegation. They lost
to Dept of Employment who in the last table
were bottom! Perhaps you should play with
your snooker cue Chris.
Team 3 played twice. Tuesday saw Exiles
come and go. We lost but successfully took
the piss after one piece of 'gamesmanship'
when one of our team had fought back from
3-12 down to 19-20. On making a noise on a
net cord for deuce the opponent 'demanded' a
let, whence the game was lost to us.
Subsequently there was no initiative among
us to play so we extracted the Michael.
Wednesday, however, saw a different team.
We all travelled to Barbican (long way for us)
to play. City University and thanks to
Wladek playing like a hero (yet again) we
won!
A l l this dwindles into significances,
however, when reporting Team 4's game. In
the continuation of their remarkable recovery
they B E A T Lyndhurst III who are currently
lying 4th in the division. Thanks to Mike
Smith and especially to Brian Norminton
who won all his.
Team 5 have actually now submitted
reports for their last three games which
Page 12 I H M H H H H L M H f f N f f i H
apparently they won. Their most convincing
margin being 9-0 against L S E . I have been
asked to say thanks to Phillip Milne for his
Mega style batwork in winning virtually
everything and to give condolences to shiny
Hing Man who has been very unlucky
recently not to realise any results.
Next week's report will contain the A G M
election results, and if you missed the meeting
Tough!
I couldn't think of anything to write about in
this report, until Pallab mentioned S E X . I
thought that this was such a good idea to
write about that now there will be no
Badminton this Friday. Instead, at 7:30pm in
Southside, Chris Bean will give a talk on
'other uses for badminton racquets'.
Monday Badminton will take the form of a
Roman style orgy in Southside for the rest of
this term. However, on all the other
remaining Fridays, 'suppose we'd better play
some badminton and not start the 'beating'
sessions until about 10:00pm.
The last report of the term will hopefully
contain as many items of scandal as possible.
Anyone who wants to embarrass other
members of the club please contact me with
details. They don't necessarily have to be
entirely accurate.
^BB)MMFriday, March 2, 1984
Oh, yes, matches and things. Mens 2 have
won one and lost one to the same team since
the last edict.
Basketball
L
Hi M o m and Pa
Having a great time here playing for IC
in between appearances for second div
London.
Gotten my name in the College rag F E L I X
other week cept there was no final
score—well course we won man 99-90 how
could we lose with me playing?
Anyways last week we also beat Q M C 88-
71.
The guys tell me theys big rivals, being the
only team to have beaten Imperial this
season, but I won't take no shit from them
muthfukres!
I just went on court and put in ten points in
a row and they never recovered. The rest of
the guys played reasonable defence—we
stopped the guy with the bun on his head
from scoring as freely as in previous matches,
even their 7'2" guy couldn't save them.
Offence the guys would give the ball so as I
could pull some superb baseline drives etc.
If was a good match but I had it sown up
that I rest most of the first half!
Gotta go the freakshow man.
Love Robert.

