Ladies Sport
At last the long awaited report. A l l this really
has to say is about the new exercise bicycle in
the multigym in the sports centre. The bike
has been bought to encouarge ladies to use
the multigym, so do please give it a go. The
only catch is would all users of the bike enter
their names in the book provided. This is so
we can tell whether the bike was worth the
money or not. Your cooperation in this
matter would be appreciated.
Finally if there's anything concerning
ladies sports, or even anything scandalous or
libelous that I might be vaguely interested in,
let me know.
IC Ladies X V 8 Q M C Ladies X V 4
To complete the full set of rugby features
against Q M C the ladies played on a cold but
dry day at Harlington. There was much for
the few spectators, including ITV film crew,
to cheer about as the game was played with all
the fervour and committment that befalls all
grudge matches against Q M C . The forward
game was frequently scrappy, neither sides
being able to gain control and tidy up the
loose ball, too give the platform which was
required. In the set pieces honours were fairly
evenly shared. Q M C dominating the lineout
and IC the scrums, the latter often being
problematical due to the over keeness of the
IC front row to lower the service, leading to
many collapses. The both sets of
threequarters exhibited good positional
sense, and some good straight running was
seen. Hardee's disease was apparent with too
many passes being fumbled, though the
passing was of good quality in the main. IC
opened the scoring after about 10 minutes of
the first half through Vanessa Yates, the ball
was passed down the line to the wing; she then
ran past her opponents number and the full
back to score from the half way line. In the
process she left the referee struggling to keep
up, and all were grateful for the delay caused
by the IC kicker building a mound of not
insignificant proportions. With the conversion
narrowly being missed the game restarted
with Q M C tightening up their game and
increasing their resolve. A period of sustained
pressure followed, with all the play in IC's
half, however this was not converted with
plants. In the second half Q M C were starting
to get on top and a firm handling move, the
ball again going down' the line to the wing
resulted in a try. Perhaps the men's
threequarters could learn something here.
The game then reverted to its previous
scrappy opening, and it looked like a draw
until thg' IC scrumhalf, Leah Wallbank,
broke form the base of the scrum, and in a
« solo effort ran fhe try in from forty yards,
barely outpacing the cover. The final score
was 8-4 in favour of IC. Today a report on
Ladies Rugby including excerpts of the match
will be shown on the 'Six O'clock Show' on
ITV at, wait for it, six o'clock.
Castaways Cup
IC 11st IC II equal 3rd
This is the inter-London team-racing trophy
and was competed for by six teams from
London colleges and visiting teams from City
University and U E A . The teams were
organised in to two leagues, with the top two
of each league going through to semi-finals.
IC I won all their races in their league. IC II
however, managed to actually lose a race to
Q M C , but gained a place in the semi-finals as
runners-up in their league.
The semi-finals brought the two IC teams
together on the Sunday. A great deal of
psychological warfare was attempted before
the match with IC II trying to put good old j
'Skip' Jones (can't have a report without
mentioning him!) off his stride by promising
to sink him. His minder/crew, Kate B - C
however, countered this by threatening to hit
on the nose anyone who tried this!
In the first race the author's boat shot into
the lead with some expert role-tacking by his
crew, Richard Tostevin. However this was
not enough for IC II to win and IC I finished
with a winning 2, 3, 4 combination. The
second race was yet another victory for IC I.
The final was then IC I against Q M C , who
had won the other semi. This was won by IC,
two races to one. The defeat of last year, when
Q M C won the trophy in the event which is
traditionally won by IC, was therefore
avenged.
Icarus
O r i e n t e e r i n g
On Saturday the Orienteering Club entered a
team in the Hyde Park Relay, striking fear
into the cross-country team as we used to beat
them in this race! However, with a big event
the following day a type of running
unfamiliar to orienteers, we were obliged to
relinquish an early lead and let them beat us
this year.
The main event of the weekend was the
Midland Championships, a premier event
offering demanding navigation and quality
terrain. Simon 'Captain Coke' Errington
amazed us by finishing third in one of the top
classes, while Bruce Bricknell justified his
seeding in the elite A class with a fine run. The
others had less amazing runs, but doubtless
learned much from the demanding courses.
'Wally of the Week' award goes to me, for a
new low in performance after the mega Hyde
Park Relay piss-up on Saturday night!
Now that the cross country season is over,
maybe some of their team may like to try
some really hard running: navigation over
wild terrain at speed—that's orienteering.
Punchdrunk
Two uniformedf?) teams caused a sensation
in the recent RCS six aside soccer competition
by reaching the final in the face of strong
opposition.
In a tense semi-final miniscule student
house team, Rayleigh House Academicals,
defeated holders Mining House two-nil with
goals from Meeres and Bradley and a string of
saves from keeper Slater. In the other semi-
final Neil's Neds, allegedly a team of
undergraduate chemists, had an easy win
over the rugged Purples.
The final was a closely fought affair with
Neil's Neds opening their account with a fine
shot on the turn from V a n den Begin
Rayleigh equalised with a neat header from
Reynolds only for Neil's Neds to clinch it in
the final minute.
FELIXl
\Frlday, March 2, 1984\
Dear Member or Potential Member
A short note to keep you up to date with
events so far.
About two weeks ago we became an official
club within the Imperial College Union. Last
week was the first week of 'real action'. Like
most weeks it started on a Monday, though I
suppose that depends on your particular view
of the world. Nevertheless this particular
Monday we had a meeting at lunchtime, and
elected a committee to run the club. A list
went around the nine brave souls volunteered,
for a skiing trip on Wednesday.
On Tuesday the committee met. Basically
all that was discussed was how to get some
money from the Union and how, once it was
acquired, to spend it best. We agreed that the
priority should be to subsidise the cost of
being towed, as we felt that with a bit of good
will and tolerance, we could manage being a
few wetsuits short. Apparently the sailboard
people manage with about three between
eighty of them The question of the
'edgebar' came up, and the chairman looks'
like having a busy weekend* botching one up!
Once fitted it should be a great help to those
(principally me, it seems) who* aren't already
proficient.
Wednesday was very windy, even so all
seven that actually came had a tow. The wind
meant that spray was a problem, and the only
real cold bits were exposed hands and feet.
There may be a case for getting some gloves
and socks. That said, we still survived pretty
well, and I for one am looking forward to
more afternoons in the docks, especially as
the weather improves.
The good news saved until last; simply that
if all goes to plan, skiing will be subsidised
down to £2.90 as opposed to the present £4 a
shot. It's not final yet. (We're still working on
it)...so keep your fingers crossed!
All the best until Monday, i Trevor
1
(Secretary)
mmUWk^k^k^MUWUWMWMUUUM\ P^ge

