Clubs
Today is tne second anniversary of the
pinching of Mary—so go to the Chelsea
College Beer Festival tomorrow and cele-
brate.
On Sunday Jez is going pumping so if you
want to get wet turn up at the garage at
11:00am, suitably dressed.
Tuesday is dinner day: Chem Soc annual
beano cost £10 from any committee member
and is to be held in the SCR.
Friday we have a small stunt in the evening
outside Harrods—come dressed for the
occasion and on Saturday 10 March we have
the Leap-frog down Ken High St—Prizes,
both alcoholic and not on offer! Turn up
10:00am in the R C S U Office.
DP the VP
j
Thanks to all those who turned up to swim
and support the swimming gala, I expect we
will win but as its Monday now I don't know.
On Sunday, 4 March, there is the Guilds
Soccer Sixes, anyone who wants to support,
turn up at 10:00am at Beit Arch, the coach is
free and the bar is open all day at Harlington.
On Monday the Guilds election papers go
up, by the clock in Mech Eng so if you fancy
standing for a post next year, come in to the
Guilds Office for a chat, and then sign your
name on the relevant paper.
Chem E n g Soc
Don't forget to buy your tickets for the Chem
Eng Soc dinner which is on Friday 9 March at
the International Hotel. Guests include M r
Brian Street, President of Institute of
Chemical Engineers and the Rector. Tickets
available for £12.50 from Soc Reps.
A REVOLVING CAGE
Thursdays 1:00pm starting 8 MarGh,
Huxley 213.
'THE SQUARE ROOT OF MINUS
ONE' A look at the paradox of human
nature and what its like to be a white
mouse.
Page 14
ICSO
Louise Glanville.
Tonight's concert at 8:0pm in the Great Hall
marks the fifth anniversary of Richard
Dickins waving his arms in front of us and
being totally ignored. The orchestra will be
playing Strauss' Till Eulenspiegel, Mozmrt
Flute Concerto in G Major (soloist Louise
Glanville) and Tchaikovsky's Fifth Sym-
phony. It is not yet known what Richard will
be conducting (but rumour has it that 'The
Rite of Spring' is in the air). In order to help
erase the memory of what promises to be an
unforgettable concert, there will be a cheese
and wine party afterwards, to which everyone
is invited. The food will be free and the wine
cheap (in price, not in quality). Tickets for the
concert can be bought on the door, 80p for
students and £1 for adults.
SDP
Recently IC SDPS sent a delegate to its
annual student conference, where they
represented IC on issues such as education,
youth, women and Europe.
Next Thursday 8 March, we are holding a
meeting in E E at 12:45 where we will be
hearing about the conference in details, and
about our new President, Prof Cunningham
and our planned events for this term, mainly a
trip to the House of Commons. We will also
be holding elections for posts on our
'management team'—papers are up in the
Union Building.
CND Festival
19-22 March Tickets only £3.
FILMS: Catch 22, Hair, All Quiet on
the Western Front.
PARTY: Disco, food and drinks,
guitar music and a Peter Sellars
double-bill: Being There;
Dr Strangelove.
• • • • Friday. March 2, 1984,
§MM
Consoc
Next week (well two days of it!) is going to be
' N A T O Week'. On Monday, D r Jamie Shea,
Nato Youth Officer, will be coming to speak
on 'The Justification for Both Possessing and
M o d e r n i z i n g Our" N u c l e a r ' A r s e n a l ' .
Although not'very well known, he is a very
good speaker well able to answer any
questions, however awkward. The event will
take plac.e in Huxley 340 at 1:00pm. Also, on
Tuesday, Paul Cassidy, Political/Military
Attache at the American Embassy will be
speaking on ' N A T O ' s Deterrent and Nuclear
Arms Control' (Chem Eng LT2, 1:00pm).
Everyone is welcome to attend these events.
Finally, if anyone would like to order any
posters etc (as advertised in Morning Cloud)
please return the forms to me by the end of
next week.
ICCND
This coming Sunday (4 March), there is a
Student and Youth C N D National Demo. It
has been organised by London Student C N D
and has the backing of the Police. The march
goes from the Department of Education to
Trafalgar Square and everybody is to
assemble at Jubilee Gardens at noon. A t
Jubilee Gardens there will be speeches and
entertainment. Also there will be a 'cheque'
going around for people to sign and this will
be handed into 10 Downing Street (this was a
suggestion of the Police's). Anybody wanting
to go in a group should meet at Beit Arch
11:15 Sunday morning. Hopefully there will
be students from universities and polys from
all over the country so please try and go so
that Imperial is well represented.
The festival at the end of this term starts on
Moday 19 March with the film Catch 22 and
continues with Hair on Tues, All Quiet on the
Western Front on Wed and a Party on Thurs-
day. Tickets for the whole week are £3 from
our bookshop in the J C R , Friday, 1:00pm.
The 'Peace Pledge' was launched very suc-
cessfully and will be circulating College until
some time next academic year. If you have
not signed it yet please do (you will get a free
badge!).
Imperial College Overseas
Students Committee
presents
INTERNATIONAL
EVENING
Saturday 10 March
7:30pm JCR
Cost £2.00
includes
international supper,
cultural display and disco
\ FELIX

