Elections
Next Monday and Tuesday elections will be held for the posts of President,
Deputy President, Honorary Secretary and FELIX Editor. Next year's sabbati-
cal officers will be representing student interests on College committees, manage
the clubs, societies and entertainment the Union provides. The FELIX Editor
must be able to campaign on relevant issues and keep you informed in a lively
and entertaining manner. This weekend you are going to have to sift through the
mass of election bumph thrust upon you and decide who the right people for the
various jobs are.
Detailed information about the candidates and their policies can be found in
their manifestos in FELIX and their handouts. These should be taken with a
pinch of salt. Candidates often exaggerate their qualifications and make
promises they can't fulfill. You should weigh up their promises and consider
whether they are realistic. Some candidates visit the halls and houses canvassing
for votes. Although to some people this is very irritating it is an ideal
opportunity to find out what sort of person they are and whether they can do the
job if elected. The Hustings U G M is by far the best way of deciding who the best
people are. Despite nerves it's amazing how the true qualities of a candidate
shine through, especially when they have to answer questions from the floor. If
you weren't there then ask a friend who was there about how each of the
candidates fared.
The temptation to assume that the Union will continue to run whichever
candidate is elected, is a strong one. However, a poor sabbatical can have a
disastrous effect on the services the Union enjoy. When you vote make sure your
vote next week is an informed one.
Accommodation
The deadline for applications for College accommodation is 9 March, if you
haven't been to the Student Services Office to pick up the application forms then
do so today before it is too late. The accommodation guide on page 5 is designed
to complement the fact sheet available from the Student Services Office. The fact
sheet attempts to 'sell' these places to you, our accommodation guide presents,
hopefully, more of a student's eye view of the options open to you. We have
attempted to be as objective and accurate as possible. We hope it is useful. If you
have any comments about the guide or want to make any corrections please do
send them to me via the FELIX Office.
UGC
The University Grants Committee has sent out a questionnaire to all universities
asking them how higher education should be managed in fugture. The document
itself is very wide ranging, investigating anything from the length of degree
courses to the balance between the numbers of arts and science students. Most
importantly, the questionnaire asks universities to estimate the effects of
cutbacks in government funding. Professor Alan Swanson, Pro Rector, will be
speaking about Imperial College's reply to the questionnaire next Tuesday in
Mech Eng 220 at 1:00pm. Anyone concerned about the future of higher
education should be there.
Credits
Matt Fawcett, Pete Hobbis, Malcom Gray, Andy Gray, Tony Atkins, Diane Love,
Rich Archer, Jon Jones, Lynne James, Sean Davis, J Martin Taylor, Tim Noyce,
Peter Rodgers, David Rowe and Maz. A special thanks to Pete the Printfor printing
this bumper issue.
Pallab Ghosh
Omar's Puzzle
A few people have asked me for a bridge puzzle, so
here's one given to me by Omar, who, aptly enough,
is a civil engineer. It does not require any specialist
knowledge of bridge to solve it. Forthose of you who
don't play bridge, all you need to know is that North
and South play together against East and West; that
you must follow suit if possible; that a trump beats
any non-trump, that each player lays one card in
each trick; that the winner of one trick leads in the
next; that even though North and South play to-
gether, if North wins the trick North leads in the next
trick, South cannot, and that North is dummy, so all
his cards are laid face up on the table for all to see.
South plays all North's cards.
The problem is for North-South take all thirteen
tricks with hearts as trumps. The king of clubs was
led by West, and was beaten in South's hand by the
ace. How do North-South play out the remaining
tricks, in such a way that they will succeed no matter
how the remaining cards are distributed.
G o o d luck, everyone.
North
South
10 9 8
A K
7 6 5 4
7 6
3 2
A Q
A K
Q J
A
2
Q J
10 9 8
Solutions, comments, criticisms to me at the
FELIX Office by 1:00pm on Wednesday, please. £5
from Mend-a-Bike and a pack of cards from Omar
for the randomly selected winner.
Last week's solution
Combining statements (1), (2), (5) and (7), the
scorelines are 1-0, 1-0, 1-1, 2-0, 2-1, 2-2. Knowing
that four of the matches were better teams from the
same area, then because Arsenal played Everton,
two of the matches were Tottenham v Chelsea and
Liverpool v Manchester United. From statement (6),
Tottenham beat Chelsea 2-0. Statement 9 may have
confused you if you misread it, as some people did.
Losing 2-1 is not achieving the same result as
winning 2-1, so Newcastle won 2-1, Liverpool lostO-
1 and Arsenal drew 1-1. From (3) and (4) Sunderland
beat Wolves 1-0, so keeping the rule of four local
matches, Newcastle must have won 2-1 against
Middlesbrough, so Birmingham drew 2-2 with
Coventry. Hence the solution reads
Tottenham 2 Chelsea 0
Newcastle 2 Middlesbrough 1
Manchester United 1 Liverpool 0
Arsenal 1 Everton 1
Sunderland 1 Wolves 0
Birmingham 2 Coventry 2
After a few difficult puzzles, I thought it time for a
fairly straightforward one. Accordingly there were
thirty-eight correct solutions, and Alex Wilson of
Elec Eng 1 was the randomly selected winner. He
can collect his £5 prize, courtesy of Mend-a-Bike
from the FELIX Office after 1:30pm on Monday.
Thanks, Sharpshooter.
FFl IX is oublished bv the Editor for and on behalf of Imperial College Union Publications Board and is printed bythe UnioniPrinlUnit Prince Consort Rd^Sm
Tel 01 -589 51llextn1048 or internal 2881. Editor: Pallab K Ghosh, Business Manager.PeterRodgers;Advert,singManager:HughSoutheVCopynghtFELlX 1984

