Feature
THE P
I
M
L
I
C
O C
O
N
N
E
C
T
I
O
N
The Pimlico Connection started eight years ago, when twelve electrical
engineering students began 'tutoring' at nearby Pimlico Comprehensive
(hence the name of the society). Since then the project has steadily
developed until now around eighty students are involved each year, tutor-
ing six local schools. Outside recognition of 'Pimlico's' educational value
has come from the Royal Society of Arts, with an Education for Capability
award last year.
Tutoring
Tutoring involves students working with
small groups of schoolchildren within normal
classes, usually during practical lessons. The
aim is to give the pupils more help and atten-
tion than a teacher alone could provide. Be-
cause students are often closer to the pupils
in both age ard attitude than the teacher, the
kids find it easier to ask questions and seek
help. Tutoring is not at all like formal
teaching—the atmosphere is usually friendly,
with the tutors in a role similar to that of post-
graduates helping out in practicals here at
£ ^plmperial. The teachers still retain overall res-
w- ponsibility and co-ordinate and supervise the
lessons.
Why do people do it?
Some students are interested in becoming
teachers, and so try tutoring to decide if
teaching is likely to be right for them. Others
have no intention to become teachers, but
- . . . try tutoring because they think it will be fun. It
usually is, because the work is not taxing, the
kids are enjoyable to be with and tutoring
makes a pleasant change from the abstrac-
tion and day-to-day slog of university life.
Many students find that tutoring is of value
academically because it gives practice in
communicating scientific ideas simply and
effectively. People on the scheme often say
that it helps them realise that one of the major
problemsJor scientists is their inability t o '
communicate properly with people outside
their particular discipline.
What involved?
Tutoring is usually for a couple of hours on
Wednesday afternoons from October to mid-
February. Most of the kids are first and
second years at the four comprehensives,
because they are at the age when interest in
science, especially amongst girls, needs most
encouragement. Older age groups are also
tutored, up to an Electronics Workshop for
Sixth Formers. The youngest pupils are
those aged 10/11 in their final year at the two
primary schools. Fox and St Clement and St
James'. Thus tutors can have some choice
over the sort of age-group they would like to
tutor.
The same choice applies to the subjects
tutored. General Science and Maths are the
most common, at all age groups. Students
with workshop experience help out with
metalwork, woodwork and engineering
drawing. The work isn't difficult—the main
thing is to sort out problems and get across
ideas in a simple and easily understood way.
All tutors stay with the same class
throughout the tutoring period, so you get to
know the kids well. The idea of teaching
hordes of unruly thirteen-year-olds seems to
put many people off. But tutoring isn't like
teaching at all. You work with small groups,
and once the kids realise you're not a
despised 'teacher', they become friendly and
enthusiastic. In fact they're often far more
interested in you than the work, so you're
continually being asked about your private
life: 'Have you got a boy/girl-friend?', 'How's
your sex life?' and so on. It's hopeless to
parry this sort of question with 'Oh, look at
this equation—isn't the proof interesting!' All
one can do is ask them how their sex life is
going, which embarrasses them in turn.
A Typical Lesson
A tutor wrote the following account of a
typical lesson for this article.
'I've been tutoring 10/11 year olds at Fox
Primary this year. The mixed-ability group I
work with each week consists of four girls
and two boys.
'Imagine you're running along carrying a
ball and you drop it as you cross a line on the
playground. WiD the ball land on the line, in
front of it or behind it?'
The boys tend to say the first thing that
occurs to them, and get it wrong. They,
however, learn quickly as they try it out. The
lirjei-iend to think harder and their initial
answers are often right, but they are
reluctant to speak up or show it in practice
for fear of being wrong. One girl, Trixie, said
'It will land on the line, because when you
drop something, it goes straight down. Like
we showed last week.' Another girl, Emily
believed 'The ball will land in front of the line
when you drop it, it sort oL.carYies on.'
Everyone writes down what they think will
happen. We then troop out to test it in
practice. The kids work in twos—one
running at different speeds and with differ-
ent objects to drop, another taking measure-
ments and writing them down as they occur
When enough people have fallen over and
hurt themselves and enough results tables
have blown away in'the wind, we all go back
indoors to write the lesson up and discuss the
results. Hopefully conservation of momen-
tum will have been shown, if not proved. The
science is at a simple level, but as it's so basic
it's important the kids understand it properly,
or at least have a qualitative feel for the ideas
involved.' _ . . . .
Tony At/cms
In Tuesday 6 March there will be a Recruiting Lunch from 12:30 in Elec
Eng 606. This will give anyone who is interested a chance to meet students
who have tutored this year, and receive more information about how the
scheme is run.
! If you are interested in 'Pimlico' but unable to come to the introductory
meeting, please just contact Dr J S R Goodlad, Elec Eng 501 (int 3080) or
Zygmund Lozinski, D o C 3.
•
/
i * Wr
0 5 ? -
FELIX \ 1Friday, March 2, 19841 Page 7

