Music
M A D M A R C H II
ARNTVA L
Cheap Beer promotion
Bar 'til 2am
Running Order
(Approx)
7.00 Doors Open
8.30 New Model Army Concert Hall
9.30 Skeletal Family Ground Floor
10.30 Serious Drinking Concert Hall
11.30 Orson Family Ground Floor
12.30 Cook da Books Concert Hall
2.00 Films (free coffee) Ground floor
A l s o o n the first floor from 8:30:
steel bands. 2 discos, jazz, m o o n -
l i t b a r b e q u e , J o h n H e g l e y
and the P o p t i c i a n s .
IMusic
ROCK'N'REAL ALE
Serious Drinking could be said to be an
acquired taste. John Peel has gone for
the odd tipple of Serious Drinking on
several occasions, but otherwise they
remain one of the more popular of the
lesser known bands.
At the Hammersmith Palais last
December they had already downed six
or seven pints but still managed to amble
on stage with all the ceremony of guests
lining up for a wedding photograph.
Serious Drinking have been described
as 'a proper punk band forthe 80s'; ie not
a band decked out in studs and leather,
but still with (light hearted) anarchistic
ideas. Their 13-track LP is called The
Revolution Starts at Closing Time and
includes such punky classics as TV Song
and 12XU/Bobby Moore is Innocent. Also
on the album is a mixed bag of songs
about football and Sgt Ernie Bilko who is
also (quite-rightly) featured on the label
and sleeve. A lot of the second side
resembles early Madness/Specials so if
you've had several drinks you might find
yourself bopping along to such goodies
as Baby I'm Dying a Death. Winter's Over
and Love on the Terraces. Serious
Drinking aren't to be taken too seriously,
but it might be an idea to get to the bar in
advance tonight.
Julian Reynolds
FAMILY ENTERTAINMENTnALL NIGHTLONG
ALL'S WELLE WITH
NEW MODEL ARMY
Friday's Carnival is a rare opportunity to catch New Model Army in a London
appearance. The band play rock music, in the broadest sense of the word, with a
cathartic edge of commitment reminiscent of The Alarm but their appeal stems
from strong songs with incisive lyrics rather than two foot high hair-dos. In fact,
as they say in journalese, the band have an image problem which to you and I
means that the lead singer is an ugly bastard. Although he is short of teeth, that
is certainly not true of the music.
Many of NMA's lyrics deal with life in their home town of Bradford; songs of a
dead-end city absorbed in its own self-perpetuating rituals. Fellow locals J B
Priestley and Keith Waterhouse wrote of warmth and intimacy but NMA confront
lethargy, frustrated dreams and Tetley Bittermen.
Don't get the impression that NMA wallow in misery—they are a tonic,
something that won't go amiss at IC with its own brand of apathy to contend
with.
J M Cottom
MARCHING ON!
THE ORSONS
For those who like to categorise music the Orson Family
offer quite a few choices. They've been termed rockabilly,
punkabilly. psychobilly and now lately crampabilly. This is
further evidence of the shift towards old, traditional values
and away from the despair of a few years ago when
everything was suffixed with ism—rockism, minimalism and
so on. The Orson Family aren't alone in this rediscovery of
pre-rock'n'roll styles—two bands who played college last
term, the Chevalier Brothers and Helen and the Horns, are
doing well with their furious jump-jive and melodic country
and western respectively—but the Orsons are certainly well
ahead of the field having released a six-track mini-LP The
River of Desire (new Rose).
Most songs feature the chunky, abrasive guitars of Ruby
and Vernon over the backing beat supplied by Brewster
which is precise on the title track, pummelling on Monster of
Briarly Wood and ever-so-slightly derivative of the shifting
rhythms of the Ruts' Babylon Burning on Breakout. All of
this is overlaid by manic singer Skully who frequently sounds
like the highly eccentric Captain Beefheart but shows his
range on the plaintive Ball and Chain and Buddy Hollyisms
on the quirky Heartbeat.
The NME liked them live last week, I like their record this week
and you should like them tonight.
Peter Rodgers
COOK DA BOOKS - H O T OFF THE PRESSES
Cook da Books have come a long way in
geographical if not musical terms since
their formation as the not quite so snappy
Cook the Books in Liverpool's Fazackerly
district about three years ago.
Their debut single— Piggie in the
Middle Eight-was a catchy reggae-dub
crossover produced by Dennis Bovell
and reminiscent of the Police with
wonderfully resonant bass and coarse
Stingy vocal The B-side was a medley of
well-known television theme tunes
(including The Sweeney and Hawaii Five-
O) played in the same dub style.
Neither this nor follow-ups Low Profile
and / Wouldn't Want to Knock /^'achieved
any chart success although the latter
marked a distinct change in direction.
Page 8 • • • • • • • • • • • •
The reggae influences were abandoned
and the bass which previously defined
the distinctive shape of the melody was
replaced with a leaden thud which totally
undermined their move to what may well
have been some very fine fleet-footed
electro-pop.
However by now these were only minor
irritations as by a stroke of luck the band
had become big in France—courtesy of
the single Your Eyes taken from a film
soundtrack. The single charted all over
E u r o p e and even resulted in an
appearance on one of the Top of the Pops
occasional Eurochart rundowns.
Whilst this was happening they were
also given the support slot on what was to
be the last Undertones tour. Unfor-
tunately they seem to have learned little
from the masters as their soon-to-be-
released single Caress Me on Virgin
subsidary 10, marks the final stage in the
transition from a quirky independent
band to conformist corporation chart-
fodder via lavish production, female
backing singers, lyrics like you're
nothing more than a viper' (shades of
ragged tigers?) and endless refrains of
'yeaah, yeaah wowowo'. Unfortunately
this seems to be what the people want:
Live however they may be a different
proposition as they are still hip enough to
do John Peel sessions.
Peter Rodgers
Tonight's Carnival marks a speedy
return to IC for Yorkshire-based
goth/punk outfit the Skeletal Family.
Their Lounge Lizards gig of a month
ago was enthusiastically received (by
me) and they definitely warrant arriving
on time to see. If you want to find out
more dig out FELIX No 666 but in the
meantime here's a picture of lead
singer Anne-Marie.
! Friday. March 2, 19841 I Page 9

