Founded in 1949 The Newspaper of Imperial College Union
More beer money for students?
Many of you will possibly have read in the Sunday papers about
the possibility of obtaining rent rebates if you live in Hall. Very
few people seem to have any ideas of the situation as the people
who do know are not keen to let on about a possible loophole in
the 1980 Housing Act. The following article is by Sue Telling of
Student Services and outlines the position up-to-date.
The national press, via publicity by the N U S , have drawn the
attention of many people to a clause in the 1980 Housing Act which
appears to enable students living in Halls of Residence to apply for rent
allowances. This sounds like a great way of bolstering grants against
rising residence fees. But unfortunately there is still a lot of confusion
about how different boroughs will respond to claims; how colleges will
react to inquiries regarding a breakdown of H a l l bills for assessment
purposes; how, if any test cases are taken to court, lawyers will
interpret the relevant clause with regard to individual cases; and
finally, if students are granted this allowance, whether or not the
amount of money involved will be worth applying for.
A Department of the Environment spokesman is reported to have
confirmed that students could claim allowances for rent paid in hostel
type accommodation. However, the Housing Officer lor Kensington
and Chelsea seems to have spoken to a different official at the D of E.
His information was that people in Halls of Residence would be
unlikely to qualify since although they fulfill the first part of the
relevant clause in the new Housing Act there are aspects ol the second
part of the clause that could be construed against them. People living
in hostels can indeed claim, but the official interpretation of a hostel is
one in which people are living in dormitories. The original intent of the
1980 Housing Act was not apparently to allow students in college
residences this opportunity to supplement their grant. The D of E does
admit that the whole thing is very woolly and finds it difficult to
predict just what the final outcome will be. O u r local Housing Officer
seems to think that this borough would turn down such a claim.
Meanwhile, some boroughs have been actively encouraging students
to apply. For instance, the Welfare Rights Officer of Greenwich
Borough Council wrote to Thames Polytechnic Students' U n i o n .
However when students did apply the rent allowance office wanted a
breakdown from the Polytechnic on what exactly the students were
paying lor, since the residence fees are heavily subsidised. T h e
accounts department at first estimated that about £1.25 of the normal
£24.60 was rent. T h e u n i o n contested this f i n d i n g a n d it was
subsequently admitted that a student's H a l l bill could not be itemised.
T h i s w o u l d also seem to apply to any I C Residence bill. T h e
Kensington and Chelsea Housing Department meanwhile, take the
view that the it is not within their jurisdiction to approach the land-
lord for a breakdown of a bill but take it at face value then apply their
own analysis of the figures.
Thames Polytechnic U n i o n are still waiting to hear from Greenwich
B o r o u g h C o u n c i l on their final decision. There is apparently a
government directive for boroughs to delay making any payments until
the wording of the Housing Act has been more closely scrutinised. If
the U n i o n does get a negative reply they intend taking the Borough to
Court to fulfill its obligations under the 1980 Housing Act as long as
the N U S are prepared to supply the necessary funds. It would seem
that a successful test case will be the only way of ultimately getting any
payments through since boroughs are under great financial pressure at
present to abide by central directives.
If all this hasn't been enough to dampen anyone's enthusiasm
perhaps it would be as well to also recall some information given in a
previous F E L I X article on who can apply for rent allowances and how
they are calculated.
Agreements with a landlord that are described as 'holiday' or
'company' lets and accommodation that is shared with the landlord
are all still outside the range of rent allowances. People with 'licenced'
agreements do now qualify under the new 1980 Housing Act and it is
always possible to take a 'holiday let' to the County Court for
reclassification when it is obvious that the tenants are not on
holiday
Most boroughs have a different way of working out these allowances
since quite a lot of discretion is allowed. The following is a description
of this Borough's method:
A 25% deduction is usually made for furniture, with a further
amount deducted (up to 25%) if heating is included in the rent. T h e
rate element (approx 25%) is also removed, but this will be subject to its
own rebate. The basic rebate will be between 20% and 30% of the
remaining figure. The percentage varies according to the rent payable,
shrinking as the rent increases. However, if your income is less than
£34.90 (the single person's housing benefit needs allowance), as it
normally will be during the vacation then 25% of the difference
between the income and the needs allowance is added to the basic
figure. If your income is more than the needs allowance then the basic
rate is reduced by 17% of the difference between the income and the
needs allowance.
If a rate rebate is applicable this part is not subject to any initial
reductions, but the calculations tend to be even more tortuous without
providing a very clear indication of the final outcome.
If you apply during term-time however £10 of your rent is ignored in
these calculations since this figure is the weekly rent already allocated
in the grant. F o r most IC students this will mean that term-time
allowances just won't be worth a p p l y i n g for. D u r i n g the short
vacations however there could be an allowance of between £2 and £6 a
week. People living in the College head tenancies are getting around £4
a week. In the past the Student Services Office has recommended this
allowance lor those who have to pay rent during the Christmas and
Easter holidays. Unfortunately the Housing Department will not
consider any claims made during the summer vacation since living in
College at this time is not regarded by al least one official as being a
permanent place of residence.
If you do decide to apply for a rent allowance this is how to go about
it:
. It's best to phone your T o w n Hall first to discover their interview
procedure and establish just where the relevant office is since it may not
be in the main building. Have all the neeesary identification, proof of
rent and bank statement with you for anything missing will mean
another visit and possibly lost rebate since it only begins when they
have established the relevant facts.
If in the end you are refused payment, contact the Student Services
Office, 15 Princes Gardens, since they may have news of developments
in other boroughs which could possibly be used in negotiations with
Kensington and Chelsea.
N o 5 8 7 F r i d a y , J u n e 5,1981 F r e e !

