Rae's Ramblings
SF Soc Bulletin
H E L L O and welcome to another SF Soc Bulletin,
so heavily editted down through lack of space (ho
ho) that there isn't even enough space to tell you
about
Bookshop News
A D I S P L A Y O F B O O K S published by V a n
Nostrand Reinhold are still on show in the
window. If you wish to see any of their titles, do
not hesitate to ask at the counter.
Sale books, diaries, pens, etc, will be taken
down at the end of the week.
New Titles
Noble H o u s e - J a m e s C l a v e l l , H o d d e r . &
Stoughton, £8.95
Great S e a s i ' b s - D a v i d Bellamy, H o d d e r &
Stoughton, £9.£5
Pernod Book of P d t a n q u e - M a u r i c e Abney-
Hastings, Allen & Unwin, £4.95
New Titles (Paperback)
Hawks-Joseph Amiel, Pan, £1.50
Yawning Heights-Alexander Zinoviev, King
Penquin, £4.95
The Foot of C/iue-John Berger, Writers &
Readers, £2.95
Success and Failure of Picasso-John Berger,
Writers & Readers, £2.95
Blood of Spain7 Ronald Fraser, Penguin, £4.95
Yorkshire Ripper Story-John Beattie, Quartet,
£2.50
Learn How To Study-Derek Rowntree, £0.95
How To F/y The Atlantic-Peter Combes & John
Tiffin, Kogan Page, £2.95
Lead Title
Death Watch-D G Compton, Magnum, £1.50
ML / \ A i*.
FIGURES released this week showed another big
jump in the number of abortions performed in
England and Wales. A total of 163,000 abortions
were carried out during 1980, a rise of 11%
compared to the previous year. Of these only 3
(0.002%) were carried out in emergency to save
the life of the woman and a further 648 (0.4%)
because of risk to the life of the woman. Six out of
ten abortions were performed in profit making,
private clinics.
David Steel claimed in 1967 during the debate
on his Abortion Act that it would not open the
way to abortion on demand. Sadly, with an
aboretion performed on average every 3'/«
minutes in England and Wales even Mr Steel
must admit that abortion on demand has already
arrived in Britain.
Subwardenship
Applications are invited from m/f postgraduates
for the post of Subwarden in Beit Hall. The duties
entailed involve assisting the Warden and the
female Subwarden in the organisation of the social
life of the Hall and to interact with the resident
community, their elected committee of represen-
tatives and the Hall Bursar to help maintain the
highest level of safety, cleanliness and good order
consistent with the interests of the community as a
whole.
The post carries with it self-contained accom-
modation in the old hostel of Beit Hall.
Applications should be sent with a brief personal
history to Dr C Halls, Warden, Beit Hall.
Closing date for applications June 20, 1981.
Estimates
At the last meeting of the College Finance and
Executive Committees, the Rectors Policy
Committee's proposal to cut £6,000 off our claim
was endorsed. This basically means that we're
going to have to have another cutting session at
U F C , and money is going to be very tight next
year.
Southside Security
At the first U G M this term I reported that the
Estates Secretary had told me that the work
would be finished by May 8. 1 don't know why he
told me this, as it hasn't even nearly been
started—he must have been talking about
something else. Anyway, I managed to corner him
at F & E , and apparently the current situation is
that they have a costing of about £7,000, which
they think is too much, and bearing in mind the
proposed alterations to the lower levels of
Southside, and the fact that the fire alarms will
need rewiring in about twelve to eighteen months
time, they want to leave the decision until the
definite future of Southside lower levels in known.
He then went on to talk about short-term
m e a s u r e s — w h i c h is a b s o l u t e l y l a u g h a b l e
considering we've waited a whole year already. In
short, I am totally disgusted that even a rape, at
knife-point and within earshot of residents, is not
enough to provoke action on this security
problem.
Freshers' Fair
Forms are now available from Annie in the Union
Office, and any clubs and societies who have not
filled one in by the end of term will not get a stall.
K e y s
Please will all club and society chairman holding
Union keys come and see me with their successor
to pass the key (and deposit) on.
Gliding News
A S T H E A C A D E M I C Y E A R draws
to a close the soaring season is just
beginning, and all over the country
glider pilots are coming out of their
six month hibernation. IC Gliding
C l u b , however, has been active
throughout the winter despite some
atrocious weather. Over Christmas
and the New Year, nine intrepid
members fought their way through
snow and blizzard to Portmoak in
S c o t l a n d , on the club's annual
expedition in search of wave lift,
which resulted in one student
climbing to over 14,000ft. Later in
the year another member, who,
incidentally, has been chosen to take
part in the 'British Team Training'
this year, managed a height of over
20,000ft.
Meanwhile, during the spring
term, work has proceeded quickly
on the club's newly acquired living
quarters in Lasham, which had been
uninhabited for the past two years. It
has now been transformed into a
very comfortable bunkhouse and
workshop for the gliders. Over the
Easter holidays the weather became
soarable and members began to fly
off across country. Two completed
their first cross country flights of
over 50km to gain their silver C
badge, but one, having completed
his journey from Lasham (near
Basingstoke) to Shoreham-by-Sea,
then took refuge in a bar while
awaiting the arrival of his retrieve
crew. By the time they did arrive he
had 'lost' the glider somewhere in
the now pitch black airfield. It was a
rather tired party who eventually
stumbled to bed, back at Lasham, in
the early hours of the morning. More
experienced pilots have also been
busy completing 100km and 300km
triangles in our high performance
aircraft.
The less experienced pilots have
not been forgotten though. Three
courses have been arranged for
them since the New Year and a
fourth is planned for the last week of
this term. As a result of the Easter
courses, seven pilots, most of whom
had had little or no experience of
flying before coming to IC, have now
flown solo. By this time next year the
more enthusiastic should have
completed their first cross-country
flight. Nearer in the future, we are
entering a team in a 'University Task
Week'- at Cambridge in the first
week of the holidays, in which they
will be competing against other
university gliding clubs in cross-
country racing. Two other pilots will
be entering the Lasham and Nymps-
field regionals in open competition
against non-university pilots. We
wish all of them the best of luck, and,
of course, plenty of good weather,
and meanwhile remind you that
everyone is welcome to join the
Gliding Club (including members of
staff!). We meet in Aero 254 at
5:30pm on Thursdays and, although
meetings stop over the summer
vacation, our gliding activities
continue.
Ann Dziviwior
Cathy Lowe
We have just opened near South Ken Station
(2A Exhibition Road) and are offering a student
discount on all vurfood (on production of Union-
card).
A few sample take-away prices
1 chicken 5 0 p
2 pieces
chips
curry
rice
apple pie
_ 8 0 p
_ 2 0 p
_ 8 0 p
_ 3 0 p
_ 2 0 p
etc
7 : 3 0 — m i d n i g h t
FELIX, June 5, 1981 Page 7

