Union Page
imperialcollegeunion.org
Friday 25 May
Help welcome new students
Become a Student Trustee
Register to attend Act Now Showcase Apply to be a paid Student Trainer
Tickets are now available for the exciting Act Now Showcase - sign up to
help decide which Imperial entrepreneur walks away with the top prize
of £2, 000 funding for their social enterprise project.
On Wednesday 13 June 2018, fellow students who have signed up will
pitch for funding before a live audience of their peers and if you are
present, you will help decide who gets it. The annual event is hosted
by the Imperial Enterprise Lab, Sherfield Building, South Kensington
Campus.The event runs from
17:30 - 19:30.
Register to attend at imperialcollegeunion. com/act-now-showcase
There’s an exciting opportunity now available for two Imperial students
to sit on the Board ofTrustees of Imperial College Union and help make
important decisions about how our charity is run.You’ll make legal,
financial and governance decisions as one of four StudentTrustees on
the 15-member body.Two of the StudentTrustees are elected in the
Leadership Elections annually, while the others are appointed from
qualified applicants.
The Board ofTrustees meets six times a year and provides a great
development opportunity for successful applicants.To learn about the
criteria, responsibilities, time commitment and Board configuration,
visit imperialcollegeunion.org/studenttrustee.
Deadline for applications is 5 June 2018.
The deadline is fast approaching to apply for the position of Student
Trainer at Imperial College Union. You have until Tuesday 29 May 2018
to submit your application.
The Union is looking for organised, reliable and confident communicators
who would like help others. You’ll be running workshops and training
sessions for Student Development programmes such as Imperial Plus,
Imperial Award, and Student Activities. In return, you’ll be trained, paid,
and gain loads of new skills.
Apply before 29 May 2018 at imperialcollegeunion.org/student-trainer
Sign up to be part of the Crew that welcomes new students to Imperial
College Union next term. We’re looking for volunteers to help students
move into halls, operate stalls, run events, and provide general guidance
to FirstYears during Welcome.
We’ll provide training, a t-shirt that identifies you as part of our Crew, and
anything else you might need to be a great source of support for new
students.
You’ll meet people, gain new skills and the reward of knowing you’ve
made a difference.
Volunteer at imperialcollegeunion. com/helloicu
Apply to be a
Student Trustee
Apply to be a
Student Trustee
Youdecidewhichentrepreneurswin£2,000funding
Join our

