Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB.
Email: felix@imperial.ac.uk. Tel: 020 7594 8072. Fax: 020 7594 8065.
Printed by Iliffe Print Cambridge, Winship Road, Cambridge.
Registered newspaper ISSN 1040-0711.
Copyright © Felix 2013.
TO YOU
THIS
YEAR
WAS
BROUGHT
BY
2 FRIDAY 21 JUNE
Editor-in-Chief Tim Arbabzadah Deputy Editor Saskia Verhagen Assistant Editor Matt Colvin News Editors Aemun Reza, Nida Mahmud Features Editors Caroline Wood, Stephen Smith Business Editor Deepka
Rana Science Editors Philip Kent, Laurence Pope, Philippa Skett Politics Editors Padraic Calpin, Marie-Laure Hicks Food Editors Carol Ann Cheah, Sophia Goldberg, Yiango Mavrocostanti Comment Editors George
Barnett, Navid Nabijou, James Simpson Fashion Editors Saskia Verhagen, Alice Yang Arts Editors Eva Rosenthal, Meredith Thomas Books Editor Maciej Matuszewski Music Editors Riaz Agahi, Mark England, Ross
Gray, Simon Hunter Television Editor Lucia Podhorska Film Editors Katy Bettany, John Park, Lucy Wiles Games Editor Ross Webster Technology Editors Jason Parmar, Maximilian Eggl Coffee Break Matt Colvin Travel
Editor Veronika McQuade Sports Editors Oli Benton, Sorcha Cotter, Margot Pikovsky Online Editors Philip Kent, Jonathan Kim Puzzles Commanders Louisa Byrne, Sotirios Karamitsos Copy Chief Annina Sartor Copy
Editors Carol Ann Cheah, Thomas Lim Web Uploaders Carol Ann Cheah, Thomas Lim Illustrators Hamish Muir, Outi Supponen Front page illustration: Hamish Muir Special Thanks To: Caroline Wood for her amazing
support all throughout this year. Dedication: This issue, like the first of this year, is dedicated to Leonard Richard Marshall (2 October 1922 – 29 September 2010).
Tim Arbabzadah
Editor-in-Chief (2012-2013)
Goodbye from me
ell here we are.
Nearly 30 issues
later and we have
come to the end.
It’s pretty emo-
tional really. I’ve invested an entire year
of my life into this newspaper and I’m
not sure what I can say that will do
justice to how strange this feels. I will
say that I hope you have enjoyed this
year of Felix. I hope you have laughed,
learnt, been shocked, been happy,
and all feelings in between, while you
casually flick through these pages on
a Friday. I would first of all like to thank
everyone involved in the production of
the paper, especially the editorial team.
Thanks for putting up with me for a
year! Now, most importantly, I would
like to thank you, the reader. You see,
you are the lifeblood of this newspaper.
You are what makes it great, not me.
This paper would be nothing without
you; it would be words whispered into
the wind.
This year has had its highs and lows.
Then there are the odd lows that are
also highs as they are useful: the nev-
er-ending deadline is one. To borrow a
phrase from a past Felix Editor: nothing
focuses the mind like a hanging in the
morning. I am pleased to confirm that
the highs outweigh the lows by a con-
siderable degree. It’s like Mike Tyson in
his prime fighting Amir Khan when he
was an amateur. I can happily tell you
that I would leap at the chance to re-
wind the clock and do it all again. Con-
sidering this is being written at 4am on
a Thursday morning, I think that shows
you how much I’ve enjoyed it. Felix is
the reason that I have ultimately not
hated my time here, and it showcases
what students can do when left to
their own devices.
My advice for you would be to work
hard and play hard. Remember that at
the end of it all, you’re not here to make
a twat out of yourself in Fabric (or even
brave it and go to Piccadilly Institute,
or whatever it’s called now), you are
ultimately at this university to get a
degree and learn about science, en-
gineering, maths, or medicine. At the
same time make sure you let off some
steam in some way. Getting wasted,
having a quiet cup of tea and contem-
plating your existence, doing backflips,
whatever floats your boat – as long as
it makes you happy. Don’t have any
regrets when you finish. You only get
one go at this, so make it a good one.
That goes for your early years of life
in general. The Roman poet Horace
said that you should enjoy your youth
while it lasts in his Ode to Youth. I
agree with him on that. Some of the
filthier stuff he wrote, well, you’re on
your own H man. Ready for preten-
tious quote number two. You better be,
because it’s like Cleopatra, it’s com-
ing atcha. Omar Khayyam put it more
delicately than I ever could. Although
that’s not saying much really is it? He
said: “make the most of what we yet
may spend, before we too into the dust
descend”. What I’m saying is that you
are only young once and only a stu-
dent once. Never again will you have
such relatively small responsibility and
such a (sort of) flexible timetable. Go
out on weeknights, see all the sights of
London, laugh in the back of lectures
at the penis someone has drawn on
your notes. Very importantly, though,
don’t take yourself too seriously and be
pompous. When you’re old and have
white hair, you probably won’t be look-
ing back thinking you wish you were
more serious about everything. You’ll
probably be too busy laughing at the
great memories you have. Remember
that the great joke that life plays on us
is that it’s so short.
When it comes to your course and
your education at Imperial there is a
simple bit of advice from me: do eve-
rything you can to make a difference
to this place. You can change things
for the better. Are you a first year going
into your second year? Well, you can
shape the course and make the third
year better than it was going to be. Re-
member, the lecturers and markers on
the course have an immense amount
of power. They set exams and the
syllabus. They are the ones who can
W
easily change things for the next year,
including the courses that you take. If
you’re into not being completely self-
ish, which, hopefully some of you are,
then you can help just to make things
better for the next generation. That’s
the idea of the betterment of human-
ity. It should be like the song by The
Beatles, getting better all the time.
Imperial is a funny old university re-
ally. I think it is a great institution, but
has the potential to be so much more.
What I think makes Imperial great is
the people here. The students are in-
credible, well, perhaps barring this one
guy who was the Editor of the news-
paper for a year. Honestly they are. It’s
a privilege to get to meet some of the
people here: you know what sort of
people I mean – the ones that make
you think “crap, I’m really not that good
at anything”.
Imperial needs to stop the rampant
commercialisation and start realis-
ing it’s not a crime to be nice, and it’s
not illegal to spend some money on
students. I understand things need to
make an overall profit, but investing
that money – as it is an investment
in all meanings of the word – into the
students is worth it in the end. There
needs to be a greater community spirit
at Imperial and better interaction be-
tween staff and students. There needs
to be more honesty and plain talking,
especially from the upper manage-
ment. There’s not enough space here
to really go into it, and it’s the end of
term so I’ll spare you the essay on high-
er education and so forth. I will say this:
the on-the-ground effects of changes
are what really count. Broad strategies
are needed and great, but sometimes
you just need to shake things up a bit.
Here’s an example of something that
I think would be a good start and cre-
ate a fast change that students would
see and feel. Have a university-wide
benchmark on lectures and lecture
note quality, enforced with “editorial
boards” that allow freedom of expres-
sion for the lecturers as well as making
sure they adhere to a high standard.
Plus having random students plucked
out of a computerised hat to consult
on College policy and decisions could
help getting a diverse range of opin-
ions. I’ll stop now before I delete every
page to talk about this stuff.
The Union: well, that has so much
potential too. They need to loosen
up a bit and not worry about their im-
age as much. This is a problem that
College also shares. Remember the
advice that your mother gave you as
a child: it’s what you think of yourself
that counts. Again I’ll spare an essay
on all the things that could be changed
(e.g. the food) and say one interesting
idea: how about having staff roles be-
ing sabbatical students instead. That
is the whole point of a students’ union
after all. Of course the staff are there
for stability but students here are a
clever bunch, I’m sure they could make
it work. That said, the staff deserve a
quick clap for supporting and helping
students, and the Union has had quite
a good year I think.
Anyway, that’s enough from me.
Have a great summer and good luck
for the future.
”
“
I can happily tell you that I would leap at the
chance to rewind the clock and do it all again

