FOOD
21
FRIDAY 21 JUNE
Food Editors: Carol Ann Cheah,
Sophia Goldberg, Yiango
Mavrocostanti
food.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Taste Imperial Maple Pecan Slices...
...and how to duplicate them, thanks to Elizabeth Crow
ho doesn’t love the
maple and pecan slice
that you can buy at
food outlets around
campus? he syrupy biscuit base,
gooey but crunchy – topped with
decadent dark chocolate. I am deﬁ-
nitely a fan and wanted to have a go
at making them. I tried looking for a
recipe online but had no luck. Lots of
recipes for pecan pie, peanut butter
traybakes and caramel squares, but
none for maple and pecan slices. So I
decided to come up with a recipe for
them – and in doing so, checked out
the cost to compare them to the price
we pay on campus...
W
Ingredients:
160g butter
4 tbsp of maple (or golden) syrup
40g granulated sugar
130g digestive biscuits, crushed into
ﬁngernail sized pieces
120g plain ﬂour
60g porridge oats
60g pecans, chopped into ﬁngernail
sized pieces
1 tsp vanilla essence
100g dark chocolate
Method
Preheat the oven to 180°C/Gas Mark
4 and butter an 8 inch/20cm diame-
ter cake tin. Line with baking paper
if you wish (optional.)
Melt the butter, syrup and sugar in
a saucepan over a low heat. Add the
crushed biscuits, flour, oats, pecans
and vanilla essence to the pan and
mix together.
Pour the mixture into the tin and
press down with a fork. Bake in the
oven for 15 minutes until lightly
golden, be careful not to overbake.
While the base cools, melt the
chocolate slowly in a pan over a low
heat. Pour the melted chocolate over
the cooled biscuit base and leave in
the fridge until the chocolate has
set.
Cut into 12 slices and enjoy!
Cost breakdown and tips
I used golden syrup in my version as it’s a lot cheaper than maple syrup - you
get 98% of the taste for about a tenth of the cost. Obviously you probably
can’t/shouldn’t call it a ‘maple’ and pecan slice, but I think “syrupy pecan slice”
sounds just as good!
You’re probably likely to have most of the ingredients in the cupboard/fridge
already - i.e. butter, sugar and flour. Otherwise, replacing them isn’t a big deal
- but I priced all the ingredients on April 1:
Sainsbury’s Basics butter (250g @ £1.20), 77p
Tate and Lyle Golden Syrup (454g @ 98p), 25p
Sainsbury’s Fairtrade granulated sugar (1kg @ 89p), 13p
Sainsbury’s Basics digestive biscuits (400g @ 45p), 15p
Sainsbury’s Basics plain flour (1.5kg @ 65p), 5p
Sainsbury’s Scottish Porridge Oats (500g @ 65p), 8p
Sainsbury’s Pecan Nuts (200g @ £3), 90p
Dr Oetker Vanilla Essence (38ml @ £1.08), 17p
100g bar Sainsbury’s basics dark chocolate, 33p
That’s a total cost of £2.83, which is 24p a slice (a saving of 77p per slice, or
a huge £9.24 for every 12 slices based on current Taste Imperial prices).
The most expensive ingredient is the pecan nuts - if you have no other future
use for the leftovers nuts and don’t want to buy them, you could add another
60g of digestive biscuits to get the crunch (obviously forgoing the pecan part
of the ‘maple and pecan slice’, now it should be called a crunchy syrupy slice.)
Alternatively, my favourite variation on this involves using 90g of crunchy
peanut butter substituted for 80g of the butter (hey presto, now the bake has
evolved to a syrupy peanut slice).
I encourage you to experiment with this recipe and get in touch with Felix Food
if you come up with any other yummy variations, or if you have other Taste
Imperial favourites that you’ve recreated at home.
Food Editorial disclaimer:
Our instant ramen piece was obviously a parody. We at Food condone everything in moderation – that means consumption of all types of
food (and alcohol, obviously.) If you really *are* skint, fair enough; now you know how to bump up the nutritional value of cheap grub. But
for the love of *SQUAWK*, please don’t eat this regularly. Pasta’s a better carb – just takes a few minutes extra, you can whip up a quick
sauce while you wait, and it’s MSG free.
As the outgoing Food Editors we’d like to thank all our contributors for their hard work, the establishments who were great enough to let
us review and feature them – and to you, the reader, for sticking around. See ya next year for more fun in and out of the domestic kitchen,
and if you’re thinking about contributing next year – do! Or suggest stuff you’d like to see for next year. We’d love to hear from you.
Love,
Sophia, Yiango and Carol
We check our mail in the summer.
food.felix@imperial.ac.uk

