ARTS
Arts Editors: Eva Rosenthal,
Meredith Thomas
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 21 JUNE 27
Ever noticed that there’s a hell
in Othello and a demon in
Desdemona?
The first time that a black actor
performed the lead role was in
1825, when Ira Aldridge took to
the London stage.
Aldridge was himself married to a
white woman and was rumoured
to have murdered some of his
leading Desdemonas.
It’s Othello’ve a good play
What is your notion of prime, week-
night entertainment? If the answer is
a three-and-a-quarter hour perfor-
mance of an early Jacobean tragedy,
executed in the original lexicon, dwell-
ing on jealousy, treachery and racism,
and ending in a bloodbath, I suspect
that most people would be, well – dis-
concerted.
here are other ways to phrase
these things, of course. You might de-
scribe the play as getting intimate with
James-Bond-badass and rumoured-
prospective-Dr-Who, Rory Kinnear,
on a summer’s evening at the South
Bank… or as being sat at in spitting
distance of the man most recently
named best actor in the Critics’ Cir-
cle heatre Awards (Adrian Lester)…
or simply as witnessing a play that has
been awarded ﬁve stars in nigh all of
its reviews, widely touted as the beig-
Rhetoric for the Romantic: “Per-
dition catch my soul/ But I do love
thee; and when I love thee not/
Chaos is come again” (Othello, A.III
Sc.III)
Idiom for the Insightful: “The
robb'd that smiles, steals something
from the thief” (Duke of Venice, A.I
Sc.III)
Fluency of the Feminist: “[men]
are all but stomachs, and we [wom-
en] are all but food” (Emilia, A.III
Sc.IV)
Some verse to
vitalise your
vocab…
Moorish
Minutiae
gest spectacle of 2013, in the presence
of [insert name of celebrity spectator].
here always seems to be one. Mine
was Benedict Cummerbatch, surpris-
ingly dapper in a ﬂat cap.
Mention Othello, however, and
you’re immediately on shaky ground.
Most people have had their Shake-
speare so irredeemably butchered
by English teachers with stale coﬀee
breath and orthopaedic sandals that it
would take a small miracle (or at least
a free ticket and a large amount of
complementary Prosecco) to convince
them that voluntarily turning up to a
recital could be tolerable, let alone en-
joyable, gripping, or overwhelming.
Nicholas Hytner’s production at the
National heatre might have been
made for these people. After all, this
is a director who freely (and disarm-
ingly) admits that in the ﬁrst ﬁve min-
utes of any Shakespeare he watches he
has a moment of “blind panic” where
he thinks, “I’m the director of the Na-
tional heatre, and I have no idea what
these people are talking about”. In the
Olivier performance every eﬀort has
been made to make the verse as co-
herent as possible, to the point of oc-
casionally pruning and recasting the
text. his is no magnus opus of purist
pomposity. It is a racy, oppressive and
compelling – and so perhaps all the
more authentic for being occasionally
unauthentic.
In keeping with recent trends, the
set (designed by Vicki Mortimer) is en-
tirely contemporary, kicking oﬀ in the
shadows of a night club smoking area,
before swiftly moving via a board-
room full of suits and disposable coﬀee
cups to the brutal ugliness of an army
compound. Superﬁcially, such staging
makes a trivial point (human nature
doesn’t change! Shakespeare is so rel-
evant! So true, so English Lit GCSE),
but the eﬀect is, of course, considera-
bly more subtle. In particular, the mili-
tary milieu helps reveal, reinforce and
make sense of some of the plots central
themes, not least the importance of
trust in a world of high security and, by
extension, the signiﬁcance of betrayal.
he only instance when the mod-
ernisation jars is when a strawberried
handkerchief is produced, midst the
bullet-proof vests and ﬂat-pack furni-
ture, as Iago’s trump card in convinc-
ing Othello of Desdemona’s adultery.
he artefact feels more than a little in-
congruous, but then I doubt even the
original audience at the Globe were
completely satisﬁed by that plot line.
It would be churlish to focus on this
minor quibble, however. he play is
widely regarded as one of the Bard’s
best, and the cast make the beauty of
the verse sing. Lester plays Othello,
and is utterly convincing as he trans-
forms from sunny, charismatic hero to
tortured obsessive. In Kinnear he has
a worthy Iago – sardonic, sly and un-
nervingly faceless, more than capable
of screwing the mental ratchets of the
Moor’s mind (and ours, as he goes).
Olivia Vinall plays a persuasively naïve
Desdemona, but is perhaps outshone
by her Emilia, Lyndsey Marshall, who
balances bluﬀ worldliness with a deep-
ly moving portrayal of an abused wife.
Unusually, Hytner focuses less on
racism and more on sex: Desdemona
and Othello radiate all the hormones
of frisky teenagers, Page hree posters
leer in the oﬃcers’ mess and Kinnear
speaks of the “old black ram… tupping
[Brabantio’s] white ewe” with all the
lechery of an oﬃce pervert. It’s a heady
atmosphere, intensiﬁed by the thrum
of crickets and the harsh exposure of
the strip lighting, and more than suited
to thinking on “drugs” and “charms”
and “conjuration” and “mighty magic”.
The play is in repertoire until 5 Octo-
ber, and Travelex £12 tickets are (in
theory) available. Sex and A-listers, all
for the price of three pints. Sounds like
a good Monday evening to me.
Kate Pumphrey Writer

