ARTS
Arts Editors: Eva Rosenthal,
Meredith Thomas
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Ptolemy Clement @ Vacant Space - In a typically unorthodox move by this emerging
artist, Clement has broken new ground in his most recent exhibition by refusing to
deliver any artwork at all citing destructive alcoholism. This well reviewed exhibition
is a great opportunity to not see the lexicon of his works. Now - November 17
MembersOnly@PrinceAlbertGallery -Fromcavepaintingstotoiletdoors,arthisto-
ryisturgidwithrepresentationsofthephallus.Thisexhibitionracesthejourneyofthis
pervasivemotif,drawingfromagirthofmedia.Particularlyimpressiveisacollectionof
GCSE exercise books from South London Comprehensives. Now - December 30
Splurge@MilkdropStudios-ThisvisceralinterpretivedancedirectedbyDutchchore-
ographerDickJǿerkoffeexploresthemesofonanism.Dancerscavortaroundthestage
infuriousconcentrationculminatinginanexplosivefinish.Audiencemembersaread-
vised to bring waterproof clothing. Now - July 5
Hamlet @ Ancient Vic - In a drastic return to authentic interpretations of the bard,
the latest incarnation is performed by a cast drawn entirely from Norwegian mental
institutions. The resulting performance is anarchic, indecipherable and occasionally
lethal, with a mortality rate amongst the actors now in the mid teens. 8 - August 25
Whywork?Instead,doodlealllecturelongandthensendusyourdrawingsto
arts.felix@ic.ac.uk. This abstractdoodlewasdrawnbyIoannaKalogeraki.
FRIDAY 21 JUNE
28
hat does it mean
to be an ‘Out-
sider Artist’?
While the major-
ity of famous art-
ists follow the time-tested route from
the art school to the gallery, there are
those who slip through the cracks of
artistic society, exploring their creative
visions outside the atelier. he major-
ity of these artists trickle away into ob-
scurity, but this summer, a select group
of the outside art world has found a
home in London, being displayed in
both the Wellcome Collection and the
Hayward Gallery.
he term ‘Outsider Art’ originated
from the French artist Jean Dubuf-
fet’s idea of art brut, and describes
art made outside the structure of the
mainstream artistic world, by artists
who have often received no formal
training. Similar to naïve art, outsider
art often makes use of improbable per-
spective, simplistic forms, and bold
colours, creating works which are deﬁ-
antly diﬀerent to the mainstream artis-
tic culture; the diﬀerences are not only
in the manner of the work, but also
where it is created – most outsider
artists do not work out of an oﬃcial
studio, instead working in their home,
or as part of therapy.
It is the role of art as occupational
therapy that is explored in the Well-
come Collection’s latest exhibition;
entitled ‘Souzou’, a Japanese term with
no direct translation, but meaning im-
agination, or creation, it collects work
from 46 artists who are attendees and
residents at a number of social welfare
institutions. Many of these artists have
some form of mental disability, but ex-
perience the overwhelming desire to
create, producing work that reﬂects
their unique world view.
Some of the works, such as Shinichi
Sawada’s mythical monsters, bristling
with spiky points, come directly from
the artist’s imagination, but a large ma-
jority relate to everyday objects in the
artist’s life. Hiroyuki Komatsu’s clunky
cartoons encapsulate episodes and
plot arcs of his favourite morning TV
shows, while Daisuke Kibushi’s work
consists of reproductions of post-war
movie posters, meticulously recreated
from memory.
hese works possibly provide a way
for the artist to express what they feel
about the world around them; with
a alphabet system as complicated as
Japanese, it can often be diﬃcult for
the artists to articulate what they want
to say, and working with media gives
them an outlet.
However, although many of the art-
ists do have mental health problems,
it would be ill-informed – and oﬀen-
W
Outsider art
Fred Fyles examines a new art craze
sive – to see them as child-like. A large
number of the works deal with issues
of relationships, both platonic and sex-
ual, such as Masao Obata’s cardboard
pictures, which feature the recurring
motif of couples, and relate to his life-
long ambition to get married. Others,
such as Marie Suzuki, use art to ex-
press a far darker side of their person-
ality. Her cramped, claustrophobic im-
ages of sexual intimacy have a pulsing
undercurrent of fear, and are crammed
with groping hands, worms, and vulvic
imagery. Sakiko Kono’s woollen dolls
strike a happier note, portraying kind
staﬀ from the residential facility she
has called home for the last 55 years.
Similarly, it would be untrue to
presume that there is a lack of self-
awareness on the artists’ part; Yoko
Kubota projects her own desires for
beauty onto her drawings of models,
copied from fashion magazines, while
Yukiko Yamada’s series of delicate
watercolour portraits, entitled She Is
Nobody, can be seen as an existential
call to arms, exploring ideas of self-
importance, uncertainty, and anonym-
ity. Even Takahiro Shimoda’s pyjamas,
festooned with images of his favourite
foods, display a keen sense of humour
and self-awareness
hroughout the exhibition there is
an underlying theme of repetition;
since the art is a form of occupational
therapy, much of the works centre
around a single idea that fascinates
the artist. Both Mineo Ito and Ryoko
Koda utilise their own names in their
works, Ito repeatedly writing it until
it becomes a dense scrawl, and Koda
reﬁning hers into a single symbol,
which she then writes again and again;
these works remind me the Inﬁnity
Net series by Yayoi Kusama – another
Japanese artist who has been institu-
tionalised due to mental illness – in
which repeated crescent shapes coa-
lesce to form a net pattern. his rep-
etition is combined with the theme of
unorthodox working material in Shota
Katsube’s army of miniatures, created
from the twist-ties used to fasten bags;
each ﬁgurine is unique, and minutely
detailed, while the sheer scale of the
number of pieces make the work quite
overwhelming.
While this exhibition shows the role
that art can have in the lives of the
mentally ill, a role that includes self-
representation, actualisation, and per-
sonal exploration, if we cross the river
we can ﬁnd another group of outsider
artists creating very diﬀerent works,

