ARTS
Arts Editors: Eva Rosenthal,
Meredith Thomas
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 21 JUNE 29
Life drawing is an activity that a lot
of people would like to do, but some-
times don’t dare to. For some, the nu-
dity and sterility of classical art classes
and the applied attention of overly
zealous pseudo-artists in the room
can be very intimidating, or maybe
simply boring. But rejoice, as a new,
alternative drawing movement has
brought Dr. Sketchy to life – and to
London! Anti-art school promoting
art for the sake of art and fun, Dr.
Sketchy started in New-York in 2005
as the brainchild of Molly Crabapple.
Dr. Sketchy events, which have includ-
ed illegal ﬂashmobs to the Museum of
Modern Art, take the snobbism out of
art to make it available and entertain-
ing, to really ignite the creativity in
everyone. It allows you to release the
artist in you, whether you’re picking
up a pen for the ﬁrst time or you’ve
just graduated from the Royal Acad-
emy. It mixes life drawing with bur-
lesque and cabaret performances, in
a familiar and relaxed setting – where
drinks and cocktails can abound. It is
simply the coolest art class you’ll ever
go to.
In London since 2007, Dr. Sketchy
has now nested at the Royal Vaux-
hall Tavern, an institution hailed best
cabaret venue in 2012 by the London
Cabaret Awards (yes there is such a
thing!). It is an intimate and well-de-
signed space for performances, allow-
ing the audience to grab a drink and
get comfortable before the entertain-
ment starts.
Last Wednesday June 19th, we ﬁrst
had the chance to hear Frankie Von
Flirter’s melodious voice enchant us,
as she glamorously stripped from her
evening gown. It was quite hard to de-
cide whether to just look and listen, or
to try to draw the scene… Millie Dol-
lar then stepped in for a go-go dance
and some spectacular nipple tassels
spinning. Last, Frankie von Flirter
came back with a humorous version
of Top Gun’s best tracks, which turned
into a cheeky duet ﬁnale with the two
performers. After each act, the artists
also pose and allow us to liberate our
drawing spirits, which have been loos-
ened by a few drinks. To my surprise,
the performers are not only talented,
but also professional when modelling
for the crowd. Soon the suaveness of
the acts resides, the attraction of na-
kedness subsides and the audience is
fully absorbed in furiously scribbling
to capture the forms on stage.
Com-pair Ebenezer Valentine
smoothens the tone of the evening
and gives amusing challenges to the
spectators – add a monkey in your
drawing now! – as well as little prizes
(mostly lollies) for the most original
pieces and interesting behaviours. No
need to get your proportions right,
with completely diﬀerent roles. he
Hayward Gallery’s summer exhibition,
entitled An Alternative Guide to the
Universe, aims to bring together ‘art-
ists and architects, fringe physicists
and visionary inventors’, who can oﬀer
“bracingly unorthodox perspectives
on the world we live in”. these ideals
are lofty, but the exhibition falls short,
especially when compared to the sub-
lime collection at the Wellcome, and
the previously impressive shows the
Hayward has put on.
Like some of the Japanese artists,
several of the works at the Hayward
explore ideas of self-representation;
Lee Goldie, a homeless woman who
took photos of herself in various guis-
es (Katherine Hepburn one day, a dirty
tramp the next) at photobooths, and
Eugene Von Bruenchenhein, whose
meticulously arranged portraits of
his wife Marie have a surrealist ﬂair,
both put forward the idea that out-
ward appearance directly reﬂects our
personality. Cindy Sherman eat your
heart out. However, while these oﬀer
a direct look into a personal universe
created by the artist, the majority of
the viewpoints of the artists are sim-
ply too convoluted or ridiculous to be
properly engaging.
Aliens, ‘universal energy’, and cosmic
powers play a large part in the work of
Paul Laﬀoley, who I imagine should
of the Earth doubling in size every 19
minutes. In the latter is work by Em-
ery Blagdon, whose ‘electromagnetic
sculptures’ he believed to be able to
cure arthritis. While such theories
can initially seem amusing, when pre-
sented en masse they begin to wear
extremely thin.
Much of the best work of the exhibi-
tion is architectural in scope; since the
core of the exhibition is the idea of an
alternate universe, alternative archi-
tecture provides an immediate visual
invitation while also making good on
the Hayward’s promise of creating a
better world. Jan Głuszak Dagarama’s
diagrams of alternative housing mod-
els, adapted to survive in adverse en-
vironmental conditions, are rooted in
the heady optimism of the 1960’s uto-
pian vision, while an alternative utopia
is provided by William Scott, who re-
imagines San Francisco as a whole-
some world of baptist-sermons and
friendship called Praise Frisco.
he highlight of the exhibition
comes in the form of the pictures of
Parisian street cleaner Marcel Storr,
whose work re-imagines the skyline
of Paris as a gleaming city of Angkor
Wat-like spires. His paintings of cathe-
drals, grand in scale and mind-bog-
gling in detail, seem to be illuminated
from within, creating a cityscape remi-
niscent of Fritz Lang’s 1927 seminal
Put lead in your pencil
Emilie Beauchamp Writer
or for your drawings to be life-like;
what we’re looking for is any kind of
innovative genius. Between each act
you have the time to chat with your
neighbours, grab another drink, or
just hang out to the great soundtrack
of the DJ, who encourages you to get
your groove on throughout the even-
ing. To my experienced eye, jaded by
a lot of the pretend alternative events
happening in London, Dr. Sketchy of-
fers an out of the ordinary evening,
without the pretention.
With only another event scheduled in
the calendar this summer, you better
book your £10 tickets in advance for
the July 20th class. Check the website
for details at http://www.drsketchy-
london.co.uk
probably abstain from UFO internet
message boards, while Guo Fengyi’s
representation of ‘qi energy’ and mys-
ticism is simply too impenetrable to
enjoy. Other works are completely im-
pressive in scale, such as A.G. Rizzoli’s
draftsman-like drawings of buildings
representing people in his life, but still
fail to enchant; while Rizzoli’s work is
engaging, the sheer amount of detail
means that it is impossible to compre-
hend the information contained in his
pictures (of which the Hayward dis-
plays a large number), and leaves the
viewer feeling like they haven’t fully
appreciated it.
Science takes a prominent role in the
exhibition, and generally falls into one
of two categories: ‘believable pseu-
doscience’, and ‘complete bull’. In the
former there is the work of Jim Carter,
whose theories of atomic ‘circlons’ are
engaging once you get past the part
where he states gravity is the result
masterpiece Metropolis. Completed
over a number of years, and never sold,
these paintings perfectly encapsulate
the obsessive spirit that runs through
the gallery.
When discussing the idea of ‘out-
sider art’, one must consider what it
means to be ‘inside’; what is it that
makes work by Emin and Oﬁli part of
the cultural framework, while work by
the artists exhibited in these two gal-
leries often falls by the wayside? his
outsider art has complex qualities that
make it distinct from the art in main-
stream galleries, and these qualities
can be both good and bad. he Souzou
collection soars, and while the Hay-
ward’s exhibition falls short of what it
promises, it too presents work that is
key in the debate of what outsider and
insider art is. I strongly urge readers to
go to at least one of these exhibitions;
get inside a gallery, and get outside the
art world.

