King of the Artistic Jungle
Alejandro Torrado Pacheco looks at a promising debut novel
onathan is the King of the
Jungle. A small jungle,
nestled in Central Lon-
don, with its population of
drunks and crack-heads,
smack-heads and prostitutes, and the
oﬃce girls eating their lunches in the
Sun. Once a painter and a major ﬁg-
ure in the London art scene, Jonathan
is now a park-keeper and professional
“tramp shit picker-upper”. He spends
his days taking care of the trees and
ﬂowerbeds, making sure the garden
is clean and that its gates open and
close on time. Most deﬁnitely not the
life of an artist. It is clear early on that
he despises his previous life, he speaks
bitterly of it and of other painters and
writers.
Mediocrity. Most of us know that
feeling: that however good you are at
something you know that someone,
somewhere is indeﬁnitely superior,
absolutely brilliant at it, in that par-
ticular way that is both apparent after
just a glance and yet undeﬁnable. Un-
less that one is you, of course. Medi-
ocrity gloriﬁed: this would be the two-
word deﬁnition of the contemporary
art scene for Jonathan. His arrogance
ﬁts his persona, as we learn that he
was indeed one of the best, if not the
best, the King. Even after four years of
silence he is recognised and admired
when he makes an appearance in the
art circles that his former college
classmates frequent.
It is puzzling to think that, in such
conditions, he should hate that en-
vironment so much, to the point of
retiring to a life that oﬀers him no
satisfaction. he question “Why?”
spontaneously crops up in the reader’s
mind repeatedly, and mostly remains
unsatisﬁed. Silkwood manages to
draw a powerful character that we can
only fully appreciate in his entirety
after the last page is turned. hen, a
complex human being appears; and
his sad, bitter story. Despite all his
boasting, cutting humour and strong
opinions the picture of Jonathan that
emerges is one of deep insecurity; not
the superﬁcial kind, but the struggle of
a man unable to hold on to anything
good that he possesses.
If it is not art it is love, and the pros-
pect of a life spent with a woman and
their child. he artist too-brilliant-to-
risk-mediocrity prefers anonymity (a
word that comes up a lot) and “the shit
end of the stick”. He doesn’t want to be
part of the fake world of private views
and glossed up appearances; he wants
to ﬁnd “in the mundane the fantastic”;
he chooses the low-lives instead, and
he ends up one of them, drunk all day
every day, losing contact with his peo-
ple, his friends, his love and his child.
One cannot help but think that the
scorn Jonathan feels is unjustiﬁed. It
is more of an internal ﬁght than any-
thing else. His lonely bitterness and
self-destructive impulses take over
completely as he tries to erase himself
from the world. And just when he is
about to pull himself out of it, some-
one else does the job for him.
It would be unfair to reduce the nov-
el to this psychological reading. It is
classically post-modern, attacking the
superﬁciality and attachment to ap-
pearance of modern society. he rare
moments of human compassion and
kindness in the book, very powerfully
delivered by Silkwood, involve peo-
ple at the fringe of society; the author
manages, through Jonathan’s eyes, to
J
BOOKS Books Editor: Maciej Matuszewski
books.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 21 JULY
30
paint a dark world, almost without us
noticing. he story is told slowly, in a
brusque and direct way. he use of the
second person engages the reader and
the book feels like a confession, a pain-
ful trickle of memories and feelings.
he “King” is not without ﬂaws,
such as the lack of development of
some of the themes introduced, and
the predictability of the ending, which
felt as inevitable as it was foregone. It
remains however a great eﬀort by a
young author. As the ﬁrst volume of
a trilogy, King of the Jungle certainly
holds good promises for the following
books, where hopefully the room for
improvement available will be made
use of.

