MUSIC
Music Editors: Riaz Agahi,
Ross Gray, Simon Hunter
music.felix@gmail.com
31
FRIDAY 21 JUNE
PositivePredictionforFreeImprov
Matt Earnshaw reviewsSteve NobleandIkue Mori’snewalbum
think free improvi-
sation’s great era is
over”, lamented the
late Derek Bailey in
a 2004 interview with
he Wire’s David Keenan. A key ﬁgure
in the development of the artform,
the guitarist was already sounding its
death knell, barely more than thirty
years since it had become a recog-
nised movement. Indeed, although
the venerable imprints of the likes of
Incus, Emanem, and Psi continue to
publish new editions, it’s now largely
archive material, apparently corrobo-
rating Bailey’s pessimistic outlook on
the state of the art.
Having largely grown out of jazz
music, free improvisation has always
struggled to completely break free of
tradition. Bailey wrote that “Diversity
is [free improvisation’s] most consist-
ent characteristic … [its] characteris-
tics are established only by the sonic
musical identity of the person(s) play-
ing it”. In theory then, this allows for
limitless new possibilities and gives
no indication of what the listener
should expect from when listening to
free improvisation. In practice this is
not the case. he failure (consciously
or not) of many improvisers to com-
pletely break ties with jazz has lead to
a certain tacit codiﬁcation of how free
improvisation should sound, directly
contradicting the idiom-free nature of
the art that Bailey and his contempo-
raries were working towards. Even the
instruments used are a contributing
factor, “You cannot play a saxophone
and not make it sound like jazz [ex-
cept maybe Steve Lacy and Anthony
Braxton]”, quipped Bailey.
In 2013 it’s a little easier to be more
optimistic about the state of the art,
particularly with the success of ven-
ues like Cafe OTO in Dalston, which
since its inception in 2008 has been
“
I
a cornerstone of London’s apparently
still burgeoning free improvisation
scene. More evidence that free im-
provisation isn’t dead yet came last
year when the London-based label
Fataka launched, dedicated to issuing
brand new recordings of improvised
music.
Amongst Fataka’s most recent edi-
tions is Prediction and Warning, a
document of a 2011 meeting between
veteran improvisers Ikue Mori and
Steve Noble, both at various times
members of Bailey’s “Company”, an
inﬂuential collective of improvisers in
the 70s and 80s, but who only played
as a duo for the ﬁrst time in 2010 at
Cafe OTO.
Mori’s musical life started in the ear-
ly 80s as a drummer for the inﬂuential
No Wave band, DNA. After the group
split she kept her ties with the New
York downtown scene and under the
inﬂuence of John Zorn started devel-
oping her individual voice as a com-
puter music improviser, initially with
drum machines and later purely us-
ing software such as Pure Data. Since
then her collaborators have included
Christian Marclay, Elliott Sharp,
Zeena Parkins, Catherine Jauniaux
and Bill Laswell. Her sound as a lap-
top improviser is typically percussive,
granular, glitchy, and fractured but in
its more placid moments draws inﬂu-
ence from drone and ambient music.
Noble has been a mainstay drum-
mer on the London improvisation
scene for the last thirty years and has
released several dozen recordings,
largely with fellow London based im-
provisers such as Lol Coxhill, John
Edwards, Alex Ward, and of course
Derek Bailey. His highly idiosyncrat-
ic approach to drums involves heavy
use of preparations such as small
chinas or other objects placed on the
drum heads to produce a massive
variety of unexpected sounds from a
relatively small kit. He resists keeping
time but is not unwilling to make oc-
casional brief hints at a groove.
Together their voices synthesise
into one intense crystalline form, ap-
parently with a life of their own, never
predictable, and constantly evolving.
‘Seismic Waves’ lives up to its name,
opening the album with a euphoric
tumult of percussion which continues
to boil and seeth over its six minute
duration only barely settling down
towards its end. From here, the ﬂow
of ideas is absolutely unrelenting
and largely resistant to description
in words or comparison with exist-
ing improvisers. his is precisely the
hallmark of a piece of excellent and
refreshing free improvisation.
Some of the busier pieces could be
criticised for having little to diﬀeren-
tiate them, although with repeated
listenings their abstract nature does
start to become more decipherable,
and one can recognise sheer amount
of variety present in these eight
pieces. hings cool down brieﬂy on
the eleven minute ‘Land of Famine’
which opens with Noble taking a bow
to his cymbals and the pair allowing
their sounds to stretch out a bit more
before the duo’s energy refuses any
AMS album of the week
The World Is a Beautiful Place & I Am
No Longer Afraid to Die are an emo
band. To some people, admitting to lik-
ing emo is something to be shared only
in hushed tones to well trusted close
friends. However, I’ve spent long enough
in the emo closet, I’m coming out. Emo
is the best. Some of you might be hav-
ing a bit of a snigger about that: you’re
an idiot. People who still think emo is all
floppy fringes and self harm are missing
out on a world of fantastic music. Listen
to this album and you will find your entire world torn asunder.
Whenever, If Ever takes the calculated precise midwest emo of Sunny Day
Real Estate and mixes in the lush landscapes of God is an Astronaut and the
dynamic manipulations of Explosions in the Sky. It’s intense on every level.
Lyrically, well it’s emo, so it’s, you know, emotional. ‘Pictures of a Tree that
Doesn’t Look Okay’ is about a forest in winter, and it’s just beautifully written,
the highlight being the line “A thousand frozen trees but still there’s something
burning”. ‘Gig Life’ is the most poetic song I’ve ever heard about being on tour,
and there’s plenty more I don’t have enough space to discuss. Musically, this
album is also spot on. There’s always something extra to keep the attention,
a violin here, a synth there, a little bit of trumpet over this bit, but even at it’s
densest it doesn’t sound cluttered. This album took a few years to put together
and it shows, every second is necessary. The undoubted highlight is ‘Getting
Sodas.’ 7 minutes allows the post-rock side to really express itself, and that’s
a great thing. This song ticks all the boxes. Instrumentally, it’s one of the most
affecting post-rock tracks written in the last decade or so. The lyrics are just as
good, the pinnacle being the life affirming “The world is a beautiful place but
we have to make it that way” and the final “If you’re afraid to die, then so am I”.
I think everyone should give emo a chance, and this album is a fantastic ex-
ample of the genre. It is the antithesis of the style over substance attitude of the
likes of Fall Out Boy and My Chemical Romance. It is emotion and passion put
to tape. So give it a try, and if you still want to snigger about emo then go ahead,
but idiots should at least be well informed.
The World Is a Beautiful Place & I Am No Longer Afraid to Die
Whenever, If Ever
Stuart Masson
longer to remain constrained and the
piece reaches a thundering crescendo
in the ﬁnal minute.
So while perhaps there has been a
tendency over the last thirty years to-
wards a slight codiﬁcation of what is
to be expected by free improvisation,
here’s a highly original meeting prov-
ing that there are still many surprises
in store. Let’s hope that the likes of Fa-
taka and Cafe OTO will continue help
these new voices ﬁnd their way to the
ears of the public. Maybe free improv-
isation’s great era isn’t over – perhaps
it’s still just getting warmed up.
he duo play Dalston’s Cafe OTO on
Monday 24th July, alongside a solo
performance by pianist Pat homas
who released an excellent new solo
album entitled “Al-Khwarizmi Varia-
tions” earlier this year, also on Fataka.
http://www.fataka.net
Together their voices
synthesise into one in-
tense crystalline form,
apparently with a life
of their own, never pre-
dictable, and constantly
evolving.
”
ntly with a life
ntly with a life
r own, never pre-
r own, never pre-
e, and constantly
, and constantly
g.
Love listening to sick
tunes?
Want to be Music Editor
next year?
Easy, email:
felix@imperial.ac.uk
“
Together their
Together the
synthesise into o
synthesise into o
tense crystalline
tense crystalline
appare
appar
”
”
ntly with
ntly w
with
w

