MUSIC
Music Editors: Riaz Agahi,
Ross Gray, Simon Hunter
music.felix@gmail.com MUSIC
Music Editors: Mark England,
Ross Gray, Simon Hunter
music.felix@gmail.com
33
FRIDAY 21 JUNE
32 FRIDAY 21 JUNE
2013 has been a year of labels for me. Whilst this may be somewhat rudimentary, I’ve really found labels to be an incredible source of new sounds in the year so far. I had to make a big eﬀort to limit some of
my favourite labels from this period (e.g. Opal Tapes, Blackest Ever Black) to just one record. Consequently, I would highly recommend looking at a label’s entire output if you like the release given in the list. I
am unsure whether this has been a particularly good year for dark music or an awful year for me personally, but my picks from this year have been dominated by lo-ﬁ, dark, industrial sounds, and so wherever
possible I have avoided using this description for the works. Instead I have tried to focus on what it is that makes them stand out within this (surprisingly) tightly themed block.
Paul Jebanasam
Rites
There’s something quite religious about Rites, with the kind
of cavernous echoes – so effectively utilised (to the extent
of really being the theme of the work) by label mates Emp-
tyset – being combined with slow, choral vocals to produce
an entirely indescribable wash of complete catharsis in the
opening track. The peaceful, if emotionally affecting, opening
passages soon fade out into growling, industrial sounds that
one might expect to see from The Haxan Cloak. Throughout,
heart-tugging strings contrast against mechanical crunching
and pulsing; I don’t know if there’s really any statement to that
but it certainly can put you down in a hole. Not one for the
summer listeners, but certainly a blinder for Subtext’s roster.
The Haxan Cloak
Excavation
Shapednoise
TheDayOfRevenge
Alexander Lewis
ALuminousVeil
Lumigraph
NauticallyInclined
Ross Gray offers dark obscurities and a dreamy indie release
Similar to Rites in its approach and crushing bleakness, it was
a pretty tough toss-up for which should take the top spot.
Whilst Rites is dominated by beautiful structures occasion-
ally decimated (to great effect) by industrial crunch, Excava-
tion is an all-out, bass-heavy assault on the ear drum. Utilising
the bleak, symphonic ambient found in his body of work thus
far, Haxan adds to the previous terror found throughout his
releases with the aforementioned massive basslines – surely
not produced by orchestral means – that draw a great deal
from dubstep. The thin structure makes each element aurally
arresting, and the introduction of weird spoken word sam-
ples in foreign languages builds upon the terrified confusion
instilled from the opening of the first track.
–
It seems to be a common assertion that a year was a ‘good year for music.’ As a teenager, I saw patterns, like many of the classic thrash artists releasing their opuses in 1986. Recently though,
I’ve discovered this idea to be a total fallacy. Thousands of amazing albums drop every year and 2013 is certainly no different. Weeks of combined total listening time painstakingly produced
this list. Think of it as a stationary representation of a list constantly in flux. The ordering is a little arbitrary. For example, Groupshow may be one of the least artistically accomplished here
but it’s also the most loved and listened to. What I can assure you is that, love or hate, all of these people are doing something really captivating in their respective, mainly ambient, fields.
Groupshow
Live At Skymall
Groupshow is a collaborative project of Berlin based musicians:
Hanno Leichtmann, Jan Jilinek and Andrew Pekler, who have
all found acclaim separately. While I am normally not a fan of
live albums, when a formidable jam like 4-part opener ‘Count-
down To Naptime’ presents itself, it’s hard to resist. The album
is essentially pedal driven electronica, enveloped in a warm
analoguehum.There’salsoacomplexmixofkrautrock,jazzand
even some glitch tendencies (especially on ‘Pet Hair Magnet’)
involvedaswell.Thealbumisinsanelycatchythroughout,some
serious grooves in what must have been a hell of a show. While
it has artistic merit of its own, Live At Skymall features mainly
because I’ve found it utterly impossible to stop listening to.
Svarte Greiner
BlackTie
Machinefabriek
DoepferWorm
Main
Ablation
Riaz Agahi giveshispersonalfavouritesfromambientandothergenres
Felix music present the best of the
Although I initially thought it to be the guy’s name, Svarte
Greiner is actually a project of Erik K Skodvin, who is one
half of duo Deaf Center, as well as being the S in B/B/S with
Aidan Baker and Andrea Belfi, releasing the also excellent
Brick Mask this year. His work as Svarte Greiner is normally
labelled acoustic doom, which is pretty accurate. In fact, his
work has elements of classical, with what sounds like a string
section, especially on ‘White Noise.’ Doomy elements are cer-
tainly present, particularly on the first side. There is also a hint
of jazz, and Black Tie at times recalls the likes of The Mount
Fuji Doomjazz Corporation but the main focus is ambient. It
can be heard how ‘White Noise’ devolves into what is virtu-
ally a pure tone. A gripping, dread-filled thrill of an album.
It took me about 5 listens to get into The Day of Revenge. It’s
not really easy going material, refusing to be pinned down
in one hole; too poppy for those into noise, too abrasive for
those not. I recommend you stick with it, as this is quite likely
the most inventive album I’ve heard so far in 2013. A punish-
ing soundscape is held consistently despite the wide variety
of styles implemented throughout, from the empty, macabre
and industrial ambient so common on this list to chopped,
beatless (yet intensely rhythmic) powernoise. Shapednoise
also collaborates with fellow label co-founder Violet Poison
as Violetshaped, which is a marginally more restrained affair.
RagingoutofBlackestEverBlack’sincredible2013stableasamu-
tantchildofFuck Buttons andKevin Drumm,thisphenomenal
debuttakespulsingsynthesiserlinesdriventhroughentiretracks
and rips them apart with huge stabs of noise and distorted, dis-
turbed vocal samples (check ‘She Demands Attention’), to build
into a droning hellish miasma with just a hint of accessibility.
Deerhunter
Monomania
An element of the dreamy sheen that permeated Deerhunt-
er’s discography has been exchanged for pop sensibilities,
with the vocals more prominent and melodies more distinct
on Monomania. They’ve become more Pavement from their
previous My Bloody Valentine. Whilst I was a big fan of that
hazy ambience, particularly on Cryptograms, the sheer catchi-
ness of this record has lead to me coming back time after time.
ThisrepresentsthequintessentialOpalTapesreleasesofarthis
year for me, which is quite a noteworthy accolade considering
the strength of their output. Suffocatingly lo-fi, danceable in
the same way as Black Dice; party, but not a happy party. For
fans of drums that sound like overdriven £2 speakers, melted
cosmicacidtripsandsomeofthecrunchiestsoundsonthislist.
Zeitgeber
Zeitgeber
Following the release of a string of unbelievable dub techno
albums last year, this Speedy J and Lucy collaboration pushes
the genre even further into space. Throughout, quiet eupho-
ria is mixed with rib cage shattering bass and fleeting tastes of
glitch to fantastic effect.
Lubomyr Melnyk
Corollaries
Nicholas Bullen
ComponentFixations
Bullen has a long history of experimentalism and was a found-
ing member of Napalm Death. His solo debut is more sound art
basedandratherreminiscentofEleh,withslowlyevolvingtones,
butalsofieldrecordingandwatersoundssimilartoAube.
Kawabata Makoto’s Mainliner
RevelationSpace
Merzbow & Oren Ambarchi
Cat’sSquirrel
Anyone who knows my tastes will be unsurprised that this fea-
tures.ArecordingofMerzbowandOren Ambarchi’s brutalcol-
laboration at Aurora Festival, Australia released via Ambarchi’s
Black Truffle imprint . A densely layered noise assault with few
moments for thought, it has characteristic sounds from both art-
ists.Myjourneywiththisalbumisn’tquitecomplete,aswitheach
listenIfindmyselfdiscoveringnewsoundswithinthecacophony.
Hungarian composer Melnyk is the pioneer of ‘continuous
music’, a piano playing method based on rapid notes build-
ing into an emotive sonic tapestry. In fact, the whole album
has a kind of elegant romantic feel to it. Melnyk is joined by
Peter Broderick’s guitar, cello and other instruments atdiffer-
enttimes,fillingoutandperfectingMelnyk’sminimalapproach.
Aidan Baker & Plurals
GlassCrocodileMedicine
Excellent collaboration between Aidan Baker of Nadja and
Brighton’s Plurals. The opener slowly builds into an enveloping,
drone-ladensoundscapethatgraduallyintroducesmorerhythmic
sounds. ‘Turning Children Into Mice’ has an eerie bassline which
hypnoticallypersiststhroughoutundersomedamngreatsounds.
Catchy, brain melting psychedelic noise rock from AMT’s
head honcho with Shimura Koji and Bo Ningen’s bassist. Ma-
koto’s playing reminds me of a modern, Japanese, noisy Hen-
drix.Thoroughlyentertaininginitsgrowlyrockn’rolldecadence.
Sound artist Rutger Zuydervelt aka Machinefabriek has re-
leased4albumsthisyear.Rangingfromveryrelaxedambientto
field recording, he’s covered a huge spectrum. His finest release
is this album, the autodidactic artist’s first foray into modu-
lar synths in Rotterdam’s Worm studio, with the second track
‘Doepfer’ played on a Doepfer Dark Energy synth. The result
couldstandupnexttomodmasterslikeKeith Fullerton Whit-
man. It is atmospheric and mechanical, at times unrecognis-
able as man made, feedback and glitches giving an impression
of the ghost in the machine, but he approaches grooves more
readily also, creating a varied, fresh and fascinating album.
Aaron Dilloway
Siena
Releasedforfree,Sienaisbasedonfieldrecordingsfrominsideand
outsideSiena,Italy.Itstartswithasurprisingguitarandvocalloop,
but the album continues as expected. It’s a ‘quiet’ noise album,
whichhasawayofrewardinglistenerswithsubtleexcellence.
Sounding more like Robert Hampson’s solo work than early
Main material, Hampson works with Stephan Mathieu.
Subtle sonic perturbations with a metallic feel balance glitch
sounds, in classic Mego style, with dark ambient. These rough
sounds cathartically give way to more ambient tones. This is
a subtle, enthralling musical journey via bleak dark ambient.
1
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
Blacknecks
Untitled001
Blacknecks: a series of explorations of the applications of tech-
noise. An anonymous release on a new (very promising) label,
thesetrackstakeonslightlydifferentapproachestoaddingthose
littletouchesofnoiseanddistortiontodancefloorelectronica.
Black Hat
Covalence
Cassette release straight from Seattle. Club music for the stay-
at-homes; those who cut their teeth on the dark atmospherics
ofRegis andtheambientblissofBoards of Canada. Themost
euphoric and beautiful of the Prostitutes / Powell etc. sound.
Container
TreatmentEP
Intenseworkfrom2012technoisebreakthroughContainer,this
EP needs to be played painfully loud to be fully understood.
Towards the more extreme end of the techno / noise crossover,
and yet I have still had pure techno lovers tell me how great it is.
year so far: 2013

