FILM
Film Editors: Katy Bettany,
John Park, Lucy Wiles
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
34 FRIDAY 21 JUNE
Celine & Jesse Forever
John Park Film Editor
Before Midnight
Director: Richard Linklater
Screenwriters: Richard Linklater,
Ethan Hawke, Julie Delpy
Starring: Ethan Hawke, Julie Delpy
hey ﬁrst met in 1995. Jesse (Ethan
Hawke) approached Celine (Julie
Delpy) on a train from Budapest.
hey talked, they connected, and they
parted, promising to meet each other
six months later. hey met again in
2004, with the hastily arranged meet-
ing never having taken place. Once
again they talked, they connected,
and they prepared to part, only for the
audience to ﬁgure out in 2013 that in
fact, they didn’t part. Turns out Jesse
missed the ﬂight he was supposed to
catch from Paris back to America, and
they had been together since then.
Sounds like a fairytale romance
gone absolutely right despite some
hiccups on the way, but Jesse and
Celine’s relationship, as we’re about
to ﬁnd out, is far from perfect. Now
that he’s divorced, Jesse has a teenage
son living in America who he rarely
gets to see, and with Celine they have
7-year-old twin daughters with whom
they’ve settled down in Europe.
Opening with a scene where Jesse
is dropping oﬀ his son at the airport
after a fun summer together, we in-
stantly sense trouble brewing as it’s
obvious Jesse wants to play a bigger
part in his son’s life, a signiﬁcant por-
tion of which he’s already missed. Ce-
line is at a crossroads as to whether
she should accept a new well-paid job
in the government.
We join them on the last day of their
family holiday in Greece. here are
no doubt some beautiful backdrops
and scenery, but that’s all secondary
to the two characters we want to fo-
cus on. Keeping up with the tradition
and arguably the Before trilogy’s (for
now) most remarkable strength, this
is a ﬁlm in which we see long single
takes of characters talking. hat’s all
they do, they exchange words. And
yet, it’s all so endlessly fascinating –
it’s sweet, charming, and consistently
funny with quotable lines throughout
its exceptionally well written script
that covers a whole range of ideas and
communicate them using its talented
cast.
As usual Hawke and Delpy (who
also co-wrote the screenplay) are
absolutely brilliant – they have that
magical chemistry that makes every-
thing look so easy and natural. Com-
ing across as completely spontaneous
and eﬀortless is no easy task, and yet
the duo who have been at the centre of
this romance manage this beautifully.
As the cracks begin to show, we are
reminded that there is no such thing
as the perfect relationship. Life hap-
pens, challenges present themselves,
there are conﬂicts, and the longer
two people are together, the more ap-
parent this becomes. he courtship
between the two is long over – now
is the time for compromise and sacri-
ﬁce. hey disagree, they bicker, until
eventually there is a full-on ﬁght in
the ﬁlm’s most climatic scene set in a
hotel room, easily the best moment in
the trilogy. he mounting problems
they have faced over the years come
to a head, harsh words are exchanged,
but the ﬁlm does well to remember
that these characters are not larger-
than-life, overly melodramatic in-
dividuals. heir arguments aren’t as
ﬁery or loud as say, what Richard Bur-
ton and Elizabeth Taylor get up to in
the overlong Who’s Afraid of Virginia
Woolf? but are more natural and most
importantly, relatable.
Unlike its predecessors there is a
fair amount of screen time given to
its supporting cast (lovely insightful
friends they meet on holiday), mak-
ing use of diﬀerent perspectives and
views, although in the end keeping
the narrative ﬁrmly grounded in the
central couple.
Here is a sequel that seems to
have been carefully planned out, not
rushed through and thrown out on
a whim for proﬁt. A lot of considera-
tion has gone into making a follow-up
worthy of the high bar set by the pre-
vious two instalments. here are no
easy answers to the issues that arise,
and yet there is something so wonder-
ful about two people who love each
other after all these years. Will this
be the end of the Before franchise? I
certainly hope not. Come on Mr. Lin-
klater, Mr. Hawke and Ms. Delpy, I’m
ready for at least three more ﬁlms–
all set nine years apart or so. As I can
watch this couple talk for days on end.
Rock slide ends happy marriage
Spinach in his teeth is so gross
No. I ordered Coke. If I wanted a
fucking Pepsi I would HAVE SAID

