FILM
Film Editors: Katy Bettany,
John Park, Lucy Wiles
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
35
FRIDAY 21 JUNE
John Park Film Editor
Fit Cavill in tights
After the disappointment of Super-
man Returns that gave very little of
what audiences were really looking
for, here comes another reboot that
starts oﬀ a well-known superhero
character story from scratch. And
here is the kind of loud, bombastic ac-
tion feature this deﬁnitive superhero
really deserves.
Under the assured guidance of Zack
Snyder (300, Watchmen as well as the
highly underrated Sucker Punch and
Legend of the Guardians: he Owls
of Ga’Hoole), Man of Steel wastes no
time in getting stuck in with spec-
tacular action. Opening with the
visually awe-inspiring planet Kryp-
ton that’s about to self-destruct, Jor-
El (Russell Crowe) dodges bombs
and bullets, ﬁghts oﬀ coup-leading
General Zod (Michael Shannon), to
send oﬀ his baby son Kal-El to Earth
away from all the chaos. Krypton is
soon destroyed, and baby Superman
safely crash-lands on our planet to be
discovered and adopted by the Kents,
Man of Steel
Director: Zack Snyder
Screenwriters: David S. Goyer,
Christopher Nolan
Starring: Henry Cavill, Amy Adams,
Russell Crowe, Michael Shannon,
Kevin Costner, Diane Lane
Jonathan (Kevin Costner) and Mar-
tha (Diane Lane).
Growing up as Clark Kent (Henry
Cavill), he struggles to ﬁt in with the
rest of the world, diﬃculties he’s of-
ten faced as a child, shown to the au-
dience in several ﬂashback sequences.
He’s faster, stronger, and just gener-
ally better than everyone else (x-ray
vision, laser beams from his eyes etc),
powers his adopted father fully ac-
cepts but is determined to keep hid-
den, as he wisely sees that the rest
of the world isn’t ready to embrace
someone so diﬀerent. Clark does
eventually ﬁgure out his origins, his
destiny, how he should be a hero blah
blah blah (the rite of passage superhe-
ro talk remains the same), all of this
explained to him by the memories of
his real father who is now dead.
As can be expected for an origins
story, there is a lot of set-up before
the fun can really start. Having two
important father ﬁgures is something
Snyder plays around with; having
two very strong actors, Costner in
the ﬂashbacks, Crowe in the present,
give Clark the guidance he needs to
become the saviour he’s destined to
be, and ﬁnd his place in the world.
here are particularly eﬀective scenes
involving both fathers, ones that con-
tribute to successfully shaping an
emotional arc within the story.
When telling the story of Clark, a
lot is said and done around the char-
acter, but the man himself has frus-
tratingly very little to say. Cavill is
very good at reacting appropriately to
the tons of lectures he’s given by those
who surround him, however he isn’t
given much to expand on. He has no
trouble looking serious at every turn,
and although there is an element of
pain and loneliness in his expression
stemming from being an outsider, not
enough time is spent on Cavill to tru-
ly dig deep into the titular role. hat
said, he absolutely rocks the newly-
designed, red-underwear-less (and
therefore, much better) suit, and he
fully embodies the physical stature of
the Man of Steel.
Enter Lois Lane (Amy Adams) and
General Zod with his gang of power-
ful antagonists to really kick things
oﬀ. Lois is a Pulitzer Prize-winning
journalist investigating this mysteri-
ous and illusive superhero, and Zod
lands on Earth to destroy it with his
gigantic sci-ﬁ spaceship. Both rela-
tively important supporting players,
but both thinly drawn. Adams is as
likable as ever, and to her character’s
credit, she does play an important
part in taking down the bad guy, but
she lacks her own personality to stand
for herself. here is deﬁnite spark be-
tween her and Superman, one that
perhaps needs to be explored further
in the future. Shannon has never had
problems playing psychopathic mani-
acs before, and he comfortably pulls it
oﬀ, and he’s a villain of many intense
words, full of big speeches and ges-
tures, something that suits the actor
well.
Most impressive however, is the
ﬁlm’s ﬁrm grasp on the huge action
sequences. Once they get going, there
is no stopping them, and the scale
at which everything is executed is a
grand, magniﬁcent one. Despite hav-
ing Snyder behind the cameras, there
are no extreme slow-motion captures,
one of the director’s previous trade-
marks. he ﬁnal showdown isn’t with-
out some incredibly repetitive ideas
(characters ﬂy into each other, they
rebound into buildings which subse-
quently get destroyed and knocked
down, presumably killing thousands
and thousands along with it – but
this being a 12A feature, it kindly
overlooks the collateral damage), and
is perhaps reminiscent of Michael
Bay’s Transformers franchise, but the
diﬀerence here is that it’s incredibly
easy to follow every step of the vari-
ous ﬁghts. Snyder closely follows the
spectacle and captures the many,
many ﬂights of Superman perfectly.
Inﬂuenced by the success enjoyed
by Christopher Nolan’s Batman fran-
chise, Snyder is little interested in
humour, and has turned this into a
deathly serious entry, with hardly any
light-hearted touch. Which is just as
well, because the ﬁlm doesn’t have
room for comedy. It’s better to leave
things the way they are, rather than
trying to make awkward one-liners
ﬁt, especially when they have abso-
lutely no bearing on the story whatso-
ever. Clark is on a very serious quest
to uncover his identity, and anything
inappropriate would have been a
needless diversion.
All in all, he’s back, and safe to say,
for good. A sequel is under works, and
we’ll be glad to have him ﬂying back
to our screens.
I’m sexy and I know it...ba ba ra ba
I’m so pretty
And here, I’m on fire
Yes...more pics of me...this is all about me...
CENSORED

