FILM
Film Editors: Katy Bettany,
John Park, Lucy Wiles
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 21 JUNE
36
The expendable boys go solo
John Park Film Editor
Bullet to the Head
Director: Walter Hill
Screenwriters: Alessandro Camon,
Alexis Nolent (graphic novel), Colin
Wilson (graphic novel)
Starring: Sylvester Stallone, Sung
Kang, Sarah Shahi, Jason Momoa,
Christian Slater
he plot is almost irrelevant in Syl-
vester Stallone’s latest action vehicle.
Sly is the good guy out for revenge af-
ter his partner is murdered during a
devious double-cross, there are some
bad people working with should-be-
good but corrupt people looking to
do some dodgy deals, and as the ﬁlm’s
title suggests, there are many explod-
ing heads thanks to some excellent
aim. Trust no-one, shoot anyone who
gets in your way, preferably in the
face, and walk away having complet-
ed your mission.
It moves at a ridiculously quick
pace, picking oﬀ one bad guy after
another from a long list: Sly’s side-
kick, Sung Kang, playing a police of-
ﬁcer, has a knack for tracking people
down with just a phone call. here’s
friction initially, as James Bonomo
(Stallone) is an assassin hired to hunt
down and mercilessly kill for money,
whereas Tyler Kwon (Kang) is a law-
enforcer. here’s uncomfortable ban-
ter, Sly doesn’t have a problem tak-
ing jabs at Tyler’s Asian heritage, but
soon they put their problems aside
and it’s not long before the two start
working together.
Stallone and Kang certainly have an
easy chemistry to pass as two leads in
a buddy-cop bromance action ﬁlm:
Stallone and his deep growling voice
is mighty talented when it comes to
delivering corny one-liners that end
in embarrassing chuckles, and Kang
is convincing being everything that
Stallone is not: i.e. strict, by-the-book
and not very smooth when it comes
to carrying out his job. Sarah Shahi,
being the only woman in the cast
guarantees that she will need some
sort of rescuing help, which she of
course does in the end.
No one else truly matters here: the
bad guys consist of Adewale Akin-
nuoye-Agbaje (more easily remem-
bered as Mr. Eko from Lost), who
couldn’t be a more generic villain,
Christian Slater is a neurotic lawyer
and it’s quite the comic relief to see
him scared out of his wits when Stal-
lone stands over him with a pair of
pliers, and the young Jason Momoa
provides a worthy opponent to Stal-
lone in brutal combats.
Bodies stack up, chaos ensues, and
there’s plenty of carnage. And Stal-
lone shows he’s still got it at the age of
60+. Director Walter Hill, known for
his male-dominated action, churns
out yet another competent but not at
all special feature that serves well as
a highly entertaining, mindless but
stupidly fun ride.
The Last Stand
Director: Jee-Woon Kim
Screenwriter: Andrew Knauer
Starring: Arnold Schwarzenegger,
Forest Whitaker, Johnny Knoxville,
Jaimie Alexander, Rodrigo Santoro,
Peter Stormare
Parker
Director: Taylor Hackford
Screenwriters: John J. McLaughlin,
Donald E. Westlake (novel)
Starring: Jason Statham, Jennifer
Lopez, Michael Chiklis
Arnold Schwarzenegger returns to
the big screen in a lead role and he
does exactly what he does best: he
uncomfortably mumbles through his
dialogue (which has been restricted
to the minimum), his thick accent is
still there, but when the villains dare
to disturb the peaceful town where
he’s the head sheriﬀ, Arnie gets his
kit in gear, and starts running them
down with his truck. hat’s right, he
said he’ll be back, and he is.
he FBI is in a state of panic when
notoriously dangerous drug lord
Gabriel Cortez (Eduardo Noriega)
escapes their rather ﬂimsy custody.
With an incredibly fast car, this
skilled driver is heading for the Mexi-
can border, to resume his usual prac-
tices and lead his cartel once more.
What does any of this have to do
with Sommerton, Arizona? Cortez
has come up with a brilliant idea to
go through a small town, where he
suspects there won’t be any resistance
whatsoever, to make the smooth tran-
sition from the States into Mexico.
His gang led by homas Burrell (Peter
Stormare) are busy building a bridge
across a narrow canyon, and since
the FBI is absolutely useless when it
comes to sorting things out on their
own (in the ﬁlm, I mean), it’s up to the
sheriﬀ and his deputies to stop this
mad man.
Aside from Ray (Schwarzenegger),
the others are not all that experi-
enced. here’s Sarah (Jaimie Alexan-
der), Mike (Luis Guzman), and Jerry
(Zach Gilford), plus some unexpected
help from Frank (Rodrigo Santoro) a
jailed thief, and Lewis (Johnny Knox-
ville) who acts like a village idiot but
someone you probably shouldn’t
underestimate given what he keeps
locked away in his garage.
Not exactly the most ideal team
to defend your town, but what we’ve
got here is good enough it seems,
and with Arnie on your team, there’s
very little chance you’ll end up losing.
here’s generally good build-up, if you
exclude the obligatory blossoming ro-
mance subplot, and thanks to Knox-
ville and Guzman, there is casual hu-
mour to ease things along.
John Park Film Editor
Diﬃcult to sit through is any se-
quence involving Gabriel Cortez, the
antagonist, opening his mouth, spew-
ing dialogue as if it were written for a
children’s cartoon villain. Even worse
is his female ride-along, Genesis Rod-
riguez, who doesn’t have much to say
but when she does, you wish the ex-
cruciatingly clunky dialogue rides oﬀ
as quickly as the car they’re driving
in.
But where the ﬁlm feels most con-
ﬁdent in is where there’s gunﬁre and
explosions. Director Jee-Woon Kim
doesn’t shy away from any prepos-
terous ideas and chooses instead to
embrace them, adding style and noise
to give the full-on blockbuster experi-
ence. he ﬁlm rarely takes any breaks,
and as it works itself up to a much-
needed showdown between Arnie
and the villain, it pays oﬀ in a brutal
yet satisfying sequence that shows oﬀ
Arnie’s ever-lasting physical prowess.
John Park Film Editor
Jason Statham is no doubt a one-trick
pony who is outstanding at what he
does. He’s a moody-looking, moody-
sounding Cockney Brit whose suave
tough-guy act is diﬃcult to match. His
martial arts skills have always been
captured well and because of this mix
of qualities, no matter how useless the
ﬁlm, Statham has always come across
as a reliable lead in whatever situation
he’s placed in.
Unless of course that vehicle is Park-
er, a ﬁlm so invested in being taken
seriously that it doesn’t have enough
time to play around with its best as-
sets.
It starts oﬀ promisingly enough,
with a well-executed robbery of a fair
that bags Parker (Statham) and his
crew of four men 1 million dollars.
Parker wants his share of 200,000 and
to then walk away, whereas the rest of
the gang, consisting of men who he’s
never worked with before (never a
good sign), wants to pool the cash in
and invest for the next heist which is
guaranteed to generate even more in-
come. After this disagreement, Parker
gets punched, kicked, shot, and is left
for dead.
Some kind farmers ﬁnd him, and
he’s patched up very quickly and soon
he’s back in action. Tracking down
those idiots who messed with him, his
search leads him down to Palm Beach,
a process that gives Statham a chance
to show oﬀ some slick moves. It’s only
when he gets to Palm Beach and be-
comes closer to his targets, the plot
comes to a screeching halt.
He has a woman in his life. Claire
(Emma Booth) who sticks around no
matter how much danger his job puts
her in. Her father Hurley (Nick Nolte)
is his mentor, although the relation-
ship between the three of them isn’t so
well established or explored. Another
woman enters his life, Leslie Rodgers
(Jennifer Lopez), a depressed, middle-
aged divorcee who is far from the suc-
cessful real-estate agent she wanted to
be.
As a part of his stakeout routine,
Parker needs to look at some houses,
and this is how he runs into the sin-
gle and desperate Leslie. And so starts
the awkward combination as the two
starkly contrasting characters bicker
their way through getting even with
the traitors. Lopez, who hasn’t had
the most impressive track record in
the ﬁlm industry, is actually a valu-
able addition to the cast, adding some
humour to the otherwise very dry and
dull atmosphere.
Statham, although with all of his
usual characteristics intact, is not
allowed to show oﬀ enough and his
scenes feel very stale. With a needless-
ly convoluted plot that doesn’t know
what to do with its leading man, eve-
ry scene involving him is a tad stale,
even though it is rather entertaining
to watch Statham struggle through
sporting a Southern cowboy accent.
here are good bursts of intense,
bloody action; especially memorable
is Parker’s defence method to stop a
knife going into his eye, but there’s
no doubt the pacing is a serious issue.
he predictable but tidy ending is an
improvement over the dud that is the
meandering, muddled middle part,
but it never reaches the height and po-
tential of its gripping opening.
Man of Steel - 30 years on...

