TECHNOLOGY
Technology Editors: Jason Parmar
Maximilian Eggl
techology.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 21 JUNE
38
Incredibly Magical iOS 7
Microsoft kicked everyone’s ass...hard
pple fans worldwide
rejoiced as detrac-
tors grieved a couple
of weeks ago at the
WWDC event when
CEO Tim Cook unveiled yet another
incredible update to the beautiful and
gorgeous iOS 7, the latest iteration
of Apple’s superior and world’s most
advanced mobile operating system. It
is chock full of innovation that is just
simply amazing.
he greatest and most profound
change to iOS 7 is the whole new
epicly redesigned and beautiful inter-
face. After years of perfecting the in-
credible art of skeuomorphism, Apple
once again has delighted us with the
phenomenal redesign that is incred-
ibly gorgeous and just amazing. Ap-
ple is once again leading the industry
through its magical innovation. Critics
will lambast Apple as simply conform-
ing to trends of minimalism but this
is not so – simplicity is often equated
with minimalism, yet true simplicity is
so much more than that. Simplicity is
about making things “just work”. iOS 7
is a pure representation of simplicity.
Apple iOS 7 also has a whole host
of new, epic features that has never
been seen in any other operating sys-
tems. A new control centre that is one
swipe away brings access to common
tasks like toggling on and oﬀ WiFi and
controlling music playback in a simple
and gorgeous manner that just works.
he incredible notiﬁcation centre has
also become more powerful by dis-
playing more relevant information in
a gorgeous way.
Multi-tasking has been revamped
with a new, incredible, and beautiful
card-based interface. Camera-aﬁcio-
nados can now add special magical
eﬀects to the pictures they take with a
new gorgeous camera interface. Apps
can also update themselves automati-
cally in what Apple insisted was a new
feature, rather than a bug ﬁx. hese
represent a mere tip of the iceberg for
all the epic and fantastic changes in
iOS 7.
Apple also took the time to deride
its competition. It, rightfully, com-
pared its superior position in terms of
getting the latest version of the OS to
consumers when compared with An-
droid. Its magical formula is simply
the incredible lack of fragmentation.
Apple also expects to launch multiple
lawsuits against companies that have
copied its redesign in the near future,
especially Microsoft for the Windows
Phone series.
All of these new features in iOS 7
make it a super fast, super clean, super
beautiful, super gorgeous, and super
incredible new version of the world’s
most advanced mobile operating sys-
tem. It is no wonder that Phil Schiller
so adamantly and indignantly derided
critics with the line “can’t innovate
anymore, [his] ass”. He is right. Apple
will continue to live long and prosper.
Yong Wen Chua echoes Apple: “can’t innovate anymore, my ass.”
Steve Ballmers thoughts reviewing the year according to Max Eggl
A
eah, MS is back, baby!
he most awesomest
company on Earth has
delivered this year in
every possible area avail-
able. I’m like serious people, we did
like everything. Not only have we rev-
olutionised the smartphone world but
also shaken up the PC market, tablets
and games consoles.
With the Windows 8 phone, every-
one has just been like wooahhh, what
is that?! I mean the smoothness of the
interface, the speed of the software
and general greatness of Windows
on a phone, toooootally makes up for
a lack of apps. And the competitors?
Apple and their iOS? Wait... didn’t we
give ‘em 150 million dollars back in
1997? Yeah them. Oh and Goo...who...
gle? hat OS with their fragmenta-
tion and stupid food names are soooo
2012. I mean with Windows 8, you
hold the future man, it’s so modern
the UI is called “Modern UI”! hem
ﬂat tiles just give you all the info you
ever could need, wanted or unwanted.
It’s even so cool and new that Apple,
the oh-so-high-and-mighty Apple,
copy us. You can stick that in your
iPipe and smoke it, Cook!
Oh yeah and the Windows update?
Windows 8, it’s like so intuitive, even
your Grandpa could use it.... Oh wait.
According to that video he may not
be able to. Well anyway, we took away
that start button because it was like
outdated and you guys didn’t want it.
Yeah, I know you were saying you did
want it, but look deep, deep down into
your heart, you didn’t actually want it,
right? Well, we’ll give it back to you an-
yway, even if you don’t want it! Aren’t
we such a great and all-knowing com-
pany? So, like, it’s such a change from
Windows 7, even though all of you still
stay in the desktop mode, which looks
like Windows 7.
What about the tablets? Absolutely,
like totally, style. he RT does eve-
rything you wanted it to do (no, not
nothing)! he pro is the best tablet-
laptop hybrid you ever wanted, and if
you wanna get one, just go for it, they
are still in stock! And the best bit is
you get the Windows 8 experience on
a tablet! All 35 GB of it!
Oh and what about Xbox (B)one(d).
Like why would you need backwards
compatibility? hat’s like backwards
thinking, man! Oh, and you want a
console that actually is aimed at gam-
ers? Well, we also make that kind of
console, its called an Xbox 360, bro!
Yeah, but apart from that like it’s the
one device you will need (see that
creative naming, man?!). So the cons:
sharing games; why would you share
games anyway? Gamestop would have
ripped you oﬀ if you sell it, and, man,
you never know if you really found
ALL those golden stars, if you give it
to your friend! Kinect; yes we know it’s
annoying that the Kinect always has
to be plugged in, but dude, no mat-
ter what we see, we will keep it secret
(maybe give it to the US government,
and possibly anyone that asks for it!
But apart from that, no one I swear
man!). Lastly that internet thing: I
mean c’mon, whoever doesn’t have in-
ternet at least at some given point in
the day is as backward as... as... a cat
with toast on its face... oh wait. What
are you gonna do about it though? Buy
a Wii U?! Lol, don’t kid with me here,
I have a weak heart. PS4, yeah right,
let’s see if Sony even lives out the year!
With Microsoft you know at least we
won’t go bankrupt due to some Tsu-
nami or something.
Well all in all it has bin a fab year for
MS, I mean kick-ass products that will
just make you feel like you are in heav-
en. Just connect all your devices, and
lean back while we listen and video
everything in your life. Trust me man,
your data is in good hands!
Y For all of you unfortunate
enough not to know what
this is:
This. Is. Cat.Breading.
I’m so incredibly fabulous that I defecate amazing rainbows

