TECHNOLOGY
Technology Editors: Jason Parmar
Maximilian Eggl
technology.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 21 JUNE 39
“
[With
Google
Glass]
being
socially
awkward
will be
easier than
ever
t’s been an incredible year for
the world’s coolest company.
Consistently ranked as the
best place to work for as long
as I can remember, the last 12
months has seen some pretty ground-
breaking steps forward for the Moun-
tain View company: driverless cars,
balloon powered internet, the world’s
most popular mobile operating sys-
tem and of course, Google Glass.
It’s not hard to see why Google
keep topping Fortune’s best com-
pany to work for list. In addition to
the standard: free healthcare, every
insurance you can name, time oﬀ for
kids, reimbursed education, free le-
gal advice etc, Google goes over and
beyond for its employees: free mas-
sages/haircuts/gourmet food, sleep-
ing pods and even an ice hockey rink
and horseshoe pit in the workplace.
Oh, and if you ever have the urge to
do an Oscar Pistorius, make sure they
work at Google – if a Google employ-
ee dies their spouse gets half their sal-
ary for a decade. Basically, I wouldn’t
be surprised if the company went to
the extent to pay for free escorts so
employees could look like they have
hot girlfriends and would have a pet-
ting zoo every day of the year (rather
than one day to distress exam ridden
students).
It’s no surprise that their employees
are happy. But combine this with a
policy that all engineers must spend
20% of their time on a personal pro-
ject, with 100% full autonomy, and
you get a crazy range of fascinating,
useful and sometimes pointless in-
novations. hese include: GoogleAds,
Gmail, Plus, Maps, Streetview, Trans-
late, Goggles etc.
So what have Google actually done
over the last 12 months and what
about their future? Well, basically, it’ll
get a whole lot more evasive into your
personal space, but that’s most deﬁ-
nitely a good thing. It just means we’ll
be able to do more and at the same
time be lazier.
Google’s driverless cars for exam-
ple are completely legal and in use all
over California. With a rollout pre-
dicted by the end of the year, Google
employees (and many others) will
soon be safely working in the back of
their car on their way to work without
a chauﬀeur!
Google’s recently announced
“Loon” aims to give balloon-powered
the internet to the entire world with
the slogan “Loon for all”. By sending
balloons up into the sky Google claim
they can help to better education,
healthcare, business and, well, just
about everything. In the launch video
they say “1 in three children can’t get
to a secondary school, but with the in-
ternet, school can come to them” and
“where there aren’t enough doctors,
doctors can help you from other plac-
es” etc. hus everyone in the world
will be able to enjoy access to the an-
archist cookbook and 4chan, not bad.
But Google Glass is by far the cool-
est innovation that has taken serious
steps forward. Currently out to a few
thousand people, it won’t be long be-
fore their out for the public and will
replace our phones. No doubt with
a load of custom apps, being socially
awkward will never been easier. For
example, have you ever wanted to ﬁlm
random people on the tube – I know
I have – and Google Glass makes this
happen super subtly. No longer do
we have to be sneaky with our phone,
we can just look at people…perfect!
Another add-on that’ll no doubt will
come out could be a novelty x-ray, so
that when people say “just relax and
imagine the audience naked” when
you speak, you don’t really have to
imagine, Google will put a pretty ac-
curate overlay on there for you (al-
though I’m not sure that’ll really help
you if you’re a man standing on a
stage).
Continuing on the rollercoaster of
privacy, Google streetview has mas-
sively expanded in the last 12 month.
At release Streetview aided thousands
of couples around the world spot their
partner ‘cheating’ (as well as helping
us get to places). But not only has
streetview expanded across countries
and the Amazon rainforest, but now
Jason Parmar steps into the shoes of a fanboi to review the year
I
Googol
for fanboiz
The News Bubble
General news from around the tech world, so you can keep up to date
with the newest, weirdest and most futuristic things around.
Microsoft announces a new console
After the gamer community caused a great uproar on the interwebs,
the Redmond based company has finally bowed to the pressure. The
Xbox 360, released on the 22nd of November 2005, will be the cheap
alternative to all those not wanting the Xbox One. However, how
many games will actually be released for this great gaming device is
the big question on everyone’s mind!
Princeptionism
A recent study by US scientists has revealed that every piece data is
copied by the NSA 5 times on US government servers. Futhermore
due to some faulty algorithm, each single piece of data is multiplied 5
times again, leading to an exponential growth in data. This means that
that creepy love letter you sent to your crush in year twelve has more
“babies” than the entire human race.
Tech Editors on the run
Yesterday 12:01 am, the Felix Games Editor was found dead in the Fe-
lix Office underneath a large amount of simulator games, most nota-
bly Train Simulator 1 through 4. The last known activity of the indie
gaming addict, was his parodying the other sections of Felix, however
leaving out the Tech section for no valid reason. The London Met are
now looking for any leads, especially for the whereabouts of Jason
Parmar and Maximilian Eggl. Any hints are greatly appreciated.
Max Eggl and Jason Parmar Tech Editors
Google is going into shops and venues
to give you an even more complete
experience! If expanded one day into
homes maybe you’ll be able to catch
more than just your partner hold-
ing hands with someone else on the
street.
From left to right: Google Glass, the world-champion for horseshoeing is a big fan of Google’s garden horseshoe pits, Google’s balloon project to give the whole world the internet to change the world

