BWWWAAAAAAAAAAAAAMM
GAMES
FRIDAY 21 JUNE 41
Games Editor: Ross Webster
games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
GAMES SCIENCE
GAMES... GAMES
“Huh. Maxed out on oil again.” – Me,
when playing Oil Rush. Oil Rush is an
interesting take on the real time strat-
egy genre. It is a naval strategy game
that takes place in the future, where
nuclear war has melted the polar ice
caps leaving little habitable land on
the planet. As such, many people live
either on ships or on platforms that
have been built in the sea.
Strategy in the game focuses around
claiming and holding platforms in the
ocean. here are two main types of
platforms: oil rigs and unit construc-
tion platforms; the latter being further
divided by which unit the platform
provides. As such, the map is simply
the placement of these platforms, the
types of platforms, and small sections
of land that block sea passage.
Each oil rig will produce as much
oil as it can, until the maximum of
500 has been reached, and each unit
construction platform will construct
the relevant unit until the population
limit has been reached. Note: it does
not cost anything to produce units
(presumably oil is the only resource
that is limited, and no oil is needed to
build these units).
his is one of two methods that the
designers have employed to attempt
to eliminate micromanagement in the
game. he other method is unit selec-
tion – instead of selecting units indi-
vidually the player selects a platform,
combination of types of units, and
then what percentage of them he/she
wants. he game automatically choos-
es the ‘best’ combination.
Both of these methods are very ef-
fective in completing their goal – the
game is very much focused on the
big picture. However, this does mean
that the player loses control. What if
you want to send the already weak-
ened unit to get itself killed distract-
ing the enemy while sending the one
at full health to capture a platform?
he game doesn’t know which attack
the player cares more about, and thus
may send bad combinations of units.
here is another very important dif-
ference between the two main types of
platform, which is that oil rigs must be
defended by units, whereas unit con-
struction platforms can have towers
built around them for defence (tow-
ers cost oil, and are the main thing
that you’ll use which do so). his leads
to the main strategic choices in the
game: how many units to leave behind
whilst you send the rest to capture the
remainder of the platforms.
And herein lies the main problem
with this game. Whilst fun, there is
very little strategic gameplay to be
found. I can quite easily beat the nor-
mal AI simply by capturing and keep-
ing two or three oil rigs, and then
sending a large force to attack all of
the unit construction platforms one
by one. Some strategy is added by the
fact that oil rigs cannot be defended,
and there are also special powers
that players can use (decrease enemy
damage for x seconds, increase ar-
mour, etc) which increase the strategy
somewhat as well. In addition to this,
the fact that no unit or tower can be
healed and each take time to be rebuilt
adds something to this.
However, the fact remains that the
most eﬀective strategy is simply to
leave behind very few units and attack
as fast as possible.
here are two factions presented
at the beginning of the campaign (ef-
fectively rebels and empire), but by
the looks of things, these factions are
entirely identical in terms of units and
abilities – they exist in the game world
purely to allow plot hooks. his is
somewhat disappointing, as most real
time strategy games give at least three
factions all of which play diﬀerently,
look diﬀerent and have a variety of
sub-strategies, such as Starcraft or the
Command and Conquer series. his
may have been done simply because
Oil Rush is quite diﬀerent strategically
from most other games in this genre,
however.
he music and graphics are both
high quality and very appropriate for
the game. In particular, the plane and
ship models are really very detailed.
he main campaign is very eﬀective at
taking you through the main unit types
and strategies, though it does feel a bit
like a very long tutorial. hings never
really pick up. In addition to this there
is simply a ﬁxed set of missions as op-
posed to, like in Dawn of War: Soul-
storm (I was trying to forget about that
expansion. Curse you! – Games Ed.), a
series of missions where the outcome
of the last eﬀects the next. Or Rome:
Total War where there is a large scale
campaign map as a turn based strat-
egy game followed by individual real
time battles. he addition of this kind
of campaign would add a great deal to
the replayability of this game.
Overall, I quite enjoyed this game
but I don’t think it would have been
the cost if I’d have bought it at full
price. Oil Rush is available from Steam
or Desura now for £12.99, but I’d ad-
vise you to wait for the next Steam sale
if you want to get it.
Sanchit Sharma
Oil, oil everywhere...
GAMES SPORT
Cave Johnson
Hello exploitable summer test subjects,
Cave Johnson here.
I expect that some of you missed me,
and to be fair, who wouldn’t? After those
children at Black Mesa realised it was
me waging incendiary citrus warfare
against them, I’ve had to lie low for a bit.
Whilst we were away, the UROP
students that we kidnapped however,
thought up another new method for
generating inﬁnite energy. his time,
there’s less of the screaming, and none
of the paperwork to ﬁll out. he down-
side is that is quite ineﬃcient, for an in-
ﬁnite energy source, and we’re running
out of intact UROP students to devise
any improvements.
So, I’m extending a special oﬀer to the
bored, fully-limbed students of Imperi-
al. Over the summer, your Department’s
test associates will be running evalua-
tion centres, to gauge your potential for
this project. If you feel like helping ad-
vance our knowledge of human electro-
chemistry, and won’t have anyone who’ll
come looking for you if you don’t return,
pick up a form from your Departmental
Representative.
Alternatively, if any of you feel like
you’re not getting enough iron in your
diet, we’ve got a new testing opportu-
nity, just for you. You’ll be reimbursed
for your time, and if we still haven’t ﬁxed
the solidiﬁcation by then, your family
will be able to turn your remains into
a great looking garden ornament. I say
great-looking, but it will be your molten
likeness, so remember to hold a heroic
pose, when the lab boys turn on the ma-
chines. Get your hustle on! Cave out.
GAMES BUSINESS
Andrew Ryan
Dear readers, let me ask you a ques-
tion, to ponder during your upcoming
summer break. Do you not all feel the
drive to make your mark in the world?
We are all people. We are all born of
equal chance. Yet why, when given the
opportunity, are there those who look
to ‘game the system’ – those who try
so hard to do so little?
I can understand thievery and brib-
ery, just as well as intellect and cal-
lused hands. Yet, these paradoxical
ﬁgures who are prevalent in all layers
of our society, all the halls of our gov-
ernments, and all the vestries of our
religions elude me.
Why not work towards goals? What
is life, if not a journey towards an ever-
greater target? Are the parasites truly
happy with such a sedentary lifestyle,
that will leave their façade bloated, but
their mind, withered within?
The summer all fears

