NEWS
4 FRIDAY 21 JUNE
News Editors: Aemun
Reza, Nida Mahmud
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Maciej Matuszewski Reporter
Health Centre confusion
Angry responses have continued to
pour in concerning the decision by
the Imperial College Health Centre
to stop treating Imperial postgradu-
ates who live outside of the Centre’s
catchment area. he Health Centre
only receives money from the NHS
to register patients living within this
area but additional funding received
from the College has traditionally al-
lowed it to treat out of area students.
hese students do not oﬃcially ‘reg-
ister’ at the Health Centre but rather
‘join’. his allows them to use all of the
Health Centre’s provisions apart from
the out-of-hours service, but they are
still encouraged to register with a lo-
cal GP.
Despite the College recently in-
creasing the money that it pays to the
Health Centre a loss of some NHS
funding due to a decrease in the num-
ber of registered patients led to the
decision to restrict access to services.
While Imperial postgraduates are no
longer able to join the Health Centre
out-of-area Imperial undergraduates
and both undergraduates and post-
graduates from the Royal College of
Music are still able to do so. Under-
graduates living in the new Hall of
Residence in Acton will, in fact, have
to join rather than register since the
Hall’s W3 postcode is outside the
Health Centre’s catchment area.
In a statement given to Felix about
the changes aﬀecting Imperial post-
graduates, Dr Sarah Freedman of the
Imperial College Health Centre said:
“Last summer we ﬂagged up with the
College the fact that there was likely
to be insuﬃcient funding from them,
for the continued provision of all the
services for students, which are not
funded by the NHS. hese include all
services provided to students, who are
not entitled to register under the NHS
because of where they live, but also a
variety of other services, such as cer-
tiﬁcation to tutors, for students who
are registered. It became clear late in
2012, that the anticipated shortfall
was a reality. he College informed
us, that they were unable to make up
the shortfall as there were no addi-
tional funds available and so advised
us to cut services. We were really dis-
appointed by this news as we under-
stood that this would negatively im-
pact student welfare.
“After lengthy deliberation, we made
the decision to stop seeing unregis-
tered postgraduate students … his
was not a decision we wanted to make,
but we felt we had no other option, as
it is not possible to run a service with-
out suﬃcient funding.
“I appreciate that some postgradu-
ates were receiving repeat medica-
tion and ongoing monitoring here.
However we have always advised all
those who use our service, but are not
eligible to register with us under the
NHS, that they should be fully regis-
tered with a local NHS GP. hose that
followed this advice should not have
had signiﬁcant problems with the
transition, although I accept that their
health provision may have become
much less specialised and convenient.
his is surely an argument for the Col-
lege to provide adequate funding for
their care here in future.”
his explanation, however, was dis-
puted by Professor Denis Wright,
Imperial College London Dean of
Students, who said: “he funding gap
arose due to a fall in student regis-
trations in the Health Centre, which
in return reduced the capitation fees
the Health Centre (which is an NHS
practice) receives from the NHS. We
could not secure additional College
funds at that time as these are set an-
nually through the planning round but
did instigate a campaign though War-
dens in Halls to increase registrations.
his has worked to some degree, al-
though registrations are still below the
2011/12 level. We did not advise the
Health Centre to make cuts in services
and regret that the Health Centre did
so for non-registered PG students.“
he Health Centre has not allowed
Union oﬃcials to view the agreement
it has with College concerning how it
should use College funds. In a state-
ment given to Felix, Becky Lane, Dep-
uty President (Welfare), said: “he
Health Centre are blocking me from
seeing the Memorandum of Under-
standing between the Health Centre
and the College, despite the fact that
the College are happy for me to see
it. A freedom of information request
would be futile due to commercial
sensitivity. It does beg the question of
what the Health Centre have to hide
and what the agreement is based on
the College subsidy.”
Postgraduates were initially in-
formed of the decision, which came in
force on 1 March, by a notice on the
Health Centre website. All postgradu-
ates were subsequently informed of
the changes by an email from the
Union – which prompted some 200
replies from students expressing their
dissatisfaction at the changes. On 30
April, the Union Council unanimously
passed a paper resolving “to work with
College staﬀ to lobby the Health Cen-
tre to change their policy on seeing
Postgraduates outside the registration
area”.
Speaking to Felix, Helen Penning-
ton, Graduate Students Association
Academic and Welfare Oﬃcer for
Life Sciences, said: “One of the main
concerns raised by a postgraduate
(who wishes to remain anonymous)
was that any students receiving men-
tal healthcare who were outside the
catchment area may have had their
care/counselling stopped. I imagine
that this would be distressing, espe-
cially because there is something of a
stigma in the UK about mental illness.
“It should also be noted that there is
a diﬀerence between undergraduate
masters (for example physics 4th year)
and postgraduate masters (for exam-
ple any biology masters). hese stu-
dents will usually be in the same age-
range, and often doing the same kinds
of courses, but are treated diﬀerently
under College policy. his does not
seem entirely fair.”
Responding to these concerns – and
the case, raised at the Union Council,
of a student “experiencing an ana-
phylactic episode” being turned away
from the Health Centre and advised to
call an ambulance instead – Dr Freed-
man said: “We felt that [Postgradu-
ate’s] maturity better enabled them to
manage their health care needs, with-
out the support of the Health Centre,
than the Undergraduate population.
“hose with mental health problems
who were receiving talking therapies
at the Health Centre were encouraged
to complete their treatment course
here. hose who were on the wait-
ing list prior to treatment starting
were advised to access treatment via
their local registered GP. So it was not
correct to say that patients had their
treatment stopped. Once again we feel
sympathy for those students aﬀected
but reiterate that we cannot run a
comprehensive service for all students
without adequate funding.
“In general terms though, our policy
would be to see anyone with medical
emergencies, whatever their registra-
tion status. However, our obligation to
patients not eligible to use the Health
Centre is to provide advice in an emer-
gency and sometimes that advice may
be ‘to call an ambulance’.”
Cuts in services to postgraduates still unclear
Volunteer Awards
On Monday Metric
will be hosting the
first ever Volun-
teer Awards, which
promises to be
an action-packed
event definitely
not to be missed.
It will give every-
one the chance to
show their support
by voting for the
best volunteering
projects while en-
joying free cake (!)
and also allow peo-
ple to learn more
about volunteering
at Imperial. This is
both the first for-
mal recognition of
volunteers at Impe-
rial AND the first
High Tea that Met-
ric has ever seen. So
prepare yourself for
banging tunes and
an awards ceremony next to which all others pale by comparison.
The Awards will start at 4pm – what better to do on a Monday afternoon
than come along to Metric for high tea!
Saber King
Health Centre blame the
College for not filling the
gap in funding. College say
they increased funding
The Volunteer Awards
Ceremony
2012-2013
Coming soon... “Like the BAFTAS, but better”
The Volunteer
Awards Ceremony
2012-2013
“Like the BAFTAs, but better”
Enjoy FREE tea and CAKE and
vote for the BEST volunteering
projects!
4pm 24th June
Metric
High tea! Banging
beats!
Have you ever volunteered or dreamt of volunteering?
Come along to
Complaints on the rise
Figures from the official watchdog, the Office of the Independent Adjudicator
(OIA), show that complaints by students at universities in England and Wales
have reached an all time high.
In 2012 there were 2012 complaints against universities, compared to 1605
the year before. Of the complaints, about 4% were deemed to be justified, 6%
settled and 8% unjustified. 59% were declared to be unjustified. In total, uni-
versities paid £189,892 in compensation to students.
With regards to the nature of complaints: most (69%) were for academic sta-
tus. This however means that 31% were for other complaints. Rob Behrens, OIA
Chief Executive, stressed that these complaints are most likely not from the
fee rise and that the impact of the £9000 fees will be seen later. He said: “We
haven’t seen the full impact of the fee increase yet, because most complaints are
from third year students and the fees do not apply to them yet.” – Comment 18
Tim Arbabzadah
Rector’s Awards Announced
President & Rector’s 2013 Awards and Medals for Excellence in Teaching, Pas-
toral Care, Research Student Supervision and Supporting the Student Experi-
ence. Apparently brevity wasn’t a concern for him.
Professor Jenny Higham (Medicine), Professor John Laycock (Medicine),
Dr Alexander Whittaker (Department of Earth Science and Engineering)all
received medals for their outstanding contribution to excellence in teaching.
Martin Holloway (Bioengineering) and the Linstead Hall Wardening team
(David Charles, James Field and Yujie Zhao) were given the Medal for their
excellent pastoral care. The Medal for Research Supervision went to Dr Jane
Davies (NHLI). The Medals for Supporting the Student Experience went to Ms
Susan English (Faculty of Medicine), Mr Michael Reynolds (Campus Services).
Tim Arbabzadah
A full list of the awards can be found online: http://www3.imperial.ac.uk/
registry/abouttheregistry/awardsforexcellence

