HANGMAN hangman.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 21 JUNE
44
Rap Lyrics of
the Week
“So I went hard like Medusa star-
ing at me”
Just to put this is context: he’s in
a club and has just seen an attrac-
tive woman. So he immediately got
hard. This means he was probably
thenstandingintheclub,sheepish-
ly, hoping nobody looks below his
face. Many tricks of the trade were
probably employed in this circum-
stance. The classic is the hand in
pocket adjustment. I bet he was
doing this. Just casually slip a hand
in your pocket and grab hold of the
wriggling worm. Then, boom, push
it down in your tight fitting boxers
or try to push it so it’s not as up-
right. Or, if you’re really desperate,
tuck it into your belt. That may cut
off circulation though. In fact, he
probably just stood with his hands
in front of his trousers, or “pants”
as an American would incorrectly
name them.
Andre 3000
“Green Light”
Encyclopedia Felix
will.i.am
“T.H.E”
“I woke up in the morning,
Hard like morning wood in the
morning”
This is just so fucking dumb it
hurts. Firstly, rapping is supposed
to be about many things including
wordplay. This shows zero mastery
of that. Plus, what other morning
wood is there? It’s, by definition,
wood in the morning. Also it’s lame
to be rapping about that anyway.
Hangman’s guide to the oft-spotted Studentium Imperium
Habitat: The Library.
Etymology: Named after the institution that they attend.
Pokédex number: #00behindoxbridge
Weakness: Social interaction
Favourite colour: Library jacket potato brown
Favourite album: The podcast of their lecture notes. If they ever arrive
Figure 1: The Imperial student
Note the oversized glasses which are accidentally fashionable. Most
of the Studentium Imperium have these. Those that don’t are either
very luck or a bit vain. Usually the latter. Occasionally they are
swapped for lab goggles to perform various mating rituals known as
“labs” where the student attempts to chat up their lab partner, only
ending in embarrassment for all involved.
The Studentium do contain sexual organs. How-
ever, they are almost never used. For a long time
a theory existed that somehow the Studentium
reproduced through masturbation, as they spend
a siginificant portion of the day practicing this ac-
tivity. It was latter found, through breakthrough,
night time surveillance, that they are actually just
lonely and need something to help them relax at
night after seven hours of revision.
The mouth of the Studentium is al-
most exclusively used to partake in
what is known in academic circles as
“shit chat” and “talking about their
boring subject”. It is believed this is
a defence mechanism to ward off
friends. Many have been found to be
completely incapable of using their
mouth when around others. This sug-
gests they have only just developed
the ability to socialise, and are still
unsure of what to do. This “standing
in the corner quiety” phenomenon
has particularly been observed in the
night time when many of the species
are together. It is even worse when
rival species Attractivius Peoplius are
around
Not seen yet, but soon there will be a
significant amount of hair loss due to
extreme stress and lack of sleep. They
malt in the library to mark their terri-
tory.
Note the unfashionable cloth-
ing that the species wears, It is
widely believed that this is to
ward off potential suitors when
the Studentium is busy in the

