Issue 1552
SPORT “Keep the Cat Free”
felixonline.co.uk
21/06/13
@SportFelix
Pole is one of the hottest ﬁtness trends
in the country, combining ballet and
gymnastics to create routines as physi-
cally impressive as they are sexy. Don’t
let the hotpants fool you – the Pole Soc
girls (and guys!) routinely bust out hu-
man ﬂags and the exposed skin is used
for grip.
Anyone walking into Metric last
hursday night would have been met
by an unusual sight as the society
turned the nightclub into a pole stu-
dio in preparation for their summer
showcase. he lineup included three
routines written by the Pole Soc Com-
mittee, as well as having poles on hand
to let attendees give it a go. he night
started oﬀ well with a good turnout
and the drinks ﬂowing as the per-
formers warmed up – three girls and
one man down to their short shorts in
Metric.
he ﬁrst performance kicked oﬀ at
9 with Jessica Haddon and Annabel
Keeler strutting their stuﬀ in a re-
choreographed version of the society
routine from the ICSM fashion show
earlier this year. he routine ran seam-
lessly with the two girls performing
on just one pole alternating strength
moves with careful, elegant dance and
choreography, with a small slip-up at
the end was betrayed only by the girls
being unable to contain their laughter.
his was followed at 9.30 by a synchro-
nised routine by Jessica and Esther
Berry, this year’s President.
he ﬁnal routine of the night saw
Esther performing opposite her presi-
dential replacement and the only male
member of the society, Maths fresh-
er Ben Howitt. he routine started
well, with graceful dance moves from
Esther and an impressive show of
strength from Ben that left all the men
in the room green with envy. However,
as they progressed through the fast-
paced routine into their double super-
man – a move in which both dancers
lay ﬂat in the classic ‘superman’ pose,
supporting their weight between their
legs – the worst thing possible hap-
pened. he pole collapsed. Ben, who
was around 2.5m from the ground at
the time, saw the top coming away
from the ceiling and leaped to safety.
he pole then came away completely,
smashing into a lighting cage which
slowed its fall, before coming crashing
down onto the stage. his saved it from
landing squarely on Esther, who was
1.5m up. She hit the ground directly
underneath the fallen pole.
As a stunned silence resounded
around the room, the Union Stewards
and Committee sprang into action.
hankfully the two performers had
escaped merely bruised and shocked,
and they decided to ﬁnish what they
had started. According to one, “if we
hadn’t powered through, I think I’d
have had real trouble getting back on
a pole again. You tell yourself it will
never happen, and when it does … it
was terrifying”. It was decided to com-
plete the routine upstairs in their usual
practice room of the Union Gym. Al-
most the entire audience turned out to
see the explosive routine ﬁnished oﬀ,
giving a great end to an eventful even-
ing. Some spectators even said they
felt the performance upstairs was bet-
ter, as they could see the moves more
clearly, as well as appreciating the
more extreme aspects of the sport!
he issue was Metric itself; the seem-
ingly solid steel girder in the ceiling the
pole was attached to had become slick
with that particular Metric grime and
condensed sweat causing the pole to
slip oﬀ. Perhaps nightclubs are not the
best place for pole dancing after all.
Blood, sweat and hotpants
Esther Berry Pole Soc President
Metric turns on Pole Soc for a dramatic end to their Summer Showcase
All photos courtesy of James Cronshaw. The lucky devil

