NEWS
5
FRIDAY 21 JUNE
News Editors: Aemun
Reza, Nida Mahmud
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
More student cuts
Men’s cuts £22 (normally £35)
Women’s cut and rough dry £28
Women’s cut and salon finish
blow-dry £38 (normally £55)
FRESH Hairdressers has been
offering high quality, fashionable
haircuts for over 20 years. All of
our haircuts are by highly experi-
enced stylists, NOT trainees.
TO GET A GREAT HAIRCUT
1) You don’t have to spend a lot of
money at expensive trendy salons
2) You don’t have to spend hours
as a Guinea pig at a training school
3) You don’t have to be butchered
at some cheap Barbers
4) You don’t have to wait till you go
back home
Come to FRESH, ask for a student
Sponsored Editorial
Discount haircuts for Imperial
students at Fresh Hairdressers
near South Kensington
discount and bring your student ID
we look forward to seeing you.
We use only the best products,
Wella, Moroccan Oil, L’Oreal, and
KMS and offer free coffee and
herbal teas.
To book an appointment call 0207
823 8968.
Tuesday to Saturdays 9.30 to 5.30
We are only 70 metres from South
Kensington tube station.
www.freshhairdressers.co.uk
Imperial slips to 113th in
green league
Imperial College London has been
ranked 113th place in the People &
Planet’s Annual Green League Table
for 2013. his is a drop of 17 places
since last year, where Imperial was
ranked 96th place in the 2012 League
Table.
he People & Planet are the UK’s
largest student campaigning network;
they compile the Green League Table
annually. In 2013, 143 UK universities
were ranked. hey were awarded a 1st,
2:1, 2:2, 3rd or fail. he ranking de-
pended on 13 diﬀerent criteria, includ-
ing: carbon management, environ-
mental policy, performance in carbon
reduction, waste recycling, student
engagement, energy eﬃciency, green
curriculum, waste recycling, energy
eﬃciency, transport emissions, ethi-
cal procurement, sustainable food and
water consumption. he People and
Planet’s Go Green Campaign kicked
oﬀ in 2003, it aims to change the envi-
ronmental performance present in the
higher education sector.
Louise Hazan, compiler of the Peo-
ple & Planet Green League com-
mented: “After a decade of student-led
Go Green campaigning, the Higher
Education sector has made excellent
progress in areas ranging from carbon
reduction to ethical procurement. For
the ﬁrst time ever, 100% of universities
assessed now have an environmental
policy. However, we’re seeing excru-
ciatingly slow progress from too many
universities in some criteria such as
ethical investment given the urgency
of the climate challenge. We’d encour-
age those who have failed this year’s
Green League ‘exam’ to take a leaf out
of Manchester Metropolitan’s book”
Imperial’s score meant that it was
awarded a 3rd Class award. Imperial
scored full points in the Environmen-
tal Policy and Student & staﬀ engage-
ment categories. On the other hand,
Imperial did not receive any points for
the Ethical Investment, Curriculum
and water consumption categories.
Imperial does have SMART targets
set in key areas for waste, transport,
procurement, water, construction
and the community; however, targets
have not been set for discharges or
biodiversity. Imperial has a Carbon
Management Plan target, which aims
to achieve a 20% reduction in CO2
emissions from 2008 to 2014. But this
can only be achieved via a Continuous
Commissioning programme, this re-
quires an in depth analysis of individu-
al buildings to ascertain opportunities
for improvement.
A continuous optimisation report by
Nida Mahmud News Editor
Imperial outlined that: “he examina-
tion involves identifying the original
design speciﬁcations; analysing the
current occupation strategy and area
by area use; identifying the service
strategies which are actually needed
to meet current requirements; and
developing proposals for operational
changes and cost-eﬀective invest-
ment to meet these requirements in
safe but more energy eﬃcient ways.
As the examples show, this typically
involves measures such as air change
volume adjustments; changing AHU
temperature and time set-backs; intro-
ducing more eﬃcient plant; adjusting
pump delivery to meet ﬂow demands;
improving ﬁlter eﬃciencies; and in-
troducing occupancy controls such as
CO2
sensors and user switches.”
Manchester Metropolitan University
came in top place and was named the
greenest university in the UK, the Uni-
versity of Plymouth came in 2nd place
and the University of Gloucestershire
came in 3rd place. Alongside Impe-
rial, Oxford and Cambridge also per-
formed worse than they did in 2012.
Cambridge was ranked 113th place
and was awarded a 3rd class, Oxford
came in 132nd and was awarded a Fail.
Imperial College London re-
use scheme
here are green and sustainability
initiatives happening at Imperial Col-
lege London. For example, there is a
Reuse and Recycling scheme. his has
been running for ﬁve years and Col-
lege say it has always been well sup-
ported. Felix have been informed that
the amount of donations has been fall-
ing each year and that there are still
many items appearing in the waste
that could have been reused. Last year,
Imperial were not last in terms of do-
nations of this scheme, but were a long
way behind other universities such as
London South Bank. Last year the
hall that lowered their carbon foot-
print the most was Orient House (38
kg CO2
reduced per student). he hall
that lowered their carbon footprint
the least was Holbein Willis Jackson
(8 kg CO2
reduced per student)
Union applying for sizeable
grant
Imperial College Union are currently
making a bid for the Students’ Green
Fund. his is a fund for student unions
to “take leadership and ownership of
the sustainability agenda in higher
education”. If the Union win this, they
will get a share of a pot of £5 million.
he money is distributed through the
National Union of Students (NUS) on
behalf of the Higher Education Fund-
ing Council for England (HEFCE). he
Union have already submitted their ex-
pression of interest, and the full dead-
line for the bid is on 3 July 2013.
Union Awards
The following people received awards from the Union.
Union Colours: Zahra Aboukhalil, Fatima Ahmad, Matthew Allinson, Martin
Asprusten, Giada Azzopardi, Richard Bennett, Henry Bleech, William Brown,
Christopher Charles, Francis Clegg, James Cooper, Peter Davis, Pongsathorn
Dechatiwongse, Aaron D’souza, Christian Franke, Shiladitya Ghosh, William
Glendinning, Usman Goga, Boshuo Guo, Maija-Lisa Han, Dariush Hassanza-
deh-Baboli, Johannes Hoenigl, Ali Hosin, Ibtesham Hossain, Maximilian Hunt-
er, Matthew Hutchins, Emily Hutchinson, Narthana Ilenkovan, Naomi Jordan,
Neeraj Kalra, Hanan Kamel, Natalie Kempston, Giridhar Kesavan, Callum
Kirk, Jane Langdon-Davies, Marissa Lewis, Jonathan London, Anna Luthman,
Frank Machin, Megan MacKenzie, Gemma Milman, Noah Nathanm, Nicho-
las Ng, Aislinn O’Malley, Leonardo Paoli, Bhavesh Patel, Lydia Pearson, Helen
Pennington, Helen Phillips, Claudio Polisseni, Jonathan Pratt, Sybghat Rahim,
Deepka Rana, Timothy Runcorn, Lewis Ryan, Plabon Saha, Cyin San, Harish
Santhanam, Usman Siddiqui, Natasha Strydom, James Sudlow, Zhao Tai, Yuen
Tham, Victoria Walpole, Ken Wu
Outstanding Service Award: Dominic Andradi-Brown, Isabel Fenton, Ben-
jamin Fry, Adam Funnell, George Goldberg, Maryam Habibzay, Philip Kent,
Wasim Khouri, Joseph Letts, Thomas Lim, Slobodan Radosavljevic, Suzanne
Rayner, Joseph Rumer, Simon Schillebeeckx, Steven Tran, Ross Webster, Thom-
as Wilshere, Jake Woods
Fellowship Lorraine Craig
Fellowship with Distinction Nathaniel Bottrell, Stephen Richardson
Due to an unfortunate copy and paste fail the full list was not printed last week.
Felix apologises for the error. Above is (hopefully) the full list.
Corrections and clarifications
Last week in the Feature entitled “Meet the new faces of the Union” there were two
unfortunate errors. Firstly, Kieron Creagh is actually 22 and studies Geology. Natalie’s
name was accidentally misspelt with Kempston being spelt Kempson.
Felix apologises for these errors.
Wahay! We’re finally equal with Cambridge at something. Oh, wait. DAM-
MIT!

