unionpage
imperialcollegeunion.org
Imperial College Union has a free sexual health clinic run by theTerrence
HigginsTrust onTuesday 25 June, 11:00 – 16:00.This clinic will offer chlamydia,
gonorrhoea, rapid HIV testing, condoms and advice. The clinic is open and free
to all students regardless of age, gender, study type or country of origin.
To book a slot, please come to East Wing Basement in Beit Quad from 10:30
where slots will be allocated on a ﬁrst-come, ﬁrst-served basis. We will release
extra slots at 13:00 for those unable to attend at 10:30.
For more information please contact our Representation Coordinator, Zoe
Richardson (z.richardson@imperial.ac.uk).
Free Sexual Health Clinic next week
Vote for our guest ale in the Union’s bars for July
FiveSixEight and the Union Bar are open throughout the summer, so
we’re looking for a guest ale for July. All you need to do is take the poll at
imperialcollegeunion.org/realales and the ale with the highest votes wins!
The current poll will close at 12:00, Monday 1 July, and the winning ale will be
on sale later in the month.
July’s guest ale will join out regular ales in the bars - IPA (£2.90 a pint) and
Tolly English Ale (or TEA - £2.20 a pint).
imperialcollegeunion.org/realales
See the impact we’ve made this year
Imperial College Union’s Impact Report for 2012/13 is now online!
This past academic year has been a successful year of growth and change for Imperial College
Union.Through a range of new initiatives like the Student Academic Choice Awards, Stress Less and
#AgainstActon to revamped services like the Union website, we certainly have lots to shout about.
Structurally, the Union’s governance has been overhauled and we are now a registered charity, with new
governing documents and long-term agreements in place with the College.
Our annual Impact Report is a mere snapshot of the work Imperial College Union does throughout the
year – always aiming to better the student experience and represent the student body as best we can.
Visit imperialcollegeunion.org/impact2013 to get a taste of what we’ve achieved this year!
imperialcollegeunion.org/impact2013

