T
he British hangover has a few inter-
esting equivalents in various conti-
nental languages. For instance, if
you went on a booze-cruise to
France thefinalstage of your drinking binge
would be called 'gueule de bois' (literally:
wooden face). In Spain you might suffer 'la
resaca', which roughly translated means 'back-
wash', and in Germany "der Kater" implies you
are in an indolent, apathetic state similar to that
of a cat. Finally, in Norway, "tommermenn"
refers to a carpenter's noisy work that goes on
and on in your head. Since the hangover is such
a universal phenomenon, I decided to interview
Dr Peter Dorward, my GP, to find
out what causes the familiar symp-
toms of the hangover, and what can
be done to prevent them.
© Symptom: I'm dying of thirst
The main consequence of drinking
is dehydration. What makes you feel
so thirsty in the morning is a hormon-
al process linked to the Anti Diuretic
Hormone ( A D H if you prefer).
Alcohol stops its production and
makes the kidneys produce a lot of
urine. This means you loose all your
water supplies.
© Symptom: My body hurts
Dr Dorward explained that the
immediate physical cause of pain and
nausea is due to an irritation of the
stomach called gastritis. It usually
takes few days of abstinence for it to
heal.
© Symptom: I feel like death
No less than a third of the alcohol
intake goes directly into the blood
stream via the stomach walls. The
remaining alcohol is absorbed rapidly
in the small intestine. As a result, con-
taminated blood goes through all the
organs and cells before reaching the brain.
© Symptom: My head hurts
By the time the contaminated blood reaches
the brain, you are bound to be subject to a
headache. Red wines and most other dark bev-
erages contain tannin. These impurities make
headaches worse because they poison you. You
will find it absolutely preferable to drink vodka
if you wish to avoid the consequences of this
toxin accumulation.
Unfortunately, it's not that easy to avoid a
headache - other factors are involved. Inside the
liver, chemical and enzymatic processes convert
alcohol (known as ethanol to its intimate con-
noisseurs) into a highly toxic substance called
acetaldehyde. Further chemical processes will
then reduce this toxin to acetate, a harmless
chemical, but the efficiency of this process
depends on the amount of enzyme available in
>in
What Causes Hangovers?
Waking up feeling like death itself is a normal component of
student life. But what is the scientific reason for all those missed
nine o'clock lectures? Sabine Louet explains the cause of the curse
of the morning after.
in the blood stream depends on the
weight, age and sex of the drinker.
Whatever the feminists say, the bio-
logical evidence shows that Mother
Nature built women with more sub-
cutaneous fat and a smaller blood vol-
ume than men. Unfortunately, this
dictates that alcohol concentration
will always be higher in women than
in men for the same amount of alco-
hol consumed.
It is worth considering that there is
no way to accelerate the removal of
alcohol from the blood. Hence, after
an evening where you drink more
than 6 pints, you might still be above
the driving limit the next morning. 12
hours are necessary to clear it all.
If you want to avoid a hangover, the
best way to do it is this: before you go
to bed, simply to drink an amount of
water equal to the amount of alcohol
you drunk earlier that evening (this
may not always be practical, either
because you couldn't hold ten pints of
water all at once or because you can't
remember what you've had).
It appears that for heavy drinkers,
the fall of alcohol level causes anxiety.
Ironically, the only cure for addicts is to give
them more alcohol. As Joe.E.Lewis underlined,
it's a vicious cycle where you finally end up say-
ing : " I drink to forget that I drink".
A l c o h o l e x p o s e d
•
We drink ethanol C 2 H 5 O H which is a
colourless, flammable liquid with a mild
odour and strong taste.
B Among other uses it is required for pick-
•
I ling, polishing and paint stripping.
•
Our daily energy needs can be met by the
equivalent of 15 to 25 pints of beer, which
is enoughtokill you.
the body. In fact, genetic factors are responsible
for the availability of these enzymes and this
means susceptibility to alcohol addiction could
be genetic too.
lb a sober observer, heavy drinkers can often
appear to be nervous or be seen to shake. This is
a sign of alcohol addiction and is probably caused
by a drop in alcohol level in the blood.
A few tips on our favourite drug: the faster
alcohol is absorbed, the higher the peak in con-
centration of alcohol in the blood. The same
amount of alcohol absorbed slowly won't cause
you to feel as drunk, but it will remain in your
blood for a longer period. Choosing to down a
few whiskeys will therefore have more effect in
the short term than 'a few beers'. Fizzy drinks
like Champagne or gin and tonic are absorbed
even more quickly. However, taking a meal will
slow down the absorption by around 50% since
the stomach will empty more slowly.
More generally, the level of alcohol contained
X

