SIXTEEN . FELIX FRIDAY NOVEMBER 24TH 1 9 9 5 DIARY
friday
24
november
Rag Meeting
1.10pm. Ents Lounge. (R)
Pakistan Society
3 - 5pm. Basketball practice in the union gym.
Bring trainers! Contact Kashif, Aero II,
k.ahmed@ae.ic.ac.uk. (R)
Ents
8pm Tonight: The penultimate ( Is it that time
already?) BUST A G U T C O M E D Y C L U B . This
week features Ed. Byrne, & the lightening comic
mind of the 1995 Perrier Nominee Boothby
Graffoe (see page 19). A n d this week we
guarantee there are FREE T-shirts to the 1st fifty
in. Two top acts, & ah open mic spot, for just
£2.50 or £2 with an entscard.
Doors open 8pm.
10 - 2am. If you just wanna party ... "Climax". 4
hours of top tunes. £ 1 / FREE before 9pm or with
an entscard.
f r i d a y
Socrates Soc
The Socrates Society is a relatively new Imperial
society which was established at the end of the
last term.
-Is the SocSoc a philosophical society?
No.
-So, what is SocSoc then?
A Social Society whose aim is to organise
events and to attempt to bring together students
at a social level, away from the stresses of student
life at Imperial
-What is our next event?
A Doom II Contest is being held in the
Lecture Theatre 308, Huxley, on Saturday 25th
November, between the hours of l-5pm. If
intererested, just pop along to the venue.
-The SocSoc and the Internet...
A n d finally, since just having an email
address is no longer in fashion, we have a
Webpage, where you can find more information
about this mysterious society. The U R L is
http://www.su.ic.ac.uk/clubs/societies/scc/-
socrates_society/socsoc.html
S a t u r d a y
november
Gliding Club
Gliding at Lasham Airfield. (R)
SocSoc
1 - 5pm. Doom II Contest, Huxley 308.
Ents
1.30 - 3pm. Sunday Lunch served at Davinci's -
S T A N D I N G R O O M O N L Y - Live football,
A R S E N A L v. B L A C K B U R N coverage from noon
on the BIG Screen. Davinci's.
S a t u r d a y
S u n d a y
november
Gliding Club
Gliding at Lasham Airfield
Contact gliding@ic.ac.uk
Come to Thursday meeting first.
Fitness Club
2pm. Intermediate aerobics.
(R)
(R)
ConSoc
Britten's War Requiem, Royal Festival Hal!
Email for details.
s u n d a y
Gliding Club
IC Gliding Club made their annual summer tour this year to Le Blanc,France, the home of the European
Soaring Club, run by three times world champion Brian Spreckley, and his wife Gill. Le Blanc is situated
in the Massif Centrale, approximately 50 kilometres east of Poitiers.
Although the weather was very hot and sunny, the soaring conditions were far from ideal, and so
much of the time was spent swimming and canoeing in the nearby river in order to keep cool. Despite the
poor soaring weather, two students, Andrew Fowler and Alex Borak, managed to do their Silver distance
(a flight of 50 km or more). Andrew flew to Poitiers Airport and Alex flew to Chateauroux.
Despite the 39° heat, some still decided to go flying, and Mark Sadler was sent off on his first solo.
Later in the evening, a barbecue was held. It was here that a group of visiting Dutch people showed us
how to do an initiation ceremony for the newly soloed. This involved a lot of tomato ketchup and beer
{which ended up on ' ..JQ^/ £f
Mark) and being held
down on a table while
being spanked by each
of the over friendly
Dutch contingent in
turn. Mark's only
comment afterwards
was "You have to pay
good money for that
back home!".
Towards the end
of the second week,
the weather improved
slightly, and on the
Thursday Ken Bell did
his Silver Distance to
Issoudun (northeast of
Chateauroux).
On Saturday, the weather got much better for soaring, and Jane Lewis in our A S W 24 declared a 300
km flight. Peter Masson and Alex Borak also set off on the 300 k m in our two seat Grob 103. The task
was to go from Le Blanc to Poitiers Airport and then on to a river bridge in St Florent and then back to
Le Blanc, taking photos of each turn point as they were turned.
Jane completed the flight in 5 hours (having struggled under some overcast from Chateauroux to St
Florent) to get her gold distance and diamond goal badges. Peter and Alex also went round in a little over
4 hours.
Most of us left the next morning, but Ken stayed on, as the weather was looking good, and managed
to complete 150 km on only his second cross-country flight.

