EIGHTEEN . FELIX FRIDAY NOVEMBER 24TH 1 9 9 5 DIARY
t h u r s d a y
3 0
november
Yacht Club Meeting
12.30pm. Lecture Theatre 2, Physics. (R)
Fitness Club
12.30pm. Die Hard circuit training
5.30pm. Beginners aerobics. (R)
ConSoc
Debate on Europe, 12.30pm, Brown Committee
Room, Union.
Gliding Club
lpm. Aero 266. (R)
Mountaineering Club
7pm, Social, SouthsideUpper Lounge. (R)
Christian Union
6.30 - 7.45pm. S C R in the Union.
(Right above the bar). (R)
ICCAG
8.15pm. Weeks Hall basement. Soup run for the
homeless. (R)
Ents
More umbrellas than M & S , and all the plastic
animals you could want at Davinci's C O C K T A I L
N I G H T , and of course the best value cocktails in
London.
t h u r s d a y
Hellenic Soc
The Hellenic Society presents its first event for
the year: the Greek Evening will take place on 1st
December in the main dining hall.
Greek food will be served from 8.30 -
10.30pm. Drink, Live Music and Dancing until
2.00am. For details visit our Web pages at
http://daedalus.ee.ic.ac.uk:8001/, where you can
also find information about the other activities of
the Society. Y o u can e-mail n.doukas,
s.xanthopoulos, t.mouroutis or d.crassa@ic.ac.uk.
Please note that you will not se many posters
around for this, or any of our events, around
College. The society has decided to have no more
than three posters per event in order to reduce
pollution and save trees.
f r i d a y
1
december
Rag Meeting
1.10pm Ents Lounge. (R)
Islamic Society
Friday Prayer
lpm. Southside G y m . (R)
Fitness Club
5.30pm. Advanced Step Aerobics (R)
Ents
Another night of specialist tastes as I C U indulges
in S E X O N T H E B E A C H , a throbbing night of
swing, soul, funk, hip-hop, calypso & a touch of
jungle. If you enjoyed the O S C welcome night
you'll love this. £ 1 / FREE before 9 or with an
entscard.
f r i d a y
ArtSoc
stoic
12pm Michael Portillo at Imperial
A chance to see the contraversial M P in action -
hear all about his hopes and aspirations for the
forthcoming year.
lpm Level 3
Entertainment Extraveganza! Music, games and
showbiz interviews, all adding up to a totally
interactive experience.
1.30pm Short, Sharp Shock
Short films and bytes of infotainment.
1.40pm Technobytes
Science and Technology series: 'Space' and our
quest to conquer distant parts of our galaxy.
YOUR HELP NEEDED
Preparation is underway for a Christmas edition
of our Film programme, 'Moviezone'. If you
would like to take part in this or any other aspect
of television, come and see us at l p m on
Wednesday in our studio on Level 3 of the Union.
VIDEO DIARIES
If you want to make a short filmed item about an
aspect of your life, a pastime, a sporting interest
or just a subject that you feel strongly about, we
want to hear from you. Come and see us as above.
ArtSoc arranges for you to see shows in London at subsidised rates. Ronnie Scott's is an internationally
renowned jazz club lurking behind Soho. A few weeks ago 22 members went along to enjoy a lively
evening of rhythmic jazz. Low ceilings and picture packed walls created the perfect atmosphere to balance
the exciting Cuban music. The music and dancing continued until the last of us left at 2am.
Who said ArtSoc only went to see musicals'.
This term we have sold cut price tickets to see Fame, The Importance of being Earnest, Classical
Spectacular at the Albert Hall, Cats, Eddie Izzard, Swan Lake and Les Miserables, with A Christmas Carol
by the R S C planned for week 10. Come along to our meetings on Mondays between 12.30 and 1.30 in
the union Dining Hall. New members are welcome. There's a term packed full of shows for after
Christmas. Membership £4. k.hill@ic.ac.uk for more information.
OSC Week
The next big event that the Overseas Students Committee has planned is the annual O S C WEEK, from
the 27th of November to the 1 st of December. This is where all the overseas societies of Imperial College
have the opportunity to promote and educate others in their culture, and increase recognition and
awareness of the activities their society organises.
Each day of the week there will be different overseas societies holding a stand in the JCR. There will
be posters up around college advertising which societies are on which day. Some societies will be present
all day but the majority will be concentrating their efforts in the lunch period of 12 noon - 2pm. This is
when each society will be most active.
As well as having the opportunity to sample the various cultures there is a chance to join any of the
societies and so benefit from all of the events each respective society organises. This is an ideal way to get
involved with any of the overseas societies or to increase your current involvement.
Student Industrial Society
Product Development Business Game
Wednesday 29th November 1995 at 13.30 to 17.00 in Computing 308, followed by food & drinks.
The IC Student Industrial Society presents it's 2nd business game of the year with Procter & Gamble.
It's open to A L L Chemists, Biochemists and Chemical Engineers. The game will take the form of a
product development case study. It involves data analysis, strategic thinking, technical product
understanding, team work and role playing.
The participants will experience the type of work and decision making that involved in a technical
management job in industry. If interested contact Ganesh Uttam (Chairman, Industrial Society,
Biochemistry Undergraduate (pigeon holes) or via email g.uttam@ic.ac.uk) to register. Note: smart dress
and bring your own calculator.

