DIARY FELIX FRIDAY NOVEMBER 24TH 1 9 9 5 . NINETEEN
Yacht Racing
The British Student Nationals and the E D H E C Student Regatta
represent the Yacht Club's highlight of this year's racing programme. The
Student Nationals are held during the last weekend of March, involving
the 20 most competitive crews in the country. The E D H E C regatta is
the largest international student event on the continent: 3000 students
will meet in La Rochelle (France), from 20 to 28 April to compete in the
most gruelling series of races. Apart from the high level of racing, the
crew also represents the College during the social events organised by the
sponsors present at the race.
W O R K H A R D , PLAY H A R D !!
We have already raised one third of the necessary budget but are currently
looking for further sponsorship to meet our ambitious targets. Anybody
who has ideas or contacts for sponsorship/publicity, should come forward
and contact
Anthony 0171 376 8326 or e.mail a.duyck@ic.ac.uk
Charles 0171 594 2011 or e.mail c.bouvet@ic.ac.uk
Canoeing Club Dart Trip
Yes, I know these things are really boring so I will
leave out the in jokes but if your lectures were that
interesting you would not be reading this anyway.
Our trip started in a generally bad way, no
keys, no rain and, for those of you who might be
driving the minibuses, they do fit under the
Sainsbury's height restriction without a roofrack
and as long as the tyres are not too hard.
Arriving in the early morning as usual we were
pleasantly surprised to find that our host had built
a massive fire and the bunkhouse was actually
warm. There are only so many jokes you can make
about snoring and shaky beds so enough said.
In the morning we were up in time to watch
the Power rangers, an event unheard of in the lives
of most students.Out onto the water in the
morning: the rain the night before had not quite
done its job but it was still coming down and the
river was on the increase. True to the nature of
things, some people decided that upright was not
the correct way to shoot rapids. Most of these
unfortunates soon learned that an upright position
is preferable however and the day was spent
perfecting this new mode of travel. Fortunately the
water was quite warm so no-one got really cold and
at least our new kit was fully tested for leaks and
warmth.After a day on the river we went to the pub
as if I had to mention it. The food was a wise
choice but the price list for beer had been stolen
from the Gloucester Hotel.
Overall the Saturday night was much quieter
except when the chairman, Ross Oldfield, decided
in a drunken haze to get out of the wrong side of
the bed, next to a wall, and scratch around looking
for an exit. A few kicks to the head soon sorted this
small problem out.In the morning, (well just about)
the river was much fuller. Loads of water means
more fun and fewer rocks to spank into. Altogether
a much more successful day with much less
swimming and a good time was had by all.
If you want to join the canoeing club we meet
up in Beit Quad on Tuesdays at 7.15 pm and go
over to the swimming pool at 7.30. Join us there or
e mail me on n.shirtcliffe@ ic.ac.uk.
give
Do you want toj_
your club or society
blicity for free in
Felix!
Bust-A-Gut Comedy Club
"They give you a chnuc. It goes like this. It is some
A#ifeE:.s
|»£!;jiii>^ every
one that comes straight from your
Auntie'J; • yce. (thirty-
'."••••}
It starts with the word "either", and it has "or" in it,
twice, (fifty-four) and it goes like this.
Either your write 250 words for the student
magazine, or you talk lo the student journalist,
individually, on the telephone, or, wait foi it, in the
flesh. Urgh-. (eighty-eight) Student |oumalists are
hard lo classify. No two are the same. But every third
one is. Every third one is drunk. One in Sheffield was
so drua;<. v •-• if lying flat on the floor
over, His first question was, "
1 lolim
ble flu ' His second question was more
colourful; a bold mix of Tetley's and kebab which,
roughly translated, meant, "Could someone put me
in the . oma-position, please?" {one sixty three, one
sixty-sCcJsrt,:
All student magazines are shit. This is not my
opinion, This is what student journalists tell me. So 1
am only reporting it. (one ninety two)*
To be honest, I've never read one. (two hundred and
This is an advert. I'm doing a gig at your university
with an Irishman with long hair called Ed Byrne, who
is very funny, considering he's about twelve. Please
come, though don't feel obliged. We get paid anyway.
Be nice to yourselves, (two hundred and fifty)
Then the diary pages are for you!
To get an entry for an event or meeting into
Felix: simply write all the information on a slip
of paper and bring it in to Felix by noon the
Monday before publication. Anything
submitted after then will only go into that
Friday's edition at the discretion of the editor,
the position of Jupiter in the night sky, bribe
money, and perhaps the amount of free space
left.
To put an article into Felix: Write down under
300 words and bring it in (again before noon on
Monday). We especially love people who bring
in disks with their articles (PC format - Word
6, Wordperfect or ASCII Text please). You
can use an article to remind the populace what
great events your society holds, and to promote
upcoming events. Please note that if we have a
lot in one week, they may be edited and
descriptions of minibus driving experiences
and cliquey 'in' jokes will be the first to go. If
you bring in a picture with your article then
we'll love you even more!

