6 February 1998
SINGLES
Hurricane #1 - Only The Strongest Will
Survive
A much slower and more percussive effort from
Oxford's (second) finest, impossibly mixing
Bacharach with psychedelia. O n its first listen
this track falls short of their previous high stan-
dards, saved from mediocrity only by the ever-
stunning voice of Alex Lowe. However, a few
more plays and you're totally enveloped by the
soaring melody
BeDLaM AGO GO - Season No. 5
A relaxing mixture of trip-hop and ambience.
The 'Insomnia'-style vocal delivery works well to
add to the m o o d .
Pearl Jam - Given To Fly
Still going after all these years, Eddie Vedder and
M r . M c C r e a d y have lost absolutely nothing,
except maybe the knack to write a song that is
even slightly memorable. Enough said.
'A' - Foghorn
Pretty much an aptly titled song. If y o u were a
little dinghy of a p o p song y o u ' d be wise to get
out of the way of this battleship - a speed-
thrash racket of Titanic proportions. Iceberg-
horn anyone?
The Young Offenders - That's Why We Lose
Control
M o v e over C h u m b a w a m b a ! These guys are the
new anarchists. A n d their raging socio-political
topic of concern? That Byker Grove isn't nearly
as g o o d as it used to be. M a y b e I'm wrong. 1
just find it hard to take a band seriously that's a
kick in the knackers away from sounding like The
Chipmunks.
Bennet - Horse's Mouth
They're the y o u n g indie band that's hard to
pigeon-hole, just when y o u think they're Suede,
they become Lightning Seeds. Then they're Bis
THA B O M B !
Check it out another week, another column.
Its time for your regular fix of R'n'B with a lit-
tle bit of hip hop stuffed in. First up, those
who actually read my bit will recall that last
week's column included the Phat Selection of
97, well this has caused quite a stir. Nuff peo-
ple already been up to me and complained
there was loads of tunes that I missed, well I
gotta set the record straight, the phat selec-
tion is a list of the top tunes, not the best
tunes, there is loads of tracks that are
wicked, but that no one has heard of. So y'all
should just chill...saying that I gotta to admit
to missing some top tunes, but yo I honestly
don't care!
Tele news - Friday night, Top Of The Pops,
number one...its Usher. The boy came over
and sang his bangin number one track live on
stage for TOTP, the only problem was the kids
in the crowd, they didn't seem to wanna get
with it. Usher should've released and just let
it be, but he tried to work the crowd and for
mine ended up looking like a cock. For those
who don't know Friday nights also has FLAVA,
the best music program on the box. Flava is
tha Bomb, 30 minutes of the dopest videos,
MUSIC
or, erm, 'indie' sensations Catch. This song?
Alright but not memorable. The horses in ques-
tion might just be the Spice Girls.
Howlite - Halo
The ultimate in obscure cult labels, Shifty Disco
provides just 1000 people a month with a
release from different artists on its o w n 'totally
independent' label. The sheer randomness of
the music on offer is enough to grab your atten-
tion. This track from Howlite, however, makes
you wish that the single was released in more
limited numbers.
T H E E S S E N T I A L C H O O N
The Candyskins - You Better Stop
It starts all '60s West Coast style, but soon
explodes into a classic every bit as uplifting as
McAlmont/Butler's Yes. The Candyskins consis-
tently provide memorable 'perfect' songs and
this is well worth investigation. They've been on
the brink of success for a while now, so their
time is due.
Glitterbox - Scared Of All The World
An exciting mix of '80s rock and melancholy
psychedelia, complete with A Day In The Life
style piano crash ending. Nothing ground-shak-
ing but pleasing enough for the occasional lis-
ten.
Ether - Watching You EP
The return of the band with the most impossibly
catchy melodies and most implausibly nasal
vocals. Play this in the morning and it's 100%
guaranteed to wake you up with a smile on your
face.
Ed
Imani Coppola - Legend of A Cowgirl
This is the stand out track on a five-track sam-
its on at 12, and one of the few chances you'll
get to catch some smart R'n'B videos, unless
you got The Box (lucky mutha). While we chat-
tin 'bout videos I gotta mention the new bad
boy video for SJIry's The Limit this video been
out for weeks, but only just saw it and its
phat...you gotta check it. If ya seen it already
then you know what I'm chatting about. The
whole video is your usually Puffy and Biggie
messing about, doing their playa thang, but it
ain't them, its kids playing them. It might not
sound great, but ya gotta see it.
Girl bands....it's on. O h yeah the British
girls are blasting into the 98, starting of in
late 97 we had Truce following up their earli-
er success wit the huge Nothin' But the Party,
this infectious party track blew up large. Next
up we got the All Saints.... I can hear you say-
ing what the fuck is this guy talkin about, but
I kinda like them. Never Ever is a good little
ballad, they sing it pretty well, not well
enough though. I'm not going to get into the
whole can they sing, can't they sing thing, just
say that I will reserve my decision till I've
heard a bit more from them. Next up is N-
Tyce, they first turned up last year, but didn't
pier. Imani displays excellent vocals, her ^ j
voice is as g o o d as any out there, unfor- * * 8 i
tunately she suffers from a limited range of
ideas, a n d the general s o n g pattern is very
repetitive. This girl has the potential to be as big
as Sheryl Crow, but that requires a few better
tunes then those on this sampler.
MUKI - Shine
Six minutes of purely instrumental sub-Asian
sounds, very mellow and relaxing, the only
though I have is that this may be useful for revi-
sion, but that's about it. Basically too long and
not enough happens o n it.
Warm Jets - Never, Never
Standard post Brit p o p indie release with suit-
able rock and roll melody, this will suit the indie
boys but that's about it.
United Citizen Federation feat. Sarah
Brightman - Starship Troopers
This tune perfectly encapsulates the essence of
the film, fun and upbeat, but ultimately pure
crap. Sarah Brightman lends her voice to an
electronic A B B A melody to great effect; the
actual lyrics though are ridiculous. This is des-
tined for huge chart success, even though every-
one will say they hate it.
Chumbawumba - Amnesia
Their follow up to Tubthumping, this quite clear-
ly doesn't live up to the up standards set with
that, but bounces along and will stick in your
head for hours. This will be m u c h loved by fans
of A q u a and the H u m a n League. Top Ten,
yes....number one....no.
Asian Dub Foundation - Free Satpal Ram
The foundation were fairly quiet last year, but
still experienced success. This single doesn't
rate up alongside any of their great stuff, but
certainly worth a listen. Milen
really do anything, into the 98 and their bring-
ing out Telefunkin, this is a straight party
track, with some pop thrown in to appeal to
the masses.
Into the 98 and what are the tunes like?
Well to tell the truth 98 has been a bit thin on
real tunes so far. Saying all of dat there has
been a standout track, my top tune for
January Wishing On A Star by Jay Z and Gwen
Dickie. This is of course a remake of the old
classic, with most remakes I am normally of
the believe that the original is far superior,
but this time the remake lives up to the orig-
inal. The vocals are up to it, while Jay Z does
it again on the rap, a must have.
Snoop drops his next single Tha
Doggfather from the LP of the same name,
this is a real let down much the like the LP.
Snoop really needs to hook up with Dre and
bring out those old style g-funk killers.... I'm
waiting. At long last the Marsha track Is it
Real gets a UK release, this did some damage
on the underground and deserves its British
release. Dope bassline, check that shit out.
Shout out to the Chem Eng boyz! See ya.
Milen

