6 February 1998 MUSIC 15
C L U B S C E N E
* ine e l e c t r i c c
Reactivate soared in popularity. Each Reactivate release gave the
label more converts to the church of techno and a bigger influence
in the underground dance scene. This week sees the release of
Reactivate Classics, the compilation of all the previous compila-
tions, and an excellent opportunity to either re-live or discover some
pivotal moments of history in electronic music. What's more, the CD
has been mixed by Daz Saund and Trevor Rockliffc, two pioneering
D]s during the days of the rave who have continued to exert a strong
presence in the techno scene to this day. But React isn't just about
Reactivate, as I discovered from James himself...
If you read this column every week then y o u
might have picked up a recurring theme that I
cover. That's right, I'm harping on about open-
mindedness in music; whatever style y o u
choose put in your stereo. I want to promote
the fact that as long as you believe in what you
listen to, it shouldn't matter whether the media
or anybody says it's cool or not. Well, after
interviewing James Horrocks I realised that I
have been breaking that rule myself.
To be quite honest with y o u , I always had
the idea that the Reactivate series was cheesy
and too commercial. I had preferred
to buy other React releases. That all
probably sound O K , unless I were to
tell you that before Classics, I had
never actually listened to a Reactivate
album!
So how did I c o m e to such a con-
clusion about something I had never
heard? M a y b e from the so-called
"techno-elite" or the music media.
Whatever the reason, meeting with
and talking to James Horrocks taught
me something about why people like
him have the guts to take such risks
and release music that, on paper
doesn't have a chance to compete
with the mass-marketed majors.
The first thing James talked about,
was his very o w n baby, the React
label. He describes it as a "European
label" which releases "an interesting
array of styles". James runs React
together with his business partner
Thomas Foley. Between them, they
enjoy a broad range of music. This
explains how consecutive releases
can consist of deep Detroit techno
and drum'n'bass or handbag house
and blunted hip-hop breaks. This also
explains why React has a following
amongst so many different types of listeners of
electronic music, and has become so success-
ful.
With this open-mindedness there are rules
to abide by. "We only d o something if we think
we can d o it well. If we think we can d o it jus-
tice and we can present something that people
will actually enjoy listening to. Otherwise we just
don't bother." explains James. This means no
quick cash-ins on a style of music that is in fash-
ion such as the current sound of speed garage.
Even if certain releases haven't aged well,
React has been on the cutting edge in a number
of different musical styles throughout its life."If
you believe in something, you'll work twice as
hard for it to work." James subscribes to the
view that business risks can work if you really
love what you are doing. It is much easier to
persuade other people to believe in what you
are doing if you believe in it yourself.
Having established the basic philosophies
behind React, we talked about the Reactivate
series. In James' o w n words "When it started
dance music had b e c o m e very disco and
h o m o g e n i s e d and clean and mainstream.
Certain clubs were playing harder, more minimal
music which was frowned upon by the record
industry and ignored as headbanging techno
music. In order for people to hear this, we put
all the best, most popular tracks on an album so
people could buy it."
The series became" more and more popular
with each release and the decision was taken to
make Reactivate Classics. Techno music that
had stood the test of time was chosen to fill the
album. According to James, the criteria were "Is
that track still a classic? Can that track still be
played? Was that a defining moment of the
genre?" O n c e the tracks had been chosen, they
had to be put together. Daz Saund and Trevor
Rockliffe (both respected and experienced Djs
today) were chosen for this job, because back in
1990 they had been pioneers of the pure tech-
no sound. "I thought they deserved the props!"
said James.
Despite the fact that many people associate
React purely with the Reactivate series, James is
keen to explain that the label's taste are far
more eclectic than that. "It (Reactivate) is just
one thing that we d o . " A n d that is absolutely
true. Look out for an Axis compilation release
and the legendary Live From the Liquid Rooms
mix from Jeff Mills. The rest of Detroit is repre-
sented by True People, The Detroit Techno
Album. The Artcore albums have followed the
rising prominence of drum'n'bass,
whilst eclectic music is served up by
Ibiza's Jose Padilla on the Cafe Del
M a a r series. D o p e on Wax is a col-
lection of blunted hip-hop and funk,
and let's not forget the M i x U p series,
that so far focussed on a wave of
y o u n g Japanese electronic DJs.
There's plenty more, but you'll have
to check that out for yourselves.
Finally, w e talked about React's
future objectives. James sees global
cooperation as the future. " W e don't
only want to sell our music overseas
like other labels do. We're looking for
an exchange with other countries. W e
want to buy what they're doing. Then
they release what we do, we release
what they d o . " H e cites new artists
from Asia, Russia and China.
James' parting shot is against the
sometimes inward and insulated UK
scene. "There's a certain snobbery in
this country that if it comes from
abroad then it can't be as g o o d as
anything from this country because
we are setting the scene. Which is
actually not the case because as you
travel around the world you realise
that what we're making is not impor-
tant in global terms at all. Abroad, it's all treated
equally!"
M a n y thanks to James Horrocks, React
Records and Phuture Trax.
If you would like to win a copy of the
Reactivate Classics mixed C D , then answer this
question:
Which famous UK DJ released his own pro-
ject, the F.A.C.T. series on React Records?
Answers to
a.sethi@ic.ac.uk
Felix office or by email to
@l;ck

