PJNCCCHIO
This week I'm grateful for a knotty little
problem from Gordias.
Motoring On
Readers of FELIX may have missed the annual
FEELSICK Motor Rally which occurred last
weekend. It's very similar to the FELIX Motor
Rally which takes place later this term so I
won't bore you with the details. Basically it
consists of teams of people rushing round
London solving a treasure hunt.
Five teams entered for the Rally, with the
same number of people in each team. To make
it a little more exciting, each participant put up
£1 for prize money.
The total prize would be distributed
between the members of the winning team,
and each team devised a share-out scheme
between its members, with each team member
(if their team won) getting a whole number of
pounds, different from all the other members
of the team.
The curious thing was that each share-out
scheme was different to the other four
schemes, which was only just possible.
The Excess team won. In this team, after the
money had been distributed, it was found that
Artful Whitewash had won the most money.
Chaste Fellow was next, followed by Steel
Goolies and Junk MuckStallion third and
fourth respectively. I don't remember the rest
of the team, but Artful was pretty pleased with
himself—he won as much as Steel and Junk
put together.
How many members in each team, and what
was the distribution of prize money among the
winners?
Gordias
Solutions, comments, criticisms to me in the
FELIX Office by Wednesday 1:00pm. £5 from
Mend-a-Bike for a randomly selected entry.
Last Week's Solution
Anything for a choired life
Four solutions were obtained (one of them
from Bedford College—thanks for the entry
Caroline) but the winner, randomly selected
was Richard Glover, a Mech Eng PG, who tells
me that there are 800 different possible
arrangements (including reflections and
rotations), and he can collect his £5 prize from
the FELIX Office next Monday after 1:30pm.
The diagram shows one possibility—the
crosses are one kind of chair, the blank spaces
are the other, My thanks to Rhyno for the
diagram.
Rampant
Ramblings
Union General Mayhem
It's been so long since I went to a UGM, I'd
really forgotten how singularly futile the whole
thing was.
Interestingly, perhaps the meeting is just like
an microcosm of parliament or Dallas or
possibly Crossroads.
We can see at the U G M a representative
cross section of humanity. From the lowest,
fawning subservient little Exec News thrower
right up to the mighty aspiring Union despot.
Of course, at this stage in the term, only the
most determined anarchists, small time
megalomaniacs and pathological paper
aeronautical engineers turn up.
At the UGM, we see the whole basis of the
wonderful democratic British system. It symbo-
lises all the concepts of freedom of expression,
rule of the majority, and the vibrant student en-
thusiasm for self government. That's why only
about 3% of Imperial College turned up, al-
though I imagine if everyone took an interest it
would be a trifle more embarrassing to try and fit
them in the Great Hall.
Nick Pyne, unaware of the seething mass of
political unrest and controversy before him
chairs the meeting like an indifferent bingo
caller.
Why the Union table insists on using a
microphone stand suitable only for people
over 7'3" with severe spinal distortion I know
not. Perhaps they have aspirations in that
direction.
I suppose if they didn't use a microphone it
would curtail the opportunity for howls of
derision every time it fed back, thereby halving
their audience.
On this particular occasion, the whole thing
seemed to be progressing fairly normally with
Nick Pyne generally having his own way, and
only inviting questions from people whose
names he knew. The inimitable Steve Goulder
showed us all what an affected accent he can
produce, and everyone tried to find out what
the Honorary Secretary had been doing with
his Honorary spare time in order to justify his
salary.
Then somebody tried to introduce a
procedural motion. Procedural motions, I
should explain, are somewhat like timetable
alterations at Paddington. After somebody has
introduced one, the resulting mayhem and
abuse from all quarters makes further useful
business impossible, and you might as well
take the bus home to save time.
With the added incentive of the prospect of
quorum being called, Mr Pyne was forced to
loosen his strangehold on the event (true
diplomacy) and everyone knew the end was
nigh. Moments later a Miner stuck his pick in,
as the saying goes, and threatened to call
quorum anyway just to defeat any form of
democracy which we might still be pretending
existed.
It occurs to me that if perhaps a few of our
mining colleagues were forced to live under the
sort of regime they use their inalienable
democratic rights and freedoms to support,
they might have a little more respect for those
rights.
However, back at the meeting, we have just
reached the showdown, and everything was
getting as exciting as can be expected, when
some loathsome diminutive individual, who will
doubtless become a social security scrounger,
a Union hack, or something equally debase,
called quorum.
So at 1:00pm next Thursday, all the
anarchists and megalomaniacs and Exec News
throwers will file into the Great Hall
Rhyno
WALHABOUT-
V
lOOKStt V
by Mobile Optics lac.
Local Titbits
The two small galleries 1 visited this week are
within ten minutes walk of College. This
Walkabout is guaranteed to soothe exam
nerves, without raising blood pressure through
exasperation at trains delayed on the circle line
or at number 14 buses travelling in convoy.
Crane Kalman Gallery
The Crane Kalman Gallery has been at 178
Brompton Road for twenty-five years. It is a
museum's and DPC's (Distinguished Private
Collection, rather than Displaced Post Card!...
Mobile Optics Inc in frivolous mood) gallery:
prices are not displayed and, further to
emphasise the nature of the clientele whose
custom is being sought, the show of 20th
Century pictures is entitled 'Collectors' Items'.
Don't let this put you off. It's all the more
reason for dropping in, regularly, to see a
handful of really super pictures in surround-
ings more reminiscent of an elegant drawing
room than a national museum.
Currently, you will find Ben Nicholson—
mottled colours, and forms and lines which
casually meet, overlap and interact to animate
the picture—Edgar Degas—a generously
proportioned nude—and Pablo Picasso—in
'Homme et femme nus debout' (1969), she is
pink and green like Brighton rock with a
classically beautiful profile; he is plump arid
undecided, a hero of Greek mythology in
unheroic middle-age.
New Art Centre
Exhibitions of Mary Potter's (1900-1981) work
have been held regularly at the New Art
Centre since 1967. Currently, some sixty of
her watercolours are on show there. The
majority date from after her move from
London to Aldeburgh in 1951 and depict the
objects in her studio and the Suffolk
landscape. The beaches are cool and grey; a
luminous mist drifts over water in the early
morning and impressionistic trees emerge
hazily from it.
These are the most successful pictures.
Where Mary Potter paints vegetation in crisp
lines and deeper tones it sits rather uneasily
against the soft washes of the middle ground.
Her figures—fishermen and children—and her
fishing boats are delicately drawn; the shrubs
and weeds are less accurately observed.
Prices for these watercolours start at £200
and three have been reproduced as large
picture postcards at 15p each.
Where? When? £?
The Crane Kalman Gallery, 178 Brompton
Road, SW3, is open 10:00am to 6:00pm
weekdays and 11:00am to 3:00pm on
Saturday. Both shows are free.
•
I FELIX is published by the Editor for and on behalf of Imperial College Union Publications Board, and is printed by the Union Print Unit. Prince Consort Road. London SWT 2BB
Tel 01-589 5111 Ext 1048 or Internal 2881. Editor: Martin S Taylor; Business Manager: Peter A Bodgers, Advertising Manager: Nick Thexton Copyright FELIX 1983 J

