This may be the age of computerised telecommunications, but the
College telephone system is still very much dependent on
operators %and jack plugs. Here, ace investigative reporter Jon
Barnett looks into the eccentricities of the present system and
speculates on future developments.
Time to Switch
Exchanges?
At a place as superbly equipped as Imperial
College it can be interesting to highlight
some of the inadequacies which exist.
Examples of these are the telephone
networks—both internal and external—on
which the College depends.
Jon Barnett
One cannot fail to notice that almost
every office has two telephones, one
internal, one external, the reason being that
the two networks are independent and
apparently incompatible. Let us look at the
internal system first.
South Ken
Internal
Each telephone on the internal network has
a four digit number in the range 2000-4999,
and the exchange is fully automatic. There is
an emergency 999 facility which may be
answered either by the College switchboard
or Sherfield Security (out of hours). In
addition the system can be linked up with
the Silwood or Southside networks by
dialling 6 or 0 respectively. In both cases
only one two-way link exists. For Silwood it
is a rented Post Office line and for Southside
it is a private line. College owns the main
internal network and rents the Southside
network, and Silwood is standard British
Telecom.
This is where the fun starts. South
Kensington internal is incompatible with
British Telecom, but Silwood appears to be
a variation of the Private Automated Branch
Exchange (PABX)—every phone has a three
digit number and acts as both an internal
and external phone. One can ring Silwood
on a BT line (Ascot 23911) and ask for any
extension. Apparently on some Silwood
phones one can dial 9 and get a direct BT
line, while on the rest all one does is dial
0—the General Office—and ask for one line.-
So if Silwood is compatible with the South
Kensington internal and BT, why can't the
South Kensington network be linked to the
real world?
Some of you will have thought this over
and are now rushing to the nearest internal
phone in order to dial 6-9 and get a BT
external line. Forget it! It doesn't work.
Neither does dialling 6-0 and asking Silwood
General Office for a line. There is no
indication of why this is not possible, but
they say it can't be done.
Southside
Internal
There is also an internal network in
Southside and Linstead. This is a rented
GEC Reliance System with an automatic
exchange located in a tunnel under
Southside, as a result of which it is not
expected to complete its twenty year
lifespan. Phones on this network have two
digit numbers and as described above, 0
patches into the South Kensington internal.
It is amusing to recall that when the
system was installed, the plan was to identify
This may look like a Science Museum exhibit,
but in fact the college depends on it to deal
with 2,000 calls a day with up to 12 operators
working simultaneously
each landing telephone by landing num-
ber—which is unique. Hence staircase three,
level two in Falmouth Keogh—landing 23—
would have been extension 23. For some
reason this entirely sensible idea was not
implemented. Landing extensions were
numbered sequentially instead, running up
and down each staircase.
Apart from this little quirk, the system
works well, and the more imaginative
among you will already have realised that if
they are visiting Silwood they can dial their
friends in Southside/Linstead directly from
any Silwood phone by dialling 6-0-landing
extension assuming both direct lines are free.
The only worrying aspect of this pleasant
system is the rental cost of the Southside
network (around £4,000) and the unknown
maintenance cost of the South Kensington
internal.
Page 61
External
Telephones
Until ten years ago the College switchboard
was located in the Beit Building. A larger
switchboard was then acquired which is
located in the basement of Sherfield. This
switchboard has a capacity for up to 2,000
extensions, and handles up to thirty lines.
Additionally it is thirty years old—older
than the unit it replaced—and consists of
two separate switchboards joined together.
Part of it came originally from the
Admiralty and part from Buckingham
Palace and all in all it's a bit of a mess.
During one afternoon—peak traffic—
there can be up to twelve operators working
the board including Vi Lindfield, the
Supervisor, and Brian Hocking, the only
male operator, who also tends to work on
weekday evenings as well. They deal with
around 2,000 calls per day.
One half of the board is incoming, one
half outgoing. On- a busy night an operator
can be kept running up and down the room
dealing alternately with incoming and
outgoing calls, which is one reason why
they don't appreciate impatient 'flashers'
who tap the phone to get attention.
Problems
with the
local
exchange
As if this were not bad enough, in January
the local telephone exchange was replaced
with the very latest in telephone technology.
Days later, wreckers moved in to take the
old equipment away. They eventually
reached the equipment which generates dial
tones and accounting pulses. This still had
some wires running into it, so out with the
wire cutters and...Imperial College was cut
off for a day. Our switchboard cannot talk
M a y 2 0 , 1 9 8 3 H H H n ^ B B H H
directly to the new exchange so BT have
been compelled to retain that equipment
specially for us. Nevertheless, a lot of calls
are still liable to be cut off without warning.
It is obvious having said all this that
Imperial badly needs a new switchboard.
A computer based system such as the
Monarch would not just have the benefit of
being more reliable and compatible with the
local exchange; it is also used as an internal
network, so we could do away with both the
Soufh Kensington and Southside internals.
Every telephone may be independently
programmed as to what type of external
calls, if any, may be made from it.
Automatic limitations on time, especially
for overseas calls may be imposed.
Telephones which are engaged can switch
calls through to somewhere else auto-
matically. The specifications are fascinating.
The convenience of a College internal phone
on every Hall landing which could also
indirectly receive external calls is obvious.
The possibilities are endless.
When, Where, £?
It is now rumoured that in two years' time
College will introduce a new telephone
switchboard, scrapping the South Kensing-
ton but probably not the Southside
internals. This will be at a basic cost of £2m
which is about equal to the annual College
phone bill. Offset against this will be
increased savings as mentioned above—
preventing non-urgent calls before 1:00pm
slashed the quarterly bill from £800,000 to
£500,000. Far fewer operators will be
needed—probably about four. How this cut
will be achieved the operators themselves
prefer.not to discuss; it's a sour note that in
order to introduce long overdue improve-
ments the College will have to axe jobs.
Still, with care and by fully exploiting
available facilities, Imperial may soon have
a very impressive and efficient telephone
network. Let us hope such efficiency and
order rub off onto other areas of the
College.
Knit one, purl one-the College knitting machine in action.
(Page7

