ICLUBS & SOCIETIES!
Astrosoc
The Astrosoc AGM will be held on Tuesday
May 24 at 12:30pm in Physics Lecture Theatre
2, level 1. Among the exciting events there will
be the elections of next year's committee. The
posts available are President, Treasurer,
Secretary and Publicity Officer. If you want
one of these posts get your name and the
names of a proposer and seconder on the
election papers by the letter-racks in Physics
Level 2. If you are undecided then come along
to the AGM anyway, this is your chance to
take a step up in the world.
Islamic Soc
'The Message'
Friday May 20, 6:00pm, Huxley 340
The Message was revived to mankind by
Muhammed (peace be upon him) in the 7th
Century AD. The film portrays the initial
hostility and persecution which greeted the
emergence of the religion. It was this
persecution which forced the believers to
emigrate to Medina. Revelations at Mecca and
Medina dealt with both personal affairs and
affairs of state. The religion flourished due to
the preachings of the prophet and the
believers as well as the example set by the life
of the prophet. The film goes on to portray the
consolidation of the new faith against
enormous odds and the inevitable victory of
truth over falsehood and ignorance.
REVIEWS!
Book:
Slowly Down The
Ganges
by Eric Newby,
Picador Books, £2.50.
Drop any normal man, his wife, and a vast
quantity of baggage in a foreign country, at the
source of a large river, and tell him that, using
the remaining smattering of a language he
learnt twenty years earlier, he is to transport
himself and his accoutrements 1,500 miles
down river using only country boats, and he
would probably exit this world instantly, a
victim of cardiac arrest.
However, if the man is Eric Newby, the river
the Ganges and the language Hindi, we can
expect another chronicle along the lines of his
earlier book A Short Walk In The Hindu Kush,
and indeed, this expectation is fulfilled in
Slowly Down The Ganges.
The journey he describes is, by mortal
standards, fairly insane, and those who have
some experience of India will understand when
1 say that Newby is firmly amongst the 'mad
dogs and Englishmen' who alone go out in the
midday sun. Not only does this incredible
traveller achieve his target with his Italian wife
Wanda, but in doing so he records the journey
in the finest possible detail.
Beginning their journey at Hardwar with the
major, if unsurprising, discovery that the river
is at a low ebb in December, the dry season,
the couple manage to hire a boat and boatmen
to begin the painful early stages of the journey.
STOIC
Have you ever thought that there must be
more to life than working, drinking and
masturbation? Whenever I think that a voice
usually replies, 'no, but if you watch STOIC
next week we might just prove that there is.
The highlights (and in some cases lowlights) of
the last year have been condensed into a
special series Turn It On Again', starting next
Thursday; and now that our film reviewer has
been retrieved from Wardour Street we are
also showing 'Films of the Year' or another
chance to reflect on some of the biggies you
missed first time round. That's about all I can
think of at the moment, but keep watching—it
may happen.
CND
This weekend is the Christian CND national
demonstration at Upper Heyford in Oxford-
shire. (Upper Heyford is one of the main US
bases for the F i l l nuclear bombers; there has
been a peace camp there for over a year.)
There will be witness, a festival and worship: a
march on Saturday, torchlight vigil throughout
the night a dawn Whitsun service, theology
and non-violent direct action workshops on
Sunday, and some kind of action on Monday.
The West London Chaplaincy and Cath Soc
have organised transport. Phone me tonight
(286 9048) if you want to go.
Between Tuesday May 31 and Friday June 3
there is a four-day blockade of Upper Heyford
We are at this point treated to an account of
the lives of the holy men at Hardwar, who exist
in abundance. Having eventually managed to
shove, drag and carry their boat fifty miles
downstream to water deep enough to float it
in, the journey proper begins, and from now on
the story is not so much that of an extended
boating trip as a detailed, authentic account of
life on the banks of the Ganges seen through
the eyes of a sympathetic, discerning and
intelligent observer.
From Hardwar to Calcutta via Kanpur,
Allahabad, Banares and Patna, Newby's
descriptions of the people, and the places they
pass through are excellent and the numerous
ancient buildings and ruins are given
perspective by frequent historical and
mythological asides. Indeed, for those more
interested in this side of India there is plenty of
material here, though my own preference is for
the more mundane human contacts described.
These I found to coincide very accurately with
my own experience of this amazing country.
The one serious complaint I have about
S/ou;/y Down The Ganges is the lack of decent
photographs. The dozen or so it contains are
fairly ordinary and could be taken from any
unexciting travel guide. They do not really
complement the written material, and leave
much room for improvement.
If there is one phrase in the book which
sums up everything in it, it is when Newby
describes himself as 'a typical traveller in India,
' at one moment elevated by the splendour of
the country; the next cast down by its
miseries'. I think Newby is being modest in
describing himself as a typical and his account
enhances the spendour, whilst faithfully yet
sympathetically including the miseries too.
I unreservedly recommend Slowly Down
The Ganges to anyone interested in India.
Peter Dias-Lalcaca
USAF Base (again). The peace blockade is
divided into six shifts, with London region
taking part from midnight until 6:00pm on
Friday June 3. NVDA training is required
beforehand: there are plenty of opportunities
for this in London. Contact me if you want to
take part.
Robert Kelsey
Civ Eng 3
TO Soc
There were rumours, he had heard them,
whispers across the sea. On the wind, over the
land, through the electrified barbed-wire
fences, past the weaponed dug-outs to the
subterranean steel bunker where they ate.
They had failed, the soundless words said.
Doctor X swallowed, and stared around the
table. The others seemed not to hear. The
secret was out though how he didn't know.
What the two world powers would do with the
elastic he couldn't say, but he and the others
were no longer safe with the knowledge of
Stark's discovery.
X felt a pain in his stomach. Indigestion? It
intensified. Others were clutching their
stomachs around the table. Poison? And then
he realised the truth as he choked, throwing
up blood across the table and screaming
incoherently as the agony ripped through him.
He exploded, intestines, stomach and liver
bursting from his abdomen along with a small
black ball. The others collapsed in shreds as
the tiny balls, like children's power balls, exited
from their stomachs and ricochetted around
the room.
Victor Moony
Page 81 I M a y 20,19831
Not content with his portrayal of a 'trick
cyclist' in Lovesick, our Dud treats us to
Patrick Dalton the would-be politician in his
new film Six Weeks PG directed by Tony Bill
at the Leicester Square Theatre. It also stars
Mary Tyler Moore, just to confuse you, and
Katherine Healy as her precocious daughter.
Mr Moore is running for congress. Now in
America it is rare that the guy with the best
ideas wins, more usually the victor is the man
with the most money to spend on slick
campaigning, the ultimate example of this
being that most presidents are millionaires
with an entrenched interest in the status quo
and no understanding of the word 'poor'.
Anyway, enough politics: he needs money.
Charlotte Drayfus (Mary Tyler Moore)
happens to own a large cosmetics firm and
hence has plenty. She decides to help his
campaign for the sake of her daughter who has
taken a shine to Mr Dalton. The title refers to
the young lady's life expectancy due to
leukemia, and in this short period Dud gets
drawn into this close relationship as it heads
towards its tragic climax.
This film is obviously a departure from Mr
Moore's more slapstick humour into that old
H M H R H M n n F E L I X

