5 f
v x
Nov f\r>A>^ T H 0 2 ; &
^ T v O e N T ^ .
~ ~ T H + E B M P O F B X A M S > , -
~ I f
REVIEWS
genre of the humorous tearjerker. However,
despite the best efforts of all concerned, I'm
afraid the experiment was to my eyes a failure.
I didn't laugh and I didn't cry. The overlay of
tragedy made the humour ring hollow and the
waverings of the relationship between the two
Moores diffused the focus of the tragedy of the
young girl's death. In making you try to feel
sorry for everyone in the film—the girl, the not
so hard hearted business woman mother, the
friend who is torn between them and his own
family, his wife and their son—you end up not
really caring about anyone in particular. It is a
pity about this, as; otherwise the film was
faultless, except perhaps the little girl was
rather miscast (or are precocius or 'cute' kids
meant to engender sympathy? This one rather
turned my stomach.) A major plus is the
music, written and performed by Dudley
Moore himself and, for a change, he resists the
temptation to tinkle the ivories on screen
despite the odd Steinway plonked here and
there. Obviously aimed at kids for the summer
holiay, I'm sure they'll love it if they can be
persuaded that they don't want to see Return
of the Jedi again (which opens in a couple of
weeks).
As a real bonus for all you budding
engineers out there, as a short playing with it is
Toiuer Over London U all about the building of
the NatWest Tower. Now if I thought Six
Weeks was a 'Dud', this is the most dismal—I
mean it it really bad. From the terrible title
through the awful soundtrack to the shots of
jolly bulldozers, all I can say is perhaps we
were abetter off with the bloody gondolas!
F E L I X B H H H H H
Honkytonk Clint
Moving quickly along now to the new Clint
Eastwood film Honkytonk Man 15 which also
stars Kyle, Clint's son. Set in the depression in
America, it is about honkytonk singer Red
Stovall (Clint Eastwood) and his relationship
with his nephew Whit (Kyle Eastwood).
Red has an invitation to audition for every
country singer's dream, the Grand OP Oprey
in Nashville and sets off in his aged limo to
make the trip from California. He stops at his
sister Emmy's on the way and the family
decide to let Whit go with his uncle, whom he
idolises, as a way of keeping uncle out of
trouble. It's a somewhat thin excuse I suppose,
but fourteen year old Whit proves a steadier
hand on the wheel than his hard drinking
uncle. Grandpa decides to go along as well for
the ride and for various reasons they pick up
an additional passanger along the way. Thus
we have a slow paced road movie of great
character with Clint in good form as the hard,
independent but sensitive country singer and
Kyle turning in a remarkable debut perfor-
mance of real charm. However, this is
apparently the week for tragedies and this time
it's Red who is being beckoned by the grin
reaper. All this hard living has taken its toll and
he is dying from consumption and his try out
for the Ol' Oprey is his last chance to leave
something behind when he's gone. This gives
the film its final polish—this time the tragedy
works because we see a apparently all
powerful, self-sufficient and in control have his
destiny decided for him, and this is his last
attempt to cheat his fate. Although it might be
possible to carp about the pedestrian pace and
the lack of tension or dramatic twists, the film
has great charm and is deliberately downbeat
throughout. It is really seen through the eyes
of the nephew; it is his coming to manhod
(nudge, nudge, wink, wink) and a time when he
learns to be quick witted and find inner
strength, and take the first steps toward
following in the steps of his uncle.
Not by any means the best Clint Eastwood
film, but then that's no real criticism. This man
continues to be on eof the biggest box office
drawers around and rightly so. There's a lot of
good country and western/blues music in the
film for those of you who like that sort of thing,
but fortunately not of the bland Dolly Parton
variety.
Also recently released is Androids,the new
Klaus Kinski picture which I haven't got
around to seeing, but I have it on good
authority that it is well worth a visit, even if you
are not an avid SF fan. I'm sorry I can't tell you
more, but I have certain pressing engagements
ahead and I can't see everything. I tend to
steer clear of Sci-Fi flicks on the pretext that
when you've seen one spaceship blowup
you've seen 'em all, but I obviously was
mistaken about this one.
And that's all from me for the next week or
two; I simply can't afford the time for reviews
so I'll be back after my exams and would like to
wish all fellow sufferers good luck!
Lee Paddon
I M a y 2 0 , 1 9 8 3 1 I Page9

