2 F E L I X
E D I T O R I A L
BIRTH OF A NEWSPAPER
Just over fourteen years ago a competitor to the then major
Union Publication PHOENIX was introduced. Called Felix it was
meant to complement the above by reporting social and sporting
events of topical and general interest. The first issue in December
1949 was of 600 copies which sold out before 10.00 a.m. on the
first day ; subsequently 1,000 were printed. At that time F E L I X
was run by a highly enthusiastic group of people and printed
(Roneo'd) in the bookstall by Miss Larkom. Soon, however, the pro-
cess was changed and a more sophisticated electrostatic method
capable of photographic reproduction was introduced.
INDEPENDENT
By the 45th issue apathy and shortage of copy were making
themselves felt, and in 1953 a rival appeared in the shape of Sennet.
But F E L I X recovered, and the standard of writing and production
remained remarkably high. A l l this time the newspaper had run
in a financially healthy, and solvent state with no grant from the
Union. In October '56 the then Editor wrote, " As always F E L I X
is independent of financial support from the Union. Your Union
Council cannot dictate to you through the paper."
NEW PROCESS
It is not clear when F E L I X first applied for a grant, but it is
probable that this beame necessary in January '59, when the paper
was printed for the first time by the present process. We have been
with Wing Commander Garby and the West London Offset Co. ever
since and owe him much gratitude for help with layout and con-
tinued interest and encouragement; F E L I X has changed greatly
since he first took it on, and he has alway- b?en keen and quick to
suggest improvements. The change to offset printing took much
of the drudgery out of production and left the staff very much more
time for improved layout techniques and coverage of events.
THE A D V E N T OF ADVERTISING R E V E N U E
Over the next two or three years F E L I X went through a suc-
cession of editors and a large portion of Union funds. It was usually
an eight-page issue, but sometimes only six—a notable exception was
a twelve-page sport issue which lost somethi ~i like forty pounds. At
the beginningvof '62 is was decided by the executive that something
should be done to stem the mounting costs of production. Instead of
tackling the problem from the revenue end they tried to cut costs
by purchasing a Gestetner duplicator which never really.got going
(but which is now used for the late news sheet). That same summer
the EDUCATIONAL PUBLICITY CO. were approached and asked
whether they would supply us with regular advertising. They have
done so ever since and have played the major part in enabling F E L I X
to continue in its present form. We are particularly grateful to
Mrs. J. Platford of the above who has helped us through many diffi-
cult situations. Well over half our revenue comes from this source
and we are entirely dependent on them for our healthy financial state.
A Y E A R OF EXPANSION
Last year established something of a record in that the Editor
Mr. Pawlowicz remained in office for the whole year and broke even
financially at the end of it. On this firm and essential foundation
this year's policy of expansion has been built. We have a large staff
(over 30 excluding sales girls), and each of the major positions on the
staff is duplicated by a student who (barring accidents) will be here
next year; this will ensure a smooth transition of staff over the
summer. The late news supplement has come into operation for the
first time, and we also have our new black sales tins around the
College. Issues have regularly been of ten or twelve pages, and the
Freshers' issue a record fourteen. Financially we are healthy, and
neither copy nor sales shows any signs of falling as they usually do
at this time.
Felix is rapidly becoming a newspaper, with enthusiasm and
ideas snowballing. The continuity of the process started 14 years
ago, and given new life in the last three, must be allowed to con-
tinue. Any break in this progression could bring Felix to its knees,
and such a step would not be taken lightly. It is essential to the
advertisers in, to the readers of, and to the Union in which it is, that
Felix does not cease publication.
FESTIVAL H A L L MIMICS
REPULSED
Last week 70 Regent Street
Poly students battled with attend-
ants and were thrown out, when
they tried /to raid the Festival
Hall. Their effort was an attemp-
ted copy of I.C.'s successful raid
which raised £66 last May.
Quote
Overheard at Square Dancing
from one M.T.S.V.P. of South
Side:
" If she was a little bit wicked it
would be bloody fabulous."
I welcome the opportunity to
send greetings to " Felix " on the
occasion of its 200th edition. A n
unbroken run from 1949 is no
mean achievement amidst the
periodic crises which beset student
newspapers. From India I send
my best wishes for a vigorous and
successful future.
PATRICK LINSTEAD
Rector.
F E L I X
Chairman, Felix Board
Editor
Production Manager
Sports Editor
Art Director
Late News Editor
Sales Manager ...
Asst. Sales Manager
Advertising Manager
Editorial Assistant
Cartoonists
H. D. D. Watson
J. M . Combes
N. J. Walker
J. O. Smith
C. M . Hussell
D. I. Williams
P. H . Moore
Miss A . Taylor
C. I. Jones
C. C, A . Bagnall
B. J. Bull. R. Reeves
to Personalities in Town and around
Rank Swirving and Polo Mint
the celebrated amateur aviators
touched down in Princes Gardens
last night.
Brave Stetson, an Irish cowboy,
and manager of the large I.C.U.
Ranch and his disorganised orga-
niser L. Furguson Messey are
attending the International Cattle-
mens Convention, which is being
held in the Royal Geographical
Hall.
Sir Tony Belly, the Shakespear-
ian actor, and Idle Gravity, a
panto-mine clown, are appearing
in a charity concert in aid of blood
donors.
Dr. Kentish Weald, the wizard
financier, together with George
Tuesday his assistant are ru-
moured to be investing in the
Hogg Gilt Edged shares.
Mrs. Cobb, an equestrian, who
has been successfully riding her
gelding "Union" for several years
has just won the " London Trans-
port Pot."
Mr. Untyed, the leader of the
obscure student body known as
the Thetas will be arriving in
London from Dartmoor tomor-
row,
Mr. Smoother Combes, the
leader of the popularly known
" Mocker" set, arrived at the
refectory wearing a Robin Hood
hat, and thigh boots in polished
steel.
The S.S. "Driftwood" cap-
tained by Sir Robert Falcon
Falcon Scooter, and managed by
Carl Overboard, the domestic
pursar, has recently returned from
an expedition to Selkirk Island.
Dr. Canister Canprune, that
misguided philosopher, and Sin-
cere Badlad his comrade at arms,
are said to be worried by " hall-
girls."
Any resemblance to living
characters, however slight is
purely accidental.
SHORTCUTT

