Interview
A M E C H A N I C A L A L T A R
I'm sitting in Fiction Records. I know that's
the case because all around the walls are
slacks of gold and silver discs which record the
sales of various Cure albums. I'm sitting in a
large leather sofa, holding a cup of tea and
feeling ill. Upstairs are the remaining members
of the God Machine whom I'm waiting to
interview. The whole scenario is equivalent to
a dentist's waiting room, except that instead of
the Mail on Sunday magazine MTV shrieks
from a nearby TV. A receptionist asks for my
name, and tells me to wait as things are
running late. A prematurely balding man sits
down opposite. We smile palely at each other.
So why am I nervous? I try to persuade
myself that this interview won't be
problematic. I ignore the fact that the God
Machine have been described as "one of the
most difficult bands I've ever interviewed" by
one of the most egotistical national press
musos and forget that I spent all morning
trying to make sense of a thirty page press
pack full of every superlative in the dictionary.
I try to ignore the gaping fact that after
listening to their new album at least, three
times a day for over a week I'm still unsure
whether I like it. But most importantly I
attempt to expel the big one. The God
Machine used to be a trio, but in May, Jimmy
the bassist died suddenly of a brain tumour.
How am 1 supposed to deal with that in a
music interview? Once again my head starts to
spin and I wonder what they've put in my lea
Finally my time comes and I'm escorted
upstairs to meet. Robin Proper-Sheppard and I
Ronald Austin. They're never really what you
expect from looking at the press pictures
Robin is slightly more eager: Ronald just looks I
big and dark. |
The first part of an interview is always
the most vulnerable bit. I set up my equipment I
while we make polite talk to try and work out 1
how the next thirty minutes will go. I start off I
on a standard question; how would they
describe their music? It's not rock or heavy
metal but it has a classical feel to it in terms of f
construction and use of instruments. Ronald I
starts off but Robin quickly cuts in. "We've
never been about being in a rock band" he, |
says, except, that it comes out like
"wwwwwe're never..." The man has a stutter. I
After reading at least a dozen interviews not 1
one person mentioned it. I mean it's not
important for their music but as a human 1
attribute you can't really ignore it. Suddenly I
and stupidly I feel better and we can get on I
with the interview.
I ask another standard question about I
Robin's lyrics. They're pretty sparse and I
simple but the way he repeats them gives die
songs a sort of polemic impact. You end up I
The God Machine's second
and final album 'One Last
Laugh In A Place Of L a y i n g . . . '
was released after the
death of their bassist.
Tintin tried to tread
carefully.
getting ground down by their sheer strength.
Robin agrees, "I can define how I'm feeling in
a relatively short space of time and even
though people might hot understand what I'm
expressing, if it only takes me four lines...why
not?" Except the strange thing is that in the
flesh Robin talks non-stop. In contrast to his
songs now he's neither sparse or simple and he
doesn't repeat himself, he just creates closely
intertwined arguments which back track to
cover all flanks. Ronald the drummer mainly
just sits in silence.
I ask whether they think an intensity
comparison between them and Henry Rollins
is valid. Robin starts up again. "I think that,
this last album we couldn't have created a
more pure album, just the whole approach, the
whole execution of it, how we decided to
approach it after Jimmy's passing away, we
couldn't have done it any differently..." There
it was, just slipped in. It took me a second to
register but that was it, Jimmy had passed
away. Obviously they had come to terms with
his death or else they wouldn't have been
doing interviews with student newspapers but
nevertheless that, in some morbid way, was
what I had come to hear. Later on it became
apparent that the God Machine as a group
were finished. The band that three Americans
who had known each other from childhood
and flown over to London to start up had
finished. Without Jimmy the band is dead.
We cover some other topics; can music
change the world? - "I know it changes me",
Cobain and Vedder as the tortured messiahs of
music - "they're expressing what they're
feeling", Winnie the Pooh — "we have a song
which is influenced by Winnie the Pooh,
Winnie the Pooh is cool" and other stuff and I
think that I've done ok. We end up talking
about Nick Cave, who everyone thinks is
brilliant, before I get to say "well thanks for
your time I'm out of questions". I start to pack
up and we small talk until Robin says, "what
did you think of the album?" I sit there slightly
stunned for a bit before I begin to squirm.
"Wei! I've not had it for more than a week, and
I don't really like heavy metal stuff." It's a bad
mistake and one which 1 immediate realise.
Robin fires back "we're not heavy metal",
sharply because it's an accusation. Yeah I
know that but what else do you call it - heavy
instrumental driven rock with classical
undertones and lyrical raw power? I keep
squirming out of a direct answer and manage
to escape to some degree but I still felt kinda
annoyed. Wh° w a s
being interviewed after all?
In hindsight I realised that the interview
had become a conversation and Robin actually
wanted to know what I thought. Now I can tell
you that the album's very good. I can't say
whether you'll like it though. 13
2I0CT94 F E L I X

