Feature
Shelved adventures in a quiet place
Feature
Are libraries cool? Owain and Jon walk on a wild side
LEVEL1
The first thing: to check escape routes. The
windows are all sealed and there's security on
the door so should the worst happen I'll have to
call in the cavalry to get me out. Having left my
portable satellite kit at home I head instead for
the phones. There are two booths situated on
floor one, just up the steps from reception. The
first (07715875200) stinks really badly. It's a
cardphone so maybe its just the smell of the
evil workings of plastic I scuttle to the next
booth, just on the left as you enter the Haldane
section. This one (07775895336) is much nicer,
is a coin phone and probably a good place to
find a companion as the walls are covered with
messages from lonely hearts and there are
quotes too. "The mind is a terrible thing to
waste" - Martin Luther King. And I thought he'd
been shot, he must come in to read NME in the
cool music bit. And if the Guardian Media
Supplement is occasionally stolen that's life.
Sneaking through the columns of fiction I
notice how good they are for pretending to be
a private detective spying on young girls
reading Betjeman poems. That was my excuse
anyway. In the north west through the stairwell
I find steps to a secret door. Staff Only.
Hmmmm. There is a surreal lift sign asking you
to note that if the lift has stopped someone may
be trapped in it and just outside we discover the
Audio-Visual room. This has laser discs, video
players etc. and could be excellent; a great
hang-out for the colleges' Beavis and Buttheads
but alas its for 'college purposes only'. The
agenda. Time to climb the stairs to level two.
LEVEL2
First stop for my erstwhile companion is the
gents on the right. He considered them
'excessively pungent' but then he is a purist.
The general periodical room on the west has an
excellent wide corridor between desks and
shelves for holding sports events overnight
should you become trapped. The east side has
secret doors to the north and the skeleton of
the old Haldane to Sherfield bridge, now bolted
up. The fortress-like windows here are great for
spying on summer crowds on the Queen's Lawn
and firing arrows through.
Within the quietness of the library the
only place of action and sound is the
photocopying room. A possible idea here
could be to synchronise the copies for excellent
strobing disco effects. Passing through into the
old Science Museum library, there is a
conference centre on the left full of STS
students who seem curious when we appear at
their door and scribble down notes whilst
pointing. Keen minds. Just down and on the left
in the Oasis. More toilets, a little degenerate on
our visit, but the superlative water fountain is
here! This has the prime revision tables are on
the left. I saved my degree here.
Further down the wall live the amusingly
titled 'abstract tables'. Good joke there but they
look pretty normal to me. There is also a
localised outbreak of electronic wizardry with
the soon to be installed 8 machine worldwide
web cluster. There's also stacks of microfiche
readers, CD-ROM machines and other equally
nameless yet 'democratic' systems.
ItS HAfw IIIMWAI" ^BBLm coot •«* Xce.tr * t m n
JS; ALA** ft *
t
S
w
u
?
S
c
«
*
'
" 1 A
*s T
*A c T T
A 6 L £ s W
T T o a e T t oAtis-wATel MtflAirf © JoML C O B d .
LEVEL3
The further up you get in the library, the
sparser and stranger are the students you get to
meet. Entering the Computing and Control
Collection we come across the closest thing to
organised religion at IC. Kneel and worship at
the heart of the scientific ideal. Yep it's the
Dennis Gabor Shrine. Busts, medals, Noble
prizes, bits of flat screen tellies, it's all there
behind glass cabinets which have signs saying
'do not touch the glass'. Noble prize medals
are remarkably similar to fish in this respect.
An interesting man, Dennis was quoted
in one newspaper cutting as saying that the two
problems for humanity are boredom and
impotence. He was obviously an IC professor
through and through.
LEVEL 4
At the end of our brief tour we climb the stairs
to Life Science and Management. It's secluded
and very quiet and that probably accounts for
all the dark and sordid rumours that encircle
the photocopy room. Well at least it could be
called the Biology reproduction room. There's
not much else of interest up here. The access
passage between Life Science and
Management has no lights and the walls
vibrate too. We don't stay long in Management.
The final bell is tolling as nine o'clock is
approaching. There's just enough time to
read the cartoons stuck onto the librarian's
door. I
f you have any more on the theme of
designing tree swings I'm sure that they
would find a good home there.
databases and keyword anarchy
Books have always had an element of power
associated with them. Censorship trials such
as 'Lady Chatterley's Lover' meant that some
books at least, had the kudos of hidden
knowledge associated with them, things that
the common man should not know about.
Thanks to its computerised referencing systems
the IC library provides an anonymous and fast
service to find those useful handbooks for
anarchy, illict satisfaction and addiction.
I used the on line keyword facility to try
and build up an inter-reference of particularly
interesting ideas. I played around for a bit
before trying the sensual keywords
combinations of SEX-RUBBER and SEX-OIL
but to no avail. SEX-TECHNOLOGY had three
close matches but unsurprisingly these were
all along the lines of genetic engineering or
women in science. The first useful answer
appeared when two vital underlying concepts
were put together. SEX-DRUGS resulted in
'Drugs and Sexual Function' by M.Davies. Alas
the only copy was held at St. Mary's. After that
there was obviously only one way to go.
however SEX-DRUGS-ROCK and ROLL only
managed to track down E.Stanford's 'the rock
and roll years...the Riddles designed War
Department'. Staying with substance abuse
the next sequence was simpler
ADDICTION-DRUGS combined to give three
good leads; the journal of 'Addiction', the
'British Journal of Addiction' and
Sonnedecker's 'Emergence of the concept of
opiate addiction'. Finally in nihilist gloom I
tried ANARCHY-DEATH which surprisingly came
back with the hopeful answer of 'Anarchy and
Culture; the problems of contemporary
university' (Hal 375). They'd obviously never
been to IC.
A Humanities library at IC? A Music library?
Yes, for decades Imperial has — like comparably
specialised institutions, LSE and MIT - given its
members the opportunity to read widely beyond
their subject, and to develop their recreational
interests. The Haldane Collection provides all
this, and supports the taught courses and
broader cultural activities of the Humanities
Programme.
The Haldane Collection is on the first level
of the Central Library, with a comfortable
reading area overlooking the Queen's lawn. All
members of College may borrow from its stock
of 40,000 books, maps, music scores, and sound
recordings, using the Central Library card.
Opening hours are the same as for the rest of the
Central Library.
The collection began as a student, union
fiction library (spurred on by H.G. Wells'
exhortation to students to show that they were
"not barbarians"), and the Union still has a role
in providing fiction, as well as popular music
recordings. With the formation of what is now
the Humanities programme, the library
began to provide course material, and
assumed the name of Haldane Library,
after R.B. Haldane (Viscount Haldane),
who had helped bring about the merger of
Imperial's constituent colleges. For several years
the formerly separate Haldane Library has been
part of the Central Library, and its present
function is to support Humanities courses,
provide other academic support material such as
English usage, and to offer a wide range of
extra-curricular reading matter on subjects of
current interest, as well as music and other
listening matter.
Subjects covered in die greatest depdi are
mostly those in which courses are taught, such as
history, politics, philosophy and literature, as
well as art and music. Travel and biography are
well represented, and other subjects covered
include sport, humour, popular medicine,
psychology, feminism, crime, law, languages,
and consumer issues. A mere list of subjects,
however, does not do justice to the interest of the
The Haldane Collection and You
collection, which embraces the wide-ranging,
such as intellectual and cultural history, and the
more peculiar. Recent additions to the new
books display-shelf include, for example, Peter
Gay's The Cultivation of Hatred and a
comprehensively illustrated history of Tula
samovars. 1 hasten to add that there is also a
Vauxhall Nova manual and a guide to the West
Yorkshire Way! We are always glad to have your
suggestions for additions to the collection.
Daily newspapers and more than 60
magazines and periodicals are available for
reading in the library. The latter include Autocar
and Motor, Radio Times, Newsweek, and Which.
There are also periodicals that, support, taught
courses, notably history journals, and the foreign
language magazines Stern and L'Express. "Non-
book" holdings include maps (mostly Ordnance
Survey, but also some town maps and a new
county street atlas series), and language courses
on cassette, which may be borrowed. The Audio-
Visual collection, including academic videos and
video player, and the Patent. Office Training
Package (an easy-to-use introduction to patents)
on video laser disc, is also situated in the
Haldane Collection.
The Music Library of books, scores and
sound recordings complements the energetic
mdsical activity of Imperial. There is a good
selection of books (shelved in the main loan
books sequence and reference collection) and
printed music, including chamber music parts,
instrumental solos, vocal scores, and miniature
scores. The most popular section of the music
library is undoubtedly recorded music. Classical
recordings of interest, to both the new and the
more experienced listener are available
on compact disc, cassette and LP, while
jazz, folk and popular music (selected by
a student union buyer) is mostly on
cassette, with a CD collection beginning.
Books and all the materials mentioned
above are listed in the Libertas computer
catalogue, which is available over the network as
well as in the library. There are additional
handouts on materials that are difficult to trace,
and the library staff will always be pleased to
help.
The Haldane Collection is not merely a
repository, but a venue for live events too. Watch
out for Anne Harvey and Gabriel Woolf reading
"This Excellent Machine", a programme of
science-based poetry and prose on November 9,
Joy Melville, introducing her biography "Mother
of Oscar" [Wilde], with actress Gerardinc
McDcrmottroe on November 28, and Josh Kirby,
illustrator of Terry Pratchett's novels, talking
about his work in the spring.
And finally the library staff. They are here
to enable you to make the most of resources
(including databases) and to answer your
queries, so please, ask them! They can help you
use the library systematically, assist in tracking
down particular topics, and if necessary refer
you to sources elsewhere. Like anyone else who
has invested in education and professional
training, they gain satisfaction from using their
experience and building on it, and in turn
provide a better service. So, if by your sixth visit,
you're still asking for the time or a pencil
sharpener, and they appear a trifle glazed, try
asking them to pursue quotations, illustrations,
or the topic that eludes the keyword index.
Those, who ultimately get the most out of
libraries are the ones who learn to use them
systematically, engage the help of the staff, and,
of course, browse. The first person to let me
know who wrote Back lo Bolivia can have
October's Private Eye when we've finished with
it!
Dr Janet Smith Haldaru; Librarian
MM F E L I X 2I0CT94 2I0CT94 F E L i X MM

