Clubs o Societies News
Monopoly
Madness
This Saturday saw over a hundred Imperial
Students rampage through the streets of
London in Rag's second big event, Live
Monopoly. Teams of four to six people ran
around the various sites on the monopoly
board (which aren't as close as they previously
thought!) solving clues along the way, while
trying to raise loads of money for Mencap.
Bonus marks were gained for treasures
picked up along the way, which included a
load of Macdonalds balloons, a tax disc from a
Bentley and a Policeman's helmet. Points were
also gained for carrying mascots including a
variety of teddies, a traffic cone called Colin
and a large Spanish onion. An extra twist was
added by the roaming Jail Van, (Jez the R.C.S
fire engine), which whisked competitors off to
remote parts of the board.
This year the event was particularly close
fought with all teams competing with amazing
enthusiasm and collecting staggering amounts
of money bringing our total for the day to over
£1000. The winning team was Team Bollocks
who turned up looking particularly hungover
and thus lost a member along the way.
A good time was had by all who took part,
both during the day and later on during the
free party, where they mingled with Raggies
i J | | [ | J INDUSTRIAL SOCIETY
Events for the forthcoming week:
24th October
C I L Training
Is your degree enough?
26th October
Arthur Andersen
Present your Case
A business game on their premises
27th October
British Steel
An applications/interview talk with a
difference
Please check the posters and your
newsletter for further details
from as far afield as Swansea and Edinburgh.
Prizes for the top teams and collectors will be
handed out. at. the Rag Meeting.
Not a Mickey Mouse Collection!
Tonight we have a license to collect at the
'Walt Disney's World on Ice' at Wembley
Arena, for Turning point, the Drugs and
Alcohol rehabilitation society. Now whilst I
know you probably aren't, thinking 'Wow!
Disney on Ice!,' the show is good fun in its
way and is a chance to collect, an awful lot of
money in a short time (last week one collector
got over £100!). If you want to do this please
come to the Rag meeting today at 1.10pm in
the Union Lounge, opposite Da Vinci's.
Over Land and Sea (and Canterbury)
Yes folks, IC Rag offers you the chance to visit
the historic City of Canterbury tomorrow,
completely FREE. Not. only will we be collect-
ing huge sums of money for BIBIC (the British
Institute for Brain-Injured Children), but also
paying a visit to local university, where you
can see what might have been if you hadn't
come here, and possibly nick the odd sign
(only joking officer/editor/Rector).
Places on the raid are very limited, so if
you want to come along, come to today's
meeting and sign up quick.
Trick or Treat at Covent Garden.
Our next big event will
be a collection at
Covent Garden market
and the nearby Tube
stations, on Saturday
29th October. Since
this is around
Halloween we will be
collecting in fancy
dress, with a prize for
the best costume as well
as the top collector. We
also have Macdonalds
vouchers for all those
who take part and of
course all money col-
lected will go towards
our own incentive
scheme.
To do this collec-
tion just, come along to
a Rag meeting, or meet
on the day at. Rumours
restaurant in Covent
Garden (the collection
will be between 10am
and 6pm).
Don'tforget the
Rag Meeting! It's today
at 1.10pm in the Union
Lounge (opposite Da
Vinci's).
b, British Gas
Wine Tasting
The IC Wine Tasting Society is for everyone
who enjoys drinking wine, and meets at 6pm
every Tuesday evening in the Union Dining
Hall. Each week we discuss a different topic,
and taste wines relating to this. No prior
knowledge is necessary as for each tasting
there is a speaker who is an expert from wine
industry.
This first tasting of term was a very enter-
taining look at wine tasting technique, and an
introduction to different styles of wines from
all over the world (some cheap enough for the
average student to afford and some not).
The next meeting on Tuesday 25th of
October will be one of the best tastings of tlie
term and we strongly recommend you pay us a
visit. It is on Spanish wines, and the visiting
speaker will be Penny Drinkwater, a member
of the Guild of Wine Writers and an interna-
tional wine judge. She is the author of a book
about cooking with garlic and has appeared on
T.V on "Eat your Greens". Along with wine,
she will make for an enjoyable evening.
Earth Girls Are Easy
On Tuesday 25th October at 7pm in the con-
cert hall, icsf are well pleased to dredge from
the vaults that perennial classic 'Earth Girls
Are Easy'. It's been a long time since I saw
this myself, so if I just limit this plug to the
phrases 'What do you get if you cross Close
Encounters with Grease?', 'Geena Davis in a
swimsuit' and 'A very hairy Jeff Goldblum in a
swimsuit (and Jim 'The Mask' Carrey too, if
that's your bent)' it'll all make so much more
sense.
Admission is the palliy sum of £1.50 to
icsfmembers (£3 membership which includes
yourfirstfilmfree plus access to our library
containing over 3000 books and videos) or £2
ifyou can'tjoin becauseyour anorak's in the
wash.
Serial Mom and
Bad Girls
Serial Mom, the mother from hell, is coming to
ICU Cinema this Sunday at 8pm. The direc-
tor, John Walters gets disgusting with the posi-
tively inspired casting of Kathleen Turner. She
plays the perfect Mom of a perfect family, who
turns to serial murder mayhem to preserve
some perversely inverted family values. This
film makes the lories Back To Basics policy
seem liberal. On Thursday (same time and
place), we have Bad Girls. Andie MacDowell,
riding high with the success of Four Weddings
and a Funeral, helps to buck the trend of male
orientated westerns. Helping her in the
attempt arc Madeleine Stowe, Mary Stuart
Masterson and Drew Barrymore.
2I0CT94 F E L I X

