Standby
ffi chills
For people with too much taste for
Hammersmith Palais, here are the
first of my recommendations for
IC's late night dancing crowd. On
Fridays, Barely Breaking Even at
Club 9, is a must. By far the best
local club, at £4 for NUS/UB40
this is truly a bargain. Surprisingly
unpretentious for Kensington, it
also gets my top award for
friendliest door woman
congratulations Bijal! - and the
welcome extends thru'out this
excellently decorated venue. The
ground floor chill out room plays
jazzy tunes to chat to; move
downstairs for the action. Drinks
are standard club prices: £2 a shot
or £2.50 for beers, so you may
well want to fill up at the Union
before grabbing a few friends and
piling over for some excellent
danceable funk and boogie tunes
spun by DJs Ben, sweet Pete and
Leslie O. I defy anyone to keep off
the dancefloor here, and
exhibitionists wear white as it's lit
with UV. Superb wall hangings
and a wandering saxophonist add
the perfect finish to this packed
out, fashionable club.
Club 9 is situated at 9 Young
Street (just off High St Ken).
Hometime munchies are available
all night just round the corner at
Crispins.
Midweek, Starsky a n d
Hutch upstairs at Ronnie Scotts,
Soho, is a personal favourite. A
complete lack of pretentiousness
coupled with everybody's best
loved 70's Funk make this the
ideal venue for its young sociable
party crowd. DJ's Andy G and Kris
spin what are, in my opinion, the
best funk tunes in town. A roomy
seating area makes conversation
easy, and you'll find plenty of it,
while the dancefloor is rarely
empty. The staffs' student friendly
attitude is indicated by the free
jugs of cold water available along
the bar and the generous drinks
prices (£1.60 for Becks to £2 for
stronger beers). Lap up the free
whistles and lollies, while those
best dressed in 70's gear win free
copies of Telstar's new Acid Jazz
CD. Mention my name and
entrance is JUST £3. Night buses
are 10 minutes walk away at
Piccadilly, and there are a
plethora of late night eating
places nearby, with Bar Italia
opposite and Compton's
wonderful sandwiches round the
corner. Grab a crowd and have a
great night out. Q
affirming
situations
^ teutonic upgrading
The first half of the Royal Opera's new Ring cycle is a failure. But that's
certainly not the whole story. Richard Jones' new productions of Das
Rheingold and Die Walkure are more courageous and interesting than
the last two Wagner offerings from this house. Prettified and empty
stagings of Der fliegende Hollander and Die Meistersinger won critical
raves in other quarters, and Jones too could have played safe. Instead he
has rejected the winged helmets and all the Tolkienesque paraphernalia
usually associated with these works. He'll have known the risks he was
running and sure enough a river of vilification poured down from the
gallery when he took his curtain call.
There are some good ideas. Alberich wears his ring on a huge
detachable fist. When he turns into a dragon, he is hoisted into the air
like an enormous jack-in-the-box, with his trousers uncoiling below him.
The giants Fasolt and Fafner are Siamese twins, their torsos joined.
In Walkure, Fricka makes an effective departure in a lead-coloured
limousine that looks like a life-size Monopoly token. There is certainly
room for humour and even mockery (Wotan's spear is a one-way street
road sign), but Jones seems to have been unwilling or unable to trust in
the potency of Wagner's own ideas. It's as if he's decided that these days
we're all too sophisticated for this dungeons and dragons stuff, and he
simply fails to think of anything exciting to do at great moments such as
the descent to Nibelheim or the deaths of Siegmund and Hunding.
Bernard Haitink and his orchestra seem unconvinced and the playing only
intermittently rises above the perfectly acceptable. The net result is that
what are potentially some of the greatest passages in opera fall
unforgivably flat. The good news is that the singing is excellent,
particularly that of John Tomlinson's Wotan and Ekkehard Wlaschiha's
Alberich. ©
While 'the Firm' and 'the Pelican
Brief failed to capture John
Grisham's writing, the Client is
probably the best of the adaptions
so far onto the silver screen.
Its plot revolves around Mark
Sway, an eleven year old boy who
knows too much. When Mark and
his younger brother, Ricky, sneek
into the woods for a smoke, they
see a man attaching a hose to the
exhaust pipe of his car with the
obvious intent of committing
suicide. The man turns out to be a
Mafia lawyer who, during his last
minutes, tells Mark about a killer
and the whereabouts of the body
of a prominent Senator.
A federal prosecutor named
'Reverend' Roy Foltrigg (Tommy
Lee Jones) wants Mark to tell him
where the body is hidden, while
the Mafia want him to keep quiet.
In desperation Mark goes to a
lawyer, Reggie Love played by
Susan Sarandon, for help. She
takes on the FBI and manages to
deal with their subversive
techniques to persuade Mark to
tell them everything.
As a screen play the Client is
extremely close to the book, and
has more suspense than other
John Grisham adaptions. If you
have read the book you will be
surprised about the film. It has an
excellent plot that is little changed.
If you wanted to know where
Monty Python got the idea for their
classic film, the Holy Grail, from
the film to endure is Lancelot du
Lac. Although it strangely
managed to win the Cannes
festival in 1974, (interesting the
Holy Grail was released in 1975),
its 35mm reissue can only be
assumed to be a horrible faux pas.
The opening scene cuts to a
broadsword fight. One knight
manages to chop the other's head
clean off, which results in a
veritable fountain of gushing red
water. Next the victorious knight
swings at someone else's helmet -
cue for more fountains of red
water spouting everywhere. By this
point the assembled critics in the
press showing were howling with
laughter and I was waiting for
some smart aleck to start on the
Black Knight sketch; "well it's only
a scratch", "only a scratch I've just
cut your arm off" etc.
Basically it's the worst french
film I have ever seen.©
further details can be found in the seven day diary
2I0CT94 F E L I X MM

