The Great and Silent Debate
Discussion
Owain Bennallack explores UGM's and Unions.
Last. Friday saw the first UGM of term and the
new constitution receive its first reading. It was
passed. UGM stands for 'Union General
Meeting': it is the forum which aims to bring
together all the Union's members to determine
policy and to vote on both mundane and
contentious issues. At present every student in
college is a Union member so the total number
in attendance could theoretically have
numbered several thousand.
Around thirty people were present.
There are many ways in which to
continue with this article. The first would be to
scream 'apathetic herds' at. Imperial students
in general. The second would be to blame the
sabbaticals for mismanagement and the low
attendance. Another would be to simply shrug
wearily and say "well, that is the way of things
nowadays". (After all, are students really
apathetic, or would it not be truer to say they
are simply not interested in UGM's?) All these
approaches have been taken in the past by the
Union, this newspaper and a host of taxi
drivers — all have an element of validity. But to
blame any particular body seems facile, given
the long history of this saga.
Instead, I'd like to consider some of the
root factors involved in the debate. Given the
low attendance, it can no longer be assumed
that people know, or even care, what the
Union stands for and what exactly their
relationship is with it.
What is the Union?
The word 'Union' is an umbrella term
denoting the student run organisation
of Imperial College. Although funded
by college it is the students who
decide how the funds are spent.
Broadly, the Union is responsible for
Welfare, Representation and
promoting and encouraging the
interests of students in extra-curricular
activities (ie. All the clubs and
societies at Imperial). Further to these
aims ICU also runs refectories (e.g.
'Da Vinci's bar'), the Union bookstore
and employs permanent members of
staff to manage some of the day-to-
day running of this large operation.
So what does that mean? It means, in
effect, that if your buy anything from the
bookstore, if you belong to any club, if you
have any academic problems that need
addressing or any welfare issues, if you
attended a Freshers' Week event, whatever,
you have interacted with the Union. There are
people who drink every night in the traditional
l i f F E L I X 2I0CT94
bar, perhaps play rugby or football for three
years and abscond with first years annually at
the first Ents night of the term but confidently
leave college secure in the knowledge that they
have had nothing to do with the Union.
"Union? Bunch of hacks, never did anything
for me..." they will confidently say at the
(Union organised) commemoration ball.
All this is not meant as a piece of Union
propaganda but, to highlight that, you are likely
to be affected by the Union in some way whilst
at 1C, aldiough obviously to varying degrees.
It is not. true, then, to say that people
have 'no interest, in the Union'. In fact, it is
rather that diey have no interest in its running
(the 'politics' for want of a misleading word)-
.
Why should you care about the
running of the Union?
By taking an interest, in even a small
way, students at least make the Union
feel accountable for its actions. This
ensures that students basic needs are
always kept as a priority.
In addition, by being involved you can
make a positive contribution to
student life. Your involvement could
lead to anything from better
entertainments to better staff-student
relations. Everywhere the Union has a
hand you can stick your own finger.
Money is being drawn in your name
too. You should know how it's spent.
But there are still many students in
college who know all this, who are involved in
clubs at a senior level and have even sat on
Union committees but who consistendy do not
attend UGM's. Given that they are so
numerous, and that the sheer number of those
who do not attend is so large, perhaps it could
be that the majority is right. Mob rule.
Why should you NOT care about
the running of the Union?
Firstly you could say that your
interests are being met and so why
change things? Your club has its
money, your bar its beer. You may
feel that there are other, more
committed people able to represent
your point of view already. Or that
you have time to play hockey or watch
bands, but you haven't time to take
part in the finer points of 'hacky'
policy wrangling. Fair enough.
Which brings us back to the beginning.
Council votes to make itself supreme body
F a r e w e l l t o d e m o c r a c y ?
ISSUE 82*5" " I 27"JMTI989
What the poor turnout at. the UGM on Friday
cotdd mean is that the new constitution is
completely well-founded. After all, if no-one is
attending UGM's then democracy isn't
functioning and the semi-democratic council
proposed in the new constitution (see F E L I X
1006 for a brief explanation together with
arguments for and against.) could be the only
way forward. Last Friday the attendance at
die UGM was to degree made up of the would
be members of the new council (A bewildered
first year was even asked to stand as first year
representative!)
Maybe it. is too much to expect the
student body to turn up to form a quorate
UGM and vote itself out of existence. If the
battle lines were more clearly drawn and there
was a real body of opinion against the new
constitution then maybe attendance would be
higher. For instance, the old F E L I X front
page above is taken from January 1989 (only
five years ago) and it reports on a motion quite
similar to the new constitution: to remove
UGM's as the supreme decision-making body.
The result? 214 in favour and 364 against.
Over six hundred people attended.
In an interview Lucy Chothia, Union
President, admitted that last, Friday's turnout
was 'very disappointing' and said that there
was a plan to get publicity out earlier next
time. But she believes low attendance reflects
more generally on student disinterest in the
UGM system. Asked whether she should be
actively going out into public forums such as
the JCR and talking to students she said:
"We'd love to go out into the JCR but if we did
the Union would not run. I believe the most
important thing is for the, Union to function
rather than for people to know that we are
here and that we are great."
The next UGM, in two weeks time, will
seek lo ratify the new constitution. Copies are
still available,fivmthe Union office.

