BRAINS, LIKE BEATLES,
FIND U.S.A. PAYS
" British Industry Stinks. A l l it has to offer me is frus*Ta*ion
and stagnation—pumping effluent in'<> (he British channel, in fact."
—So expostulated one disgruntled student on being asked for his
views on the brain drain and whether he would join it.
NO BRAIN DRAIN A T I.C.
There seems to have been no mass exodus of I.C.'s top men
across the ocean, or so it would seem from the National Press, and
there was certainly no evidence of such when opinion was recently
sought from members of the staff. So, even though there appears to
be no immediate fear (or hope) of losing many of our teachers, feel-
ings were freely expressed on the subject of the brain drain, and many
admiring glances were cast across to the New World. What is it
then, that the United States has to offer to the scientist which, even
if not attracting many members of the staff, is, at least, claiming so
many of our graduates ?
Start at £3,000 Plus a Year
One American member of staff
(who incidently is returning
whence he came) admirably
summed up the situation—•" far,
far better pay." When questioned
about the standard of living in
America, he explained that it is
a popular fallacy to argue that
since the standard of living in
America is higher, spending
power turns out to be very much
the same as in Britain. For a
start, the standard of living is not
higher—or more strictly individu-
al items are certainly not more
expensive than here—Americans
just want more in life than the
British. C o n t _ p_ 2
PRIZE FOR PRESTIGE
NOW WE GET A
COMPUTER
IMPERIAL C O L L E G E IS TO H A V E ITS OWN I B M 7090
COMPUTER, TO BE INSTALLED IN T H E D E P A R T M E N T OF
E L E C T R I C A L ENGINEERING, A N D T O BE F U L L Y OPERA-
TIONAL B Y T H E END OF T H E Y E A R . This was announced by
the Rector. Sir Patrick Linstead, at a joint Press Conference with
Mr. T. C. Hudson (Managing Director of IBM (UK) Ltd.), on Wed-
nesday, last week.
The unit wh>cH wnnH cost r»n the open market about one
million pounds, js to be made available to the College free of charge
with a further grant of £18,000 a year for five years. This grant will
be used to create fellowships and generally to support the work being
done at the centre.
INDUSTRY'S RESPONSIBILITY
At the Press Conference were a number of IBM personnel who
were able to answer a large number of questions concerning the ooera-
tion of t^e Unit. Basically, one-third of the time available will be
used by Imperial College, one-third for other universities, and one-
third for IBM. In his opening remarks the Rector spoke of the vast
number of potential users at I.C. and also emphasised its use for
training in data processing. Mr. Hudson for I B M explained that
Industry had considerable responsibility toward the great concentra-
tion of brains in the Universities, and he felt it important that they
shoud have access to the best equipment available.
Full Story p. 2
HALDANE LIBRARY
13, Prince's Gardens
Exam Blues ?
Banish them with a book !
Over 10,000 to choose from !
Open 11.0—5.0 p.m. and
until 7.0 p.m. on Tuesday
and Thursday
Prestige
When asked why the computer
was to be installed at I.C. rather
than at a University, a spokesman
replied that I.C. had not only the
requirements for such a unit, but
also a tremendous prestige.
The use of the A T L A S com-
puter now being installed in
Bloomsbury by London Univer-
sity will not in any way be affec-
ted, and I.C. will continue to have
time available there.
The Rector, in replying to a
question about the relative capa-
cities of the A T L A S and I B M
7090 said " That's a very difficult
question, but as I don't know very
much about it, I can probably
give you the better answer." To
your correspondent, a layman in
in the complicated field of com-
puting technology, this sentiment
gave great hope.
T H E S P I R I T O F
C A R N I V A L
While some drank at the bar
and others ate hot dogs, the
Domestic Bursar found two ices
better than one.
(FOTO BY COMBES at
Carnival Fete)
Quote:
" The publicists are certainlv
publicising themselves to the full
and the teenage moronic fringe
are seizing the opportunity to
behave as they do for the rest of
the year, only more so. They tell
me it has got something to do with
mental health. Quite appropriate
reallv." — From the President
I.C.U., Dave Watson.

