F E L I X
CARNIVAL DISAPPOINTS
"I blame the printer !" said Chairman Hodgson on being asked
why Carnival receipts were coming in much slower than in previous
years. He was referring to the poor sales of the new style Carnival
Magazine, " O l d Rope," which together witli the raffle, produce the
vast majority of the Carnival income. " He was meant to have the
copies ready over one week earlier than he did, as a consequence
sales have been affected and valuable publicity within the magazine
has been lost." The magazine itself had plenty of sales appeal, an
effect created by an excellent cover, high quality paper and good
layout. Despite the weakness of much of the material, the magaeine
is undoubtedly a much better reflection on the College than previous
efforts."
£d.—We understand from the printer that 4,000 copies were
collected between Monday and Friday preceding the Carnival week
and the remaining 3,000 copies were awaiting collection until Tuesday
of Carnival week.
While the money is counted
(above), Humphrey Lvttleton
plays on at the Carnival Hop.
m
CARNIVAL TIMING
It appears that the total effect
of Carnival has now reached satu-
ration. How much of this is due
to its timing—so close to Under-
graduate examinations?
Support for College functions is
normally difficult to muster, but
one can more readily understand
the difficulty of attracting Carni-
val personnel when exams are so
near at hand. Coupled with this,
the Carnival Committee has to
endure two terms of what is com-
parative inactivity, often at the
expense of holding other posi-
tions, then it becomes evident that
Carnival date leaves very much
to be desired.
Universities such as Manchester
and Liverpool favour the end of
the Winter term, Leeds (after
exams) at the end of the Summer
term and Sheffield have theirs
soon after the commencement of
the Autumn term. A l l of these
dates involve some compromise,
but it seems that I.C. has chosen
a particularly bad one.
Could not the timing of I.C.
Carnival be carefully recon-
sidered?
CARNIVAL
INTERNATIONAL EVENING
A superb evening enlivened with colour, exotic food, a casino,
dancing to a Caribbean steel band and a cabaret with performers
from many countries. All the performers appeared completely free
of charge and the smoothness of the performar^e was commendable
considering there had been no rehearsal.
MENTAL HEALTH PATIENTS
First away in Carnival Week was an Orchestral Concert pro-
duced by the I.C. Music Society, at which most of the audience were
mental patients invited to the College by the organisers. Full marks
for this charitable act which also created much goodwill with Mental
Health officials. The musical vein was continued by a Sunday even-
ing Concert performance of Mozart's Don Giovanni, ostensibly pro-
vided free of charge by performers from the Covent Garden Opera
Company. Much to the disappointment of the organisers, expenses
claimed by the performers were sufficient to absorb nearly all the
receipts from an almost packed house.
T H E C A R N I V A L P R O C E S S I O N
Whole families come out to watch . . .
POOR PUBLICITY
Carnival has still not succeeded in fully impressing itself on the
people of South Kensington. Bad publicity must take most of the
blame. Internal notification of events was very mediocre (certainly
incapable of competing against Yogiads !). Gone were the stickers
which covered all of South Kensington last year.
People cannot attend what they do not know about. One year
the Carnival Organisers will realise that heavy expenditure on pub-
licity is justified. M _ HOSKER.
T H A T JUKE B O X !
Many said " What are I.C. stu-
dents coming to!" Others were
seen to cover their ears as they
entered the Snack Bar. But the
fact remains that Snack Bar busi-
ness went up by over 10% for the
period that the Carnival Juke
Box remained there. Add to this
the facts that it was played almost
continually, that the evening the
machine spent in the Union
Lounge resulted in the place losing
its familiar deserted look and
that many students were heard to
say hopefully, "Is it to-be here for
good?" And the arguments for
permanent canned music in l.C.
mount up.
l.C. Union is sparsely used. A
major cause of this is the lack of
a comfortable focal centre. A n
intimate coffee bar, of the Soho
variety, with music, somewhere in
the Union, could well fulfill this
need. With such a centre, per-
haps members of this Union
would start trickling back.
Try giving it a thought Council]
Others were less impressed
Published by FELIX BOARD, Imperial College, London, S.W.7.
Plates and offset printing by WEST L O N D O N OFFSET CO., 86, Lillie Road. London. S.W.6. Tel.: F U L 7969

