4 F E L I X
E D I T O R I A L
D E A D OR D Y I N G ?
This Union is dying. Like a worm cut in two it continues to
thrash sporadically, but if the present rate of slow strangulation is
allowed to continue it cannot last long. The societies which help
make it, still thrive (although some, like the Debating Society,
threaten to pass to greener fields) but the real idea of a Student's
Union, is floundering in a huge bog of bureaucracy.
Last term's Union meetings showed a flicker of life and one
hoped that people were really interested in the proposed constitutional
changes. A cynical few maintained that the crowds had gathered to
see heads roll in the Felix motion from the President; their view
was perhaps justified when the last meeting of the term remained
inquorat and had to be abandoned.
Behind every venture or society there is always a leader, some-
one of stature, personality and initiative. In a body in the nature
cf a Student's Union, a leader is a first essential ; from this source
must come the image and inspiration of the Union. Our Union has
no image—in the constituent Colleges mascots, elite drinking clubs
and sheer sport provide an inescapable image. You may not like
it but it remains a focal point for the activities of that Union. Think
of Guilds and one thinks of Bo and a Spanner, possibly beer ; think
of Imperial and one is lost. A select few would hope that "The
Phoenix " is the rallying point of the Union, but fortunately they
remain select and few. Others perhaps look to the bars, and others
tolhe societies. Few would claim that the Union has one focal point
especially since Southside has shown the Union building up for what
it is : ugly, dated, and usually uncomfortable.
ROOM A T T H E TOP
This image should without question come from the ton. Col-
cutt last term talked of the ideal President, a mixture of administrator
and sportsman, a thinker and drinker. Our last three Presidents have
been a businessman, a volatile idealist and an expert administrator ;
none however have really provided the Union with any kind of
inspiration.
What the College must find for itself very rapidly is a President
who can throw the sort of image that "Kitch" did six years ago. and
is still remembered. The post of Deputy President mav ease the situa-
tion somewhat, but until we find someone who will instill respect
and be capable either of silencing his critics or ignoring them, the
Union will continue to flounder.
DECENTRALISATION
How can this trend away from personality and toward bureau-
cratic administration be stemmed ? While Council continues to elect
its President then the same pattern will folio" in a regenerative pro-
cess which regurgitates the members of its clique one after the other.
Many of the most eligible and capable of students will not even
consider the job. Supervisors will often not accept a President on
post graduate courses because of the enormous amount of time that
the job consumes. The President himself sits on a very large number
of purely administrative committees which may last up to six hours
or more. The wastage of time is phenomenal, and it may be true
that this sort of work favours a certain type.
It appears that the task of President could be considerably
reduced if some of this committee responsibilty could be delegated.
After all, the art of leadership is the art of load shedding and the
manipulation thereof. Not only would the duties of the President
be lessened, but many other able persons at College would have an
opportunity to gain invaluable experience.
Until some sort of decentralisation is engineered, it seems
unlikely that many will relish the job of President, and until a Presi-
dent capable of producing an image appears, the Union must con-
tinue to suffer.
CHEMISTRY EXPLOSION
Imperial Institute Road was
shaken last week by an explosion
which rocked the Chemistry
Building and shattered several
square feet of the glass roof. Dr.
David King was making measure-
ments of the sticking probability
of nitrogen on metallic films at
low temperatures when his ap-
paratus exploded, and he was
badly lacerated about the head
and shoulders by flying glass.
Condition Satisfactory
Dr. King's present condition is
reported to be satisfactory, and
it is now known that his eyes have
not suffered any permanent dam-
age as was at first feared.
Also injured by the blast was
Dr. King's wife, who received ex-
tensive cuts and burns on one
leg, and less severely, Miss S. B.
Kulkarni, Ph.D., who was work-
ing some distance away on a dif-
ferent project.
The accident was attributed to
an accidental breach of the nor-
mal safety precautions on the part
of Dr. King.
CHALLENGE REFUSED ?
A gauntlet thrown down before
this college at the beginning of
the year has been tardily taken
up.
i'he influx of residential stu-
dents into the immediate confines
of Imperial College appears to
have presented problems rather
than opportunities. The Union
has made but few overtures to the
Southside residents and waits im-
potently for the first cries of its
new born. Of the new halls some
have not enough energy even to
mourn their birth and only one
has raised its corporate head to
herald its own presence.
In previous years Beit hall
supported those students who saw
it fit to run the Union. They eked
out their elaborate lives by a
series of intrigues which still
sprout like weeds along those
hallowed Halls. The introduction
of Week's hall like an invisible
finger in a grey dawn foretold
of a rosy dawn if not a golden fu-
ture for residents of this college.
Leadership
In an analysis of activities in
Southside this year we find that
leadership was the element most
obviously lacking. The Union as
a whole seemed unable and in
some cases unwilling to instil
leadership into the spirals that are
Southside. A little inertia can be
expected from such a large and
diverse body of people as council.
Impetus should have come from
the top.
With leadership Tizard has
outstripped the other halls in
combining a sense of unity and
independence with a sense of
purpose. In this year they have
succeeded in getting their hall
recognized outside the normal
range of this college. The other
Southside constituents appear to
be pallid and distorted reflections
of a Beit-Weeks Hall.
Toward a Functional Hall
From the attitudes of the war-
dens, be they right or wrong, the
pattern set can be clearly defined.
Three wardens feel that move-
ments towards a functional type
of hall should come directly from
the students. The fourth warden
has recognized in students not
only the afore mentioned inertia
but also the inability of the ma-
jority to visualise a new concept
of communal living.
In this year Dr. Cameron has
not only attempted to open the
eyes of the men in Tizard to an
ideal but has succeeded in show-
ing its practical possibilities. The
students of Imperial college of the
first and second generation need
to be introduced and allowed to
mix with people in varied experi-
ences beyond the realm of their
own. Tizard have had this prive-
lege in functions varying from
mulled wine parties in the com-
pany of local dianitaries. to the
individual entertaining of public
school science masters. This
latter function is more fully re-
ported in the Engineer, 30 March.
Informal talks and discussions
during a regular Thursday evening
buttery hour or in students rooms
during other times, have revolved
around such people as Air Vice
Marshal Sir Arthur Longmore,
Editor of Vogue and House and
Garden, the Bishops of Maid-
stone and Stepney, Sir Patrick
Riley (an Ambassador to Moscow
and now working for UNESCO),
to name but a few. The forma-
tion of a diners club as well as
Folk Music, Hi-Fi and Brass rub-
bing groups shows that an atmos-
phere conducive to living is en-
joyed.
Tizard and the Goldsmiths
Perhaps the biggest success is
the alliance between Tizard Hall
and the Goldsmiths of London,
resulting in an invitation to din-
ner, with the possibility of further,
stronger, and more advantageous
bonds in this great Livery Com-
pany.
The future is seen warily
through skeins of mist. The
Union may well revolve around the
Southside residency, with its own
structure of sport and social ac-
tivity on an independant basis.
A residents' league of the major
sports, the teams made up of
students attached to halls as well
as living in them, with a supreme
I.C. team at the head of each
sport. It is hoped that whoever is
in power next year will realise the
inevitability of this sort of system
and support it for the welfare of
students instead of lighting it and
hiding from the future like an
ostrich with its head in the sand.
The Editor wishes to extend his
thanks to N . J . Walker and all
those who helped in producing
the F E L I X Carnival Supplement,
at a time when he was incapa-
citated by examinations.

