6 F E L I X
Recently I ha\/ talked to quite a number of British and my
impression is that they know little of Bulgaria. Some have said to
me that thev have already visited other European countries and in
a way they felt these wer
e more or less old hat to them, and they would
like to spend a vacation in Bulgaria, but needed more information.
In this short article I will try to do this.
Bulgaria is a small country in the, Balkan Peninsular, whose
fertile plains and fields look like colourful carpets and whose snow-
capped mountain peaks and sun-drenched beaches are washed by the
blue, warm waves of the Black Sea. A beautiful country impreg-
nated with the aroma of rose gardens, blessed with an abundance of
grapes and other fruits and vegetables, of tobacco, herbs and fiowe-s.
If I may sum ur> the impressions of many a western tourist: a mild
Mediterranean climate, low humidity, beautiful blue skies and rain-
less summers make Bulgaria a natural holiday paradise.
I have been many times asked
about special Bulgarian drinks
and dishes. Of course it is im-
Hospitality is traditional with
Bulgarian people and is con-
sidered an outstanding Bulgarian
feature which manifests itself in
everyday life. The people like,
when returning home from work,
to „ welcome guests. Bulgarian
folk songs and stories describe
countless gatherings round the
table over a flask of brandy or
wine.
Many villages still preserve
the custom of special days of the
year when all doors are open to
visitors and it is considered a
special honour to welcome those
of other villages or more distant
parts. Young girls receive the
guests with joyful songs, and their
hosts invite them to the most
prominent places at the table.
Jokes, laughter and songs accom-
pany the entertainment.
possible to describe all of the rich
variety but here are some hints to
bear in mind. Try rose liqueur
made from the petals of the fam-
ous Bulgarian roses, Slivovitza
(plum brandy) which is the na-
tional drink, Mastika (an aniseed
drink) and different kinds of white
and red wines. Never leave
Bulgaria without tasting such
dishes as: Yoghurt—best in the
world and really so, Tarator—
yoghurt soup: beaten up yoghurt
with chunks of ice, pieces of cu-
cumber, sprinkled with chopped
walnut and other spice, Kebab-
cheta—meat prepared after an old
Bulgarian recipe, grilled on char-
coal, Giuvetch—a vegetible Bul-
garian hot-pot Bulgaiian style
Now to the point where some
practical hints could be useful.
First 1 should like to say that
visas are no problem whatsover
and may be obtained in 24 hours
at the Bulgarian Embassy in Lon-
don (12, Queen's Gate Gardens,
S.W.7). One pound is equiva-
lent in Bulgarian currency to 5.60
leva. In other words for one
pound you will receive the
equivalent of 34 shillings. At the
International Youth Camp you
have to pay daily about 17 shil-
lings for full board.
If you go on your own to Bul-
garia it is useful to know the ad-
dress of the Bureau for Inter-
national Youth tourism — 10,
Kaloyan Street, Sofia. There it is
possible to arrange for a stay at
the Youth Camp or elsewhere.
In London you can do this
through Balkantourist, 45, South
Molton Street, Mayfair, W . l , or
English and Overseas Tours Ltd.,
169, Regent Street, W . l . The
prices for the International
Youth Camp at Primorsko are :
By coach/air, 14 days, £32 10s.
By coach/air, 28 days, £52.
And for camping holidays in
Bulgaria—
Bv coach/air, 14 days, two per
tent, £27 8s. 3d.
By coach'air, 14 days, four par
B. GUERASSIMOV.
Bulgarian Press Attache.
On a Black Sea beach
AN
OPEN
I N V I T A T I O N
The idea that havii g an account with a nation-wide bank like the
Midland is somethii g reserved for people of substantial means is a
fallacy. So also is the belief that banks are interested only in those
who are older and already established. The Midland Bank is inter-
ested in YOU — and all young people like you. You would find a
bank account extremely useful for, besides the convenience of pay-
ing bills by cheque, you will find that it helps you to keep track of
your expenditure.
M i d l a n d B a n k
THE GO-AHEAD BANK FOR GO-AHEAD PEOPLE.

