November 28, 1972 FELIX Page 7
The Felix Cultural Page
P A P E R B A C K S
Psychological Survival
Stanley Cohen and Laurie Taylor
Pelican 35p
Not many of us will experience the inside of
H.M. Prisons, however even fewer of us will
be in the same position as the 150 long term
convicts. The authors of this new book have
chosen to tell the story of the murderer, violent
robber, attempted murderer, hetero-sexual and
homosexual criminals, the sad plight of those
isolated and detained in the maximum security
wing of Durham Prison. These people are there
to protect society from their actions and
thought to deter them and others from similar
offences, to be punished by enforced seclusion
and deprivation, to be persuaded or forced to
conform or more simply just to be put out of
circulation. In the majority of civilised coun-
tries there is no death penalty, banishment or
physical torture, consequently locking people
up is the severest form of punishment. In our
own particular country there are 40,000 people
imprisoned . . . the 150 discussed here are
for the most cases in for life.
The problems confronting these people are
increased by the closed emotional world of the
security wing, the lack of choice of friends and
the complete severance of contact with wives
and girlfriends. All these facts left me with a
distinct and very real fear of the consequences
of breaking the law and a sympathy for those
that had and were now suffering. This book
left me also with a thought that perhaps or-
ganisations such as R.A.P. really deserve very
close consideration. In no way did I find the
authors socialising or moralising but I did find
the anecdotal style of the book interesting and
easy to read.
Perhaps the conclusions one may draw are
that getting into a maximum security wing is
difficult, getting out is probably only margin-
ally easier, it certainly is not as one Durham
Prison officer described it, "It seems they want
to live like landed gentry. They seem to be
forgetting completely that they are in prison
for punishment."
The Making of the English Landscape
by W. G. Hoskins Macmillan and Penguin
In a decade which has seen a remarkable pro-
liferation of attention to the environment it is
perhaps worthwhile to consider a book which avow-
edly attempts to offer an understanding of its
apparently natural and meaningless make-up. Dr.
Hoskins has written a pioneer work in that he
attempts to explain the appearance of the whole
country in terms of the successive processes which
have acted upon it. In chronological sequence he
builds up today's England, revealing it to be an
abler and more delicate organism than might be
suspected.
But this book is not solely for the ecologist. It
offers an Increased awareness of our surroundings
by explaining the significance and pattern of their
otherwise haphazard and jumbled features. Written
in terms comprehensible to the layman it neverthe-
less encompasses a remarkable scope and depth
for so concise a volume. While the skill with which
it makes a coherent whole of the subject is un-
rivalled in any other work.
The large numbers of photographs and maps are
an integral part of the text, and the skilled presen-
tation of this material enhances the attractiveness
of the book enormously. As both hardback and
Penguin versions are expensively produced in glossy
format, at £2.10 and 80p respectively, the offer is
very reasonable value.
While generally passive, Dr. Hoskins does pre-
sent his conclusions in a direct vein. He flays the
"England of the arterial bypass, treeless and stink-
ing of diesel oil; England of the bombing range
wherever there was once silence". But in a field
where dramatic challenges and platitudes are the
norm he has produced an absorbing and scholarly
work which Will appeal to those of deeper interest
than the search for ready debating ammunition.
Perhaps the sources of this lasting quality lies in
Dr. Hoskins' concern for the environment regard-
less of fashionable enthusiasms. With a first publi-
cation date of 1955, "The Making of the English
Landscape" predates any bandwagon and will
probably still be respected when much of the pre-
sent effusion on the environment has been merci-
fully forgotten.
Raghnall M. Craighead.
R E C O R D S
It's a Beautiful Day "At Carnegie Hall"
(Columbia — Import)
Yes readers an imported album, as yet unavail-
able officially in this country and secured for "Felix"
at great expense? I fear it may also be their last as
rumour has it that violinist David LaFlamme, the
mainstay of the group since its inception, has now
left.
I saw It's a Beautiful Day at the Bath Festival in
1970, when they appeared early on the Saturday
evening and were well received. However, to my
endless regret since that occasion, I didn't pay much
attention as I hadn't heard of them before. Groups
like It's a Beautiful Day, with one or two instru-
mental virtuosos, always go down better live, when
the players' ability is given full scope. They haven't
returned to England since.
The line-up of the group on this record is La-
Flamme, Val Fuentes, the grossly underrated drum-
mer, and Patti Santos, the singer giving to wearing
very short tight hot pants, if the sleeve photograph
is anything to go by, all of whom survive from the
first album; Fred Webb, who replaced Linda La-
Flamme on organ after the first album, and the two
newest arrivals, Bill Gregory on guitar and Tom
Fowler on bass.
The first track is Taj Mahal's "Give Your Woman
What She Wants' 'and features some dextrous gui-
tar from Gregory. His playing, though possibly not
technically superior to that of Hal Wagenet, whom
he replaced, has a more extrovert style that comes
over better in a live performance. This is followed
by "Hot Summer Day" from the first album; the
melody is, along with Soft Machine's "Slightly All
the Time", one of the few that really give the im-
pression of general idleness. The lyrics and vocals
are a bit "twee", in fact I could say that about the
whole album, as LaFlamme's voice sounds tailor-
made for country-and-western music; however,
that's a small criticism.
"Bombay Calling" closes Side One and in be-
tween the theme that sounds remarkably like Deep
Purple's "Child in Time", are a couple of steaming
solos on organ and violin. LaFlamme's piece sounds
very orientally-influenced. The second side opens
with "Going to Another Party", not noteworthy
apart from some percussive guitar-playing. "Good
Lovin" I don't enjoy — both singers try to sound
like soul brother and sister and for me it doesn't
come off. This failure is made up for by the last
two numbers, however, "The Grand Carnel Suite"
is my favourite, just long enough for the interest to
be maintained and with a square-dance feel to it.
I wonder if it got the audience on their feet? The
last song is "White Bird", the group's best known
number, and once noted as LaFlamme's tour-de-
force, as anyone who's seen the "Sounds of the
Seventies" film will testify. However, on this ver-
sion he stays in the background and most of the
nine minutes is taken up by a gentle guitar solo. A
fitting end to the concert.
It's a Beautiful Day have never been as popular
in Britain or the States as some of CBS' other "pro-
gressive" bands" like Santana, for example, but
their following is loyal and enthusiastic. Most of
them must have been at this concert, as the applause
is very loud, possibly dubbed on afterwards. I like
this album and it has enough of the facets of popu-
lar heavy rock for it to be their most successful
album. Pity that the band aren't together to receive
the plaudits.
p w y s
When, back in March, I last visited a play at the
Almost Free Theatre in Rupert Street (near Picca-
dilly Circus) the atmosphere was very tense, for
the enterprise was very new, and the ground was
uncertain beneath its feet: artistically and finan-
cially. Now the atmosphere has relaxed, and the
Company has got well into its stride. The feeling
that it could be strangled at any moment by the
Critics or the Bailiffs, fortunately, has gone.
Thus it is that the new play '11 Josephine's
House' by the black actor-playwright Alfred Fagon
can be enjoyed easily, without deep soul-searching
as to the 'validity' or 'point' of the production.
Basically it is a raucous, and often hilarious, story
of a group of assorted (very) West Indian immi-
grants, including a genial layabout Castan, a strug-
gling Club singer David, a self-righteously sancti-
monious deacon (note the small d) George, and his
house-keeping soul-sister Gloria. This mixture pro-
duces some pretty riotous behaviour—not at all
what you would expect to find in an English semi—
and in this lies the 'point' (if any were needed)
of the production. For while the setting is familiar,
with plastic roses, fitted carpets, sherry glasses,
'tasteful' pictures in frames and an anaemically
green settee, the inhabitants live a very different
life from their white neighbours — not better or
worse — only different. This is the point, that the
"Oh, my suffering black brother!" attitude is as
mistaken as the "Why can't they live like us?"
angle.
But to delve too deep is a mistake here, for, on
strict, technical criteria, it is not yet a good play.
The first act is quite a bit too long, and dramatic
climaxes are reached too often to produce any real
effect. But the acting (including the playwright him-
self) is good, though the single white girl, who
'shacks-up' with David did seem rather out of her
depth. Roland Rees' direction is sound, and has
used (literally) the energies of the cast to the ut-
most, and, in the intimate auditorium with the
audience on the sides of the stage, an unfamiliar
aspect of life in our Sceptred Isle has been success-
fully opened-up to the gaze of any who will trouble
to travel to Rupert Street. The theatre seat is almost
free. Bob Carter.
CLASSICAL HOOT
Few cities can claim to equal the con-
stantly high musical standard of London.
The concert halls here provide a variety of
music guaranteed to satisfy most tastes and
the Festival Hall perhaps leads the field.
Certainly the programme on the evening
of the 23rd November looked interesting
and varied. It was a shame that as the London
Philharmonic Orchestra took their seats there
was still room for more audience, for as it
turned out the evening was to provide enjoy-
able performances.
The programme started with the Lontano
for Full Orchestra by Gyorgy Ligeti. This is
the first time that the piece has been perform-
ed in London. During its length of about ten
minutes the music seems designed to generate
an atmosphere rather than to present a par-
ticular line of melody. The LPO under Bernard
Haitnik their principal conductor responded
beautifully and the resulting mood was one of
journeying through shadowy mists.
The change in style between the Ligeti and
Liszt's Piano Concerto No 2 in A is consider-
able but the orchestra continued to play ex-
cellently this time supporting Alfred Brendel
as soloist. Liszt's music demands a virtuoso
pianist and Mr. Brendel who has long been
associated as an interpreter of Liszt was in
top form.
The piano concerto in its one movement
requires absolute concentration together with
a profound understanding of the contrasting
moods by the soloist. At the same time the
conductor and orchestra must respond which
they certainly did.
The audience loved it but following the
interval there was more of the Brendel/Haitnik
combination this time with Liszt's Totentanz
for Piano and Orchestra. This is an impressive
work on the theme of a Mass for the Dead
and again requires tremendous dexterity on
the part of the soloist. The mood is rather
sombre but the brilliance of Liszt's music pre-
vents it from becoming gloomy or pointless
and the whole piece comes to a loud end in
which the whole orchestra and piano join to-
gether. Even here Mr. Brendel succeeded in
making himself heard. The loud and warm
applause which filled the hall showed how
successful the combination was.
The evening ended with Stravinski's Pet-
rushka : Burlesque in Four Scenes. This ballet
music is not as melodious or lyrical as Tchai-
kovski's and for that reason without the
dancing to go with it makes great demands
upon the listener. In spite of the lack of warmth
there is a great intellectual quality to the music
and Mr. Haitnik, with good support from the
orchestra especially among the brass and
strings, brought this across.

