Page 8 FELIX November 28, 1972
the s
p
o
i
l
s page
hockey
HOCKEY
Well, at last the seemingly-impossible has happened,
I.C. have obtained their first win—at the fourth attempt
—in the Middlesex League by beating Speedbird 1-0.
Playing up the slope in the first half, l.C. began with
a definite lack of spirit; but after realising that their
opponents were no better than themselves, the ball con-
tinually flowed towards Speedbird's D. However, the
irst real chance fell to Speedbird, but Boulton saved
competently from a close range blast. The first half
came to its end with a goalless scoreline, in fact, I.C.
still had to produce a clear shot at goal.
The second half became even more of a procession
than the first—it could have been due to one of the op-
position walking off for no apparent reason. The goal
inally came from a short corner pushed in by Jag jit
Gahir — undoubtedly the best player on the pitch —
illegally stopped, but well-hidden, by John Astley and
finally cracked into the back of the net by Mick Downs.
The miss of the match also fell to Mick Downs who
managed to hit the post of an empty net from only two
yards out.
This week's strop was provided by a certain R. Cam,
oops, Paul Jowitt after only five minutes of achieving
Ms life-long ambition of playing for the lst XI. Praise
also for Graham Popple for his continuing improve-
ment at left-back.
The 2nd X I received their biggest defeat of the sea-
son—8-1 from Hayes 2nds. A comment on the match
was: "We were only two or three down with 15 minutes
to go, but then we got tired from running about our
own D."
The 3rd XFs match against Hayes 3rds was a quiet
affair and did not reach the level of last year's attemp-
ted blood-bath. The first quarter of the game consisted
of almost continuous I.C. pressure which resulted in a
goal by Tim Feline after Dave Murch's short corner
shot had been blocked. Hayes fought their way back
into the game, but the score was still 1-0 at half-time.
After an initial burst of I.C. pressure, Hayes controlled
the rest of the second half and eventually scored a de-
served equaliser when a shot was deflected into his own
net by an I.C. defender.
Team: Heifer; Parkinson, Murch; Wombell, Lobban,
Critchley; Brooks, Brewster, Feline, Evans, Fernandes.
At the end of this week's report I would like to add
a word of thanks to the members of I.C. who turn out
fairly regularly as umpires, in particular, Dave Browne
and John Andrews.
MIXED HOCKEY
The Mixed X I extended their unbeaten run to 13
games with a 2-2 draw against City. However, in this
test match we were exceedingly lucky not to lose. Mike
Silverleaf, making his debut in goal, had a devastating
match—he let in both shots he had to save in the first
half. Starting the second half 2-0 down, I.C. began to
play some decent hockey and two goals by Jagjit Gahir
levelled the scores. However, I.C. slackened off once
again and only a dynamic save by Mr. Silverleaf in the
dying seconds prevented defeat.
Ladies' Hockey
On Wednesday afternoon, a rather hairier collection
of legs than usual were on display at Harlington, as the
1st X I were entertaining the Analytical Abstracts, an
all-male team comprised of those stalwarts who work
an the crumbling depths of the Old Chemistry Build-
ing. This team contained all manner Of sportsmen,
from rowers to chess players, but few hockey players,
so the game, to say the least, was unorthodox. The
ladies' team also contained some unusual faces, notably
Paul Jowitt, who starred as left inner, and Rosemary
Parker (R.C.S. president), who gave a creditable per-
formance as R.H. Both were pressurised into playing
at the last moment.
The game was not very fluent for several reasons:
(a) several of the men appeared to be intent on barg-
ing the women off the field; (b) the referee, R. Mounee,
kept a very close watch on the game (and the R.C.S.
president) and blew up for every foul, real or imaginary,
which meant that the game stopped every half minute
or so; (c) injuries to both sides.
However, the men moved the ball well, with some
good attacking play by their captain, C. Little, and
defensive work by J. Andrews. M . Walters (L.W.) and
B. Sharp (L.I.) used their sticks well (both sides of
them) having been coached by their wives all week.
The men took the lead halfway through the first
half with a goal by B. Sharp, Who scored after trap-
ping the ball nicely with his feet. (The women, waiting
to be awarded a free hit, were caught off guard). The
men's next goal game in the second half, scored by
J. Andrews, who pushed the ball into the net after an
attacking movement starring Chris Little and John
(ankle-tapper) Bland. A few minutes later the girls
were awarded a penalty flick after P. Jowitt was sand-
wiched between four of the men. Paul scored from this
to bring the tally to 2-1. This was the final score, though
special commiseration goes to Tom Ryan, who broke
through in the closing seconds to put the ball in the
net, but was thwarted by the final whistle going just
before the ball crossed the line.* The game was played
in good spirit and was enjoyed by all.
*It was heard later that the referee took an involun-
tary cold shower after the match.
TEAMS:
Men: N . Fouzder, S. das Gupta, J. Kapur, J. An-
drews, D. Bevan, j . Moore, C. Little (capt.), M. Walters,
B. Sharp, T. Ryan, J. Bland.
Women: J. Buzzard, M . King, J. Manfield (capt.),
R. Parker, C. Brown, S. Fairweather, G. Bowden,
P. Jowitt, L. Beynon, E. Baker, M. Hill.
fooibol
On Saturday the 18th of November I.C. played Royal
Holloway at Harlington. For the first half I.C. played
like a bag of spam and against a better side than Royal
Holloway (and there are few worse) would surely have
been several goals down at half-time. It wasn't only
•the defence which was letting I.C. down, the midfield
failed to mark tightly enough and when they did get
the ball through to the forwards there was no one pre-
pared to shoot for goal, instead there was always one
pass too many, allowing R.H.C. to clear their lines. Late
in the first half Pete Lonnen put in the only respectable
shot of the half and gave I.C. an undeserved 1-0 lead at
half time. In the second half (after a few words of en-
couragement from our beloved captain) I.C. played
a little better and the R.H.C. forwards were rendered
harmless by much tighter marking. Peter Lonnen, who
was playing well on the left made it 2-0 when he hit a
30-yard lob over the keeper into the far corner of the
net. I.C.'s third goal came when a cross from Mick Mc-
Convey was headed home by I.C's very own combin-
ation of George Best, Martin Chivers, and Rodney
Marsh (if you want to know who that is, ask Pete Lon-
nen). The fourth and last goal was a fine header from
Maurice Hastings. Finally I must say what a great game
Ian Bell had—because he keeps telling me to.
Continuing their improved form, I.C. II gave a fine
performance in beating one of the strongest sides in
their division, Birkbeck II 2-1 in a fast, open and enter-
taining game, which neither side really deserved to lose.
Birkbeck pressed hard in the early stages, but I.C., on
the few occasions they broke out of defence looked
dangerous. Birkbeck's skilful forwards were generally
well-contained by the I.C. defence, but Martin Clark
in the I.C. goal was forced to make more than one good
save before I.C. began to establish a greater degree of
midfield control. Noel Sandler and Alan Peterson in
midfield began to win much more possession and I.C.
came forward in strength to create several chances. Bob
Day was chopped down at the edege of the box and
brought a fine save from the Birkbeck keeper from the
free kick. On the half-hour I.C.'s pressure brought its
reward when Pete Willey, put through by Peterson's
pass hit a cross shot whidh was blocked by a defender's
arm. Taking the penalty himself, Willey made no mis-
take, and, spurred on by this goal, I.C. increased their
workrate and began to control the game. Dave Arise!
and Derrick Cash were not putting a foot wrong at the
middle of the back and Alan Wilkinson, drafted into
the side at late notice was playing a stormer at left-
back. Anything that did get through the defensive
shield was dealt with brilliantly by Clark in goal.
The second half began with strong I.C. pressure;
Dave Green and Noel Sandler were playing much fur-
ther forward than usual. And things looked black for
Birk'beck when, after Peterson was fouled at the edge of
the box, Day's free kick was headed home by Derrick
Cash. Bill Pike and Pete Willey were combining well up
front and I.C. looked set for more goals. But Birkbeck
showed their character by running harder to break I.C.'s
rhythm in midfield, and the back four came under much
more pressure. From one such attack Cash was un-
lucky to be spotted handling the ball and it seemed that
Birkbeck were back in the game, but Clark, diving low
to his left saved the spot kick to crown a great perfor-
mance.
But Birkbeck were coming with more confidence now
and I.C. were definitely flagging. Twenty minutes from
time Birkbeck grabbed the goal they had threatened,
and from then to the final whistle it was end to end
stuff, each side making chances from quick breaks out
of defence. But I.C. managed to hang on to their lead,
which they just about deserved by virtue of Martin
Clark's performance. Birkbeck could claim that they
were worth a draw and even unlucky not to win. It was
that kind of game.
Also on Saturday the 6th team were a little unlucky
to lose 4-2 to Westfield II.
On Wednesday the 22nd the lst X I played King's
at Colliers Wood. Having previously beaten King's 3-1
in the cup everyone should have known the strength of
this good King's side. However this made no difference
as most (i.e. 10) of the side played as though the oppo-
sition was a kindergarten side. Consequently I.C. lost
4-1. The only player who could even say he had a good
game was Gerwyn Edwards who made several good
saves especially in the second half, when the midfield
folded up completely and left the defence rather ex-
posed.
The 2nds followed up their fine win over Birkbeck
with a 4-1 victory against King's.
The 6ths again found themselves a goal down to a
King's side—the 3rds this time. Yet again they came
back strongly in the second half, scoring 4 goals in 12
minutes and eventually ran out 5-3 winners. But for
the forwards atrocious shooting the result could have
sasily been a repeat of last week's result against King's
IV. The 6th have now won 4 out of their 5 league
games, scoring 25 goals. R.J.K.
r o w i n g
Surprise ! The first Boat Club news of term !
For some unknown reason, the last article never quite
made it — but, never mind — a last we are in print
now, so here goes —
After spending the first five weeks of term in the
extensive training any ambitious Boat Club needs to
succeed nowadays, Saturday, 4th November, saw the
I.C. Boat Club compete for the first time this season.
The event was the "Fours Head of the River Race", in
which over two hundred IVs row between Chiswick
Steps and Putney.
The lst VIII was split up for this event into two IVs
— one coxed and one coxless. The coxless IV man-
aged to maintain the good position we achieved last
year, which was 33rd overall. The coxed IV, on the
other hand, was frankly disappointing. A heavy crew,
they finished 96th overall. This poor performance is
perhaps due to the fact that their coxswain lost a verbal
battle with a Leander cox soon after the start. Nothing
so demoralising to a crew than such a defeat!
Our third IV, rowing in the Senior ' C division, pro-
vided some amusement near the finish of the race when,
due to an unfortunate accident, two members of the
crew found themselves rowing a considerably shortened
stroke. Perhaps they should not blame themselves too
much though •— the "blue" boat in which they were
rowing, rivals the Queen's Tower in antiquity.
The best performance of the afternoon was put up
by the Novice IV, containing members of our 2nd VIII.
They finished third in their division in what was a very
pleasing performance.
Last weekend, our 2nd VIII competed in the Vesta
Senior C VIII's race, to defend the 14 pint prize Tank-
ard which we won last year. In a creditable perform-
ance, they were beaten by Strafford, the eventual win-
ners. The margin was only half a length, and had our
crew been able to lift into top gear for that last vital 30
seconds, the race might well have been ours. I think
that perhaps the reason we did not manage this was a
lack offitnessamongst certain crew members. •
Next week — read how we did in the L'.L. -Winter
VIII's. and don't forget Mophy Day on the 13th !
Felix No. 320 Tuesday, November 28, 1972. Edited by
Oliver F. Dowson and Dave Sugden, with contributions of
words and labour (in alphabetical order): Philip' Amodio,
Sid Amor, Bob Carter, Peter Crawford, Derek Cummjngs,
Dave Gribble, Dave Hobman, John Horsefall, Paul Hosking,
Graham King, Andy Mafeld, Ross McBeath, Colin McCall,
and the rest of the cast of millions.
Contributions for "Felix" are always welcome and
should be addressed to the Editor, (residence Weeks
Hall 14).
National Advertising contractors are University Press
Representation, Grand Buildings, Trafalgar Square, WC1,
01-930 132.
Printed by F. Bailey and Son Ltd., Dursley, Gloucester-
shire.
Published by the editor for and on behalf of the
Imperial College Union Publications Board. •••'•ill
All material copyright 1972.

