10 felix Friday 9 May 2008
Comment, Opinion
& Letters
Let us know your views: comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Letters may be edited for length and grammar purposes
Views on these pages are not representative of Felix
Political
Philosophy
Society
Ammar Waraich
Chairman
“
I think the
PPS can deliver
an amazing
and unique
experience
The aftermath of the 25th April
In the last issue, Felix reported on the Political Philosophy Society’s (PPS) ‘Criminalising War’ lecture given
by Malaysia’s 4th Prime Minister, Tun Dr Mahathir Mohamad. This week PPS Chairman Ammar Waraich
gives his account of the event, its organisation, the College’s restrictions, and the society’s true intentions
T
here is probably not much
room for originality now,
considering everything
that has already been said
on Live!, the Facebook
forums and last week’s Felix, so I sup-
pose this will very much be a comment
piece from me, in the true sense of the
term.
Disappointment
Let me start with the disappointment I
felt. Firstly, from the individuals com-
menting on Live! who were quite hap-
py to hide behind aliases and accuse
the PPS of bias without any evidence;
who went on to somehow infer that
this lecture on War was to be some
sort of anti-Semitic seminar; and who
then went on to hurl border-line rac-
ist accusations at each other, proving
the need for frank dialogue on racial-
religious matters to stop the world be-
coming even further polarised than it
already is.
A few individuals decided to attack
me personally, one of them deciding
to use my religious beliefs as a justifi-
cation to claim that “it’s time college
and the police cracked down on these
people” – and these are the people who
accused the PPS of being racist!
It is surprising how easily these guys
forgot our Genocide Awareness Week
where we invited Jewish leaders to dis-
cuss the horrors of the Holocaust, and
how we were discourteous to a panel-
list we had ourselves invited to ensure
that Israel was represented at our Is-
rael/Palestine debate. For some, I sup-
pose, no matter what we do will not be
enough, and maybe that’s just politics.
Secondly, I felt very disappointed
at the Union. In the past, it has been
very helpful to the PPS; however in
this instance I was never made in-
volved in any of the meetings or the
decision-making processes that led the
College to enforce these restrictions,
even though I explicitly requested to
be. Furthermore, according to the Col-
lege, it was the Union that suggested
that visitors be limited to IC only and
the College used this to back up their
stance claiming that if the “strongest
supporter of student rights” thought
so, they thought so too. If this is actu-
ally true, this really is a sad revelation.
Thirdly, I felt extremely disappointed
at the College’s decision and the man-
ner in which they enforced it on the
PPS. One can perhaps understand the
decision to limit the audience to IC
students, in the hope that belonging
to IC will stop them from in someway
saying inflammatory things, but then
extending that to VIPs such as MPs,
Lords, Professors, heads of prestigious
NGOs, Dr Mahathir’s elderly wife and
body guards, etc. was way too much.
It was such an embarrassment to have
to say to these people that they cannot
enter when they arrived purely because
they do not have an Imperial ID!
I had to turn away my own family,
my dear friends and even ex-Union
President Mustafa Arif because none
of them had a valid Imperial ID. This is
clearly an over-reaction, and similarly I
cannot see how extending the restric-
tions to banning recording and pho-
tography served any useful purpose,
especially since they were impossible
to police.
Finally, I was disappointed at the Ra-
madhan Foundation, who admittedly
brought us a fantastic speaker, but was
un-cooperative and deceptive. In fact,
the only one who did not disappoint
was Dr Mahathir himself, and chairing
the Q&A that night was not only an
honour but also great fun.
Intentions
The PPS has been very transparent
with the Union and College in the past
and also with this event. We do not feel
we did anything wrong by inviting such
a high-profile speaker and our inten-
tions were sincere. We were not look-
ing to cause trouble or upset people,
but were looking to conduct powerful
discussion on divisive issues.
Our intention, certainly with this
event, was to raise Imperial’s profile, as
this was Dr Mahathir’s first ever pub-
lic address and we wanted IC to be his
choice of venue rather than the usual
LSE or SOAS, from whom he had also
received offers. What we got in return
was a slap in the face as we were forced
to essentially insult our invited guest.
Being on the receiving end of the
hate and anger of hundreds of students
from across the UK is also not a pleas-
ant experience, nor is being forced to
juggle your loyalty to Imperial with
courtesy to your guests. Being handed
a decision that you have to enforce the
night before, and against your original
word, is a very stressful experience and
with repercussions for Imperial’s and
the PPS’s reputation, especially con-
sidering that many people had already
paid for accommodation and travel.
I do not think any of these factors
were considered by College when they
literally forced me to take these steps.
And how could they have been, since
I was never called to any of the meet-
ings, having to chase developments
only to be told what the PPS has to do
less than 24 hours before the event.
I was left on the receiving end of eve-
rybody’s criticism and felt that I really
could not turn to anyone for support
and that was truly an emotionally and
mentally exhausting experience. I do
not think the College considered these
personal issues at all.
The Way Forward
We want to make the PPS a premier
student society in London as we think
it offers something no other society in
any other university offers, and in the
process raise the Union’s profile na-
tionally by providing some excellent
events.
So now that all is said and done,
where do we go from here? Well I think
the first step is demanding our right to
hold events without the fear of College
pressure.
We want to have the freedom to in-
vite who we want as long as it is legal.
Most outspoken speakers will have
said something that is inappropriate,
but where do we draw the line and start
stifling freedom of speech? As long as
the address is legal, anybody from Gal-
loway to Tamimi should be allowed to
speak.
We want external guests to be al-
lowed to attend. If for example in Ox-
ford, handling speakers is left to the
societies themselves, and their student
debates are open to the general pub-
lic, why does it have to be different at
Imperial, which claims to be equal in
all manners to other top international
institutions?
We certainly cannot prevent others
from being interested in what the PPS
is doing, especially with Facebook as a
publicity tool, so why must we overly
complicate things?
We also want the Union to continue
being supportive of its clubs and socie-
ties and help them reach a resolution
in disputes with full involvement in all
the decision making that affects them.
I think this is a fair request.
We want parties who may have ap-
prehensions or concerns with our
events to approach us directly to raise
the matter with us so we can make sure
that any concerns are taken on board
during the early stages of planning.
This will mean that things are settled
with the Union and College in time for
the events.
I think we can safely say that most
clubs and societies are behind us in
these requests as well as Felix and
Live!, so we hope the College will con-
sider them.
Closing Comments
I can appreciate why the Jewish Society
raised their concerns. Their apprehen-
sions were fully justified. I can even
understand why the College did what
they needed to. At the end of the day,
their job is to protect the reputation
of Imperial and make sure things are
smooth and legal on campus – and ul-
timately the PPS is using College prop-
erty. Moreover, maybe it is the first
time that Imperial has had to deal with
such a situation that other broader-
discipline universities such as Oxford,
Cambridge, LSE and SOAS are very
familiar with.
The PPS does not echo the views of
the speakers that attend our events, or
any of their previous comments. We
are purely about the events and the
earnest discussion that ensues from it,
which will at some points need thorny
issues to be tackled.
We would appreciate support instead
of resistance. We would appreciate
more transparency and involvement
instead of being treated like children.
And we would certainly appreciate
trust and assistance. With these req-
uisites being met, I think the PPS can
deliver an amazing and unique expe-
rience not only for Imperial students
but for society as a whole, and in doing
so we can raise the Imperial name as
something above and beyond purely
Science.
Union President, Steve Brown,
will be responding to this article
in next week’s issue
Tun Dr Mahathir Mohamad answering questions from Bangladeshi
media after the PPS’ ‘Criminalising War’ lecture on 25th April
“
We do not
feel we did
anything wrong
by inviting such
a high-profile
speaker and our
intentions were
sincere
”

