comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
11
Friday 9 May 2008 felix
Comment
Jaimie Henry
You might be blind
T
his week, London has
elected a new mayor. I’ll
be honest with you: I don’t
like him at all, and I was
much more in favour of
Ken. But something rather curious
happened during these elections – peo-
ple actually voted. A record turnout of
around 45% was both unprecedented
and unusual.
So surely this is a good thing? De-
mocracy is working, right? It seems to
be happening everywhere – even in the
recent ICU Sabb elections, normally
the hotbed of apathy (if there is such
a thing) voter turnout was at a record
high. And don’t get me wrong, I’m re-
ally happy this has happened.
But somewhat paradoxically, this
is where we are now left with a prob-
lem in the mythical beast that makes
up this new and shocking voter turn-
out: the “average person.” But surely
when it comes to democracy, there is
no such thing as an average? One man,
one vote; voting for one party and one
ideal, no?
Well, I suppose so, but take average
as a person on the street with no par-
ticular political affiliation. This “aver-
age voter” has always had a protective
effect on British democracy. It is this
mythical being that prevents extremist
parties coming to power by flooding
the system with their supporters and
outnumbering the relatively centric
views of the rest of humanity.
This is why, despite all the hysterical
journalistic rhetoric that is inevitable
with an election, the BNP and other
extreme parties generally fail to win
seats, or at least never enough to create
anything apart from a passing feeling
of disgust in the pit of your stomach. It
is the same effect that gives legitimacy
to governments with a large turnout or
may label them both unrepresentative
and radical with the opposite. But it is
at best concerning that in this power-
ful friend we have created a very dan-
gerous foe.
Before I go any further, I want to
clear up that I know that democracy
is, by definition, the choice to vote for
whichever party you want. If that is the
Monster Raving Looney Party, then
so be it. But we are entering the era of
blind democracy. I might not like Boris,
but I have to admire the brilliance of
his PR machine. Our average voters
see this charismatic buffoon, and vote
for him for every reason they can think
of except for his manifesto. I’ve heard
people voice support for him because
he “jokes,” and these people upon in-
terrogation have no idea of his policies
or past. Other rationales include seeing
him on TV, or thinking his behaviour
is hapless and amusing, and would like
to see the aftermath of this in office.
People apparently voted against Ken
because he has a nasally voice or was
ugly, not because he was a bad mayor.
In the Union elections, voting for the
fittest girl is certainly not unheard of
– good looks do not help you run any
form of government. Maggie taught us
that much.
I know people tend to vote right
when there’s economic instability, and
that people apparently wanted to pun-
ish Labour over the whole 10p tax fi-
asco; tbut Ken could hardly have been
said to have been a New Labour lap-
dog. It serves to prove the point that
people either don’t know or care about
the Mayoral remit if they’re judging
candidates on national issues on which
the Mayor has no control.
Facebook has a lot to answer for. Un-
til recently I didn’t think I could add
“voter intimidation” to that. Viral mar-
keting may be spreading the word of
democracy, in much the same way as I
do when I drag people out to vote late
at night whilst screaming party propa-
ganda at them. But I fear people have
started to vote from other people’s sta-
tuses and flashy application logos. This
is not informed decision making; this
is displaying the intellectual rigour and
questioning mind of a farm animal.
It had got to the stage where I had to
pimp my profile with pro-Ken rhetoric
just to feel like I was ever going to get
through to people. Why is this differ-
ent from posters and billboards? Be-
cause the 20ft head of Boris Johnson
on a billboard won’t on its own make
you vote for him, whereas a picture of
your best friend shaking hands with
him on the same billboard might just
do the trick.
To top it all off, one of my friends
supposedly voted for Boris to “cancel
out” my vote for Ken. Please listen to
me very carefully: This is not a game.
We are not on Have I Got News for
You. You are playing with the single
most powerful thing you have in your
possession, so give it some respect and
use it wisely. Of course you can vote for
who you want – and I really want you
to. Read up on the candidates, support
someone because you believe in their
cause or manifesto, and don’t be fooled
by the persona, bumbling or otherwise.
Otherwise, extremism is just around
the corner.
The BNP mayoral candidate, Rich-
ard Barnbrook, now sits on the Lon-
don Assembly, having gained over 70
000 votes. This is most likely not be-
cause we are suddenly becoming very
xenophobic and nationalistic, but be-
cause this clean-cut character is com-
paratively personable and not an overt
racist they have pulled the wool over
people’s eyes.
I thought it was common knowledge
the BNP were racist bastards, but ap-
parently a change of image does won-
ders. I sincerely doubt there are 69,000
people in this City who would advo-
cate the kind of “behind the camera”
racist violence the BNP advocate, as
exposed in a recent BBC documentary.
This probably happened thanks to a
public ignorance and a well-oiled PR
machine, a la Boris Johnson. What’s
more worrying here is that whilst peo-
ple have no idea whether or not Boris
is incompetent, they should know this
man is the bedrock of prejudice and
discrimination. This is the endpoint of
the slippery slope we are falling down;
voting for Boris or Ken without know-
ing much about them is one thing,
voting for the BNP is quite another. If
I have got it all wrong, and people are
becoming well-informed BNP sup-
porters, then I weep for humanity.
I’m not saying you are all average
voters; the esteemed readers of this
fine publication will no doubt be re-
markably well informed. Indeed, stu-
dents tend to be among some of the
more active and sensible voters. And
hopefully this is a minority of voters,
albeit growing rather rapidly. But it is
your civic duty to inform the ignorant–
and goodness knows there are many of
them – about why they should know
what they’re voting for, and you are
so culpable if you allow this travesty
to continue under your noses. Please
don’t allow this naïvete to continue
in 2010, when much bigger things are
at stake. Power and responsibility are
indeed inextricably linked. Spiderman
may have been an idiot, but his Uncle
had a good point.
IC students’ views on the elections
Boris Johnson’s appointment as Mayor of London has caused quite a stir amongst the student body, but
perhaps not quite as much as a BNP member, Richard Barnbrook, winning a seat on the London Assembly
“
Support
someone
because you
believe in their
cause, and don’t
be fooled by the
persona
”
“
I thought it
was common
knowledge the
BNP were racist
bastards
Apparently, telling jokes can get you into the London Mayor’s office
Please think seriously about who you’re voting for in 2010...

