comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
13
Friday 9 May 2008 felix
Comment
Letters to Felix
:- But what comes next?
Gilead Amit
“
The
emoticon
industry still
employs
scandalously
out-of-date hiring
practices
”
Jellybean
Doom and gloom
C
an you feel it? No, it’s
not the love tonight, it’s
a whole lot worse. You
got it, enter stage left
‘impending doom’ – eve-
ryone’s favourite incessant, niggling,
soul-muncher. Can you hear it? The
winds of change? I think not. It is un-
mistakably the faint jingle and rustle of
four horsemen saddling up. Oh, and
don’t worry, the whole squad will be
here. (I heard Flatulence is on stand-by
if Pestilence falls well again). We’re for
it. We are staring down the barrel of yet
another term, and this one is well and
truly cocked. Exam timetables are out
and the female species carefully follow-
ing colour-coded revision plans – grim
advent calendars ominously prefacing
their own funerals. (Ironic, isn’t it, that
funeral is an anagram of real fun).
I suppose some of you will have got
it all over with already and walk the
Dear Felix,
I feel that the response given in this
week’s issue [issue 1,401 – Ed] to the
email regarding the football club was
entirely missing the point. The fact
that there were no complaints regard-
ing the previous 'Finance tart' article
can be easily explained – finance tart
is an exaggerated fiction and not a real,
identifiable group. The fact that the
football club is constantly being sin-
gled out among all of the varied groups
that exist at IC is the issue at hand.
What you fail to realise when you lash
Where is the line
drawn?
T
his week I am writing in
the name of the oppressed.
In the name of those who
are not permitted to con-
vey their message directly,
and who rely on people like myself to
do it for them.
I am writing to complain about un-
fair discrimination which is still om-
nipresent in the workplace. The oft-
overlooked emoticon industry still
employs scandalously out-of-date hir-
ing practices, and equal opportunity is
an unheard-of concept.
Recent research indicates that in well
over 90% of e-mails, text messages and
facebook correspondences, the clichéd
'smiley-face' is the preferred emoticon.
Surely we can all agree that in today's
world, this is outrageous. Usage of
emoticons should not be based solely
on looks, but rather on the ability of
the symbol in question to convey the
desired emotion.
Do we, in fact, all feel happy all the
time, as my research seems to suggest?
Most certainly not. We are merely
trapped in a society where the only
acceptable emoticon to use is the Pac-
man-esque smiley.
Should one be so forward-thinking
as to provide gainful employment to a
less permanently-cheerful set of punc-
tuation marks, one is immediately re-
garded as dangerous and subversive.
Such attitudes have to stop. In a world
where emotions are infinitely more
complex than mere 'happiness', we
should be allowed to run the full gamut
of these in expressing the way we feel.
And yet, even in the emotionally
complex world in which we live and
type, we stereotype and apply the most
virulent forms of prejudice to these cir-
cular faces. What about the 'confused'
and 'sarcastic' smileys on offer in Win-
dows Messenger? Can anyone honestly
claim to know the difference between
them? Of course not – 'if you've seen
one unconventional yellow face, the
cry goes round, 'you've seen them all'.
How eerily familiar that sounds.
There are whole neighbourhoods of
the emoticon grid in Windows Mes-
senger that undergo such negative
stereotyping. How about 'that one with
the party hat'? The 'funny one with the
glasses'? The cheap generalizations
that follow are no less disconcerting –
how easy it is to assume that red faces
are angrier than most, or that green
faces are more prone to vomiting. We
must grow to be more accepting of
these new and wonderfully complex
individuals, and to find out what they
truly represent. Sure, they're more dif-
ficult to type, and they may be harder
to find on one's PC, but the infinite va-
riety one gains as a result clearly vali-
dates the extra effort.
I don't know about you, but I have
hope. Already, people are using the po-
litically-correct term 'emoticon', rather
than the blatantly emotionist 'smiley-
out over issues you have with the small
number of club regulars who drink at
the union every week is the impact that
such actions have on the other 100+
members of the football team. Why
should I have to defend myself to the
readers who now see my training top
and automatically think homophobic
drunkard? I don't even drink.
As to the acceptability of anonymous
publishing, it is my view that people
should have the courage of their con-
victions. If you feel that strongly about
something then maybe you should be
prepared to face the reactions your
opinion might bring. I'd also be inter-
ested to know exactly what guidelines
you follow with regards to the types of
opinions you are allowed to publish.
Presumably if I wrote a piece criticising
planet like the living dead, your souls
dwelling in a state of purgatory as you
await that envelope – the brown one
with the power to cast you back into
the firey pits of retakes – with nervous
expectation.
Others among you will be mid-way
through and probably feel guilty that
you are reading this and not cram-
ming, and some of you will feel them
looming ahead like a giant kid with a
magnifying glass. Your friend from the
colony (course) beyond the tree stump
(upper Dalby Court) just exploded into
flames and you know it’s only a matter
of time. Save the Queen!
As for me? I am like a papier-mâché
giraffe, my revision a coat of varnish
and the exams like a ton of bricks. A
lone terracotta warrior against a very
angry Scotsman with a sledgeham-
mer, who was recently cheated on by
a Chinese historian (the Scotsman not
face'. With time and perseverance, I
see no reason to suppose that we will
not one day see the peaceful integra-
tion of these other expressions, making
our texting and facebooking as vibrant
and eclectic as our speech.
a group categorised by religion, sexual
orientation or appearance it would not
make it to print (except scientology
or gingers cos they're just crazy/fair
game right)? Where exactly is the line
drawn?
Regards,
Phil Meier
"spotty yob with three decent A-levels"
Dear Phil,
Whilst the ‘Finance Tart’ is not a specif-
ic club at Imperial, the article’s inten-
tion was to satirise the graduates who
leave university to work in the City, of
which there are plenty at this institu-
tion. I would argue Linnearse’s ‘Finance
the sledgehammer). A candle in the
wind? More like a match in a blizzard.
A springbok who, prancing joyfully
through the savanna of university life,
suddenly finds his front legs have dis-
appeared mid-jump. Bummer. Should
have worn the gum shield.
Well, never mind, according to the
hazy recollection I have of a factoid
loosely based on almost certain pub
truth, beggars in London can make
over 35k a year. So there’s always that
to fall back on. Oh, but wait – I’m talk-
ing to Imperialites, no consolation for
you. You’ve got to have starting salary
of at least 40k (and a 4k golden hello)
in order to afford that flash car you
walk past every day. You know, the
one that will bring certain happiness,
women and speeding tickets. With a
First you’re on for a job in that bank,
so you can stay in London and work
off your left butt cheek for a Thames-
side pad, company ski trips, gossip at
the water-cooler, overtime and squash
with a colleague on Tuesdays. It’s fine
by me, but don’t come crying in your
mid-life crisis.
So here are some reassuring facts.
If and when you fail you will not be
flattened by a misplaced grand piano
(probably), neither will your knee-caps
be sawn off (I suspect) or your eyes
shrivel like raisins (as far as current
studies suggest). Your brain, however,
will have turned to mush, but you will
do that voluntarily in two hour stints
with fifteen minute breaks in between
for a week solid before the exams, so
we shan’t blame the system. You’ll be
fine. You’re at Imperial because you
are smart (/are an Oxbridge reject) and
you attended most of the lectures, well
some of them, and you understood the
tutorials, right?... Right? Well… crud. I
got to cram…
Just incase you didn’t realise...
Tart’ depiction sends up a larger group
of identifiable people than the Football
Club itself.
It is a shame that you feel people au-
tomatically think you’re a “homophobic
drunkard”, but I think to some extent
that stems from society’s way of forming
preconceptions about groups of people
based on the actions of individuals.
English, Argentinian and Italian foot-
ball fans garner a reputation of being
aggressive and violent in the interna-
tional media, yet those fans are a mi-
nority which give football a bad name
on the whole. Just because documenta-
ries focussing on violence amongst foot-
ball fans exist, it doesn’t mean I believe
every fan behaves like that. I’m sensible
enough to realise this isn’t the case.
Similarly, Felix’s duty is to report on
news around College in the public in-
terest, however, it is not responsible for
peoples’ reactions.
As for the Comments section’s guide-
lines: ultimately the decision falls to me
whether something is published or not.
I deemed Linnearse’s pieces to be ac-
ceptable since they are clearly parodies.
Religion, sexual orientation and ap-
pearance are (or almost are in the first
two cases) inherent characteristics of a
person. Whereas, joining a club is some-
thing you are responsible for yourself.
We welcome and consider any arti-
cles sent in on any topic but the deci-
sion as to what crosses the line remains
with me.
Tom Roberts
Editor-in-Chief

