politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
16 felix Friday 9 May 2008
Politics
Politics Editors – Li-Teck Lau and Kadhim Shubber
Why we defend our ‘abusive’ China
Kewen Chen invites you to consider the Olympics and the Tibet issue, in a different light
R
ecent events surround-
ing the Olympics and Ti-
bet have certainly throw
China into the spotlight.
Many issues have been dug
out and closely examined. Personally
I feel this is a good thing. It facilitates
the exchange of ideas and helps us to
understand each other’s culture better.
Nonetheless it has highlighted some
major difference between a “Chinese
view” and a “Western view”.
Currently there is a ferocious online
battle going on in various forums. One
side is the “Free Tibet” camp, highlight-
ing not just Tibet but a whole range of
issues involving China such as human
rights; on the other side is the “Tibet
is always part of China” camp, made
up mainly of those of Chinese origin.
Both sides have thrown up pretty good
rational arguments (amid even more
irrational and emotional outcries). It
would be too long and too difficult to
go through them, besides, my good
friend Kadhim has already done a
pretty good analysis on the Tibet issue.
What I am going to do instead is to ex-
plain the way we Chinese think about
this whole thing and also highlight
some key differences between western
and Chinese point of view.
On Tibet, there are huge gaps be-
tween the two camps at the moment.
“Free Tibet” camps accuse the Chinese
of being brainwashed by Communist
propaganda and choosing to ignore the
issues in Tibet; in return, the activists
are being accused of ignorance of the
history between China and Tibet (thus
the overly abused question used “Do
you even know where Tibet is?”). This
only shows the clear prejudices each
side has against the other. Although a
lot of the activists are being emotional
or just “jumping on the bandwagon”,
many activists have actually been to
Tibet and China and are pretty well
informed on the issue. Equally, not all
Chinese are brainwashed. Overseas
Chinese have unrestricted access to
BBC, CNN, various Hong Kong, Sin-
gapore and Taiwan media, even net
users in China regularly use foreign
proxy servers to circumvent the Chi-
nese government’s online filter and
thus gain full access to foreign media.
Hence many people are puzzled as to
why overseas Chinese, having enjoyed
the western freedom of speech and ac-
cess to free media, are still defending
an “oppressive” regime. This is a com-
plex issue, and there are many different
reasons. But it ultimately boils down to
a clash of culture and values.
Many western people point out that
they are not protesting against the Chi-
nese, merely the Chinese government
hosting the Olympics, and cannot un-
derstand why it offends the Chinese
so much. If you dig deeper, you will
find it is impossible to for us to distin-
guish between the two. The host of the
Games is not actually the Chinese gov-
ernment but Beijing, a Chinese city.
Thus, in our eyes, hosting the Games
does not symbolise the achievement of
the government, but rather that of the
Chinese people. To deny us this privi-
lege is to deny the achievement of our
culture and of our people. If you break
into a wedding and accuse the bride-
groom of murder, you should not ex-
pect gratitude from the guests.
The perceived “biased reporting”
from the western media and from pro-
Tibetan camps does not help to dispel
this illusion either. I am not expert
enough to comment on the factual
truth of the media reporting. However,
I think all media consider the taste of
their audience base and they use sen-
sational headlines to grab the attention
of its readership. Really, no-one wants
to hear dull stories about a bunch of
Chinese flag-waving enthusiasts wel-
coming the Olympic Torch. Thus, in
the cases where pro-China and pro-
Tibetan supporters are numerically
equal, pro-Tibetan protesters would of
course get a bigger slice of the media
pie.
In the same way, the media concen-
trated on the “massive military pres-
ence” in the Lhasa riots, while the Han
Chinese murdered are merely “displays
of anger” by the Tibetans. So of course
we Chinese feel prejudiced against by
the western media. Sure, Beijing’s re-
fusal to allow foreign journalists to
freely report in Tibet is partly to blame.
But from the way the western media
leaned toward pro-Tibetan protests in
the Torch Relay, Beijing is not going to
trust them to report the whole truth.
As for the perceived prejudice by the
majority of westerners against our gov-
ernment, I understand its cause but I
feel frustrated at its outcome. Most of
the westerners have very strong ethical
feelings, and I applaud that. But we feel
that various NGOs over-exploited this
to their advantage. Is the Chinese gov-
ernment really the sort of “Nazi”-style
oppressor that many NGOs portray it
to be? I would like to point out that al-
though these NGOs exist to promote
noble causes, they are not going to
achieve their goal by highlighting the
progresses in China. They grab the at-
tention of the public by sensationalis-
ing the issue, highlighting only part
of the whole story, taking facts out of
context or sometimes distorting dis-
puted facts, anything just short of out-
right lying really.
As for the Chinese media, many
westerners merely dismiss it as propa-
ganda. This is only partly true. The
state-controlled media is heavily cen-
sored, but there are many regional me-
dia groups that offer robust opinions.
An example would be the Southern
Metropolis Daily editor Chang Ping’s
essay of 3 April, “How To Find The
Truth About Lhаsa,” in which he cri-
tised the governments’ decision to not
allow free coverage of Tibet riots. (As
far as I know he is still the editor of the
said paper). This stirred a fierce debate
in China, with pro- and anti-media-
control camps battling it out in vari-
ous media outlets. Clearly it is not true
that there is zero free speech in China,
it is just our atitude towards true free
speech is different.
I don’t deny that China has got tons
of human rights issues, but to what ex-
tent have the actions of these NGOs
changed the situation in China? With
the political situation in China, are
these NGO protests really in the best
interest of the common Chinese and
Tibetan people, or do they just protest
to make themselves feel good? Can
noble causes really be furthered by ag-
gressive protests in a country outside
China, or does the more subtle “quiet-
diplomacy” work better?
As a result, most Chinese feel deeply
suspicious of these NGOs; they have
not earned our respect. On the con-
trary, their actions have forced us to
re-assess our loyalties and in most
cases re-align ourselves with our gov-
ernment. I don’t like to say I agree with
Beijing’s policies, because I don’t. But
by over-exploiting this “all-stick-and-
no-carrots” tactic, we are all led to feel
that the western NGOs are against
progress in China in general. Maybe
NGOs should retune their image to
broaden their appeals?
On the other hand, we do feel that
the Chinese government has made
vast progress in recent years. In pov-
erty reduction, hundreds of millions of
people are being lifted out of poverty
due to the economic boom. In environ-
“NGOs should
retune their
image to
broaden their
appeal”
The Olympic torch has been greeted with celebrations in China
The Olympic Stadium in Beijing, often referred to as the ‘Birds Nest’. The Chinese people are deeply proud of their cities success in holding the 2008 Olympics

