politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
17
Friday 9 May 2008 felix
Politics
ment, although the question of imple-
mentation remains, Beijing has passed
aggressive environmental legislations,
recently upgrading the environment
bureau into a full ministry. In the me-
dia, despite intermittent periods of
tightening control, there is the unde-
niable trend that the press is gradually
freed up. Although the media indus-
try is still self-censored, many private
media enterprise are now competing
directly with state-owned ones. More-
over, the BBC website and Wikipedia
are now unblocked in China ahead of
the Games (amid the Tibetan riots), so
readers in China have no problem of
getting a more balanced view. Further-
more, China’s hosting the Games is re-
ally a positive influence on its leaders.
The unreasonable demand to boycott
it, would only isolate the regime, deep-
en Beijing’s suspicion of the west and
give the right-wing hardliners reasons
to implement tighter control.
The vast cultural differences are also
a major reason in our different ways
of thinking. We Chinese believe that
D
espite having attended
the recent protests in
London along the route
of the Olympic Torch
Relay, remembering the
expressions on the faces of some of the
people on those vans and buses as they
were booed and jeered has made me
think twice about what I did. Seeing
people hired solely to drive buses, co-
ordinate the procession, or even simply
to dance in short shorts on the back of
a van shrink back as protesters chanted
“shameonyou”andthrewtwo-fingered
salutes at them aroused thoughts as to
whether politics are really relevant in
a global gathering meant to celebrate
human achievement through sport.
Indeed, the goal of Olympism, ac-
cording to the Olympic Charter, the
governing document of the Interna-
tional Olympic Committee (IOC) is
“to place sport at the service of the
harmonious development of man, with
a view to promoting a peaceful soci-
ety concerned with the preservation of
human dignity.” Thus, it seems ironic
that Beijing was chosen as the host
city of the Games of the XXIX Olym-
piad, it being the capital of a country
renowned for human rights abuses,
not only in Tibet, but in the Xingjiang
Uyghur Autonomous Region, home to
almost 9 million Muslim Uyghurs, as
well as for its support of other auto-
cratic regimes, such as that of Burma,
where the recent Saffron Revolution
was denounced by the Chinese press,
and that of Zimbabwe, of which China
is the largest arms supplier.
Despite Chin’as immaculate human
rights record, when the IOC met in
Moscow in 2001 to choose a host city
for 2008, the IOC Evaluation Commis-
sion wrote in their report for the com-
mittee delegates that when choosing a
host city “it is impossible to ignore the
debate on political issues, such as hu-
man rights”, but that it would “not deal
with this issue other than to acknowl-
edge the existence of the debate and its
continuation”.
Furthermore, in the Olympic Char-
ter, it is written that “any form of dis-
crimination with regard to a country
or person on grounds of race, religion,
politics, gender or otherwise in incom-
patible with belonging to the Olympic
Movement”, meaning that ignoring
Beijing’s bid to host the Games simply
due to their political stances means
violating the Charter.
Indeed, it is stated clearly in the Ol-
ympic Charter that “no kind of dem-
onstration or religious or racial propa-
ganda is permitted in any Olympic
sites,” which, one could argue, should
eliminate any opportunity for the po-
liticisation of the Olympic Games.
However, governments in the past
have made huge political statements
while still abiding by this rule.
Starting with the Melbourne Games
of 1956, when seven nations refused
to attend because of the Suez Crisis,
the Soviet invasion of Hungary, and
Taiwan’s participation under the name
of Formosa. Of course, it was this
year’s host nation that was protesting
the third. China boycotted the Olym-
pics again in 1980, when 62 countries
joined the USA in expressing their
disapproval of the host nation’s – the
USSR’s – invasion of Afghanistan.
Quite ironically, despite its record of
political activism in the games of the
past, the People’s Republic has recently
been one of the strongest advocates for
a completely neutral Olympics. Their
Foreign Ministry spokesperson, Jiang
Yu, remarked that any group wanting
to “take the world people’s grand event
as a stage for a political show, [has]
found a wrong place, and will only ask
for insult.”
Nevertheless, some world leaders
have declined their invitation to at-
tend the opening ceremony in August,
including Gordon Brown, the UN Sec-
retary General Ban Ki-Moon, Prince
Charles, and German Chancellor An-
gela Merkel; but many of them told the
press that they had never intended to
go in the first place. French President
Nicolas Sarkozy, however, has neither
confirmed nor declined his place at the
opening ceremony, but the country’s
Secretary of State for Human Rights,
Rama Yad,e was reported to have laid
down the conditions of Sarkozy’s at-
tendance: “an end to violence against
the population and the release of po-
litical prisoners, light to be shed on the
events in Tibet and the opening of dia-
logue with the Dalai Lama”. Further-
more, the Japanese Royal Family has
decided not to attend, citing not only
Tibetan unrest, but also a dispute over
gas fields claimed by both countries,
and the poisoning of 10 Japanese by
dumplings imported from China.
The Dalai Lama, however, has con-
sistently been against any boycott,
declaring his stance on NBC Nightly
News in April, saying that any politi-
cians’ attendance of the opening cer-
emony is “up to them”. He has also said
that he believes that China “deserve[s]
to host the famous games, as it is the
most populous nation of the world”,
ending any doubt as to whether Tibet-
ans that view the Dalai Lama as their
political leader should support the
IOC’s decision to host the Games in
Beijing.
Nevertheless, many people have pro-
tested against China, questioning the
IOC’s choice on the idea that a country
Mixing Politics and the Olympics
Carlos Joaquin Karingal discusses whether the Olympics should serve as a political platform
with such a questionable human rights
record should not be allowed to host an
event seen as a celebration of “human
dignity”, to quote the Olympic Char-
ter. In addition, their chants of “China,
China,China!Out!Out!Out!”and“Hu-
man rights in Tibet!” showed that they
were also protesting simply for Tibetan
independence, which has been an is-
sue on people’s minds since the 1950’s
at least, well before Beijing submitted
its bid to become an Olympic host city.
Thus, the protesters simply seized the
opportunity to make themselves heard
at a time when all eyes were on them,
which they have done many times in
the past. When former Chinese Presi-
dent Jiang Zemin visited London in
1999, pro-Tibetan protesters gathered
outside Buckingham Palace, where
Jiang was having a state banquet with
the Queen. Similar demonstrations oc-
curred in 2004 around Downing Street
while the Chinese Premier, Wen Jiabao,
met with Tony Blair. Past incidents,
however, seem not to have exceeded
those surrounding this year’s torch re-
lay, where we saw about 2500 people
gather for the cause in London alone,
showing that the protesters capitalised
on the fact that simply more people are
interested in the Olympic Games than
a state visit, so the media surrounding
the relay gave activists a perfect plat-
form from which to make their voices
heard.
So the people on the streets, voicing
their anger over China’s policies are
not without reason, but while I am glad
I took a stand for the rights of people
in need of help, I regret booing and
making less-than-savoury gestures at
the dancers and the bus drivers. Sure,
I disagree with the way China has
handled Tibet and Burma, and I ve-
hemently oppose their oppression of
the Falun Gong, and I would take any
opportunity to let people know, but I
don’t think that the man driving the
van should be punished for it.These
are all political issues, and the Olym-
pics are about sport. It has been said
that the Ancient Greeks put their dif-
ferences aside in times of war to com-
pete in the Olympics. Whether or not
that is true, I think it is an admirable
example, and should be emulated. Let
the athletes compete, and the Chinese
celebrate the Games. After August we
can talk.
“The Dalai Lama
has consistently
been against any
boycott”
we shouldn’t meddle in other people’s
business, and we expect the others to
treat us the same. Many of you say that
Tibet is not a Chinese domestic issue.
Maybe it is or maybe it is not. The im-
portant thing is we are deeply suspi-
cious of the western countries’ motiva-
tion in getting involved. This suspicion
is deeply branded into our psyche,
because our relationship with the west
has not always been one of friendship.
China used to be a great power; its de-
cline in global status was worsened by
western imperialism and colonialism.
The looting and burning of our prized
Imperial Old Summer Palace by Brit-
ain and France, the sacking of Peking
(Beijing) by the western Eight Nations
Alliance is still taught in our textbooks
and remembered as the symbol of
the humiliation China suffered at the
hands of the West.
I disagree with the people who dwell
on the past to justify their blind na-
tionalism. But in their shoes, you can
see why they drift so easily into an
ultra-nationalist mood. Under the cur-
rent government, for the first time in
over a century China is strong, stable
and united, under no threat of civil war
while building a thriving economy. We
may not have freedom of speech, but
we do treasure the most fundamental
human right – the right to live in peace
without the fear of turmoil. In a world
where the majority of the people live
in poverty, in fear or in war, we Chi-
nese people don’t for on second take
it for granted. This is why we support
a strong government while subcon-
sciously we question the motivation
behind the West’s “request” to improve
China’s human rights.
Of course we want our government
to be more transparent and we want
more rights, but we also believe in pa-
tience. We believe in constructive criti-
cism and gradual changes. I believe ul-
timately all people in China will have
more freedom, much more freedom.
I accept other people have different
opinions, but we all want the best for
China, just in different ways.
On a final note, most of you would
say this is not about China but about
Tibet. I say, considering the political
reality in China, and the positions of
those involved, Tibetan independence
is not a realisable solution. The ques-
tion remains, how to get the best out
of the current situation. I suggest you
read Kadhim’s article carefully and
then form your own opinion as to how
best to go forward.
The banners used by pro-Tibetan protestors mix secessionist politics and human rights issues
The mascots of the Beijing Olympics. Look - there’s a panda!

