science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
18 felix Friday 9 May 2008
Science
Science Editor – Ed Henley
Last term's Science Challenge finale was a great success, with some high-calibre essays winning well-
deserved prizes. The full essays are available at www.rcsu.org.uk/sciencechallenge, but we thought you'd
like a taster. Meanwhile, in the lower left, Andrew Somerville gives you his impressions of the evening
O
n the final Tuesday of
the spring term, the
Science Museum's
Imax cinema was
almost filled to capac-
ity with students, guests and the
distinguished panel of judges as the
finalists of this year's (formerly RCSU)
Science Challenge gave presentations
on their essays. The Science Challenge
is rapidly becoming one of Imperial's
flagship annual events (being born
only three years ago) as exemplified
this year by the huge sponsorship by
Shell, high-profile judges and fantastic
location in the Science Museum.
This year saw over 360 entries from
both IC students and school and col-
lege students across the country in
the two competitions. The IC prize
went to Erika Cule, on the essay title
"How would knowledge of my genetic
makeup affect my lifestyle?" – the
question set by our own Rector, Sir
Richard Sykes. The Schools prize went
to Hassan Al Halwachi of Sherborne
School on the topic of "To what extent
is geo-engineering the solution to the
climate change problem?" set by Sir
Brian Hoskins.
Following the presentations and
speeches from the winners, the Rec-
tor, and Science Challenge committee
chair, Daniel Burrows, the crowd ad-
journed to the main Science Museum
hall for the other main attraction:
the after-party. The event was lively,
many students taking advantage of the
opportunity to rub shouilders with
the distinguished guests panellists
such as Sir Robert Winston, and avail
themselves of the open bar.
"I'm very pleased", said Daniel
Burrows, "We set out to get beyond
a science essay, and look beyond
the statistics... the communication
is empty without the science, but
the science is useless without good
communication."
As one of the finalists, IC PhD
student Anna Gustavssen, put it:
"The purpose of publicly funded
science is not for the self-realisation
of scientists, but for them to commu-
nicate scientific discovery back to the
public." By those criteria, the Science
Challenge has a valuable role to play
in the future of science at IC.
I
t is clear that the way we choose
to enhance ourselves matters. Few
people would object to parents
giving their children fish-liver oil. Yet
a recent study of school children with
certain learning disorders has shown
that omega-3 and omega-6 fatty acids
(found in fish oil) are as effective as
Ritalin for improving reading, spelling
and behaviour. Other ways of improv-
ing cognitive function include regular
exercise, memory training courses
and regular sleep. Again, the neu-
rological mechanisms for these
improvements are not understood.
But there remains an ethical dif-
ference between enhancing oneself
through these conventional means
and taking cognitive enhancing drugs.
Why is that?
Perhaps our unease about
cognitive enhancement
drugs has to do with the
way we see ourselves.
There is a strong con-
nection between brain
and mind, and between
mind and self. Serious
ethical problems arise
when we reduce our consciousness to
a series of chemical reactions that we
can influence directly.
Genetic engineers struggle with
many similar ethical questions related
to the implications of modifying the
essence of self. Some are starting to
address this issue using complexity
theory, in which it is asserted that
we are more than just the sum of
our parts. Consciousness is similarly
a subtle and complex phenomenon
that may also need to be treated from
a non-reductionist point of view. Per-
haps the real underlying question is
how these cognitive drugs affect the
overall pattern of our consciousness –
and whether this change is desirable.
Anna Gustavsson
Ignoring the legalities—methylphe-
nidate is a Class B drug—if you can
get them, the scientific data suggest
that cogs [cognitive enhancing drugs]
are efficacious. In recent tests, meth-
ylphenidate improved spatial working
memory and planning in fatigued, but
otherwise healthy, people , although
there are some indications that the
increase in speed causes a greater
number of errors. Similar research with
modafinil has also found improved
cognitive ability. The results are not
universally positive—some tests have
shown no significant improvement
compared to placebo —but the bal-
ance of evidence seems to suggest that
these drugs can improve performance
in at least some aspects.
Safety, however, is a more conten-
tious matter. In particular, the discus-
sion must be mediated by the fact that
the pharmaceutical industry, as it cur-
rently operates, focuses exclusively
on sick people, since historically this
has been the group of people most
interested in medication. The inevi-
table consequence of this is that it
is very difficult to assess safety for
healthy individuals.
All drugs, without exception, pro-
duce side effects—common side ef-
fects experienced with Ritalin include
insomnia, headaches, and gastrointes-
tinal symptoms —but these are consid-
ered against the alternative course of
action: to not medicate the patient at
all. Therefore, when a drug is licensed
for the treatment of a given condition,
it has been determined that in most in-
stances the benefit to the patient will
outweigh the impact of the adverse ef-
fects. The aim is to return the patient
to as close to ‘normal functioning’ as
possible. So if the side effects take the
patient further from this goal than
the benefits take them towards it, the
drug is not helpful. Drugs for healthy
people, however, have a much more
nebulous target. What is ‘better than
normal functioning’? Are any adverse
side effects acceptable when medicat-
ing healthy people?
Andrew Turley
Science Challenge: The excerpts
D
r Nakasone indulges in rather
too many espressos to propel
him through the day. The active
ingredient, caffeine, acts on the same
dopamine system as methylphenidate
[Ritalin] to increase wakefulness, and
has gained widespread popularity
and acceptance worldwide. To-
day, coffee is second only to
petroleum in world trade. So,
having taken a step in the di-
rection of cognitive enhance-
ment, would Dr Nakasone
ever take drugs other than
caffeine to improve his cogni-
tive skills?
He has some concerns. Cogni-
tive enhancing drugs provide meagre
benefits to healthy people, yet they
have marked short-term side effects,
and the long term effects are largely
unknown. In particular, no studies
have assessed what happens when peo-
ple stop taking the drugs. As he makes
himself yet another espresso to stave
off his tiredness, he is reminded of the
time when a single one would have kept
him awake for hours on end. Could
the same tolerance develop in people
taking drugs to improve their cogni-
tive function? He also has reservations
about the social impact of these drugs.
Could they widen the divide between
those that can afford them and those
that cannot? In fact,
these drugs appear to
work best on those
with poorer cogni-
tive abilities, which
are likely to be those
without the benefit
of a good education.
Ironically, education it-
self is considered the safest
and most effective form of cogni-
tive enhancement.
With all this in mind, Dr Nakasone
chooses to stick to his coffee. In fact,
he might consider switching to decaf.
Leili Farzaneh
Should healthy people take drugs to enhance
their cognitive abilities?
1. Leili Farzaneh points out that cognitive
enhancing drugs are already used by students
and pilots
2. Dan Burrows: science proselytizer
extraordinaire. Ably aided and abetted by many
others on the Science Challenge team – all credit
to them
3. Erika Cule won the Imperial competition.
She's asked us not to print any of hers, as she's
submitting it for some other competitions, but
you can see it with all the others on the Science
Challenge website
4. The Science Museum – what a great location
for an afterparty!
5. Ali Tasleem takes the audience through the ins
and outs of geoengineering
All photographs by Chris Chan
1 2

