20 felix Friday 9 May 2008
Culture &
The Arts
Arts Editors – Rosie Grayburn, Caz Knight, David Paw and Emily Wilson
Budding culture vulture? Write for us.
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
David Paw
Arts Editor
I
love summer. In our wonderful
little town, we need little more
than a partial break in the clouds
to run outside and work on le
tan. And then it starts pissing it
down and everyone runs back inside.
Will we ever learn? Probably not. How-
ever, every angry-looking rain-laden
cloud has a creative silver lining. So
when park / beer garden fatigue sets in,
take advantage of the elating cool and
stillness of pretty much every major
gallery in town,
While everyone else is sweltering
and pretending to be fabulous and not
on the verge of heatstroke, you can in-
dulge in having a gallery all to yourself
and not have it interrupted by scream-
ing kids, people parking in front of pic-
tures and blocking your view, poseurs
and irritable boyfriends who would
rather be somewhere else.
Of course, you might want to head
out as soon as you can. Unfortunately,
Munoz’s display at the Tate has just
ended, but you can still catch Peter
Doig, Duchamp and Man Ray there.
And if you haven’t been over to the
Shad Thames to check out the little
nook of town by the Design Museum,
don’t hesitate to go as soon as you can.
Richard Rogers really is one of our
national treasures. Technically marvel-
lous, recognisable and incredibly well-
designed, he makes a fine British pair-
ing to his more showy contemporary
Sir Norman Foster. However, I would
disagree with Caz on the aesthetics
front, though I can see her point on the
more organic and naturalistic aspects
of design.
Sadly, not everyone is inclined to
discuss the aesthetics and direction
of art and design as a discipline; the
people comissioning and working in
such buildings will probably not care.
Specifications? Cold. Sleek. Something
to make the rivals jealous. Which is
probably why so many artists have a
collective income equivalent to one
NHS consultant.
Which is the extraordinary thing
about architecture. Though perhaps
not guaranteed to land one in the meg-
abucks, as Caz stated in her piece a
discipline melding aspects of creativity
with science can be immensely appeal-
ing. And when the element of public
service comes into it, it can be alto-
gether more satisfying.
It seems to be unique in that sense in
straddling the divide between creative
and scientific. How many other main-
stream disciplines can truly claim that?
Of course, not everyone is inclined to
both camps, which explains the ex-
istence of science meccas like M.I.T,
Caltech and, yes, Imperial.
Also, don’t forget to check out the
new issue of Phoenix out in the next
few weeks. We’ve been working hard
on it and we hope you pick up a copy to
read in the quad on a sunny day. We’ll
be releasing not one but two issues this
term, so check for us in the last week
of term two?
Sadly, that means more work for
your poor old editor. Summer? What
summer?
Juan Munoz rocks the Tate
Shahania Begum explores one artist’s intriguing perspective at the South Bank
The crowd got a good laugh out of David James’ “performance” for Portsmouth
T
o be honest, before I went
to view this exhibition,
I was quite unfamiliar
with the work of Spanish
sculptor Juan Muñoz. All
I knew was that he was renowned for
sculptural works in which he situates
the human figure within elaborate or
complex architectural settings. I was
curious as to what else would be on
offer at the first major retrospective
of Muñoz’s work in the UK and how I
as the viewer would engage with these
choreographed exhibitions.
Muñoz’s was born in Madrid in 1953.
Having worked as a curator and studied
in London and New York he also exhib-
ited his own works – which were prin-
cipally sculptures. Having also been an
accomplished writer and draughtsman,
it may have been his storytelling ability
combined with his fascination with the
way that the viewer encounters a work
of art which brought about his interna-
tional prominence in the mid-1980s.
His early work included iron welded
spiral staircases starting and leading
to nowhere, and incongruous balco-
nies attached to a blank wall which
encourages the viewers to be the vo-
yeurs, imagining themselves watch-
ing people from the balcony, as well as
being watched. One of his early works
includes a piece called If only she knew
(1984) an iron house-like structure re-
strained by skinny supports, contain-
ing a single female carved stone figure
surrounded by several wooden male
figures under a peaked roof. This piece
suggested the feeling of entrapment
for women, perhaps being in a male-
dominated environment. Hmm…
seems somewhat familiar. I wonder if
Muñoz visited Imperial College during
his time in London.
The Wasteland (1987) was Muñoz’s
first large-scale exhibit, inspired by the
poem of the same name by T.S Eliot.
The Wasteland is a very dramatic com-
position of a statue and space which
influenced David Lynch’s Twin Peaks.
As you enter the room, at the far side is
a small bronze figure, sitting tight on a
little iron shelf sticking out of the wall
too high for his dangling feet to touch
the ground. But between you and him,
the patterned floor is an image com-
posed solely of interlocking cubes. You
feel inclined to walk across this disori-
entating surface rather uncertainly. In
the process you yourself become an in-
voluntary performer in the work. You
don't know whether to view the frozen
little man, with his feet in the air, as the
prisoner of this room, or its master. It
could even be a spell he has cast on the
space around him which you may cross
at your own peril.
By far the best exhibit was Many
times (1999) which is a room full of a
hundred slightly under life-size grin-
ning bald Chinese figures, all with the
same head and facial expression. The
head was derived from a Belgian art
nouveau bust. Muñoz choreographed
single and multiple groups standing
around as if they were locked in con-
versation. However, the bodies hold
such varied postures and gesticula-
tions that you can't quite believe the
heads are all identical. Also, none of
the figures have feet: they stand on the
floor cut off at their trouser bottoms.
It’s like the ‘living statues’ you encoun-
ter in Covent Garden: are they real or
are they not? It’s interesting having
walked into the room, but you feel like
you are surrounded by people laugh-
ing and engaged in silent conversation.
The scale of the work is astounding
and outnumbers the viewer, making
you feel strange and isolated among
them, almost as if you have become the
exhibit on display.
Other pieces such as Shadow and
mouth (1996) created a sinister atmos-
phere, almost like an interrogation
scene out of a Film Noir with one fig-
ure sitting in front of a table and anoth-
er against the wall. The mouth of the
shadow moves slowly and discretely. It
is almost as if the figure is whispering
all his secrets to the wall. The Dwarf
and three columns (1988) is exactly
what the title states, three large column
towers made of terracota arranged in a
square, but with the fourth column be-
ing replaced by a dwarf. Here Muñoz
is using the human form as an archi-
tectual element as well, perhaps mak-
ing a statement about how you can be
overwhelmed by society making you
feel diminutive at times.
Apparently Muñoz liked making
the viewer look upwards to look at his
work. In this case it was to look at The
Rotating Hanging figures (1997). In my
view this was a cross between a hor-
ror freak show and a circus act which
shows two acrobats hanging by their
teeth dangling like a pair of seals with
their legs kicked back in the air.
Muñoz and metaphorical side with
pieces such as a drum made of wax
with a pair of scissors stabbed through
it representing a burst ear drum. There
were also some less thought-provoking
works such as his 40 Raincoat draw-
ings, which were basically different
perspective chalk drawings of the inte-
rior of his house as his mother had an
affinity for feng shui.
There were also the Crossroads cabi-
nets (1999) which from a great dis-
tance look like dazzling glass trophy
showcases which you’d love to have in
your living room until you realize they
contains disparate objects and freaks
of nature such as switch-blade knives,
miniature doors, locks and miniature
casts of resin body parts.
Overall through the highly consid-
ered placement of the figures, Muñoz
entices the viewer into an engagement
with the implied narrative unravelling
within. Muñoz used tricks of perspec-
tive and scale to create a tension be-
tween the illusory and the real. In ret-
rospect it was stimulating and Muñoz’s
tricks of scale and perspective really
choreographed my experience as a
viewer.

