arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
21
Friday 9 May 2008 felix
Arts
London, Barajas and Ground Zero
Sir Richard Rogers and his team of architects are some of the finest international exports Britain has
produced in the last half-century. We sent Caz Knight to the Shad Thames to find out why
Top: Rogers’ gorgeously structured and curvaceous design for Barajas airport and Bottom: The epically industrial Lloyd’s building in the City
H
itherto, unchartered
territory for me. And
so I arrived at the De-
sign Museum many
boroughs away from
my SW bubble in the orient; that is, in
Shad Thames.
The Design Museum resides in the
shadow of Tower Bridge and is in one
of the most pleasant and well-situated
locations for a museum. The Design
museum is nestled among winding
cobbled streets right on the South
Bank and sits quietly along the river
next to an inviting collection of bistros
and bars.
I had little idea of what to expect
from either the museum or the new
exhibition, “Richard Rogers and Ar-
chitects: From the House to the City”,
but upon entering the museum I did
feel as if I epitomised the more adult
equivalent of “child in a sweet shop/toy
store”! The museum certainly looks
as if Apple lent a hand with the decor:
uncluttered, white-walled, minimal,
airy and with just the right amount of
bright neon colour splashed about the
place. Upon entering the exhibition,
my awe only deepened as I beheld an
immaculately laid-out presentation of
the life work of Richard Rogers (and
Architects).
One of the leading names in archi-
tecture, Richard Rogers is of both Ital-
ian and English extraction and began
his career working on a private house
in Cornwall, a far cry from the inter-
national creations he now has in his
repertoire.
Moving onto the Pompidou build-
ing in Paris in the late seventies, he has
since worked on projects all over the
globe including my favourite, Barajas
terminal building in Madrid (a serpen-
tine, undulating building, the inside
resembling a remnant vertebrae of an
ancient stegosaurus), housing in Korea
(which look curiously like a Jenga game
made out of white Rubik’s cubes), sta-
diums in Japan, the Millennium Dome
(on time and on budget – is this a first
in British history?), the South Bank
centre, Heathrow terminal five as well
as the work in progress on Ground
Zero. Rogers’ work at Ground Zero is
one of five new towers to be built at the
site, and not to be confused with Dan-
iel Libeskind’s monumental Freedom
Tower.
Rogers’ main focus is the proc-
ess of construction, and how it fits in
with people and the buildings’ social
context. This was extremely clear as
I worked my way around the seven
themed areas of the exhibition: Work
inProgress,Transparent,Systems,Leg-
ible, Lightweight, Green, Urban. Each
section is beautifully colour coded and
prevents people with pitiful knowledge
of design and architecture feeling clue-
less and baffled. What the exhibition is
comprised of is just that: the life work
of this indispensable architect.
It has amazingly constructed mini-
recreations of the buildings, photo-
graphs and the final products and the
works in progress, blueprints as well
as concise articles on the background
behind each creation. I marveled at the
tiny, silver trees that accessorised the
model buildings, and the red Perspex
toilet and sinks in another, all complete
with appropriately proportioned mod-
el people. All the information is dis-
played attractively on large Apple Mac
screens, free from the burden of super-
fluous wiring and cumbersome hard-
ware. (PC’s have so much to learn!)
As I meandered my way through each
“theme” I became evermore confused
about my feelings towards these con-
structions. This is a man who has an
invaluable talent and is abundant in his
professionalism and ability to conjure
up buildings that are extremely effi-
cient and beneficial to society through
their function.
However, they all seemed to be made
of glass and metal, not pleasing to the
eye in any way. I yearned to see some-
thing that reminded me that we live in
a world made of wood, grass and stone.
Alas, I must accept that, although frus-
trating, modernisation is unavoidable
and although it may be a lot more
agreeable to live in cute Cotswolds cot-
tages, a decline in economy and infra-
structure is not an option.
However, Rogers is extremely aware
of the environmental effect of build-
ings. In his project (in conjunction
with Imperial College, no less) he has
designed a turbine tower in which the
environment has been used as an ar-
chitectural generator. In many of his
building the use of glass has minimised
the amount of energy needed to heat
the building in winter, as well as the en-
ergy needed to cool it in summer.
Of Heathrow Terminal 5 is written,
“…a single span curved roof over the
400m long hall, instilling a sense of
calm on the intense activity below”. I
wonder if Rogers knew just how much
intense activity (i.e. pandemonium/
chaos/Bedlam) would ensue following
its opening and just how many bags
were lost and flights cancelled. Obvi-
ously his roof was not enough to pre-
vent Heathrow doing exactly what we
expected.
The room in which the exhibition
is housed is relatively small compared
with other museums, although one can
easily spend over an hour and a half
working one’s way around it. For those
who falter, there are some deliciously
coloured neon pink sofas with maga-
zines and books on the man himself to
browse through. There is also a video
interview to watch in which I discov-
ered it was the amalgamation of sci-
ence and art which drove his passion
for his chosen discipline.
If I were Rogers, I would feel an in-
tense sense of pride in seeing how
much I had achieved in the way of
how important my projects are and in
how beneficial they are. No whimsi-
cal, pointless structures deposited un-
imaginatively in a town square to tick
the box of ‘art/culture’, nor hoards of
houses to satisfy the wealthy (although
he has designed two). Richard Rogers
is indeed a blessing to architecture
though he may be a curse to aesthetics.
Surely this is more important than aes-
thetics and one architecturally bereft
girl’s opinion?

