22 felix Friday 9 May 2008
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Arts
Of Grand Tourists and Cherubs
Our roving culture vulture Rosie Grayburn samples the delights of Pompeo Bitoni at the National Gallery
The author described this one as a “minx”. Not too sure about that but it beats smug tubby little bitches
with wings and arrows. Excuse me? A what? What’s a cherub?
I
t was warm and sunny out-
side… maybe that’s why no-one
is around, I thought to myself as
I waddled to the new exhibition
at the NG. The grand staircase
down to the basement in the Sainsbury
Wing was absolutely deserted. Last
time I was here to see Renaissance Si-
ena at Christmas, it was packed with
tourists, old people AND screaming
children – a perfect cross-section of
your average cultural London attrac-
tion. Today, it was just me and a few
score paintings by a once-famous
Pompeo Batoni.
Pompeo Batoni was the most cel-
ebrated artist in 18th-century Rome.
I had never heard of the guy and was
keen to learn more about him. I just
hoped he wasn’t all chubby cherubs
and blushing goddesses. I picked up
my handy audio guide and entered the
1st room. It was all chubby cherubs
and blushing goddesses. Shit.
The first painting that caught my eye
was The Triumph of Venice. It is one
of his early works and was commis-
sioned by the Doge of Venice to com-
memorate how brilliant his city was.
On receiving this commission, Batoni
must have got out his ‘1000 Easy Ways
to Put Symbolism into Your Paintings’
book out and just copied every single
one down onto the canvas. There are
more divine beings here than you can
shake a stick at and more allegories
than you could fit on one giant shell (as
depicted). There are random objects
lying around all over the chaotic scene,
all of which hold some kind of connec-
tion with Venice’s prosperity. There are
cherubs bouncing around the frame
holding pan pipes, set squares and
hammers symbolising music, architec-
ture and sculpture, thus referring to all
the things Venetians are good at. Blah
blah blah.
Maybe for his first action as our new
mayor, Boris Johnson will commission
a similar piece. He will sit on a giant
shell before a landscape of London’s
skyline and be surrounded by allego-
ries of peace, gun crime and Starbucks.
Cherubs will be perched around his
head holding Olympic rings, Oyster
cards and hard hats. Around their
feet will be organic vegetables, fried
chicken and marijuana plants. Boris
will be flanked on either side by the
Goddess of Council Tax and the God
of Routemasters.
In the next room, I turn to my audio
guide for sanity as I see more and more
cherubs. I will have nightmares to-
night, I swear. The little device around
my neck has become my very dearest
friend. The commentary is concise and
interesting, and I rather enjoy the dif-
ferent people they have roped in to talk
aboutBatoni.It’sachangefromjustone
smooth-talking lady instructing you
on cherubs – there is a nice man who
sounds like Loyd Grossman and some
actor dude who talks in an appalling
Italian accent pretending to be Batoni.
This is the best audio guide ever. After
most commentaries, there is an option
to find out more info, which mostly in-
cludes gossip about Batoni, his patrons
and fascinating snippets. Brilliant.
In room two the exhibition turns to
the mythological. These ‘history paint-
ing’ scenes were incredibly fashion-
able at the time. Everyone wanted a bit
from the Old Testament or Greek My-
thology on their wall as it made them
look educated! Due to their popularity,
they fetched up to 6-times the price of
a portrait of the same size. I liked Pro-
metheus Fashioning Man Out of Clay,
in which Prometheus is looking rather
exasperated at Miranda who is just
about to animate his first clay model
using a butterfly, symbolising the soul.
Prometheus clearly hasn’t finished him
yet, as his tools are still poised to fin-
ish the man-bits. The generic ‘old man’,
like Prometheus, is a theme recurrent
throughout Batoni’s works - the wild
grey hair, mad eyes and flailing arms.
Achilles also makes several appear-
ances in Batoni’s paintings. Batoni
seems to have taken it upon himself to
be his personal biographer as practi-
cally all his life is played out over these
walls. Poor Achilles had one messed-
up childhood. He was educated by a
centaur, then dressed up as a woman
by his mother to protect him from
joining the Trojan War. Fortunately,
his penchant for swords gave his clever
disguise away and off he went to war.
The first two rooms of Batoni’s early
work are deceptive. He doesn’t carry
on painting looser allegories all his
life: once he was recognised, he started
to earn more and more commissions
from a very different source.
In the mid 18th-century, it was cus-
tom for young gentlemen to go on a
tour of Europe’s sights after finishing
their education. On their travels, it was
customary for these visitors to pick up
various souvenirs from the cities they
visited. When they went to Venice,
they commissioned a painting of its
skyline by Canaletto; and when they
went to Rome, they got their portrait
painted by a well-known Pompeo Ba-
toni. He was the portraitist of choice
for British and Irish tourists on their
‘Grand Tour’.
These portraits of Grand Tourists
are a breath of fresh air from the volup-
tuous mythological females next door.
Batoni captures his patron’s appear-
ance with great accuracy and honesty. I
love the portrait of Lady Featherstone-
haugh. Batoni portrays her as Diana,
the Roman goddess of the hunt. It re-
minds me of those creepy photo shops
you find in tourist honey pots in which
you dress up in a ridiculous Victorian
“Pompeo Batoni
was the most
celebrated artist
in 18th-century
Rome”
This gentleman crossed his legs to stop just a little bit of wee from
coming out

