arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
23
Friday 9 May 2008 felix
Arts
or cowboy costume.
So, Batoni had become a bit of a leg-
end among the British upper classes.
According to my precious audio guide,
Batoni’s studio was chaotic during the
days as tourists flocked there to try and
get a portrait done or just to see him at
work! However, not all of his patrons
were British. The unique horizontal
framed portrait of ‘Duchess Gerolama
Santacroce Conti’ is completely gor-
geous. She relaxes in her elegant chair
while doing her toilette and draping
pearls in a dish while her see-through
nightdress, or peignoir, is lazily un-
done. PHWOAR! This is nothing like
the rest of the portrait. Her dirty hus-
band commissioned this portrait of
his wife-to be and it was hung in their
private sexy-time bedchamber above
the door. Kinky or what? Apparently,
the curator had great fun hanging this
on the same wall as a painting entitled
‘Meekness’.
The fourth room is full of the grand-
est Grand Tourists, and we see those
huge life-size ‘swagger portraits’ that
grace the Great Halls in stately homes.
Yummy. It should be noted that these
Grand Tourists were absolutely de-
spised by the locals. They were rowdy,
drank too much and were very arro-
gant. That’s right, guys. Brits Abroad
haven’t changed one bit these last 300
years.
The most arrogant of the ‘swagger
portraits’ is ‘Colonel the Hon. William
Gordon’. From the way Batoni has por-
trayed him, he is the embodiment of
Scotland. He is swathed in tartan like a
toga and his pose is very martial, grand
and overconfident. You can imagine
him bashing his way into Batoni’s stu-
dio and rudely asking for his portrait
to be done in an incomprehensible
Scottish accent. I love the way Batoni
has positioned a ruined version of the
Coliseum in the landscape, as though
Colonel Gordon has demolished it
himself.
Most of these Grand Tourists were
depicted in Roman surroundings, with
their hand placed strategically on an
ancient artefact or bust. However, the
6th Duke of Gordon was a special case.
At first, he was achingly excited about
going to Europe - he hired the best
guide and paid for all his comforts to
come with him. But when he actually
got round to going he refused point
blank to get out of his carriage! Fortu-
nately, he did manage to ask Batoni for
a portrait, although he shouldn’t have
bothered. Maybe out of spite, Batoni
painted The Duke as if he were hunting
back home in the Scottish Highlands!
“Bloody tourists”, he would have said.
As he got older, Batoni got more and
more frank with his portraits, dispens-
ing completely with flattery. If you
Back in the day, The Sartorialist didn’t exist. So you stood like a statue
for about a month while some noob did the hard work. But it was all
totally worth it, as evidenced here
So basically this is what the Felix office looks like half the time, avec nakedness
“her see-through
nightdress,
or peignoir, is
lazily undone.
PHWOAR!”
were ugly, he wasn’t going to change
that fact on canvas. The last room of
the exhibition demonstrates this, along
with the more intimate and sensitive
characterisations of the sitters. These
portraits are very life-like and likeable.
It is evident when Batoni liked his sitter
if he depicts them looking intelligent
or lively. In addition, his mood was
obviously lightened by the retreat of
the Grand Tourists in the 1780s when
war in France between the French and
English prevented much tourism. The
portrait of Louisa Grenville is the most
sparkling portrait in the entire exhibi-
tion. According to Ms A. Guide, “she
was the most amiable person who ever
lived”, and Batoni confirms this in her
bubbly depiction.
This exhibition marks the 300th
anniversary of Batoni’s birth and is a
major achievement in terms of reviv-
ing a long-forgotten artist. Many of
these paintings have been cleaned and
restored for the exhibition and they
look incredibly fresh as if they had
been painted yesterday. The curators
are also very proud of the fact they
have ‘freed’ a lot of these paintings
from private collections, especially the
beautiful Marriage of Saint Catherine.
This painting meant a lot to Batoni
because he apparently modelled the
Saints Catherine and Lucy on his two
ex-wives. It has been kept in a dark
corner of the Italian Presidential palace
for years and it’s great that it manages
to get a good airing at this exhibition. I
loved the exhibition, despite the rather
grey, empty atmosphere in the gallery.
It is a real unique opportunity to see
his paintings; I recommend swagger-
ing along and having a nosey!
Pompeo Batoni is on until 18th
May. It costs £4 with your Impe-
rial card and if you don’t go, I’ll
set Achilles on your ass.
“Batoni got more
and more frank
with his portraits,
dispensing
completely with
flattery.”

