film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
24 felix Friday 9 May 2008
Film
Film Editor – Zuzanna Blaszczak
One of Hollywood’s greatest
There are many things that can be
said about actors and a bunch of peo-
ple make sure to say them. But there’s
nothing sweeter, in my experience of
film, than to discover an actor by your-
self and to let him drag you along in an
exploration of cinema. Especially when
you reach a point of saturation; when
you’ve seen what you wanted to see
and don’t really know what to see next,
an actor can prove extremely helpful.
George C. Scott is one of these actors,
having helped me out of late. Probably
not as well known as his contemporar-
ies, such as Marlon Brando and James
Stewart, Scott is a four times Oscar
nominated actor who had a severe dis-
taste for the whole show thrown up by
Are you tired of seeing the same old faces on the screen and bored of George
Clooney’s over-confident countenance? Stefan Carpanu has the answers
Another year is coming to an end, nec-
essarily bringing along a few changes.
While some lucky people leave us to
finally do something interesting with
their lives, others take over their work,
hoping to continue doing as good a job
at it as they did (or at least not making
fools out of themselves). This term sees
the beginning of the process to replace
the Felix Film editor. Under the guid-
ance of Alex Casey I’ll be slowly tak-
ing over his position as the Film editor
so that when the new term starts after
the summer holidays, the Film section
won’t be missing from Felix.
Now just a few words about what you
should expect in the new issues. I’ll do
my best to have a film section printed
out in Felix every week, but can’t make
any promises about that. I am interest-
ed in a vast range of film genres and so
I’d like to keep this section pretty min-
gled. I enjoy writing about really crap
movies (they are so much easier to
write about) so expect to see a lot of re-
views beseeching you not to see some-
thing and thus saving you 10 quid. But
if you are feeling like doing some lav-
ish spending then hopefully the DVD
section, which I’m planning to start,
will help you when you’re out of ideas.
Don’t anticipate interactive parts in the
section like quizzes or puzzles or what-
not, but do look out for a Comments
section where you can post your opin-
ions about movies if you don’t feel like
writing a whole review but want your
views heard nevertheless.
If you feel like getting yourself
heard, then contribute to Felix
Film. Send your articles to: felix.
film@imperial.ac.uk
Hollywood. He refused to be nominat-
ed for his performance in The Hustler
(1961) on his second nomination for
best supporting actor – Anatomy of a
Murder (1959) was the first – and af-
ter being awarded the Oscar for Best
Actor in a leading role for Patton, he
did not accept it. His justification was
that he did not feel himself to be in a
competition with other actors, but he
is also quoted to have said that the Os-
cars were all a “meat parade”.
Ironically, the first film I saw Scott
in, not knowing who he was or what he
had done, was 12 Angry Men (1997), his
first of two excellent remakes with Jack
Lemmon – the second would be Scott’s
last film, Inherit the Wind (1999). Only
a few years later did I get to see Dr.
Strangelove (1964). His famed over-
the-top performance, which he was
“tricked into” by director Stanley Ku-
brick, stuck with me even more than
Peter Sellers’ three character bonanza
(not to say that Sellers wasn’t brilliant
himself). At that time though, I still felt
film had many other things to offer and
I shamelessly ignored George C. Scott
until I laid eyes on Patton, earlier this
year.
In Patton he delivers an exquisitely
balanced portrayal of the eponymous
eccentric general who led the US ar-
mies during World War II in North Af-
rica and Sicily. It’s really these kind of
performances that gives films the level
beyond the array of technical excel-
lence which, however brilliant, rarely
leads to a feeling of real satisfaction
and fulfilment.
Next I moved on to the film which
brought Scott his fourth Oscar nomi-
nation, The Hospital (1971), a very
bizarre, dark comedy with an unusual
plot and even more unusual characters.
While the actors’ performances were
convincing and the Oscar-winning
script really turned it all up a notch,
The Hospital surely isn’t a film fit for
everyone’s tastes, so approach at your
own risk. In The Changeling (1980) he
co-starred with Melvyn Douglas, in a
film about a house with a dark past: a
cross between the recent The Orphan-
age (2007) and something of an Oliver
Stone-ian political thriller. Although
not the most enticing of films – as it of-
ten happens when you simply go along
for the ride - it’s worth the time for fans
of the spooky genre. My next step will
be Petulia (1968), starring Julie Chris-
tie, of which I’ve seen a bit before being
taken aback by the weirdness of it.
After I run out of films in which
Scott takes up leading roles, I’ll prob-
ably want to see his other two Oscar
nominated films and hopefully change
tracks to someone else, like James
Stewart (likely) or Paul Newman (not
as likely).
If you’re wondering what this is all
about, there are two points to my story.
First, to write about the achievements
of a great actor and perhaps attract
some interest to his body of work. And
second, to emphasise that watching
films is not only about ticking away the
great success stories, but also about
exploring the unknown of cinema and,
perhaps, ourselves.
If we get too bored of everything
else, that is.
What is it about Indiana Jones?
It won’t be long now before the whip-wielding, fedora-loving archaeologist graces our cinema screens again
George C. Scott as the American tank commander during World War II, General George S. Patton
Whilst waiting for the premiere of
this fourth installation of an Indiana
Jones movie, entitled Indiana Jones
and The Kingdom of the Crystal Skull,
and wondering how bad this sequel
will turn out to be, I thought that it
would be nice to try and find out what
it is that made the first film such a cult
movie.
Obviously there is the adventure as-
pect. Raiders of the Lost Ark (the first
in the series of Indiana Jones movies)
starts off with an action-packed scene
in an exotic location that sets the tone
for the whole movie. The thrill of dodg-
ing huge, rolling boulders and danger-
ous, native inhabitants interspersed
with numerous booby traps and the
consequent near-misses that we are
introduced to in the beginning contin-
ues throughout the whole movie, with
a plethora of cliffhanger moments that
make you move just that tad closer to
the edge of your seat. And although
everyone knows the hero will always
come out unscarred, the audience’s
fascination with the perilous incidents
doesn’t end till the very last minute.
The credit for this goes to George
Lucas and Steven Spielberg who use,
with excellent results, their ability to
bring a childlike joy and happiness
to the process of movie watching, re-
minding us that movies are ultimately
about good entertainment. The ad-
ditional bonus is that the film can
boast a plot that is able to move the
story forward in between all those
bar brawls, long jumps over precipi-
tous drops, and last minute escapes in
airplanes.
Then, of course, we have Harrison
Ford, who perfectly catches the es-
sence of Indiana Jones. In the movie
he is a fantastic blend of self confi-
dence, reckless daring, quick wits and
an ability to take himself a little bit less
seriously than everyone around him,
which saves him from being simply an
arrogant smart-ass. It is Ford’s tongue-
in-cheek acting that ironically gives
the Raiders of the Lost Ark a warmth
that I believe will be very hard to find
in the new sequel.
Having said that, and despite the
lead actor’s significant advance in
age since 1981, I’m still looking for-
ward to seeing Indiana Jones on the
big screen for the first time. Mainly
because of the assurances made by
Steven Spielberg that he has tried to
keep computer generated imagery to
an absolute minimum, using instead
the traditional stunts that have proved
so successful in the previous install-
ments. If, on top of that, the director
manages to somehow endow The
Kingdom of the Crystal Skull with an
‘old school’ feel (like the other sequels
had) and doesn’t forget that the suc-
cess of the movie ultimately depends
on whether Indiana Jones’ personality
and his character shines through all
the action, it might be worth spend-
ing the 10 quid to watch the old man
trying to find the treasure again. And
who knows, maybe Harrison Ford just
gets fitter with age? I don’t remember Indy having quite so much grey in his hair
Zuzanna Blaszczak
Film Editor
Zuzanna Blaszczak
Film Editor

