music.felix@imperial.ac.uk
26 felix Friday 9 May 2008
Music
Music Editors – Peter Sinclair and Susan Yu
Susan Yu
Music Editor Cage the Elephant Interview
by Peter Sinclair
Philosophical Elephants
Cage the Elephant delves deep into religion, their past and present experiences and
on how one’s upbringing can indefinitely shape one’s music: or so it seems...
S
ummer is well and truly here!
According to me, at least,
anyway. Glorious days of im-
measurable bliss, of sitting
in Hyde Park, chilling out
and having music on full blast. Music
at this time of the year may be palpa-
bly soothing and stress-releasing for
those who are stuck in a haze of exam
preparations, or for individuals who
have already jumped the big hurdles;
well, there is no better time than now
to party away. Rock and roll!!
This summery train of thought has
inevitably got me thinking of summer
grooves. Songs that get us on our feet or
simply sweet melodies reminiscent of
past summers and the delicious mem-
ories of letting oneself go and getting
high on cloud nine. For me, ‘Mambo
Number 5’,’ by Lou Bega and ‘‘Dancing
in the Moonlight’ by Toploader epito-
mise fun and laughter on hot summer
days. I can almost hear the ice cream
van purring in the distance...
Alternatively, both ‘Summer Son’ and
‘Inner Smile’ by Texas as well as the
brilliant New Radical’s sensation ‘You
Get What You Give’ catapult me back
to my high school summer vacations,
where the pinnacle of life was pure en-
joyment. Good old days. In contrast,
‘Crazy in love’ by the one and only Be-
yonce paints a passion-fuelled picture
of the intoxiating nature of summer
romances, of falling head over heels. In
love or daydreaming perhaps...
The other day, I discovered a hidden
gem in my iTunes library that I had to-
tally ignored. A crime against Mother
Music. Apologies. Basically, I had been
given the first Scissor Sisters album
and, as you do, imported it into my
music library without really exploring
what the music had to offer. It was by
chance that I had an afternoon off one
day that I decided to have a quick lie-
down and chose to play the album. And
gosh, Scissor Sisters are mindblow-
ingly AWESOME! Previously, I had
heard a few of the band’s tracks on the
radio and did fall for the resoundingly
bittersweet ‘Mary’, as well as taking a
strong liking for feel-good anthems
like ‘Take Your Mama,’ ‘Laura’ and
‘‘I Don’t Feel like Dancing.’ But what
really captured my soul was ‘It Can’t
Come Quickly Enough.’ A rather biz-
zare and ambiguous title but you can-
not help but be entranced by vocalist
Jake Shears’ breathtaking intonations,
the exquisite melody and powerful lyr-
ics. If you haven’t given Scissor Sisters
a shot, man, you are seriously missing
out big time.
Even though Goldfrapp’s new al-
bum ‘Seventh Tree’ has already come
out this February, I don’t think it’s too
late to give the album a whirl, so I have
rightly included a belated album re-
view for you readers. In addition, my
colleague in honour has supplied us
with a ‘Cage the Elephant’ interview.
Don’t ask questions. ‘Tis very long. But
simply read and relish!
We’ve got a mountain of CDs
sent to us over the holidays, and
there’s always gigs that need
going to. If you fancy getting
some free stuff, give us an email
at music.felix@gmail.com
The two guitarists, Lincoln Parish and
Brad Shultz from Cage the Elephant
gave Felix the pleasure of talking to
them.
Tell me about yourselves.
B: We’re from Bowling Green, Ken-
tucky. Small town, There’s only about
60 thousand people there at the most.
It’s a college town.
L: There’s nothing really to do there.
B: That’s why we got into music.
L: No, there’s actually a lot of really
good musicians who’ve come out of
Bowling Green over the years. It’s kind
of bizarre. It’s always had a good history
for good musicians and good bands.
Like who?
B: Well, nobody notable. This guy
named Bobby Baldwin who toured
with the Band of Gypsies and Eric
Clapton and Santana.
L: He actually taught me guitar for a
couple years.
B: He’s fuckin’ badass.
L: I got a volume pedal on my wall that
was Carlos Santana’s from this guy.
He’s always been in rock and roll, then
he came back home and decided to
straighten his life out so he became a
preacher.
B: That’s what everyone does in our
town. We live in the Bible Belt.
L: The Bible Belt consciousness got
to him and he decided to come back
home.
I’ve read that one or more of you
grew up on a Christian Hippy
Comune
B: That would be Tichenor. He was
born on it, and my dad lived there with
his dad. They were hippies and my dad
always played music. He was in a few
bands – one started to get big but then
his drummer got killed in a crash, so
then he turned real Christian and they
live on this big Christian hippy com-
mune thing, and they all sat down and
played Christian music together.
How did that all work, how
did ‘Christian’ and ‘hippy’ go
together?
L: It’s kind of you know, the last strain
of hippies who found Jesus through
acid. Jesus Freaks they call them, back
in the States. Somehow they found
God through all that stuff.
Are you guys religious?
B: I’m religious to the point where I
believe in God and Jesus and all that
stuff, but it’s not the institution that
people make it. Church, it’s been for
several hundred, maybe even since it
got started…it hasn’t been the same
ever since someone found out they
could make money off religion that’s
when it started going down the shit-
ter. I’m not saying that every church or
that everybody is that way, but Church
has become a big business now.
L: It’s more a social thing, than people
going there for religious reasons.
B: Back in the day, Christianity was
mystical. People met in caves in secret,
and you could get killed for doing it,
it was like the rebels. Not that I think
now people should be meeting in caves
or anything, but people should still be
wanting to learn about stuff, not just
“Oh I’m here, I’m being seen. Every-
body look at me putting money into
the bag”.
L: Seriously, no joke. Down in the south
if you don’t give money to the church
people will look at you in a completely
different way. You’ll get evil looks.
B: People who take the pastor out to
dinner and they think they’re special
for one day. How the hell does that
make it special?
L: The preacher’s not God.
B: Yeah not shit. If you said you were
taking Jesus out for lunch or some-
thing you know..props!
You seem kind of cynical about it.
B: We’re cynical about it becoming an
institution but you know, the religion
– I have faith in what I have faith in. I
won’t go around forcing it on people.
Can you describe your music for
people who havn’t heard it?
L: Rock and roll, punk, funk, whatever
we come up with
What kind of bands did you listen
to as kids?
L: A lot of us weren’t allowed to listen
to much
B: Me and Matt and Titchner were only
allowed to listen to Christian music as
young kids. Of course, I snuck a Jimi
Hendrix tape into the house. And my
dad, if he was feeling real good man, in
a real good mood, he’d put on some Joe
Cocker or some Pink Floyd or some
Steppenwolf.
L: I had an Eminem CD that I’d bought
when I was like 10 years old. I’d been
hiding it in my room under some
clothes, and my mom went to clean my
room and was going through my shit
and found it. She was like “You do not
need to be listening to this”. She threw
it away and I cried. This was the Mar-
shall Mathers LP. When I was 13 and
I’d been playing guitar for about a year,
my dad went out and bought me the
Led Zeppelin ‘Early and Latter Days’,
the two disk thing. So that was the first
time I really heard rock and roll like
that. It was cool.
B: Me and Matt got into rock and roll
through sneaking it. Then our parents
got divorced when were about 13, 14.
Once they got divorced, everything
started being…I dunno, they just kind
of loostened up a little bit. They had
other stuff to worry about. And we’d
play the two sides against the other.
“Mom let’s me do it” so dad was like
“Well fuck it!” you know? Then we just
got into a bunch of music after that.
We were discovering all these new
bands for the first time. It was weird
because it was like we were discov-
ering them on our own – we’d go to
our friends and be like “Oh my God,
have you heard of this band the Talk-
ing Heads, they’re so badass”, and they
were all like “Dude, everybody knows
who the fucking Talking Heads are”
L: Once you open that door it’s like a
whole new world to you. It’s just so cool
be exposed to music like that when
you’ve never heard anything like it.
What kind of music are you into
nowadays?
L: All kinds of stuff
B: Jimi Hendrix, Rolling Stones, Pink
Floyd
L: A lot of old stuff, but also a lot of
new bands. Everybody in the band is
always trying to find a really hip new
band who are on the cutting edge. You
wanna be doing something that no-
body else is doing so you need to see
what everybody else is doing.
B: Bands nowadays, we like The Yeah
Yeah Yeahs, Tokyo Police Club, The
White Stripes, The Raconteurs.
L: There’s a lot of bands that we’ll play
with on the road that we’ll find no-
body else knows of. There’s this band
called Mason Proper, they’re really
sick. There’s all kind of cool bands you
can discover that nobody else knows
about. Like that band Illenios.
B: Yeah Illenois, they’re supposed to
be Jack White’s new favourite band
or something. A buddy of ours knows
Jack White’s tour manager, who’s the
guy that turned him on to Illenois.
L: Autovaughn, they’re killer live. We
saw them play in Austin and they put
on one of the best shows. They killed
it. Brad was so wasted he got up on
stage and like, trashed the stage.
B: They’re buddies of ours. I was stand-
ing in the front row rocking out and
Darren came over and head-butted
me in the head and pushed his head
against mine so I pushed him back
into the stage, and then they were just
rocking out so I just got up on stage
and started kicking the drums, it was
crazy as fuck. The whole stage was just
destroyed. This was at a place called
Chuggin’ Monkey.
What kind of places do you like to
play in?
L: Playing small little shithole bars
back him that hold about 200 people,
and there’s 350 people in there sweat-
ing their asses off, breaking everything,
it doesn’t get much better than that.
Cage the Elephant
An uncaged elephant

