music.felix@imperial.ac.uk
27
Friday 9 May 2008 felix
Music
But then when you do the really big
shows it’s got it’s own cool thing about
it. They are just different.
B: I like the bigger shows where you
can jump our and crowdsurf and get
crazy with everybody.
What’s the biggest show you’ve
played so far?
L: 4000?
B: We toured with Queens of the Stone
Age for a while, so there were probably
about 5000 people at those shows. That
was cool, 5000 is good enough for me.
L: It’s so cool at those big shows open-
ing for big bands, we enjoy it probably
as much as everybody else does, so
we’ll go out there in the mosh pit. Peo-
ple are so surprised to see us out mosh-
ing with everybody else.
B: There’s no reason to set yourself
apart, I’m just as much a Queens of the
Stone Age fan as everyone else.
L: Queens of the Stone Age were really
good, really nice to us. That was the
first big tour we’ve been on, and they
kind of took us under their wing.
B: Yeah man we had no fucking clue.
We’d done spot shows for a couple of
bands, but we’re still a pretty young
band. We’ve only been together for a
year and a couple months.
How did you come together to
form the band?
B: Me, Matt and Jared had been play-
ing music together since we were in
highschool. Me and Matt are brothers.
Jared, we’ve been jamming with him
since we were like 16 years old. We
were in this other band, and one of our
players went AWOL, and another one
decided to quit and do his own thing,
so we got together with Titchner who
had never played bass before. He plays
guitar. We knew him through our dad
and all the things that our parents used
to do together. So we were out one
night and Titchner was wasted and he
was like “Let me try out for the band!!”.
We were like “Can you play bass?” And
he was like “Yeah yeah I can play bass”.
He goes out and buys a bass the next
day, comes to band practice and he’s
absolutely horrible. I talked to Matt –
“Dude let’s give him a chance to prac-
tise up. So a week later he comes in,
blows the roof off the place. I was like
“Holy shit”. Seriously, I couldn’t believe
it. Now you listen to his bass lines, and
they are so complicated. I don’t know
how he caught on so fast but he did it.
Then Lincoln, he was just this 15-year-
old kid that kept hitting us up on the
internet – “Hey guys lemme try out for
your band”. Jared was like “Fuck that.
I’m not gonna be in a band with 15, 16
year old.” We were 22 at the time.
L: I had just turned 16.
B: So that’s when he first tried out, we
kind of jammed together and then we
just became a band after that. Started
writing new material, then we were
thought let’s get into the studio and get
this whole thing started.
L: We just jammed and they were like
“We’re going to do these three demos
tomorrow, why don’t you come”, and I
was like “OK”.
B: That was the first time Lincoln re-
ally jammed with us a lot, besides com-
ing over for like an hour and mucking
around. I guess after we did that demo
we decided to be a band. Came up with
a name. That came through a conver-
sation Matt had with somebody about
society and, talking about the elephant
and a lot of different religions. In a lot
of different things, the elephant is held
in a good light. People are always talk-
ing about the elephant’s memory, So
him and a buddy were talking about
how society kind of resembles an el-
ephant and how, not just the media
but everything in general tries to put
a cage on the elephant. They want to
cage that goodness that everybody has
in them.
L: All you see on the news is negativie
crap..
B: Yeah, you see war, three people got
gunned down, five people got stabbed.
You don’t hear about anything good,
nothing. I don’t think that’s how it actu-
ally is, it’s just what sells. It’s consump-
tion by fear. You’re afraid that you’re
gonna get zits so what do you do? Go
out and get some pimple cream. You’re
afraid that you’re gonna get gunned
down so what do you do? Go out
and get whatever you need to protect
yourself. You’re afraid that the world
is gonna end so you go to the grocery
store and buy up as much canned food
as you can, you know? There’s so many
different ways to scare people, it’s all
just a marketing scheme.
Are the lyrics geared towards that,
or is that just the name?
B: Matt talks about certain stuff, but
it’s not like he’s preaching to anybody,
saying to anybody how to change their
lives. It’s just different thoughts that he
has. As far as lyrics are concerned, it’s
just thoughts that he has on life that
he’d like to see happen in the world
L: Social stuff
B: Social stuff more than government
politics. It’s more of a social comment.
It all starts with the people, they have
the power to do whatever they want.
L: It’s how he observes things
Can you describe a typical fan?
L: What I think is cool about our music
is that it appeals to all different types of
people. Not everybodies the same, it’s
pretty cool
B: We mix a lot of different shit in our
music. We get tagged as a rock and roll
band, but we’re not totally rock and
roll music. We have different elements
to our music. We’re touching hip hop,
we’re touching obviously rock and roll,
touching punk music, touching funk, a
little bit of everything.
Are you guys into hip-hop?
L: Yeah man. Lupe Fiasco is badass.
B: He’s off the hook. I like a lot. NWA,
Public Enemy, Snoop Dogg, Ice Cube.
Snoop Dogg’s older material. He got
lost along the way. He needs to start
smoking pot again.
What’s the weirdest question
you’ve ever been asked?
L: Do you want some crack?
B: We were staying at this backpacking
place when we played a show in Cana-
da. North by north east, everybody in
a hostel.
L: This chick followed us back to our
room and we were smoking a bowl,
and she was like “Do you want some
crack?” Probably the craziest thing
that’s ever happened was after a Koko
show, and this dude comes up to us as
was like “Hey man, want some coke?”
and I was like “Nah man, whatever”,
and he was like “If y’all got any coke,
I’ve got some heroin to trade”
B: Haha, I was like “Damn!”
L: Dude was straight up trying to get us
some heroin. I was like “No way.”
B: Most interesting questions we’ve
been asked in an interview…lemme
ask Matt [opens the van and shouts to
Matt] Matt! What’s the most interest-
ing question we’ve been asked in an
interview. Most weird.
M: The weirdest question we’ve been
asked in an interview was “Do you
make any animal noises?” Don’t ask me
why they asked that. I replied “Only
while I masturbate” That was the only
answer I could think of for that. How
do you answer a question like that?
“Yes, actually I can make the sound of
a lion.”
Cage the Elephant’s guitarist looking every bit the Mr Rock and Roll
The band trapped in a small, dark room and absolutely loving it
The genre-crossing pop sensation that
is Goldfrapp have released their fourth
album, ‘Seventh Tree’, which sold over
100,000 copies in the first week of re-
lease. Quite something. This follows
the captivating, critically acclaimed,
platinum-selling album ‘Supernature.’
Goldfrapp have delighted fans with
their sheer diversity, from the elec-
tronic balladry of Mercury-nominated
debut ‘Felt Mountain’ (2000) to the
swaggering dancefloor beast of an al-
bum – ‘Black Cherry’ (2003), continu-
ously bringing fresh and dynamic takes
on the definition of true talent.
‘Seventh Tree’ is an electrifying
maelstrom of sound, with cushy at-
Goldfrapp
Seventh Tree
★★★★★
Album review
Goldfrapp’s Seventh Tree blossoms gloriously
mospherics, over which Alison Gold-
frapp’s sublime sensual vocals soar ma-
jestically. Her lush dreamy voice is as
intoxicating as the overpowering scent
of a rose, taking you to a dreamland of
desire and ecstasy, evoking images of
the Garden of Eden where everything
shimmers with gold.
The album softly kicks off with
‘Clowns,’ a misty concoction of gen-
tle acoustic guitar and string instru-
mentation complemented by equally
soothing, tender yet nearly incompre-
hensible vocals – ‘Only clowns would
play with…’ One really does have to
listen very hard to decipher the lyrics.
Does it matter? No. The music does
enough talking. The melody is simply
and beguilingly beautiful. The picture
painted defines the integral eerie still-
ness and the intangible, magical power
of nature. ‘Little Birds’ carries on with
the delicate, surreal dreaminess and
undoubtedly bucolic feel, but sees the
appearance of drums, swirling key-
boards, a slinky bass-line and trance-
inducing loops.
The pace dawdles in ‘Road to Some-
where,’ part of the instrumentation
subtly evoking water dripping in a
cave, tying in with the consummate
natural essence of this striking album.
‘Eat Yourself,’ a slow-burning, poignant
number, envelops bittersweet chord
changes, whilst Alison coos heart-
breakingly, possibly reminiscent of
Bjork. Seemingly effortless – ‘If you
don’t eat yourself the pain will instead.’
Other notable beauties include ‘A&E,’
which is their new single released 4th
February. It will grip every listener with
its gradual build-up, layered sound-
scape, culminating with a euphonic
spell in the chorus. Meanwhile, ‘Cara-
van Girl,’ a rare upbeat return to energy,
will have you swinging back and forth,
tapping your foot and jumping to the
return of the pop cosmic soup.
Last but not least, ‘Monster Love’
brings together synthesisers and rich
electronics, reverberating against the
underlying rapid guitar riffs. Heav-
ily textured and deeply ambient, bath-
ing us in a haze of ebullient spring
sunshine: ‘the sun leaps out, it’s clear
again...’
No further proof is required. The
duo’s compelling ability to seduce lis-
teners is at work once again.
Susan Yu Goldfrapp’s very own Alison

