games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
30 felix Friday 9 May 2008
Games
Games Editors – Azfarul Islam and Sebastian Nordgren
Sure, Blue Team wins... but at what cost?
FYI Father, I have sinned
Y
eah, yeah, you’ve got ex-
ams. We’ve all got ex-
ams, big deal. But try as
you might, you can’t get
through three, four or five
weeks of work without needing some
relaxation time at some point. And by
relaxation, I don’t mean collapsing into
sleep for two hours, on top of a pile of
notes.
That’s what most people find best
about gaming – it covers all the bases.
I’ve got my Peggle for brief five-minute
flirts with procrastination, and I’ve also
got Grand Theft Auto III for when I’m
looking to massacre a slightly larger
portion of the day.
What I’ve found myself playing most,
in fact, is GTA III. Not because I don’t
like GTA IV, or that I don’t have a next-
gen console to play it on, but simply
because I’ve not played anything other
than the original Grand Theft Auto
in my life. A few weeks back, Steam
tempted me into the land of Liberty
City, and despite several years of rave
reviews and friend recommendations,
I was still surprised at just how good
it is.
I have to say, I think it’s the radio. The
world does feel alive, certainly; there
are plenty of people running around
on the streets and the cars look nice.
Buildings are decorated in that Rock-
star manner of dark humour, and the
sights still look lovely to me even with
the graphics this old.
But the radio is the human voice. It’s
the background noise that every city
needs, because even with missions
and the like it’s still the radio that feels
most real. The radio doesn’t talk to you
about drugs busts or bank jobs. It just
wants to sell you giraffes via mail order,
and get you to discuss your views on
military service.
Lips 106 is my station of choice for
the first island. Cheap, commercial,
it smacks of American media in all
the good ways it can. The presenters
are sugary, horribly happy and it feels
great to bomb along Chinatown listen-
ing to some godawful pop. It gives that
real Sunday-morning vibe to gunning
down Triad members.
Like most good games, I’d initially
been skeptical of Grand Theft Auto III.
Because most people tell me that they
enjoy just seeing how much damage
they can cause, I assumed I wouldn’t
like it because that kind of will happens
very rarely with me. I occasionally like
to attract the attention of a helicopter,
but in general I actually prefer the op-
posite – I prefer living in the city.
But that’s why the game works, be-
cause it offers the freedom to do so.
If you’ve got Steam and you want to
know the minutiae of my gaming life,
feel free to add me – I’m FinalSin on
the Community. Alternatively, write
and tell us your alternate gaming lives:
games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Good luck with those exams, folks.
Michael Cook asks if you know what it’s like to have killed a man. Then kills you
G
rass grows, sun shines,
birds fly, and brother? I
hurt people. But not in
a childish way, or a loud
and brash way. I don’t
run around with a stick of aluminium
cleaving people’s faces in, nor do I
pump people full of lead. It’s more sub-
tle. In fact, even as the flickknife buries
itself in your back, it’s not the one-hit
kill that hurts you. That’s not how I
work. I humiliate people.
When you go on to play Team For-
tress 2 – Valve’s epic first-person
shooter that recently enjoyed a free
weekend and a bunch of free content
– you’re not gambling much. There’s
no money on the table, and there’s
no fate-of-the-world scenario. Players
gamble one of two things when they go
online to game, and the most often lost
of these is reputation.
Out of all of the playable classes, the
Spy stands out as different. There are
few gaming characters in multiplayer
history who compare to him – hugely
underpowered, incapable of dealing
damage in most cases, and carrying
items that are at best difficult to use,
and at worst dependent on luck.
But when the Spy plays well, he
stands out among every other player
on the server. Spies are the passive-
aggressives, they’re the real bullies of
TF2: more so than the Heavy or the
Demoman. When you’re disguised as
a member of the opposite team, you
have a special power over them. And it
hurts on both sides of the monitor.
At the start of part of the Dustbowl
map, the two teams tend to collect on
either side of a corner. On the Red side,
several gun emplacements are whir-
ring, and Medics are preparing to heal
the big damage-dealers. Heavies are
big and stupid, but they dish out the
hurt like nothing else if they’ve got a
Medic behind them.
I’m on the Blue side, wearing a pin-
stripe suit and smoking a delicate
cigarette. It’s decision time for the
Spies, because disguises mean making
a commitment. If someone sees you
disguised at the start of a round, then
people know you’re there, and every-
one gets edgy. Edginess means death.
Most people choose the average
classes, the ones that blend in. Demo-
man is a popular disguise, sometimes
a Medic to lure people towards you.
But good spies take the occasional risk
too, and so today I’m slinging on a fat
suit and disguising myself as one of the
most obvious classes in the game – a
Heavy. I tap the cloaking button and
dash around the corner just as the last
of my team die and go back to await
respawning.
I dash up some steps, taking care
to avoid others whilst I’m invisible,
and leap into an alcove to wait for the
right moment. The Reds are pushing
around the corner, according to the
stream of death messages flashing up,
but it seems they’re being pushed back.
As the cloaking fades off, a Red Medic
comes running back from the fighting.
I’m sure he’s seen me materialise out of
nowhere. There’s a horrible moment
where I see him switch weapon and
consider running.
Only it turns out that he’s switching
to his healing gun. He turns it on. In-
teresting things start to happen.
A friend of mine says that he won’t
ever play the Spy on moral grounds. I
don’t know to what extent he’s joking,
and I suspect it’s more to do with the
fact that the Spy can be a little boring
at times. When you’re playing a Soldier
– a more simple, damaging class that
Halo fans might be familiar with – the
game bobs along at a reasonable rate.
You don’t get any of the dizzying highs,
really, but on the other hand you’re
always scoring, there’s no dull period
where you die repeatedly and have
your plans dashed.
Because, other than reputation, the
other thing we sacrifice by playing on-
line is time. Team Fortress 2 helpfully
reminds you of just how much time
you’ve poured into it, and my top two
classes alone score over a day’s worth
of play. That’s not much, however, in
comparison to others who have spent
something approaching a week with a
single character type.
So time is important. Time’s impor-
tant for Spies, because disguise and
subtlety takes planning and patience.
It’s also important for Medics. By
healing, a Medic can build up a spe-
cial power that allows him to make a
player invulnerable for a short time
period. The standard tactic is to walk
the player into the midst of the action,
tearing apart player after player, before
retreating to safety. That’s why, as the
medic begins healing me and I see that
he’s fully charged, I know that this is
going to be a very awful sixty seconds
for him.
I shout ‘Medic!’ once, for good mea-
sure, and then charge towards the front
lines. To him, I look like a lumbering
lump of muscle and gun – a brick shit-
house that fires other, smaller brick
shithouses. But really, I’m a European
chain-smoker with a knife fetish.
As we near the corner, I shout at him
again and there’s a reassuring ‘whoosh’
as he activates the charge and I glow
a fierce red. I walk around the corner,
and there is the rest of my team, all
ready and respawned. To them, I ap-
pear as I really am. Small, weak, and
tricksy. A chorus of laughs goes out
over the voice communication as they
realise what I’ve done.
I walk further into them, and the
Medic follows me to make sure he
keeps the charge running. It’s prob-
ably half full now, and I haven’t fired
a shot, something that will be making
him suspicious. But, trooper that he is,
he stays with it. A quarter left. A tenth.
And the ubercharge is done.
Immediately, three heavies open up
on the Medic, and he goes sprawling
through the air into a bloody pile. He
doesn’t know what happened to me.
He doesn’t even know I was a Spy. In
fact, as far as he’s aware, his team is full
of appalling players who get him killed
and waste his time.
I run back to base and readjust my
tie, my team still chuckling over the
ingame chat. ‘Do it again!’ one of them
cries.
But what they don’t know is that,
behind the cardboard cut-out mask,
the balaclava is wet with tears. That
Medic just wanted to help people. He
just wanted to play the game, and have
a good time.
What have I done?
* You Will Respawn As Medic
Michael Cook
Candle in the wind
“I’m wearing a
pinstripe suit
and smoking
a delicate
cigarette”

