games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
31
Friday 9 May 2008 felix
Games
Last year’s event included Peter Molyneux and David Braben discussing the future of the industry, as well as a host of technical talks on AI and hardware. These people came
Games and Media 2008 at Imperial
Science meets Space Invaders, SHODAN and Sonic once again as the Imperial GaME Event returns
You probably remember the glory days
when E3 was essentially its own nation
for the three days that it took over part
of America. People came, people dis-
covered everything that was going to
happen in the next twelve months, and
then people left again.
Before you had the Internet, it was
even more tantalising. You’d have to
wait some time to learn what people
had seen there, until the magazines
began throwing exclamation marks on
the covers and pictures that you hadn’t
seen before. It was an exciting time.
Some things change, and others stay
the same. The Games and Media Event
that Imperial plays host to each year
is always a reminder that the world of
gaming is branching out and making
itself known elsewhere. It’s also a sign
that adding science to something al-
ways makes it more interesting.
GaME is designed to bring together
people from the gaming industry – and
further afield – with people from the
world of academia. The series of talks
and presentations organized each year
range from the light-hearted to the
mathematical, and this year’s event
looks to be no exception.
You can check out the expected itin-
erary to the right (“The Schedule So
Far”) – although it is still provisional,
the lineup already includes a wide array
of industry coverage.
The event, which falls on the 21st
May this year, may clash with the exam
timetables of some departments, but
its home department – Computing –
will be free of revision by then. The
event isn’t designed to simply fill up
space in the timetable with a few talks
about maths, though.
“By developing a good long-term re-
lationship with interesting university
research groups, a company can both
tap into the research community, and
sometimes also guide it towards inter-
esting problems” explains Professor
Paul Kelly, one of the event organisers,
“[The] industry still needs in-house
effort, to bridge the gap between re-
search idea and usable technique, and
to make good choices informed by re-
search, about when and how.”
The relationship between media in-
dustries such as videogaming and re-
search institutions becomes more and
more important as technological inno-
vation goes on. In particular, those with
an analytical mind become in high de-
mand, and so ‘dream’ jobs of working
in industries that you used to dream of
as a child, soon become more realistic
when you attend events like this.
Framestore, for example, is a graph-
ics and visual effects studio with an
Academy Award-winning past, and a
future that includes franchises such as
Narnia, Batman and James Bond. But
if you gave up hope of working in the
film industry after you failed your Art
GCSE, this event could help show you
that there are places there for scientists
too.
With previous events covering pro-
gramming for the Playstation3, stories
of success from previous Imperial stu-
dents in the big, wide, world of gam-
ing, and requests for your help build-
ing games for the next generation, the
event can be inspiring to gamers who
never got into E3 before – which I’m
fairly sure is most of us.
The event is free to attend, but reg-
istration is required on the website of
the event, where you can also get up-
to-date news on the lineup and the
schedules.
The event may also showcase some
work from Imperial that has ramifi-
cations for the industry – last year a
wide range of presentations was seen:
from facial recognition and graphics
processing to massively-multiplayer
online networking technologies.
“It is Imperial’s mission to deliver
scholarship, education and research.“
Professor Kelly tells me. “It’s my be-
lief this is a unique combination that
makes universities very special.”
Whether you’re undecided about
your future with research or careers;
interested in the technology that makes
today’s games tick; or simply want to
be in the same room as the guy who
dressed Ian McKellen up in a polar
bear suit, this year’s Games and Media
Event is not to be missed.
The Games and Media Event is
scheduled for the 21st of May in
Imperial’s Huxley building. For
more information, surf to http://
www.doc.ic.ac.uk/game
While a lot of GaME’s lineup
is still unconfirmed, a few an-
nouncements have been made.
First up is Paul Miller from Re-
bellion – the development studio
responsible for, amongst other
things, Delta Force: Black Hawk
Down and The Simpsons Game.
He’ll be talking about artificial
intelligence in games, and this
one’s likely to be accessible even
if you’ve never touched a compu-
ter except to play games.
A few industry-based talks
have been scheduled
from middleware
developers such
as Framestore, a
company responsi-
ble for creating computer-gener-
ated graphics such as those seen
powering everyone’s favourite
Polar-bear King, Iorek of The
Golden Compass fame.
Their talk – Tools and Tech-
niques for Visual Effects – should
prove a fascinating insight into
some of today’s cutting-edge
visual work. Plus, hopefully, more
clips of the bear.
In a similar vein, graphics and
lighting company Geomerics will
be giving a talk on how academic
research can be applied to indus-
tries such as gaming and graph-
ics – of particular interest to peo-
ple who might be considering
applying their scientific skills to
the media industries, or indeed
to the polar bear industry.
For the more technologically-
oriented, there are plenty of
more meaty talks to be had too.
Among the confirmed is Code-
play’s Andrew Richards who’ll
be discussing multi program-
ming and some solutions that
Codeplay have come up with.
Codeplay’s work includes some
incredible auto-par-
allelising technolo-
gies, so this is sure
to be a worthwhile
watch.
And there's more – the head of
Imperial's Software Performance
Optimisation Group will be giv-
ing a mind-expanding talk; co-
founder of Games Workshop and
all-round entrepreneur, Eidos' Ian
Livingstone; and Kuju Studios'
Adrian Hawkins will be talking
about the industry skills shortage
– and how you could plug it.
With more confirmations still
to come, your best bet to keep
abreast is to visit http://www.
doc.ic.ac.uk/game. You can also
register for the event there, and
look back on previous lineups.
Michael Cook
GaME 2008: The schedule so far...

