32 felix Friday 9 May 2008
Social networking evolved
Alistair Turnbull discusses social networking sites of the past, present and future
felix@imperial.ac.uk
Technology
Technology Editor – James Finnerty
Headlines we
couldn’t fit in
MP3 Trojan
floods peer-2-peer
networks
Torrentspy forced
to pay $110m to
MPAA
GTAIV breaks lots
of records making
lots of money
Freesat launches
across the UK
Japan to tax MP3
players
Home PCs
legalised in Cuba.
Internet still
banned
EU launches
public consultation
of roaming
regulations
Google Executive
Elliot Schrage
jumps ship and
joins Facebook
Pole dancing
kit coming to
Nintendo Wii
Microsoft backs
down from Yahoo
takeover bid
I
nthebeginningtherewasMyspace.
It was new, fresh and exciting. The
youth of the world flocked to this
site, connecting with their old
friends and making new ones. It
quickly became one of the most popular
sites on the internet. People could add
anything to their profile page, and unfor-
tunately lots of people did. Most profiles
became a nightmare of badly implement-
ed HTML, garish colours and automati-
cally playing songs.
But then along came Facebook; with its
fancy AJAX interface and simple yet styl-
ish design it became a second home for
a generation of university students. The
novel way of connecting people through
events and tagging in photographs for-
ever changed the way people interacted
online.
Then in May 2007 Facebook intro-
duced applications. While on Myspace
most people spent their time staying
in touch with friends and visiting band
pages, Facebook’s applications added a
whole new dimension to social network-
ing. Almost overnight a plethora of ways
to waste time arrived. Quizzes, games
and hundreds of other applications for
your profile suddenly appeared, and with
them came application invitations. An-
noyingly, these work in a similar way to
pyramid schemes, by rewarding users
for bombarding their friends with in-
vites, who then often have to invite more
friends to fully use the application.
These days Myspace is becoming much
more like Facebook by giving people an
updateable status and introducing appli-
cations. This is mainly due to the fact that
Facebook’s user-base grows by hundreds
of thousands a day and in some coun-
tries has many more active users. This is
bad news for NewsCorp who spent over
$500million buying MySpace and have
yet to turn any meaningful profit. There-
fore, desperate to keep their users while
they figure out how to make a profit, they
have to resort to imitating features from
other sites. In my opinion, this won’t help.
Both sites became popular because they
offered something new, and by copying
Facebook, Myspace isn’t doing this. That
is why I believe that in the future neither
site will reign supreme.
It reminds me of a statement I carry
with me through life. As the story goes,
King Solomon once asked his advisors for
an assertion which would remain eter-
nally true. They went away and discussed
it and then came back with the phrase,
‘This too shall pass’. All things change, for
better or for worse. Though in the tech-
nological world, they generally get better.
The huge growth of Facebook in a mat-
ter of years shows how easily people will
change between social-networking sites
when something new comes along and
there is no reason to think this won’t hap-
pen again. Innovation drives the world
we live in and sure as the sun will set, a
new social-networking experience will
arrive at some point. But in what shape
will it come?
No-one can know, but perhaps it could
take the form of 6pages.com, created by
some of Imperial College’s own students.
It may seem like an insurmountable hill
to try and compete with massive cor-
porations, but Facebook was created by
students at Harvard: so perhaps they are
trying to emulate the same success. The
site clearly sports a similar clean and in-
teractive feel to Facebook with all the ele-
ments of the page flowing together. But is
it anything else apart from another Face-
book clone?
From testing the site, apart from all the
usual friends and groups, the main differ-
ence seems to be the emphasis on user-
generated articles which can contain
news, funny Youtube links or anything
else you might feel like sharing with the
world. These are connected to the net-
work of the user (e.g. Imperial College).
Only popular articles then get filtered up
into larger networks (e.g. London) and
finally to the national level for the whole
country to enjoy.
This could, perhaps, put it in compe-
tition with Imperial’s CGCU-run news-
website, Live, which reports on news
around Imperial College and the wider
world. However, unlike a traditional
newspaper or online news-site, everyone
can be a writer on 6pages. The obvious
problem here is the possible low quality
of the content that Joe Bloggs might post,
perhaps talking about his new trainers
or a video of his drunken mate, although
through a system based on popularity, all
the useless articles should just fade away
into the bowels of the Internet, leaving
only enjoyable content behind.
However, compared to the funded
newspaper and website at Imperial, a site
like 6pages.com would be free from any
restrictions on what could be published.
This could lead to very vocal opinions
about various parts/members/policies of
the union, more anecdotal experiences
and generally a more ‘on the ground’
view of life. This could be good reading
for when people aren’t looking for ‘prop-
er’ news.
Another interesting feature they have
integrated into the site is the media cen-
tre, which brings together outside con-
tent from news-sites, online TV streams
and also online radio stations. While it
contains all the obvious BBC services
they also collate an interesting range of
other services from ‘Martial Art TV’ to
the latest news from ‘L’equipe’. It was ac-
tually surprisingly useful to have all these
services melded together so simply with
no need to visit each site. Again, over time
the most popular sources will be priori-
tised to save users time, which appears to
be a major aim of the site, to bring togeth-
er lots of different Internet experiences in
one place.
While 6pages may still have a few bugs
and usability issues, it’s still in beta and
can only improve. Ironing out the last few
creases in this web of networks could end
up producing something very promising.
A compelling mix between Facebook
and Digg, squashed together with con-
tent from all across the Internet. But don’t
take my word for it, try it out yourself and
see if you think it’s got what it takes to be
the next big thing.
6pages.com: Think Digg meets Facebook with a splattering of content from across the Internet
Left: it all began with Myspace, and right: the mighty behemoth Facebook

