35
felix
Friday 9 May 2008
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk Sport
Catching the last snow of the season
T
his year saw a respecta-
ble 39 students from IC
make the journey to the
chosen venue of Saal-
bach-Hintleglemm (not
far from the Austro-German bor-
der, near Munich), where we joined
more than 2,000 other students from
universities around Britain in antici-
pation of a week of great skiing (or
boarding, if you’re into that), great
partying and great experiences.
First, though, we had to get
there. BUSC (British Universities
Snowsports Council) offers a frankly
fantastic package which includes
6 nights’ self-catered accommoda-
tion, a 6-day lift pass (quite a valu-
able thing, it must be said) and travel
to and from the resort, all for £329.
At this price, one understands why
travel consists of an exhausting, yet
always somewhat amusing, near-24
hour coach journey (which might
have been longer had it not been
for the Autobahn). However, in my
opinion this is all part of the fun –
it is here where you meet the people
that you’ll be skiing / boarding with
for the rest of the week – equally, you
also quickly realise who you won’t be
– being woken at 4 in the morning as
we were peacefully cruising through
the French countryside by a drunken
Southampton Uni student who sim-
ply couldn’t contain his delight at the
unspoiled environment, didn’t rate
him terribly highly in my books, it
must be said. As cliché as it sounds,
though, the journey really isn’t that
bad and as soon as you start seeing
the white stuff gradually becoming
more and more concentrated on
the winding ascent up to the resort,
you can’t help but forget your tired-
ness. If it weren’t for the fact that it
was dark when we arrived, I’m sure
a lot of us would have been out on
the slopes as soon as we arrived. In-
stead, we settled for a quiet pint of
Stiegl (the ubiquitous, probably-bet-
ter-that-our-most-expensive, lager)
and an early night in preparation
for catching the first lift on our first
morning.
I awoke to a beautiful day – the high-
est peak, at just over 2000m, was shin-
ing bright in the fierce, spring sun. I
slipped on my thermal undergarments,
put on my waterproof jacket and trou-
sers, donned my thick socks and boots,
grabbed my skis and goggles and I was
ready for the day. (The skis and boots I
had rented as an addition to the BUSC
package and it is also easy to rent cloth-
ing and other equipment if the need
arises). A matter of minutes later six
other students that I’d met on the bus
(all from IC in fact) and I were stepping
intoaliftcabin,skisandboardsinhand,
preparing to be whisked up a mountain
where we would begin our first run of
the week. A few seconds to admire
the splendid panoramic views at the
top of the mountain before we clipped
ourselves in to our preferred mediums
and we were away! The experience is
simply hard to put into words – pistes
(French for ‘slopes’) are the marked,
maintained routes down the mountain
(which are patrolled throughout the
day) – they are very often as wide as a
dry ski-slope is long and can go on for
many miles, making skiiing down them
is a blissful experience. On the ski trip
at Xmas, being a novice, I spent my en-
tire time on pistes. 20 minutes later we
were at the bottom of the slope, keen
to get back to the top of the mountain
to do another run. Another run later
and it was just about time for my les-
son – I unclipped my skis and made
my way through the town centre to the
main congregation area.
Regardless of your ability, I strongly
recommend taking lessons – they are
very good value (roughly £75 for 10
= 2 hours a day for 5 days) and really
help you to either simply learn to ski
or hone your skills. As I’ve mentioned,
on the Xmas trip I was essentially a
complete novice, barely even able to
turn – but because of a combination
of lessons in the morning and practic-
ing what I’d learnt in the afternoon, by
the end of the week I was able to com-
fortably ski reds (moderate difficulty)
and even attempt the odd black level
slope. Of course, skiing/snowboard-
ing is not all about being able to race
down the slope at some stupid angle to
the vertical, even if you just wanna play
around a bit that’s all well and good. In
fact, this Easter we had a significant
number of complete beginners attend
and I’m sure they won’t disagree with
me when I say that they all thoroughly
enjoyed themselves.
As I’ve said, skiing/snowboarding
isn’t all about being able to race down
the slope, far from it – a big part of
BUSC is the socialising. Indeed, as
soon as you arrive you are issued with
a calender of events, detailing what’s
happening each night of the week.
For instance, on the Sunday evening
there was an hour-and-a-half long
firework-lit display from profes-
sional and semi-professional free-
style skiiers and boarders (basically
an hour and a half of wondering who
was going be airlifted first) followed
by VJs ‘Urban Knightz’ playing live in
the main square with plenty of clubs
to go to afterwards if you fancied it
– but remember, the snow’s best in
the morning! Every other night of
the week was similarly exciting, the
most anticipated night of all being
when the DJ trio ‘Scratch Perverts’
were due to play – the hype was
right, a great night it was – hundreds
of students in a packed venue jump-
ing around to some mean tunes. If
going out partying isn’t your thing,
though, or you’re too tired from a
day of skiing/boarding, then no wor-
ries, there’s plenty of other things to
do around the area - some nice res-
taurants and even cinemas.
So, in essence, my week @ BUSC
consisted of plenty of skiing, plen-
ty of partying and plenty of new
friends. A typical ski trip certainly
doesn’t come cheap, but that’s where
BUSC is different – with a starting
price of £329 and considering what
a truly fantastic week you’ll have, it’s
very easy to justify the price in my
opinion. Plus the fact that it’s the
first week of a long easter break just
makes it the perfect thing to look
forward to.
And if you can’t wait that long and
you want some relief after the Au-
tumn term, the Snowsports society
will be running their annual Winter
trip with prices strarting from £300
(incl. travel, accommodation and lift
pass). We’ll also be running dry-ski
slope lessons and trips to the Mil-
ton Keynes indoor artificial snow
slope throughout the year. For more
information and signing up, please
visit www.sfahdsfhasjf.com or add
me (Sam Campaigne) or any of the
snowsports committee on Facebook.
Have a great summer and hope to
see you there!
The gang enjoying the warmth of the indoors
“The experience
is simply hard to
put into words”
“Skiing isn’t all
about going
down a hill,
it’s about the
socialising too”
Sam Champaigne reports on the Snowsports Club trip to Saalbach-Hintleglemm

