felix sport Send in your sport reports:
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
High resolution photos only
Imperial host first inter-uni Wushu competition
The end of the season
Snowsports Club report on their latest trip to the pistes, see page 35
On the 30th of March the IC Wushu
Society held the first ever inter-univer-
sity Wushu competition in the main
sports hall of Ethos. A total of nine
universities and nineteen competitors
took part in what is hoped to be the
first of many such competitions. The
competitors fought for medals in nine
categories which included open hand,
weapons, fight sets, taiji, and tradition-
al forms.
Having spent most of the day before
hauling around more than half a tonne
of mats and carpets, the Imperial team
were understandably fatigued. Still, we
all arrived early and excited. The huge
carpet was laid out in the middle of the
sports hall looking quite majestic. For
those who have no idea what competi-
tive Wushu is, athletes perform various
routines on a 14m by 8m carpet. The
carpet is there mostly for safety, since
landing in splits or on knees can be
quite painful on a wooden floor. Ath-
letes were given a warm-up area at the
side of the hall to stretch and prepare.
After a brief speech from the head
judge, the competition began at
around 11am with Chang Quan (long
fist). Imperial scored one silver and
one bronze. This was followed by the
Nan Quan (southern fist) category,
which brought with it energetic per-
formances from Queen Mary, King’s
College, and Leeds Metropolitan. The
event was won by Mitchell Pallet of
Queen Mary who is also the current
GB southern sword champion.
After the power and shouting of Nan
Quan came a welcome peace in the
form of Taiji (that’s the proper pinyin
way of spelling Tai chi). Shaopeng Li
of Imperial received the gold thanks to
his masterfully performed routine.
The traditional category came next.
This proved to be really interesting
and was the category with the most
competitors, performing a variety of
routines from different branches of
Chinese martial arts. Luke Sanders of
Southampton University amazed eve-
ryone with his Di Tang Quan (Ground
boxing)whichinvolvedpainful-looking
falls and flips. The gold went to Allan
Martin of Imperial who performed a
powerful rendition of Da Hong Quan,
a Shaolin form.
After the lunch break we were treated
to a performance by Sam Mak, the cur-
rent world junior straightsword cham-
pion. He displayed a level of Wushu
rarely seen in the UK.
Next came the advanced long and
short weapons, intermediate weapons
and taiji sword categories. Intermedi-
ate weapons was a rather odd category;
due to the lack of competitors in this
event, all three competitors were from
Imperial. No prizes for guessing which
university won that event.
The advanced categories, however,
were simply amazing. Both the long
and short weapon events showed the
skill and athleticism of some of the
UK’s best. Both events were won by
Scott Pallet of King’s College, current
GB national team member with two
high-flying, amazing routines.
The competition ended with the Dui
Lian (fighting set) category. Imperial
were up first, with Adam and Jamshid
and their largely improvised made-up-
at-lunch-time spear vs. three section
staff fight. Next came the team from
University of East Anglia. They per-
formed a long and highly imaginative
spear vs. empty hand fight. However,
victory went to the combined LSE-IC
duo Zoe and Liane Athill with their
spear vs. double swords fight, in which
Liane suffered a slight facial injury.
While waiting for the award-giving
ceremony, Sam Mak graced us with an-
other demonstration, this time he per-
formed an excellent drunken straight-
sword routine.
At the end, all the athletes lined up
on the carpet according to university.
The medals and certificates were given
out and Imperial’s Shaopeng Li bagged
the all-round award, having achieved
2 gold medals and 1 silver medal, the
highest among all competitors.
It is hoped that this will become a
yearly event from now on. We were
very impressed with the spirit of
competition displayed by everyone
present.
We’d also like to thank everyone that
made this event possible: the Union,
Sport Imperial and to our sponsors -
IC Trust, Oriental City Supermarket,
China Arts and New World Chinese
restaurant. A big thank you to you all.
After all, it’s not about winning med-
als, it’s about getting out on that car-
pet and doing the best you can. As Jet
Li’s character Huo Yuan Jia said in the
movie Fearless , “Through competition
we can discover ourselves”.
Adam Omar
A spear versus empty hand fight from the East Anglia team

