The next four
years with
Boris Johnson
Bullingdon Boy Boris’ background
Boris’ recreational pursuits caught on camera
I
n the very first minutes of Friday 1st May, Conservative candidate
Boris Johnson was declared to be the new Mayor of London. Al-
most six hours after the results were supposed to be announced,
returning officer Anthony Mayer read out the polling figures at
City Hall. Even though incumbent mayor Livingstone got a sub-
stantially larger share of the second preference vote, his 1.03 million
votes were not enough to defeat Boris’ 1.17 million first and second
preference supporters. As the results were announced, Boris sheep-
ishly shook hands with the other candidates on the podium, showing
particular warmth to his strongest rival. After the speeches by Johnson,
Livingstone and Paddick, referred to by Boris as the ‘strange triumvi-
rate’, public attention was drawn to the results of the other parties.
Coming fourth and fifth respectively, only 8,000 votes separated Siân
Berry’s Green party from Richard Barnbrook’s BNP – a result seen by
many in the public as a worrying outcome of this election.
H
is defenders have always
claimed that his bumbling
was an act, that his gaffes
were just that and that in
reality he was a competent
and intelligent individual. Such defence
has been cold comfort for his detractors
who saw little evidence of a brain behind
his floppy blonde hair. But after winning
1,168,738 votes in the London Mayoral
contest, Boris has overcome his detrac-
tors and established himself as a serious
political animal.
President of the Oxford Union and a
member of the Bullingdon Club, one
might have presumed that his political
career would blossom quickly, in similar
fashion to fellow Bullingdon members
David Cameron and George Osborne.
However, he chose to enter the world of
journalism instead, with varied results.
Although Editor of The Spectator from
1999 to 2005 and Conservative MP for
Henley from 2001, he was, and still is, best
known for the numerous gaffes that have
plagued his public life. Consequently, de-
spite being a well-known public figure, he
was seen as a liability rather than an asset
to his colleagues; probably more useful to
the tabloids than the Conservative par-
ty. Despite this, in 2005 fellow Bulling-
don Club member David Cameron, now
leader of the opposition, appointed Boris
shadow minister of education; his second
time in the cabinet after an abortive foray
under Michael Howard. Boris might have
continued steadily enough, always in the
public spotlight but given little notice as
a credible politician.
Yet here we find ourselves in 2008, and
the mayor of one the world’s richest cit-
ies is a man who for years has been dis-
regarded as a bumbler. His election to
this prestigious position has been accom-
panied by a miraculous transformation.
When he first announced his candidacy,
BBC Political Editor Nick Robinson didn’t
think it should appear on the main news
bulletin: he didn’t consider his candidacy
serious enough. But a carefully managed
campaign, free of any gaffes allowed the
public to forgive his previous misdemean-
ours and put their trust in him. Boris the
fumbler gradually gained confidence in
debates and the intellectual that his de-
fenders have always claimed lay beneath
the surface, shone through.
Not everyone is convinced, though:
Paul Merton recently joked that Lon-
donders will soon remember that “he’s a
fucking idiot” and, furthermore, rumours
are swirling that David Cameron is nerv-
ous about the possibility of a Boris-style
Gaffegate damaging the Conservative
Party’s credibility nationwide. The true
measure of his transformation into seri-
ous politician will be his record as Mayor.
He will either be remembered fondly as
an entertaining but ultimately successful
politician or the man who damaged the
Conservative Party’s best chance of re-
gaining power after 13 years.
In a moment of hilarity caught on national television, Boris attempts to tackle an opposition player in a charity football match.

