I, Boris Johnson, pledge to...
Tackle gang culture
With the rise in violent crimes amongst teenagers, addressing this issue is one of the most
important tasks the Mayor faces; 12 teenagers have died as a result of violent crime this year
alone. Boris campaigned on his assertion that tackling minor crime would successfully miti-
gate more serious crime. To reduce the number of knives and guns carried onto buses and
trains, he plans to introduce handheld scanners at a cost of £2.6m. Boris also believes police
are burdened by bureaucracy and has signalled his intent to lighten police hours by putting
an end to the “stop and account” form. Boris’ promise to tackle gang culture was an intention
shared by his rivals. Whilst his focus on respect in society is bold, one would be surprised if he
had the magic formula to this national problem.
Improve London’s transport
Boris’ policy is two-fold, focussing on transport crime as well as efficiency and quality of serv-
ice. He intends to remove free travel privileges from those who abuse London transport, forc-
ing them to earn it back through community service. This is in line with the Mayor’s emphasis
on respect within society. Boris has promised a wide-range of changes to improve the quality
of transport, including a no-strike agreement with the tube unions; quashing the plans of a
£25 Congestion Charge increase; and to phase out bendy buses. Following comments from the
largest tube union’s leader, Bob Crow, the chances of a no-strike agreement being reached are
nil. Whilst Boris’ plans to tackle crime on buses may bear fruit, his policies on the Congestion
Charge and the bendy buses are reactionary, and he has shown few fresh ideas to really tackle
the problems with London’s transport.
Tackle our environment’s problems
Boris intends to increase the amount of recycling in London, to improve the quality of local
neighbourhoods and is committed to cutting London’s carbon emissions by 60% by 2025. He
opposes the development of the third runway at Heathrow and also wants to set up an annual
Mayor’s prize to award £20,000 to students for innovative, low-carbon technology ideas. His
manifesto pledges largely “encourage” Londoners to tackle environmental problems but are
seemingly devoid of genuine substance.
Make housing affordable
Boris plans to deliver 50,000 new homes by 2011 and to renovate the capital’s 84,000 empty
properties in an attempt to make housing more affordable for low-income families and those
entering the property market. A policy that will directly affect students is his promise to pro-
tect private tenants from rogue landlords by publishing a ‘Fair Rents Guide.’ His promises for
increasing the number of available homes across London will reassure Londoners who face
great difficulty buying property during this period of economic instability. However, the sever-
ity of the global crisis will make his promises difficult to deliver.
Deliver a successful Olympic Games
Boris has pledged to fight for a lasting legacy for the London Olympics so that once the Games
is finished, the city is not left with unused infrastructure and facilities. He is committed to en-
suring the cost to the taxpayer remains at current levels, so that any extra money put towards
the Olympics is not paid for through London Council Tax increases. Boris’ promises are simi-
lar to the previous Mayor’s and there is little room for real political impact and fresh policies
to be created. The new Mayor’s main challenge is to ensure no major mistakes are made in
preparation of the 2012 Olympics and to develop an effective working relationship with La-
bour’s Tessa Jowell, who has previously referred to Boris as a “bit of a joke.”
Written by Tom Roberts, Kadhim Shubber & Gilead Amit. Designed by Tom Roberts

