14 F E L I X
COMING EVENTS
F r l . Doc.14th.
Phot. Soc. "Air to Air Photography" by C.i.
Brown. 5.15 Bot.Lect.Th.
(Arranged i n conjunction with
I.C.Gliding Club.)
Oram.Soc. & LOFTUR,7.30 p.m. i n Concert Hall
Comus Players 1/6, 2/6, 4/-.
Sat. Dec.15th.
LOFTUR - Last Might - 7.30 pjn .
Won. Dec.nth.
I.C. C.U. "The Meaning of Christmas" by
Rev. Paul Tucker. 1.15 p.m.
Met. Lect. Th. R.S.M.
Tues. Dec. 18th.
I.C. Carol Service
Holy Trinity Church, 1.00 p.m.
I.C. Choir. Service conducted
by Rev. Cleverley Ford.
Wed. Bee.19th.
R.C.S. Mat. Grand Christmas Party. 7.0 -
Hist. Soc. 10.30 p.m. Tickets 2/6d.
Thurs. Dec. 20 th.
Princess Louise Christmas Dance. 8.30 p.m.
Hospital Fancy Dress Optional. Admiss-
ion free.
11J111J J J JIJ J U S O F T B R - M 11 It 11111111
I.C.QS. AT L.UD.S. FESTIVAL
After reading more than 50 plays during the
Summer Vacation, and finally deciding to produoe
"SganareUta' by Moliere, Barbara Russell oan con-
sider herself unluoky. For, by sheer chance,
Battersea Polytechnic had also chosen to produoe
this particular play.
This was significant beoause the two produc-
tions oame first and seoond in the final placing
of the plays whioh had been performed during tha
three days of the festival. Unfortunately Imperial
gained the seoond plaoe, and to a great extent
this was due to the fact that the Battersea pro-
duction was Just by the merest fraction nearer to
the adjudicators* idea of how the play should be
done. There can be no doubt that i f the sooieties
had performed different plays the problem of
picking the better of the two productions would
have been even more difficult; as i t was, it was
still extremely close.
T. wright played Sgenarellei and using a
squeaky voioe and a variety of waspish attitudes
created a round full character, unfortunately
there was a lack of variety and pace in his de-
livery and mere shouting took the place of pointing
and subtlety. However i t was a strong performance
which the audience enjoyed.
It was a good production and I.C. deserved
their place. Congratulations to Barbara Bussell.
It has been a long time since I.C. appeared in
the first three at this festival.
PERSONAL
ADVERTISEMENT
Bmigrator must regretfully dispose of
1949 two stroke Ambassador, 197 oo., owned
for 5y years. Crash helmet (choice of two)
thrown in. Worth £45 and. eminently suitable
far learner, but in present crisis £25 is
optimistically hoped far, Fuel runs to 250
miles per month. All offers considered: apply
A.E. Bray, Room 117 Chem. Dapt, or Raok.
CHOIR CONCERT
Thursday, 6th December saw the hall of Queen
Alexandra's House comfortably filled, though not
packed, for the annual Christmas Concert of the
Musical Society.
The programme was nicely contrasting between
works ancient and modern, although i t might have led
the listener to believe that the voioe of musio was
silent between the years 1750 and 1950! The first
part of the concert began with Puree11's 'Chaoony
in G Minor', rendered with due solemnity by the Jaoques
Orchestra conducted by Imogen Hoist. Then f 11owed the
work commissioned for last Commemoration Day, 'The
Shepheard's Wonder', by Christopher Shaw. The unfamiliar
style of this pieoe makes i t difficult listening, though
a considerably deeper impression was left on the seoond
hearing. In Benjamin Britten's 'Antiphon' (first London
performance), and in the setting by Puroell of Psalm 3
in Latin, the Choir was very ably baoked-up by professio-
nal soloists. The first half of the concert ended with
three carols in which the audience was invited to Join.
Many hearts must have warmed as Miss Hoist, beaming
like a jolly schoolmistress, turned to the members of
the audience each time to sweep them with her dynamic
baton into 'tidings of oomfort and joy' ]
The seoond part of the oonoert was devoted to
works by Bach : three movements from the Suite No. 3
in D, followed by Cantata No. 140, "Sleepers Wakel",
in whioh the solo parts were again taken by the
professional singers.
The Concert was an undoubted •success and, thanks
to the Jacques Orchestra with Mr. nristopher Shaw
at the piano, to the professional soloists and, in
particular to the co-ordinating genius of Miss Hoist,
one was left with none of the feeling of having been
to an amateur performance.
At the end, a signed scroll was presented to Miss
Hoist by Mr. Geoffrey Shaw, the President of the
Musical Society, as a token of esteem for her great
services to I.C. Choir. The money whioh had been
oolleoted to make a presentation was instead to be
used, at Miss Hoist's wish, to buy dictionaries for
Hungarian students who are ooming to I.C. Miss Hoist
said how whe would miss the Tuesday evening rehearsals,
which were positive agony at times, and finished to
thunderous and well-deservec applause.
A d
u
m
b blonde we know wants to know i f a oenti-
metre is an inatrcotait for measuring B.O.
NOT YEAR RESOLUTION
If I'm not in bed by 10 o'clock I'm going ecu.).

