FELIX 15
LC.W. S.C.
Testerday ICISC had tha hockey Batch of the
season against QJKL Seven ef as turned up for the
match, four people having lost themselves on
the way. Undaunted, we borrowed two members
of the other team, and enjoyed an enjoyable
f i r s t half In the drizzling rain. Then through
the mist loomed three figures who played for
us In the second half. Injuries? A few bruises,
a damaged finger n a i l and a broken hockey stick.
This followes a hockey record of 2 won, 2 lost.
In squash we have won only one match this
term due to lack of experienced players. The
Netball team has lost only one league match,
and beat the men of the Zoology Dept. by 14-5.
Table Tennis has just lost two matches and had
deolded wins in i t s other two matches. Swimming
results have gradually Improved u n t i l l in the
last match against Goldsmiths and Westfield, we
registered very good wins over both.
Rather mixed reports unfortunately, and we
weuld welcome any freshers who will erne end
strengthen our ranks.
Squash Club out of U.L. Cup
The Squash Club has met with mixed fortunes
this term. Potentially the lst. team i s the
strongest since the days of Kenyon and his men.
However through one reason and another this
strength has not been born out i n practice.
We have lost twice to our greatest non Hospital
r i v a l s , Kings College. The second of these
defeats took place on Dec 9th. whem we lost by
2 ties to 1 in the l s t . round of the University.
3 a side Cup. Given a l i t t l e more good fortune
and no less s k i l l the score could have been
3-0 in our favour.
On Dec. 8th. a weakened lst. team encountered
a strong team of Welshmen from Cardiff University
and we were beaten 4-1.
The draw for the Whitly Cup Competition ia
shortly to be made and i t i s hoped that as many
Of the ties in the lst. round as possible w i l l
be played by the end of the tew*.
SOCCER
We are s t i l l finding i t Impossible to f i e l d
a regular side due to the unusually high number
of injuries we have encountered this season.
Had we been able to keep a regular team our
results would have been undoubtably more satis-
factory. The f i r s t eleven record to date i s ,
played won drawn lost
15 5 5 5
The last few games have been friendlies
against club sides. Each of these games have
been most enjoyable and i t is f e l t that i f only
the league games were played in the same atmos-
phere a better and more united team s p i r i t
would develope.
The 3rd. XI has again moved to the top of the
third division of the University League and
should gain two more points i n the last game
this term to be assured of promotion to Div- 2
next season.
It is hoped that the enthusiasm for the
lower teams w i l l remain u n t i l l the end of next
term as apart from the league games a good
program of friendly fixtures has been arranged.
H O C K E Y
On Sat lst. Dec. the lst. XI entertained
an unbeaten NPL. side at Harlington. IC.
played a.much improved game but f i n a l l y went
down 2-1 after fighting back strongly in the
second half. On Wed. 5th. Dec. IC. played
Kings i n the second round of the University
Cup and thoroughly deserved their 3-1 win.
Kings started well but weakened when Bbatnagan
scored two quick goals for IC. Owen increased
this lead soon after half time and Kings got
a consolation goal five minutes from the end.
IC. meet Charirg Cross and Royal Dental Hosp-
i t a l s at Harlington on Feb. 6th. for the semi- -
f i n a l .
ROWING
During the last two weeks the club has been
in active competition. On Dec. 1st. the 4th.
and 5th. eights went to Chiswlck to compete in
the University of London Winter Eights Regata.
The results of the days rowing ware that the
5th. VIII won the Junior Division but the 4th.
VIII were unfortunately disqualified In their
second heat. The cox had certainly moved too
far over into the Guys Hospital crew's water
but a disqualification seems to be a harsh
decision in a race between two realativly
inexperienced crews. Congratulations must be
extended to the 5th. VIII who won their f i n a l
in a faster time than the f i n a l of the Senior
Division.
On Sat. 8th. Dec. the club were hosts to
Lincoln College, Oxford lst. crew. The IC
lst. VIII raced over a Murphy course and
finished victors by 10 sees. (2£-3 lengths)
On Sunday 9th. both lst. and 2nd. VIIIs rowed
over a Head course with the ist. and 2nd.
crews from Vesta Rowing Club.
Next weekend, the last of the term, the
fresher eights and lower t r i a l eights w i l l
have a race over a two mile course. In the
afternoon the 2nd. 3rd. and 5th. eights compete
in the Thames Rowing Club 'Plum Pudding' eights
Regatta.
MOUNTAINEERING CLUB
On Friday Nov. 30th. the Mountaineering Club
held i t s last meet of the term. Twentyfive membei
joined in with ULMC who sent two coaches to the
Ogwen Valley.
Due to the weather any climbing of a really
high standard was out of the question but many
pleasant rock climbs were completed. 4 o'clock
Saturday afternoon saw most of the IC party
making their way towards the tents or the hut.
Others, however were less fortunate, having
run out of daylight whilst s t i l l climbing on
the East face of Tryfan. Rescue parties were
organised to help,the unfortunate ones and the
Very Lights signalling from one party to another
reminded one of Nov. 5th.
Sunday morning waa gloomy with that persistant
drizzle that is so common in Wales. Most people
however did some climbing and the three ICWArlan
•embers of the club apparently enjoyed their
climbing on the Idwal Slabs in spite of the
large excess of water on the rocks.
Sunday night provided much the same story
as Saturday night. Quite a few people found
themselves half way up a climb when the aun (?)
disappeared. As there was no moon they had
great d i f f i c u l t y in finding their way down to
the valley which they did about breakfast time
on Monday morning.
^ *ioo»^*^»ioo*4**^* ioo-*> • &• too-** • Q - XOO^-Q

