F E L I X
5 M 3$emt and 3
B
B
C TBE FIRST EDITOR,
So Felix is 100. It makes me, the first Editor,
feel even more ancient than the stresses and strains
of nine years at the College have made me look; ancient,
but rather smug that the paper we started in 1949 has
become a regular feature of College life. It also
provides n
v
e with the novel experience of being dunned
by the Editor for an artiole - the biter bit.
Of what oan one write on such an occasion? Of
the perfidy of Governments (various, according to
taste), the iniquitous oost of practically every-
thing desirable,the dilatoriness of union contractors,
the deplorable absence of present day Links in the
bar on Thursdays, the antics of the most explosive
President since Dai Nicholas left to get Big
Business 30rted out - these and many more such
subjeots would seem to be more properly the pro-
vince of the present staff of Felix. I think the
best thing to do is to recall the early days of
Felix.
It is axiomatic that the Golden Age of any
activity is that age in which one took part per-
sonally; the Age of Giants is that immediately
preceding it. Thus, the Age of Giants in the Onion
was the period immediately after the state of armed
oonfliot we knew as The War. The Golden Age was the
late IfO's and early 50's.
In both these Ages a vast reorganisation of
Union affairs took place, from which has emerged
the Union we know today. Moat of the students at
that time were ex-servicemen, mostly offioers,
wise beyond their years in the ways of this
wicked world. It was particularly fortunate that
this influx of administrative experience should
ooinoide with Dr. Hoyle becoming Treasurer; I
suspect that few people now at College realise
just how muoh we owe him .(not literally - read on)
for his tremendous efforts in putting the Union
finanoes on their present sound footing.
It was during a discussion in the bar (the
right plaoe for discussion, and not just bawdy
scrig) under the general heading "what oan bo done
to make the Union mare oohesive?", Derek H
o
w
e
suggested a College newspaper. This seemed a Good
Idea, and s t i l l did next day.
At that time Derek was Resident of- the Guilds
and a tower of strength in the Hookey Club, the
Dramatic Society and I
.
C
.
W
.
A
. He is now a monk of
great renown, having wearied of the sordid life we
lead and joined a Roman Catholic teaching Order.
When I last heard from him he was about to take
his final vows.
We got promises of support from what we
regarded as the key points in the Union, the
Athletic Clubs and the Mines (the Guilds we knew
would support Derek, who was a very popular
President. The R.C.S. would follow tamely enough,
but the Mines oould have wrecked it). Jimmy
Booth and John Taylor of the Mines joined us,
and Council voted a loan of, I think, £20 to
cover the fir3t issue on the understanding that
it would then be self-supporting.
Looking back on those early issues leaves
.'•<••' ' •
literary standard of many of our contributors,
and the often naive but essentially under-
graduate flavour of the articles. The birth of the
Beast was not without pain, but we had a lot of
fun, and i t ia most gratifying to see him s t i l l to
good fettle.
Reproduced from issue No. 3s
LAB. REPORT ^ c & 0
D by de Tees
'Twas newyer and eggs-harmpul sheets
were stacked.in pyalls on the flure
Ful fortine labbryports todo....
And hydears ffure and ffure.
Attuch on showlder sterkled^r »
.
and with ^sslck beesarr
the seeven deddly "don'ts" stepped out
from Lassie Leigh's Streetcar.
The f i r s t a Sage undressed me thuss
"DON'T wurk mlladd, but dooo
support the Onion, pray for eggzammes.
In ccarse wurk u've no clew."
The second with cordbreeks sowbrowne
A miss hapwas suss pecked.
"Don't slack old man, no time to waste,
Is sheet ten, nine" correct?"
A gladdsum trio hustled i n
"Don't f r i t t e r time up here -
coffe at Jane's is what you need
we've a l l tutorial clear."
An Old Central!an spoke up next
"Mow don't neglect the Arts,
do a l l your work, but row, dance, act.
Let Homer feed your hearts".
The Felix editor was last
•Don't f a i l to give support.
I f you dont write a piece for us
i t won't be what i t ought".
'Twas newyer and eggs-harapul sheets
were stacked i n py&lls i n front, behind.
FUl fortine labbryports todo
but this i s a l l that came to mind.
dts

