F E L I X
Heart? Christmas Greetings
to Jeltx I
B
l
e
a
b
e
r
s
e
The Editorship w i l l change hands i n the
Mew Year. The next two issues w i l l be edited
by Mr. David G r i f f i n (R.C.S. Chem 3.) with
the present Editor acting i n an advisory
capacity. Subsequent issues w i l l be edited
by Dave alone. Good luck to him 1
Over the past few weeks there have been
apparent i n student utterings more manifest-
ations of acrimony than usual. Some c l a r i f -
ication of the present situation should be
attempted.
Basically there are four factions making
up this college. F i r s t l y there i s the acad-
emic staff. Their function i s primarily to
contribute to the advancement of present day
knowledge of science and technology, and
secondarily to teach students so that those
also may eventually contribute. Secondly,
there i s the student body, whose function i t
is primarily to study - social and athletic
activity being only a necessary subordinate.
Thirdly there i s the non-academic staff,
underpaid yet most necessary..Lastly, there
is ths Administration. Their function i s to
see that the f i r s t three factions work togeth-
er smoothly. They are not paid to interfere
with the affairs of the other three sections
in cases when this i s not necessary for admin-
i s t r a t i n g purposes.
The Union holds no brief for the staff,
academic or otherwise. I t holds no brief
against them either. But i n shouting for
'student rights" one has to be careful. Be
who pays the piper calls the tune - and,
furthermore, although a bitter p i l l to swall-
ow, a university exists for i t s •sabers -
the graduates and staff. Undergraduates are
a eeans to an end which has to be tolerated.
You have the whole Christmas vacation to
think this over - please do not flood us
with hastily written hot-tenpered letters,
that section of the college i s being most
expended i n the present scheme ?
On the other hand, the undergraduate i s
en investor* He Invests three years of his
l i f e In en education his country wants
85,000 to have i n the next ten years. He
COUNCIL
NEWS
Counoil met on Monday evening, 3rd of December,
in the Upper Dining Hall. Arising out of the minutes
of the last meeting the President reported that the
Rector had disbanded the Commemoration Day Committee
an the grounds that the main lines of the ceremony
were now well established and that he saw no reason
for prolonging the life of a oommittee that had
finished its work. At the previous Counoil Meeting
we were informed that the Rector had also altered
the Hall Dinner Committee and had reduoed the student
representation from 5 to 2. However, he has since
agreed to re-include the 3 Vice-Presidents on the
Committee and it ia hoped that they will take the
opportunity to get Hall Dinner well and truly sorted
out.
It had been pointed out that the U.L.U. were
able to produce meals similar to those at I.C. for
3d. or 4d. a course cheaper because the salaries of
the permanent staff there were not charged against
the Refectory but were in fact treated as a charge
against the Administration.
The following sohedule for Christmas olosing
was agreed: (a) Ayrton Hall and Bar: Closed after
lunoh on 21st Deo. until lunch on Jan. 2nd.
(b) Union: Closed after lunch on 21 at Dso. until
lunoh on Jan. 34th. (o) Snack Bar: Closed.after
lunoh on 21st Deo. and open for breakfast only from
2nd to 14th Jan. and thereafter as before*
deserves some respect even i f he does not
deserve a l l the hostel accomodation etc.
that he claims. His Union deserves respect-
ful treatment. Could anything have happened
during 1996 to suggest that the Administrat-
ion neve been attempting to insinuate their
way into Student Union affaire ? Who i s
"generally responsible for the maintenance,
cleaning, and running of the College build-
ings, and particularly for amenities of the
College" ? Is i t always possible that those
l e s t seven words might be used to shield
meddling by a tentacle of the administrating
octopus ?

