had been a feature of life since the late
forties, and even those for whom this
was not a lifetime had lived through
the second world war even before that.
So why, then, was the longest period
in which Britain was not at direct risk
of becoming a battlefield since 1939 so
underappreciated?
The obvious answer would be that the
British public are innately ungrateful.
If my articles of previous weeks have
made but one point (which I daresay
some will contest) it is that the obvious
answer is, by and large, wrong. That is
not to deny that many are indeed dyed-
in-the-wool ingrates, as anyone step-
ping aside to let someone onto the tube
ahead of them can attest, and I do not
deny that it may be a significant factor.
Of greater significance, however, is the
very fact that the public had become so
used to the paranoia – why be grateful
for the removal of something which you
only notice once it has gone?
Perhaps it goes beyond that, also –
perhaps some actively resented such
a shift in values. Perhaps some had felt
the sense of fear as a safety blanket
of sorts, which is not as perverse as it
might seem, given the age-old British
obsession with stoicism. If anything, the
racial tensions underlying the current
state of affairs serve to further such
feelings amongst those who hold them
(albeit depending on their skin colour)
since the measures drawn up to combat
the current threat will not affect them
adversely, so can only prove to protect
them from the threat whose presence
they cherish.
Though, of course, you would be hard
pressed to find anyone who would state
outright that they wish to live in fear,
which shows either that people are not
conscious of this feeling or that I am
talking nonsense. I believe it to be the
former, but I would not begrudge any-
one to disagree.
Wielding the
mighty organ
I
’ve decided to adopt a moralising tone, having
spent the last week boring those within earshot
of me with my slightly (okay, maybe more than
slightly) pedantic rants on various political and
economic events, as well as offended a good pro-
portion of people who were on a number 52 bus with me
the other evening as I drunkenly shouted expletives and
questioned the legitimacy of birth of certain BBC news
reporters. You may have noticed recently that the world
seems to have gone insane. This is in fact normal and
nothing to be worried about. However, the level of insan-
ity appears to be increasing exponentially. For instance,
this whole Muslim veil row. While I will support your
right to think and say what the hell you want until you
prise the final martini out of my stiffening and rapidly
cooling fingers, I will not stand for any religious icons,
dress or teaching in publicly-funded schools. I don’t care
whether you wear a veil, a burkha, a huge mahogany
cross or whatever the Jewish hat thing is called outside
of the classroom; inside the classroom, these things
have absolutely no place.
I’m sure the above paragraph will have me in trouble
with Muslims, woolly-minded Guardian-reading liberals,
and probably a few Christians as well, so I’ll add a small
disclaimer: I’m not an Islamophobe, a Christianophobe,
or any other phobe. If the row had been that a teacher’s
crucifix had scared the children, I would not phrase my
argument any differently: religion has no place inside
publicly-funded schools. These schools should be the
one place that is free from political or cultural colour-
ing; in practice, of course, they aren’t, but I welcome any
step that takes us closer to this ideal.
By now, of course, you’ve realised an atheist. I’d go
as far as to label myself one of those Bertrand Russell-
reading, Tom Paine-loving anti-religionists. Again, I will
support your right to be religious, to read scripture, to
practice whatever traditions you see fit despite being an
atheist; I fervently believe that my personal belief sys-
tem should not be forced upon another, and would hope
that others would do the same.
My second “the world is utterly bonkers, I mean, walk-
ing-around-smeared-in-excrement-bonkers” argument
lies with the ridiculousness occurring at various student
newspapers. It seems slight criticism of authority brings
a vastly disproportionate response. Our old news editor,
Chris Miles, had the audacity of questioning the sabbs at
Bristol University’s Union, where he now works for their
newspaper, and the Union responded by trying to shut
down the newspaper by removing funding. This is only
a single example of a very dangerous trend (cf. London
Student, Roar). If you are elected to any public office,
you should expect scrutiny. You must be open and hon-
est. Doing so will gain you the respect of journalists, who
may in return cut you some slack when you need it.
Thawing the cold war
A
s with presumably eve-
ryone reading this, I was
born during the cold war.
Unlike some, however, I
have no real memories of
the time – in fact, my first memory of
any events outside my domestic sphere
was watching the news of the fall of the
Berlin wall when I was four years old.
Although I remember little before then
(and, if truth be told, little of the rest of
my life), I was fortunate enough to be
sufficiently aware of the political situ-
ation to understand the significance of
the event. Further to that, I was aware
of the change in people’s mindset over
the following years – in this post-war
day and age, there was no longer the
Damoclean bomb and the paranoia that
came with it, though the sense of relief
that might have been expected was, at
best, short-lived.
Since we are now in a situation where
the Western world is once again in the
midst of a war against a threat from the
East where at any moment we might all
be blown apart and, once again, there
is an almost palpable sense of paranoia
amongst the populace, it seems remark-
able that, between 1991 and 2001, the
public mood was not in some way more
ebullient. After all, the climate of fear
Hugh Stickley-Mansfield asks whether we really appreciate the
peaceful society in which we live or are we all just very ungrateful
“My first memory
of any events
outside my
domestic sphere
was watching the
news of the fall of
the Berlin wall”
W
ardening is a team ef-
fort. Over the last cou-
ple of weeks the whole
Linstead Wardening
Team, Hall manager,
and Hall Seniors have all been working
really hard to ensure that the Linstead
students are settling down well into
hall, are meeting people and enjoying
themselves. I’m really proud at the way
that everyone has worked together to
create a superb hall atmosphere.
Already we’ve had lots of events over
the last few weeks in order to help peo-
ple meet each other. As part of this we
have had a series of “Meet the War-
dens” parties held in my flat in Linstead
at which groups of the new students can
get to meet all of the wardening team
in a comfortable and relaxed environ-
ment. Linstead has 188 students so they
don’t fit into my flat all at once! Hence,
we have a series of five parties, and we
select people from different parts of hall
so that they get a chance to meet people
who aren’t their next door neighbours.
One of the big events of the year in
Linstead is the “Coming up dinner”
and this was held last night in a local
South Kensington Hotel. As you can see
above the whole wardening team at-
tends along with the hall manager and
the youngest member of the hall – three
year old Zara (my daughter)! It’s an op-
portunity to really dress up and enjoy a
Wardening the almighty organ
good atmosphere with great food and
entertainment. This dinner takes quite
a bit of planning from the wardening
team – selecting the venue; negotiating
the price; arranging for decorations;
selling tickets; planning the menu; ar-
ranging entertainment; and arranging
for drinks in the Hall beforehand. Then
‘counting them out’ and ‘counting them
all back in’. A few of the students were a
bit ‘worse for wear’ after the event and
we checked on them overnight to make
sure they were OK. It’s all worthwhile
as it’s a great event which brings every-
one together. It also gives us a chance
to toast the ‘Anonymous Benefactor’ –
the person who donated the money to
build Linstead Hall – it’s an enduring
mystery to us all who this person is…
Our next big event is the Linstead
Hall trip to Bruges. This involves a
5:00am start (do you stay up all night
or risk sleeping in…?). Each year we
have to go and wake up some poor stu-
dents who forgot to set their alarms!
The coach arrives at Dover a few hours
later and once on the ferry we all have
the chance to enjoy a good fry-up break-
fast. Just few hours later we arrive at
the ancient city of Bruges. We hand out
maps to everyone and Imperial College
descends on Bruges en masse. (130 peo-
ple are set to go this year). People have
a great time as there is lots to see in
this historic city – for example you can
take a boat trip; visit a museum; or even
stuff yourself silly with famous Belgium
chocolate. On our way back home we
call in at a Hypermarket where every-
one stocks up on their favourite French
and Belgium products – both liquid and
solid! We arrive back at College at about
23:00. Everyone has to drag themselves,
and all their shopping off the coach and
into the hall – probably the most diffi-
cult part of the whole trip.
Wardening is a fun but demanding
role. You have to be prepared to organ-
ize your life around the Hall, but in re-
turn you get to meet many interesting
and enthusiastic people and make a dif-
ference to their life at Imperial.
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB. Tel 020 7594
8072. Fax 020 7594 8065. Printed by The Northcliffe Press, Northcliffe
House, Meadow Road, Derby DE1 2DW. No 1,360, Friday 20 October 2006.
Registered newspaper ISSN 1040-0711. Copyright © Felix 2006.
Editor-in-chief Andy Sykes | Managing Editor Alex
Antonov | Deputy Editor Tomo Roberts | Science
Editor Krystyna Larkham | Business Editor Michael
Olymbios | Music Editors Matthew Hoban, Jenny
Gibson, Tom Whitson | Film Editor Angela Lee | Arts
Editor Emily Lines | Fashion Editor Dolly Delaney |
Nightlife Editor Alex Baldwin | Comment Editor
Stephen Brown | Environment Editor João Vitor
Serra | Clubs & Societies Editor Kirsty Patterson |
The Grammar Gestapo Andrew Somerville and Jesse
Garman |God Andrew Mason |
felix
Andy Sykes
Editor-in-chief
Anthony Cucernak
13
felix
Friday 20 October 2006
COMMENT & OPINION comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk

