unionpage
Imperial College Union, Beit Quadrangle, Prince Consort
Road, London SW7 2BB
Tel: 020 7594 8060
Drugs for Free
imperialcollegeunion.org
National Union of Students: to join or
not to join?
Last week I received a petition signed by over
600 students calling for a referendum on the
question of whether or not ICU should aﬃliate to
the National Union of Students. In the year where
Imperial becomes an independent university and
we are forced to deal with the consequences of our
withdrawal from the University of London Union,
external issues surrounding our access to national
and regional representation are fast becoming
matters of great importance to ICU. I am wholly supportive of this referendum
and I look forward to engaging fully in this debate over the next few weeks.
My own views on the NUS will be made clear in the comments section of Felix
in good time; however, I will refrain from commenting on oﬃcial Union pages
as these should always remain neutral. The word on the ground is that this
vote will go down to the wire so we can expect to see colourful campaigns,
heated debates, and (I hope) a whopping turnout this November. We havenʼt
held a referendum at Imperial College for ﬁve years so enjoy this moment
while it lasts!
Council elections
After what seems an age of waiting, the polls will ﬁnally open for elections to
the Union Council next week. Many positions are contested this time round
and voting in these elections simply could not be easier. All you need to do is
log in to our voting website at www.imperialcollegeunion.org/vote between
October 27th and 31st, select the election that you are interested in and then
enter a number (i.e. order of preference) next to the name of your preferred
candidate(s). I will send an email to all members whom are registered on our
mailing list advising how to vote next week. The results will be announced
in Da Vinciʼs at 12:30pm on November 2nd, but thatʼs not the end of it
because…
More elections!
There are still a handful of vacancies that we need to ﬁll as soon as possible.
There are positions available in the undergraduate natural sciences and
postgraduate engineering constituencies and the Welfare Campaigns Oﬃcer
position is also still vacant. We will be publicising advice on how you can
run for these positions shortly after we announce the results to the online
elections. It is likely that we will be running the next round of elections from
the ﬂoor at the third Council Meeting, which will take place on November
13th.
And finally
The mischievous Felix Editor has informed me that there is relatively little
news around at the moment and he has asked me to “screw something up” to
create a good news story. Clearly I am not trying hard enough and so I shall
endeavour to mess something up in time for the next Felix deadline.
John Collins
President
president@imperial.ac.uk
Update
from the President
Itʼs an inevitable fact of life that at some point
you are going to fall ill. This may be no more
than a ﬂu which requires a few days in bed and
some TLC, but there are other cases in which you
will need to seek medical help and this can often
mean you will be issued with a prescription. And
that means money – for each prescription you are
issued with you will be charged £6.65. For one-
oﬀ cases that may not sound like much, but for
ongoing treatment the costs can quickly add up.
Luckily itʼs not all bad news. Anybody on a low
income, including students, can apply for help
with their health costs. This covers not only
prescriptions but dental care, eye tests and
glasses, dental treatment and (if, like me, you
suﬀer with a rapidly receding hairline) even wigs. Virtually all students will
qualify for this support and you simply need to ﬁll in an HC1 form which is
available from the Health Centre (in Princeʼs Gardens) or online at www.ppa.
org.uk. The form can take up to six weeks to be processed, so to make sure
you enjoy all the beneﬁts of cost free druggy goodness, ﬁll it now before you
fall ill.
Having had a sizeable chunk of October to settle in, it
might be beginning to dawn on most postgraduates
what a diﬀerent kettle of ﬁsh their next stage of their
education.
To many Masters students, the intensity of their
courses may come as a shock (or to those hard-
working few a relished challenge!). Donʼt worry, if you
donʼt know what Iʼm talking about, you will do soon
enough as youʼre inundated with twice the amount of
papers to read per course than you might have had for
all your courses combined in one undergraduate year!
For many, using a Masters as an opportunity to
change their primary focus of study, or those coming
from a foreign country, this task is made all the
more mammoth as they struggle with the advanced
terminology. I hope the lost Greek students from the
Hammersmith campus who came up to me yesterday
with 1,001 (albeit valid!) questions were able to ﬁnd
the glossary of biological terms (a.k.a. “Hendersonʼs”) I
recommended to them. Not to mention the best places
to go for discounts of course!
For those of you doing a PhD and rubbing your hands
with glee at not having to do another exam for as
long as you live (unless youʼre unlucky and by some
chance your professor enrols you onto a course!),
things might seem rosy. Indeed your life might seem
an incarnation of Parisian café culture as you go for
endless intellectual meetings with supervisor and
peers alike (although this is more likely to be at the
Senior Common Room than the charming little place
on Gloucester Road). Fear not, your time will soon
seem to have ﬂown by you and youʼll ﬁnd yourself
panicking to make those damned experiments work
whilst simultaneously ﬁnishing oﬀ a 100,000-word
thesis before your funding and the “lavish” lifestyle it
sustains, go out the window.
Life as a postgraduate can be a surprise and quite
diﬀerent from anything youʼve experienced before.
Youʼll have more independence to pursue your own
interests but this may also be accompanied with full
responsibility and many of you may ﬁnd the pressure
of this latter point stressful. Many might also ﬁnd
that they are simply not in the right lab or with the
right supervisor. Some may even feel bullied and feel
so strongly dissatisﬁed that they desperately want to
change their situation. Others might be upset with the
course content as the prospectus may have misled
them somewhat. Yet others may be adamant about
their exam papers being remarked as they simply could
not have done that badly. The list goes on and on and
can be as long and varied as the number of diﬀerent
programmes on which people can enrol on here
Imperial College. Each individual can have their own
individual set of problems; this is what can make being
a postgraduate a bit more frustrating as you may feel
that no-one will understand your particular problem or
you donʼt know where to turn.
If you have pursued every local avenue that is available
and you feel like youʼre banging your head against a
brick wall, there is still one more possibility open to
you and that is me. Iʼm the postgraduate representative
at the Studentsʼ Union and many may already have met
me. But if not, I tend to reside with my cups of coﬀee
(and yes you can talk to me over your very own free cup
of coﬀee) in the ﬁrst ﬂoor oﬃces of the Union Building
at Beit Quadrangle.
My job is also made more eﬃcient and my
representation of the postgraduate community more
accurate by the Graduate Studentsʼ Association (GSA).
Every postgraduate is automatically a member of this
association and can come along to any of its meetings,
but a select few may wish to get more involved by
holding more prominent positions in its committees.
The committees are
comprised of the Activities
Committee, the Academic
Aﬀairs Committee
and the Executive
Committee (which has
representatives from both
other committees and the
Sabbatical team).
The Activities Committee
consists of anyone whom
wishes to help host events
for the postgraduate
community. Many of you may (or may not!) feel that
you want to do something diﬀerent from your average
undergraduateʼs night out and so can opt to attend the
Activities Committee meetings to put in your two cents.
There are oﬃcial positions within the Committee such
as the Activities Co-ordinator and the Communications
Oﬃcer (who looks after publicity such as the website,
ﬂyers and posters). Remember that your ideas should
be as varied as the postgraduates the GSA represents,
who can be anything from the age of 21 upwards (or
alternatively, have the mental age and intentions of
an 18 year-old!), be married or single, enjoy the ﬁner
things in life, want to explore London and so on.
It can be an exciting and challenging occupation
catering to such diverse needs and we tried to do
this at our successful “Showtime” event on Monday
2nd October. Your inboxes were probably inundated
ad-nauseum with information about this event, but
it was your chance to meet a huge community of
postgraduates existing and new at Imperial-this was
exempliﬁed by the 500-strong attendance! The next
event we are proposing to do jointly with the Royal
College of Art and the Royal College of Music on the
November 9th in dBʼs. So come down if you want to
discover an interesting melange of people, music and
art performances!
The Academic Aﬀairs committee is composed mainly
of Faculty Research and Taught Representatives. If you
want a list for your faculty, please email me; they will
convey any complaints on to me.
This year, the GSA also hopes to gain many external
aﬃliations for those of you with career aspirations
other than academia. For example we already have
the opportunity to sell discounted memberships to
the Chartered Management Institute (ranging from
£30-£45, normal individual memberships cost £50). If
you are interested in building career contacts, the GSA
is also hoping to work closely with Imperial College
Finance Society (ICFS) in order to hold a careers fair
more speciﬁcally aimed at postgraduates. With their
unique set of skills, many postgraduates can command
higher salaries and more bespoke roles than provided
in an average Graduate scheme, but many do not
know this and often companies do not advertise these
opportunities well enough.
On top of this we are hoping to hold a special GSA
Centenary event in the Spring/Summer term. There
will be a conference during the day (speakers are yet
to be conﬁrmed but lets just say that every one of you
will have heard of them!) followed by an evening of
entertainment. Watch this space and contact me if you
want to get involved.
Please visit www.imperialcollegeunion.org/gsa for
more information on the oﬃcers of the GSA and its
constitution. People are still being elected to these
posts throughout October so keep your eyes peeled for
a chance to vote them online.
If you want to email me: dpgs@imperial.ac.uk.
Shama Rahman
Deputy President
(Graduate Students)
dpgs@imperial.ac.uk
Welcome Message
From the Deputy President (Graduate Students)
Ben Harris
Deputy President
(Education & Welfare)
dpew@imperial.ac.uk

