Manifestos For Union Autumn Elections 2006
Equal Opportunities Officer 1 Position
Syed Junaid
No manifesto submitted...
Thomas Brodrick
The American writer Laurence Peters once said “equal opportunity means everyone will have a fair chance at being incompetent.” This quote best sums up why I am standing for
the position of the ICU Equal Opportunities Oﬃcer. Itʼs not because certain groups deserve a head-start over others in life (in what some refer to as ʻpositive discriminationʼ), but
because everyone really is the same underneath it all. One human being can succeed, or fall short, in the same way any other can.
As Equal Opportunities Oﬃcer, I would ensure that ICU facilities, clubs, societies and other opportunities involving union life stay accessible to everybody. I would also support
events that help to promote equal opportunities in the college.
Most of all, I want Imperial to remain the diverse and welcoming place that it currently is; in a truly equal environment, anyone can achieve greatness.
Councillors: Undergraduate Engineering 4 Positions
Edo Abraham
Hey to all you Engineers. I hope you are enjoying the new academic year so far, and that it will be a year of fun and success for you all. I am Edo Abraham - a 3rd Year EEE student
on an MEng course. I would like to tell you that I will do more than just attend all the council meetings and vote on issues key to your experience at IC. I will also make sure that
your ideas, concerns and expectations are heard at the meetings. I know I have the genuine interest, the discipline, competence and motivation to follow through my promises.
So go on…letʼs make a better Union Council, and vote for Edo! - enjoy the rest of the year.
Joao Serra
No manifesto submitted...
Nicholas Simpson
No manifesto submitted...
Steven King
No manifesto submitted...
Yanyan Huang
No manifesto submitted...
Councillors: Postgraduate Engineering 2 Positions
Ashley Brown
With both the college and the union looking for better postgraduate representation it is important for us to make our views known. Whilst undergraduates can understand many of
the issues unique to postgrads, they often do not hear of them. Strong postgraduate representation is important, particularly with a growing number of postgrads engaging with
union.
I donʼt avoid diﬃcult questions or tolerate weak answers and demonstrated this last year. Iʼve now been at Imperial as an undergrad for 4 years and postgrad for 1 year, so am well
aware of the vast assortment of problems met by both groups. More importantly, I know the ways to resolve them.
Vote me to have your concerns voiced and interests taken into account.
Councillors: Undergraduate Natural Sciences 4 Positions
Derek Wan
In an environment where student issues inevitably aﬀect you, your opinions maybe all you have to count on. But when some voices are louder than others, how do you make sure
you get heard? Your best bet is to vote for someone who can and will make that happen! My promise is an unselective, professional student representation. Please vote conﬁdently
for me as I have served the Council last year and possess further experience from other student processes. Voting for me is voting for a better student body. Thanks all!
Zhibing Hu
No manifest submitted
Councillors: Postgraduate Natural Sciences 1 Position
Alex Guite
Itʼs a time of immense change in Imperial College Union: withdrawal from the University of London Union, a make or break year for the new Graduate Studentsʼ Association, a
radical Governance Review about to be implemented and a Union Building refurbishment which must have at its heart a commitment to sustainable design.
Now more than ever, Union Council must be more than a talking shop. I have experience which spans the Union, from setting up and chairing societies to leading a Faculty
Union. As an Ordinary Member of Council last year I took a lead on opposing the Collegeʼs crazy dress code, fought to keep the Queenʼs Lawn free of portakabins when College
management tried to sneak it past us during Easter and I lead the campaign to ban smoking from the Union Building.
If you elect me I pledge to be an open and approachable advocate of your views.
Councillors: Non Faculty 1 Position
Andy Sykes
Iʼm standing for this position in order to get a vote on Council. At the moment, I have no say whatsoever in the governing bodies of the Union. I can write about it, I can attempt to
hold the Union and the Sabbs to account for what they do, but I cannot change it. Vote for me over RON to see a Felix Editor sit on Council.

