imperialcollegeunion.org/vote
Councillors: Undergraduate Medicine 3 Positions
Kapil Sugand
Donʼt you think itʼs incredible how our medical school is one of the best in Europe within only 10 years of existence? Now, that makes me a proud
Imperial Medical student and I, Kapil Sugand (3rd year), want to represent YOU as your ICSM Union Councillor!
I am an active committee member of medical societies such as Surgical Society and The Great Escape Run. Furthermore, I participate in charitable
and cultural societies including Marrow and ICSMART. These keep me involved in the medical school and enable me to establish and maintain
contact with colleagues in all six years.
As a former Year Representative, I successfully dealt with educational and social issues in a team and individually. Now as Union Councillor for Medicine I wish to
represent everyone. I promise to voice your concerns and expectations and keep you informed about YOUR Union.
Allow me to represent YOU!
Anojan Arulananthan
No manifesto submitted...
Jitin Verma
No manifesto submitted...
Zain Sikafi
In my four years at IC a lot has happened. Our students are in increasing debt and IC has withdrawn itself from the University of London, to name
a few signiﬁcant events. Real representation is needed to make a diﬀerence.
I believe I can make that diﬀerence. Having led and played signiﬁcant roles in sustaining several societies at Imperial I learned quickly how to
run committees and take control of projects. Such experience empowered me to work with several charities co-ordinating nationwide appeals for
water-aid in East-Africa as well as Iraqi & Palestinian relief projects. I also believe in social responsibility and am currently leading youth sports
schemes aiming to encourage the development and integration of children from disadvantaged and ethnic backgrounds through sports.
Voting for me means you are voting for social responsibility, genuine representation, and real experience that will matter when standing up for what YOU believe in.
Zubair Sarang
“Itʼs a wonderful feeling to know that we are part of a global network of universities that represent excellence in what we do. We as students play a
critical role in that excellence and itʼs true to say that oneʼs daily life at university can play a part in determining that success.
Many issues have to be faced by us as students. Are our halls up to high standards of living? How about the food in halls? Is my union and its
branches a haven of hope when I need them? Am I getting all the possible beneﬁts and support from a well funded university? Can food at lunch
times be made healthier?
As your councillor I would love to hear and debate your views at council meetings. I will endeavour to hold surgery days regularly; my email inbox also welcomes what
you think should be done on many topical issues.
Councillors: Postgraduate Medicine 1 Position
David Bonsall
Since I joined ICSM four years ago I have maintained an active role in numerous projects run by the union and many of its clubs and societies. I led a
successful RAG team between 2004-2005, and experienced the workings of the union ﬁrst hand. I have gained a realistic insight into the importance
of the union body, but I also recognise its current limitations, particularly in underrepresenting the postgraduate medical students. The welfare of every
student is at the heart of this position. I am highly approachable, proactive, and a good listener and I pledge to actively seek-out, and represent the
views of Imperialʼs Postgraduate Medical Studentʼs.
ULU Delegates 3 Positions
Furquan Kidwai
I am a friendly and outgoing person and most importantly willing to help you out in anyway possible.
Have academic and practical knowledge of Finance: Currently studying for an MSc in Financial Engineering and Risk Management and have completed
several internships in Investment Banks.
Have excellent communication skills through interaction with wide range of students from PGs to Undergraduates: Trustee of the Studentsʼ Union, Senate
Rep for the Faculty, Student mentor, Student ambassador and active involvement in student societies.
Have leadership and team working qualities: University Court member, Faculty board member, Delegate in MUN Conference.
Actively involved in University sports; Cricket team Captain at university and college.
Acquire more funding for the GSA.
Bring transparency to GSA accounts through ﬁnancial prudence.
Promote equal spending on graduate students from other campuses.
Cater for the diverse postgraduate community through a separate diversity budget.
Encourage focussed discussion and policy on topics that Imperial … (Edited for word limit
Lin Mei
My name is Lin Mei. Last year I was awarded full colours for my service to the GSA. This year I stand for the position of ULU delegate.
ULU is such an organization: the more we put into it, the more weʼll get from it. Therefore, Iʼm not going to make any fancy promises. What I will do, is to
represent EXACTLY YOUR decision in the council. Above that, I endeavour to STRENGTHEN YOUR VOICE in the ULU so that your concerns and suggestions
will be fully understood and pushed forward.
We pay huge for ULU membership. Letʼs MAKE FULL USE of it. It is my commitment that there shall be intensive communication between ICU and ULU and
more collaboration opportunities between us and other ULU members, resulting in more tangible welfare and interesting activities for YOU.
Vote for LIN MEI, see a diﬀerence to be made.
Varun Reddy
No manifesto submitted...
RON Re Open Nominations - Steven Brown
RON would re-name “Equal Opportunities Oﬃcer” to “Athletics Union President”. Lets stop this position on council being completely pointless and turn it in to
something that people will care about.
RON would bar all medics from taking part in the democratic process. RON believes that so-called medical professionals who are incapable of curing athletes
foot should not be allowed the vote.
RON believes that the GSA is a bit pointless, shouldnʼt need any representatives and that any postgrad who thinks otherwise should sod oﬀ and get a real job.
RON believes we donʼt really need to send delegates to the mockery of a sham that is ULU Council as the bloody thing is never quorate and Imperial is leaving
UL anyway.
RON would let City & Guilds assume control of RCSU, purely on account of the fact that hardly any of the scientists were bothered enough to stand for election.
Voting
opens
online
at
00:01
Fri
27th
October
and
closes
23:59
Tue
31st
November

