Quit it with the monkey business
Has Horizon lost its credibility as a leading science program investigating whether Chimps Are People Too
Horizon has employed its first
live human presenter – the offbeat
writer and self-confessed non-sci-
entist Danny Wallace. His mission
was to investigate the premise that
Chimps Are People Too. How far
did the programme succeed in ex-
ploring this claim? Did it meet Ho-
rizon’s usual standards? And was it
worth watching?
Wallace fittingly spent much time
observing or ‘hanging out’ with our
closest ape cousins, whether run-
ning free in the wilds of Africa or
confined within research centres in
the US and Europe. We saw chim-
panzees vocalising in the Ugandan
forest, co-operating in tasks at the
Edward Wawrzynczak Max Planck Institute in Leipzig,
and learning from each other at
the Yerkes Primate Center in At-
lanta. Between demonstrations of
such human-like behaviours, the
presenter acted as our enthusias-
tic guide and interpreter, sharing
his thoughts, feelings and opinions
with us.
Memorably, we also visited the
facility that is home to a fam-
ily of bonobo chimps, another close
cousin of ours. There Wallace met,
communicated and played with the
famous Kanzi. This ape has learnt
to understand a vocabulary of more
than 500 words and to ‘talk’ by the
use of symbols. For more than twen-
ty-five years, primatologist Sue Sav-
age-Rumbaugh has raised a small
group of these apes as if they were
part of her own family. She is dis-
missive of research involving caged
animals and is convinced that if you
treat a bonobo like a person, it will
become more like a person.
There were moments when
Danny’s tongue-in-cheek wit was
genuinely funny. In the jungle,
he looked affronted when St. An-
drew’s researcher Katie Slocombe
informed him that chimps are five
times stronger than the average
human male. He boasted of being
at least ‘half-chimp’ and wondered
if the chimps would challenge him
to arm wrestle. “I’ve got tactics,”
he bragged to Katie’s bemusement.
Pausing only briefly, she whispered:
“They’ll probably just kill you.”
“Good tactics,” observed the in-
stantly deflated Danny.
Sadly, as the programme wore
on, the cheap laughs became over-
whelming. Wallace’s attempts to
canvass support for a campaign to
recognise chimps as people at a
Royal Society meeting were fatu-
ous. A ludicrous test for pherom-
ones involving T-shirt sniffing, tied
in with the customary images of
lab paraphernalia and white-coated
scientists, lacked merit. And a shot
of bonobos enthusiastically copu-
lating was simply gratuitous. Most
disappointing was that all this tom-
foolery diverted attention from the
real story.
We have come to understand
more and more about our evolu-
tionary relationship to chimpan-
zees since the time of Darwin. But
it was only last year that we were
able to put a precise number on just
how close that genetic similarity is.
Remarkably, the DNA making up
the genomes of human and chimp
is more than 99% identical. Yet it is
plain to see that we are different.
Why? We were given hints that the
reason must lie in the 1% or so of
DNA that we do not share, and that
this has something to do with our
big brains, but these tantalising ob-
servations were not followed up.
Where Horizon feared to tread,
Channel 4 pressed ahead un-
daunted. It handled the subject
altogether better in a two-part pro-
gramme What Makes Us Human,
which aired over the summer. In
this, Imperial scientist and author
Armand Marie Leroi introduced us
to the biology believed to underlie
the uniqueness of humans. With
urbanity and understated humour,
he explained how specific genetic
changes are thought to have driven
a relatively recent and rapid evolu-
tion of the human brain.
The human brain has trebled in
size since humans and chimpan-
zees last shared a common ances-
tor. In particular, the expansion of
the cerebral cortex, the part of the
brain that we use to do our think-
ing, has pushed human capabilities
far beyond those of our ape-like
ancestors and their non-human
descendents. We have developed
new cognitive abilities – the use
of complex syntax, the capacity to
interpret one another’s intentions,
and the skill to imitate the actions
of others – that appear to have been
critical to the formation of human
society and culture.
Clearly, traits such as tool-use and
language, which were once seen as
characteristics able to distinguish
humans and apes, are no longer so
definitive. But the skills shown by
chimps are only rudimentary com-
pared with those of humans – they
are limited in their capabilities
because their brains do not work
in the same way that ours do. So,
chimps are not human – and they
cannot be people – even if some of
us would like them to be.
Our uniquely human qualities
have allowed us to dominate and
manipulatethenaturalworldandits
creatures. Ironically, this was per-
fectly demonstrated by two scenes
from the Horizon programme. In
one, we saw chimps within a fenced
compound being trained for Holly-
wood and our entertainment. In the
other, we saw the bonobos in their
enclosed research centre being ob-
served in the name of science and
our enlightenment.
Horizon has strayed into the
fuzzy territory somewhere between
entertainment and enlightenment.
There is clearly something engag-
ing about a cheeky chappie mess-
ing around with comical chimps
and the prospect of slapstick tom-
foolery not too far away. But this
is surely a new concept – Horizon
‘Lite’ – offering a flavour that may
appeal to a larger audience but with
an aftertaste that is definitely less
satisfying.
While there is a role for science
with a smile, and scope for novel
approaches to popularisation, let
us hope that this is not achieved
by trivialising research and those
engaged in it. Indeed, it would be
a great disservice to the viewing
public if scientists were turned into
freaks at the circus for the sake of
the clowns.
Watch TV? Write about it.
Contact us. Now.
tv.felix@imperial.ac.uk
The first live presenter of Horizon, Danny Wallace, poses for the camera.
A still from Quentin Tarantino’s latest cinematic offering.
Horizon: Chimps Are People Too explores the differences between chimp and human capabilities.
26 felix Friday 20 October 2006
TV tv.felix@imperial.ac.uk

