City explained: derivatives demystified
Read the FT on any given day and
there is usually more than one ar-
ticle full of derivatives jargon: op-
tions, futures, swaps, CDOs, CDS,
exotics, hybrids…the list is end-
less. Warren Buffet once described
financial derivatives as “weapons
of mass destruction”, Alan Green-
span and the countless number of
investors (or is that speculators?)
certainly didn’t seem to think so.
The rise of derivatives and their
use over the last decade alone has
been startling. Look at Goldman
Sachs’ balance sheet and you can
quite easily see that income gener-
ated from the sales and trading rev-
enue streams, of which derivatives
form a large part, outstrips M&A
advisory income four times over.
The industry in its current incar-
nations has been around in some
shape or form since the 70s, when 3
academics from the Chicago Grad-
uate School of Business – Myron
Scholes, Fischer Black and Robert
Merton – developed the Black-Sc-
holes option pricing model. Futures
have been traded on the Chicago
Board of Trade (CBOT) since the
mid-nineteenth century. The more
quantitative development of areas
such as credit derivatives has hap-
pened more recently. A financial
derivative is described most sim-
ply as a financial contract which is
valued on some underlying asset or
event. This asset or event can liter-
ally be anything – stocks, currency,
wheat, weather, England winning
the World Cup.
Lets stick to wheat, for simplicity.
Imagine a farmer who has a field
on which he grows crops of wheat.
In order to grow this wheat, the
farmer has put forward a certain
amount of initial outlay of capital,
maybe it was his own, maybe he
borrowed it. Either way, he had to
pay for the land, prepare it, seed it
and water it. He also would have
bought fertilizers and pesticides. In
order to make money, his expendi-
ture needs to be lower than his in-
come, simple. His ability to make
money is determined on 2 factors:
the amount of wheat he sells (vol-
ume) and the market price of the
wheat. For argument’s sake, lets
discount the volume, and so price
becomes the overriding factor, and
he has an exposure to changes in
the price. If it goes up, he will earn
more, if it goes down it will squeeze
his margins. There is a risk that the
price could fall below what it costs
him to produce the wheat, mean-
ing he will run losses. This is where
derivatives come in. He can enter
into a derivative contract to man-
age that price risk, he could sell the
wheat in the future but at today’s
price, or another mutually agreed,
fixed price. This is a forward con-
tract, or a future.
In essence, what the farmer has
done is eliminated uncertainty in
his future earnings; he is protected
from a huge fall in the price, but
equally must give up any extra
profit if it rises. Fine, but who wants
to buy wheat forward? Someone
with the opposite need, say a baker.
A baker needs the wheat to make
his bread and he may well have ex-
actly the opposite risk exposure as
the farmer: if wheat prices rise, the
farmer gains but the baker loses
out, if they fall, the farmer loses out
but the baker gains. This is a deliv-
ery settled derivative contract. One
can speculate of course, and this
is where cash settled derivatives
come into play. You agree a price
in the contract, called the strike
price, but you don’t actually have
the wheat delivered to your door.
The farmer merely enters into
the contract with a dealer, say an
investment bank, without disrupt-
ing his own trading relationships.
If the price rises above the strike
price, the farmer must give up the
difference between the actual price
and the strike price to the dealer
in cash, if it falls below the strike
price, the dealer will pay the farmer
the difference.
Herein lies the problem, the farm-
er must always give up the extra
revenue he would have generated if
the price rises had he not entered
into a futures contract. He doesn’t
have to; he could enter into an op-
tions contract instead, more spe-
cifically in the case of the farmer a
put option. A put is essentially an
insurance against the price of the
wheat falling. If it falls below the
strike price of the put, the farmer
is paid the difference by the dealer.
If it rises, the farmer need never
exercise the option and hence can
reap the rewards of the price rises.
He must of course pay the dealer a
premium for the option, called the
option premium, just like premium
paid to an insurance company for
car insurance. The premium is de-
termined on the risk exposure the
dealer assumes on entering into
the contract. So we’ve helped the
farmer, what about the baker? He
is worried about price rises, so he
could purchase a call option, if the
price is below the strike price he
can continue to buy at the market
price, as soon as it hits the strike
price the option triggers and the
dealer must now offset the extra
cost of purchasing wheat.
The example of the farmer and
baker is quite elementary of course,
and the risks involved are hedged
quite easily, this is not always the
case. The investment banks in es-
sence act as the dealers, they as-
sume the risks, repackage them,
and shift them off their balance
sheet onto someone else. In short,
someone else holds the ticking time
bomb.
Imperial’s entrepreneurs challenge
Monday 9 October marked the
launch of the Entrepreneurs Chal-
lenge for the forthcoming academic
year. The annual prize fund of £55
000 attracted undergraduates and
faculty alike, from all disciplines.
Any individual – regardless of their
previous experience – is invited to
use the two-part competition as a
forum for exploring business ideas
without financial risk.
Although as many as 350 000 busi-
nesses open their doors each year
in the UK, just as many go into liq-
uidation. Bizhelp, a website provid-
ing assistance to small businesses,
identified ten major reasons for
companies failing. “Lack of skills”
tops the list. Many people have
excellent ideas, but are deficient
in the technical, management and
marketing skills needed to put their
concept into effect. The challenge
gives such people the opportunity
to harness the experience of indus-
try professionals, whilst at the same
time enhancing their knowledge.
For the first part of the challenge,
known as the “Ideas Challenge,”
entrants must submit a two-page
business plan with a 1 200 word-
limit. The pro-forma includes vari-
ous headings such as “who is your
market?” Learning events, includ-
ing lectures from the Tanaka Busi-
ness School, and one-on-one tu-
torials, are available to those who
apply. The competition closes on 20
November. Details on how to enter
can be found on the website listed
below. There are 10 prizes of £1,000
and 10 of £250 which shall be award-
ed on 7 December at 18.00 in room
220 Mechanical Engineering.
Thesecondpartofthecompetition
is “The New Business Challenge.”
This requires entrants to expand
their ideas further and produce a
10-page plan. This comprehensive
proposal needs to include technical
information such as cash-flow esti-
mates. Teams must then present a
marketing-pitch to a panel of inves-
tors and judges, a nerve-racking,
but potentially rewarding event.
The first prize is £25,000 (£15,000
on paid services), there are two
runner-up prizes of £5,000 (£3,000
paid services) and seven £1,000
cash prizes. In the past, the entire
prize was in cash. Unfortunately,
some teams would spend it on their
business, and others would indulge
themselves. Thenceforth, part of
the prize can only be spent on serv-
ices for launching a new company.
Last year, there were 300 entries,
most of whom were undergradu-
ates with no experience.
All the teams took something pos-
itive from the experience. Whether
or not their ideas were taken fur-
ther, their business knowledge
grew, they learnt to structure their
thinking and they learnt to sell an
idea. The experience entrants ac-
quire, makes an impressive ad-
dition to any resume, in a world
where universities are churning
out thousands of talented people.
Apply on www3.imperial.ac.uk/
entrepreneurship/
entrepreneurschallenge
“To succeed in business it is necessary to make others see things as you see them.”
Goldman Sachs’ income from derivatives sales and trading four times that of M&A
Jayraj Chokshi
Business Correspondent
The international petrolium exchange is a one of the largest futures exchanges for energy products
New business challenge winning team “Intervent” and runners-up “Nap-ease” and “A-fix” 23 March 2006
Michael Olymbios
Business Editor
5
felix
Friday 20 October 2006
BUSINESS business.felix@imperial.ac.uk

