Amnesty
International
CLUBS & SOCIETIES
ICYHA
.'.f
.'V.^; -. 1
Name: Amnesty International
Occupation: Human Rights Watchdog
Place of Birth: England
Date of Birth: 1961
Homfe address: in any of 110 countries
Height: 340km (if you stood the 200,000
members one on top of the other).
Distinguishing features: vilified by both the
CIA and KGB.
Qualifications: consultative status with the
UN, UNESCO, and observer status with the
Organisation for African Unity.
Qualities: perserverance, objectivity
Failing: never makes allowances for tyrants
Hobbies: denouncing dictators
Aim in Life: to ensure that the Universal
Declaration of Human Rights is observed.
Motto: "Je ne suis pas d'accord avec ce que
vous dites, mais je me battrai jusqu'au bout
pour que vous puissiez le dire" Voltaire.
If you would like to know more about
Amnesty International come to our first
meeting on Tuesday October 12 at 5:30pm in
the Brown Committee Room.
Jewish
Society
For those interested in Kosher lunches, a local
businessman has very kindly opened his
canteen to Jewish students and staff, and on
Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday, October
12-14, anyone new who would like to visit the
canteen is asked to meet at Beit Arch at
12:40pm.
Happy New Year.
The Committee
LOOKSEE
by Mobile Optics Inc.
Neapolitan Art
Why is it that October, with the start of the
new academic year, should be far more a
month of beginnings and of good resolutions
than January ever is? A fresh crop of freshers
(!), in smart, dark jeans and neat haircuts must
have something to do with it. But even when
the chaos of Freshers' Week and unfamiliar
timetables has subsided, the crisp autumn
days that come between the drizzle and
downpour seem far more envigorating,
mentally, than a biting wind on New Year's
Day. Autumn is also the time that the galleries
get into a higher gear again, after a somnolent
summer, and the new season's major
exhibitions open. So I've paid a visit to the
Royal Academy of Arts to see the exhibition
'Painting in Naples, 1606-1705', which started
on October 2.
It's quite a large exhibition, over 150
paintings, dating from the arrival of Caravaggio
in Naples in 1606, to the end of Luca
Giordano's career in 1705.
Opening up Britain; our program for this term:
Oct 15-17 Peak District (Derbyshire); Oct 29-
31 Lulworth (Dorset); Nov 12-14 Quantock
Hills; Nov 26-28 Snowdonia; Dec 10-12
Yorkshire Dales. Come along, and get away
from it all.
Veg Soc
Vegetarian meals are available for Mr
Mooney's freshers' dinners; if you want one,
then inform who is organising the meal, and in
addition either visit the catering officer on level
1 of Sherfield, or find a catering manager on
the night, at least thirty minutes before the
start of the meal. A list of vegetarian dishes is
available from the Vegsoc Committee.
PG Group
Just a note to say that there will be the first
social event on Thursday October 21. This will
a ploughman's lunch at 12:30pm (lunchtime)
in the Union Concert Hall (Union Building, 2nd
floor). Tickets £1 will be on sale from next week.
They are available from the Union Office.
As various committee posts are vacant elec-
tions or voluntary conscription will be held at
the ploughman's lunch. The post are really just
to help in organizing future social events, so if
anyone is interested please come along.
If anyone is interested in organizing
the ploughmans lunch, wants a chat, is lost, I
can be contacted through the Union Office.
Bye for now.
John Passmore
r e v i e w s :
I find Italian history incredibly complex, so
resorted to an old schoolbook for the historical
background to the Neapolitan school of
painting. Italy had been part of the Holy
Roman Empire since 1530 and in 1559 fell by
treaty to the Spanish branch of the Hapsburgs.
As such the Kingdom of Naples was controlled
by strong Spanish garrisons and ruled by
viceroys who imposed crushing taxation. The
city of Naples, with its large port, was the
administrative capital and a centre of banking
and trade. No doubt the commercial sucess
and the huge gap between rich and poor,
financed the opulent viceroy's court, the
building of churches and palaces and their
decoration with works of art by the most
famous contemporary artists. The bulk of the
Royal Academy exhibition is of these
paintings—vast, magnificent and totally
unliveable-with.
The starting point is Michelangelo Merisi da
Caravaggio, and his influence on the
Neapolitan painters of the 17th century can be
traced throughout the exhibition. He reacted
against the convention that biblical stories
should be enacted by handsome/beautiful
people: he introduced stark realism, and in his
'Crucifixion of St. Andrew' the saint is a
withered, weather-beaten old man. His
pictures are violent, often brutal, yet with the
odd flash of gentleness and sensitivity. But,
maybe, his most impressive effect is that of
'chiaroscuro'—the harsh contrast between
spotlit figures and inky shadows, which seems
C&G Union
City and Guilds Union will be holding their
Freshers' Dinners on the following days:
Thurs Oct 14 Elec Eng; Mon Oct 18 Chem
Eng; Thurs Oct 21 Computing; Mon Oct 25
Civ Eng; Mon Nov 1 Mech Eng and Man Sci
and Thurs Nov 4 Aero.
The cost to second and third years will be
£7.50 which is subsidised by the Union. The
cost to freshers is as follows: Elec Eng, Mech
Eng and Aero £6.75; Computing £6.50; Civ
Eng £6.00 and Chem Eng £5.50.
The dinners for freshers are subsidised by
the respective departments. The cost includes
a three course meal with sherry, wine and port
followed by coffee. .
The events provide an opportunity for
freshers to meet second and third year
students, members of staff in the department,
and to be introduced to the idea of a formal
dinner.
After the dinner formality ends and a party
,atmosphere starts.
Tickets are on sale now, with the depart-
ments or from the Union Office at lunchtime.
Don't miss your Freshers' Dinner!
Astrosoc
Astrosoc's first lecture this term is called
'Novae and Supernovae' and is on Tuesday
October 12 in Physics Lecture Theatre 2 at
7:30pm. Future lectures will cover topics from
Halley's Comet to Star formation, galactic
evolution and X-ray emission from active
galactic nuclei. We hope to have a filmshow
on October 19. Watch the noticeboards for
details as lots of other exciting things are in the
pipeline. There will probably be trips to Jodrell
Bank so keep your eyes on all the notice-
boards for details; see you Tuesday I hope.
all the more intense for the surrounding areas
of pitch darkness.
Painters from all over Europe, who visited
Naples early in the century, also influenced the
local artists and softened the drama and
realism of Caravaggio's followers. The warm
colours, and the exuberant painting
technique, of Reubens' 'Feast of Herod' can be
seen in Luca Giordano's pictures. Here, the
colours come straight off an iced birthday cake
and the restless style is appealing rather than
disturbing.
By contrast, Gallery V is concerned with still
life painting: Neapolitan artists were amongst
the first to explore the possibilities of a picture
totally without figures. There are some superb
arrangements of gaudy, overblown flowers and
succulent fruits, just asking to be eaten!
Small scale pictures, for private collectors,
were also made in Naples. The Small South
Room is devoted to those by Cavallino, which
are comparatively light and fresh, and are full
of young, pretty (and very foolish looking!)
saints and singers.
On the whole the exhibition is rich and
grand, rather than sympathetic—but then so
too were the pictures' original settings and so
too is Burlington House, which is probably
worth a visit in its own right!
Painting in Naples 1606-1705 is at the Royal
Academy, Burlington House, Piccadilly, WJ. till
December 12. It is open daily (including
weekends) from 10:00am to 6:00pm. Full
admission £2.50, students etc £1.60.
F E L I X I lOctober 8. 19821 | P u g e 9

