Rag mag banned at Keele
Imperial College's Rag Mag has been
banned from Keele University Campus for
the second successive year. Keele
University Student Union (KUSU) has
written to the Rector, Sir Eric Ash, and
Mr Neil McCluskey, IC Union President,
complaining that the publication was
highly offensive, but not giving specific
examples.
Mr Hal Calamvokis, Rag Mag editor for
this year, said that he believed no example
was cited as none would stand up to their
criticism. He claimed that accusations of
racism were 'ridiculous' since neither he
nor his fellow editor, Mr John St Hill,
were of British origin. He said that in his
view the only faintly sexist joke was one
referring to women drivers.
He said that the magazine went through
a censorship committee comprising of the
3 Union sabbaticals, the Rag Mag editor
and chairman, the officer for lesbians and
gays and it would have contained the
women's officer had there been one at the
time. They approved the publication.
Warwick University have also banned
this year's edition and Leicester University
banned last year's. Mr David Williams,
IC Union Deputy President and last year's
Rag mag editor claimed that along with
Aston University and the medical colleges,
IC's Rag Mag is independently produced
and as such has gained a reputation for
originality which is popular with students.
He added that this fact irritated other
Universities and they probably banned it
without even looking at it.
Mr Williams claimed that any change
in the style of IC's Rag Mag towards
conforming with other editions would
compromise its selling capability. He said
that the purpose of rag mags was to raise
a laugh and raise money.
The Deputy President of KUSU said
that the rag mag had been banned because
it was 'racist, sexist, ablist and heterosexist
and generally offensive.' She expressed
surprise that the publication had gone
through a censorship committee and said
that it had not contained a blue pull-out
section containing the most offensive jokes
as agreed last year.
She claimed that if Imperial did 'clean
up' the rag mag then K U S U would be
happy to support them. She added that
though they had received a reply from the
Rector, no reply had been forthcoming
from IC Union.
Mr McCluskey said he would not
comment on the matter until further
decisions had been made.
MSF picket meeting
H — i
WSBBm .
m
mm
II
•
1111
•
Over 100 members of the Manufacturing, Science and Finance (MSF) Union picketed a meeting of the Management ana
Planning Group (MPG), the College's highest executive body, on Thursday. The picket was held to highlight objections
to possible compulsory redundancy for seven MSF members. Chris Stringer and Susan Sharp, IC MSF Chairman and
Secretary, read a statement to the meeting on behalf of the IC MSF.
IC MSF were supported by members of the MSF from other universities, including King's College, Queen Mary and
Westfield College and Manchester University.
Chem Eng in disgrace
The Chemical Engineering Departmental
Dinner last Friday was a disgrace
according to many who attended it. At the
event, held in the Senior Common Room,
both academics and students behaved in
a compromising manner in front of the
guest speaker, Dr Peter Williams of
Oxford Instruments pic.
Allegations have been made concerning
the behaviour of Professor Lester
Kershenbaum towards catering staff
during the evening. He denied them
categorically. 'It was more rowdy than
usual,' he said, 'but not excessively so—it
would have been nicer if it had been less
rowdy'.
Mr Rob Northey, IC Refectories
Manager, said that he had 'expressed
disapproval' to the department and added
'I think that senior academics should keep
control'. He said that the damage that he
and his staff had to clean up comprised
mainly of vomit and broken glass and
certainly did not add up to £5000 as
rumoured, but he declined to elaborate
further.
Chem Eng Society has been billed for
£15 for a turntable broken during the
event, and a spokeswoman from Chem
Eng Soc said ' I didn't enjoy the evening
as much as last year'.
Other academics in the department have
expressed anger over the whole affair, and
many Chem Eng first years received an
admonitory lecture on the following
Monday morning.
Professor Bill Wakeham, head of the
Chemical Engineering department, is
rumoured to be very unhappy with both
the students and staff involved, but was
unavailable for comment.

