Matthew Johnson takes the opportunity to experience Hong Kong's frenetic lifestyle, before the colony and
its six million people are handed over to Chinese rule.
Turning Cantonese
As the plane entered its final approach for Hong Kong,
I strained my eyes against the glaring light of the cloud
which enveloped us. Suddenly we broke through, and
I could see hundreds of buildings huddled in the tight
space between shoreline and hillside. The view was
static, and yet the hectic life beneath was screaming
at you. It is an image which will not rapidly fade.
Hong Kong is so small that it hardly registers on any
map, it is barely thirty miles long, and most of this
space is still only sparsely populated. It makes one
marvel at its crowded population of almost six million
people, who export more than the whole of Great
Britain. Perched on the edge of China, its precarious
existence is soon to change when in 1997 it will revert
to Chinese control. It first came into existence in the
nineteenth century as a base for English drug barons
who wanted a site from which to conduct their trade
with the Mainland. Unhindered by heavy taxation and
political upheaval, it has continued as a centre for
trade and capital. It enjoys the second highest
standard of living in Asia behind Japan, and its lust
for profit might make even Mrs Thatcher blush.
Those who seek after a little enclave of England in
the Orient will be disappointed, for Hong Kong is
vibrantly Chinese. The principles of Feng Shui (the
balance of nature) still hold sway over architectural
science, and the many traditional temples stand as a
testament to the the continuance of Taoist ways. But
this is not to say that it is an ancient society, quite
the opposite. In fact it is hard to find a building that
is older than about thirty years. Once a building is no
longer needed it is torn down and another built in its
place. The bamboo scaffolding used in the
construction of even modern tower blocks is an
interesting witness to this unique blend of cultures.
This intriguing mix of cultures makes Hong Kong a
marvellous place for the traveller. The range of
possibilities is astounding: from the mountainous
terrain of the New Territories to the simple life still to
be found on many of the little islands to the chic
shopping arcades and skyscrapers of Central. Its
reputation for fabulous shopping is also well earned.
The price of consumer goods, walkmen, calculators,
cameras etc is generally between one half to two
thirds the British price, though you should check if it
is possible to obtain an international guarantee (avoid
the tourist trap of Tsim Sha Tsui, go to Mong Kok for
this sort of thing). Hand tailoring is also well
established, and it is often possible to have garments
custom made for a price equal to or less than the price
of an equivalent item off-the-peg in England. If you
want reasonable quality, it is best to leave 4-5 days
for completion. But some of the best buys are
undoubtedly to be found in the craft section. The silk
embroidery and hand crocheting are really beautiful,
and still quite affordable (try Chung Kiu or Nathan
Road).
Although the principal language is Cantonese, most
notices are also written in English and it is spoken in
most shops, banks, restaurants etc. The traveller
should find little difficulty in communicating. Food is
another good reason for visiting Hong Kong. Most of
the different styles are represented (Cantonese,
Shanghaiese, Peking, Vegetarian...), including many
from overseas (Japanese, Vietnamese, Korean...).
There is really no lack of variety, or quality. For those
of you bored stiff by sweet and sour pork or beef chop
suey, try real Chinese food for a change. It is three
times as good.
However one of Hong Kong's strengths is also one
of its weaknesses: its pursuit of profit has become one
of its principal cultures, a culture which could equally
well belong to many other nations. Under the fairly
benevolent rule of the British the colony has thrived,
but it lacks the knowledge of democracy and the
surge of nationalism which might assist its survival.
In this regard Britain is much to blame. Having held
the territory for about a hundred years, that it should
wait until the last minute before granting to the people
of Hong Kong that which its own people enjoy as a
right is really a scandal. That is not to say that Hong
Kong could live independently: not only is it physically
joined to the Mainland, but depends on it for both food
and water. Considering how much blood was shed to
preserve the liberty of only two thousand Falkland
Islanders, it seems a travesty that we should dismiss
six million people so carelessly.
With the return to Chinese rule imminent, the
outflow of skilled people is considerable. There is no
one who has not considered such an option, though
for the vast majority escape is impossible. It has been
argued that Hong Kong is too much of a jewel for the
communists to risk damaging its future and their own
chance for economic revival. But it is also a source
of ideas of liberty and justice. For a sick gerontocracy,
driven to massacre its own people to retain power,
one may well ask whether this will prove simply too
dangerous for them.
Matthew G Johnson.
Page 10

