A visit to Peru can provide high drama and some of the most dramatic scenery in the world.
Martians in darkest Peru
The final leg of our 24 hour journey to Bolivia was in
a small Lloyd-Aero-Bolivair plane from Line to La Paz.
The Lufthansa flight could go no further than Lima,
as La Paz Airport is 4000m up and the atmosphere
is too thin to allow jumbos to land, even with the
runway double the length. Getting on the plane we
were greeted with a 'Buenos noces' from a
stewardess and an incongruous party atmosphere.
Incongruous at 2am local time. We were closely
followed by the jubillant Bolivian football team who
must have just beaten Peru and we resigned ourselves
to clapping and cheering them with the rest of the
passengers as if they were our home team. At La Paz
we were greeted by television cameras and a bleary
eyed 'Welcome to Bolivia' by our tour courier.
The advantage of travelling with your parents is that
you don't have to pay. No more slogging away at the
local newsagents for months before; just persuade
them when they next have a windfall (like a retirement
lump-sum for example) that it would be wonderful to
take a family holiday in some choice exotic location.
Simple. But there are drawbacks: you have to go at
their pace and on our tour, the average age was 55
and there was no one the right side of
thirtysomething.
Altitude was not only a problem for aircraft: many
of our party suffered from headaches and altitude
sickness and one woman had to be given oxygen and
was flown home. Things at 4000m go very slowly,
including the Bolivians, and their economy.
Throughout this part of South America, one cannot
escape the feeling that the Spanish conquistadores
raped the country and, with independence, Bolivia
was left to pick up the pieces. La Paz has a unique
hybrid cultural heritage of Spanish and Inca elements.
The Churches are built in the 'Mestizo Baroque' style
which compromises Christian saints with pagan Inca
gods, basically so that the indigenous population could
identify with Christianity. But with its economy largely
based on fluctuating tin markets and the coca leaf
Bolivia hasn't much more than its football team to
celebrate.
We crossed Lake Titicaca, the highest navigable
lake in the world, by hydrofoil and landed in Peru.
Immediately as we stepped onto dry land vendors of
llama rugs, sweaters and wall hangings were upon us.
This was to become a recurrent theme during the
holiday. With inflation running at over 1000% our
American dollars were particularly sought after. We
paid a visit to the increasingly commercialised floating
reed islands of the Uros Indians and the next day we
took a fifteen hour train ride through the Andes to
Cuzco, the Inca's ancient capital. The train was hard
even in 'luxury' tourist class but fortunately the, now
irritating, vendors were largely excluded from our
separate carriage. The scenery was not as spectacular
as one had been led to believe either; flattish planes
instead of dazzling white mountains. At dusk we came
to a sudden halt, at first we feared it might be Maoist
terrorists. In fact, in the fading light, the driver had
failed to spot a drunk lying on the line and had run him
over. We arrived five hours late, but by this stage no
one seemed to really mind.
The next few days were spent admiring the feats
of the Inca civilisation: its architecture, metalwork and
craftworks. We toured many a crumbling temple or
fortress including the legendary Machu Picchu (The
Lost City of the Incas) which was stunning. We stayed
overnight in the hotel adjacent to the site and at
sunrise the feeling of worldlessness was quite
unimaginable.
For the remainder of the holiday we descended the
Andes by coach and drove up the coast through
deprived Peruvian towns with little to recommend
them as far as package tours are concerned. At Nazca
we flew in light aircraft over the 2000 year old Nazca
lines. Animal shapes, often 100 metres across, etched
in the desert and only visible from the air. Why the
Nazca civilisation should draw figures that it could not
see itself remains a mystery. One hypothesis is that
the lines were created by Martians as one of the
figures resembles an astronaut!
Our final stop was Lima. A city of ten million people,
most of whom live in shanty towns. It's not surprising
then that 80% of tourists fall victim to either theft or
attempted theft. One of our party was punched in the
back and another had his trousers irreparably slit in
an attempt to steal his money belt. Our courier asked
him whether he had lost anything; 'only my dignity'
he replied. Fortunately, for my trousers at least, I
succumbed to the inevitable food poisoning for the
last two days and was confined to bed. During this
there was a hotel strike, a prolonged powercut and
general civil unrest in the adjacent Plaza des Armas.
Mercifully I was attended by one of the three doctors
in our party: one advantage of going on a package
holiday for the bourgeosie. It's also a lot safer
travelling en masse; one lone British backpacker in the
high Andes was captured by the Maoist terrorists,
given a mock trial in the village square (for being
British) and promptly shot by firing squad. But don't
let this put you off going-it's all part of the
adventure.
Adrian Pagan.
HHjjjHHjH^^^^HflflHB
Page 11

