Touring across America reveals unknown delights.
On the road
golds of Fall. We also drove round the Finger Lakes,
some of which reach forty miles long. The scenery in
this area is very reminiscent of Switzerland or Austria.
Apart from the language, it was very easy to imagine
that we were in Europe, instead of 3000 miles away.
The town of Niagara Falls (on the American side of
the Falls proper) is actually a rather tawdry town, with
little to recommend it apart from the beauty of the
Falls themselves. These are extremely impressive,
even in the rain, and the boat ride on the Maid of the
Mist has to be one of the most exhilarating
experiences open to tourists (you can always go over
the Falls in a barrel, a feat which has been survived
by nine people, but this is only recommended for those
who really want to go to extreme lengths to acquire
exciting holiday tales!). Even just taking the boat ride,
you get completely soaked, despite the provided
oilskins.
From Niagara, we then proceeded along the shore
of Lake Ontario, finishing this stretch of our trip with
an excursion to Wolfe Island, just over the border into
Canada. From Cape Vincent, the ferry stopped on the
US side, we then drove southwards again, through
the Adirondack Mountains, across Vermont, and into
New Hampshire. Having about five days left, we
decided to try and get back up to the Candadian
border by going up along the East Coast. In the end
we only got as far as Maine, one of the northernmost
States. Despite the tourist traps, Maine is a very
beautiful place, with some striking scenery, in
particular the Acadia National Park on Mt Desert
Island. Once we had looked round there, we had
regretfully to return to Boston, give up our (very large
and comfortable) hire car, and return to New York City
by train. This time, we took the subway to JFK aiport
(this being less expensive than a cab!). The subways
are uncannily like the London Underground, even
down to the sudden emergence into daylight halfway
from the city centre to the airport. However, in London
you can't see the tops of the skyscrapers from
Heathrow! Also, the subway trains are airconditioned
(which is very welcome) although the stations
themselves can get very warm indeed.
Our flights both ways were on time, and all in all
we greatly enjoyed our stay in the United States.
There's much, much more to see than we managed
to, despite the fact that we covered over 2,000 miles
in our two weeks, and we'd love to go back.
Anna Stebbings, Chem 3.
This summer, I spent two weeks in the United States
of America, travelling around New England. This was
as part of a travel award scheme set up by
International Paints PLC. After getting through to the
finals of the award process, I was given one of the
ten travel bursaries awarded this year, in order to visit
the Interlux Yacht Finishes plant in New Jersey. The
award was for one thousand pounds, to cover all
travel expenses. In return for this, I had to spend three
days looking around the Interlux plant, and on my
return to England write a brief report.
So, having made all the necessary travel and
insurance arrangements, my boyfriend and I flew out
from Heathrow on Kuwait Airlines, arriving at J F
Kennedy airport in New York. Although we arrived in
New York at 8.00pm Eastern Standard Time, it was
of course 1,00am GMT, and it felt like it! We took a
cab into Manhattan, where we were going to stay at
the Vanderbilt YMCA, This is right in the skyscraper
district in Midtown but nevertheless quite reasonably
priced. We stayed in New York for a couple of days,
and explored Manhattan mainly on foot—the best way
to get a proper feel for the place, although we did use
the subway once or twice. One afternoon, we walked
all the way from Midtown to Battery Park on the
southern tip of Manhattan, a distance of about four
or five miles. This was an interesting experience, and
enabled us to see many different districts and types
of buildings (some of the 'districts' were as small as
one block, such as a fabric merchants' district).
From New York City, we travelled to Boston by
train, where we were to pick up our hire car (this
worked out cheaper and more interesting than hiring
a car from an airport in New York). In Boston we also
stayed in the YMCA, but this wasn't as pleasant as
the one in New York. After struggling through the one-
way system of central Boston (complete with the old
London favourite of no left/right turns in places), we
set off across Massachusetts heading for New York
State, before heading south to New Jersey and the
Interlux factory. We made the 250 mile trip in one day,
although it was dark by the time we checked in at the
motel where we stayed during our time visiting the
factory.
The Interlux staff were very friendly and
accommodating, giving us easy-to-follow directions
as to how to get to the factory in the first place, and
when we were there, giving us a very comprehensive
tour of the facility. The outfit in New Jersey is not very
large as factories go, as a large part of the
development work on new products takes place at
other locations. This is especially the case when it
comes to field testing of new products, and in fact
the main function of the New Jersey plant is a
manufacturing one. However, the plant did seem very
efficient, and the staff friendly, making our visit very
enjoyable.
After seeing the factory, we left New Jersey and
headed northwest through New York State to Niagara
Falls. On the way, we passed through the Catskill
Mountains and National Park-magnificent, wooded
mountains which were just turning to the reds and

