on campus travel
With the vast expansion of the independent travel
market in the past few years, STA has established
itself as a leader through its use of well-travelled
consultants and low-priced, flexible tickets. At the
ULU travel student office we have all travelled
extensively and as College gradutes are sympathetic
to your requirements-the back-up provided by the
STA organisation worldwide is second to none, with
over 100 offices in 20 countries, staffed by multi-
cultural, experienced consultants.
Here at STA we are all encouraged to travel as
much as possible in order to keep our own travelling
experiences and knowledge up to date and to ensure
that, unlike some other sectors of the travel industry,
we do not become divorced from the realities of the
world that we live in. Nowhere has this been more
evident than in the momentous changes that have
recently occured in eastern Europe.
For a few hardened (and dedicated) western
Stalinists the mystique of the communist bloc has
always been a very strong magnet. The disintegration
of the stalinsist orthodoxy in eastern Europe has
galvanised the interest of the public at large, but
independent-minded travellers specifically. Even the
briefest of examinations would reveal that eastern
Europe has always had much more to offer than
statues of Lenin and collective farms. Within its
confines it is possible to discover some of the most
magnificent cities to be found anywhere-Prague,
Berlin and Cracow to name but three-all strangely
preserved by their encasement for years in a neo-
Stalinist order. These countries also boast some of the
most spectacular scenery, from the rich forests of
Czechoslovakia, to the rolling plains of Hungary
(where one can still get a genuine feel of the feudal
way of life of the Tartars) to the Carpathian mountains
Competition
of Romania; where medeival castles mingle with ski
resorts in a bizarre testament to the privileges enjoyed
by the communist party elite.
It is often difficult to comprehend that all this is
within easy reach, and can now largely be done an
Inter-rail ticket. (Romania, Hungary, Yugoslavia and
Czechoslovakia are all included) even with the
expansion of package holidays to such areas as
Yugoslavia, Bulgaria and Romania, eastern Europe still
remains largely unexplored and underdeveloped.
However, this situation is unlikely to remain for very
much longer, especially with the urgent need for hard
currency to shore up delapidated economies. At STA
we have been instrumental in helping to create an
awareness of travel to this and many other areas of
the world not covered in an 18-30 brochure and this
is something that we intend to maintain. A healthy
commitment to travel.
Where oh where oh where would you like to go with a free £100 travel voucher? STA have generously
donated a £100 travel voucher for use on any travel costs booked through them. A weekend away
or travel abroad could be yours with this prize. The competition will be in three parts, with each section
becoming progressively more difficult. This week's questions are:
What is the capital city of Lichtenstein?
What is the capital city of Denmark?
What is the capital city of Finland?
KEEP YOUR ENTRIES. DO NOT HAND IN ANYTHING YET. THERE WILL BE TWO MORE SETS OF
QUESTIONS IN THE NEXT TWO WEEKS. ALL QUESTIONS WILL BE REPRINTED AT THE END OF THE
COMPETITION.
Page 13

