This
Week
• Improve your sex drive and light up your life.
Neurologist Professor Russel Reiter of the University
of Texas believes that light from the blue end of the
spectrum will fool the pineal gland in the brain into
reducing the quantity of melatonin it produces.
Melatonin has a depressive effect on the reproductive
system and has been linked to Seasonal Affective
Depression, which strikes victims in the darker
months.
The American Association for the Advancement of
Science in New Orleans have been giving people
powerful lamps to carry around. They claim light baths
have had dramatic effects; one previously suicidal
woman is having the best winter of her life using light
as a drug. More advice from Prof. Reiter; 'Keep the
bedroom light on...and you should get your old drive
back.'
• The chance of a child developing leukaemia is
significantly linked to the father's exposure to
radiation. This is according to a report published a
couple weeks ago by the Medical Research Council
concerning the population in the vicinity of the
Sellafield nuclear reprocessing plant.
The present maximum allowed dose for radiation
workers is 50 milliseverts (mSv), although two years
ago the National Radiological Protection Board
recommended reducing this to 15 mSv. The report
concludes that workers who received more than 10
mSv six months before conception increased the risk
of their child contracting leukaemia by six to eight
times.
• A film of microscopically grooved plastic could
make significant savings in fuel for airlines. The ribbed
film entirely coves an aircraft's fuselage except for
sharp curves such as the edges of the wings. It has
been tested for a year on an Airbus A300, owned by
the airline Lufthansa, and has not been damaged or
clogged up. The grooves in the film help to lower
turbulance in the layer of air next to the aircraft's skin.
Predicted fuel reductions are about 1.5%
corresponding to 70 tonnes for aircraft on short haul
flights and 310 tonnes for those on long haul flights
per year. These represent monetary savings of
£10,000 and £40,000 respectively.
• The European Space Agency (ESA) are trying
to revive Giotto, a deep space probe. In March 1986
it met Halley's Comet with an accuracy in tracking
equivalent to hitting a dinner plate in Hyde Park with
a bullet fired from Edinburgh. It appears that Giotto
has survived almost without damage after this
encounter. Although the probe and its antenna are not
orientated correctly, ESA have been able to make
contact and hope to instruct it to reposition. It has
enough fuel to pass close to Earth this June in order
to send it off into a new orbit to coincide with another
comet, Grigg Skjellerup.
Liz Warren presents an overview of the Process Systems
Engineering IRC at Imperial.
Safe simulations
Process simulation packages allow designers to model
processes, for example a chemical plant composed of
different process units. They allow complicated
interactions, such as parallel chemical reactions, to
be calculated and processes such as startup and
shutdown to be tested. They also allow on-line control
and optimisation of plants. Packages can either model
steady state situations or they can shed light on the
time dependent behaviour of plants. The Chemical
Engineering Department at Imperial has developed
such a package, known as SPEEDUP, which it has
made into a commercial success.
Any process can be represented on SPEEDUP if it
can be written down as a mathematical model.
SPEEDUP'S main advantage over many of its rivals is
its ability to handle time dependent equations. It is also
capable of dealing with plants in a 'non-sequential'
manner, that is, it does not have to know everything
about all the previous units in the process as long as
it has sufficient information overall to solve the
problem.
SPEEDUP has been under development at Imperial
since 1979, Initial work was funded by the Science
and Engineering Research Council (SERC). In 1986,
Prosys Technology of Cambridge, who were already
involved in the simulation market with their own
process database, began marketing SPEEDUP on
Imperial College's behalf. Clients include companies
such as BP and Dow Chemicals. Prosys are now
responsible for the commercial development and
.marketing of the package, while further software
development is being carried out at Imperial College
in the new Interdisciplinary Research Centre (IRC) for
Process Systems Engineering, which was set up last
summer under SERC funding.
The existing SPEEDUP package is already a
sophisticated tool. A valuable application is its use in
training plant operators. Plants can be modelled and
incorporated into other programs, such as a graphical
interface. Training modules can then be devised which
will allow trainee operators to learn to respond to
changes in the modelled plant, such as a variation in
feed quality, without losing real products or
endangering the safety of a real plant.
SPEEDUP can also assist more experienced
operators in two ways. It can help operators optimise
plants on-line by linking the plant's control system to
a model of the plant. The second way in which
SPEEDUP can help experienced operators is by
building up an 'expert system', or knowledge base,
which can advise operators on the best course of
action in particular circumstances.
Current development is progressing in several areas.
Pioneering work is being carried out on generating the
equations which provide the rigid mathematical
description of the plant from a less rigid description
such as the kinetics of the reaction and physical
configuration of the catalyst in a reactor. The system
would build the necessary equations and ask for
sufficient physical data to solve the problem.
Another major area of development is to extend the
ability of SPEEDUP to handle both discrete and
continuous processes within the same model. Most
current dynamic simulators can handle complex
continuous processes but are unable to model discrete
events such as startup and shutdown. Programs
which can handle this sort of event are usually unable
to model all but the simplest continuous process. The
combination of the two types of event in the same
program is increasingly important as the chemical
industry places greater emphasis on batch processing.
A third area in which the system is being developed
is batch optimisation. This will handle the situation in
which process equipment is used with different feeds
in varying combinations to produce a range of
products. This can be a complex problem when there
are a large number of desired products. The system
will be able to provide the optimum schedule for the
batches to be processed to allow the greatest profit
to be made. Again the increase in the use of batch
processes stresses the importance of this
development.
Dynamic simulators such as SPEEDUP also give
plant designers several advantages. Many plants are
designed using steady state simulation and this can
lead to overdesign and unnecessary cost. Dynamic
simulators also allow designers to seriously consider
the operability of the plant early in the design stage
and allow them to explore plant control without any
risk of accidents. A combined discrete/continuous
event simulator also provides the opportunity to
design and test controllers and control strategies.
Dynamic simulators are at last providing design
engineers with a real opportunity to produce better,
safer designs at less cost.
Page 14

