IMechE WellSoc
European industry is preparing for a home market
of 320 million people. UK companies seeking a
competitive share in this market will soon be recruiting
professional engineers from a pan-European pool of
talent. The European Commission is committed to
enabling qualified members of a profession to practice
anywhere in the European Community. Young
engineers graduating in the UK will therefore gain
many opportunities to extend their horizons. There will
be strong competition for their skills, but anticipating
employers initial uncertainty over the relative
standards of engineering qualifications, job seekers
will need to be prepared.
The Eurling title is a move to obtain common
recognition across Europe of a professional
engineering education. An engineer who achieves
chartered status with an Institution such as the
IMechE or IEE, is qualified to apply for the Eurling title.
Many have done so already. They see it becoming a
'passport' giving them greater mobility and
recognition for working in Europe. The Federation of
European National Associations of Engineers hopes
the move will lead to greater coherence for the
engineering profession in Europe, promoting our
competitiveness with Japan and the USA.
The implications of the Single European Act for
engineering and a checklist for the providers of
engineering education and training will be presented
in an IMechE lecture on March 6. Professor Jack Levy,
the Director-Engineering Profession of the
Engineering Council, will also describe the Eurling title
and how it reflects the engineering profession's
commitment to heightened activity and mobility for
1992. The Greater London Young Members' Section
would like to invite you to attend this lecture, to be
held at 6.30pm in room 342 in the Department of
Mechanical Engineering at Imperial College. We hope
this will provide an opportunity for both students and
practising engineers to find out how best to qualify
for a career in Europe. Coffee will be served from 6pm
and after the lecture there will be a buffet and time
for informal discussion. We would also like to enable
those who offer education and training in engineering
to discuss the challenge of Europe with Professor
Levy, a former head of department at City University.
RockSoc
At the beginning of last term, RockSoc staged its first
ever gig with a live band and rock disco. It was a great
success and since then we've continuously been
asked to do it again. On March 8 we're putting on an
even bigger and better show.
With backing from ULU RockSoc, we've got ETA
and support and a disco all for £2. ETA have recently
been playing the clubs around London and last week
supported Excalibur. They play a mixture of mainly
original material plus a few covers [AC-DC, Georgia
Satellites, Motley Crue). Their music will appeal to
almost all rock fans being neither out and out thrash
metal or sleazy glam rock. Needless to say this is an
event not to be missed and will start in the Union at
8pm.
When set up three years ago, RockSoc didn't
originally intend to put on these shows, so the large
budget required to do so was never applied for. The
club's objectives have now been changed to include
such events. Next year we hope to expand this and
put on more bands, but we need support. We know
there's an interest in College, so if you want to see
more Rock music at IC come to the RockSoc AGM
on Monday March 5 at 12.30pm in Southside Upper
Lounge.
How would you like to run around 27 acres of
woodland shooting people with paintball guns? On
March 14 WellSoc will be holding its annual Skirmish
trip to Bullswood Skirmish site in Surrey. We will be
leaving from College at 12.45pm, returning when it
gets too dark to continue. If you are interested in an
enjoyable, muddy afternoon killing people, send a
cheque for £11 (please write membership number on
the back) to N Williamson, Physics 2 or see any
committee member. This will cover transport and
entry to the game. Extra ammunition will be available
at £2 for 12 rounds and hire of camouflage jackets
and trousers will be available.
WellSoc members may well receive a subsidy but
ICSF are also invited along for the same £11. Hurry:
with this discounted entry, places will go quickly.
Vino!
On Tuesday we were given a real taste of Australia.
Orlando produces about 20% of all Australian wines
including 'Jacob's Creek'-Australia's number one
seller. Penfold, Lindeman and Orlando (referred to as
the PLO) alone are responsible for 50% of Australian
wine production. In spite of these impressive
credentials Orlando remains relatively undiscovered in
this country.
Simon Ladenburg of the Orlando UK office
introduced us to the high-tech side of the Australian
wine 'industry' with a corporate video depicting
stretches of huge stainless stell fermentation tanks,
labs filled with scientists analysing samples and halls
of roaring automated bottling lines. For all this
technology, however, it is still the palate of the master
winemaker, Robin Day, who judges the merit of the
wine in the bottle.
Appropriately, we began with a Jacob's Creek Dry
White retailing at £3.29 and tasted our way up a
superb 1986 St Hilary Chardonnay for £7.20. A little
confusion was generated by the ' 1989' vintage of the
Jacob's Creek which Simon resolved by explaining
that the Australians harvest their grapes in
February/March-six months ahead of the Beaujolais
Nouveau hype. This summer you may even see some
1990 Australian wines on the shelves.
The reds were started off by Jacob's Creek Dry
Red, which is marketed in Australia as 'claret'
although it contains 65% Shiraz: a distinctly forbidden
grape variety in Bordeaux. Clear favourite of the three
reds was a 1986 St Hugo Cabernet Sauvignon
(£7.20) which Orlando considers its best-a deep
wine with ripe berry/blackcurrent flavours and a very
long finish.
The evening was rounded off with a curiosity: a
fortified port-style muscat from the Morris family in
Ruthergled who have been making it for generations.
It charmed us all with its thick sweet figgy flavours
and long warm nutty finish, a steal at £7!
Don't miss next Tuesday's Sherry tasting, given by
the Sherry Institute of Spain, which is sure to convert
you if you're not already an addict. Put into your diary
the tasting of white wines from Bordeaux by or Hon
President and Editor of Decanter. Dave Rowe (March
13), the Coffee tasting (March 15) and lastly the
tasting of Alsace wines (20 March). For more
information contact Kevin McKoen, Physics PG, room
612, ext 6851.
Cheers, sport!
P.S. Don't forget the March 21 booze cruise costing
ca. £10.
OSC
International
Election time has come round again and this also
means election time for the Overseas Students
Committee. Since hardly any soul walking around at
Imperial College knows what this committee does, let
us just try to explain some of our activities.
What is the OSC?
The Overseas Students Committee (OSC) is one of
the Union Major Sub-Committees (MSCs) supervising
and cooperating with the functioning of the overseas
students societies. These are the various national and
international societies at Imperial College. The
members of the OSC are the sports, welfare, events,
liaison and publicity officers, 7 ordinary members, the
secretary, the treasurer and the chairman.
What does the OSC do?
Throughout the year, the OSC organises inter-society
sports tournaments: volleyball, soccer and others. It
submits the societies' grant claims to the Union (after
a detailed inspection) and defends the Overseas
Students rights and welfare interests on several Union
and College committees. The Welfare Officer and
Chairman are allowed the joys of sitting on a large
number of Union and College committees, all very
enjoyable and rewarding. When there are problems
with the organisation of societies, the OSC attempts
to solve these problems. The highlight of the year is
without doubt the International Week, which is
coordinated by the OSC and is guaranteed to be a lot
of fun to organise.
When are the elections?
Hopefully you now know a bit more about the OSC.
Our elections will be held in the last week of term.
Before then, feel free to get in touch with us.
The Overseas Students Committee.
PicoCon 8
Just when you thought it was safe to open FELIX
again...the PicoCon article strikes back! Tomorrow
Imperial College Science Fiction Society is holding
PicoCon 8, the eighth (you don't say) in its line of
annual SF Conventions. With videos, guest authors,
silly quizzes and more there is something for every
taste in the SF and Fantasy range.
For those interested in reading SF (and the authors
who write it) we've got talks by Bob Shaw and Dave
Langford, both well known as British SF writers. If TV
and Film is your line, we've got a video programme
including Blake's 7, Star Trek: The Next Generation,
The Prisoner, Monty Python and more.
Space enthusiasts can hear talks on Space Tourism
and Terraforming, while wargaming types can see a
live role-playing demonstration courtesy of Wargames
Society.
We also have traditional fun in the form of The
Quiz-watch teams from Britain's great universities
(plus 0****d and c******'e) do battle with each
other. See authors expound on the Discussion Panel,
and listen to SF hacks sing at the Folk Workshop! Or
just wander around our dealer room.
PicoCon 8 runs from 10am to 10pm on Saturday
March 3. Admission is £4 for members, £5 for non-
members. All events take place in the Union Building.
Absolutely no train spotters.
Page 15

