Fencing win UAU final
Last weekend, Imperial College Fencing Team
confirmed their status as Britain's best university
fencing team by winning the final of the UAU team
championships in a tense, action-packed competition.
Despite appalling organisation, including lack of
presidents and electric scoring apparatus, the semi-
finals eventually started on Saturday, with IC meeting
ancient rivals UCL. From the outset, UCL looked
shadows of their former selves and were obviously
in awe of the formidable IC team. The sabre team
(Jorg, Maurice and Nick) were in good vocal form.
Next, the foilists went to work and despite a slight
contretemps near the start (resulting from the
president not knowing the rules) Peter, Nick and
Simon Laight brought off a very respectable 6-3
victory. With the overall score at 13-5 going into the
epee, IC needed only 1 bout for a place in the final;
when it came with the score at 14-6, UCL conceded
defeat, meaning that epeeist Simon Evans did not
even get to walk onto the piste. Meanwhile, Bristol
had beaten Manchester in the other semi-final and
watched us storm to victory with fear in their eyes.
On Sunday the organisational fiasco continued:
firstly, the sabre president had to be woken up and
called to the venue. Bristol had by then realised that
they would have to resort to dirty tricks if they were
to beat us and insisted at the last minute that the
match be fenced in the order foil-sabre-epee instead
of the usual sabre-foil-epee which had been used in
the semi-finals. Naturally, IC captain Dave Matthews
protested strongly, but rather than keeping a
consistent format, the ineffectual organisers settled
the dispute by tossing a coin, which went in Bristol's
favour. Thus, our sabre team, who had spent the past
hour warming up both mentally and physically, had
to wait around while the foil match was fought. Foil
was apparently Bristol's strongest weapon, but IC
were more than a match for them, with Peter fencing
brilliantly and Gully and Nick also putting in excellent
performances. The score in the foil was 6-3 to us as
the sabreurs prepared to secure the match. However,
it transpired that the IC sabre team were not only
competing against Bristol but also against some quite
appalling judging from the 'neutral' Manchester team.
Despite spirited performances by Jorg, Maurice and
Nick, the sabre match rapidly degenerated into some
sort of sick joke and IC lost 4-5, a disgraceful travesty
of justice and fair play. This brought the overall score
to 10-8 and it was left to the epeeists to finish the
job. Could they regain the 'surfin' spirit of last season?
The answer was an emphatic 'yes', with Peter again
fencing to the max and Simon Evans starting to return
to form just when he needed to. Nick Hills completed
an extraordinary 3-weapon performance as he stuffed
in an aggressive prise-de-fer action to win the decisive
bout, driving the IC team wild and making the Bristol
team suddenly very silent. The eventual score in the
epee was 6-3, making the overall result 16-11.
Cross Country
The London Colleges League reached its glorious
climax in a 10km road race in Battersea Park. After
an astounding early season, the team challenge had
crumbled to fall 100 points behind perennial rivals
Oxford Poly, so this time individual performances
were the order of the day.
As the superior Chaston romped away to his third
win in the series, Paul settled for second, waiting until
the last 50 metres before opening his legs and
showing his behind to the ailing Thames Poly man.
This assured him the overall individual title by just two
points and sealed a stunning debut season for the bio-
mathematician. Always plugging away in the chasing
group was Dave Flannel, who found it harder to
function on this unnatural surface, but nevertheless
Sailing
IC Men's & Ladies v Manchester
IC Men's & Ladies v London
On Saturday Feb 24, Manchester travelled down to
North London to race against Imperial and the
University of London. Manchester are at the head of
the northern BUSA league for both men's and ladies
and showed a very high standard of sailing.
Imperial raced Manchester men first and due to a
bad start by Imperial, Manchester sailed into first and
second place. Tactical sailing by Imperial blocked their
third boat from gaining the third place until the last
leg, when superior sailing by the Manchester men's
team allowed them to win 1-2-3.
Imperial then went on to race Manchester ladies.
This time Imperial started well, gaining first, third and
fourth places, good team racing then allowed Imperial
to pull up to 1 -2-4. However catastrophic gear failure
led to a collision at the first mark causing 2 boats to
retire. This led to Imperial winning 1-2.
Racing was then abandoned as gusts in excess of
20mph were leading to an unacceptable amount of
gear failure.
Page 16
found the strength in the later stages to pull up to
24th, and secure tenth in the overall individuals.
Pride was at stake lower down the field, as Bill
Skailes, Jim Watson, Ian Williams and Dan McQueen
enjoyed another close scrap. It was Bill who gasped
his way up to 56th, leaving the other three to finish
within 20 seconds of each other and all in the top 70.
With the track campaign now about to begin, we look
forward to stuffing the opposition more thoroughly
next autumn.
None of this was possible without Alex Gaskell and
Frank Dudbridge, whose contribution the club
acknowledges. While they organised just about
everything going this year, we look forward to them
actually participating in some races in the future.
Boat Club
On Saturday 17th the IC first eight taught the
Cambridge Blue Boat a lesson in head to head racing.
Cambridge had ventured down to London for their first
pre-boat race warm up and challenged IC to two eight
minute races. The first race ended after five minutes
when the crews collided, the second race saw IC gain
an early lead and although Cambridge challenged hard
they were never able to get back on terms and IC took
the spoils.
On Saturday 24th the Boat Club travelled to
Nottingham for its first competition of the year. With
six members at Great Britain trials, the men were
slightly understrength but still managed three
victories. The 1st four smashed all before them to win
the overall race by a considerable margin. The second
and third fours also recorded easy victories in their
divisions. For the novice men this was their first taste
of racing and they were extremely unlucky to lose by
only one second. The new found strength of the
Ladies Boat Club was in evidence during the race, they
performed well above expectations and scored a
notable victory over Oxford.
Wu Shu Kwan
Last Sunday, Wu Shu Kwan held a grading in the
Union gym. A large number of Kung Fu students took
part, many of whom were beginners going for their
first belt. The standard displayed was excellent
(particularly by our own club), with some powerful,
graceful forms and exciting sparring. The event went
well and the club expects a very high pass rate.
Badminton
UAU Semi-Finals, York 1990
Last weekend the Imperial men's 2nd team travelled
to York University for the UAU semi-finals. After a
successful qualifying competition in which both the
first and second teams qualified as group winners, the
2nd team were drawn at home against Nottingham,
who had been the victors at the same stage the
previous year. It was always going to be a difficult
match but the fact that IC's 3rd pair weren't up to
their usual standard only served to exaggerate this.
The top pairing of Punit Khare and Tim Bartle managed
to win all their 3 rubbers although there were a few
dangerous moments against Nottingham's very
competitive 3rd pair. The score was level at 4-4 and
so attention was focused on the final rubber and after
much doubt Carl Edwards and Jin Yee Urn won a close
contest to secure a quarter-final place against Cardiff.
This proved a somewhat easier task with everyone
performing well and the stalwart Tim and Punit again
contributing to the overall score of 6-3.
In the semi-final stage they played Leeds, the
holders and overall strongest badminton playing
university in the country. The IC team of Tim and
Punit, Carl and Jin Yee and Julian Jenggi and Patrick
Khoo made the long journey with high spirits, but
unfortunately these were not to be realised. Despite
many extremely close rubbers, Leeds were winners
by 8-1, although it is fair to say that the final score
could have been considerably closer than that. It was
unfortunate that IC's involvement in the tournament
should end at the semi-final stage. We are convinced
next year we can go at least one better.

