Invasion ofthe killer ballot boxes
On March 5 and 6 the whole of the campus will be
invaded by a species known as 'the ballot box'. This
black creature reaches a height of about 18 inches and
exists on a diet of ballot papers.
There is a very particular way to feed a ballot box.
Each example will be accompanied by a 'minder' who
will check your Union card and punch a hole in it. He
or she will then hand you 4 ballot papers (one for each
sabbatical post).
The Single Transferable Vote (STV) System is used
in the selection of candidates. You place a 1 next to
the candidate who, in your opinion, is the best. You
can stop here or, if you wish, choose a second choice
by putting a 2 next to another candidate, and so on
until there are no candidates left or until you think no
more are worthy of a vote.
You cannot give candiates equal preference and
numbers must be in consecutive order starting with 1.
Every ballot paper has the choice of 'New Election'
on it. If you make this your first choice you are making
a very serious statement. You are saying that there
are no suitable candidates for the post. If you make
it your second choice then you are saying that there
is only one candidate which is suitable and that you
would rather have a new election than have anyone
else winning. If you vote for New Election for a joke
then you are partially responsible for the waste of
about £1000.
Do not mark your ballot paper with anything but
numbers or it will be deemed invalid.
Ballot boxes are open between 10am and 5pm.
They stay sealed until the count begins. A candidate
must pass quota to be elected. Quota is half the total
votes minus spoilt (invalid) papers plus one.
Mathematicians among you will realise that it is
impossible for two candidates to achieve this magical
by Fiona Nicholas, Returning Officer
number. During the first round of counting only first
choices are counted. If a candidate reaches quota at
this point then he is elected. If not, the candidate with
the fewest votes is taken out of the running and his
second choices are reallocated to the remaining
candidates. The disregarded candidate may have had
some ballot papers with only a first choice on them.
These cannot be transferred; the total number of
votes is decreased and so is quota. This process of
reallocating votes continues until one candidate
reaches quota or until the only remaining candidate
does not have enough votes to pass quota. If the latter
situation arises, the election must be re-run.
Just to end, here are a few examples of valid and
invalid papers:
Valid papers
Candidate A 4
Candidate B 2
Candidate C 3
Candidate D 1
New Election 5
Candidate A
Candidate B 1
New Election 2
Candidate A
New Election 1
Invalid papers
How much for your vote ?
Candidate A
Candidate B X
Candidate C
New Election
Candidate A
Candidate B
Candidate A 1
Candidate B
Candidate C
New Election 3
Candidate A 1
Candidate B
Candidate C 1
New Election
New Election

