F e l i X
Elections
They've spouted their twaddle and written their
scrawl; now is your chance to decide. Voting for
sabbatical candidates is on Monday and Tuesday next
week. You will need your Union Card. The dirty tricks
department has been working overtime since last
week; a full page of dirt now seems appropriate for
the next issue.
Chem Eng dinner
Academics will be fuming today. Professor Wakeham,
the Head of the Chem Eng department, said he
wanted to talk to FELIX on our information. His
secretary told us that he would not be happy about
us going to press without speaking to him. Funnily
enough, Prof Wakeham has made no moves to
contact FELIX, despite repeated attempts on our part
to talk to him. People seem to believe that putting it
off until Friday is the way to avoid bad press in FELIX.
It isn't. The department of Chemical Engineering is in
disgrace. It seems it has no answer for the behaviour
of its students and lecturers at the dinner. This is the
true disgrace of the situation.
The Union and the CCUs
IC Union and the Constituent College Unions have
decided to help themselves to your money in order to
follow a frivolous computer bargain basement buyout,
it seems. Without recourse to any more than seven
students, £8000 has been spent and a further £8000
has been earmarked. A full report on these dubious
dealings will appear in next week's FELIX. Suffice it
to say for now that the CCUs have taken an
outrageous advantage from their united block vote
this year.
MSF
The Manufacturing in Science and Finance trade union
is right to defend its members against compulsory
redundancies. I fear that the jobs at Imperial
BioTechnology Ltd (IBT) are not the greatest of their
problems. College is faced with a diminishing grant
from government. Soon it will start to look for
monetary savings. It has already started the
privatisation of NUPE employees' jobs in the gardening
sections. Who will be next? I believe the College will
push for privatisation of porters, cleaners and
repairmen. Having seen the results of the College's
attempts to get work done by external contractors,
I strongly doubt the merits of such a privatisation. The
College has a serious cash-flow problem and often has
difficulties paying its bills on time. This must have a
strong influence on the overpriced, shoddy work
which is performed by private contractors around the
college.
I believe the College is in for a rough ride with the
trade unions, which will not improve as the pennies
are futher pinched each year. If you are a member of
College staff reading this, watch out; you could be
next.
Travel
This week's issue concentrates on travel. If you
haven't planned a holiday this year, there are a number
of ideas you may consider worth reading through in
this issue. If you like the idea of a travel special, please
let me know (you don't have to write a letter, just drop
in a note or pop in for a chat.)
Survey
Over the next few weeks, I intend to carry out a
survey on people's views on FELIX. If somebody
wanders up to you and starts asking you questions
about FELIX, please give them your views and ideas.
This is your newspaper, and this is your chance to put
your ideas into it now.
Credits
Thanks to last week's collators, Jim Lucy, Richard
Eyers, Andy Bannister, Chris Stapleton (Thomas
Wyatt is also standing for the post of FELIX editor,'
but did not help on FELIX last week), Fiona Nicholas
and Mike Newman. Thanks this week to Adam
Harrington, Liz Warren, Emmajane Lamont and Liz
Rickwood for News; Pippa Salmon for oodles of help;
Simon Haslam, Jon Radcliffe and Liz Warren for
science; Charles English, Ian Hodge, Matthew
Johnson, Adrian Pagan and Anna Stebbings for travel;
Fiona Nicholas for her tips on voting; Adam Tinworth,
Julian Bommer, Adrian Pagan, JLW, Matthew
Johnson and Toby Jones for reviews; Sarah, Sumit
and Del for music; Richard Eyers, Roland Flowerdew,
Chris Stapleton (Thomas Wyatt is also standing for
the post of FELIX editor) and Jeremy Burnell for pics;
all the clubs and societies and Janus, who is desperate
to use his new found powers.
FELIX is published by the editor for and on behalf of Imperial College Union
Publications Board and is printed by the Imperial College Union Print Unit,
Prince Consort Road, London, SW7 2BB (Tel. 01-589 5111 ext 35151.
Editor: Dave Smedley. Business Manager: Jeremy Burnell. Advertising
Manager: Ramin Nakisa. Copyright FELIX 1990. ISSN 1040-0711
MAKE A
Flying START TO THE
NINETIES
from
PARIS
BERLIN
MADRID
N E W YORK
LOS A N G E L E S
T E L AVIV
H O N G K O N G
SINGAPORE
o/w
£40
£60
£65
£106
£150
£89
£264
£240
rtn
£65
£89
£108
£198
£300
£149
£528
£480
SKI - O N E W E E K from only £79
W E E K E N D B R E A K S from £65
Don't MISS O U T THIS S U M M E R -
SeatS T O ASIA AND AUSTRALASIA SELLING FAST
Book NOW T O S E C U R E YOUR SEAT
U L U T R A V E L
SHERFIELD BUILDING
IMPERIAL COLLEGE
1271
•A B T A l
(S™) WT% ULU TRAVEL
CABARET
Friday 2nd March, Concert Hall
•College Bands*
* Risque Acts*
*Fun & Frivolity*
•Tables with waitress service*
*Crush Bar*
Tickets on the door
BLOWING-UP IMPERIAL
Why? Who? When?
The storv behind H G Wells' plot.
Monday 5th March
7.30pm Physics LT1
see exhibition in Haldane Library

