Why? Oh Why?
Dear Editor,
It is not often that I feel very annoyed at any of the
letters in FELIX but I feel I have found an exception.
Dylan James has apparently never noticed that a
significant proportion of all higher education students
live in accommodation provided by their colleges.
Consequently none of the rent they pay covers the
rates charged for that residence and therefore the Poll
Tax is merely an extra charge that their, already
meagre, grant has to cover.
Perhaps he thinks we should write to the University
Grants Council to request subsidy for this ridiculous
charge since they will no longer be paying the rates
for College accommodation!
Also, it seems unlikely that the landlords who are
overcharging many students for private
accommodation, (since they are only shorthold
tenants) will find it within their hearts to decrease the
rents when the Poll Tax arrives.
Take the blue rosettes out of your eyes Mr James
and you will see how ludicrous it is to introduce a 'fair'
tax in a grossly unfair society.
Dave Matthews, Elec Eng 1.
Oh Why?
Dear Dave,
As a second year student living in Hamlet Gardens
paying £45 per week rent I would be delighted to pay
£ 100 a year less with the introduction of the Poll Tax
(sorry, Community Charge) as stated by Dylan James.
It occurs to me, however, that Mr James is living
in a different world from most students at Imperial.
How many landlords are going to reduce rent with the
introduction of the Poll Tax given that they can gain
approximately £5.25 per week per student? Very few
I suspect. I suspect it's also unlikely that private
landlords will give rent breakdowns for enquiring
students, more likely that the students will get
nervous breakdowns.
Realistically it benefits no one except for an
exclusive few in certain boroughs of London.
Let's all thank Mrs T for making landlords rich.
Yours sincerely,
S Harrison, Physics 2,
D Lane, Physics 2,
S Gillings, Physics 2,
Oh Why?
Dear Dave,
I would like to point out the 'misinformation' which
Dylan James chose to propagate in his letter last week
(FELIX issue 860).
Mr James states a figure of £5.25 for a typical
student rates bill. What he conveniently fails to
mention is that most students are entitled to a 80%
rebate on their rates, thus paying only £40 per
academic year.
As for Westminster's Poll Tax of £200, this can be
attributed to the fact that the City has an unusually
large number of businesses which will be crippled by
the uniform business rate.
Anyone who suggests that Poll Tax is a fair system
is either thick or Conservative, the two not necessarily
being distinguishable.
Yours sincerely,
S A Ghouse (Chem Eng 3).
Dear Dave,
RE: Asian Soc.
I would like to disclose a few facts which I think
everyone has a right to know (especially the members)
about the lifestory of Asian Soc, and raise a few
questions.
Firstly the only reason Bhertendu set up an Asian
Soc was because he knew no one would have elected
him as President for the Indian Soc. It was an ego trip.
The setting up was helped by 'contacts' eg former
India Soc president Kob and by his dear friend Wouter
(OSC Chairman) who pushed the motion through the
Union.
I am a member of the Asian Soc and the reason I
joined it was because it was meant to represent a
more cultured part of Asia. This is why Asian Soc was
not merged with the Indian Soc according to
Bhartendu. The actual reason the two societies did not
merge was because they would have had to have re-
election for which Bhart was not too keen on.
I have yet to go to any cultured event Asian Soc
has organised. There have been a few discos which
really don't justify the purpose of the society. If I
wanted to go to discos, I could have gone to a lot
better ones elsewhere.
The actual running of the society is questioned. The
treasurer resigned due to, quote 'dictatorship'. That
the society is in debt I find hard to believe, since Asian
Soc boasts to have over one hundred members with
membership at £1.50, this already amounts to £150.
This plus Union subsidy is more than any newly
formed society could want. The tickets for the first
event were sold at an average price of five pounds,
I was not present at the function but trustworthy
friends told me that there were at least one hundred
people there. Therefore all this adds up to a substantial
income. So surely (as the JCR is free to hire) we must
search for the money in Swiss bank accounts?
Why hasn't the Union or the OSC made a sufficient
enquiry on this matter. Or are they afraid of losing
face? Or did Bhartendu's ego write cheques his
society couldn't cash?
Yours,
Anil Loadwa, Mech Eng 3.
What?
Dear Dave,
I feel compelled to write to you to answer the letter
titled 'Obscure' in FELIX last week (issue 860). The
'ICU sabbatical' mentioned is indeed me, and I admit
that the alleged comment is attributable to my very
lips.
I beleive that your correspondent is referring to a
remark I made about the behaviour of the former
RCSU Vice President at the Civil Engineering Freshers'
Dinner. I stand by this statement even today, the
reason for the letter you received is that I objected
to being quoted in a motion to an RCSU General
Meeting without my permission, and on a matter I,
incidently, did not support. Without this clause in the
motion the proposer was forced to withdraw it, and
as such his personal crusade against the former VP
was thwarted.
I am sorry that your correspondent has blighted your
pages with such a pointless, anonymous stab at an
anonymous victim. The author drinks with me in the
Bar most nights, so I see no reason as to why he could
not raise the issue there. Anyway, Captain Cunt here
is your reply.
Yours,
David Williams, ICU Deputy President.
S m a l l A d s
ADVERTISE IN THE FELIX SMALL ADS SECTION
FREE IF YOU ARE A MEMBER OF IMPERIAL
COLLEGE UNION
ANNOUNCMENTS
• Postgraduate women: Lunch 12.30pm Friday
23 Feb. Club Committee Room, 3rd Floor Union
Building.
• Granada TV invites you to join their audience
for a recording of 4th Dimension (a series on
science and the environment) at College on March
3rd at 10.45am. You can either just turn up, or
you can book a seat by ringing Tessa Lecomber
on 877 0606. Please bring your friends, all are
welcome.
• Anyone interested in two Tears for Fears
tickets for 6.3.90 at Wembley. Contact P D
Hillon, Physics 2.
• Subwarden Weeks Hall: This position is shortly
to become vacant and applications are invited
from grand funded postgraduate students who
expect to be at College for a further two years.
The starting date is the end of term/Easter
vacation. Please apply to Dr S.P. Walker, Warden.
Jewish Society will be meeting on Tuesday 6
March at 1.30pm in the UDH (1st floor, Union).
The speaker is David Lerner who will be speaking
about Soviety Jewry. Contact Andrew Preston
(Maths 1) for further details.
FOR SALE
• Bike sale Five bicycles of different sizes are for
sale at very low clearance prices. Please contact
Abdol ext 4817.
LOST & FOUND
• Lost: 1 trolly, wooden, squeaky axles,
asymetric front with ICUC painted on it. It is
private property not college's and we want it
back. So if you see it return it to outside the
FELIX Office or contact Pete Bowen BC 2.
PERSONAL
• Q. How many College painters does it take to
paint a Chem Eng corridor?
• A. Only two, but it takes them a month.
• Vote Chris Stapleton for FELIX on Monday and
Tuesday next week. Thomas Wyatt is also
standing for the post of FELIX Editor.
• Congratulations to Jon, Craig and Teea-IC
heroes-for getting to the RAH Valentine Ball.
From Southwell Hall's 'No ticket, no problem-
baffling beats buying' Soc.
• Mim Marseglia-you've seen that film more
times than I've seen Star Trek IV. Love and burps
Lucy.
G U I L D S R U G B Y
S E V E N S
T O U R N A M E N T
This Sunday, 4th March
Coaches leave the Union for Harlington
at 10.00am
Sponsored by Fullers Brewery
Ladles as well as men, are of course
welcome
Sign up in the Guilds Office or on the Union Bar
noticebaord. No more than 3 IC Squad or CCU 1st team
players in any team. Total cost ber team is £1 5 including
travel to and from Harlington.

