Be a celeb Sleep out
The BBC has recorded interviews with students in
the Mechanical Engineering department for its
programme on scientific topics called 'Antenna'. The
programme will be concerned with the future of the
nuclear industry and the economics of energy
Professor Goddard, head of the Nuclear Powers
section of Mechanical Engineering, said that the BBC
had approached him to ask for his help on studying
the future availability of professional staff to keep the
industry running safely.
The students are all taking the Nuclear Engineering
option and the programme is expected to be screened
on the 28th March this year.
Two episodes of the Channel Four programme
'Fourth Dimension' will be filmed in a tent on the
Queen's lawn this Saturday (3rd March). The series
looks at current science issues.
People interested in taking part in the debate,
entitled 'the Greening of Science', should turn up at
11.00 am on the Queen's Lawn. At 5.15 a second
filming run will include more features on Imperial
College; Professor Davies from the Aeronautical
Engineering department will be on the panel.
Complaints
The ICU Elections Commitee, who are responsible
for overseeing the way in which the ICU sabbatical
elections are run, dismissed a complaint about the
conduct of a Presidential candidate on Thursday.
The complaint was lodged by two other candidates
for the post of President. The candidate denied
allegations of breaking publicity rules by fixing
stickers and handouts to walls. The Elections
Committee felt that there was no proof that the
candidate or his supporters were responsible for the
location of the stickers and handouts and dismissed
the complaint.
The candidate was told that if any candidate or any
candidate's supporters were caught breaking election
rules, they would be excluded from the election.
Sellout
St Mary's Union President, Rhydian Hapgood, has
agreed to a plan for the proceeds of the sale of tennis
courts at St Mary's Hospital Medical School's sports
ground in Teddington to go towards building a new
IC hall of residence. The money will be donated to
the Imperial College/St Mary's Merger Appeal fund.
A condition of the donation to the fund is that
Imperial College must also make an 'appropriate
contribution' towards the cost of the hall.
Lecture I
Constantine S. Nicandros, President and Chief
Executive of Conoco Incorporated, spoke at IC on
'The Innovation Imperative' last Tuesday. It was the
first 'Sir Barnes Wallis lecture', to be held annually,
sponsored by the Instute of Patentees and Inventors.
A good attendance of over 100 people was reported.
Students slept out on the college walkways in
cardboard boxes last Tuesday night to help the
Centrepoint Soho charity for young down-and-outs.
Thirty-five students from the West London
Chaplaincy attempted to sleep from 10.30pm until
9.30am the following morning outside the entrance
to the Electrical Engineering Department.
Ms Rachael Kitley, a second year Life Scientist,
said that each of the students had been sponsored for
roughly £30-£40 each. 'It wasn't a very cold night,
but we were still not able to sleep properly', she
added.
Lecture II Rugby win
The director of the IC Humanities department, M r
Eric Stables, will be giving a talk under the title 'Satire
on Campus: Universities and the Comic Novel'. It
will be held in the Read lecture theatre, level 5
Sherfield, at 1.15pm on Tuesday 6 March.
Prizes
An award of £750 was made to Alan Smith, an IC
Petroleum Engineering MSc graduate, on the 23rd
February. The money was given by a British oil
company in recognition of his high standard of work
and 'maturity and leadership qualities' according to
his former tutor, Dr Raad Issa.
The same company also gave £500 to Andrew
Scott, an IC Chemical Engineering undergraduate,
in January.
A strong IC team took to the field at Motspur Park
to loud support from over 100 IC supporters on a
windy rainy Sunday. Scoring a try virtually from the
kick off, IC soon consolidated with two penalties to
lead 10-0. By the time St Thomas' had their hooker
sent off mid-way through the first half (for injudicious
use of the knee), the general feeling in the crowd was
not whether we would win but rather by how many.
Two more tries gave IC a lead of 18-0 at half-time.
Playing into the wind in the second half, IC scored
another try before St Thomas' even bothered the
scorer. However, stout defence by IC restricted them
to two penalities whilst IC ran in another try to give
a resounding victory of 26-6 at full-time. Fine
performances from all the team both in attack and
defence combined to ensure everybody had an
excellent reason to spend Sunday evening engineering
a massive hangover for the next morning.
Competition Elections
A two week tour of Japan is a prize for an essay
competition organized by the Japan Information and
Cultural Centre (465 6500). The essay is entitled
'Japan-European Relationship in the 21st Century'.
The offer closes on the 10th April. Details are
available from the Union office or the Japanese
Embassy (number given above).
Almost 200 people attended the hustings for the four
Union Sabbaticals took place last Thursday in the
Junior Common Room. A hustings was also held at
St Mary's Hospital Medical School last Monday.
Voting will take place in all departments on the 5th
and 6th March. A special results edition of 'Felix'
will be brought out on Wednesday 7th. Please be
ready to produce your union cards at the ballot box.
Obituary Auction
Friends were saddened and profoundly shocked by
the death of Juan Martinez in a motor accident on
February 26th. He first came to Imperial College in
1986 to undertake a MSc course in the Physics
Department and continued his studies for a PhD
Degree of which he was already in his 3rd year.
Friends will miss his happy smile and great sense of
fun which touched so many of the lives around him.
He was a very special individual and a credit to his
family.
Friends and acquaintances are invited to attend a
Requiem Mass to be held on Monday March 5th at
the Brompton Oratory, Old Brompton Road at
12.30pm in his honour.
The government's plans to expand Britain's
Universities could result in Universities 'bidding' for
students at-prices recommended by the Universities
Funding Council (UFC), according to a report in The
Independent.
The University of East Anglia believes that this will
result in a fall in the number of science applicants
because the tuition fees will be more expensive per
science student than for an arts student.
There are rumours that the mandatory payment of
tuition fees by students' borough councils will be
phased out. This would be replaced by charging the
student directly.

