Born on the Fourth of July
A filofax is a popular contraceptive. On the same lines,
calling a film starring all-american Tom Cruise Born on
the Fourth of July is enough to put anyone off their
popcorn. Trite highschool dances, Ultra-Brite teeth
and those good 'ole Independence Day Parades: At
first sight it reeks of Jingoism.
But this film is really about the American Dream and
Jingoism, turned sour.'Tom Cruise plays small-town
boy Ron Kovic who, after highschool, for the want of
something better to do, joins the Marines. 'There's
nothing finer, nothing prouder than to be a United
States Marine', he's told. This is a debatable assertion
at the best of times, but at the beginning of the
Vietnam War....
Ron survives in Vietnam for two years, witnessing
and even committing varied atrocities until he is near
fatally wounded and is sent home, paralysed from the
chest down. This is where the real fight begins: As
a 'vet', Kovic returns to a country that doesn't feel
proud about him, as he was once lead to believe, but
feels sorry for him. He also finds out that he has been
effectively sterilised: Will I ever be able to have
children', he asks, 'No, but we have a very good
psychologist.' His fight is to create a new life for
himself when that of his youth has been shattered
beyond repair.
Oliver Stone (also director of Platoon) has produced
an intelligent and mercifully non-sentimental film
which is bound to outshine all the other Vietnam Films
that the distributors have imposed upon us recently.
Stone collaborated with the real Ron Kovic (the film
is his life story) on both the screenplay and on location
making the proceedings startlingly realistic. At 2hrs
25mins, it is not a short film; but to compensate this
the range of characters and situations employed
coupled with the imaginative photography is more
than sufficient to hold one's attention.
Perhaps the most startling thing about Born on the
Fourth of July is Tom Cruise. His portrayal of the lead
role was utterly convincing and was of a quality that
few young actors can attain; definitely worthy of his
Oscar Nomination and he alone is worth the price of
your ticket. Tom, we all love you.
Bom on the Fourth of July opens today.
Adrian Pagan
Trop belle pour toi F
Dad
Bernard, a young successful businessman, is happily
married with a beautiful house, beautiful car, two
beautiful children and an arrestingly beautiful wife,
Florence. Suspecting an infidelity with his secretary,
she bursts in on him at work, but upon beholding the
plainness of her imagined adversary she dissolves in
tears of relief: what attraction could a woman hold,
whose form can barely be distinguished from the
office furniture which surrounds her? Nonetheless the
affair develops, and the subsequent shock-wave
threatens to wipe out not only his own marriage, but
those of his circle of friends.
Trop belle pour toi is a wonderful mix between
sparkling parable and comic tragedy. Florence, who
pleads to be accepted as an equal, is an icon of
beauty. Her life of endless admirers has not equipped
her to comprehend that at heart she is, as she desires,
completely ordinary. Colette (the secretary) however
has led a quiet life untroubled by the attention of
others. Those few who pause to look into her eyes
and wonder what lies beyond, are by nature very
different. They are the. sensitive vulnerable ones.
The director Bertrand Blier, who also wrote the
screenplay, clearly enjoys confounding expectations.
His clever use of intercuts allows, without loss of
direction, the various stages of the plot to meld into
one more concise whole. He also enjoys several
cinematographic jokes aimed at American cinema
among others, but you will have to stay awake to
catch them. All three main actors (Josiane Balasko,
Carole Bouquet and Gerard Depardieu) give superb
performances, though Josiane Balasko's portrayal of
the dumpy secretary is particularly magical. Her
sensuous love scenes reflect her ability to transcend
physical limits, showing us a character rich in both
emotion and compassion.
In conclusion Trop belle poi toi is a love story, but
one which is neither formulaic nor overly sentimental.
It well deserves the special jury prize that it won at
Cannes in '89 and will lift the soul of all but the most
hardened pessimists.
Trop belle poi toi opens at Chelsea Cinema, The
Lumiere and Camden Plaza tonight.
Matthew G Johnson.
Well we've had the thirtysomethings and their babies,
so now its time for the thirtysomethings and their
parents. John Tremont (Ted Danson of Cheers
notoriety) is a successful businessman who is too
busy to visit his parents much of the time. All this
changes though when he hears that his mother has
had a heart attack. Dropping everything he flies to his
parent's home. There he finds his father a sorry
sight-barely able to care for himself, reduced to
senility by inactivity. John decides to devote himself
to restoring his father to health, growing closer to him
in the process. Then Dad himself falls ill...
The film tries to mix comedy and drama, and in that
aim it is largely successful. Some of the scenes
between John and Jack Tremont (Jack Lemmon) are
genuinely moving although, to be honest, they can get
just a little too sentimental at times. The comedy is
also good, especially a scene in which Bette (Olympia
Dukakis) is talking to her son about her sex life, and
John can't believe his ears. Unfortunately they rarely
manage to blend the two, tending to alternate
between them with depressing regularity.
Although the impressive cast do their best, they are
struggling against a badly constructed script. John
seems to be able to take unlimited time off from his
job, Jake falls ill and gets better rather too frequently
to be believable and the whole thing seems overlong.
What could have been a good study of the relationship
between parents and children has not been kept under
tight enough control, leaving the film to meander
aimlessly, obscuring the point. A nice first attempt
from producer Goldberg, better luck next time.
Adam T.
Page 3

