When I Fall in Love
Released originally in the US under the title Everyone's
All American, When I Fall In Love is one of those
movies that traces people through a good portion of
their lives. Although it is being promoted heavily as
a love story this is but one of the threads of the plot.
Gavin Grey (Dennis Quaidl is a sports hero at
Louisiana State University. Leading the 1956
American football team to win the sugerbowl, he
acquires the nickname 'The Grey Ghost'. He goes on
to play the professional game, pausing only to marry
his long term sweetheart, that years Magnolia Queen,
Babs Rodgers (Jessica Lange). 'Did you ever see two
more gorgeous creatures than Gavin Grey and Babs
Rodgers?' fawns a member of the crowd. Over the
years they breed like rabbits while Gavin's nephew
Donnie spends the whole time madly in love with
Babs. Donnie (Timothy Hutton) has a successful
academic career while Gavin's goes down the tubes
and Babs embarks on hers. All the tensions come to
a head at a college reunion in 1981.
The passage of time over the 25 years the film
covers is marked in a variety of ways. Very little
reference is made to real-world events apart from a
. .'.' Hi. :
Romero
perfunctory nod to black right campaigns through the
character of Narvel Blue (Carl Lumby). Instead we are
treated to a wide range of fashions and haircuts on
Ms Lange and variety of style for Hutton too. The
soundtrack has also been designed to reflect the
period each scene is set in, with a variety of
'contempory' music used throughout.
Film
Film
The specially filmed football scenes are intercut
with real NFL footage, and so are shot on 16mm film
instead of the normal 35mm, giving it a realistic grainy
effect. Otherwise the camerawork is competent but
uninspired, the most obvious angle being used much
of the time.
The acting is, on the whole, adequate but Quaid
does not turn in a particularly impressive performance,
making Grey seem a very stereotyped person. Hutton
makes the most he can of a fairly undemanding part
and Lange makes a good job of portraying the
'southern belle with brains' character of Babs. The
revelation of the film is John Goodman, who plays a
friend of Gavin's. Best known for his portrayal of
Roseanne Bar's husband in TV's Roseanne, he is both
comic and tragic as a man whose life collapses due
to a gambling and drinking problem-a great
performance.
Unfortunately the film tries to hit too many targets
and ends up missing them all. It has no real sense of
purpose and one never really feels that you care for
the characters. A very weak and uninspiring film.
Adam T.
I K
Romero is a film that succeeds in doing what Oliver
Stone's Salvador failed to do. Romero tells the story
of El Salvador through the eyes of the one man who
has become a symbol of the suffering and hope of the
tiny Central American republic: Oscar Romero, who
is portrayed with great sensitivity by Raul Julia. The
film is not without its faults; for example, although
the dialogue is in English, many of the characters,
particularly the smaller roles, speak with such heavy
accents and bad pronunciation that it sounds as if they
are having trouble communicating, rather than simply
giving a more authentic flavour to the film, and some
of the dialogue is a little cliched. None of this,
however, detracts from the immense power of the
film.
When Oscar Romero is appointed archbishop the
priests working to make the church more committed
to the poor are dismayed; Romero is a conservative,
a man whose reality is a world of books and the
comfort afforded to El Salvador's elite. When his close
friend, Father Rutulio Grande, (who is played by
Richard Jordan) is murdered by a death squad for
organising peasants to defend their rights, Romero's
Page 4
eyes are opened to the suffering and violence around
him. Romero becomes a voice for the voiceless and
he comes increasingly into conflict with the
government and the armed forces. As repression
increases against the mass organisations and the
church, Romero is even more outspoken. In his
Sunday homily in the cathedral, Romero orders the
soldiers to stop the repression. The film ends the next
day when, while saying Mass in small chapel, Romero
pays for his commitment with his life.
Romero is a balanced and moving study of a country
torn apart by poverty and civil war. It is also a beautiful
portrait of a man who undergoes the most painful
conversion. Romero is, perhaps, an unusual character
for a Hollywood film: an overweight, be-spectacled
and staid archbishop, yet the film shows him, in his
own way, to be a remarkable hero. The release of this
film, just three months after six priests who worked
with Romero were murdered for their commitment to
the same cause, makes its impact even more
poignant.
Julian Bommer.
Valued
Friends
Theatre
lot of us have experienced the anguish of organising
a flatshare. Your so-called friends 'gazump' you at the
last minute, and you and your pet hamster are left
with a luxury apartment for six. But imagine what it
would be like if you were to invest 30k of your hard
earned readies into an Earl's Court Basement with a
group of friends one year and the next you find that
your loyalties as well your friends' loyalties have
changed and that the flat has doubled in price: in most
peoples' experience, Friends and Money don't mix.
This is approximately the scenario in Valued Friends:
Four ex-students have been living in the same
basement for ten years and their new yuppie landlord
tries to blackmail them into moving out so he can
redevelop the whole block. They resist and, with a
typical sweep of Thatcheresque logic, decide to buy.
Interestingly, since the play was first performed over
a year ago and interest rates have gone through the
roof (as it were) the play has been endowed with an
unintentional twist: 1990 is NOT the time to buy
property.
Writer Stephen Jeffreys has produced a funny and
highly intelligent study of Eighties moeurs. His acute
observations and the actors' precise characterisation
go a long way to make a delightful evening. Miss it
at your risk and peril!
See Valued Friends at the Hampstead Theatre,
Swiss Cottage. Box office 722 2301.
Adrian Pagan.

