The Diviners
Buddy Layman is a boy with a genuine gift for
detecting water. He can not only find underground
water in order to dig wells, he even knows when it
is going to rain, even though there is not a cloud in
the sky. He also has a phobia about water and refuses
to touch it under any circumstances-even to wash.
The villagers all know of Buddy's gift and although
they wonder at its accuracy they accept it for what
it is and indeed make use of it. Apparently Buddy fell
into a river when he was five and was under the water
a long time, in fact he almost drowned. His mother
died saving him. Both of these incidents have made
a great impression upon Buddy for when he is asked,
after finding a well for Basil Bennet, a neighbouring
farmer, how hfe detects the water he replies that 'he
just closes his eyes and thinks of his Mama'. This
search for his Mama and a failure to understand where
it is that she has gone, or even why, is a recurring
theme in the play.
One day a stranger arrives in the village looking for
work. It is at the height of the depression and Ferris
Layman, Buddy's father, cannot understand why a
man would leave a perfectly good job at such a time.
He refuses to employ him until he knows what his
previous job was. C.C. is forced to tell Ferris that he
was a preacher. Not having had a church or preacher
for ten years this news spreads round the town like
wildfire and from then on C.C. has no peace from
certain members fo the community who cannot
believe he has given up preaching.
Buddy soon makes friends with C.C. who tries to
help him cure his fear of water, if only to help cure
him of an everlasting itch which is gradually getting
worse. C.C. also falls in love with Jennie Mae,
Buddy's sister, who tries to look after Buddy as well
as she can in default of their mother.
Nicholas Cannon is excellently cast as the sixteen
year old Buddy. He is childlike and simple and very
credible in the role. In fact the casting overall is very
good.
The play is set in Indiana, USA and maybe the cast
would have been better to reset the play elsewhere
or at least not bother with the American accents
which were, in the main, appalling. Richard Hamilton
as Basil, had the best accent and even this was not
at all convincing.
Apart from this the play was very enjoyable. The
plot is original and interestingly dealt with and the play
is very well written. The acting is good-the casting
helped this. This is the second play in the series
'Women in the Moon', run by the Man in the Moon
Theatre Club, highlighting the work of women
directors and as with the previous play The Dutch
Courtesan, very few props are used and very little
background scenery-much of this is left to the
audiences imagination. Even the ending of this play
is very powerful leaving a good impression-an
essential feature of any play.
The Diviners is on at the Man in the Moon Theatre
Club, 392 Kings Road, Chelsea. Concessionary tickets
cost £4, Ring the box office on 351 2876 for details.
J.L.W.
Process your Application
for a Career i n Process
For a rewarding career in Process, look no further than this ad.
We're looking for 2 Chemical Engineering Graduates to undertake
our 2 year training scheme, initially offshore, on our Alwyn
Installation.
Very much a hands-on position, you will gain exposure to almost
every aspect of oil production and be at the sharp end of operating
procedures on start-up, isolating machinery, permit to work,
wireline and downhole problems.
Depending on your own aptitude and interests you can progress
into computer or plant based process engineering, onshore, and be
assured of invaluable career development opportunities. If you
wish to progress to Chartered status we will provide every
encouragement
And because we're expecting so much of you, and you expect so
much of an organisation such as ours, the starting salary is a
generous f12,796 with additional allowance while working
offshore.
Please apply with s.a.f., e.a.f, obtainable from your career
office or write or telephone for an application form to:
Janice Gray,
Senior Personnel Officer,
Total Oil Marine pic,
Crawpeel Road, Aliens,
Aberdeen AB92AG.
Telephone 0224 858172
Not later than 9th
March 1990.
TOTAL
T o t a l O i l M a r i n e

