Bomb Disneyland
—Camden Palace 27.2.90
Bomb Disneyland are monsters of thrash, but were
met by an audience of metal heads, misguided
casuals, tourists, energetic sadists and a barrage of
Camden regulars. But by half way through Suicide
999, the sheer volume, naked chests and the
unleashed liveliness of the crowd separated the men
from the boys.
If you listen to Aerosmith, or suchlike, at double
speed, add the vocals of a pregnant pig and a headless
chicken, you may just get the general idea.
They crunched and ground their way through
twelve songs, massacred the Rolling Stones Paint it
Black and terrorised us to slam to Faster Bastard
(that's the headless chicken one.) Dare to enter the
void of the dancefloor, to quench the body's brutish
desire to slam, at risk of severe bodily
dismemberment. Oh to die with a smile on my face!
Totally irresistably slammable.
SJH and DEL
The Blue Aeroplanes
—Jacket Hangs 12"
Aeronauts write with guitars. After tasting the
instantly compulsive guitar riff, it comes as no surprise
that they have just toured with REM. Sadly Jacket
Hangs does just that. It collapses lazily through
pointless lyrics about helicopter blades, contact and
other plane jargon.
The Blue Aeroplanes could quite easily start a new
trait of hypnotism. The blunt riff rams you like a rusty
sledgehammer and then pounds on to reach
screaming tedium. It's totally addictive and persistant.
It haunts at night and terrorises by day. It's the
Terminator of music.
The next two tracks, Razor Walk and Different Now
used to be one, but the edge of the vinyl got in the
way. Bristol is a lot closer to the USA than
Manchester, it seems. Are there any head nodders out
there?
They finally make it into the Big Sky. It's all a ploy
to get you to turn the record back to side one, because
it's Jacket Hangs in a different order. Who are they
trying to kid about freedom? Not Bono.
Listening to Jacket Hangs is like drinking alcohol;
it's good until you get sick, but it won't leave you
alone. Totally compulsive.
SJH.
Ents
n e c
V If
Wedding Present
—Brassneck
Brassneck is exactly the same as every other Wedding
Present song so far. Same jolly guitars, same inaudible
annoying vocals. They can't say a lot else about tracks
as boring as this except if anyone can decipher why
its called Brassneck, please let David Gedge know.
Oh, there is a slow meaningful bit. He's turning into
the pogo-ers' Morrissey. 'I've just decided I don't trust
you anymore....'
The B-side, Don't Talk, Just Kiss, is different,
almost. It's refined. But just when you think it's safe
to start listening, it's back to the old three Wedding
Pressie chords in REVERSE! In fact, this sounds like
an entire demo album condensed into one track.
Incidently, the endings of both sides are absolutely
identical.
Kill David Gedge and you might salvage the B-side.
SJH and J.
Furniture
—Food, Sex and Paranoia
This excellent album may start the Modern Romantics
revival, but let's hope not and be contented with it
as seemingly a classic Modern Romantic album of the
early 80s which still seems to find a place in today's
charts. It makes an excellent change from current
mainstream chart material, though unfortunately it is
destined to reach only a limited audience.
Beginning with One Step Behind You, which is a
brilliantly catchy track with choruses whipped straight
from the early 80s singer and main vocals sounding
totally like early Spandau Ballet, it would make an
excellent single. Though it seems the risk was too
much and instead Slow Motion Kisses has been
released already as the first single. This is a soft and
subtle, whispering track. It's sad too and makes me
think of INXS (not totally unconnected) but it's got
no chance as a single, though in the context of the
80s it would have had a chance. Perhaps this band
are just eight years too late.
Swing Tender is beautifully balladic, sleepy and
cosmic, definitely a step forward in time, but to where
(when?). Aaargh, I speak too soon, the backing vocals
have just got me....whoosh, so it's back in time we
plunge, but then it's gone. So back again....zoom....
whoosh...zoom....etc.
A Taste of You would have sat merrily towards the
top of the charts in '82 behind Spandau Ballet and
suchlike, eight years too late again.
Zoom... here we go again./) Plot to Kill, though still
sparce with vocals and guitar is intricated but it's
brash and takes us up to classic '85 Duran Duran-ish.
On a Slow fuse gives a converse atmoshere mellow,
but is both sad and sorry. Subway to beach is about
a chant of an unashamed love plea. Song for
Spring has sprung, the grass is high, I wonder where
the Ents gig is? It's a night off for the Lounge
Nightclub tonight because we couldn't take another
Friday night missing Whicker's World and Jonathan
Ross...could we?
The last three gigs of Spring have something for
everyone, the usual alcohol induced dancing frenzies,
and a cracking set of bands.
Next week, the 9th, sees the welcome return of
Basil Gabbidon's Bass Dance. Four years ago they
played their upfront roots rockin' reggae to a packed
Freshers' Week. Since then I've seen them at the T&C
2 and Cambridge's Strawberry Fayre, there's always
an electric atmosphere as the bass line thumps
through your body, swinging along to the choruses.
Support is from Red Ten, recently described in a highly
revealing interview with the IC Ents Chairman as
'Quite Good'.
Rock night is on March 16, heralding the second
coming of Stagefright, IC's most successful rock band
of the last ten years. The Hamsters are lined up to top
the bill, a blues based rock band, making classic rock
guitar sounds, tempered with good ol' 12 bar blues
as in their rendition of Down to the Doctor. It's like
Thin Lizzy and The Blues Brothers as one band. The
boys are back in town, but it's dark and they're
wearing sunglasses. Hit it.
The finale; the crowning glory of this term's Friday
nights is on March 23, with Death Bang Party blitzing
the lounge. Think about their name and you might get
the idea. Music papers have described them thus:
'Scandal, cocks, vulgarity, grisly exhibitionism...
'They promise plenty if you happen to like James
Brown'...'The band's main aim is to create a total
party atmosphere with music and dancing and a touch
of outrage'...'Brilliant musicians but the emphasis is
on having a good time.' Says it all really.
With a quote from Jengiz Kahn, the Mongol
Emperor, in their publicity and band members going
by the names of Doris Day, Squeaky, His Excellency,
Hammond (on keyboards) and Johnny One-note, they
may just live up to their reputation. Come along and
see if the reality fits the reputation, you won't be
disappointed.
Tickets on sale from Monday at £2 in advance from
the Union Office, for Bass Dance and Red Ten.
Doberman and Love Me seem almost made for each
other, each talking of the unfairness of love, sung from
the early 80s. The first from a woman and the second
by a man who sounds like Julio Inglesias on a bad day.
Heartwrenchingly tiresome.
Friend of a Friend, aaargh will this never end? Hard
to Say, sit in a corner and die to this after splitting
up with your lover. An excellent album at first,
especially if you like early 80s music but profoundly
shows it's nice to reminisce but we can't live in the
past. This does.
Del.
Page 6

