The Telescopes, Kitchens of Distinction, New
Fast Automatic Daffodils and the Chairs
-ULU 22.2.90
The Chairs, who knows, nobody else bothered to turn
up either; they probably got sat on.
The New Fast Automatic Daffodils sounded
uncannily like The Happy Mondays. Not only because
the lead singer, Andy Stearpoint, is a Mane, but
because of the tom-tom drum beat leading the near
oratory vocals over a field of wavering, whingeing and
near pointless guitars, down a track to jollity and
mindless dance music. They even brought along their
own Bez, who played the toy drums with his hands
for a couple of tracks and just buggered off for the
others; no-one minded, he just made up the numbers.
Their set was fast, furious and almost fun, not quite
The Happy Roses, but the Manchester attitude was
in there somewhere, calling for 'Scallies of the world
to unite,' and they did.
Now, Scallies are misguided and harmless sorts,
who could even pass as trendy in down-town
Manchester or perhaps bopping away in the Hacienda,
but, at a gig where slam dancing and stage diving are
the norm, they're so out of it that it makes them far
more entertaining than the New Fast Automatic
Daffodils (that's not saying much). To see a Scallie
stage dive is reminiscent of a kite, flares flapping in
the wind, and to see a Scallie try to slam dance is
reminiscent of a total dickhead.
Onward to the Kitchens of Distinction was a definite
easterly move.
While the singer sings songs with bitterness from
a moral and political stance which can most easily be
likened toMorrissey, the guitarist is on another planet,
entirely alone but observed by droves of bemused
fans. He dances around the stage, a victim of far too
many rock videos in his youth, the stage is his, well
what's left after the vast floor space taken up by a
multitude of effect pedals.
They came to ULU from outer space, fresh from a
European tour and played an excellent set for thirty
minutes, with strong feelings and striking lyrics,
backed by a manic guitar sound, pummeled through
numerous effect pedals, giving a totally unnecessary
sound.
Each song relied on the bass and vocals to carry it
through, as the guitarist and his hyper-active ankle
leapt around from effect to effect, seemingly
randomly, but all with the same overall useless effect.
The most popular songs (though still not down on
vinyl) were The Third Time They Opened The Capsule
and Prize, which carried to the whole audience (and
cost less than a pound of bananas). They were both
danceable for the straggling Scallies and new-found
fans on the dancefloor and still sounded excellent
(really it did, to some of us), to the more reserved
hugging the walls and up on the balcony.
The band are now heading studiowards and won't
be touring again until May. Let's hope they realise how
fraudulent and useless the guitar sound is before
continuing or eating any more Creme Eggs.
This is going on for evaaaaaaa....aaaaaargh!
The Telescopes were pretentious wankers and were
dragged through a brilliantly irate and moody set by
lead singer, Steven (or was it Jim Reid), for thirty
minutes until finally the illusion they had constructed
self-destructed.
Songs like The Perfect Needle and Anticipating
Nowhere were fiercely mellow whereas Violence and
There is no Floor threw the crowd into a fierce mosh
fuelled by Steven's strangled and screamed vocals.
Though moshing was limited by the sweatbox
atmosphere of ULU; wot no ventilation? The idea to
turn the house lights on for five minutes during the
set was a bit of a scorcher too!
When someone spat at Steven it was the final
straw: 'A pound of carrots please Mr Jones the
Greengrocer,' said Steven. 'We're not gonna play
another song, until that fuckin' wanker who spat at
me gets up here.' Who did he expect Sparticus or
Meteoric Telescope Attack
perhaps Mr Jones the Greengrocer. A tortured version
of To Kill a Slow Girl Walking ended the set and they
didn't come back.
At a glance they were The Jesus and Mary Chain,
they have the same attitude (problem). Their sound
has more direction and ebb and flow, in and out of
guitar spurred frenzies, never does a sense of
consistency or conformity fall upon a track. But each
track ultimately depends on Steven's tempestuous
moods.
Ooh, Steven we love it when you get angry, go on
do it again.
Del, the whole Del and nothing but Del (except
the crap photos), so God help us.
Kitchens
THE GREENGROCER'S GUIDE TO
DOMESTIC FRUITS
Friday 2nd March
Carter the Unstoppable Sex Machine
+ Senseless Things + Nutmeg ULU
The Creatures Town & Country Club
James Ray's Gangwar
+ Asylum Fulham Greyhound
Spandau Ballet Docklands Arena
Saturday 3rd March
Coldcut Brixton Fridge
Sunday 4th March
Loop + Godflesh Town & Country Club
Monday 5th March
Cud + Flik Spatulata + Barbel Dingwalls
Tears for Fears Wembley Arena
Chicago + Marilyn Snapes Hammy Odeon
Tuesday 6th March
Strawberry of the Week:
Felo-de-se...Op. on the Green, Shepherds Bush
The Railway Children Subterrania
Well Loaded Fulham Greyhound
The Other Side
+ Some Have Fins
+ Spectral Temple Marquee
Tears for Fears Wembley Arena
Wednesday 8th March
Kiwi Fruit of the Week:
Red Hot Chilli Peppers
+ Gaye Bikers on Acid Astoria
Pale Saints
+ The Real People ULU
They Might be Giants Powerhaus Islington
Friday 9th March
House of Love Royal Albert Hall
Ride LSE Student Union

