Charles English describes his trip to the Sahara last year.
Nomads on wheels
There was a time when the trade routes across the
Sahara were used by Tuareg nomads, working the
immense salt-caravans between such mythical places
as Niane, Djene and Timbuktu. Today, though, much
has changed. The sons of the salt-traders who
crossed and recrossed the desert in caravans of up
to 60,000 camels that would go from Northern
Algeria, to Timbuctou and Niger and back again are
now more likely to be seen racing a Toyota Land
Cruiser around downtown Tamanrasset. But little of
the Tuareg mentality has changed, only the means
with which he accomplishes it. Hoary dromedaries,
gargling and spitting their way between nomad
settlements have been supplanted successively by
Land Rovers, and now by the more reliable Toyota
Land Cruisers that fly past on sand tyres cobbled
together with string. The swaying salt-caravans have
been swapped for Berliet and M*A*N trucks,
steaming through the sand with a tail of dust flying
up behind like some fantastical sand-borne
combine-harvester.
Into this clash and fusion of cultures has come a
new ethnic minority; the white man. In days of yore
the European tourist would be regarded as an alien,
of immense wonder and excitement, to be treated as
public property to be examined, experienced and
digested by the group. But now he is commonplace;
a symbol of wealth, a source of money, spare parts,
and BIC biros. There is much so-called 'tourism' here
now, though the 'tourists' do not think of themselves
as such. To most, 'Tourism' implies Benidorm or the
Costa Brava. 'Explorers' is more like it, doing battle
with an unknown and dangerous desert-yet to the
tribesmen they take things very easily, sticking to the
main routes and drinking too much water.
Among these exists the new breed of Saharan
traders. These are tough, young Europeans, many
German, in search of an adventure on the cheap. Their
routes are usually traditional, taking either the fast,
flat and empty piste across the Tanezrouft, or the
more interesting road across the Hoggar mountains.
Their transport and merchandise, though, have
changed and been rolled into a single entity: a
secondhand Peugeot or Mercedes. These cars can be
bought in France or Germany, or indeed the UK, for
four or five hundred pounds, repaired a little, and
driven across the desert where they are highly prized
by wealthy and enterprising Nigerenes. Their sale can
easily cover the cost of petrol, food and the flight
home. For most it can provide them with an invaluable
and free holiday; for some, drivers of almost new
Mercedes 190s and the newer Peugeots, it has been
developed into a profit-making business. Sales of such
vehicles are usually arranged in advance, the
purchaser is often an agent for some rich and powerful
'patron' behind the scenes.
Those taking a car, however, should be very
selective as to make and model. Secondhand
Peugeots pretty much have the market cornered in
West Africa. Spares and mechanics are hard to come
by, so any car other than the ones that are well known
and for which parts can be salvaged from the scrap
heap are of little value unless a complete set of spares
is brought with them. Also, the more 'wideboy' the
image, the more valuable the car becomes. Stickers,
metallic paintwork and anti-static strips will all
increase the value of a car to be sold. It is perhaps
a bitter irony that the car-sticker proclaiming 'Turbo'
will increase a vehicle's value hugely in Niger, a
country with a 90.2% illiteracy rate.
For those making the long, dustry drive South, Niger
is a promised land, the end of the heat and strain of
the desert. Here spare parts can be obtained, cheap
beer can be bought, fresh mangoes can be found in
abundance. Deep in the tropics, it is in the south of
Niger that the dense greenery begins. Yet further
South is the edge of the tropical rain forest. Like a vast
experiment, humid and steaming, it is a place of
superlatives; spiders are the biggest, snakes the most
poisonous, fresh fruit the tastiest and diseases the
most virulent. Everything from elephants to malarial
mosquitos to greenery grows faster and larger than
in more temperate climates.
Most, but not all, make it. The track South of
Tamanrasset to Assamakka is littered with burnt out
shells of Peugeots and VW buses that have broken
down or even exploded, usually as a result of storing
petrol cans on the roof in the sun. This is not often
terminal as the next passing truck usually has room
for a couple more passengers, or at least enough
water to spare. Yet still some tourists die almost every
year. At the Algeria/Niger border of In Guezzam this
year are four Peugeots ail-but covered over by the
creeping dunes. They had belonged to a group who
had decided to skip customs on leaving Algeria to save
themselves some cash, avoiding the main track past
the border point and taking a diversion some 30 miles
to the West. All four had variously broken down or
become stuck in the sand. They sat and waited for
help to come for two weeks, maybe less, in the end
drinking the water in the radiators of their cars. But
no one came until too late, and the Peugeots have
since been brought to the border post. Sinking slowly
into the sand, they recall hauntingly the desert's slow,
almost gentle irresistability.
Charles English.

