An adventurous holiday need not cost the earth, writes Ian Hodge.
Cheap and cheerful
Before you jet off to the four corners of the world
perhaps you should stop and think again. Rather than
spend hundreds of pounds flying to dark dank
destinations think about staying somewhere a little
closer to home (and more sociable).
The Youth Hostel Association is a charity originally
set up to allow young people to unearth the delights
and pleasures of Britain without it costing a fortune.
The hostels are open to all, but the initial aim persists
and the prices are kept as low as possible.
Almost without exception the hostels are converted
buildings ranging from schools to vicarages and
farmer's cottages in some of the more remote
locations.
It will never be up to five star standard, could you
afford it if it was? but it will be very friendly and
informal with the warden making you feel at ease very
quickly. The atmosphere is not cliquey at all and new
members are made more than welcome.
The prices range from £2.60 for a simple hostel, no
more than a hut with toilets, beds and a kitchen, to
£7,50 for the equivalent of the Hilton with carpets and
a television. There is a full range of prices between
to match anyone's budget and even food is available
if you feel like having a break from your own cookery.
The hostels are not all in national parks with many
of them in seemingly uninteresting parts of the
country, but this is the one of the delights of staying
in a hostel. You can discover the true nature of the
country, find the hidden character and enjoy yourself
much more than if you were tramping up the
mountains with thousands of others.
If the idea of sleeping in dormitories worries you
then do not fret, they are not long stark rooms with
beds lined up like soldiers on parade. The rooms have
about twenty beds in them,normally bunk beds, and
they are light and clean and not oppressive at all.
All hostels have a member's kitchen so that you can
cook your own food. The cutlery, crockery and all
cooking equipment is provided. One small tip is to take
your own matches and a tea towel, they should be
available but both tend to become damp and not work
very well.
In addition to the basic needs of sleep and food the
hostel will have a small communal area with soft
chairs and books. You should soon find yourself
talking to people you have never met before and will
never see again.
A key to enjoying your stay in any hostel is not to
be reserved and stilted, everybody else is in a new
environment so muddle through together.
To help keep prices as low as possible you will be 1
asked to perform some sort of task in the hostel. This
never takes up much time and sweeping the floor is
not much of a hardship and remember its saving you
money!
Membership this year is £4.00 for under 21 's and
£7.60 if over.If you would like to try hosteling but
don't want to become a full member until you are sure
then go to any hostel and ask fora guest pass. It will
cost you £2.60 and allows you to stay in any hostel
for two nights. If you decide to become a full member
you can use the pass to get a two pound reduction
on the membership fee. If you know somebody who
is a full member then they can take you to any hostel
for three nights and you will only be charged the
normal hostel charges. '
Membership does have other advantages, it entitles
Last summer, after finishing my exams with a mad
rush of relief, I felt like a holiday; nothing fancy, just
to get away from the pressure that had been
surrounding and enveloping me for the last few
months.
I had joined the YHA the year before to go to the
Isle of Wight, a stones throw from my home town of
Portsmouth. Perhaps a little further from home this
time so I began to search through the handbook for
a suitable destination.
My first thought was to try York, a historic city that
I had never visited and with plenty to do. My hopes
were dashed as the hostel was booked for the next
two weeks and I started a job in three.
As a second thought I tried several of the Hostels
in north Wales and I hit lucky. Both LLeder Valley and
Idwal Cottage had room available when I wanted to
go. Within a week I had booked my rooms, bought
my ticket and was on my way.
The journey was an uneventful one, British Rail
managing to keep to its timetable for once and after
three and a half hours I arrived in Llandudno Junction
only to have to wait an hour and a half before a train
to Betws-y-Coed.
I stayed for three nights in Lleder Valley during
which time I managed to climb one small mountain
and wander over some of the bleakest and windiest
country that I had met for a long time. The views from
the hills were fantastic and were well worth the effort
put in.
you to a ten per cent discount in all YHA adventure
shops (there's one south of Covent Garden) and their
prices are already the lowest around. You will also be
entitled to discounts in various shops and museums
throughout the country; every little helps.
To become a member send your money to the
Youth Hostel Association, Trevelyan House, 8 St.
Stephen's Hill, St. Albans, Herts AL1 2DY.
The youth hostel network is a national asset, don't
allow it to die from lack of use. There is a whole
country out there for you to explore so before you jet
off to far flung countries find out where you come
from first.
In Wales, it hails
The hostel was an old cottage and had about
seventy beds and was a grade 4, middle of the range.
Inside there was plenty of space and a lovely wooden
floor in the dinning room. The kitchen itself was
supplied by a gas cylinder of propane that was visible
from the window, perhaps a bit dangerous?
During my stay I met a very friendly and normal
American (yes, they do exist) and together we had
a long discussion about the American presidential
election. Even then there were jokes about Dan
Quayle, 'I wouldn't buy a used car from him' was a
remark that has stuck in my mind.
Travelling on to the second hostel the weather
turned nasty and so my initial aim of climbing another
peak had to be abandoned. Idwal Cottage is situated
on the A5 trunk road to Holyhead and so the traffic
can become a little heavy, literally. At one stage a lorry
came along the road that filled almost both lanes and
was accompanied by four police motorcyclists.
Unfortunately when I arrived at the hostel I was a .
couple of hours early and the hostel had not opened
yet. Waiting for two hours in the pouring rain was not
fun but finally the door opened and I could begin to
dry off.
My troubles were not over as a school party arrived
and brought all the things I had been trying to forget,
noise and disorder. The main body of the hostel was
an old farmer's cottage but I was in the annexe that
was a converted chapel with an iron gate and three
inch thick oak door.
The kids did not manage to ruin my stay but they
did begin to grate after a few days. They spent most
of the night swinging from the rafters but after a few
well placed words they eventually stopped.
The local scenery was very rocky and there were
several geologists that were making surveys of the
rocks in the area. Regrettably for all of us the weather
closed in and nobody could do anything for almost two
days.
I did manage to get to Llandudno and see The Great
Orme and the pollution that is the Irish Sea. The town
is a typical seaside town and there is a shop that sells
the largest walnut whirls in the country. Four inches
high and 50p, most of it is cream but they taste great.
When the weather did clear it was time to go home,
regrettably I did not manage to climb many large
peaks, not even Snowdon. It now costs nearly ten
pounds to go up by train, and the summit was cloaked
in mist the whole time I was there.
It was a fun holiday, I had enjoyed myself greatly
as all the people I had met had been friendly, and it
was well worth the money spent.
The cost had been about thirty pounds to get there
by train, twenty for the accommodation and the same
for food. Added to this was about ten pounds for
miscellaneous expenses making a total of eighty
pounds. The transport was by far the most expensive
part and from now on I'm going everywhere by coach.
Page 9

