science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
10 felix Friday 16 November 2007
Science
Science Editor – Ed Henley
Here is a picture with somebody pictured in it
The LHC: Microscope or telescope?
The Large Hadron Collider, or LHC,
due to start operations at CERN next
May has received enough coverage for
many of you to be aware of its principle
aim: the search for the Higgs boson.
Doubtless you’ll also know that it is
this particle which is thought to be re-
sponsible for providing mass to all the
other particles found in the zoo of the
standard model.
However, what may not be so famil-
iar is that though the LHC is probing
the very smallest scales of the universe,
it will also be providing a wealth of in-
formation relevant to cosmologists ex-
amining the very largest, telling them
about the structure and history of the
universe as a whole.
John Ellis nimbly straddled the gulf
between these two extremes at his
lecture in the Great Hall on Tuesday,
explaining what he thought the funda-
mental questions were at both scales,
and outlining how this new accelerator,
as much a telescope as a microscope,
might be able to resolve many of them.
Tackling the small side first, he in-
troduced the Higgs boson using David
Miller’s well-known analogy of a ce-
lebrity (say Einstein) moving through
a cocktail party – the party apparently
being a decent representation of the
hubbub of particles present in seem-
ingly empty space. Much as people
clustering round the celebrity impede
his motion and provide him with an
effectively heavier ‘mass’, a standard-
model particle moving through the
Higgs field (which permeates all space,
and is linked to the Higgs boson) is also
slowed from light-speed by its interac-
tion with this field, gaining mass in the
process. There were tantalising clues in
the last days of the LEP experiment that
the Higgs boson may have been seen,
but only a more careful search with the
LHC is likely to find the Higgs directly,
or to place stronger limits on its energy
than the official LEP results.
Careful is an understatement when
it comes to looking for evidence of
physics relevant at the other end of the
scale. The concordance model of the
universe settled on by astrophysicists
and cosmologists ascribes only 4% of
the universe to matter as we know it –
the rest is in the form of cold dark mat-
ter (29%) or the even more mysterious
dark energy (67%). Trying to explain
the universe without an understand-
ing of these last two is hopeless; fortu-
nately Ellis believes that sifting through
the torrents of data flowing from the
LHC (coining a new unit, equivalent
to finding a needle in a haystack, he
quoted the task as being on the order
of 100,000 haystacks) might provide
just this.
Some of the contenders for explain-
John Ellis thinks it might be both. Not only will it tell us about the Higgs Boson, but by investigating super-
symmetry it may shed light on the dark matter thought to influence the largest structures of our universe
ing dark matter are the massive equiv-
alents to the standard model particles,
predicted by the theory of super-sym-
metry, or SUSY. Though these ‘sparti-
cles’ have not yet been incontrovertibly
seen in any colliders, he thinks they
stand a chance of being indirectly ob-
served by LHC – an departure from
energy being carried out by normal
particles equally in all directions might
suggest energy has been carried out by
an unobservable dark-energy particle
in such a way as to have preserved the
isotropic distribution.
For more on the LHC book to see
Jim Virdee’s lecture on the 21st –
go to IC’s Events page for details.
Edmund Henley
Science Editor
Our Island Story, or How the Island Rule to come to an End (best beloved)
Women like pink because their eyes
had to get used to finding similarly col-
oured berries when we were all hunter-
gatherers. Kids don’t like eating their
greens because they’ve evolved to be
wary of potentially toxic plants. Blood
is red because it signals danger when
spilled!
‘Just-so’ stories seem to be every-
where in evolutionary theory some-
times; it’s one of the main criticisms of
natural selection from the Intelligent
Design camp. The trouble is that these
stories are popular because often they
do seem to make sense, and it’s diffi-
cult to prove them wrong.
One of the less absurd ones is The
Island Rule. Remember the Hobbit?
Back in 2003 a bunch of anthropolo-
gists discovered some fossils of mini-
people, which were eventually nick-
named ‘hobbits’ and given their own
species in 2005; Homo floresiensis, or
‘Man of Flores’.
Flores is a small island in the Indone-
sian archipelago, and its fossilised hob-
bits are meant to be a prime example
of the Island Rule. Others include tiny
elephants weighing in at just 100 kilos,
and enormous rats. The idea is that on
sufficiently small islands, small mam-
mals have fewer predators, so evolve to
grow larger, whereas big animals don’t
have enough food, so become smaller
over successive generations.
Kind of makes sense, but a new study
led by Dr Shai Meiri has produced
findings which suggest that this par-
ticular ‘just-so’ story might also be less
than accurate.
Previous studies which backed up the
Island Rule ended up being criticised
for numerous reasons. Some used un-
reliable indicators of size, looked at is-
lands that were too big, or compared
giant or dwarf animals with related an-
imals on the mainland that turned out
to be not particularly related at all.
So Dr Meiri and her team rounded up
records of numerous different papers
on island mammal sizes and filtered
them for studies that met their strict
criteria, before doing a meta-analysis
on the whole lot. They found that there
was indeed some significant evidence
of size change on islands, but it didn’t
seem to be related to the original size
of the particular creature.
Carnivores did seem to get smaller,
while rodents and artiodactyls – that’s
ungulates like cattle, pigs and camels,
not flying dinosaurs – got bigger, but
there was no overall trend for small
animals to become giants or big ones
to shrink. In the paper “The island
rule: made to be broken?” published in
Proc. Royal Soc. B last week, the team
point out that the hobbit-men of Flores
shared the island with full-sized Stego-
don, not miniature ones.
It’s always worth speculating on our
history, but as these findings have
shown, there’s bound to be dangers in
over-simplifying things. Like anything
we learn about biology, a mammal’s
size is due to a complex interplay of
thousands of factors – whether it’s on
an island or not.
Imran Khan
As many versions of SUSY lead quite
naturally to dark matter, they may well
explain why the matter in galaxies ap-
pears to be distributed utterly unlike
the motion of those galaxies would
suggest – dark matter is required to
explain this motion. Further causes for
the present size and structure of the
universe may come from ripples in an
analogue to the Higgs field, the ‘infla-
ton’ field. ‘Valleys’ in this rippled field
would have attracted matter, leading
to the denser regions observed in the
early universe by the WMAP cosmic
microwave background radiation, and
also seen in the universe today.
Better understanding of this latter
topic should be forthcoming, with the
imminent launch of the Planck satellite,
but Prof. Ellis’ message – that the LHC
contribution is not restricted to the
very small – means much understand-
ing of the universe will in fact be gained
by looking inwards instead of out.
Island. The Rule would predict
some pretty big animals - wrong?
The search for the ‘God Particle’ at the LHC goes on in tunnels like the one above, which lead to chambers so vast they can only be described as
cathedrals to science. There’s a long waiting list, but it’s well worth booking up ahead to see this marvel if you’re passing through Geneva

