science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
11
Friday 16 November 2007 felix
Science
SPECIAL
STUDENT
OFFER
SAVE 50%
WHERE WILL IT TAKE YOU
THIS WEEK?
OR GO ONLINE www.newscientist.com/s/3376
CALL THE HOTLINE + 44 (0) 8456 731 731
9am to 9pm, 7 days a week. Please quote special offer code 3376
SUBSCRIBE TO NEW SCIENTIST AND GET
51 WEEKLY ISSUES DELIVERED DIRECT TO YOUR DOOR • LATEST SCIENCE &
TECHNOLOGY JOBS • CAREERS ADVICE • FREE FULL ACCESS TO THE ENTIRE
CONTENT OF NEWSCIENTIST.COM INCLUDING THE 15 YEAR ARCHIVE
Last week we went through the key-
hole to visit the coolest machine at Im-
perial, which operates just above abso-
lute zero. This week, our trip to find
the epic machines hidden from view in
Imperial labs takes us to the Kennedy
Institute on the Charing Cross cam-
pus, where they are ripping apart the
very threads of life itself.
Like so much of the world’s coolest
scientific equipment, the Q-TOF mass
spectrometer is found deep in the
bowels of the Institute’s basement. But
that isn’t always the best place to keep a
£300,000 machine. “It’s one of the most
expensive bits of kit that we have here,”
says Matthew Peirce, a Research Asso-
ciate at the Institute, “but every once
in a while we have sewage coming up
through the floor down here.”
Peirce and his team are investigating
cell signalling, which means that they
are trying to figure out what exactly
happens when cells respond to a signal,
such as a bacterial toxin. They want to
know what’s going on at the molecu-
lar level, and which proteins are being
produced inside the cell.
The best way to find out what’s in-
side something, as any five-year-old
or particle physicist will tell you, is to
smash it into pieces. So the research
team makes a vat of mouse cell pep-
tides, and then pops them into the
Q-TOF spectrometer, where they are
sprayed out as an ionized gas. Accel-
erate the ions through an electric cur-
rent, smash them into gas molecules,
and they conveniently break apart at
the amino acid bonds.
Each fragment has a charge and each
kind of amino acid molecule has a dif-
ferent mass, and so the Q-TOF spec-
trometer can use an electric field to
shoot the fragments at a detector: the
lighter they are, the faster they’ll go.
This is the TOF in Q-TOF; it stands
for “time-of-flight.” The detector spits
out the results to a PC where Robin
Wait, a Senior Lecturer who operates
the machine, can recognise the mass
peaks that indicate the composition of
the peptides.
The team has to make large volumes
of cells because the Q-TOF spectrome-
ter isn’t that efficient. This requirement
for large samples means that they can’t
use human tissue – for example, a pa-
tient’s cells – for the analysis. Instead,
they use mouse cells, as these can be
grown in quantity. In fact, they will
keep growing, even in a dish, as long
as you feed them, and someone has
to come in on weekends to keep them
fed and separate their overcrowded
colonies.
Even with this prodigious volume
of cells, the samples analysed by the
Q-TOF spectrometer are of low con-
centration, and there is a high risk of
contamination with keratin – human
skin or hair cells from the researchers
in the lab, or even animal cells. “No
woollen clothing is allowed,” says Wait.
“You have to make sure that back-
ground levels are below what you are
interested in.”
Peirce laughs, “Robin spends most
of his time analysing my dandruff.” A
hair-raising prospect indeed.
Flora Graham
My favourite fn machine: fragging peptides at the Kennedy Institute
The Q-TOF mass spectrometer is ideal for those with a penchant for shiny bits of kit. £300,000 ono
Bit of a head-scratcher – if you’re not stringent about contamination,
you could end up analysing dandruff rather than mouse cell peptides

