12 felix Friday 16 November 2007
Culture &
The Arts
Arts Editors – Mike Cook, Rosie Grayburn, Caz Knight and David Paw
Budding culture vulture? Write for us.
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
W
elcome to my sec-
ond instalment
here as Arts Editor,
no doubt you will
have missed me as
much as I have missed providing with
you with some creative respite. My col-
leagues have been doing a fabulous job
in the last few weeks- Arts Felix is a
delight to behold each week! Before I
regale you with some of what is going
on in the Arts world beyond the con-
fines of South Kensington, let me first
inform you of some great art-sy hap-
penings at IC.
One of the finest university orches-
tras in the country, the IC Symphony
Orchestra is having its Christmas Term
concert next Friday, 23rd November at
8pm in the Great Hall, Sherfield Build-
ing. Its 90 players, including violin
soloist Lukas Medlam and conductor
Richard Dickins, will provide soothing
relief from any stress you may be ex-
periencing on account of work, exams
or the ever-shortening days. For those
stress-free, it will only add to your
good spirits. Works of Gershwin, Bar-
ber (composer of the famous Adagio
for Strings), Britten and Rachmaniov.
Art, sex and science. Three intrinsi-
cally linked themes rife in this week’s
Arts section. While it is hard to talk
about science as if it is one subject (it
is in fact about a thousand subjects
put under one umbrella term), sex is
pretty important to science- well to bi-
ology anyway. It is the basis of life and
without it, none of us would be here.
Now that I have stated the obvious let
us move on. Sex, this critical part of
science, has been and will ever be one
of the most potent inspirational points
for Art. This is explored only too well
in the Barbican’s current set of events
in which Seduced: Art and sex from
Antiquity to Now is a part. Now how
are art and science linked? The exhibi-
tion, reviewed in this section, features
the photographs of the Kingsley Insti-
tute which were used to study sexual
habits and behaviour over the course
of several decades. A seemingly sci-
entific research is present in an artis-
tic context. Fleur Adcock’s poem The
Last Queen Among the Astronomers
encompasses science, sex and art as it
tells of a woman vain in her attempts
to sequester the attention of die-hard
astronomers. One of the events laid on
by the Barbican is Sexual Liberation
and the Impact of the Pill which takes
place on Thursday 29th November.
The is hosted by the co-curator of the
exhibition and also the co-creator of
the Pill, Prof. Carl Djerassi of Stanford
University and sounds highly interest-
ing from an artistic and highly scientific
point of view. At only three pounds for
tickets, it seems a shame to miss out.
The Shell Wildlife exhibition bridges
the gap between art and science and is
reviewed here by our other arts editor,
Rosie Grayburn. Poem of the week is
Leda by Carol Ann Duffy, inspired by
Seduced. We also get a glimpse into the
goings on of the IC Musical Theatre‘s
upcoming production.
One grrr-eat photograph
exhibition... really moo-ving
Rosie Grayburn reports on animal art – apologies for the title... it was all too easy
N
ever, ever go near the
SouthKensingtonmuse-
ums at half term. Unless
you have an armoured
buggy or a cavalry of
toddlers or small children preceding,
you will have little chance of survival.
Tried and tested child-avoidance tac-
tics include steering clear of giant di-
nosaur skeletons at all costs. Or, you
could hide in the Shell Wildlife Pho-
tographer of the Year Exhibition. That’s
what I did, and I lived to tell the tale.
Now in its 43rd year, the Shell Wild-
life Photographer of the Year Competi-
tion is going from strength to strength.
It is now undoubtedly the single most
successful wildlife photography con-
test in the world and photographers
from every country imaginable, ama-
teur and professional, take their [rather
expensive] cameras across the globe,
capturing wildlife at its most beautiful
and unusual.
The UK population is divided into
two herds, in my opinion: those who
enjoy watching wildlife programmes
and those who would rather, quite
frankly, have their balls removed with
a blunt blade than endure watching a
hairier version of themselves swing
about in some trees and mate. If you
are in the latter group, I recommend
you try out this exhibition. Give it a go
and you will be pleasantly surprised. It
really is for everyone. Even you there.
You enter the gallery with a rather
ominous looking queue of people cir-
culating round the photographs and
you think, “Ug, what a boring lot of
losers looking at each photo for AGES”.
Then you reach the first photograph
and get lost in its character and gener-
al wow-factor. Each individual shot has
been crafted beautifully, whether it was
a moment apprehended for months or
a spontaneous movement.
What really strikes you as you move
at a snail’s pace around the portraits
and landscape, is the energy and pa-
tience that has gone into each one.
There are small vignettes from each
photographer’s experience under eve-
ry picture. Here is a flavour of what to
expect: “This phenomenon only hap-
pens every other millennia. I waited
in this bush for 12 years, eating only
small grubs and with my camera lenses
as my only friends until this moment
occurred.” And my God is it worth it.
Some pieces make you laugh out
loud. The picture of a bear rising out of
the water made me giggle. It had such
a Russian face and with so much char-
acter, too. His face made me think of
someone called Vladimir perhaps, who
is really pissed off because he can’t find
his breakfast vodka. Another comic
was the frog in ‘A Meal of a Worm’ who
was chomping away at the worm the
same size as his head. He was clearly
nonplussed at this fact and just kept on
chewing at that massive, juicy, squirm-
ing worm. Yum.
Obviously to keep with current
trends, there is a new category to this
year’s competition – The One Earth
award. Pictures entered into this cat-
egory had to highlight in a thought-
provoking and memorable way, man’s
interaction with the natural world and
our dependence on it. The winner of
Ben Osbourne’s Elephantine Encounter
Bear Necessities: A Teddy Bear’s picnic is the last thing on Sergey Gorshkov’s mind
Caz Knight
Arts Editor
this category was an extremely pow-
erful image of a shadow of a jet-plane
fuming across a full moon - a haunt-
ingly beautiful reminder of our all-
powerful presence over this planet.
I really found solace in this exhibi-
tion and I was quite moved when I
realised that these very talented and
patient photographers were trying to
remind us who we shared our planet
with. Wildlife is a beautiful treasure we
shouldn’t let perish. City life can make
us forget there is more to life than
bricks and mortar, so I urge you to take
time out of your busy urban lives and
visit this spectacular exhibition.

