arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
13
Friday 16 November 2007 felix
Arts
E
very year a society sets out
to do something spectacular.
As far as how many times we
do it in a year, Musical The-
atre Soc is rather studly. We
wow you not once, not twice but thrice!
Yes thrice, it’s a word you should use
more often, perhaps more than thrice.
Rehearsals are already steaming ahead
for our first spectacular performances
of the winter term. MTSoc doesn’t go
and watch the shows. No, no. We cre-
ate and perform them. Filling up our
little lungs and unleashing full blown
entertainment upon those of you who
come to see us.
The Revue, which goes out on the
2nd and 3rd of December, is an ensem-
ble of our favourite songs from some
very different musicals, indeed. It’s
called The Rise & Fall of David Sulli-
van. We’ll be performing classics from
the likes of Fame, Chicago and Rent to
the more outrageous Avenue Q and
Wicked. Having a soft spot for all things
cheesy, there’s a place for Grease and
High School Musical too. The story re-
volves around our titular techie, David
Sullivan. For those of you wondering
what techies are, they’re the backstage
handy-folk who rig sets, sort out light-
ing and are a pretty essential bunch of
any production team. That said, they
are seldom seen, seldom heard and
very nearly never clapped for.
In the story, Dave messes up a show
finale and he messes up big time.
Musical Theatre Society is brilliant
The Director of this winter’s MTSoc Revue Ali Salehi-Reyhani tells us a little bit about sex. Haha got you
looking! You filthy sleaze. The Revue, The Rise and Fall of Dave Sullivan is reviewed henceforth...
There’s a revolt amongst the cast, an-
gered at their embarrassment, erupt-
ing into a rather horrid lambasting of
Dave and his fellow techies. Within
Dave though, something is sparked, an
almost maniacal desire to conquer the
frontstage. There, he will be revered
and he will know fame. This fuels the
rise and, quite literal, fall of Mr Sulli-
van and all his friends. They include
a closet lesbian who just can’t live a lie
anymore after her lifelong boyfriend
Bob reveals his inner desires to be a
transvestite- no musical production
would be complete without a man in
women’s panties now would it? Love,
heartbreak and even death are no
strangers in this tale. We’ve woven
some morals into the narrative and we
even have a message of tolerance and
one towards forward-thinking. That
said, if you’re going to get your morals
from a 90 minute-long musical which
is ripe with gay jokes, then you really
do need to shoot yourself.
So come and witness our most ambi-
tious Revue yet at the Union Concert
Hall (Beit Quad) at 7:30pm on the 2nd
& 3rd December. It’s free and all funds
raised will be donated to the Children
with Aids charity.
Go and see the Revue on the 2nd
and 3rd of December. It is a great
show and if all goes to plan, you
will not be able to breathe with
laughter
MTSoc peoples doing their morning stretches with jazz hands to the left and right. Meanwhile the director can be seen jumping up and down like a madman at the back
Dramatic

