14 felix Friday 16 November 2007
Blowjobs, breasts, bondage and bestiality... Caz Knight seeks to answer this valuable question and receives
a different kind of Sex Education at the Barbican’s latest offering. Prudes be warned – skip these pages
S
educed- Art and Sex from An-
tiquity to Now- it’s all in the
name. The Barbican gives us
sex through the medium of
art in all its guises, from long
before Christ was born right up to the
present. It invites us “to become a par-
ticipant in the history of the display of
sexually explicit art” while considering
the relationship between pornogra-
phy and art. The dictionary definition
tells us that porn is media designed to
stimulate sexual excitement. (From the
Greekword‘pornographos’-thewriting
of harlots). If this is true, ANYTHING
can be potentially pornographic- there
are no bounds to what people find or
will find arousing, however sexual
or non-sexual those things might be.
One reviewer for The Guardian asks
the question- has art ever been about
anything else? And it is a very good
one indeed. From the moment sexually
reproducing beings came to exist, the
act of sex has been pivotal to our exist-
ence, pleasure and sanity.
No one knew this better than Clas-
sical Civilisation, bedrock of Western
society. ‘Sex and Cold Marble’ kicks off
the show with some stunning marble
sculptures dating back to the second
century. The image of (half) naked Ro-
man statues is a common one (none
more famous than Michaelangelo’s
‘David’). This section sees sensuous
nymphs, eager satyrs and hermaphro-
dites sculpted of marble, which were
all inspiration for artists such as Pi-
casso and Rodin.
A few steps down the corridor and
we are reminded of just how much
sexually explicit objects were looked
down upon and regarded as a danger
to society. In 1857 came the ‘Extreme
Publications Act’ designed to protect
those in society who were most at risk
of corruption- women, children and
those lacking either education or social
standing. As a result many works of art
and historic relics portraying inappro-
priate scenes were kept away from the
public eye and kept in a private collec-
tion for a few select people to behold.
On one hand, we are a hundred times
more sexually liberated one hundred
and fifty years on but one can not help
thinking that in some ways sex is still
regarded as terribly risqué. More often
that not in the news and other forms
of media, sex is always associated with
seediness or in a terrible context (child
molestation, rape). Never do we sing
its praises and examine the beautiful
side of it. Almost never. Seduced makes
exception in many cases. One exam-
ple came in the ‘Between the Covers’
section, featuring exquisite paintings
from 17th century India. The atten-
tion to detail in these tiny works of art
with amazing colours and brush-work,
made for some beautiful viewing. One
of the works- ‘The Private Pleasure of
Danyas Son of Emperor Akbar’ – de-
picted a couple twisting themselves
into very difficult-looking kama sutra
positions, under starry, moonlit skies
and gold-roofed temples.
Another highlight was the glowing
colours of ‘Leda and the Swan’; a copy
of the original painting by Leonardo
da Vinci, which was lost. The legend
of Leda and the swan is that the Greek
god Zeus came to earth as a swan,
thereby seducing Leda mere hours af-
ter she had conceived her two children
by her husband King Tyndareus.
The exhibition shed some light on
the sexual practices of old and those
from different cultures. Crotchless
panties were a thing of the past it
seems, as was pornography showing all
sorts of naughty things. 19th century
exposures- delicate and smooth tex-
tured- were made all the more inter-
esting for the Amy Winehouse-esque
beehive sported by one of the subjects.
Seeing gentlemen and ladies inflicting
pain (and pleasure) on each other and
being tied up with bondage rope, all
the while in their Victorian finery- tail
coats and voluminous skirts plumped
up with petticoats!
My attention faltered ever so slightly
when faced with cabinets of manu-
scripts, books and relics such as the
Grecian ceramics (depicting a few
questionable acts involving livestock)
and amber phalluses. Interesting as
they were, one starts to feel a little
more like one is in an educational sort
of museum rather than an art gallery.
Any interest that might have waned is
brought back instantly on the second
floor by the surrealist works of twisted,
psychedelic sketches and photographs
from what appeared to be an acid-
fuelled sex party circa 1966 (actually
120 minutes dedicated to the Divine
Marquis) involving cream being licked
off various body parts, public urination
and spanking. The books of said Mar-
quis of Sade, father of BDSM (bond-
age-discipline sado-masochism), lie in
an adjacent room.
Several large and vibrantly colourful
Jeff Koons paintings are on display- re-
instating some of the tackiness I was
ratherhopingforinanexhibitioncalled
‘Art and Sex’. Photography is combined
What on earth could they be doing?? Thomas Ruff’s ‘Nudes’, one of many provocative works of art
Michaelangelo’s David decided against underwear despite the cold
with oil inks on canvas in ‘Ilona on
Top’ and creates a glorious fantasy-like
effect, this time highly reminiscent of
the porn industry. Thomas Ruff’s low
-resolution images are attractive and
also very original.
Inspired by underground film, Andy
Warhol’s ‘Blowjob’ is a 41-minute black
and white film fixed on the face of a
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Arts
man while he is fellated (41 minutes
seems rather long, however, appar-
ently 5 ‘givers’ were used during the
film). Somehow when one sees these
things in black and white it makes the
whole experience feel more classy. I
did not stay for the duration, only to
appreciate the rather handsome chap-
DeVeren Bookwalter- who would later
appear in a Clint Eastwood film, The
Enforcer. Charles Rydell was Warhol’s
first choice but Rydell ‘chickened’
out, and so Bookwalter was chosen
as he happened to be hanging around
Warhol’s studio-cum-hangout, The
Factory. K.R. Buxey’s female answer to
‘Blowjob’ is ‘Requiem’, this time a col-
our film that features her receiving oral
pleasure. Again, the camera is fixed on
her face as the act progresses.
Probably one of the most mersmeris-
ing and beautiful pieces I have seen in
any exhibition is ‘Heartbeat’ by Ameri-
can documentary photographer Nan
Goldin. Goldin has explored the post-
punk new-wave music and gay scenes
and hard-drug subculture, but here she
follows five couples as they go about
their day- sex is a definite feature but
is set against other activities such as a
night out or day in the park. The pho-
tographs are presented in a slide show,
accompanied by the angelic voice of
Bjork, singing ‘Prayer For the Heart’
with classical music by John Tavener.
The effect is spell-binding and very
moving. Although the images depict
love, happiness, tenderness and pas-
sion, the music creates a slight pathos.
Seduced: Art and Sex from Antiquity
to Now does exactly what it promised-
it shows us art in all lights: scientific,
sexual and even morbid. It is definitely
not pornographic- there is no seedi-
ness here, as is often associated with
pornography-some pieces one would
not consider inherently sexual. I was
also struck by how most viewers were
not fazed by what was on show- if only
society as a whole could be this way.
Be seduced: but by Art or by Porn?

