arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
17
Friday 16 November 2007 felix
Arts
A book for the ladies – hones-Tully
Susan Yu treks off to Kansas for an emotional rollercoaster ride. Wonderful Wizards not included
T
ully, Tully Makker. One
cannot but love her for
who she is. Tough, pas-
sionate and ready to face
life in every way. She is
an amazing character who has you
rooting for her till the end, you would
always be there at her beck and call.
This stunning read is certainly a roll-
ercoaster ride, you’ll have your heart
wrung many times over, but there is
definitely hope at the end of the tun-
nel, as they say. Love, friendship and
loss are inherently entangled in this
maelstrom of a book. An absolute
sensation. There are moments where
one finds oneself totally immersed in
the tragedy involving Jennifer that one
wonders whether there is any future
at all for Tully. Prepare to have your
heart ripped to pieces and flung to all
corners of the earth with Tully’s emo-
tional odyssey. Frankly, this is one for
the girls, thrilling blockbuster stuff.
There are so many twists and turns in
the novel that will keep you ploughing
to the denouement.
Simply, this whirlwind novel is set
in Kansas City, America. It is centrally
based on Tully Makker, a real tough
cookie, who seemingly conquers all
the skeletons and demons in her clos-
ets. She stands tall admist the trauma
and chaos that harsh life has thrown at
her. Simons truly brings Tully to life.
The way Simons portrays the main
protagonist’s growth into womanhood
from profoundly pained childhood and
the perennial struggles to overcome a
legacy of physical and emotional abuse
at the hands of her mother is no easy
feat. The book is spiced up with many
close-calls. Simons further delves into
considerably complex issues like self-
harm, suicide, abortion, and autism
which provides further scope to the
plot. There are certainly a compelling
array of male protagonists in this mas-
terpiece, with Robin DeMarco and Jack
Pendel being the main leads who serve
as prominent love interests in her life.
Considering that ‘Tully’ was Simons’
debut novel, one cannot but be im-
pressed with such eloquence and beau-
tiful characterization and narrative.
Although this novel emerges with
Tully aged only seventeen, the full hor-
ror of her tormented, harrowing child-
hood is revealed intermittently as we
have to piece together glimpses of the
darkness hidden within her past. It is
not till the denouement in which the
final picture surfaces, when we fully
understand the character as a whole
for who she really is.
Tully is very much a multidimension-
al character, difficult to decipher as she
ostensibly tries to proetct her innerself
as a means of survival; an unwavering
coping mechanism. Abandoned by her
father,neglected,unlovedfrombirthby
her mother, she is raised up in troubled
household, where she is both physi-
cally and mentally abused. However,
by her teenage years, Tully manages to
form strong bonds of friendship with
two school friends whose backgrounds
are totally different from her own. In
great contrast, Jennifer and Julie come
from loving families that provide so
much warmth and joy that one cannot
but feel deeply ache for Tully and her
deplorable maltreatment.
Immediately, we as the reader dis-
cover that Tully has been raised in an
atmosphere of indifference and neglect
compounded by the physical violence
inflicted by her mother, Hedda, who
was herself the product of an unloving
family.
‘From the time Tully was two, she
learned fear, and with fear she learned
hate, and with hate she learned silence.’
Simons writes with sheer poignancy
and builds characters so effortlessly
using beautiful usage of language. In-
credibly, Simons paints such a con-
vincing and believable character; one
who manifests foibles just like the rest
of us. A significant confirmation of her
literary talents. A true testament to the
book’s credible realism.
Clandestine, promiscuous, highly
complex and cantankerous Tully may
be, however, she also displays intense
loyalty towards her friends, has an
inherent sense of morality and an
overwhelming capacity to love. Her
toughness is entirely superficial and
is assumed as a protection against be-
ing irrevocably hurt again. Evading any
sort of commitment and pity endowed,
Tully often masquerades her true
emotions, and generally holds herself
at arms length from boyfriends as a
means of maintaining some illusion of
anonymity. She drifts into relationships
unable to fully commit to anyone, but
is loved by all the men in her life. “All
they want to do is get serious, and all I
want to do is get the hell out of here.”
To take control over the reigns of her
demons, Tully simply cages them in-
side, leaving what she believes as to be
an empty shell with nothing but a black
hole within. Such observations are the
closest Tully ever gets to evident mani-
festations of self-pity. She is strong in
spite of all the trials and tribulations,
we cannot admire her enough for the
courage and resilience she demon-
strates in times of intense crisis. With-
out a doubt, we can surely understand
her flaws as the inevitable conditioning
of her unhappy, broken childhood. In
fact, her remarkable resilience does
shines through when on several dif-
ferent occasions, we find Tully joking
casaully about her dire situation. What
is more, the apt touches of humour
which Tully seems to evoke are unas-
sailably the recognisable consequences
of her inner strength, not succumbing
to defeat, nor buckling under the sheer
weight of her problems.
There is an underlying sinister and
dark side to the whole story. The on-
going emotional and physical abuse
derived from her mother, combined
with traumatic memories from her
childhood has meant that Tully con-
tinually suffers recurring nightmares
in which she ‘beats back death’ every
night. These nightmares are something
which torments Tully, day on day. This
is until she finds salvation and becomes
‘dreamfree.’
Tully has never left Kansas her birth
place, never glimpsed the ocean but
she dreams of escaping her inauspi-
cious gruelling life by going to univer-
sity in California with her bestfriend
Jennifer, but her world is turned inside
out. Life has other plans in store for
her. Tully yet again has to endure cruel
loss but against all odds, emerges into
adulthood and seemingly reach a point
of apparent calmness and contented-
ness. Her life seems to evolve through
chance rather than choice, until fate
takes another startling turn and unwel-
come decisions are enthrusted upon
her. Falling head and heels in love for
the first time whilst having finally set-
tled with the man who has guided her
through thick and thin, Tully reaches
epiphany and has to make the toughest
decision of all…
One should not feel ashamed of
clinging onto one’s Kleenexes whilst
reading this heart wrenching, devas-
tatingly absorbing novel. Indeed, if you
read the entire book without any signs
of a clenched throat or brimming eyes,
I’d be very surprised, you would defi-
nitely have to be a total dispassionate,
emotional fuckwit.
The magic with this novel is that
when you read it, you BECOME Tully.
Her life is your life, her pain and hap-
piness is yours to keep forever. I defy
you to read it and not be profoundly
affected. You will certainly be gripped
as you simply cannot put it down. A
must read!
To tell the truth, this has nothing to do with Tully, but we couldn’t find a cover photo. Complaints about editorial standards on a postcard, please
BookCrossing soon – free pieces of paper with words on for you to read?
A Very Short Introduction To...
We’ve got a few of these to give away
– Journalism, Newton and Chaos as
reviewed by Felix Arts’ intrepid team.
All extremely worth picking up, and all
thanks to the Oxford University Press.
Journalism charts the history of the
most noble artform and looks at its
relevance today; Newton is a solid bi-
ography of a rather famous chap; and
Chaos looks at one of the most fasci-
nating fields of made-up science there
is out there.
Crossing – Monday 19th, JCR
John Le Carré – The Mission Song
We promised this a while back, and it’s
finally making an appearance. Le Car-
ré – reponsible for such spy thrillers
as Tinker, Tailor, Soldier Spy and The
Constant Gardener – is as good as ever
in his latest release.
Focusing on a translator that gets
himself into trouble when he takes one
dark government contract too many,
The Mission Song is textbook excite-
ment. Not unlike A Very Short Intro-
duction To Chaos.
Crossing – Tuesday 20th, JCR
Delete This At Your Peril
One of the simple reads for the up-
coming Christmas rush, DTAYP was
reviewed a few issues ago, and we thor-
oughly enjoyed it. The premise is sim-
ple – find out who’s behind the spam
emails that we receive every day.
The transcripts that follow, as the
spammers share bizarre plans with an
equally ficticious correspondent, are
hilarious and revealing. A good book
for mid-lecture entertainment.
Crossing – Wednesday 21st, JCR
That Bitch – Sheppard/Cleary
After our rather harsh review in earlier
Felixes, we’re still confident that some-
one out there will want to take a look
at this, uh, exposé of evil, malevolent
women who are threatening to take
over the world, divorce it, and then sue
it for all it has.
It’s honestly not that bad a read. Kind
of in the same way you can’t help but
read the gossip pages of TheLondon-
Paper – not so much for the informa-
tion value, just... ewww
Crossing – Thursday 22nd, JCR
The Burglar Who Liked To Quote
Kipling
Apart from having a bastard title that
messes up our format for this week,
TBWLTQK is a brilliant short read,
originally pushed out by Waterstones
in a budget release.
The plot is a simple heist of an ex-
tremely rare Kipling poem from a man-
sion, but the entire thing is carried off
with so much humour and pace that
it’s – yes – unputdownable. If that was
a word, of course.
Crossing – Friday 23rd, JCR

