film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Film
Film Editor – Alex Casey
23
Friday 16 November 2007 felix
Spot the odd one out...
Anime-niacs resurrect the world
F
ilms can have a significant
impact on the audience; be-
tween the everyday fillers
of Hollywood no-brainer
blockbusters a bright spark
appears every blue moon, signifying
the culmination of some truly tal-
ented directors, actors, composers,
cinematographers and scriptwriters.
Such films are highly emotive and in-
telligent, and present the viewer with a
unique experience.
Usually animated films or series are
not coupled with such a positive de-
scription, but there is one I am par-
ticularly passionate about and urge
everyone with the slightest inkling of
curiosity to go and see; you will not
only be surprised, but transfixed on the
truly spectacular imaginative method
of storytelling and its uncanny ability
to force the viewer to question his or
her own role in the grand scheme of
life. Neon Genesis Evangelion is noth-
ing short of breathtaking.
At the dawn of the new millennium,
the planet was ravaged by a devastating
shockwave emanating from Antarcti-
ca. The icy continent instantly melted,
and sea levels rose at exponential rates.
Cities were flooded and entire civili-
sations were submerged. During the
post-apocalyptic wars, over half of the
world’s population perished.
Officially, a small meteorite, traveling
close to the speed of light, crashed into
the South Pole, causing the catastro-
phe. However, the lone survivor of
the scientific expedition based there,
Misato Katsuragi, witnessed a beam of
light emerge from the ruins of Antarc-
tica shortly before the event – know as
Second Impact – occurred. Its wings
earned it the designation of an Angel.
Fifteen year later, a young boy named
Shinji Ikari is summoned to Tokyo-3
by his father, the commander of Nerv.
Upon arriving, the city is attacked by
an enormous, humanoid being, one
which the military appears powerless
to stop. After fifteen years, the Angels
have returned. He is taken deep un-
derground by the now adult Katsuragi,
who introduces him to mankind’s last
hope – the Evangelions. Humanoid in
appearance, covered in thick armour,
highly maneuverable and armed with
nothing but close-quarter blades,
Shinji is ordered to take it out into the
streets and defend the city against the
mysterious Angel. With a severely-
injured pilot, Rei Ayanami, lying in his
arms, he vows to himself that he will
not run away from his fears and makes
that fateful decision to pilot Evangelion
Unit One.
And so begins the greatest piece of
animation ever made. Shinji Ikari, the
central figure of NGE, is not your typi-
cal hero, and nor is NGE your typical
mecha robot science fiction serial. The
14-year old pilot was abandoned by his
father after his mother died when he
was very young; he has little self-con-
fidence, shies away from anything he is
afraid of, and holds no respect whatso-
ever for his father, who is an uncom-
promising, brutal, and enigmatic man.
In fact, you could say that Shinji is the
complete opposite of a hero, which is
why NGE is initially so interesting to
watch – commonly, the central char-
acter in anime is brave, bold and will
protect everyone around him no mat-
ter what. Observing Shinji as he battles
against the Angels – and his inner de-
mons – is a refreshing experience.
NGE itself is, as aforementioned, in-
credibly atypical of animation in gen-
eral. Whereas the typical anime traits
are present, the series has three prima-
ry hooks that most modern films lack.
Firstly, it constantly upholds a sense of
mystery, intentionally omitting infor-
mation and showing you events that
leave you puzzled and, most impor-
tantly, intrigued. For example, what are
the Angels? Why is it only those born
after the Second Impact can pilot the
Evangelions? What are the true mo-
tives of the characters?
One of the earliest mysteries arises
after Shinji’s Evangelion Unit One de-
feats the Third Angel – its armour re-
moved, the viewer can clearly see mus-
cles, organic eyes, and blood covering
the unit. Perhaps the Evangelions are
not so robotic after all. With twists and
turns in every episode, one eventually
begins to doubt their perceptions of
each individual character, including
the pilots themselves.
Nothing in NGE is what it seems,
and the story is one of the most imagi-
native ever conceived. Using ancient
philosophy and Christian and Biblical
Apocrypha, the symbolism used in the
series is awe-inspiring and has a long-
lasting impact on the viewer.
NGE’s second hook is the characters
themselves, and the personal journeys
they take right up until they final, icon-
Robin George Andrews explores beyond the apocalypse with the Anime flick, Neon Genesis Evangelion
ic scene. Shinji Ikari is, as described
above, not your typical hero. Rei Ay-
anami, the young pilot of Evangelion
Unit Zero, is introverted, quiet, and
as enigmatic as Shinji’s father, Gendo
Ikari. She appears willing to follow any
order, even if it means it will lead to her
death. Almost completely emotionless
apart from a few key moments, she is
perhaps the biggest mystery of NGE,
one that will keep you guessing even
after the credits begin roll.
Misato Katsuragi is a rising officer in
Nerv, and one that also acts as Shinji’s
guardian. The only one to see Second
Impact first hand, she knows the devas-
tation that the Angels and humankind
can cause, and is willing to do anything
to prevent a Third Impact occurring.
However, many secrets and answers to
long-held questions are kept even from
her by the head of the scientific divi-
sion, Ritsuko Akagi. A cold and effi-
cient woman, she prioritises the future
of mankind and the progress of the
Evangelions over the lives of the pilots;
furthermore, she knows far more than
she ever lets on, keeping most of the
organisation in the dark about both the
past and the present.
Personally, the pilot of Evangelion
Unit Two is my favourite character
from not only this anime, but from fic-
tion as a whole. Asuka Langley Soryu is
an incredibly endearing character, and
is often the antithesis of Rei Ayanami
– brash, open, highly extroverted and
the only pilot who enjoys defending
Tokyo-3 from the Angels. Showing in-
credible skill in piloting the Evangeli-
ons, she is highly competitive, particu-
larly with Shinji, who she likes to tease
and poke fun at.
Asuka, despite being highly volatile
and excitable, also has her own dark
past which is slowly revealed through-
out the series, and during the final
episodes her past comes back to haunt
her and her life begins to fall apart. To
see such a lovable character descend
into her own spiral of devastation and
loss is painful, and you cannot help but
feel strongly empathetic towards her.
Asuka is as amusing and charming as
she is tragic and emotive, and as such
is the arguably the best character in the
series.
NGE’s final hook is its presentation
and pacing. The first half of the series
builds on all the characters’ person-
alities and develops the story without
leaving too many mysteries unsolved;
however, during the second half,
many of the events that occur can be
interpreted in many different ways,
the character’s motives change more
explicitly, and as the war against the
Angels hits closer and closer to home,
the viewer is subject to a high degree of
character introspection.
The viewer joins the three pilots and
the supporting cast as they reminisce
about their past, rethink their objec-
tives, and reveal dark mysteries, the
majority of which answer some ques-
tions whilst raising many more. With
innovative animation techniques, ex-
cellent scripting, and a truly immerse
plot, one cannot help but get totally
absorbed in the lives of all the charac-
ters involved.
The motion picture that followed the
series, End of Evangelion, chronicles
the three pilots’ journeys to the end of
the world, with startling imagery and
intense action and drama sequences,
matchingifnotexceedingthatofthese-
ries. There is so much about the series
I wish I could talk about, but I cannot,
or it will spoil the story for you – safe
to say, you will think about the ending
for a long time after it concludes.
In this contemporary setting, an ex-
cellent plot, incredible characters, a
stunning score, blistering action, dra-
ma and science-fiction, and of course
superb animation, come together to
form something very special, but not
necessarily unique. However, this se-
ries, consisting of twenty-six episodes,
has such depth, such emotion, such a
strong bond to the viewer that it refus-
es to let go of all its graces with its pres-
ence. Recently voted the best anime of
all time by several publications in both
the US and Japan, and credited with
pushing anime into the mainstream,
Neon Genesis Evangelion is a legendary
piece of animation, one that deserves
to be seen by everyone. See the world
through the eyes of Shinji, Rei, and As-
uka, and you will be forever hooked.
This is the eternal answer to the
Western stereotype that animation is
exclusively designed for children. Not
only will this change how you think,
but it will change you as a person.
That, I guarantee.
Left: The NGE family. Right: A clever costume choice can detract from an unfortunate lack of facial features

