Euro-cheese Puffa Jackets
Just writing ‘puffa’ takes me
back to primary school. Sticky
weed, cartwheels, daisy
chains. But this is puffa jackets
in the euro-wanker sense.
Those jackets you see Italian
tourists wearing that have the
logos ostensibly displayed to
artificially inflate their self-
esteem.
Over-sized berets
So adorable! But only if you
have long hair. If not, it just
looks questionable as to
whether you have hair.
Cavalli @ H&M
Stop the high street - designer
collaborations! This is just
horrible, cheap-looking crap
covered in rhinestones. I can
smell its reek from here.
fashion.felix@imperial.ac.uk
24 felix Friday 16 November 2007
Fashion
Fashion Editor – Sarah Skeete
The merciless flow of style
Fashion is all about association, it’s
kind of a visual synesthesia. For in-
stance, acrylic Adidas shellsuits evoke
pram-face, Eastenders, and Benson &
Hedges cigarettes. Judgemental and
superficial? Probably, but still true.
Fashion synesthesia affects more
than just clothing. It’s more easily ob-
served by the way children’s names fall
in and out of style. Would you call your
kid Chantelle? Generally the trends
start with ABC1s and fall to C2DEs.
Names are inspirational, and parents
choose names that convey positive
qualities. Of course you could opt out
of this ‘names-arms’ race and choose
something like Ethel.
This used to be more clear-cut with
clothing in days gone by. Fashion was
about the latest couture from Paris.
The latest Parisian designs were worn
by high society. People then had their
tailors copy these Parisian designs.
Then fashion became cheaper and
more accessible but was still dictated
by the catwalk.
Nowadays we see that the trend is
reversed, people on the streets set the
trends that are copied by designers.
Inspiration comes from all over the
globe, and style is less easily bought.
Money doesn’t guarantee style, in fact
sometimes it guarantees the exact op-
posite. Who wants to wear clothes de-
signed by an octogenarian who’s dress-
ing 14-year old models?
Fashion is created on the streets by
people who have an odd, uncompro-
mising sense of style. Truly creative
people, not “crazy” fashion students
who are engaged in a mass competi-
tion to out-crazy each other. Puh-lease.
Massive glasses, a cape, and tissue
boxes for shoes? Inspiring, although
missing leggings, with one leg a differ-
ent colour than the other of course, so
as not to be part of the masses. I don’t
mean a contrived type of insanity. I
mean those curious animals on the
edges of culture who possess a unique
creativity.
Next along the chain are those who
see the potential in the fashion crazi-
ness and edit it for mass consumption.
They take the massive, googly geek
glasses, which by the way look awe-
some, and go for the tamer look of
thick black frames.
Then the look filters down to the
mainstream- available in shops and
market stalls near you.
Of course trends aren’t just made; like
everything, they must die too. Remem-
ber guys, the spectre of death is always
on the horizon and one day you won’t
be able to outrun it. Once something
is linked to something undesirable
(not in a Mengele way) certain items
just loose their shine. Did you like Ugg
boots? How about after Jessica Simp-
son and Paris Hilton were ‘papped’
wearing them? A fan of Gucci? A fan of
Gucci after Victoria Beckham declared
her allegiance to them?
Things can also lose their attrac-
tion just by being replaced by the next
generation. Stone-washed boot-legged
jeans = Middle-aged woman in stilet-
tos who wears leopard-print tops with-
out irony.
Having no fashion sense (not volun-
tarily choosing not to participate in the
whole business because it’s superficial
and meaningless, I mean actually not
having ‘fashion-eyes’) is an inability to
see these sort of fashion connections
and associations. Yes, it’s an awful dis-
ease. Not up there with AIDs, but still
pretty bad. It causes untold damage,
scarring the visual landscape. Have
you ever seen someone’s outfit and
thought to yourself, does this person
have eyes? But you have to remember
that however much it hurts your reti-
nas to look directly at them, fashion il-
literacy is not something they brought
upon themselves. They don’t get the
pleasure of appreciating well crafted
personal style, they have no fashion-
gasms. This morning I saw a girl cross-
ing the road wearing a mostly neutral
outfit but with red bright tights and
shoes; the visual effect was so stun-
ning. I had to tell myself to stop star-
ing because sometimes if you stare at
a girl’s legs they get the wrong impres-
sion and think you’re a lesbian.
Although maybe fashion illiterates
are actually the lucky ones. They don’t
get the downside of fashion; feeling
compelled to change your wardrobe
when struck by a new look. Was it
wrong to eat my sister’s food because I
blew my clothes budget? I joke. I don’t
have a clothes budget. But it does strike
any sane person as ridiculous to stop
wearing a perfectly good pair of jeans
or sweater because it doesn’t take your
fancy anymore. It’s probably really aw-
ful, capitalist and superficial. But if you
give them to charity it’s a fact that all of
that bad stuff is cancelled out!
Fashion will inevitably become obso-
lete, dragged down by time, d-list ce-
lebrities or the regular chav. But if you
shop at charity shops in the right areas
your fashion obsession can be fuelled
by fellow fashion addicts who have
more money and clothes to donate! All
whilst giving to charity! Win-win.
COOL
Fashion is a fickle business, what’s in one day is tainted by Victoria Beckham the next
LAME
Pearlised Rainbow pump (Chanel), Neoprene and Napa leather tote bag (Pierre Hardy), knotted pearl choker with jewel detail (John Galliano)
Objects of desire
Sarah Skeete

