Hello. Or as the Canadians say, “hi”
Excerpts from a blog about Vancouver. From making boxes to the drainage system, to that poor sod Paul
Chris Chivers
So, I’ve been in the beautiful city of
Vancouver for just over a week now.
I’m worried I’ll fall in to the trap of say-
ing everything’s amazing in an attempt
to convince myself that I’m having the
best time ever and rub it in the faces
of everyone back home. But I’ll try and
veer away from that type of stuff. By
the way, it’s ok for me to call Vancouver
beautiful; all the vehicle license plates
have “Beautiful British Columbia”
proudly engraved onto them. However,
it did take me a good few days to realise
what these cars were going on about...
When the plane landed at the airport
last Wednesday, it marked the begin-
ning of 5 days of constant rain. Accord-
ing to the locals, rain is very common
this time of year – this time of year
being until bloody May. Oddly, for a
city that apparently has so much rain,
the drainage system seems pretty poor.
The streets are commonly lined with a
good inch or two of water meaning a
soggy foot is all but inevitable. Sorry,
this is hopelessly veering off track, I’m
sure there are more interesting things
to talk about other than the drainage
system.
On Monday, the rain stopped, the
clouds lifted and the sun came out
practically wearing a hat upon his in-
candescent head. I had landed a job,
which was described to me by the
disinterested woman on the phone as
“...just moving some tables about re-
ally”. So, I made the most of the sunny
weather by going for a stroll around
Stanley Park and was just staggered by
the beauty of the city. The combina-
tion of snow capped mountains, sky-
scrapers and luscious blue waters was
enough to make me stop in my tracks.
(well I didn’t actually stop. I was run-
ning a bit behind and needed to get to
work. Those tables weren’t going to
move themselves)
Since being in Vancouver, I have had
a total of 4 different job placements
acquired through a temping agency.
These have ranged from the ridiculous
to the downright dull. Most recently I
have been making boxes in a clothing
warehouse... um, and I honestly can’t
elaborate any more on that. Making
boxes – those two words completely
sum up the job description, the job
responsibilities, the job requirements,
the skills acquired, the high points and
the low points of the job. Oh Christ,
it was terrible – I spent a total of 17
hours making boxes. Every so often
the supervisor would walk past and of-
fer such encouraging words as “Keep
making boxes!” I can’t for the life of
me think why he felt the need to keep
saying that – well, to be honest, it may
have been encouragement to prevent
one from becoming suicidal.
As beautiful as the license plates claim
Travels without my Aunt – Part Two
Theo Georgeiou Delisle small children who gather in wetsuits
around your car, you may exit your ve-
hicle. Not there sir, sorry, that is quick-
sand. It should be noted at this point
that the parking area in Polzeath also
doubles as the beach, which distress-
ingly enough is covered with water in
an almost rhythmic pattern every day.
For this reason it is a good job that
your car is on its last legs, but who buys
a car in sunset mauve anyway? Loser.
Now it is time to hit the sea, get out
there you maniac! For the convenience
of visitors Polzeath is manned by fully
trained beach bums, who don’t mind
pretending to be life guards in their
spare time. You may swim between the
blue flag and the flag which depicts the
court case of the disgraced former con-
servative MP, Jeffrey Archer. You may
surf if you are Australian. Once you
have acclimatised to the water, it will
invariably have got dark so it is time to
return; but do not worry intrepid trav-
eller, the luminous condoms floating
flirtatiously in the water around you
will guide you safely back to the beach.
Once back on the beach you are pre-
sented with a number of options. For
many, the simple pleasure of whacking
stranded, innocent jellyfish on the head
with a cheap plastic spade is entertain-
ment enough, but I understand that
the Imperial College student deserves
more. It is for this reason that Polzeath
is happy to accommodate the world
renowned Daymer Bay West sewage
outlet 36b. Feel free, as many tourists
do, to splash and frolic in the frothy
stream which runs out to sea, safe in
the knowledge that dysentery can ac-
tually make a rather good topic across
the dinner table.
After wiping the sand off your lap-
top you are ready to leave the dunes
(although there are none) and hit the
town for a taste of the local nightlife.
The town is unfortunately not ready
to hit you back, save from the late
night second-hand bookstore which
stocks all of your seventeenth favourite
books, so you must drive home imme-
diately before the tide claims your car.
Back in London you are free to watch
Alvin, Simon and Theodore to your
heart’s content. I don’t undestand it either
“Phew, it’s a scorcher out there!” and
“It’s bikini o’clock” are just two of the
phrases that you will not hear if you
decide to visit Polzeath in Cornwall,
or indeed if you visit any other place
in Cornwall. For many young upstarts
however, a trip to Polzeath is the inevi-
table answer to the question, “where
can we go right now, seeing as we have
no money and even less imagination?”
Regrettably it is not the answer to the
question “Who were the three chip-
munks in that show, about the chip-
munks, you know the one…?”
Polzeath is located at a jaunty angle
along the Cornish coastline, strutting
out almost defiantly opposite the town
of Padstow which Rick Stein, the fish
cook, made famous by cooking fish in.
It can be reached by a pleasant costal
path which winds its way haphazardly
around the dangerous cliff edges, or by
a less pleasant road which will test your
14 year old break pads to well beyond
their limits.
Once you have avoided the hoards of
minder that success is fickle and fail-
ure is never far away. While temping, I
found myself crossing paths with a guy
(Canadian for ‘man’) called Paul on a
couple of occasions. Paul, 50-ish, is
also employed by the temping agency
and occasionally we are assigned to the
same job. Paul is sad and has no life.
That is not a cheap, derogatory swipe,
but the actual truth. He isn’t happy be-
cause he left his previous job (as a fi-
nance manager) to travel the world and
after spending all of his money found
himself unable to get back into a sta-
ble work position. As a result he lives,
unmarried, in a small room in a tower
block on the rough side of town and
gets about one day of work a week out
of the employment agency.
Paul confessed that the reason he
But there was a glimmer of hope.
On the first day, after about 4 hours
of box making, the supervisor asks me
if I fancied a change and leads me to
the other side of the warehouse “OK,
these boxes are a little smaller, but you
assemble them in just the same way”.
And just in case I didn’t understand
or needed reminding he added “Keep
making boxes!” Anyway, that job has
finished now and I promised myself I
would never sink that low again.
Hmm, I feel like I should talk about
the people I have met, but I don’t want
say things like “everyone is lovely” or “I
have made hundreds of friends”. After
all, all the lovely people could turn out
to be cheeky thieving bastards.
There is one guy, however, who has
stuck in my mind and is a living re-
doesn’t get any work is because he is
not very good with computers and is
better with his hands. He shared the
hilarious anecdote of how he was giv-
en a job position in an office and was
there for 10 minutes, staring blankly
at Excel, before being asked to leave!
Actually, I don’t think he found it par-
ticularly hilarious. And come to think
of it neither did I. And yesterday, after
being confronted by a roll of sellotape,
he gave in and admitted that he wasn’t
very good with his hands either, which
begs the question; does this man have
any skills at all? This question was in
the back of my mind on the way home
and I came to the conclusion that yes,
he does have a skill, the skill to keep
smiling and not kill himself. Poor guy.
Um, oh dear, this has gone wildly off
track. I’m not sure whether I should
delete the last couple of paragraphs as
it seems inappropriate, lacks any kind
of relevance and isn’t even that inter-
esting. But I won’t.
So getting back on track about the
city itself: Like London (and probably
every other city in the world), Vancou-
ver contains a number of sub-districts
which can usually be summed up in
one word; posh, gay, cheap, dirty, bor-
ing etc. They all seem to be pretty safe
apart from the East Side which is full of
mental tramps. The tall lady (Hmm, is
‘tall’ really the extent of my vocabulary
these days? I’m sure there are more de-
scriptive and linguistically interesting
things to say about her. But she was
quite tall. Long arms...) at the orienta-
tion talk said this was because Vancou-
ver used to have a mental hospital but
it was closed down and the patients
were left to wander the street. She then
added “it’s not funny guys”.
So in my first week, I have been
proved that the license plates are in-
deed correct; Vancouver is an extreme-
ly beautiful city. At the moment, I am
very happy with everything, although
that’s probably down to the cocaine!
(only joking…)
felix@imperial.ac.uk
Travel
Travel Editors – Ahran Arnold and Nadine Richards
25
Friday 16 November 2007 felix

