games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
27
Friday 16 November 2007 felix
Games
Halo– its mix of varied, excellent weap-
ons, the range of devastating and agile
vehicles you can use and hijack, the
well-structured maps, the intra-team
competition, and most of all, those re-
vered headshots – is unprecedented.
As Bungie once mentioned in an in-
terview, “anything can happen in the
multiplayer.” It certainly seems so, and
with the movie and screenshot func-
tions implemented into the game, you
can keep reminding your mates just
how badly you beat them. One picture
speaks a thousand ownages. So your
mate really insists that bullet never hit
him, and that somehow the game is
cheating him? Find the movie of that
match, follow the path of the bullet and
watch in super-slow-motion as it cuts
through his helmet. Then take a pic-
ture and send it to him.
Rising through the ranks rapidly
since September, I’ve taken as many
screenshots (read: photographs) as I
take in real life – in other words, a vast
amount – and you can always show
them to your mates afterwards and
remember just how lucky you were to
miss that Spartan Laser, or just how
unlucky they were to get stuck by a
plasma grenade. You could have been
the gunner on a warthog involved in
picked up my sniper rifle and gave his
cranium some extra ventilation. By the
end of the match, he was huffing and
puffing, attempting to blow my house
down but to no avail. He decided a few
more snide comments would suffice,
before leaving mid-insult.
I gradually but steadily gained my
experience points, and it wasn’t long
before another aspect of this multi-
player’s addictiveness came hurtling
back at me. As in Halo 2, you can earn
medals for doing certain skilful things
in online matches, and of course the
final instalment in the trilogy is no ex-
ception. The thing is, there are now far
more medals to get, and some at first
just seem impossible. Nevertheless, I
kept trying, as does everyone else, to
get those sought-after virtual honours.
My first Sniper Spree was my online
avatar’s equivalent of a baby learning
how to walk. I was so proud.
Eventually you will encounter some-
one online who outranks you beyond
belief. For example, when I was eventu-
ally promoted to a Lieutenant – there-
by making you a “veteran”, according
to the game – the first match I entered
into afterwards happened to contain a
Brigadier, which is the second highest
rank possible. People actually sounded
a bit nervous upon inspecting his stats,
and for good reason. Without going
into details, this guy single-handedly
quadrupled my team’s total score. A
one-man extermination; a massacre.
Soon afterwards, another Brigadier
came up in a Big Team Slayer match.
I was still a Lieutenant, and he was
once again on the other team. This, in
my opinion, was to be my poetic jus-
tice seen through. From the off, I had
my sights focused almost solely on this
personification of pure evil.
This particular match – VIP – was
a new type not seen in the prequel,
with the objective being to terminate
the opposing team’s randomly selected
leader. During the match, I happened
to be driving a Warthog with two other
Spartans in tow. Skidding around the
sand, slipping just past those rockets
and evading the rifle fire, we made it
across to a hill where several hostiles
had congregated around their VIP. Sev-
eral of them leapt into a Mongoose – a
very agile, small transport – and their
VIP leapt onto the back of another. We
gave chase, our turret man took out all
but the VIP, and just as he was getting
away, he was hit in the back of the head
by my very own sniper rifle. He also
happened to be the Brigadier.
Sound exciting, no? Big surprise.
Halo 3 has ranks, stats, and awards, but
really, at its very core, it is all about the
pure adrenaline rush you get whenever
you play a match of any kind. The kind
of experience you get upon playing
the Great Flag Run of Valhalla, or the
sniper who provided vital cover fire on
Last Resort. Maybe you were the one
who was at the front of the charge that
took that last Territory on Sandtrap.
Perhaps you were the guy who hap-
pened to Spartan Laser that convoy of
vehicles heading right towards you. Or
you could just have been the person
who got that shotgun spree on High
Ground.
You might even be involved in a mu-
tiny. One particular match placed me
alongside a horrifyingly annoying pair
of gamers: the first was a whiney Amer-
ican twelve year old, who screeched
for help every time a bullet whizzed
passed his head; the second was a
much older, immature imbecile who,
despite only have one kill throughout
the entire match, continued to remind
everyone else how rubbish the rest
of the team apparently was. So we all
surrounded him and waited for him
to lash out physically, thus giving us
the perfect excuse to gun him down.
We lost the match, but we all gained a
moral victory.
My point is that everything you do
on Halo 3’s multiplayer is different,
varied and is a new, thrilling experi-
ence every time. Not only is it addic-
tive, but it is incredibly enjoyable. It is
essentially the same formula as in Halo
2, but with some new gameplay addi-
tions, new weapons, and some awe-
some new features. The small scale
battles are intense; the big team battles
are epic- even more so than in 2.
There are some gameplay differences
to note: people’s weapons are now visi-
ble even if they aren’t wielding them, so
that bastard hiding around the corner
may look like he just has a submachine
gun, but he’s concealing a shotgun too
– it is attached to the holster on his
back. You are also armed with Equip-
ment now – anti-tank mines, health
regenerator clouds, power drains, and
best of all, bubble shields: you can step
in and out of them, but even if a tank
is firing shells at you, nothing will ever
get through the impenetrable sphere
this device creates.
There are more game types, includ-
ing VIP, Shotty Snipers, and the fan-
created-turned-officialInfectionmode,
wheresword-wielding“zombies”attack
the dwindling team of humans on large
maps. On some settings, the zombies
can run as fast as the Mongoose can
drive at top speeds, which is genuinely
scary if you happen to be the last hu-
man remaining. As aforementioned,
you can get so many awards now it’s
ridiculous. I have several Steaktacular
Awards, a few Bulltrues, and a Hail to
the King. I’ll leave you to discover what
these mean…if you get them, that is.
It isn’t often you can say a tank
landed on your head. With the game’s
Forge mode, wherein you are able to
edit everything on a map except the
geometry, it is fairly common mid-
game to see explosive barrels raining
down from the sky, almost complete-
ly-invisible sword-wielding Spartans
leaping across the map, and even flying
Elephants.
For me, it is all about getting those
near-impossible kills. I’m sure all you
Halo fans out there will appreciate
mid-air headshots, “no-scopes” (kill-
ing someone with a sniper without
zooming in), sticking a Banshee with a
plasma grenade, and so forth. Plus, all
this has to be a great way to relieve ag-
gression – you can blast those whiney
brats, mow down those foul-mouthed
losers, and beat down those that can’t
play to save their lives. And hey, even if
you can’t beat them, at least the game
lets you quickly mute them!
And so here I am today – a Com-
mander, with over 7,000 recorded kills,
with 1/7th of those using a sniper ri-
fle. There are people out there who are
higher ranked than I am, and others
that I could never hope to beat, but of
course this will not stop me trying. In
essence, Halo 3’s multiplayer is about
two things. Firstly, it is trying to bet-
ter yourself – you will do anything,
no matter what it takes, to be the very
best, and to gain that next promotion
that will lead people to actually show
you some respect for once. Secondly,
it is, of course, about having a bloody
good time, and no game has ever come
close to providing his much entertain-
ment. If you haven’t already tried, get
some mates over, turn on your wireless
controllers, and step into this amazing
online world.
Oh, and one last note. If you haven’t
fired a charged Plasma Pis-
tol at a fleeing vehicle,
you haven’t lived. That is
all. See you online –
that is, if I haven’t
scoped you first.
Erm guys... the match is over... you can stop trying to look cool now, okay?
On Live, the party never ends!
And now a friendly message from the Master Chief: Remember kids, only you can prevent noobs from playing on Live. Embarrass them so badly that they don’t log in. Ever again
“My first Sniper
Spree was my
online avatar’s
equivalent of a
baby learning
how to walk”
“One picture
speaks a
thousand
ownages”

