29
Friday 16 November 2007 felix
reports on its recent trip to the world’s largest indoor kart track in King’s Cross
assed by Ballerina, who was plagued
with a full-throttle problem on the
banked corners during qualifying.
Out front, The Boss was now in
cruise and collect mode having made
a good ten to fifteen second advantage
out of the rest of the field scrapping
behind him. Lube Boy and Bob the
Builder were furiously scrapping over
4th and 5th places when they slid into
the side of each other coming out of
turn three, which resulted in the both
of them scrubbing off a good 10mph
and allowing FatSlow to sneak back
into 4th place!
Nearing the end of the race now,
Dr. Jones and Captain FatSlow have
pulled out a comfortable gap to 5th
place and were in the middle of what
would go down as a legendary battle,
with the two karts swapping positions
up to three times a lap! Time and lady
luck ran out on FatSlow, however, as
Dr. Jones got away just after passing
French Fry on the penultimate lap –
and Ballerina pulls off a sweet move on
Henry to re-claim his pride by joining
the committee pack as the chequered
flag fell – the order for the first race
and thus the starting order for the sec-
ond race, was The Boss, followed by
Dr. Jones, French Fry, Captain FatSlow,
Lube Boy, Bob the Builder, 2% Lager,
Henry, Ballerina, and Arsen.
After a very quick five minute break,
the karts were out on the grid once
again, unfortunately minus one fresher
who fell ill in the previous race after
the intense session (a lot of us were
close to feeling that way too!). Now,
however, the Boss was hoping to ce-
ment his domination of the event so
far, while Dr. Jones was finally in a
position to properly challenge for the
crown. French Fry was strategising
about holding off FatSlow, who had
something to prove after being wrong-
ly blue flagged (or just because he’s fat)
in the first race. Henry was looking to
put his authority on fastest newcomer
but would be heavily hounded by Ar-
sen, David and C.J.
After a strong start, on lap six, in-
sult was added to the injury (what a
packed evening!) of Captain FatSlow
who started waving his arms about in
the air as his kart ground to a halt – as
there was no more fuel left to carry his
bulk around the track! He was stranded
for three laps before being given a new
kart that, which was lovingly described
by FatSlow later: “I had to double my
braking distances because there were
no brakes, and every time I was tail-
ing someone I was almost bound to
hit them under braking. I also couldn’t
turn left and the tyres squealed even
on the flat out banked corners, which
was rather scary…but DAMN it had a
good engine!”.
He was put back into position in the
race so that he was not three laps be-
hind everyone else, and proceeded to
unleash a can of whoop-ass as his anger
blazed the track, setting the fastest lap
of everybody on the night in the proc-
ess…andthenhecameacrossBallerina.
The instantly recognisable bright red
suit was the victim of red mist, as going
into the long right hander of turn four,
FatSlow dived on the inside as Ballerina
was nursing his racing line, unaware of
the kart nearly pulling alongside. The
resulting collision caused Ballerina to
spin, and earned the Captain a one-
more-time-and-you’re-out look from
the marshals as he cursed himself for
making the error.
Elsewhere, The Boss’ advantage
from the first race looked to be in tat-
ters as he was hounded for several laps
by both Dr. Jones and French Fry, the
former passing him by daring to out-
brake into turn five and having French
Fry cheekily follow suit. The following
lap, however, French Fry took the fight
to Dr. Jones through the hairpins onto
the second banked corner, hugging the
inside line and drawing alongside. The
result was both karts side by side for
fifteen seconds all the way into
the first corner, where French
Fry held his nerve and went
on to take position, barely
before the chequered flag
came out!
At the end of the race,
therefore, French Fry
stood victorious from
Dr. Jones and The
Boss, with Lube Boy,
Captain FatSlow, 2%
Lager and Ballerina
just ahead of Henry
who was once again
8th, pride of the new-
comers. Post-race, however,
it was revealed that the entire commit-
tee and The Boss were all disqualified
for driving too fast, having too much
experience, and generally annoying the
marshals with repeated requests for
blue flags, so the prizes were left to the
first time karters.
Climbing onto the bottom step of
the podium was David, finishing 11th
overall, who received a wonderfully
crisp copy of WOMEN’S WEEKLY
with his four pack of Carling and tro-
phy. Finishing 10th overall just in front
of him was C.J., receiving the latest is-
sue of FHM and a four pack of Fosters,
while the winner, finishing 8th over-
all in front of some of the committee
(!!), was Henry, proudly taking home a
copy of NUTS magazine to accompany
his four pack of Stella. Unfortunately
for Henry, his girlfriend accompanied
him on the trip, and was seen with the
magazine, presumably for ‘safe-keep-
ing’, on the walk back to the station.
Fun was most definitely had by all,
and unfortunately there was no party
afterwards as everybody was so tired!
The kart club’s first trip to the infa-
mous Tilbury track (where we take our
own fleet of ridiculously fast go-karts!)
was next Saturday, however, and much
needed to be fixed on the Wednesday
afternoon preceeding.
If you are interested in joining the
motor club, learning how to fix
karts, playing with our own re-
built racing mini, driving (safely)
fast, and participating in the Brit-
ish Universities Karting Champi-
onship, please don’t hesitate to
pop down to the motor club ga-
rage, on Unwin Road in between
the Civil and Mechanical engi-
neering buildings, at 1pm every
Wednesday. You can contact us
for a map or with any questions
you may have at motor@imperial.
ac.uk.
“Post-race it was
revealed that the
entire committee
was disqualified
for being too fast”
The three fastest newcomers to the motor
club receive their breast oriented prizes
Most of the fugly mugs of the motor club prior to thrashing things around for a few hours

