news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
3
Friday 16 November 2007 felix
News
£44,000 per year – value for money?
Felix speaks to the student body to discuss how much it has benefitted from the Union’s NUS re-affiliation
Students’ fire alarm frustrations
This week College said that it is “con-
cerned by the amount of fire alarms”
that have been occurring across cam-
pus. The statement comes in response
to a student who contacted Felix air-
ing his frustrations at the multitude of
times he has had to be evacuated. Con-
cerns have also been raised about the
difficulty people have had when exiting
their departments during an alarm due
to newly installed revolving doors re-
stricting mobility.
A second year PhD student, who
wishes to remain anonymous, wrote to
Felix expressing his annoyance at hav-
ing to go through yet another evacu-
ation “ordeal”. The postgraduate said
that since he had been at Imperial, he
had experienced between ten and fif-
teen evacuations and that nobody ever
had an idea whether it was a drill or an
actual fire.
Felix contacted Ian Gillett, College’s
Safety Director, who said that he was
“concerned by the number of fire
alarms” that were going off around
campus. There are only supposed to
be two fire drills per year, with one per
term whilst students in halls can ex-
pect to experience one more on top of
their departments’ drills.
Unless College has been swiftly ex-
tinguishing blazes without anybody
noticing, there have been seemingly
no fires around campus in the past two
years, which begs the question: why
are students within Huxley and Black-
ett being turned out of their buildings
up to eight times a year?
Mr Gillett continued by saying that
there are a number of possibilities:
contractors are often to blame when
using power tools that kick up a lot
of dust, or students who “spray a bit
too much Lynx” can trigger an alarm.
Measures are in place to cut down the
frequency of fire alarms; “pre-alarms”
are designed to monitor changes in
the air around them. For example, if a
device detects a slight increase in the
amount of smoke within a room, a
message can be sent to the fire offic-
ers in College who can quickly get to
the location before a problem erupts.
However, inevitably there are going to
be incidents that are too severe for the
pre-alarms and the evacuation alarm
will be raised instantly.
Talk of cutting down on recurrent
alarms is all well and good, but a wor-
rying amount of people choose to re-
main in their offices or labs ignoring
the noise blaring out around them.
The PhD student suggested frequent
fire alarms “lead to a ‘boy who cried
wolf’ situation” citing some academics
he knows that just “shut their door and
stay inside during the alarms”.
Mr Gillett acknowledged this was a
“bit of a problem” that stems both from
people not being educated enough by
the fire drills and also because people
are not informed why they have been
evacuated when there has been a gen-
uine problem. If people are not told
why they are being ejected from their
departments, then next time they will
simply become frustrated and assume
something minor has happened that
won’t affect them if they remain where
they are.
However, the Safety Director ad-
mitted he didn’t know the solution to
this problem. He suggested that peo-
ple could be disciplined when they’re
caught sitting in their offices, but again
this would have a “negative influence”
on people.
Evacuating only those people near
where to an alarm is triggered is also
unfeasible as the procedure is too
“complicated” and “people become
confused” when only certain people
are made to leave a building.
The problems with the College’s fire
precautions go beyond just the alarms
though; the new revolving doors that
have been installed in Blackett and
Huxley are also a cause for concern.
Some students have reported to Felix
that they have been a part of queues of
people saying to each other: “You go
first,” which is then followed by, “No,
after you, I insist.” In this situation,
students are advised to seek alterna-
tive exits if they can foresee difficul-
ties leaving through any of the main
entrances.
When questioned, Mr Gillett told
Felix that he had been “assured” by
his colleagues that the new revolving
doors provided just as much space for
people to exit through as the old doors
did in Blackett and Huxley.
Felix measured the distance across
the revolving door in Blackett, com-
paring it to the remaining old door
which stands next to it. The result: the
opening in the revolving door meas-
ured 1.2m whilst the old door meas-
ured 2m wide. The number of people
that can safely be in the building re-
mains the same since the Ring of Steel
was introduced.
Ultimately, College’s fire precautions
are designed to stop people from be-
coming charred husks of their former
selves, but with the sensitive nature of
smoke detectors and Imperial’s current
status as a giant building site the future
doesn’t bode well for those people who
lose their sanity at the shrill of a fire
alarm.
The PhD student’s letter can be
found in full in the Comments
section on page 5
Tom Roberts
Editor-in-Chief
Tommorow marks one year to the day
from when Imperial College students
voted “yes” to joining the NUS (Na-
tional Union of Students). However,
since the Union’s re-affiliation, have
students at Imperial actually noticed
any differences?
Last November, after three days of
dedicated campaigning by pro- and
anti-NUS teams in which the stu-
dent body was collared, persuaded
and bribed to vote either way, more
than 4,000 votes were cast to decide
whether Imperial College Union (ICU)
would rejoin the NUS. In one of the
Union’s most successful elections in
living memory, the majority of 53%
voted “yes” in favour of the NUS.
This wasn’t the first time ICU had
re-affiliated with the NUS. The Union
has had an on-off history with the NUS
and since 1922 there has been a motion
in every decade to rejoin, culminating
in four successful attempts including
last year’s.
Affiliation doesn’t come cheaply: the
current cost per annum is £44,000. So
what are we supposed to get in return
for this vast sum of money, and more
importantly, what have we got so far?
The NUS is a one of the world’s
largest student organisations, giving
unions throughout the UK and North-
ern Ireland political clout which they
would lack on their own. Not only does
it provide representation and advice
for Unions, it fights “barriers to educa-
tion” and “empowers students to shape
both a quality learning experience and
the world around them” according to
the NUS website.
This is all very well, but having talked
to a number of Imperial students this
week, it seems the ‘benefits’ are hav-
ing minimal impact. Felix spoke to a
number of students, one of whom – an
Aeronautical Engineering student –
concisely summed up the most com-
mon feeling by saying she “hasn’t felt
the effects of joining the NUS.”
Tom Roberts
Editor-in-Chief
The most immediate benefit to the
student body is in the form of a dis-
count card: the NUS Extra Card, pic-
tured on the front page being held by
first year Bioengineering student Fern-
ando Pacheco. Mr Pacheco told Felix
that having bought his NUS Extra Card
at the start of term, he “hasn’t used it
yet”.
The card costs £10 and is supposed
to bring students discounts at many
national stores, websites and restau-
rants such as amazon.co.uk, JJB and
McDonalds. However, it seems some
of the companies associated with the
NUS Extra Card don’t even recognise
it when presented with one. Ricardo
Smith, a first year Civil Engineer told
Felix he went to “Subway and tried to
use [his] card, but they rejected it and
wouldn’t let me get my 10% off” be-
fore adding: “I haven’t really got a clue
why I spent the money on it in the first
place.”
Strangely enough, some students
that Felix spoke to said they have had
better luck using their NUS Extra Card
in other countries since it also acts as
an ISIC (International Student Identity
Card); the logo can be seen on the top
left of the card. This entitles the holder
to discounts abroad.
Since Imperial rejoined the NUS,
579 Extra Cards have been purchased;
around 5% of the student body. This
equates to 27% of the 2134 students
that said ‘yes’ to the NUS last year.
Have the other 1500 or so students that
voted yes all graduated (meaning they
can’t buy a card now), simply forgot-
ten to buy a card, don’t care or did they
vote the NUS in because of its political
weight and not to save money?
Perhaps the Union is to blame: many
students complained to Felix that they
hadn’t seen any posters or other forms
of advertising for the card. It’s not
surprising awareness is low when the
Union President (one of last year’s vo-
cal anti-NUS campaigners) is seen on
stoic television slating the NUS calling
it a “comedy sideshow”.
Stephen Brown, the Union President,
has expressed his disappointment with
the re-affiliation so far, telling Felix
that “to date we have not got our mon-
ey’s worth.” Mr Brown believes that if
the “governance [ie: the structure] of
the NUS is sorted out, then we might
begin to see the benefits.” Its setup is
undergoing dramatic change at the
moment and there is an Extraordinary
Conference next month in Leicester
that is going to discuss and decide how
the NUS will function structurally.
Supporters and critics seem to agree
that changes in both the Union’s and
the NUS’ governance will benefit the
student body as a whole. One of last
year’s pro-NUS campaigners, Alex
Guite, commented to Felix that “al-
though governance is not the sexiest
topic, reviewing it with the help of the
NUS has been very helpful for our un-
ion and in turn we are helping the NUS
reform itself.”
Mr Guite is also keen to point out
that the NUS has provided ICU with
numerous networking opportunities,
which have yielded otherwise unob-
tainable advice. Furthermore, with the
NUS’ support, ICU has developed a
trade union for its own student staff,
something that Mr Guite says will
benefit “all students who work for the
Union.” He is also quick to point out
that the President himself has received
excellent training from the NUS.
In reality though, are students going
to feel the effects of the governance ref-
ormation that both Mr Guite and Mr
Brown highlight as positives changes?
Ask any student about ICU’s very own
newly-formed Trustee Board and how
the Union’s dynamics have been affect-
ed as a result, and you will most likely
be met with a blank stare. The NUS is
even more far removed than this.
Advocates of the NUS also point out
that without the affiliation, ICU would
be an insular and segregated body
without a voice on the national scale,
especially since we left the University
of London Union (ULU) last year. By
hopping from the ULU bandwagon
and onto the NUS one, supporters
have argued that we are saving over
£30,000 due to the difference in the
affiliation fees. However, the point is
irrelevant in many students’ eyes, as
they believe that Imperial College Un-
ion is an influential enough institution
that doesn’t need support from either
of the bodies – it can stand on its own
two feet.
If this were the case the Union would
be saving itself at least £44,000 per year;
a vast amount that could be put to-
wards the Union redevelopment, cur-
rently in hiatus, or into the clubs and
societies. Mr Pacheco said he would
“much rather see the money spent on
the Basketball society.”
A year on from ICU’s re-affiliation
referendum, it seems the student body
has scarcely felt any effect of the NUS.
Although not entirely clear how, the
promise of governance revisions may
bring noticeable benefits to students.
However only time will tell whether
this is just another flirtatious bout be-
tween the unions or if the two are des-
tined to be bedfellows this time round.
The Union is looking for students
to attend the NUS Extraordinary
Conference on Tuesday 4th
December. If you want a free
trip to Leicester to represent
your Union on a national scale,
and to help influence the NUS’
governance, email: felix@
imperial.ac.uk
Money, money, money in the NUS’ hand

