33
felix
Friday 16 November 2007
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk Sport
How protein helps in sports performance
Ben Richens
So what’s your sport? At Imperial we
have a very wide range of sports peo-
ple playing in teams from badminton
to football and rugby to volleyball- do
you know what they all have in com-
mon? Well they all, in their own unique
way, place great demands on the body
and in order to improve your sports
performance it’s crucial to recover.
Getting the right amount of food is es-
sential to this recovery process.
So what are these demands? Well for
example, the impact of nine times your
body weight is taken by your legs when
you run at high speeds; or during a golf
swing, up to 90% of the shear force it
can take to cause serious injury in the
spinal column, can occur. These de-
mands aren’t just limited to high per-
forming athletes. Whether you work
out at the gym, like to run around
Hyde Park or do nothing at all, your
body needs the correct amount and ra-
tio of macronutrients (carbohydrates,
fat and protein) just to stay alive!
This week’s lesson is on protein.
When this word comes up, people’s
minds often conjure up images of a
muscle-bound bodybuilder shovelling
heaps of a suspicious looking powder
into a container after a workout in the
gym. Let’s get away from this miscon-
ception. As I mentioned above, no mat-
ter what your sport is, or even if you
don’t play any sport, getting the right
amount of protein is very important.
Protein translated from Latin means
‘first’ or ‘primary importance’ and
when it is digested it is broken down
into amino acids. These acids have a
number of functions in the body but
what we’ll concentrate on in this arti-
cle is their role in muscle tissue repair.
Sources of protein are all around us.
Below is a list of common foods con-
taining protein and whilst it is not a full
list, it gives you a general idea;
Beef, turkey, chicken, ham, fish,
spinach, tuna, nuts, eggs, dairy prod-
ucts (milk, cheese) as well as protein
supplements (more about these in a
moment).
Other foods will have a certain de-
gree of protein in them as well. For ex-
ample, wholemeal bread contains 5-6
grams per slice so getting your quota
of protein isn’t all about gorging on
mounds of meat - variety is best when
picking your sources of protein.
So on to the subject of supplements,
a much discussed topic – what to take,
how much, when to take it and how of-
ten - these will be explored in a future
article. For now, let’s take a step back –
is the food we are eating good enough
to start with? Remember, supplements
are just as the name suggests - supple-
menting what we eat already. So let’s
sort the basics out first, and then we
can think about supplements.
A good guide to eating the right
amount of protein is to aim for around
0.8-1.5 grams of protein per kg of
bodyweight per day. So, a 60kg female
footballer would need around the 60g
mark of protein per day, spread evenly
Emma Brett
With three last-minute drop-outs for
the BUSA match against RUMS, IC
Women’s Football were “reliving the
glory days” (as one of the more senior
members put it), by only managing to
field a team of 8 girls. Typically, RUMS
had a full team with two substitutes.
The formation for the day was 3-4 and
the general tactic was to defend, defend
and defend in hopes of a draw.
The first half began with winds of
the “balls-kicked-into-the-air-aren’t-
going-to-go-very-far” type against IC.
All eight players in the IC half tried to
look as big as possible to the advancing
RUMS, who were all for exploiting IC’s
setback.
RUMS began by attacking heavily,
with clever touches from one or two
of their players to get the hearts of the
IC players racing. Often the RUMS half
was left undefended and counter at-
tacks led by the infamous Pavidra were
fairly successful, resulting in a number
of corners. At the time, corners seemed
like the only way IC might actually be
able to score. Unfortunately there was
only so much four or five players can
do against eleven defending and the
corners surmounted to nothing for
most of the time.
The IC backline played the offside
trap well, causing the overzealous ref-
eree to have a field day with his whistle
calling, frequently calling RUMS off-
side. With about fifteen minutes left
to the first half, Ms. Larice had proven
that if you are, in fact that good, you
only need one player to be the backline.
This gave IC the chance to push up and
mount more serious attacks that were
actually worth immortalising in type.
With Kate and Emma providing even
more support for the midfield/for-
wards on the wings, RUMS were being
stretched at the back and plays were
made but most ended with anti-cli-
matic shots off target. RUMS keeper’s
first real challenge was presented when
Yoke produced a beautiful, orgasmic
cross into the box, which landed per-
fectly at Cheryl’s feet. Unfortunately,
she made a mess of it and hit it straight
into the keeper, which was a waste.
The highlight of the first half, and
what was to be “The Highlight” of the
whole game, was IC keeper Emily’s
save (worthy of ‘Match of The Day’).
RUMS had taken a powerful shot from
just outside the box and it was heading
for the top left hand corner of the goal,
leaving the IC team unable to do much
else but watch. However, Emily made a
spectacular dive and just managed to
get a touch on the ball with her finger-
tips to send it out for a corner. Because
of her, IC quite happily ended the first
half with a 0-0 score line and a fighting
chance.
When the second half started, IC
were in the driving seat (even with the
two RUMS substitutes being brought
on) and were beginning to look more
like the team who were undefeated last
season. Within seconds, IC was already
down in the RUMS’ penalty box giving
their backline a run for their money.
With the captain screaming encour-
agement and a couple of threats to her
team, RUMS finally made a push and
bore down on the IC goal. A couple of
awkward bounces from the ball and
miscommunication in the IC defence,
caused one of the defenders to collide
with the goalkeeper, leaving the goal
wide open for a scary second. Fortu-
nately, Kate charged in to take care of
everything, kicking the ball out for a
throw-in.
Frustration began to set in for RUMS
as the clock wore on. IC’s Lily took
quite a few pushes which aggravated a
sustained injury, but she still soldiered
on, as did Emma, despite having being
viciously stomped on. With exhaustion
setting in and tensions running high, it
looked as though this match was well
Football
RUMS Women’s 1st 0
Imperial Women’s 1st 1
IC Women’s mighty 8 seal first win of season
The ladies football team posing after their win against RUMS
on its way to ending in a draw. But, as
fate would have it, there was still a goal
to be scored.
With fifteen minutes left until full
time, Cheryl netted her first goal for
IC. In an attempt to keep the ball
from going out for a goal kick, Cheryl
managed to get around a RUMS de-
fender, who was chasing the ball out,
and she stretched out with her right
leg to smack the ball back towards the
goal, just as it was inches away from
the backline. The RUMS keeper was
left rooted and the ball flew along the
ground, past the defence before hitting
the far post and crossing the line. And
in true Cheryl fashion, she had lost her
balance and had watched the events
unfold whilst lying flat on her back in
the grass. 1-0 to IC!
Heavy defending followed to protect
the precious lead but still, it did not
stop Pavidra from leading charges into
the RUMS’ half with her lightning feet.
Finally, the whistle blew and a very
tired IC side celebrated their unlikely,
but definitely well-earned victory.
Bring on the next match.
After the setback of the first match,
last week was crunch time for the
Men’s 1st Fencing team as they needed
nothing less than a win to keep their
chances of being promoted alive (and
to stop the gloating from the men’s 2nd
team). This chance came in the form
of a home match against Southampton
men’s 1st.
Like the previous match, foil was the
first weapon to be contested and fol-
lowing the slightly under par perform-
ance the week before, there was a large
amount of pressure on them to step it
up a gear. With this in mind, the captain
decided that a change was required in
the anchor position (the most impor-
tant position in the team). However,
contrary to all advice given to him,
instead of putting himself as anchor
he chose Nathan (much to Nathan’s
disappointment). Unfortunately this
change did not have the desired affect
and foil ended with a deficit of 11 hits
in favour of Southampton.
Next up was epee to salvage the mess
the foil team had created, and after a
rocky start (mentioning no names-
Ed!) Imperial started to make up the
deficit. In particular, Sjoerd’s stunning
individual performance, handing out
7 unanswered hits, to gain the ‘Man
of the Match’ award. Consequently,
by the time the epee team had worked
their magic the scores were level, at 79
hits a piece.
The last weapon of the contest was
sabre, bearing the hopes of the team
(especially the under-performing foil-
ists). Once again, they did not get the
perfect start everyone wanted how-
ever with an excellent comeback, Alex
steered the team into the lead so that
going into the final bout Imperial led
in sabre (and overall) by 2 hits.
Thus after 26 bouts of fencing, the
whole match came down to the 27th
and final bout. Things were not meant
to be and we lost by a narrow margin of
5 hits. Yet again leaving only the trip to
the bar as consolation.
Imperial Men’s 1st Fencers lose out to
Southampton 1st in a tight battle
Fencing
Imperial Men’s 1st 119
Southampton Men’s 1st 124
Chris Gilliam
Close but no cigar
for IC fencing throughthemealsoftheday.Thisisjust
an example and will change depending
on your activity level and other factors.
Consult a member of the Energia team
about this if you are unsure.
Playing sport puts various intense
demands on your body- sprinting,
passing, catching, shooting and tack-
ling etc. Getting the right amount of
protein is essential if you want to per-
form at your best.
Natural vs. Manufactured- are
you using them the right way?

