felix sport Send in your sport reports:
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
High resolution photos only
Fire!
MatSoc and De La Beche fight it out, see page 34
Table Tennis Ladies’ great start to debut season
Anusha Seneviratne
We are making our debut in the BUSA
Women’s League in 2007. I have played
against many of the top players in this
league before, as I represented an Eng-
land junior team and have experience
at a national level. Nan Luan won the
Women’s Plate at the BUSA champion-
ships this February and we teamed up
to win the Women’s Doubles bronze
medal, giving us great confidence for
this season.
Our first match was against Essex,
who were without one of their key
players, Abigail Embling- the 2007
BUSA Singles Champion (who is tak-
ing time out to represent England) and
we seemed to have them scared (Nan
nearly beat Abigail at the BUSA cham-
pionships!). They failed to turn up and
we benefited from a walkover.
The following week we visited King’s
College who had Emma Weil –a former
England Top 10 Junior. Nan and I both
beat her team-mate Alexandra com-
fortably. Nan gave a good effort but
lost to Emma 3-0. As I won the 1st
set comfortably against Emma, things
looked encouraging but Emma used
her heavy sidespin serves and prevailed
3-1. In the doubles, which ultimately
decided the rubber, we won the first
two sets comfortably. The King’s duo
battled back to take the third set but
we held our nerve and won the match
3-1 to claim the win and send us to the
top of the table.
Last week we played Middlesex who
are one of the strongest teams in the
country. They have Egle Adomelyte;
England No.6 and Runner-up at this
year’s BUSA championships (she beat
me en-route) and Sarah Brown; an-
other former England Top 10 Junior.
Nan started promisingly against Egle
taking the first set but Egle showed her
greater experience, to come through
3-11, 11-6, 11-3, 12-10. I kept it tight
against Sarah and created chances but
played the wrong shots at the wrong
time, losing 11-6, 11-7, 11-7. Nan put
up a good fight against Sarah but lost
11-7, 9-11, 11-4, 11-6. Finally I played
Egle who stamped her authority in
the first two sets. I played aggressively
Table Tennis
Imperial Women’s 1st 5
Essex Women’s 1st 0
Table Tennis
Imperial Women’s 1st 3
King’s Women’s 1st 2
Table Tennis
Middlesex Women’s 1st 4
Imperial Women’s 1st 1
hitting winners to claim the third set.
With the rhythm flowing, I built up
an 8-4 lead in the fourth set but failed
to take my chances and Egle used her
greater power and experience to win
the match 11-5, 11-9, 7-11, 11-9 and
seal victory for Middlesex.
It’s been a good effort in our first
year and we are optimistic about this
season. Next up is LSE but after that
is London Metropolitan, who have
former Olympic bronze medallist Fei
Ming Tong!! We might need protective
gear for that one!
Nan Luan and Anusha Senevirante
Jovan Nedić
Sports Editor
OK, so I made a few mistakes last week.
With the overwhelming response I’ve
been getting from all the clubs and so-
cieties out there, it was bound to hap-
pen at sometime. That’s not me saying
don’t bother sending stuff in, that’s just
me saying that I’m glad you lot are, just
be patient with me if I make a mistake.
Anyway, so last week I managed to
put the wrong name in for some of the
articles. Last week’s Ladies Seconds ar-
ticle was actually written by Arabella
Walker, not Amanda Cheung, so sorry
Bella! And secondly the mountaineer-
ing feature, whose pictures I must say
were really awesome, was written by
Sebastian Nordgren and not Alex
Borresen.
The last few weeks have been amaz-
ing though guys, with there being con-
sistently five or more pages of sport in
Felix. All I can say is, keep it coming.
There are still so many fantastic results
out there that haven’t been reported on,
for example the Men’s 1st Squash team
who have been absolutely demolishing
all their opponents with 5 - 0 wins; let’s
hear about some of them, guys.
Finally, plans are under way to pro-
duce a special Varsity Sports Pullout.
My aim is to include every single var-
sity match that takes place, hopefully
with photos. Varsity Day is on the 27th
February 2008, so keep the day free in
your diaries.

