4 felix Friday 16 November 2007
Comment, Opinion
& Letters
Bland manifestos won’t get my vote
James Wang
R
ecently, we year 4 med-
ics had another run of
popularity contests (more
widely known as year rep
elections); all of our inbox-
es being subjected to the usual promo-
tional spam (makes me miss the Viagra
spam of old).
Fortunately, this year the quantity
wasn’t as torrential as previous ones,
not for a certain someone’s lack of try-
ing. Yes Neil, I’m talking to you: I have
a rusty garden rake and I’ll give you
three guesses where I’m going to shove
it when I see you next!
At this stage, people have already
picked their favourites, though admit-
tedly, I just ranked my votes according
to how fit the girls were (call me shallow
if you must… but girls, when was the
last time you fancied someone’s emo-
tions? …add the fact that she’s wearing
the same dress as another girl at the
party and a hint of PMS and stir…). It’s
a change from previous years where I
just voted for whoever had sent me the
least amount of spam.
My main beef with these things
this time around were the manifestos.
It looked like an exercise in copy and
paste with the first one being as bland
as the free tea at Tanaka. All were
some variation of being “friendly and
approachable and will address your
concerns”. Well so will the clerks at my
local Tesco. Actually, reading through
them was a total waste of time which
could have been better spent having a
wank. The whole thing made me wish
I had entered with promises of ending
the war in Iraq, climbing to the top of
Queen’s tower, wearing nothing but a
thong, and installing new snack vend-
ing machines.
As opposed to coming off as CV
monkeys, you’d think people could
make a bit more effort promoting
themselves. Some ideas of solutions to
current problems would be nice. After
all, we’re (supposedly) voting for you so
you can think for the mindless masses
instead of relying on them for shit to
do. People don’t like voting in the first
place and you aren’t making life easier
for anyone.
So what I’m really saying is if you
want to run for something, make an ef-
fort and think of some of the things you
know can be improved. Something the
rest of us might look at and think “Hell
yeah, that’s something that should be
done”. Remember most of us are lazy
bastards would like nothing better than
for you to go and do that for us.
Failing that, make up something re-
garding your stance on sex with mon-
keys to prevent another tragedy like
AIDS crossing the species barrier. And
don’t spam our inboxes, we heard you
the first time around. If you’re still
considering it, just ask Neil about what
might happen.
2
007 is Imperial’s Centenary
but also a special year for
us at Garden & Weeks halls
(G&W): Garden celebrates
its 50th anniversary as a hall
of residence! (Weeks hall’s golden jubi-
lee will follow in just a couple of years,
so we will talk about it later). We have
been celebrating in style!
Everyone knows Garden Hall: a row
of Victorian houses on the North Side
of Prince’s Gardens, between Sports
Centre and Weeks hall. Some people
may even know that both Garden &
Weeks halls are grade II listed build-
ings. (I know this can be hard to be-
lieve but Weeks is an architectural
gem of the 50s!) What no one knows
is the fascinating history behind G&W
halls, which dates back to the Great
Exhibition in 1851 and involves illus-
trious residents as Sir Henry Singer
Keating, Solicitor-General in two of
Palmerston’s administrations and first
tenant of house 11, Lord Blackburn
(1861-1887), Sir William Earle and Sir
William Drake (until 1891), or Rt. Hon.
Lord Walter Gordon-Lennox, PC (un-
til 1921).
Garden Hall’s Victorian houses
were completed in 1860, adjacent to
the Great Exhibition site. The devel-
oper was Sir Charles Freake and John
Johnson was the probable architect
(apparently he is well-known for mid-
Victorian buildings in London). At the
time, these houses were an “affordable”
option to Belgravia or Mayfair, for pro-
fessionals and minor noble families.
Yes “affordable”, but they still needed
accommodation for several family
members, a few guest bedrooms and
two or three elegant rooms for enter-
taining guests; and of course rooms
for a dozen or so servants, usually on
the top floor; and finally a service area
with kitchen, wine cellar, coal cellar,
laundry, servants’ eating room etc, in
the basement!
In more recent times, during the
second World War, the houses were
requisitioned by the government and
used by the Admiralty and, by the late
1940s, passed to the hands of the Lon-
don Hostels Association. It seems that
houses 8-15 Prince’s Gardens were
offered to the College for student ac-
commodation as part of a bid (led by
Sir John Betjeman, poet and founder
of Victorian Society) to keep Colcutt
Tower – now Queen’s Tower! – in the
early 50s. Imperial and the hall soon
played a role during the Hungarian
Uprising in 1956 by welcoming exiled
students in house 12.
Garden hall was formally inaugu-
rated in 1957 and, that year, the college
Governing Body minutes would justify
“There is (…) a general agreement that
the full University training is not ob-
tainable unless the student spends at
least a part of his career in residence.
(…) the need for increased residential
accommodation was ‘reinforced by
the presence in the Universities of in-
creased numbers of students who come
from homes with little or no tradition
of culture and whose undergraduate
lives would be greatly enriched by a
period of residence in Hall.’”!
Every year, Garden hall becomes the
home of 82 Imperial freshers in single,
double and triple rooms, who enjoy its
impeccable common room, previously
the oak-panelled study of Sir Henry
Keating looking onto the garden.
The senior re-app (hall senior) has
the honour of occupying the Gothic
guest room, set up for Lady Elizabeth
Vernon in the ‘30s, but all bedrooms
are unique: room 5, for example,
was the drawing room of Sir William
Drake!
You may wonder: “what are students
doing in Victorian houses in South
Kensington?“ I would argue that was
the very purpose of Prince Albert! You
see, Prince Albert, as president of the
Royal Commission for the Great Ex-
hibition (and using the £186k profit
of the exhibition!) decided to establish
the site as an “educational and cultural
centre” for London. I just hope we live
up to the expectations…
Put this in your title and smoke it
I
’m getting a bit bored of smok-
ers. After all the bans and tem-
porary surges in “quit now” ad-
vertisements, it’s true that I see
a lot less lighting up than I used
to. Obviously, some are pushing their
luck in enforcing the law – drawing a
line around a building is probably a lit-
tle too far – yet it seems that there’s a
tactic agreement now that smoking is
bad for everyone’s health, not just the
smoker. And despite this, we still don’t
seem to have the courage to put heel to
butt and stamp the last embers out.
I used to be of the opinion that if you
wantedtodieslowlyandpainfullywhile
your family watches on and blames
the health service, then that was your
choice. But lately I find myself refram-
ing the smoking issue to represent the
worst of what disappoints me in the
human race right now.
First, the eternal joy of discussing the
ethics of smoking with a smoker. My
favourite kind is the one that maintains
they know what it’s doing to them, but
are okay with it. A message to those of
you reading this that are this kind of
smoker – you are not, and will never
be, Kurt Russell. You’re just a tit who’s
been smoking for so long that you’re
actually embarrassed about how de-
pendent you’ve become on it.
Second, the absolutely ludicrous hu-
man rights grounds on which some
smoking groups opposed the bans
from. Yes, self-harm is legally okay. Yes,
I should be allowed to do bad things
to myself if I want to. But if I started
carrying around weapons-grade plu-
tonium in my coat pocket, I think the
people around me would view it as a
little antisocial.
For me, it’s representative of how
unwilling we are to give up things that
make us feel good – fuel inefficient
cars. Really loud music at 1am. Ant
and Dec. Don’t get me wrong – I don’t
like the idea of giving up my Taste The
Difference cookies so that I can do-
nate more to charity and even up the
world’s karma. You don’t miss the dif-
ference until you’ve tasted it, let me
tell you. But the fact that people want
to cling onto a damaging, expensive
and disgusting habit just because it’s
more comfortable to light up with an
evening coffee than not, well… it’s a lit-
tle saddening.
I know not all smoking is bad – an
acquaintance of mine has to smoke a
pipe as part of a medical condition he
has. Obviously, the stuff he smokes is
medicated, rather than the pipe itself.
Plus, there’s the slightly weaker claim
that smoking keeps people off other
drugs, or at least slows their abuse of
them. But if that’s the only defence you
can muster for a habit that kills thou-
sands ever year, I think you need to
check what it is that you’re smoking.
Hah. Great jokes to be had here,
honestly.
Maybe I just don’t “get” drug abuse
very well – like Cyndi Lauper, or burp-
ing on demand. Maybe everyone likes
smelling like they’ve rolled around in
smouldering horse poo, and kissing
people that taste of wet smouldering
horse poo. And maybe it’s not as rep-
resentative of human kind if you assess
it in any reasonable terms.
But seeing as we’re still discriminat-
ing against everyone we can get our
hands on – ISLAMISTS LOL – the ice
caps are still melting, and the Middle
East is still being crept up on from all
sides by the encroaching legions of idi-
ots with cruise missiles, I think that if
we can’t analyse ourselves far enough
to quit inhaling carcinogens ten times
a day, I’m going to need to emigrate
further than Canada after all.
Garden & Weeks Hall celebrates its 50th
João T. Cabral
Garden & Weeks Hall
Wardening the
Almighty Organ
Some still ignore the message
despite more graphic warnings
A. Geek
Let us know your views: comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Letters may be edited for length and grammar purposes
Views on these pages are not representative of Felix

