comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
5
Friday 16 November 2007 felix
Comment
Comment
Letters to Felix
Dear Felix,
IwasdisturbedbyFelix’scoverageofDr
James Watson’s outrageous comments
on black people. It is disappointing
the newspaper of such a diverse stu-
dent body failed to expressly criticise
Watson’s views or Watson himself. His
comments were only called contro-
versial and unsupported by scientific
evidence; I bet that he’s cowering after
that verbal lashing.
In fact his comments are not con-
troversial, well not among reasonable
minded people. A controversy only
occurs when people disagree about
an issue, Jack Straw’s comments about
headscarves were controversial be-
cause people disagreed about the is-
sue. There has not been a debate about
his comments because there is no
room for one, he is both scientifically
and ethically wrong. James Watson
has been widely and consistently criti-
cised, apart from our own publication.
His history as an important scientist
Felix failed
to condemn
Dr Watson’s
comments
Gilead Amit
L
etters are powerful tools. In
the right hands, these insig-
nificant little squiggles can
convey romance, suspense,
passion, terror, and ridicu-
lously over-employed clichés. Yet there
are times, when the power is handed
over to those unable to wield it prop-
erly, that they can generate confusion,
rage and despair.
I know that scientists are anti-hu-
manists. I knew that before I came
here, but I never really came to grips
with the depth of the contrast. Let me
make my meaning plainer. I am writ-
ing this while recovering from several
hours of staring at page upon page
filled with incomprehensible mark-
ings. At least, they had some sort of
significance when I first sat down, but
that disappeared very quickly. Those
same intrinsically worthless pen-
marks that can produce emotions of
the purest kind when wielded by poets
or authors, should never, ever, be used
by physicists.
You would think that the letter ‘g’,
innocent as it is, had little chance of
making my life a hell. When ensconced
safely in the word ‘syzygy’, or hiding
coyly in the word ‘vestige’ (both chosen
by a large number of English speakers
as among the most beautiful in our lan-
guage), granted, it poses little threat.
It even has a special significance for
me personally – an old acquaintance,
if you will, as for obvious reasons it
was the first letter I ever had to learn
to capitalize. And yet, despite its en-
dearing characteristics, I now hate it.
I loathe it. I detest and despise it with
vehemence worthy of A. Geek. For it
has now come to symbolize gravita-
tional acceleration, and that drives me
quite simply berserk.
Things aren’t that bad, I hear you
say; look at all the other lovely letters
our language has to offer. Not so – ac-
celeration, speed of light, distance, ec-
centricity, Planck’s constant, impulse,
momentum, time and weight are all
lurking in the shadows. Our alphabet
reads like a wanted list of dangerous
convicts, escaped from their protective
asylums and unleashed onto the world
at large. Mainly, of course, to annoy
me.
Words have started to lose all sense;
garden looks eerily similar to g α ren
, vat
becomes v = u + at, while tag involves
the exact three variables (or symbols,
for those actually following) that have
been chasing each other over my notes
for the last three hours, come to think
of it, a game of tag. Trust me, that par-
ticular bad joke was unintentional.
To tell the truth, I feel my spirits lift-
ing already. That’s a relief – I can now
go back over this thing and proofread it
without getting post-traumatic-stress-
induced flashbacks. Of course, I know
that this is only a temporary respite.
Because, masochist that I am, I am go-
ing to return to that bugger ‘g’, and in-
duce him to play nicely with his friends
‘a’, ‘t’, and ‘v’. Why? I’m ashamed to ad-
mit it, but because I just can’t leave it
alone. What do you want from me, for
God’s sake, I’m a physicist. We’re not
meant to be normal.
Letters and physicists just don’t mix
should not shield him, he is undeniably
a racist and it’s only a matter of time
before he declares, “the south will rise
again”. To place him on the front cover
with a headline that gave the impres-
sion that he might have a point is mis-
leading and an embarrassment to the
university.
While I am not suggesting that Felix
supports the views of James Watson, I
feel that the correct criticism of an in-
dividual with a deplorable worldview
has been pushed aside in favour of
over-objective reporting by the news
section.
Yours Faithfully,
Kadhim Shubber
The Editor Tom Roberts responds on
behalf of the authors of the article:
The article published last week was
not intended to be another damning
article about Dr Watson. We weighed
up the available evidence – including
Dr Watson’s claim that he has been
misquoted – and provided a balanced
article whilst exploring the relationship
between the media and casual com-
ments made by scientists.
Even if it is apparent that the man is
a racist, the national media has had a
field day with this story and we didn’t
feel the need to put boot in yet again.
David Stewart
M
y first taste of S&M
occured about a year
ago - shortly after a
seriously heavy night
of drinking left my
mouth studded with ulcers. It was so
stuffed with sores, it felt like my flat-
mate had sneaked into my room while
I was asleep and stuffed the Andes into
my mouth.
Unusually many of these ulcers were
right under my lip, rather than the
usual tucked away places somewhere
under a cheekbone. While my train
was passing through West Kensing-
ton station, I dutifully whipped out the
Bonjela I’d bought from Waitrose and
found that in this case, I didn’t need
to perform the usual demoralising
ritual of squeezing half a tube onto my
tongue and trying to internally french
kiss myself with the usual face contor-
tions necessary to accomplish such an
unnatural feat. Indeed, in this case, a
direct application onto the bastards
was possible. Naturally I screamed
(which on the district line is perfectly
normal when people forget to change
at Earl’s Court) but managed to get
myself under control save for the fact
that my eyes were pouring more water
than the Diana memorial.
The point one realises about Bonjela
is that it’s not really a medicine in the
usual sense - it’s main purpose seems
to be to make the pain so unbeliev-
ably bad for ten seconds that the minor
affliction you started with becomes
welcome relief. But it’s so goddamn
addictive. No sooner had one wave of
unbearable agony passed than I found
myself squeezing more of the poison
between my gums and gritting my
teeth to suffer the next bout.
Eventually, the ulcers went but I
found out that one could obtain similar
effects from applying Bonjela to cook-
ing burns; not as delicate and fleshy as
the inside of a mouth but still intoler-
ably painful. I thought it would be too
uncouth to start deliberately inflicting
damage on myself so that I could douse
the injury with Bonjela, so I found
people on the internet to help me. It
is possible, using the correct lashing
technique - Maria, incidentally could
do this perfectly, Stephanie tended to
go too far - to just break the skin in a
single place.
After an interlude which either in-
volved a Gü chocolate soufflé or sex in
the missionary position, the initial pain
had died down and I would lie pros-
trate as the Bonjela was rubbed into
the afflicted areas while I screamed
like Christ on the cross. Eventually, my
family found out and staged an inter-
vention, so I had to start hiding tubes
of Bonjela in toilet cisterns. I became
so obsessed with it I was sneaking off
in my lunch hour to grab a hunk of pain
and a pickled egg in the function room
at the King’s Head, where Olga the Fe-
male German bodybuilding champion
would administer to me.
In a few months I’d maxed out my
cards on Bonjela but I almost certainly
would have turned to crime to finance
my addiction had it not been for the
fact that I started running out of skin.
Confessions of a Bonjela addict
Dear Felix,
I've just got back from the ordeal of
yet another fire alarm in the Huxley
and Blackett buildings. I watched the
hundreds of academics, staff and stu-
dents standing around in the cold and I
thought I'd send a letter to Felix about
how ridiculous it all is.
I can only speak for the Huxley and
Blackett buildings but there seems to
be far more fire alarms or fire drills
than necessary. As a second year PhD
student I've been turned out of the
building by fire alarms probably about
10 or 15 times during my PhD so far
(no exaggeration). Each time there's a
repeating cycle of the shrill alarm fol-
lowed by a calm voice saying "In the
interests of safety, please evacuate the
building", followed by another shrill
blast etc, etc.
When picking our way through the
loudly blaring, crowded, dirty, dimly-
lit basement corridors following signs
to the fire exit, my friend shouted to
me "It's like Hell!" and I gave whole-
hearted agreement.
Each time I get outside into the
crowd of people milling around I ask
myself and others if it's a fire drill or
an actual fire. No one ever knows. It
turns out that sometimes it's a fire drill,
other times its a workman's tools mak-
ing too much smoke, but there's never
been a fire while I've been here. With
that in mind I wonder why the entire
population of the two buildings should
be turned outside – a considerable dis-
ruption, annoyance and inconvenience
– for no good reason.
If the answer is that the alarms are
testing readiness for evacuation in
Fire alarm after
fire alarm in
Blackett and
Huxley
case of fire then I know of some expe-
rienced academics who just shut their
door and stay inside during the alarms.
So frequent alarms are the alarms that
they lead to a "boy who cried wolf"
situation. If having a hair-trigger fire
alarm system means it's activated un-
necessarily often then it becomes
counter-productive.
Surely a better system would be to
have localised fire alarms which evacu-
ate the area near the "fire" but not the
whole two buildings. Having fewer fire
drills would also be a start.
2nd year PhD student
Somewhere in Blackett or Huxley
Keep the swearing to a minimum. Smoke detectors are very sensitive

