Email Nigel on advice@imperial.ac.uk
Email Kirsty on dpew@imperial.ac.uk
Welfare
Welfare Editors – Nigel Cooke and Kirsty Patterson
7
Friday 16 November 2006 felix
How to get your rent deposit back
Is your landlord protecting your deposit? This week Felix has advice on how to make sure you get it back
Nigel Cooke
Student Advisor
At the advice centre, one of the most
frequent enquiries we receive is to do
with housing rights. Within this broad
topic, by far the most popular enquiry
is to do with landlords keeping a stu-
dent’s deposit unfairly. So, how can you
get it back? The IAC helps you build
up an argument and in some cases this
may go to the small claims court.
The Tenancy Deposit Scheme has
now been up and running since April
2007 so anyone who has moved into
a property after this date, with an as-
sured shorthold tenancy, their land-
lord should be protecting their de-
posit through a government approved
scheme.
If a landlord chooses not to do this
and is reported then it is possible that
the tenant could be awarded 3 times
the amount of deposit they have paid.
So what does all this mean for the aver-
age private student tenant? Well, hope-
fully, this article will answer some of
your questions.
Landlords’ are able to choose from
two types of scheme, one is a single-
custodial scheme. This is where the
landlord pays the full amount of the
deposit into the scheme. At the end
of the tenancy, and if both parties
agree to the amount of money being
paid back, the scheme will refund the
agreed amount to the tenant. If there is
a disagreement, then a dispute resolu-
tion service will step in at no extra cost
to solve the disagreement.
The second type of scheme is an
insurance-based scheme, where the
tenant pays a security deposit to the
landlord but in this case the landlord
retains the deposit and pays a premium
to the scheme. If there is a dispute, the
landlord will legally have to hand over
the full deposit to the scheme until the
situation is resolved. If the landlord
doesn’t comply and a decision is made
in favour of the tenant, then the insur-
ance payments will cover this.
These schemes are all run by private
companies but the key difference from
the way deposits were held in the past
is that there is now an independent
dispute resolution service. In the past,
it could take weeks of arguing with a
landlord before a court case was taken
to a small claims court. This could of-
ten be costly and intimidating for a stu-
dent to initiate. The great thing about
the schemes nowadays is that there is
no need to take disputes to the small
claims court.
Those of you who have moved into
private properties need to ask your
landlord if they have put your deposit
into a scheme and request proof of this.
The Information and Advice Centre
has kindly drawn up some important
points for you to keep in mind when
signing an assured shorthold tenancy
after 6th April 2007:
1. Insist on your landlord drawing up
an inventory. This is a piece of paper
which will have the condition of eve-
rything in the property on the date you
move in. It will make it easier to decide
the condition of furniture and the like
when you move out.
2. Ensure that your landlord is part of
the scheme and don’t take any excuse
or explanation as to why they are not.
If you have questions or are not sure
whether your landlord should be part
of the scheme please contact The In-
formation and Advice Centre.
3. In the scheme, when the landlord
and tenant are agreed on the amount
to be paid to the tenant, this must be
paid back within 10 days. This is the
same if there is a dispute and a deci-
sion has been made. If a landlord fails
to comply with this rule then further
action can be taken.
4. For any assured shorthold tenancy
that is signed before April 6th 2007, the
tenancy deposit scheme will not apply.
It is only those assured shorthold ten-
ancies that are signed after this date
that will be part of the scheme.
This scheme is a massive change to
the way that landlords used to conduct
their business in the past. The scheme
may be able to have a massive impact
on students as tenants, however this
will mean nothing if students are not
aware of the scheme so I would ask an-
yone reading this to pass the word on
or show people this article if you feel
your landlord is not protecting your
deposit.
Please contact the IAC for further
advice by emailing Nigel Cooke
on advice@imperial.ac.uk
Taking your landlord to court can be quite daunting
An inventory can stop your landlord from screwing you over
Challenge the Sabbs
Challenge the Sabbs
Round 2 Round 2 Round 2 Round 2 Round 2 Round 2 Round 2 Round 2 Round 2 Round 2
Round 2 Round 2 Round 2 Round 2 Round 2 Round 2 Round 2 Round 2 Round 2 Round 2
Round 2 is coming: Jousting on bicycles.
Sabbs vs. RAG. Dalby Court, Tuesday at 12pm.
It’s time for revenge.
Inspirational.

