The French may be on strike, but mili-
tia across the world don’t have unions.
So while France stands still, the politi-
cal clock ticks on.
Fickle French Workers
Transport and energy unions took a
day off work on Wednesday in pro-
test of President Sarkozy’s planned
reform of the pension system. Indus-
tries deemed ‘dangerous’ and ‘hard’
after World War II such as work in
coal plants and the metro system
were awarded ‘special pensions’. The
government today estimates its cost
to be an extra 500m Euros pa. The
strike will cripple much of the coun-
politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
8 felix Friday 16 November 2007
Politics
Politics Editor – Li-Teck Lau
Myanmar – update on a traversty
The world fails to act against a repressive military regime whilst its people protest for change
This year protests by monks in Burma
put the international spotlight on this
Southeast Asian country. The last time
action like this occurred was in 1988
and with terrible results; over 3,000
people were killed. Well since the
spotlight is on, let’s examine this na-
tion with a confused name, dictatorial
military rulers and a people mired in
poverty.
I guess we should start with the pro-
tests. At the height of the unrest, be-
tween 50,000 and 100,000 people were
marching in the streets of Rangoon –
the capital of Burma. A quick look at
the numbers should highlight an im-
portant fact. While 1 million protested
in the UK against the Iraq war, only a
tenth protested in Burma for freedom.
The reason is that as a poor, rural so-
ciety it is difficult to mobilise large
groups of people but more importantly
many people fear a response similar to
the bloody crackdown in 1988. What
started these protests as in 1988 was
not discontent at dictatorial rule – of
course this helps – but primarily eco-
nomic hardship. The government in-
creased the price of fuels, resulting
in a knock on increase in the price of
other goods such as food and public
transport. The people drew confidence
from the participation of monks, who
hold a revered position within Bur-
mese society. Fortunately the govern-
ment response was not as bloody as in
1988 but there have been thousands of
arrests and although there are no exact
figures the death toll is thought to be
much higher than the military’s figure
of 9.
The Western international commu-
nity was quick to condemn the Bur-
mese government and call for democ-
racy in Burma however there is little
evidence that they have any effect in
this isolated state. Burma has chosen
to expel the UN’s top diplomat and
western sanctions continue to have no
effect on a country who has trade links
primarily with Russia, China, India
and Thailand. Burma is a country rich
in natural resources such as timber and
gas, and the growing economies of East
Asia are more interested in strong eco-
nomic ties than the spread of democ-
racy. Russia in fact plans to sell a nu-
clear reactor to Burma. U.S. sanctions
continue to be ineffective because of
the trade with Asian countries and
have simply resulted in a lack of lever-
age over Burma. The only hope for in-
ternational pressure is through China,
Myanmar is “essentially a client state
of China,” says Mathea Falco, chair of
the 2003 CFR Independent Task Force
on Myanmar. But with President Hu of
China recently stating that economic
development is the primary aim of the
Chinese government, it is unlikely that
international pressure on the military
junta will have any effect.
After gaining independence from the
British Empire in 1948 Burma was a
parliamentary democracy. There was
ethnic strife from the start; Burma has
around 136 different ethnic groups.
Democracy survived until 1962 when
General Ne Win held power until
1988. Throughout this period, there
were no free elections, and freedom
of expression and association were
almost entirely denied. With the 1988
protests General Ne Win resigned and
the military junta took over proper.
Without being too vague, things have
continued much the same as they have
from 1962 to this day. During the 1988
protests, Aung San Suu Kyi rose to
prominence as the leader of the main
opposition party, the National League
for Democracy (NLD). When the mili-
tary junta held elections in 1990 she
gained 82 percent of the vote. However
the military ignored the results of the
elections and tightened their grip on
power. It was the military junta that
changed the name from Burma to My-
anmar – something that the U.S. and
U.K. do not recognize.
90 percent of the Burmese popula-
tiom are actively practicing Buddhists.
As I mentioned early the most likely
cause of the protests is economic. The
Burmese people are frustrated that the
military junta has failed to provide ba-
sic services. While it spends 40 percent
of it’s budget on the military less than
0.5 percent of GDP goes into educa-
tion and, and despite being one of the
most HIV-infected Asian countries, it
spends only 0.17 percent of GDP on
healthcare. Human rights abuses are
widespread and include the following
Forced labour. The Red Cross says
that there are about 90 prison and la-
bour camps in the country.
Sexual violence. The military’s use of
sexual violence has increased dramati-
cally. Refugees International says that
rape is systemically used against ethnic
communities.
Child Soldiers. Burma has the largest
number of child soldiers (under the age
of 18). Human Rights Watch said that
there were about 70,000 child soldiers
in 2002, most of them forcibly recruit-
ed.
Monks have taken to the streets in protest of the Military junta which has run the country into economic ruin
Kadhim Shubber
Kadhim Shubber
In Myanmar, there is a monastery in
every village and even those who are
not career monks have probably spent
a short time in their lives in a Monas-
tery. There are around 500,000 monks
in Burma and they are completely re-
liant on the handouts of the people.
Donating to a monk earns you spiritual
credit and so the refusal of a monk to
accept a handout is essentially denying
you spiritual advancement. Therefore
the decision of the monks to refuse
all handouts from the military was
extremely powerful – remember the
military is also devoutly Buddhist. The
monks have a history of political activ-
ism stretching back to the 19th century
monarchy of Burma. They then acted
as intermediaries between monarchy
and public and in the last 100 years
they have been at the forefront of pro-
test against unpopular authorities such
as the British and the military junta.
However, it is always good to re-
member that no dictatorship survives
without the consent of a significant
proportion of the population.
The political week summarised very quickly
try’s transport system on the day that
Eurostar trains began running from
London’s refurbished St Pancras Sta-
tion. The substantial engineering
project will shave 20 minutes off the
average London to Paris journey time.
Combating terrorism in the UK
Prime Minister Gordon Brown an-
nounced new security measures for
Britain’s potential key infrastructure
targets including airports, railway sta-
tions and hospitals against physical
terrorist attack. It comes months after
a Jeep ploughed into Glasgow Airport,
causing a large fireball. Brown has also
allocated £400m for combating Islam-
ist propaganda in states such as Paki-
stan, where there are fears of greater
radicalisation.
Bomb blast outside Philippine
Congress
A bomb exploded outside the Con-
gress building in Manila, capital of the
Philippines, on Tuesday killing 3 in-
cluding Wahab Akbar, who is thought
to have been the target. The member
of the House of Representatives “was
getting threats from many groups” ac-
cording to police chief Geary Barias.
Akbar, a Muslim and prominent sup-
porter of the peace process in the
predominately Christian country, has
been accused of arranging the behead-
ing of 10 marines by Islamic Separatist
movement Abu Sayyaf. President Glo-
ria Arroyo promised to crack down on
the organisation also believed to be
behind the bombing of a ferry in 2004
which killed over 100.
Teenagers and credit cards
US President George Bush ridiculed
Congress for “acting like a teenager
with a credit card” before vetoing
a spending bill which apportioned
US$10b more than the White House
approved of for education, labour and
health. The Democrats, who won the
house at the last mid term elections,
highlight the comparison with the
large increase in the military budget
Li-Teck Lau
Politics Editor
due to conflicts in Iraq and Afghani-
stan, and threatens only to accept the
US$50b hike on condition of Ameri-
can withdrawal by December 2008.
A concern for NATO
In an embarrassment to the US navy, a
Chinese type 039 submarine surfaced
undetected within torpedo range of
the USS Kitty Hawk, an aircraft car-
rier, during exercises near Taiwan.
The diesel-electric powered subma-
rine is extremely quiet, and managed
to manoeuvre between the substan-
tial fleet arranged to safeguard the
aircraft carrier. Chinese military
strategists are keen to build up naval
strength to counterbalance US domi-
nance of the Pacific and what it sees as
its backyard.
The USS Kitty Hawk on training
Bush in trouble over budget
Tightened security at airports
Manila sees separatist activity
Transport workers go on strike

