politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
9
Friday 16 November 2007 felix
Politics
Segregation often starts in Britain’s schools
I
t’s fair to say that the politics
section has been pretty much
devoid of national stories. We’ve
had a look at the situation in
Iran, Pakistan and Russia and
found that things aren’t fantastic. But
what’s been going on in the UK this last
month? Now that we’re back I think it’s
time to cast an eye over, what I believe
to be, the most important topic in 21st
century Britain. I’m talking about mul-
ticulturalism, what does it mean, is it
good or bad and what’s the future of
multiculturalism as we move further
into this new century?
Before we investigate the issue of
multiculturalism, we must first be sure
about what we’re talking about. The
best way of defining this word is to use
it as an adjective; a multicultural state
is one in which people from different
cultural backgrounds live together
and maintain a healthy dialogue which
averts tension. It is a state where peo-
ple do not live in isolated communities
and they share common ground for
instance language. I should perhaps be
more precise; I have defined here what
multiculturalism is when it works,
when it plays a positive role in soci-
ety. On the other hand I might look at
multiculturalism when it is damaging.
Here we have a society where people
from different cultural backgrounds
live in isolated communities. There
is mistrust that is fuelled by racism
and suspicions of racism, a perceived
theft of national identity and language
barriers.
Now that we’ve identified what we
are talking about, suddenly the ques-
tion of whether multiculturalism is
good or bad is less relevant. It is obvi-
ous that it can be good or bad and a
more important question is what kind
of multiculturalism do we have today
in Britain? If we restrict our vision and
regard Imperial as a sort of multicul-
tural society then it is clear that it is
good multiculturalism. People from
different cultural backgrounds mix, as-
sociate and certainly do live together.
We benefit from meeting people from
different cultural backgrounds and
learning from them.
Now if we expand our vision, we do
not find the same to be the case when
looking at the UK in general. All over
the country communities are increas-
ingly divided by race and religion. But
this point isn’t exactly a revelation and
neither is it necessarily harmful to
society in general. In London 25% of
residents live in religiously segregated
areas according to a study by the Uni-
versity of East London.
“We found that a level of segrega-
tion actually seems to improve the lot
of people living in areas that are seg-
regated along religious self-identity
lines,” said the author, Professor Allan
Brimicombe.
In the short term then some groups
do in fact benefit from this segregation;
however the findings indicated Mus-
lims were more likely to be “trapped”
in deprived areas and less likely to
forge links with other groups living
around them.
Despite this report, in the long-term,
segregation contributes to the ill health
of society and as a result multicultural-
ism becomes a destructive force rath-
er than what it should be; a positive
force. Evidence of this segregation is all
around us; education and housing has
become intensely divided.
For example, In Blackburn, there are
many overwhelmingly white schools -
St Bede’s Roman Catholic High (96.3
per cent white). The segregation is
matched on the other side of the ra-
cial divide. At Beardwood High, 94.5
per cent of pupils are Asian. Only one
school in the borough reflects the eth-
nic breakdown of a community whose
population is 70.5 per cent white and
26.5 percent Asian. This lack of con-
tact between communities from the
beginning of a person’s life means
that division and discrimination is
the norm from an early age. Separate
communities are growing up along-
side each other with little or any com-
mon point of reference. This is only
one example of segregation, there are
many more particularly in housing
but what is important is that it is this
kind of de facto segregation – which
was and still is present in the U.S. with
regards to black people – that dooms
multiculturalism.
People of British origin fall into the
trap of xenophobia as a result of this
segregation, Parts of towns which 20
years ago had white residents now are
inhabited by persons with different
skin colour and culture, and this causes
resentment. There is a sense that their
national identity is under attack by for-
eigners who are not willing to embrace
English-speaking culture. Add to this
mixture the unique occurrence of in-
ternational terrorism in the 21st cen-
tury then it hard to see the positives of
multiculturalism.
If we turn this around then we find
pretty much the same situation. Immi-
grants feel that they are coming into a
society that is hostile to them. There-
fore they are pushed and pulled into
segregated communities, which acts
onlytoincreasesuspicionandmistrust.
Through segregated schooling this
mindset is reinforced. In particular the
Muslim community experiences this
as a result of the foreign policy of the
UK, the radicalization of disaffected
youths and the politicization of Islam.
Hostility towards the police and other
official institutions is always a signal
of societal ill-health and certainly this
is true of certain parts of the Muslim
community living in Britain today.
The question that inevitably leads
from this conclusion of the state of
multiculturalism in Britain today is
whose fault is it? How have we found
ourselves in this regretful situation?
There are two paths that lead to a di-
vided society, one is discrimination by
the dominant group within society and
the other is the lack of a unifying thread
connecting all those within society. By
discrimination I mean in this case, rac-
ism against ethnic minorities and a
lack of tolerance towards other faiths.
Certainly this exists in Britain today.
Islamophobia is disguised as concern
for national security and the battle
against ‘political correctness’ often de-
scends into Daily Mail style intolerance
in the name of ‘common sense’.
However this is not the reason why
British society is increasingly divided.
It is only a reaction to it. The absence
of a unifying thread running through
society is in fact the real reason why we
are so separated. I should be clear what
I mean when I say a ‘unifying thread’.
I mean something that connects all of
us, something substantial. Language
is an obvious thread that connects us
but it is not strong enough to hold to-
gether a divided society that increas-
ingly speaks many different languages.
A strong British identity is notoriously
absent today; ask a person what it
means to be British they will most like-
ly reply with an apathetic grunt.
Kadhim Shubber comments on multicultural Britain; a cohesive society or just segregation?
Immigration and multiculturalism
Immigrants to this country of-
ten come from proud cultural back-
grounds, how can we ask them to en-
gage and integrate into a culture whose
greatest achievements are Harry Potter
and chips? There’s a reason why many
immigrants consider being British as a
secondary identity and it’s because of
this one question, what am I linking
myself with when I say I’m British? Is
it a nation that is proud of its history
or one that regularly puts the sensi-
bilities of other cultures in front of it’s
long-standing traditions, am I part of
a prestigious club or a country where
the question “What do you do if you
spill someone’s pint in a pub” appears
on the citizenship test; unfortunately
the answer to both these questions are
the latter.
We have over-accommodated other
cultures at the expense of our own
and the result has not been a society
where lots of different peoples live in
harmony. Instead we live in a divided
country, where different cultures live
in isolation. This isolation will only
grow worse generation by genera-
tion. We must act now and encourage
dialogue between communities. We
must act to desegregate schooling and
fight discrimination within national
institutions.
We must fight the poverty that traps
certain ethnic and religious groups at
the bottom of society and most im-
portantly we must lead by example
and show other cultures that we are
proud of our heritage, our history and
our traditions. Only then will we work
towards a unified society where people
of all cultures and ethnic backgrounds
will say with pride ‘I am British’.
The Nottinghill Carnival celebrates the diversity of culture in the UK
The Union Jack has long been the symbol of Britishness
“At Beardwood
High, 94.5
percent of pupils
are Asian”

