NEWS
FELIX
10
News Editors: Matt Colvin
Alex Karapetian
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 10 december 2010
In brief
Lord Robert Winston lights the
Menorah with Chabad
Around 50 students and staff gathered on the
Queen’s Lawn Terrace of Imperial College’s South
Kensington campus to light the Menorah with Profes-
sor Lord Robert Winston.
Lord Winston had rushed straight from a vote in
the House of Lords to light the Menorah. He spoke
about the significance of Chanukah and mentioned
an ancient Talmudic debate regarding the use of one
of the Menorah’s candles to light another.
The lighting had been organised by Chabad on
Campus in South Kensington’s director Rabbi Mendy
Loewenthal. The Chabad had also organised a Me-
norah lighting outside the Gloucester Road under-
ground station, which saw crowds of over 50 people
attend its Sunday lighting, and a Menorah in the
tunnel of the South Kensington underground station
which was featured last year in the Imperial College
staff newspaper “Reporter”.
“This is positive event” said Rabbi Mendy Loewen-
thal, director of Chabad of South Kensington “people
are happy to support the Menorah’s message of free-
dom for all people and we like to promote it”.
For more information on Chabad on Campus in
South Kensington please visit www.SKchabad.com.
Women in
Surgery
F
emale surgeons: a rare breed, and
the thought of whom still earns a
curl of the upper lip from the (all
too prevalent) misogynistic male medi-
cal students. Though medical school en-
trants comprise 55% female students,
to this day only 8% of consultant sur-
geons are female. The Women in Sur-
gery event, held by the ICSM Surgical
Society on Tuesday evening sought to
dispel some of the worries that plague
female surgical students.
Miss Alexandra Cope, General Sur-
geon in the Oxford deanery described
her career from student to registrar
surgeon and remembered her purchase
of a BMW Z3 as a real turning point in
her surgical training career – “suddenly
all the blokes viewed me differently, bi-
zarrely it made me one of them.”
The key speaker of the evening was
Emeritus Professor Averil Mansfield
CBE, the UK’s first female professor of
surgery. Described by the Guardian as
“the first lady of the theatre”, Professor
Mansfield held the position of Vice Pres-
ident of the Royal College of Surgeons
from 1998-2000, was last year’s Presi-
dent of the BMA and was the founder of
WIST (Women In Surgical Training).
She regards the discrepancy of female
surgeons as a “blip in history” – with a
huge interest in the history of medicine,
she described the historical depictions
of women performing surgery from An-
cient Greece and Mesopotamia to the
Middle Ages; the first main objection
and challenge that women faced in sur-
gery was Henry VIII’s flat refusal to allow
women to be surgeons, “no carpenter,
smith, weaver or woman shall ever prac-
tice surgery.” From this point onwards,
women battled to be allowed to perform
surgery. Only in 1910 did the Royal Col-
lege of Surgeons change their entrance
criteria, finally allowing women to take
the MRCS exams; in 1911 the first wom-
an was admitted – the centenary of this
event is to be celebrated next year.
Both Miss Cope and Prof Mansfield
agreed that work ought to be fulfilling,
providing either men or women with
something that they enjoy. Surgery is not
simply a career choice, but something
that both find a hugely important part of
their lives. Miss Cope urged female medi-
cal students not to apologise for enjoy-
ing work – truly enjoying your career only
enhances the experience of life.
Saskia Verhagen
Explosion risk rumoured to be cause
of spray-fabric lab closure
Need a job?
In March 2011, the Office of National Statistics will
be carrying out a national census of the population
living in England and Wales. As a result they are tar-
geting students for an estimated 35,000 jobs across
England and Wales. This includes 9,000 jobs in the
East and South East of England as well as an addi-
tional 6,000 jobs in London. The census, which cur-
rently occurs every ten years, will create a range of
temporary jobs including census coordinators, cen-
sus collectors and special enumerators. Hourly wag-
es range from £7.41 to £10.42 for census collector
for example. Only UK Nationals, Commonwealth citi-
zens, Nationals of the European Economic Area and
Swiss or Turkish nationals are eligible. Go to census-
jobs.co.uk for more information.
An explosion risk is rumoured to be the cause
of Prof Paul Luckham’s Chemical Engineer-
ing laboratory closure in October. The labo-
ratory was being used to test an innovative
“spray-on-clothing” developed in conjunction
with Dr Manel Torres. Scientists think the fab-
ric, created through careful use of an aerosol,
could have explosive applications not only in
high fashion but in medicine and industry. The
spray contains short fibres that are mixed with
polymers and into a solvent, allowing it to be
sprayed from a can. The texture of the fabric
can be varied by using wool, linen or acrylic
fibres. The fabric, which dries when it meets
the skin, is very cold when it is sprayed on, a
limitation that may frustrate hopes for spray-on
underpants.
A spokesperson for Imperial stated at the
time that “On Monday 11 October 2010, the
College’s Safety Director carried out a rou-
tine inspection of lab 433 in the Department of
Chemical Engineering and Chemical Technol-
ogy. During the inspection, the Safety Director
found that a fume cupboard in the lab needed
cleaning, and that the regulator on a gas cylin-
der needed replacing. As part of the College’s
health and safety protocol, the laboratory was
closed to enable staff to carry out repairs.”
However, an anonymous source has in-
formed Felix that the spray contains a highly
flammable substance called dimethylether. It
is rumoured that the faulty fume cupboards
resulted in a build-up of highly flammable va-
pours in the laboratory, resulting in a signifi-
cant explosion risk.
Felix obtained a test can of the spray used for
the “Science in Style Fashion Show” that took
place in the Business School earlier in Septem-
ber. The can is labelled as “Spray for Testing
Charles Betts
1st Edition”. A warning on the can states that
the contents are “extremely flammable” and “a
source of ignition”. When questioned on the
matter, Prof Luckham declined to comment
and advised Felix to contact the Imperial Press
Office. The Press Office stated that their origi-
nal statement remains unchanged, and would
neither confirm nor deny whether there was an
explosion risk in the laboratory.
Is it just me, or does the mottled paint thing look absolutely terrible?
Caroline Prew/Imperial College London
Lord Winston lighting the Menorah with Chabad
South Ken director, Rabbi Mendy Loewenthal

