SCIENCE
FELIX
12
Science Editors: James Goldsack
Katya-yani Vyas
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Einstein: His Life and Universe
by Walter Isaacson
And a few suggestions...
Schrödinger’s lolcat
The celebrated biographer Isaacson examines the
remarkable life of “science’s preeminent poster
boy” in this lucid account. Einstein’s dislike of his
teachers’ penchant for rote learning was a reflection
of his love of individual and intellectual freedom,
championing the beliefs the author revisits as he
relates his subject’s life and work in the context of
world and political events, shaped by WWI and WWII
and their aftermath through the Cold War. Isaacson
presents Einstein’s research—his efforts to under-
stand space and time, resulting in four extraordinary
papers in 1905 that introduced the world to special
relativity, and his later work on unified field theory
— without equations and for the general reader.
Isaacson focuses more on Einstein the man: char-
ismatic and passionate, often careless about per-
sonal affairs; outspoken and unapologetic about his
belief that no one should have to give up personal
freedoms to support a state. Essentially, Isaacson
reminds us why Einstein (1879–1955) remains one
of the most celebrated figures of the 20th century.
Rojin Kiadeh
Festive science facts
One of the better aspects of Christmas is the
food. A juicy roast is a must, and the process of
roasting sets off many chemical reactions that
few other methods can match.
Whatever meat you choose, it is the muscle
tissue that you will be dying to tuck into. Mus-
cle tissue normally consists of around 75% wa-
ter, 20% protein, and 5% fat and carbohydrates.
In raw meat, the proteins are coiled and rela-
tively strongly bonded together. The oven acts
as a thermodynamic reactor and once up to the
necessary temperature, specific to the proteins
in the meat, the bonds break and the proteins
unravel and denature. This process makes the
Christmas roast nice and tender.
But why does roasted meat taste so good?
The answer is in one of the chemical reactions
that takes place: the Maillard reaction. Discov-
ered in 1912 by French chemist Louis Camille
Maillard, this reaction takes place when car-
bohydrates, specifically sugar molecules, are
heated, at roasting temperatures, with amino
acids.
Many different compounds are formed as
the carbonyl group of the sugar reacts with
the amino group of the amino acid to form N-
glycosylamine. These undergo Amadori rear-
rangement, an important organic isomerisation
reaction that creates compounds with the same
molecular formula but different structures,
producing ketosamines. It is this group of mol-
ecules that not only produces the rich and deli-
cious flavours we associate with roasted meat,
but also the melanoidins which give the roast
that golden brown colouring.
ROASTS:
The overindulgence at Christmas may damage
your health in a rather surprising way. Your
genes may be adversely affected by some of
the foods traditionally eaten during the festive
season.
Dr David Topping of CSIRO, Australia’s
national science agency, warns that over con-
sumption of certain nutrients can affect your
DNA. “There is a school of thought which says
that over nutrition leads to the production of
molecular oxygen species that can lead to dam-
age of the DNA,” he says.
Not only are there general dangers with any
over consumption, but the traditional bird
of choice, the turkey, seems to make matters
worse. This inconspicuous meat is high in di-
etary protein. “We’ve shown that increasing the
amount of protein will increase genetic dam-
age to cells that line the large bowel,” explains
Topping.
However, those of us who only like Christ-
mas for the opportunity to gorge ourselves
will be glad to hear that you can avoid this
form of DNA damage by eating a specific di-
etary polysaccharide: the humble potato. Dr
Topping says that starch that is not digested
The most important thing about Christmas is
the brilliant excuse to drink excessively. Sherry
and mulled wine are the standard beverages but
any alcoholic drink can lead to unwelcome side
effects.
The hangover, technically known as veisal-
gia from the Hungarian word for “after night of
too much fun you do not want to, and will not
be able to remember” (kveis) and the Greek for
“pain” (algia), is caused by the alcohol in the
blood blocking the secretion of the hormone
vasopressin from the pituitary gland.
When the hormone concentration in the
blood drops, the kidneys send water directly
to the bladder, acting as a diuretic and prevent-
ing the absorption of water. This diuretic effect
leads to dehydration, which causes problems
for the brain.
As blood flows through the brain, due to the
low concentration of water in the blood, wa-
ter is drawn out of the brain cells and shrinks
the brain, causing it to pull away from the skull
which ultimately causes the headache.
Roger Highfield, author of Can Reindeer Fly?,
suggests that, in order for Santa to deliver the
huge number of gifts in time, across the globe,
he would have to achieve such high speeds that
the forces on his body would be 17,500 times
greater than gravity on the surface of the Earth
and would crush him into a singularity.
However, Roger rightly points out that: “San-
ta is not dead. He delivers presents every year,
as reliably as Rudolf’s nose is red.”
But why is Rudolf’s nose red? Despite be-
ing able to withstand crushing forces, Santa has
been unable to cure the common cold.
Reindeer noses contain elaborate and highly
concentrated folded membranes which act as
heat exchangers. Cold air, when inhaled, is
rapidly warmed by the blood in the membranes
as it enters the body. The exhaled, warm air
is cooled before leaving by the same process.
This helps reindeers retain heat and minimise
moisture loss.
However, this moist respiratory system
makes a wonderful home for parasites and bac-
teria, including 20 known so far that are unique
to reindeer. Odd Halversen of the University of
Oslo has suggested in the journal Parasitology
Today that the “celebrated discolouration” of
Rudolph’s nose is probably due to a parasitic
or bacterial infection of his respiratory system.
EFFECTS ON GENES:
in the small intestine can produce protective
compounds in the gut that prevent the dam-
age.
HANGOVERS:
The traditional real pine tree is slowly being
replaced in homes up and down the country by
fake, plastic Christmas trees. However, there is
one good reason to appreciate the real thing.
Researchers have isolated a group of anti-
inflammatory compounds in the bark of the
Scotch pine, widely used as Christmas trees.
The scientists say that these compounds could
be developed into drugs to treat pain and ar-
thritis.
The leader of the research group, chemistry
professor Kalevi Pihlaja from the University of
Turku in Finland, explains: “The preliminary
study showed that highly purified preparations
CHRISTMAS TREES:
of pine bark extract have potent anti-inflamma-
tory effects. In the future, this may mean that
people with arthritis may ease their pain by
eating food supplements made from Christmas
trees.
The researchers found that the compound
extracted from the pines inhibits nitric oxide
production, an excess of which has been linked
to arthritis and circulatory problems, and also
inhibits prostaglandin production, linked to ar-
thritis and pain.
If you are suffering from pain or arthritis, it
is probably still not a good idea to chomp your
way through your tree.
REINDEERS AND
SANTA CLAUS:
Biology is useful for those “Merry Christmas, you’re adopted!” moments...
Friday 10 december 2010

