FELIX 13
SCIENCE
We are 7 billion
But how many could we be? You know, if we
really ‘went’ for it...
Our population has tripled within less
than one generation. The major reasons
are the crash in death rates as a conse-
quence of controlling infectious dis-
ease, higher life-expectancy and better
quality of life. We are projected to add
another 3 billion by 2050; that is more
than Europe, Africa, and both Americas
combined. It is not about people having
huge families, it is about one billion
teenagers reaching reproductive age.
If we keep this growth trend, human
inequality and suffering will only in-
crease, without mentioning the impact
on the environment. We are the most
intelligent species on the planet and we
have a moral obligation to care for it.
Approximately 2 people are born ev-
ery second, 200,000 every day, and 80
million every year. All need access to
limited resources such as food, shelter,
energy and water. Our history has been
to overcome such limitations which, in
other species, naturally balance out their
relative abundance.
Population growth is often an ignored
issue because it infringes on one of our
most personal choices. This neglect puts
our species at peril. The Earth has sup-
ported us so far; as we grew, we exploit-
ed its resources more effectively. Today,
we are reaching its limits. Indeed, hu-
man density is a factor in any environ-
mental issue. 1.3 billion people already
lack access to clean drinking water, we
have to double food production by the
end of the century, and oil demand is
predicted to rise by 40% within the next
two decades.
Rwanda’s population is growing at a
huge speed; it is predicted to double in
26 years. As 80% subsist on what they
can grow, experts believe the genocide
was strongly related to a too dense
population and competition for scarce
resources. Are we reaching our carrying
capacity? William Rees has applied this
ecological concept to man. He stresses
that it totally depends on lifestyle. He
has worked out the “productive bio-ca-
pacity” of the earth, measured as “global
hectares (gh)”. If we were to share this
productivity evenly, there would be
circa 2 gh per capita per year. But the
reality is very different: Africa uses just
above half of that share, the average In-
dian uses less than half, but Europe uses
4.55 gh with the UK on top averaging
5.33! The US use over 4 times their fair
share.
So, if all humans lived like the aver-
age Indian, the Earth could support 15
billion people, and up to 18 billion if we
consumed like the average Rwandan,
but only 2.5 billion with the UK living
standard and 1.5 billion with the Ameri-
can standards! Yet the picture may be
even darker, since these calculations as-
sume the availability of resource levels
that are thought not to be sustainable for
the near future.
We currently consume 1.5 ‘Earths’ in
terms of sustainable capacity. Even in
terms of waste degradation, the Earth
cannot keep up! A good example is Po-
land’s landfill mountains. People in de-
veloped countries need to give up a great
deal of their consumption to give the
ecological space for the needed growth
in the Third World.
For example, it takes as much as 8,000
litres of water to produce a hamburger
and 3,000 litres to produce a shirt – we
can choose a path with a smaller foot-
print. Evidently, we must also switch to
efficient and renewable technologies.
But how to legally restrict the number
of children a couple is allowed to have?
China introduced its successful One
Child policy in 1979, following de-
cades of famine. In 1977’s India how-
ever, Indira Gandhi introduced a “cri-
sis program”: the penalisation for any
crime was sterilisation. That year only,
8 million people were sterilised. Strong
revolts brought the government down.
This shows how easily perverted legal
restrictions may be.
But there are other ways: educated
women often choose to have fewer kids
as they marry later. In Kerala, India, 1.5
children per household is standard. Un-
surprisingly, the region has India’s high-
est literacy rates, and the average mar-
riage age is 28 in contrast with 18 across
the rest of India. On top of enhanced
education, contraception can perhaps
also be used as a powerful technology to
solve the population problem.
Victoria Bignet
Barley disease
sequenced
Research suggests genome
parasites help adaption
James Goldsack
Researchers from the beleaguered De-
partment of Life Sciences at Imperial
College have sequenced the genome
of a major fungal disease that affects
cereal crops including barley. This
breakthrough could advance our un-
derstanding of the evolution of plant
diseases. The research suggests that
parasites within the fungal genome help
the disease adapt and evade the plant’s
defences.
The findings could help develop new
agricultural techniques for protecting
cereal crops. Barley is central to the
brewing industry as well as being the
basis of many staple foods, so ensuring
the plants are disease-free is increas-
ingly important.
This research, let by Dr Pietro Spa-
nu, decoded the genome of Blumeria,
which causes powdery mildew. This af-
fects many vegetables and cereal crops
in northern Europe. Farmers use fungi-
cides, genetically resistant varieties and
crop rotation to prevent mildew epidem-
ics, but the fungi often evolve too rap-
idly for these to be effective. This can
occur because multiple parasites within
the genome, known as ‘transposons’,
help it to disguise itself and go unrec-
ognised by the plant’s defences. The
transposons confuse the host plant by
changing the target molecules that the
plant uses to detect the onset of disease.
The team discovered that Blumeria
has an unusually large number of trans-
posons. “It was a big surprise,” said Dr
Spanu, “as a genome normally tries to
keep its transposons under control. But
in these genomes, one of the controls
has been lifted. We think it might be
an adaptive advantage for them to have
these genomic parasites, as it allows the
pathogens to respond more rapidly to the
plant’s evolution and defeat the immune
system.”
“With this knowledge of the genome
we can now rapidly identify which
genes have mutated, and then can select
plant varieties that are more resistant,”
said Dr Spanu. “We’ll be able to develop
more efficient ways to monitor and un-
derstand the emergence of resistance,
and ultimately to design more effective
and durable control measures.”
Mildew pathogens are ‘obligate’ para-
sites, completely dependent on their
plant hosts for survival. This depen-
dence is why the pathogens have had to
devise a way to disguise themselves.
“We’ve now found this happening in
lots of fungi and fungal-like organisms
that are obligate pathogens,” said Dr
Spanu, adding that the costly genome
inflation could therefore be a trade-off
that makes these pathogens successful.
“Non-obligate pathogens are not so de-
pendent on their hosts, as they can live
elsewhere,” said Dr Spanu, “so they are
less dependent on rapid evolution.”
Did you know that Wally went on to help Osama Bin Laden escape capture in Afghanistan? I guess people change
Barley leads to beer. Beer leads to all that is good. I love you barley
Friday 10 december 2010

