“You might want to
think, for example,
if you really need to
cross so many roads
on your way into col-
lege. After all, if it’s
been a very long time
since anything last
happened...”
SCIENCE
FELIX
Friday 10 december 2010
14
Science Editors: James Goldsack
Katya-yani Vyas
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
It is commonly believed that our scaly predeces-
sors, the dinosaurs, were wiped out by an asteroid
storm. Well forget that, because recent analysis of
asteroids has thrown up some results which could
actually give tabloids a legitimate reason to think
we’re all going to die.
You may be thinking that death by asteroid is just
a bit ridiculous, but the threat is serious enough that
last year the US air force, for the first time, brought
together scientists, military officers and emergen-
cy-response officials to analyse its ability to cope,
should this scenario take place. There are already
plans in place by governments all over the world to
deal with different emergency situations, but being
hit by an asteroid is not one of them. On top of this
our warning systems are almost useless. In 2008
when a car sized asteroid exploded above Sudan,
astronomers received only 20 hours notice.
Fortunately, the prediction that the 20-million
tonne asteroid Apophis will possibly impact earth in
2029 has now been ruled out. That’s good news if
you’re already in your 80s or so, however for those
of us still alive in April 2036, there is a 1 in 45,000
chance of Apophis colliding with Earth. Now, being
the person who never paid any attention in statis-
tics, I wouldn’t know if that’s a particularly high
chance or not, but either way I’d rather not die by
asteroid.
Anyone directly exposed to an asteroid collision
would be burned and pulverised by a supersonic
shock wave, while the rest of the world would only
have to deal with tsunamis, global firestorms, ozone
holes and some seriously nasty acid rain, as well as
the possibility of living without electricity.
Our best option? Deflect it, but this would have
to be done years, not 20 hours, in advance. Then
again, we could try to nuke it, but that would only
break it into pieces, some of which would still be
large enough to create disasters, others destroying
our satellites.
I hate to admit to it, but maybe just this once we
should follow in the footsteps of America and start
considering our options seriously. After all, leaving
our survival in the hands of the USA is never a good
option, even at the best of times. Alice Yang
Mercury ‘turns’ some wetland birds homosexual. Sci-
entists in Florida and Sri Lanka studied the effect of
mercury in the birds’ diet to find out why the chemical
reduces breeding. It was previously known that mer-
cury contamination can affect animal development
but the researchers were surprised by their “strange”
results. The higher the dose of mercury given to the
birds, the more likely a male bird was to pair with
another male. “We knew mercury could depress their
testosterone levels,” explained Dr Peter Frederick,
leader of the study. “But we didn’t expect this.”
You won’t believe it...
In Brief
We could be next... Supervolcanoes
If, like me, your entire scientific knowl-
edge of this subject extends to the silly
BBC drama about supervolcanoes called
Supervolcano, you should be terrified at
the long overdue volcanic eruptions to
end all eruptions. A great deal was made
that Yellowstone’s last three eruptions
have taken place 2.1, 1.3 and 0.64 mil-
lion years ago – we’re all living on bor-
rowed time.
The problem is, volcanic eruptions are
hard to predict at the best of times. Just
because a particular volcano has erupted
after two ‘regular’ intervals it doesn’t
mean much statistically because there
are an awful lot of eruptions that don’t
show any pattern at all and two inter-
vals is little evidence to go on. Or if we
do believe them to be accurate, there is
still a margin of error of 140,000 years.
That’s longer than the entirety of human
history. In the last 60,000 years we’ve
had ice ages, mass extinctions and, yes,
supervolcanoes.
This is a long time for a margin of er-
ror. Yellowstone is only one volcano, but
the ‘average’ interval between eruptions
Are we distracted by spectacular hypothetical disasters
whilst ignoring the mundane ones occuring right now?
is 800,000 years (so we’re under-due).
Of course, that figure is equally mean-
ingless, and it’s quite possible that an
eruption will take place next year, or in
the next decade. The point is it’s hard to
worry about something you can’t predict
years in advance and is very unlikely.
Of course eventually a supervolcano
will erupt and those living then will have
a miserable time but there are many
things that can happen in that time, and
some of them (climate change, food cri-
sis, pandemic) are a lot more likely and
potentially a lot more dangerous than a
volcano.
One thing such scientific documen-
taries as “The Core” and “Megafault”
missed is there is very little that we can
do to prevent a volcanic eruption, even
if you know what’s coming. I’m certain
that careful, co-ordinated preparation
would go a long way in reducing the
devastating impacts, but until it comes to
pass maybe recycling more, doing some
light exercise, not taking antibiotics
when you have a cold and not drinking
too much are much better at lengthening
your chances of survival. And even if it
doesn’t improve your quality of life, it
certainly won’t make that eruption come
any quicker.
Focusing on something that may harm
you in thousands of years, though seri-
ous, is less important than many other
things that are much more dangerous.
You might want to think, for example, if
you really need to cross so many roads
on your way into college. After all, if it’s
been a very long time since anything last
happened...
Matthew Parker
Yellowstone National Park: It is believed that a supervolcano could erupt from beneath the U.S. national park and basically wreck
everything. Including Justin Bieber... Which is why we have to nuke Yellowstone. Protect the Bieber at all costs!!!
Read this article
online at
felixonline.co.uk

