BUSINESS
FELIX
Friday 10 DEcember 2010
18
Business Editors: Sina Atherian
Afonso Campos
business.felix@imperial.ac.uk
So, what is Islamic Finance, really?
Give me the basics.
To put it relatively simply, Islamic Fi-
nance is an alternative way of going
about financial dealings; these are con-
ducted in such a way that they comply
fully with the religious requirements of
Islam. It is generally fully governed by
and compliant with Sharia Law, the Is-
lamic Law derived from the Holy Ko-
ran as well as the Sunnah, the habits
and sayings of the Prophet Muhammed.
The overarching statements and rules
are implicit in these texts, but the intri-
cacies of how they apply to real world
situations tend to be decided based on
interpretation by panels of senior finan-
cial professionals and learned scholars
of Islam.
What is the main difference from con-
ventional finance?
It is a wildly different model that stems
mostly from a fundamental and theo-
logical difference in the view of eco-
nomics. In Islamic Finance, given its
religious groundings, the dominant idea
is that God as a creator is responsible
for all happenings, including economic
situations. This view is not subscribed
to by conventional banking and finance.
From this stems the chief idea that in Is-
lam, money is not viewed as a tangible
asset, but simply as a measure and store
of value, and as such, should not itself
exclusively generate more money. This
restricts ways in which business can be
done.
The most prominent difference is that
interest, known as “riba”, is not allowed.
This means that banks cannot charge
borrowers for interest on their loans and
customers cannot receive interest on
their deposits.
What else separates the two?
Islam does not allow an excess of uncer-
tainty and hence, does not allow gam-
bling either. As a result, it is forbidden
to speculate wildly in the financial mar-
kets with overly leveraged instruments
and complex derivatives. Big bets on
volatile products are therefore not desir-
able. An ethical investment policy also
applies. Islamic financial institutions
may not invest in or have dealings with
any business that violates the basic rules
of the religion or could be construed as
immoral. It is absolutely out of ques-
tion to invest in companies related to,
or directly involved in: pork products,
alcohol, pornography, arms and defense,
amongst others.
How then, are banks able to provide
services to customers?
In order to fund their operations as a
business, instead of charging interest,
banks accrue a fee that takes into account
all of its running costs. This includes
cost of human capital, technology and
infrastructure; the cost is then shared by
the banks’ customers in the form of said
fee. This means that an increase of the
customer base is usually translated into
a reduction of fees charged. Of note is
that the opposite, is clearly also true.
In order to reward customers for their
deposits, instead of offering interest-
bearing accounts, the bank engages in
investments and will share any profit (or
loss) with the customers. This sharing
agreement is absolutely crucial in Islam
and contrasts vigorously with the way
conventional banks tend to work, where
self-interest is often evident.
Can companies raise bonds, or cus-
tomers borrow money then?
Firms, sovereigns and governments can
raise a different kind of finance. This is
done in the form of Sukuks. These are
akin to bonds, except they do not for-
mally guarantee a return, even though
they are often backed by governments.
In a way they resemble the ownership
aspect of equities, except that they fol-
low a bond-like structured payout.
If a customer wanted to borrow mon-
ey for a car, a new TV or even a house,
they would engage in a form of credit
similar to leasing called “Murabaha”.
A focus on: Basics
of Islamic Finance
Afonso Campos interviews himself to provide you with
an introduction to the world of Sharia-compliant finance
Read this article
online at
felixonline.co.uk
Snippets
House prices down... again
A study by Halifax, the lender, has clearly shown that
the average house price has seen a 0.1% decline in
November. This adds to the overall trend in which
the housing market finds itself. The Land Registry
figures confirm this downward trend.
Experts believe that the continued decline arises
from a lack of available mortages and banks’ re-
luctance in handing them out to first-time buyers or
those with a lower initial deposit.
Bush era tax cuts extended
On Monday, the United States Congress and Presi-
dent Obama have reached an agreement that ex-
tends lower taxes for all earners, including the rich,
for an additional two years. These lower taxes are a
product of ex-President Bush’s administration.
An aide to Mr Obama has said that the president
was forced to do this in order to cut a deal with Re-
publicans to extend unemployment pay, a source
of much contention between the two parties. David
Axelrod said that the Democrats are “not going to
play Russian roulette with the lives of the American
people, with all the millions of people that are going
to lose their unemployment insurance right now with-
out this bill going forward”. That said, Mr Obama is
currently having to lobby members of his own party.
New Financial Worlds Conference
The Imperial College FInance Society will be play-
ing host to its first finance conference, which is not
unlike ones previously organised by students at the
London School of Economics or University College
London.
The Imperial conference has a focus on investment
banking activities, rather than private equity firms or
hedge funds, separating it nicely from the LSE one.
The Finance Society has taken the view that in real-
ity, buy-side firms do not recruit as many graduates.
As such, it says the conference is “geared towards
educating students and providing them with a great
platform to get a graduate job”.
Conference organisers have been able to secure
some outstanding speakers, including Michael Bren-
nan of Morgan Stanley, Global Head of Crude Oil,
Fuel Oil and Shipping Trading; David Long, Global
Head of Equities at J.P
. Morgan, David Simmonds,
the Global Head of Research and Strategy at RBS.
Worthy of note is that no other conference has gar-
nered the support of so many investment banking
institutions.
The event, to be held at the exquisite Bloomberg
Headquarters in February and is priced at a very rea-
sonable £24. Tickets are limited.
Apply online at: icfsconference.com/apply
Islamic Finance is now bigger than ever; and its growth seems to be accelerating

