FELIX Friday 10 DECEMBER 2010 19
BUSINESS
Books for intellectual City type sellouts
If you find yourself out of preparation for job interviews, free of coursework and
suitably bored, Matthew Allinson thinks you should read some books
In this instance, instead of customers
buying the goods directly, the bank
would purchase them on their behalf
and sell it back to the customer who
would then make regular payments
according to an agreed schedule that
would also include a fee.
How did Islamic Banks fare during
the financial crisis?
On average, they did not fare as badly
as their standard counterparts. This is
partly because of the limited scope of
products in which the banks can be in-
volved. Instruments like Collateralised
Debt Obligations (CDOs), which suf-
fered abysmally during the crisis, were
mostly absent from the balance sheets of
institutions abiding to Islamic financial
principles.
While they did not underperform as
severely, it must be noted that in eco-
nomic booms, there is also less scope
to take advantage of this trend. The re-
sponse to economic stimulus is notably
more tempered and tepid. The Interna-
tional Monetary Fund does suggest that
this view is somewhat simplistic and
that it does not reflect the fact that Is-
lamic Finance institutions do not have
a great ability to share risk given their
inability to engage in products that may
help spread it around more easily.
What does the future hold for Islamic
Finance?
While only 1% of the world’s financial
transactions are guided by Islamic prin-
ciples, this is growing fast at a rate of
15-20% a year. Interestingly, not only
Muslims are taking interest in this form
of finance. Many non-Muslims, espe-
cially in Malaysia, are finding that this
way of doing business fits in nicely with
their morals and ethics.As a result, many
global banks such as HSBC and Citi are
offering Sharia-compliant accounts for
anyone interested. It would not be sur-
prising to see this growth rate increase
significantly in the coming years as Is-
lamic Finance finds ways to mimic more
of the conventional offerings of banks.
T
he only function of eco-
nomic forecasting is to
make astrology look re-
spectable” said Ezra Solo-
mon. For more funny
lines from ivory tower economists, the
fantastic ‘Freakonomics’ and ‘Super-
freakonomics’ books by Steven Levitt
and Stephen Dubner (both £5.30 from
Amazon, £7,99 for kindle) show the
power of economics in real world situ-
ations. With chapter titles such as “Why
are Street Prostitutes like Department
Store Santas,” you can be sure it’s very
irreverent in tone. They’re written for a
general, wide audience and are delight-
ful introduction books to the field of
economics in general.
Another brilliant book for begin-
ners is ‘The Ascent of Money’ by Niall
Ferguson (£5.69) that came out to ac-
company an equally brilliant television
series of the same name. Ferguson is a
professor of history at Harvard, and his
book describes the history of money
from the ancient Middle East, through
to gold rushes, to the new world in the
late medieval ages, the mighty renais-
sance power houses of Italy, and right
up to the fascinating story of Long
Term Capital Management and then the
big bad Credit Crunch. Furthermore it
also offers beginners-guide level expla-
nations to bonds, shares and monetary
theory, and does so well enough to be
useful as a reference (I always forget
what bond yields are) The TV series is
easy to find online for either streaming
or downloading, and makes for brilliant
viewing.
‘Too Big to Fail’ (£8.49, £9.99 on
Islamic Banking institutions are becoming ever more prominent in the
West, serving the needs of Muslims and non-Muslims alike
“It is forbidden to
speculate wildly in
the financial markets
with overly leveraged
instruments”
K i n -
dle) is a
book of
War and
Peace pro-
p o r t i o n s ,
in fact if
you own a
Kindle, this is
probably the
time to use it.
Charting the e n t i r e
Credit Crunch beginning with the after-
math of the fire sale of Bear Stearns, it
tells the entire saga of Lehman Broth-
ers’ ungainly toppling over, Merrill
Lynch’s sale to Bank of America, the
near explosion of AIG and the inter-
national response from governments
and regulators, focusing mainly on the
New York Fed and the Treasury. Writ-
ten by the New York Times financial
columnist Andrew Ross Sorkin, the
foreword claims to have been written
off the back of over 500 hours of in-
terviews with over 200 people close to
the events, and it certainly feels like it.
Paced like any good thriller, this ex-
pansive novel of an historic account
really keeps you turning the pages,
although frequently back to the
front of the book where there is an 8
page list of characters. Personalities re-
ally shine through this story, although
as it’s about investment bankers who
managed to drive huge companies into
the ground, the personalities are usual-
ly those of total dickheads. The biggest
dick of all, Dick Fuld Jr, the CEO of
Lehman at the time of the bankruptcy
is especially good to laugh at as it all
comes crashing down. There is clearly
some artistic license used in
this book, especially in the
setting of the scene, but the
comprehensive lists of notes
and sources makes sure that it
doesn’t get too into the flight of
fiction. If that doesn’t convince
you, it even has some pictures,
including a photocopy of the ab-
solutely ridiculous cheque for $9
billion written by Mitsubishi UFJ
to Morgan Stanley. If they ever
make Credit Crunch: The Movie,
this book would be a good place to
start for the script.
Recently re-issued in light of the
Credit Crunch and following age of
austerity ‘When Money Dies’ (£6.88)
by Adam Fergusson originally pub-
lished in 1975, is an historic account
of the hyperinflation experienced in
Weimar Germany. If you’ve been read-
ing this article thinking for Christmas
present ideas, don’t be put off by the
grim subject, this book has a totally
sweet cover that makes it a cool present
anyway. Fergusson strikes the tone just
right in describing the sheer destruc-
tion wrought on the population without
over doing it and becoming hysterical,
as well as providing criticisms of the
politicians in charge at the time without
being too ideological. In a time when
we once again find countries with co-
lossal sovereign debts and widespread
angst and anger at government cuts,
this book serves as an excellent re-
minder why we have to turn the print-
ing presses off.

