HIGHLIGHTS
FELIX
Friday 10 december 2010
2
FELIX
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB.
Email: felix@imperial.ac.uk. Tel: 020 7594 8072. Fax: 020 7594 8065.
Printed by The Harmsworth Printing Ltd, Northcliffe House, Meadow
Road, Derby. Registered newspaper ISSN 1040-0711.
Copyright © Felix 2010.
Lolcat of teh week
MERRY CHRISTMAS
On campus
Carols by Candlelight
The Chaplaincy offer
a chance to reflect on
the term just past, as
well as mince pie and
drinks, at their annual
Carol Service at Holy
Trinity Church. It is com-
pletely free and people
of all backgrounds are
welcome. For further in-
formation email Andrew
Wilson at a.willson@im-
perial.ac.uk
Molecular medicine
The Regius Professor of Medicine Emeritus Sir David
Weatherall will speak at the Inaugural Hammersmith
Campus Christmas lecture on how past lessons on
molecular medicine will help future developments in
the field. A recipient of the prestigious Lasker Award
in 2010, Sir Weatherall is renowned globally for his
genetic research. Registration in advance. Con-
tact Amy Cock, a.cock@imperial.ac.uk, for further
information.
Commonwealth Building, WLT1
16 December 16:15 - 17:15
Holy Trinity Church
15 December 18:00-19:00
As we come to the end of the term, and
the start of the holidays (yes!), I feel the
need to thank the Felix team and the many
dedicated contributors who have made
Felix, in my opinion, a success. Week in and
week out they give up their invaluable free
time and as Editor, I know that the quality
of the paper (and the stability of my sanity)
is a testament to their talent. Thanks to you
too, reader, without you this paper would
be pointless. I hope that you have enjoyed
this term and that you will find the time to
contribute in the Spring. We always welcome
your articles, suggestions and of course,
criticisms.
Merry Christmas all.
Lunchtime concert
Imperial is privileged to receive the critically acclaimed
Tamsin Waley-Cohen at the Wolfson Education Centre
at Hammersmith. The Guardian has said she is a
performer of “fearless intensity”. Her performance,
using the 1721 ex-Fenyves Stradivarius violin, will
include works by Mozart and Ives. Open to all. Contact
Andrea Robins, a.robins@imperial.ac.uk, for info.
Wolfson Education Centre, LT1
14 December 13:00-13:45
Union Notice
Union Council
Although there are no specific papers being discussed
apart from the usual monthly Sabbatical reports, it is still
worth attending the Council meeting. Union President,
Alexander Kendall, will be discussing the outcome of
the Life Sciences restructuring student/staff meeting
that happened this past Wednesday in his report. This
a great opportunity to personally let the President know
exactly what you thought of it. It is also a chance to
directly speak to your Faculty representatives on Council
and make sure that at all times they are representing
your views in a democratic fashion.
1st Floor, Union Building
Monday 13 December 18:30
Editor-in-Chief Kadhim Shubber Deputy Editor Gilead Amit Copy Chief Lizzy Griffiths Assistant Editor Dan Wan News Editors Alex Karapetian Matt Colvin Layout/Design Editor
Veronika McQuadeova Features Editor Lizzie Crouch Sports Editors Jovan Nedic David Wilson Science Editors Katya-yani Vyas James Goldsack Business Editors Sina Ataherian
Afonso Campos Politics Editors Hassan Joudi James Lees Rory Fenton Rajat Jain Technology Editor Samuel Gibbs Comment Editor Anna Perman Alex Nowbar Arts Editor Rox
Middleton Music Editors Greg Power Christopher Walmsley Luke Turner Film Editors Matt Allinson Jade Hoffman Ed Knock Food Editor Dana Li Fashion Editor Saskia Verhagen
Games Editor Simon Worthington Online Editors Niharika Midha Dakshaa Rai Ravi Pall Chris Birkett International Editor Kenneth Lee Puzzles Captains Polly Bennett James
Hook Aman Nahar Photo Editor Thomas Welch Travel Editors Dylan Lowe Chris Richardson Copy Editors Alex Nowbar Hannah Thomas Kai Li Loh Ayyub Kamaludin Shruti Mishra
Sophie Lambrakis Sharanya Subbu Ritika Gupta Deepka Rana
No pervy Santa jokes or you’ll have to sit on his ‘knee’... Is that a pervy
Santa joke? Oh no I have to sit on his knee don’t I?
Editor

