POLITICS
FELIX
20
Politics Editors: Hassan Joudi, Rory Fenton
James Lees, Rajat Jain
politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
The world beyond
College walls
Edited by Kenneth Lee
Haiti
Palestinian leader Mahmoud Abbas says that the
Middle East peace talks are in crisis following Is-
rael’s refusal to stop building settlements on occu-
pied land. President Abbas’ comments come hours
after the United States formally suspended its de-
mand for a settlement freeze in the occupied West
Bank, admitting that its efforts have come to nothing.
A settlement ban was one of the conditions set by
the Palestinians for direct talks and Mr Abbas has
suspended direct talks in September following the
expiry of a settlement ban. Israeli and Palestinian ne-
gotiators are now due in Washington for direct talks
but it is not clear whether the Palestinians will attend.
Palestine
Protests erupted around the Haitian capital Tues-
day night after an election council announced a
runoff between a Ms Aligat, the former first lady,
and Mr Celestin who is allied with Haiti’s increas-
ingly unpopular Government. Protesters around
Port au Prince have threatened to set Haiti on fire
and called President
Preval a thief, after
pop star Mr Martelly
narrowly failed to gar-
ner enough votes to
enter the presiden-
tial run-off. The UN
has described the
voting irregularities as more serious than previously
thought and the opposition has demanded that the
results be annulled and a new vote be held. Haiti is
currently in the midst of a cholera epidemic and is
struggling to recover from the disastrous earthquake
in January last year.
Ivory Coast
Ivory Coast has been suspended from the Econom-
ic Community of West Africa, as African states join
the UN and Western states to call on President
Gbagbo to cede power, after Ivory Coast’s disputed
Presidential election. Opposition leader Ouattara
has been declared the winner of the presidential
election by the Election Commission but was over-
ruled by the Constitutional Court, which annulled
half a million votes in Mr Ouattara’s stronghold in
the north. The political impasse has heightened
fears that Ivory Coast could descend into unrest and
bloodshed, and comes after the Liberian President
warned its former rebel fighters not to get involved in
Ivory Coast’s internal conflict. Ivory Coast supplies a
major portion of the world’s cocoa and is still recov-
ering from a civil war which ended in 2002.
Friday 10 december 2010
This year will be the toughest year for the eu-
rozone ever. Since the financial crisis in 2008,
the US and Europe have suffered from a se-
rious recession. In fact, the PIIGS (Portugal,
Ireland, Italy, Greece and Spain), especially
Greece and Ireland, are now at the fiscal brink,
and they have called for a bailout from the EU
and the International Monetary Fund (IMF).
Now we, the Europeans, should consider
why they face debt woes and what the best so-
lution to this problem is. Essentially, the Eu-
ropean debt problem lies in the fatal defect of
the eurozone, that is, only the European Cen-
tral bank(ECB) can issue euros in that region.
In other words, each country which joined the
eurozone cannot print banknotes. Therefore, if
a nation in that area accumulates large govern-
mental debt by issuing governmental bonds,
the country cannnot discharge it by printing
money. Such a separation of fiscal policy with
financial policy is the fundamental problem
which overshadows the eurozone.
Unlike the eurozone, the UK can print mon-
ey and pay the debt whenever it wants to do.
George Irvin, a columnist of Guardian.co.uk,
says “Every schoolboy knows (or should
know) that government cannot “go broke” like
a private business. As long as Britain has its
own currency, it has the power to print money.”
Then some readers may worry about inflation
after quantitative easing, but basically inflation
means not only expansion of monetary base
but also an increase in income level, that, is a
recovery from recession.
The other major problem regarding the pres-
ent euro system is that some countries in the
eurozone cannot have the benefit of devalua-
Printing to pay debt
Tomokazu Miyamoto
This Tuesday, Imperial’s Political Philosophy
Society (PPS) hosted an event about the future
of Iraq, with a special focus on what might hap-
pen after the planned U.S. troop withdrawal by
the end of next year. Special guest speaker was
Professor Charles Tripp, Professor of Politics
at the School of Oriental and African Studies
(SOAS), bestselling author and one of the lead-
ing Iraq-experts in the UK.
According to Professor Tripp, although next
year might be marked by a military withdraw-
al of the U.S. from Iraq, the U.S. would very
likely still continue to remain highly involved
in Iraq’s various other sectors. He spent time
dealing with matters relating to each of the
three respective population groups in Iraq – the
Shiites, Sunnis and Kurds.
Attention was paid also to the main troubled
areas within the country, including Mosul and
Kirkuk in the north, and Najaf in the middle
part of Iraq. Professor Tripp referred to the
foreign influence amongst others. He empha-
sized that Iran is the only country which has
benefited from the situation in neighbouring
Iraq – with its former arch-enemy Saddam
Hussain removed from power and a Shiite-led
coalition now installed in the country’s gov-
ernment.
Interestingly, or even rather worryingly,
troubled oil-rich city of Kirkuk as ‘Iraq’s Jeru-
salem’. The majority of the city is comprised
of Kurds. The Kurds indeed regard it to be
demographically, geographically and histori-
cally part of Kurdistan.
Professor Tripp discussed various decisive
factors shaping up the future of the trouble-
stricken nation, which includes oil, Kurdish
federalism or even independence and Iranian
The US likely to remain in Iraq
Raz Jabary
tion. In general, a country increases its supply
of money by printing banknotes, the value of
them decreases, compared with that of other
countries. Such a devaluation makes the coun-
try competitive in terms of export, but unfortu-
nately the eurosystem doesn’t permit this.
In the 1990’s, Ireland’s current account bal-
ance was in surplus, but since the country
launched the euro currency in 1999, it has
been in deficit. In particular, during the year of
the US financial crisis, the figure worsened to
-5.5% of GDP. The country lost the advantage
of exchange rate in terms of export because it
joined the euro zone.
The same holds true for other eurozone na-
tions. Prof. Paul Krugman, the Nobel econom-
ics prize winner in 2008, says “If Spain still had
its old currency, the peseta, it could remedy that
problem quickly through devaluation — by,
say, reducing the value of a peseta by 20 percent
against other European currencies.” If Spain re-
adopted the peseta, it could expand its monetary
base to the extent that it wants to, which would
lead to a recovery of export. Iceland, whose
banks went bankrupt in 2008, has a little better
economic situation than Ireland does.
Even though the change of GDP in Iceland
is slightly worse than that of Ireland, the em-
ployment of the former is better. Unlike Ire-
land, Iceland decided to let foreign lenders to
its runaway banks pay bad private debts, rather
than putting its own taxpayers on the line to
guarantee the debts.
As the IMF notes approvingly, “private sec-
tor bankruptcies have led to a marked decline
in external debt.” In addition, Iceland has also
benefited from the fact that it still has its own
currency; devaluation of Iceland krona, which
has made the nation’s exports more competi-
tive, has been an important factor in limiting
the depth of Iceland’s slump.
Even though George Osborne, the chancellor
of the exchequer, claims that Britain is close
to bankruptcy, UK’s debt problem is different
from that of PIIGS, and UK citizens need not
worry about the nation’s deficit.
“Iran is the only country
which has benefitted”
Professor Tripp phrased the term ‘civil war’
when referring to the time of intense fighting
between Iraq’s Sunni and Shiite populations a
few years ago.
Finally, on top of the academic views with
which he reflected upon the main aspects of
Iraq’s probabilistic future, Professor Tripp
briefly reflected back upon his meeting with
former Prime Minister Tony Blair in Novem-
ber 2002, a few months before the start of the
Iraq war.
During that meeting, Professor Tripp had em-
phasized to the Prime Minister a possibly un-
welcoming outcome on the ground in Iraq. ‘But
he seemed to take no notice of what I or my col-
leagues had to say’, Professor Tripp remarked.
During the Q&A session following the lec-
ture, Professor Tripp interestingly remarked
about the Chilcot inquiry, in which the former
British Prime Minister once cancelled a book
signing in London because he had been ‘too
afraid to get arrested by civilian law enforce-
ment’.
Some borrowers can print their own money to pay their debts

