Theresa May has so far stood by the immigration cap
Speaking to the House of Commons on
23rd of November, the Home Secretary
Theresa May announced plans to cut
the number of non-EU immigrants by
a fifth from next year. Student visas are
amongst one the proposed targets for the
cut. In light of the impending visa restric-
tions, the future of international students
in UK seems increasingly uncertain.
It is easy to see how international stu-
dents are by far the easiest target. Given
the high unemployment rate, the govern-
ment promised to reduce the net inflow of
migrants to “tens of thousands” by year
2015 to protect British jobs. This means
that the current immigration figure has to
be halved in the span of less than 5 years.
Since the government cannot control the
movements of EU citizens or British
expatriates, the cut will mainly involve
narrowing the channel for immigrants
from outside the EU. Most of such immi-
grants belong to three major categories:
highly skilled labour, students and fam-
ily seeking to join their relatives in the
UK. Tough measures preventing family
reunions may attract the ire of settled
immigrants and are against the Human
Rights Act. Highly skilled workers pro-
vide valuable expertise to businesses,
whose powerful lobby groups ensure
that “intra-company transfers” are not
POLITICS
FELIX 21
Immigration cap
will hit international
students the hardest
Friday 10 december 2010
economy.
If the prospects of finding suitable
jobs are poor, earning an UK degree
may become a lot less attractive for the
prospective students. Overseas students
are shrewd consumers who vote both
with their cash and feet. As the demand
for higher education ballooned due to
rising household income in emerging
economies, education has evolved into
a fiercely competitive global industry. In
countries like Australia, higher educa-
tion spending by international students
contributes to a significant proportion of
their GDP.
While the UK attracts the second larg-
est number of overseas students now, it
may soon lose its position if visa per-
mits are drastically reduced. The globe-
trotting youngsters are spoilt for choice
when it comes to choosing an overseas
education. If they feel unwelcome in
Britain, they may simply move off to a
more student-friendly place like Canada
or Australia.
The political motivations for the im-
migration cap can hardly justify the
long term ramifications of restricting
the inflow of students. While the coali-
tion government tries its best to shore up
its promise to the electorate, it might be
well worthwhile to remember that these
students will be harder to coax back
once their sights are set elsewhere.
restricted. This leaves only the students,
to whom more that 50,000 entry permits
were issued in the first quarter of 2010,
open to drastic cuts.
International students have little po-
litical voice to speak of. Overseas stu-
dents have virtually no influence in a
country where public policies are influ-
enced heavily by poll results and opin-
ions of British public. While the recent
proposed tuition fees hike sparked street
protests, international students have qui-
etly resigned themselves to paying fees
more than double of that amount. When
the immigration cap on students comes
into force, these students are unlikely to
be found waving placards angrily at pol-
iticians either. This makes cutting stu-
dent visas a tempting option for a gov-
ernment hard pressed to show the public
that it is in control of immigration.
At a time when government funding
for higher education institutions is being
squeezed, universities across the board
may increasingly look to international
students for a steady income stream.
Furthermore, the majority of postgradu-
ate students in fields such as computer
science and biotechnology consists
of international students. As students
provide an important talent pool for
research and innovation, diminishing
their numbers will affect the long term
competitiveness of the UK’s knowledge
Britain’s political leaders are having
a rough December. As three wise men
steadily travel from the East to a barn
in Bethlehem with gifts of gold, myrrh,
and frankincense, it seems that we at
home have been left to cope with three
vain stooges that can only offer broken
pledges, little international presence,
and noticeable inexperience.
First, there’s David Cameron. He
comes across as the sort of snotty fun-
killing school prefect that commands
his peers to stop setting fire to some first
year’s testicles in the spirit of hearty
Etonian initiation ceremonies, only to
see the gang turn on him. And it seems
Barack Obama agrees. Last week, leaked
documents disclosed that the US Presi-
dent declared “What a lightweight!” fol-
lowing his first meeting with the PM and
paign, don’t forget that Nick Clegg de-
scribed the bid as “unbeatable” back in
August. A prediction that proved danger-
ously premature. He also pledged to not
raise tuition fees before the election and
has conceded that he had “not been able
to deliver the policy that we held in op-
position.” To be fair, at least he has man-
aged to achieve something that Labour
rule failed to do over a decade; politicise
the youth. Even if it is to aim fire extin-
guishers at him from Millbank Tower.
Yet his inexperience is shining through.
There is a reason big business doesn’t
back the Lib Dems. Remember when ev-
eryone “agreed with Nick”? Nowadays,
it is Nick that agrees with David.
But let us not forget Ed Miliband.
When Gordon Brown left the political
scene in May, having been a lame duck
for three years, Labour had the chance to
re-kindle the spirit of the early Blair era.
was distinctly unimpressed. Cameron’s
transparent attempts at brown-nosing
were also frowned upon by Obama.
Cameron’s international status was
further undermined when England
failed to secure the FIFA 2018 World
Cup. Was the PM out of his depth when
dealing with the crooked, two-timing
shifty executives of football’s governing
body? Three of FIFA’s executives are
suspected of taking bribes in an alleged
scandal involving around $100m of se-
cret payments. A fourth is said to be in-
volved in the corrupt sale of World Cup
tickets. Did Cameron not understand
that either you stay away from these un-
pleasant warts, and don’t go on a Sepp
Blatter schmoozing trip to Switzerland,
or you play by their rules? He was ama-
teurish; his faux charisma no match for
Machiavelli’s star pupil Blatter.
Regarding the FIFA World Cup cam-
Weakness plagues British politics, but not Top Gear
Charles Betts
Lingxi Huang
The leadership contest was largely be-
tween two brothers: David and Ed. Da-
vid read PPE at Corpus Christi, Oxford;
so did Ed. David got a First; Ed got a
2:1. David worked for Tony Blair, Ed for
Gordon Brown. David became Foreign
Secretary; little Ed had to be content
with Climate Change. It seemed the nat-
ural choice to go for the brighter, more
experienced candidate. But Ed won.
In the words of Russell Howard,
Labour had just elected themselves a
“melted Mr Bean.” He has been ridi-
culed for coining the slogan “Beyond
New Labour” and some claim Ed is not
“Ed is as ineffective
as a Facebook status
update”
moving fast enough to define himself
and the party’s direction. He has yet to
make key appointments, including di-
rector of communications. No single
figure appears to be dominating his me-
dia strategy, leading some to state that
he is missing chances to make a mark
with the public. Ed is as ineffective as
Facebook status updates. Is David’s ex-
perience missed?
There may be a solution to this plague
of callousness and ineptitude that is con-
suming British politics. Three other men
have headed to Bethlehem this winter to
film a TV Christmas special. Wise is not
a word that necessarily hits the mark,
but they are certainly more entertain-
ing, funny, and popular than Cameron,
Clegg, or Miliband. Wouldn’t it be nice
to see Clarkson, Hammond, and May go
head-to-head in Prime Minister’s Ques-
tions?

