unionpage
On Wednesday this week we saw a huge
wave of anger from students and staff for
the restructure of the Department of Life
Sciences and the redundancies that go
with it. Two sections are being deleted,
leading to 14 (15%) of the academic staff
being made redundant, plus a few more
early retirements. This will lead to a 25%
loss in teaching time across Biology and
Biochemistry Degrees as well as Masters
Courses. PhD students are also unsure
about their future here.
The Union arranged a meeting where the
Head of Department and Head of Faculty
could explain the restructure to students
and staff, many of whom believe they
Life Sciences Restructre -What we have been doing..
imperialcollegeunion.org
weren’t consulted properly. Over 400
people attended and I was moved by the
outpouring of support for the academics
being forced to leave, who are for most
students, the best teachers in the
department. We followed the meeting by
laying plants outside the Faculty Building;
it was a pleasure to see everyone from
my old lecturers to freshers there to put
down a plant or a bunch of flowers.
Now this protest against the restructure
will turn more serious. Do not worry if
you think that this is the end. The staff’s
union is questioning the very nature of
the flawed consultation and the reasons
behind the restructure. Students are
Alex Kendall
President
College want your Feedback
What is SOLE?
The Student Online Evaluation (SOLE)
survey is a survey designed by Imperial
to gather information from undergraduate
students on their lecture modules in
the term that has passed. It provides
vital information for students, staff and
the Union; this information allows us to
acknowledge courses which are well
run, and address issues which need to
be taken care of. SOLE is run once every
term.
What’s in it for me? (Students)
Mould your course - this is one of the few
chances you will get to give constructive,
anonymous feedback on your lecturers.
Feedback - your Department will be
providing you with the result outcomes,
so you can see how your voice has made
a difference!
Departmental Society - the Departments
with the three highest participation rates
receive cash prizes for their Departmental
Society. Most Departments also offer
individual incentive prizes for filling out
SOLE Survey Open!
SOLE; speak to your student reps to find
out what these are.
What’s in it for them? (Staff)
• Departmental Feedback
your Departments are keen to
hear what you have to say. SOLE
results have considerably affected
undergraduate course structures in the
past.
• Staff Feedback
every lecturer receives the comments
given on them, and is respond to these.
• Promotion
when lecturers are considered for
promotion, their SOLE results play a key
role.
Sounds great! But where can I fill out
SOLE...
SOLE is running NOW and will close at
midnight on the 19th December. It only
takes a couple of minutes to fill out and
can be found at www.imperial.ac.uk/
newsole..
spreading the word amongst the press
and to everyone else at Imperial. We
are taking this to the highest levels of
College. Our message is threefold; the
reasons behind this restructure are flawed
and have been proved false, there will be
a huge loss to teaching and breadth in
Biology and Biochemistry, and the way
this has been handled, as you will see in
the rest of this edition of felix, is inhuman.
Students and staff stand together.
On Wednesday 15 at 15:00 there will be
a meeting of College Senate, the highest
educational body at the University. We
will be taking a paper to them asking for
action. Join us outside.
Vagina MonologuesAuditions
Part of SHAG Week part 2.
The Vagina Monologues by Eve Ensler was written from
hundreds of interviews with real women about their lives:
their experiences, their relationships and their sexuality.
It has become a modern classic and the cornerstone of
a global movement to end domestic violence and sexual
abuse. The shows will be part of next year’s SHAG
Week and all ticket profits will go to support a number
of charities with these aims. We’re looking for any and
all women at Imperial to audition and participate - you
don’t need to have any acting experience and there are lots of parts available. We are
also looking for students of both genders to get involved behind the scenes - email
dpwelfare@imperial.ac.uk if you’re interested.
Auditions are in Seminar Room 1 of the Union building on:
Saturday 11 December 14.00-17.00
Wednesday 15 December 14.00-17.00, 19.00-22.00
Thursday 16 December 19.00-22.00
Charlotte Ivison
Deputy President (Welfare)

