24
COM M ENT
felix
FRIDAY 10 decEMBER 2010
T
he Biology and Biochem-
istry Departments are cur-
rently undergoing a Re-
structure and in the next
few months a ‘Depart-
mental Teaching Review’ will follow.
This Restructure involves the removal
of the ‘Plants and Microbial Science’
and ‘Cell Biology and Genomics’ sec-
tions. These areas were chosen for re-
structure due to their ‘under-performing’
in research and the fact that they are ‘not
fitting in the new department structure’.
Replacing these two sections will be
one ‘Integrative Systems Biology’ sec-
tion. Teaching has not been taken into
account, purely the involvement in re-
search! 17 members of staff across the
Departments will be made redundant.
They include the Heads of each Depart-
ment alongside Senior Academic Tu-
tors and Admissions Tutors. With these
significant members of staff leaving the
Department, there will surely be a great
loss to the quality of teaching available.
On meeting with Professor Ian Owens
on Monday, he continually reassured
us that these changes will not affect the
courses available for final year students
but we failed to see how they would
compensate for the loss of such good
lecturers and course convenors. When
asked how it will affect PhD students,
they said only 10% of 200 students
would be affected and thus reallocated
to a new supervisor. Overall, there will
be a huge disruption placed on the De-
partment. Not only will Imperial’s repu-
tation be lowered but also student satis-
faction in these Departments will take
an even bigger hit.
Of course there is always room for im-
provement in any Department but what
justification is there for getting rid of
the best lecturers the Department has to
offer?
Their reasoning for this Restructure is
said to be; firstly, to resolve the financial
problem that Biology and Biochemistry
have been experiencing; and secondly,
to modernise the degrees by implement-
ing more research-based teaching. They
hope the restructure will bring improve-
ments such as more course choices;
smaller group teaching sessions; more
sessions in real research labs; integrated
quantitative teaching; and modernising
of the material.
With 15% of the teaching staff made
redundant, how can the Departments
possibly achieve these improvements
and maintain teaching excellence?
Many of those being made redundant
are the best lecturers, who are passion-
ate about teaching and genuinely care
for students. At such a prestigious uni-
versity, teaching should be placed first
and not second to research. Research is
very important at this establishment but
not at the cost of quality teaching.
If financial stability were such an is-
sue, would it not be more feasible to keep
the members of staff and open up new
Masters courses? Currently, the Mas-
ters courses in Biochemistry are very
limited. For example, a Masters in Bio-
technology, a branch of Biochemistry,
Pruning science
is not offered and many students would
take up a place if offered. Increasing the
range of Masters courses will bring in
a lot of money, but instead the Review
Panel feel the only solution is to make
significant lecturers redundant.
It is very clear that there will be merg-
ing between Biochemistry and Biology
courses to compensate for the loss of
course convenors. Currently, the con-
venors run courses according to the re-
search they produce, research that the
Review Panel deemed ‘unfit’. Under the
Restructure, newly appointed convenors
will be tailored according to the course
requirements. The experts in the areas
have been asked to leave and those with
lesser expertise will take over.
Increased tuition fees and lowered
teaching quality- is thiswhat Imperial
students should now look forward to and
come to accept?
Cutting teaching staff in Life Sciences is completely
incompatible with aims to improve teaching standards
There are so many things that are objec-
tionable about the redundancies in the Life
Sciences department that one hardly knows
where to begin. The staff being made redun-
dant have had their teaching achievements
ignored and their research talked down. Un-
dergraduates have been repeatedly assured
that their courses will not be impacted de-
spite the overwhelming evidence that the
quality of teaching will decrease and the
courses that they want to do will no longer
be available. Masters students have paid
for a service that they will not receive to
the standard that they expected when they
forked over their cash and finally PhD stu-
dents have been thrown into chaos with little
or no information given to them. Even the
academics who have survived feel insecure;
if this is how the department treats the
aforementioned groups, why should any of
the survivors be treated differently in future?
This aggressive focus on the Plant and Mi-
crobial Science (PMS) unit can be called un-
fair for any of a number of reasons. Most
prominent among these would have to be
the highly disruptive move from the Wye
campus which has taken place over the
past six years. But include an opaque use
of statistics and a questionable vision of the
future relevance of research areas and sud-
denly dissolving the PMS and Cell Biology
and Functional Genomics units becomes
indefensible.
But rather than attempting to inadequately
summarise the debate in this column, we
would like to recognise something intensely
positive blooming in this deeply saddening
time. It is often supposed that there is some
sort of barrier between the students and the
staff, and that neither is appreciated by the
other. But this week, the divide has been
crossed. Students new and old have come
out to express their appreciation for those
members of staff who dedicated their time
to ensuring that they got a top-quality educa-
tion, and whose careers are now at risk.
Maggie Dallman, the Head of the Faculty
of Natural Sciences, unwittingly gave us
an insight into the crux of the matter dur-
ing the public meeting held this week. She
suggested that if Imperial took money away
from accommodation and gym funding to in-
vest in teaching, then students would again
complain. But this is not the case. There is a
near pathological inability to recognise that
students do care about their teaching and
some staff do care about their students – al-
though perversely, these are the first to go.
FELIX
Mevani Jagodage
Have your say on
this article at
felixonline.co.uk
Both students and staff
deserve better than this
Che was not amused by cuts to plant sciences. And you should never, ever piss off a monkey...
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Royal College of
Science Union
Welfare Officer
C omment Editor: Anna Perman
“
“
y
ences. And you sho
”
Of course there is always room
for improvement but what
justification is there for getting
rid of the best lecturers the
Department has to offer?

