A
ll too often I am
confronted by pre-
tentious atheists
who are equally as
intolerable as their
religious fundamentalist counter-
parts: with The God Delusion as
their Bible in hand these obnox-
ious babbling idiots often think
they’re superior and fail to ac-
knowledge their own hypocrisy.
Said types of people are usually the first to complain at any other so-
called festive holiday as a marketing scam employed by those evil corpo-
rations to force you into consumption of cards and other tacky crap, but
make an exception for December 25th. Sure, the unity of the family and
exchange of gifts is all fine and dandy, but the same crude Valentine’s
Day logic can also apply here – shouldn’t such acts be spontaneous and
not confined to a single day on the calendar? Or are you otherwise too
unimaginative to conjure up something for yourself?
Yes, oh-so enlightened atheists, we’re aware that December 25th is
a date heinously stolen by those vandals to eliminate traces of a Ro-
man solar holiday. While the date may be of pagan origin and thus not
Christian, I’d like to remind you that you’re in fact not a pagan either: by
participating in this date hijacking you’re simply stooping to the level of
the thieves. Simply having an awareness of the pagan roots isn’t a reason
to celebrate, unless of course you have a soft spot for Roman sun gods.
Good old Dicky Dawkins, naturally, has a lot to say on the subject,
incessantly rambling that Atheism simply takes it “one god further”, and
that in a way all Christians are atheists because they reject notions of
Zeus, Thor and so on.
Equally we have to ask why atheists select only Christian holidays for
their repertoire: are festivities from other religions not also worthy pe-
riods of sharing the love within your family? Or perhaps it’s because of
our ‘culture’, whatever that means. It’s thanks to dim-witted disposable
answers like ‘culture’ that things ranging from the abuse of children to
evidence-based drugs policies get too easily overlooked.
Tied in neatly with ‘culture’ is this idea of tradition: we should cel-
ebrate Christmas because that is how it’s always been in this glorious
country. I don’t think that I really have to point out (or perhaps I do) that
this is in direct violation of the free-thinking fundamentals of secular-
ism. If we stuck with this attitude of conservatism in other walks of life
we’d be in an incredibly dreary society: such old traditions ought to be
tossed away if we’re really concerned about a forward-moving zeitgeist.
Go ahead and abandon it, stop giving them further reason to incorrectly
brand us a Christian nation.
26 felix
FRIDAY 10 December 2010
COMMENT
C omment Editor: Anna Perman
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
C
hristmas is tradition-
ally a time of celebra-
tion but it has recently
become quite a con-
troversial holiday. I
often hear people complaining about
us losing touch with its traditional
values and extolling us to “keep
Christ in Christmas”.
I don’t see much sense in this at-
titude. While this is a Christian holi-
day there is no reason why atheists or people from other religions can’t
get something out of it too. While it almost certainly has greater signifi-
cance and meaning for believers I don’t particularly think that you need
religion to take away this holiday’s message of joy and goodwill. This is
especially evident in how good Christmas is at bringing people together.
Gathering all your relatives around a single table can improve family
cohesion, whether you believe in the story of Jesus’ birth or not.
It seems strange that so many Christians object to others celebrating
this holiday when it is widely suspected that Christmas itself borrowed
much from ancient pagan celebrations. Early Christians managed to take
traditions that originated with beliefs that were completely alien to theirs
and still turn them into something meaningful. Non-Christians can do
the same today.
I always get very annoyed when people complain about things like
putting up decorations too early, and the commercialisation of Christ-
mas. I might not agree with these things but, since they don’t interfere
in the way I chose to celebrate I don’t see why I should make a fuss.
I think that the most important principle of our society is that people
should be free to do whatever they want as long as they don’t hurt
others.
Those who do speak out are also very often hypocritical. I doubt that
all those who are so vocal about the importance of religion in Christmas
spend the whole of the 25th December in prayer and contemplation in-
stead of partying with friends. They’ve accepted some secular aspects of
the holiday so I find it strange that they should dislike those who accept
a few more.
Such attitudes are doing far more harm than good. A few dissenters
won’t stop others celebrating this holiday as they best see fit. Instead,
these irrational arguments add unnecessary tension to this festive period
and take away from its peaceful message.
This was taken to extremes last year when a number of shops in Leeds
were threatened and vandalised after they started selling Christmas cards
in August.
Everybody would be happier if we just let each other be.
“Shouldn’t
kind acts be
spontaneous and
not confined to a
single day?”
Chris Richardson
“A few dissenters
won’t stop others
celebrating this
holiday as they
see fit”
If tube lines had a
Christmas party...
Maciej Matuszewski
You know that friend of yours who’s always
busy on weekends when you ask her to
come out? She recently left a relationship
that was just going round and round. Wel-
come to the Circle Line.
It takes this guy ages to get anywhere,
sometimes going nowhere at all and just
standing idly at the queue in the Post Of-
fice while everyone behind him just gets an-
noyed. To be honest he just wants to die
with dignity but his fucking doctors won’t
give up on him. It’s not your time just yet,
District Line.
But this guy’s the real alpha male: fast and
strong, and women literally throw them-
selves at him. Those who do get to bed
this stud will be disappointed, though: he’s
always coming in a couple of minutes. It’s
not all sunshine and roses for the Piccadil-
ly Line. The Central Line and the previous
customer are always trying to one-up each
other, which sometimes results in a bit of a
stare-off when they cross paths at Holborn.
This all leaves the Hammersmith and City
line rather disgruntled. How would you feel
if you were rendered obsolete by a cripple
and a geriatric?
Nonetheless, whizzing past one another and
spending all night at the depots together
they are all pretty close, and they often ar-
range get-togethers, often BYOB (Bring Your
Own Brakes) parties. This time they chose
to chill at Hammersmith where they all meet,
apart from the Central Line that is. He never
could make Fridays anyway, on account of
work the following day. So, many laughs
were had as the WD-40 flowed and sparks
flew, but something wasn’t right. District
was feeling unusually down today and left
early, soon after P Dilly who couldn’t stay up
all night like the others, leaving the girls by
themselves. That was soon interrupted by a
knock on the door: the boyfriend. H&C, who
lives with Circle, knew where this was head-
ing and promptly told him to get derailed but
Circle told her to shut up and invited him in.
H&C was having none of it and disappeared
into her room to drown her sorrows and the
sound of make-up sex.
The following morning...
“There are severe delays on the Piccadilly
Line due to the District Line falling under a
train earlier and minor delays to the Ham-
mersmith and City Line owing to about
three bottles of tequila the night before.
The District Line has finally been put out of
its misery and been replaced by a series of
rail replacement buses. There is no Central
Line service today due to excessive gloat-
ing. There is a good service running on all
other London Underground lines.”
Veli Akiner
Christmas is nearly upon us, and
Atheists and Christians alike can’t wait to
celebrate.The question is...
IS CHRISTMAS JUST FOR
CHRISTIANS?

