FELIX Friday 10 december 2010 3
Last but by no means least, FiveSix-
Eight and Metric, the Union’s new bar
and club, opened, following a mael-
strom of delays and setbacks: hidden as-
bestos, obstructing columns, you name
it. Finally, though, the club opened to a
triumphant first night where gratuitous
amounts of non-consensual dry-hump-
ing occured.
The Term in Brief
Been following Felix news this term? No? Where
have you been all this time? Labs? Ah ok Not to
worry, we’ve summarised all the major goings-on
to bring you up to speed. By Navid Nabijou
1. Death Sciences
(Ed – worst pun ever...)
At the end of term, we seem to be back
to where we started; the Life Sciences
restructure. There’s no need for a sum-
mary here, see Pages 4 – 9.
2. The Explosion that
Never Was
A spray-on-fabric lab in Chemical En-
gineering was closed temporarily on
health and safety grounds. Rumours are
now circulating that the closure is due to
the spray containing dangerous materi-
als, see Page 10.
3: Fair Effort, Could Do
Better
Imperial students slammed the univer-
sity’s assessment standards in the Na-
tional Student Survey. The Rector, Keith
O’Nions, made the issue a top priority.
A two-week deadline for marking and
returning work was introduced, and,
perhaps surprisingly, mostly adhered to.
4. Water, Water
Everywhere
A PhD student ballsed-up, causing a
massive flood in one of the Aero labs.
Turns out sellotape and laser cooling
supplies don’t mix well.
5. Dossers of the
World, Unite!
Lord Browne published his review
into university funding, recommend-
ing a complete removal of the cap on
undergraduate fees for home students,
as well as a restructure of the student
loans system. Much heckling ensued.
A few weeks later the Government be-
gan to reveal its response to the review.
Further heckling ensued. Whilst broadly
supporting the recommendations of the
Browne review, the Government reject-
ed the notion of unlimited fees, propos-
ing instead to treble the cap to £9,000.
In its spending review, the Government
unveiled swinging cuts to higher educa-
tion funding (though science spending
was relatively spared). Angry students
took to the streets and smashed up win-
dows (resulting in some great photos
for Felix). See picture (bottom left).
Protests and sit-ins materialised up and
down the country. On Thursday, the
Commons voted on raising the fee cap,
see Page 11.
6. Technology isn’t Steal-
ing Our Souls!
Professor Richard Thomas, of the De-
partment of Mathematics, made inno-
vative use of smart phones to keep his
students awake in lectures.
7. Blurred Judgement
Oliver Frantzen’s glasses got pinched. A
mad chase through Hyde Park followed.
Much hilarity ensued. The spectacle-
bereft Imperial student will certainly
go to extraordinary lengths to fit in. See
picture (bottom right).
8. Shutting the Door in
their Face and Shooting
Themselves in the Foot
Though science was spared the worst
of the cuts, the Government’s separate
plans to curb immigration could have
dire consequences for research groups.
Departments at Imperial could be facing
the very real prospect of having to turn
away exceptional candidates, simply
because they cannot obtain a visa. More
recently, the Government has suggested
it may relax the restrictions somewhat,
though how much help this will be re-
mains unclear.
9. More Dangerous than
Cycling in London?
Boris Korzh, Philip Lead- beater, Ku-
nal Masania, Andrew McLellan and
Jonathan Phillips embarked on an epic
voyage to the Himalayas, scaling pre-
viously unconquered peaks. They were
annoyingly nonchalant about the whole
adventure. See picture (top).
10. Too Much Willy?
Imperial definitely has a disproportion-
ate amount of schlong: Imran Khan,
Campaign for Science and Engineering
director and Imperial alumnus, pro-
claimed science’s dire need for diver-
sity. He pointed to the small number
of women in engineering and that less
than one in ten black African applicants
to Imperial were successful and warned
that the marketisation of higher educa-
tion would exacerbate these problems.
11. Justice for some
Israeli newspaper The Jerusalem Post
attacked Imperial Islamic Society over
the organisation of its “Justice Week”,
in particular criticising the choice of
some controversial speakers. Concerns
were raised over the event’s rather nar-
row, Islam-centred conception of “jus-
tice” but the Islamic Society hit back,
stating “Justice Week was inclusive and
balanced”. Much animosity ensued for a
very short period of time.
12. Slow and Steady
Wins the Race
These guys are pretty epic... or stupid. Mmm stupid makes me feel better about being a wimp... Yeah what idiots!
Does “I wish I was your boyfriend” work as a slogan? An artist’s impression of what a dude James Fletcher is

