A R T S
FELIX
Friday 10 december 2010
30
Arts Editor: Rox Middleton
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
If you read nothing else
this week...
Kadhim Shubber, Chief
Editor, spills the beans on his
favourite book of all time
You don’t have to be Felix Editor to tell the world
whick book you love, write it over christmas and
send 300-400 words to arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
From time to time, I fancy myself as a bit of a writer.
The hubris quickly passes as I flounder at the end
of the first paragraph but the desire still remains.
What desire you may ask (or more likely not)? It is
my burning ambition to write a novel that will have
the same effect on my hypothetical readers, that
On The Road had on me.
I first read it in the summer of 2009. It electrified
me. It blew my mind. It literally caused a change in
the way that I think, the way that I behave and in
my attitude to life in general. It wasn’t only the con-
tent of the story, to which I will return, it is the style
of writing that affected me so intensely. Jack Ker-
ouac writes with a fluidity and energy that quickly
reduces you to a trance-like state of frenzied read-
ing; each sentence is consumed with great haste
and growing hunger. That mastery of the ‘stream
of consciousness’ style, of which Truman Capote
short-sightedly dismissed as typing, not writing, is
what begins to slowly re-wire your brain. The great
speed by which Kerouac moves from thought to
thought, observation to observation, had a lasting
impact on me. Fickleness is one word for the result
but I prefer, as inevitably my ego would force me
to, carefree enthusiasm.
And that is before we have even mentioned the
story! The crux is that the narrator Sal Paradise
chases his beautiful band of Beat mystics across
the United States time and again, in search of jazz,
women, whiskey and “it”. The elusive “it” which
embodies those fleeting moments of joy and im-
mortality. They drive for hours and days across the
great American plains, picking up hitchhikers to
pay for the gas, always searching for something
new to light up their eyes and raise up their souls.
Ah see, now I’ve got completely over-excited
about the whole thing (well it is my favourite, after
all). Let me put the book in its proper context. Jack
Kerouac was a published author, but hardly ‘huge’,
living in New York in the 50s. He, and his friends
who included Neal Cassady, Allen Ginsberg and
William S. Burroughs, were the original ‘Beats’.
While he certainly had been thinking about the
story, much of it autobiographical, and preparing
it for a number of years, he eventually typed the
entire thing in only three weeks, working almost
non-stop with a continuous 120-foot roll of paper;
he believed that having to change the paper on
his typewriter would interrupt his natural flow of
thought.
The result of that arduous effort is quite simply,
a classic. It has its detractors, I find that women
are less enthusiastic about it than men, but in the
words of Bob Dylan: “[On the Road] changed my
life like it changed everyone else’s”. Amen.
by
Jack Kerouac
On The Road
Ballet
I
was fifteen when I first went to the
ballet. It was Onegin at the Royal
Opera House, a birthday present
from my mum to me and my brother.
I didn’t know what to expect when
I went, nor what the ballet
was actually about.
For me, the experience was
quite alien to anything I
had encountered before.
I had already gone to see
a few plays in the West
End and a musical, but the
ballet seemed to be neither and
somehow both, at the same time. For
those who have never seen a ballet be-
fore, the dancers ‘act’ through the cho-
reography, which in turn is set to music.
I left the opera house not knowing really
what had happened and unable to ap-
preciate it to any significant level.
So when a friend of mine re-
cently brought up the topic
of going to the ballet I
was a little appre-
hensive.
Six years af-
ter first enter-
ing the Royal
Opera House, I
was back again to
see Sylvia. In between t h o s e
years I’d like to think that I’ve become a little
more educated in the arts. Having played in a
pit orchestra myself since then, I went to the
ballet at least expecting to be able to enjoy the
music, if nothing else. I wasn’t disappointed.
The score, composed by Léo Delibes is abso-
lutely fantastic. Unlike many other scores for
other ballets (including Onegin) this one re-
ally does come to fore. It sets the action for the
ballet and absolutely not the other way round.
It is so good that even Tchaikovsky remarked
“...the first ballet, where the music constitutes
not only the main, but the only interest. What
charm, what elegance, what richness of mel-
ody, rhythm, harmony.” Delibes interestingly
uses the alto saxophone in this ballet, an instru-
ment that (at the time more so) was never re-
ally picked up by composers for big orchestral
pieces – it’s a striking tone – and anyone who
knows it will be delighted to hear it around the
third act.
The ballet itself is not based on a
particularly gripping storyline. A
shepherd is in love with the main
character, Sylvia, who is captured
by an evil man. Fortunately a god, Eros, saves
Sylvia and returns her to the shepherd. The
thing that makes the ballet, as mentioned earli-
er by Tchaikovsky, is the choreography and
heart-rending score. First choreographed
by Louis Mérante in 1876, it was consid-
ered ahead of its time for its use of balleri-
nas as masculine huntresses, but as a whole
it is still in the style of late Romantic-era bal-
let. The choreography was redone by Frederick
Ashton in 1952 for the Royal Ballet and is far
more modern and also incorporates mime. He
also styled the new ballet on the leading bal-
lerina of the time, Margot Fonteyn, and Syl-
via herself is considered an especially difficult
part to dance. On the whole, the choreography
and orchestration combine to make this a su-
premely special ballet and I felt privileged to
be able to see it. It is well worth looking out
for in the future.
For the moment, the Royal Opera House
is offering its traditional Christmas season.
Breaking with their programme for many
years, they are performing Cinderella instead
of the Nutcracker. Both are equally enjoyable
to newcomers and seasoned veterans alike. The
Nutcracker, like Sylvia, is well known for its
score by Tchaikovsky, while Cinderella deliv-
ers the familiar story with great choreography
(again by Ashton) and an unbeatable score by
Prokofiev.
The Royal Opera House itself is a magnifi-
cent building, worth visiting just for the beauti-
ful interior. It certainly provides a most magi-
cal setting for any ballets or operas throughout
the year, but nothing quite compares to Christ-
mas time.
If you are ever going to see a ballet,
this is the time to see it and
with the ROH offering student
discounts, this is definitely the
place. Tickets from under £10.
Jordi Brown
Sylvia is a magical introduction to the best ticket in
London this Christmas, a night at the Royal Opera House
“Great choreography
and an unbeatable
orchestration combine to
make this a supremely
special ballet”

