FELIX Friday 10 december 2010 31
ARTS
FELA! Leave your shy outside
Caz Knight
Musician. Freedom fighter. Sax, trumpet
and keyboard player. Polygamist. Fela
Ransome Kuti, the Father of Afrobeat,
was something of a phenomenon. His
infectious and politically charged music
was quick to sweep the African conti-
nent and then the world throughout the
70s and beyond. He created a wild and
free counter-culture against what was
a tyrannically controlled, neo-colonial
Nigeria. And he had an absolute blast
while he did it.
It is no longer 2010 and we are no lon-
ger on London’s Southbank. The audi-
torium of the Olivier Theatre has been
transformed by colourful, crazy art-
work, slogans of protest, a live band and
draped with the flags of the fifty coun-
tries of Africa. We are now at the Shrine
– Fela’s infamous Lagos club – and it is
1978. Nigeria is still in disarray from an
oil crisis and a military coup three years
before: British colonialists swapped for
military ones.We watch the man him-
self sing, dance, entertain and involve
the crowd with the help of scantily clad
dancers and a roaring live band, hisAfri-
ca 70. Watching the dazzling cast is like
crashing a party that was going on any-
way; there’s such apparent spontaneity
that it’s hard not to smile and feel frus-
trated at being confined to one’s seat.
The show is close to three hours of
whirlwind colour, drumming and booty
shaking – pure energy. It is dazzling, a
riotous rollercoaster ride. The Nigerian
zeal and lust for life is there and palpa-
ble both on stage and among the audi-
ence. But its tempo and variety is such
that it does not become overbearing.
The frenetic dance and music scenes are
broken down with anecdotes about past
run-ins with the police told while Fela
puffs on a fat one – Igbo – and some
audience participation (be ready to get
off your ass and gyrate that pelvis). Sahr
Ngaujah is flawless and gives a seam-
less performance with unending vigour
as the man himself. Praise is needed for
A mind-blowing Stroboscopic Light Pod
James Turrell’s Bindu Shards was what
I can only describe as an ‘experience’. I
managed to obtain an elusive time slot
for the exhibit which I have read else-
where as ‘mind orgasmic’. I approached
with some trepidation and the usual stiff,
white cube-ness of the Gagosian space on
Britannia Street did not help to quell my
nerves. I hurried through the white halls
to the large room in the corner in which
sat a spherical pod – something borrowed
from a dated science-fiction movie.
I approached the pod and was greeted
by two assistants wearing white coats (of
course). I signed a waiver (a little more
disconcerting) and listened to the descrip-
tion of the two programmes for my expe-
rience: hard and soft. The assistant who
was elaborating on these came across as
a new-wave-trip kind of girl, her voice
lilting in her postulations on the kalei-
doscopic strobes of the hard programme
as opposed to the soft, with its bloated
Rosie Milton shapes and melting colours. Of course I
went for the hard version – I wanted to
experience a heightening of senses.
So I was laid down flat on a trolley bed
and propelled into the dome. I had head-
phones on and all around me was flat
colour. What started was a kind of white
noise – a droning pitch that screamed
steadily up into the high octaves – highly
disorientating me as the colour in front of
my eyes started to pulsate. I immediately
put my hand up into the air to ‘ground’
myself. Then the strobes began. Flashes
of colour mesmerising in their rhythm,
I experienced a strange sensation (with
nothing to focus on), my eyes half-closed
and the colour moved as if into my mind.
Yes, it sounds a little psychedelic but
there’s really no other way to describe it.
My mind was tricked – my eyes felt as
if they were closed in sleep – I did not
blink for most of the duration. I had not
known what to expect at the beginning –
perhaps a video montage similar to the
scene in the 1975 film Willy Wonka &
The Chocolate Factory when they’re in
the tunnel on the chocolate river. A ter-
rifying melee of imagery – spiders and
screaming mouths, colour and foam.
But instead it was just stroboscopic
light, and I began to see galaxies and
orbiting planets in my eyes. It was
truly fantastic! I emerged feeling as
if my brain had been minced and now
scrubbed raw. I was grateful for the grey
light of the dim chamber outside the
pod. I was then ushered into a side-room
with a squat white staircase, at the top
of which sat a brilliant square of colour.
As I approached I realised that this was
a doorway to another capsule – a room
flooded with colour! I was transported
back to the Millenium Dome, when I
visited in 2000 with my school and we
all ‘regenerated’ in the ‘Chill-Out Zone’
– a facility I have now learnt was de-
signed by Turrell himself. Back in the
Gagosian I hovered for a long while, lost
in the slowly-changing palette of light,
which soothed my mind and eyes. Tur-
rell is a genius of light – he understands
“I began to see
galaxies and orbiting
planets in my eyes”
M
any people have
marveled at the in-
credible life of one
of the most extraor-
dinary men that has
ever lived. Many biographers have
tried to capture his essence in words
but it is inevitably a rather impos-
sible task. This play is based upon the
book “Nemesis” by Peter Evans which
focuses on the complex relation-
ships between Onassis, Jackie
Kennedy and the eternal mistress
– Maria Callas.
The plot reveals a great deal about
Onassis’ attempts to win over the
greatest prize of all – Jackie Kenne-
dy, while cleverly setting the political
situation after the death of President
Kennedy. At the same time, the turbu-
lent relationship between Maria Callas
and Onassis is unraveled, although I
felt that it could be further developed
and clarified on stage. The play is un-
avoidably driven by the emotions of
the characters and builds up to the
great guilt that would follow Onassis
to his deathbed.
Robert Lindsey’s performance was
accomplished during most of the dra-
matic parts of the play; however it
vaguely resembled his performance in
“My Family” at the comic parts. On
the contrary, Sue Kelvin had me miss-
ing my grandmother a great deal with
her overwhelming talent and Anna
Francolini’s Callas was simply mag-
nificent.
Being Greek by ethnicity, I walked
into the theatre with high expectations
about a story so closely linked to my
culture. I was pleasantly surprised with
the appropriateness of the Greek music
that was used in the play but I could not
help but cringe at the accents.
All-in-all though, the performance
left a smile on my face and an unex-
plained nostalgia for an era that I never
got to experience. I would definitely
recommend it to anyone who likes a re-
ally cynical fairytale.
GREEK
TREATS IN
ONASSIS
Kathy Christofidou
e
h
h
its power to magically alter your frame
of mind through the eyes, from electri-
fied to supple and dreamlike. He’s one
of the best comtemporary installation
artists.
Bindu Shards at the Gagosian
Gallery until 10 December
James Turrell, Dhatu, 2010, Mixed Media. It’s over now, sucks to be us...
Onassis at the Novello Theatre until 8
January. From £12.50
Paulette Ivory’s jaw-dropping voice in
the role of Sandra also, the American
girl who turns Fela on to the ideas of the
Black Movement.
As well as all the frivolity one ex-
pects from Lagos’ most notorious club,
FELA! manages to shock us with the
violence and gravity of what was be-
ing carried out by the dictatorship at the
time. Equally moving is the final scene
where coffin after coffin is brought onto
stage as a chilling reminder of the hor-
rors that occurred against Africans in
both Nigeria and in America.
Designer Marina Draghici has done
a stupendous job, with costumes and
make up worn superbly by the Queens,
although both the wardrobe and artwork
that adorns the theatre seem to have un-
dergone a slight day-glo make over, if
archive footage of the real Shrine is any-
thing to go by.
Bill T. Jones is the multi-talented di-
rector, writer and choreographer of this
piece which has run both Off and On
Broadway before arriving at the Nation-
al. Produced in association with the likes
of Jay-Z and Will Smith, the idea was
originally conceived by Stephen Hendel
who was inspired after listening to Fe-
la’s music to pay homage to his achieve-
ments for human rights in Nigeria.
For a first hand experience of the New
Africa Shrine, head over to Lagos in Oc-
tober, where each year Fela’s sons lead
the ‘Felabration’, commemorating and
celebrating the life of this revered pio-
neer. Even if you can’t afford the flights
to Nigeria or not, don’t miss FELA! at
the NT
Until 23rd January. From £10

