FELIX
Arts Editor: Rox Middleton
Marks and Stencils
Graffiti? Graphics? Fine Art? It’s even got its own gallery
In the tired and increasingly tedious debate sur-
rounding the merits and worthiness of contem-
porary art nothing gives rise to quiet so much
rabid argument as the work of the ‘street artist’,
a sub-group of the common vandal. I am very
nervous about wading into the debate, but a re-
cent visit to an exhibition entitled ‘Marks and
Stencils’ has inevitably set me thinking. I am
normally of the opinion that if it looks like art,
smells like art and most importantly costs as
much as art... then it is probably art. This phi-
losophy should place the work of people like
the infamous Banksy, featured at the gallery,
firmly in the established artist’s category. Yet I
remain a little uncomfortable with the unques-
tioning, reverence surrounding the genre.
Pictures on Walls (POW), hosted the exhi-
bition. The group is essentially a marketing
company which displays and sells works and
prints by many notable street artists including
Banksy. Their latest exhibition displayed in a
shop in Soho contains work from dozens of
artist. However, most of the focus is directed
towards their “cover star” Dran. This French
artist has a distinctive whimsical wit yet his
subject matter remains darkly satirical. In one
series of works he takes cardboard boxes, sub-
verting the text on the side with beautiful illus-
trations. Below “Made in Brazil” sits a starving
street child and below “frais de livraison gratu-
its” a truck full of militia. Dran also invents the
character of a homeless orphan obsessed with
graffiti. He reproduced the image of this child
drawing on a wall a hundred times, filling in a
different graffiti each time. Visitors are invited
to do the same on postcard sized reproduc-
tions. A rather quaint idea, although I am not
sure what the point is, apart from to produce a
lot of sellable art very quickly. I was generally
impressed by the humour and intelligence of
his work which is matched by an accomplished
drawing style.
The other unavoidable artist supplied the
most controversial exhibit, which has been
given pride of place in the window. The strik-
ing image entitled Prime by Mark Sinckler
shows the London bus destroyed on the day of
the 7/7 bombings. The victims of the bombing
are painted in the style of renaissance angels
ascending to heaven. “What I’m trying to do is
to make anyone that has a faith, a belief, or an
idea they hold close to their heart to think about
the impact of these ideas when they leave their
heads,” Sinckler has said. I genuinely think the
piece provokes that response. Despite the in-
evitable negative press attracted by the piece I
found it rather compelling and beautiful. Dran
and Sinckler’s work actually feels out of pace
with the rest of the show which consisted most-
ly of variably witty, often obscene cartoons or
graffiti.
I left the gallery both amused and filled with
anti-establishment fury as the artists intended.
So am I so unwilling to praise them? Firstly, an
observation; for a group who used to relish an-
onymity and who previously refused to engage
with the art community Banky and co. seem to
be making rather a lot of money by flogging
stencils of rats to London yuppies. But then that
is exactly the smug self-referential contradic-
tion he takes pleasure in creating. In fact much
of the work in the gallery is a direct insult to
the viewer for taking it seriously or the artist for
selling out. For example the slogan “Street art,
now in a gallery near you” is daubed on one of
the walls. Another sculpture consists of a bro-
ken plaster cast of Myron’s “Discus Thrower”
covered in random doodling. Yes it is funny,
but it is also a very cheap form of humour,
equivalent to breaking the fourth wall in film.
It puts me in mind of a form of Pop art , but out
of context and sixty years too late. You cannot
expect your Anti-war/capitalist/fascist agenda
to be taken seriously while undermining your
very mode of communication.
Secondly, it comes down to this, there is a
name for someone who creates images simply
to entertain and sell an idea. It is not artist. It
is graphics designer, someone in advertising.
Art in general should elicit a more fundamental
and visceral response form the viewer than a
simple chuckle and a vague desire to have the
print hanging over your sofa back at the flat.
So, go see the exhibition, it’s good fun. Just do
not expect an epiphany.
“The thing I hate the most about advertising
is that it attracts all the bright, creative and am-
bitious young people, leaving us mainly with
the slow and self-obsessed to become our art-
ists.. Modern art is a disaster area. Never in the
field of human history has so much been used
by so many to say so little.” – Banksy
Meredith Thomas
Waugh: What is it good for?
It’s in theatres like the Old Red Lion, that re-
mind me why I review plays instead of just go-
ing to the see them. They want me to like them,
and they have a bar – did I mention it was a
pub-theatre? It’s a simple, yet highly effective
equation. Regrettably though, it seems ORL
had banked on the bar doing the talking and
had overlooked a key point, viz. the play itself.
Sylvester McCoy, one time Dr. Who star
and generally cuddly old man, leads the way
in this production of Decline and Fall. It tells
of the… err… decline and fall of Paul Penny-
feather, from his expulsion from Oxford, onto
his cuckolded marriage to the wealthy Margot
Beste-Chetwynde and then to all that befell
him thereafter. The cast is, without exception,
pretty well suited to each of their respective
roles, McCoy hams it up no end, whilst Mike
Lindall is beaten from pillar to post so much
that it seems it comes to him naturally. Emily
Murphy in her multiple roles during the play is
also worth a mention, especially as she intimi-
dates the audience into filling up the few seats
of the intimate venue.
For those fans of Waugh out there, I warn
you may be disappointed. Soon you begin to
realize why he wrote books rather than plays,
and you often get a sense that this book wasn’t
meant to be a play. The number of scene chang-
es alone makes you wish you were at home
with book. Whilst the intricacies of the satire
are lost, nevertheless, certain elements are still
preserved and the play still keeps the humour
high throughout.
ORL is a brilliant theatre, beyond just the
beer taps, but even Sylvester McCoy couldn’t
turn around Decline & Fall. Whilst it enter-
tains, it leaves little the audience feeling a little
empty-handed, not with the acerbic pang one
expects from Waugh.
I think most people have done things they regret, of
one sort or another, during their lives. Taking the
wrong job, choosing the wrong degree even. But
mine, well mine was more of the regret of a mistake
than anything. I once bought a couple of tickets to
touring Glyndebourne. In case you’ve not heard of
it, this is the travelling arm of a well-regarded Opera
company. However, I didn’t see it, so don’t worry,
this isn’t about Opera.
I had originally bought said tickets because I
wanted to go and see this Opera, and even had a
guest in mind as well. She had expressed a pass-
ing interest in it, but her presence soon evaporated
and I can’t so much as recall her name now, so that
part of it mattered little enough even to reach the
vorspiel.
Trouble is, I had two tickets for Glyndebourne and
only one bum to put on those two seats. They were
my favourite seats, too -- at the front of the balcony;
ideal for the view and for the purse.
So, I had two good tickets and no one to go with.
Aha, hang on, it was my friend Sophie’s birthday.
We’d been at school together and although she was
radiant and the sort of woman whom one thinks to
be ideal as a girlfriend in every particular, there was
never a spark between us. Also it was her birthday
and so would be some sort of present. The fateful
day came but despite -- or perhaps because of this
-- it all went rather wrong for me.
The curse of Don Giovanni is a peculiar one. In
the Opera there is no curse at all really, I use that
term merely to name my bollocksing it up as I did.
The character Don Giovanni is an inveterate wom-
aniser who at one point in the story is reading out
a list of all his conquests -- the number of Span-
ish women, of Italian women, and so on. Shortly
after this sexual bean-counting, he tries to pull his
manservant’s fiancé, the evening before her wed-
ding. This gets spotted by a statue and either out
of limestone-based jealousy or a masonaryic moral
erectitude, he gives Don Giovanni the option to re-
pent. He doesn’t, and so gets thrown into the fires
of Hell. It’s known as the Terror scene because it is
the first depiction in Opera of pure terror.
Not really what you would choose for a first date
you might say. Alright, I’ll give you that. But, I was
going with Sophie rather than anyone I was keen to
impress romantically so that was alright. Trouble
was, I was slightly late leaving my flat that after-
noon. And as this was before the time in which
Railway companies told you where the two halves
of a train were, and so perhaps predictably, I got
on the wrong half. Ooops. My friend came down
from Leicester, to Oxford, but of course I didn’t get
there. Double oops. And it was her birthday. Triple
oops. And we didn’t get to see the Opera. Qua-
druple oops. I haven’t been to the Opera since.
Well, not quite. As an end-of-PhD present, my par-
ents have offered to fly me to Prague to see this
cursèd Opera to the very Opera house where this
opera was first prèmiered in 1787, but it is the last
Opera house still standing that Mozart conducted
in. No pressure then. One last post script -- I was
invited to Sophie’s wedding earlier this year, so she
doesn’t hold it against me, even if I do.
A whimsical cultural
anecdote for the last
issue of the term
Sam Furse tried to go the opera,
did he make it though?
ARTS
Free at 1 Berwick St, Soho, until 22 De-
cember. New works added daily
Will Prince
Tickets from £11 until 8 January
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 10 december 2010
32

