FELIX Friday 10 december 2010 33
ARTS
Christina Flanagan
Probably muscled out by many of the 355 clubs
and societies available to you at Imperial, Mu-
sical Theatre Society wasn’t one that was at the
forefront of my consciousness. Not doubt as
you will see, they were busy observing Fresh-
ers’ Fayre than partaking in it. Consequently,
in my ignorance, when the assignment crashed
into my inbox, I was left more bemused at the
task than excited. Music? Theatre? Imperial?
Surely a lethal mix?
But a brave few have dared to experiment,
and a little to my surprise and much to my
gladness, their results are astounding. Impe-
rial Collage is this term’s offering from MT-
Soc, a musical revue made up of one part
distilled essence of Imperial, one part inge-
nious lyrics and one part catchy show tunes.
The brainchild of Gilead Amit, someone who
himself embodies a little bit of what it is to
be Imperial, it is “largely based on all the
anecdotes I’ve picked up over my three years
here.” Well, clearly Mr. Amit is a very busy
man, either that or highly efficient; the quan-
tity, density and detail of references to Impe-
rial’s eccentricities and idiosyncrasies are the
kind of thing Herodotus would have dreamt
of. Touching on the plight of Nobel-prize as-
sisting research assistants in search of recog-
nition and professorial caffeine-addiction, the
revue really does cover all bases of Imperial,
into several dimensions, even capped off with
a cameo from Robert Winston.
The plot is set loosely around the unraveling
of a Freshers’ Fayre, where things escalate af-
ter the Light Arm’s Society misplaces a weap-
on – imagine that to music. Along the way we
meet the entire ensemble cast of IC, carried
all the while with cleverly re-written songs,
the tunes of which anyone will recognize. The
continuing feud between news website Live
and newspaper Felix (we thank you again for
your readership), the maniacal rector and his
filing cabinet driving range, the stresses of be-
ing Union President and the strains of doing a
PhD. in Aeronautics are all recounted in songs,
the breadth of which is astounding. High-
lights include great adaptations from Westside
Story and Avenue Q, along with the Pirates of
Penzance and Les Mis, giving us a glimpse of
our own Tonies, Marias, Fantines and even
Major Generals at Imperial.
The whole production is done without a
single iota of pretension, MTSoc does ev-
erything with gusto and a sense of humour.
And in Imperial Collage, they have a revue
that is deep, polished and, strangely at times,
very perspicacious. Many a true word is said
in jest, and there’s certainly a few sung to a
tune in Collage – those wanting a little insight
into the university’s workings would do well
to give this a watch. And for us on the inside,
through a combination of delicately layered
and emotionally engaging plot, unceasingly
well-pitched humour and acute observation,
it’s sure to tap into an Imperial part of all of
us.
Will Prince
Imperial Collage
The Dark Side
End of term theatrics at the Union
Two plays before Monday, but what sort of AmDram are you letting yourself in for?
I guarantee you’ve never seen a play like The
Dark Side before. Knitting, murder, star-
crossed lovers... this show has it all. The ac-
tors of Imperial’s Dramsoc are on their usual
outstanding form, and as always I absolutely
loved watching them, but that’s only the Light
Side of the play. This play is really all about
Dramsoc’s Dark Side (ie. the techies: sets,
lighting, sound and so much more) and as such
allows them free reign to play with loads of
cool stuff and make some terrifyingly loud
bangs.
What I enjoyed most about the play is how
it explores the illusions of the theatre – how
good acting and some fantastic effects can get
inside our heads and make us believe things
that are beyond all reason or logic. Co-direc-
tor and author Shamini Bundell’s intention is
to break the so called fourth wall separating
her audience from the play and to really make
us think about how the theatre actually works.
To this end the actors talk directly to us, ser-
enade us and even partly dismantle their own
stage at one point, pulling us right inside their
world.
The plot, centred on Imperial’s own Knit-
Sock, is a little tenuous at times and certain
moments are bordering on silly, but if you ac-
cept that this is a comedy and approach it in a
light-hearted spirit there are plenty of laughs.
Some of the theatrical and sci-fi references
might have made more sense to the cast than
to me but I thought Mike Lewis’s socially
inept romantic lead Josh was very funny and
surprisingly winning and I especially loved the
Facebook gags. Shamini’s little adaptations of
Shakespeare throughout are really witty! Al-
though, inevitably, some Imperial stereotypes
are drawn on it definitely stays the amusing
side of cringy, and I would like to voice a spe-
cial appreciation of the Union Bar set which
should leave you gagging for a drink in the
interval!
Helen Poulson is in her first year with
Dramsoc and I thought she was brilliantly cast
as Anna, a bemused and frustrated outsider to
this bizarre theatrical world. Her acting is very
expressive and she totally and completely got
me on side. The play cleverly highlights her
lack of identity as the “normal” one trapped in
a very abnormal situation where nobody else
seems to care about the odd mysterious death
or two.
It could take a little while to relax into the
melodrama but the actors do some great dy-
ing and I love the idea of a play within a play
within a play. Thankfully, The Dark Side stays
the clever side of confusing. I have no idea
how Shamini’s imagination produced this cra-
zy mix but it somehow works and is perfectly
executed.
I had the privilege of seeing this play at a
point where the real Dark Side were still per-
fecting their role and they thoroughly deserve
this tribute to their tremendously hard behind-
the-scenes work.
Friday/Saturday Sunday/Monday
Dramsoc’s The Dark Side in rehearsal, they’d been putting the set together with strong glue

