The National originate from Ohio.
They are made up of vocalist Matt Ber-
ninger who fronts two pairs of brothers:
Aaron (guitar, bass, piano) and Bryce
Dessner (guitar); and Scott (bass, guitar)
and Bryan Devendorf (drums). Collec-
tively they continue to create the most
enigmatic, hermetic and beautifully ab-
sorbing music. In my opinion they are
currently the most exceptional band in
the world and this evening I am privi-
leged to witness their completing a trio
of sold out nights at Brixton Academy.
Such fanatical sentiment in regard to
The National is not new. Indeed, while
many were already professed devotees,
this band first sucked me in 2009 dur-
ing the post-Boxer era. This alluring LP
had already propelled The National into
the lime light, with the Democrats cam-
paign adopting the record’s signature
track ‘Fake Empire’ as they headed for
the White House.
Soon after my first looped listens of
Boxer I would discover that The Na-
tional’s own rise did not quite match
the majestic nature of Mr Obama’s
2009 ascent. The early stages of their
journey included gigs supporting high
school bands and numerous occasions
where the towel was nearly thrown in.
Thankfully, they persevered, spurred
on by a dogged belief that their way is
the best way, seamlessly alternating be-
tween low-fi garage rock and orchestral
arrangements with sublime brass and
strings. Their obsessive and perfection-
ist tendencies in recording has ensured
each of their 5 records has evolved
from its predecessor, permitting them to
slowly build a cult following, much in
the mould of an early R.E.M.
The 5,000 in attendance this evening
ardently welcome the five-piece. In the
nervous excitement emanating from
both the band and the crowd it takes
about 3 songs for things to settle and
the band to find their groove. Beringer
prowls around the band, slapping his
thighs in a trance-like state in between
compelling the crowd with one of the
great modern day baritones. The Dess-
ners’ and Devendorfs’ hit sweet spots
in their rhythms and guitar licks, all
backed up with melodic keys and el-
egant brass. This evening the National
are poetic and heartfelt but never pre-
tentious or self-indulgent. Their banter
is humble and humorous; the music or-
nate and sublime.
Iconic front men channel the ge-
nius and spirit of seminal bands, Thom
Yorke, Michael Stipe, Robert Smith et
al. all uniquely embody the essence of
the music they front. Similarly, Beringer
is the perfect outlet for The National’s
distinct and textured take on alternative
rock music. It is difficult to take my eyes
of Beringer; his frenetic movements and
calm swigs of lager keep you on edge,
but it is the articulate and oblique lyrics,
made increasing poignant by his deep
register, that keep you hooked. In the
band’s beginning, Beringer was often
inappropriately labelled as a one-trick
The National do it their way
The National preach to the converted as they captivate the Brixton Academy
bar stool poet; a decade later he is now
celebrated as perhaps one of the finest
wordsmiths of this generation. Ironical-
ly, some of his best narratives come in
the songs most explicitly about drinking
such as fan favourites Slow Show and All
The Wine, both warmly received by the
crowd this evening.
The National perform a Jekyll and
Hyde setlist this evening. The explo-
sive and aggressive Abel is impressively
delivered with Beringer ferociously
screaming My Mind’s Not Right. This
contrasts to the delicate finger picking
of the Green Gloves which follows,
with Beringer serenely lamenting, “fall-
ing out of touch with all my friends are
somewhere getting wasted, hope they’re
staying glued together, I have arms for
them”. Squalor Victoria and Sorrow ex-
The National
Brixton Academy
24th November 2010
Tytus Murphy
pose their dark and pensive side, where-
as the infectious and melodic Lemon-
world has a dream-like element.
Upon returning from their ‘theatrical
tea break’ as Beringer wryly puts it, The
National deliver a memorable encore.
The anthemic Mr November and Ter-
rible Love are played in a whirlwind
and epic manner respectively, but is the
closer Vanderlye Crybaby Geeks which
makes the evening special. They per-
form the song Unplugged, encouraging
all to join in the cry of ‘all the very best
of us, string ourselves up for love’, it is
an immensely uplifting ending.
Just as Arcade Fire have recently
manage to sell out big arenas whilst
maintaining their artistic integrity, The
National are reaching a wider audience
but doing it all on their own terms.
This dynamic duo, formally known as
Cherry, fired up at Heaven.Aset mainly
compromised of tracks from Ratatat’s
newest album LP4, was complemented
by trippy video projections spanning the
rear of the stage, creating a pleasantly
multi-sensorial experience. Jungle beats
were harmonised with warped collages
of sorts, featuring everything from ani-
mal portraits to volcanic eruptions.
The two New York based musicians
took the stage to the obvious delight of
a crowd made up of an array of young
music junkies. One particularly en-
thusiastic fan caught himself shouting
“I AM MUSIC!” in anticipation. The
oddly indistinguishable, long haired and
skinny jean clad duo delivered an ener-
getic performance, alternating between
electric guitars, a pair of drums and a
synthesiser. The result was a unique
sound ranging from hip hop in its pur-
est form to indie electronic breaching
the boundaries. Each track is a creative
experiment, all of them as catchy as
they are ambitious. Vocals are nearly
absent from their songs, while down
beat rhythms and organic textures are
meshed to create a plethora of original
material. Strong melodies and beautiful
drops made it easy to fall into somewhat
of a trance, fed by an impressive light
show and a sweet sound system.
Ratatat flourished as a main act,
having only indulged in their music in
a more mellow light in the past, I was
curious to experience the genius, instru-
mental sound live. Finding it impos-
sible to keep still one’s body seemed to
have a mind of its own; in sync with the
rhythms streaming from the stage the
crowd swayed to the beat. Arriving at
the show with considerable hopes I left
on a euphonic high.
Ratatat duo flourish under the arches
Ratatat
Heaven
07th December 2010
Katherine Portilla
Prior to Buckingham Palace being built in 1702, it was the site of an
infamous brothel... coincidence I THINK NOT! Yeah, you think about that
Unfortunately the handy bag and bicycle pictured are not official members of The National... They are in my line-up.
MUSIC
FELIX
36
Music Editors: Greg Power
Luke Turner
Christopher Walmsley
music.felix@gmail.com
FRIDAY 10 decEMBER 2010
One fan shouted “I
AM MUSIC!”

