The Tallest Man On Earth
The Tallest Man On Earth
Electric Ballroom
24th November 2010
★★★★✩
Diogo M Geraldes
A packed, expectant Electric Ballroom
welcomed on stage Idiot Wind’s deep
enchanting voice. The simultaneously
life partner and support act for Kristian
Matsson comfortably slipped into the
big shoes any act with a Dylan refer-
ence in its name has to walk on. Amanda
Bergman’s stunningly sweet and rough
voice fused into the pretty, yet simple,
melodies her Yamaha piano filled the
room with, creating a quietness of ap-
proval that silenced even the more chat-
ty spectators.
The Swedish singer-songwriter then
jumped on a seemingly too big stage,
armed with his best weapons: his metal-
lic, cigarette tainted, wide-ranged voice
and four guitars. From the first note in
the continuous guitar-picking sequence
that was his show, one could immediate-
ly witness the stage-filling personality of
Sweden’s best music export in the last
years. TMOE showed that stage size
doesn’t matter, as his beautifully com-
plex poetry-filled melodies can engage
any soul in any venue.
Then comes a well chosen progres-
sion of songs from his critically ac-
claimed albums “Shallow Grave” and
“The Wild Hunt” and latest EP “Some-
times The Blues Is Just A Passing Bird”
with some quality and humorous talk-
ing interludes filling the gaps between
songs. Each picture painted by his bird
and countryside reference-filled poems
makes you travel to a place you have
never been, though it feels like you
have visited it all your life. ‘King of
Spain’, ‘The Gardner’ and ‘Where Do
My Bluebird Fly’ caught the crowd’s at-
tention but the power and beauty of the
lyrics of ‘Troubles Will Be Gone’, ‘Pis-
tol Dreams’ and ‘Love Is All’ conquered
our admiration.
Yes, admiration. Kristian can control
the progression of a melody with his
He’s probably lying about his height – The Tallest Man On Earth fills a corner of
Camden with an evening of folk and poetry
Janelle Monáe is here to stay
Creator of “ArchAndroid”, the 2010
R&B reinventing masterpiece soon to
be omnipresent in all the end of year
top albums lists (Ed – errrr, I wouldn’t
look at page 35 then...), Janelle Monáe
has been much hyped since her de-
struction of SXSW 2009. Destruction
indeed was what the 2000-strong audi-
ence witnessed at the Shepherd Bush
Empire.
Accompanied by a super-fly, vibrat-
ing and incredibly talented entourage
of dancers, exquisite bass and key-
board players, an exceptionally stylish
drummer and trumpeteers and a hell-
raising Master of Ceremony, her maj-
esty the 1st Lady of Coolness began the
night with the high tempo explosion
of ‘Dance or Die’ and ‘Faster’ played
back to back without a single breath-
catching stop.
A diva-like cover of Charlie Chaplin’s
‘Smile’ followed, leaving us with that
astonished expression you only make
when you see a future legend performing
in front of you. Janelle then decided to
keep impressing the hangover-defying
public with the surreal ‘Thriller’-tribute
that was ‘Wondaland’ and showed how
versatile she by painting on canvas
while outstandingly interpreting ‘Make
The Bus’.
And then, as if the previous hour was
not enough to have us on our knees
praising Monáe’s geniality, the Big
Boi’s protégé melted her two most pow-
erful songs, ‘Cold War’ and ‘Tightrope’,
into one hot, crazy finale and wrapped
it with a jaw-dropping one-footed side-
ways moonwalk.
An encore composed by a nice tribute
to The Beatles ‘I Want to Hold Your
Hand’ and a performance of ’Come
Alive’ that screamed “Watch me! I’ll be
back, and even bigger!” finished what,
for me, was a perfect musical year. Let’s
hope 2011 is just as good, if not better.
The Shepherd’s Bush Empire was witness to one of this year’s masterpiece albums,
‘ArchAndroid’, from a superb songstress
“His beautifully
complex poetry-filled
melodies can engage
any soul in any
venue.”
Janelle Monáe
Shepherds Bush Empire
24th November 2010
Diogo M Geraldes
interlacing of shouts and growls with
whispering and voice breaks like no one
else. Even the few seconds in between
songs he spent changing the tuning of
his many guitars sounded perfect. But
not as perfect as the end of his set, a duet
interpretation of ‘Thrown Right At Me’
with his soul mate.
The Tallest Man on Earth showed that
he is not the new Bob Dylan. Anyone
present in the Camden venue could see
that he is much more than that. He is the
tallest man in folk.
The Tallest Man In The World, pictured above. There was a need to
crop this picture due to his legs spanning several pages.
Janelle softly stroking her secret weapon to world domination
FELIX 37
MUSIC
FRIDAY 10 decemBER 2010

