38
FILM
felix
An engaging and
emotional thriller
zone. They are also joined by armed guards
which show that this fenced-off terrain is not to
be taken at all lightly.
For most modern horror films, many of the
plot-points are so absurd that only the most
senseless characters who go off in the dark on
their own to “check things out” are ever used.
Classic Cinema
A Muppet’s Christmas Carol
Whilst the ‘classic’ status of this film may be debata-
ble for some, it is most certainly a Christmas classic
in my home and I suspect in many others. Knowing
the lyrics to all the songs and personal bias aside,
it is an incredibly funny and light-hearted film that is
an excellent take on the fable, successfully integrat-
ing soppy sentiment and singing vegetables into the
classic Dickens tale.
Michael Caine stars as the miserable Mr Scrooge,
who is introduced through the medium of song in
the first scene, sweeping around the corner as dark-
ness descends. Caine is commendable as the infa-
mous miser and plays a convincing, almost entirely
straight, part next to lots of brightly coloured singing
puppets and even indulges in a bit of singing himself.
As the original story goes, Scrooge is visited by three
spirits, each opening his eyes to his cruel doings and
eventually making him realise the errors of his ways.
In the Muppets’ version, a reformed Scrooge subse-
quently dances through the streets of London sing-
ing, followed by a very small rabbit carrying a very
large turkey.
The film also features all of the Muppet stalwarts
in the novel’s traditional roles (and some not quite so
traditional; Dickens may not have included an annual
penguin’s skating party, lobsters or a Swedish chef).
Kermit plays Bob Cratchit and his wife, Emily Cratchit,
is played, of course, by Miss Piggy. The Great Gonzo
stars as the narrator – a blue furry Charles Dickens
who hangs out with a rat. This rat being Rizzo the
Rat, starring as himself. Needless to say, behind all
these Muppet actors are the puppeteers: Frank Oz,
Dave Goelz, Steve Whitmore and Jerry Nelson among
them, orchestrating the cast and supplying the dizzy-
ing array of voices.
A Muppets Christmas Carol is a heartening, incred-
ibly funny film, which maintains all the moral and sus-
pense of the original but with added humour, puppets
and singing.
Cecily Goodwin
The most widely accepted form of interspecies love
Film Editors: Jade Hoffman
Matt Allinson
Ed Knock
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
A film titled Monsters carries with it a certain
level of expectation to show something – well
– monstrous. Considering this, the common
criticism that this micro-budget indie film lacks
exactly that is fully understandable. Make no
mistake, only $200,000 was spent on the pro-
duction which is nowhere near close to most
CGI-loaded films, and this is not your regular
“mutant monsters are taking over the planet
and killing our protagonists one by one” kind
of film. Instead – and this is what has been often
overlooked – Monsters relies on the consistent,
underlying tone of fear.
There are no jump-scares, as monsters are
mostly heard and not seen, and are never hurled
in front of the camera. So much can be unsettling
about odd noises, that no forced or unnecessary
gore is needed to have that profound chilling
effect. This is something that has perhaps been
forgotten by the Hollywood thriller genre. The
Ring, to take a popular example, was generally
well received – but its predecessor, the Japanese
original, Ringu, is widely considered the better
film, partly for not showing the face of its chill-
ing ghoul. For those ready to explore a different
side of the sci-fi/horror/thriller genre, you will
be pleasantly surprised at this slightly odd but
engaging film mixes several different themes
and still makes it work.
Monsters starts off with how the aliens man-
aged to land on Earth. Six years ago there was
evidence of extraterrestrial life on Jupiter and
the nosy humans had to send a spaceship to
explore it. When it returns, it crash-lands in
Mexico and brings with it some scary-looking
‘creatures’. Are they dangerous? Doesn’t mat-
ter. When they look like a cross between a spi-
der, an octopus and a jellyfish, the United States
government doesn’t think twice. They immedi-
ately seal off the area and start attacking. Gas-
masks are essential and the area of infection
stretches all the way across the US-Mexico bor-
der. The Americans have also built “The Wall,”
a gigantic concrete barrier designed to keep for-
eign agents out.
As a photojournalist, Andrew (Scoot Mc-
Nairy) is working in Mexico hoping to snap up
some pictures of these allegedly dangerous and
toxic creatures. One day he is given an incon-
venient order that he cannot refuse: his boss’
daughter Sam (Whitney Able) is stuck in Mex-
ico and he is asked to escort her safely back to
the States. He reluctantly agrees, and the two set
off on an uncomfortable journey back to their
homeland. But complications arise as pass-
ports are lost, trains are stopped, and ships are
missed. Time is running out and the only way
back is through the forbidden hostile infectious
But not with Monsters, in which everything
was shot on location and, aside from the two
relatively unknown actors, most supporting
roles are played by local extras who happened
to be there. The film benefits from having this
authentic atmosphere and therefore there is
no need for any pointless horror clichés that
waste time. This is a deeply engaging emo-
tional drama focusing on how romance takes
place in the unlikeliest circumstance. Focusing
on the steadily creepy ambiance by showing
the many scenes of devastation, the couple’s
Apocalypse Now style boat-ride, in which we
see cars in branches, destroyed aircrafts and
more evidence of horror, is a true testament to
This is a true testament
to the very un-Hollywood
idea that money can’t
buy horror
“
their own to check
eir own to chec
was
and
to
o
in
in
ng
ing
at-
at-
pi-
i-
This is a tru
This is a tr
to the very
to the very
”
hi h hi
hi h hi
y
y
can’t
can’t
iCU Cinema - Winter All-Nighter
6 films, 6pm-6am, Union Concert Hall
£10 for all six films, or £3 for each film.
Tickets available online at union.ic.ac.uk
EVENTS
Director Gareth Edwards
Screenwriter Gareth Edwards
Cast Scott McNairy, Whitney Able
Monsters
John Park
Friday 10 december 2010
the very un-Hollywood idea that money cannot
buy horror.
This is more than a mindless horror movie.
The film moves gently, at a controlled pace,
giving us the chance to reflect at the subtle
political themes it evokes. Even when there is
hardly anything happening on screen, so many
ideas have been hinted that director Gareth
Edwards knows how to casually hold our at-
tention without using his film to load us with
a heavy-handed political message. Immigra-
tion, war on terror and social intolerance are
among the explored subjects that further enrich
the film’s running time. McNairy and Able are
convincing together and a lot of the improvised
dialogue helps their relationship come off as
unforced and compelling.
When the monsters do make their appear-
ance in the film’s final moments, the result is
beautiful and moving. Edwards not only acted
as director, writer, producer, but also as the vis-
ual effects supervisor and he creates something
completely original with the tiny budget. Are
these monsters really a threat? Although many
dead bodies are seen, there is a possibility that
they could have been the result of the toxic
weapons that the U.S. troops used to tackle the
alien population. It is also suggested that the
aliens are usually docile unless provoked, most
likely by endless missile strikes. Who are the
real “monsters” here? What starts off with such
a simple, over-used idea spirals out into a web
of so many potential debates making Monsters
one of this year’s most pleasant surprises.
Taking precautions against the “whoever smelt it, dealt it” policy.

