“
39
felix
FILM
Friday 10 december 2010
TRONreturns!
Have you ever wondered what goes on
inside the digital domain? What goes on
inside the circuitry of your computer as
packets of information are sent through
it? Enter TRON. It is the sci-fi geek’s
ultimate fantasy – a whole world lying
out there, inside those clusters of com-
puter networks. The entry? Just beam
yourself in with a prototype particle
distruptor/reconsitutor, picked from that
experimental physics lab.
The original TRON (1982) follows the
adventure of genius programmer Kevin
Flynn on the day he gets beamed into the
Grid, the cyber world of TRON. Inside
it, he teams with anthropomorphic pro-
grams TRON and RAM in their quest
to defeat the tyrannical Master Control
Program and liberate the Grid. TRON
– though not a major box office success
– was visionary. The idea that computer
programs have personalities and emo-
tions, that they live in a society with its
own culture, was absolutely enticing to
my inner geek. TRON was a pioneer for
adopting the then-limited CGI technol-
ogy into its conceptual design. Even the
digital world itself, the Grid, resembles
a half-finished render.
Decades later, with CGI now able
to create fluid life-like characters, it
spawns the remake. Here, Sam Flynn
receives a mysterious message from his
father, Kevin Flynn, who disappeared
20 years ago. As he traces the message,
he tumbles down the rabbit hole into
TRON world and thus begins his adven-
ture to search for his dad.
TRON: Legacy is an ambitious movie.
It was shot using the most advanced
3D cameras at the time – cameras one
generation above those used in Avatar,
created by James Cameron’s team espe-
cially for TRON: Legacy. It combines
Cameron’s engineering with Robert
Zemekis’ digital motion-capture tech-
nology used in The Polar Express and
Beowulf to bring realism to a whole new
level. TRON: Legacy attempted some-
thing not done in movies before – to
have an actor play both protagonist and
antagonist, digitally rejuvenating one of
them. If this sounds suspect to you, trust
Director Joseph Kosinski
Screenwriter Edward Kitsis, Adam
Horowitz
Cast Jeff Bridges, Garrett
Hedlund, Olivia Wilde, Michael
Sheen
TRON: Legacy
Guo Heng Chin
The terrifying offspring of EEE and Mech Eng. Gentlemen of Imperial, please stop jizzing yourselves.
The line-up for the
iCU Cinema All-
Nighter is announced
Jade Hoffman
The Imperial film event of the year has
officially returned, announcing its line-
up for the winter All-Nighter this year.
As has become iCU Cinema tradition,
the end of terms see a six-film all-night-
er with the best films of that year being
screened in one night to test the film
fan’s endurance.
Recently, the line-up has been an-
nounced, with the critically acclaimed
David Fincher film, The Social Network,
based on Facebook founder Mark Zuck-
erberg’s rise to riches, shining as the
best of the bunch.
The rest of the films scheduled to play
that night, however, follow the typical
eclectic mix of the best and most enjoy-
able films from this year – one of the
things that makes the iCU Cinema All-
Nighter once again the bizarre pic-n-mix
bonanza of recent cinema. Where else
would you start off watching Dream-
works’ family-friendly, How to Train
Your Dragon, once again showcasing
the studio’s ability to create a pan-gen-
erational animation, and finish with the
all-star beat-em-up, The Expendables?
This is one of the great charms of the
iCU Cinema, which frequently puts to-
gether the most unexpected mismatch
of films to inexplicable success - see
the earlier double-bill of Toy Story 3 vs.
Inception which once again saw a spec-
tacular turnout.
Once again, with Tuesday 14th De-
cember’s six-film line up that pits fam-
ily film vs. controversial comedy vs.
ballsy action flick, the iCU Cinema pro-
vides something for everyone. Perhaps
the most obscure thing to turn up in this
series is the first of Stieg Larsson’s Mil-
lenium Trilogy, the Swedish original,
The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo, which
plays at 2.45am for those hard enough to
still be awake. Considering the fact that
the Union Bar will be open throughout
the night, serving drinks in the intervals
between films, it may be a bit much to
assume many will be lucid enough to
truly take in this film, but the All-Night-
er provides a wonderfully heterogenous
assorment of 2010’s cinema. Or, if noth-
ing else, it just gives you a nice night in
towards the cold end of Christmas term.
The full line-up is as follows:
6pm: How to Train Your Dragon
8pm: The Social Network
10.30pm: Four Lions
12.30am: Salt
2.45am: The Girl with the Dragon
Tattoo
5.30am: The Expendables
Tickets are available online priced at
£10 for all six films, or £3 each on
the door. The All-Nighter will happen
Tuesday 14th December in the Union
Concert Hall.
TRON: Legacy has
some of the most
awe-striking action
sequences I’ve seen
”
ction
ction
seen
seen
me, the results are so stunningly real you
soon have to remind yourself they are
actually the same person. Another classy
touch to this film is how 3D is only used
in the TRON world, rather than through-
out the movie, which is certainly to the
credit of the producers and director for
not falling prey to ‘3D exploitation’.
Jeff Bridges reprises his role as Kevin
Flynn. His older, grizzlier look conveni-
ently fits the Flynn of twenty years later.
He also plays the bad guy, CLU 2 (origi-
nal CLU was a friendly hacking program
Flynn created in TRON). CLU 2 is the
face of a digitally younger (and better
looking) version of Jeff Bridges, courte-
sy of the guys who ‘de-aged’Brad Pitt in
Benjamin Button. Being one of the more
philosophical of the Disney movies,
TRON: Legacy is a biblical tale of a God
who lost control of his creation and is in
an epic struggle against his most power-
ful creation, his once right-hand man.
TRON: Legacy is probably the most
violent Disney production to date. In the
Grid, programs are pitted against each
other in a brutal gladiator-style games
arena that consists of disc combats and
light cycle battles. The permission for
violence is integral to what would prob-
ably be one of the outstanding legacies
of the film: its ultra-stylishness. TRON:
Legacy contains some of the most origi-
nal and awe-striking action sequences
I’ve seen in cinema in years and would
probably set the modern paradigm for
cool, in the way The Matrix did a dec-
ade ago.
TRON fans will be thrilled to see the
evolution of classic elements like the
disc wars, light cycles and the clothing
especially, which now evolved beyond
leotards with duct tape into an incarna-
tion of a kinky fetishwear-inspired syn-
thetic body-suit with glowing stripes.
Yes, TRON: Legacy also breaks the bar-
rier with the strongest sexual undertones
a Disney production has ever had.
As if this weren’t enough, Daft Punk’s
score is an exemplary piece of modern
cinema music. A magnetic fusion of
electronic and orchestral pieces, the
score trembles with style and mesmeris-
es with evocative adagios and nocturnes.
Verdict: if there’s one movie you have
to choose for Christmas, make it TRON:
Legacy rather than the fairy-tale with the
anthropomorphic lion or Daniel Radcliffe
playing with his magic stick once again.
End of line.
Just imagine the immense mindfuck a mash-up of these would be

