NEWS
FELIX
4
News Editors: Matt Colvin
Alex Karapetian
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 10 december 2010
16 academics have been made redundant in a
controversial restructure of the Life Sciences
department. The academics, who were informed
of the decision via email, have until the 7th of
January to decide whether to take a voluntary
redundancy payoff or appeal and face forced
redundancy with no significant payoff. Students
and staff have reacted angrily to the cuts with
one unaffected member of staff privately telling
Felix that academics are “livid” and Emeritus
Professor John Mansfield describing the whole
process as “unfair, misguided and probably
damaging”.
The redundancies come at the end of a 5
month consultation process which began in
July and was forced by a cut of £635,000 in
the funding that the department receives from
central College. The department, which has
run a £1.5 million deficit this year, decided to
dissolve two sections of research in order to
maximize research revenue. Plant and Micro-
bial Sciences and Cell Biology and Functional
Genomics are to be replaced by an encompass-
ing division of Integrative Cell Biology. The
department defended its actions saying that
they were forced to address the long-running
Life Sciences deficit which they could no lon-
ger ignore.
A major campaign against the cuts has been
led by Union President Alex Kendall in the
strongest show of student activism at Imperial in
years. Over 1,100 students and staff have signed
a petition condemning the cuts. Over 400 stu-
dents and members of staff turned up to a public
meeting with the Head of the Life Sciences De-
partment Ian Owens and the Head of the Natural
Sciences Maggie Dallman to show their anger
at the cuts.
Sacked by email
The method by which staff were informed of
their redundancy has also been widely criti-
cized. Letters were sent to those who “[the de-
partment] didn’t think was a fit” while emails
were sent to all members of staff in order to
convey the information to staff at the same
time. One member of staff, who is being made
redundant, called the manner in which the staff
were informed “absolutely shocking” and added
“people have been here for a long time and there
has been no acknowledgment of their service.
We are extremely let down”. Professor Owens
defended the chosen method of communication,
“The advantage of email is that everyone gets
the news simultaneously, but obviously, receiv-
ing the news in such a way is gruesome.” Some
of the affected staff have worked at Imperial
College for over 30 years.
Fears for teaching
The Union, students and members of staff from
the department have raised major concerns, par-
ticularly about the impact the cuts will have on
undergraduate and PhD-level teaching. Two Di-
rectors of Undergraduate Studies, two senior tu-
tors and two admissions tutors have been made
redundant. Alex Kendall said the changes put
“the very running of the Undergraduate Biol-
ogy and Biochemistry degrees” at risk. Stu-
dents have also expressed their anger over the
loss of arguably the most popular lecturers on
the Biology and Biochemistry courses. Sheena
Bungsraz, a third year biochemist, said, “the
only word to describe how I feel (and I am sure
others as well) is disgust. As an international
student, I pay £20,000 to Imperial and expect to
get a world-class education. We cannot and will
not let this happen. Some of the lecturers being
“made redundant” are the best ones I have had
so far.” Biology and biochemistry freshers in the
public meeting went further and said that if they
had known about the changes when applying,
they “would have never come to Imperial in the
first place”.
The department has reaffirmed its commit-
ment to high-quality research-led teaching and
has assured students that the breadth and depth
of the courses would be unaffected. Dr Pietro
Spanu, a reader in Molecular Plant Pathology
who hasn’t been made redundant, said that he
could not see how this could be the case. He said
that the changes were “completely unsettling
for all staff” and that it sent the message that a
“heavy involvement in teaching will not be tak-
en into account when the chips are down”. The
sentiment was shared by Emeritus Professor
John Mansfield in a letter to the Head of Depart-
ment Ian Owens: “Sadly, the present exercise
sends out the clear signal that research income is
the only parameter that really matters within IC.
Anyone who takes on important roles in admin
or teaching is making a big mistake in terms of
job security.”
There is significant uncertainty regarding un-
dergraduate courses this year. Ian Owens told
students that the remaining academics would be
able to ensure that there was no change in the
quality of teaching but Dr Spanu said that there
was a “finite amount of capacity and goodwill”
to shoulder the extra work.
Those students on the MRes in Molecu-
lar Plant Biology and Biotechnology course
are particularly affected. The staff have been
told that they must leave by July 2011 but the
12-month course, which costs £19,800 for in-
ternational students, does not end until October.
Ian Owens tried to reassure students by guaran-
teeing that supervision would be provided on
all masters courses. Additionally he hinted that
there may be cases where staff are allowed to
stay on past July 2011 to complete teaching du-
ties. However it remains to be seen whether this
will be the case. Course Representative Tejal
Raval said that choosing do a masters at Impe-
rial is “proving to be one of the worst decisions
we could have made.” He said that there was an-
ger at the lack of information given to students:
“Everything we know is through word of mouth.
The university has forgotten us – its masters stu-
dents!!” He added that the College “should be
embarrassed by [its] actions”.
In addition, PhD students have been left in
limbo regarding the status of their doctorates.
It is unknown whether they will be able to con-
tinue their research. Silvia Colucci, a 2nd year
PhD student in the hard hit Cell Biology and
Functional Genomics section, said that she felt
misled about the restructure: “I was told not to
worry about it but now my supervisor is be-
ing made redundant and I don’t know if there
is anybody else at Imperial who will be able to
supervise me.” Ian Owens agreed that the un-
certainty was regrettable, but said that it was
unavoidable until 7th January, by which point
all of the affected staff will have decided the
date at which they are leaving. However Silvia
expressed her anger at the “constant delaying
of information. They are always telling us to
wait and wait.”
Additionally at the general public meeting,
Ian Owens was asked by a postgraduate wheth-
er the department would provide all necessary
funding and resources to students whose fund-
ing was tied to their research and researcher at
Imperial. Asked for a categorical answer, Ow-
ens simply said “Yes.”
Department promises no reduction in
breadth or depth of degrees
The redundancies will have far-reaching conse-
quences for a number of courses on the Biology
and Biochemistry degree programmes. There
are a significant number of modules and courses
which are run by affected staff, in particular the
module for Molecular Plant-Microbe Interac-
tions, 4 out of 5 of the staff currently teaching
it are being made redundant. The department
has made a firm commitment that the “breadth
and depth” of the degree will not be affected.
Ian Owens admitted that “losing good teachers
will improve teaching, but the teaching review
that we’re starting in January”, with student in-
put, would. However, Dr. Spanu rejected his as-
surances saying that “the cuts are having such a
deep impact, that inevitably courses will disap-
pear”.
Professor Owens admitted that running the
teaching review after the restructure was not
ideal, saying that “if it weren’t for the cut [from
College] in funding then we would have car-
ried out a teaching review in the summer”. He
Staff and students rail
against job cuts
Critics say teaching will be hit hardest as Life
Sciences promise teaching review in January
“High-pressure environments
may exacerbate a problem that
already exists”
Packed: Skeptical students look on in G16, SAF as the Head of the Life Sciences, Ian Owens, ex
Jan Piotrowski
Kadhim Shubber

