FASHION
Fa sh io n Editor: Saskia Verhagen
fashion.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FELIX Friday 10 december 2010 41
Felix Fashion Christmas Gift Guide
Stuck as to what to buy your mum, dad, boyfriend or girlfriend? Fear no more: we
have done the hard work for you, providing inspiration whatever your budget may be
Girlfriend Boyfriend
Dad
Mum
Cocktail Ring
No, not that kind of ring – you commitment-
phobe you. A cocktail ring is one with a
large, oversized stone – precious, semi-
precious or faux, depending on one’s bud-
get. Very much in vogue at the moment,
these chunky pieces of jewellery have been
seen from the red carpet to the haute fin-
gers of fashion queen bee Rachel Zoe. The
cocktail ring is a gift substantial enough
not to earn a sniff of inadequacy, but not
extravagant enough to make her feel too
bad when all she’s bought you is a cologne
and deodorant set from Boots.
Skinted: Semi-Precious Mixed Stone Ring
- £15 from topshop.com – this ring is actu-
ally a rather fabulous combination of fac-
eted glass and turquoise, with huge bang
for your buck.
Minted: YSL Arty Enamel Ring (left) - £115
from net-a-porter.com - who could say no to
a piece of fashion history? The ubiquitous
YSL cocktail ring is incredibly brash yet per-
fectly chic – a truly perfect gift.
Gloves
There is nothing more wonderful than a
pair of exquisite leather gloves on these
heinously cold winter days – there’s really
nothing worse than cold hands and cold
feet. An incredibly functional addition to
the more discerning man’s accessory col-
lection, the most luxurious of them come
with a cashmere lining, but range down to
silk-lined and unlined. Most dads would
probably be equally happy with either of
the pairs below – both chic, either will defi-
nitely do the job of outdoing your sibling’s
attempt at yet another comedy gift.
Skinted: Green Tartan Gloves (left) – £18
at topman.com – definitely one for the city
dad who thinks he’s a country bumpkin,
this great pair of gloves with a touch of de-
signer flair.
Minted: Classic Silk-Lined Gloves – £65
at aspinaloflondon.com – handmade with
butter-soft leather, this pair (in tan, brown
or black) would go down a treat with any-
one’s dad.
Perfume
Old faithful, but with a little extra thought
put in. You’ve bought her the same old per-
fume that you’ve seen on her dressing ta-
ble year after year – it’s time for a change.
Don’t do the standard swap and go for a
bubble bath or an aromatherapy candle in-
stead (ugh!). Actually go out and sniff out a
perfume that you think she’d like, and steer
clear of anything too heavy, and definitely
stay well away from anything with a celeb-
rity branding… Eau de Coleen Rooney or
Jennifer Aniston may just give off the wrong
impression!
Skinted: White Musk by The Body Shop -
£12 at thebodyshop.co.uk – though incred-
ibly cheap, this is a really lovely, light fra-
grance. The only downside is that it doesn’t
last as long as a proper perfume.
Minted: Philosykos by Diptyque (left) – £45
at spacenk.co.uk – a personal favourite,
this scent is actually unisex; I just can’t re-
sist its fresh, blossoming scent with touch-
es of fig and green leaves.
Cardigan
The single most stylish addition to a man’s
wardrobe, it is the ultimate combination of
form and function. Adding a touch of sarto-
rial flair to both a formal and an informal
outfit, it can be layered under a smart
jacket, proving not only warm but incred-
ibly chic, or over a t-shirt with jeans. The
best colours to look for are navy blue, for-
est green, maroon or grey marl - whatever
complements his existing wardrobe. Make
sure you buy a skinny-fit cardi – it makes
the most of the male figure, accentuating
the waist.
Skinted: Salt and Pepper Cardigan (left) –
£24 from topman.com – a great grey marl
wool number, this one also comes in navy
and is incredibly easy to wear – perfect with
jeans or over a shirt.
Minted: Broadwindsor Cardigan – £89
from aubinandwills.com – definitely one to
share, this cardigan from Jack Will’s older
and rather more chic brother will definitely
find its way into your winter wardrobe.

