“ ”
GAMES
FELIX
Friday 10 december 2010
Games Editor: Simon Worthington
games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
When in Rome, do as the
Assassins have always done
Web Games
Each week we’re going to bring you a selection of
fresh, free and fun web games that you can play right
away in your browser. Unless otherwise specified,
you’re going to need the Adobe Flash Player plug-in
which can be installed from http://get.adobe.com/
flashplayer/.
Cat Astro Phi
photonstorm.com/games/cat-astro-phi
It has a cute kitty. It has spaceships. Is there really
any more you need to know? This top-down shoot-
ing game, played in a Gameboy window that should
send waves of nostalgia over anyone born in the 80s,
features a tiny space man out to save his cat and
escape the hostile planets on which he inevitably
crash lands.
Asteroid-infested space flights sandwhich each level
and provide a fun distraction that inevitably sees your
ship crash. You must navigate the helmeted space-
man around the robot-infested planets, upgrading
your guns, shooting baddies and collecting keycards
and cells to power your ship. The robots actually pro-
vide some challenge and their speedy moves will fre-
quently get the better of you.
42
A
fter having your mind com-
pletely blown by Assassin’s
Creed II’s preposterous ending,
Brotherhood returns to connect
the dots in the bizarre tale and
explain what exactly is going on. But in doing
so, does it bring any new and redeeming fea-
tures to expand the series and is it worth it as a
game in its own right?
At the core of the game remain the missions.
These usually relate to tailing a target, scaling
monstrous buildings to find an item, or – of
course – assassinations. Unfortunately, as is
almost expected, the missions really haven’t
changed. It’s easy to see how the game is al-
most exactly the same as Assassin’s Creed II,
merely with different scenery. Understandably
it is difficult to design new features into such
a winning formula, however, as with the pre-
vious games it’s easy to get bored by the re-
petitiveness of such quests. On the other hand,
a good new feature is the ‘100% Synchronisa-
tion’ goal. This gives you a challenge to com-
plete within the quest – for example you may
have to kill only your target or finish the mis-
sion in a certain amount of time. This makes
the missions a lot more interesting, but it can be
a bit disappointing to know you’ve completed
the mission and not achieved the challenge,
and thus have only achieved ‘50% synchroni-
sation’.
The game takes place in Rome, which is now
under the rule of the Borgia family, who are as-
sociated with the Templars and at war with the
Assassins. They have a vendetta against Ezio
(the main character) who must work his way
up, gaining a team in order to take down this
family and their tyrannous rule of the city. The
city is split up into twelve sections, each over-
looked by a so-called ‘Borgia tower’. In order
to restore Rome to its previous glory, Ezio must
enter these towers, assassinate the captains and
then burn down the towers. This allows you to
then purchase the shops nearby and also open
secret tunnels – a new quicker way of mov-
ing around the city. By doing this you access
new equipment to unlock and also increase the
income of money, much like improving Mon-
teriggioni did in the previous game. The towers
do not have to be destroyed but it makes doing
missions in that area a lot easier – and it’s also
a lot of fun.
Destroying the towers also makes way for a
new concept; buying assassins guilds. These
new guilds allow you to train assassins that join
your team. This is certainly a very cool feature
and is very entertaining, but it really detracts
from the difficulty of the game. All you have to
do is press a button and a team of six assassins
jump in and kill all the guards near you, mean-
ing you have to do nothing at all. This really
is a bit of a double-edged blade in all honesty
for, as amusing as it is watching your assassins
fly in from nowhere and destroy your enemies,
out them noticing you gain a lot more points
than just running after them and alerting every-
one to your presence. Wanted and Advanced
Wanted are free-for-alls with there being a few
tweaks in the rules for Advanced Wanted. For
example, the tracking device is far less accurate
making you have to look out for tell tale signs
before deciding whom to assassinate in order
not to accidentally kill a civilian. Manhunt con-
sists of two teams of four assassins where one
team hides whilst the other hunts. Teams gain
more points for working together, as a team
that is hiding close together will gain far more
points than a team spread out across the map.
Finally, Alliance pits four teams of two assas-
sins against one another which again relies
heavily on the team working together to track
down their targets and again rewards those who
work together.
In conclusion I would say that Assassin’s
Creed: Brotherhood really is not that big a step
up from the previous game. The gameplay is
much the same, and if you’ve played the pre-
vious games it really doesn’t make much of a
new impression. For newcomers to the series,
this is a great start with both beautiful looks
and missions that for the first few tries remain
entertaining. The multiplayer is a great addition
to the series and brings a much needed rejuve-
nation.
However, it alone does not prevent the sad
fact that this game isn’t quite as revolutionary
as it’s predecessors. If I were to be honest, I
would tell you to wait until this game comes
down in price and start on the multiplayer, as
this is easily the greatest part of the game, but
alone it’s not worth paying full price for.
Assassin’s Creed: Brotherhood is avail-
able now for Xbox 360 and PS3, and will
be available on PC in early 2011.
World Conquest
facebook.com/worldconquest
It’s RISK, but on Facebook! The classic world domina-
tion strategy game is recreated in pixel-perfect detail
for you to play with your friends and/or strangers. Set
up a private game and invite your friends for some
classic turn-based action – just remember, take Asia!
it really is like an infinite get-out-of-jail-free
card. This is especially true when you consider
that combat has never been difficult in this se-
ries.
Combat is once again dominated by long
times of waiting for opponent attacks to simply
press one button and counter and kill them im-
mediately, with a few exceptions (including the
new Borgia captains). This quickly becomes
repetitive and really offers no challenge, with
the only redeeming feature being the new com-
bo animations – why just stab someone when
you can also shoot them? It’s impossible not to
enjoy the amusing scenes that show off your
entire armoury.
Sean Harbison builds his Assassin’s Creed: Brotherhood
“As amusing as it is
watching assassins fly in
from nowhere, it really is
an infinite get-out-of-jail-
free card.”
The newest and perhaps greatest feature by
far of this game, is the multiplayer. There are
four modes of play for multiplayer; Wanted,
Advanced Wanted, Manhunt and Alliance.
These are all variations on the central idea
of hunting down a target whilst avoiding be-
ing hunted down, the trick being that there
are many ‘civilian’ NPCs who look identical
to your target. Killing these people will not
get you points and will lose you your target.
There is also a points system for the style of
kill which really benefits true assassins, as by
remaining stealthy and killing your target with-

