FELIX Friday 10 december 2010 43
GAMES
Do YOU LIKE GAMES? Do your FRIENDS
like games? Do you even HAVE any friends?
If you answered YES to these questions then
READ ON.
With the Christmas season approaching, it’s
time to start looking for presents, and why
waste time wrapping boxes when you could
use Steam to deliver your expensive (or pos-
sibly not so expensive) gifts to your friends?
For the unenlightened, Steam, created by
Valve Corporation (makers of Half Life, Team
Fortress 2, Left 4 Dead and Portal), is a digital
distribution software platform allowing elec-
tronic distribution of games and media. Cur-
rently there are over 1,200 games available on
Steam from small titles by small independent
developers to mainstream titles by the video
gaming giants such as Bethesda and Activision.
Also offered is a social networking service,
multiple language support, automatic game
updates, anti-cheat systems, and... well look
folks, it’s just a beast, take it from me. If you
game on the PC and haven’t downloaded it, do
it now. I’ll wait for you, I promise.
Steam also offers a gifting service. When you
go to make a purchase, it offers you the chance
to gift the game to a friend instead (who has to
be registered on Steam in order to receive the
game). Once the purchase is made your friend
can log on and download the game immediate-
ly, and they don’t have to waste time throwing
away gift-wrap. And don’t worry, your friend
is told who gifted them the game, and can read
any kind, funny or hideously obnoxious mes-
sage you attached with it.
If Steam isn’t quite your style, why not try
GOG.com? Good Old Games is another online
game service much like Steam which focuses
it’s attention instead on the golden oldies. With
over 240 titles under its belt it may be worth
looking into if you prefer the older class of PC
games. GOG is DRM-free and also offers a
gifting service, much like Steam, where you are
given an option to gift instead of buy a game
for yourself. Your friend receives an email con-
taining a virtual gift certificate and by going to
the site they can ‘open’their present – provided
they have an account,of course, but setting one
up is quick and easy and is something most Im-
perial students are likely capable of. Hopefully.
Stuck for
gift ideas
for your pet
gamer?
Laurence Pope
thing as a tool for destruction. Laser swords.
Moose heads. Machine guns mounted to
wheelchairs. You even get bonus points for
killing with this stuff. It’s over-the-top crazy
zombie slaying, and it’s fun as hell.
There’s a completely ridiculous plot tied to
the game, but considering everything else
that occurs in the DR2 universe it doesn’t
feel out of place. With multiple weapons
and decisions to make and take, Dead Ris-
ing 2 offers a heck of a lot of replayability.
There have been some pretty fine games
that I’ve played this year (mostly when I
ought to have been revising), but I think the
title of top game must go to Dead Rising
2. Why? Because it doesn’t take itself se-
riously, that’s why. It’s off the wall. And in
a world where video games try so hard to
take themselves seriously, Dead Rising 2 is
like a breath of crisp mountain air.
It lets you create a whole host of crazy
weapons, and lets you utilize just about any-
Laurence Pope picks Dead Rising 2
new types of online games also bring an
interesting twist to the online games; the
Gun Game consists of advancing weapons
achieving a kill with each, starting with a pis-
tol and ending with a ballistic knife. These
new types of game means the game no lon-
ger just consists of running around shooting
and stabbing at the first thing you see, but
actually require you to think and take your
time. And if I must mention single player –
well at least it has an interesting story.
Well, it had to be didn’t it? It’s true that
there is not much new or original material
brought to this game but it’s always the
multiplayer that brings this series home. It
is easy to spend vast amounts of time play-
ing Black Ops, or indeed any of the more re-
cent CoDs, as long as you can play online.
The variety in weapons, perks, and kill-
streaks allow you to create any style of sol-
dier you want – and also leads to a huge
amount of challenges to be completed. The
Sean Harbison picks Call Of Duty: Black Ops
sults were never the same. After a while
it became almost obscene how well we
knew the levels and how strategic our play
became. So refined was our knowledge of
Emerald Hill Zone that all other flatmates
were effectively disqualified from ever even
trying; for them it became just a spectator
sport of Sonic, speed, swearing and more
last minute changes of fate than ebay.
Some games don’t age. Sonic 2 is one
of them.
My choice is not because of some trendy
retro elitism, but one of necessity. I don’t
have a modern console. I don’t play COD. I
don’t play FIFA. I don’t care.
Because Sonic 2 has proved more than
able to satisfy our flat’s multiplayer fix. Ev-
ery day for months, my flatmate and I sat
down to play Sonic 2. He was always Tails.
I was always Sonic. He always used the offi-
cial controller, whilst I used The Other One.
Aside from those fundamentals, the re-
Omar Hafeez-Bore picks... Sonic 2?
as I took a chance on an answer I’d guessed
from a puzzle I didn’t really understand.
Although I don’t think the story has the
same level of mystery or quality of writing
as Professor Layton and the Curious Vil-
lage, it’s certainly a better game in other
respects. There’s more to do, more to look
at and more to solve. Actually having a
challenge changed Pandora’s Box from just
a game into a true experience, and an ex-
tremely compelling one at that.
In a world where shooting games are merely
interactive cinematics and where platform-
ers have been reduced to the easy realm of
‘kids’ games, it’s refreshing to find a title
that can be genuinely called ‘difficult’.
Pandora’s Box deserves that label. Al-
though some puzzles can be solved by pot
luck, most require genuine thought. There
are some real stumpers and a few I’m still
yet to solve. The constant puzzling doesn’t
get boring either – I feared for my reputation
Simon Worthington picks Professor Layton & Pandora’s Box
The top titles of 2010?
The games team sounds off on their favourite game of the year

