FOOD
FELIX
FRIDAY 10 DECEMBER 2010
44
Food Editor: Dana Li
food.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Brasa: a place your date
will get a good grilling
Gastronomical news
Dana says:
To add to the crazy eBay sales for Heston Blu-
menthal’s Hidden Orange Christmas Puddings, I’d
like to point out that his new restaurant dinner in
Knightsbridge’s Mandarin Oriental Hotel is now tak-
ing bookings for when they open on 31st January.
Three course set lunch from £25, with an a la carte
dinner from £55. Dinner does not promise the same
spectacular feasts that were featured on Heston’s
shows, rather, simple contemporary dishes that
take their influence from gastronomic recipes dat-
ing from the 16th century such as Scallops with Cu-
cumber Ketchup and Peas. With a little work on the
food editor front, a possible complementary meal
review will appear in January. With 4000 advance
reservations made on the first morning phone lines
were open (1st December) though, the chance of it
becoming reality are next to nothing.
T
his week, Felix returns to Fulham
to review Brasa, the restaurant
attached to the recently opened
Broadway Bar & Grill which we
wrote about a few weeks ago.
Since our last visit, Brasa has acquired its own
sign above the door, sending out the “Hello
we exist!” message to passers-by, although the
word probably hasn’t spread much yet: it was
rather quiet on a Friday night when we visited.
Brasa promises a Mediterranean-style shar-
ing experience centered around quality meat
(sourced from the UK) which is cooked on an
Asador grill imported from the Basque country.
If steaks are too boring for your palate, there are
specialties such as partridge, pheasant, venison
or halibut. Brasa sounds like the perfect place
for successful and beautiful young people (like
yourself) to catch up on protein and chat with
equally successful and beautiful friends. You
will be served by friendly and beautiful staff, of
course.
Skipping starters, we went straight to the
point: meat. My friend Bea ordered a veal
chop, and as all the meats at Brasa come pre-
cut for sharing, I helped myself to a nice juicy
piece. My only criticism about the veal was that
it probably came a bit too cooked, considering
that my friend asked for it to be rare-ish. My
own Galloway fillet was a quality piece of rare-
ish fresh meat, but when it’s good meat like
this, you can’t go wrong with that. But, excuse
my stickler tendencies, I did have beef with it.
Firstly, it came with a bone. I was puzzled. Is
this new? I don’t know about you, but in my lit-
tle head, fillet stands for boneless. I even called
on the dictionary, just so I wouldn’t make a
fool of myself, and, indeed, it confirms that fil-
let stands for “a boneless cut or slice of meat or
fish”. Secondly, there just wasn’t enough of that
cow on my plate to justify the price tag. This
is, after all, Fulham, not Knightsbridge. With
these sort of GPS coordinates, one would think
that £28 for the meat alone (not including sides)
would warrant a Nice Big Piece of Cow. Or
maybe it was just too good and I wanted more!
Our meats both came with a dollop of but-
ter on the side, which is not what you usually
see with your steak, but I’m with Julie Powell
on this one: “Is there anything better than but-
ter? The day there is a meteorite rushing toward
Earth and we have thirty days to live, I am go-
ing to spend it eating butter.” (In case you for-
got, she’s that woman who blogged about her
year-long cooking from the Julia Child cook-
book; her blog turned into a book, which turned
into a movie and now she’s famous and rich.
Whereas I’ll just eat butter, write for Felix and
die fat, but hey, that’s life.) To balance out the
butter-beef cardio combo, we did nominally
order salad: grilled fennel – delicious – and
Brasa was rather quiet on the Friday night when we visited, but we’re here to spread the word!
Lucie Jichova reviews Broadway Bar and Grill’s lil bro
tossed green vegetables: green beans, snow
peas and brocolli. It was, err ... very green?
For afters, we picked a dessert with possibly
the longest name ever: “Cardamom Poached
Pumpkin with Smoked Chestnuts, Chocolate
Ice Cream and Candid Clementines”. Food
writers who get paid by the word will love this
one. It worked for me, as I’m a big fan of spices
in desserts. The pumpkin was thinly sliced and
arranged into a rose, while the rest of the des-
sert was scattered around on a black board in
that modern obssession-with-presentatation
style. And just because we’re greedy, we also
indulged on the Baked Chocolate Tart with
Blackberry Sorbet, which was sweet, warm,
melting, flowing, head-spinning ... excuse me, I
forgot I was writing about food. Also, I was on
my second glass of Pinot Grigio by then.
Some of the other dessert choices on the
menu are odd; I know this is London and
people have weird tastes, but who orders rice
pudding after a steak? More interesting is the
Grilled Banana Split with Hackney Honey.
Hackney isn’t known for bees peacefully fly-
ing over meadows, but among all that council-
estate deprivation, there is a teenager called
Philip Schilds who keeps bees on his rooftop
and sells his honey at markets. Locally sourced
ingredients are all the rage now, so well done
Brasa!
Brasa 474-476 Fulham Rd, London SW6
1BY. 020 7610 3137 Nearest tube: Fulham
Broadway
225g cold butter, diced
350g plain flour
100g golden caster sugar
280g mincemeat
1 small egg, beaten
icing sugar, to dust
To make the pastry, rub the butter into the flour,
then mix in the sugar and a pinch of salt. Combine
the pastry into a ball - don’t add liquid - and knead it
briefly. The dough will be fairly firm, like shortbread
dough. You can use the dough immediately, or chill.
Preheat the oven to 200C/gas 6/fan 180C. Line 18
holes of two 12-hole patty tins, by pressing small
walnut-sized balls of pastry into each hole. Spoon
the mincemeat into the pies.
Take slightly smaller balls of pastry than before
and pat them out to make round lids, big enough to
cover the pies. Top the pies with their lids, pressing
the edges gently together to seal - you don’t need to
seal them with milk or egg.
Brush the tops of the pies with the beaten egg. Bake
for 20 minutes until golden. Leave to cool in the tin
for 5 minutes, then remove. Lightly dust with icing
sugar and serve! MERRY CRIMBO!
Mince pies
“I’ll just eat butter, write
for Felix and die fat, but
hey, that’s life.”
Lucie Jichova

