FOOD
FELIX FRIDAY 10 DECEMBER 2010 45
A few too many cocktails leads to naked men and digging massive holes
A
s the cold and dark win-
ter draws swiftly around
us there is but one thing
to warm the cockles
on a dreary evening.
Cocktails, the perfect pick-me-up for
pre or post-prandial pleasure. Impe-
rial students, you’re now in the nexus
of the UK’s cocktail scene, just down
the road from the Savoy hotel where
‘The Savoy Cocktail Book’ was first
compiled in 1930. If you’re sitting on a
trust fund from Daddy that could have
bailed out Iceland, then this is the place
to be. However if like us your recession-
frayed purse strings are tightening slow-
ly around your neck, read on to enjoy
cocktails on the cheap.
The cocktail is reputed to have been
invented in New Orleans in 1794 by An-
toine Peychaud, a pharmacist by trade,
as a tonic for his customers. The word is
derived from “coquetier”, the French for
egg cup, which is the means still used
to measure cocktail ingredients. History
shows us mixology has its roots in sci-
ence and should therefore come natural-
ly to us Imperial students (with the ob-
vious exception of geologists who can’t
even mix a snakebite). The temperature
of your spirit is key to the quintessential
cocktail. Gin, vodka and rum is served
ice cold as the chill reduces tongue sen-
sitivity to sweet and sourness and en-
hances dryness, whereas good whisky
must be served at room temperature to
allow the complex aromatics to evapo-
rate and diffuse through the palate.
So now we have whetted your appe-
tite, where are you going to go? Luck-
ily we’ve done all the hard work for you
and have paid the price in cirrhosis and
hangovers. The Loft in Clapham, an ex-
clusive upstairs urban retreat sells drib-
blingly good cocktails and has regular
two for one nights with fantastic views
of the kebab shop across the road, which
will deep fry anything if you ask nicely.
If you’re in the mood for Fulham, try
Chateau 6 for a classier/sloanier kind of
night. Just lay back on the faux-leather
Chesterfields while being regaled with
stories of Mr Abercrombie’s gap yah.
Our personal favourite, Anam Bar in
Angel, is a little bit further afield but
well worth the extra time. Tucked away
down Chapel market, this chilled out un-
pretentious venue does the tastiest cock-
tails we’ve tried so far. We highly rec-
ommend the outrageously quaffable ‘Dr
Strangelove’ a smooth mix of Buffalo
Trace Bourbon with Port, Saké and Tu-
aca, tickled with caramel. Also topping
our list is the Chilli ‘n’ Chocolate, red
chilli muddled and shaken with Tequila,
coffee and butterscotch liqueurs and co-
coa powder. Head down on a Thursday
and get any cocktail for four pounds.
As the Imperial bible New Scientist
rightly said “Humankind has gone to
almost absurd lengths to make ethanol
palatable” but we’ve gone one step fur-
ther and made them cheap as well. In the
1790s happy hour began at 3pm so let’s
raise our glasses to Peychaud and have
a little pick-me-up before final lectures.
Shakin’ your cocktail feather
Letting your hair down, sippin’ on cocktails by Peter Quicke and Jamie Rickman
The Manhattan
Reputed to have been invented
by Winston Churchill’s mother:
2 oz rye whiskey
1/2 oz sweet vermouth
2-3 dashes Angostura bitters
1 maraschino cherry to garnish
• Pour the ingredients into a
mixing glass with ice cubes.
• Stir well.
• Strain into a cocktail glass.
Cocktails etc.
In addition to Peter and Ja-
mie’s recommendations, here
are my alternative locations
for awesome cocktails and the
recipe for a good night.
Bar Kick
127 Shoreditch High St,
London E1 6JE
Happened to come across
this place on a Friday night;
you can expect Mojitos stink-
ing of rum, challenges to table
football (which, when you lose,
means that both your money
and reputation is down the
drain). Prices are comparable
to the West End, but the East
End is really where it’s at.
The Book Club
100 Leonard Street EC2A 4RH
Another one of the East End
places-to-be, reviewed count-
lessly in Felix. Good gigs, ping
pong and good alcohol, need I
say more?
Graphic Bar
4 Golden Square,
London W1F 9HT
Serving cocktails in paint
pots, there’s no need for the
pretentious little finger in the
air and grubby fingerprints over
the glass. Served according to
the colour of gin, share paint
buckets for four, but at £25 a
pop.
NO MISSILES AT ASSA
An all authentic Korean food experience.
By Chinhua Yap
A
ssa is a humble little es-
tablishment in the Little
Korea of Soho, a short
stretch of shops with a
conspicuously signifi-
cant numbers of Korean eateries. The
best sign of culinary authenticity is the
presence of actual Koreans in a Korean
restaurant and on this front Assa did
amazingly well. The place was bustling
with Koreans and it was reassuring to
see them tucking into bubbling pots of
kimchi stews and hearing the sounds of
the dolsot bibimbap sizzling away. Seri-
ously though, do you see the Japanese in
Yo-Sushi, or Italians in Pizza Hut?
The concept is easy, get to Assa, pray
that it is not packed to the doors and
hopefully, grab a table. Sit down and
have your legs awkwardly positioned —
touching the legs of your dining mates.
The things we go through for food...
Assa offers great lunch deals. For
about £6, you get a main dish and two
saucers of banchan (side dishes) with a
rice tea to wash everything down with.
I was immediately drawn to the dol-
sot bibimbap upon scanning the menu
though; the theatrics of a heated stone
pot was good enough impetus. Unglam-
orously translated into “rice with vari-
ous sautéed or raw vegetables topped
with an egg (raw, or fried) seasoned
with Korean fermented red pepper paste
served in a stone pot”. Quite a mouth-
ful. Squirt in appropriate amounts of
slightly spicy pepper paste, burst the
beautiful egg yolk and stir it all up. At-
tempt to coat every grain of rice and ev-
ery bit of vegetables with the yolk and
the pepper paste and enjoy the delight-
ful contrast in flavours and textures. The
crunchy vegetable strands and the fluffy
grains of white rice all brought together
by the more-ish and umami-rich ember
red pepper paste. Those with a slightly
heartier appetite should consider various
stir-fried beef or chicken entrées served
on top of a generous portion of rice —
less ostentatious but still delicious.
What stole the show was the Haemul
Pajeon (Korean style seafood pancake).
An omelette packed with prawns and
squids. The batter was pan-fried to a
golden glorious crisp and the soy and
rice vinegar dipping sauce served as a
nice little embellishment. Don’t wait,
though, devour the pancake asap as the
crisp doesn’t last long.
Assa was equal parts sound, sight and
taste. The crackle of the stone pot, the
simmering of the fiercely red stews and
the genuine tastes left us with a terrific
experience. Travel around the world, my
friends, with a culinary exploration.
Assa 53 St Giles High St, Charing
Cross, London WC2H 8LH 020 7240
8256.
@Ignissa/flickr

