“As travelling becomes
increasingly accessible
– with more people ex-
ploiting such accessibil-
ity – is the world becom-
ing smaller?”
TRAVEL
FELIX
Friday 10 DECember 2010
46
Travel Editor: Dylan Lowe
Chris Richardson
travel.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Wishing You Were Here
Small world, huh?
Who: Gap-yearer Amar Hussain runs Gap Year Es-
cape, a website that documents his pursuit – the
dream of perpetual travel.
About: Management consultant-cum freelance writer,
Amar defines Gap Year Escape – a one-man chronicle
of his leap-of-faith and voyage around the globe. As
he rhetorically states: “how can you know your place
in the world if you haven’t seen it?”
Why: Guided by his training in marketing and man-
agement, little wonder that Amar created his site
from scratch and transformed it into one of the most
well-respected travel blogs within the community. An
experienced traveller, having recently returned from
his round-the-world travel, his site offers sound ad-
vice that I can only deem invaluable. Destination-
specific guides, tips on packing, personal ramblings
are also features of this website.
Recommended: Three ways to travel to your dream
destination; A beginner’s guide to travelling the
Middle East; Travel advice in three words; 25 travel
blogs you should know about.
Link: http://www.gapyearescape.com
Twitter: @GapYearEscape
Travel Blog of the Week
Dutch graffiti by Dylan Lowe
Want to see your travel photograph featured here?
Send it to travel.felix@imperial.ac.uk.
Have a story on how travel generated new friend-
ships? Have hilarious travel tales to tell? Send us a
tweet with the hashtag #FelixTravel
N
estled on the stool, the silhou-
ette was none other than what
obstructed me as I wrestled,
pints in both grasps, my way
to the booth where my friends
were seated. I bellowed a ’scuse-me – my voice
drowned out amid patrons of the busy Queen-
stown bar – and attracted his attention. Hyste-
ria, on both our parts, ensued and overwhelmed
the venue.
I had run into none other than Luke Turner,
Felix’s very own music editor, in the middle of
New Zealand.
Just as the exhilaration settled and dampened,
it was then the mysterious fabrication of fate
that struck us hard. Sure enough, it was no ser-
endipitous, random encounter that dumbfound-
ed us both – the friend I had come visit was
undertaking a ski instructor course, and one of
her fellow attendees happened to be a friend of
Luke’s.
Thus be the phrase ‘sheer coincidence’ con-
demned to becoming an eternal understatement.
Ever since bitten by the travel bug such ‘co-
incidences’ have tiptoed into my rucksack,
sprouted exponentially and now parasitically
attach itself to my traveller’s lifestyle – no more
evident than the sighting of uncanny, seeming-
ly-unconnected Facebook mutual friends.
Quoting Facebook may sound like a crude
analogy, though exclaiming upon realis-
ing your childhood friend is in a relationship
with a travel companion you’ve met in Fiji, or
stumbling into someone at a bar in Prague who
knows members of your extended family, is no
social-media trickery.
As travelling becomes increasingly acces-
sible – with more people exploiting such acces-
sibility – is the world becoming smaller?
Travelling – combined, arguably, with social
media – exposes the traveller to innumerable
social opportunities the older generations could
never have bargained for. Especially when
modern technology, the said social media, al-
lows us to maintain acquaintances we’ve made
on the road.
But is getting acquainted with heaps of indi-
viduals overwhelmingly a good thing?
Not when emotions spiral out of control. In
particular for the long-term, perpetual traveller,
whose lifestyle and philosophy stand antago-
nistically against the concept of ‘remaining sta-
tionary’, any desire to cement a friendship is
what the determined traveller must suppress.
“Travel can subtract dis-
tances as easily as it can
lengthen them, plus a
couple of complimentary
barriers and brick walls”
Travellers have a higher chance of getting laid, but more
often rendered heartbroken – discuss. By Dylan Lowe
They only come free with purchase of a travel package – real-time travel, not on WoW
Likewise, when travellers are embroiled in
intimacy and mutual affection, travel can tear
lovers apart in the cruellest of fashions.
Rather tragic, this irony is: that travel can
subtract distances as easily as it can lengthen
them, plus a couple of complimentary barriers
and brick walls.
Though, is saving yourself from heartbreak
or two justification enough for you to shun and
elude from travel? Hardly.
The fact is that travelling is, inevitably, in-
terwoven with our lives whether we like it or
not. Remove the glamour and principle of ex-
ploration – what becomes clear is how travel
is fundamentally a lifestyle we are all obliged
to obey.
From the laborious extraction of oneself from
bed to lecture hall, from the Odyssey-style
voyage that has you traversing countries and
continents to visit family and friends, the sort
of travel I’m urging you to consider is that of
necessity.
Not to mention other travellers headed in your
direction. Unless one is so blinded by reck-
less fondness, like yours truly, one wouldn’t
proceed to committing to a relationship with,
say, an Australian girl who, to her dismay, was
homebound mere weeks after the spark ignited.
Yet, what is there to despair and regret?
When life is fleeting and encounters briefer
still, shouldn’t we treasure the moments have-
been rather than fret about their non-existence?
Travel may strip you bare, it is still your fa-
cilitator of miraculous occurrences. Grievous
partings may be, avoiding them by leading a
mundane subsistence is, in my humble opinion,
no more bearable.
Besides, what negative emotions travel in-
flicts upon you, it compensates and remedies
with new amities, with your appetite for thrill
and unpredictability quenched. We are – if I
may speak on behalf of you all – addicts of sur-
prises after all.
So in the words of Homer Simpson, albeit
with a significant alteration, I would like to
propose a toast: to travel, the problem of – and
solution to – all of life’s problems.
Marriage, kids, mortgage, confinement, care home, death – better carpe diem bitches

