TRAVEL
FELIX Friday 10 DECEMber 2010 47
Why not trade in the dreary snow and endless movie re-runs this Christmas for
some tasty tropical islands and unforgettable adventures? By Chris Richardson
Christmas holiday in the sun
Y
ou may recall from is-
sues-past a tale of spiked
drinks that occurred on
Koh Phi Phi in Thailand,
but last time I didn’t re-
ally dwell on it as a place. It’s a truly
unmissable spot that offers beautiful
sands and world class diving as well as
a whole heap of other activities. Up un-
til the devastating tsunami of 2004 Phi
Phi was a haven, for backpackers and
tourists alike, as the perfect Christmas
resting spot, and thankfully people are
starting to revisit the area over the holi-
day season. While the natural disaster
obliterated the landscape and cost the
lives of many, it allowed for a tasteful
fresh start for an island that was well on
the way of being permanently tarnished
by reckless tourism.
Whilst certainly a cliché (I’m sure
things are a cliché for a good reason,
mind) Alex Garland’s The Beach is truly
a masterpiece appreciated by travellers
the world over. While the mythical island
is located on Thailand’s Eastern Gulf,
the glossy Hollywood screen adaptation
was in fact filmed on Phi Phi over on the
West coast. One frankly fantastic compa-
ny (Spider Monkey Travel – look them
up if you go) currently offer a camping
trip to Phi Phi Leh, the smaller undevel-
oped Phi Phi island, where The Beach
was filmed. I stumbled upon this while
asking some backpackers for recommen-
dations: it shot its way into my top three
experiences in Southeast Asia and I’ve
been recommending it ever since.
The camping trip kicked off with an
optional thrill-seeking afternoon, start-
ing with cliff jumping. The islands are
composed of gargantuan limestone
cliffs, there for your climbing pleasure.
Following some probably-dangerous
climbing you can then plunge into the
turquoise ocean below, to be nibbled by
fish and stung by the jellyfish waiting to
greet you. The adrenaline from throw-
ing yourself from over twenty metres
is quite something (though the painful
bum left me suffering for some time af-
terwards).
Next came the shark snorkelling,
which is a lot less daunting than it
sounds: the area is home to some harm-
less reef sharks as well as a plethora of
corals and species of fish that’ll keep
you well entertained for days. Follow-
ing a light lunch we were all exhausted
but so excited to stand in awe at one of
the most beautiful spots in the world,
Maya Bay.
After a short swim to the island that
involved huge waves slamming us into
rocks and people losing shoes, we clam-
bered our way through the jungle in
haste. As my girlfriend had come out
to join me I was set on this being a re-
laxed part of my trip, a break from the
sweating and trekking, and we couldn’t
have picked a better place. Perfect white
sand, turquoise waters and sunny blue
skies: paradise.
I’d strongly advise against visiting
during the day, as to do so would do
the place no justice whatsoever. As we
showed up later in the afternoon, hun-
dreds of tourists were being booted off
– and I mean hundreds. Thankfully strict
policies mean that said tourists didn’t
leave any litter behind, and we had a
flawless island for just a handful of us
for an entire evening. It’d be upsetting
to have to share it with the speedos and
sexpats instead of just a few soon-to-be
close friends.
I think a lot of the time, the travelling
experiences you recall with the greatest
someone from a familiar remote village
back home. As always the circumstanc-
es lead to fast-paced friendship forming
which made the evening so much more
fun.
We had a barbecue, sat and drank beers
and talked, before the evening picked up
and turned into more of a party with fire
tricks and great music on the agenda.
A definite highlight was the obligatory
skinny dip in the phosphorescent water:
hardly as magical as DiCaprio’s mo-
ment, what with the Scotsmen belting
“this is Sparta!” at the top of their lungs.
Anyway, the partying was great fun, and
the lack of a resident law enforcement
was certainly taken advantage of.
Sometimes you need activities to
keep you entertained, but the atmo-
sphere of this place spoke for itself, and
we didn’t really need anything but good
company (if that). I really envy the Thai
guys there, who definitely have one of
the greatest jobs ever. I’d quite happily
be paid to improve my fire stick skills,
play some acoustic guitar and get drunk
with travellers in such an awesome spot:
remind me why I’m doing a degree?
The good times continued well into the
night before we retired on bamboo mats
on the beach after tiring ourselves out
from karaoke and catching crabs. Wak-
ing up in such an environment was quite
something. As the tourists arrived we
packed up camp and headed back to Phi
Phi Don.
For some reason we decided that
one night we’d abandon our perfectly
adequate room for a bamboo shack on
the other (party) side of the island, not
then equating the excessive noise and
thin walls to the lack of sleep that obvi-
ously followed. Several times I almost
dozed off, only to be rudely kept awake
by the likes of the Black Eyed Peas. I
walked right past a shoe shop, smiling
at the shoemaker on my merry way, only
to find that the pharmacy was empty.
Seconds later the shoe man popped up
behind the counter as he buttoned up
his slick lab coat. The Thais truly are a
multitalented people: perhaps we could
learn a thing or two. Taking full ad-
vantage of Thailand’s liberal over-the-
counter policy I invested in some 10p
diazepam pills, popped a few, and within
thirty minutes was out like a light with-
out any problems.
Before getting my drink spiked (see
felixonline.co.uk) the days that preceded
with newly found friends were great fun.
The island has the usual funky markets
with all sorts of cool crafts, great quality
street food at low prices, and the sights
atop the viewpoint are incredible and
well worth the climb. The island also has
a fruit shake vendor (who I now have on
Facebook – praise be Zuckerberg) that
I’d rate over any other on the continent.
Hilarity can be found every evening at
the Reggae Bar, where anybody inebri-
ated enough can enter the ring and give
Muay Thai a go: I decided that I’d give
it a miss since I’m more of a lover (read:
pussy).
I don’t really get all of the hype sur-
rounding white Christmases: for those
who stick around in England it’s just
guaranteed disappointment, and unless
you’re going to ski abroad what’s the
point in being confined to the dim-lit
coldness? I for one would much rather
be in a place like Phi Phi, enjoying the
glistening heat with a frosty beer and
book in hand and not a care in the world.
fondness are heavily dependent on the
company kept. Hannah and I met some
really great people that night, including
“It shot its way into
my top three experi-
ences in Southeast
Asia and I’ve been
recommending it ever
since”
Just another island, but at least it’s not London
This exact photo with varying ugly faces gets taken every day – get some fucking originality
Sex on the beach: without the cocktail, with your mum

