TRAVEL
FELIX Friday 10 DECEMber 2010 49
What are the best places in Europe to bid farewell to the year in style? Presenting
the most spectacular locations for New Year’s Eve celebrations
An explosive end to 2010
Hamburg, Germany
The alcoholic younger sister of the Scandinavian nations, there’s no
escape from entering the New Year without at least a mild attempt
at intoxication. For the connoisseurs Copenhagen’s latest status as
one of world’s most renowned destination of Michelin-starred din-
ing will no doubt lure in the hungry pack. For the more animalis-
tic party-goers I recommend the Cirkusbygningen, the old circus
building set to host the largest single party in town. The best fire-
works will hover over the beautiful Tivoli Gardens for five nights in
a row prior to New Year’s Eve.
The gorgeous Belgian city is by no means medieval when it comes
down to New Year’s Eve celebrations. Against the archaically-
architectural backdrop, some of the coolest rave fests in Belgium
take place in Antwerp; for the little-more civilised bunch the sheer
thought of Belgian beer should entice you to visit a few pubs and
keep your pint-count high. Come minutes before midnight and fol-
low the trail of celebrants down to the quays of the river Scheldt –
be in awe of the explosions of fireworks. Polish it off with your first
beer/champagne in 2011.
The marvellous, yet seemingly-reserved city reveals its true, fun-seeking
nature on New Year’s Eve. Whilst Altona accommodates for the older
audience that seek a quieter and more mature celebration, energy and
vigour is what keep other districts’ flow running – areas around Reep-
erbahn and Schanzenviertel bring out the party spirit and celebratory
booze-age. The fireworks at the Elbe is a spectacle, though it’s the streets
where the displays are at – fireworks are available for purchase in super-
markets. Load your trolleys with gunpowder and ignite some rockets in
your neighbourhood.
Prague, Czech Republic
Copenhagen, Denmark
Edinburgh’s Hogmanay – is there a better way to spend New Year’s
Eve than this? One of the UK’s best festivals takes place in the heart
of Edinburgh. Opening this year’s event is the torchlight proces-
sion, before the celebrants toss away their candles and burst into
party mode in the City Centre at the official Street Party. Elsewhere,
West Princes Street Gardens play host to concerts featuring some
of the hippest artists on the UK music scene. All to be wrapped up
by breathtaking fireworks, holding hands with your beloved and
‘Auld Lang Syne’.
Edinburgh, Scotland
Antwerp, Belgium
The Czechs have an extra reason to celebrate 1 January than you
think: the Czech Republic was established on this day in 1993 fol-
lowing the breakup of Czechoslovakia. Not one but several public
firework displays erupt at midnight. The popular methods of cel-
ebration include a bar crawl and fine dining at all-inclusive restau-
rants offering food, drinks and dancing. And then there’s the Party
Boat, which cruises along the river Vltava – sightseeing aside, the
itinerary is timed with precision to allow patrons the opportunity to
catch the fireworks at a prime location.
You may strip away the Icelanders’ finance but you still won’t dampen
their party spirits – and it shines through during those long dark nights of
theirs. Their New Year’s Eve celebrations seem to occur in reverse: the
evening itself is revered in solemnity before the fireworks, best viewed
from the highest spot of the city, Hallgrimskirkja, announce the com-
mencing of New Year festivity. Parties unveil on every street and live
music emanates from every bar until as late as 5am. And there’s no stop-
ping you from prolonging the famed party spirit well into the first day
of 2011.
Reykjavik, Iceland

