FELIX 5
NEWS
Friday 10 december 2010
More student cuts
More student cuts for Imperial
students at South Kensington’s
FRESH Hairdressers.
Men’s cuts £20
Women’s shampoo and cut and
shake dry £26
Women’s shampoo, cut and
blow-dry £36
All of our cuts are done by highly
experienced stylists.
Tuesday to Fridays 9.30 to
4.30 (sorry no discounts on
Saturdays).
We are only 70 metres from
South Kensington tube station
To book an appointment, call
Sponsored Editorial
Discount haircuts for Imperial
students at Fresh Hairdressers
0207 823 8968. Ask for a
student discount and bring your
Imperial ID.
Cash only.
The impact on modules and courses
xplains the reasons for the departmental cuts
admitted that some of the staff lost were “fan-
tastic” but said that the changes were driven
by a need to address the Department’s long
running deficit. In the 2006/07 session, the de-
partment was running at a £12 million deficit
before being cut down to £1.1 million last year.
The fact that the deficit for the 2010/11 session
raised for the first time in several years was ad-
mitted to have been a major factor behind the
current decisions.
In separate news, the College announced a
“£140 million innovation investment boost”
caused through floating Imperial Innovation
Group plc shares on the stock exchange. Ad-
ditionally the College ran a £14.5 million sur-
plus in 2009, up from £7.1million in 2008; the
surplus is believed to have risen significantly in
2010. Maggie Dallman rejected the suggestion
that the College didn’t spend enough money
on teaching saying “We have invested more
money in teaching and we don’t just sit on this
surplus and do nothing with it”. She pointed to
the quality of accommodation and the gym as
proof and added “you [students] would com-
plain about poor accommodation” if we divert-
ed that money to teaching.
Plant Sciences ‘obliterated’
The cuts have been slammed as the end of Plant
Sciences at Imperial, a claim that the depart-
ment has strenuously denied. 9 out of 20 aca-
demics from the former Plant and Microbial
Sciences (PMS) section have been lost while
the impact on the now dissolved Cell Biology
and Functional Genomics (CBFG) section has
been more dramatic; only 4 out of 9 academics
remain.
The method by which the department tar-
geted the sections has come under sustained
attack. Both the Union and academics in the af-
fected sections have criticized the department’s
use of “spectacularly flawed” statistics to prove
that the research output of PMS and CBFG is
lower than other sections. The Union have
posted data on their website which they claim
shows that “there is no difference between re-
search output and that there is a significant dif-
ference in teaching hours”. Further criticisms
were made in relation to the relocation from
the Wye Campus which began in 2004 and
only ended this year. In his letter to Ian Owens,
Professor John Mansfield said: “The impact of
relocation has not been given adequate weight-
ing. [...] To hold the view [that] there was no
substantial disruption is simply an insult. [...]
There has simply not been enough time since
the relocation to allow the section to develop.”
Ian Owens addressed both the above issues
when he spoke to Felix in October, comment-
ing that he had not seen signs that the section
was returning to its previous 5-star research
rating. In reference to claims of data misuse,
Professor Owens declared: “I would not be pre-
senting the data if I did not believe that it was
statistically significant.”
While the Department of Life Sci-
ences maintain that their courses
will retain the current “depth and
breadth” despite the proposed
changes, information has surfaced
which claims that the number of
staff involved in teaching is to be
severely reduced, including those
convening certain courses.
The full scale of the impact that
the plans will have on teaching in
Biochemistry have been revealed
to Felix, with one member of affect-
ed staff warning that at least 25%
of teaching for the entire degree
programme being removed by the
next academic year. The majority
of courses across all three years of
the Biochemistry and Biotechnology
BSc are in line for staff losses.
Over the first year, all four core
courses will suffer significant loss-
es. Staff losses stand at 30% for
Molecular Cell Biology 1, 35% for Bi-
ological Chemistry, 40% for Proteins
and Enzymes and 50% for Molecular
Biology. The conveners for Biological
Chemistry and Molecular Biology 1
are also amongst those members of
staff affected by the cuts.
Second year courses are compara-
tively less affected, with staff losses
of 30% for Molecular Biology 2 and
50% for Molecular Cell Biology 2.
IMPERIAL AWAKENS: Union leads
resurgence of student activism PAGE 6
The third year of the course is by
far the most affected. While staff
losses for Mechanisms of Gene Ex-
pression and the Biochemistry Final
Year Project stand at 20%, the fig-
ure substantially increases for the
remaining courses. Biotechnology
and Business suffers 30% losses.
There are losses totaling 80% for
the courses Biochemical Pharmacol-
ogy and Drug Action, Cellular Neu-
roscience and Molecular Neurobiol-
ogy, advancing to 85% for Molecular
Basis of Development and finally
90% for Advanced Topics in Plant
Molecular Biology. The conveners of
these listed third year courses have
all been affected by the cuts, apart
from those in Mechanisms of Gene
Expression and the Biochemistry FI-
nal Year Project.
The Department of Life Sciences
defended these losses to staff and
students on Wednesday, making
a concerted effort to assure those
concerned that the losses are not
focused on adversely affecting
undergraduate teaching, but are
instead “exclusively research ori-
entated”. Head of Department Ian
Owens acknowledged to those in at-
tendance at the group meeting that
“teaching is incredibly important”.
In reference to the effect that
the staff losses would have on un-
dergraduate teaching across the
department in general, Owens ex-
plained that, “[Life Sciences] hopes
to have very few changes this year to
teaching… essentially, there will be
no changes”
When asked by a member of the
audience whether the staff losses
meant that the number of options
available to students would be
halved, Owens claimed that “that’s
not the case,” instead suggesting
that following the changes, the re-
sult would be a “more stimulating,
more relevant and better course.”
Matthew Colvin
Head of Department Ian Owens
says that the cuts to staff will not
affect teaching, a claim fiercely
disputed by students and staff in
his department
Staff Affected
Dr Simon Archer
Dr Gerard Bishop
Dr Robert Coutts
Dr Mahendra
Deonarain
Dr Bart Feys
Dr Alex Grabov
Dr David Hartley
Dr Richard Murphy
Dr Kevin O’Hare
Dr Glen Powell
Dr Jane Saffell
Dr John Tippins
Dr Yuri Ushkaryov
Dr Rudiger
Woscholski
The Human Cost: Page 8
Editorial: Page 24
Letters: Page 27

