Felix Sport sponsored by
SPORT
10.12.10
ISSUE 1477
COMMENT
Is Christmas just for
Christians?:
Page 26
ARTS
Original writing on
display at Imperial:
Page 33
BUSINESS
An introduction to
Islamic Finance:
Page 18
TRAVEL
Relive Garland’s “The
Beach” in Koh Phi
Phi: Page 47
HANGMAN
College declares
“Plants do not
exist”: Page 50
Netball beat dirty, cheating King’s Medics
Bernice Marie Cutler
Netball
Imperial 1s 34 - 25 King’s Medicals 1s
Taking on medics at netball is always a daunting
task and coming up against King’s Medics was no
different to the norm. Tensions were high amongst
the girls before the game had even got underway
due to the umpires running late however, the team
soon found thir rhythm once the match began.
The whistle blew and the match opened with
some good passes from both teams with our shoot-
ers Tamar and Nicole on form as always. In the
words of GKT “there is nothing that can be done
about that shooter!”. Standards slipped slightly as
GKT took the lead but we soon gained that back
with some impressive spirit and teamwork. As Ber-
nice was celebrating her 21st birthday, the team
knew that the option of losing and ruining her big
day was not an option.
The match continued with IC playing a fantas-
tic game throughout, reminding GKT of the rules
when perhaps they had forgotten them. Hard, ac-
curate passes meant that we maintained possession
leading to our eventual win.
During the match there were a few disagreements
between GKT and one of our umpires, so our oppo-
sition decided to play dirty. The IC girls were able
to step up to this challenge with fantastic intercep-
tions as always from WDs Rachel Zaborski and
Sorcha Cotter aiding our winning campaign.
As the final ball was thrown to the GKT semi-
circle our GD, Bernice, and their GA went for the
ball...Well, Bernice went for the ball; the GA de-
cided that the aim of netball is to take out the op-
position.
With a crunch of an ankle and a bang of a hip,
Bernice went down furiously uttering the words “if
this means I can’t wear heels on Friday!” (for you
that don’t know that is when the Netball Christmas
Dinner is!) Nice to know that even with an icepack
expertly strapped to her pink socks with selotape,
which had been carefully applied by Sorcha Cotter,
Bernice knows her priorities!
With the match over and the umpires paid, Ber-
nice hobbled off to spend the rest of her 21st Birth-
day in style at Chelsea and West A & E.
Rugby 2s
back on track
David Wilson
Rugby Union
Imperial 2s 27 - 17 LSE 1st
Imperial 2s got their season back on track with a
moral boosting victory over LSE 1st team. The 2nd
XV had been without a win in the league this sea-
son but earned the result this week after tiring out
the LSE forwards and scoring their tries by cutting
through he opposition’s back line with lethal preci-
sion.
The match was played in perfect conditions at
Harlington, but Imperial went a penalty behind
before they found their rhythm going into half
time sitting comfortably. The team knew that they
needed to build on their promising first half perfor-
mance and put a respectable score on LSE, a team
who offered a lot of bulk up front but little attack-
ing threat.
LSE started the second half better and caught
Imperial on the break, who still appeared to have
their minds on their half time break.Good work
by the front row put pressure on the LSE scrum
which was consistently disrupted.Imperial secured
a much needed victory which the team aim to build
on in the new year.
Another Equestrian win
Page 54

