NEWS
FELIX
6
News Editors: Matt Colvin
Alex Karapetian
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 10 december 2010
Investments
£140 million investment boost to
Imperial spin-out companies
A leading technological development company, Im-
perial Innovations, has announced that it intends to
raise £140 million within the next two years, some
of which will be used to fund research at Imperial
College.
Imperial Innovations commercialises any scientific
research and developments that are made in the
university by finding a market for any products that
Imperial researchers invent. A small proportion of
its profits are invested back into research, enabling
productive projects to fund themselves. It also helps
to form and incubate spin off companies that stem
from Imperial College research and developments.
Needless to say, research at Imperial is highly use-
ful. Within the past year there have been 344 new
inventions and 48 patents filed through Innovations,
some of which have been greatly profitable for the
university. The molecular drug, Respivert Limited,
managed to raise £9.5 million in profit through sales
last year. As a total, £211 million has been raised
by developments since 2006, £49.7 million of which
has been reinvested by Innovations.
Although Innovations specializes in business and
investment, raising £140 million in 2 years is no
easy task. The company intends to raise it through
the sale of several million new shares to current in-
vestors in rights and warrant issues. Initial sales in
are predicted to raise £55 million in January 2011
and a further £74 million by January 2013. Further
contributions will be made from the sale of other
shares to new investors. The company has had a
good track record so far, raising £14 million for Impe-
rial last year and over £20 million in previous years
without having to undergo rights issues since 2005.
Although Innovations declare the main aim of the
funds to be to increase the size of investments in
spin off companies, only 40% will go towards this.
The remaining 60% will fund collaborations between
Innovations and other technological development
companies and spin offs. “The funds will also en-
able us to make investments in companies founded
by or based on technologies from the universities of
Oxford and Cambridge and University College.” Mar-
tin Knight, chairman of Imperial Innovations, stated.
Although collaboration may reduce the influence that
Imperial has over Innovations, the rector, Sir Keith O
Nions, welcomes the association with other universi-
ties, believing that it may lead to more joint research
projects in the near future.
Unfortunately, the £56 million intended for Impe-
rial is only for Imperial’s associated spin off compa-
nies and areas of research already in the Innovations
pipeline, so isn’t accessible to other academic re-
searchers.
Zainab Ali
W
hen will Imperial march?’
was the question Felix
asked last week. Govern-
ment cuts to higher edu-
cation and tuition fees of
up to £9,000 had failed to bring out the inner
revolutionary in the average Imperial student.
What then would it take to inflame passions on
campus? The answer arrived with a flurry of
leaves on Wednesday, as hundreds of students
took the Life Sciences department to account
over what they see as the unjustified and un-
justifiable cuts being made to what is, as the
department itself admits, ‘one of the largest life
science groups in Europe’.
The first signs of trouble came on Imperial
College Union’s Facebook page where the om-
inous status “early indications of the outcome
of the Life Sciences restructure show that Plant
Sciences is no more” was posted on Friday 2
December. Details of the cuts quickly spread
on Facebook (Julian Assange would be proud)
and a chain reaction of outrage spread through
statuses across the Imperial network. A cam-
paign quickly followed as the Union organ-
ised a public meeting to discuss the cuts that
the Head of the Life Sciences Department Ian
Owens and Head of Faculty Maggie Dallman
bravely agreed to attend. In a textbook example
of crowd-sourcing, a protest was suggested.
Defiant students would take the Plant Sciences
Cuts straight to the College by dumping toma-
toes, trees, leaves, twigs and all things ‘plant’
outside the Blue Cube. The activism doesn’t
end there however, with an online petition also
being organized, making claims of ‘faulty data
analysis and lack of evidence’. Over 1100 sig-
natures had been collected by the time of print-
ing. Additionally so many people had planned
to attend the public meeting (nearly 500) that
an extra lecture theatre in the Sir Alexander
Fleming building was booked to handle the
overflow. With Facebook overrun by the red
monkey of revolution (Viva La Evolucion!),
there was a sense, on the eve of the showdown
with the department, that something big was
happening.
Both lecture theatres were packed. Students
and staff crowded the aisles and sat on the floor,
eager to hear what was to be said and to have
their grievances aired and addressed. Taking
the floor were Head of Department Ian Owens
and Maggie Dallman, Principal of the Faculty
of Natural Sciences. Professor Owens began
proceedings by seeking to clarify the issue, os-
tensibly through the use of Powerpoint, though
the slides were occasionally at the mercy of a
fervent potted plant near the projector. Stress-
ing that the “restructure is still an ongoing pro-
cess”, Owens outlined two keys aims that he
Imperial finally awake
hoped would be achieved through the process,
that of improving the department’s competi-
tiveness both nationally and internationally and
to reduce the department’s £1.5 million deficit.
Stating the reasoning behind the cuts, he de-
clared that, “a couple of the groups are unlikely
to improve to the level we required until we
took drastic action”. Students grew more and
more restless as the hour drew on, with discon-
tented chatting and a bored malaise blanket-
ing the room. Professor Maggie Dallman was
sure to move quickly through her speech as she
sought to make the audience aware that the cuts
were felt at every level, stating that she is “not
some faceless administrator”. She emphasised
mentioned the “uncertainty” of the situation
and the challenge that they have faced in mak-
ing the decisions.
Questions were then invited from an eager
audience. Hands shot up as PhD students de-
manded assurances about funding and recent
graduates expressed their disgust at the loss of
some of their best-loved lecturers. Ian Owens
was sympathetic to the students, agreeing that
the staff lost were great teachers but taking
pains to emphasise that the decision was moti-
vated by financial troubles. He tried to reassure
the students that the department would come
out of the restructure stronger, and continue to
provide excellent teaching even though he ad-
mitted that “losing good teachers is difficult to
cope with”.
But at other points he was clearly on shakier
territory. One student attacked Owens in re-
sponse to his assurances that the department
could survive. Said student provided the ri-
poste, “I pay for an excellent degree, not to
‘survive’.” Passions grew as students refused
to accept answers that they saw as slippery,
calling out to Owens when they felt he had
avoided a question. Repetitive answers began
to anger the audience, with Owens frequently
bringing up the “uncertainty” of the whole sit-
uation and repeating that he would not be able
to comment on the cases of individual staff
until January. The disgruntled audience were
loath to wait and pressed him but he refused to
comment further on specific courses, insisting
that he had said all that he could.
Great cheers and rounds of whooping spread
through the room as some questioners took the
opportunity to skewer the Head of Department;
Normally silent
students find
their voice. By
Matthew Colvin
“Both lecture theatres
were packed. Students
and staff crowded the
aisles and sat on the
floor, eager to air their
grievances”
A 3rd year biochemist holds up a poster showing the symbol of the protests, the “Viva La Evoluc
Afonso Campos

