FELIX 7
NEWS
Friday 10 december 2010
ens
one postgraduate student described with ven-
om the “absolute disrespect” that he believes
he and his colleagues have been treated with.
As the call for the last questions was an-
nounced, the students called for Kendall to land
one last blow. Maggie Dallman initially re-
fused, saying that Kendall could always speak
to her easily and she wanted normal students
to take full advantage of the opportunity to
question her. However the roar of disapproval
from the audience indicated clearly that they
wanted their Union to have the last word. Ken-
dall thanked the affected staff directly for their
long commitment to the College and declared:
“the choice (for affected staff) is between vol-
untary redundancy or an appeal, where they
won’t receive any money – what kind of choice
is that?” This resulted in the loudest applause
of the meeting, but also gave way to a sudden
rise in tension, with several individuals ask-
ing further, more accusatory questions, with
one shouting that the redundancy situation was
‘blackmail’ and ‘threatening’.
As the meeting wrapped up Kendall took
once more to the front and asked if the students
felt like their concerns had been allayed. The
audience fired back a predictable “No!” and
Kendall lifted up his 6ft Christmas Tree and
led the students to the Faculty Building to con-
struct their leafy memorial to the academics
lost in the restructure.
Agile
minds
see
new talent
lively debate
inspiration
interpretation
innovation
Deutsche Bank
more
Congratulations to our Class of 2011!
We look forward to welcoming 26 Imperial College graduates who
will be joining us for our Graduate Training Program next year.
We are now recruiting for our Spring Into Banking program for first
year students and our Summer Internship Program for penultimate
year students. Our internship programs are recognized as some
of the best in the industry. They’ll provide you with a meaningful
introduction to Deutsche Bank and could also lead to a thriving and
lasting career.
We recruit on a rolling basis so apply early.
More information on our programs and deadlines can be found
at db.com/careers
Deutsche Bank
DEUTSCHE GUGGENHEIM, BERLIN, GERMANY
cion” Red Monkey

