NEWS
FELIX
8
News Editors: Matt Colvin
Alex Karapetian
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 10 december 2010
The human cost of the restructure
The 14 academics lost to the Life Sci-
ences department represent the most
incredible array of talent, expertise and
experience. The staff caught up in the
restructuring, deemed unsuitable for the
new department, have nevertheless con-
tributed enormously to university life,
being involved in teaching, career ser-
vices and student welfare to name only
a few areas. Felix considers what these
individuals have brought to the univer-
sity over many years and what will be
missed.
Some of the lecturers were at Impe-
rial before today’s undergraduates were
even born. A service of over 30 years
to Imperial could save neither Dr John
Tippins who joined in 1977, nor Dr Si-
mon Archer who joined in 1978. These
grim cuts serve as a reminder that Im-
perial is not immune to the economic
problems felt at other universities and
indeed around the country. John Tip-
pins and Simon Archer are also the
Directors of Undergraduate Studies
(DUGS) of Biochemistry and Biology
respectively. Both Senior Tutors are
going, Dave Hartley (Biochemistry)
being made redundant and John Ros-
siter (Biology) taking early retirement,
as well as both Admissions Tutors, Ma-
hendra Deonarain (Biochemistry) and
Bart Feys (Biology). Such roles require
years of experience and accumulation
of expertise, yet it seems when it came
to the cuts, their wealth of experience
wasn’t of sufficient value to the Depart-
ment. Alex Kendall, President of Impe-
rial College Union (ICU), insists these
particular redundancies put “the very
running of the Undergraduate Biol-
ogy and Biochemistry degrees at risk”.
However, the review panel maintains
that these individuals can be replaced
with existing staff. However Dr Pietro
Spanu who has ‘survived’ the restruc-
ture questioned whether the remaining
staff had the goodwill or capacity to fill
the gaps left by outgoing staff.
The review so far has failed to con-
sider teaching within the department
of Life Sciences (the teaching review
comes next term), but nevertheless the
excluded lecturers include those consid-
ered by students to be “the very best”.
They are supposedly considered very
highly by the university too, for example
the long-standing John Tippins received
the 2008 College Teaching Award, but
again such excellence provided no safe-
guard.
In fact, across the board the teach-
ing records of the affected lecturers are
outstanding. To give another example
from a possible many, Professor Jane
Saffell, Senior Lecturer in Biochemis-
try since 2002, has received the Rec-
tor’s Award for Excellence in Teaching
as well as some of the highest SOLE
scores in Biochemistry. She also de-
signed and convenes a very popular fi-
nal year course, Cellular Neuroscience,
which was nominated for a national
teaching award. Despite being the most
over-subscribed Biochemistry course
this year, there is the risk that Cellular
Neuroscience will be removed from the
options next year due to the loss of Pro-
fessor Saffell.
It seems clear that having excellent re-
search provided no guarantee of surviv-
ing the restructuring process either. The
research must also have been deemed
suitable for the new department, In-
tegrative Cell Biology, a requirement
criticised by lecturers as being “short-
sighted”. The department however in-
sists that Integrative Cell Biology is a
major area of research for the future but
this too is disputed.
However there is no doubt that the
neurobiology research undertaken by
Jane Saffell is exceptional. Funded by
The Wellcome Trust, Alzheimer’s Re-
search Trust and the Biotechnology and
Biological Sciences Research Council
(BBSRC) to name a few, it has resulted
in regular publications as well as two
patents protecting therapeutics for Al-
zheimer’s disease and nerve regenera-
tion.
Another example is Dr Mahendra
Deonarain, a Reader in Antibody Tech-
nology (promoted this summer) who
also co-founded an Imperial College
spin-out Biotechnology company called
PhotoBiotics in 2001. This develops and
commercialises novel photodynamic
therapy drugs and many inventions have
been patented. Surely Imperial should
be promoting business and entrepre-
neurship, yet the departure of Dr Deon-
arain marks the loss of an inspirational
figure. There are serious doubts that the
final year Biochemistry course, Biotech-
nology and Business, he designed will
not continue after this year. Ian Owens
has said that all courses will be under re-
view when the Teaching Review begins
in January.
The treatment of the staff has created a
lot of resentment. One staff member told
Felix: “you can imagine how betrayed
and angry staff feel about this, not only
the ones who are directly affected.” An-
other commented that they felt “chewed
up and spat out by [the] Life Sciences
[Department]”. A member of the Biol-
ogy department said the atmosphere in
the SAF building was “simply horren-
dous”.
The informing of staff of their situa-
tion by email has certainly contributed
to these feelings. Ian Owens explained
that staff were informed both by post
and email, the latter to ensure all were
informed simultaneously.
Alex Kendall has also highlighted the
“lack of real choice” the academics now
face. They can either take a significant
voluntary redundancy package, or ap-
peal. If their appeal is unsuccessful they
will only be given a small statutory re-
dundancy.
So how will the Life Sciences depart-
ment deal with losing so many highly-
skilled teaching staff? Ian Owens com-
mented that “losing good teachers is
always difficult to cope with”, but “the
department will survive as it has done
before”, referring to the cuts made in
2004. He even hopes to improve teach-
ing and provide “more stimulating, more
relevant and better courses”.
“The department
risks deterring
students from
applying to Imperial”
Sophia David
A student looks on at the plant protest outside the Faculty Building last Wednesday
Kadhim Shubber

