FELIX 9
NEWS
What do you do?
I’m a self-funded PhD student from
Russia. I am investigating the effect of
synaptic proteins on neural circuits. I
was a BioChem undergraduate at Impe-
rial and let me say this, Dr Jane Saffell
and Prof. Yuri Ushkaryov’s final year
modules are irreplaceable. Their teach-
ing was fantastic and I bet Jane knows
the name of every student in her classes.
What stage of your PhD are you at?
I technically started in September in the
division of Cell and Molecular Biology
but actually I started in January at the
former Institute of Biomedical Engi-
neering (IBE) which shut down over the
summer. My supervisor there went to
Newcastle but I couldn’t follow him so
therefore I changed supervisor to Prof.
Yuri Ushkaryov.
So you will have to change supervisor
for a 2nd time less than a year into
your PhD?
Yes. When I started with Yuri I was
aware of the restructuring but I was
constantly re-assured that my research
would fit into the new department and
that my supervisor also fits but strangely
now it seems that’s not the case.
What are your options?
Well officially, there’s nothing hap-
pening until January and then I’ll have
until July to do, whatever, who knows.
There’s no-one else in the U.K. who has
the necessary expertise to supervise my
PhD effectively. I have to find a super-
visor who is willing to experiment. Yuri
was the only person after the move from
the IBE who was willing to help me to
do the research that I want to do. I’m
paying money for this, I don’t want to
do a different area of research. I want
to do the research that I’m interested
in. If Yuri finds a position elsewhere I
would go with him. Not only because of
the expertise but also because I am get-
ting tired of the way Imperial College is
treating its staff and students.
How do you feel about the process?
I just got an email saying that some
people had been affected. I didn’t even
know that my supervisor was affected, I
first heard through word of mouth. This
is the 2nd time that this has happened. I
really don’t know if I’m going to stay at
Imperial now...
PhD
Disruption
Nickolai Vysokov talks
to Kadhim Shubber
about the problems he’s
experiencing due to the
Life Sciences cuts
Friday 10 december 2010
%TGFKV5WKUUGKUCP'SWCN1RRQTVWPKV['ORNQ[GTCPFFQGUPQVFKUETKOKPCVGKPKVUGORNQ[OGPVFGEKUKQPUQPVJGDCUKUQHCP[RTQVGEVGFECVGIQT[ %4'&+657+55')4172#)
CPFQTKVUCHHKNKCVGUUWDUKFKCTKGUCPFDTCPEJGU#NNTKIJVUTGUGTXGF
56'2*'09#5.11-+0)(14#$+))'4+6%*#..'0)'9')#8'*+/
).1$#.4'52105+$+.+6;9JGPYGPGGFGFUQOGQPGVQOCPCIGQWTPGYUGTXGT
KPHTCUVTWEVWTG5VGRJGPYCUVJGPCVWTCNEJQKEG*KUVGCOPQYJCPFNGUUGTXGTKPUVCNNCVKQPUCPF
FGEQOOKUUKQPUC[GCT*GJCUENQUGTEQPVCEVUYKVJQWTINQDCNVGCOUsCPFFGNKXGTUUQNWVKQPUVJCV
GPUWTGQWTUWEEGUU4GCFJKUUVQT[CVETGFKVUWKUUGEQOECTGGTU
.1%#6+10.10&10
He insists that current staff will be
able to cover the teaching of those lec-
turers made redundant. However stu-
dents have queried whether this teach-
ing can be delivered at the same high
quality. Many of the lecturers made
redundant actually developed and con-
vened a course that specifically match-
es their field of expertise. Of course,
others can teach the course but will this
achieve the “more research-active ap-
proach to teaching” that the department
claims to be striving for, if they are not
active researchers on the material that
they are teaching?
Additionally, the loss of academics
who have each dedicated huge amounts
of time to teaching has sent the wrong
signals about the value of, say, Emeritus
Professor John Mansfield and Dr Pietro
Spanu. There was a clear message about
how useful teaching was to the career
prospects of academics. How these sen-
timents will match with the increased
workload as academics are forced to fill
the gaps left is as yet unknown.
The department risks losing future
staff and deterring students from ap-
plying to Imperial. Facebook is already
ridden with outraged students and staff
posting negative and potentially dam-
aging comments about the university.
One such user commented: “I have cer-
tainly advised at least 4 people who are
applying to Imperial Biochemistry not
to.” Wednesday’s public meeting was a
positive step and Ian Owens and Mag-
gie Dallman should get credit for meet-
ing with students but the university and
the department of Life Sciences must
keep communicating effectively with
both students and staff, who simply
have felt cut out during this whole pro-
cess.
Corrections
The feature on mental health (Issue
1476 – 03.12.10) which included the ar-
ticles entitled “Let’s be more open about
mental illness” and “How much support
does Imperial provide?” erroneously
neglected to attribute Katherine Bettany
for the significant research and writing
that she contributed.
The comment piece entitled “Flee! Flee
the St John Ambulance service!” (Issue
1476 – 03.12.10) was printed with an in-
correct pull-quote.
Editor
The Top Ten
Albums of
2010
Ten
of
Find out which
albums made the
cut on Page 35
(... a little hint,
Kanye made it)

