Weights Room
The new free-weights room in Southside is now
operational and provides a welcome extension
to the multi-gym.
The type and quantity of weights available
has necessitated certain restrictions, but it's
is open to all. Please contact Ian Bull in the
Union Office at lunch time for further details.
Footbal
IC4ths 4-1 SSEES/SOAS
OH'icianados of the sports page may have
noticed a distinct lack of fourth team reports
which has been due to a distinct lack of
victories. This was remedied on Saturday by
the annihilation of SSEES by four goals to
one.
The first half was uneventful, notable only
for the opening of the scoring by SSEES. The
second half though, saw a transformed IC.
The equaliser was soon scored by Nick
Louton who capitalised on fine work by Paul
Dent on the right wing. It was Paul Dent,
again, who put us in front after outpacing the
defence and dribbling around the goalkeeper.
The game was put out of the reach of SSEES
by two further goals by Nick Louton, which
were two of the best goals scored all season.
The victory was due in the main, to a fine
all team work from IC. In the absence of a
team list special mention must be given to the
central defence partnership of Dave 'Barnsley
Bomber' Bradley and Tom Dale, the calming
influence of Matt Johnson and the pace and
finishing of the forwards Paul Dent and Nick
Louton.
• •
KJ 'fife >
Basketball
.-.v.:.:.vi.!.:-
ICBB v Guys Hospital 86-30
Yet another easy match for the team despite
some sloppy play induced by lack of interest.
We suffered once again from the absence of
our regular coach to organise an offense so
Panes stepped in.
Fortunately we rarely had to set up our
offense with tough defense from Ken Tee
Man' Janet giving many opportunities for
fast break point.
When the ball was brought up slowly it
found its way most of the time to Miguel Diaz
on the baseline who played a superb game to
net 27 points as top scorer.
The second half was slightly more leisurely
with the opposition beaten and knowing it.
Alex 'Super Hog' Mackenzie sunk 23 point
though he fumbled his first potential game
dunk much to the amusement of Ken who
despite his dissatisfaction with his lay up
accuracy still managed to score 20 points.
By the time you are reading this (if
anybody's got this far!) we will have played
the first of our four really tough matches
which must be won to take the league title.
So wish us bon chance for yesterday—
results next week!
S p o r t
Last Sunday the Orienteering Club travelled
to Wimbledon for its second event of 1984.
The event, more local and a little less exciting
in terms of terrain than most, provided an
opportunity to sharpen up navigational
skills, running technique and aggression for
the 'Biggy' this Sunday.
For 'tis then we take on those giants of
orienteering, Cambridge University, in an
unusual head-to-head match at a high class
event. For this we'll be pulling out all the
stops, and pulling in the reserves. So, if this
article brings back memories of happy
M15/W15 days, or all of this is gibberish to
you but you think you can run at high speed
across complex terrain, come and see us in the
SCR, 12:30-l:00pm, Fridays.
Punchdrunk
Over the first weekend of this term, the
Sailing Club hosted their first internatinal
competition, having invited three Dutch
teams and two additional English teams to
participate in a small American-style tourna-
ment. Unfortunately the combination of very
gusty, strong winds and the British Firefly
proved too much for most of the teams and
nearly everyone managed at least one early
bath in the icy waters of the Welsh Harp. The
most dramatic capsize was performed by
Howarth and McClean who had to abandon
their vessel when it decided to imitate the
American space shuttle (nose pointing to the
skies, transom sunk in cooling water). The
sailing was later abandoned and replaced by
table tennis and darts, where the Dutch team
'Histos' proved their supremacy.
Last weekend Imperial travelled to
Farmour to take on Oxford and Reading.
Oxford's Laser lis were a new experience for
many of the team and we were unlucky to lose
1-2 to Oxford. Reading initially appeared to
be an easier fish but sloppy sailing by
Imperial gave the opposition the first race.
Jones and Bevan saved the match in the
second race by scraping home with a narrow
winning margin. In the final race all seemed
lost at the start of the final leg but Reading
threw a convincing lead away and Imperial
Ping Pong
All teams played this week (last week). Team
1 lost, despite Daryl Griffith wining all his,
where were the rest?
Team 3 won at Rejects III 5-4, only due to
Wladeh Forysiak winning all three whilst the
rest of the team slept or swore. Then the team
went down the Pu- and got
orange juice (double). (Censored.)
Team 4 showed continual signs of revival
by actually gaining a point against Crown
and Manor. That should have been the
headline to the report, well done lads!
Team 5 vanguished Mak's M o b 9-0. Erica
Parkes is now not so depressed, except about
the mis-print last week, she didn't know
about her sex change.
As a footnote I had a complaint from the
Sailing Club that I haven't mentioned them in
my reports since the first few. In fact one of
them said they would run home crying to
mummy if I didn't mention them this week.
were incredibly lucky to take this race and the
match.
Many thanks to Oxford SC for hosting a
very enjoyable (though rather cold) sailing in
their centenary year.
IC vs Surrey won 3-1
Imperial College Sailing Club continued their
highly successful season last Saturday when
they beat Surrey University 3-1 at Frensham
Pond.
Led by their ever-enthusiastic captain,
Jones, the team were in a commanding
position at the end of the first leg of the first
race. Places did not change in the rest of the
race and Imperial cruised home with a'
convincing 2, 3, 4.
The following three races followed much
the same pattern, with Surrey trailing the
superior team. In the race Imperial lost, the
team had decided to give the opposition a
chance by interchanging helms and crews; if
the race had been sailed by the rule book,
Imperial would have won with the fewest
penalty points.
The only other events worthy of mention
were a near-capsize by Jones when investi-
gating just how far he could roll a Lark when
tacking and a commendable performance by
newcomer Cart, who was frequently rescued
from the back of the fleet.
FELIX] \Friday, February 3, 1984 Page 11

