Jean Seberg at the Olivier,
National Theatre.
Poor Jean Seberg. At 17, she
is plucked from obscurity by
Otto Preminger to star in his 'St
Joan', but her performance is
critically shredded. Later she
enjoys a slight success in French
New Wave films. Then she
becomes involved with the Black
Power movement, is the victim of
a FBI smear campaign, causing
her mental collapse and final
ignominious suicide.
Poor Jean Seberg. Soon
forgotten, she is plucked from
obscurity by Marvin Hamlisch as
the centre for his new musical. It
is much vaunted as the National
Theatre's first premiere musical,
but the critics give it lukewarm
reviews, and instead of the
hoped-from Broadway transfer;
the show finishes next April.
The fact is that Jean Seberg
was not a martyr like Joan of Arc
but merely a pathetic lightweight.
This musical attempts to parallel
their two lives, but only highlights
her insufficiency as an actress
and as a saint. Her 'commitment'
to Black Power was not much
more than a superficial flirtation.
Undoubtably, the attempts of the
FBI to slur her character by
hinting that her pregnancy was
that of a black panther (and not
her husband) were disgusting.
But, if Jean Seberg was so
committed to racial equality,
should she then have paraded
the corpse of her child, in an
open coffin, to prove its
whiteness?
However, if one ignores the
fraility of the Jean Seberg/Joan
of Arc comparison, Jean Seberg
provides an acceptable evening
out. Elizabeth Hunter, as the
older Jean has a good grainy
voice, her mature world-
weariness contrasting well with
the fragile idealism of Kelly
Hunter's Young Jean. Paul
Imbusch is J Edgar Hoover—the
most unpopular man in America;
soft-stepping into everyone's
affairs.
Marvin Hamlisch's songs are
bland and forgettable, with the
exception of the hilarious 'My
Lips are Sealed'. This exposes
the insincerity of two hard-nailed
gossip columnists, their faces
masks of wide-eyed innoncence,
as one extrudes secrets from the
other.
• Being heavily financed by the
National Theatre, the sets,
costumes and support cast are,
of course, of a high standard.
But perhaps all it can say about
the life of Jean Seberg is how
quickly it was forgotten. She only
died four years ago, but who
remembered her, before she was
reincarnated in this musical?
FELIX J I H M B H n M l
The music format has its origins in the vaudeville
entertainmf.it of the 19th century. This was a series of short
musical sketches, sometimes accompanied with dancing,
which were perir.med in music halls. With the advent of films,
many of the music halls were converted into cinemas and thus
vaudeville gradually died out. Strangely it was to resurface in
the cellulo'i form with the talkies (for example, 'The Jazz
Singer' in the 1930s) later evolving into our modern day
musical. This encouraged the growth of stage musicals, until
now there is a constant, and healthy, interaction, between
stage and film.
Musicals are especially popular in the West End at present:
fourteen currently showing. They range from the blatantly
commerical revival, or film adaptation, such as 'Singin' in the
Rain'; to those with a serious undertone such as 'Poppy' (see
reivew). The cause of the boom may be that people are more
prepared to spare money for the glossy sets and lavish costumes
of a musical, than for the less spectacular production of a play.
However, ticket prices are still reasonably good for students,
with student-standby tickets being an average of £5.
Andrew Lloyd-Webber is still doing well, with three shows
'Cats', 'Evita' and 'Song and Dance' now running concurrently.
In late March, his latest offering 'Starlight Express' about a
steam train, opens at the Apollo Victoria. No doubt, bringing him
even greater success.
Lloyd-Webber's former collaborator Tim Rice, has lately
written 'Blondel'—the story of a ballad-singing wandering
minstrel, in the days of Richard Lionheart. it opened last
autumn at the revamped Old Vic, but has now transferred to
the Aldwych.
Another transfer, this time from the fringe, is Vivian Ellis'
1920's musical comedy 'Mr Cinders'—a pastiche on the
Cinderella story. A popular show, it has just won star Denis
Lawson, an award for the best actor in a West End musical.
For Rocky Horror fans 'Little Shop of Horrors' should
provide some similarly macabre entertainment, based on a
1960's B-movie about a man-eating plant. Whilst for the more
sentimentally-minded person, there is 'Snoopy'—yet another
money-spinner for that canine pal.,Even that schmaltzy poppet
musical 'Bugsy Malone' has been staged, based on Alan
Parker's original film. It's advertising states that it'll kill
ya'—reports indicate this may well be true.
Finally, there is the cabaret-style entertainment offered by
'Y' at the Piccadilly Theatre, and 'Late and Live' at the Donmar
Warehouse. Not strictly musicals, there are best enjoyed with
an accompanying dinner.
Claire Moss
H Friday, February 3, 1984 nmWk^kWkmWmWkWkW
\Reviews
Poppy by Peter Nichols and
Monty Norman, at the
Adelphi Theatre.
A curious amalgam of musical,
pantomime and moral tale,
Poppy is an unusual West End
show. It deals with a distinctly
disreputable affair in our not-so-
glorious Imperial past—the 19th
century opium wars. Some
history: to ensure the servitude
of the Chinese people, the British
endeavoured to addict them to
opium, they revolted, result—the
opium wars.
The originality of Poppy lies in
the use of pantomime, an
essentially comic medium, to
interpret this serious theme.
Whether this succeeds is open to
doubt, but there are some good
sharp points made. Thus Lord
Palmerston (Mike White) is
depicted as a ventriloquist's
dummy, mouthing the words
supplied by Obadiah Upward
(Alfred Marks) who represents
the East India Company. Queen
Victoria is played by Nichola
McAnliffe as a flirty, shrill-voiced
Empress, later appearing in the
guise of a horsey-tooth Bible
missionary; reminding us that
religion was another import
foisted on the Chinese. And of
course there is a Dame—the
simpering Lady D o d o of
Geoffrey Hutchings.
This production of Poppy is
strong on gloss and razmatazz,
thoroughly enjoyable for its own
sake, but softening the bite that
might otherwise have been
made. Perhaps a tawdry, third
rate style production would
really expose the shabby
Victorian ideals used to exploit
the Chinese. As it is, it is best to
just sit back and wallow in the
stunning sets, elaborate costumes
and witty songs Poppy has to
i ffer. But beware if you don't like
pantomime, as much of the
humour is of this type, relying on
audience participation and
appreciation.
Pages

