M u s i c
H e r e , t h e r e a n d
Everywhere: England,
Scotland, Belfast and
Barki- FELIX goes
in Search of
T H E N E X T
B I G
T H I N G
In December 82 Bono Vox of U2 made
the prediction that in 1983 'fashion
would be out of fashion' and predicted
an end to 'wallpaper' music and the
return of the guitar. How wrong he was!
1983's two brightest stars were the
wonderful image-laden sounds of the
Eurythmics and Culture Club. A year
later however the prophecy seems
closer to realisation with the newest
wave of acts returning to basics.
Unfortunately bright new talent still
seems as rare a commodity as ever, with
record companies frantically courting
the new acts to persuade them to ink that
magic contract.
The inevitable reams of promotion,
hype and general media overexposure
surrounding these deals only serves to
heighten expectations and puts the
bands in the unenviable position of
having to live up to generally inflated
reputations.
Don't Sing by Prefab Sprout (CBS) is
the case in point. Starting on Newcastle
independent Kitchenware their first
singles (now being re-released by C B S )
were acclaimed by the few who heard
them and subsequently led to an eight
album deal with C B S . Sadly the single
doesn't live up to expectations—it mixes
Whoish vocals over an early Spandau riff
in a song which never quite takes off.
Complete disregard for conventional
song structures doesn't make for com-
fortable listening although it still shows
signs of promise. The talented Scritti
Pollttl found themselves in a similar
position eighteen months ago following
the release of their album but what's
happened to them now?
The Smiths showed abundant promise
in 83 recording the magnificent Charm-
ing Man and crowned the year with a
triumphant performance in Camden's
Electric Ballroom. Their new single What
Difference Does It Make (Rough Trade)
is a slight change of direction, replacing
the buoyant guitar melodies of its
predecessor with a relentless riff which
dominates the song. The effect is
rivetting and the rhythm stays with you
for days at a time. Previously the Smiths
were dogged by sordid aura which led to
sensationalised stories in the gutter
press but the prudish can relax (sic) with
this as it seems harmless. With an album
due in February and a major tour taking
in the Lyceum (Feb 12) it's hard to
believe that only last May the Smiths
were third on the bill at U L U .
The Bankrobbers are a similar if less
talented example of the return to simple
rock'n'roll practised by bands like the
Smiths. Their new single is a fine blend
of unrestrained vocals, staccato horns
(from the Uniqhorns) and a thumping
drumbeat about a girl called Jenny
(EMI). It's only fault is the totally
unnecessary inclusion of five seconds of
guitar histrionics halfway through the
song which totally throws the rhythm
and momentum. However their main
worry at the minute would seem to be the
Bank of England who are currently
considering legal action against the
band for printing their own £50 notes to
promote the single (see photo).
Echo and the Bunnymen singles never
fail to please and The Killing Moon
(Korova) is no exception. Gently
strummed guitars against the usual
gamut of Bunnymen production tricks
heralds in Mac's most lucid delivery to
date. The lyrics mark a return to the more
personal pastures of Rescue in line with
the refinement of the orchestral sensi-
bilities of Never Stop. Amazingly this
new mellowed sound remains awe-
somely powerful, notably on the nine-
minute version on the 12-inch. The B-
side is a live recording (made at the
Albert Hall) of Do It Clean during which
they free associate into All You Need Is
Love, Sex Machine and more besides. At
around £2 for over twenty minutes the
12-inch is bargain of the year, if not
record of the year.
The customary end of the year lists in
the music press always throw up
something interesting which deserved to
reach a wider audience first time round.
This year it was Song to Siren (4AD) by
This Mortal Coil. This is a haunting song
beautifully song by Cocteau Twin
Elizabeth Frazer in (what I'm told is) the
recitative style of Italian opera. It wasthe
most original vocal of 1983 and a
welcome reaction to all the twee sounds
of Weekend/Marine Girls which was so
popular a few years ago.
Another revelation in late 83 was one
man and his guitar, Billy Bragg. His Life's
Riot with Spy vs Spy (Go) was a hybrid in
more ways than one. 12-inch, 45rpm, 7
songs totalling 23 minutes and featuring
nothing but Bragg's ragged electric
guitar and just about average singing. At
his best (I don't want to change the
world, I'm not dreaming of a new
England, I'm just dreaming of another
girl-A New England) and most of the
album is terrific and only very occa-
sionally (just because you're going
forwards doesn't mean I'm going back-
To Have and to Have Not) slightly
embarrassing.
END PIECE
These reviews have been slightly de-
layed (and in the case of Bragg and
Mortal Coil are very late) but in a perfect
world where everything was equal,
they'd all make number one and I'd be
working on the sequel.
Peter Rodgers
G o o d R o c k i n g
T o n i g h t
Due to circumstances beyond their
control Ents are running very few gigs on
Friday nights this term but there is a
band playing in the Lounge Lizards Club
every Saturday night instead. However
tonight RED LORRY YELLOW LORRY
are playing the Lounge. Described as a
cross between early Television and Velvet
Underground, they have had several
singles released and seem set for the big
time after serving their time supporting
several large name acts.
Page 6 j
The Bankrobbers
• H Friday. February 3. 1984

