S p e c i a l F e a t u r e
Underwater photography requires specialised
photographic equipment, new photographic
techniques and diving skill. Each of these can be
taken to different levels according to commitment,
time and money available.
Diving to around ten feet or so is possible with a
mask, fins, healthy lungs and a snorkel. If you want
to do anything more, you must take lessons and
gain certificates. Never, ever dive alone—no matter
what your standard. Even the slightest mistake in
the sea can be fatal.
Now with that warning over, let's look at equip-
ment. If you have no camera and know nothing
about photography, you might think about buying
the Minolta Weathermatic or a similar camera for
around £40. This camera can be used on land or
underwater down to about ten feet. It is also useful
in sandy conditions, as it is completely sealed. Its
main disadvantage, is that it takes 110 film, which is
a small negative size unsuitable for large prints. If
you already have an SLR, you can waterproof it
for around the same amount of money by buying a
specially made 'plastic bag' combined with a glove
which allows operation of the main controls.
For around £250, you can buy a Nikonos, a
35mm camera with capability for interchangeable
lenses, which is completely waterproof. If however
you have spent a lot of money on one particular
system you can get a custom-made housing for
your 35mm camera if it is a popular make, such as
Nikon, Canon, Pentax or Olympus.
Flashguns and exposure meters can be housed
or bought in waterproof versions. Underwater
flashguns are usually rechargeable, so that they
stay factory-sealed.
Caring for underwater equipment
The waterproofing of any equipment depends on
soft 0-ring seals. These will be damaged by sand and
grit and ruined if salt crystals form on them. Also,
salt water is highly corrosive and generally ruins
any type of machinery or electronics. When you
come out of the sea, first of all get all of the salt
water out of your hair and clothing. Rinse equip-
ment in warm, fresh water, for half an hour. Once o-
rings have been opened, smear them with special o-
ring grease.
If your camera or housing springs a leak, speed is
essential. Rinse quickly with fresh water, and then
take a screwdriver and dismantle your equipment
as far as possible (forgetting what it says in the
manual!). Rinse thoroughly in fresh water and then
in pure alcohol to remove the water. Finally, cry,
phone your insurance company and drink the rest
of the alcohol. Deliver the remains to your camera
repairman (who will become very understanding if
you make a habit of it!). These desperate measures
will never be required if you keep up maintenance
of your camera and housing.
Our knowledge of the undersea world has been greatly increased
by pioneering underwater photographers such as Jaques Cousteau.
Recently, however, the emphasis has switched from making docum-
entaries to more creative aspects, using the ocean itself as a
photographic studio. As a preliminary to the underwater filmshow and
talk being held in the Great Hall tommorow this special feature
investigates the exhillarating world of underwater photography.
' • j i t
Now, some of the basic rules of underwater
photography
Lenses for surface use are designed to have air,
refractive index 1, in contact with their front ele-
ment. If instead there is water, refractive index 1.3,
your lens will behave differently. Objects will
appear to be one third larger and one quarter
nearer than they are. Also, the angle of view will be
reduced by one quarter, so, for instance a 35mm
focal length moderate wide angle lens will lose its
wide-angle properties and behave like a standard
lens.
Pic: Mike Valentine
Nikonos lenses are either fully or partly cor-
rected for underwater use (partial correction allows
use in air). For normal lenses in a housing, the
design of the port is vital. A flat port will cause many
optical aberrations. A dome shape effectively forms,
a negative lens of water on top of the lens, and this
can be designed to counter most aberrations. For
instance, the angle of view and apparent size are
restored, but the apparent distance is even closer.
Also, a positive close-up lens must be added to
allow reasonable focusing action.
Shorter apparent distance. Refraction Apparent increase in size. Underwater,
has the effect of making objects objects also appear to be larger than they
underwater appear to be one quarter really are, by one third. The reason for
closer than they actually are. this is quite simply that they appear.
closer.
Light underwater is another problem. As you
dive deeper, the colours present in natural sunlight
are filtered out. Red is completely absent 20ft down,
orange goes at 35ft and so on until all the light has
gone at 90ft down. Reasonable colour photography
at any depth over 10ft or so requires flash. Also,
flash exposures need to be found by experiment
and automatic systems will not work because the
optics of a flashgun's automatic 'eye' change under-
water.
Scattering of light by particles and motion in the
water reduces visibility considerably. This can lead
.to loss of colour. Reflection from particles is re-
duced at large angles of incidence, so for instance,
flash held out at arm's length will work better than if
mounted on the camera.
One last problem is your eyes' housing—you will f
be wearing a mask and it will be difficult to get your
face close to the viewfinder. The use of a focusing
frame is a good idea, especially for close-up photo-
graphy (eg pretty fish or corals). You can make a
frame out of a coat hanger. Bend it into a rectangle
the size of your field of view and position it in the
plane of focus, via a bracket. Then whatever is in
the wire frame will be on the film and in focus.
All underwater photographic techniques can be
mastered safetly in a swimming pool. You can
calibrate your flashgun, work out exposures and fit,
a focusing frame before you go into the sea, and
then you will be able to give top priority to your
safety, and that of your companions and second to
the photography!
Page 9| I FELIX, February 3, 19841
The first time I heard about underwater photography
was when a friend of mine asked me if I would like to
go to the Red Sea for five weeks as an expedition
photographer. Until that moment I had done for under
water photography what Donald Duck had done for
speach lessons. However I Decided to lie through my
teeth and I persuaded my friend that I knew every-
thing there was to know about underwater photo-
graphy. Luckily everything went well and the Red Sea
was a fantastic introduction to underwater photo-
graphy.
What I'm trying to do now is to try and bring the
underwater world to a wider audience. The show that I
am putting on on February 4 will bring to the attention
of the public the way that the underwater world can
present such fantastic images, be such a fantastic place
to tell a story and to show how one can be totally
creative underwater and use it as a photographic studio
as opposed to merely a documentary background.
The show consists of four films and five audio visuals.
The films will be on first and will be in four sections. The
first one will be an introduction to diving, its from the
point of view of someone with no diving experience
being taught to dive. The second film is called 'Hunt for
theX5' which is about one of the minisubs that went out
to blow up a German battleship in WW2. The third film
is a collage of undersea life synchronised to electronic
music. The fourth film will be the premier of the film I've
just made and is about diving in the Red Sea.
After the break there are four audio visual shows.
The audio visual shows, or A V S , consist of stereo-
sound synchronised to a series of slides. The pictures
of course are out of this world and the sound quality will
be of a very high standard since there will be six
kilowatts of stereo pa going through 12 loudspeakers.
The show will not only be of interest to photo-
graphers and divers but also to the complete novice,
who I hope will see one of the most exciting spectacles
he has ever seen.
Mike Valentine
Schedule
7:30 Films
9:00-9:30 Intermission
9:30 Audiovisuals
Sat Feb 4 Great Hall
1. I'd Rather Be Diving
2. Hunt for the X5
3. Silent World
4. The Red Sea
1. Dawn
2. Flashdance
3. The Royal Oak
4. For Your Eyes Only
Tickets £2.50
Union Office
I Page W

