Reduced Sabbs take stock for Rag
Options
Biology students have expressed
concerns about the changes to the
Biology curriculum this week.
Second year choices have already
been reduced and now exclude such
popular courses as biochemistry,
animal diversity, and protozoology.
Third year choices may be affected
next year.
A questionnaire was given out by
first year academic representatives
to first year students asking them
for their reaction to the cuts. Felix
was told that the general consensus
was one of disagreement. As yet,
there has been no answer to the
complaints from the student first
year reps. There is now little hope
that the biology department will go
back on its decisions as the changes
have been printed in the new
Imperial College prospectus.
'- " i- i M ,m In, ....
Rag Fete - Not a complete washout?
Turnout was low for Rag's major event of the third term. Despite the delightful opportunity of wrestling in
gunge and being hit square in the face with a paper plate full of shaving foam, many preferred to stay at honie,
or enjoy the weather elsewhere. Rachael Mountford, next year's Rag Chair, blamed its failure on the lack of
early organisation. She added that she hoped to get more clubs and societies involved next year.
IRCs face funding cuts after UFC 'error'
Imperial College faces a cut of
£300,000 in its research budget for
interdisciplinary research centres
(IRCs) next year. The cut follows
a blunder by the Universities
Funding Council (UFC) and the
Universities Statistical Record
(USR).
The U F C announced last
February that Imperial was to
receive an increase in funding of
19.9%, but following a story in last
Friday's Times Higher Education
Supplement, the research figure has
been revised downwards to an
increase of 14.6%.
The mistake has been blamed on
a 'data error' by the U F C . Speaking
to / C N N , they said that 'there has
been a small readjustment' of the
1992-3 grant. The U F C pointed out
that the total sum involved
nationwide was £1.4 million, which
they then part-funded IRCs. This
left the IRCs with two sources of
funding, the U F C and research
represents less than 0.1% of the
total national grant.
Rodney Eastwood, Director of IC
Planning and Management
Information Services, told / C N N
that the error was introduced into
the funding system by the
Universities Statistical Record.
'The error was not introduced by
us,',Jie said, and added that the
figures used to decide the level of
funding this year relate to the year
1989/90. These figures were also
used to decide 1991/2 funding
levels, without any error. 'They
were used by U F C last year and
they got it right then,' he said.
IRCs have been totally funded by
the U F C in the past, but this year
the U F C introduced a new funding
structure, whereby it gave some
additional money to the research
councils (ie SERC, NERC) and
councils.
The U F C said that, in effect, they
are funding IC's IRCs directly as
well as through the research
councils. Thus part of the projected
£1.26 million funding for IRCs had
been duplicated.
Mr Eastwood puts this duplicated
figure at £400,000, though the U F C
had written to the College to request
the return of only £300,000. He
also added that as the money
allocated was not to be paid until
August, there was no physical cut
in funds. But he admitted that
College had already produced
spending plans for the additional
amount.
The funding cut affects the IRC
for Semiconductor Materials, the
IRC for Process Systems
Engineering, and the NERC Centre
for Population Biology. Other IRCs
which are funded by bequests,
industrial grants or charities are
unaffected. These are the Bagrit
Centre, the Centre for Toxic Waste
Management, the Wellcome Centre
for Parasitic Infections and the
Global Environment Research
Centre.
Other universities have been
underfunded as a result of the
statistical error and these
universities will have extra money
allocated to them by the U F C . The
U F C has announced that any
financial shortfall as a result of the
financial readjustments would be
met out of its 'flexibility margin.'

