22 May 1992 Felix 935 Feature
The sympathetic reader will be
glad to hear that the weather
relented a little the next day,
enabling us to do our first dive that
did not involve lots of swimming
about among the brown weedy
fronds. The first proper wreck of
the trip was the Volnay, a WWI
ammunition ship sunk in 20m of
water close to Falmouth harbour.
Pete Bowen managed to acquire a
spent shell case from the wreck.
True to form he did not pick it up
from the bottom of the sea but was
given it by the owner of a local dive
shop. Even more true to form he
forgot to take it with him when we
left the caravan site.
The second dive of the day was
onto a little-explored wreck, the
Gunvor, found conveniently close
to the place where we were staying.
It was a bit weedy again but this did
not matter too much, one good dive
in a day is enough to satisfy all but
the most demanding diver. The best
feature of the beach at Kennack
sands was the surf. This was not
much help when trying to launch the
boat, but it did mean that Jeremy
could show off his talent at body-
surfing, honed to perfection during
his mis-spent youth.
The wind came back with a
vengeance after Wednesday's
relative calm, blowing itself up to
a force 8 gale, with gusts of 70mph.
To our surprise Steve decided that
it might be OK to attempt the wreck
that we had all been hoping to dive
since Monday - the Hera. The first
wave of divers climbed nervously
into Steve's all too fragile-looking
craft ready to face the trip of their
lives. It was like Alton Towers
without that feeling of security you
get from knowing that no one ever
falls off the corkscrew. The half
hour trip to the dive site left us all
exhausted and exhilarated. After
that, the dive itself seemed tame -
we descended into excellent
visibility on the Hera and swam
around her for a while making the
most of the large intact sections of
the hull. The ride home from the
wreck was no less exciting than the
journey out, with waves crashing
over the boat, ferocious winds and
mountainous swell. It was all too
much for Steve, he had to go home
after one trip to recover. The
second wave didn't manage to get
a dive at all.
The last day's diving gave us the
conditions that we would have liked
for the entire week. Those who
didn't manage to dive the Hera were
finally taken out there in much
milder conditions. Phil 'Gills'
Lenz's was the only casualty of the
day. He came unstuck when his hi-
tec drysuit failed him and let in
rather more cold seawater than he
might have liked. In his usual
altruistic fashion he carried on with
the dive so that his novice could
clock up the quarter of an hour
needed to be logged.
Everyone else then dived the
Epsilon, a small wreck whose main
attraction was that it was not
covered in kelp. Nick Volpe at last
showed his true colours, after much
tough talk through the week he
wimped out of the Epsilon.
Complaining that he was 'a bit
cold'.
After a tiring and enjoyable week
we made a final visit to our local
for our traditional end of trip
dinner, an excuse for one and all to
indulge in yet more salty stories of
the sea. The novices could now join
in with the best of them, having
experienced at first hand what it's
all about.
The end of this story belongs to
Gareth Jones and his Hertz van. Not
content with making us all wait for
three hours when he burst a tyre on
the M4 on the way home, Gareth
forgot that the clocks went forwards
on Sunday night and managed to get
out of bed the next morning just
after the van had been towed away
to Warwick Road pound. Unlucky
Gareth!
Ten More Years.
(parts 1,2 and 3 of A portrait of Francis Bacon;
A famous politician commissions herself to paint him
after they meet in Never-Never Land)
Fucking with champagne and soft boys
or some swarthy adolescent vintage
(Dionysius with Veuve Clicquot, indeed?)
enjoy with money, pitiful access though it is;
Learn to love as I love, I promise
a different heaven, secure and satisfied. Most,
definitely. You 're the man who paints those
dreadful pictures? (Prime Minister Primeval)
Pricks, my dear, Proust and Painting - Acquiesce
to damaging hedonism, but I know different. A sign from
God, I must be here to save you
If I can't - let's not talk unpleasantness;
I think (as should all) of me in the
landscape or portrait, in verse or prose.
Be assured, they will come to take the burden
in my time, when you fail. They are the nadir,
convinced their indulgence gives pleasure, or
observers Monsters and Isles in the newborn
universe that is a turbulent, unfinished soul.
Beautiful creatures, for whom Love and Intellect
are sub-curses 'neath the all-encompassing curse.
They will love me for their depth and despair, and
thrive in that (look away from their work. It does
not inspire). My gift to you is murder and celebration;
romance divebombs, aha, and Granite Gods are in essence,
unmoved. You know, moon-faced little man, in my mind's eye,
a small fellow scripts poor poesy: 7 cannot blind those
that have no eyes'
D A Spooner, 1992
HAIRDRESSERS
15A H A R R I N G T O N R O A D ,
S O U T H K E N S I N G T O N
071-823 8968
We have a fantastic offer for all you
students, a cut wash and blowdry
by our top stylist
(which normally costs around £21)
For only £11 Men £12 Women
Check us out !

