Felix 22 May 1992
Settig the continuation of tijc completely
fictitious storg of an Empire founi an a
small, suggu patch of ttinb off tijc coast
of a lani callei iEurupa, Snscribei, in
nn part, bu iMargc
nd Lo! summer came to pass in
that far off Empire, and the
erstwhile unhappy land was suffused
with a brooding golden warmth, and all
bathed, nay languished, within this
loving glow. But within the dark citadel | i
of Surefire, the pallid and unearthly
flitted in fear of daylight through the
etiolated catacombs.
And where was that Wagnerian Gallant, Lieutenant Tristan Khartoum? He had not been sighted for weeks - was it that he was so afeared of
the light that he had retreated to the foetid and scrofulous bowels of the castle ? Or was he spending more time with his families ? Or was he
contemplating what would happen if a resident of the Royal Gardens or Blight decided to inform higher authorities that they were not fit to be
lived in? How many of the residents of the South Royal Gardens knew that the building had been given 25 years to live when it was built 27
years ago?
But he knew that this could never happen, for then those very same serfs would be cruelly evicted - or was it possible that the serfs would
be granted leave to remain rent-free? Quelle horreur! Nonetheless, he contented himself by knowing that nobody would dare tell until they
were sure of not being thrown out - he could always fob them off by saying that reparations were in hand. Though whose hand, he did not
say.
Many had ventured into the region of troglodytes - Gudzin, to the south and the unpronounceable Mntstr to the west- few had returned
sane. Even fewer had returned with the bounty they sought. They were populated by strange, twisted dwarflike beings, who fed on triplicate
NCR paper. They were every way identical to each other except that the denizens of Gudzin would say 'wassissthen ? Yacan only get this in
Mntstr. Sorry, I can't give you the rest 'cos the form's wrong,' while the inhabitants of Mntstr would say 'wassissthen ? Yacan only get this in
Gudzin. Sorry, I can't give you the rest 'cos the form's wrong. ' They would then refer the poor unfortunate adventurer to the mythical
'stationery store,' deep within the Surefire Fortress. Many were the gallants who wandered within the Empire's bounds gibbering with
frustration and chewing on their triplicate forms.
Sad times, poor times - the Emperor himself had been seen hurrying into Cromwell's Emporium, where good food costs less, to buy the
last, cheap bread before they shut. As this was the mode of purchase of most of the Empire's serfs, many had witnessed and wondered at it -
what terrible armageddon did it portend? Delicately curled smoked salmon slices on yesterday's baguette with a dash of parsley? Oh, that the
caterers at the Royal Gate should heave and retch at such a suggestion! And on culinary matters, it was noted that Sir Otto d'Oignon's right
hand maiden and leading acolyte, Baroness Dzhugashvili, had placed chocolate mousse on the menu of her leaving party - though why such a
tragic parting should breed such celebratory joy is quite beyond me. Mousse... soft, spongy, insubstantial, yet somehow laplandy and antlery
to boot.
And so the gentle zephyrs of May warmed the citizen's frigid hearts - the serfs' souls were lifted unto a higher plane. The duck had
returned to Blight Square - her chicks had hatched, and the anxiety of the serfs' impending rite of passage, the hope of summer and the inner
eye looking farther to a world beyond the present squalor drove the processes of life to a new vitality. What was to become of the Emperor's
new loaves? What was Sir Tristan doing with all his spare time? How many serfs know that Iosef Vissarionovich Dzhugashvili ruled the Soviet
Union from 1926 until 1953 and knew nothing about computers? And so the story and verbosity continues
—18—

