Genes affecting intellect
We’re all guilty of pulling all nighters...
Imperial students fall generally into two cat-
egories: those who work hard and those who
don’t work at all. Students across all years ei-
ther diligently trek to the library every evening
or pass it completely (as in, walk awkwardly
around the redundant new library porch) to go
straight to the Union.
However, when it comes to academic suc-
cess, there seems to be no such correlation.
Blame your department, blame your note tak-
ing skills or even blame the annual arrival
of the American girls tempting you into the
depths of Metric, but new research has shown
your academic floundering or success could be
down to your genes. A paper published online
in Nature this week has taken the first step in
actually quantifying how genetics can influ-
ence cognitive ability, but take their findings
with a pinch of salt - intrinsic aptitude alone
won’t get you that 2:1.
The study lead by Ian Brady, a professor of
Differential Psychology at the University of Ed-
inburgh, has allowed an insight not just into in-
telligence causation but also intelligence degen-
eration over time, thanks to data uncovered from
the early 20th century that was collected across
Scotland. Using a traditional cognitive testing
method in conjunction with high tech genomic
sequencing, test scores from a group of unrelated
individuals were recorded at two distinct times in
their lives, and then compared against the genetic
variation between the groups.
The test used was the Moray House Test
(not that House), and is very similar in struc-
ture to entrance tests usually taken for Gram-
mar school entry by 11 year olds, sometimes
referred to as the 11-plus. A combination of
verbal reasoning questions were asked to just
under two thousand participants aged 11 back
in 1932 and 1947, and the same individuals
were tracked down when they were aged 70 to
FELIX
Friday 03 February 2012
10
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Science Editors: Kelly Oakes
Alexander Karapetian
SCIENCE
In brief
Zero-point energy fluctuations
first seen in solid object
At a temperature of absolute zero, any atom or
molecule will still vibrate as it has a minimum ther-
mal energy known as zero-point energy. For the
first time, evidence of zero-point energy has been
seen in a solid object larger than a single atom or
cluster – a silicon bar 12 micrometres long and
less than a micrometre in diameter.
Light reflected off an object will be red- or blue-
shifted depending upon whether it is travelling
away from or towards you, and according to clas-
sical mechanics, an oscillating object will reflect
an equal amount of red-shifted light as it does
blue-shifted; otherwise, it would show that the ob-
ject has net movement towards or away from the
observer. However, at temperatures near absolute
zero where quantum mechanics dominates, an ob-
ject oscillating at its zero-point energy cannot emit
energy to its environment, and thus cannot blue-
shift any light reflected off it.
Scientists at the California Institute of Technol-
ogy cooled the silicon bar to within less than half
a kelvin of absolute zero, and fired a laser at it. By
measuring the reflected light, they saw an asym-
metry between the red and blue-shifted reflec-
tions, showing that the bar spent around 30% of
its time in its zero-point energetic ground state.
DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevLett.108.033602
Keir Little
I can’t see anything in this solid sphere
take the same test under the same standardised
conditions. They also gave a cell sample to de-
termine how strong the genetic link may turn
out to be.
Their genomes were then scrutinised to pro-
duce Single Nucleotide Polymorphism (SNP)
data. SNPs are particular points in the genome
sequence where one fraction of the species
population has one nucleotide type, and anoth-
er substantial fraction has another type. SNPs
therefore can be used to give an insight into
the possible genetic causes of varying char-
acteristics between individuals in the same
population, in this case intelligence. Over half
a million SNPs were scrutinised for every in-
dividual who took the test, and Brady was able
to put forward the estimate that 24% percent
of their cognitive ability is determined by the
genes due to the differences in the scores be-
tween the two age groups.
So does this mean that about a quarter of our
intelligence is genetically determined from the
start? Not necessarily, as the overall statistics
are a bit sketchy and the Moray House Test is
just one of many ways to test intelligence, so
a greater, more detailed study may be needed.
A greater genetic insight is needed too, such
as locating specific gene sequences, but this
research does provide a new understanding on
which to base future neurological studies into
intelligence and its causation.
However, if 24% of your intelligence is ac-
tually genetic alone, that means that 76% is
still down to you. This should come as great
news to all those who spent Christmas revising
hard and neglecting their family, their friends
and their hygiene, as you may actually stand
a chance of doing well. To everyone else, put
down Felix, finish that Nonogram later and
sulk over to the library. You may have to at-
tempt to work hard after all.
DOI:10.1038/nature10781
Like us on Facebook
facebook.com/FelixScience
Follow the latest science
news from Imperial and
around the world on our
Facebook page
Researchers at MIT have discovered a new
method of performing the Fast Fourier
Transform algorithm which, in a large set
of use cases, adds performance improve-
ments. The MIT group submitted their pa-
per, “Nearly Optimal Sparse Fourier Trans-
form” to ArXiv on 12 January and presented
their findings in the Symposium on Discrete
Algorithms (SODA) last week.
The Fourier Transform is a popular means
of mathematical analysis which decomposes
functions into their constituent frequencies.
The Discrete Fourier Transform (DFT) is
a realisation of this as an algorithm which
takes a sequence of real or complex num-
bers to process information stored in com-
puters, with uses in academic areas in Com-
puter Science and mathematics. The Fast
Fourier Transform (FFT) is a set of algo-
rithms which are able to efficiently compute
the DFT in a significantly faster time. FFTs
have been hailed as the Swiss Army Knife
of algorithms, with wide ranging applica-
tions in graphics (image processing, filters),
digital signal processing (reconstructing a
signal from frequency data), compression,
optics, crystallography and data searching.
FFTs work by performing a variety of
optimisations on the DFT. Speeding up ele-
ments within the summation equation, such
as the amount of multiplication operations
involved, allows for reduced processor us-
age during the algorithm’s execution. This
increases efficiency significantly, but there
is no known proof which dictates the FFT
is the fastest algorithm for computing the
DFT. Renowned MIT mathematician Gilbert
Strang has described the FFT as the “most
important algorithm of our generation”.
The MIT researchers’ new algorithm,
coined the Sparse Fourier Transform (sFFT),
improves on the FFT by considering a signal
to be a product of narrower slices of band-
width. With this, the signals are treated as
oscillations rather than binary up/down di-
rections, and the same slice of bandwidth
can be sampled at different times to better
determine where the dominant frequencies
are. This strategy, notable for its use in 4G
cellular networks, allows for sparse (heav-
ily weighted) frequencies to be identified
faster. As a result, the algorithm’s worst
case efficiency is equivalent to the FFT,
but the average case is an improvement for
many general input signals.
The sFFT algorithm, developed by two
professors from MIT’s Computer Sci-
ence and Artificial Intelligence Labora-
tory (CSAIL) along with their students,
has been described by Professor Martin
Strauss from the University of Michigan
as “greatly [expanding] the number of cir-
cumstances where one can beat the tradi-
tional FFT”.
Faster Fast Fourier Transform found
Alexander Karapetian
Philippa Skett
The Guardian

