SCIENCE
FELIX Friday 03 February 2012 11
Research involving a virulent mutant
strain of the influenza A virus has been
temporarily halted over fears of potential
bioterrorism and accidental release.
It is widely recognized by scientists and
laypeople alike that influenza continues to
pose a great threat to global health, even
rivalling that of the current AIDS pan-
demic; the 1918 outbreak of Spanish flu
alone killed 50 to 100 million people in
just two and a half years. In order to face
flu pandemics, scientists need to carry out
research on the various strains of the virus
to better understand how they mutate and
spread from animal reservoirs to humans.
However, new research on a mutated
strain of the H5N1 virus, more commonly
known as bird flu or avian influenza, has
been put on hold for 60 days in order to
quell public fears and spark debate on the
topic of research involving potentially le-
thal influenza strains.
Fears began to circulate in September of
last year when two independent research
groups in the US and the Netherlands cre-
ated a mutant strain of the H5N1 virus
in order to find out how mutations in the
virus made it easier to transmit. It trans-
pired that the virus could be transmitted
via inhalation between ferrets breathing
the same air. This strongly suggested that
the mutant virus could transmit just as
easily from human to human. Whilst the
labs were both classified as BSL-3 (Bio-
safety Level 3) enhanced, second only to
BSL-4 in protection, fears abounded that it
was simply not sufficient for such a lethal
pathogen that combined the transmissibil-
ity of seasonal flu with the high mortality
rate of wild-type H5N1.
Controversy arose when, on December
20, the US National Science Advisory
Board for Biosecurity (NSABB) called
for the two papers on the mutant virus,
which had been submitted to Nature and
Science, to be partially censored, fearing
the methodology within them could be
utilized by bioterrorists. The advice drew
criticism from all angles, ranging from
complaints that partial print could ham-
per further research to the claim that the
NSABB’s advice was too little, too late,
considering how much of the research had
already been passed on to other influenza
labs. The authors of the papers agreed to
this redaction, under the understanding
that the research could be passed on to le-
gitimate influenza researchers.
Putting a pause on influenza research
In order to quell the fears and answer
the questions provoked by the media
storm that arose from their research a joint
statement was made by the two labs on
January 20 that put a 60 day pause on their
research. The teams called for an interna-
tional forum with which to discuss the po-
tential benefits and risks of their research,
as well as set up a framework for distribut-
ing their findings without letting it fall into
the hands of those who would abuse it.
The question remains whether or not
this form of research is necessary, or if it
is simply a pandemic waiting to happen.
The 60 day pause is much welcomed, and
even if it does not resolve the main issues
it will allow the scientific community to
debate these ideas in an open forum, as
well as assure the public that the research
is not being carried out either haphazardly
or without a defined purpose.
Whilst research into influenza spread
and pandemic management is undeniably
useful, safety must take precedence over
speed – whilst transferring the study to
BSL-4 graded laboratories may slow re-
search the virus in question is without a
doubt highly dangerous and must be treat-
ed accordingly. Care must also be taken
with the freedom of print. Whilst the free
flow of ideas drives scientific progress
we unfortunately live in a world where,
more than ever, information can be used
to cause major harm if procured by the
wrong people. In the next 60 days it is im-
perative that a method of securely distrib-
uting data and information is laid out in
order to keep pushing influenza research
forward. It will by no means come easily,
but it must.
Laurence Pope
?
?
Don’t miss the Private Housing
Talk on Monday 5 March 2012!
www.facebook.com/
imperialstudentaccommodation
Learn more at:
Learn more at:
www.imperial.ac.uk/accommodation
Moving out of halls and thinking about
Moving out of halls and thinking about
accommodation
accommodation for next year?
for next year?
Join us for:
Join us for:
» advice on moving out of halls
» tips and advice on when and where
to start looking for a place to live in the private sector
» learning how much you can expect to pay for rent and other costs
» advice on your rights as a tenant and how to deal with landlords and
their contracts
» tips on moving in/out
» exclusive opportunities to meet estate agents, landlords and other
accommodation service providers
When and where:
When and where:
16.30 Exhibition opens in the Queen’s Tower Rooms
18.00 Talk in the Great Hall
19.00 Exhibition continues with
a FREE prize draw to win an iPad 2!
Sponsored by

