POLITICS
MP David Lammy has blamed anti-smacking
laws for the lack of discipline that led to riots in
London last summer.
Mr Lammy is the MP for the North Lon-
don constituency of Tottenham, where the ri-
ots originated and some of the worst violence
was experienced. He became a regular on our
screens for his vocal and often radical views
of the riots. The Labour MP attacked the 2004
Children’s Act as being a middle-class “liberal
elite” law that stigmatises the working class
and leaves them too scared to discipline their
children.
The current legislation allows for the smack-
ing of children as long as it does not cause
“reddening of the skin”. Other methods of dis-
cipline which cause physical or serious mental
harm are also banned. The concern is not so
much that the law itself is wrong in its inten-
tions and the limitations it sets, but in its sub-
jective interpretation.
Mr Lammy has argued that the law has too
much of a grey area, leaving parents fearing
that their children could be taken away by
social workers if they hit them at all. He also
made it clear that there is a class divide where
parents in deprived areas are constantly being
visited by social workers regardless of whether
there is reason, leading to constant fear. Mid-
dle-classes, on the other hand, are rarely tar-
geted by social workers and can train discipline
into their children with “private education and
extra-curricular activities.”
Despite these claims of a class difference, the
law was actually brought in by Lammy’s own
traditionally working class Labour party, but he
has quickly gained the support of traditionally
middle class Conservative politicians, includ-
ing Education Secretary Michael Gove and
Mayor of London Boris Johnson who find the
law “confusing”.
An overhaul of the law could well have wide-
Smack your kids up
How red is too red?
Why not write for Felix
Politics? Email us at:
politics.felix@ic.ac.uk
spread public support. A poll by the Guardian,
generally thought to have a readership that
epitomises the “liberal elite”, showed that last
October two-thirds of its readers opposed a
smacking ban. At the time of writing, 90% of
Telegraph readers, thought to epitomise middle
class conservative attitudes, support the right to
smack.
It now appears likely that a serious review
will take place of the law and it is likely to be
changed due to this vocal backbench MP.
FELIX
Friday 03 February 2012
12
politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Politics Editors: Rajat Jain
Joseph Letts
The Annual 5 day World Economic Forum meeting
in Davos, Switzerland ended on Sunday in an un-
usually sombre mood. It’s usually a rather positive
affair, for capitalists at least, where world leaders
rub shoulders with multi-billionaires and heads of
NGOs or large corporations can openly lobby for a
better world or better profits while dining with Hol-
lywood’s A-list. This year, however, was rather de-
pressing. Global economic problems, as with the
last few years, were top of the agenda. But this
time, few people had any grand plans to turn the
bust into a boom. Instead, the focus was on dam-
age control – particularly how to control the Euro-
zone crisis. This was coupled with an admission
that world growth would have to be driven by, and
completely depend on, Asia – although even China
would no longer experience double-digit growth.
Business Leaders expressed concern that ris-
ing youth unemployment across the globe was a
“ticking time bomb.” Usually, a young population
means a low dependency ratio and gives develop-
ing countries the capacity to create high growth
and fuel global economic stability. Instead, unem-
ployment is rising, particularly in the Arab World,
where it is partly responsible for triggering the re-
volts last spring.
German Chancellor Angela Merkel expressed a
need for greater integration in Europe, particularly
in her financial institutions. Merkel argued that the
European Stability Mechanism, used for emergen-
cy bailouts in the Eurozone, ought to be increased.
She, however, made it clear that the more Ger-
many is willing to pay out, the higher the moral
hazard as other countries and private institutions
feel lower risk.
British Prime Minister David Cameron, how-
ever, criticised the German chancellor for not
doing enough, suggesting that the country was
somehow shirking its responsibility. Germany is
Europe’s largest economy, has provided larger
bailouts than any other country, and defended
Britain when French politicians were quick to at-
tack Cameron’s European policy. His views have
caused anger among pro-European MPs. Cameron
has already alienated French President Nicholas
Sarkozy and is accused of leaving Britain at the
edge of Europe.
Christine Lagarde, the new head of the Interna-
tional Monetary Fund and former minister in the
French cabinet, has campaigned for a €500bn
increase in her institution’s budget and largely
agreed with Mrs Merkel’s plan for greater Europe-
an financial integration. She argued that the IMF
was a safer bet than any other for securing the
Eurozone.
Rajat Jain
Davos 2012
All Doom & Gloom with no Boom
Rajat Jain
Middle class nanny-state blamed for riots
Police have been deployed in towns across
Senegal, and are reported to have killed two
people in the northern town of Podor, as pro-
tests intensify. Rallies have been organised
after President Abdoulaye Wade declared his
intention to stand for a third term.
Senegal has long been seen as a relatively
successful democracy by African standards.
Mr Wade first came to power in 2000, break-
ing over fourty years of Socialist rule in the
West African country. He had generally been
seen as a popular and effective president. In
2001, under his rule, a new constitution was
adopted limiting presidential terms to a maxi-
mum of two spanning five years each from the
previous seven year terms.
However, more recently, views of him have
soured. He changed the constitution back so he
can stand for a third term, which would be sev-
en years long. Increased control on freedom of
the press has been introduced and three opposi-
tion candidates (including a popular musician)
have been barred from standing.
Further to this, Wade has also been accused
of corruption, despotism and wasting public
money in the impoverished nation on vanity
projects.
There seems to be a growing risk that Wade
could turn Senegal into another story of failed
democracy in Africa. However, with his un-
popularity with the church and growing anger
among the people, protests could well bring
down the president before the election on Feb-
ruary 26.
Fresh protests in Senegal
Rajat Jain
Abdoulaye Wade remains defiant

