FELIX
Friday 03 february 2012
14
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Comment Editors: Tim Arbabzadah
Sam Horti
COMMENT
The newly redesigned Exhibition Road saw
its grand opening take place last Wednes-
day. Away from the usual buffoonery (read:
metal elephants that Felix still doesn’t quite
comprehend perfectly) and tussles for photo
opportunities that accompany any form of
visit from the current Mayor of London the
fact remains that the redesign cost £30m,
and while the visual changes are plain to
see, the reasoning behind them is some-
what muddier.
The designers have promised that despite
what seems like an unintuitive idea to begin
with (namely a lack of solid guidelines for
traffic or crossings for pedestrians), there
will ultimately prove to be a bevy of improve-
ments over the previous design, including a
reduction in traffic by 30% and an increased
observation by both driver and pedestrian.
For £30m, one would certainly hope so. Nev-
ertheless, in its current state, ‘increased
observation’ will most likely prove to be a
synonym for ‘anxious watching’ as students
attempt to find the best area to cross a road
with an ever changing traffic flow, and motor-
ists (some of whom, of course, will be unfa-
miliar with the new layout) attempt to avoid
potentially grim consequences as students,
tourists and other pedestrians edge out
from behind parked cars.
The reduction in road signs is mystifying.
For such a laissez-faire attitude to be thrust
upon users of the road, one would have to
place a great deal of faith in road users.
However, many who use the road aren’t regu-
lar residents, such as tourists for museums
and the surrounding area. A prime example
is the roundabout at the corner with Prince
Consort Road. Situated on a prime route to
Ethos, it is a popular location to cross for
students. Now, turning for cars is only vague-
ly regulated. Confusion reigns, especially
when car indicators are not even used.
Consider the behaviour of motorists on
Queen’s Gate and the surrounding area. Par-
ticularly at busy times, little consideration
can often be shown to those waiting at zebra
crossings. As problems still exist in other lo-
cations around campus, whether due to the
location of crossings or other traffic regula-
tions that could be improved, is it really time
to give drivers more free reign?
While pioneering schemes such as the Ex-
hibition Road redesign are to be admired for
their scope and ambition, one can’t help but
feel that there has been a major oversight
with the new layout with regards to the public
and many students who use the road every-
day. Despite the shine of the newly cleaned
museums, we mustn’t be dazzled by the
aesthetic impact. Traffic around campus is
still a key issue and hasn’t yet been cracked.
We must study the new Exhibition Road and
determine for ourselves whether an improve-
ment is incoming any time soon.
FELIX
Elephants can’t hide
Exhibition Road worries
P
lease do not read the fol-
lowing if you do not like
controversial material.
The debate over the le-
galisation of drugs has
wittered on for as long as we’ve had
drugs, or at least laws about them.
Those of you who think that drugs
are dangerous for the public at large
will probably give good arguments for
the criminalisation of their use, pos-
session and trade. Likewise, those of
you who regard drugs as a matter of
personal choice beyond the remit of
the government or police can probably
offer equally valid counter-arguments.
I, myself, think the most sensible
option would be to legalise all drugs.
Prohibition of anything has never re-
ally worked. The greatest historical
example of this folly comes from the
eponymous era in the USA, especially
in Chicago. All prohibition did was
drive money and power into the hands
of mobsters, both of which they have
been reluctant to relinquish ever since.
Instead of simply legalising drugs
such as heroin and cocaine and leav-
ing the population to their own de-
vices, we should provide a reputable
market for their sale. So much of the
danger of illicit drugs is in the mystery
of whatever they’ve been cut with,
and the lengths people go to acquire
them. An above-board market would
bring with it standards in formula-
tion, dose, and purity and would leech
significant control away from career
criminals (and I don’t mean City of
London bankers). After all, who can
compete with Tesco’s prices?
However, even I’m not optimistic
enough to think that Fair Trade co-
caine will significantly improve the
lives and working conditions of its
producers in Bolivia – well, maybe I
am. Such a radical change in crimi-
nal and supermarket forces would be
near-impossible to organise, and the
gangsters won’t like it. Neither will
the Daily Mail, I’m sure. There would
of course have to be checks. It should
still be illegal to sell these drugs to
anyone under 18, or 21, say, and us-
ing in a public place would be forbid-
den, excluding properties, clubs and
the like, with a certain license. What
people do in the privacy of their own
homes, however, should be their own
business, within reason.
As with the nature of this debate, I
don’t expect this proposal to be uni-
versally lauded but I do believe it
makes sense. Decriminalisation will
free up the police to pursue other
crime and a legal market would bring
with it taxation and revenue. Ka-
ching. The idea that legalisation will
turn us all into crackasmackheads (my
own term) doesn’t really hold water.
Alcohol and nicotine are both perfect-
ly legal and yet we don’t all go around
boozing and puffing. Other drugs are
dangerous, true, but these are no ex-
ception. I’ve seen enough patients on
the wards that have gone bright yel-
low and can’t catch a single breath.
This is just the start though.
In the 21st century, we should be
able to be the complete masters of
our own reality. Some people have
escaped the drudgery of this heaven
and earth for one of their own design
in Second Life on the internet. Using
drugs, from alcohol to LSD, is but one
way to abscond this reality, if only for
a time. Others choose to augment their
appearance through tattoos, piercings
or stonking great breast implants.
Apossible high society
All this is fine but it doesn’t go far
enough.
The one aspect of our lives that is
beyond our tangible control is how
long it lasts. Until that time comes,
we should express ourselves to the
full extent of our desire and capac-
ity. I want to walk down the street and
see a guy with a horn in the middle of
his forehead. I want to fall asleep in
the radiant arms of my girlfriend who
glows in the dark. I don’t particularly
want to see people wandering around
with cat ears or a tail but that’s a mat-
ter of personal taste. What really mat-
ters is what you want to do, what you
want to look like, what you want to
be.
We have the technology to make all
this possible. Reconstruction surgeons
must be itching to do something other
than treat burns victims and insecure
Harley Street patrons. Jellyfish and
other fantastic oddballs of DNA have
the genes that enable us to some really
weird stuff. Luminescence is simply
page one material.
We should also have access to nor-
mally medicinal drugs to modulate
and alter our bodily function. Nearly
every drug has its own niche side-
effect. If Big Pharma knew there was
a market for it on the other end, they
wouldn’t have a problem emphasising
this otherwise small print. Personally,
I would take rifampicin daily to turn
my urine bright orange. How great
would that be!
For more than a decade, we have
been able to become whoever we want
on the internet. Allowing real life to
become dull and restrictive by com-
parison is the real crime at the centre
of the drugs debate. You may scoff at
my far-reaching proposals but I be-
lieve they have some merit. It would
certainly brighten up the journey into
college each morning!
Do you enjoy
anonymously
exerting your
intellectual
superiority
over people
you’ll never
talk to ever
again? Well,
felixonline.
co.uk is the
place for you!
As with the nature
of this debate, I
don’t expect this
proposal to be
universally lauded
but I do believe it
makes sense
“
As with
As with
of this
of this
Rhys Davies
I don’t know what drug he’s taken to make his head so big

