Tagore
Nakornchai
COMMENT
FELIX Friday 03 february 2012 15
COMMENT
FELIX 15
I
n case you haven’t been follow-
ing the news, here’s a quick sum-
mary: the UCL Atheist, Secular
and Humanist Society’s president
stepped down this week after
massive pressure from the UCL Union.
The Society had used a picture from the
“Jesus and Mo” web comic to advertise
an event, and were promptly served with
a takedown notice from the UCL Union.
When the society shot back with a peti-
tion, 4,000 people (including Richard
Dawkins) signed it overnight, and the
UCLU was forced to back down.
Days later, at a Queen Mary Athe-
ism, Secularism and Humanism Society
meeting, an angry man interrupted an
event where an anti-Sharia Law cam-
paigner, Anne Marie Waters of “One
Law for All”, was due to give a speech.
He threatened to murder the attendees
and their families, forcing the cancella-
tion of the event and the calling of cam-
pus security.
And then, on Friday, the LSE Atheist,
Secularist and Humanist Society were
charged with “Islamphobia” by their Stu-
dent Union because members posted car-
toons that made fun of the prophet Mo-
hammed on their Facebook group. This
apparently made the Society’s web-page
an “unwelcoming” place for Muslim stu-
dents. Who’d a thunk? I’d probably feel
unwelcome walking into an Islam Soc or
Christian Union meeting or discussion,
even if people were being completely
cool about it. There’s just something
about walking into a discussion group,
both online and offline, for people with
views you don’t agree with that makes
people relatively uncomfortable.
Religion, to many people, is a highly
personal and spiritual thing – I get that,
but people also seem to believe that reli-
gion should get a special status and that
it shouldn’t be subject to the normal criti-
cism that is often applied to everything
Give TfLa break
The right to offend
else. I am a (wavering) Lib Dem, and
I get shit about it all the time – I don’t
see why religion should receive a spe-
cial status that should protect it from all
sorts of criticism that pretty much every
other sort of deeply held view, whether
on politics, economics, music or Tube
Trains (how the fuck can you like the
Northern Line?) will receive.
Look, I am not going to pretend that I
have a good enough understanding of Is-
lamic/Christian/Jewish/Hindu/Pastafar-
ian Scripture to have a proper theological
debate, but I’ve read around the subject
enough to have a sensible and reasoned
view of the various religions. If I take a
quote out of context, or misunderstand
the point of the text – then fine, feel free
to correct me – but don’t tell me that I
have no right whatsoever to criticize
the various aspects of your religion. I’m
pretty sure most Christians are happy
enough criticizing Islam (or Mormons),
and most Muslims are happy to criticize
Christianity – only when their own reli-
gion is under a spotlight do people really
get touchy.
I’d bet most people don’t follow all the
rules in the book anyway – mainstream
Christianity and Judaism have left the
worst bits of the Old Testament well be-
hind them, and nobody really follows the
Koran word for word, do they?
Instead of crying foul and trying to
stifle their critics through censorship or
intimidation, religious groups should
attempt to face up to their criticism and
respond appropriately. Yes, sometimes
people make jokes that could be consid-
ered insulting or in bad taste, but this is
an important part of freedom of speech;
cartoons are a perfectly legitimate way
of expressing your views – they may not
be as sophisticated or as eloquent as an
academic paper or a non-fiction book,
but the artist still has a right to express
his views.
A
h sorry I’m late, fucking
Transport for London”
– the familiar refrain
uttered by thousands of
Londoners every day. I
mean it was obviously a failure of the
bastards that you couldn’t make it to
drinks/lectures/sessions of parliament
on time. Right?
WRONG. I say we all take a look
at ourselves. Was it really the bus that
made you late, or was it something to
do with the fact you were in pyjamas,
stuffing yourself with so much Special
K it lost any scarce ability it once had to
keep your figure trim five minutes be-
fore you were supposed to leave?
Yes, TfL isn’t perfect. Sure, the buses
sometimes stop their journeys half way
through without explanation. And yes,
the Circle and/or District line is guar-
anteed to be mysteriously closed ev-
ery weekend (for the addition of new
trains – I’m having none of it). But
take a moment, think back to whatever
dark hole Imperial did you the service
of dragging you out of and try to recall
the state of the public transport. If your
experience was anything like mine, re-
pressed memories of irregular services,
long waits, suspiciously expensive tick-
ets and the complete inability to travel
between 11pm and 6:30am should hor-
rifyingly resurface.
Not to mention that nights out at
home usually entail more coercion, bar-
gaining and bribery than the allocation
of a World Cup as you attempt to nego-
tiate a deal whereby you can get to and
from the location and have somewhere
to sleep. Since being in London, I’ve
not thought once about how I’m going
to get home – there’ll always be a night
bus.
The Londoners amongst you are
probably now itching to tell me of im-
portant defects I’ve missed, maybe the
fact that the buses rarely arrive when
scheduled. Whilst this is true, to those
naysayers I can only suggest one thing:
go somewhere that is not London, then
Freedom of Speech is perhaps the most
important aspect of our modern democ-
racy – the ability to express our doubts,
concerns and criticism of current events
is what differentiates the success of the
Democratic World from Dictatorships.
Yes, we complain about policing policy,
or about the UK’s foreign policy – but
it’s the fact that we can actually complain
or take action that means that we have
the ability to cause change and to drive
and motivate people to do something
about the problem.
Of course, we find a lot of things peo-
ple say unacceptable and reprehensible
– I find a lot of things that the BNP have
to say reprehensible, and I most certainly
don’t agree with the views of Christian
or Muslim Fundamentalists on gay mar-
riage – I even find them (as a straight
person) slightly offensive, because it im-
plies that having different views on sexu-
ality is weird, or abnormal in some way.
I find suggestions that atheists are im-
moral materialists even more offensive,
yet you don’t find me running to Scott
Heath’s office to demand an apology
from the offending society. An important
part of being able to criticize others is the
willingness to accept criticism yourself,
rather than living in a rose-tinted world
catch a bus. Unless you’re luckier than
a lottery winner who’s just eaten a good
sandwich from Tesco, you’ll find that
the buses rarely keep to schedule, and
aren’t regular enough to compensate for
this fact.
Next time you start blaming your tar-
diness on the transport system, stop. Re-
consider what you’re about to say and
just think. London is a huge city and yet
the buses and tubes are regular, inex-
pensive and actually, dare I say it, fairly
quick. So yes, TfL may have cheekily
raised their prices by 5p over the New
Year (nothing gets past me) and yes, at
times they can be extremely frustrating.
But come on guys, give TfL a break.
where everything is going “just right”.
To censor anything that could be even
remotely offensive, even to a small mi-
nority of students, is a dangerous prec-
edent. It could be used as a tool to stifle
legitimate debate and to force people to
apologize and back down. It is, however,
important to differentiate between re-
strictions on offensive speech and speech
that would cause actual harm – nobody
(except a crazy Ron Paul Libertarian
who believes solely in rights and not in
responsibilities) would say a person has
a right to yell “fire” in a crowded theatre.
And one last thing – every other large
university in London has an Atheist,
Agnostic and Humanist Soicety, while
Imperial’s Atheists and Agnostics Soci-
ety shut down 2 years ago. It’s high time
that, in a time where many government
policies are increasingly influenced by
religious fundamentalists (Nadine Dor-
ries’ repeated attempts to trash school
sex education classes, and to outlaw
abortion comes to mind), and with the
increasingly vocal religious societies in-
viting controversial speakers to the Col-
lege, that there should be a voice of non-
belief and reason in the college. I mean,
even King’s has one, and, as a Medic, if
GKT has something, we need one at IC!
Laurence de
Lussy Kubisa
Yes, sometimes
people make jokes
that could be
considered insulting
or in bad taste, but
this is an important
part of freedom of
speech
“
Yes, so
Yes, so
people
people
”
dom of
dom of
Yep, he may offend people, but consider this: without him, no Karl Pilkington
“

