FELIX
Friday 03 february 2012
16
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Comment Editors: Tim Arbabzadah
Sam Horti
COMMENT
U
nless you’re a masochist,
applying for jobs these
days, whilst never exactly
being pleasant process, is
a terrible experience from
every point of view. Not only is the stu-
dent dream of free(ish) money, big booty
hoes and four months off a year over, you
have to deal with the painful applica-
tion process itself. First of all, why is it
necessary to apply for a job starting next
September a year in advance? Come on
guys, it doesn’t take that long to skim
read a couple of pages! Surely they can
start things off a bit later on, giving us
(and them) more time to ease back into
things after summer. It’s bad enough deal-
ing with labs, lectures and tutorials after a
lazy summer let alone filling out a billion
job applications on top of that.This brings
me onto my main bone of contention.
Now I completely understand a firm
can’t just hire any old chump, but there
is no need for the fallacy that is Compe-
tency Based Interviews. The word itself,
competency, is an abhorrent example of
corporate-speak and, like most silly cor-
porate terms, it was conceived in the 80s
when most historians agree people were
too busy doing cocaine and avoiding
nuclear Armageddon (perhaps not at the
same time) to think very logically. The
purpose of an interview is to evaluate the
candidate’s motivation, skills and knowl-
edge to find the ideal candidate for the
role (according to Wikipedia). This is pre-
cisely where a Competency Based Inter-
view fails. The problem with them is that
they strongly favour the people who have
Cutting through the pain of haircuts
Competency, wompetency
spent the most time preparing for them
and not the people who are in reality most
suited for the role. Especially when you
consider that there is a plethora of books
that you can buy (Amazon has over 700)
and there are even week long interview
training courses that train you up.
Thinking about a “time when you’ve
solved a problem in a group using initia-
tive” or something similarly ridiculous is
pretty hard to do on the spot when you’ve
got a panel of grizzled interviewers, pens
at the ready, waiting for you to open your
cake hole. It’s a horrible moment. Your
caffeine addled mind goes into overdrive,
drudging up half forgotten memories of
that group project you did in second
year where you did… oh shit what was
it exactly? It’s in that split second when
you notice your interviewer has the rem-
nants of a long digested croissant stuck to
their tie (true story there) and your train
of thought is gone. It’s now officially
an awkward silence so you go “Basi-
cally, erm…” and out comes a mumbled,
spluttering load of bullshit about how
you somehow did something incredible
like saving an African tribe from Ebola
whilst furthering your dream of working
in *insert company here*, when in reality
you were probably more hungover than
Charlie Sheen on New Year’s Day, nod-
ding mindlessly to whatever the annoy-
ing, chirpy one in your group said, whilst
dreaming of a Boneless Banquet. Oh, and
if you don’t answer using the STAR tech-
nique, just leave – you’re done for.
Your only option if you want any hope
of getting the job is to spend an unending
H
ave you ever had to en-
dure torture? Well, I have,
and so have you. On
Wednesday the 25th of
January, I – wait for this –
had a haircut. If that doesn’t immediately
draw you in, I don’t know what will. I
know it may be a bit over the top to call
this torture, but bear with me.
First of all, booking a haircut. That’s
harder than you may think, mainly be-
cause I’m not sure the exact sentence that
I should say when calling up. I mean, I
know it’s not “Hello fine sir or madame,
I wish to purchase one haircut, jolly
good show” but apart from that, I’m a
bit lost. Do I say I want an appointment?
That seems a bit too formal and makes
it sound like I think I’m going to see a
doctor. Perhaps, I could just ask for a
haircut. That still feels somewhat lack-
ing; last time I tried that there was an
awkward silence where I think the person
on the end of the line expected me to say
more words. Phone’s bad enough, but in
person is much worse. Last time I tried
this, it did not go well. I was walking
confidently, not cockily strutting mind,
but with the vague swagger of a man
on a mission: for I, was about to get my
haircut. As I opened the door, coat bil-
lowing in the wind, I suddenly started to
panic and sweat, profusely. Shit. I hope-
fully thought in my head. I don’t have
an opening line. I have no way to open
this conversation. I know why I’m here,
they know why I’m here, what do I say. I
think I went with “errrrr, errrrr, haircut?”
A regular James Bond, I know.
You’re sat down in a chair and then
asked what you want done with it, at
which point you fumble around for an
explanation that matches the image in
your head. When you finally decide on
the style you have the “This much? No,
okay, this much? How about this much?”
at which point you usually just say yes as
you don’t want to be too much bother and
make a fuss. Although inside you’re ter-
rified they’re about to chop off way more
than has been agreed.
Hair wet, person with sharp objects
near your neck, suspended in a chair be-
neath a layer of protection from the spill
of stuff being cut off you: this is when the
real torture is about to start. It’s a tense
moment, worthy of any Bond scene. “Do
you expect me to talk?” “No, Mr Arb-
abzadah, I expect you to make cheerful
small talk, and look as if you’re not se-
cretly regretting the length you’re letting
me cut off”. Maybe I’m slightly exag-
gerating, it’s not that bad talking, but it
can be a bit awkward. Especially when,
after seeing the amount of hair falling on
the floor and how it’s starting to shape
up, you’re making a face akin to a deer
in the headlights. There’s also the classic
moment when you realise that you had
spaced out, trying to tell yourself that it’s
okay as you’re only half way through
and it will look totally different when fin-
numbers of hours, scratching your head
trying to remember anything you ever
did that was vaguely impressive, relating
them to competencies like “Makes An
Impact” and “Gets Things Done”. Those
ridiculous statements are genuinely
two of the competencies for a very well
known bank by the way; I’m not mak-
ing them, or the grammatically incorrect
capitalisation, up. They’re also incredibly
boring for people on both sides of the ta-
ble: the interviewer regurgitates a bunch
of questions from a piece of paper and
you regurgitate some prepared answers.
It’s likeA-Levels where you won’t get the
marks unless you put in the key words.
It’s a state of affairs that hasn’t escaped
the attention of employers. Several, in-
cluding Ernst and Young, one of the Big
4, who are collectively perhaps the oldest
and greatest advocates of competency in-
You think JP Morgan interviews are bad, you should do one for the Daily
Mail. You have to shout incoherently about the latest hot button issue
... the interviewer
regurgitates a
bunch of questions
from a piece of
paper and you
regurgitate some
prepared answers
”
some
some
swers
swers
“
... the in
... the i
regurgit
regurgit
terviews, are moving to alternatives such
as strength based interviews, which are
designed to find what really motivates
people, their true strengths and whether
these make them suitable for the role.
Many industries could also learn a lot
from consultancy firms who frequently
use case interviews. These test the candi-
date’s ability to solve a pseudo-real world
problem, actively testing the same skills
needed for the actual job. It’s a shame that
these days to succeed in almost anything,
from exams to interviews, there are few
alternatives but to learn the script and fol-
low it to a T. I guess it’s better than being
unemployed in a ditch, drinking K Cider,
which is apparently what the legions of
unemployed graduates are doing now
according to the Daily Mail. Anyway, I
gotta go guys, I have to think of times I
“drove things forward in a team”…
ished, and had been asked a simple direct
question. That’s when you go into full
back-in-school-teacher-has-picked-on-
me-I-wasn’t-listening mode and forget
that, as an adult, you can just say that you
didn’t hear as a dryer drowned them out.
Next comes the big reveal. It’s all been
leading up to this point and… fuck, (as
I have to mix up my swear words a bit,
I need a plethora of options to choose
from) this is not exactly as I had planned
it. Crap, (see, mixing it up) this doesn’t
look quite as good as it did in my head.
Why exactly did I make myself so hand-
some in my head; that was a terrible idea.
It seems they have cut it how I wanted,
but my own face and head has let me
down. At this point, you realise that, ac-
tually, it’s always like this. It’ll take a few
days or so for it to grow out and adopt the
style you were aiming for. By the time it
does, you’ll be used to it and all will be
fine. Panic over, disaster averted. Well,
until the next time...
Tim Arbabzadah
Chandra
Chadalawada
... “errrrr, errrrr,
haircut?” A regular
James Bond, I
know
“
... “errr
... “errr
haircut?
haircut?

