At first sight an event that describes itself as
an open mic poetry night may not seem like
something everyone can enjoy. You may even
assume that it, and by extension anyone writ-
ing about it, will be pretentious; perhaps you
think it will be the sort of night where some-
body without a beret would be persona non
grata (see, not pretentious, quod erat demon-
strandum… too meta a joke?). I can assure
you, Fluent on Paper is not at all like that.
The atmosphere was incredibly friendly,
warm and encouraging. As well as having
three guest poets, anybody could go up and
read their poetry. It didn’t matter if someone
had written their poem on the night, or had
carefully honed it over several months. Those
who did work up the nerve to step up to the mic
and recite their poetry found a polite, receptive
and attentive audience waiting for them.
The poems themselves ranged from intro-
spective musings to a lighter, comic tone – like
stand-up comedy, but with rhymes. The three
set poets were all great. Chris Richardson
(aka Felix’s Travel Editor) read stories of his
various travels, including one written in fairly
harsh conditions in a desert. Cas Nadel read
quirky poems in her unique, semi-rap style.
Dylan Lowe (a travel writer and former Felix
Travel Editor) continued on a theme of travel
at the end of the night.
The organiser of the night, Kadhim Shub-
ber, was, much like a curious man at a urinal,
compering. As well as introducing the three
set poets, he read some of his own material;
my personal favourite was ‘The Politician’s
Fingernails’, written about an image obsessed
politician who is frantically worrying about
whether or not his fingernails are too long.
At some point in the night, Kadhim also
introduced what became somewhat of an im-
promptu theme. A friend, who I shall not fur-
ther embarrass by naming, was trying to give
up smoking. People were encouraged to write
a poem (see Haiku in The Poet’s Column) for
him to gently help him to persevere. They were
mostly humorous in nature, with the exception
of one slightly more harrowing offering. In
fact, I even braved the spotlight and read out
a (slightly unconventionally structured, read:
poorly structured) poem to help convince him.
Overall the evening was very enjoyable, and
a great way to spend a relaxing Sunday night.
Fluent on Paper at The Builders Arms at
monthly intervals – the next is on Sunday
19 February
FELIX
Friday 03 february 2012
18
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Arts Editors: Will Prince
Eva Rosenthal
ARTS
Fluent on Paper does
The Poet’s Column
Tourists
by Cas Nadel
Stupid fucking tourists getting in the way,
why don’t you learn to ride the mother fucking
train?
Gawking at the signs squiggly lines unrefined –
can’t find the stop you’re looking for;
lurching on the floor.
Missing the door by a hair, unaware:
step out in front, elbow in naval – grunt.
You’re liable and unreliable, unpliable –
there’s a Burberry on every high street in your
country.
What’s the need to not proceed,
preceding me so slowly?
We’re not running hourly – minutes count.
Pounds are always on the line, we’re running by
the time,
wound up like a clockwork Turk –
the system has to work!
If you stop to tie your shoe, the bottle blocks -
wear crocks!
Tearing me asunder and I wonder “where’re your
brains?”
Did you leave them on the plane or with security?
He asked if you packed your bags yourself and
auto mode turned on and now on Portobello Road
you’re slow -
pacing like a toad, stopping, starting, a bitch for
any of us passing, asking which side will you step -
a never ending guess!
Go back from whence you came I’ve got nothing
‘gainst those who can move and realise there are
others in the world with even less to prove than
you so remove your shoes, let us tread on your
calcaneus. As long as you don’t slow progress.
I digress from the issue. Move the fuck out my
way!
Untitled Haiku
by Dylan Lowe
Swirling smoke inhaled
Innocent gale it may seem
It fucks up your lungs
Tim Arbabzadah
Looking
good on
Paper
Eva Rosenthal
The ease with which Ido, protagonist of The
Bee, morphs from law-abiding and rather bor-
ing businessman – of the kind who present
their sons with calculators for their 6th birth-
day – to terrorising monster is stupefying but
altogether not far removed from reality. After
all, murderers lead at least some semblance of
a ‘normal’ life up until that fateful murderous
day. Perhaps it was because of this knowledge
that The Bee made for such unsettling viewing.
When his family is kidnapped, Ido refuses to
play the victim and takes the kidnappers’ wife
and son as hostages. What was initially a mat-
ter of revenge on Ogoro, the stammering es-
capee murderer who wants his wife back, soon
descends into cold sickening pleasure for Ido.
Jarringly bright lights, blood-red floors and
screaming Japanese music set the mood at
the Soho Theatre for this chilling comedy, a
collaborative effort by Hideki Noda OBE and
Colin Teevan. They have mingled hilarity with
horror; The Bee is both funny and vaguely
terrifying. The script has a discordant aspect:
the sentences are brief, rhyming occasionally,
resulting in a terseness broken only by sound
effects of varying degrees of irritation. Com-
bined with the strident tone of delivery used by
the four actors, the script imposes its disturbed
idea on the audience members, who cannot
help but laugh even when, for example, Ido is
cutting a third finger off the little boy hostage.
Four actors played ten characters: there
was much, and impressive, gender bending of
roles. Olivier Award winning actress Kathryn
Hunter was the sociopathic Ido; the repugnant
aura that the character exudes from the start
was a stroke of real inspiration. The useless
police inspector, who has the task of delivering
Ido’s and Ogoro’s messages of escalating vio-
lence, was played by Clive Mendus. Mendus
was also responsible for a telephone ringtone
of dizzyingly irritating proportions – earplugs
would have been a good idea for this particu-
lar moment. Glyn Pritchard metamorphosed
seamlessly from misogynistic detective An-
choku to Ogoro’s son and eventually to Ogoro
Hip to Bee square
himself. These metamorphoses were choreo-
graphed with astuteness: Pritchard, confident
as the loud-mouthed Anchoku, takes a bat
to the head when Ido loses his patience with
police procedure. He keels over and as Ido
drags an imaginary body away, Pritchard dons
a green cap and with scared eyes, instantly
becomes Ogoro’s terrified son. Ogoro’s wife
is a pitiable character, played with surprising
sex-appeal and femininity by Hideki Noda, the
writer himself. The wife is forced into submis-
sion by Ido and by the end barely complains
against the bestiality flung upon her.
The acting and staging are both impeccable,
but The Bee fails to entirely come together on
some fundamental level, This is perhaps be-
cause, while the hilarity and horror succeed
as individual characteristics of The Bee, they
are never effectively welded together and
at times even cancel each other out. Neither
characteristic was emphasised with sufficient
strength in the script, both falling slightly flat,
and unable to create a vivid enough impres-
sion on the viewer. The play, with its aggra-
vating reporters and useless police force, is
already something of a caricature of society; a
greater degree of exaggeration would not have
hurt it. In spite of this, The Bee entertains and
even poses some interesting questions about
the more abominable depths of human nature.
At just over an hour in length, it would be the
perfect start to an evening out in Soho, provid-
ing at the very least a wealth of material for
discussion.
The Bee at the Soho Theatre until Febru-
ary 11th. Student tickets from £17.50
“Jarringly bright lights,
blood-red floors and
screaming Japanese mu-
sic set the mood”
Is it a guy? Is it a girl? One way to find out!
Guys play girls and girls play guys in
comically dark Japanese kidnapping
Felix Arts is constantly
looking for new poets.
If you want to see your
work appearing here, do
get in touch.

