ever, it is not some ritual of a bygone
age, but rather one of that is present
and living. With this in mind, the ex-
hibition is split into three distinct sec-
tions, analysing the journey to Mecca,
the rituals undertaken whilst at Mecca
and finally the experiences of those
who have undertaken the pilgrimage.
Drawing together an eclectic mix of
modern art, antique relics and personal
accounts, it aims to give glimpses from
throughout the ages into what is argu-
ably the world’s greatest, most enig-
matic religious phenomenon.
The exhibition tracks the changing
journeys of pilgrims over the history
of Hajj, from the four month trip of
the Malian King Mansa Musa, trav-
ARTS
FELIX Friday 03 FEBRUARY 2012 19
Go Hajj or Go Home
New exhibition at British Museum explores the greatest pilgrimage on Earth
I’d always thought writing opening
paragraphs was hard. But no edito-
rial challenge that faces us, here in the
Felix office, comes anywhere close
to the mammoth task taken on by the
British Museum (or, more truthfully,
by curator Venetia Porter) in its latest
exhibition, Hajj: Journey to the Heart
of Islam.
Suitably housed under the domed
roof of the Reading Room, the Brit-
ish Museum presents an exploration
of the history, culture and experience
of the fabled Muslim pilgrimage, Hajj,
the first recorded exhibition of its kind.
It comes as part of the museum’s study
into faith and society: first Book of
the Dead in 2010, then Treasures of
Heaven last year, analysed the impact
of religious belief on the cultures of
Ancient Egypt and Medieval Europe
respectively. But Hajj is quite a differ-
ent matter entirely.
We’ve all wandered the corridors of
museums and peered at little bits of
history, each originating from a time
quite alien to our own. With Hajj how-
“An eclectic mix of
modern art, antique
relics and personal
accounts.”
elling from Timbuktu in 1324, to the
early package tours runs by Thomas
Cook in the 1800’s. Early on, we are
confronted by the majestic crimson
red mahmal - a ceremonial palanquin,
complete with pennants, embroidered
with floral patterns and Quranic verses
in a velvety black and gold – in which
Qu’rans were transported along the
way to Mecca. Yet, despite a varied se-
lection of maps, antique Qur’ans and
photographs, along with the occasional
astrolabe, the collection of items on
display feels quite sparse. (It’s inter-
esting to note that may be due in part
to the Islamic disapproval of material-
ism. Broadly speaking, its not in their
nature to cherish the kind of items
that now make up most of your aver-
age museum’s collections, something
bemoaned by Shenaz Khemali in her
recent article in The Guardian.)
But it wasn’t so much the heritage
that I really wanted from Hajj, but
rather a greater insight into the won-
derment of the spiritual experience.
Surely journeying to the heart of Islam
hinges on understanding what indi-
vidually drove just shy of three mil-
lion Muslims to pilgrimage last year?
I doubt it was an antique carpet. But
herein lies that challenge taken up by
Venetia Porter and co. How do you dis-
til down this simultaneously spiritual
and physical spectacle and present it in
the form of a museum exhibition, to an
audience, the vast majority of whom
will never set foot in the holy city of
Mecca?
The exhibition suffered at times from
resembling a three-dimensional text-
book, just presenting facts and items
in the uninspiring tone of a GCSE
religious studies teacher. However it
was the personal accounts that, for this
reviewer, most successfully revealed
that understanding of the wonderment
of Hajj. Most touching of all, was the
scrapbook account of a ten year old
British Muslim girl, recording her ac-
count of her Hajj experience, written
up in neat hand-writing in the kind of
exercise book that is familiar to any
student. Ahmed Mater’s Magnetism
equally sticks in the mind, representing
Hajj, through a Ka’aba-shaped magnet
with a crowd of iron filings, all circling
in unison. Maybe it was the physicist
in me, but the comparison of Islam
to an all-pervading, all-uniting field,
struck me as more thought-provoking
that any of the antiques on display.
Hajj: Journey to the Heart of Islam
is a valiant endeavour to wrestle with
something so visible, yet so impen-
etrable. For those who know little of
Islam, Hajj gives a thorough account
that touches, if only briefly, on almost
every shade of the world-wide Muslim
community. For the more initiated, I
don’t know what else I can suggest,
short of conversion.
Hajj: Journey to the Heart of Islam at
The British Museum until April 15.
Tickets from £12
“How do you distil
down this spiritual
and physical specta-
cle?”
Will Prince
Ahmed Mater’s Magnetism

