Íñigo Martínez de Rituerto on music as a futile
interrogation of the state of the world
No exit from reality
M
usic, like all art, is a cre-
ative outlet addressing two
domains: affronting reality
and escaping it. The first
can be witnessed in the ef-
forts of the punk movement to criticize the val-
ues of modern society, or as a means of raising
awareness and capital for charitable causes.
The second aims to create an alternative real-
ity, an escape from the mundane, numbing the
ferocity of practical life.
Paradoxically, even while directly address-
ing current affairs, a medium such as music
can’t help but recede into the latter category.
What good will shouting about police brutal-
ity or state control do to those living under
oppressive government? Likewise, the mea-
surable benefit of an event such as Live Aid is
as questionable as a token donation to Unicef.
Insofar as it acts as a medium of expression
and an open stage for personal opinions, the
freedom procured by this creative vessel has
many benefits for individual and communal
well-being. Unfortunately, much like a picket
line in the middle of nowhere, ultimately little
fruit will come of it unless it is directed in a
calculated and scrupulous way. Given the van-
ity of mainstream media, especially when it
comes to the arts, the only way of getting a
message to the masses would be to infiltrate
the very system which censors sound opinions
for lack of marketability or for being too offen-
sive to force upon the majority of consumers.
Like any organised protest, unless the initiative
attains a critical mass, it will either fall on deaf
ears or slip under the noisy radar altogether.
Lady Gaga’s meat dress was about as sub-
versive as it was offensive. While at least an
admirable attempt to protest animal cruelty,
her own exhibitionism managed to stifle her
intentions. It was seen by most as just another
outlandish dress from her eccentric wardrobe.
Had she started an affiliate clothing line with
a corporate butcher, perhaps the press would
have clung on for a few days longer. However
worn in public, would likely have her arrested
in certain parts of the world.
Metal is an interesting genre on opposite
counts. While psychedelic music is all about
taking drugs and outlandishly redefining the hu-
man condition, metal is perhaps the archetypal
genre of honest fantasy. Singing about dragons
and muscular women wielding swords of steel
will never bring them about, but in some cases
leaving imagination as a willful illusion may be
the only viable escape from reality.
One subgenre which seemed to miss this ex-
istential loophole altogether is black metal, the
Satanic cousin of the hairy-chested longhairs.
Predominantely a Scandinavian phenomenon,
the alienated youths behind the movement mis-
takenly wore the veil of Satanism as an shock-
ing cover for their people’s plight in preserving
the pagan culture destroyed by Christianisation.
Surely a poorly chosen guise, given the trivial
diabolisation of such strategies by the media.
They might have been more successful in their
attempts to stand up for national dignity by say-
ing it with a straight face rather than painting
themselves like Kiss and putting on an evil gri-
mace. It’s a pity their burning of churches was
seen as an act of malevolence rather than the
righteous reclamation of pagan holy land they
intended. This insular norwegian episode was
an interesting and often confusing example of
fantasy infringing upon reality, to the point of
sabotaging its own intentions.
Even in misleading circumstances, the vo-
ciferous agitations aroused by mere waves in
air are at least commendable for their initiative
and occasional integrity, however futile an at-
tempt may be to make a difference in a largely
indifferent society.
As Gil Scott-Heron prophesied, “the revo-
lution will not be televised, it will be live.”
Ultimately, change must happen in the minds
of the people. Only then will it become mani-
fest in the real world. In this sense, perhaps the
quiet character of this ghostly medium may
find a place in our flickering existence after all.
a public paragon of truism this episode might
have felt to her, I doubt any furry animals were
spared from the high street.
Music alone may not stir great upheaval, but
it’s grounding in the sublime has greater power
than most to affect our mood and our dispo-
sition to behave or act in certain ways. How-
ever indirectly, it is this through this character
that it may cause veritable change in the real
world. The subjective nature of music, as with
any other medium of free expression, makes
it difficult to obtain tangible, objective results.
Nonetheless, it is this abstraction which allows
it to touch far more profoundly the complexion
of individuals, driving them to action.
The emotional charge of a piece of music
can awaken or invigorate passions in people
that may cause evident impressions in the
lives of others. To this end, it should not be
seen as a primary agent for change but rather
as a stimulant.
The power of music may be exploited as a
platform for propaganda or an enticement into
action. With a decent enough backing track,
virtually any message may be forced on the
naïve or subservient listener. All it takes is a
catchy melody and an explicit beat to leave
the world at your feet, hanging on your ev-
ery word, regardless of how false, immoral
or ridiculous your claims may be. In a world
where sexual inequality and stereotypes run
ever rampant, Beyoncé’s ‘Girls (Who Run
the World)’ couldn’t be any more misguided.
Whether the lyrics “who run this motha?” re-
fer to Mother Earth or someone else, she seems
to have dropped way out of her depth. All the
while perplexingly dressed in a fashion that, if
What better way to wave goodbye to week 4 than
with a timely fix of post-hardcore goodness. This
week, I’ll be telling you all about Every Time I Die.
As was the case with the second lesson’s band,
Refused, Every Time I Die doesn’t strictly belong
to the post-hardcore genre but for anyone follow-
ing this column, this band cannot be missed.
As a product of the New York alternative music
scene, Every Time I Die has a strong hardcore
influence present in their sound but they have a
vast platter of extra offerings too. Frontman Keith
Buckley adopts the gruff vocal style of hardcore
punk but in some tracks does show off his more
gentle side with melodic tunes sure to get stuck
in your head. A prime example of this is in the
song ‘Wanderlust’ from their most recent album
New Junk Aesthetic. I am almost certain that some
weird voodoo magic has gone into the track be-
cause it is literally always in my head. That being
said, it’s a pleasure to have such a great piece of
music as an imaginary friend.
As I mentioned earlier, they are not strictly post-
hardcore and this is evident when they are com-
pared to other bands in this series. As opposed to
the unpredictable and choppy music of Glassjaw
and At The Drive-In, Every Time I Die do not in-
fuse this kind of underlying asymmetry into the es-
sence of their music. Their sound is more (for lack
of a much better word) conventional, without the
strange time signatures and noise experiments.
But this shouldn’t be taken the wrong way. Every
Time I Die never fail to create a phenomenal al-
bum with every part of their back catalogue being
as good if not better than the last. Every time they
release a new record, I always get the feeling that
they cannot top their previous release and so I
always think the new one will be a let down, but
it never is!
For this reason, I urge you to buy their upcoming
album Ex-Lives (out 6th March) as I would not be at
all surprised if it is their best… so far. Remember
to check out the recommendation and see you all
next week!
Writer’s Recommendation
Listen to the song ‘Wanderlust’, although I warn
you, it will get stuck in your head for the rest of
your life.
George Jeffery’s
A beginner’s guide to
post-hardcore
Lesson 4: Every Time I Die
MUSIC
FELIX Friday 03 February 2012 21
Disney’s Lost Control
Be sure not to miss...
J Dilla revolutionised hip-hop
by taking the glory back from the
rhymes to the beats. Taken much
too soon by a rare blood disease,
his loss was as touching as his life
work to many of the most forward
thinking producers of the beat
scene world wide.
Íñigo Martínez de Rituerto
J Dilla Changed My Life
Scala
Sunday 5, Feburary Somehow, the suicidal undertones of Joy
Division’s Unknown Pleasures have managed
to escape the merchandising department at
Disney. After being on sale for three days, the
motion picture giant has been forced to discon-
tinue a shirt design which playfully combined
the 1979 album cover with Mickey Mouse’s
unmistakable silhouette.
Whether the true fault of this ill manouvre is
a blatant act of bootlegging or indirectly hook-
ing children to anti-depressants from an early
age is open to debate.
Íñigo Martínez de Rituerto
“A willful illusion may
be the only viable
escape from reality.”

