Sex, drugs, violence, and My Little Pony
H
alf way through its second sea-
son, Felix has yet to review My
Little Pony: Friendship is Magic.
Shame. The oddly popular TV se-
ries based on the line of Hasbro
toys has gained immense popularity since it de-
buted in 2010, spawning an entire subculture of
fans older than the target demographic, known
as Bronies and Pega-sisters.
If somehow you have been oblivious to the
arrival of My Little Pony (MLP), a summary is
required. Each episode follows a roughly simi-
lar structure: One of the mane (see what I did
there?) six ponies typically encounters an event
that disrupts everyday life. Only by working to-
gether as a team and using the magic of friend-
ship are they are able to overcome their difficul-
ties and save the day. Far from being formulaic,
the show is able to use this skeletal template to
their advantage, with enough variety and subsid-
ence to entertain the older fans whilst keeping it
suitable for younger audience members.
Critics of the show will often stress the sim-
plicity of the themes, and the fact that the show
is aimed at young girls. Fans of the show will
retort that the series in fact tackles deep moral
issues and struggles that people of all ages can
associate with. For example, the season one epi-
sode ‘Bridle Gossip’ depicts how the residents
of Ponyville fear a zebra because she is different
and unknown. The episode is resolved when the
ponies are able to realise their casual racism is
wrong and befriend the zebra.
The show was developed by Lauren Faust,
whose previous work includes The Powerpuff
Girls and Foster’s Home for Imaginary Friends.
Award winning composer Daniel Igram includes
a variety of themes in his music for MLP, rang-
ing from Broadway parodies (‘At the Gala’) to
gospel choir tracks (‘Hush Now Lullaby’).
The show’s popularity with older audiences
is due in large part to Hasbro’s unusual deci-
sion to allow fans to post and edit clips and full
episodes online (take that, SOPA and ACTA).
This allowed the community to flourish, with it
growing at a tremendous rate. It is also notable
that Hasbro actively works with the community,
incorporating feedback from fans directly into
the show.
Derpy Hooves (whose cross-eyed expression
was left in as part of an animator’s joke) was
spotted in the very first episode of season one
and quickly became a fan favourite, inspiring
a “Where’s Wally?” style game between the
show’s artists and fans. She was recently made
canon when she had a speaking role in ‘The Last
Roundup’.
In an era when the majority of entertainment
available is sex, drug or violence related it is
genuinely refreshing to find a show that pro-
motes integrity, morals and staying true to your-
self. Sure, you might not like all of the main six
equally (you will love them all though!), but this
show has something for anyone willing to give
it a try.
All broadcast episodes of My Little Pony:
Friendship is Magic are available on YouTube
in 1080p. The next episode ‘Read It and Weep’
will be broadcast Saturday 4 February on The
Hub and will be available on YouTube later that
day.
Sam Flynn gives us the lowdown from Ponyville, and proof that anything we get sent does actually get printed
A still from the musical number ‘At the Gala’ from the episode ‘Best Night Ever’
“Rule 34: If it exists, there is porn of it. No exceptions.”
Junior Doctors: Your Life in their Hands is back!
After a first series in Newcastle General Hospital
and the Royal Victoria Infirmary, eight newly-
qualified doctors hit the wards of the Chelsea and
Westminster Hospital. After getting their MBBS,
for the first time, they have to deal with real life
and death situations and take on the responsibility
of taking care of patients.
Four junior doctors are ex-Imperial students. Aki
is described as “Kensington meets Rock’n’Roll”
and easily pictured in the Reynolds bar; he is
“Mess President” now, basically in charge of or-
ganising parties for the doctors. Ben is a rugby
lad (probably in a centrefold), very popular with
the ladies and doing his second foundation year
in child surgery. Priya once dreamt of becoming
a Bollywood actress and now works in general
surgery. Sameer is a Harry Potter fan, threatened
with an arranged marriage by his family and pro-
duces entertaining quotes like “I’d describe myself
as fun… fair… not funfair” and “I’d like to treat
extra-terrestrials”, “the alien master race”.
The other four junior doctors come from differ-
ent universities across the country. Amieth is quite
laidback, not sure a quality you’d look for in a
doctor, but so far nothing dramatic has happened.
Andy is the youngest doctor working for the hospi-
tal and apparently incapable of growing facial hair.
Lucy is absolutely lovely, described as an English
rose by one of her patients. When the last junior
doctor, Milla, was introduced, I almost expected
‘Midnight City’ by M83 (the Made in Chelsea
theme tune) to come on. She loves balls and hats
and was inspired to become a doctor when she was
a child to keep her parents alive and healthy for-
ever. Cheesy but kind of cute.
The last thing to say about the first two episodes
is that they are uneventful. Breach of doctor-patient
confidentiality, multiple failures at fitting a cannu-
Imperial Medics in BBC3 reality show
Marie-Laure Hicks la in, putting a finger up a patient’s arse, certifying
a death and a phone ringing during reanimation,
you will not be bored, maybe just a bit concerned
about your next trip to the hospital. Although ap-
parently you can get sandwiches in A&E.
The show is great. The producers have made
a real effort for the soundtrack, with lyrics com-
pletely adapted to the situation. If you are a medi-
cal drama junkie like me, it provides you with all
the medicine you want without leaving out the
personal experience and emotional aspect. As the
junior doctors gradually learn how to do the job,
you are given the opportunity of a window into the
world of hospitals and patients. The only disap-
pointing aspect of this new series for me is that
I really miss the previous junior doctors: Suzi the
Barbie girl, gorgeous Adam, Andy, Katherine, Jon,
Keir and Lucy.
“If you are a medical
drama junkie like me, it
provides you with all the
medicine you want without
leaving the personal
experience...”
Want to win Michael Portillo’s
Great British Railway Jour-
neys? If not, then you clearly
need to re-evaluate your life
and get some Portillo time in.
Just send an email to
tv.felix@ic.ac.uk with the
answer to: “In which year did
the famous ‘Portillo moment’
occur?”
FELIX
Friday 03 february 2012
22
television.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Television Editors: George Barnett
James Simpson
TELEVISION

