Best Cast
The Help
Best Actor in a Leading Role
Jean Dujardin – The Artist
Best Actress in a Leading Role
Viola Davis – The Help
Best Actor in a Supporting Role
Christopher Plummer – Beginners
Best Actress in a Supporting Role
Octavia Spencer – The Help
Last Sunday’s Screen Actors Guild award, vot-
ed for by the industry’s acting peers, was a tri-
umphant night for The Help, taking home three
awards for Best Cast, Best Actress and Best Sup-
porting Actress. The Oscar race for Best Actress
becomes tighter than ever when Viola Davis and
Meryl Streep (The Iron Lady) go head-to-head.
Streep has already won the Golden Globe and is
the favourite to win the BAFTA, but the Oscars
are a real coin-toss. A large majority of AMPAS
members, the governing body voting for who wins
the prestigious Academy Award, is made up of
the Screen Actors Guild, and the fact that Davis
managed to sway her peers in her direction is a
good sign. Some argue it is about time for Streep
to finally win her third long overdue Oscar, whilst
Davis’ supporters brand Streep’s performance as
nothing but classy mimicry and the unsubstan-
tial critical acclaim towards her latest Margaret
Thatcher biopic will not steer the odds in favour
of Streep. Across the board, there is nothing sur-
prising about Plummer finally being shown some
award love after his lengthy career, and Dujardin
continues to dominate with his role in The Artist.
The English Patient, winner of nine Oscars, is
the story of a man, played by Ralph Fiennes,
who is found badly burnt and suffering from
memory loss in the wreckage of a plane in the
North African desert in World War Two. As
he is cared for by an army nurse, his memory
slowly returns and is shown to us in a series of
flashbacks. The unveiling of his past reveals a
story of a love affair.
Anthony Minghella won an Oscar for his
direction of this film, and rightly so. The
transitions from past to present are admi-
rable, as each flashback is clearly linked to a
FELIX
Friday 03 February 2012
26
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Film Editors: John Park
Lucy Wiles
her, and she finds solace in abandoning the
war to care for her patient. Willem Dafoe is
also present, playing a man with no thumbs
who is bent on discovering the patient’s story.
His torture scene doesn’t really bear any com-
parison to Black Swan in terms of its shock
value; however he comes across very clearly
as a man on a mission. Colin Firth is in the
cast and his development into a seething, jeal-
ous husband is a great showcase for his pro-
digious talent. Kristin Scott Thomas plays
his wife and was deservedly nominated for a
Best Actress Oscar. Other characters include
a seemingly unemotional Sikh soldier who, in
comparison to the book, doesn’t really have a
chance to shine, but who is a deep and authen-
tic character.
This is a memorable wartime love story,
with some beautiful camerawork and excel-
lent direction. The characters are all very con-
vincing, and the plot will grip you as the trag-
ic tale of The English Patient is unravelled.
FILM
Remembering a classic...
Director Anthony Minghella
Screenwriter Michael Ondaatje (novel),
Anthony Minghella
Cast Ralph Fiennes, Juliette Binoche,
Kristin Scott-Thomas, Colin Firth
The English Patient
Insert inappropriate “Voldemort is back from the dead” joke here... we couldn’t be bothered to think of one
taste, sound or sight. For example, the way in
which the light plays on the wall of the pa-
tient’s room reminds him of a time in Cairo:
the links between the scenes are very well
worked.
There some truly memorable scenes in The
English Patient. The shots of the desert in
particular, a beautiful part where the char-
acters are flying over a mountainous region,
are epic in nature. The breathtakingly skilled
camerawork is complemented by the well
crafted script – the dialogue sounds authentic,
and revelations are often driven by the grip-
ping conversations between characters.
Some great performances are on show here.
Fiennes is exceptional, but that goes without
saying; his portrayal of a very introverted
desert-lover is very believable. The nurse,
played by Juliette Binoche (Chocolat), de-
servedly won an Oscar for her supporting ac-
tress role. Her story is very moving: her life is
being torn apart by the war going on around
2012 SAG Winners
Guy Needham
Guy Needham reviews The English Patient, a handsome, well-acted, and
Oscar-winning picture that retains timeless appeal
The many ladies of The Help

