FILM
Neeson leads a lacklustre pack
FELIX
Friday 03 February 2012
28
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Film Editors: John Park
Lucy Wiles
Now that is out of the way, Like Crazy
goes beyond dialogue, beyond the writ-
ing, beyond any ordinary story, or as you
may have guessed, beyond a love story.
It isn’t brilliantly poetic nor is it even
mildly cheesy. To be honest, this movie
has one of the blandest storylines I have
ever seen. This is perhaps why it didn’t
score big with a lot of people.
Long story short: Girl meets Boy. They
fall in love. Girl is separated from Boy.
If you are looking for a load of mind-
less romance, this is not your cup of tea.
There is romance though, a good load
of it, and then there is pain. What would
stun you is that the love and pain keep
on interchanging so often that it would
transport you to somewhere in the mid-
dle, where you might be able to figure
out this film’s artistic side, or you might
switch off and pass this movie off as a
mess. Since we already know that the
Sundance Film Festival’s judge’s panel
is what we would like to classify as ‘the
hippies amongst critics’, it doesn’t come
as a surprise that this film captured all the
“I thought I understood it, that I could
grasp it, but I didn’t, not really. Only the
smudgeness of it; the pink-slippered, all-
containered, semi-precious eagerness
of it. I didn’t realize it would sometimes
be more than whole, that the wholeness
was a rather luxurious idea. Because it’s
the halves that halve you in half. I didn’t
know, don’t know, about the in-between
bits; the gory bits of you, and the gory
bits of me.”
Before actually writing this one, I’d
like to clear out any of the false assump-
tions. One: this is not a chick flick. Two:
Just because it’s won the top prize at the
Sundance Film Festival, it doesn’t mean
you will like it; you might, in fact, hate it.
Liam Neeson cements his status as action man of the moment – shame about the wolves
attention.
The performances are outstanding.
Anton Yelchin and Felicity Jones have
to carry the burden of the entire movie
on their shoulders and I believe they do
a smash-up job. The silences, the looks,
the gentle touches, the expressions all
melt together perfectly. Of course you
won’t notice it. I didn’t. I was confused
for about an hour after seeing the film
and my brain was fuzzy. What would
strike anyone is the reality of the movie.
It is too believable. The situations, the re-
lationships, the characters portrayed are
too real. I can’t point out the exact reason
behind it: it could either be the writing,
the camera work, or something else. But
it works.
This isn’t like your regular review be-
cause I, the reviewer, haven’t given you
my opinion. I liked it. I was able to ap-
preciate how the whole package turned
out. But that still isn’t my opinion. I
won’t give you one. You might like it or
you might not, as I said before. It is up
for you to decide.
Director Drake Doremus
Screenwriters Drake Doremus, Ben
York Jones
Cast Felicity Jones, Anton Yelchin,
Jennifer Lawrence
Like Crazy
Hitesh Shewakramani
If you ever leave me, I’ll strangle you... like crazy...
Wanting, needing, loving, missing...
Director Joe Carnahan
Screenwriters Joe Carnahan, Ian
MacKenzie Jeffers
Cast Liam Neeson, Frank Grillo,
Dermot Mulroney, Dallas Roberts,
Joe Anderson
The Grey
Aemun Reza
If you like dogs, don’t watch this film.
Based in Alaska, a typical plane crash
results in seven men surviving. Why do
guys always survive plane crashes? The
flight attendants never survive. Only
ever men, and one of them is always
black. Even death doesn’t racially dis-
criminate.
So you’re stranded in the middle of a
snowy plane wreck, faced with freezing
temperatures, no food, and no water and
what is your worse fear? Wolves appar-
ently. Because dogs are that scary.
There is barely any background story
to Liam Neeson’s character. He’s just
some guy on a plane, who survives
and apparently knows everything about
wolves. How convenient.
Despite playing an extremely dull
character, Liam Neeson can still pull off
a strong and powerful performance. As
the only credited headline actor, Neeson
immediately takes the lead role with his
knowledge of how to survive in the wild.
Survival 101 and all that jazz. Out of the
seven men who survive, he is the only
one who has a lasting presence and the
decent dialogue.
Back to the story, or what’s left of it,
the wolves start trying to kill the survi-
vors. They don’t even look like wolves,
more like dogs with rabies. The wolves
don’t even want to eat them; they just
want to kill them. Don’t really blame the
wolves.
But kudos to the film, they did actually
use real wolves, not just the CGI stuff
that The Twilight Saga uses. But I would
have been more impressed if they had
turned into werewolves.
The main plot is them fighting the
wolves and trying to find some kind of
civilisation. Landing in the middle of no-
where means that it was mainly the char-
acters walking through a scenic land-
scape. This is nice and all, but I can see
better stuff on my desktop background.
This film is mainly action, and not
very good action at that. The movie
doesn’t have a plot and tries to be really
emotionally when people die, but I just
wasn’t buying it. In the climax of the
movie, which was meant to be the most
emotional part, I was bored. They had
longed it out beyond belief.
You’d think that a film with Liam
Neeson would be an amazing film and
that may be the main reason why you go
see it but it really isn’t worth your time.
Even if you do have two hours to waste,
you’re better off watching paint dry. I don’t know who you are. I don’t know what you want... oh, don’t mind me, I’m just waiting for Taken 2

