unveiled at a similar time to 31 donations
from Elsevier and connected persons to
members of the US legislature. Elsevier
were also prominent supporters of the
SOPA and PIPA bills that were recently
shelved.
Academics worldwide have expressed
their anger at Elsevier by signing the
pledge, with most ticking all three boxes
to say they will not publish, referee, or
perform editorial work on any Elsevier
journal.
In a statement to Felix, Imperial math-
ematician Dr Andrea Brini expressed his
anger with Elsevier’s practices, espe-
cially regarding the Fractals fiasco. In
addition, he made clear his opposition to
making profit out of scientific work, as
for-profit publishers such as Elsevier do.
He went on to say: “in [a] few ridiculous
instances (and yeah, Elsevier is one of
them), we even do the formatting [of pa-
pers]! And all that, for free – namely, at
the taxpayers’ expense, with zero effort
on their part.”
Another mathematician at Imperial
College, Dr Łukasz Grabowski, echoed
these sentiments. He told Felix: “[What
is] most important for me personally is
that the access to knowledge and educa-
tion should be granted to anyone who
desires them. This is unfortunately in
contradiction with the interests of profit-
oriented publishing companies.”
Imperial mathematicians were not
the only academics from the College to
make public their decision to boycott
Elsevier. Biologists, engineers, chemists,
and others have also joined them.Anota-
ble name is Professor Henry Rzepa, who
accused Elsevier of “a partial abrogation
of their duty for longer term curation of
articles they publish” in the comment
against his pledge, with regard to their
“less than helpful attitude” with regard to
publishing integral parts of a publication.
Mrs Shorley made clear her opinion
More student cuts
More student cuts for Imperial
students at South Kensington’s
FRESH Hairdressers.
Men’s cuts £22
Women’s shampoo and cut
and shake dry £28
Women’s shampoo, cut and
blow-dry £38
All of our cuts are done by
highly experienced stylists.
Tuesday to Fridays 9.30 to
4.30 (sorry no discounts on
Saturdays).
We are only 70 metres from
South Kensington tube station.
Sponsored Editorial
Discount haircuts for Imperial
students at Fresh Hairdressers
To book an appointment,
call 0207 823 8968. Ask for a
student discount and bring your
Imperial ID.
NEWS
FELIX Friday 03 february 2012 3
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
News Editors: Sophia David
Alex Nowbar
Academics to boycott
Elsevier journals
“...access to knowl-
edge [...] should be
granted to anyone”
Following a damning blog post by Cam-
bridge mathematician Professor Tim
Gowers, nearly 3,000 academics have
signed an online pledge to cease all work
with Elsevier, a Dutch journal publishing
house responsible for many publications
including The Lancet.
Elsevier have come under frequent crit-
icism for their business practices, includ-
ing issues regarding the journal Chaos,
Solitons & Fractals, which is regarded as
a “joke” by many mathematicians. They
also admitted to publishing six “fake”
journals, existing purely to print articles
favourable to products by the drug giant
Merck & Co. In 2009, the BBC also ac-
cused Elsevier of “shill reviewing” by
paying academics who contributed to a
psychology book if they gave it 5 star re-
views on popular book-selling websites.
The company later attributed this to an
employee error.
However, Professor Gowers’ post
deals with something a lot more funda-
mental – the access to publicly funded
research. He details four criticisms
(amongst many) that lead to his choice to
publicly boycott the company.
His first complaint is with Elsevier’s
policy of making libraries subscribe to
journal “bundles”. This forces them to
subscribe to hundreds of journals, many
of which being unwanted and of little
interest, should just a few core titles be
desired. Professor Gowers cited an ex-
ample of the Fractals journal being one
that many libraries end up subscribing to
out of necessity, even with its dubious
integrity.
This is in addition to his complaint
of “extraordinary” high costs. Journal
prices have increased yearly, squeez-
ing already tightened library budgets. In
2011, Felix reported how the Director
of Library Services at Imperial College,
Deborah Shorley, is leading a campaign
by Research Libraries UK to pressure
publishers such as Elsevier and Wiley to
reduce subscription costs. Imperial Col-
lege Union subsequently passed a policy
demanding that these publishers cut the
prices on their products. These price
increases occur regardless of massive
increases in profits – in 2009, Elsevier
made a turnover of £1.6bn; up from £1bn
in 2005.
Professor Gowers went on to say that
libraries can find their access to Elsevier
journals cut off if they attempt to negoti-
ate a better contract, something he calls
“ruthless”.
He is also concerned about Elsevier’s
support of the Research Works Act, a
piece of legislation in United States Con-
gress which would remove free access to
publicly funded research. This bill was
that this was a matter for lecturers, say-
ing, “All researchers should think care-
fully about where they publish and for
whom they review. They are providing
free resources and services, and they
should consider whether the companies
they publish with have values that are
aligned with those of the academy or
not.”
However, she did acknowledge that
the costs of Elsevier journals have been
a problem, with concern over the charg-
es and licensing policies being had for
“many years”. She did note, however,
that these are with a number of publish-
ers and not just Elsevier.
This is not a decision that academics
take lightly. Speaking to Felix, Dr Paula
Saldago from Imperial’s NMR facility
said “As an early career researcher, [...]
not choosing to publish or review for
those journals can have a serious impact
on the careers of less established scien-
tists.”
Regardless of the Elsevier boycott and
disapproval of the practices of for-profit
publishers in general, there is no nega-
tive feeling about the future. Instead,
many feel that this is an opportunity to
revolutionize how journals are handled.
A notable example of this is the arXiv
preprint server, ran by Cornell Univer-
sity, though articles on this server are not
peer reviewed. There are also publishers
such as Mathematical Sciences Publish-
ers who operate on a non-profit basis; an
organization that Dr Brini feels may be
the way to go.
There are other options too. Dr Łukasz
said “I very much hope that the future
lies within community-run journals (con-
cerning the actual work which is done,
all the journals are community-run any-
way), and printing will be outsourced to
print-on-demand companies” citing the
example of American upstart Scholas-
tica.
However, the most radical solution is
proposed by Dr Saldago: “I believe it
is time to change the current scientific
publications trend and support open ac-
cess journals and initiatives that allow
sharing and open discussions of data and
results.” Mrs Shorley added that it will
be extremely interesting to see how these
progress.
Academics have voiced their disapproval with Elsevier’s methods
Carol Ann Cheah
Philip Kent
Alexander Karapetian
since 2006”. Predictably in the current
economic climate, there was a greater
decrease in applications from the 21-24
age group than from school-leavers.
Unfortunately the number of applica-
tions still exceeds the number of places
that are available in 2012. According to
Cook’s statement “Applications are al-
ready 50,000 ahead of the number of ac-
ceptances in 2011.” The fact that last year
UCAS received a further 116,000 appli-
cations between January and the close of
the cycle is further cause for concern.
Pro-Rector (Education) Professor Julia
Buckingham said of the decrease: “We
will want to go beyond the statistics of
this particular year to carefully moni-
tor application trends as we go forward
under the new system. One area for the
whole sector to consider is whether uni-
versities can communicate their student
finance packages even more widely in
the future. Here at Imperial, for instance,
we have a generous financial support
package so that the costs of studying are
not a barrier to students joining us, and
we are working to ensure that message
reaches prospective students as they start
to consider their options post A-Level.”
Interestingly subscription to arts de-
grees has been affected to a greater extent
than the sciences. One could argue that
this goes some way in explaining why
applications to Imperial have not suf-
fered much. Imperial’s invariable appeal
to overseas students may also be a con-
tributing factor as there was an increase
in the number of applications from appli-
cants outside the EU of 13.7% (although
the number of EU applicants decreased).
Students and staff alike might expect
Imperial’s excellent reputation to have
played a role in maintaining the applica-
tion rate this year in comparison to other
UK universities, an Imperial degree per-
haps being considered worth the higher
fees.
...Continued from Front Page
Drop in applications
to Imperial
Imperial saw a 0.1% decrease in applications from 2011 to 2012
Christian Richters

