THREE-BUTTON SUIT
The Man
The three-button suit is generally seen as
the more traditionally elegant of the suits
with its buttons spanning a larger area of
the torso. Resulting from its top button
resting higher up on the chest than its oth-
er single-breasted cousins, the three-but-
ton suit draws attention to said area, in-
creasing the width of its appearance – this
is not a suit for those with highly-devel-
oped pectorals, or conversely (tragically?),
man boobs. Ideal for taller men, particu-
larly those over 6ft, the three-button is a
classic, worn by ex-Bond Pierce Brosnan
and increasingly popular with rising stars
seeking extra style points and adult recog-
nition including Robert Pattinson.
DOUBLE-BREASTED
SUIT
The Occasion
Most definitely a formal choice, the three-
button suit is a great alternative to its
more popular two-button cousin for those
yearning for a spark of individuality in the
office. The extra dash of business refine-
ment emanating from this suit gives an
extra confidence boost on those all impor-
tant interview days whilst on another note,
should men have ‘off days’; this piece is
definitely one to turn to as the longer span
of the triple buttons hides much of the
torso area including, perhaps hopefully,
where you spilt your coffee in the morning.
The Catwalk
Protect from the cold whilst journeying to and
from the office by adding winter accessories
to your three-buttoned suit. Burberry Pror-
sum opted to liven up their grey suits with
subtly patterned gloves and scarves layered
under bulging puffa jackets and leather coats
inspired by the great British countryside,
whilst at Viktor & Rolf the model’s tackled the
weather by layering fur over their chocolate
suits matched with the warmer alternative of
leather trousers. -AY
The Rules
Traditionally the rule of thumb regarding
buttoning is (from the top) “sometimes,
always, never”. However, in the more com-
plicated real world it can be broken down
as such: doing only the middle button is
standard and sleek; doing up the top two
requires an increased level of confidence in
ones stance; doing up just the top can be
seen as far too “contemporary” (read ‘hip-
ster’) for the office; whilst all three tends
to look too strict. On top of this, it must
remembered that the top button should be
left undone if the lapel of the suit rolls down
to it.
FELIX
Friday 03 february 2012
30
fashion.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Fashion Editors: Saskia Verhagen
Alice Yang
FASHION
Suit Up: an idiot’s guide to the who, what,
A wise man once said that there is only one thing a man can do when he’s suffering from a spiritual and existential funk. Go to the z
The Occasion
Though hugely versatile, the double-
breasted suit is decidedly bold and for-
mal – not for the faint of heart. Be sure
to know that wherever you wear it, be it
inside or outside working hours, you are
certain to draw attention. This suit is for
a confident, assured man who is ready to
own the room. Favour a dark, modern, slim
cut for the evening and a lighter colour with
a more traditional cut for the day.
The Catwalk
Almost ubiquitous at the menswear
shows this season, the smart, gentle-
manly double-breasted suit was per-
vasive especially amongst the Italian
designers, with a subtle aubergine hue
proving a favourite at Prada and Ferre-
gamo. Colour and textural variation in
general was prominent, with dark blues
at Gucci, pinstripes at Alexander Mc-
Queen and wider stripes at Canali. The
vibe overall was modern and young, re-
viving the traditional Bogartian DB with
a spring in its swaggering step. -SV
Dolce & Gabbana Ferragamo Louis Vuitton Burberry Prorsum Burberry Prorsum Viktor & Rolf
“This bold suit is for a
man, not a boy”
“sometimes, always,
never”
The Man
The double-breasted suit was once
thought to be reserved for a particular
type of imperious middle-aged bore, chor-
tling at something distinctly unfunny at
a gentlemen’s club or boating event of
some description. Thankfully, this ste-
reotype no longer applies. A favourite of
Humphrey Bogart, and more recently, a
certain Chuck Bass (this is a good thing,
for those unaware), the DB has been en-
joying a revival of sorts. This bold suit is
for a man, not a boy, and a tall, slim man
at that – the broadening effect of the over-
lapping buttons does nothing for the more
portly amongst you, but shows off a good
physique. Ryan Gosling – yes. Bill Clinton
– not so much.
The Rules
Buttons should be kept fastened, most
importantly the ‘anchor’ button on the
inside of the jacket. The whole effect is
lost the moment you lose the jacket’s
shape, which is kept intact by the an-
chor. Shoulders should not be boxy –
the look is sharply tailored, never remi-
niscent of a 1980s revival. The jacket
overall should fit well, but should skim
the figure rather than hug the corners.

