FASHION
FELIX Friday 03 february 2012 31
where and how of formalwear
zoo, flip off the monkeys? “No,” says Ron Burgundy, “buy new suits.” Saskia Verhagen and Alice Yang show you the ropes
ONE-BUTTON SUIT
The Man
More of a stylists’ pick than a business
must, the single button suit is a wardrobe
staple for any image-conscious man.
Its slimming lines make for a smooth
modern look, and the appearance of a
stretched torso is particularly flattering
for those more vertically challenged. Ef-
fortless and perfectly dapper, this single
buttoned garment is a red carpet favou-
rite including Benedict Cumberbatch and
Mark Ronson – such wearers carry them-
selves with pride in the full knowledge
that they are turning heads and sending
hearts a-flutter.
TWO-BUTTON SUIT
The Occasion
Undeniably a casual suit jacket, the ver-
satility of the single button suit is its se-
cret. Thanks to its debonair sleek cut,
it allows one to be more avant-garde
than when donning its contemporaries,
bestowing onto its wearer a chance to
experiment with lapels, collars, textures,
and colours. Shoes, shirt and tie com-
binations also allow more room for ex-
periment - from classic black and white
combinations to more daring personality
filled patterns; ties, bowties and braces;
brogues, loafers and even boots; extra
points are awarded here for courage
and originality. Whether it be for friendly
drinks or (unelegantly put) a night out
on the pull, the one-button suit is best
when worn when not required by dress
code for that extra dash of gentlemanly
suave.
The Catwalk
Extravagance is most definitely to be
embraced with the single-buttoned suit
as designers gave the fashion world a
new way of expressing ones personali-
ty after dark. Dolce and Gabbana opted
for rich golden embroidery and ornate
baroque swirls inspired by the decora-
tive Oscar Wilde, a muse for many of
this season’s collections. A more luxu-
rious look was preferred at Viktor & Rolf
and Lanvin who’s shimmering fabrics
and complementing bowties craved the
attention of the extrovert creating the
perfect dinner date outfit. -AY
The Rules
Tailoring is a must and confidence is
key. So long as the suit fits snugly
(strained fabric is far too tight; long
sleeves and baggy chest is far too
large), and your posture is distinguish-
ably upright, the world is your oyster.
An easy, fuss-free item of clothing, it
demands only to be buttoned up when
its wearer is stood, and unbuttoned ev-
ery time they sit – this really is dressing
up dumbed down.
The Rules
There is really only one rule here: only
the top button should be fastened (defin-
ing the waist), but never the second. The
second button is aesthetically necessary
but technically superfluous and pulls the
jacket completely out of shape if done up.
Other than this, you’re fairly safe in most
colour and fabric choices. Pockets may be
slanted, a reference to the days of hacking
jackets – the slant allowed easier access
to pockets on horseback. Breast pockets
are omnipresent, but ticket pockets, an oc-
casional addition above the main pockets,
tend to look better on a three-button suit.
The Man
Arguably the easiest of the suits to wear,
the two-button suit makes the best of al-
most any figure. A favourite of suit-wearing
icons including John F. Kennedy, Cary Grant
and Frank Sinatra, this is a choice that is
almost idiot-proof in its ability to bring the
inner suave, sophisticated gentleman out
of the most dishevelled and hopeless of
men. Provided the suit fits properly, and is
combined with a well-chosen shirt and tie,
you will find yourself transformed – at once
elegant, effortless, and perfectly refined.
The Occasion
The two-button suit is probably going to
be your most reliable asset in most for-
mal settings. For the full effect, pair a
black pinstripe suit with a light blue shirt
and a dark grey pin-dot tie, silver tie bar
and white pocket square. Shoes and belt
should be black leather, simple and pol-
ished. For the weekend, simply pair your
suit jacket with some smart dark blue
jeans – cuffed – and keep your shirt in a
similar blue tone. Penny loafers, no socks
– it’s all in the details.
The Catwalk
Seen in almost every combination of tone,
pattern and texture, the two-button suit
also seems to have succumbed to the
theme of certain striking colour choices.
A jewel-toned velvet incarnation with con-
trasting trousers was seen at Burberry
Prorsum, Prince of Wales check at Alexan-
der McQueen, contrasting lapels at Louis
Vuitton, and vivid, solid colour in an incred-
ibly flattering slim cut at Gucci – it has to be
said, Frida Giannini cuts a wicked suit. -SV
Burberry Prorsum Alexander McQueen Gucci Dolce & Gabbana Lanvin Viktor & Rolf
“this is a choice that is
almost idiot-proof in its
abillity to bring [out] the
inner suave”

