of thousand calculators, put them in one of
our brand new enrichment spheres, and linked
them all up.
Hesitation is just wasted time in the pursuit
of science, and so we jumped straight in to
making the most advanced artificial intelli-
gence possible. Well, it turns out that it’s a lot
easier said than done. The boys in the lab got
as far as teaching the calculator to feel love,
but the A.I. didn’t want to learn anything else.
Their final reports stated that they tried to
upset the A.I. but all that happened was the
emotion altered from love to loneliness. The
military would have paid top bucks for an in-
telligence that can only feel anger, but an A.I.
that has abandonment issues is of no use to
anyone. Most of the lab boys ended up build-
ing an emotional attachment to the experi-
ment, and when it came to disassembly many
girly tears were shed. Those who refused to
participate in the clean-up were fired. From
a cannon. Some even reached a high-point in
their career – about 62 miles above sea level.
The boffins say that’s technically outer space,
so congratulations science-nauts! We’ll send
your remains to your families.
The remaining boys in the lab gave up and
said the idea of artificial intelligence was fun-
damentally flawed. By trying to create an in-
telligent being, we were limiting how much it
could grow. Instead, we decided to work from
the opposite direction and create artificial stu-
A.I. – Artificial Ineptness
Cave Johnson discusses artificial intelligence, so listen
up. Just watch out for the velociraptors
“Artificial Stupidity – by
learning to avoid more
and more stupid things it
effectively became more
intelligent”
“Has anyone seen my companion cube? I’m sure I left it around here somewhere...”
H
ello test subjects, Cave John-
son here.
I find it hard to believe that
it’s been a week since I last
wrote for Felix – time sure
does fly when you’re making the world a bet-
ter place. Well actually, last week did go a bit
faster than usual – I found my engineers play-
ing with time again. You would have thought
that they had learned their lesson the last
time that they fiddled with time and ended up
causing a rift in fabric of the space-time con-
tinuum, causing the [censored]. Again. That’s
why point 83b of the Aperture Science Evac-
uation Guidelines now includes dinosaurs.
There was an upside though – we think our
pest problem has subsided due to the roaming
raptors, and those that we’ve caught are sur-
prisingly good in the portal testing grounds.
Time should be back to normal, but if you
experience any time-related phenomena, such
as déjà vu, then let your college test associates
know. Bringing back an extinct species, de-
bunking all previous theories about relativity
and opening a new, niche pet-market? That’s
us, and it could be you – summer placements
opening soon!
Now, for those who missed the seminars,
training sessions, RCSU Science Challenge
and newspaper adverts, I’ve been asked by
Felix to answer any questions you have about
what happens here at Aperture Science. I’m
also here to impart my wisdom and good-
looks upon the latest generation of scientists
and engineers. Not mathematicians – we
don’t need you. This week, Martin asks,
“What is your stance on artificial intelligence,
and what dangers do you think it possesses?”
Thanks for contributing to science, Martin – a
voucher is in the post.
(Legal note: Aperture Science Redemption
Vouchers can only be used to redeem an Ap-
erture Science Redemption Voucher.)
We started working on a simple artificial in-
telligence a couple of years ago. The goal was
to make the perfect scientist – one that didn’t
have to be paid, wouldn’t complain, didn’t
take breaks and would never stop testing.
The bean counters started panicking when the
project was first mentioned, due to the price
of an actual computer being enough to bank-
rupt this company many times over. Instead, I
got the boys in the lab to find a way to connect
multiple smaller gizmos together to make a
much more powerful computer than we could
buy. That week, we took delivery of a couple
This is the Only Level 3
http://www.newgrounds.com/portal/
view/588876
Rejoice, for now everyone’s favourite digital gam-
ing platform and social network has come to the
smartphone.
The app is currently available for free on both
iOS and Android-based devices and allows you
to access your Steam friends list and chat online
on the go. You can also browse the Steam Store,
though unless you desperately need to see when
Duke Nukem Forever goes on sale it seems a little
useless.
After the initial closed beta last week it’s now
available for all to download and use, provided you
have an active Steam account and (obviously) a
smartphone.
I swear I did not pick this game just to make a bad
joke about it being the only web game this week.
This is the Only Level 3 is the third in a series of
mini-games featuring a tiny elephant traversing a
single level over and over again. Whilst the level
stays the same the mechanics of the game change
each time you escape, requiring you to work out
how to make it from the start to the finish. You’re
occasionally aided by subtle clues in the level’s
name, but most of the time outside of the box
thinking is required.
That or just give in and check the walkthrough.
Cheater.
“What is your stance on
artificial intelligence,
and what dangers do you
think it possesses?”
FELIX
Friday 03 february 2012
32
games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Games Editor: Laurence Pope
GAMES
Free Web Game
You read right folks, just one web game this week. I
needed some more space, so one had to go. Sorry.
Anyway, here we are, a totally awesome web game
that you can play right now in your web browser.
In order to enjoy it you’re going to need the Adobe
Flash Player plug-in, which can be installed from
http://get.adobe.com/flashplayer/
Questions for Cave?
Do you have any questions for Mr
Johnson? If so, email them onto
games.felix@imperial.ac.uk and I’ll
pass them onto him for answers.
Responses will be published in Felix.
So go do as the man says people.
Write in – for science.
pidity. We had the system evaluate its choices
and it started to develop – not by being intel-
ligent, but by not being stupid; by learning to
avoid more and more stupid things it it effec-
tively became more intelligent. The project
was shelved last year after something went
wrong and the artificial stupidity started mak-
ing only the most stupid choices available. At
least it was more intelligent than Dr Wheat-
ley (the ex-head of the project) who defected
to Black Mesa. Science finds ways to exact
revenge on traitors. Incomplete formulae, de-
creased budgets and forced religion await all
who scorn Science, when their time is up.
So, from what we’ve seen so far, artificial
intelligence is far beyond our current capa-
bilities, but don’t be afraid, concerned or dis-
mayed test subjects. When Aperture Science
makes the breakthroughs needed, we will try
to make sure it doesn’t want to kill all hu-
mans. Well, we’ll think about it, at least.
As previously, any correspondence (ques-
tions, resumes or money) can be sent to felix.
games@imperial.ac.uk with the title “Ask
Cave”, and they’ll forward it on to Caroline.
A couple of testing raptors escaped with
their Aperture Science Handheld Portal De-
vices, and have yet to be caught, so stay alert.
Cave out.
Steam comes to the smartphone

