FOOD
FELIX
Friday 03 february 2012
34
food.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Food Editors: Anastasia Eleftheriou
Michael Krestas
There are so many to choose from! Some of
the franchises do offer a great menu and at
very reasonable prices. I’m a big fan of Ja-
mie’s Italian, Giraffe and Wagamama for a
quick bite to eat. But everybody knows about
these.
Some of the best places though are those
that need hunting out! Bea’s of Bloomsbury
is awesome, as is John Torrode’s Smiths of
Smithfield, which can’t be beaten for break-
fast! Aside from that I know that there are
thousands of restaurants I’ve not yet had the
chance to try. So keep your eyes peeled for
vouchers and coupons that offer you intro-
ductory offers. Some of the best meals I’ve
enjoyed over the past six months have been at
half price or less. So you end up with a two
or three courses of outstanding food for the
same price as one or two at a franchise.
When was your last ‘bad experience’ with
food?
There is no such thing as a bad food expe-
rience in my eyes – only a learning curve.
What’s the worst that can happen? If you’re
cooking at home and a meal doesn’t quite
go to plan, then you’ve learnt for next time,
right? Just experiment and if you’re really un-
sure then why not give it a go it with friends
– make it a joint effort.
The biggest chance of suffering a bad ex-
perience is when everything is out of your
control, like when eating out. We all love din-
ing out and it’s great for inspiration, special
occasions or even just when you’re feeling
a bit lazy. However, if you can create great,
simple, cheap and tasty food at home with
your mates, then that has to win every time
in my book!
Having said that we’ve all had some clumsy
moments, and working in front of cameras
when you’re cooking makes for extra trouble!
You only have to take a look at some of our
outtakes and bloopers to see what I mean!
To find out more about SORTED (and to
see some of those bloopers!) pay a visit
to sortedfood.com
social cooking with friends.
That’s where the videos started, a chance
to share our ideas and philosophy of social
cooking with more than just our mates and
friends of friends. YouTube became the per-
fect platform to share new recipes with a
larger audience – the world, in fact! It didn’t
change what we did... we were pretty much
just playing about with mates in the kitchen.
Now, our online channels are our focus and
week after week we get the recipe requests
and food dilemmas of our audience SORT-
ED. Delivering quick, simple and tasty dish-
es, heavily seasoned with banter.
We would love to have some cooking ad-
vice! What do you think are the secrets of
cooking good food?
Good food is very subjective. What is good to
one person might not be to the liking of an-
other. Which is why I believe a recipe should
only ever be a guideline. So many of the
SORTED recipes reflect nothing more than
a series of steps, which could be applied to
your own favourite ingredients. Make it per-
sonal. You’ll see this theme cropping up in
so much of what SORTED does; recipe ideas
that are so simple they work even when a few
bits are changed.
Aside from that, try to start with the best
ingredients you can afford. Trust me, I’m not
talking about expensive filet steak or high-
end lobster, what I mean is go for stuff that is
seasonal. That way the quality will be better
and it’ll be affordable too.
On top of that, club together with mates and
cook up a treat. For example, it’s nearly im-
possible to cook a meal for £2 when you’re
cooking alone. But to cater for you and three
friends on a budget of £8 is easy! Scale makes
good food possible. And on those evenings
when you’re cooking on your own, still make
several portions and then save the rest as left-
overs, either to be frozen or used up the next
day.
Which restaurant or café do you recom-
mend in London?
What is SORTED in one sentence?
We’re a genuine bunch of mates who teamed
up to run SORTED Food, an online cooking
hub that aims to solve the food problems of
our audience, and to prove that you can have a
bit of fun in the kitchen; cooking doesn’t have
to be so serious!
Why do you believe SORTED will be of in-
terest to Imperial?
The SORTED crew have a lot of fun doing
what they do. It never feels like work – it’s
just messing around in the kitchen with your
mates, cooking up simple, tasty grub to share,
and we hope this comes across on screen. For
that reason the videos are good fun and our
current audience finds them pretty entertain-
ing, returning week after week to see what
new recipe inspiration they can enjoy.
But beyond that, SORTED provides a ser-
vice: a compelling library of over 150 video
recipes (with more released every week),
making up a wide variety of dishes for every
occasion. Recipes from all over the world:
sweet and savoury, twists on classic favou-
rites, ideas that are perfect to impress or fast
mid-week meals for a budget. No matter what
cooking experience you currently have, you’ll
find the SORTED recipes are dead easy and
can allow even the biggest novice to churn
out food to be proud of.
How did you get the initial idea?
The whole story kicked off a few years back
sat around a pub table as we shared recipes on
beer mats. As a trained chef, I was shocked
by what my closest friends were eating, so
I would share the perfect student grub that
was anything other than takeaways and pot
noodles.
As a photographer at the time, Barry saw an
opportunity to create and publish a cookbook
crammed full of my recipes and his creative
work that would be perfect for students. A
way in which we could share what we loved
with a few more people. And we’ve never
looked back. We put together a student cook-
book (doing all the work ourselves) and then
set out to share these recipes and the idea of
Get your food life SORTED
Anastasia Eleftheriou grills Ben Ebbrell, head chef at online recipe web-
site SORTED, about bringing some banter to the kitchen
Ben Ebbrell (second from right) and the SORTED team, putting Take That to shame
SORTED
Cooking... to the extreeeeeeeeeeeme
Dessert of the week
This is a traditional Cypriot recipe for a dessert
called “Loukoumades”. It makes about 80 pieces.
Ingredients
For the dough:
3 cups all purpose flour
1 tbsp instant yeast
Water at 40°C
1 boiled and mashed potato
For the syrup:
1 cup honey
1 cup sugar
1 cup water
Procedure
Mix the flour and the yeast in a bowl. Add water
until the mixture becomes a thick batter. Cover
the bowl with plastic wrap and let it rise for about
an hour.
In the meantime, prepare the syrup. Place all the
ingredients in a saucepan and boil until everything
is dissolved. Let the syrup cool. Add the mashed
potato in the batter and mix. Put a lot of oil in
a deep pan because the doughnuts will be deep
fried. To get round-shaped doughnuts you must
follow this procedure:
– Fill your right hand with batter and close your
hand so that batter comes out between your
thumb and first finger.
– With your left hand hold a teaspoon, scoop the
batter that comes out and throw it in the hot oil.
– Every time you scoop batter, put the teaspoon in
water so that it remains clean and no batter will
stick on it.
The doughnuts are ready when they are golden.
Remove them from the oil and place them immedi-
ately in the syrup for 2–3 seconds. Remove them
from the syrup and place them in a large plate.
Yiango Mavrocostanti
Cypriot Doughnuts
Send your Valentine’s Day
recipes to:
food.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Enjoy them hot, soaked in syrup... hnnnnnnng

