I
don’t generally read all that much fan-
tasy, at least compared science fiction,
but I was drawn to Patrick Rothfuss’
Kingkiller Chronicle by a pair of very
positive reviews in Locus and the
Magazine of Fantasy and Science Fiction. I
bought the first book in the series, The Name
of the Wind, but it was left neglected on my
shelves for several months – the consequence
of a huge backlog in my reading list.
One boring recent evening, however, I was
looking through my bookshelf for something
to read. I skimmed through the first few pages
Don Quixote; Kafka’s collected short stories
and Simmons’ Hyperion but nothing espe-
cially caught my fancy. Then I picked up The
Name of the Wind and the next thing I knew
it was past midnight and I was some half
way through the novel. As soon as I was fin-
ished I picked up the sequel, The Wise Man’s
Fear (the third book in the trilogy has not yet
been released), and, despite it weighing in at
almost a thousand pages, I worked my way
through it little more than a weekend.
The series’ massive success is certainly
unexpected. On the surface it seems like
standard fantasy fare – a magical school, or
more specifically a university; an evil plot to
destroy the world; a noble race of warriors –
does any of this sound familiar? As soon as
you open either of the books you even see an
utterly generic and not especially well drawn
map of the sort that is clearly inspired by
Tolkien and commonly appears in the work
of unexceptional authors such as Juliet McK-
enna and Adrian Tchaikovsky. One’s expecta-
tions are hardly likely to be raised by the fact
the an accurate description of the plot is that
it’s an account – presented in real time – of
three men sitting in a bar and talking.
It’s what they’re talking about that’s inter-
esting as Kvothe, famed musician, sword-
fighter and magic user who has, for some as
yet unknown reason, been forced into hiding
and is posing as innkeeper in a small village,
recounts the story of his life to his apprentice
and a historian. This is where Rothfuss shows
his skill at moulding mundane and tired sub-
ject matter into something exceptional. His
clear, engaging style draws you in immedi-
ately. Soon you begin to notice that the au-
thor’s strength lies not only in style but also
in plotting and worldbuilding, as he expands
on common tropes in the genre to create a fas-
BOOKS
FELIX Friday 03 february 2012 35
In Praise of Daunt Books
Books Editor: Maciej Matuszewski
books.felix@imperial.ac.uk
cinating and original work.
What was particularly good was the mythic
back-story of the universe of the book. We
don’t get any clear-cut exposition or a precise
timeline of events presented in an appendix à
la The Lord of the Rings. Rather Kvothe, that
is the younger Kvothe of the story within a
story, learns of the ancient events that eventu-
ally come to shape his destiny through half
forgotten legends, religious propaganda and
old children’s bedtime stories. Kvothe, and
the reader, being left to decipher the truth
from these fragments adds a lot to the books
and serves as a fascinating examination of
how facts can become twisted through time.
Also noteworthy is the magic system in The
Kingkiller Chronicle. I am of the opinion that
magic in fiction works best when it is either
left very mysterious, like, say, in The Lord of
the Rings, or when it follows strict, well ex-
plained rules. A system that tries to take the
middle road, such as that in the Harry Pot-
ter books, very rarely works. A story where
the various incantations cause weird things
to happen for some unexplained reason, with
arbitrary limitations, quickly gets frustrating
and leaves the door wide open for deus ex
machina endings. The Kingkiller Chronicle is
special since it actually features both types of
the ‘good’ magic – firstly a mysterious Wizard
of Earthsea style name-based magic and sec-
ondly the more commonly used “sympathy”.
Since this latter form is so well explained it
lets the readers understand the characters’
limitations and means that whenever they
use their arcane abilities it just seems natu-
ral. It also unique and refreshing in that it is
presented in a scientific manner. Sympathy
actually obeys conservation of energy and
lectures at the aforementioned magical uni-
versity involve students having to memorise
The Kingkiller Chronicle
efficiency tables for various ‘spells’.
It would be remiss not to also mention the
framing device. I have previously said how
much I like a story where an older version of
the character recounts the story of their life
as it really allows the reader to get in their
heads. This is especially relevant in this story
since, as could be expected of an exception-
ally skilled teenager, the younger Kvothe is
often arrogant and full of himself. This could
have easily become annoying and obnox-
ious if not for the older Kvothe pointing out,
mostly through nothing more than a some-
what disproving tone, how stupid his younger
self really was at times. The framing device
also provides much of the driving force for
the story – though the two time periods in
the novel are only some ten years apart the
older Kvothe is a drastically different, broken
man – leaving the reader to wonder how he
became this way.
This is a truly unforgettable series – I would
go so far as to say that in many ways it ri-
vals Tolkien. Everything about it just seems
to work and fit together to create something
exceptional. I am certainly looking forward
to the conclusion, The Doors of Stone, and
advise you all to check out the first two books
before it comes out.
Maciej Matuszewski reviews Patrick Rothfuss’ bestsell-
ing fantasy epic
There are two Daunt Books stores close to where I
live and whenever I pass one I simply have to stop
and have a look inside. It’s simply the sort of shop
that draws you in. From its beautiful wooden book-
shelves to its wide selection of literature and fre-
quent author events Daunt Books has everything
a book lover could want.
Set up some twenty years by James Daunt, a
former investment banker who last year was ap-
pointed the managing director of Waterstones,
this is a bibliophile’s dream and a chain like no
other. Its unique selling point is that it groups
most of its books by geographical location. This
means you are likely to find travel guides, history
books, and translations of novels all together on
the same shelf. This is a great system that often
leads those browsing the stacks to great books
that they might have never considered. It is re-
freshing to see such an international outlook –
my experience of other bookshops in this country
being that they focus mainly on English language
literature. It certainly expands one’s mind to read
books from other cultures so its great that there’s
somewhere in London where you can find obscure
Czech, German and Japanese novels.
Daunt Books has six branches all over London –
from Fulham Road in Chelsea to Marylebone High
Street, so you have no excuse not to check one
out. You won’t be disappointed.
Maciej Matuszewski
We need contributors! Do you have a pas-
sion for books? Do you want to write about lit-
erature? Do you want to experience the thrill
of seeing your name in print? Contact us at
books.felix@imperial.ac.uk.
“an accurate description
of the plot is that it’s an
account – presented in
real time – of three men
sitting in a bar and talk-
ing”
“This is a truly unforget-
table series – I would go
so far as to say that in
many ways it rivals Tolk-
ien”
Our protagonist Kvothe - skilled magic user and swordsmaster

