Making a difference in Malawi
S
eptember 2011: From the
air, it looked like a leopard’s
coat: hills of dry grass were
dotted with random dark
spots of green mango trees
and large boulders. I landed in the capi-
tal of Malawi, Lilongwe, at the peak of
the dry season in south eastern Africa.
Independent since 1964, and demo-
cratic since 1994, Malawi is a land-
locked country of 15.5 million people,
nestled between Mozambique, Zambia
and Tanzania. Running from North to
South along the Great Rift Valley.
Malawi enjoys a healthy wildlife and
stunning diverse landscapes with flat
plains, woodlands, wetlands, rainfor-
ests, and mountains up to 3,000m tall.
Its eponymous lake, with warm crystal
clear water and sandy beaches, is part of
the lives of many Malawians whether it
is for daily use, fishing, tourism or for
98% of its hydro-based electricity. Nev-
ertheless, with only 6% of the popula-
tion having access to power, an aver-
age life expectancy of just 50 years, an
HIV/AIDS rate of 12%, and 65% of the
population below the poverty line, sta-
tistics unfortunately rank Malawi among
the world’s least-developed countries:
171/187.
In the days following my arrival, these
cold, hard facts about Malawi’s difficul-
ties were quickly overshadowed by the
exceptional kindness and friendliness of
Malawians. Among them are the mem-
Loïc Baboulaz makes his mark on the Malawian healthcare system
“...truly one of my
greatest and most
memorable experi-
ences”
bers of Baobab Health Trust, a Malawian
organization delivering medical infor-
matics solutions to hospitals and clinics
across Malawi. I noticed the office of
Baobab Health one day while driving in
Lilongwe and I met with founder Gerry
Douglas to offer to work as a volunteer.
The next day, and for the next three
months, I worked at Baobab Health and
was in charge of three projects related to
image processing and electronics. Work-
ing for a Malawian NGO with Malawi-
ans engineers and for Malawians’ inter-
ests was truly one of my greatest and
most memorable experiences.
Created in the USA in 2000, and of-
ficially Malawian since 2008, Baobab
Health is replacing Malawi’s traditional
paper-based system of medical records
with an electronic system in hospitals
and clinics, with the goal of improv-
ing healthcare delivery and reducing its
costs through better planning. In Ma-
lawi, there is on average one doctor for
50 000 people (versus 400 in Europe and
the USA) so the task of collecting and
updating medical records is usually as-
signed to health workers with no com-
puter experience. Also, nurses and low-
skilled clinicians provide most of the
healthcare to people and would benefit
greatly from a clinical decision support
system for medical diagnosis. Existing
medical informatics solutions from the
Western world are not adapted to emerg-
ing countries like Malawi, so engineers
at Baobab Health have developed their
own open-source software and custom
hardware solutions by stripping down a
computer to its bare essentials: a touch-
screen, no keyboard and an intuitive,
highly optimized, user-interface that
guides clinical practitioners through
each task (registration, diagnosis, pre-
scription) while also preventing error
entries.. The result is a much more accu-
rate and faster data collection that ben-
efits both patients and doctors, but also
the nation in helping making policies
and planning drug purchase.
Malawi is a low-resource and chal-
lenging environment for deploying
modern IT technology. Power cuts, com-
munication network outage and chronic
fuel shortages regularly affect main hos-
pitals. Health centres in the countryside
reaching most of the population are sim-
ply out of all grids. To overcome these
problems, Baobab Health finds innova-
tive and sustainable solutions with cus-
tomized workstations, low-power serv-
ers, alternative sources of energy and
continuous power backup. This allows
an HIV clinic to run with three touch-
screen workstations, three label print-
ers, a network switch and a server for
less power than a single 100-watt light
bulb. Engineers also set up their own
communication antennas to interconnect
the different centres for monitoring, sup-
port or service delivery. Baobab Health
can pride itself on having, in its system,
1.5 million patients registered across 23
sites and over 122 000 patients on anti-
retroviral therapy.
I first heard of Baobab Health in the
book The Boy Who Harnessed The
Wind. It tells the remarkable story of
William Kamkwamba, a young 14-year-
old Malawian boy, who had dropped out
of school. Using books from the library
and parts from a scrapyard, he managed
to build his own windmill to power his
family house. Baobab Health helped to
spread the word of his engineering tal-
ents at a TED conference in 2007. From
that moment, William Kamkwamba
became a media sensation and is now
able to pursue his studies in the USA.
This extraordinary and inspiring story
is sadly unknown to most Malawians
and its youths who desperately need role
models and encouragement to believe in
themselves and their future.
Emerging countries can benefit tre-
mendously from new technologies, pro-
vided that they are carefully adapted to
the particular needs and issues of each
region. I left Malawi during the rainy
season and the land was then covered
with lush, green vegetation: it had trans-
formed itself as much as Baobab Health
has transformed my vision of engineer-
ing.
A rural landscape in Malawi
Joining a Malawian primary school for the day
TRAVEL
FELIX
Friday 03 february 2012
36
travel.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Travel Editors: Dushi Arumuganesan
Chris Richardson
“...Baobab Health, a Malawian organization delivering medical informatics solutions...”
“...Baobab Health
has transformed my
vision of engineering”

