and the dirty water can be used for
other needs.
In previous years, Raincatcher
teams’ only purpose was to build wa-
ter tanks but, this summer, our team
intends to start a new program – the
“Training of Trainers” scheme, which
aims to educate people in Tabora and
local rural areas about hygiene, sani-
tation and how to construct their own
domestic scale rainwater harvesting
systems. This will be a huge step to-
wards sustainability as local people
will be able to provide for themselves
and learn about the safety of water
use. As our last article pointed out,
this education is crucial – there is no
point having access to water if it is
not looked after, cleaned and main-
tained.
Along with the first flush system, a
filter needs to be installed to prevent
small organisms and detritus infect-
ing the water. A simple mechanical
filter can remove small items from the
water, and one prospect considered is
the sand filter. This looks a bit like
a ceramic flower pot, but contains
sand of varying coarseness which
removes smaller solutes as the water
flows further down the filter. How-
ever, due to the amount of water in-
volved and time it takes to filter, this
doesn’t seem like a viable solution for
our large tanks, and will instead be
used in the Training of Trainers pro-
gram for smaller household-scale wa-
ter tanks. A different design of filter,
which can handle much larger quanti-
ties of water, will be implemented for
the big tanks.
To remove biological hazards in
water, it is common to boil it, but the
Training of Trainers program will
incorporate another, more practical
method. Most dwellings in the vil-
lages of Tanzania are self-made and
feature corrugated iron roofs. Water
in transparent bottles or jars can be
placed on the roofs and the heat from
the sun is reflected and focused to the
water, killing most of the microbes
present. This has an advantage over
boiling – the sun’s light also contains
ultraviolet radiation, which most
high-tech water filters use to purify
water! This is a cheap, sustainable
and low-tech alternative and we hope
it will prove a huge success.
So although you may hear us talk-
ing a lot about rainwater harvesting
systems, remember there is much
more that needs to be done to cre-
ate a sustainable supply of fresh wa-
ter. Any donations you make will go
a long way to help us realising this
project. To find out more about Rain-
catcher Imperial, or to donate money
through Virgin Money Giving, please
visit www.raincatcherimperial.org.
CLUBS & SOCIETIES
FELIX Friday 03 february 2012 37
B
y now, I’m sure you’ve
heard a lot about Rain-
catcher’s aims. But how
much of the technology
behind our systems do
you know about?
In order to support our aim of pro-
viding clean, sustainable supplies of
water to people who currently cannot
access it, Raincatcher sends a team to
Tanzania every year to build rainwa-
ter harvesting systems.
As with many equatorial countries,
Tanzania’s climate fluctuates between
extremes year round; during the wet
season, there is plenty of rain pro-
viding sufficient supplies of water,
but during the dry season, water re-
sources become scarce. Our rainwa-
ter harvesting systems are built so
that water can be collected in the wet
season, usually from buildings with
large roofs like schools and church-
es. The water is then sent by gutters
to a vast tank for storage until it is
needed. Typically, the tanks can hold
a few hundred thousand litres of wa-
ter. This year, our aim is to build two
100,000L tanks for two schools in the
village of Igunga.
However, there are some important
points to consider when building a
water tank on this scale. The initial
concern is the size. The standard con-
crete tanks that Raincatcher uses can
only hold a maximum of 150,000L of
water above ground; any more water
and the pressure inside will rupture
the structure. In the past, Raincatcher
teams have built tanks which can hold
250,000 litres of water underground,
which had the advantage of being
able to balance the pressure.
Another factor to consider is the
issue of the first flush. When it rains
and water collects from the roofs,
there is often dust and other sediment
transported with it, which are not
clean to drink. The idea of the first
flush is to drain away the volume of
water that contains the residue so that
subsequent flows are uncontaminat-
ed. This has to be incorporated into
the design of the tank, which we have
solved by using a diversion chamber;
the first flush will fill this chamber
and, once full, water can pass on to
the tank. The chamber is then drained
The technology behind Raincatcher
Pavitar Devgon explains rainwater harvesting systems
“The are some im-
portant points to
consider when build-
ing a water tank on
this scale”
It’s not just about the aims with Raincatcher

