operating CSPs includes IT infrastructure
(including online memberships and eActivi-
ties), financial administration (especially the
processing of claims, purchase orders and in-
voices) and the design and delivery of officer
training” and that these are areas which will
be considered for improvement using the new
funding. However, in a statement to Felix he
added that “no decisions about the destination
of the reallocation have yet been made”.
Concerns about this change were raised by
Henry Abbot, the ACC chair, who said that
“the CSB pot has already been frozen and cut
in recent years. In real terms the pot 2012/13
pot is 38% less than the 2008/09 pot, whilst
participation is significantly increased. If
money for financial systems cannot be found
elsewhere, it’s essential that next year’s ex-
ecutive committee remember that this is not
a permanent cut but a one-off investment. In
the face of cuts clubs will inevitably ask their
members to pay more, pricing more students
out of more activities, which is really not
where we want our union to be going.” RCSU
Vice-President (Operations) Paul Beaumont
also added that while some societies could rely
more on their savings rather than the Union
grant this argument “ doesn’t hold for societ-
ies that have to make large investments (say
£30,000) every ten years [...] hence why they
need their subvention”. He said that while he
agrees with more investment in student sup-
In Brief
Imperial storm BP semi-finals
The BP Ultimate Field Trip semi-finalists have been
revealed, and include nine Imperial students. They
will compete in the regional semi-final that will take
place towards the end of February for the prize of
a 6-8 week internship in Trinidad and Tobago in the
Gulf of Mexico.
The three teams were selected from a variety of
national entrants by an expert panel of judges con-
sisting of a senior panel of BP specialists from a
wide range of business areas. Professor Brian Cox
has encouraged students to ‘Get involved’ continu-
ing ‘it’s about as valuable as it gets’.
The teams are as follows: the Carbon Busters
that include Jia Lin Chong, Shi Yunn Chua and Win-
son Lee Weng Hoe who are all third year Chemi-
cal Engineering students; C-Less made up of Zie
Wearn Chua and Wern Chia Chang who are both in
their third year of MEng Chemical Engineering and
Zhi Xiong Chong who is in their third year of MEng
Materials with Nuclear Engineering and the Global
Intelligence Consulting with Dun Xiang Ang, Nicho-
las Kwok and Zhen Xiony Lim who are all in their
third year of MEng Chemical Engineering.
The teams will present their ideas at the regional
semi-finals starting from February 20, competing
against other UK universities. The challenge is to
create the first zero carbon dioxide oil refinery by
2030 and up to a total of six entries will be se-
lected for the Grand Final that will take place at a
London venue in April.
Aemun Reza
NEWS
FELIX
Friday 03 february 2012
4
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
News Editors: Sophia David
Alex Nowbar
10% cut in grant for clubs
Maciej Matuszewski
Last week the Union’s Executive Committee
ruled to cut the grant available next year to the
Clubs & Societies Board, the Representation
& Welfare Board and the Executive itself by
ten percent. The £33,820 total, the vast major-
ity of which comes from the Clubs & Societies
Board owing to its large budget, will be reallo-
cated to help improve student activity support
services.
Writing last Friday in his official blog Dep-
uty President (Finance & Services) Michael
Foster explained the Committee’s reasoning
in making the decision, saying that “while
student activity has been increasing yearly –
along with how much money Clubs, Societies
& Projects (CSPs) are saving – there has been
little-to-no increase in the resources avail-
able for supporting these groups”. He further
explained that “the administrative impact of
port services he questions whether some of
the money could have been found from the
“Union’s day to day accounts”, which he says
are “closed to its members” and so are not
available for scrutiny.
Foster countered this by saying that since
“the total grant underspend last year was
greater than the changes to CSP funding”
it would be unnecessary for societies to dip
into their savings any more than usual. He
added that while the Union accounts “are on
restricted circulation”, and so not available
online “interested Union members can see
them whenever they wish” by “ coming to the
Union and asking to see them”.
While this may remain a controversial deci-
sion for some it certainly has potential to im-
prove the student experience at Imperial. It is,
however, clear that the full consequences of
this decision will only begin to be seen next
year.
Concerns raised over impact of financial reallocation
“there has been little-
to-no increase in the
resources available for
supporting these groups”
Holland Club Petition
As the results of a feasibility study that will deter-
mine the future of the Holland Club still remain
to be announced, an e-petition in support of its
continuation has received nearly 400 signatories
at the time of writing.
The petition letter, addressed to Imperial Col-
lege, argues against any potential closure, claim-
ing that there will be an “outcry” should any move
to remove the Holland Club come to fruition.
The petition follows a popular Facebook cam-
paign in support of the Holland Club, which, at the
time of writing, has attracted 827 ‘likes’.
The results of the feasibility study are expected
within two weeks.
Matthew Colvin
Professor Brian Cox hosted last year’s Ultimate
Field Trip final
First ever TEDx conference
comes to Imperial
live lectures in the TED format, licensed and
promoted by the organisation in spirit of their
mission and tagline – “Ideas Worth Spread-
ing.”
TEDxImperialCollege is inspired by the
Great Exhibition of 1851; a world fair held
in the since destroyed Crystal Palace in Hyde
Park, showcasing Victorian British culture,
ingenuity, industry and science. Attracting six
million visitors, the Exhibition made a profit
The first ever TEDx conference to be held at
Imperial is coming this March. Organised by a
team of Imperial students, TEDxImperialCol-
lege will feature live lectures and online vid-
eos in the TED format.
The event on March 24 is titled The Great
Exhibition and will “explore the connection
between science, design and innovation, and
their impact on the human experience”. TEDx-
ImperialCollege license holder Gilead Amit
said “TEDx is all about giving local voices the
chance to be heard – and where could you find
more exciting local voices than in London’s
cultural heartland?”
TEDx is an offshoot of TED (Technology,
Entertainment, Design), the conference fa-
mous for spreading innovative and inspira-
tional ideas. TEDx events are independently-
hosted, local conferences featuring videos and
of £186,000, more than £16m at modern val-
ue, which went towards the founding of South
Kensington’s many museums and institutes,
making Imperial College, at the heart of many
of these foundations, an ideal place to relive
its values.
The organisers are staying tight-lipped about
the speakers, saying that the full list will be
revealed over the coming weeks, but have
confirmed one of the speakers to be John Gra-
ham-Cumming, a computer scientist dedicated
to completing the Analytical Engine – the
world’s first mechanical computer, designed in
1837 by Charles Babbage and which so far has
never been built in full
A non-binding registration in advance is
required to purchase tickets. Details of ticket
prices will be revealed when registration
opens on February 10. The event takes place
on March 24, from 2pm to 7pm in the Great
Hall.
Keir Little
Live lectures and online videos to explore science, design and innovation
“no decisions about the
destination of the real-
location have yet been
made”
“Where could you find
more exciting local voic-
es than in London’s cul-
tural heartland?”

