SPORT
FELIX Friday 03 February 2012 45
IC 3s triumphed in the first game of
what was a busy week of fixtures, out-
playing LSE 4s in an open and fast
paced encounter. After an end-to-end
first few minutes, IC soon asserted their
authority and quickly raced to a 5-0
lead.
Despite a sublime goal from the very
edge of the D by LSE’s Goal Shooter,
Imperial’s spirit was undiminished and
5 further goals closed the quarter at 10-
1. Imperial continued their dominat-
ing streak in the second quarter with
shooters Piening and Bachelor showing
deadly accuracy in front of goal. LSE
tried to find an opening but were un-
able to break the fluidity of IC’s play.
With stylish passing that wouldn’t have
been out of place at The Nou Camp, the
Netball 3s crush LSE; plucky 4s lose to St George’s
home side were sitting comfortably at
half time, leading 23-1.
To their credit, LSE continued to bat-
tle on after the break and were rewarded
with a few second half goals, although
it did little to close the sizeable gap. De-
spite their best attempts to salvage the
game, the IC shooters were always able
to find an extra half yard when it mat-
tered, resulting in a well-deserved 39-5
victory for Imperial.
Unfortunately Imperial 4s didn’t
enjoy similar success in their match
against St. George’s 4s. There were few
chances to steal in the early stages of
the game, with the ball stuck in the cen-
tre of court for much of the first quarter.
At the first break the score line was low;
just 3-3, a testament to the disciplined,
resilient play by both sides. Archer’s
impressive interceptions won her play-
er of the match and the first half closed
with both sides very much still in the
game. But it was in the second half that
St George’s pulled away; most of the
away goals were scored in the fourth
quarter and the final scoreboard read
22-8 to St Georges; by no means an ac-
curate reflection of the game.
Netball
Feroza Kassam
Women’s 3s 39
LSE 4s 5
Women’s 4s 8
St George’s 4s 22
Netball. Much easier when the ball sticks to your hands
dropped five hits overall, which left the
epeeists twenty-four hits up, and need-
ing to score twenty-one to put the match
away. By this time, all the other teams
had finished fencing (including the girls)
and the entire Imperial contingent had
turned out to provide support – much
needed up against a vocal Oxford con-
tingent. The epeeists made excruciat-
ingly slow progress, but the hits built
up, bit by bit. Hollywood scriptwriters
could not have imagined the scene bet-
ter, as the anchor Harry Gulliver came
up for his final fight needing a single hit
to win the match overall. After conced-
ing a couple of hits, while everyone else
was chewing their nails off, Harry came
through with a double hit, and the crowd
raised the roof in Ethos. As the Oxford
anchor slumped his shoulders in defeat,
Imperial rejoiced –they just had to win
the next day’s matches to win the league.
Final score against Oxford: 100-97.
The next day saw the girls fence their
epee matches, and the guys take on
Bristol and ULU. Full of confidence
from the day before, the women’s team
proceeded to seal their victory against
Queen Mary with an emphatic 135-24
final score. Victories against Oxford
(135-117) and UCL (135-89) followed.
The only off note of the evening was the
epee loss to Cambridge – although the
girls still won it overall, 120-103.
This almost-too-easy string of wins
meant that, once again, the IC Women’s
1st team were crowned Premiership
champions, with eight wins out of eight.
Could the men emulate them, and re-
tain their crown too? The match against
Bristol was to be key. Once again, the
sabreurs began with panache, winning
easily and putting the team ahead. The
foilists then won their match, not putting
a foot wrong to leave epee only need-
ing nine hits to win. They achieved this
comfortably, and while they did not win
their match, the overall score ended up
as 125-99 to Imperial. With only ULU,
the weakest team in the league, to go, the
men were confident they could seal their
league win. ULU didn’t pose a threat at
all, and all three weapons posted com-
fortable victories as Imperial ran away
with it. Final score: 135-71.
The Premiership was in the bag. Both
teams saw fit to go for a celebratory
Wagamama dinner, although the tired-
ness was palpable in some!
The Imperial fencing first teams are
now attempting to defend their cham-
pionship titles by winning this year’s
BUCS knockout competition and con-
firming their status as the best in the
country. The men are up against Durham
in the quarter-finals on the 22nd, and the
women fence Bristol on the same date.
Both matches are in Ethos, so ocome
down and support!
...Continued from Back Page
Fencing: champs!
Singing rowdy songs all together after a match: an integral part of fencing
From L-R: Harry Gulliver, Chris Gilliam, Ed Collier, Henry Gann, Glen Ostacchini, Didier Nohlmans (c), Maiyuran
Ratneswaran, Jon Ashcroft, Indy Leclercq
Feroza Kassam
Charlotte Levin
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Sport Editors: Indy Leclercq
David Wilson

