NEWS
FELIX Friday 03 february 2012 5
•A special offer for I
Imperial students
from D
Denis Smyth
•Driving Standards Agency (D
DSA)
Accredited I
Instructor
•Mock Test E
Examiner
To make inquiries and book lessons,
call 07808 610 898
Driving Lessons For Imperial Students
“Denis is a fantastic teacher and knows how to get people from completely
inexperienced and utterly hopeless driving up to the standard to pass their test.
He is always calm and his comments are constructive; his knowledge of London
and his knack of engineering driving routes that test the learner make the lessons
more than worth it. Since I have met him he has shown a great desire to offer
cheaper lessons to Imperial students and with the backing of other students
I am more than happy to support him”
- Alex Kendall, IC Union President 2010-11
5 Driving Lessons
for £95
Exhibition Road closes for grand opening
“Exquisite, my parents don’t let me use scissors at home!”
Jonathan Peek
Following two years of construction,
Exhibition Road closed last Wednesday
for its grand opening led by the Mayor
of London, Boris Johnson. ‘No parking’
signs were put up in advance and the
event saw a day long closure marking the
opening of the brand new signature road
running through the “intellectual capital
of London”, South Kensington, as de-
scribed by Prince Albert.
The road’s transformation was an effort
by Dixon Jones after winning an interna-
tional competition for design and master-
planning held by The Royal Borough of
Kensington and Chelsea, whose proposal
included stripping the road of its narrow
pavements and creating a kerb-free pat-
terned surface that would extend the en-
tire length and width of the road.
The changes were completed in late
2011 following over 10 years of plan-
ning, giving pedestrians more space, lim-
iting vehicles to a speed of 20mph and re-
moving all the road signs and clutter. The
£30m improvements feature new lighting
in the form of tall metal spires. This ties
in with the recent renovations made to
the V&A and the Science Museum with
Union President Scott Heath comment-
ing that he thinks “it looks brilliant”.
A metallic elephant was erected and
was an integral part of the parade which
followed. On the Mayor of London’s ar-
rival, a brief speech was made and the
parade began in earnest. Boris Johnson
cut the ribbon to denote the road’s official
opening and proceeded to the Imperial
College Business School to continue to
a closed audience, after announcing that
“Imperial is one of the greatest universi-
ties in the world”.
The event was, however, met with
minor resistance, with protestors wield-
ing placards bearing messages such as
“Who pays for this jamboree? The tax-
payer!” and “Why celebrate this dan-
gerous shared space?” Deputy President
(Education) Jason Parmar responded: “I
think the road is very exquisite, however
there are a few health and safety concerns
raised, but I think the council will address
it in due course”.
Protestors, who included students from
Imperial College, were promptly ejected
from the Business School upon entry,
with a security guard commenting that he
was “asked by College to evict them be-
cause they didn’t want them in [there]”,
adding “they were on private property,
it was a private function, so we had the
right to”.
Mr Johnson’s speech in the Business
School detailed the collaborative efforts
which went into the design and construc-
tion of the road, the academic and cul-
tural nature of the surroundings as well as
its historic value. The speech was inter-
rupted by a fire alarm, which Mr Johnson
took in his stride and exclaimed “it might
be a fire in the labs”.
Jason Parmar provided further thoughts
to Felix on the interruption, saying: “I
wouldn’t be surprised if it was mali-
cious, it’s a real shame”. Nevertheless,
the speech continued despite health and
safety regulations.
Exhibition Road returned to full opera-
tion following the event.
Editorial: Page 14
Alexander Karapetian
Philip Kent

