advantage of the speed and efficiency
gains to harness the raw power of the
integrated circuit and GPU.
If Physics is to be considered the ap-
plication of Mathematics to the Uni-
verse, frequently giving us answers
to life’s questions, then Computing is
the application of Mathematics to the
virtual Universe. For instance, creating
a perfect sphere is impossible in the
C
omputer Science is an
often misunderstood aca-
demic topic. Many peo-
ple outside the field do
not perceive the breadth
and depth of research material that’s
pumped out daily and how it affects
our everyday lives. To observe its pro-
found effect in the real world, we must
first examine the theoretical. There are
a variety of problems which are fa-
mous in mathematics. The Millennium
Prize Problems and Hilbert’s Problems
are collections of such unsolved prob-
lems selected by the Clay Mathemat-
ics Institute and mathematician David
Hilbert. The former are noted for their
million-dollar prize for the first veri-
fied solution to any one of the seven
problems, six of which remain un-
solved at the time of writing.
Why should the average person care
about finding solutions to them? First,
we must realise their real world appli-
cations. While some high profile fields
are largely saturated in terms of re-
search progress, Computer Science has
taken an opposite path and the field is
increasingly gaining momentum, with
discoveries emerging due to break-
throughs in logic and theoretical com-
putational systems and mathematics.
A core component in electronic cir-
cuits is the transistor. The number of
transistors within computer proces-
sor chips have increased over time
roughly according to Moore’s Law,
allowing for greater processing power.
This law states the number of transis-
tors will double every 18 months and
eventually reach a limit. This limit is
frequently extended, and consumers
continue to see improvements yearly.
This greater processing power is not
limited to consumer use, however, and
research institutes have begun to take
physical realm, though such perfect
elements are digitally representable.
This expressive property has opened
the door to new methods of analysis
with machines, using them as an aid
to solving existing research problems.
For instance, a quantum mechanical
system described to us by Physics is
best explored by a quantum computer,
a machine which is capable of operat-
ing on the same physical levels as the
very realm researchers are attempting
to understand.
The Riemann Hypothesis, consid-
ered one of the most important prob-
lems in pure mathematics (Borwein
et al. 2008), involves the distribution
of the prime numbers. The hypoth-
esis states that the solutions to the
Riemann-Zeta function lie on a critical
line. While no proof yet exists, the first
ten trillion values have been verified
by distributed supercomputing efforts.
While an underlying pattern appears
plausible, this Hilbert Problem remains
unproven. The unpredictable nature
of the prime numbers has been put to
use in the RSA (Rivest, Shamir and
Adleman, MIT, 1978) cryptographic
algorithm. This system, considered
currently unbreakable due to techni-
cal infeasibility, provides digital secu-
rity with primes. Banks, websites and
governments worldwide have adopted
RSA and it is a common means of dis-
tributing an encryption key. A brute
force search would need to test possi-
ble primes to break this, but since there
is no reliable way of determining the
next prime, computers may take years
to perform this operation, rendering
this method impractical. A proof of the
Riemann Hypothesis, however, may
provide a means of determining a pat-
tern and breaking RSA.
Brute force guessing of standard
passwords is also impractical. We are
all currently encouraged to create case-
sensitive alphanumeric passwords. The
problem with checking every possibili-
ty lies not with verification; a computer
can easily identify whether two pieces
of text are equal. It lies with first ob-
taining the solution to compare. Some
techniques search through dictionary
entries, allowing quicker identification
of common passwords.
Another Millennium Prize Problem,
touted the most important unsolved
problem in Computer Science, P vs NP
(Cook, 1971) revolves around this con-
cept. It asks the question of whether a
problem having quick machine verifi-
able solutions means those solutions
can also be found quickly. Problems of
the latter are classified P, while those
that are hard to compute are NP. In the
case of guessing passwords, it becomes
apparent that verification is a P prob-
lem (easy) while searching for the cor-
rect password is NP (hard).
The world currently assumes P not to
be equal to NP, as well as most Com-
puter Scientists (Gasarch, 2002) agree-
ing, while majority of security systems
rely on this assumption. A claimed
proof of P=NP (Deolalikar, 2010) was
later shown to be incorrect, though
the possibility raised many concerns
for security. The implications would
be far-reaching for society. A cor-
rect proof either way will have great
impact, since the solution to P vs NP
intrinsically links to solutions of the
other Problems. If P=NP, not only will
a new era of cryptography need to be
abruptly ushered in, but NP-hard prob-
lems within countless other fields such
as Biology (genome sequencing, pro-
tein structure prediction) and Physics
(simulations) would become easier.
The effects of solutions on society’s
widely used systems cannot be ig-
nored. They would pave the way to a
once-distant future, with consequences
such as the rise of new, future-proof
technologies resistant to P=NP attacks,
leading to better consumer systems.
A hail of advancements in knowledge
would be made, with improvements
to society’s quality of life due to sig-
nificant improvements to Biology,
Medicine and other fields. Perelman,
responsible for solving the Poincaré
Conjecture (involving the characteris-
tics of spheres in higher dimensions)
remarked: “Where technology creates
new machines and devices, Mathemat-
ics creates their analogues – logical
methods for analysis in any field of
science. Every Mathematical theory, if
it’s strong, will sooner or later find an
application.” (Perelman, 2003)
As researchers move on to prov-
ing the next unsolved theorem armed
with potent approaches and technol-
ogy from Computer Science, the lay-
people of society would truly revel in
the consequences of such discoveries,
and would therefore benefit the most
overall.
Adapted from a winning submission to
the RCSU Science Challenge 2011.
Does Computer Science hold the answer?
Alexander Karapetian on computing and important mathematical problems
A plot of the Riemann-Zeta function over the Complex Plane. Trippy. And pretty. Am I on drugs?
Number of transistors per die within processors over time
“Every mathematical
theory... will sooner
or later find an ap-
plication.”
IEEE
FEATURE
FELIX Friday 03 february 2012 7
features.felix@gmail.com
Features Editors: Katy Bettany
Stephen Smith

