We normally think of social networks as a
modern-day phenomenon: Facebook, Twit-
ter etc. come to mind. But according to re-
cent research published in Nature, ancient
societies may have been organised along
much the same lines.
It is a popular belief that the evolution of
human behaviour is all about natural selec-
tion, with all our behaviours driven by the
desire to pass on our genes: finding a ge-
netically fit partner and protecting our own
offspring. However this somewhat reduc-
tive model is not the whole storwy, not least
because it doesn’t consider how and why we
form friendships and cooperate with people
even when they are not genetically related
to us, and we don’t intend to reproduce with
them.
The recent research focused on the Had-
za people in Tanzania, who have a hunter-
gatherer lifestyle thought to be similar to
that of our early human ancestors in the
late Pleistocene, and are relatively isolated
from modern culture and technology. Two
network models were constructed, based
on who participants said they would like
to share a camp with, and who they would
choose to receive a gift of honey (a prized
delicacy).
Once a social network is created, there
are various metrics to be measured and ana-
lysed. These include degree distributions
(how many friends do you have), transitiv-
ity (how likely is it that two of your friends
are friends themselves), degree assortativ-
ity (are popular people more likely to have
popular friends) and homophily (do simi-
lar people tend to cluster together). These
measures differ from those on randomly
generated networks of the same size, due
to the human preferences underlying them.
Additionally they tend to form similar pat-
terns and trends, regardless of the society
in question, and the results for the Hadza
population looked remarkably like those
for modern social networks. This indicates
that the way we form friendships and social
groups is hard-coded in our psychology, and
emerged as part of our evolution as a spe-
cies.
The researchers also offer an intriguing
hypothesis about how human society di-
verged from normal primate patterns: our
ability to understand how reproduction
works and recognise our paternal family
meant we no longer had the need to enforce
‘dispersal’ of the young from their birth-
place and family groups in order to prevent
inadvertent in-breeding. This may have en-
couraged more stable groupings, increasing
the opportunities for friendships, and hence
social networks, to form.
Historic social networks
A map of social connectivity
The importance of social networks in our
evolutionary history is thought to relate to
the development of cooperation, a distinctly
human habit which allows us to go beyond
immediate family relationships and work
together in large groups to achieve goals
which benefit and advance society. In so-
cial networks, more ‘cooperative’ people
tend to form groups – and interestingly the
more anti-social ‘defectors’ also tended to
be friends with each other.
It is still unclear whether this is because
cooperators simply prefer to form links with
like-minded people, or whether cooperative
people in fact influence the friends connect-
ed to them. Either way, there is strong evi-
dence that social networks and cooperativ-
ity are closely linked, and co-evolved early
in human history.
DOI:10.1038/nature10736
Scientists have measured the rate at which
quantum information travels through real
systems. Changes, such as those in electron-
ic spin or energy, propagate through materi-
als at a limited speed; similar to the speed of
light, this maximum theoretical limit known
as the Lieb-Robinson bound has now been
determined empirically by scientists.
In a material lattice like a crystal, chang-
es at any one atom, such as flipping spin
or nuclear decay, affect the atom’s closest
neighbours first and propagate outwards
from there. The speed at which these short-
range interactions occur is much lower than
the speed of light, but has so far been im-
possible to measure due to interference from
thermal vibrations, and the sheer number of
particles in a real lattice make it hard to de-
tect changes in individual atoms.
Researchers at the Max Planck Institute
for Quantum Optics have devised a way of
experimentally measuring this value: rather
than using a crystalline lattice, they held a
supercooled monoatomic gas in an optical
lattice: several lasers used to create stand-
ing waves in which to trap individual atoms.
As the atoms are not chemically bonded to
each other and are at a very low temperature,
many sources of interference are eliminated
from the system.
By changing the power of the lasers, cer-
tain atoms can be “quenched” – moved from
energetic equilibrium to an excited state.
These excitations then travel through the
lattice as quantum-entangled quasiparticles
– fictitious particles which serve as a simple
approximation to the many complex inter-
actions of real particles. For example, an
electron travelling through a semiconductor
interacts with each atom it encounters, but
can be modelled as a quasi-electron of a dif-
ferent mass travelling more slowly though
free space. By recording the time and dis-
tance between atom excitations, the speed at
which these quasiparticles travel, and hence
at which information propagates, can be
measured.
This speed, found to be roughly twice the
speed of sound in the considered material,
is currently purely empirical, and the value
cannot be determined by theoretical meth-
ods. It also is applicable only to the one-
dimensional lattice under consideration, but
as the first measurement of its kind made,
represents an important step forward for re-
search in areas such as quantum entangle-
ment.
DOI: 10.1038/nature10748
Keir Little
FELIX
Friday 03 February 2012
8
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Science Editors: Kelly Oakes
Alexander Karapetian
SCIENCE
Quantum information rate measured
In brief
Sarah Byrne
Networking
by Maria Veiga
When the dinosaurs disappeared, they left
room for mammals to go through a huge evo-
lutionary growth spurt. They also left room for
mammals to grow. Literally.
Recent research published in the journal
PNAS has uncovered the number of genera-
tions it would take for a mouse-sized animal to
evolve into an elephant-sized one: 24 million.
The number comes from a fossil record data
set of mammalian body size over the last 70
million years.
For 140 million years before the dinosaurs
went extinct, mammals were rodent-sized or
smaller. But when the dinosaurs were no longer
around, mammals began to expand to fill the
ecological niches the dinosaurs left behind.
The researchers looked at 28 strands of mam-
mal lineage over the fossil record and worked
out how many years and generations it took for
the mammals to grow larger.
Growing larger also signifies other changes.
“Achieving such a large transformation calls
for major biological reorganisation,” say the re-
searchers.
DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1120774109
Kelly Oakes
Evolution of enormity Facebook

