SCIENCE
FELIX Friday 03 February 2012 9
L
ate last year, the en-
vironment secretary
Caroline Spellman an-
nounced that badger
culling would go ahead
in 2012 in an effort to combat bovine
tuberculosis (TB). Now that the loca-
tions of pilot culls have been named,
the scheme is suddenly becoming a
reality, but is the cull justified and
will it be effective?
Badgers are one of Britain’s most
enigmatic mammals due to their
nocturnal nature, and are usually
only seen either wombling across a
road late at night or more likely, as
road-kill. Traffic will be the least
of the worries of badgers in parts of
Gloucestershire and Somerset how-
ever, as these are the areas in which
pilot culls will be implemented.
Culling badgers is not a new phe-
nomenon, with extermination efforts
taking place on and off throughout
the latter half of the twentieth cen-
tury, and although the emphasis here
is on ‘pilot’, there is the potential for
more widespread action across the
rest of the UK.
The cull is objectionable for two
key reasons. On a deontological
level, the cull represents humanity’s
tendency for species-chauvinism.
Environmental, and admittedly con-
servation, issues are often driven by
the logic that humans are more im-
portant than, and have the authority
to remove other species should they
pose a threat. Which would be valid
and defensible if the species in ques-
tion was threatening human lives, for
instance I’m sure less people would
be opposed to eradicating the spe-
cies of mosquito that carries malaria.
The threat badgers pose however,
is only to our cows, a non-essential
element of human life, despite what
some might claim, and so the organ-
ised killing of them for our benefit is
unjustified.
Unfortunately in itself, this moral
argument does not stand, as by the
same reasoning I should be advocat-
ing vegetarianism – which I am not.
A more convincing argument comes
in the form of the scientific justifica-
Badgering the badgers
tion for the cull, or lack thereof, in
that there is evidence that a cull may
actually increase the spread of bovine
TB rather than stem it. Amongst oth-
ers this view is supported by Rosie
Woodroffe, a senior research fellow
at the Zoological Society of London,
and her research. It was found that al-
though a cull may marginally reduce
the incidence of cattle TB in the focal
area, badgers are likely to disperse as
result of the disruption, and the ar-
eas in the vicinity could suffer an in-
creased incidence of TB as a result.
Despite these anti-cull arguments,
it is presumably still favoured by the
Government because of the potential
short term reduction in bovine tuber-
culosis a cull could bring. It is easy
to see the appeal when it is estimated
that roughly one billion pounds of
the taxpayer’s money could be spent
over the next ten years tackling the
problem.
This would hold if it wasn’t for the
method of cull chosen. To decrease
the incidence of TB in cattle by a
notable amount, an efficient method
Christopher Nichols on why we should save the badgers from culling
Don’t kill them... I’ll take them. I’ll take them all!
such as gassing must be used. Not,
as the government has seen fit, the
‘farmers and their guns’ technique.
Whilst this may serve to appease
angry farmers with a grudge against
badgers, I doubt the random shooting
of badgers will actually have a sig-
nificant impact on a population.
A preferred alternative to culling
is vaccination, a method which has
had some success in captive badgers.
Studies are currently underway into
its applicability in wild populations.
This however is of no consolation
to the badgers who will be culled in
the coming year or the animal groups
that are opposed to the cull. The only
saving grace is that with any luck
badgers will avoid being shot by ex-
ploiting a trait of theirs that the pow-
ers that be seem to have overlooked.
Surely shooting nocturnal badgers in
the dark is hardly going to yield fan-
tastic results. The deaths of any that
are unlucky enough to meet a gun-
slinging farmer in the coming nights
can be put down to little more than
myopic mustelid murder.
Oddities of
Physics
Arriana Sorba
The SAF main lecture theatre was
full to bursting last Wednesday eve-
ning, as Simon Foster and his troupe
of postgraduate students put on an
exciting and informative show on
‘The Oddities of Physics’. Guests
were welcomed into the building
with a display by the Imperial Col-
lege Juggling Society, intrigued and
unaware that a more fiery take on the
display was on its way later in the
lecture, to help explain special rela-
tivity...
Using balls of fire to help illustrate
a light clock wasn’t the only exciting
demonstration that had the audience
gasping with awe, though. From res-
onating jelly to a levitating magnet,
the sense of wonderment caused by
each demonstration was palpable,
not least from the groups of school
children that the Friends of Impe-
rial College had invited to the event.
One postgraduate encouraged the
audience to ‘fear the air around us’,
with a startling and somewhat dan-
gerous video he’d made, on Imperial
soil, of an oil drum collapsing under
atmospheric pressure, whilst Simon
himself got the audience murmur-
ing with curiosity simply by putting
a heat-tech t-shirt in the microwave.
But it wasn’t all action, and the
audience were equally enthused
by the pithy explanations of other
more subtle physical phenomena. Be
they the time reversal symmetry of
the movement of bacteria, Fourier
transforms, or the mysterious quan-
tum effects surrounding Planck’s
constant, each thought-provoking
question that was posed, (for who
hasn’t at some point wondered what
the world would look like if ħ wasn’t
so small?), was matched in intrigue
by its fascinating physical answer.
Physics current sexiest topic, the
Higgs Boson and the Large Hadron
Collider, also got its due airtime, as
did a simple but enlightening expla-
nation of the Aurora Borealis, using
the infamous, imposing-looking Van
de Graaff generator.
The lecture was hosted by the
Friends of Imperial College, an or-
ganisation dedicated to providing
opportunities for the wider com-
munity to get involved in and learn
more about any field of science,
technology and medicine. It does this
through the Imperial College net-
work of staff, students and alumni,
holding a variety of events through-
out the year, from lectures to socials,
keeping the public informed of and
interested in the latest scientific ad-
vances. It also generously supports
the Imperial College Student Oppor-
tunities Fund.
John Connor Press Associates

