imperialcollegeunion.org
Union Page
Our latest Impact Report is out, detailing the work that Imperial College Union
and its members have done so far this academic year and the impact it has
had at the College. We started the year with Welcome Week, welcoming over
5,500 new students to our student community, and there have been a number
of highlights since then including:
A Launching new events such as International Imperial
A 20% more volunteering hours recorded through Imperial Plus than the same
time last year
A 4,600 students voting inYour Rep & Council Elections in October
A £83,401.70 raised by the Islamic Society during Charity Week
A Our 56-strong #helloICU crew that were on hand during Welcome Week
A £100,000 of Union funds invested our new Media Centre
You can read the full report on our website at
imperialcollegeunion.org/impact
Student campaigning gains discounts for students - start 1 March
As of 1 March, we will be discounting our range of feminine hygiene products
in our shops, a request that was raised at our most recent Union Council
meeting.
A student approached Chris Kaye, our Deputy President (Welfare), about the
lack of access to, and price of, feminine hygiene products on campus. Following
this, he then brought a paper to council to discuss the issue, and consulted with
the Union’s Management Team about how to bring about change to address
this issue. It was suggested that these products were sold at cost price, and
after agreement with the Management Team and Council members, this will
come into effect next month.
You can turn advocacy into action and evoke change such as this to make the
student experience at Imperial even better. Visit the new Campaigns section on
our website for more information about campaigning through the Union, or visit
our Union Council pages to find out how to submit a paper to Council.
imperialcollegeunion.org/news
Check out our Impact so far this academic year
We want to know what you think about us
Our annual Union Survey opens this week, and it’s your chance to tell us what
you think about us. We want to get your feedback on the many services that
we run and provide. Changes we have made over the last few years as a result
of survey feedback have included introducing great monthly food and drink
offers our bars, working to improve the speed and functionality of eActivities
for our Club, Societies & Projects, and increased volunteering opportunities and
launching Imperial Plus, our volunteer accreditation scheme.
The survey won’t take long to complete, and you could win a prize for just a few
minutes of your time! Prizes include one of two iPad Minis with retina display
and 2 x pairs of Summer Ball tickets.
Look out for more information and the survey link online at imperialcollegeunion.
org!

