THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON 1
FELIX 27.02.2015
Television Editors Guila Gabrielli & John Park
Television
television.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Two Lawyers. One Degree. And
some great television.
Two men and their suits Photo: Comicsonline
Joshusa Renken reviews Suits, currently on its fourth season.
Remarkably uncatastrophic
I am not sure how high Channel 4’s ambitions for the
showCatastrophe were.Writers and main actors Rob
Delauney and Sharon Horgan sure seemed like a weird
couple: Delauney a likeable,tall,American dude and
Horgan a dead-pan and sarcastic Irish woman.Together
they created a baby-script funny enough to impress the
masterminds being what goes on telly,and suddenly it
was on.As they appeared on talk-show after talk-show
before the release of the series this January,they too
seemed surprised to be there,slightly uneasy maybe,
because their little story appears far from glamorous
enough to make it in the competitive and cruel world of
entertainment.
How could we all have doubted this little gem would
become a hit? Now we’ve got to know Rob and Sharon
(played by Rob and Sharon),it is impossible not to love
them.The humour is subtle and modern.Think of the
funniest person you know on Facebook: ironic and self-
deprecating but also sweet and relatable.This is pretty
much the style in which Catastropheis delivered.
The chemistry between the characters is also great,
mostly because Sharon is the grumpy woman all women
think they are and Rob is the adorable man we’d all want
to have close to us.Plus it’s set in lovely London Fields,
with Sharon and Rob often sitting at the Market Café,
in Broadway Market,overlooking Regents Canal and
sipping cappuccinos.This made me as excited as visiting
the Central Perk.
A little bit of drama is thrown into the mix as Sharon
discovers some pregnancy complications and the couple
gradually learn to love and support each other.The plot
seems simple,but the strong leading performances give
it enough depth and personality to support the whole
show.
GIULIA GABRIELLI
"With the
job, the
money,
the looks
and the
lifestyle,
Harvey is
a man’s
man."
"This is a
show where
manwy
asses are
threatened
to be
kicked."
Now in its fourth series, Suits
is an American legal drama
that premiered in June of
2011. Created by Aaron Korsh, the
first episode is one of the best pilots
in recent television history.
Here’s the set up: Mike Ross (Parick
J. Adams) is a bright college dropout
with a photographic memory but
no real future as a bike messenger.
Living in New York, he makes money
on the side by sitting the Law School
Admission Test for strangers.
After getting pressured into paying
$25,000 to keep his grandmother in
a private nursing home, Mike agrees
to deliver a briefcase of marijuana
to a Hotel room for his close friend
Trevor (Tom Lipinski).
The drug deal turns out to be a
sting operation that Mike cleverly
figures out before making the drop.
In his efforts to escape the task force,
Mike stumbles into a job interview
with Harvey Specter (Gabriel Macht),
a Harvard educated lawyer at Pearson
Hardman who is deemed to be the
“best closer in New York City.”
In his recent promotion to senior
partner at the firm, Harvey is
expected to hire a fellow Harvard
Law graduate as an associate.
Harvey starts talking to Mike, who
uses his photographic memory and
encyclopedic knowledge of the law
to convince Harvey to employ him,
despite never attending Harvard or
even completing a degree.
Mike explains that he had always
dreamt of being a lawyer, but lost
his College scholarship after getting
caught cheating on a maths exam.
His friend Trevor had convinced him
to memorise a maths test, but the
pair unknowingly sold the answers
to the Dean’s daughter. Mike had
been admitted as a transfer student
to Harvard for the next academic
year, but the Dean’s final act before
resigning was to expel Mike and tell
Harvard what he did.
Mike recognizes the opportunity
he has been gifted and promises
Harvey that “I’ll help you school
those Harvard douches, and I’ll be
the best god-damn lawyer you’ve ever
seen.”
Harvey decides to hire Mike and
cover up the fact that he never went
to Harvard Law. Shenanigans ensue.
With the job, the money, the looks
and the lifestyle, Harvey is portrayed
as a man’s man; the American
dream realised. However, Harvey is
somewhat emotionally stunted and
his alpha-male bravado prevents
him from having meaningful
relationships with other people.
Mike’s compassionate streak and
genius intellect compliment Harvey’s
cold but perceptive nature to create a
compelling dynamic that the series
exploits throughout.
Obsessed with getting his “name
on the door”, Harvey is the protégé
of managing partner Jessica Pearson
(Gina Torres), a strong woman in a
man’s world of top tier law.
The rest of the main cast includes
Louis Litt (Rick Hoffman), a hard
working and pedantic junior partner
who takes great pride in his work
but is unpopular with the associates
he trains, Rachel Zane (Meghan
Markle), a paralegal at the firm and
Mike’s love interest, and Donna
Paulsen (Sarah Rafferty), Harvey’s
loyal private secretary and close
confidant who listens in on all the
conversations in his office.
The first series is primarily
concerned with how Mike and
Harvey form an unlikely partnership
while keeping the big secret.
Subsequent series deal with
internal problems at the firm,
including allegations of malpractice,
fending off mergers, winning big
cases and quashing takeover bids.
With clear and distinct plot arcs,
Suits is heavily serialised.
Suits is a fast paced and witty series,
with great characters that you believe
in. Slick in its presentation, the series
manages to retain a sense of humour
even as the plot gets more serious.
The series thrives off conflict
between intelligent people. Well-
reasoned, heated arguments are
packed into the scripts and this is
what keeps you watching.
This is a show where an awful lot of
things are ‘goddamn right’ and many
asses are threatened to be kicked. It’s
a fun show that is essential viewing
for anyone with time to kill and a suit
and tie fetish.
The first two series of Suits are on
Netflix. The fourth series is currently
airing on Dave.
Photo: Channel 4

