THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON 21
FELIX 27.02.2015
Arts Editors Fred Fyles & Kamil McClelland
Arts
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Fred Fyles explores the Victorians’ love for statues at Tate Britain
The sculptural legacy of an empire
An empire can be measured not
by the length of its borders,
or by the riches of its lands,
but by the quality of its sculptures.
At least, this is what the Tate Britain
is trying to argue, with its newest
exhibition Sculpture Victorious, an
ode to the golden age of British
sculpture. Actually, perhaps that first
sentence should be amended to read
“the quantity of its sculptures”, since
it was during the Victorian era that
the country experienced a surge in
sculpture production, unprecedented
in its history, which culminated in
the reconstruction of the Palace of
Westminster, destroyed in a fire a
couple of years before Victoria came
to the throne.
We start with the lady herself: two
busts of Victoria, done 48 years apart.
In the first, by sculptor Sir Francis
Chantrey, the young monarch looks
out with a confrontational stare, her
dress exposing one shoulder; in the
second, Alfred Gilbert, who wasn’t
even born when Victoria came to the
throne, portrays her as the matriarch
of an empire, her eyes heavy and
tired, trussed up in lace like a
swaddled infant.
The works displayed in the
exhibition are often beautiful,
particularly in the last room, where
the output of the Arts and Crafts
Movement is given the opportunity
to shine, but the show works best
as a history lesson, showing us how
sculpture was used as a tool to both
further the empire’s power and
reinforce the dominance of British
industry. The face of Victoria
appears not only in public statues,
but also across a number of coins;
Canadian cents, Indian rupees,
Hong Kong dollars, they all bear
her visage, allowing her to act as a
literal overseer of her realm. Her
personage also graced the living
rooms of innumerable middle-class
households, thanks to the invention
of the reducing machine by Benjamin
Cheverton, which allowed multiple
smaller copies of a single statue to be
made, thus allowing miniatures of
the Queen to be distributed cheaply
around the country.
This link, between industry and
art, is one that recurs throughout the
exhibition. The statues designed for
the new Palace of Westminster made
use of the innovative electroplating
techniques, meaning that numerous
metals could be applied, giving them
a multitude of tones and hues. There
was also an increasing collaboration
between artists and manufacturers, as
sculptors worked with industrialists
to produce their wares more and
more cheaply; in some ways, this
was the start of artistic capitalism,
allowing the lines between creativity
and commerce to blur, a process that
has continued to this day.
This rise of industrialisation
contrasts with the fetishisation of
the past; with the arrival of the Elgin
Marbles kick-starting an obsession
with classical art, the Victorians
compared themselves to another
great civilization: the Greeks. This
reached a peak with Raffaele Monti’s
Veiled Vestal sculpture; Monti’s ability
with stone is apparent, as he conjures
up a veil made from marble in an
illusionistic tour de force of statuary.
The most interesting part of the
exhibition, however, is how the
Victorian’s love of sculpture pales
only to their other great passion:
colonising and oppressing other
people. While this colonial habit is
referenced in the opening room’s
collection of coins, it is not until
later that it is properly explored;
multicoloured elephants and
porcelain peacocks showed how
foreign lands promised a wealth of
riches and amusements for the well-
heeled Victorians. The most affecting
piece in the whole exhibition is A
Daughter of Eve or The American
Slave, by John Bell; making use of
electroplating technology, the statue’s
dark bronze skin contrasts with the
classical marble whiteness of other
sculptures. The woman looks to one
side, her hands bound in chains, in
an agonising display of humanity
that directly challenges the hypocrisy
of the British Empire’s attitude to
American slavery. It is this piece that
forms the emotional centrepoint of
the exhibition, helping it become
much more engaging than just a
musty history lesson through British
sculpture.
Sculpture Victorious is on at the Tate
Britain until 25th
May. Tickets £12;
£9.50 Students.
Thomas Longmore and John Hénk, Elephant, 1889 Photo: Thomas Goode
& Co. Ltd., London
A History Lesson Too Far
From one history lesson to another,this week also
sees the opening of Tate Britain’s SaltandSilver1840-
1860,the first major exhibition devoted to salt prints,
an early form of paper photography.Invented by Henry
Fox Talbot,and set up as a competitor to the French
daguerreotype,salt prints had a sharp focus but also
a softness,which made them appear somewhat like
charcoal rubbings.
The photographs on display show how the subjects
that enticed the photographer have remained
somewhat constant over the last 150 years; the earliest
photographers were concerned with documenting
their surroundings,as in David Hill’s photographs
of fishermen,which set a precedent for social
photographers such as Diane Arbus and Brassaï.
There is also a clear obsession with sightseeing,such
as in Henri Le Secq’s photograph of PalaisdelaBourse: the
staid,immensity of the Paris stock exchange contrasts
beautifully against the unfettered rush of city life,which
zooms past the lens in a photographic blur.While the
relation between social photography and sightseeing
may not seem obvious,the link is closer than you
might think; as Susan Sontag says“The camera makes
everyone a tourist in other people’s reality”.
The salt prints’time in the sun was bright,but brief;
1850 saw the introduction of the albumen print,
which was the first time such photography could be
commercially viable.This was in contrast to the salt
print,which was technically more complex.During the
time that salt prints were in vogue,there were several
artists who managed to produce beautifully abstract
photographs,such as John Beasle Greene’s images of
Egyptian statues.Sadly they were few and far between.
While most of the photographs included in the
exhibition are interesting,they essentially amount to
little more than historical curios; the Tate makes the
importance of the early technology clear,but unless you
have a particular historical interest,there may not be
much here to catch your eye.It is not until the last room
that we get a proper glimpse of human life,as the focus
shifts from landscape and architecture to portraiture.As
Talbot says,“the photographer’s eye is arrested where
ordinary people see nothing remarkable”.I feel this is
true here; as a member of the ordinary people,I fail to
see anything remarkable in this exhibition.
FRED FYLES
Auguste Salzmann, Statuette en Calcaire; Type Chypriot 1858-1865
Photo: Wilson Centre for Photography

