THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON 2
FELIX 27.02.2015
Travel Editor Yung Nam Cheah
Travel
felix@imperial.ac.uk
Lost yourself in paradise alongside Aditya Narayanan in this paradise
The Unforgettable, amazing Oaxaca...
Holidays in Mexico are
stereotypically presented
as being all about that
beach. From Cancun to Tijuana (and
Acapulco), the golden sands and
azure seas are well trodden by the
average foreign tourist. With glorious
sunshine all year and relatively
calm and clear water, it is the perfect
place to laze about aimlessly for a
week or five. As it happens, this is
a rather mainstream opinion, and
all have become the epitome of
the term tourist trap; a deluge of
retirees looking for a lazy getaway
and 20-somethings looking for a
bacchanalian experience.
The counterpoint to this idea
is Oaxaca, the capital city of the
eponymous state located in the
middle of the Valles Centrales, a low
mountain range forming a vertebral
ridge down the south of Mexico. For
a city that is not even in the largest 50
in the country, it has had a surprising
political influence, producing two of
the most notable presidents in the
history of Mexico: Benito Juarez and
Porfirio Diaz.
The former was without doubt
the most influential president of
modern Mexico. Apart from being
the first president of indigenous
heritage, he achieved the separation
of church from state affairs and
was a champion of equality for the
indigenous people of Mexico. As
you can imagine, he is considered a
hero. That the city also produced the
controversial, authoritarian president
Diaz (whose signature catchphrase
was “pan o palo”: bread or a beating),
however, receives much less coverage.
Nevertheless, politics is not the
reason Mexicans flood here – for one,
it is a heaven for foodies.
It all starts with the mole.
Mole itself just means sauce in the
Nahuatl language, its most famous
incarnation being the chocolate based
mole poblano from the city of Puebla.
But Oaxaca is not content with just
one mole. To it, seven (yes, seven!) is
a much more suitable number. And
these sauces come in a tantalising
variety of colour and flavour. The
mole amarillo is a light, sweet sauce
made using tomatillo, and resembles
a more flavourful tomato soup.
While my personal favourite is
the thick, dark brown mole negro,
with the bitter hints of chocolate
complementing a chilli kick and a
smoky aftertaste. The whole gamut
is available in the Mercado 20 de
Noviembre, a complex similar in
concept to the hawker centres in
Singapore and Malaysia.
Unfortunately a limited timeframe
means I do not get to taste more than
two moles, at least partly because
Oaxaca has far more to offer than
just mole, as I find out to my delight
an hour before taking the night
bus out of the city. In the same
aforementioned food market, tucked
away in a corner so nondescript that
I only found it while looking for
the exit, is an isolated hall, tinged
a gloomy yellow from lighting
overhead. Vendors line up to offer
fresh meat and vegetables sold by
weight and grilled before your eyes.
Smoke and steam swirls around the
room, obscuring most of the action
and adding to the air of seclusion and
mystery. It is as if only those who are
able to find this section are worthy
of sampling what it has to offer,
allowing the few lucky ones to leave
with the feeling of having found their
own secret treasure.
It ends with chapulines.
Small, red and seemingly oblong,
they lie in mounds on carts at the
roadside, having the appearance of
dried red chillies. These are very
popular amongst Mexicans, not to
mention Oaxaceños: grasshoppers
fried in a mix of chilli, salt and lime.
It takes me two days to muster the
courage to try
one, and the savoury crunchiness
brings to mind savoury trail mix.
For an instant I can see the appeal;
the popcorn-esque quality that
allows one to absentmindedly
munch on for hours without concept
of quantity. And then aftertaste
hits me like a sledgehammer; an
indescribable flavour I have never
experienced before, and still have
trouble wrapping my head round
which requires several gulps of water
to wash out. Although worth trying
once, I won’t be going for a repeat any
time soon.
Fans of alcohol might also find it
interesting to know that the state
of Oaxaca is the largest producer of
mezcal in the country. Although
much maligned as the poor cousin of
tequila (a myth, for tequila is just a
specific kind of mezcal from the state
of Jalisco), mezcal distilling culture
has experienced a huge upsurge over
the large few decades and is subject
to the same rigour in its processing.
Now, mezcalerias and production
houses are a frequent sight on side of
the highways, and show a refinement
of flavour to rival a whisky or brandy
distillery. A stop in a distillery, many
of which are family run enterprises
around nearby Matatlan, can see
you sample as many as ten flavours
ranging including coffee cream, mint
and the mysterious ‘aphrodisiac’.
Leaving aside all the culinary
pleasures and intoxicants, Oaxaca
itself is a picturesque, colonial town,
arranged in the square grid layout
typical of most North American
towns. Buildings are simple cuboids
in Lego-brick colours of red, yellow,
blue and green, with few elaborate
touches short of the occasional
wrought iron window rail.
The main square (or Zocalo, as it is
called here) is abuzz with the sound of
buskers crooning Mexican folk songs
or participating in street theatre and
young lovers taking advantage of the
shaded areas to watch the world go
by, seemingly oblivious to the forest
of white tents marking the territory
of yet another Occupy-style protest
happening in Mexico.
Winding through the narrow,
crowded yet immaculate side streets
brings light to an area teeming with
contradictions. The rustic, simple
View of a pool formed by spring at Hierve el Agua. Photo: Aditya Narayanan
facades of the store fronts disguise
plush boutiques and hipster cafes,
where artisanal gelato and luxury
handbags being sold either side of
hole-in-the-wall Mexican street food!
Trips to the surrounding region
offer jaw dropping vistas and hikes
into the mountainous terrain are
popular. Some indication of what
to expect is available at the nearby
ruins Monte Alban, perched atop a
hill overlooking Oaxaca city, where
the multi-coloured mat of the town
buildings offers a nice contrast to
the bottle green and dusty orange
of the mountains. The jewel of the
landscape however, is Hierve el Agua.
Looking at it feels like time has
come to a standstill, with a foaming,
convulsing body of water pouring
over a cliff without actually moving.
It is thousand years of work of a
heavily mineralised natural spring
flowing gently over the wall of rock,
making regular deposits to form
structures similar to stalactites.
Above the cliffs, small pools formed
by the spring gleam a blue so bright
it looks like a Pixar animation,
while happy tourists take a dip in its
‘healing waters’.
In truth, I could have written four
or five separate articles about Oaxaca
at least, focusing on each of its fine
cultural heritage, exquisite local
cuisine, spectacular geography and
general ambience.
I still feel a small tinge of regret I
did not spend longer than three days
there and I suspect even two weeks
may not have been enough to satisfy
me. In hindsight though, perhaps this
is a good thing, for now I have the
perfect excuse to return.
Just one of the many alternative stores in the city. Photo: Aditya
Narayanan

