THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON 27
FELIX 27.02.2015
HANGMAN hangman@imperial.ac.uk
CANCER
VIRGO
This week, upon coming down
with a seasonal cold, you
decide to raid your foreign
roommate’s suspiciously large
supply of tablets, and take a
couple that seem to resemble
lemsips; however they turn out
to be incredibly strong opioids,
and after getting caught
hours later dry humping the
warden’s door you regret it.
HOROSCOPES
LEO
PISCES
AQUARIUS
CAPRICORN
SAGITTARIUS
SCORPIO
LIBRA
GEMINI
TAURUS
ARIES
This week, five months into
your Horizons course you
decide that no amount of
qualifications is worth the soul
crushing boredom. You return
home only the find your Level
2 German teacher has created
a shrine to you and is lying
naked on your bed, ready to
receive your seed. It’s not so
easy to quit Horizons after all.
This week on hearing about
Garden Hall being closed down
years ago and left unused, you
decide to investigate and see if
anything interesting has been
left behind; unfortunately
you stumble upon the Vice
Provost’s secret sex dungeon,
unravelling the entire Imperial
conspiracy for closing down
halls against student wishes.
This week, you’re a Biologist
staring down the barrel of
your final exams. We in the
Felix office want you to know
that everything is going to be
alright in the end – after all,
even Philippa Skett still got a
2:1, and look at her now, living
the high life. She’s got over
600 followers on Twitter and
everything.
This week in order to secure a
space in the library, you enlist
the Russian society to help
take possession of Wolfson as
a separatist state; however the
Model UN society take offense
to this and send in their peace-
keeping forces. Long story
short, you’re forced to spend
all your revision time cleaning
the blood off the walls.
This week in order to combat
the perpetual loneliness of
being an Imperial student, you
decide to get on the Tinder
train and hope for the best.
After days of swiping right and
upgrading to premium you
finally get a match, and after
chatting you decide to meet.
Unfortunately it turns out it
was your lecturer all along.
This week you watch the
Oscars in heavy anticipation
having placed a large bet on
the winner of the best film
category; you lose the entirety
of your maintenance loan
betting on a film you assumed
was about the DPW saving
Britain from Nazi Germany
– it turns out The Imitation
Kaye wasn’t even nominated.
This week you travel up to
Manchester to watch Question
Time, with high hopes for
Imperial’s team; however you
fail to anticipate the sexual
tension between Fen Bernando
and Jeremy Paxman, leading
to the most disturbing visual
display of affection you have
ever seen. You buy some bleach
on the way home for your eyes.
This week after the library
removes all wank tissue
material, you opt to stay home
and use socks as containers
for your salty sadness. After
leaving them for an extended
period of time they become
mouldable like plasticine,
leading you to create a replica
of Queens Tower, winning 1st
prize in LeoSoc’s competition.
This week, following the
news that legislation has been
passed allowing the creation
of three-parent babies you go
on the hunt for prospective
fathers to create the perfect
child; however you are stuck
in an awful dilemma of how to
attain said sperm. Looks like
you’ll be camping out in the
library toilets for a long time…
This week in an attempt to
reserve a computer in the
library, you use the age-old
technique of jamming a penny
into the keyboard, and leave
for five hours. Unfortunately
you return to the library set
ablaze due to an “electrical
fault”; the library baked
potatoes are still on sale and
the taste roughly the same.
This week I know you are all
positively gagging for the next
step in the fishcake recipe:
Pat away any liquid from the
fish, then carefully lift the
pieces into the pan with the
mash. Then mix together until
roughly combined. Dust hands
and work surface with flour
and Create patties about 2.5cm
thick. Repeat to make 8 cakes.
Friday 20th of February
Finally finished my potato haul, thank God. I am so glad I can now consume carbs
that I don’t have to peel first.
Ran into Kiss Kraye today in the SCR, which I like to sneak into as they have
really nice hot chocolate. The only thing is I’m not meant to be there as an
undergrad, and once I saw my personal tutor there so I just turned around and
left straight away.
Kriss was pretty awkward, but he bought me a drink and told me about how work
was getting more and more stressful. He told me how he’ll have to spend every
weekend marking down all the sanitary products in the Union Shop, and he’s not
been told if he should label every single tampon or just the box, so is going to
label them all individually just in case.
He also told me his Tinder success stories. Although some of them sounded a bit
dodge (one girl refused to eat squid whilst out for dinner due to the time it was in
the lunar cycle) he seems to be going out every night.
Saturday 21st February
Have decided to get Tinder, as American Girl is a lost cause, Dorothy is never
going to take me back.
Sunday 22nd February
Today I sat in the library and just sat swiping every girl right for about three
hours. I had to extend my distance range twice as I kept running out of girls.
Diary Of A Fresher aged 18 3/4
Have been speaking to one girl though quite a lot now, she’s an older lady but seems really
cool. She’s like on her fifth year at Imperial but told me that she’s still not completed her
fourth year, so in reality she’s basically a third year and I could have taken a gap year
making her, if you think about it, only really in the year above.
Monday 23rd February
Have added Cougar Girl on whatsapp. She keeps turning the conversation sexual though,
which is scary as I bet she’s so experienced. Maybe I should watch 50 Shades of Grey
just in case she wants to do bondage or something.
Tuesday 24th February
No-one will come to the cinema with me to see 50 Shades.
Wednesday 25th February
Cougar woman is getting increasingly frisky. One of her messages was about how she likes
to have sex in this hidden staircase between the fourth and fifth floor of the library. What
the hell, I am always on fourth floor and I have never seen this staircase.
Thursday 26th February
Maybe she once had sex on the main staircase, maybe that is what she meant. I am
now too deep but am scared she may try to seduce me whilst I do my lab report. Spent
all afternoon thinking about having sex in library, so had to go home with awkward hard
on. Luckily roommate was out at some ABACUS event so could relieve the pressure in the
peace of my own room, instead of the shared showers.
Have bought 50 Shades of amazon and plan to read the book under the covers of my bed
so no-one will know.

