30 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON FELIX
16.01.2015
C & S Editor Ben Howitt
Clubs and Societies
felix.clubsandsocieties@imperial.ac.uk
Marcus Bishop reviews the key themes and outcomes of the
London International Development Conference
International Development in a
Changing World
At the Millennium Summit in
September 2000, the largest
gathering of world leaders in
history adopted the UN Millennium
Declaration, committing their
nations to a new global partnership
to reduce extreme poverty and
setting out a series of time-bound
targets, with a deadline of 2015,
that have become known as the
Millennium Development Goals
(MDGs). Now we’ve hit 2015, the
London International Development
Conference (IDC) asked what
progress has been made, and more
significantly, how can the global
development agenda adapt to address
a different set of challenges?
The world has changed greatly
during the last 15 years. Dramatic
events, including unprecedented
natural disasters in part linked to
climate change, the Great 2007
Recession and Arab Spring, have
changed the course of global
progress in unanticipated ways and
demonstrated the unreliability
of established economic models
and political assumptions. A new
and more balanced global order
is emerging. Divides between
developed and developing countries
are lessening, as many formerly
underdeveloped countries move up
the economic ladder. Global demand
for natural resources is increasing,
in some cases beyond the capacity
of the environment to replenish
itself or absorb the impacts of our
anthropogenic activities.
It is clear that the 8 MDGs did
actually galvanise action to support
development. Global poverty has
been halved five years ahead of
the 2015 timeframe. Ninety per
cent of children in developing
regions now receive primary
education, and disparities between
boys and girls in enrolment have
narrowed. Remarkable gains have
also been made in the fight against
malaria and tuberculosis, along
with improvements in all health
indicators. The likelihood of a child
dying before age five has been nearly
cut in half over the last two decades.
That means that about 17,000
children are saved every day. We
also met the target of halving the
proportion of people who lack access
to improved sources of water.
The MDG framework has however
been criticised, mainly for what it
has omitted. Critics argue that the
goals do not place enough emphasis
on sustainable development, and are
a minimalist interpretation of the
millennium declaration’s spirit and
ambition, leaving out crucial issues
such as peace and security.
The London IDC kicked off with
Hilary Stauffer, former Geneva
Diplomat and Fellow at LSE, who
examined the important intersections
of Development and Human Rights.
Hilary started by saying “Nobody
can agree whether the ‘right to
development’ is a reasonable request
are obsessed with the macro level
of things (treaties, conventions,
diplomacy), and get so caught up in
the details they forget there are real
people that are the subject of these
international legal instruments.
‘Human rights’ people think that
‘Development’ people are only
concerned with the micro level of
things (poverty alleviation projects,
clean water initiatives) and get so
caught up in the details they forget
governments move slowly and are
generally tight-fisted.
So the question is, who is right?
What is the point of having another
treaty that doesn’t solve anything?
Why has ~70 year of aid in Africa
failed to deliver proper clean water
systems for millions? Essentially, we
have a lot to learn from each camp,
and we shouldn’t think rigidly about
the most effective means of achieving
development goals. It is important to
consider the benefits of international
coalitions for delivering positive
from poor countries for a helping
hand, or a naked money grab that
allows them to put off real reform”.
Hilary framed a debate which
identified two distinct schools of
thought around this intersection.
The Human Rights Power Structure
in Geneva is a much more natural
home for the geo-political West, as
they understand that language and
sensibilities that go along with the
idea of “human rights,” and generally
believe that if you have good
governance, economic development
will eventually come. In contrast, the
Development Power Structure in New
York is a much more natural home
for the geo-political Global South,
as they understand the language
and sensibilities of “development”
and generally believe that a baseline
level of economic development is a
pre-requisite for the “luxury” of good
governance.
‘Development’ people tend to
think that ‘Human rights’ people
The London International Development conference took place on the 7th
February, 2015. Images: imperialidc

