THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON 31
FELIX 16.01.2015
C & S Editor Ben Howitt
Clubs and Societies
felix.clubsandsocieties@imperial.ac.uk
change and aid to the desperate, in
combination with human rights laws
and strong governance to maintain
fair and efficient socioeconomic
improvements at the local level.
The conference then invited
Maurice Wren CEO of The Refugee
Council, and Stephen Wordsworth
of the Council for At Risk Academics
to tackle the more-tangible human
rights violations of Syria, and
dangerous migration routes into
Europe. The number of migrants
landing on Italian shores quadrupled
last year, as more than 170,000
people from the Middle East and
Africa fled humanitarian crises,
piling pressure on the EU to form
a long-term migration strategy.
Syrians fleeing civil war and Eritreans
escaping forced conscription
comprised nearly half of all Italian
boat arrivals in 2014, according to
the International Organisation for
Migration (IOM). Refugees from
Libya, Mali, Sudan, Nigeria and
Gambia were also common. Many
migrants brave a perilous journey
across the Mediterranean to Italy
before travelling overland to other
European countries. More than 3,200
fatalities were recorded last year, and
many more are expected as the EU
controversially scales back its rescue
operation.
Maurice described the daily
struggle for existence of the migrants
squatting in ‘the Jungle’ of Calais,
and many find it shocking that such
poor conditions can be found in one
of the most developed countries in
Europe. The apathy of EU members
to take in migrants has frustrated
many advocating the case of those
suffering from the aftershocks of the
Arab Spring. Stephen spearheaded
the need for more commitment from
the UK to support refugees, and “do
away with the preconceptions that
all migrants are unskilled and are
a burden on society”. Academics
are often the most persecuted
individuals, due to their exposure to
knowledge and ability to enlighten
others. Many of our research efforts
around WWII would have been
thwarted if we did not intervene
to help academics in plight. So the
Sustainable Development Goals
(SDGs) have some very immediate
questions to address: why are
Western countries doing so little to
support refugees and what plans do
we have to mitigate not conflict and
climate-related migration?
Although eliminating hunger is a
requisite of development, it is now
becoming important to take into
account nutritional security through
food research and development
expenditures, and production
methods. Advancements in
agriculture were key to achieving the
first Millennium Development Goal
of eradicating extreme hunger and
poverty, and over the last 15 years, a
new concept has emerged: Sustainable
Intensification. This is an agricultural
development concept advanced
by Imperial’s Sir Gordon Conway,
represented at the conference by
Emily Alpert. Emily reasoned that
climate change and economic poverty
are highly entwined, and a step-
change in agricultural productivity
must be achieved through sustainable
land use, tackling pests and diseases,
better management of: soils,
water and nutrient resource. Mike
Warmington of One Acre Fund
highlighted the capital deficiencies
in rural economies, and that access
to microfinance and business skills,
can help farmers improve yields
and their livelihoods. The key to
many agricultural development
programmes is proper engagement
of female stakeholders, who must
be given a voice, to improve their
access to agricultural and ecological
knowledge to change a daily struggle
for sustenance into a profitable
business, capable of generating
surplus product.
By lunch, many of Imperial’s
engineers were feeling a little lost.
David Measures from CARLA
International brought the
technophiles back into touch, with a
workshop on the role of Appropriate
Technology in development. Many of
the SDGs will rely on engineering for
their implementation, particularly
the ability of engineers to apply
socio-centric, and sustainable design
principals to address water security,
Greenhouse Gas emissions and
energy crises. Where best to start
than looking at what has gone wrong
with technology based development?
Many failed projects are a result of
poor understanding of stakeholder
needs, and the inadequate robustness
of systems, when taken into
challenging environments.
David used the example of a
UNICEF water tower in Kenya, which
relied on solar panels for pumping.
Local users simply left the tap on,
over-abstracted the water supply,
and then resided to harvesting water
from fetid pools – many died as a
consequence of poor design, and
yes, the solar panels were stolen. It is
crucial that if we choose to support
overseas development through the
SDGs, we must properly engage those
interacting with technology, ideally
to support local innovation, over the
interventionist approaches of aid
agencies and Governments.
Numerous models of global health
programs have emerged over the
years. They range from vertical
programs focusing on solutions for
specific diseases and conditions,
to horizontal ones focusing on
achieving universal health coverage
by encouraging the establishment of
community-based health services.
Beverley Stringer, Health Policy
and Practice Advisor at Medecins
Sans Frontieres (MSF), walked
delegates through some of these
models. She presented ideas about
what makes certain health models
better than others, and why they
should be expanded in the future.
MSF is a charity at the heart of
the humanitarian response to
the ongoing West African Ebola
epidemic. The take-home message
was that despite the fragility of
developing countries’ healthcare
systems, and the interrelation of
health and economic prosperity, the
SDGs unfortunately leave behind
many important global health issues.
Other afternoon talks addressed
the importance of accountability,
transparency and effectiveness of
charities, prompting the question;
where does my donation end up?
The Against Malaria Foundation
talk by Rob Mather (CEO), discussed
the hampering effect of theft,
and the value of measuring and
reporting in improving aid supply
chain efficiency. He also caused a
stir by attacking MDG programmes
for wasting funding on expensive
projects such as the Millennium
Village Project, which had limited
impact.
Celeste Hicks, a freelance journalist,
explored some of the effects of
China’s Imperialist agenda in Africa.
Since 2009, it has been Africa’s
biggest trade partner, with bilateral
trade of $210bn in 2013. However, it
is unknown whether China has been
exploiting the rich soil of Africa at
the expense of local African people
for its own need of oil, copper, iron
ore, cotton, coffee and other natural
resources. China’s influence on
Africa has significantly increased in
recent years, aided by the promise
to Governments of economic
development through infrastructure
spending. Despite the efficiency
with which Chinese businesses can
establish schools, hospitals and roads,
there remains a concern; what benefit
does it all have without operational
funding or sustainable legacy? “Just
building stuff doesn’t necessarily
promote wider development”.
Concluding the day, Andrew
Lamb, former EWB-UK CEO and
World Bank consultant, outlined
the concept of ‘A Millennial’ s
Development Goals’. He focussed on
how Millennials, people born between
1980 and 2000 (yep that’s us), have
accelerated development efforts,
and are highly aware of global issues.
The importance of proper sanitation
(good loos) was a key theme, and he
said “there remain clear deficiencies
in the ability of the MDGs to tackle
basic sanitary issues, which stunt
improvements to health in slums
and areas where open defecation is
practiced”. Sewage systems have been
important in building prosperous
civilisations through the ages (the
Romans managed this ages ago…),
but it is evident that many countries
are growing so fast, and unequally,
that sanitation systems face severe
barriers to deployment.
The MDGs created a division in
responsibilities and contributions
between developed and developing
countries. The new SDGs must call
on the actions and commitment
to change of all countries and
development actors. The post-2015
process also runs the risk of being
another development fad or gimmick,
soon to be replaced by new thinking.
That danger can be limited if the
goals form an ongoing global compact
spanning private sector investment in
addition to government involvement
and the UN, whose aim is sustained,
collaborative progress over the long
term. Ultimately, the SDGs and their
implementation strategies need to
keep pace with development’s ever-
changing economic, political and
social drivers and influences, from
trade regimes to foreign investment
patterns.
It’s Imperial’s Millennials – the
scientists, engineers and future-
business leaders – who are in the
hot seat to deliver the SDGs, and
manage the sustainable growth of our
societies.
Any thoughts? Tweet: #LIDC2015 @
ImperialHub.
More information is available on www.
imperialidc.org
The Intersection Between Human Rights and Development: Unchartered
Territory. Photo: imperialidc
One of the breakout talks during the conference focussed on Healthcare
models in developing countries. Photo: imperialidc
Fighting Malaria in Sub-Saharan Africa was featured as a topic in one of
the day’s talks. Photo: imperialidc

