10 felix
Comment, Opinion
& Letters
Let us know your views: comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Letters may be edited for length and grammar purposes
Views on these pages are not representative of Felix
Your days (to vote) are numbered
NUS affiliation referendum
1. Read the following comment pieces
2. Check out www.live.cgcu.net for a televised NUS debate and further comment
3. Consider the question: ‘Should ICU remain affiliated with the NUS?’
4. Vote yes or no, now! Go online to www.imperialcollegeunion.org/vote
Voting is now open in the NUS referendum. If you think ICU should remain affiliated to or should leave the
NUS, head online to www.imperialcollegeunion.org/vote. Voting closes at 23:59 on Monday 23rd June. Go!
10 reasons to stay with the NUS
1.
Students’ Unions are
much stronger and are
in a better campaigning
position if they work to-
gether with regards to is-
sues that affect students. Things such
as Government policy on Higher Edu-
cation funding can only be influenced
by a united national campaign.
2. After HSBC announced plans to
charge graduates interest on their
overdrafts, the NUS led the national
campaign which resulted in HSBC
scrapping their plans. This is one of
many examples when the NUS has
won battles for students.
3. Without the NUS, students wouldn’t
be exempt from paying Council Tax!
4. Although there are problems with
the NUS, it is a hugely important or-
ganization for students. By being in the
NUS, we can actually shape and im-
prove the way the NUS functions.
5. The NUS is the perfect way for
students from across the country to
come together to discuss issues. We
can democratically elect delegates to
represent our views on HE funding,
accommodation for students, etc. at
National Conference and thus be part
of a broader student movement.
6. The NUS is a federation of individ-
ual student unions. Imperial College
Union can still have its own opinion;
we don’t have to agree with the NUS
on everything.
7. We get lots from the NUS to justify
the membership money – for example
legal support for our union, access to
specialist NUS staff and training for
ICU clubs and societies.
8. There are lots of discounts that can
only be obtained with an NUS card (e.g
£2 off every BSM driving lesson and an
Amazon discount!) The only reason
these discounts exist is that the NUS
has negotiated them.
9. The NUS Extra card costs £10 but
can save you a lot of money throughout
the year and can also be used abroad
(also, £4 of this goes directly back to
ICU!)
10. Last year there was a record break-
ing turnout for the referendum when
we decided to affiliate to the NUS.
Most people are just bored of this de-
bate now! Vote to remain affiliated if
you don’t think that our decision last
year should be overturned by a few
people on Council who are trying to
fulfill personal agendas.
Caroline Clark
is voting Yes
Friday 20 June 2008
is voting No
Steve Brown
ICU President
1.
NUS is too Expensive. As
well as the £ 46,000 affili-
ation fee that ICU pays,
there are thousands of £s
of hidden costs, e.g. con-
ference delegate travel expenses (in-
cluding national conference, liberation
conferences and staff conferences).
2. NUS is Financally Mismanaged. It
spends more money than it has, regu-
larly running up deficits one fifth of its
£3.5m budget and has been forced to
dispose of capital assets to meet run-
ning costs. To combat this, NUS decid-
ed to introduce a stealth tax, the NUS
Extra Card, from which £6 of each sale
goes to the NUS budgetary drainpipe.
In any case very few NUS extra cards
have been sold at Imperial and the ma-
jority of student discounts are available
on production of your Imperial swipe
card.
3. NUS is Unrecontructed. Most Un-
ions went through a process of re-
structuring twenty years ago, but NUS
didn’t. NUS remains the same ridicu-
lous clunking vehicle that Jack Straw
made it in the 60’s. The NUS Executive
claims to be “politically diverse” yet
contains the same number of revolu-
tionary socialists than it does Liberal
Democrats and Conservatives com-
bined. Is this really representative of
UK students views?
4. Opportunities for a better world. It
would only require a few more Unions
to establish a viable alternative nation-
al union to NUS that would fulfil the
goals that NUS lays claim to and one
that is genuinely representative of stu-
dent opinion.
5. NUS reform failed. Imperial College
Union worked hard this year to change
NUS and made it clear back in October
that if radical changes were not made
they we would reconsider our mem-
bership. NUS have had their chance to
change and have blown it. This battle
has been lost – let’s not take the gam-
ble that somehow next year it will be
OK and waste another £46,000 in the
process.
6. The NUS spends more money tak-
ing decisions than it does implement-
ing them. What do Imperial students
gain from paying £46,000 to fund a
debating club for sabbatical officers?
The majority of Imperial students
who have given up their time to attend
NUS events to represent us have expe-
rienced the NUS shambles in person
are now wanting ICU to leave as they
have witnessed what the NUS is like in
practice.
7. Imperial has one of the most active
student bodies in the country. It would
be better to plough our £46,000 in to
what Imperial students are doing rath-
er than continue handing it over to the
wasteful NUS.
8. By disaffiliating this would free up
officer time and financial resources to
work with other Unions on relevant is-
sues when necessary. This was recently
demonstrated by our medical students
who cooperated with other students
in London to campaign against the
removal of their right to free accom-
modation. The NUS had nothing to
say on this issue because they are so
hamstrung by their own internal poli-
tics that they don’t have time to dedi-
cate to these bread and butter student
issues.
9. Despite claiming otherwise, the
NUS provides us with no professional
support. If Imperial College Union
needs legal or financial advice we still
have to meet the full costs ourselves re-
gardless of whether or not we are NUS
affiliates.
10. NUS’s ultimate failure as a repre-
sentative body is all too clear. They
are dismissed by parliamentary com-
mittees as only being representatives
of student activists and the govern-
ment have recently taken steps to
circumvent NUS altogether in an
attempt to determine what student
opinion really is. Representation only
works if the NUS has legitimacy and
credibility with their members and
decision makers. It is clear that they
enjoy neither.
10 reasons to leave the NUS

