comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
11
Friday 20 June 2008 felix
Comment
is voting Yes
Soumaya
Mauthoor
Yes Campaign
Leader
Y
eah, I know, it’s me again.
After the debate you’d
think I would be hiding
somewhere in a hole. Un-
fortunately I don’t have
personal access to as many sabbs as
the NO campaigners, and considering
the perfect timing of this referendum,
we’ve found most Imperial students
are revising, making it a little difficult
getting volunteers.
Anyway, back to the topic at hand:
common NUS myths.
Myth 1. Students’ unions can
work together on common issues,
they don’t need NUS
Well actually that’s not a myth, it is true!
Individual students’ unions can and do
work effectively together on a lot of is-
sues, but the vital question is whether
this is true for national issues such as
next year’s HE review. Although there
are problems with the NUS, it remains
a hugely important organisation for all
students. By being in the NUS, we can
actually shape and improve the way it
functions. Just as NUS reformed its
higher education policy at this year’s
annual conference with the support of
ICU, it will seek to reform its govern-
ance structures in the next year with an
overwhelming mandate established to
do so. Imperial must be there with the
majority of student officers to cham-
pion and deliver the change that is re-
quired, for the benefit of all students.
Myth 2. NUS is too different from
Imperial to be able to represent us
NUS is very different to Imperial. 70%
of the membership is made up of FE
students, and delegates tend to come
from an arts background. It has also
been claimed that Imperial students are
all Tories (though this has never been
proved), in contrast to the lefty agenda
of the NUS. But we are still all students!
We all want good qualifications and
facilities at an affordable price, and the
most effective way of achieving this is
through a strong national body. By stay-
ing in NUS, we will continue to ensure
that national policies are in agreement
with ours, and build alliances with oth-
er unions. By doing so, we will ensure
that NUS is a balanced organisation to
be reckoned with. And even if there are
any policies that we do not agree with,
ICU has the right not to enforce them,
just as any other union does.
Myth 3. NUS wants to give
our money to sub-standard
universities
I finally read up on the National Bur-
sary Scheme. Bursaries are non-repay-
able grants given to students from dis-
advantaged backgrounds and they’re
paid for out of our top up fees. How-
ever last year, many universities failed
to allocate this money (£19,000,000
in fact) because the current system is
overly complicated and inaccessible.
Surely a national, regulated bursary
scheme would be a better solution?
Imperial allocates more than the usual
amount in bursaries, so there are fears a
national scheme would affect this. But
should we take such a short-sighted
view? Scholarships for merit are un-
fair because they often benefit people
who had access to good schools, rather
than the most able. In addition a strong
economy needs a skilled workforce in a
variety of domains; if that means cours-
es in golf-management, so be it, but at
least fund them properly so they are
more than just Mickey-mouse courses.
Myth 4. The affiliation fee is a rip
off
ICU receives an annual £1.25m from
Imperial College. This figure does not
include money from other sources,
such as bars, shops and rented premis-
es. I asked the sabbaticals about ICU’s
turnover but I am still awaiting for an
answer. According to John Collins, last
year’s President, ICU spent £15m over
the last two years, including more than
£3 million on the Beit Building alone.
This makes the comparatively mod-
est NUS affiliation fee (approximately
£40,000) affordable in the context of
the multi-million pound expenditure
of ICU. Students attending other uni-
versities do not have to choose be-
tween a well-resourced students’ un-
ion and NUS affiliation, and there is no
reason why we at ICU should be forced
to either.
Myth 5. The NUS is doomed
Well, no. NUS is in a better financial
state than it has ever been. Last year
it slashed its overdraft from £1m to
£0.3m, and next year is on course to
break even. Meanwhile, more than 65
per cent of delegates at NUS national
conference voted, in agreement and
with the crucial support of ICU’s del-
egates to reform the democratic and
participatory structures of the national
union. The majority of NUS delegates
agree with ICU, and the coming year is
vital to ensuring that those arguments
for reform are made a reality in the
NUS structures.
Last year there was a record breaking
turnout for the referendum when ICU
decided to affiliate to NUS. We should
not let this be overturned on the whim
of a few individuals on Council who
are trying to fulfil personal agendas
rather than represent the best inter-
ests of students. We should not allow
this vital year for NUS reform and the
impending Government reviewing of
fees and funding to take place without
ICU’s involvement.
Five common NUS myths
is voting No
Steve Brown
ICU President
W
ell you’ve heard
the arguments and
if you have not al-
ready voted now
it is decision time.
The faults and failures of the NUS
have been well documented and now
you have to decide whether it is worth
our while throwing good money af-
ter bad at an organisation that is still
stuck in the 1970’s. Imperial students
do not benefit from collectively pay-
ing £46,000 to facilitate discussion
and debate between ludicrously titled,
Pythonesque competing Marxist sects
which leads to policy that is dismissed
by everyone in the real world as unrep-
resentative and out of touch. This year
ICU has been calling for NUS reform
and it hasn’t been delivered. By vot-
ing No! you will free up more officer
time for the 2008/09 sabbaticals to fo-
cus their efforts on real student issues
rather than getting bogged down in a
pointless debate about the NUS con-
stitution with a bunch of extreme left
bureaucrats. Does this sound interest-
ing? I think not.
Throughout the past few weeks it
has become apparent that the over-
whelming majority of students who
have given up their time to help at-
tempt to change the NUS have been
actively campaigning for disaffiliation
yet those who are now arguing that
we should stay in NUS have made no
effort whatsoever to engage with the
organisation this year. The one person
who has was elected as a delegate to
annual conference and voted for keep-
ing NUS the way that it is in the hope
that it would be better placed to cater
towards her extreme brand of activ-
ist politics. When you cast your vote
I urge you to consider the majority
opinion of your fellow students who
have given up their time this year to
engage with NUS and not those who
are putting forward an idealistic view
of NUS which is based on rhetoric and
not on experience.
From a personal perspective I have
nothing to gain or lose from the result
of this vote. I am leaving the College in
July and will not be a full member of
the Union next year. I am arguing so
strongly for us to disaffiliate from the
NUS now as I believe that in its cur-
rent form it represents an ineffective
use of money and that students who
are here next year can do something
more worthwhile with it. This is not
a debate about whether or not we can
afford the affiliation fee – we can and
it is in our budget for next year. What
I am trying to get across is that there
are far more productive, effective and
interesting ways that students at Impe-
rial can utilise that £46,000 rather than
give it to an organisation that serves no
other purpose than to act is a jumped
up debating club for UK sabbatical
officers.
In 2006 the NUS was able to tempt
you with the possibility of discounts
at HMV and TopShop which are now
no longer advertised on the NUS Ex-
tra website. More and more companies
are starting to realise that the NUS Ex-
tra discount card is not the best way
to target the student market. If you
owned a chain of shops why would you
want an organisation that has no direct
contact with students to restrict your
market to those students who want
to pay £10 for a card in order to make
themselves money? It dose not make
sense for businesses and most impor-
tantly it does not make sense for the
overwhelming majority of UK students
who are now faced with their so-called
representative voice attempting to re-
strict their access to student discounts
in a desperate attempt to plug the hole
in their accounts.
If NUS activists have nothing better
to do than march about the streets of
London waving placards and selling
each other copies of the Morning Star
then that is their prerogative but it does
not follow that this is an activity that
we should aspire to subsidise. Imperial
students don’t benefit from so-called
representation where the discussion at
times can feel as if the NUS is debating
about whether the revolution should
come on Thursday or whether it would
be better to wait until the new full
moon! Things have moved on since the
1970’s and it is a shame that the NUS
hasn’t caught up. In light of NUS’ faults
the only rational choice to be made is
to vote No! in the referendum. NUS is
far too broken to fix and despite our
best efforts this year it is not really
worth having another go.
Don’t vote for the NUS reform roulette!
“Should Imperial College Union remain affilated to the National
Union of Students?”
Voting is open now!
Head to imperialcollegeunion.org/vote to cast your vote

