comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
13
Friday 20 June 2008 felix
Comment
Kadhim Shubber
Demand more
T
he man who unified Ger-
many, Otto Von Bismarck,
once observed that “Politics
is the art of the possible”. In
his time great change was
afoot in Europe and similarly today
huge potential stares us in the face,
even if we do not always appreciate
it. ‘Regime change’ is on the cards all
around us, the Western world is primed
for renewal and longs for a fresh direc-
tion; and we had better get it.
When MP David Davis resigned he
received adulation from almost all
quarters, however criticisms began to
rise and before long most analysts were
criticising David Davis for endanger-
ing the Conservative parties election
hopes. Nick Robinson gave his read-
ers ten reasons why it was a nightmare
for the Conservatives. Herein lies the
interest of this story, not the desire of
one man to invoke debate on an argu-
ment that has already left harbour (ha-
beas corpus was not eroded by the 42
day detention bill, it already lay in ru-
ins with the introduction of detention
without charge in principle). The real
interest is the transformation of the
Conservative party from ineffective
opposition to government in waiting.
Gordon Brown cannot win the next
general election, short of David Cam-
eron revealing that he has a £500 a
day cocaine habit, and so we are left to
consider politics in Britain after 2010.
A small win, one would hope, would
encourage debate on legislation as
each bill is fought through parliament
but more likely would slow the work of
government. In any case, the UK is due
a large swing towards the Conserva-
tives in a victory similar to Labour’s in
1997. The citizens of the UK are disil-
lusioned with Labour and are prepared
to give the Conservatives a resounding
mandate to take them in a new direc-
tion. This country faces many challeng-
es, global and domestic but challenges
are nothing more than opportunities
to excel and this is the weight that lies
upon Conservative shoulders. Without
fresh, bold and innovative ideas, David
Cameron will be little else than No
10’s house-sitter when what the public
yearn for is a strong man to lead them.
It might be a step too far if I were to
mirror David Cameron with Barack
Obama, however there are similarities
between these charismatic politicians.
Obama too faces the great weight of
delivering a product that will satisfy
the expectations that he has raised. In
fact while David Cameron’s electoral
hopes rest on the failures of the Labour
party and his speech giving abilities,
Obama campaigns on his promise to
“bring about real change in Washing-
ton”. And many believe him, the Sena-
tor for Illinois is almost deified by his
supporters; one can only imagine the
experience of stepping out on a stage
as people faint in the front row and the
crowd chants your name.
We have seen in the past that leaders
with great potential, either squander or
misuse it. The most recent example is
of French President Sarkozy who failed
to deliver his promise to revitialize the
French economy. The fate of the U.S.
and the U.K. has become ever more
entwined in the last 7 years. We have
the same terrorist threats, the same
military strains and the same eco-
nomic difficulties. We also both have
the opportunity to solve these prob-
lems under a new government. David
Cameron and Barack Obama might do
well to remember, if they should gain
office, that it is neither change nor un-
familiar ideas that the public resent.
Rather it is a lack of conviction, a will-
ingness to be commanded by the ebb
and flow of political fortunes than by
ones belief in what is right and a failure
to provide and deliver a vision for the
future of the country that brings down
governments.
There is little else for me to do except
re-iterate my plea to these two men in
a less subtle manner. You need to deliv-
er the great change and progress that
the people of the U.K. and the U.S. de-
mand. Without imagination and cour-
age, both David Cameron and Barack
Obama will primarily achieve little else
than to further the political apathy of
the public.
Gilead Amit
The Humour-n Race
felix
Relinquishing the mighty organ
O
ur vision of early hu-
manity consists of a
sea of almost unend-
ing idiocy. Bewildered
cavemen wandering off
the edges of cliffs while their delight-
ful cavewoman spouses were being hit
over the head with clubs and dragged
behind bushes for a spot of light evolu-
tion. The only glimmer of intelligence
we expect to find comes from the
bright sparks who burnt themselves
on the first fires, cut themselves on the
first flints, and ran down hills chasing
after the first wheels. The emphasis we
place on these three milestones has led
us to see these three individual Nean-
derthals as vastly different from their
contemporary hirsute halfwits. They
might as well have sauntered around
in bowler hats and smoking jackets,
sneering contemptuously from the re-
fined solitude of their pentcaves with a
snifter of cognac in one hand and the
works of Rousseau in the other.
The reason we place so much em-
phasis on these three; to whom, for the
sake of simplicity, I shall refer as Grou-
cho, Chico and Harpo, is that they con-
clusively and irrevocably distinguished
us from the other animals. Groucho’s
ability with fire was unmatched in the
early Pleistocene, and his weekly shows
at the London Palladium (known in the
early days as pile-of-mud-next-to-tree-
where-red-bird-go-tweet) were avidly
attended. Chico’s flints were the sharp-
est and most accurate of his time, and
indeed the whole range of Chico’s Cut-
lery Supplies was advertised virtually
continuously on the Caveman Shop-
ping Channel. Unlike his two illustri-
ous companions, however, Harpo’s
reputation was only guaranteed after
his death; a tragic accident at the wheel
of his 1x1 Range Rover.
As worthy of recognition as Grou-
cho, Chico and Harpo may be, there is
a fourth early hominid whose superior
contribution has been sadly overlooked
by history. We know nothing of Zeppo;
one of those unfortunate cases all too
common in the sad story of inventors.
I refer, of course, to the author of the
world’s very first joke.
Let me clarify: by ‘joke’ I do not mean
primitive examples of slapstick, early
cave-dwellers finding mammoth dung
intrinsically amusing, or the discovery
that hitting somebody else can tickle
one’s funny bone. I mean the first real
joke – complete with the holy trinity of
premise, context and punch-line.
Whenever and wherever it took
place, the moment that joke was deliv-
ered marks one of the definitive turn-
ing points in our evolution. Because
this is what really, fundamentally, dis-
tinguishes us as humans. Hyenas would
make lousy stand-up acts, chickens
don’t care about our jaywalking activi-
ties, and the witty banter engaged in by
dolphins is highly overrated.
Without a sense of humour, we’re
nothing. The ability to laugh and make
others laugh is what makes life worth-
while, and a sense of irony is our best
way of living with the terrifying, bewil-
dering and awe-inspiring universe we
inhabit. Intentionally making someone
else laugh is inseparable from an under-
standing of human interactions. Can I
make a joke about someone else’s dead
grandmother? Or is it too soon? Will
the scatology be acceptable for an af-
ter-dinner speech, or is that something
I should keep for my similarly-minded
friends? Can I make Holocaust jokes if
I’m not Jewish? Does the presence of
a minority member in the conversa-
tion entitle the group to be hideously
un-PC? For those people we label as
‘funny’, the answers are so obvious that
the questions are hardly worth consid-
ering. The boundaries of humour are
among the most fragile we have (apart
from those existing in the Balkans. Too
soon?), as a second’s delay in timing or
an accidentally misplaced stress can
convert an off-the-cuff witticism into a
deeply wounding and potentially libel-
lous remark. A sense of humour acts as
an almost infallible compass in these
situations, allowing one to stay on the
safe side of the precipice, though occa-
sionally venturing dangerously close to
the edge.
This is why we find the concept of
artificial intelligence such a worry-
ing one – the fact that computers and
robots are so completely humourless.
Can you imagine Clippy – the once
ubiquitous but now, thanks to recent
culling programmes, almost extinct,
MS Word paperclip – exchanging
witty repartee with the Help icon? Say-
ing: ‘it looks like you are trying to kill
yourself, would you like me to a) cheer
you up, b) sing a happy song or c) help
you to write a letter?’ Unthinkable. If
it could, it would be unimaginably less
irritating. And would probably still be
around today. Alas.
There is a phenomenon known as
the ‘uncanny valley’, a reference to the
discomfort humans experience around
robots that eerily resemble us. I am
convinced that a robot with a sense of
humour would be able to bridge the
valley, as it would, by definition, be
able to understand and relate to the
full gamut of human emotions. Show
me a robot with a genuinely creative
sense of humour, able to adapt itself
to situations and feel its way round an
audience, and the other obstacles to
granting it sentience will melt away.
Call it the Amit test for true artificial
intelligence. Don’t worry, my modesty
can take the blow.
Modern humans are almost unrec-
ognizably different from our earliest
ancestors, but that very first joke links
us more strongly to Cro-Magnon or
Homo Erectus than any technologi-
cal or biological similarities. Of all the
stages in human evolution, the Irony
Age has been the most important.
T
his is literally the last thing
I’ll be writing for Felix this
year, that is unless Gilead
and Andrew don’t finish
up soon or I may find my-
self publishing a couple of fake suicide
notes...
Er, it’s been a long week, OK? Back off.
In fact, it’s been a pretty long year. I’ve
thoroughly enjoyed my time as the Felix
Dictator but I can’t actually remember
the last time I slept more than 3 hours
on a Wednesday night, so I’m certainly
happy to be finally calling it a day.
Yet despite my vision growing dras-
tically worse, my hairs turning gray
and my skin developing a thin film
of sticky moisture thanks to the sti-
fling dungeon ecosystem I inhabit for
most of the week, I wouldn’t change
the way Felix is for the world. There’s
something immensely satisfying about
slaving through the long nights in the
knowledge that what you’re produc-
ing will bring a smile and enjoyment
to thousands of people each week.
Essentially, it’s been a case of making
the most of the opportunity I’ve been
handed. It would have been easy to
sit back and churn out samey issues,
week-in-week-out, but I feel that my-
self and the team have worked hard to
keep the newspaper fresh every time;
something I’m particularly proud of.
I’ve spent the last 3 years working for
the newspaper, during the last two of
which the leather seats have perfectly
molded to my arse cheeks. I’ve grown
physically attached to this place and
most definitely emotionally attached
to the people with whom I’ve had the
pleasure of working.
Without all of the beautiful people
listed on the centrefold of this issue,
Felix wouldn’t exist, so I would like to
thank them all for their tireless work
this year too. There has been such an
awesome spirit in the office this year
and it has really made this job very en-
joyable. You guys are the greatest and
I’m definitely not going to forget this
year. I would say I’m going to miss you
all, but I’m going to be back next year
to annoy Jov with the rest of you any-
way! Till then guys, have a great sum-
mer, it’s been emotional.

