science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
16 felix Friday 20 June 2008
Science
Science Editor – Ed Henley
Sitcoms and science: unlikely bedfellows, no? Not necessarily, says Mico Tatalovic, incoming science editor
S
einfeld is the most popular
sitcom in the history of tel-
evision. It brought NBC so
much money that by season
nine the main actors were
paid $600,000 per 20min episode.
Apart from making millions of fans
across the globe laugh weekly for nine
years in the 1990s, recently Seinfeld
started inspiring some interesting sci-
ence as well.
Seinfeld hit the news at the beginning
of 2008 when some undergraduates at
Clemson University, USA, investigated
‘double-dipping’. 'Double-dipping' is
one of those many phrases that entered
the vernacular after appearing in this
sitcom. What it stands for is dipping
one’s chip/nacho into a dip after one
has already taken a bite. George, one of
the unluckiest characters on the show
does precisely this at a funeral recep-
tion and gets verbally attacked for his
deed by his girlfriend’s brother: “Did...
did you just double-dip that chip?!
...That’s like putting your whole mouth
right in the dip!”
But is it really? George certainly
didn’t agree with this. New research
tested this by dipping crackers into
salsa sauce and chocolate syrup after a
bite had already been taken. Research-
ers counted the number of aerobic
bacteria and found that around 10,000
were transmitted in this way from
mouth to dip in only a few dips!
The study, to be published this year
in the Journal of Food Safety, was re-
ported on by the New York Times and
various blogs which picked up on this.
The researchers calculated that with
each bite of a cracker dipped into the
sauce that others have double-dipped
into, those dipping were risking ingest-
ing between 50-100 bacteria indirectly,
from mouth-to-mouth, in this way.
The lead researcher told NYT: “The
way I would put it is, before you have
some dip at a party, look around and
ask yourself, would I be willing to kiss
everyone here? Because you don’t
know who might be double dipping,
and those who do are sharing their sa-
liva with you.”
But that’s not all: in June 2008 a re-
port appeared in the Journal of Evolu-
tionary Psychology which supported
one of George’s ideas. In one of the
episodes George, disgusted by him-
self for breaking-up violently with his
girlfriend who ends up in a depression
clinic after this experience, says: "I’ve
driven women to lesbianism before,
but never to a mental institution...”
Now scientists are saying that some
homosexual women may indeed have
been driven to their sexual orientation
by violent and abusive acts by men in
their previous heterosexual encoun-
ters. Gordon Gallup, a psychologist
from University of Albany, USA and
colleagues designed a questionnaire
for lesbians and heterosexual women
about their prior sexual experiences.
Based on answers by 107 women they
found that lesbians experienced more
The baby-faced sociopath started to double-dip, then, seeing the consternation this odious practice aroused
amongst onlookers, proceeded to smear the rest of the dip over his foul maw, much to the disgust of all
For an animal that measures mere
millimetres in size, the mosquito is
astounding for its ability to wreak dev-
astation across the globe. Estimates
suggest that around half of the world’s
population has been affected at one
time or another by the malaria parasite
that the mosquitoes carry, with over
half a billion new infections each year.
Quite apart from the human tragedy
of the disease, malaria holds back so-
cial and economic progress in some of
the planet’s poorest countries, many of
them in sub-Saharan Africa. But the
millions of deaths worldwide could
hinge on a surprisingly narrow bottle-
neck interaction between the mosqui-
to and the Plasmodium parasite, which
causes the disease.
“Whenthemosquitosucksblood,she
ingests the parasite from the human,
and it’s inside the mid-gut of the insect
that the parasite starts sexual develop-
ment,” explained Timm Schlegelmilch,
a researcher at Imperial College, Lon-
don. “[The parasite] transforms into
the invasive form … and has to cross
the mid-gut wall, to start a massive
replication programme. It’s exactly at
this stage that the parasite population
suffers great losses”.
“There are a couple of thousand par-
asites in the mosquito gut, and from
those only single digits complete the
journey out. After that, they replicate
again – back up to 10,000 parasites –
but that is our bottleneck.” The impli-
cation is clear; narrow that bottleneck
a bit further and the parasite might not
be able to make it out of the mosquito
alive.
Much of the current work on malaria
is done on rats in labs, and Schlegelm-
ilch was concerned at how transferable
that work is to the human form of the
disease out in the wild.
His lab recently succeeded in geneti-
cally modifying mosquitoes to sub-
tly alter their gut chemistry, before
comparing how the mosquitoes fared
against both the human- and rat-forms
of malaria, and were excited by the
results. Fiddling with genes that con-
trol the way the mosquito moves fat
around its body or structures its cells
might not seem terribly useful, but the
research showed that both of these had
a big impact on the survival of the par-
asites in the mosquito gut.
“There are many labs trying to make
the transition of lab work to the field
– and here at Imperial we’re the first
to have succeeded in doing that with a
human strain of malaria”, Schlegelm-
ilch added. “It was real, in-the-field
malaria. We used samples from human
carriers in Cameroon”.
Science has advanced against malar-
ia in the past, only to be beaten back,
and Schlegelmilch is wary of making
any grand claims. The eventual aim
is to throw a spanner in the works of
malaria transmission, but he admitted
“we’re still at the stage of asking ‘what
is going on?’. Interrupting transmis-
sion? I’m not sure we’ll be alive when
that happens”.
Still, malaria charities have wel-
comed the idea that the latest weapon
against the disease is slowly inching its
way off the drawing board and onto
the battlefield. Robert Mather, found-
er of Against Malaria, compared the
problem to a puzzle. “Mosquito gene
research is very important. It has the
potential to add significantly to our
ability to fight malaria. If another piece
of the mosquito gene jigsaw puzzle has
been found, that is good news”.
But Mather was keen to stress that
scientific research can only ever be one
part of the solution. When dealing with
a problem of this scale, sometimes the
simplest solutions can be best. “Now,
and for many years to come, bed nets
are likely to remain the single most
effective thing we can deploy to stop
three million people dying, totally
avoidably, each year.”
Hitting the sauce. As she chugs away on her victims, the mosquito can ingest malaria parasites. But few
can escape through her gut wall to infect the next victim: a natural bottleneck which scientists want to cork
sexual and physical abuse by men, and
that this happened at a younger age
than for heterosexual women. The
team concludes that such negative ex-
periences with the opposite sex may
have lead some lesbians to their current
sexual orientation, homosexuality.
“Not that there’s anything wrong
with it” Seinfeld would jokingly add,
but there is something wrong with
abusing women and whilst this study
mainly aims at explaining the evolu-
tionary enigma of homosexual behav-
iour, it also raises awareness of sexual
and physical abuse that should not be
tolerated.
Imran Khan
Scienfeld: the science of Seinfeld
Malaria and the mosquito: a story of blood and guts, which may end well
“Double-dipping
your cracker
transfers around
10,000 bacteria
into the dip”

