science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
17
Friday 20 June 2008 felix
Science
Premium Bonds, a post-war savings
mechanism launched by Harold Mac-
millan in 1956, owed much of their
popularity to a monthly draw, which
won some lucky bond owners cash
prizes – up to a hefty £1000. At the
heart of these draws lay ERNIE 1, a
random number generator used to se-
lect the winning bonds. ERNIE was at
the cutting edge of technology at the
time; on its own this would probably
have earned it a place on permanent
display at the Science Museum. But, as
I discovered when I went along there to
speak to Tilly Blyth, Curator of Com-
puting, that's only part of the reason
ERNIE's won this accolade...
So what is a random number
generator?
It’s a machine that generates random
numbers! There are different kinds of
random numbers – there are pseudo-
random numbers and there are true
random numbers – a true random
number generator uses a real, physical
event to generate the random num-
bers – it’s not using software, so it can’t
be programmed or interfered with.
ERNIE 1 used the movement of elec-
trons in a gas diode to create the ran-
dom numbers.
Tell me more…
Well, ERNIE 1 didn’t use just one ran-
dom number generator to create a ran-
dom number – it actually used two,
using one to generate another, creating
a “doubly random number”, if such a
thing exists! This was just in case one
of the diodes wasn’t truly random –
this way, there was a backup.
So, today’s computers use pseu-
do-random number generators…
Not necessarily – not all machines do
– there are microprocessors that exist
today that have a true random number
generator within them – one of the
things we’re showing in the display is a
VIA C7 processor which has a random
number generator within the hardware
of the chip. Again, that’s using varia-
tions of the electrons across the chip
to generate the random numbers– a
physical process, not software.
You mentioned earlier there were
some precursors to ERNIE…
Yes, GCHQ developed something
called the “Donald Ducks” – random
number generators which were used
for cryptography, but we don’t know
much about them – there are a cou-
ple of early computer people who do
know a little bit, but there’s not a lot of
information.
Because we’ve lost the techni-
cians over time, or because it’s
secret?
I think because it was GCHQ, it was
fairly secret at the time – a lot of that
information’s now been released into
the National Archives, but nobody’s
really done that much research into it.
I see National Savings and Insur-
ance (NS&I) have a new ERNIE
now – ERNIE 4. Does it still use a
physical random number genera-
tor to choose the winning bonds?
Yes, it’s absolutely crucial that it’s still
a physical random number generator
– they couldn’t use a pseudo-random
number generator because it could
be influenced by an individual: if it’s
programmable then somebody who
knows how to how to manipulate
that program could. It’s absolutely at
the heart of what premium bonds are
about to make sure that they can’t be
tampered with. So yes, ERNIE 4 uses
physical processes to generate its ran-
dom numbers. It’s not neon gas diodes,
ERNIE 1: Nice little earner, one careful owner
The NS&I's much-loved physical random number generator will soon be on display at the Science Museum
1. 'Supermac' Macmillan, promoting the premium savings bonds 2. ERNIE, an
unhackable random number generator, was used to choose winning bonds 3. It
duly became an integral part of the advertising strategy for these popular bonds
What a year – from the gruesome minutiae of Inca sacrifices to the unexpected correlation between strippers' ovulation cycles and their tips; from the unpublicised dangers of St. John's
Wort to DNA strands hunting each other down electrostatically – to my mind, the science pages have covered an astonishing breadth of topics. None of this would be possible without
the sterling work from so many contributors: you know who you are. Nor could it be done without the copy editors, who play an all-too-often unacknowledged, but crucial role. Or in-
deed the rest of the Felix crew: I dread to think what the basement would be like without you all. Foremost, however, thanks to Tomo, for expert guidance, and deep reserves of patience,
and humour, in the face of a weekly barrage of brainless InDesign questions. And for running one of the best Felices I've seen – it's been great to have been part of it.
Have a great summer everyone! Edmund
Edmund Henley
Science Editor
like ERNIE 1, though – it uses a silicon-
based chip from Intel.
One of the press release pho-
tos, showing ERNIE 1’s launch,
showed a certain Ernest Marples.
Did the ERNIE acronym come
from him?
I don’t think so – none of the origi-
nal engineers can remember how the
ERNIE name came about. But I don’t
think it came from Marples – he was
Postmaster General, and was there at
the launch, but not whilst ERNIE was
being developed. But he later became
the minister for transport in fact –
he’s the person who gave us parking
meters. So he gave us two wonderful
things – premium bonds and parking
meters. I think it turned out that pre-
mium bonds were much more popular
though!
Ernie seemed to have been very
popular at the time – “he” was on
some of the premium bond ad-
verts. Was that the intention – to
put this machine which couldn’t
be tampered with at the heart of
the campaign?
I think so, if you go back to the way
people were thinking in the 1950s, this
was a really innovative machine. You
have the very early computers, like Co-
lossus, but nobody’s heard of Colossus,
the LEO 1 computer, the first compu-
ter to be used in a commercial environ-
ment. It was really early days for the
British computing industry – we really
were front-runners at this point: we
created the first programmed compu-
ter – the “Manchester baby” as it was
then known; and the EDSAC computer
at Cambridge – we really were at the
cutting edge of this technology. But
this was the first time that a govern-
ment department was relying on an
electronic machine. So it becomes very
important for people to back that, be-
lieve in it: you need to have the public
trust in the ability of these “electronic
brains”, as they then called them, to do
something like this, that’s truly ran-
dom. So I think part of it was about
marketing ERNIE in the right way,
and making sure that people felt posi-
tively about the machine, and about
the scheme in general. Because there
was some concern whether the bonds
scheme was a good idea, whether the
it was demoralising – turning us into a
nation of gamblers. It seems odd today,
when we’ve got the National Lottery,
but at that time it was really seen to be
moral decline! Now it’s about super-
casinos, but then it was whether we
could even have a bond scheme, run by
the government , where you could get
your stake back at any time – it’s not
the same as betting on the horses, or
on the lottery.
I see that ERNIE used a combina-
tion of valves, transistors and
printed circuits. Were there many
other computers which existed at
this interface between valve and
transistor technology, using both?
There were a few, there’s the Pegasus
computer that you can see on display
next to ERNIE – that used both. They
were both buit at the time when there
was a shift over from valves – transis-
tors were a lot faster, so there was a
clear benefit to using them. Pegasus
is interesting, as it was used to check
whether ERNIE was truly random
– mathematicians were called in to
check ERNIE’s output, using Pegasus
to do the statistical analysis. So it’s nice
that we’ve got Pegasus on display next
to Ernie – they’re both machines from
1956-57, looking at the period when
the technology changed.
Given how difficult it is to get
valves these days, does ERNIE
still work?
It doesn’t, no – I wouldn’t like to plug
it in! Mainly because of the wiring –
when ERNIE was given to us by the
NS&I wires had to be cut to take it into
sections and it would be a big job to re-
wire it. We did look at if we could get
ERNIE working again on gallery, but
we saw that realistically it would take
at least three years of work. I’d still like
to get ERNIE working, but it raises all
sorts of questions about the nature of
museums – especially with computing
technology. Should we show objects
as they were originally, or we should
replace components, and put in new
parts, not the originals, to show them
working?
You want a historical object…
Yes, you do, so that people can do re-
search. Questions might be asked in
200 years as to what were the transis-
tors like in 1953. If they were based
on the modern day counterparts you
couldn’t do that work.
And what was the cultural impact
of ERNIE and the other “electron-
ic brains”. Can you track it down?
Well, if you look at computers in cul-
tural terms, their impact is huge. If
you think about films, like Bladerun-
ner, or Terminator, they reflect how
we felt about computers at the time. In
many ways ERNIE is a cultural signa-
ture of its time – ERNIE 1 was a very
grey, solid state machine. By the time
ERNIE 2 was launched 16 years later, it
was purple and gold, with lace curtains
covering the tape reels – it was based
on the Goldfinger/James Bond films,
and represented a completely different
way of looking at technology and our
future. And by the time you get to 16
years after that you’re seeing a machine
which has more of a Saturday Night
game-show feel. It’s nice to look at
ERNIE as a cultural signature as much
as a technological innovation!
ERNIE 1 will be on display at the
Science Museum from 26th June

