news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
2 felix Friday 20 June 2008
News
News Editor – Andrew Somerville
felix 1,408
Friday 20/6/08
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London
SW7 2BB. Tel: 020 7594 8072. Fax: 020 7594 8065.
Printed by The Harmsworth Printing Ltd, 17 Brest
Road, Derriford, Plymouth. Registered newspaper
ISSN 1040-0711. Copyright © Felix 2008.
LOLCAT OF TEH YEAR
LOLCAT OF TEH YEAR
Student ethnicity: refusing
to be racially counted
Felix has uncovered College data that
suggests a massive disparity in the will-
ingness of students to record their ra-
cial background between ‘Home’ (UK)
students, and those from the EU and
overseas.
In the 2006/2007 student statistics
recorded by College, in which students
are asked to provide information about
their ethnic background, a startling
77% of both Overseas and EU student
classifications refused to give informa-
tion about their ethnic identity, where-
as only 1% of Home students declined
to define their racial origins.
For example: whilst college reports
approximately 982 undergraduate stu-
dents with Chinese nationality, only
76 undergraduates in the Overseas fee
category described themselves as be-
ing of Chinese ethnicity. The two cat-
egories that appear to object most to
the ethnic self--classification appear
to be Overseas students from the Far
East, and “White” EU students, both
of whom are dramatically underrepre-
sented in the data.
The reason for this difference be-
tween UK and foreign students is
unclear. It is possibly caused by Col-
lege’s collection method, which is not
consistent for all categories (the data
is recorded at different points of the
application process for foreign and
UK students), potentially skewing the
data.
However, student opinion voiced to
Felix suggests other possible causes.
Many students found it difficult to
identify with any of the categories, and
others found that more than one cat-
egory applied to them. Whilst there are
three categories devoted to southern
Asia (‘Bangladeshi,’ ‘Indian’ and ‘Paki-
stani’), Far Eastern student are forced
to pick between ‘Chinese,’ ‘Other Asian’
and ‘Other.’
Another possible reason for the dif-
ference lies in attitudes to ethnicity and
the right of any organisation to enquire
about a person’s race. Many people feel
such information is private, and are
unsure as to how it may be used by the
organisation..
“Ethnicity is a very sensitive issue,”
said one German student, “many
people from my country would feel
uncomfortable when presented with
such a question.” This explanation was
repeated from several foreign students
to account for the apparent difference
between the Home and EU/Overseas
recorded data.
The data is collected in order to al-
low College to monitor the diversity of
its student body, so that it can theoreti-
cally ensure fair access for all students
regardless of race. If the ethics of being
asked such questions is the cause of
the discrepancy, it poses the question
over why UK students are more willing
to submit information on their ethnic
background to College.
One possible reason is the regular-
ity with which UK students have been
asked such questions over their life-
time. In the UK, there are many proc-
esses and policies that are specifically
designed to ‘widen participation’ for all
ethnicities, which have led to monitor-
ing in the form of these questionnaire
sections in many official documents is-
sued by governmental bodies.
UK students have been filling out
such paperwork for most of their lives,
and thus are used to being asked such
information. This has possibly caused
a desensitisation to relatively intrusive
data collection, whereas students from
non-UK backgrounds are concerned
about the nature and purpose of such
questions.
Whether these disparities show a
UK population that is laudably uncon-
cerned by questions over ethnicity, or
has simply become accustomed to in-
trusiveinformation-gathering,remains
to be seen. It is difficult to extrapolate
to the other institutions across the
country, but the difference between
the responses to the question of eth-
nicity for UK and non-UK students is
unquestionable at IC.
von Hagens – ICSM’s next
Head of Anatomy?
The Imperial grapevine is alive and kicking with rumours that Dr.
Gunther von Hagens will be joining Imperial’s School of Medicine
as Head of Anatomy in the coming academic year. The infamous
professor is widely known for his Bodyworlds exhibitions that have
become an absolute phenomenon the world over. He is also the
presenter of Channel 4’s “The Anatomist” in which he regularly
dissected corpses on live TV. Whilst the rumours are unconfirmed
it has independently made its way to the ears of more than three
members of the Felix staff, lending it some genuine credibility
Farewell!
We hope you enjoyed Felix this year. Good
luck with your exam results and we’ll be
back before you can say “fail/2:1/ZOMG
first!” Have a fantastic summer, whatever
you do or wherever you find yourself.
The Felix Team
Andrew Somerville
Deputy & News Editor
A sample ethnicity questionnaire
from UK central government

