20 felix Friday 20 June 2008
Culture &
The Arts
Arts Editors – Rosie Grayburn, Caz Knight, David Paw & Emily Wilson
Budding culture vulture? Write for us.
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
T
his is the end/Beautiful
friend/This is the end/
My only friend, the end”.
And indeed it is: end of
toiling daily/weekly in
the library and also the end of Felix for
this academic year. I have thoroughly
enjoyed trying to ‘eruditise’ the heav-
ily scientific community here in South
Kensington, and also myself in the
process. It is also the end of Tomo’s
stint as editor and a HUGE thanks goes
to him for his patience and all his help,
without which the Arts pages would
certainly not have not turned out as
well as they have.
The End. Jim Morrison was sing-
ing about a very different end: death.
It was something of which he thought
constantly: he saw it as the “big sleep”,
to which he looked forward to and
yearned for after his years ‘caining’ it
as lead singer of The Doors. The theme
of ritual, artifice and mortality is also
explored at the Alexia Goethe Gallery,
where artist Jodie Carey is currently
exhibiting work. The small, stark, min-
imalist space on Dover Street is irritat-
ingly easy to miss but showcases some
rare and interesting talent. This exhibi-
tion, Still, Life, examines death in com-
parison to life, with life portrayed as
something ugly, reflected by the man-
ner in which we ourselves deal with
death. The artist says “Hoover dust…
If you die tomorrow, all that would be
left of you would be in your Hoover”.
She views funeral and memorials as a
thing “lest we remember”, the opposite
effect to remembering someone.
Upon entering the gallery, these mes-
sages are not apparent as we see sculp-
tures made from roses, feathers and
furniture (an odd sounding combina-
tion). Upon closer inspection the roses
are made from blood-stained news-
paper, covered in lard. (I really should
take note of the “Do not touch” sign).
As one ascends the stairs to the instal-
lation one is met with a completely sur-
real scene. Boxes and boxes of hand-
crafted bones (femurs, coccyx’s, tail
bones, portions of skulls) scatter the
floor and are stacked up amid strewed
newspaper. The ice-cold air condition-
ing reinforces the notion of death. Far
from being sinister, I thought it utterly
amazing, thinking to the intense, even
obsessive, effort that has to be put in
to craft each and every element in the
installation.
A few streets away form the Alexia
Goethe gallery is the White Cube gal-
lery where Rosie Milton goes on an es-
capade to Hell and back as she reviews
the Jake and Dinos Chapman exhibi-
tion. Be prepared for some disturbing
images, bizarre concepts.
I have also selected a few of John
Betjeman’s poems and “Culture”
Crawl/Tube map this week features
some alternative nights out.
Caz Knight
Arts Editor
Fucking hell! Hippy Hitler?!
The Jake and Dinos Chapman Exhibiton, “If Hitler Had Been A Hippy How Happy
Would We Be”, at the White Cube gallery exhibits some gruesome but highly thought-
provoking work. We sent Rosie Milton to Hell and Back to find out more
T
owards the end of May
this year the White Cube
gallery unveiled the new
work of two of their most
well-known YBA’s (Young
British Artists), brothers Jake and
Dinos Chapman, the controversially
tense ‘spectacle’: If Hitler Had Been
A Hippy How Happy Would We Be. I
hope to release it from its stigma of the
‘shock effect’ and instead reveal the wit
and perspicacity in the minds of the
‘terrible twosome’ who are thankfully
far from being ‘serious’ in that con-
trived way that any artist who enters
into the realm of the controversial can
borderline on becoming. The london-
paper quoted the brothers, referring
to their first ‘Hell’ installation from
2000 (lost in a warehouse fire four
years ago) as being “…only art. We
will make it again”. Heading the official
press release for the current exhibition
is a brief self-referencing ditty: ‘HELL
hath no fury/Like a chapman spurned/
So come see the second/ ‘Cos the first
one burned’. Enticed by this carniva-
lesque introduction, one can easily
see that ‘Fucking Hell’, which features
as a part of the whole exhibition at the
White Cube, swallows up its predeces-
sor with its references to modern me-
dia and profound (or profane, rather)
past events. The exhibition comprises
of three rooms: the upper floor gallery,
whose walls are lined with what appear
to be at first aged portraits but on clos-
er inspection reveal the bulging eyes,
cracking skin and swollen veins of dead
or ‘undead’ zombie-like sitters, yet
delicately painted in a style of realism
which could more commonly be attrib-
uted to the hand of an old master. De-
Details of Sex
Disasters of war
Great deeds against the dead
Gigantic fun
The Rape of Creativity
scending into the depths of (Fucking)
Hell on the lower floor, you approach
nine large glass cabinets – the view
from the stairs allowing you to imme-
diately see these cases as having been
laid out in the instantly recognisable
icon of the swastika. In the final room
are some twee and harmless-looking
watercolours. Only they become taint-
ed instantly with the knowledge that
they are the Chapman brothers’ inter-
pretations of Hitler’s own watercolour
paintings (signed ‘Hitler 2007’ gives it
away). Hitler’s paintings have become
sought-after today, but not for his
competent hand – another irony the
Chapman brothers address through
this exhibition. Returning to ‘Fucking
Hell’, this installation recreates a nar-
rative of Hell as seen in the minds of
the Chapman brothers – at the centre a
massive volcano belches out suspicious
black smoke – and petering down from
the deathly mountain’s slopes the land-
scape spreads into four corners of hell,
where lie a temple, factory, a mass
grave and the sea to nowhere. The
Chapman brothers execute this fan-
tasy Hell with an attention to detail so
minute and repetitive you find yourself

