arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
21
Friday 20 June 2008 felix
Arts
Poetry for yuppies & Slough
S
ir John Betjeman (1906-84),
Poet Laureate 1972 and self-
described “poet and hack”,
is revered as one of our
“National Treasures” for his
glorious poems. Betjeman was one of
the first poets I came to know and love
during my care-free days at the Dragon
School, North Oxford, where Betje-
man himself spent his preparatory
school years. His poem ‘May-Day Song
for North Oxford’ resonates strongly
and completely captures the beauty of
those roads with their lush vegetation
and red-bricked houses.
I long for those days, somewhat:
the time when I managed to pass my
Common Entrance with flying colours
without the need to even skim one
page of notes for any of my subjects,
school sports day on the Dragon play-
ing fields bordering the Cherwell river
and school-girl crushes. So much has
changed.
After spending his secondary school
years at Marlborough College, Betje-
man attended Oxford as a ‘commoner’
(a non-scholarship student) but only
just. It seemed that studying was not
second nature to him, either. He soon
began to realise that the good life was
for him and so his routine of partying
finally resulted in him being ‘sent down’
from Oxford for failing his exams.
Not a poet for Angry Geek! Betje-
man’s conservatism sprung from the
fact that he deplored ‘progress’. That
is, the demise in ancient buildings and
the British countryside. He did not see
how it was possible for us to be truly
happy in a world of increasing ugliness
and inhibitions. In ‘The Executive’, he
satirises the stereotype by writing from
the perspective of the yuppie.
Particularisation is continually used
by Betjeman in his poems. In stead of
simply referring to objects as ‘cars’ and
‘marmalade’ he will use their brand
names which acts as a clever way of in-
ferring social status and also the time
at which the poem as written. He does
this in a topographical sense too, with
many of his poems bearing the names
of places. The second poem here is
Slough, which was read by the char-
acter David Brent in The Office televi-
sion series which happens to be set in
Slough.
Some critics see this as his inability
to see things in an abstract way. How-
ever, I find this technique to be highly
effective as it is a way of ensuring read-
ers can identify more closely to the
content of the poems (as I related so
well to the mention of street names in
his ‘May-Day Song for North Oxford’.)
A lot of you reading these poems may
be able to relate to them: having visited
Slough or aware of its notoriety as an
utter shit hole (sorry). Or maybe you
are considering a career in the world of
business. Either way, it is hard not to
fall for Betjeman’s comic writing.
Slough
Come, friendly bombs, and fall on Slough
It isn’t fit for humans now,
There isn’t grass to graze a cow
Swarm over, Death!
Come, bombs, and blow to smithereens
Those air-conditioned, bright canteens,
Tinned fruit, tinned meat, tinned milk, tinned beans
Tinned minds, tinned breath.
Mess up the mess they call a town --
A house for ninety-seven down
And once a week for half-a-crown
For twenty years,
And get that man with double chin
Who’ll always cheat and always win,
Who washes his repulsive skin
In women’s tears,
And smash his desk of polished oak
And smash his hands so used to stroke
And stop his boring dirty joke
And make him yell.
But spare the bald young clerks who add
The profits of the stinking cad;
It’s not their fault that they are mad,
They’ve tasted Hell.
It’s not their fault they do not know
The birdsong from the radio,
It’s not their fault they often go
To Maidenhead
And talk of sports and makes of cars
In various bogus Tudor bars
And daren’t look up and see the stars
But belch instead.
In labour-saving homes, with care
Their wives frizz out peroxide hair
And dry it in synthetic air
And paint their nails.
Come, friendly bombs, and fall on Slough
To get it ready for the plough.
The cabbages are coming now;
The earth exhales.
The Executive
I am a young executive. No cuffs than mine are cleaner;
I have a Slimline brief-case and I use the firm’s Cortina.
In every roadside hostelry from here to Burgess Hill
The maîtres d’hôtel all know me well, and let me sign the
bill.
You ask me what it is I do. Well, actually, you know,
I’m partly a liaison man, and partly P
.R.O.
Essentially, I integrate the current export drive
And basically I’m viable from ten o’clock till five.
For vital off-the-record work – that’s talking transport-wise -
I’ve a scarlet Aston-Martin – and does she go? She flies!
Pedestrians and dogs and cats, we mark them down for
slaughter.
I also own a speedboat which has never touched the water.
She’s built of fibre-glass, of course. I call her ‘Mandy Jane’
After a bird I used to know – No soda, please, just plain -
And how did I acquire her? Well, to tell you about that
And to put you in the picture, I must wear my other hat.
I do some mild developing. The sort of place I need
Is a quiet country market town that’s rather run to seed
A luncheon and a drink or two, a little savoir faire -
I fix the Planning Officer, the Town Clerk and the Mayor.
And if some Preservationist attempts to interfere
A ‘dangerous structure’ notice from the Borough Engineer
Will settle any buildings that are standing in our way -
The modern style, sir, with respect, has really come to stay.
The Quintissential Yuppie: Christian Bale as Patrick Bateman in American Psycho
pressed right up against the glass –
fascinated by the miniature world the
same way you were when you saw your
first model railway or doll’s house – un-
til you retract suddenly from any child-
hood fantasies, realising the grotesque
nature of the scenes depicted and how
history has conformed us to behave
with reverence when bringing to mind
the cruelty and evil that the Nazis and
the events of the Second World War
produced. But Jake and Dinos are not
asking us to explicitly use this installa-
tion as a memorial, but rather to look
on the subject impartially to under-
stand their meanings beyond this. Of
course the subject matter presented
to us causes us to make associations –
Polish factories and mass graves – fa-
miliar scenes of genocide, but here the
boys are using these surface themes to
act as microcosms for deeper philo-
sophical truths and represent beyond
the time of the Nazis to modern-day
issues also – hundreds of miniature
barrels of squandered oil run through
the rivers and the dilapidated form of a
temple, emblazoned with the McDon-
ald’s golden arches, spews out skeletal
Nazi soldiers who wreak terror on the
blackened hills. Edward Muir explains
that just as the smaller version of your
own house is the dolls’-house, this al-
lows us to visualise the relationship of
the parts to the whole. He describes the
miniature model as offering a closed,
simplified example that we can use to
anticipate the future in some way or
at least learn, by controlling a replica
in its whole, how to behave in actual
situations. In fact this very method of
using models and miniatures allows
us to detach ourselves somewhat from
the subject of ‘Fucking Hell’ – it allows
us to physically and psychologically
dominate the material. The Chapman
brothers have also explored the reverse
– exhibited at the former Saatchi gal-
lery at Somerset House from Saatchi’s
own collection were several life-size
dolls of adolescents, but hybridised
and confused in gender by a mass of
conjoined limbs and protruding geni-
tals on various and unnatural places on
their bodies. I watched first-hand as
the viewer gave a wide berth to these
static poupées, feeling the talismanic
power of these troubling zygotic ‘chil-
dren’ pushing you far too close to the
borders of the taboo. A fully illustrated
catalogue accompanying the exhibition
provides a number of essays by Rod
Mengham and Simon Baker among
others, offering historical references
and philosophical treaties with which
to interpret ‘Fucking Hell’ by. An il-
lustrated ‘guide’ also plucks out certain
more notable details from amongst the
complicated mass of tiny figures within
the tableaux, such as the cowering fig-
ure of little Anne Frank, alone in an at-
tic, to the figure of Adolf Hitler abreast
a pit of despair yet calmly painting a
bland watercolour (perhaps the only
bright spot of colour in the murk of the
entire installation). Stephen Hawking
also makes an appearance, as does a
reference to Theodore Gericault’s ‘The
Raft of the Medusa’ – a painting made
in response to the tragedy of the sink-
ing of the Medusa in 1816, whose only
remaining survivors clung to a raft for
fifteen days and incurred violence,
brutality and even cannibalism. With
‘Fucking Hell’ the Chapman brothers
have presented us with several vitrines
like cabinets of curiosities – fascinating
and gruesome, the narratives comical
yet dark. The contradictions are rife –
from a naked infant Hitler being bap-
tized in a bowl of blood to a snowman
being crucified on top of a hill – the
world appears turned on its head, or
inside out. In short it is, Fucking Hell.
If Hitler Had Been A Hippy How
Happy Would We Be, White Cube,
Mason’s Yard, SW1 until 12 July

