24 felix Friday 20 June 2008
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Arts
The Great Culture Crawl
Notting Hill Arts Club
Pretty much situated at the top of the stairs coming out of the underground, the NHAC is where all the trendy kids
go. With everyone saying “sick” a lot, their unique hairstyles and eclectic fashion, it is easy to feel like an average,
garden-variety Londoner - even if you are the Felix Arts Supremo (look, I was having a wardrobe crisis, ok!) The
club’s colourful interior design and art-covered walls definitely reflect the artsy crowd who frequent this small
hangout. Don’t let that fact perturb you: the club has a great atmosphere with everyone there for the random mix
of music genres on show each night of the week. The club puts on a variety of both acoustic and electronic music,
often fusing the two, which gives a unique sound quite different from a lot of other generic bars. The club is ideal
for those not into “horrible druggy electro music” (each to their own). This Friday, Gaz Mayal and Ellie, whoever
they may be, are treating the NHAC to a mix of calypso, reggae and good old fashioned Rock ‘n Roll. On Saturday
get ready for twee-pop-psych-rock-folk: I think there it is a case of see-it-to-believe-it. The cocktails are also deli-
cious here and there is plenty of fruit on the bar to steal and eat.
Torture Garden at Mass
Mass, the home of Torture Garden, is an ex-church (highly ironic given the extent of the
debauchery which ensues most nights of the week) that stands alone in a small square. Spread
over five floors, connected by a wide spiraling staircase, it can be confusing on your first visit
but each floor opens out onto a spacious room. The layout is ideal for the monthly Torture
Garden events which are certainly not just your average fetish night and offer plenty to see and
take part in. Before you run away in disgust/fear, TG is more about the dressing up, extremely
friendly vibe and dancing rather than the “play” and sado-masochism (although there is of that
plenty if you so wish). Dress code is strict, although one is allowed to take one’s costume in
a bag and change inside to avoid embarrassment and odd glances on the tube. And by ‘dress
code’ they mean pretty much anything other than ‘normal’ attire. Not everyone in attendance
sports crotchless leather trousers, pierced genitalia or gimp masks. It truly adds so much to
this crazy atmosphere to see people dressed in everything from sailor suits, to rubber Nazi
uniforms (yes, a bit strange), aliens, Burlesque… As always there is the occasional sleazy/
oddball but the majority are several orders friendlier than the people you find in most clubs.
The music range covers everything from ‘booty slut-core’ to drum n bass, electro, rock, swing,
jazz, atmospheric, breaks and soundtrack. At around 25GBP for tickets, it is probably not an event
you will go to regularly but it is worth every penny for its novelty and 10pm-6am opening hours.
The Dublin Castle
Up the road from Camden Town tube, the red light-lit (both outside and in) Dublin Castle is “indie heaven” for
aspiring young bands wishing to join the hordes of other musicians which make up the ‘one album wonder’ club.
OK, that’s slightly unfair and cynical, for the Dublin Castle is a great venue for fans of rock, indie and live music.
The back room of this pub is where the musical magic is created and all atop a very small stage. If, like me, you are
not so much a fan of the rough and tumble of larger rock gigs, then this is a great chance to enjoy indie/rock in a
slightly safer, less sweaty environment. I say less sweaty as there is still a healthy quota of sweat to be had! But this
is Camden, man, if you wanted clean and cultured you would have stayed in that SW bubble. This Friday Fox Gang
(troubadouring humorist/satirist), the Onlookers (psychedelia with an RnB vibe), Muswell (heavy, nasty shouty shit
but still rather good) and Art of Marshall (indie pop - meh) shall be providing entertainment. The floor in the front
bar gets VERY messy so if you have not mastered walking in heels like Arts Supremo then beware lest you slide
several metres landing on your ass. Luckily, I was exiting the pub when this happened. Clientele here are the usual
Camden crowd, with a few indie ‘celebrities’ pottering about, too. The back room is where the music takes place but
the front room has music making means of its own in the form of a jukebox. However, this really is a gig venue; if
you are not into your indie music then this probably is not for you. If it’s a quiet drink you’re after then head down to
some of the bars in the Lock area. Or get pissed at home.
Chapter Fourteen – Novel nights out

