arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
25
Friday 20 June 2008 felix
Arts
Matt and Matt’s
Located in the trendy Angel district, this little bar is quite easy to miss given the tens of other larger,
more commercial bars that swamp most London streets. Small it is but Matt and Matt’s makes up
for it in a very chilled out, unpretentious atmosphere. Run by two old school mates, this hidden gem
has a slightly Cuban-esque and slightly ‘worn’ feel to the deco which only makes it all the more
inviting and homely. The bar staff are friendly and always up for partying alongside you and often
happy to refund you a drink if you are unsatisfied, not that you will be, the cocktails as tasty as they
are. This Friday the SleazyDJs return with their monthly night, but this time ‘Sleazebox’ is usurped by
a Burberry themed ‘ChavBox’. However, the music does not downgrade, with the SleazyDJs unleashing
their usual infectious mix of house, breaks and sleazy electro. Adorn yourself with ganstaaah gold,
hoop earrings, tracksuits tucked into socks, a gyro check for credibility and caps as you get to be
working class for the night without having to listen to a second’s worth of garage. (No fighting please!)
This bar is open all nights apart from Sundays and Mondays and is also the perfect location to go
to unwind for a few quiet ones and a great excuse to experience what the city has to offer in its more
northern boroughs. Matt and Matt’s only charges a small fee of 4GBP after midnight on certain nights.
Public Life, Shoreditch
For those of you who ARE partial to (drugged-up) dance music, then Public Life on Saturday
afternoons might just be for you. This converted ‘convenience’-cum-underground bar is
open from the morning until midnight and is apparent only by a small glass awning and
steep flight of stairs taking you down into the depths of the club. Its secrecy means the hefty
queues and prices of a lot of West End water holes are avoided, and I am sure the majority
of you will never have partied on down in a public toilet. The Lost Souls Techno Club
opens its doors bright and early at 10.30am for the uber-keen or for those still carrying on
from the night before. With some of the old Victorian tiling still on the walls and candles
everywhere, the atmosphere created here is relax and friendly and with just about enough
room to thrown some shapes to the more underground sounds of break beats, ‘electronica’
and minimal that emits from the speakers. The crowd here are chilled out which may differ
from a lot of the pretentious folk who make up the East End/Shoreditch demographic. With
cheap pub prices (the good old fashioned pubs) it will be a welcome relief from the rest of
over-priced London, although beer and mixers pretty much makes up their drinks selection.
Truly one of the most interesting and fun places to go for something totally different.
Cafe 1001
Nestled away in a private road just off Brick Lane, this coffee shop and DJ bar is truly one
of its kind. I could barely contain my excitement upon taking in the extensive array of food
on offer: cakes, muffins, fresh juices, bagels, sandwiches, pizza, soups, pies, salads and
hot meals. It took me at least fifteen minutes to decide on a very healthy-sized portion of
chocolate cake and my discerning palette deemed it exceptional! They also prepare mouth-
watering burgers outside the café where there is also seating available in the form of wooden
tables and benches. Café 1001 is open from 6am to midnight, with extended opening hours
on some nights. There is such a massive collection of music on offer here. Every Wednesday
is their jazz night and each night of the week (and weekend) there are two rooms offering
everything from blues, breaks, dubstep, DnB, techno, house, minimal, psy-trance and hip-
hop. There are even film showings and yoga classes at scheduled times. The venue has high
ceilings and an airy feel to it with Moroccan style deco and very attractive murals on the
walls. Previous visitors include David Bowie and Liv Tyler but I can guarantee they won’t be
there when you visit. The café is currently supporting the Graduate Schools Art and Design
show, exhibiting in Brick Lane, should you feel the urge for some visual stimulation. I highly
recommend this venue which offers the chance to stuff your face with well-prepared, well-
priced food and take in some aural delightment.
The Roxy Bar and Screen
A trip to a characterless Odeon need no more be a part of your weekend once you have visited the Roxy screen in
Borough. With a vibe more akin to a jazz club, it is laid back and sophisticated with ample table and chairs, booths
and comfy sofas to enjoy the bar’s extensive range of spirits and cocktails. Due to Greek ownership there is a special
Greek food menu but if you steer clear of this and opt for the roasts you won’t be disappointed. The drinks are
reasonably priced and the Roxy is well able to cater for large groups at short notice. They show a good range of films,
both English language and european and also have Sunday documentaries, fundraising films, late night jazz and
‘underground’ films. At the moment, they are having screenings of Euro 2008 matches: an infinitely better way to
enjoy the football than in a sweaty pub!
Written by Caz Knight, concept by Rosie Grayburn

