fashion.felix@imperial.ac.uk
28 felix Friday 20 June 2008
Fashion
Fashion Editor – Daniel Wan
Dolce with your dim sum, madam?
China is redefining what it means to dress, spend and design Chinese. David J Paw takes a look
Vogue China’s circulation is second only to its American counterpart
E
merging markets excite
me more than American
markets.” So said Tom
Ford, as he readied him-
self for the task ahead.
Ford had been travelling
the latitude of Asia to secure a mini-
mum of 87 franchised stores through-
out the continent and Australasia over
the next ten years.
This commitment is only a frac-
tion of the activity that has turned
the continent from the backwater
of a century ago into the newest
player in the world’s developing
new order, and the expansion of West-
ern luxury brands into the East is but
a segment of the seething activity at
hand. Notably, much of the focus is on
that emerging economic juggernaut,
China.
Straddling the uneasy ground be-
tween its communist ideology and
oft-capitalist reality, China’s flourish-
ing economy has fuelled a thriving new
middle class bent on absorbing and
integrating Western lifestyles and con-
suming every luxury brand presented
to them by their newfound messiahs.
Angelica Cheung, editor-in-chief of
Vogue China, says it best: “China is be-
coming more and more sophisticated.
The most important thing is that today
in China you feel the will to be more
fashionable, and the desire to live a
better life is very strong. And with the
new money, [you] have the means of
doing it.”
That desire is manifest everywhere
you look in its glimmering coastal cit-
ies – Beijing boasts some of the world’s
most dazzling buildings by star archi-
tects while Guangzhou’s recent ini-
tiative to boost the arts, coupled to its
unrelenting economic progress as a
regional capital, is transforming it into
one of Asia’s definitive megacities. The
previously rural Shenzen is utterly un-
recognisable now, its allocation as Chi-
na’s first free-trade zone transforming
it into a commercial and creative haven
for risk takers and moneymakers with-
in the space of a single generation. And
through it all, the metropolis of Shang-
hai has spiralled higher, establishing
itself as the nation’s creative epicentre
and coming into view of reclaiming its
title as the “Paris of the East”. You can
hear it in the clack of Louboutin stilet-
tos and feel it in the cool, smooth Ital-
ian marble in an elevator whisking its
occupants to an opulent rooftop bar.
Jessica Ward, a boutique owner who
relocated to Shanghai from Toronto
says, “There’s a palpable energy even
when you step into the street. There’s
a feeling that anything is possible and
that the city’s inhabitants are raring to
reinvent and define the city for the 21st
century”.
Ward is only one of a new genera-
tion of creative professionals who are
recognising the city’s potential. Its in-
augural fashion week, coupled with
that of Beijing’s, are symptomatic of
the nation’s increasing sophistication
and savvy, as well as its desire to put its
own creative stamp and gain recogni-
tion overseas. But how do the Chinese
view luxury? “China is still a young
market, and subsequently not yet as so-
phisticated overall as more established
markets”, explains Tiffany Zhou, a mar-
keting consultant from Hong Kong.
“Designer clothing and accessories are
still used to signify status and unlike
Western cities, there is more desire for
conformity. Though well known brand
names are coveted, conversely there is
less interest in owning unique pieces
that stress the buyer’s individuality”.
Such is the power of the brand that
“Louis Vuitton” is the equivalent term
for “luxury”.
Consequently China’s new spending
power, coupled with an appetite for
recognisable status pieces, has offset a
dash by major luxury players to satisfy
its demands in response. Italian luxury
conglomerate PPR (that owns both
Gucci and Tom Ford) has set up nu-
merous franchises in the major coastal
hotspots, and Beijing alone has seen a
massive high-end injection: new Prada
and Gucci flagships, new stores from
Cartier, Dolce & Gabbana, Armani and
an imposing new outlet of Hong Kong
luxury department store Lane Craw-
ford offering elite designer lines such
as Maison Martin Margiela, Marni,
Miu Miu and more.
Lane Crawford’s presence is notable
– not only is the brand expanding its
reach with stores and an ambitious in-
ternationally published ad campaign,
but it provides for the most discern-
ing shoppers who reject the vulgarity
of logos and statement pieces. Despite
the majority’s desire to conform, for
a small and very discerning minor-
ity there exists a niche that the store
happily indulges. “They’re as clued-
up to international fashion as their
European and American counter-
parts”, Zhou explains. Though a lot of
luxury sales are based around indulg-
ing the consumer’s desires, much of
the luxury sector’s growth has been
encouraged by the custom of guanxi,
or gift-giving, as a means of building
personal relationships and connec-
tions. The government’s suspicion of
cash gifts has led to the less conspicu-
ous exchange of opulent luxury items;
a Chanel clutch can’t offer the same
freedom as money, but it makes a very
fine substitute.
However, for every Chinese Mar-
giela devotee, there are scores of oth-
ers struggling to separate their Marni
from their Missoni. It is therefore
of little wonder that the influential
fashion press have had shop set up in
China for a while, in anticipation of a
demand for sartorial guidance. Vogue
China’s 300,000-strong circulation –
impressive for a relatively new title – is
second in the Vogue stable only to its
American counterpart, and Elle China
has been here for even longer. What
makes Vogue China different from
other international editions? “We add
an educational element…For Italian
Vogue or American Vogue it would be
enough to just run the fashion pictures
because the women are sophisticated
enough to get the idea. But the Chinese
women are not there yet, so we have to
tell them more about the inspirations”,
said editor Cheung in 2007.
For a nation with so much raw po-
tential but with little idea of what to
do with it, such guidance is necessary.
Despite Shanghai and Beijing’s emerg-
ing stature, Hong Kong has long been
established as an Eastern financial and
cultural capital, and its dwarfing by its
mainland counterpart has led to an in-
formational symbiosis of sorts, based
on its well-developed business acumen
in the development and presentation
of new ideas – pivotal if China wants
to produce its own star designers wor-
thy of international recognition. In ad-
dition, in comparison to Hong Kong,
the average Mainland Chinese woman
lacks the sophistication and experi-
ence in identifying, transferring and
integrating major trends into personal
iterations – Hong Kong’s edge is its in-
ternational know-how and long-seated
role in the global community. Once
the Mainland closes that gap, Hong
Kong’s advantage will be less well
demarcated.
Speaking of star designers, between
Western and Chinese designers, it
seems clear which the domestic market
prefers. That is not to say that China
lacks talent – Shanghai-based design-
ers such as the avant-garde Wang Yi-
yang and Zhang Da both have devoted
Consumers in major Chinese cities are more interested in conforming than in making individual statements
“Once the
mainland
closes the gap,
Hong Kong’s
advantage will
be less well
demarcated”
“China’s
flourishing
economy has
fuelled a thriving
new middle class
bent on Western
lifestyles”

