fashion.felix@imperial.ac.uk
29
Friday 20 June 2008 felix
Fashion
followings in their native country,
while London-based Wang Wei has
been touted highly by the domestic
press. But why has homegrown talent
had such a hard time establishing itself
on the international scene?
Part of the answer lies in the void
the country found itself in during the
pre-Cultural Revolution years of Com-
munism – though versatile, the era’s
standard-issue tunics were not the
most expressive medium for a budding
designer. In the years after, though re-
leased from the restraints of ideologi-
cal uniform, a new generation of Chi-
nese seem to have been uncertain with
what constituted a modern national
aesthetic, having been robbed of a
natural stylistic evolution from the na-
tion’s sartorial heyday of the decadent
1930’s. In a sense, its creative develop-
ment has been stunted in comparison
with neighbours such as Japan.
Though China’s teeming popula-
tion and creative hotspots will surely
harbour an impressive array of tal-
ent, it has thus far lacked the creative
infrastructure that the world’s other
major fashion capitals take for granted
– trade shows, fashion weeks, funding
initiatives, creative management, me-
dia support – all of which help in the
creation of viable businesses from raw
talent.
And though Beijing and Shanghai’s
fashion weeks are important additions
to China’s fashion calendar, too often
the important front row is littered with
local dignitaries and public figures, as
opposed to oft decisive and influential
international fashion press and buy-
ers. Consumer resistance that values
prestige over supporting novel design
talent has also contributed to the dif-
ficulties faced by local designers. But
in spite of the potential difficulties
faced, the creation of quietly discern-
ing shopping streets in Hong Kong and
Shanghai’s Taikang Lu and Chang Le
selling local designers’ creations have
shown promise.
Most people would have trouble
naming a true Chinese fashion design
talent, one based in China or who
emerged from China. That much is
reasonable, even amongst the world’s
fashionistas. However, the annals of
modern fashion have been studded
with designers of Chinese origin. In
this context, the most notable event
in the international fashion calendar
is New York fashion week. Vera Wang
and Anna Sui are now important bi-
annual fixtures in the city and the
most successful, while smaller names
such as Chinese-Malaysian Yeoh-
lee and the design duo Bamboo have
carved out dedicated fanbases. In ad-
dition, the runway shows showcasing
the talents of Alexander Wang, Philip
Lim and Derek Lam are among some
of the most eagerly anticipated in the
city.
So do normal Chinese regard them
as national successes and champion
them as their own? Virginia Lau, an
international trend forecaster based
in Hong Kong, elaborates upon the
situation: “Yes and no. We’ve become
aware of them in recent seasons. We
China’s economic growth and increasingly numerous middle class have buoyed the ever-precarious interntational market for luxury goods
“We are looking
forward to
seeing someone
from China
becoming a
highly-regarded
international
designer”
know they're upcoming designers and
becoming famous in New York.” But
is that enough for a nation known for
its fierce sense of identity? “We are
waiting and looking forward to seeing
someone from China become a highly-
regarded international designer very
soon – someone who grew up here,
speaks Chinese and lives here.” Are
there any potential candidates? “I think
most Chinese would consider Xie Feng
with his designer label Jefen as the first
Chinese designer to have stepped onto
the international fashion runway stage.
He presented his first ready-to-wear
collection in Paris for Spring 2007.”
Perhaps it may be the case that a label
would have to be exported to gain in-
ternational recognition before return-
ing or simply, in addition to better
infrastructure, designers would have
to become more aware of the world
around them in order to better appeal
to a global audience.
Consequently, there is a desire to see
local talent hitting the largest stage of
them all. But what would they present
as a declaration of modern Chinese
fashion? What is it to dress Chinese?
Most people’s perceptions of a Chinese
aesthetic still reach back to the long,
flowing costume presented to Western
audiences in large-scale Chinese cin-
ematic epics, or decadent and slinky
form-fitted cheongsam (also known as
qipao). Maggie Cheung’s painstakingly
fitted cheongsam in the opulently styl-
ised Hong Kong film In The Mood For
Love is probably one of the most well
known examples. “We hold our Chi-
nese heritage dear, but young Chinese
don’t want anything too cliché”, says
Sally Yau, a Shanghai fashion journalist
and writer. “No one wants to dress like
their grandmother”. The concept of
“vintage” and “retro” is also somewhat
tricky in a nation that was dressed al-
most exclusively in Mao suits. Decon-
structionism is becoming a buzzword
amongst local designers on the Main-
land while in Hong Kong, great em-
phasis is placed on the cut, folds, em-
broidery and detail, “in no small part
thanks to the tropical climate and the
city’s strong tailoring heritage”, adds
Yau.
Have China’s regional neighbours
had any influence on its sense of style?
“Influences from Japan and Korea are
always strong in Asia, especially in the
youth and junior markets” says Lau.
“In the last three to four years, the
influence of Korean trends have been
particularly strong and are regarded
as even hotter than those from Japan,
which have had a very strong influ-
ence on Asian fashion since the early
80's”. Which aspects of Korean culture
are having an impact on the Chinese
market? “Korean celebrities, television
dramas, movies, fashion brands, maga-
zines and beauty brands are prevailing
and selling like hot cakes in Asia. Ko-
rean labels sell at a higher price than
local retail brands in China, and Asian
girls follow makeup trends from Ko-
rean artists”.
So China as a consumer – taking 10%
of the world’s luxury sales – is increas-
ingly voracious for all things covetable,
and as a creator has still some way to
go despite showing promise. This is
without even accounting for its mas-
sive presence in the textiles industry
as a manufacturer and exporter. Is
the world of fashion ready for such a
change? How will the world’s fashion
press react to an influx of new Chinese
designers boldly presenting their vi-
sion for a new China, and how much
of it will be tempered by a desire to ap-
pease and offer something palatable to
Western sensibilities? It seems only a
matter of time before China closes the
gap and the international fashion land-
scape as we know it is altered forever.
Let’s hope it’s for the best.
With special thanks to Virginia
Lau.

