news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
3
Friday 20 June 2008 felix
News
Cocaine in most IC departments?
Testing campus toilets with cocaine swabs, Felix finds a surprisingly high positive rate. Are we all high?
Tom Roberts &
Andrew Somerville
An investigation by Felix has uncov-
ered evidence suggesting that cocaine
use occurs in 70% of South Kensington
campus toilets. The survey found posi-
tive indications in most of the major
departments, the Union building and
most significantly the ‘Blue Cube’ Fac-
ulty Building – a building that is off-
limits to students.
Felix visited 47 toilets across the cam-
pus: 31 mens’, 9 womens’ and 7 disabled
lavatories. At each site, swabs designed
to indicate the presence of cocaine
were used to test the toilet seat covers,
cisterns, hinges and other available flat
surfaces for traces of the illegal drug,
with surprising results. Out of the 47
tests, 34 gave positive results: 22 mens’,
6 womens’ and 6 disabled, all indicating
varying quantities of the substance.
The ‘cocaine swabs’ used in the Felix
investigation are identical to those used
in similar tests conducted at the uni-
versities of York, Exeter and Cambridge
and similar to those used to test toilets
at the European Parliament in Brussels
by a major German broadcaster, which
were later verified by thorough forensic
tests. The manufacturer also supplies
drug testing kits to various UK police
agencies, including the Metropolitan
Police, and the Prison Service, as well as
to student and professional press. The
swabs are sensitive to a few milligrams
of the “functional group” of chemicals
to which cocaine belongs. Similar tests,
using the same active reagent, are used
worldwide in field tests for cocaine and
other banned substances, but do not
give unequivocal and forensic proof of
drug presence.
When presented with these results,
students consulted by Felix expressed
their surprise at the choice of location
for recreational drug use: most ex-
pected drug use in the Union buildings
during club nights and other events
but not in departmental buildings. All
students and staff were shocked by the
indication of cocaine use in the Fac-
ulty Building, since students are not
able to enter the ‘Blue Cube’ without
being admitted by a member of staff.
This result, combined with the large
proportion of positive indications, sug-
gests that cocaine abuse at Imperial is
not limited to students alone, but is a
far more prevalent and pervasive issue
that encompasses students, academics
and administrative staff.
Felix also investigated the reliability
of these types of test, since they have
produced similar results at other in-
stitutions and because of the startling
frequency with which the swabs indi-
cated positive matches. We consulted
Dr Russell Taylor, a researcher in the
Chemistry department with previous
experience at the Forensic Science
Service, who performed a number of
chemical tests on the swabs.
In his opinion, the swab test was in-
conclusive. “It is impossible to detect
one substance alone, this test doesn’t
specifically detect cocaine” he said,
“a positive result can be brought on
by chemicals of similar functional
groups… [due to this] as chemists, we
would say that it is a bad test.”
The test is known to give a positive
result in the presence of several other
medications and drugs, including
some sleeping pills, psychedelics, and
certain types of antihistamines. The
test could also be sensitive to other un-
known compounds that could have a
more legitimate use in toilets, although
Felix has not found a cleaning product
that gives a positive result.
The Managing Director of Crack-
down Drug Testing Ltd, Dave Rigg, a
former police officer of 17 years, has
also been on record to vouch for the
1. Union dB’s,
Mens’, ground
floor
2. Physics,
Mens’, Level 6
3. Sherfield,
Disabled, Level 2
4. Huxley building,
Mens’, Level 3
5. Chemical
Engineering,
Mens’, Level 3
6. Civil Engineering,
Mens’, Level 3
7. Faculty Building,
Disabled, Level 1
8. Huxley building,
Mens’, Level 6M
Eight of the ‘cocaine swabs’ used in Felix’s investigation are pictured above. The seven swabs on the left indicate a positive match whereas the final swab on the right shows no sign
of blue coloration, and hence is a negative. The swabs are sensitive enough for us to conclude that cocaine is definitely not present in the areas tested with the right-hand swab,
though Imperial College chemists have suggested that chemicals with the same “functional group” as cocaine could have triggered the blue reaction in the seven left-hand swabs.
Swabs numbers 1, 2, 3 and 7 appear to have a grainier blue indication
tests. “We have complete confidence
in the kit. If it tests positive it is al-
most definite that someone has been
snorting cocaine from that surface,” he
said, “If it has been on a surface that
is cleaned regularly and thoroughly, it
can only detect recent use.”
Whilst the cocaine test is not fool-
proof and only indicates the likely
presence of cocaine or similar chemi-
cals, there are several arguments
which suggest the illegal drug rather
than a false-positive due to an obscure
compound. Firstly, several toilets were
tested that were adjacent (for example
male and female pairs), and would like-
ly be subject to the same cleaning re-
gime and substances, yet gave different
results from each other. Secondly, it
is extremely unlikely that people have
been taking their antihistamines and
other powdered medications by snort-
ing them from the toilet seat.
The results obtained by Felix, whilst
not scientifically rigorous, suggest a
worryingly prevalent use of cocaine on
Imperial’s main campus in a shocking-
ly wide demographic. College appears
to have a drug problem that is not re-
stricted to students alone.
Former police officer and Managing Director of Crackdown Drug
Testing Ltd, Dave Rigg, vouches for the swabs’ credibility, saying
that they “are accurate as a field test, but I would not go to court
with [them].” The swabs contain the chemical compound cobalt
thiocyanate, a reagent commonly used in drug tests in various
forms, though their reliability has been called into question by
experts in the field of forensic chemistry
Cobalt thiocyanate test kit
A positive result: blue indicates likely presence of cocaine

