games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
33
Friday 20 June 2008 felix
Games
Metal Gear Solid, but there was a part
of me, a tiny part of me, that felt that
all the touted features of psychological
warfare and advanced stealth would
take a backseat. Wow. Did I ever call
it wrong.
Few games will have ever, and not
only in the Metal Gear Solid series,
offered a package so compelling, so
engrossing or so puissant in terms of
gameplay. Whether it’s the sheer vari-
ety or the way that the setpieces are de-
signed to genuinely evoke emotion and
adrenaline rushes, you’ll be spoilt once
you finish this masterpiece.
Gunplay has never been a focus for
the highly stealth-oriented series, but
this iteration really reveals one of MGS’
truly spontaneous draws: freedom
within linearity. Your overall mission
may be from one point to the other, but
the staggering amount of choice you
have between these two is often aston-
ishing. To keep things organic, there
are no explicit instructions to embark
on these paths but it’s left completely
up to the discerning player to carve his
own gameplay niche.
Whether you’re going to risk free-
ing some freedom fighters to aid you
against the PMCs or enter the fracas
with the highly-refined shooting mod-
el, or even stay out of harm’s way by
sending the remote-controlled minis-
cule Metal Gear Mk. II unit to scout on
ahead, these things are never openly
stated. You’ll do what you feel like do-
ing and it’s your own way that’s the
right way. It’s an interesting vision of
the “sandbox” concept of gaming.
The Metal Gear Solid family has al-
ways been an intensely ecumenical
experience with regards to everything
that it incorporates. And what is a
game such as this without the aural
brilliance? To that end, composer Har-
ry-Gregson Williams and his Konami
counterpart whip up a maelstrom of
sublime orchestral music. It’s not only
the incredibly emotive tracks that im-
pressed me but the way it was lovingly
incorporated into the right moments
was astonishing. Operatic and melo-
dramatic? Yup, but then you’ll only
have used a few of many words used to
describe the Metal Gear Solid saga.
And the accolades can simply contin-
ue for this title of titles. I can mention
the incessant urge to collect each type
of the hundred-shy weapons offered in
the game in order to exchange points
with the enigmatic gun “launderer”
Drebin 893. I can talk about the clever
product placement in the game, where
you can use a fully functioning iPod
to listen to music tracks spanning the
Konami library. I can mention the boss
fights that blend in the right amount
of emotion, innovation and nostalgia;
some of them are quite clever. There’s
also the fact that the enemies are a
far more intelligent bunch, challeng-
ing you to really test your mettle. Did
I care to nod towards the new Metal
Gear Gekkou and Mini Gekkou units?
In size they fail to match REX and Ray
but the combination of sheer fear and
adrenaline they evoke in you during
your encounters is quite incredible.
And then there’s the bit in Act 4 that...
well, you’ll find out soon enough.
A word about the much-touted
Beauty and the Beast Unit of bosses
must be said though. I can understand
the thematic natures involved and
heck, I think their stories explore the
sort of macabre nature worthy of Poe,
King and Gaiman and finally, I think
fighting them was a blast. Why does
it bother me though? There’s just this
disconnect between all these individu-
ally brilliant bits that lessen the impact
from these contributions quite a lot, in
my opinion.
What makes it all so “fucking hilari-
ous”, in the words of the first boss you
face, is that the portions detrimental to
the game range from invoking shrug-
worthy ignorance to taking the op-
portunity for a toilet break. The game
has some lengthy install times between
each act. Check. The cutscenes are
long for the attention-challenged (you
can pause or skip them now). Check.
The classic MGS humour is present,
although a lot of the references will
either evade newcomers or cause fans
to face palm. Check. And there’s some
ridiculously tedious method required
to sign up for the Metal Gear Online
gaming service. Fortunately it’s option-
al but I’m quite certain many of you
would love to take your single player
skills onto the online space. Konami
have not made it easy to do so.
However, we’ve come to it at last: the
last Metal Gear Solid title from auteur,
genius and madman Hideo Kojima.
When all is said is done, your own
expectations matter little; it stings a
bit knowing that, but I digress. Less a
game and more of a highly insane, in-
tense and powerfully personal experi-
ence, there are few titles like this out
there. Driven on by one man’s vision
to tell a tale for the ages, you’ll find
yourself in a world not unlike our own,
full of people and places that truly end
up mattering to you. All the questions
you’ve ever had are answered with in-
trospection and poise and finally, you
can sigh with relief as the multiple
threads finally come together in the fi-
nal knit. It’s far from perfect, but that’s
what makes it beautiful. That’s what
makes it a Metal Gear.
Satiating your appetite by answering old questions and then asking some thought-provoking ones of its own, MGS4 salutes the player in style
THE
END
Stealth through
the ages
Series hero Solid Snake
burst onto the scene back
in 1987 with the game
Metal Gear on the MSX.
A few years later this was
followed up by the sequel
Metal Gear 2: Solid Snake.
It would be many a year
and an entire perspective
shift until the series would
resurface. Metal Gear Solid
was released in 1998 on the
PlayStation to thunderous
acclaim and cemented the
series in the annals of gam-
ing history. The controver-
sial PS2 title Metal Gear
Solid 2: Sons of Liberty
followed suit in 2001, earn-
ing a place in the Guiness
Book of World Records re-
cently. MGS3: Snake Eater
emerged after that, inno-
vating the stealth genre yet
again. (see below)

