felix@imperial.ac.uk
Travel
Travel Editors – Ahran Arnold, Nadine Richards and Ammar Waraich
A few forgotten gems of travel
Ammar Waraich understands that you are all sick of him and his visit to East Africa. He promises that
this will be the last you will hear of it as he shares a few previously unmentioned ‘essential’ experiences
O
ver the past academic
year I have written ex-
tensively about the two
months I spent visiting
East Africa last sum-
mer. It was a remarkable adventure that
I wouldn’t exchange for anything else
in the world, and I hope that those of
you who have had the time to read my
pieces gained some insight into what
my experience was like. I also hope that
it has provided some impetus for your
own travel plans and displayed the im-
portance of travel in the broadening of
horizons, as a necessary part of what I
like to call ‘real education’. Through
my previous articles I have attempted
to thoroughly elucidate the bits of my
journey I thought would most interest
student readers, but now I am present-
ing a few gems that could not fit into
the themes of those articles. So, dear
readers, I hope you enjoy this special
end-of-year-edition of ‘essential expe-
riences‘ as a parting goodbye!
Essential Experience 1 – Climbing
Mount Kilimanjaro
At nearly 6000 metres high, Mount
Kilimanjaro in Tanzania, or ‘Kili’ as it
is often known, is the tallest mountain
in Africa and its summit is the high-
est point in Africa. It is also one of the
largest volcanoes on Earth and is the
world’s tallest free-standing moun-
tain. Although scaling it sounded like a
daunting task at first, I felt more at ease
when I considered that it requires no
technical expertise or equipment and
that it is summitted by many people
on a daily basis. Trips can be booked
on arrival and they cost about 500 US
dollars per person. Climbing Kili was
the final highlight in Africa for me,
and I arrived in Arusha beguiled at the
sight of a mountain overshadowing
this small but active town. Waking up
the next day, I booked my trip and paid
my fee in cash before looking up once
again to notice what appeared to be a
permanent cloud in the sky beyond the
mountain I had been observing.
I gradually realised that in fact THAT
was Kili and the mountain by Arusha
was the relatively smaller Mount Meru!
The trek to the top suddenly seemed
daunting once again. The most popular
route to the top is the Marangu route,
which takes climbers up one face of
the mountain and back in 5 days with
accommodation in purpose-built huts
along the way. This congested route ap-
peals the most to your average ‘tick the
box’ tourist and offers a higher level of
comfort but, if being herded like cattle
isn’t your thing, the 6-day return Ma-
chame route can be undertaken. This
is the most interesting and scenic route
up the mountain, and takes the clients
in a circle around Kili as they ascend
through gorgeous valleys and jungles.
This route only has accommodation in
tents and was the route I chose.
The climb itself was not tough in the
beginning. Constant rain and dense
fog complicated things, while the ter-
rain was thick jungle at first, becoming
sparse tundra-like growth and then
finally a craggy, rocky landscape with
cacti. The temperature was steadily
dropping as we went higher but the
stop-overs were at campsites that were
surprisingly well-equipped.
I was being accompanied by one
34 felix Friday 20 June 2008
My Kilimanjaro expedition team – one guide, two porters and I
guide and two porters who carried all
our luggage and equipment. It is a ne-
cessity for anyone climbing Kili to have
at least this many paid ‘employees’ and
when considering a Kili expedition, the
well-being of these ‘employees’ is one
of the most important ethical consid-
erations to make, in addition to the
environmental degradation that you as
one of the hundreds upon hundreds of
tourists will cause.
The dilemma is that the porters and
guides tend to try and save on spend-
ing by using old and inappropriate
equipment. Even though it is consid-
ered to be an easier climb than other
mountains, repeatedly doing Kili is
a physically demanding task and im-
proper preparation can be severely
detrimental to the guides’ and porters’
health. It is a responsible tourist’s duty
to make sure that their team uses ade-
quate equipment, even if it means that
they fork out for both theirs and their
escort’s equipment hire. Sadly though,
Meal for one. Believe me, this was not appetising
The shadow of Kili on Mount Meru at sunrise
Above the clouds
Proof that I reached the top!
The register at base camp
many tourists inadvertently overlook
this and I saw naive tourists even agree
to luxury expeditions where porters
were made to carry useless items such
as tables and chairs all the way to the
summit, on top of everything else. A lot
of this can be reduced by booking with
a reputable company, and this will also
guarantee a better quality expedition.
Unfortunately, despite the above,
caution is still needed when dealing
with these guides and porters, as they
are known for being very aggressive
with regards to tipping. In my case,
the very porters that I had taken great
care in being nice to were the ones who
ganged up on me close to the end of
the expedition to try and bully outra-
The arduous jurney to the top through valleys and jungles

