felix@imperial.ac.uk Travel
35
Friday 20 June 2008 felix
geous, extortionate tips out of me. As
I was travelling alone they tried to ex-
ercise greater power over me but I did
not give in and phoned the boss of the
company as soon as I could, who called
them off. Having to deal with this
when no help was available to me was
a really unpleasant experience and in
hindsight, my advice would be to clear
this prevalent issue with the company
before starting out.
Anyway, as we got to the third day
of the climb, things started to become
challenging. I could feel the air getting
thinner and I became out of breath a lot
more easily. The guide was cooking me
food that was bland and unappetising
so I also gave up on eating. The tem-
perature was very low and the biting
wind and cold necessitated a balaclava.
All in all, I was feeling tired, alone and
disheartened.
The distance that we had to cover
every day was very long and slowly
I toiled my way to the day before the
summit attempt. However, that night
we were only to sleep for four hours
before starting at midnight for the final
push to the top. At this point, the al-
titude sickness had kicked in properly
and my head and vision seemed to be
physically pulsating with a throbbing
headache, the worst I have ever had.
The altitude now was 5000m and I
was to climb the remaining 1000m or
so over the next half a day. We were
scheduled to arrive at the summit in
the early morning before the sun’s heat
had a chance to generate cloud from
the evaporation of the snow and ice at
the peak, as it did on a daily basis.
Waking up for the final climb at mid-
night was a real struggle and I was im-
mediately out of breath upon waking
but obviously I felt that I could not give
up having gotten this far. A full moon
was out and I could see the flashlights
of a few climbers who had set out be-
fore us winding up the mountainside
ahead of me. We made a decision to be
slow but steady.
As we proceeded at the frustratingly
unhurried pace, some of the more ea-
ger climbers were retreating past us,
descending to prevent serious altitude
sickness. My guide assured me I would
not get this if we stuck to our strategy
and I put my trust in his experience.
As we climbed, the stunning view
became much better and I could make
out the coast, Zanzibar Island, road
networks, Arusha, Moshi, Daar-es-
Salaam and the vast plains of Tanza-
nia, all lit up under the light of the full
moon. Yet the effects of altitude sick-
ness continuously became poorer and
my stamina, vision and headache were
all worsening. Stupid determination
would still not let me stop or retreat
though.
An arduous few hours later, we were
very close to the end and the sun rose
over a blanket of clouds below us. To
this orange backdrop we arrived at the
peaks at the top of Kili that were sur-
rounding a very wide crater. The tallest
of these was Uhuru Peak and was snow
capped, littered with melting glaciers.
This was the one we set off on but at
this point though, something odd hap-
pened. I appeared to lose my mind.
I started hearing my mum and sister’s
voices calling to me! I remember a mo-
ment of grave uncertainty and irration-
ality hitting me as I had to sluggishly
react and make certain that they had
not been travelling with me all along
and that I was alive and awake. I then
bizarrely proceeded to call my guide
“Sam” then “Simon” before finally pin-
ning his real name “Max” down, using
great intellectual energy and concen-
tration. Beyond this, I cannot remem-
ber much of what happened but I made
it to the summit where Max got some-
one else to take a photo of us as proof
but apparently I was sporadically walk-
ing around in circles while insisting on
lying flat on my back at other times.
This was pretty bad altitude sickness
and any intelligent person would have
chosen to swallow their pride and de-
scend to avoid risking their brain. But
I had to be different, as always. I really
cannot recommend enough adding an
extra day to the itinerary for acclimati-
sation regardless of the extra cost and
it is regrettable that I did not have the
patience for it. When I regained my
senses and memory, we were on our
way down again. This was a real joy as
firstly, it was a lot quicker, and second-
ly, the more I went down, the more my
headache lessened!
I was in such a rush to get away from
the mountain by now that I forced the
entire team to trek all the way back to
the exit of the park, and then to take
late night buses to Arusha via Moshi
on the same day as summitting. Thus,
we completed the 6 day Machame
route in 5 days.
Essential Experience 2 – Safari in
the Maasai Mara
Going on safari is another one of those
‘tick the box’ things anyone who vis-
its Africa must do. In the time I spent
there, I went to many different safari
parks including famous ones such as
Ngorogoro crater, Amboseli and Lake
Nkuru but the one I recommend above
all others is the Maasai Mara. It con-
sists of a smoothly carved hilly land-
scape and a sea of waving golden grass,
dotted with eccentric but picturesque
lone trees. I would go as far as to say
that it is the only park visitors need to
see when considering Safaris in East
Africa as it really is the best one.
One of the reasons it is so great is that
the authorities let you get closer to the
animals here than anywhere else. This
is really good for watching animals
and photography but as with all good
things, it comes attached with an ethi-
cal cost of heavy erosion to the animal
habitat and at the cost of disturbing
animal behaviour. I cannot justify or
condone this for mine or anyone else’s
amusement but the authorities appear
to manage this well, shutting down ar-
eas they think are too heavily damaged
to allow recovery and the drivers ap-
pear to co-operate with these rules.
But on the other hand I saw some
drivers in the Maasai Mara, especially
those in large overland buses, (that
I would advise EVERYONE to steer
clear of – the worst imaginable way to
see Africa), who would really pester
animals and disturb vital behaviour
such as hunting. This was inexcusable.
Further unpleasantness was caused
by assertive Maasai tribesmen. Be-
ing the indigenous people here, their
‘culture’ is somewhat of a tacky tourist
exploit that has evolved into a forceful
display of anger towards anyone who
takes their photo and does not pay
them for it, or anyone who does not
buy their shabby ‘cultural’ wares or en-
tertain their pricy ‘cultural exhibitions’.
With a little precaution and sensibility,
this can be avoided altogether.
Looking past all the above, though,
Nearly at the top... ! Just before altitude sickness got the best of me
A team of adventurers power on ahead of us
The lonely but picturesque trees A giraffe. In case you couldn’t tell

