felix@imperial.ac.uk
Travel
there is nothing like the feeling of hav-
ing to search for and track wildlife in
the wild and there is nothing like the
experience of taking your time watch-
ing them from up close while they en-
act their normal lives.
My most memorable wildlife experi-
ence was the time I spent alone with
a family of lions. My driver and I left
early to find some active hunts and
chanced upon a family of these large
cats gorging on a fresh wildebeest kill.
It was an electric feeling hearing them
pant over the kill as they cracked ribs
and shared the meat, knowing all the
while that if I was to dare to step out-
side my vehicle, I would share the same
fate as the wildebeest.
Other such experiences were my first
ever leopard and cheetah sightings.
The leopard we encountered acciden-
tally in the undergrowth before work-
ing hard at tracking it for a further 5
hours, all for a handful of photographs;
while the cheetah we spotted in the
open savannah plains, but in the greed
of watching it sprint and hunt, we
ended up wasting a whole day watch-
ing it merely roll about on its sides re-
peatedly. Despite their tediousness, the
patience required for these sightings
made them really satisfying when they
did happen.
To get the complete bush experience,
I also camped out under the stars and
amongst the wildlife at certain other
safari parks. At Lake Nakuru I was (un)
lucky enough to witness a family of 7
lions encircle my camp, while at Am-
boseli, it was hyenas and elephants
encircling causing a bit of a racket. But
while doing so, I also learnt to watch
out for pests such as the Vervet Mon-
keys and Baboons of Lake Nakuru who
physically and unashamedly snatched
food from my hands and stole food
from my vehicle.
Essential Experience 3 – Visiting
Uganda
While visiting East Africa, do not
miss out on Uganda. I nearly over-
looked it in favour of Rwanda and Con-
go but it holds many great attractions.
A great place to start is the source of
the Nile River at Jinja, on the edge of
Lake Victoria. This is one of the few
places on Earth where you can experi-
ence white-water rafting in class 6 rap-
ids, the fiercest form of rapids.
Wikipedia describes class 6 rapids as:
“so dangerous as to be effectively un-
navigable on a reliably safe basis. Raft-
ers can expect to encounter substantial
whitewater, huge waves, huge rocks
and hazards, and/or substantial drops
that will impart severe impacts beyond
the structural capacities and impact
ratings of most all rafting equipment.
Traversing a class 6 rapid has a dramat-
ically increased likelihood of ending in
serious injury or death compared to
lesser classes”.
I was obviously not skilled enough to
take on the class 6 rapids, but proudly
managed to complete class 5 rapids.
However, the thrill was more than
matched by the fear I experienced
every time I fell out of the raft and was
dragged through underwater streams
and amongst rocks for periods lasting
up to a minute, while my limbs were
pulled in all directions.
While the above is evidently not for
the faint-hearted, a visit to the serene
Lake Bunyoni may be. Found in the
south of the country this beautiful and
still lake is the perfect place to unwind
for a day or two. Walks amongst lo-
cal villages and boating opportunities
between the many islands of the lake
made it a great spot of relaxation and
photography for me.
Uganda also offers the rare opportu-
nity to track chimpanzees in its forests.
Kibale Forest National Park in western-
ish Uganda has the highest concentra-
tion of primates in the world and has
well trained guides that can help you
track chimps but personally I found
it to be a bit expensive, tedious and
tiring. But I cannot deny that the few
glimpses I got of the shy chimpanzees
in the wild were a lot of fun.
As far as cities go, Uganda has my fa-
vourite city in East Africa – Kampala.
It has a great hustle bustle to it and a
stimulating design. I thoroughly en-
joyed the varied international cuisine
and photographic opportunities of
the crazy taxi stand and market stalls.
Moreover, it offered a vibrant shop-
ping scene and a charming landscape,
being dominated by a hill on which
stood a mosque commissioned by Idi
Amin on one side, flanked by another
hill on which stood a Hindu temple! It
was also good banter scooting around
on the zippy motorbike taxis here as
well as discovering the only Nandos
restaurant in East Africa. Being an ad-
dict of Nandos, this really was a god-
send. But a bit more quirkiness can be
found in a visit to the second largest
city of Uganda, Fort Portal. It is basi-
cally built around one main road and
peculiarly, is the home of a delicious
bakery improbably tucked into one
corner of the town that sells amazing
cakes and is raved on about by all the
tourists and locals combined. It also
has a few weird little eateries and a
super-cool mosque. The people here
I found to be the friendliest and most
curious out of all in East Africa.
A young male lion resting in the golden grass of the Maasai Mara
A cheetah on the lookout
A baboon. Obviously The white rhino
Nandos in Kampala: godsend
The source of the Nile at Jinja in Uganda Central Kampala
36 felix Friday 20 June 2008

