felix sport Send in your sport reports:
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
High resolution photos only
T
hursday night saw the Rid-
ing and Polo Club trip to
the La Martina National
University Polo Champi-
onships get off to a relaxed
start and a pleasant jaunt up the M40
to Leamington Spa. With two newly
founded teams entered in different
sections of the tournament our spir-
its were high and we were all looking
forward to a fun weekend. With many
of us seeing the end of exams during
the week things looked good despite
a couple slight navigational mishaps,
particularly when outdated iPhone
technology lead us astray down dark
and winding back lanes.
Friday came with an excitable air
which perhaps contributed to one
fluffy haired physicist’s ‘baptism of fire’
when he attempted to blow out a minor
pan fire which, as one observer com-
mented, “went woof!” leaving him with
slightly shorter eyelashes. Our nerves
began to build as we watched the ini-
tial chukkas (matches) and both teams’
first games didn’t really go to plan.
The first games didn’t have many
highlights, but a couple of moments
stood out. 1st’s captain Jon Matthews
got sandwiched between two Reading
players causing his already fractured
wrist to get crushed and his subse-
quent cry of pain and appeal led to
a harsh technical ruling against him
much to the dismay of fellow players
Suzie Coats and Trish Haylock-Vize.
In the 2nd team match captain Monya
Zard, Emma Banks and Alex Savell
played a frustrating match where the
best moment was one players bout of
‘severe spatial awareness impairment’
when they briefly forgot which way we
were shooting. Despite this, we were
all ready to attack our second games
with a great deal more experience of
the outdoor game.
The afternoon’s ponies turned out
to be a more spirited bunch than the
morning, particularly Jon’s, which took
something of a dislike to him with Jon
looking ever less secure in his saddle.
The 1st’s looked much stronger despite
this and in a grudge match against ULU
we achieved a respectable 1-0 result,
unfortunately in ULU’s favour. Some
strange event known as the “RSM Final
Finale” having drawn our Geologists
away and the 1st’s matches being over,
Suzie was tasked to fill in Emma’s slot
in the 2nd’s. Our most capable rider
took her favourite horse… Jon’s. Fortu-
nately, the gelding was more amenable
to a female rider and Monya slowly
brought Canario back down from his
frenzied state. The 2nd’s, like the 1st’s
looked much stronger in the second
match, but unfortunately conceded
two early goals before taking control of
the chukka.
With one day down we were up for
a good night and had a great evening
hanging out with the Brummie teams
for drinks and general banter. One
player had a rather more eventful
night, meeting a cluster of four ‘inex-
pertly parked’ vehicles at high speed.
Trish escaped the pile-up unscathed,
unlike her newly repaired Micra, but
barely slept before the morning.
Saturday saw a host of new teams and
a few replacements for the IC sides:
a full change of the 2nd’s as Carlotta
Ridolfi, Ellie Hughes and Taz Zim-
merman replaced three slightly sore
team members and Nick Jahn emerged
from the depths of Chem Eng revision
to sub in for Suzie on the 1st’s, giving
them their most aggressive combina-
tion for the second day. After watching
a few games, the 2nd’s headed off for
their chukka against Birmingham. De-
spite losing the match, all three came
off the pitch grinning from ear to ear
having thoroughly enjoyed the new
experience.
The 1st’s’ two remaining chukka’s
were our best chances for wins and the
aggressive line-up did not disappoint
with Jon Matthews putting them 1-nil
up against St. Andrew’s and they fol-
lowed this up with an impressive 2-nil
victory in their final and fastest chukka
dismounting with a new swagger in
their steps (especially Jon with his goal
tally now at three). In true Imperial
style, half our teams were then drawn
away by revision, but this did leave us
with the most experienced set of 2nd’s
available and they were raring for their
last chukka. Of course, knowing when
it was would’ve helped.
With chukka’s running late and
threats of teams being “penalised and
whipped” by the organiser, Mike Hob-
day, we eventually figured it out, a typo
meant we weren’t on the list and there
were no longer horses available so our
chukka had to be pushed back until
the morning; after the eventful official
players party.
Though Imperial kept their idiocies
to a minimum, the same could not be
said for all. Mike, whose escapades
manage to do in one night what the en-
tire Rugby team might take the whole
of Fresher’s week to accomplish, was
found vomiting in the Portaloos and we
later discovered that the middle aged
man had similarly frequented a large
number of bushes; just reward for pull-
ing one of the girls on the dance floor...
while attired in a floral dress. Also on
the honours list were the players that
used their Fiesta to “place a gate where
it was not wanted”, crashing through a
fence at 40 mph.
The final day started furiously with
fast play leading to a few falls and one
visit by the air ambulance. The 2nd’s
took to the pitch with adrenaline
pumping and determined to come back
with a strong result. A free hit gave us
our first real chance and Monya took
it forwards allowing Suzie to make it
1-0. A good break quickly put us head-
ing towards our opponent’s goal again
with Monya’s pass allowing Alex to
score sealing the victory.
Knackered and sunburnt we spent
the afternoon supporting the other
teams including a victorious ‘Bath Spa’
team captained by our own Jon Mat-
thews after Bath Spa themselves failed
to turn up. In the end a very tired set
of players slumped into their seats on
the bus to talk of plans for the winter
tournament next year all of us know-
ing that we want to come home with a
trophy (for Imperial next time!).
Polo’s summer outing up the M40
Alex Savell reports as Imperial’s Riding and Polo Club get stuck in at the University Polo Nationals
The 2nd’s Carlotta Ridolfi turns her opposite number
One of the St. Andrew’s girls feels the pressure in a ride-off from the 1st’s
The 1st team’s Trish Haylock-Vize in full swing
ROSIE
SMITHELLS

