8 felix Friday 20 June 2008
politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
International
Headlines from around the globe
The world beyond College walls...
Washed-Up Feet
Canada
Over the past 11 months, six severed feet have been
found washed up onto the shores of British Columbia,
Canada. The sixth foot was found on Wednesday and
has the Canadian Police theorising over their origin.
Suspected causes of the appearance of the feet include
drownings, missing fishermen or the remains of people
who died in a plane crash. All the above would explain
the severance at the ankle, the precision of which almost
certainly rules out the possibility of foul play. The police,
who are literally stumped, admit to it being, “s very
unusual situation,” and having to “explore all avenues and
investigate all theories.”
30 Years For Mann?
Equatorial Guinea
Simon Mann, a British mercenary and former commando,
went on trial in Equatorial Guinea earlier this week accused of
plotting a coup to take over the country. The prosecutors in the
case originally sought the death penalty for Mr Mann, although
they have since agreed to follow the dictates of international
law. Because Mr. Mann is accused of having committed
crimes in multiple countries, a sentence of 30 years is the
sternest punishment available. Sixty-six other mercenaries
were involved in the plot, including, according to Mr. Mann,
Margaret Thatcher’s son Sir Mark Thatcher. The result of the
trial is expected imminently.
I
would like to begin with
an abject apology. For
two weeks now, in writ-
ing about the situation
Zimbabwe, the map has
displayed an arrow pointing to
neighbouring Botswana. This is
unacceptable from an interna-
tional news section, as Stephen
Neethling so rightly pointed out.
What else can I say. Hopefully,
these mistakes will get ironed
out over the course of next year.
This week’s stories are pretty
diverse; arguably the most im-
portant of which are that a Brit-
ish citizen is being tried in Equa-
torial Guinea for an attempted
coup four years ago, and that the
Taliban control over the Kan-
dahar Province of Afghanistan
has been virtually eliminated.
Severed feet keep making
sporadic appearances on the
coastline of Brtish Columbia,
Chinese South Africans have
officially been classified as be-
ing ‘black’, and, of course, the
troubles in Zimbabwe contin ue
This week I especially want
to thank a handful of members
of the Felix staff who helped me
hack this out this week: need-
less to say, any factual errors
rest entirely on their shoulders.
I hope you’ve enjoyed this sec-
tion for the last few weeks, in
theory if not in practice. If you do
have any suggestions as to how
this feature could be improved, it’s
a bit late now but I would still be
more than happy to hear from you.
Have a fantastic summer, and get
your news from somewhere else.
End of an Era
Felix
Issue 1,408 is here and with it comes the end of Tom
Roberts’ term as Felix editor. Though the official
announcement will probably never make it to the
international headlines, it’s the sort of information that
deserves to be distributed. Rumours that the editor may
get a knighthood are as yet unconfirmed by the Palace.
Gilead Amit

