Booze
Myths Surrounding Alcohol
• Beer is weaker than spirits. Not true—there are
ingredients in beer that make absorption and hence
drunkeness slower than in spirits, but the important
factor is the amount of alcohol consumed, not its form.
• Alcohol is a stimulant. Not true-the initial effects of
drinking are mild relaxation and elation, but this is due
to alcohol's depressant effect on the brain.
• Alcohol warms you up. Not true-alcohol raises the
pulse and blood pressure causing a misleading feeling of
warmth. In fact alcohol causes the body to lose heat.
• Drinking black coffee, having a cold shower or getting
fresh air helps 'sober you up'. Not true-the only thing
that does this is time.
• A liquid lunch is a substitute for food. Not true-alcohol
may be filling, but it does not constitute a sufficient
dietary intake.
• You can drown your sorrows. Not true-alcohol
depresses the brain's activity. More often than not
drinking will increase feelings of unhappiness or
depression.
• Alcohol helps you sleep. Not true—after drinking,
people often suffer insomnia through waking up during
the night.
Alcohol-free Cocktails
*Dream City Tail glass, kirly straw
Half pineapple juke, half red grape juice.
Do not fill glass to brim, leave about two inches from top, Liquidise
and serve with cherry and orange. Sweet creamy cocktail.
•Green Goddess Tall glass, kirly straw
Pineapple and mint
Fill glass to two inches from the brim with pineapple juice, add a cap
full of mint syrup. Liquidise and serve with green cherry and orange.
Mint creamy cocktail.
•Yellow Road Cocktail glass, kirly straw
White grape juke, passion fruit juke and Pastis
Fill glass nearly to brim with white grape juice, add small amount of
passion fruit and a cap full of pastis. Do not liquidise. Aniseed
tasting cocktail.
•Tropical Surprise Cocktail glass, kirly straw
'10 fruits', Pastis
Fill glass nearly to brim, add cap full of pastis and stir. Aniseed
tasting cocktail.
•Tim's Brew Cocktail glass, kirly straw
Red grape juke, Pastis
Fill glass nearly to brim with red grape juice, add a cap full of pastis,
stir. Aniseed tasting cocktail.
•Mayor's Limo Wine glass, bendy straw
Alcohol-free wine, orange juice
Half fill glass with wine, add orange juice to brim, add cherry and
orange. Long cool cocktail.
B O O Z - A L L E N & H A M I L T O N
The world's largest firm of top level Strategy and
Technology Management Consultants is growing
rapidly in Europe and welcomes applications from
outstandingfinalyear undergraduates for the
London-based position of Business Analyst.
OPEN PRESENTATION
at The Rembrandt Hotel,
11 Thurloe Place,
London SW7 on
Thursday 8th December 1988
at 6.30 pm
B O O Z A L L E N & H A M I L T O N
MANAGEMENT CONSULTANTS

