Letters
Uncaring
College?
Dear FELIX,
Three years ago my brother was poisoned by
one of the chemicals he was using as part of the
third year laboratory course of his Chemistry
degree at this College. After spending eight
weeks in intensive care and a further one and a
half years in hospital he is left requiring a stick
to walk and with permanent brain damage.
He returned to College last year to finish his
course with the result that he was awarded a 3rd
class degree by the Department. Previous to the
accident he had been capable of at least an upper
second. I would have thought that on purely
compassionate grounds the College could have
made some allowance for the difficulties which
he had undergone; the months when even the
weight of a sheet caused agonsing pains in his
legs, the recurrent hallucinations and nightmares
caused by the prolonged stay in intensive care,
the list goes on but would, I feel, be of little
interest to the College authorities.
I can only hope that at the very least the
incident highlights the College's attitude to the
undergraduates about whose welfare it professes
to be concerned.
I would add for anyone thinking of a retort that
they may find their hollow excuses fall on ears
as deaf to them as their own were to my brother's
case. 1 realise that the College is purportedly a
centre of excellence, but at what price excellence?
Yours,
7 Healy, Elec Eng
Mathematics
Comment
Dear Editor,
After the last two issues of FELIX I find that
I must comment about an article, two editorials
and a letter.
1. Article headed 'Maths Room' (11 November,
p5)
The views attributed to me about the disposition
of Mathematics lecture theatre 213 in Huxley and
about Mathematics Department Academic Staff
are not ones which I hold and I would not express
them in such an offensive way even if I did. It
is also distressing that you should elicit
information for a congratulatory (?) piece about
an increase in Mathematics undergraduate
recruiting and misrepresent it instead as a grouse
about Physics timetabling. Despite the
implication of your article, I was unaware of any
such difficulty.
2. Editorial (11 November, p3 and 18 November,
p3)—Letter from a student (18 November, p2)
It would, of course, be invidious for me to
comment about the academic progress of a
particular student. However, I would like to point
out that the particular accusation that you make
with regard to examination resits is quite false,
as the student himself states. I am in complete
agreement with the content of his letter—with the
very minor exception that the letter he received
was from our Head of Department, but with my
wholehearted endorsement. No student could be,
or would be, refused any resit to which he/she
was entitled under University Regulations. Your
understanding of the situation is quite wrong and
you should withdraw your accusation, rather
than imply that you have special knowledge.
Yours sincerely,
F H Berkshire, Director of Undergraduate Studies.
A Frank
opinion
Dear Editor,
An item in the editorial column of last week's
FELIX strongly implied that the Mathematics
Department have improperly refused to allow a
student to resit examinations. This is a false and
offensive suggestion. No students in this
Department have been deprived of their right to
resit any examination they have failed.
Yours sincerely,
F G Leppington.
A second
Frank opinion
Dear Editor,
Editorial articles in the last two issues of FELIX
(11 and 18 November) have suggested that the
Mathematics Department has tried to deprive a
student of his right to resit examinations. This
is false and offensive.
Your persistence in repeating this serious
accusation, in spite of correspondence that
pointed out the error, is astonishing and
mischievous and beyond the bounds of
reasonable journalism. Your 'understanding of
the situation' is incorrect.
Let me set the record straight. No students have
been or will be deprived of their rights to resit
examinations; no attempt has been made to take
such a vindictive course of action.
Yours sincerely,
F G Leppington, Head of Department of
Mathematics.
No Problems
in Physics
Dear Editor,
Your news item headed 'Maths Room' (FELIX,
11th Nov) suggests that the increased Maths
intake this year has led to timetable problems in
Physics, The writer appears to have been
unaware that the Physics Department
relinquished (apart from one or two lectures a
year) the use of Theatre 213 in Huxley well over
a year ago so that the consequent changes to the
Physics timetable could not possibly have had
anything to do with the increased Maths intake
this year. A quick check with any 2nd Year
Physics student would have confirmed this. As
I explained to the FELIX reporter who telephoned
me, we relinquished the use of Theatre 213 in
Huxley as part of a Colle;;e-wide rationalisation
of the use of lecture theatres. The only new
development on tl ront this year was that a
single lecture on - . Wednesday of term was
rescheduled. Th are very good relations
between Physic aths and I hope that your
news item has >ed any Physics students
to feel that ,.-.ve been in any way
disadvantaged 1; ie increased Maths intake this
year.
Yours sincerely,
Gareth /ones, Director of Undergraduate
Studies in Physics.
Replies to last
weeks letters
Dear Editor,
Dave Thomas could quite easily have had the
answer to his queries if he had had the common
sense to come to see me. AH stationery items,
unless priced by the company concerned, are less
than the recommended retail price. All books are
priced by the publishers. We are not allowed by
a legal agreement to alter that price. Incidentally,
'Ecology' by Begon, Harper & Townsend is
£15.75 in IC Bookshop, and has been since July
1987. With regard A4 copy safe pockets, if Mr
Thomas would care to buy some for 4p; the
Bookshop would like to order 200 each of the
eight colours, and to show my generous nature,
I will give him 5p each! The Bookshop is owned
by the Students' Union, so we have to make a
profit. That is why Library carrier bags are sold
in the Library at cost, and if we sell any, we make
2p. Bookshop carrier bags are free! So, if Mister
Thomas would care to come and see me, he can
be quoted Recommended Retail Price, and then
he can choose our price or the manufacturers.
Roy Hicks, Bookshop Manager.
Overworked
operators
Dear FELIX,
Just a few lines to explain to Miss Warren what
our job consists of. We deal with over eighteen
hundred external calls a day, that's without the
internal help we give, not forgetting that half our
external callers are from overseas calling for
students.
We also have phone gradings to deal with,
telephone bills and telephone moves to deal with.
We try out best to help as many people as we
can, if anyone would like to try and do better they
are very welcome to try.
Yours faithfully,
Telephone Exchange.
Page 2 FELIX November 25 1988

