On the tube
O n a biting cold night whe-;
hid itself behind the clouds,
outside a tall imposing dance
he fog froze in the air and the moon
- wide-eyed waif stood shivering
I waiting for the crowds to come out.
In the eerie yellow light of the street lamps the majestic buildings of
Vienna cast dark forbidding shadows under which the ghosts ef the
past sang a sad song of decadance.
She longed for warmth. A coal fire burning in a small cosy room where
she could sip her hot tea and read a book in her comfortable and inviting
bed, or even the warmth of fumbling men desperately wanting to make
love to her in their sweat stained shirts and their dripping saliva smelling
of alchohol. The former was a dream, the latter remained the reality,
and her way to survive. But everyone needs warmth, just like human
beings need water to keep themselves alive, money to survive and love
to retain their sanity. Did it really matter then how one got these things?
What is right and wrong when it is a question of honour and disgrace?
When one is cold one does not think about such dilemmas. One just
does not think. The mind goes numb and the body tells you what to
do. The body does not know right from wrong.
The vast doors to the dance halls opened and extravagantly dressed
people poured out laughing and singing. She tried to recognise those
mens' faces among the herd whom she had been with and to see if
thev had a woman by their side. If she was ugly and stout then she
was probably their wife (the thought was comforting), otherwise a
whore. If a whore, then why not her instead. Was she growing old?
O h that is frightening indeed!
Her clientele was varied and quite colourful. She always asked the
men about themselves. Some did not want to talk but there were others
who wished to talk more than anything else. There were the fresh-faced
soldiers in their woollen hats and green uniforms who behind their
masquerades of tough young men were mere adolescents wanting to
see what life is really like before they were slaughtered in the carnage
on the battlefront; then there were the upper middle class men who
had wives and children, but their lives were too uneventful and seeking
this forbidden pleasure they found the excitement of little boys stealing
apples in an orchard. Occasionally pretty faced boys came up to her,
blushing with embarrassment, trembling with fear and lust, and not
knowing what to say. She felt sorry for them because they had
undoubtedly been pestered and dared by their'friends to lose their
virginity. She made a very good listener and showed her understanding
.in the conventional expressions of sympathy.
Maria was born in a large family of eight brothers and sisters. Their's
was a dingy and morbid house, overcrowded, disorganised and above
this sad existence prevailed an overpowering stench of human faeces.
Her father had sent her away at the age of nine to work in rich peoples'
houses, wash the dishes, wipe the floors and entertain the children.
There was nothing her mother could have done to let her stay, she did
not have the will. Her masters were not always nice to her, the pay
was low and all she got to eat were the leftovers. At the age of fourteen
a friend of her persuaded her to run away to a more promising life.
She ended up on the streets of Vienna selling her body to anyone who
cared. She and countless other women like her were the indispensible
Pariahs of the society. Condemned and damned, they were nevertheless!
gears in the machinery and, ironically, very human too. She often had
the money to buy a new dress, she even had the memory of the
whispered words of love in her ear by so many men. But her's was
a false world; a world that had been pronounced morally wrong by
priests and law-givers whose hypocrisy and corrupt values were neve:
questioned. She could not find solace in religion. Her parents had beei
religious but that had not given her any comfort. The men who callei
on her went to Church on Sundays but did that make them better human
beings? Neither did she have a lover, somebody with whom she could
talk to and snuggle up to on cold evenings.
Maria did not have many friends. In a way that
was not her choice. But she never mixed with her
fellow women who often got together and
gossiped and laughed about their latest exploits.
They used to sit around a table in their favourite
cafe and 'the eldest mistress would take the
conversation in her own hands. She would then
,move from person to person asking intimate
questions, gently poking for details, taunting if
the bespoken girl was young and at the end of
each interview summing up her contorted version
of the hapless girl's life. That is when everybody
broke into empty laughter which was nervous
and too loud. Maria could not stand these social
occasions, she found them'an unbearable stress
on her being.
Every day in her life was the same, or worse.
She used to wake up with the taste of sleep in
her mouth and looked outside the windows to
find people buying vegetables in the makeshift
market. In the vast infinitum of time which was
her life, she could only remember the sounds
above the grey monotony of her existence: the
sounds of mules unloading their burden in the
cobbled street, raindrops falling on her window
pane, the heavy panting of her lovers, and her
stifled sobs. She often took long walks along the
Danube, watching all the young couples go by
holding hands and the mist rising from the
swirling waters into the heaven above. Days
passed like this and turned into years which
marked her face, but her life remained the same,
unchanging and joyless.
Emile Nizan, Elec Eng 2
London 1988.
dm kirn,
Rill shallk Mn$n$outa marts column entitlei 'ON
THE TUBE' my soon. Isklliwefu ajulllow-tun next
weekM itsuffices tosayhere thatweshall inclukfeatures,
stories, ofinions etc.
So watch Ms space.....
November 25 1988 FELIX
Page 23

