24 May 2002
Issue 1237
Should keep you amused for
Star Wars. Episode II.
Want it you know you
do... (Page 11)
Student Housing In Jeopardy
College authorities have approved plans
to sell Clayponds hall of residence in the
summer of 2003 for an estimated £8m.
Clayponds is situated in Ealing and hous-
es 332 students, mostly first year over-
seas postgraduates.
The College currently plans to refurbish
Southside and Bernard Sunley halls in the
Autumn of 2003. If these refurbishments
and the Clayponds sale both go ahead as
planned then the College will have to find
a least 300 extra bed-spaces just to keep
its guarantee of accommodation for all
first year undergraduates. There will be
no space for overseas post-graduates,
who are currently recognised as "priority
cases" for a place in halls once all first
year undergraduates have been housed.
Although the Rector's Committee on
Student Residences met last week, the
plans were not made public until a meet-
ing of the College Council last Friday. A n
angry meeting of the Union's Executive
Committee on Monday established that
College officials had failed to consult stu-
dent before approving the plan.
Clayponds: Going, going... gone in 2003
Professor Rees Rawlings, the Pro Rector
(Educational Quality), told Felix that "the
students should have been informed... it
should not have gone to College Council
as such a surprise."
Senior College officials attempted to
portray the decision as "cock-up, not con-
spiracy" and assured Felix that the guar-
antee of accommodation for all first-year
undergraduates would somehow be met.
In the long term this may involve the
construction of a new hall of residence
near to the South Kensington campus. In
the short term, it raises the possibility
that the sale of Clayponds may be
delayed until October 2004 or even 2005.
Mark Tyler, the Warden of Clayponds,
told Felix that "I'm disappointed with the
short-term view taken by the College."
He also questioned the College's commit-
ment towards overseas postgraduates.
Clayponds was bought for £12.5m in
the early 1990's and valued in 1996 at
£11.8m. A n informed source, citing the
recent surge in London's residential prop-
erty market, estimated that Clayponds
might actually be worth £15m, which
would leave the College w i t h an
unplanned cash surplus of £7m. Etienne
""Captain Ahab finally emerges from his cabin
_ f a f some me % ,
JwT. . >n e d from
wna'e ivory."
COLLECTION
i . i ^ ^ i ; ^
Imperial College and
Science Museum Libraries

