music reviews
LIVE: The White Stripes + The
Dirtbombs @ Shepherds Bush
Forget what you think you know about The White Stripes, (pic
above) The Strokes et al. If these bands are the saviours of rock,
sent to earth to defend us from the onslaught of shite pop
music, then The Dirtbombs have come to save them from the
inevitable slide into mediocrity.
Tonight, the five-piece from Detroit (including two drummers)
play a 45-minute set which is a re-education in rock 'n' roll and
the best show this correspondent has ever seen. The drum kit
falls off the platform, and they play on. The drum kit falls apart,
and they play on.
Within the first five (fantastic) songs, the lead guitarist
throws every rock star pose imaginable and comes over to join
the crowd. The band quite blatantly enjoy themselves, and this
feeling passes to the audience. They play amazing rock, roll,
funk and blues. They love it, and so does the crowd. They also
have the cutest tambourine player since, well, a long time ago.
If you see one band in the next year, make it this one. If you
buy one album in the next year, make it theirs. You owe it to
yourself and to the world to make this band HUGE. Open your
mind. Be educated.
Having said that, The White Stripes were amazing. Jack White
has more stage presence than it should be legally possible to
possess, and he is the only man in the world who can sing like
David Beckham on helium and still be totally cool.
Tonight, they play louder and harder than ever. Kicking off
with Dead Leaves and The Dirty Ground, Jack immediately has
the crowd right where he wants them. Fell in Love With a Girl
and Hotel Yorba produce scenes of mass chorus yelling and
pogoing. M e g looks on in a daze as Jack loses it to the music,
completely engrossed in his o w n little rock world. They play
everything the crowd could want, plus some new stuff which
sounds very promising indeed. Right now, they are one of the
best acts in the world. Catch them if you can.
B B B B B Dominic
OUT THIS WEEK
The following are due out on Monday 27 May:
A L B U M S
CKY - Volume 1
TETRA SPLENDOUR - Splendid Animation
SINGLES
A M E R I C A N H E A D C H A R G E - Just So You Know
GARLIC - Not Over Yet
GERLING - Dust Me Selecta
MISS B L A C K A M E R I C A - Talk Hard
S A H A R A HOTNIGHTS - With Or Without Control
SIX BY S E V E N - A l l M y N e w Best Friends
VINETTE - Lost In Berlin
Singles
Roundup
VINETTE - Lost In Berlin
Spanish guitars and slinky beats draw you into the world of
Vinette. When Lost In Berlin, she brings gospel, swing, soul and
R&B to the feet of the listener, with her rich and alluring vocals.
However, the lyrics let the show down, together with the pre-
dictable tempo changes and overall impression of a Eurovision
entry from one of those mid-table nations.
BBQOQ Sajini
G E M M A H A Y E S - Hanging A r o u n d
The single itself sounds a lot like P J Harvey, with the same
flowing vocals and rhythms. It's reasonable, but clearly not
what Gemma Hayes does best - the B-sides are where the real
quality lies, with pretty, sleepy tunes. The guitars lull, the voice
haunts, and altogether it's all really rather nice.
B B B B O Jamie
D J S H A D O W - You Can't Go Home Again
The A-side of this will probably surprise and confuse you, but
when you get used to the weird eighties bass, guitar and synth
and give it a chance, this proves to be an excellent return to the
studio. After a long Royksopp-esque beginning, it builds to a
superb breakbeat climax, but then you'd expect nothing less.
B B B B B Nick
DJ SHADOW COMPETITION!
We've got FIVE exclusive D J Shadow mix CDs to give away.
Each contains five selections from his forthcoming album The
Private Press.
QUESTION: What is the name of D J Shadow's ground-
breaking debut album?
(a) Endtroducing (b) Leftism (c) Fat Of The Land
Please email your answer, along with your name, year and
department, to music.felix@ic.ac.uk by Thursday 30 May.

