Pollock
portrait of a drunk
Starring E d Harris, directed by E d Harris, a movie about one
of the twentieth century's most influential artists.
Abstract expressionist painter Jackson Pollock was in the
fifties the most famous artist in the world. His paint by dripping
technique had rocked the art estabishment and today his work
is worth millions. His unhappy personal life, alcoholism, and
premature death in a car crash also contributed to his legendary
status.
Pollock paints a brutal and depressing picture of a flawed
genius who sought recogniton and at the same time stayed true
to his art. Jackson Pollock is the archetypal artist. Unhappy,
temperamental, arrogant, and at the same time a perfectionist,
a devotee to his work. However, the inner conflict which is the
source of artistic inspiration lead in Pollock's case to an eventu-
al and somewhat inevitable self-destruction.
The opening scenes of this biopic have Pollock, wasted,
climbing up the stairs loudly shouting, "fuck Picasso, fuck
Picasso!" This sets the trend for the rest of the movie. It alter-
nates between periods where Pollock is out of control, drunk,
and abusing his wife, Lee Krasner (oscar nominated Marcia Gay
Harden), and moments where he is in his element, frenetically
painting in an almost trance-like mania.
This movie is not about Pollock the artist. It is about Pollock
the man. Who was an artist. So strictly speaking it was about
Pollock the artist. But the two are inseparable and it is on that
point of fact that this movie slips up. The script touches upon
many themes in the artist's life but fails to give us any real
insight into what was going on inside Pollock's mind. The con-
flicts are self-evident but it is hard to relate to them and by the
end of the film Pollock remains a distant individual.
Ed Harris' oscar nominated performance is a brilliant example
of method acting. Previously to this, I had recently seen
Glengarry Glen Ross (1992), where Harris managed to shine in
one of the the greatest acting ensembles ever lined-up. But
Harris' performance in Pollock easily the highlight of his career.
So if you are sick of science here is a chance to see for yourself
what it is like to be a troubled artist.
D a r i U S
Star Wars: Episode II -
Attack of the Clones
First of all, I would just like to say, and I don't k n o w if you
agree w i t h me, that Star Wars: Episode I - The Phantom
Menace was an absolute disgrace.
It was pitiful. Too much politics and tax-dodging and not
enough wars in the stars. So before watching Star Wars:
Episode II - Attack Of The Clones, I was still tut-tutting about
how bad Episode I was, and quite frankly I was anticipating
more of the same.
Another factor that put Attack Of The Clones at a precon-
ceived disadvantage was a movie by the name of LotR: The
Fellowship Of The Ring. Peter Jackson's epic was so good that
Episode II had its work cut out already in making an impression
on me. Subconsciously, my judgement of the new Star Wars
movie would be the outcome of a direct comparison with the
excellent Lord Of The Rings movie.
Episode II is set ten years after The Phantom Menace attack
on the planet Naboo. After an attempt on Senator Padme
Amidala's (Natalie Portman) life, Jedi Obi-Wan Kenobi (Ewan
McGregor) and his pupil A n a k i n Skywalker (Hayden
Christensen) are sent to find the assassin. They discover that all
is not what it seems, and soon, an inter-galactic political con-
spiracy involving an army of clones, a bounty hunter called
Jango Fett, and a Sith Lord begins to unravel itself.
The story line, despite looking good on paper, is very pre-
dictable and, despite one twist, sticks to classic Hollyood for-
mula. What I found more interesting were the characters and
the in-jokes, especially, when Obi-Wan Kenobi, almost sarcasti-
cally says to Jar-Jar Binks, "it's great to see you back."
Fortunately, Jar-Jar does not feature heavily, but we have much
more of Yoda, who actually flexes his light-sabre muscles in a
memorable fight.
Episode II is better than Episode I. But not, in my mind, in the
same league as the original trilogy. The visuals are generally
astounding, (although C G is overused) the acting is good, and
the plot at least held my attention. But the highlight was the
John Williams soundtrack which really took me back to the
good old days.
0 0 0 0 n Alfonso Parelli

