reviews classic books
Moby Dick
Herbert Melville
Few would argue that Herbet Melville's Moby Dick is a classic
piece of American literature, yet even fewer would disagree that
the novel's opening line, "Call me Ishmael," evokes all the gravity
of the tragedy to follow.
Moby Dick is set at the height of the American whaling indus-
try, fuelled by the demand for the oil obtained from whale blubber.
Ishmael, our narrator, enlists on the infamous whaler from
Nantucket, The Pequod, for its three-year voyage hunting the vast
Sperm Whale. He and his companion, Queequeg, board the ship
without ever meeting its captain, signed instead by the ship's
owners. It is only when the ship is well under weigh for its trop-
ical hunting ground that Captain Ahab finally emerges from his
cabin to meet the crew, a fearsome man standing with one leg
fashioned from whale ivory. Ahab unequivocally declares his wish
for revenge against the whale that robbed him of a leg - a white
whale known as Moby Dick - known throughout the fishery for his
expertise at evading capture, feared for his speed and ferocity,
and recognised by his distinctive white skin.
The remainder of the novel takes the broad form of a classic
tragedy. Increasing unease about Ahab's vendetta and a range of
mysterious characters encountered throughout the story function
admirably as harbingers of doom. Surrounding this conflict and
the hunt itself is a vast array of subplots and diversions. Melville,
himself a whaler for a time, often lapses in to potentially unap-
pealing, detailed descriptions of whaling practice. Ishmael is
often prone to long discourses on a variety of other topics as well,
often with only a tenuous link to the story. This perhaps highlights
Melville's frustration regarding success of his previous work,
which had certainly failed to earn him much renown in literary
circles.
This book may have its difficulties for the modern reader. The
19th Century American-English is certainly a curiosity to those
used to classic English novels. Added to this is a heavy dose of
sea-faring language, though much of the important terminology is
explained and it certainly helps establish the atmosphere.
Whatever you think of the book's entertainment value, it's
undoubtedly worth a read, both as classic literature, and as yet
another study of humanity's endless flaws.
rapt , 1
•
]
' I f ;M fjj . M W I f c . ^JSSgjjjB
Brideshead Revisited
Evelyn Waugh
Brideshead Revisited was written by diarist Evelyn Waugh during
the Second World War. It was Waugh's first popular novel, as he
noted once saying that it lost him much of his colleagues' respect.
Despite this, Brideshead is well known for its exquisite language
and composition, as well as for its romantic portrayal of England's
past.
The narrator, Charles Ryder, first meets Lord Sebastian Flyte at
Oxford University and describes the growth of their friendship and
his eventual meeting with Sebastian's family. The Flytes live in
the archetypal world of early twentieth century aristocracy, evi-
denced on first sight by their family home - the mansion house of
a town called Brideshead.
Charles' relationship with the Flytes persists through his
University life, early career and beyond marriage. While his rela-
tionship with Sebastian becomes more sporadic throughout the
book, his sister Julia and mother both have strong influences dur-
ing his life. Many years after the events surrounding the family,
Charles returns to the house during wartime, where he relates in
some of the finest language the events of those years.
Brideshead Revisited was televised quite some time ago by the
BBC, maintaining much of Charles' soliloquy, which has thus
become so famous among the generation preceding ours. That
dramatisation fails, of course, to match the book's calibre, as many
of the underlying themes are lost in an attempt to represent the
epic plot to a television audience.
Evelyn Waugh described his work as a study of a connected
group of characters and has succeeded in style. Its paragraphs,
perhaps overly flowery for some, meander through the narrator's
life from late teens to forties, over seas and between complicated
relationships, decisions and consequences. Religion, war, politics,
sexuality, class and love all have a role to play in the narrative.
Some readers may find the style intolerably extravagant - even
Waugh edited some of the more indulgent passages when prepar-
ing later editions. Also, dramatic action may be found lacking, the
work instead taking a more salubrious approach through Charles'
experiences. Despite this, I would recommend this novel to any
reader wishing to witness English wielded by one of the finest
craftsmen of his art.

