Balance Of Power
Dear Felix,
Having read last week's "Israeli
response", I regret not having written to
praise the courage of people like Dr
Sahibzada, acting like human shields. I
don't want to do a reply to their letters
(although to lament that "taxpayers'
money" goes to finance the " U N emer-
gency refugee agency", when $3 billion a
year goes to Israel, with wagonloads of
US/UK weapons, is particularly heart-
less). Of course I'm no anti-semite, actual-
ly I think the Israel state is a great
achievement! But I've (slowly) realised
how unbalanced the middle-eastern con-
flict was. Perhaps we should look at U N
Security Council resolution (you know,
that international body...), that, in
October 2000 was "call[ing] on Israel, the
occupying power, to abide scrupulously
by its legal obligations." Similar interna-
tional decisions, calling for respect of
peace treaties and respect of the Geneva
conventions (duh?) are regularly vetoed
by the US (since 1976), eliminating them
from mainstream debate. Israel (the
"peaceful" state that pulled out of Egypt
and Lebanon only 20 years ago) has the
benefit of affording PR and lobbying, and
it shows. The death count goes on (simi-
larly un-balanced), and "an eye for an eye
makes the whole world blind..."
Well, that almost made me forget about
the US DoD/ " a private company" devel-
opping potential biological weapons (bot-
ulism) inside IC!
Matthew C
Francis Go Home
Dear Felix,
Why won't Francis go away? No-one
really cared when the election was on,
and those who did voted no. Is this such
a difficult concept to grasp? Surely he has
better things to do than continue a cru-
sade that was essentially flawed from the
start. A n d surely Felix isn't your personal
forum for continually trying to make your
point. I'll go now before I start swearing,
and will has to censor me.
Iain Angus
In Search Of Moderation
I've been following the highly emotive
debate that's been occurmg in the pages
of this august organ re: the Israel-
Palestine conflict for some time now, and
have noticed that most of the correspon-
dents so far have had pretty extreme
views on one side or the other. No doubt-
they themselves don't think so and need-
less to say, I think that my own views are
peculiarly moderate, too. You may dis-
agree.
I have problems with arguments that
demonise the Palestinians universally as
terrorists. I also have problems with much
of the criticism of Israel we hear in our
media; Britain has a long, disgraceul his-
tory of anti-Semitism and I fear that much
of the anti-Israeli sentiment expressed
under a pro-Palestinian, social justice flag
is in fact motivated by this ugly tendency.
I personally feel that much of the Israeli
military and political manouvering
recently has been despicable, but then so
have the horrific tactics of the Palestinian
freedom-fighters, rallying to the call of the
Intefada.
The striking thing about listening to
people from both sides is their willing-
ness to talk about atrocities perpertrated
against them in the past, in stark contrast
to their unwillingness to consider what
may happen in the future; Israeli incur-
sions are not plausible attempts to pre-
vent future suicide bombings - they are
quite transparent attempts to punish the
Palestinian population for giving succour
to Israel's enemies. Members of Hamas
and the Al-Aqsa Brigades do not believe
that blowing themselves up in crowded
Israeli streets will bring about destruc-
tion of the whole Israeli state; they too are
merely exacting an ill-targeted revenge
for past wrongs. In Ireland we had a
name for such depressing spirals; we
called them "tit-for-tat violence" and it
was widely recognised that while such
mindless thuggery persisted, chances for
peaceful co-existence of the two popula-
tions were remote.
However, supporters of Israel will tell
you that the Middle East isn't like
Northern Ireland - the Unionist communi-
ties and Mainland Britain never had to
deal with suicide bombings and mass
murder on the scale perpetrated by the
talk back
radical Palestinians. Pro-Arab people, too,
will point out that the British government
never sent helicopter gunships to Bogside
or the Garvachy Road in reprisal for
Republican bombings. Both sides, again,
are right; the Middle East is in a much
more dire situation than we ever experi-
enced in Ireland; much worse in terms of
casualty numbers, much worse in terms
of the brutality involved, much worse in
terms of the involvement by other region-
al powers, backing both sides with
money, arms and political brinkmanship.
Of course, this only means that the solu-
tion has to be more drastic and will
require even greater leaps of faith by one
side or the other than was the case in
Ireland. Unfortunately, though where the
Middle East excels is in the entrenchment
of both sides; their steadfast refusal to
move.
At which point, predictably, an Israeli
will point out that Netanyahu offered
Arafat 97% of the occupied territories
back in 1997 and an Arab will tell you that
Arafat delivered however many months of
Palestinian peace in 2000 but the Israelis
did not give an inch. Both will insist that
these were selfless moves, designed to
get away from the conflict. Both sides will
be lying. Israel's offers of land have
always carried conditions, have never
provided a solution to the "problem" (ie.
Illegal Israeli occupation of) East
Jerusalem and most improtantly have
never had the backing of the Israeli peo-
ple.
Temporary ceasefires on the Arab side
have always left the threat of a renewal of
violence hanging over the Israeli popula-
tion and have probably been used by
Hamas, etc. to re-arm and scout out pos-
sible targets in Israel.
In short, the situation can never be
hopeless but while supporters of each
side remain blind to the needs, vulnera-
bilities and aspirations of the other side,
it's pretty damned close.
Idris Harding
Yaffle
Dear Felix
Being a regular reader of Felix, I have
noticed the two subjects which have
appeared recently in the letters column.

