back talk
As I have an opinion on both, I will men-
tion both.
Firstly, I think that most people are sick
of the NUS debate, and wish it would go
away. It appears that Mrs Heeps and
Francis will not let it go, and are deter-
mined to keep the debate going as long
as possible in the pages of Felix. I have
two solutions: Either they make their cor-
respondence private (ie send it to each
other without first going via Felix), or,
after the last council of the year, they
have a properly organised debate where
they can air their views at each other and
if people want to listen to them then they
can. I suspect that the prospect of such an
event will draw even fewer people to
council than when council debated the
constitution last term. A t least people will
be there who want to hear the arguments,
instead of having them thrust upon them
in Felix.
Secondly: about the Middle East. The
letters which have appeared in recent
issues have both been correct, but they
have only given their half of the story. Yes,
there are Arab terrorists, but the Israeli
army is really no better. When I was in the
region last summer, I saw a refugee camp
just outside Jerusalem, and how the
Jewish settlement was encroaching on
the camp. That very day some of the
homes had been bulldozed, for which the
owners have to pay the Israeli govern-
ment "for its services", so to speak. On a
side trip to Ram 'Allah, I was lucky to get
out again before the checkpoint w a s
closed. I also saw the scene of the suicide
bombing in Tel Aviv last June.
Basically the point I want to raise is
this: Both sides have done things that
they should not. I don't condone suicide
bombing or any form of terrorism at all.
Equally, the treatment of the Palestinian
people by the Israeli army is nothing
short of oppression. To give people an
indication of what it is like, imagine
British Army tanks rolling into residential
districts of towns in Ireland. The very fact
that I, a foreigner, was able to go there
and leave three weeks later virtually has-
sle free is something which is denied to
most Palestinians - they are not allowed
passports in the same w a y virtually
everybody else is in the world.
Maybe I have a wrong understanding of
the situation, but it seems to me that this
is the position: The Palestinians want a
separate state, and are quite happy that
Israel should exist as well. The Israelis
want to have a Jewish state which
includes all of the current West Bank and
Gaza, and will stop at nothing to achieve
this. In that climate there will never be
peace.
I am aware that I may make a lot of
enemies with this, but I think that the
points need to be made.
Richard Thursby
Maths 2
Committee dell'arte
Dear Felix
At present I am the Arts Festival
Committee for next year. Yes, that is right,
the whole committee!
Pros: Quick decision making, getting to
write cheques to myself. Cons: The festi-
val will not happen!
So, I need PASSIONATE people (no, not
that kind of passionate, Will!). If you want
to organise four weeks of Film, Theatre,
Music, Dance, Art, Workshops and much
more in the funkiest, biggest artsfest the
world has ever seen, I need you.
I don't care whether you are Beethoven
or if you believe that IC Arts are more
ridiculous than white rap granpa Tim
Westwood crossed with a chipmunk. Your
time and effort will make the festival hap-
pen.
Interested? For more information email
me at andrew.caisley@ic.ac.uk.
cheers, Andy
Wye Charity Donations
Last week Wye College students present-
ed just over four thousand pounds to
three different charities. The money was
raised during Charity Week over the past
two years. Many different events were
organised ranging from tug-of-war over
the river and a tractor pull to the tradi-
tional Champagne Breakfast and the
Charity Week Ball. This year all of the
events were very well supported, espe-
cially the Charity Week Ball which was
attended by several people from the Royal
School of Mines and from Imperial
College. It was good to see you all there
and you are warmly welcomed to come
and join in the events of Cricket Week (14-
21 June) which ends with the
Commemoration Ball.
The charities that we supported were
Cancer Research, who received £1046 and
The Hospice on the Hill who also received
£1046. The Hospice on the Hill is an old
peoples' home that have recently built
new premises. They have to raise over
eighty per cent of the money that is
required to look after the people in their
home as they can only receive 17% gov-
ernment funding. The other charity that
we supported was Kent A i r Ambulance,
as they recently air lifted one of our stu-
dents, and they received £2000.
Thank you to everyone that helped
make Charity Week successful.
Tom Bradshaw
Charity Week organiser 2001
Letter From The Editor
Hello. I've been accused of lettting people
rant on these pages, and I have to admit I
do. But I have now declared editorially
that I am bored of both of the subjects that
have been taking up these pages for the
last few months. While I do respect the
right for people to express their views, I
feel this should be moderated, and the let-
ters page should certainly not be turned
into a forum for ongoing debate. That is
not what it is for.
As one of this week's writers has said, if
people wish to continue debating these
subjects, then they are very welcome to do
so privately, or, even better, at an open
meeting.
I feel that the past few letters pages
have adequatley covered both sides of
both stories: we have had two pro-Israel
letters, two pro-Palestine letters, and two
letters that caution moderation is the key.
This would seem, therefore, that this is a
good juncture to call an end to that par-
ticular debate.
I will still certainly consider publishing
letters on the subject, but only if they
seem to be saying something new.
On the subject of the NUS, I have to say
I think everyone is getting very bored of it,
including me. As such, there will be no
more until the issue is raised again on a
College level.
love will

