12 Feedback Felix • 6 December 1999
This week Kevin has been to Cambridge. He learnt
that the University's prospectus has been forced to
ditch nude photos of students taken whilst they
were working for the supermarket company Asda.
Kevin understands that advertising the fact that
possession of a Cambridge degree has enabled
graduates to get as far as Asda is not the best way
of attracting ambitious students. However, this was
not the reason the photographs had to be
removed; University authorities feared they might
offend potential applicants. When contacted, Asda
claimed intriguingly that the pictures "showed life
on a graduate training scheme as it really is."
C O L O U R F U L COURIERS
Kevin has been listening in on Xerox representa-
tives who were on campus last week discussing the
DocUcentre The plan that was being considered
will enable customers to send documents from any
computer on the College network to be profes-
sionally printed at the Xerox facility. Runners wear-
ing bright red sweatshirts sporting the Xerox logo
will then race your document straight to you while
you stay seated at your terminal. It is hard to see
how such a labour intensive scheme could be
made profitable, until that is you consider the vast
amount of cheap student labour which is available
in South Ken. Kevin understands that a logo and
name for the new service has not yet been
finalised. As usual, any suggestions made to
kevin@ic.ac.uk will be passed on.
ARCHER LINKS
Kevin was recently searching The Telegraph's web-
site and came across an interesting feature on
Lord Archer's wife. Lady Mary Archer is a top sci-
entist, whose scientific brilliance won her a double
first at Oxford. She is now one of Britain's top solar
energy experts. The Telegraph claimed she was
currently a visiting professor at the Department of
Biochemistry here at Imperial College. Kevin
decided to verify that her links with the College
Mish
Mash
A Mostly Harmless Column by
Kevin, a random entity who
knows nothing about nothing
were for real. She keeps a very low profile within
college, not even getting a entry in the IC phone-
book. Kevin has also not seen her at any official IC
events. Kevin's investigations resulted in an expla-
nation from a source close to Suite Five: "She
tends not to be invited to College functions, in case
she brings him with her."
Y2K DISASTER
Over the millennium an exclusion zone is to be
thrown around the campus. Kevin learns that the
only people who will be allowed access to the
campus will be the teams who are ensuring that
the various bits of kit around campus that could
potentially vapourise (or otherwise endanger most
of the population of London) are kept under con-
trol. Kevin would not be surprised to see backup
generators and other essential materials being
stockpiled, in preparation for a "worst case sce-
nario."
There is some reassurance in the fact that
although steps are being taken to avert catastro-
phe, the College has, in a worryingly uncharacter-
istic bout of foresight, recently revised their "Disas-
ter Recovery Plan."
ERICSSON - INSPIRATION
Kevin would like to reassure the campus commu-
nity that Ericsson have not been taking a keen
interest in the mechanics of the proposed Xerox
scheme. However, it is just plausible that an army
of 'runners' would prove more cost effective than
Ericsson's current proposal - telephones - to pro-
vide communication to IC.
To comment or contribute:
http://come.to/mishmash
or email kevin@ic.ac.uk
Computer Shop
Level 4
Mechanical Engineering Building
Ext. 46953
9.30am - 5.00pm
ccs-shop@ic.ac.uk
Prices @ http://www.cc.ic.QC.uk/odmin/shop/
I , BLANK CD OFFER
25 CD's in a PLASTIC CASE
P only €25.00

