18 Music Felix • 6 December 1999
frequency sj^
The silly season is upon us.
The media is full of them;
you have probably voted in
several already. Not one to
miss a ride on a good band-
wagon, this week frequency
offers you the opportunity to
vote for IC's music of the mil-
lennium. You will find a form
back on page four, ready for
your discerning vote. So, tear
it out, scrawl Take That in a
couple of boxes and return it
to us in the portacabins out-
side Physics. You could win a
Dreamcast for your troubles -
so why haven't you entered
yet? The results will be pub-
lished in our bumper Christ-
mas issue, so get thinking...
... frequency...
Beasties Giveaway
As promised, this week we
have the great Beastie Boys
giveaway. To celebrate the
launch of The Sound of Sci-
ence (reviewed opposite) we
have some fantastic Beastie
Boys goodies to give to you,
our lovely readers. We have
a copy of the album, some
posters and some t-shirts, all
awaiting your collection. To
stand a chance of winning
these amazing prizes, all you
have to do is answer the fol-
lowing question:
What are the names of all
three Beastie Boys?
Send your answer to
music.felix@ic.ac.uk as soon
as possible. So, until next
week I'll leave you with some
fine reviews to read and some
serious form-filling to do...
Beastie Boys
The Sound of Science
(Grand Royal)
Way back in 1 981 a group of friends from upstate New York, linked bya common interest in the burgeoning local hard-
core punk scene, formed their own band just like loads of kids did at that time. Almost two decades later, Adam Yauch,
Mike Diamond and Adam Horovitz (who joined two years later) or MCA, Mike D and Ad Rock as they are better known
to the world - the Beastie Boys - are global superstars. They've sold millions of records all around the world, got their own
record label, magazine and clothing company (hell MCA's even become a Buddhist) whilst the band staged two of the
biggest charity concerts of all time in a bid to free Tibet from oppressive regimes. Along the way they've courted Eminem
style controversy, provoking tabloid outrages and accusations of hypocrisy - oh yeah, and they've also consistently man-
aged to make some really exciting and genuinely innovative music. This is what The Sound Of Science is here to cele-
brate, collecting 42 of their best tracks on two CDs - over two hours of music in all. While some "best of" albums seem
quite lazy - simply containing a band's twelve top forty hits in chronological order - this is a truly comprehensive career
retrospective, from their earliest recordings up to the latest gems from He//o Nasty, taking in previously unreleased tracks,
remixes, rare b-sides and even a CD-ROM video track of the Beasties in their element, along the way.
We begin back where it all started, with some of their first sub 90 second recordings as a garage band captivated by
seminal hardcore outfits like Black Flag and Bad Brains. Egg Raid On Mojo and an eponymous track culled from this
era sound far from accomplished, miles removed from their more well known hip hop infused sound, but there is some-
thing in the raw energy of the Beasties rocking out furiously that still succeeds in engaging the listener. It was Licensed
to III though, one of the biggest selling debuts ever, that really saw them getting noticed. Licensed., marked a distinct
change in their sound from hardcore wannabes to three Run DMC loving white boys trading rhymes over old school
beats. Given that the average perception of white rappers is akin to the much ridiculed Vanilla Ice, it seems strange that
they've enjoying such a long and successful career - critically as well as commercially. However, unlike the quiffmeister,
they've never pretended to be something they're not, instead harnessing their rhymes to big, dumb 70s rock riffs and
rapping about what they know - at this stage basically sex and drink. Nowhere is this moment better captured than on
the classic anthem Fight For Your Right.
Despite the overwhelming success they enjoyed, the Beasties became disillusioned with both their public image and the
'meathead' following they had acquired through their allegedly tongue in cheek anthems of drink and girls. Like any
decent band, they decided to continue twisting the formula. Paul's Boutique and Check Your Head saw them reintro-
duce live instruments to the mix. An eclectic variety of influences (for which they are now renowned) and a slightly more
serious lyrical content began to show and is represented well on this compilation. From the frantic hardcore blast of
Time For Livin' to more laid back stuff like Something's Got To Give and funky shit like Shake Your Rump, all the way
through to straight up hip hop like So Watcha Want, this compilation really does highlight the genuine breadth and
sheer quality of their now extensive back catalogue.
Of course, you'll find all their more recent hits on here and as ever it's a pleasure to hear the fantastic likes of Sabo-
tage, Sure Shot, Intergalatic and a Fat Boy Slim remix of Body Movin'. If you've only ever heard a few of their songs, this
album is probably the best place to start. If you're already a big fan, you might grumble about a few omissions like No
Sleep Till Brooklyn and Looking Down the Barrel of a Gun, but basically you get a load of your favourites plus quite a
few you might not have, all on one tasty double album. Either way, there really aren't many bands quite like the Beast-
ie Boys, and you'd be a fool to miss out on this. Excellent.
• Max

