Music Felix • 6 December 1999
frequency
Trancenfral
@ The Pleasure Rooms
It was by word of mouth that this night first came
to my attention, and with the enthusiasm that
came with the recommendation I know it's gonna
be a stormer. So off we go. We get to the door
and security seems a bit too aggressive for my lik-
ing. The twelve-pound entrance fee also seemed
a bit much, but at this point we still didn't really
know what was to come.
Inside now and there's a long corridor occupied
by a long and slow moving line of people edging
towards the cloak room. Forget that then, lets just
scope out the place. The main corridor ends and
widens into a what seems to be a nice and not too
loud kind of meeting place. However, the four
walls surrounding it have entrances to potentially
filthy and dirty acid techno and hard trance. Bril-
liant. Some like-minded friends have mentioned
that some well-known DJs are playing today.
They're not wrong. Posted on the doors, the line-
ups consist of sets from Trancentral residents
Orange Peel, Zebedee, plus regular favourites
Dave the Drummer, John Little, Chris Liberator
and more. We are also being treated to a live set
by special guests Punk Floyd and some funky
flavours from some live bands in the chill out
room, including Frontside. Of course, now we've
been here a while, the night is going to start get-
ting better and better, and, oh yeah - very messy.
Nice - this is what the weekends were made for.
Now it's somewhere between 3 and 4am, and
Punk Floyd have just started. One of the other
non-chill out rooms (Room 2) is being rushed (!)
with clubbers in anticipation of the music getting
harder and darker. And how! Orange Peel is
rocking the main room with his down-right filthy
acid techno, and I find my self dancing on a table
with my good friend Mark. At 5am it's all gone a
bit twisted, but of course we still love it. Then final-
ly it's six and I'm off to the after party for some
more monkeying around. Nice.
Kesh
Botchit & Scarper @ The Junction
Botchit and Scarper, the Bristol based big beat boys, pre-
sented this showcase of Nu-skool breaks and mixed-up
beats at that well-known club, The Junction. Err, when I say
well known, I actually mean not well known, and I don't
think anyone can blame me for not having run into it
before. The downside to this place is that, for anyone liv-
ing North of the river, it's a bit out of the way. Once you
get to Brixton tube, right at the end of the Victoria line, it's
a further 20 minutes walk down the notorious Coldhar-
bour Lane. From the outside, the club looked a bit desert-
ed. There was nobody about (ominous compared to the
bustle of Brixton), the windows were boarded up and the
door was firmly shut. But there was definitely some dis-
tinctive melodies floating out from within, so we investi-
gated further...
Happily, we were not disappointed. Once inside, we were
greeted with a warm, cosy atmosphere, lots of friendly
faces, and extremely loud music. The interior is painted a
deep red, and there are plenty of large, comfy leather
sofas to relax into before launching yourself onto the
dance floor. The drinks were pricey (£2.50 for a small bot-
tle of lager), but we weren't there to get wasted, it was for
those rhythms that just make you want to move those
dancing feet.
And what rhythms they were! Enormous tribal beats ham-
mered home by the powerful sound system made all the
people lose it. Crazy dancing, throwing themselves all
over the place, for the shear joy of it. There were no inhi-
bitions. The place is small, producing an intimate atmos-
phere that makes it feel like you're with a bunch of your
mates. The lighting was fantastic for such a small room,
painting multicoloured tiger stripes across gyrating figures,
creating a living, breathing, work of art.
This wasn't a big, high profile super-club, but I had just as
good a time thanks to the unique atmosphere that such a
small place can produce. It even smelled nice! The music
was very alternative, and although I was sceptical at first,
the intense bass lines soon won me over and I was up
there with the rest of them. DJ Freq Nasty was the star of
the night. The Junction has opened up a new genre to me.
Good fun all round.
Tom
Recommended
Clubbing
So, as the festive season dawns and we all get
a chocolate every morning, there is no
excuse for not clubbing your socks off at one
of the many clubs recommended by the love-
ly lady above.
Monday 6th December
THIS @ Bar Rhumba; £4
Gilles Peterson and company are the hosts of
this night that seems to get better and better
as the years go by. I've been a few times and
I believe that this is the best Monday clubnight
in London.
Tuesday 7th December
Tuesdays @ La Scandale; £3
Your penultimate chance this term to hit the
60p shots at every self respecting IC student's
favourite club. This is sure to a large one with
plenty of silly dancing and even more silly
snogging.
Thursday 9th December
Movement @ Bar Rhumba; £3 b4 10.30pm
Bar Rhumba gets a double mention this
week, and it's not a surprise considering the
consistent quality of the nights. Movement is
all about drum'n'bass so if you like it hard
then you should check this out.
Friday 10th December
Fridays @ home; £10
Home is now beginning to step up a gear
with it's Friday night promotions. The mission
is to make this night as popular and as suc-
cessful as the Saturday night soiree.
Saturday 11th December
Fabric @ Fabric; £12
Well if you've not been to Fabric this year I'd
really like to know why. As a superclub it's got
everything, and the line ups are never less
than impressive. This is always a good night.
To have your club added to this list just invite
us along, we'll check it out and if we like it
we'll put it down
e-mail: music, felix@ic.ac.uk
phone: 020 7594 8072 and ask for James

