24 Films Felix • 6 December 1999
What's Out On Video
Cruel Intentions (Out to Rent 1 3/1 2/99)
This is the movie that had every hot-blooded male racing to the cinema
this summer. Based on the novel Dangerous Liaisons, Cruel Intentions
takes the bold step of transplanting a period drama into contemporary
society. Set in the Upper East Side of Manhattan it stars Sarah Michelle
Gellar as Katherine. She wagers her stepbrother Sebastian (Ryan Phillippe)
that he can't seduce the publicly proclaimed virgin Annette (Reese Wither-
spoon). If he wins, he gets to finally bed Katherine, but if he looses she
gets his convertible sports car. Shot for a modest $10 million, the movie
always looks top notch, with some excellent sets that suggest the story's
period roots. Staying close to the original plot (and supported by an excel-
lent soundtrack) the movie progresses at a good pace. First time director
Roger Kumble gets superb performances out of the three stars, particular-
ly Phillippe. The result is a fresh, extremely enjoyable, movie with many
memorable scenes. Great! (3/5)
Dave
Notting Hill (Out Now)
William Thacker (Hugh Grant), the owner of a travel bookshop in (sur-
prise, surprise) Notting Hill is broken out of his monotony by the arrival of
famous film star Anna Scott (Julia Roberts). Their first encounter is fleeting
and the chances of them ever meeting again seem minimal until they,
quite literally, bump into each other. Sparks fly and soon they are falling
in love just like any ordinary couple. Except, of course, Anna Scott isn't
ordinary. Neither Grant nor Roberts are on new ground here, but they
work extremely well together. Grant plays his usual foppish character while
Roberts is dazzling. Arguably the supporting cast, had they more screen
time, could have stolen the show - Rhys Ifans revels in his part as the
unwashed, uncouth Welsh flatmate, and Gina Mckee and Tim Mclnnemy
also produce memorable performances. This is both a good romance and
a good comedy. Guaranteed to make you hang off the edge of your seat
one moment and laugh the next. (5/5)
Katherine
Human Traffic (Out Now)
We follow Jip (John Simm), as he joins his mates in a local night-club. Jip's
main aim is to have a wild night and forget all about his dead-end job.
Human Traffic resists the urge to present the much-publicised worst side of
clubbing (beer, drugs and vomit) and focuses on the positive up-beat party
atmosphere along with romance and comedy. Filled with likeable charac-
ters and music from Pete Tong. (3/5)
Katherine
The World Is Not Enough Competition
This week the friendly people from the Odeon not only have five pairs of tick-
ets for the action packed The World Is Not Enough, but they also want to give
away loads of promotional CDs for PCs. These fab CDs contain Bond screen-
savers, behind the scene inten/iews and sneaky bits from the film. To get your
hands on one of these CDs just cut the Felix title out from the front page and
take it along to the Odeon Kensington. Just hand over the Felix title at the box
office and in return you will get a CD. To get to the Odeon all you have to do
is walk to the far end of High Street Kensington or get on the number 9 or 10
bus (which will drop you off right outside the cinema). So go on, get a Bond
CD.
You can also win a pair of tickets for the new Bond film by answering this not
so simple question:
The character played by Desmond Llewelyn in the Bond films
is nicknamed 'Q', but what is the characters real name?
E-mai! your answers to film.felix@ic.ac.uk before 1 2pm on Wednesday to be
in with a chance of getting free tickets.
The answer to last week's question is :
Sacha Baron-Cohen (Ali G) went to university at
Cambridge and he studied history.
Bradley Basket! is the lucky winner of an Ali G, innit video. Please call into the
Felix office to collect your prize.
Odeon Kensington decide enough is enough and introduce:
£4.50 STUDENT CINEMA TICKETS
Proving ODEON Cinemas are no VIRGINs when it
comes to propositioning students!
THE OFFER!
1 .Bring valid student card
2.Visit Monday - Friday and/or Saturday Late Shows
3. Show student card
4.Pay £ 4 . 5 0
5.See film
6. Enjoy
TERMS A N D CONDITIONS
O f f e r v a l i d at O D E O N K e n s i n g t o n only. O f f e r m a y be w i t h d r a w n without prior
notice. A d m i s s i o n is subject to O d e o n C i n e m a s ' S t a n d a r d C o n d i t i o n s

