6 December 1999 • Felix Films 25
Straight Story
David Lynch is, undoubtedly, one of America's greatest living directors and
thus the release of a new movie carrying his name becomes an eagerly
expected event - and the chance of disappointment looms massively. This
potential is made all the greater by the fact that this his latest offering is a
sign of a major U-turn in his directorial style - unlike his recent works (Lost
Highway in particular) it's a simple linear story told in a simple, engaging,
style. Free from surreal characters, flashy directorial tricks, incomprehensi-
ble plot or any complex deep-seated messages about the American psyche,
Lynch gives himself scope to tell a simple old-fashioned story.
Of course, it's still a David Lynch movie, so the plot is hardly an everyday
one. Alvin Straight is an arthritic eighty-something living with his daughter
in small town Iowa, where he leads a simple life mostly confined to four
walls and a garden. His carefree existence is broken, however, when his
brother suffers a stroke, forcing Alvin to set out on the 350 mile journey that
will eventually bring him to the lonely Wisconsin hilltop where his brother
resides. The problem for Alvin- and fhe key to the movie - is that neither
he nor his daughter can drive, and public transport won't take him in the
right direction. So he comes up with an incredibly innovative solution - he
decides to drive 350 miles across the state on the back of a motorised
lawnmower. Like I said, never expect a David Lynch movie to be 100%
straightforward...
It probably sounds like a slow way to travel (and it certainly is - his journey
will eventually take several weeks) and that in turn makes for a very slow
movie. Filled with beautiful panoramic shots of mid-western cornfields, slow
pans and gentle fades, the movie deliberately mirrors the pace of Alvin and
his surroundings. He's a man who embodies the "slow, careful, steps" phi-
losophy of his generation, and by capturing this attitude in every inch of cel-
luloid, the audience is thrust into his head far more forcefully than any
amount of clever dialogue or intricate symbolism could do. For the same
reason, you might be stunned to find a David Lynch movie that's been
awarded a "U" certificate - Alvin's lifestyle (and, indeed, the entire world
that this movie inhabits) would grate so strongly with any violence, sex or
swearing that their inclusion would simply be wrong. Indeed, what the "U"
certificate actually proves is Lynch's class - really good directors use extreme
violence or strong language when they are needed and when they fit into
a story. This isn't 8/ue Velvet or Twin Peaks, and it isn't set in that kind of
world. Straight Story is the movie in which David Lynch has started to grow
old. Having moved through adolescent fantasy (Dune, Eraserhead) and
mid-life world weary gloom (8/ue Velvet, Lost Highway) he has reached a
stage of life where he has found contentment. He is happy with the world
and so, finally, his movies are too.
screen
The World Is Not Enough
James Bond is back to save the world (yet again) from another terrorist
who has got his hands on a nuclear device in The World Is Not Enough.
In this 1 9th official Bond flick, Pierce Brosnan plays the suave, sophis-
ticated spy that everyone loves alongside a star studded cast including
Dame Judi Dench, Robert Carlyle, John Cleese and Robbie Coltrane.
While you would expect something extraordinary from a cast like this,
the film leaves you a little deflated. There are gadgets aplenty too, but
they are just an extra as opposed to an integral part of the Bond expe-
rience. The cast and gizmos do not have a chance to shine, as it seems
that the makers have fallen foul of giving the stunts centre stage. In fact,
there are so many extravagant stunts the plot is slightly lost amongst
them, which is a shame because there is a slight variation on the nor-
mal Bond format. Of course, you've still got bedding of the beautiful
women, but the bad guy of the film is not so plainly obvious. Robert
Carlyle has a good crack at the narcissistic headcase, but he is only the
henchman, like Oddjob is to Goldfinger. Don't get confused by this as
it will all became clear, and I am dying to tell you more but if I did, I'd
spoil the film, as there isn't a lot more to tell you. Fair enough, the
stunts are amazing but they couldn't even pretend to be able to happen
in real life. This causes the film watcher, every time a stunt happens, to
just want to unnaturally say, "As if!". Maybe Bond has slipped too far
into the technological age, and the makers are forgetting that it is
Bond's character that makes the story as well as the magnificent stunts.
Bond has under gone a re-invention in the past with the introduction of
a female M, and now they have re-invented the Bond girls. Instead of
bimbos who sigh 'Oh, James!', The World Is Not Enough has a nuclear
physicist (Denise Richards) and a rich chick (Sophie Marceau). There
are no bikinis but lots of bare flesh but that's not surprising as Bond
always gets his girl(s).
The film whisks you around so many locations that it is hard to remem-
ber where all the action is happening (unless you happen to have a per-
fect memory). Fortunately, however, whilst the plot of this film leaves
something to be desired, the script is still full of those classic Bond
moments and corny one-liners.
If you like your Bond films full of action and explosions then you are
going to love this movie, but on the other hand if you're looking for a
fantastic Bond story you will be disappointed. Yet, despite this all this, I
still have to say that this is a film that has to be seen - it is Bond after
all.
Dave Helen

