26 Games Felix • 6 December 1999
No Fear Downhill Mountain Biking (PSX)
The No Fear trademark officially endorses Codemasters latest outing
for the Playstation. With this in mind, anticipation began to rage inside
my mind. Would I become fully integrated into the game, having
become immune to all other sensory stimuli, so that I felt every sump,
jump & bump, or would I be chucking the CD out the window? Boy oh
boy did I fall for the former. Why? Because this game's a stormer.
There are around 1 1 tracks, each in a different country and with com-
pletely different scenery. They range from the streets of San Francisco to
the deserts of Morocco and have but one thing in common - they all
go downhill. I, of course, failed to appreciate this in my impatience to
get on my bike and have a go, and duly paid the price as I started my
first race up in Yorkshire. Yep, I pedalled like mad right from the start,
failing to realise that you can let gravity do all the hard-work for you. I
couldn't understand it when I was panting like mad on the level track at
the end, whilst my opponent zoomed past. The trick is to make sure you
pedal at the right time (energy levels are depleted quickly but will recov-
er when you coast along), and also to make sure you brake at the crit-
ical moments. You may be good at steering, but fine tuning your brak-
ing is essential if you plan to progress, often being the difference
between success and failure. As the words 'No Fear1
imply, much of the
time you will be racing on the brink of control, and this provides an
incredible rush.
Depending on your preference you can view the action from behind
your character or from the handlebars. If you choose the latter then you
will turn your body perfectly in tune with your bike, and wince when you
see a tree coming straight your way. It is this level of immersion that
makes this game great, with good quality visuals and audio unlocking
the stored potential.
There is much lasting appeal in this game. Not all the tracks are avail-
able at the beginning - you'll need to complete some to open the oth-
ers. To beat a track you need to win 3 rounds, each against a different
opponent. It would be nice to have more than two racers per race, but
this isn't much of a problem as there is just so much else to distract you
with. There is even a track where you can perform stunts - but some-
how the only trick I managed to pull off was the one where you wipe
out. Finally, of course, you can race against a mate - although you'll
need a fairly large TV to enjoy this one.
No Fear Downhill Mountain Biking is a classic. There are simply very
few other games that offer the dose of adrenaline pumping action this
does. Bike down to Gameswire.com now and grab a copy.
In association with
gamesu/ire. com
A WHOLE NEW WORLD
Pharaoh (PC)
First off, can I please apologise to the members of my coursework group
for not doing any work this week. It wasn't my fault - if anyone is to
blame it's the people who wrote Pharaoh. Never before have I been so
addicted to a game - at one point I looked up at the clock to find six
hours had passed without my noticing.
Pharaoh is the newest city building game from the people who wrote the
Caesar series. As the player you play the part of the local noble, con-
trolling the city indirectly through construction, resource management
and politics. If you've played Caesar ///, then you'll know what to expect.
If not, then just imagine SimCity with five times the complexity and a mil-
lion times the addiction factor.
What entranced me for so long is the incredible level of detail. From the
basics of ensuring a constant supply of food and water for your people
to the complexities of keeping the gods and your neighbouring
pharaohs happy, there's always something that needs your attention in
and around the city. With the added problems of coping with the flood-
ing of the Nile and finding the money to build gigantic monuments and
pyramids, Pharaoh is one of the most complex and involving games I've
played.
As games go, this is not an easy one. Once you complete the first few
tutorial missions, things start to get more and more difficult as nearby
cities request goods and invading forces threaten your city. I am currently
about five missions in after 30 hours playing or so, and the feeling of joy
when you finally achieve your objectives after hours of managing crisis
after crisis is well worth it. Creating a good city requires a lot of plan-
ning and thought, but if you get stuck there are loads of web sites
around full of useful tips and strategies for building the perfect metrop-
olis.
The graphics, especially in high resolution mode, are excellent and give
a great sense of a living, bustling city under your control (assuming
you're any good, that is). The sound effects are atmospheric enough, but
the in-game music really got on my nerves after a while. At least you can
switch it off, I suppose.
Overall, this is an excellent game. I haven't seen a game this addictive,
involving and interesting for ages. The sense of actually controlling the
lives of thousands of citizens is very strong - a good game for the meglo-
maniacs amongst you. If you've got important coursework to do, you
might want to wait until the holidays, but otherwise I'd advise any gamer
to buy this now.
Viv Ben

