6 December 1999 • Felix Games 27
In association with
gamesu/ire. com
A WHOLE NEW WORLD
read (6)
Armoured Fist 3 (PC) Age of Wonders (PC)
I don't know about you, but I haven't
played with tanks for many, many
years so it was a breath of fresh air to
take control of a whole group of them
in this new game from NovaLogic.
I had a preconceived idea that tank
simulations were slow and difficult to
get into, requiring you to read
through the entire manual and even
then being forced to refer back to it
every 30 seconds to seek out some
obscure key combination. However,
after installing Armoured Fist 3, I
found the control mechanism very
intuitive and within five minutes I was
blasting enemy tanks and riding over
sand dunes like a gulf-war veteran.
The game centres on the M1A2
Abrams tank and (unfortunately) this
is the only one that you get to ride in
- however you do get to take control
in three very different roles and per-
spectives, as the gunner, the tank
commander and the driver. My
favourite was the tank commander
when he is sitting atop the tank wield-
ing a .50 calibre machine gun - even
if there is nothing to shoot at it's still a
great vantage point to watch the hills
roll by.
The game's only drawback is the
graphics. Five years ago they would
have been fine, but today's gamers
expect better.
So in summary, NovaLogic's Armoured
Fist 3 is quite a decent attempt at a
playable tank battlefield simulation,
which is unfortunately flawed by the
company's reluctance to embrace the
technological revolution that 3D
graphics cards have brought about.
Age of Wonders is the latest strategy/fantasy game to hit the shelves.
On the surface it looks like a lot of different similar games - Heroes
of Might and Magic III, Warlords... But this is its strength not a weak-
ness - it manages to superbly pull off an excellent strategy turn-based
game.
You control a hero who roams around the countryside, rallying
troops under his banner to ultimately vanquish the opponents. There
are 8 different races to choose from and over 100 different units,
and you have to capture cities in order to get revenue to get troops
to get an army to conquer more cities. You move around the screen
in exactly the same way as in Heroes (point mouse and click) but
unlike Heroes your army consists of only a few units, which makes
the battles much more strategic. There are several new features,
such as when you pass an enemy unit he can strike you but you can-
not retaliate. Also, with ranged attacks you have to consider line-of-
sight and the arc of the shot (a catapult is more likely to hit some-
one behind a city wall than an arrow). If you don't like doing tactical
combat, or you know you'll whoop the enemy quick, you can opt to
have the combat in "quick" (ie Warlords) style. The combat system is
very good because it is tactical and easy to use. Another interesting
option is that when you capture a hostile city you can get your own
race to immigrate to it and boot out the existing inhabitants.
The levels are huge with usually one or two subterranean areas too,
which makes for very long games. In my view this is a plus because
it adds to the strategy side of the game, but it can be extremely
annoying when your enemy sneaks behind your army and captures
your city deep within the kingdom. You have to leave behind a bor-
der guard to prevent this happening.
The sound is adequate and the graphics are brilliant, although the
characters look a bit cartoonish. The gameplay on the whole is
excellent. Picking up the control system is as easy as pie. The multi-
player option (absolutely essential nowadays) is very good. It allows
you to take turns simultaneously instead of waiting for your opponent
to move, chess-like.
Age of Wonders is a great strategy game with real depth to it (almost
like a proper RPG). While it may not be a breakthrough in gaming,
it has enough new bits and an excellent interface that should serve
to satisfy any strategy fan, with hours of gameplay available. The
only gripe I have is that it can be slightly long and that there is now
an additional candidate for best strategy game of the year.
Bugs Bunny (PC)
At last Bugs Bunny makes it onto the
small screen with this new game from
Infogrames entitled Bugs Bunny - Lost In
Time. The intro picks up Bugs on route
to the beach for his holidays, but unfor-
tunately he gets lost and ends up in an
inventor's shed. With the famous last
words of "that's a funny looking carrot
juice dispenser" Bugs is flung into the
mists of time and so begins an epic
adventure to return him home.
In the game itself you take charge of
Bugs from a Tomb Raider perspective (ie
behind him) and must guide him though
a series of challenging puzzles. Like Ms
Croft, Bugs has a wide range of the nor-
mal moves available to him including
kicks, dives and rolls. In addition, how-
ever, Bugs also has his ears! These are a
welcome feature that act as directional
indicators guiding you onwards towards
the next stage of the level. This drastical-
ly reduces what was for me the worst
feature of the Tomb Raider games - that
of being in a huge level and not having
a clue which direction to go in.
The graphics are spot-on - they really
give you a sense of being in the cartoons
that we all used to (and indeed still do)
watch. During the course of the game
you will be reunited with ail of Bugs's
favourite enemies, including Yosemite
Sam, Witch Hazel and (my favourite)
Marvin the Martian. These characters,
like Bugs, are all well animated and
crisply executed.
Overall this is a fun game that, despite
the title, is not just for children. It will
present a good challenge to the average
gamer and will also give a great deal of
enjoyment along the way.
Andy in Mark ID Andy

