Arts Felix • 6 December 1999
method A
Mnemonic
Riverside Studios
£12.50 Cone.
Nearest Tube - Hammersmith
If it's got the label theatre de complicity
you've just got to go - never have I seen
such original and engaging physical the-
atre. I was in awe of the polish both the
actors and the technical crew achieved.
Mnemonic is a devised piece of theatre that
keeps you on your toes and the edge of
your seat for the entire show. It explores
memory and time - giving you a shocking
sense of perspective about just how small
we all are in such a vast, old world. I have
made it sound heavy, but it isn't - the whole
play is fluid and powerful; at times visually
stunning, at others hilarious.
I arrived to find a leaf and a blind fold
attached to my chair. I looked around and
saw everybody else was similarly endowed.
Before I knew it the play had begun. I was
immersed in an extraordinarily eye opening
world. It is difficult to detail many examples
because to do so would be to spoil the sur-
prise, but to cite one: A prehistoric man has
been discovered in the ice and is the focus
of much scientific debate; tattoos are dis-
covered on his front. Parallels are continu-
ously being drawn between this mystery Ice
Man and the main character. We hear on
the TV about the said scares as the main
character talks to his girlfriend on the
phone; a ghostly hand appears upon his
chest and begins to scar his body - the effect
is incredible. It is obviously achieved
through some sort of projector, but nobody
is thinking that at the time. The silence in the
theatre is complete and the hair on the back
of my neck rose. The play is packed with
similarly astonishing effects. It is the most
powerful piece of devised theatre I have
ever seen.
Nirvana - A retrospective
Ben
Proud Galleries £3 Cone.
Nearest Tube Charring Cross
Hello, hello, hello, hello - yes my friends let me
take you back to your grunge days with Nirvana -
A retrospective. This is the biggest British collec-
tion of Nirvana photographs, providing a wide
and detailed insight into the essential 90's band,
with back stage photos and those taken in and
around London. The three guys who put this
together - Martine Goodacre, Steve Gullick and
Stephen Sweet - were all music photographers
working for NME and all had good access to the
bands early popularity here.
Proud galleries is just two minutes walk from
Charring Cross Tube and is the perfect place to
visit to experience some hard hitting and easy
looking photographic art for the first time. It is a
flashy little venue and worth a look - even if you
hate the band, the imagery is impressive.
Kurt probably would have hated it - but he hated
everything to do with fame and money - "if you're
rich, you're a dick". Certainly everything to do
with the opening party was everything Nirvana
wasn't: suave, flash and pretentious. Nirvana
were raw and honest, they just plugged in and
poured out their emotion through the amps. The
pictures, however, do the band justice in this
regard. Seeing the live pictures with the sounds of
Lithium rampaging through my head made me
want to return to those days of wearing "grunge
is dead" t-shirts and getting pissed for the first
time.
Obviously, the eventual suicide of the man him-
self will be in the back of your mind as you wan-
der between these flashes of the Nirvana era. It
was not, however, something that the exhibition
dwelt on - instead being "A tribute to the life of
Nirvana, not to the death of Kurt Cobain" say
Gullick, Goodacre and Sweet. Of course, it is
impossible to blank it from your mind completely
when looking into Kurt's eyes in some of the more
sombre photographs, with the haunting rasps of
Penny Royalty Unplugged filling the air.
The gallery aimed not at a definitive history of the
band, but rather a more British and personal
slant. I feel the range achieved in these pictures
was impressive - it wasn't all pictures of Kurt look-
ing fucked up or endless blurry live shots of the
band smashing up their equipment again. No,
the pictures were a perfect balance. Go on,
entertain yourselves.
ID Ben

