30 Books Felix • 6 December 1999
books =
California Fire and Life, Don Winslow White, Rosie Thomas
This book does not set out to be classic English literature; it sets out to be
a modern detective story/thriller. It is centred on Jack Wade (wonderfully
macho name), a claims investigator specialising in arson for the Califor-
nia Fire and Life Insurance Company. The story is that he has to uncover
a murder and attempt to stop the murderer pressing for the life insurance.
Oh and the Russian Mafia, Vietnamese gangs, the CIA and other stereo-
typed law enforcement agencies all have bit parts too. Cool.
What struck me first about this book was the tone of voice. It is just so
laid back, chilled out, Southern-California style that I found myself drawl-
ing the lines out loud. I loved the style; it was good-humoured whilst also
being cynical. The 'voice' continues in that style throughout the novel,
reinforcing the thought that this is one persons individual experience; that
this is a real life situation because there is a real person behind that dis-
tinctive voice.
What particularly made me laugh was the way most chapters ended with
a punchy little line or catchphrase in that laid back voice - 'So shake that'
or 'Give him a headache for a change' spring to mind.
Following an extremely diverse group of climbers, as they are about to
embark on a gruelling expedition to conquer Everest, White is the lat-
est novel from Rosie Thomas. Dr Finch Buchanan, a young Canadian,
is restless and seeking something more in her life. She is employed as
the expedition doctor and is responsible for the health of the other
members of the group. Al Hood, a vastly experienced Welsh moun-
taineer, will lead the party and has made a promise to his teenage
daughter that he will leave climbing once he has conquered this last
(highest) peak. Sam McGrath joins the group on impulse at the last
minute, following a chance encounter at an airport. He is haunted by
his childhood but is forced to reconsider both his past and his future
as the expedition progresses.
Set against the beautiful yet often threatening backdrop of Mount
Everest, the complicated, triangular relationship between Finch and
the two men plays itself out with, ultimately, tragic consequences.
Thomas' descriptions and attention to technical detail transport the
reader to the mountainside, bringing the group's experiences to life -
even for a non-climber such as myself.
However, the best part of the novel is when Jack is describing his educa-
tion at 'fire school1
and his investigation into the murder. There is a defi-
nite feeling that the author is sharing personal experience with the read-
er. Coincidentally, the author spent 1 0 years as a consultant on litigation
involving fraud cases, especially arson.
Unfortunately, a decent plot and some really superb factual information
are all this novel has to offer. And even the plot turns down a dodgy alley
at the end. The characterisation is limited to the 'I came from a dysfunc-
tional family' cliche and 'jet black hair and Liz Taylor eyes and big boobs
and a little butt1
descriptions. So, whilst there are some good investigative
techniques hidden in there, they are really badly utilised by a group of
pulp characters.
It isn't a book that I would personally buy but it is worth borrowing from
a friend if only for the factual bits and the amusing accent.
• Fire
Although I am not normally a big fan of romantic fiction, I have to
confess that the complex characters and unusual setting of this book
had me hooked. My only criticism would probably be regarding the
ending. After the pace of the rest of the novel, I was left disappointed
by the conclusion. However, don't let this put you off - it's a brilliant
book.
Helen
Free Stuff
Actually reading the books section? The best answer to the question
'Why the Books Section in Felix is my favourite Books Section in the
Universe' will win Paul Burgess' picture book Satellite Sex Pistols. Email
answers to rc97@ic.ac.uk. You don't need to hurry - the only other per-
son to read this is Tony Poppleton in Physics and he hates the Sex Pis-
tols, so you can take your time.
Felix Recommends
Remember that reviewed titles are available from the Waterstone's on campus at a discount
of 2 0 % during the week of the review. Take advantage of this offer Monday to Friday 9:00am
to 7:00pm and Saturday 10:00am to 5:00pm. G o on.

