6 December 1999 • Felix Books 31
Colours of The Mountains, Da Chen
books
Events in and
Colours of the Mountain, the memoir of Da Chen, deals with his early
life growing up in rural China during the later part of Mao's reign. The
grandson of a former wealthy landlord, Da is born into a family con-
tinually persecuted by their small village at the insistence of local Com-
munist Party officials. Chen spends most of his childhood trying to over-
come his politically incorrect background and deal with the poverty and
adversity facing his family.
Co/ours is not very literary in its style or approach, consisting more of
a statement of a series of events them a gripping narrative. Basic emo-
tional reactions never really come into play for the reader, resulting in
an intellectual realisation that some of the events should be heart
warming, funny or even infuriating - but nothing more.
Chen does at times employ some seemingly poetic imagery to describe
the landscape of his childhood, but without much effect. The members
of Chen's family, who have been through such adversity and triumphed,
are not treated any better. The story of what they went through is very
powerful and yet the passages that deal with his family are not. Perhaps
it is difficult to see where more characterisation is needed when one is
writing about ones family, but we do not share Da's familiarity with his
subject.
That is the shame of it all - Chen has really achieved a great deal in his
life and overcome a huge amount of adversity, but even as we follow
along with him towards his ultimate success, there is no real emotion-
al involvement with the reader.
I would have preferred to read about one man's view of this tumultuous
and chaotic time in the history of China, but instead the book offers
only one man's view of himself. I admire Chen for his achievements, but
I'm not a fan of the book.
and Vizma Belsevica, Tu
RELIGION vs PHILOSC
Piccndillv Circus
. An
:lova
lilly 19:00. A
i and philoso-
:nts £3, 0171 960
Leadenhall Mkt
1
Reports returns
and sexual poli-
ties of his new book
, 0171 220 7882.
Perhaps I'm just jealous.
Russell
An
You've heard about it. You've thought about it. Your friends are talking
about it. Your girlfriend wants you to do it together. You mother thinks you
should do more of it. Take the plunge and do it!
Write books reviews for Felix. Its all the rage in France.
ohn
for
utopia throL
Waterloo
email rc97@ic.ac.uk or stop by the Felix office at 1 2:00pm on Thursdays.

