Millennium Poll Felix • 6 December 1999
Poll of the millennium
Felix launches it's poll of the millennium - and gives you the chance to win a Dreamcast - with this simple form.
Just fill in each pair of boxes with your favourite and most hated person/thing of the last thousand years in each
category and return the form to the Felix Office or the Union Office. One lucky voter will be chosen at random
to win a Dreamcast and two games, and the results of the poll will appear in next week's bumper edition.
Person
eg. Martin Luther King, Karl Marx, Charlemagne, Napoleon,
Einstein, George Washington, Hitler, Genghis Khan
Invention
eg. the atomic bomb, internal combustion engine, jet engine,
silicon chip, penicillin, television, lager, compact discs
Sportsperson
eg. WG Grace, Bobby Charlton, JPR Williams, Don Bradman,
Jesse Owens, Pele, Mohammed Ali, David Beckham
Sport
eg. football, rugby, curling, hockey, darts, cricket, snooker,
tennis, karate, cycling, volleyball, fishing, baseball
Song
eg. Day Tripper, Stairway to Heaven, My Way, Rhapsody in
Blue, Barbie Girl, The Ode To Joy, YMCA
Songwriter / Band
eg. Beethoven, The Beatles, George Michael, George
Gershwin, Mozart, Madonna, Steps, Brahms, Blur
Film
eg. Casablanca, Citizen Kane, The English Patient, 2001,
Singin in the Rain, The Shawshank Redemption
Actor / Actress
eg. Humphrey Bogart, Harrison Ford, Cary Grant, Katherine
Hepburn, Sean Connery, Robert de Niro, Tom Cruise
Game
eg. Pong, C&C, Super Mario, Streetfighter, Final Fantasy, Pac
Man, Fifa, X Wing vs Tie Fighter, Daytona
Platform
eg. N64, Amiga, PC, Playstation, Spectrum +, Mac, Atari,
Commodore 64, Unix, Dreamcast, Sega Mastersystem
Play
eg. Anything by Shakespeare...erm...erm...and not
much else really...
Work of Art
eg. Seurat's Bathers, The Mona Lisa, Van Gogh's Sunflowers,
Hurst's Dead Sheep, Norman Foster's BMS Building
Book
eg. Paradise Lost, For Whom The Bell Tolls, The Great Gatsby,
Hitch Hikers Guide, Great Expectations, Wuthering Heights
Author
eg. Charles Dickens, F Scott Fitzgerald, Thomas Hardy, Voltaire,
Ernest Hemingway, Leo Tolstoy, HG Wells
BEST WORST
NAME EMAIL

