6 Science Felix • 6 December 1999
How to stop a killer
Up to half a billion people are infected worldwide, and 40 people will die from it while you read this. So what's being
done to stop malaria? John Clifford finds out.
A mosquito bite can be deadly Pictures: Department of Biology
I
t starts off like flu, with shivering and a fever,
but generally by then it's too late. Although it
begins with a simple mosquito bite, soon the
disease progresses to uncontrollable shaking,
fits and delirium. Even with medical treatment,
the patient is doomed to a long debilitating ill-
ness which may recur suddenly over periods of
several years, or to become one of the 2 mil-
lion people who die from malaria every year. It
is most prevalent in fhe tropics, generally in the
countries that are least likely to be able to
afford the huge burden of healthcare or lost
labour that malaria entails. But researchers
working at the Sir Alexander Fleming building
are part of the world-wide effort to stop the
most deadly of tropical diseases.
Malaria is caused by one of several tiny parasites
of the genus Plasmodium, and all research
focuses on somehow breaking the cycle of infec-
tion. Before laying their eggs, the mosquitoes
take a meal of blood from available animals,
including humans. If the human is infected with
these single celled parasites, they are able to
sense when the blood they are in has passed into
the mosquito's gut, and as the blood is digested,
the cells mature into male and female gametes,
sense each other and mate. The resulting cell
matures into a thready cell called an ookinete,
which tunnels through the gut wall, where it
grows and divides into new forms that invade the
mosquito's salivary glands, ready to infect the
liver and blood of the next human bitten.
There are three possible approaches against
malaria; firstly, you can tackle the vector (the
mosquitoes). For example, in emergencies, the
local authorities often spray large areas with
powerful insecticides, and many countries have
a policy of wiping out marshes, lakes, or even
puddles - anywhere where the insects can
breed. However, there are limits to this
approach. It is not practical to wipe out all
mosquitoes and all wetlands, and insecticides
tend to have effects on both human health and
the environment. For instance, the effects of
DDT are well known. However, recent field
studies have shown that separating DDT from
people by impregnating it into a bed net could
dramatically cut the rates of transmission - but
this system would cost about $ 2 a person,
which is still too much for too many people in
too many countries.
Secondly, the parasite itself can be attacked
with drugs once inside the body. While this
works as a treatment, malaria is notoriously dif-
ficult to stop, and strains of malaria have
emerged that are not only resistant to chloro-
quine (one of the most effective drugs) but
actually become more infectious when the drug
is present. New anti-malarial compounds are
being developed, but, as with antibiotics, if they
are not used sensibly it could be only a matter
of time before resistance to these develops too.
Thirdly, you can fight the disease by vaccina-
tion. However, developing a vaccine is not as
simple as it sounds. Firstly, this is because there
is more than one disease. There is the disease
caused by the parasite Plasmodium falciparam
(the most dangerous strain) which kills the most
people, many of them children under 5 in sub-
Saharan Africa where it is most prevalent.
There is also the parasite P Vivax, which,
although it kills rarely, causes a terrible disease
which totally incapacitates the sufferer. It is a
particularly cruel affliction, as the parasite has
evolved to lie dormant in the liver for months at
a time before recurring over a period of many
years. This mechanism allows it to survive
through the winter, when there are no mosqui-
toes to help it spread.
The second problem with developing a vaccine
is this; the parasite and the immune system
have been locked in battle since man first
evolved, and so it has developed many ways to
stay one step ahead of the immune system
whilst in its host. For example, the immune sys-
tem works by recognising proteins on the sur-
face of a foreign cell. Malaria, however, has
evolved to show the immune system hundreds
of different combinations of proteins, meaning
that the body can never learn to recognise them
all. The pathogen's system of sexual reproduc-
tion makes it very good at keeping one step
ahead of its human host.
One approach of current vaccine research,
however, consists of imitating not the hundreds
of proteins that it shows whilst in the body, but
the few proteins that the mature male and
female cells use to recognise one another
whilst in the mosquito's gut. The theory is this;
because they are still sitting in human blood,
containing human immune cells; if the immune
cells can be taught to recognise these particu-

