6 December 1999 • Felix Science
lar proteins and produce antibodies to them
when sighted, the mature cells will be unable
to recognise each other, sexual reproduction
will not occur, and the life cycle is broken off.
Although Malaria is used to battling with its
human host, it has not been attacked at this
stage before, and will be left defenceless.
A vaccine will usually consist of a small
amount of protein which is injected in order
to trigger an immune response. This is fine in
developed countries, but in Sub-Saharan
Africa the difficulties in delivering a vaccine
become formidable. For example, proteins
need to be kept refrigerated and have a fair-
ly short shelf life. This may not be a problem
in this country, but when it comes to deliver-
ing these chemicals to remote towns in Africa,
which frequently lack electricity or proper
roads, it becomes a logistical nightmare.
Another problem with protein vaccines lies in
their manufacture. Generally these are made
by inserting the DNA strand containing that
gene, along with a chemical message to turn
the gene on (called a promoter) into either E
Coli bacteria or yeast. However, both of these
have their disadvantages. The bacteria, whilst
they can string together the chemicals in the
correct order to make the protein, cannot
quite fold these up in the right way. And whilst
yeast cells are more like human cells in their
ability to fold the protein together, they have
a tendency to add sugar molecules onto the
protein, also rendering it imperfect. The only
surefire way to guarantee the correct protein
is to make it with parasite cells taken from
infected humans, but giving people products
made from other people's blood is a very risky
technique.
However, researchers are also working on a
possible solution at present - instead of put-
ting the gene into a cell, extracting the protein
and transporting this to the at-risk patient,
why not put the DNA sequence directly into
some of the patient's body cells, and cause
them to make the required protein? DNA is
much more stable than proteins, in its dried
form it requires no refrigeration, and it has a
shelf life of years. The DNA can be transport-
ed to the patient and then pushed into the
cells of the arm at high pressure using a
device known as a Dermojet. The cells would
continue to make this protein, priming the
immune system to prevent the reproduction of
the malaria parasite.
Whilst this technique is certainly less fraught
with difficulties, it would still be necessary to
go out into the field and vaccinate- people,
and it is most likely that this is what will be
required. However, Professor Bob Sinden of
A parasite cell ready to infect a human
Biology and his colleagues are working on
evaluating a revolutionary new idea. The
thinking behind this is ingenious. When the
mosquito bites a person, it injects a small
amount of saliva in order to make it easier to
suck up blood, and it is this mechanism which
allows the parasite to infect a human. What if
the mosquito could be made to make the
vaccine protein, and inject it as it took a
meal? In effect, could the mosquito become
a flying syringe?
Professor Sinden has shown that fruit flies can
be made to spit out small amounts of this
protein in the laboratory, and is currently
studying whether repeated tiny doses such as
this would actually produce or suppress an
immune response. He stresses, "This is just an
idea that is being tested, and should we find
that it does not produce a good response, we
shall return to the drawing board and think of
other ways." And even if it is successful, there
is no way that he or his colleagues would
even consider introducing this technology
until they were certain it was fully understood
and safe. "That is a long, long way down the
road", he cautions.
Malaria is a disease which affects some of the
world's poorest people, and Professor Sinden
believes that it will only be defeated by an
integrated campaign using all available tools,
including drugs, vaccines, bed nets or even
genetic engineering. There is an international
organisation called the Multilateral Initiative
in Malaria (MIM) seeking to do just this. The
World Health Organisation has announced
its intention to eradicate malaria in the long
term - but unlike smallpox, malaria is a very
complex disease, for which there is no effec-
tive vaccine, and no integrated strategy for its
defeat. Clearly, this will require a very long
and sustained campaign. But there is no
doubt that malaria is one of the worst killers
the world has ever seen, and it must be
stopped.
t.i'jnq irv: Keck 1 'teles
• 6f viruses found in itn.
that travellers from Japan colonis*
20,000 years ago The researcher
there wore Husters of similar disea
m Japan ariilSdulh America;'
Evidence has been found that th
which warms Europe is being dis
change. Models had predicted the
ect observed
risk of the Earth being hit
aovernrrw
as we Know ir, ana so is looking to co-ordinate an
international approach to such a strike.
•Yin a year.
ilish their find
accurately in future.
uses a smc
Future com
ry being laid down in the brain of a rat. The photo-
graphs, taken with an electron microscope, clearly
brain ce-ls. The process of memory is far From under-
through.
A poll of the world's top physicists has declared Albert
Einstein to be the greatest physicist of oil time. 70% of
Ihe 100 physicists interviewed said they would still

