8 Feature Felix • 6 December 1999
David Potter: Is The Whole
World in his Palm?
Whilst no-one was looking,
IC graduate David Potter
built up a global computing
and communications empire.
So, how did he do that?
David Potter should be a household name. If
not a household name, then at least his name
should be recognised by every member of
Imperial College. There are few computer
moguls who head world beating companies
that spark less instant recognition. Those in the
know recognise his achievements, as is shown
by the fact that he sits on several government
technology committees. Bill Gates also has a
few things to say about him. In fact, in a memo
cited in the recent Microsoft antitrust case Bill
Gates singled out not Oracle, not Sun
Microsystems, not AOL, but Psion as one of the
greatest threats to Microsoft's global business.
If I were to tell you that David Potter founded
and is the Chairman of Psion Group, then the
bells of recognition would ring. Depending on
your vintage you would probably think first of
the Psion Personal Organiser, the world's first
handheld computer, or the massive selling
Psion 3 series.
You might be surprised to learn that he did
his PhD at Imperial and even lectured here for a
time, his particular area of interest being non-
linear mathematical physics. What is really
intriguing is thus the way in which he made the
transition from academic to mogul - after all, his
company is competing against some of the
biggest high tech companies in the world and
winning. So it was a privilege to have the oppor-
tunity to interview him and hear his story to find
out why he thinks he has achieved what he has.
Background
David Potter did his PhD at Imperial from
1 967-1 970. His research interest was in math-
ematical physics, especially dealing in plasma
physics and all aspects of non-linear problems.
In the course of his work he began using com-
puter simulations of complex physical phe-
nomena, in which he developed a reputation.
He was on the staff here at Imperial, and you
can even find his book on Computational
Physics in the library. Aspects of this area of
physics later lead onto Chaos Theory.
The Two Strands
Even during his teenage years there were two
particular strands of thought that interested
him. Firstly, science and the way things work
(following a family tradition - his grandfather
was an academic). His other area of interest
was in business.
A Smarter Investor
He became involved in stock market invest-
ment and research into smaller companies
after the huge stock market crash of 1 974. He
thought that the valuations were 'ludicrous'
and bought into the market with his savings.
He was very lucky and he did very well. It was
this that allowed him to set up the capital base
of what is now the Psion Group. It did some-
thing else for him as well: It taught him a lot
about business and the way companies should
be run. At around this time Intel released their
8008 and 8080 microprocessors. Because of
the success of his business interests, he decid-
ed that he didn't want to spend all his life as an
academic.
"When the microchip came along in the mid-
dle seventies, I thought that this was going to
have a huge impact on the world, and I want-
ed to participate in that."
Doctor of Strategy
In 1980 with a very small base (initially just
himself and about £1 00 000 of capital that he
had made himself) he set up as Psion. This is a
big step for anyone to make - he had no pre-
vious management experience, no staff, and
no income, just himself and his bright idea. He
had to start generating revenue and fast. How
did he do it? He targeted software publishing
on the microcomputer market, for computers
like the ZX-80, the Acorn Atom, and the Apple
II. You have to remember that at this time it
was a tiny cottage industry. He began to make
money out of that, and in the first year he reg-
istered a turnover of £120 000 and profits of
£12 000.
It was not very much, but during the course
of that year he could see that the market was
going to expand a lot, so he then began to
bring in development people - some of whom
were from IC. One of them was Charles
Davies, who was a research assistant at Impe-
rial, and subsequently he became the lead
architect in a number of key software products
and operating system components. However,
Potter and his ex-IC staff didn't take any Intel-
lectual Product Rights (IPR) from IC. All they
took were their skills and applied them to a dif-
ferent area. By the end of the first year, Psion
began to develop software.
"In the history of Psion, software has always
been the root of the company. We're particu-
larly known for our palm tops and Organisers
and so on. The real driver behind all that, all
through, has been microcomputer software.
Frankly, we are one of the best companies in
the world at doing that, in different areas."

