6 December 1999 • Felix Feature 9
Fighting Off Branson and Maxwell
The market led Psion to games. Psion had
started off with databases and also produced a
program called flight simulator. It must be
quite satisfying having been there at the birth
of the computing gaming industry
'"We were among the first companies in the
world to put a simulation of an aeroplane into
a small microcomputer and look at it as
thought you were the pilot. It was terrific that
there was real aerodynamics in there - we
actually created the equations to do it all"
Other games like Hungary Horace, Horace
Goes Skiing, and Chequered Flag to name a
few, followed. Psion became the number one
in games in the UK from 1982 to 1983 and
made huge profits, and it is those profits that
formed the capital base of the company. The
problem with huge profits is that everybody
wants a piece of the action. People like
Richard Branson and Robert Maxwell, with Vir-
gin Games and the Mirror Group respectively,
geared up for attack, and this caused Psion to
change its strategy - they invested in the much
longer term sense and moved towards areas
where the barriers to entry would be much
higher.
"The question which we asked ourselves is
what are the barriers to entry. Okay, we are
making giant profits - what is to stop others?
And the answer is we couldn't see very much,
because barriers to entry were low. And
because our capital was so much bigger,
because of our success, our resources were
much bigger...we had to move on"
There were two main product lines that Psion
targeted: the first (and most obvious) choice
was application software for PCs. The other,
however, was a completely radical concept of
a very, very mobile computer. A computer that
you could actually slip into your pocket, but
which would manage information. It wasn't a
calculator, it was going to manage information
and they called it the Organiser to try and
describe that.
Birth of The Organiser
So, Psion created the Organiser, invented it,
and launched that in 1 984. The most demand-
ing aspect of it's evolution was the software.
15 years later the evolution of that software is
now Symbian, but of it's turned into a giant
after all those years. Now Psion Group are on
32-bit platforms, utilising huge software
resources and systems. They've done very well
in understanding the right technologies, and
the right software technologies. And that's why
Symbian is in the prominent position it is.
Over the years the company has broad-
ened. They've produced the Organiser, and
the Organiser II - both hugely successful prod-
] PSION C O M P U T E R S PSION INDUSTRIAI PSION D A C O M
symb an
ucts that sold in their millions. Then the com-
pany migrated to 1 6-bit systems that led to the
Series 3 family: the 3A, the 3C, and so on.
"We were the first company to produce a
Graphical User Interface (GUI) in a highly
portable computer - It's that which allowed us
to compete and win against Hewlett-Packard,
Sharp,Casio and Sony."
Annus Mirabilis
1998 was a year of significant change for
Psion. At the beginning of the year Psion was
under pressure in it's key palm-top computers.
A surge of products produced by rivals such as
Palm and various Windows CE based
machines had cut Psion's market share in the
market that it had created. Sales of the new
Series 5 had been disappointing, and at the
bottom of the range the Siena was dropped.
Admittedly, Psion had a diminishing share of a
wider market and it was still the market leader:
Psion's share of the the European market
dropped from around 70 percent to 59 per-
cent during that year, but still one in four palm-
tops sold around the world was a Psion.
Fortunately, there is more to Psion than just
palm-top computers. It is the world's third
largest manufacturer of mobile PC modems,
and sales in that division rose 79% last year as
the demand for mobile PC connectivity took off.
Dawn of a new EPOC
On the same day that Psion announced a prof-
its warning, it's share price doubled. Why? On
that same day Psion announced that it was to
join with three of the world's top mobile phone
manufacturers to use Psion's EPOC operating
system in a joint venture called Symbian. It is
crucial to understand the significance of this.
Operating system software for wireless teleph-
ony is going to be one of the most competitive
and exciting economic and technological are-
nas for the next decade and beyond.
The current situation is that Europe has the
lead in mobile telephony. Finland's Nokia is
the the world's No 1 cellular phone brand,
Sweden's Ericsson is the number 2, whilst the
American Motorola is the number three brand.
The mobile phone business is exploding: cur-
rent estimates are that global sales will grow
from current levels of 100 million to 360 mil-
lion units a year within two years. Just from
these basic numbers you can see the reason
for the global hyperactivity in the telecoms
industry.
Watch out Europe
One of the major reasons Europe leads the
world was the adoption of the GSM standard
for the second generation of mobile phones
(which we are currently using) whilst in the
States there were many competing technolo-
gies. Another reason is social. By 2003, ana-
lysts expect much of the Continent to follow the
example of Finland, where more than 6 out of
10 people own cell phones. If that happens,
248 million Europeans would own them (com-
pared with 141 million today). Economies of
scale could mean that within a decade wireless
calls could be cheaper than standard landline
calls
Wireless Surfing
The main technological driver for the next gen-
eration of phones is the fact that the data
bandwith that they will be able to handle will
be much greater than at present. Naturally, this
leads you to question why we should be limit-
ed to only transmitting voice data. The next
generation of wireless devices will enable users
to access the internet or exchange email from
a 'hand-held device'. At the moment, there
function of these gizmos is split between two
devices: an organiser and mobile phone. In
the future there is no reason for these devices
to remain separate.
In my view one of David Potter's major
achievements has been to strategically place
his company at the centre of this new market.
Nokia, Ericsson and Motorola currently
account for 75 percent of the world's mobile
phones. It will be interesting to see how the
telecoms companies battle with the computing
companies, each with their hundreds of mil-
lions of customers who will increasingly over-
lap as the boundaries merge. I can't wait to
see what happens.
Bashari Bakari

