22 November 1999 • Felix Music
frequency
Talking All That Jazz!
Bemsha @ Notting Hill Arts Club
All the jazz fans will understand when I say that we're quite a rare bread. That's why I'm
always trying to get others involved and interested. You wouldn't believe how many peo-
ple can tell you they hate jazz without having listened to any real jazzman. I'm going
to tell you about a club in Notting Hill which will interest anyone. G o there, and then
you'll be able to have your own opinion on jazz.
The Notting Hill Arts Club isn't only a jazz club; in fact, it's only home to jazz musicians
on Tuesday nights, but maybe that's why you should try and give it a go. The atmos-
phere is exactly what you would expect: noisy, lots of drinking, everybody having fun
chatting up the women whilst listening to some really groovy improvised music; the
entry price is ridiculous ( £5 after 8pm, free before ), although the drinks inside aren't
cheap; but most importantly, the music is great. This club is known as Nathan Haines'
kingdom, because it's this very talented (and very young!) saxophonist/singer and his
band who pack the club every Tuesday night. Along with his usual band, he invites DJ's
and other musicians to bring you every kind of improvised music from Latin jazz to
heavy funk through hip-hop, and it always works perfectly.
There is another reason why this club is irresistible. It was created to enable young
artists to bring their talent to the stage, and therefore its regular clients are would-be
photographers, designers and... models. Yes, I knew this might just be the best argu-
ment to check out the club. The details are below and if you've got a Tuesday night free
soon make sure you get down.
Notting Hill Arts Club
21 Notting Hill Gate Wl 1
Tuesdays 8pm-lam
Free before 8pm, £5 after.
As well as tunes being spun on the decks, I'd also like to mention a couple of live gigs
coming up soon. These kind of gigs are more than worth the entrance fee.
25th November
Scott Hamilton @ Shepperton Jazz Club
This American saxophonist has been around for a very long time, and is a regular at
the Pizza Express Jazz club. It's the first time I've see him elsewhere in London. He
always delivers superb ballads rather than upbeat music, but that's good from time to
time. This one depends on your mood.
29th and 30th November
Ian Shaw & Claire Martin @ Pizza Express Jazz Club
They're performing a brand new show called If It's Magic, supposed to be a celebration
of the work of Stevie Wonder. This'll be more than great, whether you're a fan of Shaw
& Martin or not. The other great thing is that it's at Pizza Express so the food will be
pretty good too.
Effiene
Death in Vegas
@ Shepherds Bush Empire
Death in Vegas. Three words, or two really as 'in' does-
n't count. Okay then 'Death' and 'Vegas'; two very dif-
ferent words that both conjure up very different things
in my mind. 'Death' makes me think of people dying
and how bad it must be, and then for some reason I
think about suicide and how stupid it is. Vegas on the
other hand allows me to think on a much more fun
level. I think of gambling, drink, sex, drugs and all the
hedonism that goes with the city that is Las Vegas.
This is what I was thinking about just before Death in
Vegas played at Shepherd's Bush Empire last week.
Maybe strange, or maybe not. But as soon as the band
graced the stage with Dot Allison, their mesmerising
first guest of the night, ail this disappeared as I let the
music take over.
If you've heard Death in Vegas's recent Contino Ses-
sions you'll know that their music is quite unique. Lying
in a trippy no-mans-land between the rock, dance and
electronica genres, they possess a style that is perfect
for sitting around and having a think to. O n the other
hand it's also perfect music for sitting down, emptying
your head of all your worries and just letting the music
wash through you as you listen to the many intricacies
of the tunes. Death in Vegas seem to employ more
musicians than a small classical orchestra and this
gives them a meaty stage presence that smaller bands
can oniy dream of. Further, the light and graphics
show is a feast of a delicious multitude of flavours,
which when summed with the music make one of the
best live packages of any of the UK bands of the late
nineties.
All in all, this was a tremendous night. Three of the
four guest singers on The Contino Sessions turned up
to add to the delight of the packed audience, with
Bobby Gillespe giving perhaps the most memorable
performance with his wavy dancing and his fresh new
schoolboy haircut. If you get the chance to go, a
Death in Vegas gig is hard to beat, and much better
than a night with some of the more famous acts out
there. Have a think about it.
James

