Pag© 6
October 3(Nfe, 1973
REVIEWS
Osibisa
Being the first concert I've reviewed
for quite some time, I expected it to be
quite a difficult one, but it turned out
not to be the case in Osibisa.
A l l the music papers categorise their
music under the term " A f r o - R o c k " ,
though this is a little vague. I would
prefer to say that their music consists
of a very driving rhythm, which is
played, bursting with exuberance, on
bass, keyboards and various percussion
instruments, which were dotted around
the stage. Superimposed on this are
equally driving passages on brass. D n
the whole I found them very easy to
listen to, despite not having heard a
great deal of their music beforehand.
What did quite bewilder me was the
semi-hysteria they received from the
moment they were announced, and per-
sisting throughout the evening. This was
encouraged by the energy Osibisa were
generating in turn enhancing audience
participation, which was well supported,
though tended to drag o n a little towards
the end.
Earlier, Heavy M e t a l K i d s had played
some fairly good and basic heavy rock,
this time to a rather unresponsive audi-
ence. G . J . K .
R o n Geeson opened the evening with
a short set i n which he was not put off
by the barracking and impatient part of
the audience tout countered the shouted
remarks with equally witty comments.
H e is a rather eccentric Scotsman whose
Morcambesque antics with the banjo
and piano (which he played very well),
and several monologues (which he
enunciates very clearly and precisely in
a rather sinister fashion), were very
amusing.
Genesis were brilliant. The sound
was well mixed from a console i n the
middle of the stalls and the volume
was also used carefully and subtly. It
was not a continued mind-shattering
blast but was gradually increased dur-
ing the one and three-quarter hour per-
formance.
The stage was backed by a white
cloth screen onto which slides were pro-
jected during the songs. They helped to
accentuate the music and illustrate the
lyrics but on the whole were rather poor,
though the idea was good.
The production was excellent and
exact. Genesis are a band whose music
is as carefuly structured as classical
music and they reproduced their re-
corded material in the finest detail,
right down to a recording of the two
little boys singing the sinister nursery
rhyme :
n angelic and uncomprehending
voices.
it could be said that there is littie
point in going to hear music that you
already have on record. Well the answer
is Peter Gabriel. The atmosphere he
creates with his literally fantastic cos-
tume, sinister dramatics and amusing
introductions had the audience tense
and expectant for surprises which, when
they came, were original and effective.
"Watcher of the Skies" opened, with
books
Advertisement
Last year, there was a cut-price record service,
offering students a 19% reduction, run in College by
Cotin M c C a l l , and this year the service has been taken
over by J o h n Holloway (Computing I) and Steve Walker
( C h e m . Eng. II). The service will be run from the R o o m
at The Top on Monday, Tuesday, Thursday and Friday
Lunchtimes (12.30—1.30), and any record can be
ordered. The 19% reduction is better than either Comet
or Virgin Records mail orders can give.
Genesis and
R o n Geeson at the Rainbow
a majestic and impressive introduction
from Tony Bank's organ and synthesis-
er. H i s playing is simple in form yet is
very effective and dramatic. D u r i n g the
concert they mainly played songs from
their latest album "Selling England by
the Pound." These were 'Fifth of First",
'The Cinema Show", " T h e Battle of
Epping Forest" and " M o r e fool m e "
which is a simple acoustic guitar num-
ber played by M i c h a e l Rutherford and
with Steve Hackett on vocals, whose
drumming I think plays a very impor-
tant part in bringing the other instru-
ments together and giving a definite
rhythm to the music.
They finished with what is, I think,
their best composition yet—"Supper's
Ready" from "Foxtrot". A s the climac-
tic organ solo "began, Gabriel stood
motionless on the stage illuminated with
ultra-violet light wearing an orange
luminous "mask"(?) (See cover of live
album), then a loud explosion just be-
fore the return to the vocals revealed
him, when the smoke cleared, i n a
bright silver shirt in contrast to the black
suit that he had worn before.
Then after nearly 10 minutes clap-
ping, an encore, " T h e K n i f e " from
"Trespass", with the whole audience on
its feet.
It was a carefully thought out and
rehearsed performance, the strong ele-
ment of fantasy accentuated by the use
of lighting, music, costume and make-
up by Peter Gabriel plus excellent lead
guitar work by Steve Hackett (often
indistinguishable from the organ). These
qualities of musicianship and stage pro-
duction make Genesis one of the best
live bands in the country.
Stone groove man. A really heavy
sap. .
P A L A N T I R T O N .
Small dreams o f a s c o r p i o n
by Spike M i l l i g a n Penguin 25p
'There comes a time i n every man's
life when he stops laughing and starts
to grind under the yoke of contempo-
rary pressures. . . . The result of this
change in personality is found within
the confines of this book."
These words from Milligan's o w n i n -
troduction to this slim volume of (very)
serious poetry goes a long way to ex-
plaining their existence. Spike has al-
ways been the campaigner, from wild
life preservation to the cure of mental
illness. N o wonder then that the serious
side of his character should express itself
in a creative form as well as the comic
side.
Most of the poems are short—but
very direct, very hard hitting and
intentionally so. There are illustrations
by Spike and also his wile L a u r a that
add a lot to the atmosphere of the
book. Some of the verse is so well
thought out that one finds it hard to
believe "some of the poems were
written by dropping 800 English words
into a sack, taking them out one at a
time and calling them by their names
like 'Hello Sailor'," as M i l l i g a n would
have us believe.
T h e topics of the poems range from
war and preservation to the tender
ones dealing with the plight of child-
ren in trouble, like those of Aberfan,
"I don't burn coal any more."
This is not a book to be read on a
longish train journey, but one to be
taken i n small selective doses so that
it will stimulate and provoke thought
on those topics and causes dear to Spike
Milligan's heart.
In many ways it is a n amazing and
surprising book and at times confusing.
Some of the poems are presented twice,
on opposite pages, once i n normal type
face lettering and the other i n (pre-
sumably) Spike's original handwriting.
The poems deal with their subjects i n a
human, compassionate way and i n so
doing give an insight to the man, the
family man Spike Milligan, that is
rarely evident and certainly not obvious
in liis many other books.
There are many short verses and
lines that are powerful enough to hit
one immediately, like
'Tf I die in war you remember me.
If I live i n peace you don't."
" G o d made night, but m a n made
darkness."
N o w that this volume is available in
paperback for the first time you have
no excuse for not owning a copy. If
you're a Milligan-mahiac you'll buy it
anyway and be pleasantly surprised, if
you're not you still can't afford to be
without it. Anything by Spike M i l l i g a n
is more than a book, i n this case it's
a testimony to our present world and
way of life. A favourable testimony?
Well get the book and find out . . . a
toil-of things.
J E R E M Y B A R K E R
Jack Kerouac was born in 1922 i n
Lowell, Mass., the son of a printer and
a French-Canadian girl. H e attended
Columbia University from 1940 to 1942,
and then left to hitch and odd-job his
way around, eventually becoming part
of the "underground" of Greenwich
Village, New York. His first book, The
Town and The City, was successfully
published in 1950, but he was little-
known outside America until 1956 when
he produced " O n the R o a d " which,
with " H o w l and other Poems" by A r -
thur Ginsberg became a sacred text of
the 'beatniks'.
Jack Kerouac has since written many
books, all following the loose line of the
'beat poets', but his prose carries m o r e
than the mere trendy message of some
of his contemporaries. L i k e Orwell,
Kerouac only writes of what he knows,
and it is this autobiographical viewpoint
which gives his novels their relaxed
cohesion. The 'hero' of a Kerouac story
will be a thinly-veiled Kerouac; a point
to bear in mind when considering his
work. Even the Town and the C i t y is
not a narrative with the outsider look-
ing i n ; it is the insider, Peter, looking
in and about, w'itto all the apprehensions
and stumbling errors of a teenager.
The T o w n and the City is not, then,
the saga of each member of an A m e r i -
can family which you might expect
from a glance at the blurb. Instead it is
The town a n d the city
by Jack K e r o v a c
the saga of Peter, the third son in a
family of five sons and three daugh-
ters, who finds that excellence in sport
is an artificial and limited criterion of
success, and sets out to look for truth.
O f the Other characters, Francis and
Mr. 'George' M a r t i n are admirably
portrayed, and i n M i c k e y and Charley,
Kerouac reveals his keen memory and
understanding of the emotions of child-
hood. The other members of the family-
have an air of being 'extras': the sisters
are seen through the eyes of a busy
brother as part of home, yet different
beings on another plane of existence,
while M r s . M a r t i n leaves the impression
of a worried card-sharper rather than
the contented understanding mother.,
II seems likely that this re-issue is the
result of some publisher equating the
present 'off-beat' scene with that of
the '50s'. It pleases me to define literary
classics as writings which always have
relevance, i n which case I can sincerely
declare this book to be a classic . . .
and the publisher to have been, in a
sense, right.
F o r a paperback the book is well-
bound, with a pretty dust-jacket so you
can cover it. If £1.75 is a bit steep for
a novel, put it on your Christmas list or
give it to your fiancee. A t any rate, if
you haven't met Kerouac before, be sure
to read iit.
C A N E S ,
Johnathan Livingston Seagull could
be described as the narrated story of
an extremely individual gull who re-
jects the life of the seagull flock, "fight-
ing and screeching with the flock
around piers and fishing boats, diving
on scraps of fish and bread," living to
eat, never flying through the night,
through the storm, never leaving the
rocky shore behind.
Johnathan is a gull who "finds and
follows a meaning, a higher purpose for
life," ever to learn to fly better. W e then
learn of Johnathan's conflict with the
flock, his increasing flying ability, until
he learns to fly "as fast as a thought"
through time and space because he
knows himself to be unlimited " a per-
fect idea of freedom of flight."
" B u t to describe it i n this way is not
to define it, the book has 93 pages, 43
of them pictures of gulls i n flight, is a
glossy a n d pleasing presentation of a
really rather lovely and original story.
I was rather surprised as you might be,
Johnathan Livingston
Seagull
as to how much I enjoyed the tale of the
''ascent of the gull".
But to say this much would be to
leave the intended point of the book
unmentioned. J . Seagull goes on to
teach, to introduce other gulls to his
joy, thus the book becomes a direct
parallel of Christ teaching love. This
undisguised snowballing element of the
book certainly detracted from my over-
all enjoyment of the story; though I a m
stili amused to feel that despite its in-
tentions, those of a humanist outlook
would see the story as more truly a
parallel of man's intellectual ascent, a
search for purity in knowledge.
The photographs, though not all
essential, do add something to one's
enjoyment, especially in the first half
of the book.
A t 50p it is an expensive hour's
reading, ttough one that offers more
sheer emotional pleasure than most, and
one which I could repeat.

