SCIENCE
Felix presents the details of a new developement in research at Imperial
Quadspace: Found
On Monday this week, the Space-Time
Interdisciplinary Research Centre (IRC) at
Imperial College announced that a
ground-breaking new paper is to be
published in the near future. The paper
details a radical new area of dimensional
research and is titled 'Quadracyclic
Dimensional Anomalies and their effects
on the Space Time Continuum'. It was
written by two independent researchers
w o r k i n g at the IRC, J Briant and A
Butcher. The pair have been working on
the concepts outlined in the paper for
most of their lives and met at Imperial
College.
The research began several years ago
when Briant and Butcher, quite
independently at the time, became
fascinated by the number of times objects
apparently disappeared without a trace,
only to be found again later with no
difficulty. However, it was not until they
met at Imperial that the vague theories
that both had coalesced into the current
research. To explain: how m a n y times
have you 'lost' an object, searched
thoroughly for it and not been able to
discover its whereabouts, only to discover
it, after a period of time, w i t h relative
ease? Probably hundreds, yet few people
have ever stopped to question this
phenomena. This week Felix is able to
bring you an exclusive preview to the
paper, written by the researchers
themselves.
Quadracyclic Dimensional Anomalies and their effects on
the Space Time Continuum—an overview
Before beginning this discussion of
quadracyclic dimensional anomalies, and
in order to simplify the following
concepts, it would be advisable for us to
explain some of the terms which are
commonly used in conjunction with this
research. 'Quadspace' is used to refer to
the whereabouts of an object that has
been the focal point of an anomaly. Thus
an object is referred to as being 'in
quadspace' and when an object enters
quadspace, it is said to have been
'quadspaced'. Furthermore, the point at
w h i c h a quadspaced object returns to real
space is termed the 'exit point'.
The research into quadspace has
progressed slowly, owing both to a lack
of funding, and the inherent difficulty of
the work. B y its very nature, quadspace
is extremely difficult to investigate, and is
a perfect example of various uncertainty
principles; when actually looking for a
quadspace anomaly one almost never
occurs, yet w h e n your back is turned, so
to speak (sometimes quite literally), one
occurs. Despite these problems, however,
we have managed to make some
progress, which we shall attempt to
explain herein.
While initially all aspects of quadspace
effects appeared to be random, after
some investigation, and the application of
modern chaos theory, it was found that
certain patterns existed, and certain
principles appeared to be acting.
We shall start by examining the
observations and hypotheses that have
been arrived at relating to quadspace
effects, and then continue by discussing
the theories that we have proposed to
explain these effects.
A n y object can be quadspaced, with the
transition of an object at the focal point
of an anomaly from real space into
quadspace appearing to be instantaneous.
However, certain objects appear to have
an increased likelihood of being at the
focal point of an anomaly. Some appear
to have an inherently higher probability
associated with them, but those of a small
physical size, and/or large level of
'importance' have been shown to possess
a much higher probability of becoming
quadspaced.
It is the second of these criteria that
has caused the largest amount of
controversy in this research. The
implication that the human brain's
perception of the need for an object at
any given time can in some w a y affect
the physical properties of the said object
within the space time continuum is
nothing short of revolutionary. It has led
are poorly understood and often based
mainly on obscure and complicated
mathematics that are beyond the scope of
this article.
Obviously, the SPLIF value of a given
object will v a r y with time. It appears that
the rate of increase of an object's SPLIF
value also has an affect on the probability
of the object being quadspaced. Thus if
an object suddenly becomes important,
the chances of it being quadspaced also
A Bic biro
to the definition of a new property of
matter, the Specific Perceived Level of
Importance Field, or SPLIF. The SPLIF is
the level of the value of or need for a
given object at a given time as perceived
by a given person. Items that typically
have a high SPLIF value include such
I things as keys, writing implements,
cheque books, credit cards,
contraceptives, cigarettes, matches or
lighters, and scraps of paper with phone
numbers or lab results written on them.
Thus, at a given time t
increase, apparently in a loose
exponential relation. This explains the so
called 'safe place' phenomenon: when an
object is stored in a safe place and then,
after a period of uselessness, becomes
needed quickly, it has suffered a
quadspace anomaly. Examples are sports
equipment stored out of season, and
important but little-used documents (birth
certificates, etc).
Thus at a given time t
p(quad)* 1
p(quad) x / d S P L l F V
U J
and
V
object
p(quad) SPLIF(
object
Where p(quad) = the probability of the
object entering quadspace
sPLIF,
volume of the object
obiect = SPLIF value of object at
that time.
It should be noted with these and any
following formulae that they are very
inaccurate approximations of very
complicated relationships, m a n y of which
In addition to this there also appear to
be areas where quadspace activity is
abnormally high. Investigation of these
'Quadzones' has led to the theories of
SPLIF value addition and quadzones. A
quadzone is an area of real space that
has a high level quadspace activity. The
only explanations for this involve some
very high level mathematics which are
beyond the scope of this article.
However, the principle behind SPLIF
value addition is more within the scope of
this discussion. In an area where there is
a high proportion of objects with high
SPLIF values, they appear to create a
combined effect that is larger than the
10
)liege
One Dimension
sum of their values.
Thus, in a given area
p(quad)«QfS PLIFo b j e c t 5y-
where n = number of objects
Once an object has been quadspaced,*
the amount of time spent in quadspace is
largely random. However, in c o m m o n
with other aspects of quadspace
phenomena, there do seem to be some
underlying principles. The amount of time
an object spends in quadspace is
apparently proportional both to the
amount of time spent searching for the
object, and the level of the SPLIF value
for the object as it changes with time.
Thus
and
t Kt
quad search
t q u a d « . ( d S P L I F / d t ) 2
W h e r e t(quad) = time spent in
quadspace
t(search) = time spent searching
all objects in real space exist in four
dimensions. If one imagines that the
space-time in a localised area 'twists' or
rotates around these axes, then the t axis
would, for example become the x axis,
the x axis would translate to the y axis,
and so on. Thus to an observer outside
the area of this Rotationally Operative
A n o m a l y Centre Hysteresis, or R O A C H ,
an object at the focal point of the
'twisting' would vanish.
It seems, however, that space time has
a resistance to this effect, akin to a level
of elasticity. While a R O A C H can occur
given the right conditions, it can only
exist for a short time before space time
reverts to its previous state, and any
object caught at the focal point of the
R O A C H returns to real space. However,
due to the translational effect of the
twisting, and the relative movement of
the object's original position over the
period of the R O A C H quadspace effect
the exit point of the object from it will
often be at a different position in real
space than that at which it initially held.
As discussed above, it appears that the
probability of a R O A C H occurring is
Quad Space in action
The exit point, of a quadspaced object,
in c o m m o n with the time spent in
quadspace, is totally unpredictable b y any
current scientific means. Paranormal
techniques have also proved unsuccessful
to this point. However, also i n c o m m o n
with other aspects of quadspace, there do
seem to be some basic laws. Quadspaced
objects never exit to a point currently
under observation by any k n o w n method.
The exit of an object from quadspace
appears to be instantaneous. Also, it is
entirely possible for a quadspaced object
to exit to a point that was clearly in view
or had been searched several times
during the course of attempting to find
the object. This has occurred in several
case, as has the occurrence of the exit
point in some place that said object could
not have reached by any other means. It
was the combination of these two factors
that lead to m u c h of the early research
into quadspace.
There have been several hypotheses
suggested to explain the underlying
principles behind and the nature of
quadspace. A l l have been investigated,
and there are two that appear to be the
most correct.
The first revolves around the theory of
dimensional 'twisting'. To put this simply,
affected by various conditions, including
the SPLIF. T h e resistance of space time to
the twisting w o u l d appear to increase
with the volume of real space involved,
explaining the relation of p(quad) to'the
volume of the object. It has been
theorised that there exists a R O A C H
potential, w h i c h can be visualised as a
form of potential energy. W h e n the
R O A C H potential reaches a certain level
a R O A C H can occur, or can continue to
exist. The higher the potential above this
point the higher the probability of the
effect occurring or continuing. Once the
potential drops below a certain level
space time reverts to its previous state.
Unfortunately, no acceptable scale or
means of measuring the potential at a
given point has been discovered to date.
It can be inferred, however, that most of
the observed relationships discussed
above relate to this R O A C H potential,
and when the various conditions exist at
certain levels the probability of a R O A C H
quadspace event occurring is increased.
The second hypothesis deals with the
consideration of quadspace existing in a
separate sense to the continuum in which
we exist, as opposed to the above view,
wherein quadspace is seen to be a
characteristic of real space.
The universe is apparently infinite within
the four c o m m o n dimensions. However, it
is possible that other 'universes' exist in
parallel to it, utilising others. Quadspace
may be such a parallel. If this is true then
several observations can be arrived at as
to its nature. Most importantly quadspace
is obviously closely associated with our
universe. It is this that allows quadspace
effects to occur, w h e n an object from real
space enters or leaves quadspace. The
nature of this travel is a matter of some
discussion and conjecture, but the most
likely means are based on an obscure
branch of geometrical mathematics,
which can be used to show a process b y
which objects could enter or leave an
area such as quadspace. The key
equations, whose complexity precludes a
detailed analysis here, combine to form
the Dual Optimised Permissibility
Expression, or D O P E .
This process is best imagined as an
overlapping of real space and quadspace,
and then the formation of a temporary
link between them, caused b y specific
circumstances. The Extrapolation of the
D O P E also leads to some other inferences
about quadspace and related events. The
D O P E clearly shows that the probability
of the link occurring is related to the size
of the focal area of the link, with smaller
focal areas m u c h more likely than large
ones. Once again this explains the
relation between p(quad) and V o b j e c t . It
would appear likely that quadspace is not
infinite in the same way as this universe,
or at least does not have the same
infinite capacity for objects from real
space. Thus the higher the total volume
of real space objects in quadspace, the
less chance of another one entering
during a link, and the more chance of
one returning to real space.
It also appears that real space objects
have a low affinity for quadspace, but this
affinity may be altered by certain
conditions, and varies with certain
properties of the object, such as its
current SPLIF value. Thus an objects
affinity for quadspace may be raised to
the point where it can exist there, by
increases in factors such as the objects
SPLIF or by the combined SPLIF values
of objects near to it in real space (see the
equations above). However, if these
factors then change, the objects affinity
for quadspace m a y drop below a critical
level. A t this point the objects foreign
nature will cause it to be expelled from
quadspace at the next link. The reason
why objects tend to be expelled in an
area close to that where the initial link
formed are not k n o w n at this point.
We would liketo thank all those who
have helped us with this research, and to
extend this thanks to IC itself, for
allowing us the facilities we needed.
11

