FELIX
Richard Eyers investigates the
P e d d l i n g
twin dangers facing cyclists in London
D e a t h o n
Is London really safe for cyclists? This is
a question that a lot of people ignore,
despite knowing the answer. They have,
in some cases, known for years that
London is not a particularly safe place to
be on a bike, and yet they apparently
accept this. W h y ?
The recent cycle rally at Trafalgar
Square showed that when just a small
group of London's cycling population get
together they are a force to be reckoned
with. Changes could be made to improve
the safety of cyclists, if they show that
they need them. Part of the whole
problem is that people do not realise just
how bad the situation is. F o r example,
between the years 1988 and 1989 there
was a 25% increase in 'pedal cycle
accident casualties' in London.
Y o u generally accept that y o u are
taking some risk every time y o u set out
on your bicycle. This is regardless of the
length of the journey. The risk, as far as
most are concerned, is of some sort of
minor accident, a brush with a car or
something fairly trivial. Most take an 'it-
won't-happen-to-me' approach:
unfortunately there is an increasing
chance that it will. In fact these people
are probably more at risk because of this
foolish approach.
There has now, very definitely, been
shown to be a second serious threat to
London cyclists (and pedestrians).
Pollution, is at dangerously high levels in
our Capital. This may sound to some like
scaremongering, but w h e n y o u read of
the possibility that Central London will
have to be closed to traffic at certain
times of the day, this has to be at least
thought about. Y o u can't help but notice,
when you walk or ride around the city,
the level of unpleasantness of the
atmosphere. The. air feels heavy to
breathe and your clothes and hair
become dirty in one afternoon. If y o u
leave windows open, things accumulate a
thick black dust. Yet the attitude in
general is the similar to that of taken
about accidents: that if you ignore it, it
will not affect y o u as an individual, and if
you aren't affected, then y o u don't care!
This attitude is both selfish, and as the
following shows, very naive. In putting
together this article Felix has discovered
some very disturbing information. This
article is not based merely upon the
personal opinion and guesswork of an
individual, but hard, and mostly
substantiated, facts!
Accidents
The information that follows on accidents
may not be c o m m o n knowledge, but it
has all come from published Metropolitan
Police and Department of Transport
reports. Before continuing, it is worth
realising that the majority of accidents,
including those where injury is caused, go
unreported. A report published by the
Department of R o a d Research in 1989,
showed that 68% of reportable accidents
were not recorded. It may seem like a lot
of hassle reporting what y o u may think is
a trivial accident to the police, but in
becoming a 'statistic', you would increase
the chances of improvements being made.
A n y o n e w h o has ridden a bike in
London, particularly Central London, will
have experienced the way perfectly sane
people can behave w h e n they get behind
the wheel of a car. Experience tends to
indicate that buses and black cabs are
quite considerate towards cyclists, whilst
lorry and private car drivers are not. The
bus and cab drivers are, o n the whole,
both more experienced drivers and have
more to lose if they are involved in a
serious accident. The worst offender of all
seems to be the private car driver who is
only in the capital for the day, and
doesn't want to be here at all. However,
there is often fault on the part of the
cyclist, whether they are a student,
dispatch rider, or ordinary person. There
is no excuse, whatever the dangers on
12
the main roads, for cycling on pavements,
down one-way streets, or through red
lights. Most cyclists break the law at least
once on their journey.
Statistically, the two most dangerous
times to be on the road are between
8.00am and 9.00am, and between 5.00pm
and 6.00pm. These times reflect both the
increase in cycle and car journeys to and
from work. These peaks of accident
potential also coincide with the time
many are cycling either to, or from,
College: starting the day earlier would
place us in the middle of the first peak!
There is no doubt that pedal cycles are
becoming increasingly more popular as a
cheap and fast means of transport, but
the proportion of cyclists involved in
accidents per week is also increasing.
Inner London shows the biggest increase,
in 1989 it accounted for 52% of all pedal
cycle accidents in the U K . T h e borough
of Westminster, containing Imperial
College, had the highest reported rate of
accident per person.
So what can you do to improve your
chances? Surprisingly enough, c o m m o n
sense is quite useful, as is the use of
lights at night! Physically, there are some
precautions that y o u can take. So-called
'conspicuous aids' also prevent accidents;
a large number being caused because a
vehicle driver didn't see the cyclist.
Helmets, hard-hats, lids, call them what
you want, may not look particularly good
but they do reduce head injuries. These
are becoming now 'accepted' as part of
the gear used by cyclists, and the
argument that they make y o u more of a
target for motorists is ridiculous.
Until the government instigate their
plan for a 1000 mile cycle network
around London the risk to life will
certainly increase.
Pollution;
The continual stream of traffic, that flows
24 hours a day through a n d around
London emits a constant flow of waste
and unburnt products. Some vehicles may
run on unleaded petrol but lead is only
one of hundreds of chemicals expelled
during even a short journey. Cutting it
down is only a start. The list includes
carbon monoxide, a host of
hydrocarbons, (up to 100 per vehicle),
nitrous oxides, carbon dioxide and even
ozone, and of course it goes on, and on.
The actual balance of quantity and rate of
emission depends upon the type of fuel,
and the engine. This is not the place (and
it shouldn't be necessary at IC) to explain
the environmental effects of exhaust
emissions. H o w e v e r one particular
secondary pollutant has, in recent years,
earned itself a mention: ozone. It is
thought that hydrocarbons and nitrous
oxides interact, catalysed b y sunlight, to
form this favourite nasty of
environmentalists.
There are two ways to reduce the
pollution in your lungs, by prevention at
Jr
FELIX
source, and b y protection. Prevention at
source is out of the hands of the cyclist
and pedestrian, though they can influence
it if enough are bothered. This process
only begins with unleaded petrol, there
are technical, but currently expensive
(probably because of their rarity) methods
that can be employed. These include the
fitting of cats (catalytic converters) that
convert emissions to less harmful
compounds. Cats are already mandatory
in Scandinavia, U S A and Austria and they
will have to be fitted to every new British
car from 1 January, 1993. There are
negative points to them; they are
complex, requiring tuning of the mixture
passing through them, and they use finite
resources, though for a v e r y good reason.
Lean burn, low air/fuel m i x engines, are
another way of improving the emissions
from vehicles. Finally, 'carbon canister'
technology will have to be used in the
EEC from 1992, if draft proposals are
passed. This technology reduces released
petrol vapour.
Until emissions are reduced (and there
is a good chance that it will be) there is a
precaution that y o u can take. Like
helmets, face masks are becoming more
and more popular, and if they are
properly worn, they probably do improve
the air breathed. However there is no
British Standard, and there is significant
doubt as to their effectiveness during
strenuous exercise, and as to the length
of their useful life.
There may be some hope for the
London Cyclist, but improvements depend
upon individuals actually bothering to
complain about the current situation and
then persuading legislators to do
something about it! If y o u do care about
the current dangers the only organisation
that is active in London is the London
Cycling Campaign. They are based in
Stamford Street, SE1.
Richard Eyers, Cyclist!!

