Terminal Cheesecake
Hit
Etc,
There's a very strange story on the back
of this L P concerning a M r Dan Gane.
This is his story. Mr Gane is an ordinary
guy w h o goes through what may best be
described as a 'mid-life crisis' and comes
out of it hearing voices telling him to kill
people. The story gets quite disturbing
until you pay attention to the people he
kills—Mary Graphite (student), Fred Perry
(old man) and Henri Tombstone (priest)
amongst others. The tale was written by
a certain Nat Jerkoif. H m m m .
So to the record. I've got no option but
to tell it like it is I'm afraid I lost patience
with Terminal Cheesecake. They attempt
serious songs but throw in samples and
stupid little nursery rhyme beginnings.
They provide light relief from tracks
Glitterhouse
Hailing from some far corner of the U S A ,
Glitterhouse's Monstermagnet release
their first L P , cunningly titled
Monstermagnet. This is a harsh guitar
album of five songs which on first
hearing is a dire, dirty animal wallowing
in its o w n excrement, with a carnal
desire to be sick in your face. This is a
most laudable attitude (one Phil Collins
could take note of) no doubt learned from
living in some David L y n c h type town in
nowheresville.
There's a raw no-nonsense energy that
pervades the album, very reminiscent of
Dinosaur Jr, but lacking his effortless
vocal style. Still peel back the surface
layers and you'll find some breakneck
tunes running through the album (more
apparent on the quiet(er) Freak Shop
USA. A s m u c h feedback and grunge as
The Fall
Lou Reed once said of himself, 'I can't
sing, I can only reach a few notes'. This
is a noble confession, one we all know,
but nevertheless it takes a brave man to
admit it. The atononal M a r k E Smith
knows he-can't sing. He delights in the
fact. H e also manages to write
consistently great songs with totally
innocuous titles ('British people in hot
weather, pay your rates, big pizza).
Within these songs Smith vehemently
spits out seemingly random words that
mean nothing placed next to each other,
but when considered in the context of a
song make a sort of jilted sense.
Each song hangs on cleverly interjected
phrases, repeated through his babble.
Juxtapose this with an urgent guitar
you can take, with even the vocalist (dare
I say singer) enthusiastic in this
sound and the gospel according to Smith
becomes an essential, breathing sound.
Translated to a live format however
and The Fall begin to fail. Brix's
departure left a gaping hole in Smith's
head, and the band's string section.
Neither have completely recovered.
Secondly. Smith has a xenophobic
attitude towards his audience, frequently
turning his back on them. A w r y smile
piercing his sour expression only once
this evening. F o r Christ's sake—what's the
point of doing gigs if you're not going to
enjoy them?
Smith's nonsense-speak becomes a
frustrating armour-plated screen. Nothing
can penetrate it. Y o u can't fathom him
out through the welter of sound. The Fall
Angels in Pigtails LP
caked in grunge, but add nothing in
themselves. O h , there's a Residents' cover
(Hello Skinny) to let us k n o w exactly
where the band are coming from.
If 1 was feeling in a good mood I could
glibly throw in a couple of pretentious
references to Terminal Cheesecake
plough the fields of Ciccone Youth's
barren landscape. Sorry, couldn't resist.
They quite nicely use noise and silence
by way of contrast, I suppose, and you
could blunt a knife on the vocals. M y
enthusiasm is almost carrying me away
here! This isn't a good enough album to
make me turn up the volume to
m a x i m u m and stick m y head in a
speaker. So it's back to the drawing
board boys.
J D F .
Monstermagnet LP
department too.
In fact, if he's not singing through what
I presume is a megaphone, he's playing
the 'sing from the back of the recording
studio whilst the microphone's at the
front' game and I swear at one point the
vocals are so far back in the track that
he's singing from outside, with the door
closed. Still, this purveys a sweet attitude
to rock. Not to be called inconsistent, it's
carried through to the back cover picture
of one of those roll-your-own cigarettes.
This type of hardcore album isn't going to
win over any new fans, but it sounds like
it was fun to make and an attitude rather
than ideas come across.
They definitely sound like an act to go
and experience live, and on that basis I'll
give them six out of ten on the monster
scale.
J D F .
Brixton Fridge 3.12.90
become a mystic spectacle, failing to
entice you into their sound. Leaving you
cold in the audience. Their set consisted
of most of Extricate, Mr Pharmacist (the
best song of the evening) some b-sides, a
butchered White Lightening and the new
single, High Tension Wire. A l l the songs
reached the (government) m i n i m u m
standard, but nothing ever threatened to
leap off the stage and take off d o w n
Brixton High Street. Sadly T77e Fall lacked
sparkle tonight.
J D F .
16

