Graeme Shan interviews..
The Shamen
For those of y o u who don't k n o w of the
Shamen, they're shit hot. Simple as that.
There's much more than an element of
truth in the n o w widespread belief that
they, more than anyone else have their
finger on the biggest pulse of club music
today.
There are only two human members of
the Shamen, Colin and W i l l , though the
technology could be classed as a worthy
third party. Credited with being the first
band to make the indie dance crossover
back in 1988, their music is now almost
totally house, but with a melodic feel.
'We came d o w n to London in, what,
May 1988...We're from Aberdeen and had
heard some tapes with the early house
sounds from d o w n here, the scene up
there is non-existent so w e had to come
down.'
It was at this time that The Shamen
produced Transcendental, their first
experiment in acid house. A n album
followed (In Gorbachev We Trust), a
mixture of rhythmic indie tracks and their
new acid influences. A remix of
Transcendental with Chicago house king
Bam Bam received limited play in the
clubs, but still their indie label lingered
prejudicing club dj's. A further step was
evident in the next aptly named L P
Phoreward, featuring tracks remixed b y
hot dj Evil Eddy Richards (he played
Imperial College at New Year's Party).
However, their journey was not complete
until the release of the n e w album En-tact
last month. Acceptance finally came with
it a whole host of addictively dancy
tracks. 'With all respect, the reason we
weren't accepted was that w e weren't
good enough!'
This could be true. En-tact is certainly
the most professional package to come
from The Shamen. The production is
superb. Presented as a 2 x 12" to
improve quality and aid mixing between
turntables, it's fully geared for clubs and
home dj's.
Hyperreal will be the next single
released from En-tact. 'Hyperreal is m y
favourite...because of the w a y it came
together. Originally 1 had done the track
as an instrumental and then two days
before I was due to take it into the studio
I got this demo tape of Plauka...I'd been
waiting for it for months...it was a bad
demo but there was obviously vocal
quality there...I wrote her some vocal
lines that night, recorded and sampled
them next day...'
Colin explained the O n e Little Indian
deal...'We wanted to continue doing the
Synergy thing...financially it wasn't as
secure as the majors' offers but they (One
Little Indian) were more interested in
what The Shamen are about long term.'
'We want to get into the Top 40; to get
a US deal. T h e y won't give y o u a deal
unless you've been in the Top
40...Obviously I'm more pleased that
we're highly regarded in the clubs, but
we do need to break into the US
market...' After all, y o u have to feed
yourself?'...
'Well, we sell enough albums to do that
but, actually it's the first time I haven't
lived in a squat in London. I have a flat
now!'
In wondered if Colin had any opinions
about the end of the house scene, the
next stage...
'I think the basic acid beats are here to
stay now, it's just what you lay over
them. Samplers and sequencers are the
instruments of the future...I can't
understand the amount of techno-fear
some people have, especially
drummers...drum machines only make
their job easier.'
So what is Synergy. Colin provides a
definition...
'It's a w o r d meaning when y o u get
more energy out of the combination of
two things...than (the sum of) the energies
of the two things themselves. That could
be a combination of two drugs, or music
and lights, or music and audience
participation.'
This relates to what the Synergy club
concept is. The Shamen take a whole
club on tour—dj's, mc's, lights, projectors
plus numerous other acts to produce a
physically astonishing night. They play a
set themselves though the dancing doesn't
stop and they're mixed in and out, on
beat, like any other tracks played.
Nothing stops until after 2am w h e n all
the happy people either wind d o w n or
tramp off to some party somewhere.
Last Saturday, The Shamen visited the
London Rocket Club to convert a few
more Londoners to the joys of Synergy.
Competition for tickets was harsh—they
oversold the venue by 400 (at the time I
interviewed Colin, it was still not clear
whether the doors would be opened at
all, for fear of licensing laws and fire
risk). People had come from everywhre,
even as far afield as Scotland, and were
noticeably more like ravers than the
audience at last year's Shamen gigs.
The extent to which Synergy attempts
to create something new is shown by
such things as 'The Mind G y m ' . Some sort
of electronic headgear/goggles is worn,
and the eyes closed. Pulses of light and
sound b o m b a r d the brain, separating and
dephasing each side to make the wearer
feel like his body experiences some sort
of metamorphosasis. I am told a 15
minute session costs £ 1 5 at 'The Brain'
clinic, but here at Synergy it's free to
anyone w h o queues up. O n e of the
people running the brain machine was a
65 year-old w o m a n , dressed in silver rave
wear, totally off her head, grooving d o w n
to acid house—brilliant.
The Shamen set was fantastic, the high-
point being Make it Mine, during which
the the energy in the audience soared to
a peak. This is ironic since it is the only
track with a guitar riff...
'1 was messing one day o n the guitar
and came up with this riff. I thought it
sounded just like those heavy rock riffs
from the seventies...I wanted it to sound
like a sample from one of them.'
Colin has been k n o w n to attribute a lot
of his music to the feelings he's had from
drug experiences...
'Drugs have always been associated
with music...always...The Pogues is
whisky music. Our's isn't, that's all'.
Re students:
T did that once...most respectable w a y
of being unemployed!'
Technical Bit
Shamen use a Steinberg Cubase and a C-lab
M i d i Package both run on Atari ST.

