John Finley's brief guide to how not to stay sober with style over
Christmas for under six quid.
Dr Finley On The Case FELIX
Dr Finley's list of recommended wines
can be found opposite below.
—with apologies to Sir W.S. Gilbert, and
also to the vast majority of wine
merchants w h o m I have not consulted.
My not so little list is based entirely o n
Oddbins, with a few interlopers from
Sainsbury's, a n d very little recent
practical research (alas). M a n y of the
wines mentioned are to be found in other
places. Chris asked me to do, in short
order, a piece o n wines for Christmas.
The result is entirely idiosyncratic, as I
refuse to be held to a particular pattern,
and you should be warned that I tend to
value a definite taste above subtlety.
The list is arranged in categories a n d
should be regarded as the vinous
equivalent of a bibliography. There is
much good drinking amongst them,
though some of the more powerful reds
are perhaps 'more appropriate to the
needs of the advanced student'. I have,
with a few exceptions, kept to a price of
£5 or less, not unreasonable for a
celebration, and, inevitably, have a fairly
lavish Christmas Dinner in mind.
Every Christmas Dinner I have eaten
has arrived late, so w e must have
something to amuse the taste-buds to
start with. Manzanilla is the lightest of the
sherries, but very dry—safer, though,
than the usual Amontillados etc... Serve
cool and finish within 10 days. Unless you
are prepared to pay a lot more,
Sainsbury's is quite adequate. It will go
well with most 'cocktail snacks' of the
saltier kind. W e are thinking of an
occasion, though, and Bubbly restores the
spirit. I have suggested three Aussies and
one Old World. 1 myself a m not a
passionate adherent of dry wines, and
find the slightly richer Angus more
attractive than the Seaview. In particular,
the pink wine is terribly 'moreish'—in m y
youth 1 would have thought it vulgar. T h e
Blanquette is in many ways an old-
fashioned wine with old-fashioned virtues
and very much worth trying.
We then have to think of a first course
which may not be there—say smoked
salmon or fish in a fairly strong cream
sauce. The Bubblies can carry on, or w e
can start o n the White Burgundy
substitutes. Nobody can afford the real
thing. I have considered three types of
wine. The classic grape is the
Chardonnay. The Australians make it
heavy, and age it in oak (for however a
short time). The result is, in general,
pretty robust. It will support a rich dish,
and continue with a poultry roast. T h e
Bulgarians produce a lighter wine which I
find attractive, but possibly a
contradiction of m y predilection to a
concentration of flavour. The Sauvignon
wines are more acidic, with a definite
gooseberry character. O n the whole I
think thema—very pleasant—let-out. They
are very clean and would cover the
range from pre-Dinner to a turkey roast.
The Australian Rieslings are to me
curiosities—they are not remotely like
their German ancestors, which, in the
reasonable price range, rely o n lightness
and scent, but are robust wines which,
yet again, have been aged in oak. They
will provide a solid background to fish in
a sauce or the turkey main course and
are slightly sweeter than the others.
The next major shift is to the red
wines. I have again ruled out Burgundy,
on grounds of price, a n d the principal red
Burgundy grape, the Pinot Noir, since it
does not seem to prosper away from
home in the way that the Cabernet
Sauvignon does. M y groupings here are
the Bordeaux-related grapes, Cabernet,
Cabernet-Franc and Merlot, the Rhone
based Syrah grape with some of its
Southern cousins, and a trio of 'others'.
The Cabernet tends to be tannic, but in
the new W o r l d it is often a big fat wine
in a way that the restricted climate of
Bordeaux does not allow (elegance be
blowed). The Bulgarians have also
produced a range of wines, from the
Cabernet a n d its rival the Merlot, w h i c h it
is very difficult to fault—particularly at
the price. A l l these go well with turkey
or with m y preferred lamb, beef or game
roasts. Of the individual wines I would
say little except that the Maitre
d'Estournel is a good classical Bordeaux,
but would appear thin by comparison
with the Aussies. Better for turkey or
lamb than beef.
My o w n love here is the Syrah/Shiraz
grape—definitely into lamb/beef/game
territory rather than poultry. The taste is
not so familiar in Britain, as commercial
pressures have tended to calm down the
definite peppery quality of the taste in
generic 'Cotes du Rhone' wines. It is
something that the Australians seem to
have got instinctively and completely
right, so m u c h so that I welcome the
utterly unclassic Cabernet/Shiraz
mixtures. These are wines for serious
food—though I would be happy to have
the wine, even if not a perfect match,
with turkey (think of the burnt bacon and
sausages which are usually there as
accompaniments). Particularly interesting
is Sainsbury's organic wine, which I have
found generally liked. The Guigal and the
Taltarni are immense. Many of the others
may feel initially light o n the tongue, but
will project all sorts of complicated tastes
given a little time.
Amongst the reds I finish with a small
seductive group which I cannot claim to
understand. I have listed two Portuguese
wines by Joao Pires which do not fit into
the accepted patterns (try any of his
others). They seem to be light o n the
tongue but extremely flavourful—but they
are not light in alcohol. I find a family
likeness to port, without the weight.
There is also a lonely Italian of more
obvious solid character with a spicy
quality.
The only proper wine for Christmas
Pudding is sweet Champagne—but this is
not only expensive, but very difficult to
obtain since the decline of the Russian
Court. Asti Spumante will not do. M y o w n
feeling is that a sweet still wine of
sufficient character works well with the
richness of the pudding, a n d that the
clarity of the Chenin-based sweet wines of
the Loire have an advantage over the
more heavy botrytis-reliant wines of
Bordeaux. I have listed a very young
wine from Sainsbury with the necessary
weight, and a lighter, cheaper, wine from
Oddbins w h i c h might still prove
refreshing. These wines, even when old (I
still hold the 59's and 64's), present a
fresh original attack of a kind of which
the Bordeaux are incapable (though they
may seduce) and can lighten the heart at
the end of a lengthy meal. (If you see a
Moulin de Touchais or a Clos St Catherine
anywhere, buy!)
W h e n nuts, fruits and other
amusements follow there is no ordained
accompaniment. Possibly Port—but I do
not understand it. I would carry o n with
the sweet wine, the bubbly, or if
(unlikely) embarking o n cheese, one of
the red wines. Here, however, enters the
Palo Cortado sherry. These are
fascinating heavy brown(?) wines with the
weight of an Oloroso but none of the
associated sweetness. I feel that they
could be drunk with any course of the
meal above, except for the hypothetical
fish course. Not, mind you, i n quantity,
but in moderation and with pleasure—and
with a supply of good water to hand.
For pure pleasure, and with or without
interaction with food, the best fruit juice I
have encountered is the Tolley late-
harvested Muscat—try it.
John Finley.
City and Guilds
DINNER
AND
DANCE
at the
Park Lane Hotel
Dancing 'til two
Contact Guilds Office for tickets

