FELIX
Chris Riley reviews Amnesty International's latest publication: Myanmar 'In The National Interest'.
T h e O t h e r S i d e O f C h r i s t m a s 9
FELIX
This month saw the launch of Amnesty
International's campaign in Myanmar; to
press for the release of prisoners of
conscience, to end torture and
extrajudicial executions, to prompt fair
trials for political prisoners and to stop
death sentences. To mark this launch, Al
has just published their account of the
situation, based on investigative
journalism, and testimony from victims of
torture.
Amnesty International bases its work on
international human rights standards
which are agreed by the international
community through the United Nations
and other inter-governmental bodies. The
organisation addresses itself to
governments because of the specific
obligations they have under international
law. Myanmar has ratified only one major
international human rights instrument, the
Convention on the Prevention and
Punishment of the Crime of Genocide.
Civil unrest erupted throughout
Myanmar (then Burma) in March 1988.
Mass demonstrations led mainly by
students, called for an end to one party
rule by the military dominated Burma
Socialist Programme Party (BSPP).
Protesters demanded free and fair
elections and the introduction of multi-
party parliamentary democracy. The 26
year rule of BSPP came to an end on
September 18th 1988 when Armed Forces
Chief of Staff General, Saw Maung, led a
military coup. A military State of Law
and Order Restoration Council (SLORC)
was established to head the new
government and martial law was
declared.
Thousands of people were killed in the
first half of 1988 as the new military
government used violent measures in an
attempt to suppress the demonstrations.
Thousands more were arrested in 1989
for non-violent criticism of the martial
law administration and for participating in
peaceful demonstrations called by the
major political opposition parties.
Since July 1989, arrests of opposition
party leaders and activists have been
justified as measures necessary to combat
'conspiracies' and 'machinations' against
the government by both 'communist' and
'right wing' forces.
Although elections were held in May of
this year, the military government has
refused to relinquish power. The SLORC
has acknowledged that some 1200 people,
including students and members of legal
political parties, were arrested between
September 18th 1988 and August 1989 in
connection with their political activities. It
is also acknowledged that most are still in
detention.
It is general knowledge that political
detainees can be held indefinitely and are
frequently tortured. A former civil servant
detained in January 1989 said he had
been interrogated and beaten for three
days by military intelligence officers
before being transferred to police
custody.
Another former detainee, a 26
year-old student from Mandalay,
arrested in late 1987, said he was
interrogated under torture for two weeks
by police special branch officers before
being transferred to a regular prison. 'I
did not see a judge or any official from
the court for the following eight months I
was held there. I just stayed in my cell, I
had no trial.'
Detainees' relatives usually do not
know the prisoners' whereabouts until
during interrogation to heal and to allow
the prisoner 'to get and look better'.
Victims have said that torture was used
both to punish them and to compel them
to cooperate with interrogators. The
torture also serves to intimidate others —
arrest and torture is seen as an ever
present threat by those contemplating
any public criticism.
Torture methods seem consistent, and
haved been labelled with nicknames. 'A
walk on the beach' involves forcing
prisoners to walk on their hands and
knees over sharp gravel or broken glass.
The 'helicopter' involves suspension by
wrists or feet from a ceiling fan. The 'wet
submarine' consists of near suffocation.
Prisoners subjected to the 'iron road' are
arrested. He alleged that he was tortured
by special branch police.
'I was slapped, punched, kicked, burnt
with cigerettes, hung from the ceiling and
whipped, had iron rods rolled across my
shin bones and was given electric shocks.
At some point a team came in, stripped
me of all my clothes, tied up my hands
with handcuffs and hung me from the
ceiling with ropes. They whipped me with
a car fan belt 70 or 80 times until I lost
consciousness. They treated my wounds
by taking me down, pouring salt and
curry powder into the cuts and finally
urinating on my back.'
The student was held until
demonstrators released him almost one
year later on 27 August 1988 when
military takeover...Because I refused to
respond they began ill-treating
me...Throughout the interrogation period
I was tortured unconscious twice, each
time as a result of prolonged kneeling on
sharp gravel. This caused severe pain.
You first feel an intense pain and after a
while your legs began shivering..your
eyes begin to cloud over until you can
see nothing, and then you lose control of
your mind: you cannot answer the
questions any longer. As a result they
would beat you up...If you fell down, you
woud be kicked and put back into
position...On several occasions I was
threatened with execution...'
Numerous deaths in detention have
been reported. Some occurred apparently
they are either released or handed over
to police custody and transferred to a
regular detention facility within the prison
system.
Torture and ill-treatment of prisoners
usually takes place during the first phase
of the detention process. Most people
arrested on political grounds in Myanmar
are initially held in incommunicado
detention for investigation and
interrogation for six months or more.
Prisoners have maintained that
prolonged incommunicado detention is
sometimes ordered to provide the
necessary time for injuries sustained
severely lacerated by bamboo sticks or
police truncheon beatings.
Beatings, in many cases, were
reportedly carried out after the body was
padded with folded rice bags reducing
external marks but providing no
protection against internal injuries.
In September 1987 demonetisation was
introduced. The three highest
denomination bank notes were declared
worthless, effectively removing 50% of all
money from circulation and wiping out
the life savings of many citizens. During
the protests in Mandalay which followed
a 26 year-old Physics student was
Mandalay was briefly in control of strike
committees.
One month later the September coup
prompted more incidents of torture and
arrests. A 22 year-old student from
Ayeyarwady Division was arrested in a
tea-shop in October 1988 and
interrogated for several days in a secret
detention facility. He gave the following
account of his treatment:
'They wanted to know...what
organisation I was involved with, who
was leading it, who were our contacts,
what sort of activities did I carry out
during the demonstrations and since the
as a result of ill-treatment, others because
of the denial of medical attention. In
March 1988, 41 students died in a police
van because of suffocation arrising from
gross criminal negligence.
A former medical worker in Insein
Prison's clinic described the case of a 15
year-old boy who he said died after
torture in March 1988:
'On 17 March, a 15 year-old Muslim
boy got severely burned on the abdomen
and upper legs in an incident during
which a car was set on fire by
demonstrating students. He was taken to
Yangon General Hospital for treatment.
After a few hours, security personnel,
possibly from the Special Branch, came in
and took him away. The next day he was
handed over to the doctor in Insein
Prison's hospital. When the doctor
examined him he discovered that both his
limbs, from fingers up to elbow, and
lower limbs, toes to knees, had been
fractured several times, broken into
pieces. The security people had suspected
him of being involved in the bombing
incident and interrogated him despite his
already severe burns.'
The boy reportedly died 17 days after
this. His body was secretly cremated in
Insein prison hospital.
Mayanmar's military government has
persistently rejected calls for the
investigation of reports of torture and ill-
treatment. On 22 March 1989 Director
General Ohn Gyaw of the Foreign
Ministry's Political Department responded
to reports of widespread human rights
abuse:
'People must understand that Burma is
facing a difficult situation. There are not
only human rights to consider...there is
the national interest. Many accusations
have been made about torture and the
like while people have been in detention.
The government has no record of torture
taking place.'
Amnesty International
Amnesty International (Al) bases its work
on international human rights' standards
which are agreed by the international
community through the United Nations
and other intergovernmental bodies. The
organisation addresses itself to
governments because of the specific
obligations they have under international
law. Myanmar has ratified only one major
international human rights instrument, the
Convention of the Prevention and
Punishment of the Crime of Genocide.
Al is a world-wide movement
independent of any government, political
persuasion or religious creed. It plays a
specific role in the international
protection of human rights; seeking the
release of prisoners of conscience,
working for fair and prompt trials for all
political prisoners, and opposing the
death penalty and torture.
A subscription to Al will give you
access to information about human rights
abuses produced on a global, independent
and impartial basis. To join Al write to:
Amnesty International, British Section,
99-119 Roseberry Avenue, London EC1
4RE. For more information come and
visit the Imperial College group,
committee room, top floor of the Union
Building, Tuesday evenings at 5.30pm.
20 21

