FELIX
Armed with blue rinse and pension book, dare you enter.
T h e B i n g o Z o n e
Outside in the queue, the buzz of
anticipation grew almost instantaneously
into a hum of excitement. Almost in
reply, the all-glass doors swung open and
the jostling c r o w d lurched forward to the
hallway's beckoning leer. Devoid of any
of the etiquette and manners instilled
within them by years of meticulous
patience, the clamors and shoving
escalated. This was going to be a battle
of the fittest. Canes swiped at the air
above the clattering walking frames
which skewered any offending feet, whilst
the wheelchairs simply crushed anything
in their tracks in the frenzy to the seats.
The Top Rank bingo hall was now open.
Inside, the w a r m air calmed the
pacemakers, and the freshly drawn
pensions emerged, the wallets releasing
the stale odour of mothballs and decaying
people into the recently sterilised
afternoon air. Having only just survived
the desperate rampage to enter, I stood
who stumbled in from the cold.
Being such a poor fool, and now feeling
all the confidence that being an IC Stude
could instill, I confidently strolled up to
the desk to buy m y game-cards. Fast
Flyer? Lucky Numbers? A m e r i c a n
National or Regional Countdown?... ' O h
yes, I'll buy them all.' A n d so I staggered
away, clutching m y tickets to fame
fortune and other nice m o n e y things,
desperately hoping that I had brought a
pen with me. A s I glanced at the massive
pile of multicoloured card in m y arms, I
began to realise that this was not going
to be quite as simple as nipping into a
bingo booth for lOp at Hayling Island.
Slightly more cautious now, I decided to
eye out the opposition and the tiers filled,
fading the aurora from a gaudy orange of
upholstery to a prevailing grey of ancient
hair. A l l eyes glared at me, the imposter,
wandering sheepishly to a spare seat.
D o w n on the tables below, the real
icy silence descended upon the Hall as
the first game was called.
Fumbling to the lemon card (or was I
holding the yellow or beige one?), I
realised that the monotone pierce had
already announced the first three calls. In
blind panic I checked the domineering
red screen w h i c h had suddenly become a
blaze of lights. I was only just capable of
tracing these missing digits as a shriek
gargled from below. Frantic ushers leapt
over the seats from all sides, apparently
to aid the dying beast. Reaching for m y
Vodaphone, I had just dialed 999 to
report a major coronary in Sheffield
Bingo Hall as the jubilant winner's card
number was announced and checked, and
the £ 5 prize presented.
The next game was immediately started
on the pink page of the countdown card.
A wicked stepmother directed me to the
page and I v o w e d to prove m y worth
against these deranged souls and keep
bitch, she always wins,' and the like were
rife after each scream. A t one point I was
convinced that the lady behind was going
to throw herself bodily at the lady in
front in a rage of jealousy, with no heed
for m y unwitting obstruction. The
usherettes and caller only just managed
to sedate her before she did me any
serious injury.
Now determined not to associate myself
with these maniacs, I began to ponder
the easy winnings. With what appeared to
be the entire elderly population of the
area here, left a lot of unoccupied houses.
O n realising that they spent all their
money here and so would not have
anything worth taking, I opted merely to
await them at the end of the roads to
mug them on return. Even better would
be to spend the 50p entry and risk
slaughter in the Hall to memorise the
faces of the B i g Winners and get'em on
the way out...
back to allow the native savages to settle
before confronting the great dilemma of
which games to enter myself. The sensual
slip of a forty-year-old at the desk had
charmed me into becoming a free life
member, and so I was to enjoy the
privilege of a First Free Visit.
I had always assumed bingo to be an
old ladies' excuse for an afternoon
waddle into t o w n to do a spot of
shopping and then meet her friends over
a relaxing chat, crossing off a few
numbers every minute or so to stop their
brains from switching off. I was beginning
to realise that this was by no means the
case. These dear old ladies had hatred
and greed scoured into their faces.
Despite the very reasonable bar, only a
few would dare part with their bingo
money on such a frivolous manner. It
was only the foolish amateur middle-agers
who were o n l y in it for a piss-up. The
jolly photos displayed outside of sweet
dears enjoying their ice-creams hid a
more sinister portent to any poor fool
hardened pros were setting up. In silence,
they painstakingly arranged their books
into game order, pausing only to
memorise the numbers and opposition.
Here it must be explained that game
books are sold in sets of at least four
cards which means that any person in a
game is playing a m i n i m u m of four cards
at one time. I was to find this alone nigh
impossible, yet down on these tables sat
mean and lean ladies who looked barely
capable of holding a pen, poised, like
praying mantises, to strike off twenty
cards or more at a time.. These are the
ones that live bingo. Their days are spent
on the phone arranging more visits or
gloating over winnings, whilst their
afternoons and evenings are spent in the
Halls, winning enough to pay for the
phone bill.
Time was drawing on so I retired back
to my seat only to discover the problem
of keeping track of thirty-odd cards
without spilling them over m y
neighbours. T h e adrenaline rose and an
track of the numbers. In fact, it took all
my concentration to keep up with the
rabid caller, let alone be able to
concentrate o n what number I needed to
complete one line, two lines or a full
house as the game required. I cursed as
again and again the animals screeched
the instant a winning number was shown,
before it had even been announced.
'They must k n o w the manager,' I
concluded.
Time and games progressed, and as I
gained proficiency and broadened m y
concentrations beyond the tiny squares
before me, I noticed some evil rivalry
between these lovely old people.
Thestakes gradually rose to £ 1 2 0 , £200,
£500 and even £ 6 7 3 . W h a t these affluent
misers did not realise was that had M Y
number come up, or had they kept quiet
just one more number, that I would be
able to pay off m y overdraft and buy that
stereo I'd had m y eye on. Unfortunately,
many of the other dears had similar
schemes of their own. Murmurs of 'That
I was wrenched from m y scheming by
another gurgling cry. O n glancing down, I
realised that I too had w o n ! The biddies
around me commented dryly about first
time winners as I whooped, jumped and
rejoiced over the £ 1 0 1 was to share with
the rather frail gentleman in the third
row. Staring d o w n at m y newly w o n
fiver, I entered the last games with
renewed gusto, hoping for more and
drooling at the slap-up meal 1 could now
buy at McBuggers after the gruelling
three-quarter hour session.
The players left as quickly as they had
arrived, probably all racing to the nearest
telephone to tell Maud about their latest
wins. Behind them the trail of wreckage
had to be cleared by the next session.
Plastic bags and dead cards interspersed
broken cut-throat glass. Evidently
someone else had the idea of gettin'em
on the way out.
Sarah Harland
The Amazing Flying Gerbil Machine
reviews...
Nauseous Books
For Christmas
FELIX
It's Christmas time again, and the
publishing world are once again foisting
all manner of atrocities on us in the name
of the great God Consumerism. Apalling
books by footballers from K e v i n Keegan
to Gazza are traditional, but now it seems
that the music industry is getting in on
the act too. So, if you're looking for the
perfect gift for a particularly obnoxious
relative, read on...
Starting, as ever, at the bottom, we
present Jive Bunny Saves the Day. This
book has to be seen to be believed. The
Jive Bunny 'posse' have adopted a radical
new technique whereby rather than
cutting up the classics and pasting them
back together they have created an
'original' (as it is called technically). Sadly
this is even more pathetic than their
audio drivel; aimed at the under-4's or
the terminally sad this piece of mindless
propaganda serves to dimminish the one-
dimensional charms of M r . Git into
second-rate lavatory paper (the pages are
shiny, poorly absorbent and do not flush
easily). The pages bearing the 'Jive
Bunny' song are apt to deposit more than
they remove. This book is only worth
consideration for students of
brainwashing; its attempt to convince
those too y o u n g to defend themselves
that 'Jive B u n n y is the best music man in
town' is truly sickening. A n d the pictures
are crap too.
Little better is the latest effort from the
New Kids on the Block marketing
machine. Those charming lads next door
have a book devoted to their sad little
lives called New Kids on the Block :
Our Story. The book invites you to
'Listen to them talk honestly, in their o w n
words..'. What can we do but the same?
'This book is dedicated to the ones we
love - our families, friends and most
wanted to do any of it..I just wanted to
hang out..' '..the lady always tried to
make me do solos but I was so shy' 'The
kids couldn't believe how high I sang'
'..they had everything : chickens, pigs,
cows, all types of animals' '..just look out
of the corner of your eye a n d then go
and practise in your r o o m at home' ' M y
dad's a bricklayer' ' M y brother and I
shared the Tittle room' as m y mother
called it' 'Me and m y m o m would be at
one end, m y dad and m y brother on the
other, and the girls in the middle' ' M y
brother played with me a lot' 'For some
reason I was sitting where the girls sit'
'..she always said I looked like a
chicken..' 'Performing was just something
I did, pretty steadily, with rehersals every
Friday night..The one thing I loved more
than anything else was the applause' 'She
did some when she was in high school,
but didn't try for a career in it..my m o m
had never even realised that it was
there..she really loved it' '..so for h i m to
stand up and say 'No, I don't want to do
it' took a lot of character' '..she got
behind us one hundred percent' T don't
care about all that. A l l I want is a
scooter!' '..we all clicked and hung
together..' 'It's going to be dope' " Y o I
can't sing'. A n d he said 'Neither can I.."
'But Maurice was so jive' 'I breakdanced
for him and he really liked that' ' He's
real jive' ' Nynuk- that was their name at
the time' 'Donnie was the one who
picked on me the most' 'This one time,
though, I didn't get it right off..they
started calling me 'Slow Joe'. It was
rough for me, really rough ..I remember
several times I would go home crying..'
'What's a N y n u k ?'
Our final offering is the book of that
epitome of good radio (and taste) O u r
Tune. Good oT Simon 'Master' Bates has
especially, our fans.' 'It's kinda scary to
think that someone might say one day
'yeah- that was the year Donnie
Wahlberg was born.' That's crazy !'
'..ashamed to have pimples..' 'Life is too
short to worry about wrinkles in your
jeans' 'Friday nights we'd all pile in her
bed..' 'Two years in a row, me and Mark
got dressed up as ballerinas..' T got into
Michael Jackson in the ninth grade' ' It's
really weird and I don't understand it' 'I
was tiny back then' '..everyone used to
enjoy grabbing my cheeks..My m o m is a
social worker who specialised in family
therapy..Later on I found out that my
mom was doing this for professional and
for personal reasons' 'Our house was so
wild that people could come over any
time..' 'I used to bring my homework to
him and he'd do it with me..' 'But I never
gathered in this tome the most precious
of 200 000 letters which will move your
soul (up, down left or right). Assuming
that each writer only writes one letter
this leads to the conclusion that 1 in 55
listeners writes in. W h i c h leaves 54
voyeurisitic parasites hanging on.
Granted the letters are rubbish that
should be left in people's personal lives
where they belong, but w h y is the music
so appalling ? W h o in their right mind
would have the Blow Monkeys as their
Tune ? W h o felt Wet Wet Wet would
express their anguish better than Suicidal
Tendencies? W h y would anyone choose
to aggravate their trauma by playing it to
a soundtrack of KC and the Sunshine
Band? W h e r e is My Bloody Valentine
amidst this ? Sad.

