Dr Stephen Richardson on the Public Equiry chaired by the
Hon. Lord Cullen into the...
P i p e r A l p h a D i s a s t e r
Late in the evening of July, 1988, there
was an explosion on the Piper A l p h a
platform in the North Sea. Within a
matter of a few hours, 166 men had died.
One more died in hospital twelve days
later. Over 10% of this country's
production of oil had ceased. The world's
biggest offshore oil disaster had
happened—and it had happened not in
some remote corner of the world but in
the U K . What had gone w r o n g on Piper?
And w h y did it have such disastrous
consequences?
The safety and operation of Britain's
North Sea oil and gas platforms is, for the
time being, under the control of the
Secretary of State for Energy. One week
after the disaster on Piper, the then
Secretary of State, Cecil Parkinson,
appointed L o r d Cullen to hold a Public
Inqury to establish the circumstances of
the accident on Piper A l p h a and its cause.
The Inquiry sat for a total of 180 days,
130 of which were concerned with the
disaster itself (Part 1) and the remaining
50 with the future (Part 2). L o r d Cullen's
report was published on November 13
1990 and is extremely thorough and
hence necessarily lengthy. The Inquiry
heard evidence from a large number of
witnesses—including most of the
survivors—and from several experts.
M u c h of that expert testimony was
provided by three members of the
Chemical Engineering Department at
Imperial College: K e n Bett, Graham
Saville and me. Of the total of 35 experts'
reports produced in Part 1 of the Inquiry,
11 were produced by the three of us. A s
a result, we got to k n o w a great deal
about what had happened on Piper. What
follows is a brief summary of the events
leading to the disaster and some of m y
personal views (which I believe accord in
all essentials with Lord Cullen's
recommendations) on the w a y ahead.
The Piper oil field is about 120 miles
north-west of Aberdeen. It was discovered
by Occidental in January 1973 and was
one of the first in the deep waters of the
northern North Sea. Production of oil
started in December 1976, so that less
than four years elapsed between
discovery and first oil, a record that has
only rarely been beaten. Originally, only
oil was to be exported. This was done
through a sub-sea line 128 miles long to
the purpose-build Occidental refinery on
the island of Flotta in the Orkneys. Piper
proved spectacularly productive. Indeed,
one of its wells was the most productive
in the whole of the North Sea. W h e n
Occidental sought permission to raise
output from Piper, the then Secretary of
DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY
The Public Inquiry
into the
Piper Alpha Disaster
The Hon Lord Cullen
Figure 1
State for Energy, Tony Benn, granted it
only on condition that the excess gas
produced with the oil, and initially flared
at Piper, should be exported. Accordingly,
a gas treatment plant was incorporated
on Piper rather as an afterthought. Gas
export started in December 19.78. The
amount of gas exported by Piper was,
however, very small (only about 0.6% of
the total from the U K sector of the North
Sea) whereas the amount of oil exported
was large (about 10% of the total from
the U K sector: Piper was the biggest
single producing platform). In order to
maximise the oil export, some of the
heavier fractions in the gas (essentially,
the propane) were separated as liquid
condensate from the rest of the gas
(mainly methane) and injected into the oil
for export to Flotta, as shown in Figure 2.
At about 21.45 on July 6, 1988, one of
the pumps for injection of condensate
into the main oil export line tripped.
Shortly afterwards, some gas alarms were
activated, the first-stage gas compressors
tripped and the flare was observed to be
much larger than usual. A t about 22.00
there was the first explosion on Piper.
This rapidly led to fires in the part of
Piper containing the oil/gas separators
(see Figure 2) and oil export pumps.
Flames and smoke rapidly enveloped the
accommodation modules on the platform,
in which the majority of the men on
Piper were off-duty. A t about 22.20, the
fires had heated one of the high-pressure
gas lines connecting Piper to another
platform, the Tartan platform operated by
Texaco (see Figure 3), to such an extent
that the pipe ruptured and the gas in the
line flowed out very rapidly, further
fuelling the fires on Piper. Gas initially
flowed out of the line at about 3 tonnes
per second, w h i c h is of the same order as
the rate at w h i c h the U K consumes
energy. A photograph showing the
fireball almost immediately after rupture
of the Tartan line is reproduced on the
front cover of Lord Cullen's report (see
Figure 1).
The situation on Piper was rapidly
escalating. A t about 22.50, another gas
line ruptured, this time the line to the
compression platform (MCP-01) operated
by Total, the chief function of which is as
an intermediate pumping platform for gas
from the giant Frigg field (see Figure 3).
Again, gas initially flowed out of the line
at about 3 tonnes per second. A t about
23.20, the final gas line, that to Claymore
which is the other platform operated by
Occidental in the North Sea (see Figure
3), ruptured. A t much the same time,
large sections of the structure of the
platform had weakened so much that
most of the topsides (in other words the
parts of Piper above the supporting steel
jacket) fell into the sea. One of the parts
of the topsides that fell into the sea was
the main accommodation module, a four-
storey building in which there were 81
men. A l l of them died.
In the early morning of July 7 1988,
the only remaining part of Piper was the
well-head module: three-quarters of the
original platform had been destroyed and
lay in a tangled mass on the sea bed. The
fires from the o i l and gas lines and wells
were producing flames about 200 metres
high, with a rate of energy consumption
of order 100 gigawatts. The fires were
extinguished finally only on July 29 1988.
The remains of Piper was toppled on
March 28 1989.
The disaster had cost the lives of 167
men, 2 of w h o m were rescue workers
whose fast rescue boat was destroyed
when the gas line to MCP-01 ruptured.
137 of the bodies of the deceased were
recovered; 30 are still missing. Of the
137, 109 died from smoke inhalation, 13

