Fights Cuts
The proposed cuts to Queen Mary and
Westfield College (QMWC), as reported in
the Felix of two weeks ago, caused about
a thousand students to m a r c h from the
University of L o n d o n Union to the
Univerisities Funding Council (UFC) the
Wednesday before last . A student posing
as a bicycle courier managed to infiltrate
the U F C and drop a banner from the roof
protesting about the cuts. W h e n a
delegation was allowed in, the U F C
claimed that the Government were
responsible.
Last Monday (10th) an A c a d e m i c Board
Meeting at Q M W C was stormed by
students and had to be abandoned. It was
rescheduled for the following Wednesday
in the Geography building of the college.
This building was locked by the college
authorities and guarded by college
security. Some students say they saw the
Police involved as well.
A l l the lectures were scheduled
elsewhere, m u c h to the inconvenience of
the students concerned.
Yesterday, Thursday 13, saw the
College Council Meeting w h i c h had the
final say on the cuts. W h e n students
started to assemble in the college, the
meeting was postponed. T h e Q M W C
union representatives were told of the
new location of the meeting three
quarters of an hour before it was due to
start. W h e n the students learned that the
meeting had been relocated at Senate
House, several miles away, they got there
to find it had been locked up, including
Security
The College Security have warned that as
the Christmas season approaches many
petty thefts are occuring. People have
been bringing a lot of money into College
for shopping and this is proving to be
rich pickings for the thieves.
Geoff Reeves, Chief Security Officer said
there had been a lot of petty thefts 'all
over the place' with no particular pattern,
though there had been quite a few in
Electrical Engineering. Patrols have been
stepped up in an attempt to halt the
crime.
Green?
The Student Union has bought a new van
for SI5000. The deal includes a respray -
to green - and a tachograph. The Union
will also be receiving six bottles of Scotch
into the bargain. Michelle Began of the
Union staff said that 'the poor bloke
didn't stand a chance' as she phoned
around all the dealers claiming she had
better offers elsewhere.
the library w h i c h was normally open to
all. This meant that the later arrivals to
the meeting and the Union
Representatives could not get in. They
were eventually allowed in, on the
proviso that the mass of students outside
would not try to rush the door.
Fifty students managed to gain entry
through an open ground floor window,
and sang Christmas carols in the
building's lobby. Another twenty got in
by the front doors when they were
opened by mistake. The seventy students
eventually spotted the meeting and
crossed the roof to sing outside the
window of the room in w h i c h the
The college has passed a policy stating
that anybody found misusing computers
in the college will have immediate college
disciplinary action taken against them.
This follows an incident earlier this week
w h e n a hacker was discovered in the
Maths Department. The departmental staff
said that a s o - c a l l e d 'Trojan Horse'
program had been used, and that the
appropriate action was to be taken
against the culprits. The staff refused to
comment further.
A computer virus struck the physics
department recently. The program, called
the 'Stoned' virus, affects IBMs and IBM
clones when they are switched on or
New IRC
A new Interdiscipinary Research Centre
(IRC), the 'Global Environment Research
Centre' (GERC) has been launched. The
college hopes to raise £2.5 million to fund
it by 1993. The college is n o w home to a
large number of such IRCs.
meeting was being held until they were
eventually admitted. They kept quiet
once inside.
The meeting finally agreed to give the
Mediterranean Studies department a
reprieve of one term, in w h i c h it is
expected to raise £200,000 or it would be
closed. No students will be admitted next
year. A l l departments will be severely cut
except Russian, Drama and German.
Q M W C Student Union said that the
students had not committed any criminal
damage and the College Council said that
though they dissapproved of their actions,
the students' behaviour had been
exemplary.
reset. Members of the department were
advised to check their disks before use,
and all machines have n o w been
disinfected.
Mend-a-Brike
F u l h a m , London S W 6 ITD
071-371 5867
Beware Hackers
2

