by drowning, 10 by severe injuries or
burns. The cause of death of the
remaining 4 has not been established.
In trying to establish the cause of the
disaster, considerable difficulties were
encountered because so little physical
evidence remained and there were so few
survivors w h o could give essential
information. (Although 61 men survived,
none was a senior member of Piper's
management team). A large number (in
excess of 30) possible causes were
advanced. Relatively few of these could
be conclusively discounted but many of
them were extremely improbable,
requiring several successive improbable
events to have occurred. The most
probable original cause almost certainly
lay in the condensate separation and
injection area.
Condensate was separated from the gas
in a large vessel (see Figure 2) and then
passed to two pumps operating in parallel
for injection into the oil export line, as
shown in Figure 4. O n the evening of
July 6 1988, p u m p A was isolated for
maintenance of its motor drive coupling.
In addition, its safety valve was removed
for maintenance and a blind flange
almost certainly fitted in its place. The
flange was not, however, pressure-tested.
W h e n pump B tripped at about 21.45, the
operators would initially have sought to
restart it. T h e y were not successful in this
endeavour. Unless they could resume
flow of condensate, they would
eventually have had to halt production on
Piper. This is because the condensate
separation vessel would in the end have
filled with liquid, which would then have
been passed to the final-stage gas
compressors. The compressors would then
have tripped, automatically shutting d o w n
the gas plant and eventually all of the
production.
Since the operators could not restart
pump B, the question arises: what else
could they do? The evidence suggests
that what they in fact did was try to
restart pump A . They would have been
aware that pump A was out of
commission for maintenance—but that
maintenance had not yet started. Because
of the way in which work permits were
organised on Piper, it seems almost
certain that they would not have been
aware that the safety valve for pump A
was missing. Moreover, they would not
have been able to see that it was missing
since the valve in question was one floor
above the pumps that they were
operating (remember that gas and
condensate processing was an
afterthought on Piper: items of equipment
were placed where they could be, not
where they ideally might be). Thus they
probably took steps to reinstate pump A ,
one step of w h i c h would have been to
repressurise it. The most probably thing
that happened next is that the
condensate, after flowing extremely
rapidly into the pump and then into its
safety valve line, leaked at the blind
flange fitted in place of the safety valve.
The evidence of the sequence of gas
alarms noted b y the surviving control
room operator and the strength of the
initial explosion suggests that the leakage
hole and an area of about 40 m m 2
. The
line leading to the blind flage was a
nominal 4 inch pipe, so that 40 m m 2
corresponds to lifting of the flange by
only 0.1 millimetres. Thus the leakage
gap need only have been very small and
would have been consistent with an
incompletely tightened flange. Perhaps 80
kilogrammes of condensate would have
escaped over a period of order 1 minute.
This found a source of ignition (which is
unknown—but irrelevant: an inflammable
material will generally find an ignition
source) and led to the first explosion. This
led to the initial fires and then to the
sequential failure of the gas lines which
caused the horrifyingly rapid escalation of
the disaster.
H o w could this have happened so easily?
Clearly, there were several failures,
amongst which were the following:
• There was a questionable w o r k permit
system. Maintenance w o r k o n the safety
valve of the condensate pump was
conducted only during the day, so the
work permit was suspended—and not
displayed in the control room—overnight.
Operators were thus unaware of the
removal of the valve.
• There was questionable plant isolation.
Condensate pump A was isolated only by
closure of its air-operated suction and
discharge valves (see Figure 4). There
was no mechanical isolation and the
valves were not locked shut. Thus the
operators, unaware of the removal of the
safety valve, were able to reintroduce
high pressure hydrocarbons into a line,
the integrity of which could not be
guaranteed.
• There was questionable design. Gas and
condensate processing was undertaken
ST FERGUS MCP-01 FRIGG
C L A Y M O R E T A R T A N
Figure 3
25

