SCIENCE
beside, and gas import/export and oil
export underneath, the electrical power
module on Piper. The first explosion
seems to have incapacitated virtually all
of the electrical system, including lights
and the public address system. The radio
room was also destroyed after the first
explosion, so communications (including
those to and from Claymore and Tartan,
which were routed through Piper) were
lost almost immediately.
• There was questionable safety
organisation. Because diving operations
were in progress at the time of the initial
event on Piper, both of the independent
fire pumps were switched from automatic
to manual operation, to prevent damage
to divers operating in the vicinity of the
sub-sea pump inlets following accidental
starting of the pumps. Thus, when the
worst happened, there was no fire water.
remotely—a sufficient part. Safety also
requires an appropriate management
structure. But management cannot be
merely prescriptive. Offshore safety in the
Uk has traditionally been governed by
regulations, generally emanating from the
Department of Energy. The regulations
have their uses: if the management of an
installation fails to obey the regulations,
they can be required to do so or face
shutdown. But a regulations-bound system
falls down because practices not covered
by the regulations are simply not
addressed. People become complacent
when they are encouraged to think that
safety can be ensured by regulations
enforced by inspectors. This is precisely
the reason w h y the Health & Safety at
W o r k A c t was introduced in 1974: to
replace a m y r i a d of regulations with
placement of the primary responsibility
• T h e r e was a questionable evacuation
procedure. T h e only person who could
order abandonjment of the platform was
the Offshore Installation Manager, whose
position was analagous to that of the
Captain of the ship. He appears never to
have ordered evacuation. Thus many of
those who died were mustered (correctly)
in the main accommodation module—and
waited there while conditions
deteriorated. Many w h o survived did so
by ignoring the rules and taking their
own chances.
What are the lessons of Piper? What is
the way ahead? It is clear from the
failures just described that there were
some technical failures but more
importantly there were management
failures. The technically perfect system
can always be circumvented. Thus while
technical measures are a necessary part
of safety, they are in no sense—not even
for safety with those w h o create the risks
and those who work with them, in other
words with the platform management and
operators in the present context.
Thus the real way ahead lies with
changing the hearts and minds of those
who w o r k offshore and those who
manage them. A cultural change, where
safety is an explicit part of everyday
working life, is essential. T h e first and
most significant step in this direction is
the use of onshore methods offshore. The
replacement of the Department of Energy
by the Health & Safety Executive as the
regulatory body and the replacement of
the externally imposed regulations by
self-regulation, as exemplified in formal
safety assessments, are some of the most
important recommendations made by
Lord Cullen. W e need to be sure that the
industry takes them up wholeheartedly.
Otherwise, w e are just waiting for the
next Piper.
Three
Mile
Island
On Thursday 29th November Professor
Graham Wallis from Dartmouth College,
Hanover U S A , gave the annual Newitt
lecture in the Chemical Engineering
department.
Three Mile Island was the first major
accident involving a commercial nuclear
reactor. During the course of the incident,
which lasted for over two hours, radiation
was released into the containment
building with very little being released
into the environment. It has been
estimated that around thirty people have
died as a result of the accident, all
cancers caused by the release of noble
gases long after the initial incident.
Following the accident the company
responsible for the building of the reactor
were sued for $4.5 billion, more than the
they were worth.
The pressurised water reactor (PWR)
used 100 tons of Uranium Oxide to
produce around 300 M W of heat. The fuel
rods were made from pellets of the fuel
contained within metal tubes. Hundreds
of these rods stacked together formed the
reactor core w h i c h is then contained
within a pressure vessel approximately
four by six metres with walls around
twenty centimeters thick. T h e vessel was
able to withstand a pressure of up to 170
bar.
The problems started w h e n the main
feedwater to the boilers was shut d o w n
due to problems with the supply. This
was were caused by ion-exchange resin,
used to remove impurities in the water,
becoming entrained in the water and
blocking valves and pipes.
Within five seconds the residual water
in the boilers began falling. In less than
fifty seconds the boilers were almost dry.
Thus the heat generated b y the reactor
was not being dissipated. The reactor was
then shut down, control rods were
inserted stoping the chain reaction.
Although this reduced the heat being
produced, fission products continued to
produce heat at a rate of 150 M W . This
level fell during the course of the
accident to around 30 M W within a few
hours.
To absorb the heat generated auxiliary
cooling water should have come on
automatically. Unfortunately the valves
that connected the pipes to the boilers
had been left shut during maintenance
work. Only after three and a half minutes
was this water available, and so the
reactor began to gradually cool.
Despite this, the water inside the
reactor itself continued to heat up and
eventually began to boil. The steam
produced escaped through a safety value
and began to flood the floor of the
containment vessel. The level of water
26

