N o S m o k i n g
The Questionnaire FELIX
began to drop inside the pressure vessel
and sections of the reactor core became
exposed. T h e y began to heat up to
around 1200°C. The tubes containing the
radioactive fuel elements began reacting
with the water and produced around a
ton of hydrogen. There was very little
chance of an explosion as there was
nothing inside the reactor vessel to react
with.
At this stage the new shift of operators
came on, saw what was happening and
corrected the situation. During the course
of the next few days and weeks people
attempted to get the reactor back into
working order but with no success.
The reasons for the disaster are many
and varied, the simplest one being human
error. A s Prof. Wallis said, 'we gave them
a sports car and they crashed it'.
Left alone the emergency control
systems would probably have brought the
system under control and avoided the
disaster.
In America today no more nuclear
reactors are being built, none are ordered
and those that remain are merely
maintained.
A c c o m m o d a t i n g the rights of smokers
and non-smokers has become an
important social issue in recent years. To
address this trend Imperial College is
attempting to recognise these rights, and
our task would be incomplete without the
views of students. Please fill in the
Questionnaire attached and return by 7th
January 1991 to the appopriate location.
While filling in this questionnaire a few
points to remember. Smoking in different
social groups varies. In professional
groups, 20 per cent of men smoke.
A m o n g unskilled workers the rate is
40-50 per cent. The smell of tobacco on
clothes or breath is unpleasant to non-
smokers. Smoking has an ageing effect.
Heart disease and lung cancer are now
serious problems amongst w o m e n
smokers as well as men w h o die
prematurely.
Most adults (two thirds) do not smoke
and two thirds of smokers would like to
stop. So most people evidently consider
smoking undesirable. If y o u smoke and
evidently can't give up, does it lessen
your credibility to be in authority over
other people?
Tobacco is a legal product. The legal
right to sell tobacco to over 16's is
unquestioned. What is questionable is the
morality. W o u l d any socially-responsible
person promote and advertise a
dangerous product on w h i c h its victims
become 'hooked', knowing, moreover,
that most are hooked w h e n they are
young and impressionable and have not
reached the legal purchasing age?
The argument is however, that if
everyone stopped smoking a lot of people
would be out of a job. About 20,000
people are employed solely in the
manufacture and distribution of cigarettes.
Up to 200,000 others are partially
involved. W e spend in this country about
£5,500,000,000 (£5 billion) a year on
cigarettes. A husband and wife each
smoking 15 cigarettes a day spend
between them £700-800 a year. This
money would usually be spent on other
goods and services—creating jobs.
If you are considering giving up
smoking, the main source of help is the
College Health Centre w h o is now
organising small support groups to help
people give up smoking.
Mary O'Sullivan, IC Health Centre.
Mac operators
wanted
We are a small desktop publishing company in
Central London, producing technical illustrations for
magazine and book publishers. Almost all of our
work is done using Adobe Illustrator® 3-0 on Apple
Macintosh® computers. Due to increasing demand
we may need freelance Mac operators to do work on
a contract basis using their own machines. Reliability
and meticulous attention to detail is absolutely
essential.
We also produce high quality typeset material by
converting files produced in popular word processing
packages into the TEX' typesetting language
(Textures on the Macintosh) and then writing the
format in TpX We may also need help in this area.
If you think you may be interested in working
with us in the areas mentioned above, or if you have
any questions, please feel free to call us on
0 7 1 2 2 9 0107—there's no harm in calling! We look
forward to hearing from you.
WorldLeaders
in Student Travel
• Low Cost Flights on Quality
Airlines
• Special Fares for Students
O Weekend Breaks, Tours &
Group Bookings
U L U Travel
Imperial College
Sherfield Building
London SW7_
• Well Travelled Staff to
Guide You
• Over 100 Offices
Worldwide
ULU TRAVE

