9
FELIX
Sir Clive Sinclair presents his vision of tomorrow...
I n v e n t i n g t h e F u t u r e
W h e n Sir Clive Sinclair visited Imperial
College on Wednesday 5th November, he
said that his company, Sinclair Research,
would be launching personal telephones
and the composite-fibre bicycles next
year. He addressed a tightly-packed
lecture theatre on the subject 'Inventing
the Future.'
In this he questioned the c o m m o n belief
that we are living in times of huge
technological change, stating that, on the
contrary, things have not changed a great
deal over the last twenty years. He put
forward the idea that this was because
over the last couple of decades,
technological companies have become
global, swallowing competitors, until just
a few monopolise the world markets.
While this brought economies of scale, it
also means that to invest in anything new
becomes a huge risk. To change to a new
technology means massive reinvestment
in production lines in factories all over
the world, and because companies tend
to be run by cautious accountants rather
than entrepreneurs, the risks are rarely
taken, hence the stagnation in
technology. The price of production
efficiency is that it becomes too
expensive to change.
To support this argument, he quoted
several examples. Each year since 1976,
the average speed of air traffic across the
Atlantic has declined: this is because the
number of subsonic flights has increased
while supersonic flights have remained at
a constant level. This is the monopoly of
the Boeing 747, which has been flying for
25 years, yet no challenger has emerged
since then. W h a t has happened? Airbus
Industries started a new family of aircraft,
yet this was still based on the tube-with-
wings concept, whereas it has been
k n o w n for years that 'flying wings' offer
up to 30% increase in efficiency. W h y is
this 'new' technology not used? The risks
of failure are too great and the time-
length of the product is too long (the new
Boeing 777 has a design life of 40 years):
large companies must not be allowed to
risk going bankrupt.
For several decades, we have been
promised large flat-screen wall-mounted
televisions: Professor Gabor (famous for
holography) w o r k e d on the problem 30
years ago, but the product is still "just
around the corner ". Improvements and
new technology are "not because people
don't want it or don't w o r k on it" but
because the unreadfhess for change
"seems to be a function of the
concentration of the power" that
manufacturers have.
He said that while products such as the
IBM PC set standards, they also froze the
entire industry, because no-one dares to
make anything different. " W e need
companies to explore the territory so we
can find the best." "We have lost the will
to change": suspension bridges could be
Sir Clive with his phonepoint phone.
five miles in span using composite fibres.
Why tunnel under the Channel using
150-year old technology w h e n you could
bridge it with five spans? "Incredible
caution is the ultimate enemy of
innovation. W e must have people making
decisions, prepared to take a leap into the
future."
So where do we go today? The big,
Currently fashionable although age-old
problem is the environment. He thought
that, ultimately, "all transport has to be
electric", using energy from wind
generators, solar power, water power
(tidal, waves, and hydroelectric), these
sources being "very close to economic
reality." Aircraft could be powered by
hydrogen. He said that even the U S A
could generate all its energy requirements
from wind. (Fossil fuels must go in the
long term because of carbon dioxide
emission.) He hypothesised that
"invention is often the mother of
necessity": before the invention of the
ball-point pen or photocopier, no-one
perceived a need for such things. The
necessity follows the invention, but "the
inventor has to pursue his o w n idea with
incredible vigour" in order for it to
succeed. "Inventions mean change," but
we are genetically programmed to resist
change, since, in the past it was mostly
for the worse. Sir Clive also gave
examples close to his heart, the pocket
calculator and the digital watch. W h e n he
went round to various companies to find
out if they w o u l d produce them, none of
them could see any market for them.
He concluded by outlining some of the
research areas his company is working in:
• A r t i f i c i a l intelligence. This is a long-
term project which he considers
important in increasing human wealth in
education, health, leisure and services.
They are w o r k i n g on parallel processing,
using silicon wafers containing thousands
of processors running simultaneously.
• Personal telephones that w o r k
anywhere in the world. He considers a
very tight-packed cellular 'phone system
combined with satellites to be the best
solution. Babies will be able "to have
their personal 'phone number tattooed on
them at birth," the number remaining
theirs for life.
• W i n d - p o w e r .
• Electric cars. "The C5 was intended as
a stepping stone." A t the time of the C5,
the C15, a four-seat electric vehicle had a
range of 150 miles. The latest version has
a range of 250 miles, max speed 80 mph,
0-60 m p h in 7 seconds. He said "they
won't suit everyone," but sooner or later
plug-in recharge points "should become
ubiquitous."
• Composite-fibre bicycle. He hopes this
will meet an as-yet unperceived need for
an instant-folding, easily-portable bicycle
that can be carried around by people,
instead of leaving it locked up.
Roland Flowerdew.
28

