Chris Riley tells a Christmas tale of massacre and corruption...
P i n i n g For The Fjords ENVIRO
Christmas - catastrophe for Conifers?
A r e native woodlands being bulldozed to
make way for Christmas tree plantations
or is it just another crop? Chris Riley
investigates.
What would Christmas be without that
glowing, tinsel clad N o r w a y Spruce or
Douglas Pine slowly dying in the corner?
Many now make a habit of buying trees
with roots intact, but even this doesn't
guarantee the survival of the plant.
Since the dinosaurs roamed the earth,
conifer plants have carpeted hillsides, but
today, vast tracts of coniferous woodland
are being felled for timber, the
construction industry and the paper
industry.
The amount of timber consumed world
wide each year would fill the Atlantic
Ocean twice. Forestry is big business; the
average citizen of the northern
hemisphere uses well over 150kg or over
twice their body weight of paper every
year. Britain alone gets through well over
50 million tonnes of paper each year.
This is the equivalent of nearly seven
years of continuous photocopying! Over
three quarters of this comes from
softwood trees like conifers. The third
world uses about one third of this, but is
on the increase.
In the past, felled trees were frequently
replaced by single species plantations.
They were often non-native and planted
for their economic potential rather than
for any ecological considerations. Today,
the forestry commission follows strict
planting regulations. A diversity of species
are planted and the edge of the
plantation is made to look as natural as
possible by using species with different
growth rates to produce trees of differing
heights. Tree spacing is also increased
towards the outside of the plantation.
Opponents of plantations still argue that
with this increase in quantity of trees
planted, the delicate balance of the
forests is being upset. G r o u n d is ploughed
or ripped up and fertilizers are applied.
The drainage pattern and soil chemistry
is altered, causing increases in sediment
and nutrient loads on rivers, and harm to
freshwater fish.
Currently Britain only has around
15,000 hectares of coniferous forest
(about the size of the City of London).
Although 25,000 hectares of new forest
are planted each year we still have to
spend £7 billion a year importing 90% of
our wood. Most of this comes from
Scandinavia and Russia where forestry
practice is not as strict. Hundreds of
forest species are disappearing and many
will be endangered in a few years.
The government tries to correct this
shortage by offering tax incentives to
landowners w h o devote land use to
plantations. Within Scotland, where there
are already 1,000 hectares of forest,
popular musicians such as Chaz and
Up in lights: the Trafalgar
Square tree donated by
Norway.
Dave, and Ian Anderson, of Jethro Tull
fame, have taken up generous
Government tax concessions to establish
large plantations.
Despite such planting programmes, the
wood deficiency still exists. Many young
trees are fatally damaged by sheep, deer
and the effect of acid rain. The latter has
receded from the public eye with the
increases in awareness of global w a r m i n g
and ozone depletion. Unlike deciduous
trees, conifers are particularly susceptible
to acid rain. W i t h their long lasting
foliage they are unable to shed toxins in
the autumn. A r o u n d 64% of Britain's
trees show the effect of acid rain.
But what of Christmas trees? It seems
that these little green clones are just
another crop, grown on open land that
would otherwise be used for arable land.
No forests are cut d o w n to make way for
Christmas trees. A l l trees sold are
between four and ten years old. By
harvesting at this age, farmers argue that
the crop is photosynthetically more
active, using more carbon dioxide and
producing more oxygen - good for
everyone.
How 'Green' is that 'GreenCard'?
To cash in on the new environmentally
aware public, this Christmas the B C C card
centre have introduced their 'GreenCard'.
Predictably, the card is decorated with a
globe and is presumably green. It is
backed up by Visa and Master Card and
is therefore accepted in 7 million outlets
world wide. B C C advertise that funds
generated from the use of the card go
towards charities that help endangered
species, pollution of seas and rivers or
destruction of the rainforests. T w o
pictures show the Christmas lights in
Oxford Street and a wildlife scene. The
caption beneath reads 'GreenCard'
welcomed here and here.
The prospective customer has a choice
of interest rates. If they opt to pay an
annual fee of £ 6 then the rate is 1.9%.
Alternatively if y o u are one of these
people w h o always pays their bills on
time, then you can waive the annual fee
and opt for a higher interest rate of 2.1%.
The card reportedly donates money to
over ten charities; not only world
environmental organisations but also
organisations like 'Care of Britain'.
So how m u c h money actually goes to
these charities? It turns out that for every
£ 1 0 0 you spend using the card, B C C
donate 30p to be shared out between the
ten organisations. That works out at the
generous amount of 0.33%! However B C C
do stress that if you introduce a friend to
the card, then they donate £ 5 . So with
such goodwill how do they still manage
to make a profit? Like all other credit
cards they rely on the bad financial
management of their customers,
consumer temptations and over spending.

