Even for one term there is such a vast
collection of news that I had decided to
categorise all the stories. T h e numbers of
stories in each category gives an
instructive overview of what has been
preoccupying F E L I X this autumn.
Law and O r d e r 16
Rag Affairs 9
Continuing Stories 9
General Stupidity 8
Resignations etc. 6
The Union 6
Important Visitors 5
Interesting Irrelevancies 3
Fire and Flood 3
College Tyranny 2
Law and O r d e r
Even if you disagree with m y
categorisation there is no doubt that theft
has been the biggest problem in IC this
term. This leads me to believe that IC
security officers, Messrs Briley and
Reeves, are the only people in the
College with a real job to do. Considering
the vast amount of information they have
given to FELIX over the last few years I
feel they should be awarded an honorary
news reportership.
It is tragic that after the landlord and
the Government take their pound of flesh,
the thief deftly removes the rest. To date
since the beginning of term we have seen
scores of bicycle thefts. W e have had
more walk-in thieves reported than there
are things for such a thief to steal. A
cheque book and card were stolen from a
locker in Mech Eng. Personal stereos,
recorder and a microwave, probably to
someone living in the hall, w h i c h only
goes to show y o u that the non-student
world doesn't have a monopoly on such
vermin. In comparison to people w h o
removed 20 metres of copper piping from
under Sherfield which would have saved
peoples' lives in case of a fire, the above
vermin are positively benevolent. I agree
with the sentiment that IC w o u l d run just
as well (and probably better) if Sherfield
ceased to be, but I don't think murdering
the occupants is really called for.
I
words of the news story 'the RCSU
mascotry team had been unavailable for
comment...'. The most useful phrase in
the reporter's thesaurus speaks volumes
through insinuation. Last week there was
a case of indecent exposure in a
departmental library. He was probably
trying to upstage the nude kamikaze
parachute jump.
So what has been done to counter this
catalogue of petty and not so petty
crime? T w o vermin (or bicycle thieves if
you prefer) were spotted and caught by a
Rag Week: a poor turnout
'Unsocial behaviour' on the part of
some people resulting in lavatory rooms
in Mech E n g being given new textured
wall decoration in glorious shit-brown. It
is a personal theory that the culprits were
fed up with magnolia. ICU people were
suspected of having vandalised the toilets
Clayponds: Imperial's newest residence
cheque books and £220 were stolen from
the Union G y m . A number of cars have
been broken into near the O l d Chemistry
Building and a football kit was stolen
from Southside. Fisher Hall lost a video
at St Mary's to the tune of £150—in
revenge for a mascotry affair. The plaque
from the Management School was stolen,
and after this had been reported in F E L I X
it suddenly reappeared. In the damning
certain M r Pitrola. Identity checks were
started in Southside Bar. 'There are a lot
of people who should not be in the bar
and we must comply with the licensing
law' said Bar Manager, Roger Pownall.
This may have been the result of a
serious fracas in Southside three weeks
before which resulted in a man trying to
escape from the police by running d o w n
the tube tunnel at South Kensington
station. Mr Pownall's considered and
reasoned response can be compared to
Rob Northey's 'the next bastard who has
a punch-up at Southside I'm going to turn
the fire hose on'. T h e question remains
whether the identity checks will prevent
such drunken fights or help induce them.
The security officers have been plugging
bicycle D-locks and their emergency
number (3372) like mad. M r Briley
summed up what us potential victims
could do by saying we could 'show a little
responsibility in shutting doors and using
locks'. The bicycle coding sessions proved
a great success with 130 people bringing
items to code.
Rag Affairs
This got a lot of coverage in the last few
weeks. They have raised thousands of
pounds so far. Monopoly raised £4,600,
Tiddlywinking down Oxford Street
£1,500. The R a g raid to Guildford raised
£185, the Leukaemia Research pub crawl
raised £430, the RCS Beer Festival raised
£4,700 (and I was moaning about
impoverished students!). The Hypnosis
Lecture proved a great success making
over £1,000 and the C & G Slave Auction

