raised £700. £ 1 3 0 was made from the Bar
Quiz, w o n by the F E L I X team (I add in
an unbiased sort of way). The Exec.
Initiative proved once again that the
Union Executive are bloody difficult to
get rid of. This year they were all
chained together and I suggest that to
make it more difficult a large concrete
block should be attached and the group
thrown from Battersea Bridge. A n y
takers? The Nude Kamikaze Parachute
Jump raised over £390 and the Mines
Dirty Disco raised £250.
Continuing Stories
As in previous years Southside locks were
changed without telling the occupants.
Last year this caught out the warden of
one of the halls. Indeed, last year there
was a serious cafuffle over the keys so
that the fobs that were handed out were
out of date and so were useless.
There is to be a hall in Ealing called
'Clayponds' for 405 students, the buying
of which was to be financed by the sale
of Montpelier Hall. The latter aspect has
temporarily fallen through due to
problems in assuring the binding of any
contract. This leaves a few concerned
students hanging in mid air and confusion
still reigns over the whole affair.
University College has finally sold bits
of its union. The union, for its part, seems
remarkably calm about this after the
furore it kicked up last year. I get the
feeling that some agreement has been
made, or is in the process of being made,
between the college and the union which
is mutually beneficial and which they
won't tell. Queen Mary and Westfield
College has taken drastic action to save
money—it has decided to close at least
one department and severely curtail
others.
Another old chestnut—the mysterious
case of the collapsing ceilings. This has
been going o n in this College's older
residencies for as long as I can
remember. T w o people whose names
seem to appear whenever the w o r d
'ceiling' is uttered are Joe Dines and
Peter Hallworth. The latter is the Scarlet
Pimpernel of estates. Amazingly,
whenever another ceiling collapses he is
suddenly booked up for meetings until
the ceiling collapse ceases to be news.
Quite an extraordinary coincidence. Far
be it from me to deduce any deceit in
this, I'm sure it's in the residents' interests
that the knowledge that the building in
which they live is unsafe is kept from
them. They might decide to refuse rent,
simply leave or start complaining. That
would never do.
General Stupidity
Towards the beginning of the year some
contractors—probably related to the
contractors mentioned in last year's
FELIX, namely 'Bodgeit and Leggit'—were
responsible for drilling a hole in IC
Science Fiction Society's Library door
somewhere under Beit Quad. A l l they
were required to do was to lay a power
cable, but no, Bodgeit and Leggit enjoy
making holes in walls, ceilings and doors.
They get so little fun these days, poor
dears.
O n a somewhat bigger scale, the
University Funding Council, a body
producing a lot of hot air and very little
money, refuse to fund the universities to
the levels the universities thought they
needed. In summary, universities must
support more students to a better level of
education with less money. Quite a good
precis of Conservative Party policy. The
net result of this is that students have to
pay the difference. Things are getting
very tight at IC, the membrane separating
Imperial College from Imperial College
pic is becoming dangerously thin. Already
the London School of Economics and
University College have considered
charging tuition fees.
Tower's lions had been so seriously
embarrassed that a deep red had suffused
its otherwise stony cheeks. T h e culprit
was probably from King's College and is
not known. The red paint was removed
soon after, costing over £200. The lion
had been painted before and then had
been sandblasted clean. M r Reeves
commented 'If we have to sandblast the
lions much more we'll end up with a
couple of bloody mice'.
Resignation or Office Shifts
There was a startling coincidence
between events of National Importance in
the Conservative Party and our o w n
homely college. Suzanne A h m e t resigned
as External Affairs Office to become
RCSU President. Soon after Geoffrey
Howe resigned to become a nobody. B a d
luck Geoff. W h e n Reggie 'Madame JoJo'
Blennerhassett, the libidinous leprechaun
of the Union Office resigned, the shock
waves penetrated the Conservative Party
The axe-man cometh.
Continuing with another Government
bugbear, the student loans saga, by the
beginning of November only 200 out of
6,000 students had applied. This could
mean one of two things—either students
are so wealthy that they don't need them
or they object to the idea of student
loans. A n y b o d y with half a brain would
not find that dilemma too difficult to
solve. Unfortunately the upper echelons
of the Government sold most of their
brains to the Devil on the w a y up.
Involuntary decapitation was the order
of the day as scores of people watched
the police deal with a suspected car bomb
in Queens Gate. Fortunately it was a false
alarm, but the IC security officers
expressed concern that so many people
were unaware of the possibly fatal
consequences of an explosion.
There were red lions all round w h e n it
was discovered that one of the Queens
central office and out tumbled Margaret
Thatcher. I advise M r Major to watch
closely, his fate is in the Union's hands.
Things were happening in Sherfield
when T o m Stevens, IC Business Manager,
was given the jolly old heave-ho. Angus
Fraser, the man in the k n o w , gave the
ever-so damning 'no comment' and left it
to our imagination. News reporters have
fantastic imaginations so this was a rather
silly thing to do—I suspect there were a
lot of spinal injuries in Sherfield that
week. This affair may have something to
do with Rob Northey's announced
intention to resign. M r Northey was IC's
Refectory Manager and has done a lot of
work on the College's eateries. What little
reason he gave for leaving was
interrupted by meaningful silences and
many a chuckled 'I'm not going to tell
you'. The imagination runs riot.
31

