The Union
Our student union has kept its nose down
this term, the sabbaticals are either being
very conscientious or doing nothing. I
incline to the former view as little in the
way of complaint has come our way.
A major blooper was erecting the giant
marquee on the Queens L a w n for the
Careers Fair without telling the fifth floor
bureaucrats of Sherfield w h o like to
believe they are important. The Careers
Fair was a roaring success in all ways
except financial—it just broke even in
comparison with the £15,000 to £16,000
profit it made last year.
of Prague and Professor Fang L i Z h i of
China. Professor Fang L i Z h i was the
dissident who hid out in the American
Embassy in Beijing during, and a long
time after, the Tiananmen Massacre.
Interesting Irrelevancies
The Union had 3,500 unwanted student
welcome packs foisted upon it at the
beginning of the year. W h o wanted them?
W h o knows? O h well, I'm never to throw
away a gift and the plastic bag makes a
superb dustbin liner.
IC's space physics department built a
magnetometer to boldly go where no
The fall and rise of Reggie the lion
A n even bigger blooper was the £5,500
lost due to maladministration both in the
Union and the College over the 'big gig'
which was supposed to have been held in
the marquee the weekend afterwards. In
the event, the marquee wasn't used, a
bar extension wasn't given because the
application reached Rob Northey too late,
a band pulled out and publicity was poor.
The original ticket price was £ 7 but so
few people had bought them that after
repeated devaluation the tickets were
given out free. Even so, only 350 people
attended.
The Union General Meeting confirmed
that the student body found the proposed
changes to the College day unacceptable.
The concensus of opinion seemed to be
that the present arrangement was not
ideal—the College is one seething mass of
humanity at lunchtimes—but the proposal
would entail serious transport problems
amongst other things.
Important or Self-Important Visitors
This venerable institution has received
visits from the Conservative Party's
leading advocate for family planning,
Cecil Parkinson, and farmers' friend
Edwina Currie, courtesy of ConSoc. We've
also had some decent people—the
immunologist and poet Dr Miroslav Holub
magnetometer had gone before. They
also sent up a solar particle detector on
the 'Ulysses' mission. The machines were
turned on in late October and are now
when a grill caught light. In neither case
was anybody seriously hurt, though in
Weeks Hall one of the firefighters
complained of a painful chest from the
smoke.
A n altogether more dramatic affair was
when the water in a tank on floor eight
of the Mech. Eng. department made an
escape attempt. It appears that the water
preferred lying around on floor seven, or
even better, the basement. T o reach this
Nirvana of waterdom it took a short cut
down the main power ducts, shorting out
the department in the process.
College Tyranny
The College administration has been
relatively benevolent this term—by
benevolence I mean the lack of
malevolence rather than anything more
active.
The Rector, Sir Eric A s h , has been on
record saying that there is not enough
knowledge of maths on courses. He
particularly wants to lengthen engineering
courses to encompass more maths.
Engineers already say that if there is any
more maths in their courses they might
as well call it an applied mathematics
degree.
The grossly unpleasant overcrowding of
the College has led to a proposal to
lengthen the College day—with the same
contact hours—releasing the pressure of
timetabling and rooms. There has been
opposition to this from students who say
they cannot reach the College that early,
or they will miss Hall meals coming back
that late. There is also the suspicion that
departments will cram the newly made
space with even more work.
Felix: psychopathic non-sabbatical editor elected
pioneering the frontiers of science in
deep space.
Fire and Flood
T w o fires reached the pages of F E L I X —
one in Weeks Hall due to a kamikaze
wall heater which made a hell of a mess
in the room where it committed suicide.
The other fire was in Bernard Sunley Hall
Conclusion
Not much is going on in this particular
corner of the Groves of A c a d e m e at the
moment in comparison with the giant
machinations that click the world ever
closer to disaster elsewhere. What we
need is a good scandal—College is
altogether too dull.
32

