C l u b s a n d S p o r t s . . . SPORT
The RCC
Needs You
Ladies and Gentlemen, 1 would like to
introduce the great Recreational Clubs
Committee bonanza. The failure of
anyone to admit their existence means
that 1 am able to announce vacancies for
Chairpeople of the following clubs:
Computer Graphics Society
Debating Society
Graffitti Society
These clubs have Union grants and assets
available to support their operation. If
you wish to take on the duties of
Chairperson, then please contact me—I
can give you details of what is on offer.
The best time to find me is at the R C C
Treasurers' Meeting, in the Union Senior
C o m m o n R o o m , 12.30 to 13.00 every
Wednesday.
A l l I will ask is that you write an article
for F E L I X to introduce yourself to
potential members and invite them to
attend a start-up meeting. Funds for
additional publicity may be provided by
the R C C . If y o u can hold committee post
, elections and collect subscriptions from 16
people, the club grant will be released. So
then, budding recreationalists, get
organised and collar me.
Finally, if y o u think you are running
any of the above clubs, you better have a
good reason for ignoring the procedures
that the Union has for helping its
members. See me soon or y o u may lose
control of your club.
Clive Dodimead, R C C Chairman, 90-91
Third World
First
Third W o r l d First started late in the term
but is now a fully functioning society
meeting on Fridays at 12.45 in Southside
Upper Lounge. The aim of 3W1 is to
increase awareness in third world issues
by education and discussion. For this
year's campaign we have chosen the
Third W o r l d Debt Crisis and will organise
debates, talks and social events under this
theme. A n y o n e who wishes to take part
or become a group member is welcome
to come along any Friday.
Wine
Tasting
The society is holding an extensive range
of tastings this year. So far this term we
have tasted wines from Oddbins, Wizard
Wine, Australia, Germany, Bulgaria,
France and Italy. The wines have ranged
from expensive Australian boutique wines
to the excellent and cheap Bulgarians.
Y o u don't need to be a member to
come, although members get a £1
discount and a free book on wine. So if
you are interested in wine come along
and find out more.
Ski
Last Saturday Trawsfynydd, North Wales,
was the venue for the 1990 England and
Wales Universities Ski Council dry ski
slope championships, and so a team from
IC Ski Club went up to compete. Friday
night, after a tour of L o n d o n that would
please any A m e r i c a n tourist, Kiera, our
driver, arrived with Daddy's meaty drivin'
machine. In piles the five team members
plus equipment, clothes, stoves etc,
together with two U C L racers to make it
cosy, and at 21.30 we left for Wales. W e
then went to Reading for an hour's coffee
break and to pick up a Spitfire, renowned
for its air conditioning. The wet and cold
journey turned into a drive through
blizzards across the frozen wastes of
North Wales until at 03.30 we were
somewhere near our destination. W e soon
realised that not a lot was open, so we
drove into the the nearest woods so Kiera
could practice for the L o m b a r d R A C rally.
W e were joined at the ski slope, where
we were joined by about 130 other racers
who had had a good night. Still freezing
cold and wet, the first individual slalom
course was set and the racing got
underway as it started to snow again. The
second run of the individual was run in
reverse time order and Phil Wickens of IC
took 3rd overall. For the team event
teams of five from each University
competed in a relay. However,
Manchester made us a bit nervous, we
we joined forces with U C L to form three
U L U megateams. London C went into
action, but because one of them hadn't
w a x e d his head, they were defeated and
confined to the bar—it was not all up to
London A and B. Letting nothing stand in
their paths, they flattened all their way
until confronted by the Manchester team.
The semi-finals saw defeat for London B
into bronze but London A fended off
Manchester in the final to claim gold. W e
could all ;:ow join London C in the bar.
Fencing
UAU Preliminary Round
IC-24 Kent-3
IC-23 Surrey-4
Following last year's overall victory the
U A U tournament, expectations of a good
result received some justifications as IC
trounced both Kent and Surrey in the
Preliminary Rounds. The team has almost
entirely changed from last year.
W e arrived bleary eyed and tired, only
to be told that we would have to wait for
two hours and that the organisers were
charging a £22.50 entry fee to cover the
cost of the sports hall. W e queried this
strange procedure, since IC held the
preliminary round last year free or
charge, and were firmly told what to do.
The foil team opened our account with
a solid 9-0 victory over Surrey. Simon
Leight, Robert Pluim and T o m H o w a r d
looked in control throughout their bouts.
This changed somewhat in the following
match against Kent when both Simon and
Robert found the Kent 'secret weapon'
surprisingly difficult. Despite the
inexperienced presiding bouth of them
managed to w i n in the end giving IC
another 9-0 w i n .
By this time the epeeists were keen to
start but had to wait as the sabre got
underway. None of the sabre team
specialised in sabre. However, Simon, one
of the foil squad, Christ Quek and Justin
Mellor are fenced well to give IC an
unbeatable score against Surrey. Chris
and Justin then resumed the use of their
favoured weapon: the epee and joined
Christ H u c h o n in the epee to give IC a
final tally of 23 victories to 4 losses.
The day was wearing on and Justin had
to go early after fencing all three of his
sabre bouts consecutively. In a moment
of pure genius, he looked at his opponent
attack him feebly in the w r o n g line, said
'you must be joking' in a clear loud voice
and was immediately hit by a clean
concise renewal of attack. Everyone
cracked up. Justin was undaunted and
won all three of his fights.
Finally the day drew to a close with
our epee team winning again. Special
congratulations must go to Robert, T o m
and Chris who survived the day without
losing a fight.
33

