Football
Charing X 2nds—2IC 4ths-4
The 4ths got back to their winning ways
with an easy victory over the bottom
placed team. After missing several great
chances as usual, K e v M c C a n n latched on
to a perfect through ball and gracefully
lobbed the keeper to open the scoring.
Several more great chances were missed
and so IC began the second half feeling
frustrated.
Things then began to get silly as the
opposition actually equalised and even
started playing better, but IC responded
immediately with a superb m o v e when a
fine run and cross by Darren was well
finished by Lee Davis. With about ten
minutes left, a goalmouth scramble led to
one of their players generously slicing the
ball into his o w n net, but then, moments
later, most of our players generously let
them prance up the pitch and slice it into
our net. A t last the game was made safe
when, in an excellent build-up, John
Mottashed brilliantly headed home an
imspired cross from D a m o n Thomas.
Men's Basketball
IC-66 Middlesex Poly-61
On Wednesday 21 November IC Men's
Basketball T e a m played their first game
of the London College's League against
Middlesex Polytechnic. After much
difficulty in arranging the fixture, IC
agreed to play at Trent Park, forfeiting
their right to a home game.
After a shakey start, IC called a time-
out minutes from the end of the first half.
They were fourteen points behind and
needed to rally the flagging troops. Brad
set them the achievable goal of pulling
back four points by half-time. The team
managed this and the scores stood at
20-30 when they started back onto the
court for the second half. A brave and
slick performance allowed IC to draw
53-53 when time was called. Good
defensive play had reduced Middlesex's
scoring and clever offense had frustrated
a team which saw easy victory slip away
from them.
The first five minutes of extra time
failed to decide the game. Middlesex
played well but a well-timed three pointer
from Marios enabled IC to hold them
60-60.
Marios opened a further period of extra
time by sinking another excellent three
pointer for IC. Middlesex were unable to
recover their composure and failed to
score again in open play. A t 66-61 the
horn sounded for the last time.
Ladies' Football
Dribblers—2 Others—0
The triumphant Dribblers reasserted
themselves as the best pissheads in the
league by winning 2 boatraces in short
succession. Both London Hospital's
football team and Liverpool hockey team
were devastated by the awesome
drinking power of the mighty Dribblers.
These super victories were aided by the
absence of Gert, the usual handicap of
the team.
Much of these victories can be
attributed to the presence of old hands
(notably the star keeper).
Nina Gascoigne was heard to say later:
'AH I have to say is shit'—that
tremendous creature of a girl (the Viking)
is one huge bitch!!!'
In accordance with old times, the
Dribblers, forfeited their leading role in
the leave table (it was getting a bit
boring) to lose 2-3 to the L o n d o n
Leopards. (None of which was the fault of
the amazing goal keeper E m m a 'She must
be related to Billy the Fish' Simpson. Nina
Gascoigne would like to finish off by
extending a w a r m thanks to Permi and
Debbie for assigning her to the Viking the
entire f***ing game.
Sailing
IC vs Brunei & City Univs.
After a late (?) start on Saturday morning
and with more than our normal quota of
team members our team set off to Queen
Mary Reservoir, home of City University
Sailing Club. Despite certain delays on the
way the IC team arrived well before our
hosts and were forced to wait in the bar.
Finally City and Brunei turned up and
we set about sailing a few races, although
some wind would have been helpful.
Despite some terrible starting and
unfamiliar boats the first race against
Brunei was very close (normally Brunei
are out of sight) IC losing by 3
A point.
The second race was close but
unfortunately not close enough.
Against City, however, the IC boats
dominated from the start cruising to a
1st, 2nd and 4th victory in the first race
and in the second IC pulled through again
to win the 1st, 3rd and 5th giving a few
penalties (Green's) on the way.
Final Result
IC vs City
IC-6: l
/4 C i t y - 1 4
IC—11 C i t y - 1 4
IC vs Brunei
IC—12% B r u n e i - 1 2
IC—12 Brunel-73
/4
Yacht
30 to 40 knots of wind and high seas on
the South coast the weekend of 24th and
25th November, ideal conditions for the
First Class Europe chartered by IC Yacht
Club for the Hamble Winter Series.
After a few rough weekends our boat,
Not Us, was finally set to achieve good
results.
First on the water (in our class, 8th out
of 130 overall), taking the winner's gun,
but second on handicapp, surfing with
speeds up to 151/2 knots on a reach, this
37-foot ultra fast displacement boat left
many one-tonners looking very slow and
threatened the two-tonners.
Continued solid performance will give a
good overall standing.
Cross Country
Primed and buoyed by some recent
murderous hill training, IC dealt a mortal
blow to the hope's of London's less pithy
colleges with another admirable display
of athletic endeavour on the desolate
wastelands of W i m b l e d o n C o m m o n .
Indeed we witnessed an historic moment
as Imperial runners claimed individual
glory in both men's and women's
races.As her long-time leader succumbed
to the strenuous challenge of the final
hills, Edwige Pitel ousted her competitor
in the final stretch. She thus became the
first w o m a n from this college ever to w i n
a league race: a truly awesome
achievement. In the men's event, a frantic
early pace backfired on the leaders, and
in third place with less than a mile left,
Paul Northrop cut a sad and disconsolate
figure. Yet his reknowned warrior spirit
resurfaced, and with a final gut-wrenching
effort he caught his rivals on the line, to
extend his winning streak on a photo-
finish. After showing well early on Frank
Dudbridge let the better m e n go, content
to equal his highest placing of fifth, while
Bill Skailes finally showed a modicum of
competence to make 17th. With Carl
Edwards 38th, there was a three-way
battle for the final first-team place. Jim
Watson (52nd) got the better of Dave
Budgett right at the end, with Dunx
O'Dell worse for wear after an altercation
with a tube ticket gate, improving to
59th. W e have finished the first half of
the season with a comfortable 100 point
margin over the nearest pretenders.

