Career's Office Cuts
Three Careers Advisors may be lost from
the Careers Office if College do not agree
to pay an extra SI00k pa to the
University of London (UL). T h e three
Careers Advisors (CA's), are employed by
the University of London Careers
Advisory Service (ULCAS) w h o have
posted them at Imperial. This currently
costs Imperial S55k pa. Due to changes in
U L funding, however, the College has
been asked to pay SI05k this year and
S148k in future years.
There were indications last August that
College may decide to run the Careers
Service itself although there is no plan so
far. In an emergency meeting of the
Careers Advisors Comittee last Monday,
which included Union representatives but
at which none of the C A ' s were present,
it was noted that the proposal to pull out
has not yet been costed. Fears as to the
future quality of service were also
expressed.
One major dissadvantage of pulling out
of U L C A S is that Imperial will not be able
to take part in the U L milk round.
Imperial has it's o w n milk round,
attracting 120 companies, but students
can meet a different and varied set of
companies at the U L event, over 130 this
year. Brian Steptoe, the Director of
U L C A A S , has told Angus Fraser,
Managing Director, that if College does
not pay the £ 1 0 5 k this year then U L C A S
services will be withdrawn on 3rd
Febuary, in the middle of the milk round.
It was for this reason that Benjamin
Turner, Deputy President, said that is was
'vital to negotiate quickly'
Benjamin was also woried about the
future impartiality of the Careers Service.
At the moment the service covers a wide
range of interests, but this might be cut
down to science based subjects if run by
College. Benjamin commented that
'impartiality is important'.
The change in the fee for U L C A S has
been brought about because Imperial has
been asked to pay its share of the
overheads at Gordon Square (the
headquarters of ULCAS). In the past the
overheads have been payed for by the
University of London, taking the money
from the grant it recieves from the
University Funding Council (UFC). U L
would then split the remainder of the
grant between the colleges.
For over ten years, however, Imperial
has received its own grant directly from
the U F C , meaning that it did not pay any
money towards the overheads, the cost
being bourn by the other London
colleges. Now, changes to the funding
mechanism will mean that U L will split its
grant between the colleges before paying
for overheads. Each college will then be
billed seperately for overheads, thus
increasing the cost to Imperial by SlOOk.
Ironically, a study on central
administration requested by Lord Flowers
the feasability of federal funding around
UL based upon the number of students
supported by a service was commisioned
by Lord Flowers, a previous Rector at
Imperial, and carried out by John Smith,
the College Secretary of Imperial at the
time. The position of College Secretary
does not now exist, the job has been
replaced by Director of Imperial College,
held by A n g u s Fraser.
Communications between College and
Brian Steptoe suggest a minor s t e p - d o w n
as Angus Fraser has said that there will
be further discussion on the matter. The
precipitous action originally considered
has been deferred while final figures are
agreed.
Union Win Balls Ironised
The Union Speculation team have w o n
the Finance, Business and Investment
(FBI) Society's portfolio share competition.
The team, comprising of the Union
President Paul Shanley, Deputy President
Ben 'Boesky' Turner, Union Finance
officer Reggie Blennerhasset and his
assistant Louise v a n der Straeten, issued a
collective statement - 'Ha! W e beat the lot
of you wankers!'
Gremlins hit the Felix office this week
when everything, including the Print Unit
Manager, broke down. The printing of
this week's Felix was delayed due to a
mechanical failure of the lithograph and
the typesetting machine. These were
compounded by intermittent faults with
the bromide developer and personal
computer.
The breakage of the offset litho on
Thursday prevented any printing being
performed for two days. A l l other print
work had to be postponed, and the
production of Felix was put back two
days. The fault was caused by the over-
enthusiasm of Felix Business Manager
whilst attempting to remedy a minor
hitch. The lever arm controlling the
paper feed sheared and a replacement
The Mines ball has been sold out and the
City and Guilds ball have sold 120 of the
200 tickets already. The Mines ball is this
evening (Friday), and the C & G ball is
next term.
Henry Langdon, president of the Mines
Union, and Kurt Budge have raised S105
through having their heads partially
shaved.
part could not be delivered until the next
day. Printing continued soon after, but
the free gift planned by Chris Stapleton,
Print Unit Production Manager, had to be
scrapped.
The curse continued on Sunday when
the typesetter processor also failed. A
switch burnt out preventing the unit from
being turned off, resulting in overheating.
Not to be deterred, Felix staff developed
a method of processing the typeset by
hand, producing mixed results. The
equipment was eventually repaired on
Wednesday, the intended day of
publication.
Commenting on the incidents, Chris
Stapleton said that 'its a pain in the butt...
but at least it gave us a news story in
case things run short!'
The inviolate mascot of the Royal College
of Science Union, Jez the Fire engine, has
been in a poor state of health since the
summer and is about to be repaired. A
conspiracy of faulty gauges and a lack of
oil caused parts of the engine to fail. The
radiator also needed rebuilding and this
has now been collected from Brighton. It
cost S1200 and was paid for on a five
year plan w h i c h was approved last
February.
She is expected to be back on the
streets by the second week of next term.
Gremlins Aack!
3

