Football
IC I
I
—
2 St Georges—3
11 Dragons required, apply IC 2nd
Captain! IC spent the first fifteen minutes
totally outplaying St Georges. That's how
long it took St Georges to realise that the
referee was 'soft' and inexperienced and
that they could get away with murder. So
they spent the next 45 minutes kicking IC
out of the game. They also tried in the
last half hour but largely failed as IC took
the 'footballing piss' as some semblance
of calm had been restored by the
presence of St John's A m b u l a n c e m e n on
the touchline. St George's cynically
professional game gave them a lead by
intimidation and IC a very injured
goalkeeper. T w o excellent goals by M
A b d o were sadly not enough. IC will
easily outclass them in the return but we
need a hard m a n to give the game a
'calming' influence to allow us to play on
equal terms. A l l welcome!!
UAU Hockey
LSE-0 IC-1
The whole team knew the importance of
this match with regard to life in the U A U .
A w i n was the only result that would
allow IC to proceed to the next stage of
the competition. With this in mind, IC
went hard at L S E in the first few minutes,
using such score-tactics as undercutting
the ball at their opposite numbers. Some
good midfield play enabled IC to open up
many gaps, but a mixture of bad luck and
a worse pitch allowed L S E off the hook
and at half time the score was 0-0.
Realising that they were nevertheless the
better team, Imperial continued where
they had left off, Lavercombe and
Greenwood pretty much untroubled at
the back, allowing more and more
penetration up front as IC piled on the
pressure. But then disaster struck and a,
yet to be identified, person conceded a
penalty strike. This proved to be keeper
Steve Dodson's only test of the day, and
faced with his first strike of the season,
he managed to psych-out the taker,
forcing him to push it wide. This sudden
shock jolted Imperial into a higher gear,
and almost immediately they gained a
short corner. Portsmouth pushed out,
Greenwood stopped and L a n d o n struck
home after his first shot rebounded off
the keeper. 1-0 up, Imperial held on for
the last 15 minutes, with both Marshall
and Wright going close. IC qualify for the
play-off stage.
Water Polo
O n Wednesday 28th November Imperial
College played a very close and exciting
friendly against the more experienced
Charing Cross squad. Despite losing 8-9
our team played well, beginning to show
the fruits of the recent training
programme.
The U A U qualifiers are on December 8
and we should w i n through to the finals.
W e have two more friendly games, on
December 2 and 6 against Cambridge and
the University of London to prepare for
the Championships.
For those who are interested we swim
from 6.30pm on Mondays and Fridays
and more swimmers are always welcome.
W e play water polo throughout the year
in the Middlesex League.
Hockey
LSE 2nds-0 IC 2nds-8
Wednesday 28th November saw the
return to form of the IC 2nds as they
showed that they had perhaps the best
chance in the U A U of any of the IC
teams, with the annihilation of an L S E
team, previously only beaten by a margin
of just two goals by the other teams in
the group.
With just a few minutes gone, IC took
the lead with a well timed goal from Ian
McGovern. This led to a team spirit,
previously unseen this season, that piled
on the pressure against L S E who never
looked like scoring throughout the whole
game! Short corner after short corner
were awarded to IC by our umpire, but
to no avail until Ian and John Blanshard
realised that a pass to the right was in
order for Dave Millard to power in his
second goal of the season. More pressure
led to another short corner, actually
struck on target by John and getting a
crafty deflection on the w a y to make it
3-0 to IC going into half time.
Not even the digging up of the pitch by
the L S E farmers could stop the onslaught
from getting worse in the second half as
D o m H o w e stepped up a gear to put
another goal in. Then came goals galore
' as many a scramble in the L S E circle led
to Ian and D o m getting their second and
M a Nog Tseung scoring with a
particularly bad square cut into their goal.
John Church popped up (again) to get his
8th of the season, and there wasn't time
enough to make it more than 8-0.
N o w the seconds face a really long
road trip to Reading for the next round.
ULU League
IC VI-6 KCH3-1
IC 6ths faced the only other unbeaten
side in their division on Saturday but
were nearly beaten by the journey before
even reaching the ground. T w o trains, a
tube and a bus were needed as the
captain did his best to get the whole
team lost.
O n arriving at the ground they found a
side of giants but undeterred A n d y
Briscoe and Dave Phillips soon got stuck
into some fierce tackles. IC played well in
the hard fought opening stages and the
inevitable first goal came from Keith
Cordeiro bamboozling the opposition with
his lightening pace. A k i o Iwase made it
2-0 to IC while K C H , who battled well in
midfield, were allowed few chances by
the IC defence. T w o superb goals by
A n d r e w Stanniland (who surprised
himself, not to mention the rest of the
team) and another each from Keith and
A k i o left K C H dead and burried. A single
consolation goal was all they could
manage and so the 6ths go storming on
with a little help from special guest
Rakesh Muthoo.
Hockey
IC 3rds-2 IC 2nds—4
Late on Saturday 24th November
afternoon, the two most successful
hockey teams at IC marched out for the
grudge match of the year, both teams
certain of victory.
About 30 seconds from the start, D o m
H o w a r d of the 2nds found himself in
space, and put away the first goal of the
game. The 3rds immediately rallied and
equalised with a good goal form Nic
Parfitt. The ball then stayed near the
2nds goal for the rest of the half, with
Steve Hamilton taking the score to 2-1 to
the 3rds. A major blow to the 3rds was
the loss of Gary De Sonza after 20
minutes with a fractured ankle.
The second half saw the 2nds taking
full advantage of the extra space, Ian
McGover n putting away a good goal,
shortly after the re-start. Sadly, Justin
Holdsworth collided with a raised stick
and spent about 10 minutes having a cut
eye checked. N o w two players down, the
3rds were under pressure, and McGover n
exploited the situation by sneaking one in
for the lead. The final blow was a superb
Millard score during a temporary collapse
of the 3rds excellent defence.

