FELIX
The facts of life: how each week's baby is produced.
By Roland Flowerdew.
F e l i x o n F e l i x
News in action; the stories unfold
Felix, unlike certain other student
publications, is not produced by three
hacks and a photocopier, nor is it written
internally then given to a commercial
newspaper printer to publish. Felix is
written, typeset, pasted-up, printed and
collated entirely in house. About the only
time when external printing is needed is
either in an emergency (the press breaks
down) or when full colour is required.
Three full-time staff are employed to
produce Felix, although this is not the
only thing they do: the print unit is used
by other publications, generating revenue
that subsidises your issue. T w o of the
staff are permanent (the typesetter and
the printer) while the third, the editor, is
elected every year on the same basis as
the other sabbaticals. This year the
situation is slightly different because we
have a print unit manager, and a non-
sabbatical editor.
The rest of the Felix staff are students
from all over college, and w e are always
hungry for more. W h y do these people
devote a lot of their time to doing work
over and above their courses? The best
way to find out is to come and see for
yourself: if y o u have any interest in
photography, writing, seeing films or
theatre, reviewing records, interviewing
'famous' people, digging up the latest
scandals, drinking coffee, all absolutely
free, come to Felix. The only catch is you
will be expected to write something...
There are six stages that any article
printed in Felix goes through: planning,
writing and photographing, typesetting,
pasting-up, printing, and collating. Most of
these stages run concurrently: a c o m m o n
misconception is that something the size
of Felix can be produced overnight on
one press. A twenty page issue consists of
ten sides of A 3 paper. The front cover is
in two colours, so needs to be fed
through the press twice. A r o u n d 4000
copies are printed, thus a total of 44,000
sides of A 3 must be printed.
The initial planning for an edition of
Felix takes place several weeks in
advance. Various press officers are
contacted, and review tickets for theatre
and cinema and review copies of books
and records requested. (Note: reviewers
are often allowed to keep what they
review.) Ideas for features are beginning
to germinate, and press releases come
rolling in. Pages are booked for
advertisements, providing more money
towards your issue.
The reviews team is a large and
dedicated group of people (they could
always do with a few more), covering a
wide range of interests. Although the
reviews side of Felix is often criticised
and accused of merely copying reviews
from other magazines this is N O T T R U E -
all film reviews are of the preview
showing specially for critics. This term,
for example, we have reviewed 62.5% of
all U K film releases during the term.
Reviews split into two main sections,
music (non-classical) and arts (ie
everything that music does not cover).
Both sections are the responsibility of a
sub-editor, w h o coordinates who goes to
see what, and is responsible for ensuring
that their pages are ready for printing
each week.
Features consists of two sections,
science and general. Unlike reviews,
features do not have a team of people to
produce them. The science features
depend on contributions, mainly from
external sources. Especially welcome are
features on interesting research at
Imperial College. (For those of you
engaged in research, Felix is the ideal
place to present accounts of your work in
the language of laymen.) General features
are usually on matters relevant to
students, but anything of general interest
is acceptable. (Any budding feature
writers out there? It looks good on your
CV.)
Sections that are primarily written by
you are the clubs and sports pages and,
of course, the infamous letters pages, the
bit most people read first. (Feeling like a
good old rant? Write to Felix.) If you
Reproducing artwork on a massive polaroid scale
36

