If
FELIX
have a genuine grievance about
something going on, the letters page is a
good place to air it: even the Sherfield
desk-pilots read the letters. Note that
anonymous letters will not be printed: if
you do not want your name to appear
just state this in your letter or article. Full
confidentiality is observed.
Keep sending the clubs and sports
articles in, with, if possible, accompanying
photographs (black & white or colour
prints). Other people are interested in
what you do or how you get on, even if
they do not have time to be involved
themselves.
The last section to be written is the
news pages, w h i c h are often not ready
until 2.00am on the cover date to ensure
you get the latest stories. (That is also
why there are so many spelling mistakes.)
This section is usually the most difficult to
do because the interesting stories are
always the ones people are keen to keep
secret.
The next stage of production is the
typesetting. This is where the text is
converted from hard copy (ie what you
hand in) into the form that it will appear
in Felix. In essence, the typesetter is a
crude w o r d processor with a fancy
printer attached. The clever bit is this
printer: it is a bit like a laser printer, but
produces very high quality text onto
photographic paper.
Photographs go under the artwork
Pasteup; hey wow, this glue smells good!
Collating; the final stage
camera, which produces 'bromides',
which are the images used in the paste-up
(see later). The camera is where artwork
can be enlarged or reduced in size, and
where photographs are dot-screened
(converted to dots so that grey tones can
be printed).
The paste-up is where everything
comes together. The typeset and
bromides are carved up into little bits,
and.are manually pasted onto card. Titles,
icons, captions and page numbers are
added, and the whole lot is handed to the
printer. He takes the paste-ups to the
artwork camera. Each paste-up is
photographed onto special paper, that,
when fed into the plate-maker, produces
the aluminium plates used in the press.
(Plates carry image of the page to be
printed on their surface.)
The press, a litho, takes in stacks of
paper, and (usually) ejects them complete
with printed image. (If you want to k n o w
how the thing works go and see the
printer.)
The printed pages are folded (by a
machine that sometimes works) and are
then ready for collating, where all the
pages are put inside one another, to form
complete Felices. The collation is done by
a varied group of people, and is eased by
the free and liberal application of alcohol
to those concerned... (Interested? Come
and help produce Felix.)
37

