LETTERS
Ealdorman
Dear Chris,
Here we go again—another A l a n Bailey
epic only slightly more literate this time. 1
am glad to k n o w that A l a n has got some
qualifications in History—he does a very
good job of hiding it. In order to shorten
m y letter this time:
1. 'The person to blame for Hiroshima
and Nagasaki is Hirohito'—patent rubbish.
The atomic bombings of these two towns
were nothing to do with Pearl Harbour
directly. I deplore the pre-emptive strike
made by the Japanese on the Harbour—I
think Alan and I could agree on this one.
This did exacerbate the Pacific situation
leading up to the Pacific W a r , however, it
is widely accepted that at the time of the
bombing that the A m e r i c a n forces were
one step away from defeating Japan
which was shattered and reeking with
self-inflicted (read that one carefully,
Alan) wounds after its m a n y military
exploits in China and Korea. However, in
c o m m o n with so m u c h A m e r i c a n policy
before and since, the T r u m a n
administration could not resist
demonstrating its technological superiority
and going for the big one. It had a new
toy and was itching to use it—twice. Go
to the 'Peace D e m o ' (??—TS) or the
'Heiwakoam' in Hiroshima and you will
see the result. Unnecessary overkill, when
the Americans (and probably the
Japanese) k n e w they were on the brink
of the conventional victory.
2. If Alan could be bothered to look it
up, the modern name for Japan is
'Ninon'. A small point, but important as it
marks a deliberate departure from the
word 'Nippon' w h i c h was more widely in
used in World W a r II and was considered
to have aggressive and nationalistic
connotations.
3. 'Hirohito was little'—fair enough!
4. O h good grief—do we have to go
into the row about Margaret Thatcher. I
do not write this to provide argument
and a cascade of letters but I think the
Thatcher years were an unmitigated
disaster for this country. 'Sensible' and
'correct' are the two adjectives furthest
from m y mind. I could go on: Poll Tax,
15% interest rates, 10.9% inflation, no
original members from 'class of 7 9 ' ,
worst unemployment ever in the early
eighties, more people on the bread line,
further subservience to the USA...blah,
blah, blah.
A l l that, a few tax cuts at the poorer
sector's expense—just add water for an
immediate illusion of well-being and
another four year sentence.
5. The 'Hang Nelson Mandela' t-shirt
incident—sorry Alan, I was wrongly
informed—know the feeling?
6. The bit about Hirohito leading the
worklike nation—re-read all the stuff
about the figurehead monarchy and his
subservience to the Diet, the Meiji
restoration and all that.
I believe that the true role of the
emperor can be elucidated by noting that
the only executive decision he ever made
was the one to accept Unconditional
Surrender w h e n the cabinet vote was
tied. He effectively ended the war for
Japan (the records still exist!).
7. I do intend to leave College and
enter the real world. I would like to
know Alan's experience that allows him
to comment so freely—an 'S' Level in
Modern History does not count. I hope to
work in Japan (surprise, surprise).
8. 'Well I k n o w that I'm more in tune
with the British popultion than you.'
God help us (I mean it sincerely). The cry
of the truly isolated, the c r y of Margaret,
what was her name? A l l I can say is—I
hope not. Judging from the wave of
letters against you Alan I w o u l d say not.
There are a few who you are in touch
with. Norman, um, what was the name?
A straw poll o n the street w o u l d show
the folly of your unsubstantial
Earache
Dear FELIX,
W h e n I pointed out the supposed aim of
the Cultural Revolution, according to
what Mao said: the empowerment of
ordinary people, I avoided trying to
summarise what really went on, or what
Mao's real aim was, because I a m too
ignorant. It w o u l d not surprise me to
discover that corrupt Party and State
officials and other bullies used it as an
opportunity to impose hare-brained
schemes and persecute their opponents,
supposed enemies of the people, w h e n
they themselves were the real enemies of
the people (as one faction proved later by
massacring pro-democracy protesters in
Tiananmen Square) and M a o protected
them from being exposed.
Ming R i may have attributed to me, the
idea that the State should control
everything. No, the State should not exist.
A n alternative is a world without rulers,
where people organise themselves and
their resources o n the basis of freedom
and equality. This Communist vision is as
much at odds with so-called Communist
dictatorships as with the market system.
These dictatorships are unnecessary,
exploitative, parasitic and oppressive.
They are Capitalist. President Bush
supports the current regime in China, and
many oppressive regimes in the world
that rule in the name of anti-communism.
As they were being gunned down, many
protesters in Tiananmen Square were
singing 'The Internationale'. Survivors
compared Deng Xiaoping to Hitler.
In Britain the Left has burdened the
state with a duty to provide health,
argument—I give it scant attention.
9. ' M y letter was not racist'—if true
then I think a few lessons in writing style
are in order, you misrepresented yourself
very badly. I think it's not true. This is
based on m y research—try doing some
yourself, starting with your classmates.
10) 'Condescending', 'Stuck up',
'Isolated'—hmmm. I'm willing to consider
criticisms. The only reason I'm not hurt is
because they come from someone whose
opinion I do not value at all and who,
although I haven't met, feel that I've
k n o w n for too long.
If condescending, stuck and isolated are
used to describe a (hopefully) informed
and considered reply and a widely held
view then I plead guilty especially if they
are used to describe a viewpoint far
removed from his.
I expect there will be a reply—get your
crayons out A l a n .
Yours,
M Salter, Chem PG1,
welfare and good education for all. The
Capitalists oppose this and see it as a
waste of money. Police here use violence
to break up peaceful demonstrations, but
thanks to generations of struggle by left-
wing activists, the rules here dare not go
as far as their Chinese counterparts for
fear of a backlash that could sweep them
from power. T h e Economic League keeps
a secret and illegal blacklist of suspected
leftwing activists, to spoil our job
opportunities. The Right keeps
campaigning to extend the Obscene
Publications A c t , to make publication of
offensive letters like mine punishable by
jail, and to tighten their grip on the mass
media which have the power to distort
our feelings, beliefs and memories.
The ideas and hard work of leaders can
be very valuable, but when someone
becomes a ruler (eg. in political or
economic lives) they come to serve an
addiction to power and flattery. W e
should think honestly and logically for
ourselves and get rid of rulers.
Many people who value freedom of
speech, resent its use by people with
unconventional views, and take a
vicarious pleasure in their persecution in
other countries. But without those who
insist on speaking out, and the much
braver and more dedicated heroes who
actively fight oppression, that freedom
would disappear. Moderation only gives
the oppressors more chances to murder
people.
Yours sincerely,
Jason Pike.

