Ip Spanish B u l l
Fights Police
O n Tuesday night a Spanish gentleman
entered the Union Bar and started
harassing a young Spanish girl that he
had followed from Spain. She was here as
part of the Royal School of Mines
International Week and the Foriegn
Students representative from Mines, Nick
Jarmen, became concerned. He called in
security and they requested him to leave.
W h e n he failed to cooperate they called
the Police and they tried to escort him
from the premises as he was in Beit Quad
Arriving on the scene two Police
officers went to remove the man from
the premises and he threw some punches
at them. Later in the day, at around
4.30pm he was yet again spotted around
the Union Building and Geoff Reeves
himself came over to sort out the
situation. He managed to persuade the
gentleman to leave the area and walked
him along Prince Consort Road towards
the Mines building. M r Reeves said that
since then he had not been spotted or
caused any more trouble.
He was seen, however, on Wednesday
night outside Beit Quad leaning against a
car but did not attempt to enter the
premises, having been warned that should
he attempt such action that the Police
would again be immediately called. M r
Reeves stated that he was a large and
powerful man who was not to be
approached and that people should not
become involved in any confrontaion.
They should though call security straight
away.
Geoff Reeves, Chief Security Officer,
said that he then 'went bananas' and
restled to the floor the three Policemen
present. They regained control of the
situation and handcuffed the man. Taken
away to the Police Station he was later
released.
On Wednesday morning the Spanish
man was still loitering around the Union
and the Police were again called. Security
officers of the College have been
instructed by Geoff Reeves that they
should not be dragged into possibly
dangerous confrontations and call the
Police immediately.
SOS
Have you registered with a
doctor in London since you
came to College? Have you
got a medical card with your
current address on it? If the
answer to either question is
no, you may have difficulty
obtaining your full NHS
entitlement. Come and see
us in the Health Centre early
next term to discuss this. If
you live within the following
postal codes, you may
register with the College
Health Service.
SW1, 3, 5, 6, 7, 10. Wl,
2, 8, 9, 10, 11, 14. NW1,
2, 3, 5, 6, 8. WC1 & 2.
EC1. Nl, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 10,
19. W6 Hamlet Gardens
only.
Trainee Actuaries
With your
head for
figures,
you figure
highly in
the way
ahead.
What goes on inside your head is important to
us. Not just the theories, strategems and hypoth-
eses, but how all those things get put into practice.
Your ideas are tomorrow's innovations. You have the
power and the potential not only to change the way
ahead for yourself, but also to change the way
ahead for the European Community's largest mutual
life assurance company.
Standard Life is a progressive place. We are
always adding to our strengths and taking away all
the honours in the business of financial services.
Our structured training programmes, dynamic work-
ing environment and exceptional rewards are. a
formula for success on anyone's blackboard, which
is why we succeed in attracting some of the best
actuarial trainees in the UK (relatively speaking).
We like the individual thinker. The maverick.
The graduate with creative flair and an eye for the
unusual. We want you to experiment and we want
to set tasks that, at first, you think are impossible,
but in the end you are able to work out.
The way ahead is never easy. But, all things
being equal, having good people with good heads
on their shoulders, we'll figure out the best route.
Standard Life will be visiting your university in
the near future, for more information and a graduate
brochure, call in at your careers office.
StandardLife
We don't follow standards.Wc set them

