REVIEWS
H o m e A l o n e and the
Conways
Old Vic
'Tis the night before Christmas.
Little Kevi n is alone in the house
after being abandoned by his
parents (they went to Paris). Outside are
two burglars w h o want the house badly.
It's time for Kevin to go to war...
It's that Christmas family movie again
folks, the one y o u watch with assorted
younger relatives, provided they've seen
Teenage Ninja Inane Bloody Turtles by
now. A s a kid's film it's pretty good stuff.
You've got revenge on grown-ups and
brothers, the chance to do whatever y o u
want, and some real baddies to fight.
Perfect fantasy for knee-biters. They're
also going to love the gratuitously violent
way in which Kevin sees off his attackers
- and so will you!
Although this is a kids' film, and as such
not one you're likely to see, if y o u do
have to take assorted brats out this
Christmas, you'll probably enjoy this
more than y o u expected. This has been a
FELIX Christmas survival message.
P e n d r a g o n .
Dr. Jekyll & Mr. Hyde
This stage adaptation of Robert
Louis Stevenson's novel works
remarkably well. W i t h a cast of
only four, the Empty Space Theatre
Company, w h o specialise in adapting the
works of famous authors for the stage,
manage to recreate the horror and
suspense of the novel.
Dr Jekyll is a scientist fascinated by
mystical things. H e speculates on the
possibility of separating our primeval self
from our 'civilised' self—freeing us from
the constraints imposed by conscience
and society and leaving us at liberty to
pursue the pleasures and the cravings of
the flesh.
Despite scorn from his former
colleague, Jekyll manages to isolate the
essence to make this separation possible
and starts to lead a double life.
Fortunately M r Hyde—as he calls his
other half—does not have a physical
resemblance to Jekyll and they therefore
cannot be identified as the same person.
However, it is impossible to avoid their
names being linked and people are at a
loss to undertand w h y such a well
respected person as Dr Jekyll should be
associated with so despicable a chap as
Hyde.
Jekyll leads this double life for a while
until Hyde kills a man. O v e r c o m e with
horror by what he, as Hyde, is capable of
doing, he resolves to be done with Hyde.
It is only then that he begins to realise
the power of what he has released.
The staging is stark. A door and a
carpet ripped in two down the centre.
The torn carpet symbolises the split
personality of Jekyll and Hyde—in fact a
conflict in all of us because w e all contain
these two opposing natures.
The door is a recurring image in the
play: what goes on behind closed doors?
Jekyll and H y d e transform, doors within
the mind, secrets from people and, at the
end Jekyll hides behind a closed door.
The play is well acted, the symbolism
achieves its objectives—that of advancing .
and providing insight into the plot, and
there are some very effective scenes and
tableaux. The atmosphere and flavour of
the book is evolved superbly and it is a
very effective w a y of m a k i n g this
classic—of w h i c h everybody has heard,
but few have read—accessible to the
people.
The Strange Case of Dr Jekyll and Mr
Hyde is on at the Battersea Arts Centre
until December 16 at 8.00pm from
Wednesday to Sunday. Concessionary
tickets cost S4.00 plus SI.00 membership.
J L W .
The Olivier family together, on
stage! Directed by their brother!
The headlines are a-screaming
again as a hype machine swings into
action. What is the performance like,
though?
J.B Priestly's play is interesting, and
amusing, but b y no means a classic. The
Conway family are a rich middle class at
the end of the first world war. They are
presided over b y a matriarchal mother
(Joan Plowright) after the death (by
drowning) of the father. The children are
all gathering to celebrate Kay's 21st
birthday, and Robin's demob. Various
other people have gathered as well, and
they start to form relationships that will
dominate their lives 19 years later. W h i c h
is, in fact, w h e n the second act is set.
After an act's worth of failed hopes and
shattered relationships, w e skip back 19
years again to find out what caused all
those problems.
Olivier's widow, Joan Plowright,
completely dominates m u c h of the play,
which only really sparks into life with her
arrival on-stage. The majority of the cast
also turn in as sparkling a performance as
they can from her shadow. The task of
swapping between two ages is not easy
and is managed admirably by all. T h e
characters are vastly different in some
cases, but all are still recognisable (but
not to the obtuse lady sitting behind
me...). Perhaps the only disappointment
was Tasmin Olivier w h o turned in a fairly
wooden performance, until near the end,
proving that acting talent m a y not be
genetic.
The dramatic fabric the cast weave
contains all the normal threads. They
beautifully incorporate despair and hope,
humor and grief, love and fear. The play
is inherently bleak of message, without
being disheartening. One does not leave
the theatre depressed but thoughtful. In
fact, as one impressed punter said as they
left the theatre, 'It's rather good isn't it?'.
P e n d r a g o n .
6

