REVIEWS
Royal Philharmonic
Orchestra
Conducted by Geoffrey Simon
This was an evening of powerful
emotion and superb playing,
making full use of the extra brass
engaged for the Walton. The Bliss fanfare
showed that the Barbican Hall's excellent
acoustics operate from all parts of the
hall, with the additional trumpets and
trombones perched at either end of the
first tier balcony. Their playing was crisp
throughout.
Paul Patterson is a young composer
whose Te Deum is part of a trilogy of
works (the others (Mass of the Sea and
Stabat Mater) are associated with the
Three Choirs Festival. The Te Deum,
written for the 1988 festival is, in places,
brooding and sinister, m o o d at odds with
its message of joyful praise, although
there are m a n y passages of pure
exultation.
Unlike many settings, it is as much an
orchestral piece as a choral work; the
opening section contains fanfares and
unsettling percussion. The vocal sections
range from plain song-based passages to a
more operatic style: a necessary variety
in a piece of this length. Both the adult
and children's choirs produced strong,
clear singing, while the pure, assured
tones of the Polish soprano, Malgorzata
A r m a n o w s k a floated clearly above the
accompaniment.
Walton described his oratorio,
Belshazzar's Feast as 'a beastly noise' and
the setting of verses from the O l d
Testament concerning the downfall of
Babylon is certainly not fainthearted. Nor
was this rendering, from the opening
fanfare, through the full-blooded praise of
the pagan gods (whimsically coloured by
different instruments such as percussive
wood) to the final joyful alleluias. Sadly,
while Stephen Roberts sang the solos
accurately, they lacked passion or
expression, robbing the piece of some of
its drama, particularly in his
announcement of Belshazzar's death. Still,
this is compensated for by the
magnificent singing of the Brighton
Festival Choir, who showed no signs of
stress from two such demanding pieces.
Liz W
The Sheltering Sky
Epic. Bernardo Bertolucci's films
have a tendency to be epic, from
Lasf Tango in Paris to The Last
Emperor, and this is no exception. Epic
actually means several things. Firstly,
long, and this certainly is, at over 214
hours. Epic also has something to do with
impressive landscapes, and we have
them. Sand by the desert load, from the
hard, baked variety to that horrible
blowy stuff that gets trapped between
your toes. Epic means a broad vista of
human feeling and relationship, or to put
it more simply, two people going d o w n
the plughole of life.
Kit (Debra Winger) and Port (John
Malkovich) are two A m e r i c a n travellers—
not tourists, because tourists are thinking
of going home, travellers, apparently, are
not—in North Africa. Their marriage is on
the rocks, and attempts at sex are
abruptly ended by a severe outbreak of
philosophy. Port seeks solace (i.e. sex)
with a local prostitute, who in turn seeks
only his wallet. Kit has an alcoholic fling
with fellow traveller Campbell, but this
aids nothing. Campbell quits, Port croaks
and Kit heads for the desert. .
A l l (mildly) entertaining stuff. Mixed in
with this lot are a pair of English
grotesques w h o foist themselves on our
hapless heroes with pleasing regularity—
they liven up the film no end. Otherwise
we are stuck with endless shots of hills
and dunes, all of which are very
impressive but not terribly entertaining.
The characters go through their paces,
learn not to get too cocky abroad and
suffer for doing so. Paul Bowles, author
of the novel on which this is based,
makes a few irritating appearances as a
narrator—irritating because he's the only
one who seems to k n o w what's going
through the characters' mind. Meanwhile
we watch the camels. Harmless, and
mildly boring—read the book.
Pendragon.
M a r s h a l
L a w
Kingdom of the Blind
Law finds God...
G
To anybody with any taste this title
alone should be enough to drop
Felix, rush off to the nearest
comic shop and buy the n e w comic, from
Apocalypse, a n e w British company. To
those of you w h o haven't had the
pleasure to read the previous stories, I'll
explain.
The strip is set in the near future in the
ruins of San Francisco (now called San
Futuro). Genetic manipulation, drugs and
operations created by " D r Shokk" have
allowed A m e r i c a to create super heroes
for wars in South A m e r i c a . It is only
when the super-powered m e n return to
"normal" life, suffering from the
psychological hang ups caused by the
wars, that all hell breaks loose. So the
police department hires an ex-Shokk
Trooper to help deal with the problem.
Enter Marshal Law.
The strip has always dealt with the
consequences of super powers in the real
world, in a similar vein to the brilliant
Watchmen, but with a m u c h more brutal
but darkly humourous style. Kingdom of
the Blind is a continuation of this, based
around a parody of my o l d favourite,
Batman. Suffice it to say that it is as
excellent as the previous stories, the
whole product being a superb example of
what a modern comic should be;
intelligent, funny, thought provoking, and
with some serious points to make. Not to
mention the artwork! Once again, B U Y
IT!
Alien Sex Fiend
8

