U n M o n d e S a n s P i t i e
HAnother modern romance in Paris?
Hippo (Hippolyte Girardot), a
young, casual, contented and
spontaneous man, lives his life partly by
playing poker and partly by being
supported by Xavier, his younger brother
who deals in cannabis but k n o w n by their
parents as a student. Nathalie (Mireille
Perrier), w h o m Hippo meets one night
and falls in love with immediately, is an
ordinary university student. Despite her
judgement that they can't be lovers
because of different lifestyles, Nathalie
still surrenders to Hippo's raffish charm.
Of course, the love story of such a
contrasting pair won't be so simple. Their
relationship comes to a question mark
when Nathalie is given a one year's
teaching post at MIT in Boston. Hippo
finds it impossible to leave Paris and
follow her. But he changes his mind after
Xavier is caught for dealing in cocaine
and his parents accuse him of not taking
proper care of his brother. O n his way to
tell Nathalie that he is going with her, he
is stopped by police for driving a stolen
Fantasia
K B For its fiftieth anniversary this
I classic has been given a good
clean. In 1988 the original three
strip technicolor was cleaned and
restored to try and restore the magic of
the original.
Whether their efforts have made any
difference is uncertain, but one thing is
still true—that there is only one Fantasia.
It is two hours of pure entertainment with
every conceivable emotion portrayed
through the brilliant animation. F r o m evil
to saintliness and joy to sadness, it's all
here.
Everybody knows the Sorcerer's
Apprentice but for me the best section is
the dancing hippopotamus. Watching the
frantic chases as the alligator pursues his
true love causes the whole audience to
erupt in fits of laughter. It is rather
reminiscent of the football match scene
from Bedknobs and Broomsticks with
numerous collisions and general
confusion.
If you haven't seen it before the go and
be entertained. If you have (and I mean
more than the clips they show at
Christmas) go again.
Ian Hodge.
car (which he thinks is abandoned). In the
end he doesn't manage to contact
Nathalie. A year later, Hippo waits at the
airport for Nathalie to return from
Boston...
Though the character of Hippo reminds
•
Atrocities didn't just happen to
soldiers during the Second World
War—but I'm not talking about
occupied Europe here. America, land of
the free, home of the A m e r i c a n Dream,
locked all Japanese immigrants in
concentration camps within months of the
bombing of Pearl Harbour. E v e n people
who were only l / 1 6 t h Japanese could be
forcibly evacuated under Roosevelt's
Executive Order 9066. A fascinating and
not a little horrifying story, and one
worthy of being debated on film.
It is not the only theme that Alan
Parker (Mississippi Burning, Fame, Bugsy
Malone) chooses to address in his latest
film, but it is by far the most significant.
The start of the film is a blind, a set up
for the character of Jack, an Irish
American and active member of the Film
Projectionist's Union. Jack (played by
Dennis Quaid, back on form after the dire
When I Fall in Love) ends up working in
a small Japanese Theatre owned by M r
Kawamure. While taking a lunch break
with Charlie, Kawamura's son and an all-
American boy, Jack sees Lily through a
shop window, falling madly in love with
her. Facing prejudice from the Japanese
community they elope and marry, but
when Jack gets arrested on a demo Lily
returns home, just in time to be
evacuated with the rest of her family. She
ends up in a camp in the middle of a
desert, and Jack in the army.
What starts off as a love story, with a
bit of w o r k i n g class agiprop, suddenly
veers off into a tale of prejudice, hysteria
(similar perhaps to that w h i c h fueled Alan
Bailey's letter to this very organ) and
REVIEWS
me of the one by Jean Paul Belmonde in
Bout de Souffle, Monsieur Hippolyte
Girardot manages to bring some
freshness. O n e cannot deny being
attracted by his charm just one minute
after the film has started, when the
camera focuses on him walking home
casually with a smile so full of self-
confidence. No wonder he w o n the
French 'Oscars' for Most Promising Young
Actor with this film!
This first feature of the promising,
young French director Eric Rochant w o n
him the Prix Louis Delluc and French
'Oscars' for Best First F i l m . He
successfully catches the contemporary
minds of young Parisiens, as condensed
into Hippo and Nathalie's characters. The
carefreeness of Hippo and the positivity
of Nathalie, as well as the characters of
others such as Xavier, Hippo's friend
Halper, his ex-girlfriend Francine and his
parents, blend well into this charming
tragi-comedy, that could easily be the
most contemporary film so far this year.
S Su.
man's ability to be cruel to each other in
direct contradiction of all that they
purport to stand for.
Technically, the film is stunning. Well
shot with beautiful period detail, it could
almost be contemporary, but for the
message and colour. The emotional
charge is strong, and the film moving. I
would wholeheartedly recommend this
film but for one reservation—at 133
minutes it is a little over-long, and could
have done with a little compression of
the opening sequence. With the love
story, and the serious prejudice theme
perhaps this can be best described as an
intellectual date move. See it anyway.
Pendragon.
9
Come See The Paradise

