N I G H T L I F E F E L I X
NightLife
Welcome
As summer has now definitely left the dance-
floor, got a mini-cab home and gone to bed
on the tail-end of a J, Felix's very own club-
bing section, NightLife, finds itself left with
the task of trying to invoke the party-spirit in
all of you.
Every week NightLife will point you in the
direction of the best events London has to
offer and will even offer you the chance to go
out for free through the competitions that are
run in these very pages. In future issues there
will also be interviews with DJs and dance
artists - and other insights into the world of
dance music and clubbing. So if you've lived
in London all your life or only the last few
hours, NightLife is going to supply you with
just what you need to know to go out on the
town and paint it any colour that you can
think of.
NightLife isn't just a one-way thing.
Whatever your taste in music, if you enjoy
going out - but enjoy going out for free more
- then get in touch with NightLife and you
could be joining our review team. I am espe-
cially looking for people into R & B, UK
Garage, and Drum'n'Bass because these have
so far been under-represented - but anyone
with a love of electronic music and going out
should seriously consider getting involved.
Just e-mail me at clubs.felix@ic.ac.uk to find
out more.
Also, if you know of any club or event that
you think needs to be covered in NightLife,
give me a shout at clubs.felix@ic.ac.uk and I
will try to make sure that it does not go unno-
ticed.
Take it easy.
Bedrock
Thursday @ Heaven
This Thursday is Bedrock's fourth birthday,
which means things are going to be a little bit
more special than usual. The prospect of John
Digweed, Phil Thompson and a "Very Special
Guest" in the main room seems too good to
miss, but with Soma Records taking over the
Star Bar, you will also get for your money
Stuart Mcmillan & Orde Meikle (Slam) tearing
up the dancefloor.
Each month Bedrock promises talented DJs
playing the very best of house, sleek visuals
and a great atmosphere - and delivers every
time. But perhaps one of Bedrock's best fea-
tures is its enthusiastic, lively crowd. It is diffi-
cult not to get swept along when a tidal wave
of cheers and hands in the air moves back
through the audience when a crescendo is
reached or the bass kicks in.
Heaven is perhaps one of London's most
friendly clubs, with its well-lit bars, its intimate
alcoves and lack of attitude. Bedrock and
Heaven make a great team.
For your own sake: forget those Friday morn-
ing lectures and instead make time for this
mid-week extravaganza.
John Digweed, Phil Thompson, Stuart
Mcmillan and Orde Meikle (Slam) and one
Very Special Guest.
Thursday 3rd October, 9:00pm - 3:00am
£6 NUS /£8 others before 11pm;
more after 11pm
Heaven, The Arches, Villiers Street, WC2
www.bedrock.org.uk
Fabriclive
Friday @ Fabric
For the uninitiated, Fabric is considered by
many to be London's best club: everything
from the neon-lit descent into the club to its
innovative cutting-edge sound system has
helped to make it a living legend of clubland.
Fabriclive, Fabric's Friday night event, really
works hard to give you an experience unparal-
leled by any other major club in London. From
the live performances by established and
soon-to-be-big electronica acts to the verbal
mayhem of the MCs in room two, it goes
beyond simply offering you a line-up of
famous DJs.
Testament to its abilities, Fabriclive can
host between its room one and two such
diverse sounds as quirky electro and hard-
edged drum'n'bass simultaneously without it
seeming like a bad segue.
Best of all, for a club which could have the
most famous DJs in the world play there if
they wanted, Fabric and Fabriclive avoid this
obvious route. Instead they give their decks
over to highly respected artists like Jacques
Lu Cont and the Propellerheads, which guar-
antees to give you a unique Friday night out.
Hybrid, James Lavelle, Stanton Warriors,
Fabio, Peshay, Krust, 4 Hero (DJ set), and
Dub Pistols among many.
Friday 4th October, 9.30pm - 5.00am
£12 (£10 NUS)
Fabric, 77A Charterhouse Street, EC1
www.fabriclondon.com
clubs.felix@ic.ac.uk Become a Felix reviewer to have your say on all the latest entertainment

