F E L I X N I G H T L I F E 1 5
GarageCity
Saturday @ Bar Rumba
GarageCity is a night out which doesn't try to
be sophisticated and cool - what it offers is
good times and a warm welcome to all who
walk through its doors.
Garage (which you might know as US
Garage or Funky House) is the soundtrack to
the evening; its caramel rhythms glisten on the
tongue of every conversation and colours every
single drink. Only the most cynical of music
fans could resist being seduced by its melodi-
ous love-happy lyrics.
Here at GarageCity you will meet a mixed
bunch of people. And because the crowd at
GarageCity is so mixed, it is impossible to feel
out of place. However, it is clear to see that
everyone is united by their desire to enjoy
themselves, like at an office party or sixth-form
disco. Pheromones hang heavy in the air like
cigarette smoke or over-applied cologne,
charging up everyone's libido.
Come here and you'll discover Bar Rumba
itself is like Southside Bar with make-up on.
There is no cavernous main room, no DJ idol-
atry, no high-tech lighting - just good music
and unpretentious fun. So enjoy it.
Craig Smith will be taking charge, but
expect residents like Bobby & Steve,
Chrissy T to be there also.
Saturday 5th October, 10:OOpm until late
£7 before 11pm;
£12 after 11pm
Bar Rumba, 36 Shaftesbury Avenue
www.zooevents.com
NightLife
Electric Chair Competition
Sunday @ Bridge&Tunnel
The monthly Electric Chair night this Sunday
is sure to be a lot more spiritually rewarding
than watching Songs of Praise, with the
deceptively named Unabombers bringing a lit-
tle bit of soulfulness to the Bridge & Tunnel.
The Bridge & Tunnel is one of the classiest
of recent additions to London's bar and club
scene. It is a hybrid of bar and club: having
both a stylish ground floor bar and a minimal
basement dance-floor. It is intelligent conver-
sation and not high impact dancing which is
likely to be found here.
The Electric Chair night at the Bridge &
Tunnel is actually a spin-off of the
Unabombers' own infamous Electric Chair
night in Manchester, which has developed a
reputation for its musical diversity, featuring
as different DJs as Mr Scruff, Fabio and
Francois K in its history. In fact, the
Unabombers own sets are known through out
the land as being perhaps the most genre
defying mixed-bag of sounds that is ever like-
ly to be heard by man, woman or child. So
prepare yourself for what is likely to be a
whole evening of surprises.
Unabombers will be manning the decks.
Electric Chair is every first Sunday.
Sunday 6th October, 6:00pm until late
£3 after 7:00pm
Bridge & Tunnel, 4 Calvert Avenue, E2
www.bridgeandtunnel.co.uk
If this first week of the year has been a little
too much for you, and you simply have to get
out this week-end, check out our competition
below - it might just be what you're looking
for.
Felix's Clubbing Section is giving you the
chance to win yourself a pair of tickets, cour-
tesy of Fabric, to Fabriclive this Friday where
you will get to dance to DJs such as Hybrid
and James Lavelle. There are four pairs avail-
able, the winners to be chosen at random
from all of you who answer this simple ques-
tion below:
Which London Underground station is near-
est to Fabric?
E-mail your answer to clubs.felix@ic.ac.uk
before noon on Friday 4th October for the
opportunity of winning a pair of tickets. Please
include in your e-mail a contact phone num-
ber, so that I can inform you if you are a win-
ner. These numbers will not be recorded or
used for any other purposes.
Don't forget: if you love the idea of clubbing
for free, then join the Felix clubbing review
team. As a reviewer you will be offered the
chance to go to any number of clubs in
London, including all of the big names, and all
you have to do in return is write a decent 150
word review of the event. This is a unique
opportunity to go straight to the front of the
queue, to get in for free, and maybe even get
a V.I.P. pass and a free drink in the process.
For more information e-mail:
clubs.felix@ic.ac.uk
Patrick
clubs.felix@ic.ac.uk

