Welcome (or welcome back) to Imperial!
I hope you relaxed lots over the summer holidays,
because now it's time to get up and do stuff, and I ain't
talking about your degree either! This special pullout is
designed to help you navigate your way around the now
legendary Imperial College Union Freshers Fair. At one
or more of the unassuming trestle tables you will hope-
fully find an activity or group that you will end up
spending a fair proportion of your non-study time with.
1 believe they call it "Having Fun!" And how right they
are. The fair is by far the best opportunity to become
involved in one of the 250+ clubs and societies and
start having the most fun in your university life!
The M D H is a bit of a mish-mash, with companies
along one side, sport and recreational clubs down the
other side, with a financial-industrial-business-type cor-
ner for good measure!
In the JCR, the religious societies are in the centre,
with various other social and recreational clubs repre-
sented around the edges. And the Sir Alexander
Fleming building is the place for clubs run by the
medic student association and businesses of interest to
medics, which are open to all.
Across the road in the Union Building, there is a
plethora of activity! The stage in Beit Quad will host a
number of performances from the artistic and musical
societies as well as demos from martial arts clubs and
fencing. The Quad will also be home to the Union Ents
stall, where you can purchase tickets to all Union fresh-
ers week events such as the Super Heroes Party on
Friday night. The RAG stall is also here, so sign up to
do crazy things throughout the year in aid of good caus-
es. There is also a cluster of adventure clubs here, as
well as the Felix
stall and others.
Those of you with
an artistic streak
should head for the
concert hall, which
Phew! Having made that bold
statement, it's time for the good
news for those of you who may be
thinking that they don't wish to
join anything at all.
As usual, we have a number
of commercial companies visiting us, with the aim of
promoting their wares and services to your good selves.
Some of them will have items to give to you for FREE.
So turn up and get given things. Everyone's a winner,
wouldn't you say?!
The handy maps contained in this pullout will
hopefully guide you around the various areas, and help
you pin down the exact location of your desired clubs
and societies. (Although most people find aimless wan-
dering is the Freshers fair navigation method du jour.)
As a rough guide, the companies and businesses
will be mainly in the Ante Room, and the Main Dining
Hall. In the Great Hall you will find all the overseas
societies. Queens Lawn is full of outdoorsy-sporty-type
clubs, as well as all the motoring clubs (outside the
MDH) and departmental societies (outside the library)
houses arts and enter-
tainments clubs such as
choir, orchestras, drama
and musical theatre soci-
eties, cinema etc. The
Union gym is jam-
packed with martial arts in many different forms
Finally, don't miss the four STAMPY STALLS to
enter the Freshers Fair Prize Draw! Make sure you get
the attached Freshers Fair Pull-Out Voucher stamped by
all of the STAMPY STALLS and return it (completely
filled out) to the box by the catering cashier in Da
Vinci's, in the Union Building. Loads of great prises to
win. Good Luck!!
Nona Ahmet
Deputy President Clubs and Societies

