7*1
0 6 U N I O N F E L I X
Welcome to the first day of the
rest... blah blah blah. Nothing you
haven't heard before, I'm sure.
But now is not the time for pater-
nal lectures. Now is the time for
merriment and adventure, and of
course, to a certain extent, getting
pissed out of your tree. This is a
quick introduction to a rapid diary
section (normally there's a more
structured form for the diary in
Felix, but not much happens in
the first week except extreme
excess, so I really couldn't be
bothered) which will tell you
where to go when, and possibly
why and who with as well.
Saturday
Well, you are keen to go to Uni,
aren't you? As a reward you can
go to the Union for free (you usu-
ally have to pay for late licence
nights - drinking till 1), and
embarrass yourself horribly doing
Karaoke and dancing to cheese
like the little cheese monkey that
you undoubtedly are.
Sunday
You could sleep. People do, I've
been told. Oh, and go and make
friends with someone.
Monday
KERRANG! Really sums up an
emotion, don't you think. Tonight
the Union is having a bit of an ID
crisis. Do we like rock (this is
Kerrangl's only London gig this
year - one of the club's DJs is
playing), or do we like cheese?
Both will be playing in the Union,
and I expect to see you all there,
broadening your musical horizons.
(Late licence night)
Tuesday
Right. Some bloke with a dog
who hypnotises people (the dog
does, that is). I'm not joking. He's
been here before, actually, and it's
a really good laugh, but the
entrance is tickets only at the
door, so get there early.
Alternatively, if you think you're
a bit too cerebral for such silli-
ness, you could go to prove your
intellectual superiority to all your
new friends (but remember no-
one likes a smart arse) in the room
next door (where you don't need a
ticket), because there'll be a bar
quiz going on, where you can win
all sorts of goodies.
Time Out
Just in case you hadn't noticed,
everything I'm talking about is in
the Union. That's because it's
Freshers' Week, and that's where
you should be. It's not just a bla-
tant plug, so don't get all cynical
and mature on me now. Have
some fun, for crying out loud.
Wednesday
Yay! Cheesy wotsits! This is a
bar night, also with a late licence,
that goes on every Wednesday for
the rest of your life, and it's fan-
tastic. I may feel this way because
many of the more formative
moments of my life have stemmed
from encounters here, but they
may for you too. Anyway, just go
and get drunk. Your liver has been
evil. It must be punished.
Thursday
More comedy, this time with
Daniel Kitson, who won the
Edinburgh Festival Award for
Extreme Funniness. This will cer-
tainly sell out, so get in there early.
Friday
It's a superhero fancy dress
party. This will also sell out.
Words cannot express how cool it
will be. I'll be wearing PVC.
By Students, For Students
Welcome to Freshers
Firstly I would like to welcome you to
Imperial College. You are about to enter one of
the best Universities in the world with some of
the best teaching and research to be found any-
where. It will be a challenging and exciting time
in your life and we in the Union aim to help you
during your time here.
The Union runs over 250 clubs and societies
offering a wide range of activities, everything
from ten-pin bowling to gliding and gives you
the chance to meet people sharing a common
interest. There is also an opportunity to get
involved in the running of the Union. The Union
is ultimately an organisation run by students for
students and you can participate in its gover-
nance, have your say in Union policy, manage
its services or even control a budget of millions.
Details of how you can get involved are given
below.
For many of you this will also be the first time
you have lived away from home and you may
feel slightly anxious of starting at a new
University. If you have any problems or difficul-
ties, please remember there is always someone
here to help and the Union is usually a good
place to start. Feel free to drop into my office to
raise any concerns or ask for more information
or simply have a chat, my door is always open.
We have a wide range of support networks and
if we cannot help you we undoubtedly know
someone who can.
Finally I would like to wish you all the very
best with your studies and I look forward to
meeting many of you over the coming year.
Want to run the Union?
The Union is run by students for students and
every year a groups of officers are elected to
govern and manage the Union. There are posi-
tions (see below) available for the various bod-
ies that govern the Union.
Ordinary Member of Council
Council is the sovereign and governing body of
the Union and exercises all powers of the
Union. It is the supreme body of the Union and
there are specific positions reserved for First
Years and Post-graduates. Council meets once
a month during term time.
Ordinary Member of Executive Committee
The Executive Committee is charged with the
general management of the Union, co-ordinat-
ing Union affairs and controls Union finances
(an annual turnover of £5m). The Executive
Committee meets approximately once every
two weeks.
Ordinary Member of Trading Committee
As a member of Trading Committee you will be
in charge of the supervision of the trading out-
lets of the Union, namely Bars, Catering, Ents
and Events with a turnover of Elm. Trading
Committee meets once a month during term
time.
Ordinary Member of Services Committee
As a member of the Services Committee you
will be charged with the co-ordination of Union
services including Reception, Minibuses and
the Union Advice Service. The committee
meets once a month during term time.
Ordinary Member of Retail Committee
As a member of the Retail Committee you will
be responsible for the supervision of the retail
outlets of the Union including the shop and
newsagent with an annual turnover of Elm.
The committee meets once a month during the
term time.
Ordinary Member of House Committee
As member of the House Committee you will be
charged with the management and usage of the
space under the control of the Union and have
executive control of a maintenance budget. The
House Committee meets twice a term.
You can sign up for these positions on the
President's Notice Board on Level 1 of the
Union Building (opposite the entrance to the
Union Reception). For more information about
these positions, please contact me.
Sen Ganesh, President
lnternal:58061
president@ic.ac.uk
felix@ic.ac.uk The student newspaper of Imperial College

