music
Shaun Stanworth
Coffee Break Editor
Going to university can be a daunting expe-
rience - for many of you this will be your
first time living away from home. Of course,
there’s nothing to worry about really, and
despite first impressions, Imperial isn’t
entirely full of creepy geeks. Just the scien-
tists. It’s important to try and make the most
of your spell here, as once it’s over you have
to grow up, stop drinking Snakebite, and find
yourself a nice dead-end job. And nobody
wants to stop drinking.
Your first week here is going to be a scary
one, full of meeting new people and telling
them what A-Levels you got. Going to a new
town gives you the opportunity to make a
fresh start, and be whatever type of person
you’d like to be. Students here tend to break
down into these two main groups:
Nerdy
Geeks form the majority of the college,
something that you’ll no doubt have realised
very quickly. Not everybody who comes here
starts as one though – it takes hard work to
meet the high standard of nerdiness that’s
required. So how would you go about becom-
ing a geek?
1. Stay Indoors
Studies show that over 90% of social inter-
action takes place outside of your own bed-
room. Don’t let it happen to you.
2. Join a Rubbish Society
Imperial has far too many clubs and socie-
ties, covering all kinds of social fetish. As a
student here, it’s pretty much required that
you join at least one, so why not join the geeki-
est one you can. Freshers Fair is this week, so
take a look around and find the worst avail-
able. Good things to look out for include
•Barely anybody else has signed up
•Their Table has a laptop on it
•Neckbeards
•Absence of girls
•Poor-quality confectionery. This is espe-
cially important.
3. Enrol at Imperial
See, you’re almost there already.
4. Speak Like a Geek
On some rare occasions you may be forced
into conversation, and so you’re going to need
some prepared topics to speak about, thus
forcing the person who spoke to you to never
want to speak to you again. So remember
that there’s nothing more interesting than
hearing a strangers A-Levels, that spouting
the virtues of Linux is ever-so-popular and
that if all else fails you can always try to prove
just how much smarter you are than them.
Nothing livens up a party like Integration,
Fluid Dynamics and talking about fucking
rocks (RSM, shame on you).
Sporty
Despite being viewed that way, Imperial
isn’t entirely made up of geeks. We also have
sporty types who prefer physical exercise to
working their clicking hand. They can nor-
mally be found in the bar on a Wednesday
evening, singing about their supposed sexual
prowess and throwing up. Sounds fun, eh?
Well it is, and if fun is your cup of tea, you’ll
want to get involved. First of all though, you’ll
need to decide which sport it is you want to
play. Please bear in mind that actual sporting
talent is almost entirely irrelevant here; Most
teams are so rubbish / desperate for players
that they’ll take anyone.
Football
A gentleman’s game, played by thugs (or
maybe that’s Rugby), Football is the national
sport and one of the biggest clubs at Imperial.
The main men’s club has seven teams, which
unfortunately is about six too many. Pace,
Control and Awareness – All these things
have no place at IC FC, as all you need is a
drinking habit and an appreciation for boob.
Perhaps our teams would be more successful
if their minds weren’t occupied with dreams
of Championship Manager and Lucy Pinder.
Preferably together.
Women’s Rugby
If you’re a girl (and you’re probably not)
you could always try out for the ironically
named IC Virgins. Just be sure to bring your
boots, shorts, and diaphragm. I’m completely
unaware as to whether they’re any good or
not, as their reputation is not quite a sport-
ing one. Promiscuity and STDs are the key
qualifications for any budding Virgin, as is the
ability to out-sing the boy’s team. As any guy
will tell you, there’s nothing more attractive
than a girl who can drink you under the table,
take you back to her room and it’s bedpost so
notched it’s falling to pieces, and proceed to
give you the worst case of crabs of your short
young life. They’re femininity personified.
Ultimate Frisbee
Obviously, these people wouldn’t lower
themselves to Regular Frisbee, or – god for-
bid – to just playing for fun. No, they’ve taken
a perfectly lame game and turned it into an
even lamer ‘sport’. I don’t quite understand
how anybody can win at throwing a yellow
piece of plastic around, it seems like a game
in which there can be only losers to be hon-
est. And why is it ‘Ultimate’? It’s just a little
game; there isn’t Ultimate Hangman, Pro
Mousetrap and Extreme Hide and Seek, and
they’re all far better wastes of time.
So what have we learned about Imperial?
That we’re rubbish? True. That we should
have gone to Kings? Again, true. But where
else would you find such a diverse mix of idiot
than here? The next few years of your life
will be fun, but only if you actually bother to
have any. Go out, make friends, see London,
get drunk (if you want), and you’ll see why
despite the fact that all we ever do is com-
plain about the place, we’re all still here.
felix
Thursday 29 September 2005 www.felixonline.co.uk 11
hoff
Zane Lowe: the guy from Radio 1 with the
dodgy accent. What you may not know is that
Zane has been kicking around the studio
creating music for years and over the British
summer of 2004, Zane joined with Hamish
Clark and Andy Lovegrove to create The
Sound Inside under the name of Breaks Co-
Op, a New Zealand band highly acclaimed in
its own country.
With the passing of summer, this is an
album which will cast your mind automati-
cally back to all those nostalgic summer
memories of sun, sand and reeeelaxing. It’s
rich in all things summer and comes practi-
cally sun-drenched. You would find it hard
to believe that it was recorded in an inner-
city London studio and not in a garden shed
overlooking the unspoilt deserted beaches of
New Zealand.
From first listen this album grabs you and
gently and tenderly wraps you in its smooth,
sultry and soulful sounds. A laxed beat and
the crooning vocals flow through on a diverse
mix of ballads, acoustic instrumentals and
songs that don’t leave you, even after you
leave them. You could label this trip hop,
earthy electronica and even at a push, folk
(but let’s not), though what this is is clever.
Standout tracks, quite frankly all of them,
but if you have to raise some to a loftier peak,
then the first single The Otherside and the
second track Wonder are the ones to put up
there.
The best way to listen to The Sound Inside
on these autumnal days is to find a sunbeam,
put your face into the light and let the music
do the rest.
Album reviews
Welcome to Paradise
The Sound Inside
by Breaks Co-Op
EMI Records
Starts beautifully, with a track that is more of
an instrumental overture than a song, skip-
ping between three or four different themes
as it slowly builds up to a (slightly cliché,
admittedly) harder, chugging guitar climax.
It takes its time, but never becomes boring. Q
Magazine, quoted on the front of the CD, had
this to say on the album: “Nonchalantly cool
debut...”, and as the first song drew to a close
I was hopeful that this quote was, for once,
telling the truth, and that I was about to hear
a wonder of an album that built on the tension
developed in the first five minutes.
Now I wasn’t exactly disappointed, since
I quite like ‘60s NY rock, but several times
I found myself wondering if the Velvet
Underground had released a new single. I
felt like I’d been deceived by the beauty of the
build up, as the rest of the album then unfold-
ed into - very nicely put together, admittedly
- easy indie rock.
Having said this, it is nice to see the British
influence travelling over the pond. There are
overtones of the English Indie ideal peppered
all through the tracks, and while I was hoping,
perhaps, for something a little more challeng-
ing, there wasn’t a moment during the entire
album when I felt like switching it off.
But strangely this is also one of my main
criticisms of the album as well. The reason I
kept listening is because I was interested in
what they might do next. There is little feeling
of a single band at work. It’s puzzling, since a
quick glance at the sleeve notes reveals that
all songs were written by the same fellow
(one assumes the singer) – except the first
one, tellingly, which seems to have been a
group effort. And yet he doesn’t feel content
with a specific style. This is, I accept, usu-
ally to be applauded, but in this instance it
left me with the feeling I’d just listened to a
compilation album put together by a NY indie
label, showcasing the various signings they
have – all a similar style, but no coherence. If
I haven’t made myself clear, I have the exact
opposite feeling about Radiohead (sorry to
bring it up, and possibly show my age) who
seem to have very different types of song, but
retain an obvious style.
And yet, as I sit here writing this, I have
casually lifted my hand and pressed the play
button on my CD player. I haven’t put in the
CD that was in before, and, despite the fact
that I’m running out of room on my mp3
player, I’m probably going to rip this on as
soon as this piece is finished.
So maybe they’re a victim of the quality of
their first track. If they’d gone straight into
the second, I would probably have happily lis-
tened all the way through, nodding my head
to the lovely retro rhythms. But, as it was,
I spent the time hoping for a little bit more
of that original magic. Perhaps they should
write more as a band…
The Antidote
by Morcheeba
Echo
The café set have many different tastes, and
so it is Morcheeba. With an emphasis on the
vocal performance these songs sound like
they have been taken from a funky musical.
From the first song, Wonders Never Cease,
the sultry voice of Daisy Martey invites you
on a journey. Sounding like a James Bond
theme, Everybody Loves a Loser is a change
from their usual chill-out style. Sometimes
the statement and reply phrasing of the lyr-
ics can become tiresome as in Living Hell,
but this album seduces and has you coming
back for more. The use of brass in Lighten Up
gives a warm lift and the chorus is one of the
most catchy this year.
Some fans of the band will be disappointed
by the change in direction but I think the new
Morcheeba album is well worth a listen.
Free
Music
Do You Like Free Stuff? Want to see your name in Print?
The Music section needs your help. We want people for reviewing
CDs (which you can keep), writing gig reports (for free) and inter-
viewing moody Indie Superstars.
Sounds Good? Email music.felix@imperial.ac.uk for details.
Ambulance LTD
by Ambulance LTD
Tvt

