Sculpture
Alison Lapper Pregnant
by Marc Quinn
Trafalgar Square
Until Spring 2007
abilities, Ken Livingstone said at
the unveiling that Lapper deserved
her place in the square because her
life “is a struggle over much greater
difficulties than the men who are
celebrated here”. Others have inter-
preted the sculpture as a symbol
of the female in society. However,
one critic has already dismissed the
sculpture as “rather ugly”.
Standing alongside the sombre
dark figures of Nelson, Napier,
Havelock and George IV, Alison
Lapper Pregnant is made of striking
white marble, making it look almost
painfully out of place, yet oddly defi-
ant of the history surrounding it.
The contrast of styles between the
natural, smooth and flowing curves
of the body and the harsh, stern and
classical style of the face is a little
bizarre, and is accentuated by the
long neck, making it seem almost
as if it is made of two separate
sculptures.
As a strong female figure in a
showcase of the male domination of
British history, the sculpture is long
overdue. Although Lapper doesn’t
represent a figure of power in politi-
cal history, the strength of will and
defiance of the norm shown in her
A
fter years of standing
empty, the fourth plinth
in Trafalgar Square was
finally filled this month
with a sculpture of disa-
bled artist Alison Lapper. Created
by the British sculptor Marc Quinn,
Alison Lapper Pregnant is one of
two works selected for the plinth,
and is one of the most important
public art commissions in Britain in
recent years.
The statue is carved from Italian
marble, stands at 3.55 metres and
weighs 13 tons. Ms Lapper sat for
Quinn when she was eight months
pregnant, and the artist took 10
months to produce the work, sculpt-
ing from a single piece of marble in
Italy. He hopes that the work will
add femininity to the square.
Heralded by many as inspirational
and a tribute to modern society,
motherhood and overcoming dis-
A woman in Trafalgar Square?
“For me, Alison
Lapper Pregnant is
a monument to the
future possibilities of
the human race, as
well as the resilience
of the human spirit.”
The National Portrait Gallery is the most
wonderful gallery in London. Walking
through its corridors you see iconic
images of anyone and everyone you can
think of, from the earliest paintings of
the British monarchy through to iconic
works of figures from modern society. It
also frequently puts on fantastic shows,
including the upcoming Schweppes
Photographic Portrait Prize 2005, which
starts on 9 November.
The World’s Most Photographed is an
exhibition that leads the viewer through
the much-publicised lives of Queen
Victoria, Gandhi, Hitler, Greta Garbo,
Audrey Hepburn, James Dean, John F
Kennedy, Marilyn Monroe, Elvis Presley
and Muhammad Ali. We see the ways in
which they used and manipulated the
medium of photography in order to cre-
ate the personas by which we know them
best. Each display shows a timeline of
images, from the famous and iconic to
those suppressed for showing the wrong
side of their subject and those simply
forgotten over time.
The exhibition examines the propa-
ganda used by four contrasting political
figures; Queen Victoria, Gandhi, Hitler
and John F Kennedy; in order to ensure
that they were regarded in the best
light possible. The differences are shown
by the growing simplicity of the photo-
graphic style of the images of Gandhi
reflect his increasing political influence
over the repressed classes of India in
the 1930s and 40s. Just as interesting are
the images rejected for being unsuitable,
particularly a comical photo of Hitler in
lederhosen.
The photographs displayed of Greta
Garbo are particularly insightful into a
life surrounded by mystery. Although
a major Hollywood icon, Garbo strictly
controlled her image in the press. After
her withdrawal from the limelight in 1941,
she continued to be followed and photo-
graphed for a public still intrigued by her
secretive lifestyle. In later years she was
stalked by photographer Ted Leyson,
and the display of his slides shows her
aged face still defiant of the camera just
a few days before her death.
Other highlights of the show include
some fabulously romantic shots taken by
Cecil Beaton of Audrey Hepburn during
the filming of My Fair Lady, three pow-
erful shots of Muhammad Ali training
underwater, four photos of Elvis Presley
drinking in a strip-club, and a bizarre
series of photographs of James Dean
climbing in and out of caskets in a funer-
al parlour.
The exhibition was produced in collab-
oration with the BBC, who produced an
accompanying series of documentaries
on the lives of each of the subjects.
Glitz, glamour and iconic
ﬁgures captured on ﬁlm
Arts arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Photograph of Marilyn Monroe, just one of the exhibits of “The World’s Most Potographed”
exhibition at the National Portrait Gallery.
he fourth plinth is ﬁnally unveiled to a somewhat mixed reception
face makes her as deserving of
admiration as those around her.
The plinth was originally designed
for a statue of William IV, but this
was never completed due to a lack
of funds. Since no-one was able to
decide on a permanent fixture, Ken
Livingstone has decided that the
plinth should be used as for an ever-
changing exhibition of artworks as
part of a move to make Trafalgar
Square a cultural focal point of
London. The statue will be on dis-
play until Spring 2007, when it will
be sold off and replaced by Thomas
Schutte’s Hotel for the Birds. White marble statue of the pregneant Alison Lappby by Marc Quinn
Photography Exhibition
The World’s Most Photographed
The National Portrait Gallery
Tickets £4/£2.50
Until 23/10/05
Bert Stern © 1962
12
felix
www.felixonline.co.uk Thursday 29 September 2005

