fashion
Welcome to my column of domestic bliss
where I will introduce you to a range of reci-
pes from the basic yet tasty to the downright
sin-ful. My first year at Imperial introduced
me to some pretty hopeless cooks and I hope
some of these recipes will help them make
it through this year without overloading on
MSG and Saccharine. It’s easy to pick up
ready-made meals from the supermarket
yet they are both pricey and unhealthy and
should only be reserved for emergencies.
Ask any medic about the effect of exces-
sive salt on your blood pressure and they’ll
be happy to tell you negative feedback +
too many acronyms on your timetable= bad
news for your ticker. Occasionally I’ll have
a Phoebe rating (if she’s not too busy with
clarinet practice and gossiping about the lat-
est dolls-house trend) or, failing that, I’ll just
have to rate it myself.
Student basics
Olive oil (for cooking): 1 litre £2.62
Extra virgin olive oil: 500 ml £1.74
Pure vegetable oil: 1 litre £0.43
Coarse sea salt: 500g £0.74
Black pepper mill: 100g £1.59
Mixed herbs: 18g £0.25
Granulated sugar: 750g £0.76
12 Veg or chicken stock cubes: 71g £0.69
Mild chilli powder: 50g £0.89
Mild curry powder: 80g £0.55
Wholegrain mustard: 280g £0.43
White wine vinegar: 350ml £0.73
Mayonnaise: 500ml £0.58
Value plain flour: 1.5kg £0.27
Spaghetti: 2kg £0.85
Penne pasta: 1kg £0.49
Basmati rice: 1kg £0.90
Value chopped tomatoes: 400g £0.17
Bulb of garlic: £0.24
Onion: 1 £0.16
All together this comes to about £15, when
shopping at Tesco, so try to get mum and dad
to pay for it before they drive off. Pick up good
quality reduced meat for the freezer and try
to cook for two or three to make life easier
and share the load.
Tomato sauce for pasta
Today I’m going to start off simple with a
recipe for tomato sauce. Paired with pasta
of any sort it will satisfy even the largest of
appetites. Any unused sauce can be kept in
the fridge for a couple of days and can be
smeared on jacket potatoes or toast with
cheese before grilling to make a pikey pizza.
The recipe is easily adaptable- you can chuck
in olives, some cooked bacon or any herbs
you have. After the onion has browned you
can add chopped mushrooms or peppers
and cook for about 5 mins until soft and then
add the tomatoes. Basically, do whatever you
fancy. Loyd Grossman eat your heart out….
1/2 an onion
1 clove garlic
1 tbsp olive oil
1 tin chopped/ peeled tomatoes
1 portion pasta (spaghetti or penne etc.)
pinch of salt + ground pepper (+pinch of
sugar- optional)
fresh or dried basil or oregano or chilli pow-
der (optional)
dollop of plain yoghurt or cream (optional)
grated cheese (optional)
1. Cut the onion in half from root to tip. Chop
finely, slicing to the root but not through it
and then across in the opposite direction.
Finely chop the garlic clove. Heat the olive oil
over a medium heat and then add the onion
and garlic, stirring so it doesn’t burn. You
want to soften them until the onion is golden
and almost see-through- this should take
about 5 minutes. Meanwhile, put on a pan of
water to boil.
2. When the onion is softened you can add any
extras you want like peppers, mushrooms or
olives and cook them until softened as well
which will take another 5 minutes. Cooked
chicken or ham could also be added. Then
add the tin of tomatoes
3. Season the sauce with salt and pepper and
any herbs like basil, oregano or thyme you
may have (fresh is better), adding chilli if you
fancy it with a bite. A pinch of sugar if you
haven’t added chilli goes down well. Leave
the sauce to simmer for about 10 minutes
while the pasta cooks. At the end of cook-
ing I usually stir in a spoonful of yoghurt or
cream to make it creamier. A dollop of pesto
can also be used to add flavour. Mix sauce
with pasta and serve, saving any spare for
tomorrow’s lunch. Top with grated cheese
(preferably Cathedral City cheddar)for extra
Phoebe points.
felix
Thursday 29 September 2005 www.felixonline.co.uk 18
food
Darlings! You live in South Kensington; King’s
Road is but a hop, skip and jump away and
you dress like a student! For any self respect-
ing fashionista, the student look of ill-fitting
jeans, shabby woolly jumper and puffy eyes
from the night before, is just so passé. I’m
here to make us Imperial Geeks fashionable,
and no, Geek Chic isn’t in (Eugene!).
I will systematically dissect (and that’s “dis-
sect”) the lastest trends into a simple algo-
rithm. All you have to do is follow, et voila,
Imperial Chic!
Pom-poms
beware:
Keep
them to a
minimum
as shown by
Burberry
Prorsum on
the catwalk
in New York.
Alterna-
tively try
a beatnik-
style black
and white
striped scarf
from Top-
shop (£12)
So, to start. All fashionistas know the Autumn
look contains pompoms, stripes and polka
dots. With these key essentials you can mix
and match to make the Victorian, Russian,
Beatnik or Hourglass look which dominated
the catwalk. In my opinion, pompoms are just
so bizarre that wearing them will make you
look like a complete slave to fashion. The key
to being a trend setter is not to wear overtly
hip items, but to wear a fashionable outfit
teamed with the odd piece that’s going to get
you noticed.
My favourite look of this season is inspired by
Edie Sedgwick, Andy Warhol’s muse. He also
seems to have inspired Alexander McQueen
and Christian Dior on the runways. Think
bold black and white stripes, mohair sweat-
ers dresses and black drainpipes, topped with
a baker-boy cap-it’s the Beatnik Look. This
look may appeal to those of you who don’t like
fussy or uber neat. Think tousled hair, with
lashings of eyeliner and smoky eye shadow.
The essence of the Beatnik Look was a rebel-
lion against the pre-war conservatism, so to
look effortless, make the look effortless.
The Hourglass Look is one that will look great
on those with ample bosoms and of course,
the hourglass figure. Polka dot dresses are
going to be a big thing this Autumn, so how
about investing in one for the Freshers’ Ball?
Topshop and Hennes do an affordable range
for those of you who have learnt from the
perils of spending that Student Loan. But for
those of you who haven’t, or have the Bank of
Mum and Dad, Roland Mouret and Alexander
McQueen (the man’s too good!) had gorgeous
outfits at their latest fashion shows. But be
warned, many people are suggest using a
thick leather belt strapped tightly around the
waist to perfect the hourglass look. It looks
vulgar and Marilyn would be turning in her
grave; keep it simple girls. A pair of killer
heels and a simple tight-fitting dress with an
essential great handbag, are all you need.
Giorgio Ar-
mani does the
military look.
Steer clear of
Primark’s mili-
tary jackets: a
consumer fren-
zy has resulted
in buckle
overload. Try
M&S’s new
line (from £30)
Last, but certainly not least is the Russian
Look. It’s also called the Russe and has sev-
eral elements taken from the embroidered
clothing of Slavonic Peasants, the marching
Cossack, the aloofness of a Romanov Tsarina
or mysterious Lara of Dr.Zhivago. Imperial
Russia of yesteryear with its crisp military
lines is contrasted against the traditional
embroidered wool peasant-style inspired
clothing of the Russian Steppes. However,
have you seen the new Tesco’s advert with
Prokofiev playing in the background? Great
advert- shame about the clothes! Personally
I feel that the floral prints and floaty shirts of
the summer were enough Peasant for me, so
I feel that you should be thinking Pre-revolu-
tionary Russia. Let them eat cake!
Fashionable freshers?
Dolly Delany
Fashion editor
Ooooh la la: Roland mouret perfected the
hour-glass look on the autumn catwalk
with wasp- waisted models. Dieting is not
essential but, for those with anything less
than a C-cup, chest- enhancing chicken
fillets are a must.
Back to basics
Hannah Theodorou
Food editor
Phoebe rating:
Time: 20 minutes
Cost: 30p per portion
(Loyd Grossman Tomato
and Basil Sauce £1.60)
Loved it or loathed it?
Email your comments and
suggestions to
food.felix@imperial.ac.uk
food.felix@imperial.ac.uk fashion.felix@imperial.ac.uk

