Sameena Misbahuddin
- President
Welcome to a new year at Impe-
rial College, to the new students
just joining us, those returning
after a refreshing summer break
and to those who have been here
throughout the summer.
Upcoming Events
The ﬁrst week of term sees the usual packed programme
of events in the Union. Pick up a ﬂyer and term calendar
for more info.
Freshers’ Fair (not just for Freshers!!) takes place on
Tuesday 4th Oct. and its your chance to get involved in
Union clubs and societies as well as grabbing freebies!
Union Projects
You’ll know that we’re planning extensive redevelopment
of the Union building, with initial design and consultation
having already been carried out last year. Look out for
more details during the term…..
Disabilities awareness
The Union starts the new term with the launch of its
disabilities awareness campaign. Disabilities is often a
taboo subject, but the campaign is designed to give you
more information about what help is available through the
Union and College. Pick up a leaﬂet or visit the Informa-
tion & Advice Centre for more details.
Council
Got opinions on issues affecting Imperial students? The
Union Council discusses issues such as student accom-
modation, fair-trade policies and much more, through this
we govern the way the Union runs and represents itself
to the College. Why not get involved? The issues dealt
with are key to your experience as an Imperial student.
Elections to the Council will take place in October with
nominations forms out now ! - for more details visit
www.union.ic.ac.uk/council.
More Info
For more info about Union services - from Ents to Wel-
fare advice, from skills training to academic representa-
tion - checkout the Union Handbook (available from the
Union reception and during freshers’ fair) and
www.union.ic.ac.uk. For info about clubs and societies,
checkout the Clubs and Societies “A to Z” Handbook.
The future of the University of London
You may have heard the news that Imperial may be
considering leaving the University of London. In the
coming months, College will be discussing this issue and
it is important that the students views are heard. Watch
upcoming Felix for more information about what this actu-
ally means for students.
Contact
If you want any information or help, pop into the Union
ofﬁces on the ﬁrst ﬂoor of the Union building in Beit
Quad. Sabbatical ofﬁcers are often out of their ofﬁces
working for the students, but to help I will be setting aside
“surgery” hours starting from 10th October - Monday,
Wednesday and Thursdays 12pm-1pm in the Union of-
ﬁces.
Alternatively you can email the Sabbatical team on:
Sameena Misbahuddin - President
president@imperial.ac.uk
Simon Matthews - Deputy President (Clubs and Societies)
dpcs@imperial.ac.uk
Sarah Khatib - Deputy President (Education and Welfare)
dpew@imperial.ac.uk
Tim Aplin - Deputy President (Finance and Services)
dpfs@imperial.ac.uk
Luis Hui - Deputy President (Graduate Students)
dpgs@imperial.ac.uk
Danny McGuinness - ICSMSU President
The delightful Mr Neate has given me the opportunity to have
a little column each week. I better start with an introduction. My
name is Danny and I’m the Medic President (controversial to
be given a column I know). As far as I know, a medic president
hasn’t done this before but I guess my job is to report what’s been
going on in the medic world and as a member of council and the
union executive I can probably throw that in every now and again. There will however
be no mention of donuts for votes.
The Medical School lies pretty dormant over the summer months which has given me
plenty of opportunity to get on with some ‘work’. The college in it’s drive to increase
funds at every available opportunity (some might say to put glass on the front of build-
ings instead of books in libraries and teachers in lecture theatres) has been hiring out
the SAFB on a daily basis to a range of conferences. My personal favourite was weight
watchers day, I felt exceptionally guilty munching on a panini whilst others were promot-
ing the 21st century miracle cure that is slimfast.
A summer of freshers’ fortnight planning is beginning to become a reality with events ﬁ-
nalised and freshers’ signing up like there’s no tomorrow. The fear has kicked in but the
enthusiasm of the new intake leads me to believe it’s going to be a very special year.
Over the course of the next few months I’m looking forward to some good-hearted
ICSM vs IC rivalry and banter, varsity day being one of the undoubted highlights. We’re
all nice people (medics and non-medics) and it’s only supposed to be a bit of a giggle
when we poke fun at each other.
Anyhow, here’s to the next nine months for every part of the union and it’s been a treat
to say hello. Complaints about a medic having a column can be forwarded to the editor.
Take care, Danny. x
The Information and Advice Centre is run by
Imperial College Union and is a free, Impartial
and independent advice service for all imperial
college students.
The Information and Advice Centre can help
with a multitude of problems big or small, it
can also help you if you just need someone
to speak to you or if you would just like some
information.
Areas The Information and Advice Centre
covers include:
Academic Advice - Academic appeals,
Complaints, Withdrawals and help with course
problems and transfers.
Money Advice – Assistance with loan, fees
and grant queries, debt Advice, International
student funding, assistance with applications
to the Hardship fund, Postgraduate funding
information.
Housing Advice – Tenancy agreement check-
ing service, Help getting unfairly held deposits
back, assistance on getting your landlord to
carry out repairs, illegal evictions and harass-
ment, information about your general housing
rights.
International student issues – How to get a
national insurance number, International stu-
dents’ funding, Local and general information
for international students.
Employment Rights Advice – National Insur-
ance, Tax Refunds, national minimum wage,
holiday and break entitlement.
Consumer Rights Advice – Help with your
consumer rights, Internet buying, Illegal trad-
ers.
Personal Safety – Tips and advice on personal
safety, Free but limited supply of attack alarms
and leaﬂets & publications that can help you.
Sexual Health – The advice service has a wide
range of leaﬂets on sexual health and has a list
of local sexual health clinics; the centre also
has a limited supply of condoms that are free
for students of Imperial.
Legal Issues – Referral to local Legal centres.
The Information and Advice Centre also advo-
cates for students in different situations, this
includes liasing with college on students’ behalf
and writing letters on behalf of students.
If you have any problems during your time here
whether with the college or externally, don’t let
your concern turn into a crisis, Make the Infor-
mation and Advice Centre your ﬁrst port of call
it is professionally run by our Student Adviser
Nigel Cooke and can really help you to solve
any problem.
The Information and Advice Centre is located
in the East Wing Basement of Beit Quad and
works on a drop in or appointment basis
If you wish to contact us please feel free:
Opening hours: 10am-6pm Monday - Friday
Drop in/Appointment
Phone: 020 7594 8067
E-Mail: advice@imperial.ac.uk
Don’t let your concern turn into a crisis...
What’s happening at the ICSMSU?
Imperial College Union, Beit Quadrangle, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB. T
: 020 7594 8060 www.union.imperial.ac.uk
Welcome...

