Our parents had The Beatles, our grandpar-
ents had WWII. We have Neighbours!
The summer holidays have not stemmed the
create juices down Australia way! How classic
was it when Izzy was all set to flee Erinsbor-
ough until Karl told her Darcy had amnesia.
But, then just her luck he recovers! What does
she do? She asks Paul Robinson if he knows any
good hitman.
Paul, still on good form despite having been
tricked into having his leg amputated, sets her
up with a napkin sales man!
But, one should not talk Neighbours all day
long, especially to you new freshers who might
start thinking I’m some sort of freak. The sum-
mer saw the tragic death of Richard Whiteley
aged 61. Loveable Whiteley was the host of
another student TV staple, Countdown. I’ve
personally spent countless hours failing to solve
the count down conundrum, while I should have
been revising for exams.
Whiteley will forever have a place in my heart
with his fantastic collection of truly hideous ties.
Normally such pathetic gags would get on my
tits, but Whiteley’s demeanour made him virtu-
ally impossible not like. I challenge you to find
me someone who really didn’t like Whiteley.
When Whiteley died I imagined that it would
be the end of Countdown, this surely was a case
of the star being bigger than the show. This
Morning struggled on with out Richard & Judy,
I doubt Countdown can do the same.
Deadlines
Its currently 4.50am the deadline for submitting
the completed Felix to the printers is less than
7 hours away and there’s a lot left to do. Why is
it that I’m always up all night the day before a
deadline. This reminds me of the my nightmare
BSc research project. I stayed up for 51 hours
straight and then went straight out to buy a £300
suit for halls going down dinner, got hideously
drunk, threw up on it and allowed compromis-
ing photos to be taken. The one to the left is the
only one fit to print.
Thank You
I would never have got Felix to this state with
out all the help I’ve had, please give yourselves
a pat on the back. Special thanks to Felix’s
new Deputy Editor, Alexander Antonov who
is also staying up all night. But, he has gone
one further – he’s staying up all night in Paris!
Thanks also to Dave Edwards, last year’s editor.
Dave really brought Felix around last year by
changing to this format. I’m only just starting to
realise quite how much effort Dave put into Fe-
lix and I hope I will be able to match his sterling
performance.
Hopefully next week’s Felix won’t make me
quite as physically ill as this one. You can help,
please contribute to your paper, Felix will better
represent Imperial of more of us create it.
I
’d like to firstly welcome all the new fresh-
ers to Imperial College, have a great next
few years! Secondly I’d like to say hello
to all the second , third and fourth years,
especially anyone who was unfortunate
enough to know me! I am now no longer at Impe-
rial, which is a great shame because the three
years I spent there were the best of my life. I
hope the years you all spend there will be just as
good. I also hope I can help you all enjoy them as
much as I did.
I intend to try and give you useful tips for Uni
and also give you a view of what world is like
afterwards, (it is very different). Over the year I
intend to bring you such essential topics as 'The
Bike Gangs of Cambridge’, ‘Why Accountants
are heroes' and 'Why we DO need a Neighbours
Omnibus!'. First, however, a bit about me. While
at Imperial I read biology for three years and
now I work for Deloitte, Touche and Tohmatsu (I
guess in the interest of advertising standards I
must mention that there are other financial serv-
ices firms) training to be a chartered accountant.
That brings me nicely to my first point; it doesn't
matter too much what degree you do you can still
pretty much work in any sector you like. Okay,
so you can't really become a doctor unless you
do medicine (and I still wouldn't trust some of
the medics at Imperial) and you are unlike to be
employed to be a construction engineer if you do
chemistry but for the most part a degree simply
proves you have a brain, it shows to employers
that they can train you to be an asset to them.
Anyway, I wouldn't worry about all that too
much, after all for you freshers the day you have
to get a job is at least three years away, but if
you feel like you don't know what you want to do
right now, don't worry! You can use most degrees
for pretty much anything. Of course if you think
that you want to do something particular and it
means changing degrees then go for it, there's no
point doing something for three years that you
don't want to do and you don't enjoy!
That brings me on to my second point, enjoy
uni! People criticise Imperial; you might see the
Felix editor wearing a T-shirt reading 'Gimpe-
rial' (he is very proud of that!), and it is true to a
degree (no pun intended). Imperial does have a
lot of geeks and also a lot of boys. For this reason
a lot of people say that the union sucks and they
all go out in London and to other unions. It wasn't
always this way, in my first year (god, I sound
old) the union was brilliant, we went there every
Wednesday and nearly every Friday. Go to other
places as well, London is a wonderful place and
has all sorts of clubs and pubs but remember, if
Imperial's own students don't go to their Union
then it will be crap and empty and if they do go it
will be packed and brilliant.
In terms of girls, yes Imperial is 66% boys but
some subjects aren't. Biology and medicine are
about 50/50 and all of them hang out in SAF (so
you have them trapped in one place!) Looking
back now, I wish I had made better friends with
more medics; the rivalry that exists between the
college and the medics simply stops the rest of
the college having access to some very attractive
and pleasant girls! Apart from medics, certain
clubs and societies have lots of girls, riding club
and dancesport spring to mind. Girls, you have
nothing to worry about; guys are everywhere, if
you go to the Union you won't even have to try
and yes, there are some hot guys in Imperial
(even though I've left).
Uni is not just a place to study, especially in
the first year. I did two weeks very bad revision
before my first year exams and I got three C's
and a D and I was pleased! I passed and, frankly,
in Biology the first year means nothing, it's worth
5%! It varies for other degrees but never will
it be worth more than about 10% so enjoy your
first year; go out, have fun, turn up hungover
for lectures, steal traffic cones and signs, go to
Maroush at four in the morning, make those 24
hour staff at Sainsbury's earn their pay and, most
importantly, make good friends, they will stay
with you for life!
I
slam has become a sensitive subject.
That’s rather unfortunate, because any
celebrity who claims an affiliation with the
religion will always be seen as a Muslim
first and a human being second. And
judged accordingly, usually by hardcore critics,
who probably spend their spare time nitpicking
petty details in the Qu’ran.
No sooner had tennis star Sania Mirza become
the first Indian woman to enter the world top 50,
the Sunni Ulema Board, an unfamiliar “Muslim”
organisation in India, released a religious diktat
demanding that she cover up during matches.
Apparently, her skirts and T-shirts are "un-Is-
lamic" and "corrupting".
I have to stress that these are random Muslim
clerics, who nobody’s ever heard of before. I’m
not sure if they just wanted some publicity or are,
indeed, just stupid.
Rather than praising her achievements,
they’ve been chastising her for not dressing
modestly. Of course, Muslim women are known
for their conservative dress sense, and whether
or not they need veiling is a debate I leave for
Islamic Soc.
What worries me about the Sunni Ulema
Board is that they don’t appear to know the
meaning of context. Context is the defining line
between an extremist and a rational human
being.
She’s a tennis player, not a glamour model.
She’s wearing what she feels comfortable playing
in – and that’s her prerogative. It’s pure over-
reaction, and for people who think women should
be protected from manly gazes, they went totally
the wrong way about it. All this media attention
over what Sania Mirza wears – it does nothing
but from draw men to her more. Now they’ll be
looking at bits they never even noticed before.
Clever. Real clever.
The majority of men, shock, horror, really did
just watch Miss Mirza for the tennis before all of
this hoo-hah.
My second issue is their lack of faith in their
own religion. So she isn't following her religion
to the letter, who does? Just because one person
refuses to abide by the rules, doesn’t mean
everyone else will. Are they really convinced that
Islam is so weak that it’ll crumble because of
girl?
When those four boys came to London and
blew up our transport system, everyone was ada-
mant that we should not consider them Muslim,
for their actions were not indicative of Islam as a
religion.
So why is Sania Mirza treated as though she’s
the sole symbol of Islam? She’s merely one girl
wearing a skirt. It doesn’t mean that the world
will now view Muslim women as evil exhibition-
ists. If anything, she’ll be idolised for her achieve-
ments. She’ll attain a support that, sadly, her own
community failed to give her.
The third strike by the “board” was to say that
she’s corrupting the “innocent” minds of young
women. That, is a disgustingly presumptuous
statement about all women. It implicitly states
that women are sheep. "Oh dear, let me rip off my
veil and run around in my birthday suit, inviting
illicit sex, because that tennis player is showing
her legs."
Furthermore, these so called “men of faith”
have absolutely no confidence in the women of
their society. I'll let you all in on a little secret:
women are not robots; we’re perfectly capable of
thinking for ourselves.
I grew up on a road full of prostitutes, but that
never meant that I wanted to be one. People who
are predisposed to brainwashing will get brain-
washed – don’t blame the poor catalyst. Those
who aren't? They watch and learn and make up
their own minds. It's called being an individual.
In the big, bad world
Skirts and T-shirts are ‘un-Islamic’?
Iain Heaton
he
Neighbours
generation
Anushri Patel
22
felix
www.felixonline.co.uk Thursday 29 September 2005
‘Good night’

