science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
W
hat makes us human?
Our ability to form
complex social struc-
tures? Our use of lan-
guage? Our concept
of self? It is undeniable that, of the
plethora of species that inhabit the
Earth, humans are unique.
While similarities with our closest
relative, the chimpanzee, are easy
to spot, our furry friends are still
very much animals and not peo-
ple. So the recent publication of the
draft sequence of the chimpanzee
genome stands to teach us much not
only about our closest evolutionary
relative, but also about ourselves
and what it is that makes us who
we are.
Yet DNA sequencing is just the
start of the story. You can think of
the chimp genome as being a lot
like a new textbook; it needs to be
read before anything can be learnt
from it. The way in which scientists
plan to ‘read’ the 2.8 billion pairs of
DNA letters that make up the chimp
blueprint is to compare it with the
human genome sequence published
a few years ago. The aim is to gather
information that will tell us about the
important differences between these
two species. So, while a quick flick
through the genome has allowed
scientists to glean a brief overview
What makes us human?
of how the two genomes differ, there
is still a lot of work to be done.
Just how similar our DNA is to
that of a chimp may come as a sur-
prise to many when you look at just
how much we vary on the outside.
Consider our large cranial capacity,
the fact that we walk on two legs,
and our advanced brain develop-
ment allowing the use of complex
language. Plus it is rare to find a
human with quite as much hair as
a chimp! So when you consider the
somewhat clichéd fact that only 1.2%
of our DNA sequence actually differs
from that of our great ape cousin, it
becomes obvious that this small per-
centage of changes must have had a
big impact on our evolution.
This importance of a small sub-
set of genes in our human-ness
has in fact been known for some
time following the observation that
humans share 88% of our genes
with rodents and 60% with chickens,
despite being little like either spe-
cies. Because of the fairly recent
divergence of humans and chimpan-
zees from their last common ances-
tor, we would expect the genomes
of the two species to be much more
similar than that seen with previ-
ously sequenced genomes such as
that of the rat as, in an evolutionary
scheme of things, there hasn’t been
enough time for a huge number
of changes to take place between
humans and chimps. So when scien-
tists compare the sequences, they
are not focusing on those regions
that are the same, but rather on the
differences.
The real challenge is in determin-
ing which differences in our DNA
are actually responsible for making
humans distinct from apes. Although
Kathryn Lougheed ponders whether the publication of the chimp genome brings us closer to the answer
only 1.2% of the genome differs
between chimps and humans, when
you consider that there are around
3 billion nucleotides in a genome,
it works out that there are tens of
millions of differences between the
two species. Some of the changes
will simply be silent mutations that
have occurred during the 5 million
or so years since our evolution took
a different route to that of the chimp
Felix Science is looking for regular and occasional contributors.
If you are interested in writing about science, get in touch by
e-mailing science.felix@ic.ac.uk or come and visit us at Freshers’
Fair. We also produce a termly magazine, I, Science, which has
been shortlisted for this year’s Guardian Student Media Awards.
science
and won’t actually have any effect on
us. It is the mutations that change
the DNA code in such a way that the
encoded protein is altered that are of
interest to scientists. Natural selec-
tion has chosen mutations based on
the advantage they offer over the
original. The combined effects of all
of these mutations over the millen-
nia have made us as we are today. A
significant number of protein chang-
ing mutations appear to be clustered
in genes involved in reproduction
and immunity; giving a good start-
ing point for further investigation of
what makes us human.
Discovering exactly how the evo-
lution of humans has diverged from
that of our closest cousins is a big
task that will be greatly helped by the
upcoming publication of the genome
sequence from a number of other
primates, such as the orang-utan.
Comparing the genome sequences
of several species will allow evo-
lutionary biologists to determine
which changes are unique to Man
and may therefore play a role in
making us human. Hopefully, as well
as gathering a better understand-
ing of Human evolution, the chimp
sequence might help us understand
diseases, such as Aids, Malaria and
Alzheimer’s, which affect people but
not great apes.
98.8% human? Simian scientists in search of the human genome
6
felix
www.felixonline.co.uk Thursday 29 September 2005

