5th October, 1970 F E L I X Page Seven
Q u o V a d i s
or the
invisible
church
The problem most urgently facing people undergoing a
radical change, such as that from school to university, is
what group of people to identify with in their new situation.
The pressure to conform is enormous. The search for a suit-
able group is of paramount importance.
Within this context a hundred different student organisa-
tions clamour for attention during the mad afternoon of
Freshers' Day; and coninue to do so through badly-duplicated
circulars or over-size posters for the next few weeks. In the
midst of this a fresh-faced naive-looking representative of
one of the Christian societies may invite you, rather coyly,
to some relgious event; to a lunchtime meeting, or church
on Sunday. You refuse, and why not. Church is something
that may, or may not, have happened at home, and is very
definitely middle-aged, middle-class, and irrelevant. You're
right. It is—nearly always.
However, because you've come to Imperial College, you
are now part of an experiment about what the church today
can be.
You may still be encountered by the fresh-faced naive-
looking representative ritualistically exhorting you to go to
church, but that is because we have not got rid of all our
traditions yet. No-one really expects to recruit a church-full
of converts at a Freshers Day stall. The representative may
not be quite so fresh-faced or naive-looking either. Some of
the people in the church at Imperial are left-wing radicals,
and others, with whom they uneasily rub shoulders, are
right-minded rugby club members.
The reason that people are not concerned about your
going to church is that there is no church to go to. The real
life of the church takes place in departments and halls of
residence where people are. Every week several hundred
people meet in small groups on different days and in differ-
ent places to discuss, to plan action, to share a meal together,
and, almost always, to celebrate holy communion. This is
the church in Imperial College, or most of it. There are still
denominational groups, and there is also a rather separatist
Christian Union, but their members often join in these hall
and department groups.
This experiment about what the church is all about was
started, rather unknowingly, by the Church of England.
Twelve years ago they appointed Ivor Smith-Cameron.-as-
full-time chaplain to the colleges in West London, and it is
he who has been largely responsible for these developments.
Bcause he is an Anglican minister some people still label
these activities 'Anglican Chaplaincy' but few people re-
gard them as exclusively Anglican or feel the name is very
relevant.
The important thing is that it is the church in action. To
be sure, there is enormous confusion sometimes about what
the action should be, and equal confusion about what the
church is. But it doesn't stop people thinking and acting.
Over 200 people pray and worship in small groups every
week, and a lot of social action is taken. Last year £1000
was collected to send to a member of the church now working
in a leprasorium in India. Many people help run youth clubs,
care for vagrants in the East End, organise work-parties to
decorate old people's rooms, and so on. There are also those
who ponder the usefulness of such ameliorative measures
and wonder if greater political involvement is not called for.
There was a course run last year when this was discussed.
People also learn and discuss theology, and discover that
some of it is more relevant than they thought.
If any of this interests you, you don't have to do anything
about it. Certainly there is a eucharist held every Sunday
in College Block where people from all the groups worship
communally, but you do not have to search for this. You
are bound to meet someone who belongs to the invisible
church.
A R T H U R F R A N C I S
C h e c k s ' * a n d C h e q u e s
With an increasing number of outsiders illegally using the
College bars, particularly Southside, precautions are to be
tightened up to ensure that only those entitled to use the
bar are doing so.
I.C.U. Deputy President Tony Kirkham has threatened
to hold card checks to ensure that the law is being complied
with. The list of people entitled to use the bars is given in
the Union Blue Book.
Former students may only use the bar if they are Life
Members of the Union. The fee for this is £3, and applica-
tion forms are available from Janet Hughes in the Union
Office.
After several incidents last year when cheques cashed
in Southside bar were found to be distinctly rubbery, the
arrangements for cashing cheques in the bars have been
tightened up. Mr. Mooney has requested the barmen only
to cash cheques which are presented along with a b ,ank card.
Contrary to all expecta-
tions this year's Scout and
Guide Club summer expedi-
tion went not to Iceland, but
to Austria. The reason was
an Icelandic general strike.
The area hastily chosen for a
visit is called the StUkai
Alps and lies south of Inns-
bruck.
Transport consisted of a
hired Landrover .and a yel-
low Thames van, better
known as the "Passion
Wagon". The journey down
was uneventful except when
the passion wagon's gear-
box jammed more solidly
than usual. However, with a
little persuasion—taking all
day—this was cured.
Although the site of the
base camp, on the bank of
ie Ruetzbach river, was
found by accident, it
appeared to be well known
to many Germans, and,
more important, was free.
From this base camp oper-
ated in groups of four or
five.
One group, led by Mike
Garrett, set off for a three
day visit to Sulzenau Hutte.
This eventually turned out
to be a nine day stay, during
which time they climbed
four peaks.
The first day at the hut
was spent quietly climbing
Trogler (9520 feet). The
view from the top convinced
them that the area had far
more climbing to offer than
anyone had anticipated.
Consequently everyone else
climbed to the hut two
Cricket
Club
The college cricket club
runs at least three eleven's,
catering for all standards,
those who are already ex-
perienced players and those
who are willing to learn.
Last year the lst eleven had
a successful season, winning
the U.L.U. colleges knock-
out cup. The second and
third elevens did not have
as much success, but they did
at least enjoy their cricket.
In the summer term
games are played on Satur-
days and Wednesdays. Win-
ter nets are available
(mainly for freshers) every
Sunday during the first two
terms when members can
benefit from the professional
coaching available. The sea-
son is rounded off with a* ten
day tour of Devon immedi-
ately after the summer term.
On the tour an excellent time
is had by all both on and off
the field.
Anyone interested should
contact the U.C. cricket club
today, or give their names
to Russ Smith (via Maths
letter rack) or Chris Potter
(Chemistry).
Scout and Guides
summer expedition
days later. Their second day|
was spent climbing Wilder
Freiger (11,250 feet). A n
early start of three thirty in
the morning was necessary
as most of the climb was up
a glacier, the surface of
which melted and became
difficult to cross in the sun.
As it was the start was late
and the climb took nearly
seven hours, twice as long
as they expected.
On the same day those at
base camp had climbed
5000 feet to the top of
Greit Spitze. The climb was
easy, up grass covered
slopes. The route down.
however, was chosen for ex-
citement; Mike Gibson
scared everyone stiff when
he slipped two feet from the
edge of a 200 feet vertical
drop.
Unfortunately, the weath-
er now changed from sun-
shine to cloud and rain. Two
attempts at the Zuckerhutl
were called off but both
Maierspitze and Trogler
were climbed. The day we
had decided to return to
base Mike Garratt's group
conquered the Zuckerhutl
(11500 feet), the highest
peak in the area.
One group of five decided
to go on a hike for the re-
maining four days. They
were given a lift as far as
Matrei, and from there
walked up a side valley. The
first night was spent camped
in a military exercise area
and on the second day they
tramped through the middle
of an army camp—nobody
seemed to mind.
Another group, the Gib-
son — van Schalkwyk cir-
cus—climbed to Tribulaun
Hutte. The idea was to climb
peaks requiring rock climb-
ing skill. Unfortunately a
combination of bad weath-
er, verglassed rock and
rockfalls prevented them
from reaching their main
objective. A l l the same, four
subsidiary peaks were con-
quered during their four day
stay.
Something to applaud this time. Britain's most impressive demon-
stration of books for students. Over 120,000 books always in stock.
THE STUDENTS BOOKSHOP IS AT
CLAUDE GILL BOOKS LTD
481 Oxford Street, London, W.1.
One minute from Marble Arch near Selfridges.
Q. How to get there?
A. Tube: Central Line to Marble Arch or Bond Street.
Buses: 2, 6, 7, 8,12,13,15,26, 30, 55,
60,73, 74, 88,113,137, 500, 505.
Open MONDAY-SATURDAY
9.00 a.m.- 5.30 p.m.
late Thursday
to 7 p.m.
III ulta

