Page 4 FELIX 9th October, 1969
F E L I X
Graft in Hall Selection?
An editorial on the Halls of Residence, and the selection
of people for places might seem rather premature at this
early stage of the session, especially in view of the fact that
those who obtained places for this session have only just
moved in. There are, however, many disturbing reports from
people known to FELIX about the methods of selection last
year in particular Halls. Coupled with this there are other
reasons important enough to call for a working party to be
set up to investigate Hail selection and to gather a concensus
of student opinion on the subject of those sections in the Hall
of Residence dealing with who is allowed into Hall and for
how long.
Firstly, two mistakes known to FELIX which confirm
that tar from being lair and democratic, the selection system
favours those who are on friendlytermswith the committee.
In thefirstcase two of a selection committee of three actively
disliked a particular reapphcant and despite the fact that
on paper alone he was worthy of a place (even according
to tne two selectors who marked him down) he was not
given one solely because of the antagonistic attitude of these
two selectors. A l t h o u g h this is a case of only one individual
it surely suggests the possibility that personalities have a
greater influence in election (or non-selection) than is desir-
able if the system is to be fair to every applicant.
My second report involves a number of people and is much
more disquieting. In the Hall in question the committee had
selected all the applicants who obviously deserved a place
in Hall, but were left with a number of rooms to fill. One
would have thought that if the credentials of all the remain-
ing applicants were so identical (which in itself is hard to
believe) a method fairer than that employed could have
devised. What happened was that the selection committee
picked out all those applicants known personally to them-
selves!
There are also more general aspects which suggest that the
selection system is not what it should be. According to many
people wardens places are being abused if they are given to
a person to allow him a third year in Hall for reasons other
than medical. But wardenstendtoreward work in Hall with
another years residence, irrespective of the number of years
previously spent in Hall. The point that needs stating here is
that any person who spends three years in Hall is effectively
removing the possibility of two other people spending a year
in Hall. And if the chairman of the previous years Hall
committee is to be given a third year in Hall then this too
should surely be included in the list of Union officials who
are allowed an automatic place.
The Halls of Residence Handbook, besides listing those
are given the option of an automatic place, also divides
applicants into sections — undergraduate, postgraduate and
overseas student. The chance of an applicant gaining a
place in Hall depends on which category he falls into. The
only time a percentage of the total places allocated to
applicants has been questioned was last session, when the
college authorities sought to double the number of freshers
in Hall. This move caught the Student Residence Officer with
no real idea as to what the student body thought about the
subject; and it was only the combined opinion of the wardens
who stopped the move going through.
Neither during or since this episode has any attempt been
made by a Student Residence Officer to obtain the opinion
of the student body on how many freshers are desirable in
Hall. If the authorities were to put forward the same demand
again, this time armed with dozens of letters from head-
masters stating that a place in Hall influences choice of uni-
versity, the Union would be in no position to either support
or oppose it, for it has no real knowledge of student opinion
on the subject.
The only way to investigate any charges of unfairness in
the selection of residents for Hall, and to determine the per-
centages of places allocated to the specified groups which are
acceptable to the student body is for the Union to set up a
working party into Hall selection procedure, and the alloca-
tion of places)—in Hall. Only then could a person refused a
place in Hall be sure that it was on merit that his application
was judged, and not by the people he knew, or the per-
sonality he projected.
* FELIX, t
J THE NEWSPAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE UNION$
* Phone 01-589-2963. (Internal Phone 2881) *
J EDITOR: Malcolm Williamson. *
* Assistant Eds.: Ian Carr *
J Tony Kirkham -
f
c
J News Editor: David Chant *
X- Features Editor: Vacancy £
J Photographic Editor: Simon Hoyle -
K
jf Business Manager: Ian Quarrinton £
* Circulation Manager: Roger Lindsay +
>
(
- With: Harry Fairbrother, John Bowman, Colcutt, Piers i
* -Corbyn, John Rogers, Simon's mate Andrew. J
Piers' Piece
Today marks the first Union meeting of the year, in Mech.
Eng. 220 at 1 p.m. Union policy is made at Union meetings,
so since a lot of policies must be decided this year, it is
important that you come to the Union meetings.
The main matters to be discussed at the first U G M
(short for Union General Meeting) are: the lodgings situa-
tion, double discipline, IC's five year plan, and representation
on the higher college committees. Here follow a few words
on each.
Lodgings
By now you know quite a bit about the development of
ICU's lodgings bureau. It was set up with the generous
help of the College in response to the lodgings crisis which
arose from moves to combat the racially discriminatory
attitude of the University of London lodgings bureau. Some
students may feel, especially after receiving an undiplomatic
letter from Mrs. Tabart, the U L lodgings officer, that it
would be better to ignore racism and make the obtaining
of accommodation easier.
I do not agree with this. Racism must be fought and
defeated; it will not be defeated without hardship. We cannot
ignore the situation and wish it away — it will not go away
by itself; if ignored by us and left to the manipulations
of certain men and certain newspapers racism will increase;
the time to fight is now. The University of London is cer-
tainly not the place for racism — hence our efforts and
hardships.
One thing we have learned from the recent developments
is that the operators of the U L lodgings bureau do not
seem to have the right attitudes, and backlash might develop.
The only solution to the present situation seems to be to
do an increasing amount of lodgings work ourselves. It might
be possible to employ a lodgings officer for IC and the
rest of USK in a similar way to Chelsea College; this will
be discussed at the UGM.
Representation
In response to the Rector's letter, copies of which you may
have seen around, it will be proposed that ICU asks again for
mandatable representation on the Board of Studies, GoB, and
F&E, this representation being consistent with the idea that
the College should be an academic participating community.
It will be suggested that there be 5 representatives on the
BoSt (eg the President, the IC Academic officer and the three
constituent college academic officers). As part of this motion
the idea of the Imperial College Representative Council will
be officially put forward. You can read about this in the
handbook or in last year's election propaganda, copies of
which can be obtained from the Union Office.
Double Discipline
A proper probing and consideration of principles always
seems to reveal that arguments against the Union's policy
of no double discipline, although superficially appearing
valid to some people, have no justification whatsoever.
Education is a right; not a privilege, hence it follows that
there is no reason why students who are exercising their
rights to education should have any non-academic discip-
linary powers imposed upon them which overlap and add
to the law of the land; students are people! The Rector
has agreed to come to the first U G M at the request of the
Union, to explain his opposition to the Union's policy.
Five Year Plan
In response to the Rector's request for student views on
the development of IC in the next quinquennium (these views
to be presented to the UGC by February 1970 with outlines
by this December), IC Council has set up a working party.
At today's UGM the suggested areas for discussion must be
agreed, and further students elected to this working party.
One of the most important aspects of the working party
is that concerne with education — considering how IC's
educational structure must be changed to meet the many
criticisms levelled against it, for example its super specialisa-
tion, non-participation, non-critical uncreativeness, etc. This
group should have some suggestions before the Board of
Studies meeting on October 29.
The quinquennial plan is very important, so if you have
any ideas bring them along to any meeting of the working
party.
W e hope you like
the new
IMPERIAL C O L L E G E
B O O K S H O P
. . . . . we do !
Other Matters
Some of the other importat issues to come up soon are:
A sabbatical year for me! What a good idea! Investigations
of many other Colleges on the usefulness of this will soon be
completed.
There will soon be discussion on whether or not students
—or rather, how the students—can have a say over the choice
of special members of staff who do work of very direct
relevance to the student body.
Halls and Student House rules reform is something else
which needs overall thinking about.
How the Union runs
The Union, as a democratic body, allows and encourages
all members to question and give any ideas to any Council
member or Union official, and to attend (as observers) any
meeting of ICU Council or any of the numerous sub-com-
mittees and working parties. The dates for meetings will
appear on the Council notice boards in the Union, Southside,
and College Block.
In the Union Office there is always waiting for your
inspection a trayful of matters soon to be dealt with, and a
"meetings with the Rector" record book. For any general
matters consult the 6 floor repsaon Council; they are there
to represent you. These six are: Les Ebdon (Chem PG), Dave
Wield (Chem Eng PG), Phil Poyser (Chem PG), Chris Slee
(Aero 2), Clive Robinson (Metall 3), and Christine Holland
(Chem Eng PG).
UNIVERSITIES
FOR THE 1970's
This important weekly series of feature
articles discusses the vital issues:
Education for What ? How Many Students ? How
do Universities Differ? Learning and Teaching
Methods. Student Participation. Authority and
Discipline in the Campus. The Open University.
Levelling Up or Levelling Down in Higher
Education?
FRJOM 17 OCTOBER IN THE
NEW STATESMAN
From all good newsagents every Friday, is 6d,
or by subscription at 78s a year (39s for 6 months)
STUDENT CONCESSION Students can get the
N E W S T A T E S M A N for only 52s a year (26s for 6 months)
— one third below full rate. Use the coupon below.
T o N E W S T A T E S M A N , Great Turnstile, London W C i
(Delete as applicable and use block lettersplease)
Please enter my subscription to the N E W S T A T E S M A N
for 52/26 weeks at full/student rate. I enclose 78S/39S
(students 52S/26S)
NAME ...
ADDRESS
STUDENTS please complete: COLLEGE
COURSE FINAL YEAR

