Union Page
imperialcollegeunion.org
Friday 23 February
Only a few days left
Beat the stress
Candidates Revealed
Support the strike
Come meet the candidates in The Leadership Elections at a special
event to kick off voting on Friday 2 March. Candidates will be revealed
in the foyer of Imperial College Business School at 12:30. Voting also
begins 2 March and continues until Friday 9 March.
There are only a few days left to nominate yourself or nudge someone
for a role. Nominations close 23:59, Sunday 25 February. Candidates
for full time positions will also face off in a debate at the start of voting.
See the full schedule, stand for a position or nudge someone at
imperialcollegeunion.org/elections.
Imperial College Union continues to stand with staff in the battle to protect
their pensions. The University and College Union has begun strike action to
protest changes to their pension scheme. Here’s how to show support:
Picketing: join staff at College entrances from 7:30 every day of strike action.
Write to Provost: Union President, Chippy, has already written to Provost,
James Stirling, on behalf of the Union to express solidarity with staff. Help pile
on the pressure by dropping him an email urging compromise.
Talk to friends:Talk to others about the reason for the strike and how to help.
For more, go to imperialcollegeunion.org/standwithstaff
Free massages, mindfulness meditation sessions, games and
giveaways? It must be time for Under Pressure 2018! The stress
busting campaign is back next week to help us cope with the pressures
of university life.
From Monday 26 February - Friday 2 March, the Union will be running
activities to help everyone relax or find strategies to cope. Find us in
the JCR at South Kensington Campus everyday 12:00 -14:00, or at any
of the other sessions being run throughout the week.
For a list of all the activities, and for other resources to help you cope,
visit imperialcollegeunion.org/under-pressure.
The deadline for booking your VarsityFest ticket is fast approaching.You
will not be able to buy a ticket after 10:00, Monday 26 February. This
is one of the biggest events in the calendar so you don’t want to miss
out!
Imperial Medics go head to head with Imperial College London in 14
sports over several days of competition, culminating in the big event on
Saturday 3 March at Heston.
Tickets include transportation, t-shirt, and entry to the afterparty. Book
now at imperialcollegeunion.org/varsityfest.

