LCLUBS
SF SOC
Who's at IC?
The Doctor climbed out from beneath the
Tardis' console and peered into the rear
scanner screen. They were still there — a
vast hoard of lavishly beweaponed Liberoid
collection cruisers. 'Lets see what they make
of this then', he thought as he reversed the
polarity of the neutron flow in the temporal
stability matrix disconmogrifier. He felt
reality fade out for a moment and then he
was back in the Tardis again. Another glance
at the scanner — no they were still there.
'Hmmm! Their time distort drive seems
highly advanced. Perhaps they've been
reading some of their books.
He cast his mind back to the event that
had caused his current predicament. It was
1985, Earth, London, Imperial College
Science Fiction society, and he had
borrowed a book. Then, back at UNIT
headquarters, the Tardis had thrown a fit
and plunged him into the future. There he
discovered this fleet following him and
realised the full horror of what had
happened. The gnomes of IC had finally
taken over the world. Aided by their newly
acquired scienfitic knowledge they leapt
ahead in technology and, after a few hundred
years, decided to check up on past
offenders. Fleets of specifically engineered
ships scoured the universe seeking all those
who had broken standing orders— the
publicity violators, those who were not
discrete or unavoidable, but worst of all were
the surrogate librarians; genetically
engineered to locate, at five spaces, an
overdue book and immediately home in onto
its target. Due to an unfortunate time
paradox, the doctor had only had the book
for five hours, but according to the librarians'
frame of reference, it was 10,000 years
overdue. Now they were coming, forcing
their way through the spacetime continuum,
to repossess the book and, worse still, to
collect the fine.
There was one hope left, a slim one, a
desperate one. He set the co-ordinators on
the console and, hoping beyond hope that
the Tardis, just once, would do what it was
told, pressed the button marked 'go'.
Seconds later the Tardis materialised.
'Not bad,' thought the Doctor, as he checked
his position; 'almost right'. He opened the
(door and stepped out into...pitch dark.
'What's happened now? I bet the bloody
thing's broken again', he thought. But then
light appeared in front of him, gradually
resolving itself into a picture. 'Oooh Goody,'
thought the Doctor, 'it worked. And it's one
of my favourites'. The white screen before
him read EXCALIBUR. He had made it to
the SF soc film on February 5 — Excalibur
directed by John Boorman, and could now
warn himself not to borrow the book. But
wait, that would mean he wouldn't get
chased by the librarians so he wouldn't have
to come back and warn himself which meant
he would borrow the book and so would
get....
Come along to the SF Soc film Excalibur
on Tuesday Feb 5 — a fantastic film and you
never know who might drop in.
PS. if you've got any books overdue from
our library bring them back to a library
meeting any Thursday lunchtime in The
Green Committee room in The Union
Building. We don't want to have to send the
surrogate librarian out to get you...we'd have
to take over the world first.
CIV ENG SOC
More Boring
There are several events we are organising
for this term, all of which promise to be
successful. The first event will be the site visit
to the Humber Bridge on Wednesday 13
February organised by Vernon Gaskell our
site visit rep. The cost should be between £3
and £4 for the travel costs (we hope to go by
coach if there is enough support).
The next event is the next day, Thursday
14 February, to the Institution of Structural
Engineers, who are holding an open week.
For the above two events see the Civ Eng
notice board (opp 201) for more information
and to sign up for the trips
The main event of the year for Civ Eng Soc
is the Annual Civ Eng Dinner, which will be
held on Thursday 14 February at a cost of
approximately £10. This dinner is open to all
members of the department (including staff)
and promises to be a very enjoyable evening,
as has been the case in the past, so please
reserve this day and some of your grant to
join your colleagues for this dinner. More
details of this dinner will be advertised in due
course and tickets made available.
KEEP FIT
Cheap Fit Club
We are pleased to announce that the Keep
Fit Club is at last official. We hope to be able
to start the classes early in February. These
will be taken by a professional teacher and
will cost 50p for an hour.
If you would like any further information
then contact either Deb Bailey or Caren
McCormack via Life Sci 3.
QT SOC
'Very nice boys'
There have been rumblings of discontent
withtin the famed QT Hit Squad. Upset with
their current image-'very nice boys'-they
have shown their true colours (yellow) by the
issue of a challenge to Guilds to meet their
Hit Squad Flan to Flan in a fight to the death
(or thereabouts). As yet, there has been no
reply. Are Guilds up to it?
QT hit on the Natural History Museum!
Many thanks to those who made an
exhibition of themselves on Wednesday.
They won't make a monkey out of us again!
Advance notice: Melvyn Bragg speaks on
Feb 5th. Weekly meetings now on
Thursdays, 12.30pm in Southside Upper
Lounge (above Southside Bar).
ICCND
Competition
Ralph Steadman, the brilliant artist, is
speaking along with three poets on February
14. He will be presenting the prize for our art
competition. The competition closes on 6
February and is for any form of literature or
art on the general theme of peace. Entries to
the Union Office with name and dept.
Our pledge for scientists and students of
science has now received the support of
three Nobel Laureates, one of whom will be
speaking on February 12. The pledge is being
circulated around departments. We urge
you to sign it.
Peace week occurs between 11 February
and 15 February, when there will be films,
speakers, exhibitions, books sale, music,
poetry and a special magazine.
10 Friday 25 January 1985 FELIX

