FELIX
CLETTERS
OUR
Right Human
Right's wrongs
IRAte
Dear Sir,
Judging by last week's FELIX letters and a
number of other sources there seems to be
widespread misunderstanding of Cathsoc's
Human Rights Week article on Nothern
Ireland. No-one is condoning the IRA's
activities: I detest terrorism just as much as
anyone else. However, calling the IRA
psychopaths and doing nothing achieves very
little except to harden attitudes and makes
progress harder. The British government
makes the situation worse by fueling the hate
that the IRA feed on. One example of this is
the use of plastic bullets which do kill and
injure. Everytime someone is killed by a
plastic bullet the IRA gain a pschological
victory — they have a 'martyr' so can stir hate
and continue their bloody violence.
Yours sincerely
Mark Alderton
Cathsoc Secretary
PS The European Parliament is to debate the
Prevention of Terrorism Act when only 3%
are prosecuted.
Bad taste
Dear Sir,
I feel I must complain in the strongest
terms possible about the thoroughly tasteless
and disgusting publicity gimmikry employed
recently by Ents to promote the very last
night of their Lounge 'Nightclub' as it is
rather ambitiously called.
I am referring of course to the recent
posters and articles which have been
polluting FELIX and the rest of College (ie
'The Lounge is dead' and so on).
Evidently Ents seem to think it amusing to
put on such a tasteless event as a 'Funeral
Party' (and I am told that they have even
gone to the extremes of hiring in special —
presumably funerial-ha-bloody-ha-lighting
effects and silent horror movies to be shown
during the night) but personally I find the
whole thing thoroughly distasteful.
I trust that no-one who has any pride in
their inestimable position as students in
Imperial College would be sufficiently sick
minded to attend such a degrading event.
Yours angrily,
Horace Limey
Dear Sir,
I feel moved to say that I do not believe
Human Rights Week, in this present regular
form, is the most effective way of promoting
knowledge and concern about human rights
at IC. Politically partisan groups should
either not be allowed to stage Human Rights
Week events, or they should be much more
closely supervised when they do. At the JCR
exhibition last Thursday, for example, I saw
precious little material on the Consoc stand
which had direct relevance to human rights;
much more in evidence was a poster
promoting nuclear deterrence. The small
display mounted by the UNA failed to
mention human rights as far as I could see,
although this group has a quite valid (and
preferably much larger) role to play in any
discussion of human rights. (I should say that
I visited the exhibition in the mid-afternoon:
if UNA had by that time dismantled part of
their display I apologise, and withdraw my
comment).
The inadvisability of allowing political
groups to participate independently in
Human Rights Week was also demonstrated
on Tuesday. Anybody who arrived early at
the U G M would have witnessed what
appeared to be a 'full and frank discussion'
between members of the college Amnesty
group and the real sponsors of the motion on
Iraq. The original motion condemned the
Iraqi Government itself (rather than certain
of that government's actions, as amended)
and even in its amended form, the motion,
like the posters which festooned college,
described the Iraqi Government as fascist:
hardly tactful considering that the welfare of
numerous political detainees, whose interests
the motion is intended to further, rests in the
hands of that government (and the Iraqi
Embassy is only the other side of Queensgate,
so this 'fascist' slur could easily come to their
notice).
If Human Rights Week is to continue as an
annual event, I believe that Amnesty
International and other groups whose prime
concerns include human rights should have a
more prominent role. However, I think there
are strong arguments for discontinuing the
event; individual groups could probably
produce a greater impact if their efforts were
spread throughout the year. Perhaps those
responsible for organising last week's events
could consider this.
PS I do not represent the college Amnesty
group.
Peter Hobbis
Last week's comments about the College's
laissez-faire attitude to repairs in Willis
Jackson revealed a serious lack of planning.
Although Estates knew in May 1984 that
repairs had to be done in Evelyn Gardens, the
work will not begin until next month.
So far the Kensington and Chelsea Council
has only served a 'notice' on Willis Jackson
House. Inevitably they will serve notices on
the other, identical houses in Evelyn Gardens
in due course. But the Estates Department
have decided not even to plan to do work on
these other houses until notices are served.
What is more they aren't going to set aside
any money for the work to be done. So the
College could suddenly be landed with repair
bills of up to £250,000.
Why hasn't the Estates Section planned a
phased repair programme for the next few
years? This could be arranged to cause least
inconvenience to students, and would allow
for the financial burden to be spread out. But
doubtless this is to ascribe too much sense to
Estates. Doubtless they will wait until the last
moment. Doubtless they will again force
students out of their rooms during exam
time. Doubtless they will arrange for the
work to be done at the maximum possible
cost.
In short, they will doubtless ensure, as
always, that the 'students interests are of
prime importance'.
Just a brief word about FELIX Diary entries.
The forms for the Diary are kept in the
FELIX Office, and should be completed and
handed in on Monday to ensure publication
the following Friday. You may, if you wish,
obtain a small supply of Diary forms if
you,make many entries.
Finally, I must confess that this issue hasn't
received my fullest attention. I was admitted
to hospitial last Friday and only got back
yesterday. The credit for this issue goes, then,
to those who stepped into the breach,
especially J Martin Taylor and Hugh
Southey, without whom this issue wouldn't
have appeared at all. Other super stars were
Diane Love, Dave Jones, Rob Shiels and Pete
Coleman who worked late into the night.
Special thanks also to Hugh Stiles, Grenville
Manuel, Ajay, Patrick, Jon J, Pete, Nigel,
Nick, Finian, Jon B, Richard, Ian Bull, Dave
Parry and, as always, Rosemary and Tony.
Felix is published b
y the Editor for and on behalf of Imperial
College Union Publications Board and is printed bythe Union Print
Unit, Imperial College, Prince Consort Road, London SW7.
Telephone 0
1
-
5
8
9 5111 Ext 3515
Editor: David Rowe, Business Manager: Martin Taylor,
Advertising Manager: Paul Belford.
Copyright FELIX 1985. ISSN 1
0
1
4
0
-
0
7
1
1
.
2 Friday 25 January 1985 FELIX

