EFELIX
the world's most
boring student
by Finian
Sorry I tried to eat you the other day,
Charles — I was only playing around.
In fact it was probably a very silly thing
to do — mum's always telling me
you can get a lot of very nasty germs
from freshwater amphibians.
Recipe cf
the \fleek
The Art and Science of Sorbet
8 oz. fruit (eg. strawberries, cherries,
kiwi fruit, or blackcurrant) fresh or frozen
2 egg whites
8 fluid oz. water
4 oz white sugar
serves six
Start the preparation the day before if you can, since it takes at least five hours.
First of all put the sugar and water in a small pan and bring to the boil slowly. Boil
for ten minutes and leave to cool. Meanwhile prepare the fruit. (Boil blackcurrants
for ten minutes and sieve, peel kiwi fruit, remove the stones from cherries.)
Reduce the fruit to a puree by any means available. Combine with the syrup, and
then add lemon juice bit by bit until you can just taste it. Blend thoroughly and
place in a sealed container in the freezer.
The secret of all sorbet and ice-cream making now follows. After about two
hours, the mixture is at the stage where it is just beginning to go solid. If you tip
the container, it won't run, but it's still quite soft. Now whisk the egg whites until
they are stiff but not dry, and fold them into the sorbet mixture. Keep mixing
gently until the sorbet is uniform. Return to the freezer and leave for at least two
hours (but probably longer). If you like you can give it a third stir after a couple of
hours.
The double-freeze technique, the syrup and the bubbles all help to prevent the
sorbet frdom becoming brick-hard. It should be easy to serve no matter how cold
it is. Once you have used the process a couple of times, you can experiment. Try
rum and raisin sorbet with two bananas, brown sugar, a measure or two of dark
rum and a handful of raisins.
Your
chanceto
meet Kodak
Kodak Limited will be inter-
viewing at Imperial College
on 4th March 1985.
We need electronic engineers,
physicists and chemists for research
and computing, marketing and
accountancy trainees. Your careers
service has the details. Collect a
copy of "Kodak and Your Future"
and apply as indicated. We look
forward to seeing you.
4 Friday 25 January 1985 FELIX

