LZFEATURE:
CHRISTIAN UNION
The Christian Union is one of IC
Union's largest societies. However,
the average IC student knows little
about the CU. In this series of short
articles CU members describe their
activities.
The CU, as the Christian Union is more
popularly known (and although not to be
confused with the 'Commercial Union', I
reckon that the life assurance policy we offer
is the best available!) has been around a good
many years. Records go back as far as 1937,
written in delicate and faultless copperplate
handwriting, telling of cream teas with local
vicars, budgets noted in shillings and
adjournements to committee meetings due
to wartime bombings. Today the Christian
Union is as dynamic and in step with the
times as ever seeing growth both in numbers
and in the level of involvement with College
life. One of our primary reasons for being a
Christian Union is to draw together people
who want to share with others some of the
joy and excitement of the Christian life and to
be available as such to those who are
interested in discovering just what it means
to be a Christians. It is as much, indeed more
a giving of a special love and of sharing of a
life as it is proselytising a religious truth.
Today , many are unaware of these truths
lacking knowledge of even basic Christian
teaching. For this reason we look to bring
people to an awareness of the existence of a
loving God-a God who became a man to live
and then to die on this earth. A God who
desires above all things for us to come to
know him in a real and personal relationship.
God is Dead!
The cry of the 60's that 'God is dead' finds
little to support its claims in a Church that
today is seeing rapid growth in many parts of
the world and is beginning to experience
again many of the more spectacular events
seen in the life and ministry of Jesus and of
the early Christian church (events recorded
in the Gospels and Epistles of the New
Testament part of the Bible). As Saint Paul
writes in one of those epistles, 'The Kingdon
of God does not consist of words but of
power. 'It is that power that continues to
change us as people, that releases us from
the pressures and anxieties of this world and
which brings a new and dynamic lifestyle that
encourages us to step out with greater faith
in a God who is truly 'Alive in '85'.
Bible
Study
.. .Members of the Christian Union on one of
their weekends away.
By the time you have read this ariticle it will
be clear that the Christian Union does not
consist just of a group who meet on Friday
evenings and whose notices you see around
College. There is a group who meets each
week in your department. As the title
suggests these groups are known as the
Bible Study groups and their main aim is to
meet and study the Bible and discuss what it
has to say to us today. You may not believe
what the Bible says or perhaps you have
never read it. The groups could provide the
opportunity to make a start.
Not only do the groups meet to study
God's word but also to have a chat and
enjoy good company. Most groups provide
some kind of lunch as in most departments
the meeting take place on either a Tuesday
or Thursday lunchtime.
If you are interested and would like to
meet more Christians in your department or
you would like to know more of what
Christianity is and of how it CAN totally
change your life, then contact your
departmental group.
Prayer-
the CU
Power-House
Prayer is a vital and integral part of the life of
a Christian reflecting the intimacy of
relationship with a God, of love. So it is for
the Christian Union as a group. Almost daily
members gather to pray with and for each
other — not only as a CU but in
departmental, hall and house groups. Most
halls of residence and student houses have
or are in contact with a prayer group which
meets regularly. These groups also come
together for Bible-study and more relaxed
and informal discussion. If you would like to
join these discussions or studies, or are a.
Christian and would like to get involved in a
prayer group then contact Chris Lynas,
Chemistry 2 who can put you in touch
directly with someone in your hall or area —
or if you know someone who is a Christian —
see them!
THATS KIND OF A PERSONAL
QUESTION, ISN'T IT?AR£"YOU
TRYING TO START AN ARGUMENT?
I SUPPOSE You THINK
YOUfeE SOMEBODY PRETTY
S M A R T , Don't You? I
^f06e YOU THINK...
7 WU'l
U S A
RE RI6HT...RELIGI0N
VERY TOUCHY SUBJECT
5
Frife

