FEATURED
Bookstall
As you may have noticed the Christian
Union is running a bookstrall in the JCR,
Sherfield at lunchtimes each day this term.
This aims to provide general information
(what's on guide, FELIX, bus-maps, details
of our CU meetings etc) and Christian
literature that is not generally available in
the Bookshop.
We hope to supply books that describe
the basics of the Christian faith and the
reality of God, together with
autobiographies and those which deal with
specific and relevent issues - social, political
and religious. In connection with the
lunchtime discussions we hope that we can
make available books which give a Christian
perspective and wider on the topics of
abortion and clinical experimentation, the
occult and on Northern Ireland (available
nearer to the meeting-event in quesiton).
For overseas students there are a number
of publications in different languages and
similar material can be obtained in most
languages if required. Please ask.
Aside from the books it will provide an
opportunity to meet and discuss question
and or queries of those Christians on the
stall. Any suggestions of how to improve the
bookstall as a service to students would be
very welcome.
Overseas
We are instructed in the Bible to pray for
government and all those in authority, that
we may live in peace. A small group within
the Christian Union have taken this to heart
and meet once a week to pray for the nations
of the world. We also pray for missions and
national church work. We have a particular
concern for Africa and Eastern Europe at
present as some of the group were born in
these areas and others have visited there.
We are able to supply Christian literature
in most languages to anyone who is
interested. Do ask.
Overseas group presently meets each
Tuesday in the Green Committee room in
the Union Building. If you are interested in
the groups concerns and would like to take
an active participation then contact either
Cheryl Howard-Gibbons (Botany 3) or Nick
Gardiner (Civ Eng 1).
The Eighties
The first four years of this decade have seen
many important moral and political debates
grow and flourish with little hope of early or
peaceful settlements. As Christians we
believe our faith is directly relevant to the
issues that contantly fill the front-pages of
our newspapers, and that perhaps in this
radically alternative lifestyle based on a belief
and dependance on a loving God lies the very
real possibility of a solution that will bring
about the reconcilation of men.
By the time you read this article the first of
a short series of lunch-talks will have taken
1 lace. This first one will have taken a look at
the controversial Government paper 'The
Warnock Report', considering the
implications of the Warnock Committees'
suggestions. The area of experimentation on
live, human embryos alone raises serious
moral questions and ones that MPs will have
to face and debate when Enoch Powell's 'The
Unborn Children Protection Bill' receives its
second reading in three weeks time. The
lunchtime talks will include a buffet lunch and
a talk given by an invited speaker who will
give a Christian perspective to the topic in
question. After this talk there will be
opportunity for questions and discussion in
an informal atmosphere.
Future meeting hope to look at such topics
as the Occult (Feb 2.1) and Northern Ireland
(March 7). Details of these and other events
will be available shortly — or for further
information about any of these meeting then
contact either Mark Mabin, Elec Eng 1 or
Paul Townsend , Chem 1.
Ecumenical
CONTACT WEEK FEB 4-8
Just a brief mention to look out for details of
this week-long event run jointly by the
College Christian societies and to encourage
you to get involved in some way. There are
many various and interesting discussion
groups running each lunch-time together
with evening 'soirees' organised mostly on a
hall/house basis. An ideal opportunity to
meet with people and to share your view on
the many social and even political problems
there are together with religious idealogies.
The week is opened on Saturday the 2
February with a meeting addressed by
Cardinal Hume.
Spring Term Programme
Jan 25 - A 'Celebration' - prayer and praise with an invitation to all Christian Societies as
well as the rest of College: Consort Gallery, SherfieldS.OOpm (Supper inc).
Feb 1 - 'Prayer and Fasting' (speaker meeting)
Feb 8 - 'Contact Week Party' brings to an end on a lighter note a week full of discussion.
Feb 15 'The Great Commission' - taken by student members of the CU.
Feb 22 - 'Salvation' (speaker meeting)
Mar 1 - The Christian Message' - a chance to hear the message of the Christian Gospel
presented through song and drama and an informal address given by a local curate,
(speaker meeting)
Mar 8 - 'The Second Coming' (Speaker meeting)
Mar 15 - Lead by some members of the CU.
Mar 22 - 'End of term party'guaranteed to be something 'different' - butfun.
THE
WARNOCK\
REPORT
CONCERT HALL
LUNCH
PROVIDED
...One of the events organised by the CU
that considers issues of the eighties.
Friday,
FridayI
Probably the focal point of the Christian
Union's week is the regular Friday evening
meeting. Then members can come together
in the relaxed and informal surroundings of
53 Prince's Gate (opposite the Mech Eng
building in Exhibition Road). This is an
invaluable time for chatting and sharing
experiences over a cup of coffee-especially
with people from so many different
backgrounds. The main feature of this
evening is the time of worship when we offer
to God our thanks and praise and allow
ourselves to befilled with his love andpower.
Often this time is followed by a short talk
from a visiting speaker. This term the topics
under discussion fall under the general title
of 'What Jesus had to say about..', looking at
various issues concerning our faith and
challenging us as to whether we are living as
Jesus expected us to.
After a break for coffee we come together
again this time primarily for prayer - prayer
specifically for each other - to heal those
who are sick, to encourage those who are
down hearted and empower each of its in
the work that we do by the power of the Holy
Spirit.
These meeting are free and open for
anyone to attend. We begin at 6.00pm for
6.30pm with coffee and break at about
8.00pm. This term's programme is printed
below (a programme card is available from
most CU members) or if you have any
enquiries then see Richard McCallum,
-'lary 1985 7

