ICLUBS & SOC.ET.ESI
C&G
I have been asked several times since the
beginning of term about the dates and events
for Rag Week this year—so here (hopefully)
are the answers to all your questions.
Rag Week this year starts one week today
on Friday February 18 at midnight and
continues until midnight on Friday February
25.
If you have any ideas on what to do during
the week, then come and see us in the Guilds
Office and we will try to organise it. At present
our main collecting event will be 'Year Rag'.
This is a 24-hour collection starting on Friday
midnight and finishing on Saturday midnight.
We hope to organise collections all over
London and especially a 'Bed Race' on the
Saturday morning (to which other London
colleges may also enter).
Other events during Rag Week will include
Executive Torture on Tuesday, a sketch by
Guilds in the Smoking Concert on Thursday
and the Bristol 24-hour Pedal Car Race on the
Friday and following Saturday.
Returning to next week, we have a fantastic
Valentine's Party being organised by all three
CCUs on Monday (note that this is on the
right day—unlike the IC Ents Party). The party
will include a Barn Dance, a Hawian Band,
Food, a Disco, and a Bar. The price is £1.50
and it will take place in the Union Building from
7:30pm.
On Wednesday we have a trip to the
Scottish Universities' Enginering Field Day (to
which we have been invited). Teams are
required for rugby, football, cross country,
running, squash, table tennis and snooker.
See Steve Bishop in the Guilds Office if you
are interested (note: this is also open to
engineers from Mines).
On Thursday the Civil Engineering Society
have their annual dinner at the Forum Hotel
and the Old Centralians have a function in the
SCR called 'Life After College' and open to
second year students only (price £2). See your
soc rep or come and see us in the Union Office
if you want further details on any of the above
events.
Finally thanks to all those that came Ten-Pin
Bowling last week, it was a great success and
we hope to repeat it at some time. Dinner and
Dance went very well last Friday. Barry Cryer
gave a highly entertaining speech and the band
'Jumpin' Jive' gave the occasion just the right
kind of atmosphere.
Have an eventful week everybody.
Cheers.
Rolf
IC Radio
An IC Radio programming planning committee
warning:
"Cutting outside broadcast lines can
seriously damage your health" especially
when our technical manager 'White Tears'
Martin pjactisesd his black belt karate.
Now a lot of you intelligentsia out there are,
by now, no doubt asking yourselves (very
quietly): "Why bother listening to IC Radio,
when we have so many 'professional' stations
to listen to?" (If you haven't asked this
question, turn around and ask the person
sitting next to you and loose 5 Brownie
Points). Apart from the normal IC Radio reply
"We're a student radio station, broadcasting
things students want to hear" etc, etc—let's
compare IC Radio and Radio One (hereafter
known as Rl).
Instead of putting some husky-voiced female
DJ 'after dark' on Sunday evenings (in)famous
for appearing "a I' embrace" with great
guitarists on their album covers—IC Radio
PPC (see above) proudly present tonight the
dulcet tones of Shinee; admittedly she has not
appeared on any record covers (yet), however
an impeccable choice of music and 4ft snake
called Basil should make up for that. Later on
Friday Rl's 'Newsbeat' is outshone by IC
Radio's 'Viewpoint' with super news-hound
Pete Coleman—what he lacks in a world-wide
network of reporters, he makes up with
boundless enthusiasm and curly hair.
On Saturday, just to prove R l is short-
staffed, we have different people presenting
firstly our Chart Show (we beat them by 24hrs
anyway!) and then our heavy metal pro-
gramme 'Atomic Rock'. So you get Ajay and
Neil for the price of Tommy Vance (pretty
cheap—says Cardboard Cut-out).
And on Monday morning, instead of turning
in with Selina on the BBC, Angela on TV-AM
or Barbara Cartland on STOIC—tune in on
your radio to 'Chunks' Pashley, who will be
rocking your early morning pineapples with
great vigour.
The rest of the weeks programming I shall
review next week. (Promises, promises!) But
anyway, be warned 'the return of the goldfish-
hunter' is under production!
Mo says Theisman for President, and I
would like to point out, that I did not mention
the Station Manager.
The Exile
STOIC
Hello there, the Butcher of Lyon here with
more advice on how to disappear in South
America for forty years. But first something a
little more topical. Next Monday is, of course,
St Valentine's day, but don't worry if you've
forgotten to send your loved one a card,
STOIC is offering its very own Valentine
service. Just post your message to the College
TV studio and someone will be eternally
grateful to you. We promise to treat all
messages with the utmost discretion and will
only broadcast those that will not offend
FELIX readers.
Next week is especially important for
STOIC—it's our thirteenth birthday. Yes,
STOIC is going to be a teenager on Thursday
17 with all the problems that can entail.
Birthday cards should be addressed to the TV
Studio. Altogether now:
Happy birthday to you.
Happy birthday to you.
Happy birthday to STOIC.
Happy birthday to you.
Before I go, I'd better tell you not to belive
anything you read under STOIC's What's On
entries in FELIX. These have been shown to
be a major contribution to Martin Z Cowan's
brain haemorrhage.
The STOIC toad is called Robert.
RSM
Well, hopefully all the fuss over the review has
subsided by now and everyone can get on with
things as usual. (By the way, I hope you all
enjoyed it.)
The Newcastle Trip is tomorrow, so if
you've signed up, meet 8:15am at Victoria
Coach Station. Remember to bring Union-
cards.
Camborne are coming up on February 19
and we need all you people to come out and
support the various teams. Three matches will
be played at Harlington: hockey, soccer and
rugby and there will be a dinner in the evening
with beer provided. Tickets can be obtained by
signing up outside G20 or seeing Simon Tear
and are priced £6 (for everything). Hurry up
and get your name on the list to see us win
back the bottle.
Other dates to remember are Dirty Disco,
February 22 (with or without pickets?) and a
U G M on Tuesday, February 15.
Our cupboard is now completely re-stocked
with regalia so if you want something drop into
the office.
Astro Soc
On Tuesday February 15, Astrosoc will be
showing a film about Mars so come along and
find out what Martians really look like. The film
will be shown in Physics Lecture Theatre 2,
Level 1, at 6:30pm as usual. Events being
planned for the future are so exciting that I
won't tell you what they are yet, the wait will be
unbearable for you so just keep an eye on the
noticeboards and you'll find out in time.
Remember to leave yourself free between 6:30
and 7:30 on Tuesdays or I'll senda da boys
'round.
Op Soc
Those of you who actually look at the many
noticeboards around College may have
noticed attractive butterscotch-coloured
(actually Kestrel Corn coloured) posters that
have recently appeared advertising our coming
production. For the benefit of the rest of you (I
very much suspect the majority) the show is
The Yeoman of the Guard, one of the best
operas that the dynamic duo of Bill Gilbert and
Art Sullivan produced. The dates to remember
are Tuesday 15 to Saturday 19 February, the
time being 7:30pm in the Union Concert Hall
and the damage being just £1.00 for students
(£1.50 otherwise).
Tickets have been on sale at lunchtimes in
the Sherfield Building foyer, level 2, since
Monday and will continue to be available there
until next Friday. They are also available from
any Opsoc member, from the Haldane Library
and on the door.
Go on, treat yourself.
Bookshop News
If any of you want to see any of the computing'
books that are in the window, please ask, as it
is the Computer Book Month organised by
John Wiley. We put all their titles on show in
the window, but they are still for sale.
Re comments about the use of our window
by various clubs and societies. When I was
approached, I agreed on the condition that I
would decide when the window could be used,
that the Bookshop would not sell any of the
books etc for the society. The window would
be theirs for the week they would do their own
display. This still applies.
The Classical Gardens of China - Yang
Hongxun, Van Nostrand Reinhold £21.20
The Illustrated Pepy's - Robert Latham, Bell &
Hyman, £9.95
Royal Children - Charles Kidd, Debrett £8.95
Knots and Ropework - Eric Fry, David &
Charles, £7.50
Best of James Herriot- Michael Joseph, £12.95
The Hidden Places of Britain - Leslie Thomas,
Arlington £9.95
Eamon McCabe Sports Photographer - Geoff
Nicholson, Aurum
Witches - Eric Jong — Granada £5.95
Page 101 (February 11,19831 I FELIX

