Grease in Greece
Summer Lovers directed by Randal
Kleiser, playing at the Classic, Shaftes-
bury Avenue and Studio Oxford Street.
Greek Islands are 'in' for film makers this
year. The Tempest, of which more in weeks to
come, is set there, and so is this offering from
the man who brought you Grease and The
Blue Lagoon. Crease is the all-time top
grossing musical; the reaction to Blue Lagoon
was somewhat less rapturous. If, like me, you
were privileged to be a regular FELIX reader a
couple of years back, then you won't forget
'Eric' Jarvis's demolition job on that film;
probably the best hatchet job I've ever read.
So what diretion has Mr Kleiser taken with his
new film?
The plot, such as it is, is somewhat
improbable, nay silly. Michael and Cathy are
two rich American kids taking a long summer
holiday in the Greek island of Santarini before
returning home to their daunting world of
adulthood and responsibility. Apparently
Michael has inherited his deceased father's
business, and Cathy is about to take on the
more daunting challenge of Michael.
Their relationship is somewhat old hat,
having been 'going together' for five years.
When someone coined the phrase 'five year
itch', 1 think it was meant to be post-marital.
However, whether it is this, the acres of
bronzed naked female flesh on the island or
the apparent danger of permanent physical
damage if Cathy gets any more ideas about
imaginative foreplay that drives him into the
arms of Lina we shall never know. 'I'm just
mixed up' our hero explains.
The two women in Michael's life are a
fascinating contrast. Cathy is a classic bronzed
healthy California, hair bleached white in the
sun. She is somewhat shy and acutely aware of
her goody-two-shoes image (reminiscent of
Sandy in Grease). She is 'totally devoted to
you', possessive to boot, Michael is all she
wants. Lina is a whole different ball game. I
can't easily describe her beauty; it is something
that grows on you throughout the film. She
isn't the Bardot type, but that other sort of
French beauty. Senusous, wide mouth, girlish
snub nose and freckles framed with auburn
hair; she is not a seductruss but rather her
apparent vulnerability lures you on; totally
captivating. Mysterious and foreign, she is
carefree and independent, an archaeologist on
an island dig by day and part of the island's
swinging set.
This potentially interesting formula for
conflict is dodged; after all, we are making a
surfin-and-swingin film here and not into
making value judgements about relationships.
So instead of having to choose, Michael finds
himself the centre of an unlikely menage-a-
trois as they are swept up by Lina's outrageous
f f i i y m i b m w until 1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
friends. Tiring for the poor chap, but nice work
if you can get it.
The attraction of the Greek islands as a film
setting is obvious: they are quite stunning. But
if you are looking for a place to get away from
it all, forget it. Some of the beaches are more
crowded than Bognar on a Bank Holiday. The
black shrouded locals mount a silent vigil as
ferry load after ferry load of backpackers are
disgorged onto their island, frantically in
search of the good times their brochure
promised them. These two lifestyles rub
shoulders, one tactiturnly resenting the
necessary evil of the other as for five months of
the year naked young bodies clutter their
The Evil Dead, directed by Samual Rainui
opens at the Classic and Studio Oxford
Street on February 24.
My other offering for you this week goes
from the faintly ridiculous to er...well it's
definitely not sublime. It bills itself as 'the
ultimate experience in gruelling terror', and
certainly pulls no punches in an attempt to
prove it. It's an out and out horror film which
makes Friday the 13th seem as harmless as
Monsieur Hulot's Holiday. The heroes are five
college kids, just like you or I, who have hired
this cabin way up in the hills from someone or
other at a surprisingly cheap rate. The trail
leads over a bridge which is in a state of near
collapse to a rather dilapidated shack in the
middle of a mist-shrouded forest.
No time for plot or character development;
no time for any real legend to be developed
about the resident ghouls and nasties. The five
friends are just settling down to their evening
meal when the cellar door decides to throw
itself open, luring them on. The presence in the
house taunts them and lures them into the
cellar. It starts off as a game of dare, but not
for long.
No self-respecting horror film would be
without its cellar, and this one is a beauty. Full
of dripping shadows and sort of 'things'
everywhere, but more importantly there is a
book bound in human flesh and inked in human
blood and a tape recorder of observations
made by an archaeologist (profession of the
week, folks — next week management
consultants?) who was apparently the last
incumbant o; this ritzy piece of real estate. The
tape reveals that the prof had stirred up the
beaches and their quiet markets become a
clamour of exhuberant foreign tongues.
Fortunately Michael and Cathy are on a
better class of package tour, and we are
spared sex among the sleeping bags as they
are whisked off to their clifftop villa.
There is a wide variety of chart-topping
material on the soundtrack, including Depeche
Modes 'I just can't get enough' and Chicago's
'Hard to say I'm sorry'. A classic youth film,
light on plot and moral dilemma but a good
looking cast and a fabulous sun-drenched
setting. An undemanding night out, but it will
transport you from drab cold February in
london to carefree days in the sun.
evil spirits in these parts, and replaying the
tape once more stirs these spirits who rise up
and possess them, one by one.
It's a real chiller; there's no doubt about
that, but at the same time there are moments
of humour. The humour is visual in nature and
is almost a game between film-maker and
audience. Can you really take this seriously?
Are you meant to? You are ready to scream
and laugh alternatively at every macabre twist
and turn.
It is difficult to describe the style of the film.
It has obviously been made with much verve
and energy by people with a real love for the
genre and a rather macabre sense of humour.
This is the first feature from this young film
making team. What will The Evil Dead 2 have
in store. Bad taste? Certainly, but still very
entertaining; blood and guts by the bucketful
and no let up in the tension for over an hour.
Probably the poorest piece of the film is the
introduction, where the low budget nature of
the film shows through with bad synchronisa-
tion and exposures changing between shots,
but once the air is thick with blood and various
deadly instruments, this is no longer noticeable
and the superlative special effects grab your
attention. The climactic scene is a real stunner
as bodies melt and disintegrate before your
eyes and things erupt, Alien like, from the
corpses. But if Alien turned your stomach, you
are clearly not cut out for this sort of fare. The
effect is amazing, far better than the stop-
action melt-downs which used to be all the
rage; it really suspends disbelief as you cringe
and squirm in the dark of the cinema.
The only member of the cast who remains
sentient long enough o turn in an acting
performance is Bruce Campbell who is
thoroughly convincing and conveys a feeling of
horror and helplessness. Full marks to the rest
of the cast for keeping straight facefc
throughout.
Well, I hope my dreams tonight will be fairly
pleasant, but I think some pretty ugly sig; ts
are going to stick in my mind. Combine the no-
holds-barred nature of the script with macabre
virtuosity from the make-up and special effects
department and the result is a masterful
shocker of unrestrained destruction and
mayhem.
Ghoul meets boy
• i February 11, 1 9 8 3 H H H H ^ M H H H H H B H H B H H i P e n c i l

