WALKABOUT-
LOOKS £e
if Mobile Optics Inc.
W A L K A B O U T - L O O K S E E , or rather the
Mobile Optics Inc hardware, has taken a
couple of knocks recently. M y no. 1
comfortable shoes have fallen to pieces and
I've bust my spectacles! Result = 1 field of view
that tends rapidly towards infinite fuzziness.
So this week I went by tube—another shock to
the system; it's beastly expensive—and
pottered myopically southwards from
Piccadilly Circus.
The Design Council
The Design Centre in the Haymarket is the
shop-front for the Design C o u n c i l , a
Government-sponsored body set up to
''promote by all practicable means the
improvement of design in the products of
British industry". It's activities include a Design
Advisory Service which advises industry on
product design and development and on
IREVIEWSHi
sources of technical and design expertise, and
a Designer Selection Service which advises on
the selection of industrial, graphic and interior
designers.
~~ THE
C O U N C I L
The C o u n c i l also publishes books,
directories and two monthly magazines: in
fact, it was whilst glancing through DESIGN in
the Haldane that I came across a glowing
report on the small company, based in
Hampstead, that designed spectacle frames!
Design Centre Selection
Every month the Design Council selects 100 or
so products for the Design Centre, to illustrate
particularly well designed modern British
products. The goods are chosen by indepen-
dent committees and if judged to be well suited
to their purpose, well made, easy to use,
simple to maintain, good looking and good
value for money, they are awarded the black
and white Design Centre kite label.
As far as the public (that's you and me) is
concerned, the reasons for visiting the Design
Centre are threefold.
It provides a continuing but changing
exhibition of new developments in design: the
current exhibition is the annual review,
showing products of exceptional design
selected during 1982.
Secondly, it has a super shop selling,
needless to say, products selected for the
Design Centre. Par! of the shop is on the
ground floor, visible from the street; the larger
part, and an excellent arts-and-design-oriented
bookshop, are upstairs.
Gastronomic Design
The third reason for a visit is also on the first
floor. This is a small, but high quality, coffee
shop. It can easily be found, even by those with
fuzzy eyesight and incipiently sore feet, by
following the trail of coffee vapours and
heading for the green neon glow, which turns
out to say "Coffee Shop" (!).
Sandwiches are made to order, there's an
array of delicatessen-style salads and if you
have space left on your tray it can be filled with
gooey cake or a sticky bun. I didn't try the
wine, but the coffee's not bad and there are
ergonomically designed green stools to perch
on.
Design Review '83
The exhibition area is distinguishable from the
shop only in that objects for sale can be picked
up and examined, whereas those on show are
carefully arranged, well lit, and mostly behind
glass. The aesthetic appeal of all products is
unquestionable beautifully packaged Politi
Turkist Delight; finely patterned Hornsea
Pottery tableware: stylish sunglasses by Oliver
Goldsmith, the lense colours toning with the
frame colours: elegantly simple furniture,
rather more sophisticated than Habitat basics.
The only way to find out whether a 'good
looking' product is easy to use' and 'well
suited' not only 'to its purpose', but also to
yours, is to play with it. 1 discovered that the
Russell-Hobbs micro-chip toaster I'd been
given for Christmas is one of the products
recently selected for the Design Centre. I love
it: it takes doorsteps as well as Melba-toast
slices; the pop-up mechanism only works (ie
stays down) when the power is switched on, so
I don't sit around expecting toast for three
minutes before realising that I forgot to flick
the switch; and when starved toast freaks call,
it can be used and then immediately restarted
for a full toasting cycle at any brownness
setting...my faith in the Design Centre label is
confirmed.
Where, When, £?
The Design Centre, 28 Haymarket, SW1, is
open Mon, Tues, Fri and Sat 9:30-6:00; Wed
and Thurs 9:30-8:00; Sunday 1:00-6:00.
Admission is free; sandwiches start at about
55p.
Page12 February 11, 19831
Bistro Rivoli
9 Old Brompton Road, SW7
584 0132
10:30am - 2:30am
With February 14 looming this Italian
restaurant has seasonal attractions if you are
looking for a plush, dimly lit, romantic venue
for your St Valentine's day prandials.
Conveniently placed for College opposite
South Kensington tube station, the ambience
is more expensive than the reasonably priced
menu would lead you to expect.
Although the interior is small, tables are well
positioned so that you are not particularly
aware of other diners and most of the tables
are laid for two.
On to the food. Starters include most of the
usual options. Whitebait at 95p was much
better value than Minestrone at ;£1.05 which
suffered from a lack of parmesan and the fact
that you had to pay 30p for bread to go with it.
Main courses include pasta dishes (£1.65-
1.95), fish dishes (£2.35-3.10) and burgers
(£1.65-2.95). Meat and chicken dishes cost
from £2.35-3.45 and include quite impressive
souding things like Scallopa di Polio, £2.45
(chicken with a predominately tomato sauce).
The Barbeque Chicken, £2.60, with it's sweet
mild sauce is worth trying. A large Chicken
Kiev which was espied on a neighbouring table
^ • H H B B B H B H H H H FELIX

