Theatre
Other Places; three new plays by Harold
Pinter, directed by Sir Peter Hall, the
Cottesloe, National Theatre.
Pinter's three short plays currently being
staged by the National Theatre are strange
little things. The first Family Voices, is about
the correspondence between a mother and
her son. Anna Massey plays a rather saddened
and frustrated mother and Nigel Havers her
son, a citv worker who loves his solitary walks
about the capital. The correspondence
touches upon family matters but the play
illustrates in a poignant and effective way the
effects of separation and the inadequacy of
non-verbal communication.
Victoria Station is an amusing little tale
about a taxi driver. Martin Jarvis plays the taxi
driver (in a real car) and Paul Rogers his
controller. The latter is perched in his box,
radio telephone in hand, and becomes
increasingly irate at the unreceptiveness of the
driver when directed to go to Victoria Station,
but the reason is finally revealed after much
clever suspense.
The third play, A Kind of Alaska, is a rather
terrifying idea of what someone would say
after waking up after a 29 year affliction of
sleeping sickness. The play is based on the
real-life epidemic which spread over Europe in
the winter of 1916-17, claiming five million
victims and confining most of them to asylums.
The excellent Judi Dench plays the awakening
patient and Anna Massey and Paul Rogers her
sister and doctor respectively. The work is
quite imaginative and riveting but unless one
has directly witnessed such a situation one
IREVIEWSH
finds oneself questioning its realism.
All three plays have in common the isolation
of the individual. The three major characters
are stranded in 'other places' and Pinter
explores their predicaments in his own unique
way. The dialogue Pinter uses is eloquent but
strange. It is not totally realistic but is the sort
of wording people would mouth if they inserted
a few seconds 'thinking gap' before replying. It
is concise and contemplative.
The plays are also totally bereft of any so-
called 'action'. They are rather like still-lifes
and in this respect could be conveyed nearly
equally well by television or even radio.
Nevertheless one has the chance of seeing top
actors and actresses in the flesh. A good
trilogy and quite a good evening.
Nick Bedding
'Family Voices' at the Cottesloe.
looked good as did the steaks, £3.15-3.45.
Of the puddings, orange slices in liquer
sauce was delicious but the Rum Baba was
revolting—an overwhelming sensation of
Hurnbioi and cheese mould. Prices vary from
75-95p.
Although the kitchens were slow to produce
food, service was attentive and very attractive
in the form of a beautifully dressed Grecian
waitress. Little touches like having wine
(House £3.45) poured and the existence of a
sweet trolley helped to make the place feel
more expensive than it is.
The food is adequate rather than amazing
but as an affordable smart restaurant it is well
worth a try.
Cordon
Bleugh
Valentine's Day Special
Monday is Valentine's Day, and if there is one
thing better than taking your loved one out for
a special meal, it is staying in and cooking it
yourself. There now follows a menu for an
authentic five-course Cordon Bleugh repast.
Hors D'Oeuvres Prawn Sundae
Fry prawns gently in a little butter and leave to
cool. Make a sauce with the juice and zest of
two oranges and a little arrowroot to thicken.
Put a prawn in each of two sundae glasses.
Add sauce, vanilla ice cream and more prawns
alternately. Top up with a measure of sherry
and garnish with grated nutmeg.
Soup Spaghetti Citron Glace
Boil spaghetti until cooked. Drain and add to a
pint of chicken stock. Squeeze in juice of one
lemon. Garnish with lemon slices and fresh
mint leaves, put into fridge for an hour. Serve
with ice cubes.
Poisson Tourte de Hareng Fume
Line pie dish with pastry. Cover bottom of pie
with skinned and boned raw kipper. Make
turnip sauce with diced turnip (from next
recipe), two tomatoes, one mashed banana, a
small tin of condensed milk and a cupful of
best bitter. Spread sauce over kippers. Top
with a layer of mushy peas. Bake in medium
oven for 45mins.
Main Course Navets au boeuf menthe
Cut off tops of two medium turnips. Scoop out
insides. Cube 8oz of sirloin steak and fry in oil
and garlic until just brown. Colour 1
/2 pt of rice
pudding mint green. Add chopped mint leaves,
a few drops of peppermint essence and some
black olives. Stir in steak cubes and stuff
turnips with mixture. (Leftovers can be kept
for toasted sandwiches.) Put tops back on
turnips and bake in medium oven for two
hours. Serve with diced avocadoes marinaded
in cold tea, and beetroot in pineapple yoghurt
and picalilli.
Dessert Gateaux Provencale
Make sauce provencale by frying one small
chopped onion with a pinch of oregano, then
add a small can of Italian tomatoes and simmer
for a few minutes until it reduces and thickens.
Pour onto wedges of Black Forest Gateau.
Garnish with one slice of hardboiled egg.
FELIX February 11, 1983 Page 13

