Tower of
Strength
The Yeomen of the Guard by Gilbert and
Sullivan, performed by Imperial College
Operatic Society in the Union Concert
Hall, Tuesday February 15 to Saturday
February 19.
* Yes, we've managed it! As a result of
extensive cooperation between Opsoc and
FELIX we arranged for a critic to attend the first
full run-through of a show, and so you are
actually able to read a review of an IC
production before the opening night. However
this does mean that at the time of writing I
have neither seen the performers in costume,
nor heard the orchestra, nor seen the chorus
taking the run-through particularly seriously;
nevertheless, I hope I have gained a good
enough impression to say whether the
production is worth seeing or not—and it
definitely is.
Before I discuss the production, though, a
word or two about the opera itself is called for,
since Yeomen is very different from the other
Savoy operettas; indeed it alone merits the title
'opera' rather than 'operetta'.
Both Gilbert and Sullivan considered it their
finest work. Gilbert takes great care both in
the characterisation and to some extent in the
plot (it doesn't end with the usual contrived
and nonsensical happy ending) and Sullivan's
music is, as always, perfectly complementary.
The opera doesn't miss the opportunity for
sparkling Gilbertian dialogue, of course, and
Sullivan's genius for melody is as evident as in
any of his works. But in Yeomen the people
have a depth of character which is never
achieved in the other operas; the story matters
and one never gets the feeling that the whole
thing is just an excuse for clever lyrics set to
pretty tunes.
The most profound character, and probably
the hardest to play well, is Jack Point, the
melancholy jester. Starting out in the
IREVIEWSI
ridiculous position of 'a salaried wit who must
sparkle with good humour twenty-four hours a
day—else he be whipped for it', he watches his
life gradually crumble about him. Despite
desperate attempts to use his talents to save
himself he finally abandons all his pretence
and collapses to the floor in tears. Not an easy
role, yet Roger Middlebrook excels in
conveying Point's mounting bewilderment,
from the finale of act one where he realises
that his plans have gone horribly wrong,
through the superb buffoonery of his
collaboration with the jailer Wilfred Shadbolt.
the gradual realisation that he has been
double-crossed by Colonel Fairfax, and the
final show-down where he is left completely
t friendless.
Mr Middlebrook is a large man; too large,
one might suppose, to play a sprightly clown.
Yet he is sufficiently quick-moving to make
Point's 'jester' scenes work well, and his size is
very much in his favour in making him appear
awkward and ill at ease in the role of a
romantic suitor when compared with the slim-
line Nick Keay as Fairfax.
Unfortunately Mr Keay doesn't come over
too well as the practised womaniser. He speaks
too quickly, behaves too unnaturally, and it is
altogether unbelievable that he could persuade
a girl to marry him in under ten minutes. But
his powerful tenor singing voice makes up for a
lot.
Ellis Pike as Wilfred Shadbolt is quite
splendid; after so many straight roles, it's good
to see that his sense of timing is keen enough
for the broad comedy of the seduction scene
with Phoebe and for his plotting with Point.
Mark Waters is equally convincing as Sergeant
Merryl, another very difficult part to play well
And Anthony Pearce, who in previous
productions has been rather stiff and
unemotional, is well cast as the stiff and
unemotional Lieutenant.
On the female side, the part of Elsie
Maynard more than anything needs a very
Alarum in the chorus over the discharge of an arquebus.
Pages-*! IFebruary 11, 19831
The last of the red-hot lovers: Wilfred
Shadbolt (Ellis Pike) being willingly seduced by
Phoebe Merryl (Sally Donegani).
confident and powerful soprano. Liz Bundy's
voice fits the part perfectly, and she is clearly
enjoying every note of the most dramatic
music Sullivan gave to a leading lady. Watch
' out particularly for the big aria 'Tis done, I am
a bride'. She acts well, too, in the few places
where good acting is necessary.
Sally Donegani as Phoebe is faced with a
role where fine acting is essential all the while
she is on stage. She manages well, producing
the right amount of sexiness (for Phoebe does
little to hide her sexuality) and distinguishing
her genuine, if immature, infatuation for
Fairfax from her feigned flirting with Wilfred.
Unfortunately she is equalled in this respect by
Cecilia Nevill, who is badly miscast as Dame
Carruthers, for she '":nds it impossible to stifle
her natural mischievous twinkle and lithe
movements—quite incompatible with the dour
old hag she is playing. Her voice is wrong, too,
lacking the powerful plummy alto which the
music demands.
The set deserves a mention, since the stage
crew are deservedly proud of the way they
have incorporated the trap-door to provide a
realistic entrance to Wilfred's dungeon. It's a
magnificent representation of the Tower of
London, and my only criticism is the usual one
that it's simply too big. and on a stage as small
as that in the IC Concert Hall it is very important
to allow a large chorus as much room to
manoeuvre as possible.
For this reason the set must take its share of
the blame for the way the chorus of villagers
often march straight on stage, each to a
preordained place squeezed tight against the
set, watching the empty space centre stage
and waiting for the action to begin. Their
singing was accurate and strong throughout
though, unlike the chorus of yeomen who
strayed horribly out of tune more than once.
But the faults are all trifling compared with
the strong points of the show, Yeomen is one of
the best English light operas, and it's a shame
people deride it because it was written by
Gilbert and Sullivan. Opsoc's production
brings out all the laughter, the magic, the
philosophy and the tragedy 'one by one and all
at once'. Oh yes, and I cried at the end, like I
always do.
See it.
Martin S Taylor
• • • • • • • • FELIX

