PINCCCHIC
Sex, Scandal, Intrigue - The UGM
Hangover
What a to do there has been at Primelia
College this week! After the U G M motion on
Sexually Explicit Thoughts In Union Officer's
Minds, there has been a great debate over
whether the motion was passed, and what the
majority was. Enter the combatants—a
spokesperson from Women In Men's Private
Sector, Michael Newperson, Hugh Southern-
Comfort from Hughs In Science and
Technology (HIST—Hugh Is Still Trying) and
Union dictator Stephen Goldameir.
Let me fill you in:
The W I M P S spokesperson, since it
considers men and women to be equal, always
lies to give both sides a fighting chance.
Stephen Goldameir, the original equivo-
cator, perhaps, tells alternately truth then lies,
but not necessarily starting with the truth.
Hugh Southern-Comfort, the eternal
optimist, tells nothing but the strict, rigorous
truth.
All three phoned Nick Pain, the U G M
Chairperson, simultaneously, and left him with
these messages;
"The next statement is false. The last
statement was true. If I am telling a lie, then the
motion was defeated. The majority was a clear
majority."
"The motion was passed, and this statement
is false."
"The motion was clearly defeated."
. Now, a statement is that which ends with a
full stop, so can you tell me who said what
and what the result of the election was (if the
majority is not clear, then it is obvious).
Good luck everyone! j
Solutions, comments, criticisms to me at the
FELIX Office by Wednesday, 1:00pm, £5 from
Menda-Bike for a randomly selected entry.
Last Week's Solution
Return to Killinbuckton
Never mind about how many moves the train
took, the quicket way to turn the train round is
shown below. Of the five people to enter, C N
Goh, a P G of Elec Eng, was selected as this
week's winner, and can collect his £5 cheque
from the FELIX Office after 1:30pm on
Monday. This solution does assume that while
a coach is stood on the part of the track one
coach length long, other coaches can move
past it.
Three footnotes this week:
Firstly, I'm thinking of running a few more
difficult, non-prize puzzles, requiring the use of
higher mathematics. I already have a few; from
Dr Pretzel I have the problem of trying to
escape in a rowing boat (already nicknamed
Beauty and the Beast in the FELIX Office),
from Martin S Taylor the Undergraduate and
the Porters problem and the Car Parking
problem. I could do with a few more up my
sleeve before I launch into anything new. Has
anyone got any favourite problems?
Secondly, I apologise for this week's
puzzle—it started out as a great idea involving
PIST (People In Science and Technology—
otherwise known as the Royal School of
Moans), the Royal School of Herpes, some
FELIX hacks etc, but by the time I'd spent
three hours trying to work out logical paths,
some of the enthusiasm had gone, and you
now hold in your hands the rather feeble dregs
of that once great puzzle.
Finally. I've received several complaints
about FELIX Victorious. The first printed
solution, several people claim, has no set of
scores corresponding to it. However, this is in
fact a very clever solution submitted by Michael
Begley of Maths 2, who pointed out that I had
not actually said that each team had played
each other once, and that it may in fact be the
case that we were half way through a 'home-
and-away' competition in which each team
played each other twice. However, there is
another one of those tables to which there may
well be no solution—1 think I was given a
solution, but I threw them all away last week.
Sorry, Perola, I can't substantiate my claim
(and I can't be bothered to!).
FELIX is published by the Editor for and on behalf of Imperial College Union Publications Board, and is printed by the Union Print Unit. Prince Consort Road. London SW7 2BB
Tel. 01-589 51)1 Ext 1048 or Internal 2881. Editor: Martin S Taylor; Business Manager: Peter A Rodgers; Advertising Manager: Nick Thexton. Copyright FELIX I9S3

