IMPERIAL COLLEGE OF SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
ACCOMMODATION
Introduction
This guide is intended to give you an idea of what the College has to offer
in the way of accommodation and of the regulations which control the
way in which the accommodation is allocated. Hopefully, this will help
you to choose the type of accommodation which best suits your
particular requirements and will save you from the effort of making
applications which are unlikely to be successful.
The guide gives information about the three basic types of College
accommodation. Purpose built Halls of Residence which are all on
campus; Student Houses which are large Victorian houses converted
into student accommodation, most of which are concentrated in Evelyn
Gardens, about fifteen minutes walk from the College; and, Head
Tenancies, which are not owned by the College, but are leased from
landlords and sub-let to students. These are situated in Kensington,
Earls Court and Hammersmith.
Since there is not all that much difference between individual Halls
and between individual Houses, the guide gives emphasis to the Head
Tenancies, which tend to be much more varied.
Application forms for students already at the College will be available
from the Student Services Office, 15 Princes Gardens and should be
completed and returned by Friday, March 11.
How College Accommodation is Allotted
A. Residences
Halls, Houses
The following extract from the 'Imperial College Student Residence
Halls and Houses Regulations and Information' makes it crystal clear.
Note particularly the underlined bits.
5. The following principles shall be followed in considering applications for
residence:
a) The normal period of residence in Hall or House for student
members shall be one year"
b) Not more than 10% may be selected for a second year's residence,
but no such members may reside tor more than two years in Halls "or
Houses except as provided in 5(d) below and Selkirk and Vickers'
Scholars-
c) The proportion of postgraduates in any Hall or House shall be about
15% of the student members; any IC undergraduate becoming a
postgraduate will requalify for entry.
d) If a student having been resident for two years, is elected an officer
of the Union, as listed in Regulation 2 above, he shall be permitted to
reside for a third year, but none other than the President, Deputy
President and the Secretary shall be permitted to reside in Halls or
Houses for more than three years.
e) In applying Regulations 5(b) and 5(d) above, students who take up
residence during the first half-sessions shall be considered as re-
applicants for any further applications. Students taking up residence
during the second half-session will be considered as new applicants for
the following application.
Applying as a New Undergraduate Student
All new undergraduate students who are unable to live at home are
guaranteed accommodation in either an Intercollegiate or Imperial
College Residence. It is envisaged that most of those who could live at
home but would, nevertheless, prefer to spend their first year in
Residence will be able to do so.
A number of new undergraduates will be asked to apply to
Intercollegiate Halls" on the understanding that if their application is
unsuccessful they will be assured of Residence at Imperial College.
Applying as a New Applicant
It is the policy of the Students' Residence Committee to attempt to
provide residence places for all third year undergraduates who have not
lived in Residence before. It is anticipated that this year we will be able to
offer places to all third year new applicants, and also to a number of
second year new applicants.
Applying as a Re-applicant
The reason for having a re-applicant system is that it is thought that if
there are a handful of people in each Hall or Houses who have had the
experience of living in residence and have shown that they have a
contribution to make to the life of the community, then this will make
any given Hall or House a happier place to live in.
As it says in the regulations, re-applicants are chosen by a 'sub-
committee of each Hall and House Committee whose members have not
applied for a further year in residence.'
The significance of these regulations to your personal strategy for
getting a place to live for next year lies in the fact that unless the
committee which does the selection knows who you are, your chance of
succeeding in getting in as a re-applicant must be non-existant. So, for
example, if you are living in a student House this year, it would in most
cases be a waste of time applying to live next year in Hall.
Similarly, anyone who lived in residence in their first year would find it
very difficult to get back for their third year if they had lost contact with
the people in that particular Hall or House in the intervening year.
Applying as a Postgraduate
Application forms for postgraduate students on course now who have
not lived in Hall before as postgraduates must be returned by Friday,
March 11. Application forms from new postgraduates should be
returned to Student Services by September 1.
Linstead Extension
Head Tenancies
Head Tenancy applications are not affected by whether you have lived in
Residence before or by what year you are in. Most of the Head Tenancy
accbmmodation is in the form of flats or double rooms and the main
requirement for applying is that you should apply with one or more
others and that you will only be considered for accommodation suitable
for the size of the group. The most important thing is to concentrate on
getting together a group of individuals who will be reliable and who are
likely to be able to live together successfuly for a whole session.
This year, for the first time, we will be operating a system which will
enable new undergraduate students to live in the Head Tenancies. There
are no plans at present to enable new postgraduate students to live in
Head Tenancy flats, mainly because they have a high proportion of
shared rooms and most postgraduates need single rooms. It is likely,
however, that new postgraduates will be able to take up single rooms in
those Head Tenancies which have them, as a result of some students
who are offered the rooms in May, subsequently turning them down.
1

