HALLS OF RESIDENCE
BEIT HALL Warden: Dr C Halls
I his consists of the 'Old' and 'New' Hostels, both situated in the Beit
Quadrangle, Prince Consort Road, with accommodation for 87 men and
28 women. Each residence has an individual study-bedroom fitted with a
washbasin. There are shared kitchen facilities. The Warden and two
sub-wardens live on the premises.
GARDEN HALL Warden: Mr J Turk
Oarden Hall is situated on the north side of Princes Gardens and
provides residence for 78 men in both single and shared rooms
Communal facilities include a kitchen, study room, television room and
common room. The Warden and sub-warden live on the oremi
'••<mmmmmmt8m&
MONTPELIER HALL Warden: Dr D M Monro
This Hall was purchased by the College for the start of the 1981/2
session. It is situated in the bosky back streets of Knightsbridge,
surrounded by cobbled mews and a stones throw from Harrods—the
world's most famous corner shop!
The Hall houses 78 postgraduates in single rooms. There are also
three double rooms for married postgraduate couples. It has excellent
self-catering facilities, common room, T V lounge and garden. One sub-
warden lives on the premises.
SOUTHSIDE HALLS, PRINCES GARDENS
Wardens: Dr P Wfjlowitt, Falmouth-Keogh; Dr M H R Hutchinson,
Tizard & Selkirk
These three Halls accommodate 380 men and women as follows:
Falmouth-Keogh Hall: 159 men and 31 women
Selkirk Hall: 48 men and 24 women
Tizard Hall: 94 men and 24 women
Each resident has an individual study-bedroom fitted with a wash-
basin. On the gallery floor of each Hall there is a communal area
incorporating sitting-rooms, quiet room, kitchen and laundry room.
Situated below these Halls are College refectories and general common
room areas. The Warden and sub-wardens live on the premises.
During the Easter and Summer vacations the majority of the rooms in
Linstead and Southside Halls of Residence will not be available for letting
to students, so residents may not be able to remain in their Halls during
these periods. However, alternative accommodation will be available in
Beit and "Weeks Halls and the Student Houses.
LINSTEAD HALL Warden: lir ...
Linstead Hall, together with its extension, is located on the east side of
Princes Gardens and accommodates 164 men and 24 women in both
single and double study-bedrooms. This particular Hall provides an
evening meal on weekdays. Each set of rooms has its own kitchenette.
Social and recreational areas are located on two gallery levels with the
dining room on the ground floor. The Warden and two sub-wardens live
on fhe premises.
WEEKS HALL Warden: Dr D M Monro
1 his Hall is situated in the north-east of Princes Gardens and provides
accommodation for 50 men and 16 women. Each resident has an
individual study-bedroom fitted with a wash basin and there is a
kitchenette on each floor. A large common room is provided on the
ground floor. The Warden and sub-warden live on the premises

