Flats and rooms in the Head Tenancy Scheme
Hamlet and Cambridge Gardens, Lexham Gardens, Gerrard Mansions
and Sinclair Gardens are all properties which have been rented by the
College in order to provide an additional supply of guaranteed
accommodation.
They are all places which, without the College's involvement, would
either not be available as student accommodation or would be let at
much higher rents than those which the College has been able to
negotiate. For example, Lexham Gardens would not be let to students
at all if the College hadn't taken them on and even the most expensive
flats in Lexham Gardens are around £5 per week per person cheaper
than comparable private sector flats in the same area.
Another advantage which the Head Tenancy flats have over places in
the private sector is that they give you the opportunity to live close to
other Imperial College students, so you don't have to feel that you are
going home to an alien environment.
Nevertheless, Head Tenancies are essentially private sector
accommodation which the College has acquired wholesale, and so there
are things which distinguish them from the College Residences. For
example, the College has to pay rent on its head tenancies during the
short vacations and this cost has to be passed on to the people living in
the accommodation — although 'home' students who spend the
vacations living in their accommodation should be able to claim most of
the rent back in the form of supplementary benefit. Another point is that
the College does not have the same degree of control over furnishings
and maintenance as it does with its own residences. The role of the
Warden or Student Manager in the Head Tenancies is very different
from the role of Hall or House Wardens.
Generally speaking, however, there is no respect in which the
College's head tenancies are worse than their private sector
counterparts, and there are many respects in which they are much
better.
The head tenancies provide a wide range of accommodation, from
single flats and bedsits to eight-bedded flats. To help you decide which
would suit you best, here is a brief resume of the various properties.
HAMLET & CAMBRIDGE GARDENS
Hamlet Gardens is situated in Hammersmith, a few minutes walk from
Ravenscourt Park underground station. All the accommodation there is
in the form of flats which range in size from three to eight-bedded units.
There are flats in Hamlet Gardens for groups of three, four, six or seven
and eight totalling over 210 beds in all. The flats vary in their levels of
decoration and furnishings but even if you end up in one of the less well
equipped ones there is plenty of scope for re arranging things so that
you end up with a pleasant place to live.
One big advantage of living in Hamlet Gardens is that the rents tend to
be lower than in the head tenancies closer to College.
All the flats have their own lounge, bathroom and kitchen, and
although most of them only have shared bedrooms, several have single
bedrooms as well. Recently, a number of high quality, centrally heated
flats have been acquired in Hamlet Gardens. Additionally, central
heating is being installed in all the flats over a three year period.
group of four and one for six. It is situated close to Ladbroke Grove
underground station and within walking distance of Notting Hill.
4

