T A B L E OF HEAD T E N A N C I E S
Property
HAMLET GARDENS
LEXHAM GARDENS
SINCLAIR GARDENS
2
14 I 24 i 4
GERRARD MANSIONS
PENTHOUSE & MEWS
CAMBRIDGE GARDENS
85 LEXHAM GARDENS
5
10
1
11
r
HOW TO APPLY
Points to Remember
Applications for flats will only be accepted from groups. This means that
if you want to live in a flat or a double room/flatlet, you will need to apply
as a group of two, three, four, five, six, seven or eight. If you apply on
your own, you can only be considered for a single room/bedsit.
If you are also applying to a Hall of Residence or to a Student House,
your application to the Hall or House will be withdrawn once you have
been allocated to a place in a Head Tenancy.
You can only make one application to Head Tenancies.
This means that if, for example, you apply in a group, you cannot also
make a separate application on your own, nor can you make an-
application with another group.
This year a new option is being offered whereby applicants can elect
to take a 51 week tenancy. Rents will be the same as for a 39 week
tenancy but, at the end of the letting period, a rent refund of 8% of the
total rent payable will be available, subject to all bills having been paid
etc.
This option applies to Cambridge Gardens, Sinclair Gardens, Gerrard
Mansions, 85 Lexham Gardens and the Penthouse and Mews flats. In
processing applications strong preference will be given to those opting
for a 51 week tenancy.
Group Applications
1. You will need: one orange form for the whole group and a grey card
for each member of the group—so a group for four would need one
orange form and four grey cards.
2. The person whose name is at the top of the list on the orange form
will receive all correspondence relating to the application. Thus the two
sticky labels should be filled in, one giving that persons departmental
address so that we can notify him/her of the outcome of the application
at the beginning of the summer term. The other label should be
addressed to his/her expected whereabouts in early September so that
we can send any additional information that may be necessary
3. Look through the table of Head Tenancies and sec which ones
have accommodation suitable for a group of your size. If there are more
than one, place them in order of preference by writing '1, or 2 etc' in the
appropriate spaces on the form. If there is only one, put '1' in the
appropriate space.
COLLEGE FLATS
College Flats
Although these are distinct from Head Tenancies, they are let and
managed in the same way as the Head Tenancy flats.
Southside, Penthouse Flats
These two flats used to be occupied by wardens, and consequently, offer
a very high standard of accommodation. Each flat consists of two single
bedrooms, one double, sitting room, kitchen and bathroom. The flats
are suitable for up to four people. The rent is inclusive of heating, lighting
and panoramic views of London.
4. Fill in the rest of the orange form.
5. Each member of the group must then complete a grey card.
6. Return the orange form together with A L L the grey cards to the
"Student Services Office by Friday, March 11, 1983.
Single Applications
1. You will need one orange form, one grey card and two address
labels. The labels should be completed as follows: one with your
departmental address, one addressed to your expected whereabouts in.
early September so that we can send any additional information that
may then be necessary.
2. Lexham Gardens has accommodation suitable for people
applying on their own. The chart shows the number of places that it has.
3. Return the completed form and card to Student Services, 15
Princes Gardens, by Friday, March 11, 1983.
General Points
1. The way the allocation system works, the chances are that you will
either get your first choice or nothing.
2. If you are applying in a group, experience has shown that problems
arise when smokers share with non-smokers. Please give this point
careful consideration when choosing your group.
Ail students who accept accommodation in double rooms and flats will
be jointly and severally responsible for the whole rent for their
accommodation.
Halls and Houses
You need to fill in two address labels and the appropriate form and
card.
There are different forms and cards to fill in depending on whether
you are a new applicant or a re-applicant.
These are as follows:
New applicant undergraduate and postgraduates: green form and
card.
Re-applicant: blue form and card.
The address labels need to be completed as follows: one labal
addressed to yourself in your department so that we can tell you, at the
beginning of the summer term, whether or not you have got a place.
One label addressed to yourself at wherever you will be in early*
September so that, if your application is successful, we can tell you
which room you will be in.
New nostgraduate and undergraduate students are sent different1
application forms, and information by the College Registry.
78 Princes Gate Mews
By far the trendiest flat on offer, it consists of two double bedrooms,'
lounge, kitchen and bathroom. It also contains the most bijou attic.sinqle•
bedroom that you are ever likely to see. The flat is suitable for four and
comes under the supervision of one of the Southside Wardens.
9 Princes Gardens
Situated next to Garden Hall, this house contains five flats for four, one,
for three and one for five. These flats are not available for letting
February/March as it is likely that they will be occupied by new
undergraduate students next session.
Robert Pryor House, 53 Evelyn Gardens
This house, comprising three flats for four, one for five and two for two is,
being reserved for new undergraduate students.

