WHAT YOU WILL BE PAYING
Here is a table of rents for this session. Like everything else, they will
probably be higher for the next session, but at least it will give you an
idea of what it costs oer week.
Head Tenancies
Hamlet/Cambridge Gardens
Singles from £20.00
Doubles from £17.50
College Flats
9 Princes Gardens
Gerrard Mansions
Singles £20.00
Sinclair Gardens from £23.00
Halls
Beit
Southside & \V<vU:
Linstead Singles
Linstead Doubles
Fremantle
Singles
Doubles
eitvOO 22.00
£2'1.00
£32
£25.00
from £25
from £20
Student Houses and Garden
Hall
Singles £20.80
Doubles £16.00
Triples £12.00
Lexham Gardens
Singles
Doubles
£23-25.50
£20-22.50
from £17.00 Robert Pryor Housefrom £17.00 Penthouse Flats £120 pci week Mews Flat £100 per week
ALL APPLICATIONS RECEIVED BEFORE THE CLOSING DATE ARE GIVEN EQUAL CON-
SIDERATION, SO DON'T RUSH, GIVE YOURSELF TIME T O THINK ABOUT WHAT Y O U ARE
GOING T O APPLY FOR AND WHO Y O U ARE GOING T O APPLY WITH.
ALTERNATIVE ACCOMMODATION
If you don't want to live in College Accommodation, or if your
application is unsuccessful, you need to consider other ways of finding
accommodation.
University of London Intercollegiate Halls of Residence
Most of these Halls are situated in Bloomsbury which is conveniently
placed for travel to College.
Intercollegiate Halls differ from Imperial College Halls in that they give
you an opportunity to meet students from other colleges and to mix with
people who are not all scientists. All the Intercollegiate Halls provide full
board (except for lunches Monday to Friday).
Male Halls
Commonwealth Hall, Cartwright Gardens, WC1H 7HU
Accommodation is provided for 412 male students, mostly in single study
bedrooms, all centrally heated. There are several common rooms, a library, a
bar, drip-dry rooms and pantries, a coin-operated laundry, squash-courts,
table-tennis and billiard rooms, a music practice room and television rooms,
and tennis courts in the Gardens.
Connaught Hall, Tavistock Square, WClh 9EX
The Hall is a University residence for male students, and is situated in the
University precinct. Single study bedrooms and a few double bedrooms,
centrally heated, are provided for 195 residents.
Female Halls
Canterbury Hall, Cartwright Gardens, WC1H 9EE
222 women students are accommodated in 214 single and 4 double study
bedrooms, all with central heating. There are common-rooms, a concert hall,
library, launderette, games room, music practice facilities, squash and tennis
courts. The majority of students share a bathroom with one other student
only.
College Hall, Malet Street, WC1E 7HZ
This Hall is a new building in the University precinct in which 222 residents
are accommodated in 108 single and 57 double study bedrooms. All rooms
are centrally heated and have hand-basins. There are common-rooms, a
library, games-room, studio, hairdressing room and laundries. All first year
students are normally expected to share.
Nutford House, Brown Street. W1H t>AH
This Hall is situated off George Street and is three minutes walk from Marble
Arch underground station. Accommodation is provided for 190 students in
150 single and 20 double rooms. There are laundries, a television room, a
study room, common-room and small bar: and central heating throughout.
Mixed Ha//s
Hughes Parry Hall, Cartwright Gardens. WC1H 9EF
This is the newest of the Intercollegiate Halls. Accommodation is provided on
fourteen floors for 280 men and women students in 248 single and 16 double
study bedrooms. The Hall remains open to students throughout the year and
a limited number of undergraduates and postgraduates are accepted during
the summer vacation. The whole of the Hall is centrally heated. There are
common-rooms, television rooms, libraries, quiet studies, music practice
rooms and a coin-operated laundry. On each of the bedroom floors is a
drying room and pantry with fridges and facilities for making hot drinks and
snacks. There are vending machines and a bar in the main common room,
two squash courts and a games room. Tennis courts are situated in the
Gardens. Two exhibitions (one music and one computing assistant) are
offered annually, details of these can be obtained from the Warden. There
are computer terminals with dial-up facilities to most of the main frames
within the University.
International Hall, Brunswick Square, WC1N IAS
Accommodation is provided for 430 students in 410 single and 10 double
study bedrooms on seven floors. Half the accommodation is reserved for
students from overseas. The Hall is centrally heated and open throughout
the year. On each floor there are common-rooms (some with TV). There is a
computer room, a library and a dark room. On the lower ground floor there
is an extensive dining hal I, bar facilities, launderette, games room, squash
court, music practice rooms, three television lounges and a reception room.
There is an active SCR and JCR, a Hall Journal, M usic and Drama groups,
Exploration group and Camera Club with annual photo and art exhibitions.
Postgraduates (mixed)
Lillian Penson Hall, Talbot Square, London'W2 ITT, 01-262 2081.
How to Apply
Apply on one form to all those Halls for which you are eligible (on the
basis of sex and postgraduate/undergraduate status). The application
form can be obtained from any of the Halls and should be returned to
the Warden of the Hall which you would most like to live in.
Closing Dates
Students already at the University: April 30 1983.
New male students and mixed Halls: May 31 1983.
New female students: May 15 1983.
Private Sector Flats and Bedsits
Addresses of places which you can book for next session should be
available from Student Services during the Summer term. Most of this
kind of accommodation, however, is not advertised until September. If
you want to know more about private sector housing come into Student
Services and pick up a copy of our accommodation guide.
Hostels and Hotels
There are a number of student hostels run by organisations other than
the University. In addition, there is a variety of hotels which give special
reduced rates to students living there on a long term basis. Lists of these
are available from Student Services.
Fremantle Bar

