12 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON FELIX
12.12.2014
Science Editors: James Bezer & Lauren Ratcliffe
Science science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
A vital development or too little too late?
Joshua Emden looks at the implications of the US-China emissions deal
On 12th
November, the US and
China announced a historic
bilateral agreement to reduce
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions
amounting to a 26-28% reduction
by 2025 (from a 2005 base) for the
US and a peak in emissions in 2030
at the latest for China. Whilst the
implications for the Paris Summit
in 2015 seem positive, there are still
question marks over how the US and
China will actually achieve these new
targets, or indeed, if they can be seen
as achievements in the first place.
For the US, these new targets
have unfortunately coincided with
the Republican Party being elected
to take control of both houses of
Congress in 2015.
Given the Party’s traditional
resistance to climate change
legislation, President Obama may
find himself in a protracted struggle
to make good on his promises – a
luxury which the two remaining years
of his Presidency do not afford him.
Ultimately too, whilst the
agreement with China is classified
in the US as a pollution measure
and hence determined by Executive
Action, Congress is still able to
scrutinise all budgets and could easily
stall any emissions cutbacks until
President Obama’s term has ended.
To some extent, the Obama
Administration has already taken
steps to reduce future emissions with
the US Environmental Protection
Agency (EPA) this summer calling for
power plants to cut CO2 emissions by
30% by 2030 from a 2005 base.
On the other hand, given how high
US emissions (table above) have been
in the last two decades, and long
before (see World Resource Institute
for more information here), one of
the biggest questions that still hangs
over the US and Western economies
in general is whether historical
emissions should be accounted for
when setting reduction targets.
For developing countries, it has
long been a bone of contention that
industrialised nations who have
historically been the biggest cause
of climate change should attempt to
establish a deal that does not include
this at the expense of their own
economies’ industrialisation through
‘traditional’ means.
For a long time, one of the key
arguments made alongside the
historical emissions debate was that
the US and China, the world’s two
largest polluters (table top right), had
made no progress so there was no
reason for other nations to take the
initiative as any action would have
been marginal by comparison.
Given that China, was, and still
is, part of the push for historical
emissions, its commitments are
arguably all the more important as
Total US greenhouse gas emissions 1990-2012. Image: EPA
an marker to others that, despite
differences, a deal in Paris still has
potential.
Moreover of course, China is the
world’s largest consumer of coal
and, according to the Global Carbon
Project, was responsible for 28% of
global GHG emissions in 2013 (with
the US at 14%), a rise from 2012-2013
of 4.2% in the country’s emissions.
As such, whilst the ambiguity of
“by at least 2030” is frustrating, the
burden for action seems to weigh
much more heavily on China. Given
its prodigious fossil fuel growth, even
with 24% of the world’s renewable
energy capacity according to this
year’s Global Status Report, the
importance of this target cannot be
overstated.
Main image: Wikimedia commons
Contributions to global temperature increase by top 20 greenhouse gas
emitters Image: Concordia University

