14 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON FELIX
12.12.2014
Games Editors: Max Eggl & Calum Skene
Games games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
‘Twas the Night before Launch Day
Matthew Allinson and his kerbals wish you merry christmas
‘Twas the night before launch day, when all through the base,
The Kerbals were excited, about going to space
The Ugly Duck IX stood all fuelled and ready
With its 5 liquid fuel engines, keeping it steady.
Atop sat a probe, laden with experiments
And the scientists were drunk, with seasonal merriment,
No one was sure, how heavy the damn thing was,
But we launched it anyway, y’know just because.
We achieved low earth orbit without too much bother
And over the planet our craft gracefully hover’d*
Mission control toasted their mulled wine and drank
But no one paid regard for the fuel in the tank,
After they’d downed all the booze in the room,
The engineers turned Ugly Duck to point at the moon.
Mince pies were bought out, moods couldn’t get higher!
When the probe reached its manoeuvre node, Capcom yelled “Fire!”
The Trajectory swung out, to an orbital capture.
“We’re off to the Moon” we all cried out in rapture.
But, Oh No! Oh Bother! I’m such a festive fool.
Too late, I realise, I’ve not got enough fuel!
We skip across space to the lunar S.O.I
Madly doing calculations whilst eating a mince pie:
Burning the dregs of our fuel at periapsis
Might make it possible for us still to do this!
Success! It worked! We achieved lunar orbit
It’s highly eccentric but who gives a shit?
We do our experiments, so the mission’s been worth it,
But now I say sod it, let’s try for the surface.
At apogee we burn retrograde, the last of our LOx
And the water of the Rubicon, soaks into our socks.
We’ve still got the monoprop, used for positioning
Maybe it will be enough to cushion us for landing
We race towards the surface at 1000 miles per hour
Monoprop isn’t helping, it begins to transpire.
Our RCS thrusters burn out completely uselessly
And deploy the landing legs anyway, rather optimistically
We reach the lunar surface at 200 mps
And catastrophically explode in a god-almighty mess
So the moral of our sad mission this yule-time
Is always make sure you’ve got gas in the fuel line.
*yes I know orbiting isn’t hovering, stop writing in.

