THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON 17
12.12.2014
FELIX
Film film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Film Editors: Ellen Mathieson, John Park & Jack Steadman
The unmissable top 10 lists of 2014
JOHN PARK
SECTION EDITOR
FRED FYLES
SECTION WRITER
Photo: empireonline.com Photo: thedissolve.com
Photo: epitomeabsolute
Photo: celebstoner.com Photo: forbes.com
Photo: x17online.com Photo: radiotimes.com
Photo: deadline.com Photo: sundance.org
10. 20 Feet From Stardom
An incredibly insightful
documentary that looks at the lives
of incredibly talented singers who
provide the backing vocals.
9. The Babadook
Australian actress Essie Davis
provides a stunning performance
in this year’s most intelligent,
emotionally charged horror film.
8. August: Osage County
It is an acting masterclass packed full
of juicy performances, larger-than-life
characters, and the most memorable
dinner scene you’ll see this year.
6. Dallas Buyers Club
The McConaissance went well under
way with Matthew McConaughey
deservedly winning his Best Actor
Oscar in this moving AIDS drama.
5. Nightcrawler
Jake Gyllenhaal is a charming
sociopath who wishes to make it to the
very top. It’s a fascinating thriller as
well as a character study.
4. The Wolf of Wall Street
Leonardo DiCaprio is on top form
as usual in Martin Scorsese’s highly
energetic, completely uninhibited
look at Wall Street corruption.
3. The Imitation Game
The true story of British hero
Alan Turing has been wonderfully
translated for the big screen with
Cumberbatch perfecting the role.
2. 12 Years a Slave
A very worthy Best Picture winner
earlier this year at the Oscars, Steve
McQueen’s unflinching look at
American slavery is unforgettable.
1. Boyhood
Richard Linklater has managed the
impossible: filming over 12 years
and flawlessly putting everything
together, he has made a true classic.
2014 will surely go down as a vintage year for cinema. The
slight delay in release dates between the US and the UK
meant that we began the year with a spate of Academy
Award nominees – and eventual winners – including Steve
McQueen’s 12 Years A Slave, Martin Scorsese’s The Wolf of
Wall Street, and Spike Jonze’s Her. To many it seemed like
the year had peaked too early, and that nothing would live
up to the films released in these first couple of months;
they were wrong.
In particular 2014 was a year of return for a number
of directors who had been absent for a while; the Coen
brothers delighted with their sharp, pithy film Inside
Llewyn Davis, which was centred around the Greenwich
Village folk scene of the 1960s; Mike Leigh made a
welcome return to the screen after a four year absence
with his biopic Mr Turner, in which Timothy Spall gave a
performance of a lifetime as the seminal British painter,
picking up a Best Actor award at Cannes; and Wes
Anderson brought his trademark symmetry back into the
cinema with The Grand Budapest Hotel, a snappy candybox
of a film that featured a procession of celebrity cameos
and taught us that Ralph Fiennes was actually extremely
funny. Not to forget Joanna Hogg’s Exhibition, in which the
breakdown of a relationship is explored in an unsettlingly
surreal manner.
And it was not the UK/US film industries that proved
successful this year. Pawel Pawłikowski’s Ida was an
unforeseen masterpiece; with its monochromatic palette,
jazzy soundtrack, and idiosyncratic framing style, it was
like watching Poland through a Nouvelle Vague lens. From
across the channel we had the Dardenne brother’s Two
Days, One Night, in which Marion Cotillard cemented
her reputation as a jewel in French cinema’s crown, and
Stranger By The Lake, a shimmering, Hitchcockian mirage
of a film that blended horror and homoeroticism.
But the main showdown this year took place between
two diametrically opposite films, perhaps representing
the head and the heart. On the side of the heart we had
Boyhood, Richard Linklater’s epic tale of a boy’s childhood
and adolescence; filmed over a period of twelve years,
it seemed both as intimate as a whispered secret and as
broad as a Texan sky. Watching Mason grow up in front
of our very eyes, from queuing up at a Harry Potter book
launch to drinking his first beer, Boyhood acts both as
a celebration of youth and a clear-eyed reminder of a
childhood past.
However good Boyhood may have been, for me it was just
beaten by the British sci-fi film Under the Skin, in which
Jonathan Glazer had Scarlett Johansson wander around
Scotland as an extra-terrestrial. With an almost clinical
logic to it, Under the Skin is as cold and unforgiving as deep
space; from its visuals, to its camerawork, to the acting
talent, Under the Skin is nothing short of a masterpiece,
not to mention its breathtaking, brutal soundtrack from
composer Mica Levi. A brilliant exploration of alienation,
modern isolation, and the folly of humanity, Under the
Skin absolutely captivates, dragging you down into its icy
depths.
7. Two Days, One Night
Marion Cotillard is mesmerising in
the Dardenne Brothers’ effortlessly
touching, socially relevant piece that
powerfully resonates.
Photo: redbrick.me
10. Mr Turner
9. The Grand Budapest Hotel
8. Inside Llewyn Davis
7. Two Days, One Night
6. Only Lovers Left Alive
5. Stranger by the Lake
4. Ida
3. Exhibition
2. Boyhood
1. Under the Skin Photo: theverge.com
Photo: sundance Photo: tvbomb
Photo: nextpro Photo: telegraph
Photo: flixist Photo: redbrick
Photo: guardian Photo: guardian
Photo: dailymail.co.uk

