imperialcollegeunion.org
Christmas menu & opening hours
Read our NSS Response 2014
Our fourth annual National Student Survey (NSS) Response has been gathered.
It is an important event in our ongoing dialogue with College and our members
about continually improving education at Imperial College London.
Imperial College Union has a vital role to play in amplifying the student voice,
ensuring our members’ views and opinions are heard and acted upon across
the entire College. The NSS asks final-year Undergraduates to reflect upon their
whole experience at Imperial, and as a result offers a wealth of insights into the
lived experiences of our members across their entire degree.
A constant theme of past NSS Responses - as well as our PTES Response,
Rep Week suggestions and the Academic Representation Network - is student
dissatisfaction with the feedback they receive on their coursework and exams.
Reflecting the importance of this issue, we have themed this whole Response
around feedback. Our position on feedback is set out at the start of the
document, and in each chapter, we have included a brief discussion on how
the aspect of academic quality covered in that chapter can relate to feedback
quality. We have also clearly highlighted any recommendations that could
benefit feedback. Some of our recommendations are reiterated from previous
responses. This doesn’t mean however that other recommendations from
previous reports have been successfully implemented or trialled and we
encourage the College to continue working on these.
We hope that this document is useful to academic and professional staff in
many regards, and provides a useful toolkit for any College staff member or
student representative who wants to address feedback across the institution.
To download a PDF of the NSS Response 2014 go to:
imperialcollegeunion.org/nssresponses
Union Page
FiveSixEight is the perfect place to head for lunch after lectures or for a lively
drink with a group of friends in the evening. Don’t miss out on their Christmas
Dinner menu, offering a Turkey or Nut Roast with all the trimmings!
The Union’s commercial service will be open for a limited time over the
Christmas period and on 19 December, the h-bar will be opening at the earlier
time of 12pm.
To find out the Bar, Union Shop and Shop Extra opening times go to:
imperialcollegeunion.org/christmas-hours
The Student Academic Choice Awards - or SACAs for short - are Imperial
College Union’s flagship event for empowering students to recognise, reward
and celebrate excellence among College staff.
Eight awards in total cover all faculties, departments and campuses, as well as
all modes of study – undergraduate, taught postgraduate and doctoral research.
Every student at Imperial will have the chance to recognise the innovation, skill,
engagement and energy of the staff they learn with.
Find out more online and nominate at: imperialcollegeunion.org/sacas
Nominations are open!

