THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON 29
12.12.2014
FELIX
Arts Editor: Fred Fyles & Kamil McClelland
Arts arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Tatiana Bruni, The Terrorist, Costume Design for The Bolt, 1931, gouache
and watercolour on paper. Photo: GRAD and St Petersburg Museum of
Theatre and Music
Interview: Fred Fyles speaks to Bolt curator Alex Chirac
Q: How did you first hear about
The Bolt, and what made you want
to run an exhibition on it?
A: We were approached by the
St. Petersburg State Museum of
Theatre and Music with the idea of
collaborating on an exhibition. We
were of course delighted to work
with them on such a project, and
Bolt seemed an ideal subject, both
because we thought GRAD would
provide a great space to display
the works, and also because we
would be introducing an unusual
and relatively unknown topic to a
London audience
Q: Were there any particular
challenges trying to bring
a ballet – a production so
kinetic and dynamic – into
the exhibition space? Was it
difficult to try and convey the
expressiveness of the ballet’s
movements?
A: Incorporating movement
into an exhibition space inevitably
has its own challenges. However,
the photographs and drawings
themselves are dynamic and
vibrant, and give a great impression
of the energy that the performance
as a whole would have had.
Q: One of the major focusses
of the exhibition is the work by
designer Tatiana Bruni, whose
costume designs are delightfully
bold. It seems – to me at least
– that her work deserves to sit
alongside Rodchenko and Popova
in Russian art history, and yet
she seems to have been largely
forgotten. Why do you think this
is?
A: They are indeed charming and
witty, but 1931 proved to be too late
for constructivist-inspired design as
Socialist Realism was gaining ground.
Bruni was almost a generation
younger than Popova or Rodchenko,
and was not really part of the same
avant garde movement, although she
was influenced by their aesthetics,
such as the ROSTA window
propaganda designs. Perhaps partially
because of the ongoing interest in
that earlier period from researchers
and the public, artists such as Bruni
have faded into the background: she
was really part of the last gasp of the
Russian avant garde.
Q: The ballet premiered at a time
when Socialist Realism was starting
to become the main artistic style
used by the Soviet Union to
communicate their ideas. How
much room do you think there is
in art for politics?
A: Art is almost always political
in some way, and in Russia and the
Soviet Union art had been used as
a political tool for decades before
Socialist Realism. You only have to
think of Mayakovsky, Rodchenko
and others from the earlier avant
garde, where radical aesthetics so
often went hand-in-hand with radical
politics. Part of the reason that works
of that period still interest us today is
precisely because they were political
in some way; Bolt, for instance, has a
real satirical bite, based on the real-
life industrial sabotage trials of the
early 1930s.
Q: The story of The Bolt
is an interesting one: it was
commissioned by the state-
supported Moscow Art Theatre, but
then banned by the government.
To what extent to you think the
state supports/hinders the arts, and
what role should the government
play within the arts?
A: The Soviet context suggests
its own particular problems when
considering that question, since
most art (and certainly major theatre
productions) was commissioned by
state institutions during that period:
there was rarely any room for private
enterprise. In addition, Bolt was not
directly banned by the government,
rather it was very harshly criticized
in the press, which in a climate of
paranoia made the theatre withdraw
the ballet. The influence of ideology
was all-pervasive and worked even
without direct intervention.
A Winter Guide to London Culture
Kamil McClelland gives a guide to the best of what’s on this Christmas
Term is nearly over, the Christmas jumpers are out and the mulled wine is
flowing freely. And what better way to round off this year and welcome
in the next than by sampling some of London’s finest cultural offerings.
Here, I present a Winter Guide to Art, my pick of some of the best shows and
exhibitions taking place in the coming few weeks. If you want a more in-depth
appraisal of the shows I have mentioned, make sure to check out previous
editions of Felix online as some of them have already been reviewed by our
expert team of writers.
Tate Britain
Late Turner – Painting Set
Failing sight and a waning popularity in his later life clearly did not affect the
quality and inventiveness of Turner’s work, as brilliantly illustrated in this
display of his works. An absolute delight to see.
Until 25th
January. Tickets £15 for adults, £13.10 for students
Royal Academy
Giovanni Battista Moroni
If you’ve been keeping an eye on the Arts Section this term, you’ve probably
already heard me harking on about this true genius of Renaissance art, whose
name deserves a place alongside the greats of the period. His flair for detail
and style puts him centuries ahead of his contemporaries.
Until 25th
January. Tickets £12 for adults, £10 for students
Shakespeare’s Globe
The Night Dances
One actor and the words of Sylvia Plath, one cellist and the suites of Benjamin
Britten; the Globe presents a unique pairing of the works of the two artists to
create a powerful evening of poetry, brought alive!
15th
December. Tickets £10-£60
Winter’s Tales
Dramatic readings of literary classics accompanied by atmospheric live music
and rounded off by an intimate candlelit setting. What more could you want
for a cultural Christmas treat! With performances of Anton Chekov, James
Joyce and Daphne du Maurier, you can be sure that you will never have
experienced their works in quite the same way.
From 21st
December until 5th
January. Tickets £10-£60
The Old Vic
Electra
A critically acclaimed adaptation of Sophocles’ tragedy, Electra, starring Kristin
Scott Thomas, has been the hot ticket on London’s theatre scene for a number
of months now, with only a few performances remaining. With bilstering
performances from the whole cast, make sure to grab one of the last tickets to
this fantastic story of grief and revenge.
Until 20th
December. Tickets £10-£55
Ceremony, by Gareth Pugh, V&A
Xmas Tree 2014 Photo: V&A

