30 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON FELIX
12.12.2014
Arts Editor: Fred Fyles & Kamil McClelland
Arts arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Top 5 galleries for the winter
break
1Tate Modern
Alibis: Sigmar Polke is a retrospective of an artist who, even in
the Brave New World of the 20th
century, seems avant-garde and
experimental. Polke takes you on a whirlwind tour of wit and skepticism
to pick apart the German psyche in a world where people relied on alibis to
acquit themselves from their own past.
In Conflict, Time, Photography, instead of separating records of warfare
by location, they are ordered chronologically to show the effect of conflict
seconds, hours, days or even years after it occursallowing us to look at the
effects of war in a completely different way.
Alibis: Sigmar Polke 1963-2010. Until 8th
February. Tickets £13.10 for adults,
£11.30 for students.
Conflict, Time, Photography. Until 15th
March. Tickets £13.10 for adults,
£11.30 for students.
2The Photographer’s Gallery
If you love fashion, then look no further than The Photographer’s
Gallery. In High Fashion, The Condé Nast Years 1923-1937
explores the work of fashion photographer Edward Steichen allowing you to
see what made his work so iconic and how he became known as the ‘father of
modern fashion photography’.
Then, from the beginnings of fashion photography, go to Viviane Sassen’s
exhibition Analemma: Fashion Photography 1992-2012 and see where the
exciting and colourful discipline is now.
In High Fashion, The Condé Nast Years 1923-1937 and Analemma: Fashion
Photography 1992-2012. Until 15th
January. Ticket to both shows £4.50 for adults,
£3.50 for students (free Mon-Fri, 10.00-12.00).
3Somerset House
Somerset House hosts two brilliant exhibitions at the moment,
Egon Schiele: The Radical Nude in The Courtauld Gallery and Guy
Bourdin: Image Maker in Somerset House itself.
Egon Schiele is just as is described, radical, and probably not one to take
the parents to.No less unique is fashion photographer Guy Bourdin, who
sought for not only the clothing, but also the photograph itself to be part of
the art.
Egon Schiele: The Radical Nude. Until 18th
January. Tickets £7.50 for adults, £3
for students.
Guy Bourdin: Image Maker. Until 15th
March. Tickets £9 for adults, £7 for
students.
4Victoria and Albert Museum
As always, the V&A is a brilliant bet for a day out. Exhibitions of
note include Constable: The Making of a Master, which explores
the work of the genre-defining British landscape painter and his mastery of
light and composition.
Another excellent exhibition on here is Horst: Photographer of Style.
A journey through the photographer’s life, the show explores his work in
fashion, portraiture, surrealism as well as many other fields, a true icon of
photography.
Constable: The Making of a Master. Until 11th
January. Tickets £15.40 for
adults, £10.20 for students.
Horst: Photographer of Style. Until 4th
January. Tickets £9.20 for adults, £7 for
students.
5National Gallery
National Gallery has three excellent exhibitions on at the moment.
First, Rembrandt: The Late Works is one of the blockbuster shows
in London that you should have seen by now. It examines how his craft
changed later in his life to become more expressive, introspective and even
more incredbile.
The next two exhibitions work very well as a pair. Peder Balke and
Maggi Hambling: Walls of Water display the work of two very different
yet complementary artists, pairing a 19th
century Scandinavian landscaper
with a modern painter based on the Suffolk coast
Rembrandt: The Late Works. Until 18th
January. Tickets £16 for adults, £8 for
students.
Peder Balke. Until 12th
April. Free entry.
Maggi Hambling: Walls of Water. Until 15th
February. Free entry.
National Theatre
3 Winters
Set in a Croatia defined by upheaval, from the end of the Second World War
up to the modern day, the play tells the story of a family as they try to adapt
to this extreme change. This work takes on a large and powerful topic and
deconstructs it in a nuanced and delicate performance.
Until 3rd
February. Tickets £15-£50.
JOHN
Theatre like you’ve never seen before, JOHN is about a man, his battle with
vices and his struggle to redefine himself. The piece combines highly physical
dance with spoken word to tell a shocking story based on real-life interviews.
Until 13th
January. Tickets £15-£35.
Behind the Beautiful Forevers
Telling the story of Mumbai’s slum dwellers, this play gives a unique insight
into their shadow world and how, amongst India’s burgeoning global prospects,
the country’s poorest people try to make their way in life.
Until 13th
April. Tickets £15-£35.
Gallery for Russian Arts and Design
The Bolt
An exciting new exhibition has opened at GRAD that explores one of
Shostakovich’s musical experiments of the early 1930’s, produced at a time
when the Soviet Union was suppressing the avant-garde to make way for their
Socialist Realism. The Bolt, a ballet, tells the story of a fired factory worker
who plots his revenge through an act of sabotage, and through costume design
and photography, GRAD transports us back into this world of satire and
conspiracy.
Until 28th
February (closed from 20th
December to 5th
January). Pay what you can but
£5 donation is recommended.
National Portrait Gallery
Taylor Wessing Photographic Portrait Prize
A delightful collection of photographic portraits has opened at the National
Portrait Gallery. The Taylor Wessing Prize has a wide variety of themes for its
submissions, keeping your interest throughout despite the weaker piece or
two.
Until 22nd
February. Tickets £3 for adults, £2 for students.
Science Museum
Drawn by Light
Somewhat of a journey through the history of photography, the Drawn by
Light exhibition at the Science Museum displays a collection from the Royal
Photographic Society by some of the world’s best photographers. If you ever
wanted a brief introduction into photography as an art form, this is where to
start.
Until 1st
March. £7.20 for adults, £4.50 for students.
Barbican Centre
Constructing Worlds: Photography and Architecture
in the Modern World
A beautiful, thought-provoking exploration of the relationship between
artists, photographers, and architects. Starting from the early 20th
Century,
with luminaries such as Berenice Abbott and Walker Evans, we move through
American shopping malls, German deconstructivism, and Congolese shanty-
towns.
Until 11th
January. £12 for adults, £8 for students.
Adoration of the Magi, Boticelli
(Detail) Photo: Creative Commons
Winter in Broughton, L. S. Lowry
Photo: Estate of L. S. Lowry

