32 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON FELIX
12.12.2014
Fashion Editor: Cecile Borkhataria
Fashion fashion.felix@imperial.ac.uk
The Victoria’s Secret fashion
Angel: Alessandra Ambrosio
The Fantasy Bra
This year, Alessandra Ambrosio and Adriana Lima had
the honour of modeling a Fantasy Bra this year. Normally,
only one angel wears a fantasy bra each year, but for this
year’s show, two were made for the angels who have been
modelling for Victoria’s Secret for the longest. The fantasy
bras are typically designed with precious stones and
metals encrusted in them, and are usually very elabroate
and expensive. Worth over $2 million each, the bra’s were
made by Mouawad jewelers using 16,000 rubies, diamonds
and sapphires. All the jewels were strung together with
18 karat yellow gold chains. Both bras took over 1,380
hours to make and were inspired by “the magic of faraway
lands.” Alessandra began her modelling career at the
tender age 15, and she has been modelling for Victoria’s
Secret since 2004, making her a household name at the
brand. For the 2008 Victoria’s Secret show, she walked the
runway only 3 months after giving birth to her first child!
When she started with Victoria’s Secret at 21, she never
worked out and would just eat salad if she gained a pound
or two.The model has two children, a fiancé and a fashion
line.
Angel: Karlie Kloss
The Gilded Angels collection
Here, Karlie wears the Dream Angels lace and tulle
push-up bra ($79.50-89.50.) The American angel is fast
becoming an Instagram sensation. Her best friend, Taylor
Swift, sang at the show and the two were going selfie crazy
back stage! Standing tall at an incredible 6’1, she is the
tallest of all the angels. She is absolutely OBSESSED with
baking cookies, and she even collaborated with Momofuku
Milk bar to create a recipe called ‘Karlie’s Kookies,’ which
she sold at the DKNY store in New York city for Vogue
Fashion’s Night Out. She donated all the proceeds to
benefit hungry children across the world through a project
called FEED.
Angel: Candice Swanepoel
The Fairy Tale collection
For Candice’s fairy tale inspired look, she’s wearing a
leather trimmed unlined bra and underwear, priced at
$258 and $98, respectively. At that price, we’ll probably
be saving that set for Valentine’s day! The stunning model
was scouted when she was just 15 at a flea market in South
Africa. When it comes to keeping her body toned, boxing
is her exercise of choice for a fun, full-body workout. For
the guy’s out there who are interested in her, bad luck –
she’s been dating sexy Brazilian model Hermann Nicoli
for over 6 years. If she’s ever single though, maybe you
could try to teach her how to drive – at 26, she has yet to
obtain her driver’s license!
Cecile Borkhataria takes a look at the sexiest outfits and angels
Photo: Dimitrious Kambouris via Getty Images
Photo: Dimitrious Kambouris via Getty Images Photo: Dimitrious Kambouris via Getty Images

