THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON 33
12.12.2014
FELIX
Fashion Editor: Cecile Borkhataria
Fashion fashion.felix@imperial.ac.uk
show – landing on home turf
Angel: Lily Aldridge
The Angel Ball collection
Lily is wearing the Very Sexy push-up balconet bra ($58)
with matching suspenders and string panties. The Angel
Ball collection was inspired by seductive glamour and uses
black and white fabrics paired with dark wings to channel
the provocative vibe. Lily is originally from Nashville,
Tennessee and her breakthrough moment came when she
appeared in a commercial for Levi’s in 2006. She keeps
her body in shape through pilates and boxing, which are
very popular in the modelling world. She is married to the
lead singer of the Kings of Leon, Caleb Followill, and she
even appeared in the music video for their smash hit ‘Use
Somebody.’
Angel: Joan Smalls
The Exotic Traveller collection
Joan is wearing a red lace plunge push-up bra from the
Victoria’s Secret Designer collection ($198.) The collection
was inspired by exotic travels abroad, and the look has
been completed with colourful feather wings and an Aztec
patterned top. Since 2012, the Puerto Rican beauty has
been rated number 1 model by Models.com, and her career
is continuing to skyrocket. Small’s claims that she doesn’t
diet, but her daily one-hour long workout is enough to
keep her in amazing shape. She suffers from Scoliosis.
so she works out with a personal trainer to do strength
training, making sure she keeps her back in check. She has
appeared in Victoria’s Secret fashion shows since 2011.
Angel: Lily Donaldson
The Gilded Angels collection
Lily is wearing the Dream Angels embellished plunge bra
($98.) Born and bred in London, Lily wanted to be an art
teacher until she was scouted by an agent while shopping
in Camden Town. Before walking for any fashion shows,
she became the face of Miss Sixty in 2004. She signed a
modelling contract for Victoria’s Secret in 2009, and in
2010 she walked her first Victoria’s Secret fashion show.
She has since been given a pair of wings, cementing her
status as a Victoria’s Secret angel. In Early 2011, she fell
off a horse and was out of action for the next few months. I
wonder if people tried to use the classic pick up line on her:
did it hurt when you fell from heaven?
Photo: Dimitrious Kambouris via Getty Images Photo: Dimitrious Kambouris via Getty Images Photo: Dimitrious Kambouris via Getty Images
s of last week’s runway show at Earl’s Court Exhibition Centre

