THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON 35
FELIX 12.12.2014
HANGMAN
hangman@imperial.ac.uk
CANCER
VIRGO
This week you go ice-skating at
the Natural History Museum.
You spend most of the time on
the floor, before the marshals
remove you from the rink
due to customer complaints.
Disappointed, you mount the
stegasaurus and march off into
the night. Vive la Revolution!
HOROSCOPES
LEO
PISCES
AQUARIUS
CAPRICORN
SAGITTARIUS
SCORPIO
LIBRA
GEMINI
TAURUS
ARIES
This week you are the Felix
Editor’s Dad. Can she borrow
money please? She bought too
many clothes from ASOS and
can’t be bothered to return
them. Payment is accepted via
BACS or Credit Card, and is
reimbursed either in copies of
Felix or branded pens. Never
forget who is your favourite
daughter.
This week you are Santa and
have just dicscovered that the
Imperial mentality of leaving
everything to the last minute
won’t work with staff cuts and
the increasd population. You
neglect Africa, reasoning “do
they know it’s Christmas time
at all?”
This week you go to the RCSU/
CGCU Winter Ball. You turn
up to find girls from the RCSU
on one side and boys from
the CGCU on the other, in a
boozier version of your high
school prom. Sadly, you feel
ripped off having not being
rick rolled at midnight.
ThisweekyouaretheFelix
Editor.Youtextyourfriend
aboutthecopiousmincepies
intheoffice,butyourphone
autocorrectsittomingepie.
Yourfriendthinksyouare
comingontoher,andasksyou
outonadate.Twotunaand
cheesejacketpotatoestogo
please!
ThisweekyougototheUnion
forChristmasDinner.Much
toyoursurprise,youturnupat
FiveSixEighttoseesilverware,
crystalchallises,andplates
embossedwiththeCollegecrest.
Impressed,youorderrightaway,
onlytodiscoverthepricehasgone
upto£30foratinybitofturkey.
Andyougotchargedentryfees!
This week you are the Felix
Arts Editors. Your Editor in
Chief is concerned about the
fact that you have managed
to produce literally half of the
pages in this issue in a single
week and is now suspicious
that you are slowly planning
to take over the paper too. She
happily lets you do so.
This week you are the Felix
editor, and write a 26-verse
poem about Gerard Way for
Phoenix. Unfortunately, the
Phoenix editor decides that it
is almost illegally filthy and
chooses to print the “blank
space” writing piece instead.
You slunk sadly away.
This week you play Kerbal
Space Program for 23 hours
straight. Whilst you now see
everything in terms of how it
orbits around everything else,
at least your gameplay clocked
you up some ECTS! Now you
don’t have to worry about not
doing that lab report!
This week you start playing
Christmas Shopping Simulator
to fill up space in the Games
section. You become so heavily
involved that you forget to
leave, and wind up locked in
the Felix office for the entire
Christmas break. At least there
are lots of mince pies.
This week, you are a rugby
player. In support of your
friend, you turn up at Council.
The broken air con means
you get increasingly hot,
and decide to take your top
off. Someone screams “It’s
happening again!” and you are
escorted out of the room by
security.
This week you are still DPW.
You attend the Felix dinner
in an attempt to woo a young
lady, who you finally flirt with
during the third course. Sadly
she thinks Diary of a Fresher
is a true story and considers
you off the market already.
Fucking Dorothy.
Friday 5th
Today I went to the library to finish my essay, but forgot it was a Friday so we went to
the Union when we got kicked out at 10pm. As we left we could see some students climb
silently into crevices of the walls and above the shelves so they could stay later without the
security guards noticing.
We didn’t pay either, we pretended we were going down to the Newspaper Office and
then got past the security. We saved like £2.50! LOL
I went to the Union with my only two course friends who were helping me with my essay.
I got quite drunk and started to whatsapp Dorothy, but decided she’s a skank for sleeping
with Kris. I don’t know how it ended up happening, but for some reason it was then 3am
and I was just sitting on the floor of the gender neutral toilets sobbing into a radiator. I
didn’t even get to finish my snakebite.
Saturday 6th
So hungover today, I spent all day in bed and couldn’t bring myself to turn my phone on in
case Dorothy had messaged back.
Sunday 7th
Still haven’t turned on my phone. I am back in the library so am using that as an excuse
to not respond to her. Finished my essay though thank god! I made sure to put it all on
facebook so people at home could see how hard it is going to Imperial sometimes. I’ve not
seen anyone at home tag themselves in the library.
Monday 8th
Finally turned on my phone, and I only had one message from Dorothy saying we need to
talk about what happened with Kris Craye. We met in the library café and I got there
Diary Of A Fresher aged 18 3/4
early and bought her favourite, jacket potato with cheese and tuna.
I was waiting in the corner, and then Dorothy rolled into the cafe – she was in a wheelchair. She
told me how the doctors said the feeling would return to her legs in three to four weeks and then
she would walk again, and eventually she would regain the sight in her left eye once the protein-
cleansing eye drops started to take effect.
She was also wearing a neck brace, and later told me she also has a makeshift tattoo saying “This
ass was owned by the D…PW.” She said the tattoo happened after they left the union, and although
couldn’t remember parts of it, they ended up in some 24 hour tattoo parlour in Soho. They went
later to a casino somewhere apparently, then finally went back to his room in halls.
She said she was sorry, left her potato untouched, then slowly wheeled away. She accidently tried to
wheel through the wrong glass door of the library entrance, but I was so sad I didn’t even laugh.
Tuesday 9th
Still sad about Dorothy. WHAT IF SHE WAS THE ONE?
Wednesday 10th
Saw Kris around campus being followed by about five other girls, apparently the fact that he was so
good in bed he’s left a girl unable to walk for four weeks has made him into a legend.
I went to the toilet in physics today and someone had drawn a giant penis on the door, and then
someone had labelled it “Here for your Welfare.”
Thursday 11th
Saw Dorothy today, using the mechanical lift by the stairs on Dalby Court. She shook her head sadly
at me when I called her name, and slowly waved as she was rolled away by her friend into the
building.
So sad about Dorothy I cried under the Queen’s Tower during lunchtime. It was so dramatic.

