8 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON FELIX
12.12.2014
Comment Comment Editor: Tessa Davey
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
When asked about the
suggestion that he would
keep the flame of Thatcher
alive, UKIP leader Nigel Farage said
that the Iron Lady was right to reduce
the size of the government. Farage
is the “turkey who would vote for
Christmas”, and is keen to downsize
the public sector.
Farage’s remarks are dangerously
close to libertarianism: a political
movement that has at its roots the
lack of government. Recently, this
ideology has taken an upturn in
popularity, as people question the
moral validity of the state.
Libertarians argue for the “zero
aggression principle”: the idea that
aggression or acts of violence should
be avoided at all costs. Since the
government enforces tax payments,
The Economics Column: Government
Taxation under the microscope
SAMUEL BODANSKY
COMMENT WRITER
if an individual does not pay their
taxes, people view the government
as an immoral institution and think
that it should thus have a small a role
as possible, perhaps not even existing.
The ideal for libertarians is an
anarcho-capitalist society, where all
trade is conducted on a free market
with no government intervention.
This means no taxes, and no public
expenditure on roads or hospitals.
While it is possible to be blinded
by the moral rhetoric of libertarians,
their world view is neither realistic
nor economically viable.
Certain markets provide items,
such as tobacco and pollution, that
are classed as ‘demerit goods’. These
are over consumed by the free market
due to a lack of information. If the
people knew how damaging these
things were, they would be consumed
less. It is the government’s job to use
prices to cut tobacco usage by using
a ‘Pigovian’ tax (one which is applied
to a market activity that is generating
negative externalities), increasing the
price of tobacco.
The government can redistribute
the taxation income from the demerit
good on a long term project to help
the economy.
Other goods are ‘public’; they fall to
the ‘free rider’ principle. For example,
if my neighbour buys a missile
defence system, I will not need to buy
one because they have protected me
at no personal charge.
Many items, such as roads
and the military, are necessary,
but no one would pay for them
individually because of this problem.
Governments possess the ability to
enforce payment so that these vital
services are provided.
Also, we know that the ‘invisible
hand’ of the market can turn into
a fist. Monopolies can often form
and increase prices for individuals.
This is market failure; government
regulation is a vital way of preventing
monopoly and market collusion, to
keep prices low for the general public.
Libertarianism’s key premise –
that violence is never the answer
– fails because people often do not
know what is best for them. Good
governments help provide a stable
infrastructure, that allows big
business to flourish, and regulates
them, to prevent abuse of the market.
We need government more than ever
in these difficult economic times.
Just how divided is our Union?
Imperial College Union is vast. It
has 344 different societies, and
every year they collectively turn
over £2 million. The entire Union
turns over £7 million. There are 3000
different society committee positions
and 40% of undergraduate students
are a member of at least one club or
society.
This is great for participation
– but it ironically means there is
a huge divide between the paid
sabbatical ‘Officer Trustees’ at the
top and the average society goer, I
count four layers of management
to the president: Member – Society
President – Management Group
Chair – Deputy President for Clubs,
Societies & Projects – President ( –
Council – Trustees). So many times I
hear students talk about ‘the Union’
as if it’s this distant party-pooping
fun police mafia, which gets its kicks
out of charging entry to Metric,
sending emails every other day, and
banning any event involving alcohol.
In the latest high profile example,
a club president actively lied to
the sabbatical team about a police
investigation, because they felt that
was the best way to protect their
members. Ironically, this was the
worst possible thing to do because
when the police come knocking – the
president is the first person they go
to. If stories don’t match up, clubs can
get shut down.
The union sabbaticals did the
absolute best they could to protect
those in the rugby club who recently
did wrong and the club as a whole,
withholding names from public
documents and giving out severe
enough sanctions to prevent further
punishment from College, the Police
or the Rugby Union Federation.
These efforts were successful, but
their success was threatened by the
dishonesty internally about what had
happened.
This is ridiculous. We are shooting
ourselves in the foot. It brings up
issues of society president training,
but we all have to work as a team.
The sabbaticals need to connect
with students, and be accessible.
I don’t mean sitting on a desk in
the JCR, glumly staring at the pie
stand. I mean leaving the union
building, crashing the odd Cheese
Soc gathering; going to Harlington,
being part of clubs and trying to be
someone you’d actually want to talk
to. Maybe each of the sports teams
should adopt a sabb at the next ACC
night? You can’t follow a leadership
who don’t interact.
But it’s not just the sabbs who
This year's sabbatical officers: Pascal Loose (DPE), Tom Wheeler (President), Abi de Bruin (DPCS), Alex Savell
(DPFS) and Chris Kaye (DPW). Not pictured, the best Sabb, the Felix Editor Photo: Imperial College Union
GEORGE BUTCHER
COMMENT WRITER
need to engage with us, it’s a two way
process. Love your sabb. Next time
you’re using the SAC printer for
your coursework go and say hi. Tell
Pascal your course rep doesn’t give a
toss, or tell Alex your club president
keeps complaining about not having
enough money. Or just complain
about Metric.
This is a union, but it’s sheer size
means it’s becoming fragmented. It’s
down to every member to prevent
that happening and the leadership
needs to lead it.
"We are shooting
ourselves in the
foot"

