THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON 9
12.12.2014
FELIX
Science Editors: James Bezer & Lauren Ratcliffe
Science science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
The ultimate hangover cure
Could hangovers be a thing of
the past? Scientists from the
University of Huddersfield
have developed a new drug that
could reduce the side effects of binge
drinking. The compound, called
ethane-beta-sultam, is a taurine ‘pro-
drug’ that can easily enter the blood
stream before being processed by the
body. Professor Mike Page, Dr Karl
Hemming and colleagues believe that
taking the drug during a heavy night
of drinking will prevent alcohol from
damaging the brain.
The study, published in the Journal
of Alcoholism and Drug Dependence,
involved scientists administering
ethane-beta-sultam to rats on a
binge-drinking regime. Usually, high
levels of alcohol impair the brain by
inducing inflammation and cell loss.
However, these effects were reduced
in mice that had been given the drug.
Ethane-beta-sultam works by
reducing the number of excess
glial cells that the brain produces.
Taking it when drinking high levels
of alcohol can prevent the death of
brain cells that are important for
navigation and orientation.
Binge drinking can lead to
memory loss and long-term damage
of the brain, especially in teenagers,
whose brains are still developing.
Consuming 6 units of alcohol for
women, or 8 units for men (4 glasses
of white wine or 3.5 pints of lager) is
considered as having a binge.
Ethane-beta-sultam is a
breakthrough compound as it
overcomes a major obstacle in the
treatment of neurological conditions.
The drug is capable of crossing the
blood-brain barrier. This serves as the
body’s mechanism to shield the brain
from toxic compounds, but makes it
difficult to deliver medication to the
brain.
There is likely to be controversy
if ethane-beta-sultam is approved,
as there are fears it could lead to an
increase in binge drinking. Despite
shielding the brain, the drug offers
no protection to the rest of the
body, such as the liver. Prescribing
ethane-beta-sultam may also fail to
tackle deeper issues, such as alcohol-
dependence. However, Professor Page
believes it could help to lessen the
damage that alcoholics do to their
brains whilst they try to quit, saying:
‘If you accept that alcohol abuse is
going to continue, then it might be
sensible for society to try and treat it
in some way.’
The drug’s has been part of a
10 year collaboration between 11
scientists across the UK, Belgium
and Italy. Research is ongoing in the
hope that compounds even better
than ethane-beta-sultam could be
produced. It is possible that with
further development, similar drugs
could be used to treat a range of
neurological conditions such as
Dementia and Alzheimer’s disease. A new drug could reduce the impact of alcohol on the brain. Photo: Wikimedia Commons
Emma Lisle on a drug that could end those mornings after
Algae: growing fuel with cells in the sea
NEFELI MARIA SKOUFU-
PAPOUTSAKI
SCIENCE WRITER
Algae could be the future of
renewable energy. For those
of you who are unsure, algae
are oxygen photosynthetic organisms
that form plant-like structures in
freshwater or marine ecosystems. But
could it be possible for a plant to fuel
up your car and get you back home
for the Christmas holidays?
The answer is yes: turn them into
biofuels, a type of renewable energy
made by or from a living organism.
As we all know, fossil fuels are
starting to run out, so to address the
potential energy shortage we have to
turn to other renewable sources of
energy.
This is where the biofuels come in.
The most important advantage that
biofuels give instead of fossil fuels
is that they can be produced within
a small period of time and not in
millions of years, which means they
can be a potential immediate source
of energy.
Their production could stimulate
the economy since they can increase
employability in rural areas. This
spreads wealth, as the main people
involved with that will be farmers
and scientists and not entrepreneurs.
In terms of the ecological impact,
biofuels, when taken from plants, can
theoretically reduce the greenhouse
effect since they absorb carbon
dioxide (CO2) for the purpose of
photosynthesis and produce oxygen,
making them a carbon neutral fuel.
However, this is not the case in
practice since fertilizers are required
for their growth, which are made
using fossil fuels.
The main disadvantage of biofuels
taken from crops, is that these crops
could have been used to feed people.
Also especially when using ethanol as
a biofuel, huge amounts are required
to produce the same amount of
energy as fossil fuels do, something
that actually creates an energy loss.
Microalgae, another source of
biodiesel, are cultivated for the oil
they produce which then is extracted
and after several modifications can be
used as an actual fuel. Algae however,
overcome the disadvantages of
conventional biofuels, because they
can produce far more energy, and
don’t take up land used to grow food.
Furthermore, algae can grow
in salt water, freshwater or even
contaminated water: something that
would solve the issue of the land
required for cultivation. And the
more CO2 algae take up, the more oil
can be produced.
Researchers working on how to
increase the yield production of algae
have possibly discovered a ‘cellular
button’ that except from increasing
the oil production in algae can give
them a better understanding of
cellular regulation which can be very
helpful for cancer research.
Algae may prove to be the organism
that can save us all. Apart from
the advantages it shares with all
renewable energy sources, it also
overcomes many of the disadvantages
associated with conventional biofuels.
Algae could be used to produce renewable energy without the negative
impacts of conventional biofuels Photo: Creative Commons

