•Mi
by I.L. Gibson
Almost certainly, the most exciting
event in London in the Operatic World
during the coming two or three months
will be the new production of Beethoven's
only opera "Fidelio", at Covent Garden.
The opera will be conducted by Otto
Klemperer and seven performances are
scheduled between 24 th February and the
end of the present opera season on March
18th. Normal booking for these perfor-
mances opens on January 25th.
The programme for Sadler's Wells now
contains two works by the Czech composer
Janecek. These are "Katya Kabanovft"
and a newcomer to the 'Wells' repertory.
"The Cunning little Vixen", which will
be given its first performance on 22nd
March. One of the major problems of
presenting works by Czech or Hungarian
composers is that of translation, it being
very difficult to get the English version
to fit the original vocal line. However,
now that "Jenufa", Janecek's most
popular opera, has been more or less
accepted into the repertory in a translated
form, it is to be hoped that we shall hear
more of this composer's lesser works.
Of more immedaite interest is the new
production of Richard Strauss' delightful
comic piece "Ariadne auf Naxos" which
will be first heard on January 25th. The
composer's demands on the orchestra for
this opera are very modest, only thirty-
nine players being required. But, of these
no less than six belong to the percussion
seotion and another four are kept occupied
with the celesta, harmonium, and two
harps.
Discussion on this Ballet is held over
for a fortnight. At the moment a large
part of the Royal Ballet company is in
North America and the company will not
be at full strength again until March
2nd.
l^p 1961
AWARDS,
by the President and Secretary
of the Union.
The R.F.U. award for efficiency:
J. Carter.
The Presidents Pints for services to Bar
Profits: I.D. Hill
The Lincensed Viotualers award for
Bonhomie to all Customers: THE
LANDLORD OF THE ENISMORE.
The Romeo and Juliet Award:
P. Buet.
The varnished Chip Award:
Mr. Mooney
The Brewer's award of two Gross of Alka-
Seltzer for devotion to the Bar:
A. Biggins.
An Islamic Emblem:
R. Finch.
RE-AWARDS.
Charles Atlas Award for Posture:
The Domestic Bursar.
The North London Ornamental Teapot for
Devotion to Spurs:
E. Fersht.
The St. Stephens Ornamental Ear Plugs
for Christan Fortitude and Endurance
Beyond the Call of Duty:
F.G. Irving.
NEW YEAR'S RESOLUTIONS.
As suggested by Hill & Carter
NORMAN GREAVES _ To go steady.
P. BUET — To go slow.
I.D.H. — To be kind to the President of
U.L.U.
MRS ROBB — To control Carter, Hill and
Weale (in that order).
K.E. WEALE — Not to let cricket
interfere with marriage.
GED BROUGH To make friends with
the landlord of the Ennismore.
FINLAY D. MCPHERSON — Not to
talk rubbish at Union Meetings.
D. FINNEY _ Not to talk at all at Union
Meetings.
D. VALE _ Not to talk at all.
MR & MRS COX _ To go forth and
increase and multiply.
D. WILBRAHAM _ To grow (some
hair?)
N- KEARNS — To learn to speak English.
J. HINDLEY To get a new sweater.
HOWARD — To make money on the
horses.
MISS P. GREGORY — To entertain.
A. MILLER _ To beware the Ides of
May.
MISS C. RUSSELL — Not to be buxom.
MISS M. TOWE8 — To speak at Council
Meetings.
B. FORD _ To run to Aldermaston.
J. CHADWICK _ Not to play 'I Spy'.
MISS T. CLARKE — To beware of Sees.
JOCK HENRY — To be seoure.
THE MISSES BRADFORD _ To
remember that young ladies should be
seen and not heard.
MR. P. LOGAN _ To get lost.
THE DOMESTIC BURSAR _ To buy
a cow.
FILM FILM
PARIS REVISITED L ' A W E N T U R A
HOT AIR
TROPHY
DEBATING SOCIETY'S EFFORT
In a world whose existance is threat-
ened by the might if mankind's temper it is
of ever ever increasing importance to settle
problems and disagreements amicably, with-
out reoourse to arms; to come to agreement
by means of discussion and debate is the
aim in statesmen of to-day.
Hence a good knowledge of debating ie
becoming an essential attribute of those
who wish to govern. This trend Is mir-
rored in the increasing interest in debating meets Mic, Clo's best friend, makes love
shown lat the College this year. Atten- to Mio. O.K. so far its the code. Then
Two years ago I remember sitting in
the "Bar Bounoparte" just opposite St.
Germain de Pres talking to a most charming
literary memeber of the 'Green Club' about
'"Les Tricheurs". It had he said been
shot in this very spot a year ago but of
course that was passe — that was the
left bank two maybe three years ago. Its
not the same he said, they always used
to be closing places because of the fights.
Wistfully he admitted that Paris was DO
longer the world centre of art, quickly
adding like the good Frenchman he was,
that there was no world centre. It was
a throwback from lie resistance, the price
of wine, the Algerian war, we raised our
pernods, 'Vive la France' and laughed.
Now we see 'Les Trioheurs' (the
cheaters) in London and there we are in
the Bar Buonoparte just about to put a
Mulligan or a Gillespie record on the juke
box, surronded by the poor remains of
Les Trioheurs. But at the Cinephone we
see these rootless rebels in all their glory,
I raise my beer, "La Gloire", and laugh.
The cheats. Apt. Bob, serious student,
rich out of suburbia meets Alain the high
priest of free youth who sleeps on charity.
He becomes invited to the mad orgy of
Clo, makes love to nymphomanic Clo
dances have never been higher and the
standard of speaking is slowly but surely
rising as more peolpe find they have
something worthwhile to say and here is
an opportunity of saying it.
he oheats and goes Bourgeoise he falls
in love with Mio and she with him. Be-
tween rich folk and surprise parties n
neat little tragedy evolves itself in which
Bob to prove himself denies his love for
The Debating Society in conjunction Mio. The end is oharaoteristic of the time,
with the constituent colleges is making the fulfilled death wish a la James Dean,
a positive effort to foster this trend. This What we actually get in this film is
year an inter-collegiate debating oompet- the excitement and colour of a Bohemian
ion between Mines, Guilds and R.C.S. society with a nice olean moral to ease
has been organized. The competition will the conseienoe. For the price of admission
consist of three rounds which will take we are Bohemes de Luxe for the evening
place in the lunch hours starting 1 p.m., we are reminded reasuringly of the home
on 9th, 16th, 23rd of February. Three grown product who revolve around the
members of the staff will aot as judges "Cafe des Artistes",
and the overall winners will be presented Wte can only say after a thoroughly
with a trophy by Donald Molntyre Q.C. enjoyable evening of jazz, jive and inter-
at the Annual Dinner of the Sooiety to esting faces, Thank God art is an illusion,
be held on Maroh 1st. Currently on the Classic circuit is that
We hope that the new enthusiasm masterpieoe of the 'Method', "End as a
shown this year in debating and other Man" starring Ben Grazrra, who a few
Union activities will inorease and that years ago was hailed as the greatest thing
everybody will give their support to their in the 'Method' since Brando. The whole
constituent college at these debates, per- oast are "Actors Studio" products and
haps even participating. The Presidents students and orities of the 'Method' will
of the constituent oolleges will be glad to find this piece most instructive,
hear from anyone wishing to take part.
One cannot ever emphasize the import-
ance of audienoe participation at a de-
bate. Without an audience a debate is a
farce without support the debating so-
ciety will die a quick death as will the
Union. If students continue their enthus-
iastic support, continue to take part rather
than watching from the sideline in a few
years this college will have a Union worthy
of its facilities and capital expenditure,
a Union unrivalled in the country.
Clifford Gore
DANCE TICKETS
and other olub printings by:
WEST LONDON OFFSET CO.
86, Lillie Road, 8.W.6. (rear entrance)
Buses: 7A, 30. Tel.: FUL 7969.
The wind of change has come to the
Italian film industry, and provoked a
moral war. The stark films of Fellini, and
Antonioni's L'AVVENTURA (Paris Pull-
man) .
It is an unusual film. There is no way
of knowing whether it has succeeded or
is a dismal failure. At the Cannes festival
last year it was received with derision and
then given a prize. The plot is dangerously
slight, seeming to hang on a thread be-
tween meaning and chaos. Filmgoers who
will see this film should be more alert
and prepared than merely open minded.
Sandro, an architect; Inna, his fiancee
and her friend Claudia, at the invitation
of Princess Patrizia, have joined a yacht
party crusing among the Lipari Islands
off Sicily. They pause to bathe and ex-
plore a mysterious islet of volcanic rock
rising steeply out of the sea. (Later n
storm blows up and they decide to leave
but as they find Anna missing a Bearch
is started.) As the savagery of the sea
increases the hope of most of the party
fails. Sandro and Claudia continue the
searoh, separately, on the Sicilian main-
land. Seperately because on that rock (it
was little more than that) they felt an
attraction which they resist by avoiding
each other. They meet on the mainland
and together search the places where a
strange girl is said to have been seen.
The search loses its meaning as the two be-
come lovers. They suffer from guilt and,
it would seem, enjoy little happiness.
Their endearment and caresses are the
same as those of Sandro and Anna. The
wheel has now turned full circle, ready
to be repeated.
Had the film ended at this point, it
would have been a work of art, The raging
of the sea and wind, the torment of Sandro
and Claudia, and the byplay of the sup-
porting characters combine to give a co-
ordinated work of beauty. Some scenes
were given unnecessary prominence, Buch
as the comptempt of an ageing cynic for
his young wife, who at the villa of the
Princess Patrizia is seen dallying with
the seventeen year old son of her hostess.
Some might insist that these scenes are
necessary, though I myself think not.
Unfortunately the film goes on to spoil
the clear out presentation. We are taken
to an hotel in Taormina where Sandro is
unfaithful to Claudia. She forgives him
in the closing scene of the film. The film
ends on a note of fantasy with Claudia
roaming the dark, empty corridors in
search of her unfaithful lover.
Throughout the film greater effort
could have been made to give us the geo-
graphical location of the film. Subtitles
were of no help here. The acting of Monica
Vitti and Gabriele Ferzetti, and the
scenic photography contributed to an al-
together enjoyable film.
N.K.F, BrosBnrd
FILM
LA DOLCE VITA
SHOCKING REALITY
There is today, in the Western World,
a great distrust of "the cause", stemm-
ing no doubt from the disillusionment of
the ardent spirits of the thirties and the
rather pessimistic, but seemingly correct
appraisal of mankind's short comings.
There appears to be nothing left to rebel
against; the outward condition of man
having been made seoure, he is left with
time to turn and examine his inner con-
dition. From within the fastness of the
Self, one looks critically, subtly at the
Cause and it, poor abstraction, is trans-
parent. Even belief is suspect and logic
is lampooned as a mechanical lie on both
sides of the channel.
Emerging from this uncertainty and
desperation is that supposedly feminine
strength, intuition. The "satori" flies
phoenix-like from the ashes of syllogism,
too much of the sweet apple is becoming
sickening.
In films this is reflected in the 'New
Wave' of Italy and the 'Nouvelle Vague',
also recently in 'Shadows'. The aim is to
suggest rather than to tell and since dogma
is now a dirty word the artist as a mora-
lizator finds himself on the spot. He
therefore moralizes implicitly. He is not
a moralizator in the stamp of Benjamin
Franklin but by his very comment on the
world around him he reacts to underline
n failing or to point a way.
Fellini's film 'La Dolce Vita' has been
misunderstood because of this fact; he
is not directly moralizing nor is he, how-
ever, amoral. After blazing a trial of con-
troversy across Europe, Fellini now brings
his picture of Roman cafe sooiety to Lon-
don saying that he is a-party, not con-
cerned with the church, the rich aristoc-
racy or anything else. The scenes of mock,
orgy, cracked and broken aristo's, parties
are made to sugget a whole. In themselves
they are simple portraits, together they
indicate the desperation of an age. This
is the lavish, gaudy, blaokcloth against
which the main theme is played. It is
Marcello, a journalist for a semi-fascist
scandal rag, by degrees losing his human-
ity, his ambitions his innocence, sinking
slowly in the mud of upper strata Rome,
which has constantly to give itself new
thrills and experiences to convince itself
that it is still, in fact, alive.
Marcello wanders through this world
vaguely against his will, seduced and se-
ducing, bored with the women who loves
him, his conscience occasionally reminding
him of the book he never writes. His
only rock of hope is an intellectual friend
who represents to him the qualities of
moral strength, refinement and scholar-
ship. When this rock cracks, horribly, he
is lost.
Much has been said of the symbols in
this film, but why worry too much about
them? It is not as though there was a
prize given to the person spotting the
most. They are to be accepted or ignored,
not gloated over or scorned contemptously
if too obvious, besides we can all make
mistakes.
I was impressed, however, by Marcello's
pack of snapping press photographers,
who seem to be emerging as a very telling
contemporary symbol. I was reminded of
their fantastic film prototype in the
"Roots of Heaven". They are depicted as
being completely de-humanised, their
sense of engagement with their human
prey is nil, their dedication to their pro-
fession makes them wonder if they could
not take a photograph of the Virgin Mary
re-incarnated herself. They follow Mar-
cello everywhere through a sea of fan-
tastic, interesting faces, the wonderfully
handled crowd scenes. The are with him
at the death.
This, alasl is our world, life lived as
n work of art. Life lived as an illusion. The
reality is too shocking to oomprehend. Al-
ways the bomb and its symptomatic fears
expressed in despair and disbelief. "I
only believe in love — at least there is
the tension — long live love I" Everything
is a palliative, the disease, malignant,
rots on. Nobody dare cure it, nobody can.
It is like the medieval syphilitic, promis-
cous through fear and desperation, incur-
able, in pain, an object of shame, whose
future is futile and hopeless.
Roman cafe society is not typical of
people generally, but it is a valid exagger-
ation, emphasising for our Bake, the danger
of losing our innocence, our humanity,
losing belief in our Bweet life.
Clifford Gore

