F E L I X 3
Uiumaeeommaa r FAMINE RELIEF-,
YOUR "NEW LOOK" FELIX.
Well, here it is. You may think it is
rather small so here are a few facts and
figures to explain why. The cost of print-
ing an eight page FELIX by the method
used before, that is the "offset" process,
was about £18.
You, our readers, contributed regularly
about £15 towards this; the remaining £3
or go being made up from the Union
funds.
The paper which you are reading now
has cost £28 to print, and only four pages
at thatl This leaves a deficit of £13. It
is hoped that most of this will be regained
in future by selling advertising space at
the rates shown elsewhere, but for the time
being this extra cost is being borne by the
Union. Like all business ventures we need
a certain amount of capital to start the
ball rolling. Should our financial turnover
from advertising reach higher proportions
then we can go ahead and print larger
eopies of FELIX, but for the present we
shall have to be oontent with these four
pages.
FELIX ADVERTISING RATES.
QUARTER PAGE 5 GUINEAS
Either: two columns wide by half a
high.
or: four columns wide by quarter column
' high.
ONE EIGHTH PAGE 3 GUINEAS
Either: two columns wide by quarter
column high.
or: one column wide by half column
high.
ONE SIXTEENTH PAGE 30 8h.
One oolumn wide by quarter column
high.
OTHER RATES.
For College Societies eto. the rates will
be one third of those shown above.
Personal adverts. 4d per line
£ette%a ta the Editor
Dear Sir,
During the course of several visits to
the ULU building in Malet Street last
term, it became apparent to me that for
an IC man to make an appearance there
was indeed a rare thing. Although I am
a fresher it is already clear to me that
outsiders tend to look upon us as a group
wishing to segregate themselves from the
rest of London University. Such terms as
the "University of Kensington" have come
to my ears and I feel there is a certain
amount of truth in such talk. This view
is further endorsed by the fact that with
all the multitude of Union activities which
have already occured, no mention of these
has been made (to my knoledge at least)
in either 'Sennet' or the student edition
of the 'Evening Standard' during this
session. It seems to me that the only
people who know anything about us, are
some of ourselves. If, as I believe a large
body are, we are so set against any form
of racial segregation, how can we tolerate
any such parallel slate of affairs amongst
London University students? However,
would anybody who disagrees with this
point of view please comment in a future
edition of FELIX as I am sure that my
experience of outside opinion about IC is
limited.
Dear Sir,
Jeffrey Turner
As you and some of your readers know,
the I.C. Cross Country Club is intending
to make an attempt on the Land's End to
John o'Groats Relay record ( at present held
by Cambridge University1
- during the next
Easter vaoation, from the 8th to 16th
April, inclusive. We require, for this pur-
pose, the loan of four vehicles, preferably
of the Dormobile type, though large cars
would be suitable. Having so far been un-
able to obtain all these, I would like to ap-
peal, through the columns of 'Felix, to any
owners who have an interest in this type
of athletic event and the challenge it of-
fers, to give us the use of their vehicles,
and their servioes as drivers. Petrol, will
of course be paid for, I can promise them
an interesting though somewhat strenuous
time, and would appreciate it if they would
contact me as soon as possible.
Yours faithfully,
Dave Fearn
(P.G. Physios)
by Dan Elwyn Jones.
So great is desperate need in the
World, so vast the numerical reality
of starvation, sickness, and misery
amongst the homeless and disposess-
ed, amongst the tragic victims of war,
disaster and famine that it is easy
to forget the shattered remnants of
individual human lives that are ac-
counted for in the reports and sta-
tistics. It is easy to feel helpless
about the horror that was the wake
of the earthquakes in Chile and
Agadir and the Pakistan hurricane. It
is easy lo feel helpless in the know-
ledge that, despioe all we did for
World Refugee Year, the needs of
refugees in North A'frica, the Middle
East and Hong Kong become as acute
this winter as they have been dur-
ing the pnst decade.
As you read this article, 250,000
starving Baluba tribesmen, homeless,
and without means of support, are
fleeing tihrough the forests of the
Congo from the slaughter of their
tribe in the Kasai province. Scat-
tered along the roads are children
with arms and legs no thicker than a
man's thumb, walking skeletons, and
men and women with bodies swollen
and bloated by hunger oedema. Over
Christmas hundreds of them died of
exposure and hunger, and unless
massive help is forthcoming muni
more will perish.
As you read th'S article hundreds
of Arab refugees shiver in mountain
caves, reed and mud huts, in black
troatskin tents in the inhospitable
wastes along the borders of Morocco
and Tunisia. In the severity of the
North African winter hollow-cheeked
Algerian children, dressed in rags,
their little bellies swollen from mal-
nutrition, and suffering from eye
disease, eczema and other ail
ments have been fleeing for days and
weeks from the terrible Algerian
war, searching for food, shelter and
security. Unless warm food, medi-
caments, clothing and blankets can
be got for them, many of them too
will die, the innocent victims of
Man's inhumanity to Man.
The OXFORD COMMITTEE FOR
FAMINE RELIEF is bringing help to
the suffering and needy in 42 count-
ries, and all proceeds raised at this
year's I.C. Carnival will assist in its
programme of aid in emergencies like
those I have mentioned. In a human
community in which two thirds go
hungry, we, as part of the wealthy
minority have a great responsibility.
While no gift for Oxfam's work oan
be too small, no effort for them can
be too great.
WHAT'S WRONG WITH l.C.
COMMENT.
by John Cox
I have often been asked why I am ya
passionately attached to such ideas as I.C,
joining N.U.S., I.C.W.A. being allowed in
the I.C. bar, Council's decisions being made
public to the Union, more Union meet-
ings, etc. In this article I will attempt to
answer the question, "What's wrong with
I.C?"
A University Education should include
not only a degree, balanced of course by
appropriate physical exercise in at least
one spor^'. It should piovide opportunity
for every student to broaden his oultural
and sooiological knowledge and outlook.
Few people dispute that in this repect I.C.
fails abyssmally. Few people are agreed on
why this is so, fewer still on the cure.
My cure is not a panacea. It oonsists
primarily of supporting every move to
increase democracy in the Union. This
means:
1. The Union members should know
more about Union affairs, student affairs,
local and national.
2. There should be more members of the
Union able to take part in the taking of
decisions.
The effect of more democracy would be:
1. To broaden the experience and know-
ledge of students at I.C. and to increase
the participation in the Union affairs by
ordinary members.
2. To increase the confidence of mem-
bers of the Union in their ability. An ill-
ustration of this point is the fact that at
I.C. most students laugh at the idea that
they could be responsible for the manag-
ement of the Refectory. Many1
oannot be-
lieve that at other Colleges the Students'
Union has been responsible for the suoeBS-
ful running of their refectory for years.
"We couldn't know enough", they chorus.
"Fotheringham" has consistently fallen
into the error of believing that I am prim-
arly concerned with airing my views on
various subjects in these COMMENTS.
Naturally I would like people to agree
with my view, but my primary concern
has been to ensure that the subjects get
aired. "Fotheringham", I have no doubt,
will object to the installation of a Mech-
anical Cow in the Snack Bar without con-
sultation with the Studens' Union. But
will he dare suggest that the Students'
Union should be in control of all decisions
affeoting the Refectory?
"Fotneringham" will object like myself
to the drunken orgy of last term which
culminated in a fresher's head being
banged against a concrete floor with not
very pleasant results. But will he consider
to what extent we are responsible for the
fact that the leaders of our Union are
often chosen for their qualities when
drunk?
What is wrong with I.C. is that it is
essentially nothing more than a glorified
polytechnic With a more democratic set-
up the atmosphere might become more
adult and the next generation might leave
with a real University education.
COUNTER COMMENT.
by R.T.L. Fotheringham
As this is the beginning of a new term
1 shal try to reply to Mr. Cox's Exposition
of the Gospel of Democracy as politely as
possible. Mr Cox makes two basic state-
ments in his article:
1. Students at I.C. do not obtain a Uni-
versity education.
2. By instituting democratic govern-
ment these students would obtain said
education.
I agree completely with the first state-
ment, but feel that the fault lies almost
entirely with the individual student. I dis-
agree equally completely with the idea
that by allowing the students as a whole
to make every decision concerned with the
running of the Union we would achive
'confident, experienced and knowledgeable
students.' The result in practice would be
chaos.
The basic premise of the democratic
ideal is that the electorate must be educ-
ated and must know the faots necessary
to arrive at a correct decision. The present
system of control at I.C. is a resonable
approximation to this. Important matters
of policy, such as N.U.S. aifliliatdon,
method of Presidential election, are dealt
with at full Union Meetings. The day-to-
day running of the Union is dealt with by
various committees responsible to Council.
The people on these committees have
time to give full consideration to the mat-
ters within their jurisdiction; very few
students could afford suficient time to
deal with all the activities of the I.C.
Union. If the individual student wishes
to partake in the running of the Union
I am sure Mr. Cox will explain to him
how easy it is to get on to various com-
mittees. The general lack of interest is
such that very few posts are contested.
Mr. Cox seems to be very muddled in
his ideas about the Refectory. The Re-
fectory (and indeed the Union) is owned
by the College Governors. While the Gov-
ernors allow us to administrate the Union
to our own ends they do not allow us
similar control over the Refectory. The Re-
fectory Club (see Blue Book) is run Ly
the Governors, who allow us seven repre-
sentatives on the Refeotory Oommittee.
This same Refectory Committee sanctioned
the installation of the 'Meohanioal Cow',
and last year's President (Mr. Allen) who
sat on the Refeotory Committee, apparent-
ly did not think the matter important
enough to call to the attention of a Union
Meeting.
SQUARE DANCING
OBSCENE?
Certainly notl Nobody could call Square
Daneing obscene. Anybody oan do it
if you sign the notice on the Council
Notice Board in the Union Lounge.
The Downward Trend
Abandoning their normal winter haunts
in the Glencoe district, thirteen members
of the Mountaineering Club sallied north
to the Cairngorms in search of good snow
and plenty of ice.
Various members, apparently obsessed
with a desire for publioity, indulged in
frivolous activities which are frowned upon
by nearly all the best text books on mount-
aineering; indeed, in terms of the 'meet
activity ratio' (The total number of in-
cidents divided by the duration of the meet
in minutes), this meet was the most
eventful the olub has held for some time.
In this respect, two members gave the
meet a flying start by inadvertantly los-
ing themselves in a blizzard on the first
day out; after describing a depressingly
large circle on the Cairngorm landscape,
they returned to the hostel early the follow-
ing morning; needless to say they woke
everyone up — no light footed fairies, these
boys — but everyone was too relieved at
seeing them again to curse them.
After a day spent avoiding the press
we managed to return to the serious buis-
ness of climbing, whioh, after all, is what
we went for. The main climbing activities
were confined to two impressive corries
below Cairn Gorm and Cairn Lochan,
namely Coire Sneachda and Coire Lochan.
The superb line of cliffs on the northern
side of the Lairg Gru were full of possibil-
ities but the only excursion made to the
.spot was spoiled by foul weather.
The cliffs in Cloire Sneachda were the
first to receive our attention; gullies were
normally the lines of weakness chosen for
ascent since elsewhere the snow was pre-
sent in neither sufficient quantity or quality
to be usuable. Nevertheless, some fine, ex-
posed routes were made on the bulky central
cllifs, with a good deal of step-cutting on
ice, though not as much we hoped for.
In Coire Lochan, despite rival at-
tractions, interest oentred mainly on
the "vent" a 600 feet eullv with
a bulging, snow-and-ice-covered cbock-
stone forming the first crux. After
copious quantities of unstable snow had
been disposed of, the chockBtone was sur-
mounted by combined taotics (little man
stands on big man's shoulders), until the
little man in question peeled off the ice
slope) above, sailed gracefully over the
ohookstone and hit the President smartly
iti the back. Thus aroused, the President
smartly submounted the chookstone with
singular alacrity and made considerable
progress above it until, in a sudden
burst of prudence (quite uncharacteristic),
he declared progreBS 'unjustifiable' and re-
versed the pitoh ingeniously and ineleg-
antly.
By now the downward trend was in and
two members achieved notoriety by break-
ing all club records for accidental, uncon-
trolled, glissades. Two further members
indulged in similarly uncontrollable down-
ward progress by defecting the ranks
of the skiers-crass social climbers, the
pairs of them; they will be dealt
with accordingly.
Soon after this the tempo of the meet
dropped; alarmed at the thought of having
to cover a term's work in a oouple of days,
everyone began to drift home. Perhaps it
was just as well, the downward trend might
have developed into an avalanche.
FOR SALE
CAR CAR CAR
BLUE Morgan 4/4 series 1, 1937, with
upholstery, in parts or hole, ohassis only
slightly bent: rear axle appears to be
cracked. The engine remains intact — a
recently reconditioned COVENTRY CLI-
MAX. A must. Also various other bits
and pieces for motor cars. Felix Box No.
laa.
SPARES SPARES SPARES
MORRIS '8' in perfeot working order
save "big-end" bearings. As it stands
£12 o.n.o. otherwise all parts are for sale
separately. Everything works.
B. Manton Old Hostel. P. Hills Selkirk
Hall
Paint Smears
*
K
FOR BEATNIK BLUE JEANS
ALL COLORS
PASTE ON EASILY
'Look like a Beatnik artist
*Smell like a Beatnik artist
"Feel like a Beatnik artist
SO SMEARS—ONLY $1,381
BEAT GIMMICKS, INC. R.C.6. S.W.7.

