2 October 1999 . Felix Competiton 15
Win a Young Person's Railcard or a
copy of the new Sex Pistols Book
As any conscientious traveller knows, rail is the
way to go. C o a c h may be slightly cheaper and
there's much to be said for last miute air fares,
but trains have a tendency towards speed a n d
comfort, a n d , whatever b a d comedians may
say, are a d a m n sight more reliable. What
could be more useful to the average student,
therefore, than a Young Persons Railcard? N o t
only does the Young Persons Railcard offer
one third off all standard rail fares in Great
Britain, but it also offers savings on the other
essentials of a student lifestyle.
To buy a Young Persons Railcard a n d take
advantage of all these amazing offers, all you
need to do is go down to your local Student
Travel Office o r BR station with a passport
photo, an application form and proof that you
are aged under 26 or a full time student. O h ,
and the trifling sum of £ 1 8 , which will entitle
you to a full twelve months of discounted rail
travel.
Somewhere above I seem to remember
asking the question "what could possibly be bet-
ter than a Young Person's Railcard?".And, of
course, the answer is simple: a free one. Thanks
to some very kind PR people, there is no need
The Islamic Society
warmly welcomes all freshers
to Imperial College
The Islamic society is one of the largest and dynamic
societies at Imperial College catering for students from
all over the world.
The society is well established in organising social
activities, topical discussions, exhibitions and
seminars. Additionally for Muslims we provide very
good prayer facilities and iftar during the month of
Ramadan.
Some upcoming events organised by the society this
year are:
The Islamic Awareness Week
The Big Event'99.
Come and visit us at the freshers' fair for a friendly chat
and your free freshers' pack. Or pop into the prayer
room on the 2nd or 3rd of October.
The Prayer
room is
situated in
the basement
of 9 Prince's
Gardens
D w i n e / ' i d b i ' l ,
i
Road
D w i n e / ' i d b i ' l ,
i
Road
1
Sxn::;i"
:
::c-:
to pay your £ 1 8 , as they have kindly offered up
five railcards for us to give away to Felix read-
ers. However, we're not just going to hand these
things out to the first five random punters who
walk in off the street. O h no - that would be
too easy. N o , we're going to force you to exer-
cise that thing you keep between your ears. And
I don't mean your nose. N o , you're going to
have to exercise your grey matter, a n d answer
the following question:
If I were travelling directly to
Inverness, whicn London
station would I use?
Send answers to felix@ic.ac.uk with the subject
header 'Railcard C o m p ' before Wednesday
evening, along with up-to-date contact details,
so that Railcards can be sent firectly to te win-
ners, wthe mi
The first five names out of the virtual hat will
win themselves a railcard. As ever, the c o m -
petition is open to all staff a n d students of the
College (although, of course, in this case you'll
need to be under 2 6 to be able to accept the
prize). Felix staff, their families a n d significant
others are not eligible. N o cash alternative
will be offered. Correspondence will not be
entered into. The Editor's decision is final.
And so to prize # 2 . Think late seventies,
think punk and the Sex Pistols. Ingrained in the
psyche of a generation, they were the group that
genuinely brought no talent and an inability to
sing to the masses - a n d British popular music
hasn't looked back since. Now, Paul Burgess
and Alan Parker (an illustrator a n d a writer for
N M E respectively) have teamed up to write
Satellite, "the definitive story of the Sex Pistols",
covering the memorabilia, locations, photog-
raphy and fashion surrounding the Pistols rise
to iconic status.
To get your hands on a free copy, just
email the answer to the following question to
felix@ic.ac.uk, with the subject header 'Book
C o m p ' before it gets too dark out on Wednes-
day evening:
Name the Sex Pistols
original line-up
All winners will be notified by email a n d their
names will be printed in next week's edition.

