Mines Open
Day
Careful inspection of the Small Ads column in
F E L I X would have forewarned diligent readers
of the advent of our second annual open day
last Monday.
How does one measure the "success" of
such an event; attendance, interest, number of
exhibitors, standard of exhibition, organisation
or whether interviewees claim that the day
turned them onto a course at R S M . I claim that
the "success" is a combination of all of these
and that individuals should take their own
opinion:
477 'junior students' attended representing
88 schools with 39 teachers in attendance. W e
actually invited 465 schools and got replies
from about 120. The deficit of 345 is worth
noting—especially in the present economic
climate. Maybe school principals place more
i m p o r t a n c e o n l l ' / 2 P on postage than a
potential degree with subsequent career.
Interest value is directly proportional to the
interest of the person being exhibited to. In our
invitation we offered five places to each school
with the intent of precluding 6th form outings.
One school brought 16 students, all of whom
he claimed were interested. Exhibition staff are
the best to judge the actual interest and I
quote: "I was surprised to note that rather
than having eight people gazing into space and
one person paying attention your Open Day
was the reverse of this." (Min Proc stand);
8:30pm I arrive at the congregational area
beside Chemistry amid much activity; John
Vedy, Motor Club Captain, tells me that
they have a full complement of twelve cars
(all their rally licence allows) and that the
weather looks set for a good night's driving. I
meet some of the marshalls, who keep track
all the competitors' cars and time them
through the various sections of the route.
They keep in touch with each other by a
licenced radio amateur in each of the ten
marshall's cars (not CB). The competitors
cars are scrutinised to make sure that they're
fit for the hard driving they'll receive and one
by one they make for the start in the heart of
Kent, in fact Toys Hill, the highest point of the
county. I join the rally organiser, and we
make our way there as well.
10:45pm the quiet of a National Trust car
park is disturbed by 22 cars preparing for the
trip.
11:15pm I leave in the course opening car,
which goes round the route ahead of all the
competitors, checking the road, and putting
passage control (PC) boards by the side of
the road, each with a symbol on it which the
competitors have to note down to prove that
they did traverse the correct route. We meet
the first (stationary) marshall's car, and give
them their instructions.
11:25pm The alternator in our Escort
appears to pack up—leaving the headlights,
radio and engine to run down the battery. The
car stalls a couple of times and muscle power "
gets it going again, but no one knows how
long the battery will last.
12:00am Half-way through the first section
(of two) and we're getting rather paranoid
about our battery, which seems to be nearing
its limit. The leading competitor's car is only
"There does seem to be a genuine interest
from the majority of people attending." (BP
stand) A n d one from a student: "I wish I had
been able to see this exhibition before I chose
my A Levels"—therein lies a problem.
W e had 34 exhibitions overall, of which 16
w e r e s u p p l i e d by c o m p a n i e s . A l l the
exhibitions high quality and interest value and
all reflected the diligence of the exhibitor to
portray their field to its best. One representa-
tive from a mining company did, however,
think that his company should buck its ideas
up a bit—I had to agree!
Experience from last year showed that you
have to split students in to groups and guide
them around. A Laissez-faire system does not
work at all. W e used coordinators on each
floor and is the muster room and this appeared
to work reasonably well although, at the peak
hour (11:00-12:00) we did have a little bit of
trouble c o - o r d i n a t i n g effectively. G u i d e s
showed their group around his/her respective
department and then returned the group to
the muster room—This system appeared to
work well.
A s for whether our Open Day will convince
prospective students to come to the R S M to
do a course is not, I believe, a matter of
significance. If we have managed to impart
information to careers teachers—who are
r e m a r k a b l y i l l - i n f o r m e d a b o u t M i n e r a l
R e s o u r c e s E n g i n e e r i n g — t h e n we h a v e
succeeded.
Finally, 1 must thank the people who worked
extremely well to make the day work. It would
be unfair to name a few as it might belittle
those who did a small but vital function at the
right time.
CM. Sleap
Open D a y Committee Chairman
seven minutes behind us (too c l o s e for
comfort—there's meant to be about a half-
hour gap).
1 2 : 1 5 a m F o r no a p p a r e n t r e a s o n the
alternator starts working again, and we heave
sighs of relief.
12:30am We hear over the radio that two of
the cars seem to have got lost—some of the
navigation clues can be quite cryptic.
12:55 We plant a P C board on one of the
two long legs of a triangle—any rally cars
w h o try to save time by cutting off that
section will miss it and lose points.
01:35 The two errant cars have found the
route again, but a navigator in another car is
rather the worse for wear, and so they retire
before he throws up his supper. We have
made up some time and are well ahead of the
lead car.
01:45am Arrive at half-way point—a chance
to have a rest and some thermos coffee.
02:15am Off again, to more high-speed
driving through narrow country lanes, giving
instructions to the marshalls along the route,
and feeling the effect of lack of sleep as the
driver and navigator survive on caffeine
tablets.
03:55am We 'plant' the last P C board and race
for the finish at an even higher speed than our
usual hair-raising pace.
4:10am The first competitors arrive at the
finish and the task of adding up all the marks
begins. It seems that there had been no
accidents and no-one got totally lost on the
rally.
04:45 T h e p r o v i s i o n a l r e s u l t s are a n -
nounced, the winners being Kift and Gaylor.
05:10 Head back to College and a very
welcome bed, reached just as dawn broke.
Jasper
Centenary Ball
Tickets
I am still quite willing to accept
cheques for the "Ball of the
Century"—but time is running
out.
If you want to go, you need a
ticket. These will be distributed
next week. If anyone has not yet
received a receipt, please let me
know immediately in case your
cheque has not reached me.
Cheques may be sent to me
through the internal mail. Alter-
natively, I will be in the RCSU
Office (above Southside Shop)
on Monday, Tuesday and Wed-
nesday lunchtime. After Wed-
nesday (Nov 25) lunchtime, no
more tickets will be sold.
Yes, you've got it—this is an
ultimatum.
Andrew North
Hon Secretary
RCS Union
PS: No Riff Raff.
It must be quite a comedown for musicians
who've played Hammersmith Odeon and been
involved in the first satellite broadcast of a
rock concert to play to a crowd not reaching
three figures.
The r e a s o n for the p o o r c r o w d was
insufficient publicity which resulted from a
misunderstanding between Ents and IC Rag
Committee.
However the concert did not lose money,
but this should not ease the conscience of
those who couldn't be bothered to attend. It
only cost £1.
As for the music, the band played a loud, if
restrained, mixture of 'heavy' rock with liberal
inclusion of tapes and various other effects.
They sounded best when playing progressive
chord sequences and although their hearts are
in the right place lyrically (singing about
unequal distribution of wealth—Third World
Briefcases) it was difficult to hear the vocals
clearly. Best numbers included Dancing Days
and Clone on the Phone which along with
'cleaning up' of other material could form the
basis of an impressive debut album.
Driving force in the band is Zal Cleminson
(guitar, vocals and writer of all the songs) who
founded the band with Barriemore Barlow
(drums). Other members are Charlie Tumahi
(bass) and Ron Leaky (keyboards).
Support was J o n Benns whose songs about
subjects close to IC students' hears went down
well.
Finally, although Tandoori Cassette's show
allowed little i m p r o v i s a t i o n (opening and
closing with a tape) it was highly insensitive
and ignorant of someone to play a record over
a P A without giving the band the opportunity
to earn an encore.
Guilds Motor Rally
An outsider's view
Page 6 FELIX, November 20, 1981

