Managers Bit
The Government has introduced an Access Fund which it claims is intended to
bring to college students who would otherwise not be able to come due to finacial
constraints. This clever bit of eduacational buffing has killed two birds with one
stone. It fulfils there promise to encourage more people to go on to further eduaca-
tion, though in a very poor way. And, although they state it is not intended to
replace housing benefits, it does smooth the wake in the transision period. Now
they can happily exclaim that the money is there and if your not getting enough
then it's the colleges' fault. Pity the poor college administration, for once. Lets
not forget who screwed the system up in the first place by bringing in the
Poll Tax et all. Enough of this rant. The credits this week go to me for the writing,
typesetting, printing and everything in
fact, exept Benjamin Turner who help
inspire some of the headlines.PS This
issue is coming to you literally hot
off the press.
Felix is published by the Manager for and on behalf of Imperial
toilette Union Publications Board and is printed bv the Imperial
College Print Unit. Prince Consort Road. London SWT 2BB (Tel
II7I-SHII Sill ext .1515). Manager: Chris Stapleton. Business
Manager: Jeremy Burnett. Advertising Munuger: Chris Adams.
Copyright Felix I'I'IO. ' ISSN' 1040-0711.
Mrs Clare Ash Mrs Thatcher
PPS Has anyone noticed the similarity between..
No Rave
An acid house style rave organised by
Dave Cornwall, an ex-Imperial
student, was cancelled after much
confusion on Friday 24th last month.
The 'Daz' party, set for the 15th of
September, had already hadit's date
changed once by the Union, although it
was Security who finally banned the
event. It was envisaged that the event
would have caused too many security
problems. Because of this Security are
footing the bill for the £180.00 of
advertising handouts, staff cards and
membership cards.
The advertising handouts were being
forDave
distributed outside of College to the
general public from record shops and
by pavement distribution. Events in the
Union Building require that either the
users are members of the College
(students or staff) or that they are
present on a formal guest list. It was
this problem that prompted Security to
bar the event.
Dave Cornwall was the Chairman of
Afro-Caribbean Society, which held a
troubled party in the JCR. Allegations
of mugging and drug pushing were
made, and this can not have helped the
decision by Security.
Pure
Genius
Whilst a film crew was shooting an
advert for Beamish, a thief walked into
the unlocked and unattended dressing
room and took personal possesions
from the area. The items stolen
included over £200 in cash, a £250
wrist watch and other assorted items
such as wallets and lessor value
watches.
The robbery followed hot on the
heels of two others within college and
it is thought that it could have been the
same person or persons that
perpetrated all three crimes.
Carson in
Court
Andrew Carson the Assistant Bar
Manager who dissapeared over a
weekend, last January, with £1430
from the Union Bar safe was in
Snaresbrook Magistrates Court on the
17th August. He answered to a first
count of defrauding the Union Bar and
a second charge of feigning to defraud.
He was found guilty on both counts
being given a sentence of twelve
months suspended for the first charge
and two months suspended for the
second. The Union Bar is to receive no
compensation for the money taken.
Cashless
Box
Following the break in to the
International Enrichment office, acash
box belonging to them was found in
one of the offices next door. Hidden by
a sofa, the box was found by Benjamin
Turner, Deputy President, when
moving the furniture around. The box
had seemingly been forced open with a
screw driver and the cash bag contents
emptied and taken. The small change
had been left.
The Police were called in to check
for finger prints and record the new
evidence. No useable prints were
found. Ironically some of the American
students over here at the moment have
been studying in the room for the last
month. If the evidence had been found
earlier the prints might have been of
some use, said a Union spokesperson.

