Veni Vidi CV
I left Imperial last summer, clutching
my 2:1 in Chemical Engineering in my
sticky little hands, and determined to
get a job in a completely different area
to my degree discipline: journalism.
After two months job hunting, this
book fell into my hands (while I was in
the FELIX office copying another dozen
CVs) and I seized on it, wondering if it
would provide some extra insights that
would finally land me a job.
The title is an obvious parody of
Douglas Adams' book, right down to
having the words 'Don't Panic' on the
inside front cover. Unfortunately, I
have to say that in places the Job
Hunter's Guide is almost as eclectic as
the Hitch Hiker's Guide, if not as
inaccurate.
The book would be better described as
a job hunter's guide to writing a CV
and attending interviews (admittedly
this is not such a snappy title). In this
respect, it is excellent. There is advice
on setting objectives,
organising yourself, where to look for
jobs, how to approach interviews and
perform in them and what to do
afterwards. The other half of the book
is devoted to how to prepare a CV. As
the author earns a living by doing
exactly this for clients, he certainly
knows what he is talking about.
However there are several important
omissions from the book. Stephenson
completely fails to mention the issue of
references and referees. As I've never
applied to a job where they didn't want
to at least see evidence that someone
would give a reference, even if they
didn't take it up, this omission can only
be described as appalling.
The other glaring omission is the lack
of any information on how to fill out
company application forms. Stephenson
offers the advice that having filled out
the form 'attach a copy of your C V to
the back of it. In that way you will
have complied with their rules, but still
be presenting yourself in the way YOU
want.'but gives no help whatsoever on
how to fill out the form. Since forms
are used 'to compare 'like withlike", as
Stephenson points out in the preceding
paragraph, they are as important as the
CV and some information on filling
them out should have been given.
Having said that, the book does handle
the areas it covers very well and
probably is worth its price of £5.50,
although it would have been nice if
he'd included an index as well as a
contents page. It's extremely well
written and very easy to read (I read
the whole thing in about an hour).
Stephenson's C V design may not be to
everyone's taste, but it provides a lot of
ideas and helps you avoid most of the
pitfalls.
This book didn't really tell me anything
that 1 didn't already know, but if
you've never looked for a job before, it
would be a great help. It's a lot more
practical than the sterile books usually
produced on the subject which
seem to bear no relation to the real
world.
By the time you read this, I hope I'll
have got a job and can forget about all
Tthis until the next time.
Liz W.
Cosmetic Surgery
Dear Sir,
I am writing on behalf of the British
Union for the Abolition of Vivisection
(BUAV) to thank everyone in the area
who kindly supported our walk for
Laboratory Animals which took place
in London on Sunday 19 August. The
ten mile sponsored walk around
Clapham Common was a huge success
attracting more than 400 enthusiastic
walkers. We anticipate that the event
will have raised over £20,000 towards
the BUAV's campaign to end cosmetic
tests on animals throughout Europe.
In 1989, 12,090 animals including
rabbits, mice, rats and guineapigs were
used to test cosmetics and toiletries in
the UK alone. Many
more animals died in European
laboratories. Products such as lipstick,
toothpaste and suntan lotion are force
fed to animals, applied to their raw,
shaved skin or dripped into their eyes.
The BUAV is leading the way to end
these cruel tests on animals with our
highly effective 'Choose Cruelty Free'
campaign. We have been successful in
pe/suading major companies such as
Benetton, Avon, Revlon, and Estee
Lauder to reject animal tests. And to
help consumers in choosing
cruelty-free products we now list 200
approved companies who meet a strict
no animal testing criteria.
Our latest move to achieve a complete
ban on these tests throughout the
European Community needs your
support. Without it thousands of
animals will continue to suffer and die
each year. Please help by making a
donation towards the campaign fund
and write today for your free EEC
information pack which includes a list
of cruelty-free companies and details
of how you can support the campaign.
Thank you,
Clare Lothian, Press Co-Ordinator
BUAV, 16a Crane Grove Islington,
London N7 8LB Tel 071-700 4232
T E S T I N G
C O S M E T I C S O N
A N I M A L S

