Karakoram Expedition
Today, 9am, Charles English and Philip
Gribbon, from the Departments of
Electrical Engineering and Physics, set
off on an expedition to the Karakoram
Highway. Starting in Islamabad,
Pakistan, they will be attempting to run
the Highway over to Kashgar in
Western China. The run is raising
money for the charity Intermediate
Technology, which aims to make
technology work for the Third World.
The Karakoram Highway is a branch
of the Silk Road and will take them up
the Indus valley to the Hunza.the
semi-mythical valley ofShangri-La
fame. They will climb to the Khunjerab
Pass at a height of 15,000 feet and then
descend to the oasis town of Kashgar.
It is believed that the journey has
never been attempted before in this
manner.
The run is likely to take around four
weeks with a two day bus ride back to
Islamabad. When asked if they were
nervous there was some uncertainty.
They said that they were sort of
nervous but after all the training, they
just wanted to get out there and do it.
During the journey they will collecting
some of their food and
water from the passing trucks on this
the highest metalled road in the world.
Southside Fight S by SE
Two employees of the refectories, a
kitchen porter and a casual, were
banned from Southside following an
incident last Friday night. A fight broke
out after inflamed arguments in the bar
which resulted in them being requested
to leave by Rob Northey, Refectories
Manager, and Roger Pownall, Bar
Manager.
After leaving the bar it was reported
that one of the men began 'knocking
ten tons of shit out of him'. The victim
fell to the floor and the assailant
continued by kicking him in the head.
He then became unconscious and was
taken to hospital with a gash across his
face.
Security in the Southside lodge called
the Police and Ambulance services. An
unmarked car and a Police van arrived
at the scene and the attacker was
taken away for questioning.
The assailant was charged with
assault and battery and both men have
been dismissed from there college
employment.
The last three days have seen the
filming of a six part television drama
for children in the Union Building. The
film, a sequel to 'Just Ask for Diamond'
is being made by Red Rooster films for
Television South, Disney Channel and
Avro, a Dutch company and is being
co-produced with IDTV in the
Netherlands.
The scenes being filmed include an
auction based at Sotheby's in which the
hero of the day, the young Nick
Diamond, saves a Russian Diplomat
from being blown up. The auctioneers
hammer having been rigged to
detonate a stack of dynamite on it's fall
after the last bid.

