politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
11
Friday 8 February 2008 felix
Politics
Despite the UK being one of the most
capitalistic countries in the world, it
has never been particularly anti-tax.
That’s not to say people enjoy paying
taxes or wouldn’t mind their own par-
ticular burden being reduced – they
are human, after all. Instead, there
simply isn’t a particularly strong belief
that taxes should be low and there is
remarkably little protest at the govern-
ment raising taxes openly, introducing
new ones or using stealth measures to
increase taxes. The British people ap-
pear to have made their peace with tax
in a way that Americans (rightly, in this
writer’s opinion) never will.
There is one type of tax, however,
for which this rule is blown out of the
water. Despite being a tax that affects
a remarkably small proportion of the
population in any significant way there
is surely no tax that is more despised
throughout the country than that on
estates worth over £600,000 ($1.2m).
Doing my research for this article, it
was difficult to find a source (bar the
government) that would discuss this is-
sue without making a shamelessly po-
litical point on why inheritance tax is
so awful. Those who argue against the
tax are incensed by its role as a “double
tax”: they claim that the benefactor is
taxed once upon earning the money
and then again on death. This is being
rather pedantic. The sufferer of the tax
in the second instance is the heir, not
the person who has died. Labour MP
Stephen Byers argued that inheritance
tax is “a penalty on hard work, thrift,
and enterprise”. I fail to see how this is
the case for inheritance tax but not for
income tax, capital gains tax, and every
single other type of tax that has ever
existed. I will not make the point that
inheritance tax is a good thing; on the
contrary, I consider anything that forc-
es a person to part with their property
(e.g., tax, robbery) to be a necessary
evil at best and just plain evil at worst.
My point, rather, is to take a step back
and consider this tax relative to other
taxes. My point … is that inheritance
tax is probably the least offensive of all
types of tax.
First, let us put on our practical econ-
omist hat. One of the reasons capital-
ists believe in low taxes is that tax dis-
courages innovation, hard work, and
investment. It is self-evident that the
greater the financial reward that peo-
ple will get for their work, the harder
they will work. The hard work-low tax
relationship applies for virtually every
type of tax … except inheritance tax.
Inheritance tax does very little dam-
age to the country’s economy relative
to all other types of taxes. Worse still, a
lack of inheritance tax potentially has a
negative effect on the economy – why
work and contribute to society when
one can live off one’s inherited estate?
It is strange, but there seems to be little
reason to attack this tax in the name of
fiscal efficiency.
Thinking more ideologically and less
practically, let us consider “fairness”,
indeed an important factor when con-
sidering the need to force people to
part with their property. Again, I must
stress that all tax falls into the same
bucket on this. Private property is an
inalienable right and all that. But there
must be measure. It is, surely, more
inappropriate to force a person to
part with property personally earned
through hard work than property
“earned” by mere virtue of birth. I sup-
pose this argument does not extend to
lifetime gifts as I do not consider these
different from a salary. It is, rather,
based on the fact that inheritance rep-
resents a person trying to influence
events on Earth that occur after their
death. Something about exercising
one’s rights after one’s demise is simply
a bit more woolly than exercising those
same rights while still alive – we all
believe in the lifetime right to vote but
what if someone decided to bequeath
a vote to their favourite political party
for an election held after their death?
Is this really all that different?
Lastly, I shall espouse an argument
that I would not myself ever pay heed
to, on the basis that it is selfish, but is
one that many might find influences
their feelings on the matter. Quite
frankly, unless your parents are par-
ticularly wealthy and you plan on re-
maining in a relatively low-paying job,
you have much more to personally gain
from cuts in income and capital gains
tax than you do from inheritance tax.
As alluded to earlier, a mere 6% of Brit-
ish households pay a penny of inher-
itance tax and the majority of these
pay a small amount. The average bill
last year was £100,000 and the median
is undoubtedly lower. This may seem
like a lot of money but it really isn’t
for the wealthiest 6% of Britons when
compared to their personal lifetime in-
come, especially for having done noth-
ing whatsoever (and having received
£850,000 in the average case). The only
people who are really significantly af-
fected by this tax are the tiny number
who have windfalls of over £5 million
coming to them (and if one is really
worth that much, then one is a fool if
there isn’t a clever Mayfair tax lawyer
ensuring that tax bill never comes).
I cannot in good conscience promote
inheritance tax as a good thing but I
will stand by my view of it as a best-of-
all-evils tax. This transcends party pol-
itics; the left seem to love taxes anyway
and the right should concern them-
selves about taxes that hit the hard-
working than those that hit the merely
fortunate. I don’t expect many to agree
with me, but I suppose I never do.
Life: just death and taxes
Abioye Oyetunji
Yes, they’re US Dollars, but you try find a high resolution photo of the good old Pound Sterling
News from all over the known world
In case you couldn’t stomach reading
more than a string of 50 words on poli-
tics, here are some stories from across
the known world.
Chad under attack
Chad’s capital N’Djamena was stormed
last Saturday in an unsuccessful at-
tempt by rebels from the east of the
central African country to oust Presi-
dent Idriss Deby. The event sparked
an escalation in insurgent activity
which the government of Chad claims
have been aided by its troubled neigh-
bour, Sudan. French President Nicolas
Sarkozy reasserted his support for De-
by’s government and pledged to assist
militarily in the former colony should
it be further threatened.
Eavesdropping
Jack Straw, the UK’s Justice Minister,
came to the defence of fellow Labour
MP Sadiq Khan whose conversations
with a terrorist suspect in prison were
said to have been recorded, stating that
such news was an attempt to smear Mr.
Khan. Recording or bugging members
of Parliament is in contravention of the
so-called ‘Wilson Doctrine’.
Italian turmoil
Italy is facing more political troubles
after President Giorgio Napolitano
dissolved the country’s Parliament last
week, sparking an election within 70
days by constitutional decree. It fol-
lows the loss of a vote of confidence
on Prime Minister Romano Prodi in
January, who subsequently submitted
his resignation. Problems began nearly
a year ago when Prodi’s government
failed to gain support in Parliament
for the funding of Italian troops in
Afghanistan.
New Year snow storms
Commuters all over China battled
against severe weather as many mil-
lions made their way home over the
last week for the New Year celebra-
tions through some of the worst snow
storms the country has seen in recent
times. The year of the Rat was wel-
comed in on Thursday on a calendar
based on lunar observations. President
Hu Jin Tao made visits to some of the
worst-hit regions. Some four million
residents in Chenzhou, a city in Hunan
province, spent the celebrations with-
out electricity, as electricians and the
military worked extra hours in an at-
tempt to restore essential utilities shut
down by the winter storms.
Li-Teck Lau
Fresh,
delicious
scandal
I
’m almost droolling, delicious
scandal, intrigue and misinfor-
mation … Sorry, I’m just think-
ing about Tuesday’s Political
Philosophy Society’s Israel/Pal-
estine discussion.
Due to Dr. Azzam Tamimi being
uninvited, there were whispers of pro-
tests. Luckily Islamists did not protest
outside the Sherfield building, but still
it was pretty tense. I began to suspect
the bearded people sitting around me
… maybe they were going to start wav-
ing placards about free speech – hold
on, Muslims supporting free speech,
yes, reader, I too was confused.
Proceedings began with an explana-
tion of this whole uninviting somebody
business. Basically “speaker replaced
… blah blah … irresolvable differences
blah blah”. All very boring until I heard
the Jerusalem Post being accused of
poor journalism. Hey, it was suddenly
getting interesting!
Unfortunately, the talk itself was
tame. More scandal did however arise:
Ghada Karmi read a statement con-
demning the treatment of Dr. Azzam
Tamimi. She said that it was “unac-
ceptable to treat a good scholar in this
way” and that if she had known the
truth surrounding the uninvitation she
“would have withdrawn from the talk”.
I still had no idea what this ‘truth’ was
Finally, when the Q&A began, I got
some GODDAMN ANSWERS! A
crazy man in the audience accused
the PPS of deceiving Imperial students
and said they should clarify just what
the fuck is going on. He then directed a
question at guest speaker David New-
man: “Is there any Israeli who is man
enough to share a platform with Tami-
mi?” It was beginning to sound like a
pre-fight press conference. Mr. New-
man explained everything, and I got
the feeling the PPS didn’t quite want
him to explain. He told us that HE in
fact withdrew from the talk, when he
found out who Dr. Azzam Tamimi
was. Essentially David Newman did
not want to share a platform with a
man who has said he was prepared to
be a suicide bomber. He then told us
that he did not ask for Tamimi to be
removed, just that he wouldn’t be at-
tending if Dr. Tamimi did. Good job of
laying the controversy right at the feet
of the PPS.
What the Jerusalem Post did to in-
cur the wrath of Imperial’s PPS was
publish an article stating that David
Newman had withdrawn. The PPS was
trying to keep the whole affair about
which speaker to choose under wraps
and the Jerusalem Post ruined all that
by writing about it. While uninviting
Dr. Tamimi was not an attack on free
speech it would seem that the PPS
doesn’t appreciate the free press. If you
were hoping for a shifty finances or
internal tensions scandal, don’t worry
I’m sure there’ll be plenty of all that
from the Union. See next page for fur-
ther information on the event.
Samuel Black
Political Know-It-All

