12 felix Friday 8 February 2008
politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Politics
T
he Imperial Political
Philosophy Society, on
Tuesday night, held a dis-
cussion on the Israel/Pal-
estine conflict. They in-
vited three guest speakers to give their
views and answer questions from the
audience: Robin Kealy, former Consu-
late General to Jerusalem; David New-
man, Professor of Political Geography
at Ben-Gurion University; and Ghada
Karmi, Research Fellow and lecturer at
the University of Exeter. Eeach spoke
at length on this controversial conflict.
Felix has already run articles by myself
and others on the issue; the purpose
of this article is to give those who did
not attend a feel of the interesting ideas
put forward, and those who did attend
a chance to reflect on a fast-paced
discussion.
Robin Kealy began the proceedings
with some background on the negotia-
tions that have gone on in the past and
his experiences as consulate general to
Jerusalem. In true diplomatic nature
he treated the events and issues with
care. At the forefront of his argument
was what he believed to be the barrier
to progress in this conflict: previous
attempts to bring the sides together
failed because they were not compre-
hensive in their scope. He highlighted
the Oslo Accords as a symbol of this
problem, and although both sides were
brought together in negotiations, the
real intractable issues, such as Jerusa-
lem, refugees, Israeli settlements in the
area, and security and borders were
not addressed. Mr. Kealy was clear
about how he felt successful agree-
ments would be accomplished. Com-
pletely “comprehensive negotiations”
are absolutely indispensable because
(a) each issue is unavoidably linked to
each other, and (b) for negotiations to
be successful there must be a win-win
situation. Each side must believe that
any concession “costs him less than
what it’s worth to the other side”, or to
disentanglethisdiplomaticjargon,each
side must feel the solution is fair. The
only way to achieve this win-win situ-
ation is by allowing each side to have
gains on certain issues and concede on
other issues, this successful dynamic
can only exist if all the issues are on the
table and therefore in order to get real
progress completely comprehensive
negotiations must take place.
In many ways Mr. Kealy talked about
the challenges facing diplomats rather
than the issues on the ground today.
However, he did succinctly state the
central issues. Who will control the
borders in a possible two state solu-
tion? What is a viable Palestinian state,
and what form will it take? What will
become of Jerusalem – can it be shared
or divided? (He reminded us that the
UN planned to make Jerusalem a cor-
pus separatum in 1947, meaning that
it would have been placed under effec-
tive United Nations control, a ‘free city’
if you like.) What is the nature of the
right of return? He did take some time
to investigate this issue. Robin Kealy
reminded us of the difference between
agreements in principle and agree-
ments that are followed by real chang-
es. While the right of return may be
agreed, this does not necessarily mean
that all Palestinian refugees must re-
turn to their pre-1947 settlements. As
with all the issues there are always oth-
er options on offer. The metaphor he
used was to imagine you have bought
a plane ticket. It gives you the right to
travel on a particular flight; however,
if the flight is overbooked, you might
find it more beneficial to find another
method of transport. The message
that, I feel, Robin Kealy put forward
was twofold: firstly, as a former diplo-
mat, that the Israelis and Palestinians
might not get exactly what they want,
but if we accept this then peace is not
far off; and secondly, that we shouldn’t
rush into negotiations. As he put it,
“a little pre-cooking helps when you
come to the dining room”.
The lecture theatre quickly discov-
ered that second speaker David New-
man was not a fan of George Bush.
Conflict Case Study week begins
Imperial’s Political Philosophy Society’s Conflict Case study week begins with a talk on Israel/Palestine
I’m envious of the sardonic way he
dismissed Bush’s attempts to engineer
peace in Israel/Palestine by mocking
the fact that Bush only just “discovered
the Israel/Palestine conflict 7 years
into his presidency”. Aside from this
humorous jibe, Mr. Newman had some
interesting thoughts on the conflict.
He quickly put forward his main two
ideas, that today in 2008 “there are no
problems with the details” of the con-
flict and also that a two-state solution
is viable. He went on to explain what
was the slightly confusing comment
“there are no problems with the de-
tails”. People, on both sides, have been
discussing solutions for years now,
he told us. There are numerous solu-
tions to each of the barriers to peace
and they have been discussed, ana-
lysed and discussed again ad infinitum.
Certainly one might agree; however, I
felt that stating that the details were
not a problem was too absolutist. The
real point of Mr. Newman’s statement,
however, was what he identified as the
true problem facing the peace process:
not the details, but rather a lack of po-
litical will, guts, and charisma needed
to make high-level negotiations begin
and work. There is plenty of ‘Track 2’
discourse between Palestinians and Is-
raelis (Track 2 meaning academics and
low-level ministers) but concrete peace
agreements are made through ‘Track
1’ talks (Track 1 meaning leaders and
foreign ministers). Mr. Newman drew
on a personal real-world example to
help emphasize his point. The ‘green
line’ that demarks the Israeli state from
Palestinian territories he asserted to be
‘problematic’. It weaves in and out, with
enclaves and administrative zones. He
believes it to be a ‘recipe for political
instability’. A stable border must have
contiguous and compact areas of prop-
erty on either side, he claimed that in
many ‘Track 2’ discussions between
The panel spoke to a packed audience in the Read lecture theatre
Kadhim Shubber
“A little pre-
cooking helps
when you come
to the dining
room”
“you cannot
divide this
territory”
Qassam rockets being made in Gaza, prior to being fired into Israel

