flict, we can logically understand the
actions of Israel today and why certain
issues are extremely intractable. Ghada
Karmi categorically stated that there
could not be a fair, just solution to this
conflict as long as Israel continued to
be a politically Zionist state because it
would continue to act according to this
ideology which is discriminatory and
unstable.
She then moved on to address the
issue of a two-state solution versus a
one-state solution. During his talk,
point, as “easy to understand and inevi-
table”. Political Zionism requires a Jew-
ish state which is either entirely Jewish
or has a large Jewish majority so that it
is for all intents and purposes entirely
Jewish. When the Zionist movment
chose Palestine as their homeland, they
encountered a problem in that there
were already Palestinians in residence
there. In order to maintain a Jewish
majority, these Palestinians had to be
expelled, removed from Jewish territo-
ries – otherwise there would not be a
Jewish majority. In addition the Israeli
state must ensure that these Palestin-
ians do not return as again this would
damage the Jewish majority. Therefore
the ‘right of return’ is a non-question,
and Israel, under a Zionist ideology
cannot accept the return of Palestin-
ians either in principle or reality as it
would contradict this Zionist ideology.
By understanding this cause of the con-
politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
13
Friday 8 February 2008 felix
Politics
A bigger stage for your talents
Put your career ﬁrst by joining KPMG. With specialist training and graduate opportunities
across Europe, you’ll have the chance to shine in a role that’s right for you.
Find out more at kpmgcareers.co.uk/biggerstage
© 2008 KPMG LLP, a UK limited liability partnership, is a subsidiary of KPMG Europe LLP and a member ﬁrm
of the KPMG network of independent member ﬁrms afﬁliated with KPMG International, a Swiss cooperative.
Israeli and Palestinian cartographers
the issue of the West Bank border had
been hammered out. If there were real,
bilateral ‘Track 1’ discussions, this
problem could be solved; in essence,
the details were not the problem.
On the issue of the two-state solu-
tion, David Newman believed this to be
viable in part due to its acceptability to
the Israeli public. He rejected the one-
state solution, a standpoint that was
completely at odds with Ghada Karmi’s
views as you will see later. There is a
consensus amongst the Israeli public
that the two-state solution is what a re-
alistic peace will look like. As evidence,
Newman pointed to the fact that two
right-wing Israeli politicians – Ehud
Olmert and Ariel Sharon – ran an elec-
tion campaign and won with a policy
that was, in Israeli politics, a radical
left position. The reason for this was
not because the right wing suddenly
changed its ideology but rather it rec-
ognised the consensus amongst Israe-
lis that a two-state solution is the only
viable solution. Throughout his talk,
there was an undercurrent of reality
that reassured me. Mr. Newman was
well aware of the large role played by
domestic opinion and admitted that
this posed significant barriers. He re-
minded us “the level of mutual mis-
trust and suspicion [between Israelis
and Palestinians] is greater than it was
10 years ago”.
Finally speaking was Ghada Karmi.
Her style was much different to the
other speakers. To some it must have
came across as confrontational while
others will have viewed it as passion-
ate; regardless. her message and logic
came out clearly. She first took time to
explain that she disagreed completely
with David Newman. She explained
that the flaw in his viewpoint was that
he assumed equivalence between the
Palestinians and Israelis. She described
the conflict as colonial and stated that
‘conflict resolution’, as Mr. Newman
put it, was impossible between an oc-
cupier and the occupied. Because the
stronger power will always have the
upper hand, any negotiations will in-
evitably favour him and therefore any
agreement will not be satisfactory to
the weaker power; a conflict resolution
as a result cannot be stable or ‘fair’. The
main focus of her argument was that to
achieve a peaceful future, we must fully
understand the origins of the conflict.
The origin of the conflict was, as she
identified, Zionism. She described the
conflict, once you begin at this starting
“There are no
problems with
the details”
“If you want
security, you
won’t get it by
killing people”
Palestinians pray in front of the Israeli separation barrier at Kalandia checkpoint near the entrance of the West Bank city of Ramallah
David Newman asked how one would
divide a piece of real estate between
two contesting peoples. Ghada Karim
seized upon this to state that categori-
cally “you can’t divide this territory”.
She spoke about ‘fairness’: a two-state
solution can exist but it will not be fair
to the Palestinians. Even at its best,
where Israel would return to pre-1967
borders, the Palestinian territory would
constitute around 20% of Palestine and
this is unfair. She then addressed the
question of why the Palestinians put
forward the two-state solution if it is
so unfair. The Palestinian leadership
in the past and in the present realized
that its position was so weak that to
avoid total destruction, it would have
to accept whatever it could get in or-
der to survive. However, even the one-
state solution, she admitted, will not
work. There cannot be any peace in
any form, she re-iterated, until Israel
abandons political Zionism. She ended
her talk with an emotive appeal to the
audience. She urged us to forget high
and mighty talk about high level nego-
tiations and remember the reality on
the ground. Remember that the West
Bank is “divided into ghettos, barriers,
and checkpoints”, that “Gaza is a giant
prison, sealed off, surrounded”. And
“Israel’s creeping colonization has ren-
dered the two-state solution impossi-
ble”. In a direct message to Israel she
stated that “if you want security, you
won’t get it by killing people”.
If you feel that I have misrepresented
any of the views put forward at the
event, I sincerely apologise. After the
event I, and I hope others too, feel
more informed and more confidant
about tackling this issue in future. I’m
looking forward to the next event on
Thursday which focuses on the con-
flict in Kashmir.

