Coming together at the seams: Knit Sock forms
Imperial’s newest society, cleverly dubbed Knit Sock, introduces itself and exposes the closet knitters
E
veryone’s doing it. No, it’s
definitely not illicit sex,
drugs and rock n’ roll, or the
latest political uprising (we
are at Imperial, after all), it
is, however, knitting. Regulars of the
Union bar had to double-take before
ordering their next drink on Mon-
day at 5, when the bar was invaded by
Imperial’s newest society, Knit Sock
(clever pun intended.) They couldn’t
believe their eyes when the society’s
opening event saw the union swamped
by beginners, enthusiasts, and those
who were just plain curious about the
whole thing: not to mention the most
shocking of all - an even gender ratio.
Indeed, after refuelling at the bar, many
came over to see what all the fuss was
about and some even put down their
beers, picked up a pair of needles and
had a go themselves.
As the name suggests, Knit Sock pro-
vides encouragement and training to
eager beginners as well as an arena for
knitting afficionados to share and im-
prove their talents. There is a common
misconception amongst young people
that knitting is the hobby of elderly
women who have nothing better to do
than sit at home, stockpiling scarves,
hats and gloves for an unknown im-
pending ice age.
Although knitting is a solo endeav-
our, it is an extremely social activity
that can be done by anyone. Celebri-
ties including Cameron Diaz, Kate
Moss, Madonna, Daryl Hannah and
Russell Crowe have been seen enjoy-
ing the hobby and even our very own
celebrity Stephen Brown stopped in to
give it a go. They have helped bring the
revival of knitting back into the public
eye, giving closet knitters the encour-
agement to shout it aloud and be proud
of this truly awesome skill.
But why now? The last time it was
at its height was during WWII when
it was your duty to make all of your
family’s clothes (oh yes, there is such
a thing as knitted underwear). These
days, though, it’s partly due to the huge
selection of yarns - including ones that
change colour so you don’t have to,
and, to take it further, self-patterning
yarn, as well as renowned magazines
like Vogue revitalizing their patterns.
Furthermore, knitting can be per-
formed almost anywhere at any time:
so you should always carry a pair of
knitting needles, a ball of yarn and a
basic grasp of the craft around with
you. Ever felt like your life was being
wasted on those commutes in, gazing
at someone else’s shoes? Think about
how your productivity would sky-
rocket if you were whipping up some
mittens or a jumper instead.
The very thought of knitting has
brought smiles and laughter to many
Imperial students and academics,
many of whom thought it was an
amusing suggestion but one that had
no place in this prestigious university.
After some asking around in the JCR
and within different departments,
however, we were able to unearth some
of those closet knitters, and even more
who were eager to learn, who were
very interested in joining a club where
they could enjoy this pastime. Exas-
perated with none of the pre-existing
250+ clubs and societies at Imperial
meeting these needs, a few knitting
devotees decided it was about time a
society dedicated to craftwork (includ-
ing crochet, embroidery and cross
stitch) was started. Hence Knit Sock
was conceived and is being nurtured
into Imperial life, armed with a box
full of knitting needles and a bag full
of yarn, and last week the mother lode
of home-made chocolate chip cookies.
The huge interest in this society prior
to its official opening was surpassed
by even more students joining and be-
coming members on Monday evening.
And why shouldn’t it be popular?
To tell you the truth, knitting is a lot
like the practicals that we all churn
out, but a lot more fun, not least be-
cause there is a pint involved. You have
your materials, your needles and wool
equivalent to any apparatus, and then
there’s your practical schedule guiding
you through, in the form of your pat-
tern. Many a time have we at Knit Sock
HQ heard ‘oh, I’m not creative’. But
that’s the beauty of it - you can be as
creative as you like because, at the end
of the day, you just have to follow the
‘practical schedule’, and the technique
can’t be that hard if your gran can do
it and you’re here doing a science de-
gree. And for those of you who still
aren’t convinced because you are too
hard for knitting, there is such a thing
as Extreme Knitting, which is knitting
in inconceivable places - ideas are be-
ing thrown around with the Parkour
society and the Underwater Club. And
at the end of it all there you are, with
your very own garment; which is much
better received as a gift than your well-
cultured E.coli on an agar plate.
A right bunch of knitters furiously churning out garments
Who said knitting needles were pointless?
Settling the battle of the sexes
P
icture the scene: a woman
yells across a clearing at
ranks of men roaring on
the other side in a scene
strangely reminiscent of
Braveheart. The camera pans to show
ranks of women standing behind
her. They proceed to launch gender-
specific munitions at each other. The
men kick footballs, the women throw
weighted handbags. The whole image
tells you: THIS IS WAR!
So a recent ‘Mail on Sunday’ TV
advert starts (check it on YouTube,
it’s hilarious), playing on
a seemingly age-old
truth, men and wom-
en are different and
forever shall be, and these differences
shall constantly fuel the battle of the
sexes.
This ‘all out war’ in and of itself might
not be a bad thing, but when it comes
to the relationships between men and
women, which for some reason seems
necessary, the perceived acts of insan-
ity by both sides tends to complicate
things, and few relationships survive.
Over the last few weeks, a team of
students from the Every Nation Chris-
tian Society have been accosting ran-
dom people asking the question:
“What’s your biggest gripe about the
opposite sex?”
Seeking to be fair, we
asked both men
and women. The range of answers can
be seen in video form on Facebook
(search for: “understanding the oppo-
site sex” on the events page). Judging
by the interviewees’ answers, men find
women complicated, whiny and pos-
sessing an irrational need for shopping,
whereas women find men insensitive,
dishonest and unsupportive. When
asked the following question:
“Do you think there is any hope of
ever understanding the opposite sex?,”
most people gave an emphatic “no”.
The two sexes are different, and
there is no escape from that fact. From
what we are told, for instance, the little
things mean the world to women. They
want to know that others are listening,
and they are important. A friend of
mine (female) recently said that if a guy
were to earn brownie points, he’d have
to do it through the little things over
a period of time. Also, if ever a prob-
lem arises, the solution lies through
discussion.
Men enjoy the hunt, the fight and
the win. They crave to be the best, the
strongest, the fastest. The most obvi-
ous example of this is competitive
sport. Imperial is not the most obvi-
ous place, so our men seek intellectual
brilliance. If a problem ever arises that
cannot be tackled by brute force, the
solution lies in emotional detachment
until the problem goes away.
These two completely different (and
highly stereotypical) types must now
try and live in proximity to each other
without causing random violent erup-
tions if the human race is to continue
in any meaningful sense. So we ask the
question: how is this possible? How
do these two unlikely groups people
manage to deal with their differences
and still be alive at the end of the day?
I mean: he burps, farts and kicks a
football at all who oppose him and she
obsesses over shoes and shopping and
stops talking about either of these only
to briefly berate him for kicking said
football.
So is that it? Are we doomed to for-
ever misunderstand each other? Is
Valentine’s Day to be a hit and hope?
And if February 14th turns out to be
the start of a beautiful friendship, is it
going to last?
To that end, this Tuesday 12th Feb-
ruary at 6pm in SAF 120-121, a guy
who, having been married for about 20
years thinks it’s possible to understand
and successfully co-exist with the op-
posite sex, will be presenting his case.
It should make good listening. Who
knows, he may even reveal the secrets
to make the next one less painful than
the last one. In the meantime, there’s
always Facebook.
Understanding The Opposite Sex
is being held by the Every Nation
Christian Society on Tuesday 12th
February in SAF 120-121 at 6pm
He burps, she bitches. He swears, she shops. How do men and women really get along? The Every
Nation Christian Society will be asking just that at Tuesday’s Understanding The Opposite Sex forum
What is it that keeps men and women together?
15
Friday 8 February 2008 felix

