Culture &
The Arts
Arts Editors – Rosie Grayburn, Caz Knight, David Paw and Emily Wilson
Budding culture vulture? Write for us.
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
17
Friday 8 February 2008 felix
Caz Knight
Arts Editor
The Arab and the Jew – a
topical masterpiece it seems
Caz Knight goes in search of artistic inspiration and comes out questioning modern
day politics. The Arab and the Jew is a must-see at the Lyric Theatre, Hammersmith
T
he Arab and the Jew: I was
steeling myself for a very
meaningful, political play,
heaving with messages
and historical references.
On closer inspection, the promise of
“a riot of sound, image and movement”
promised an evening of more experi-
mental theatre, but leaden with a po-
litical agenda nonetheless.
And so I went along to the Lyric The-
atre, Hammersmith, with the Arab Soc
to see this riot. For those of you unfa-
miliar with the Arab Soc, it seeks to
amalgamate the myriad of cultures and
traditions present and thriving within
the vast Arab-speaking world, and to
share and experience these among
Imperial students. Spanning over 23
countries, one can imagine the diversi-
ty of what the community has to offer.
From the moment that an Arab and a
Jew come falling from the sky, landing
in what seems to be the desert (actually
a very convincing and inviting looking
sandbox), the play is a trip down the
rabbit hole in terms of logic and imagi-
nation. The logician within me tried to
assign some storyline to the play as it
progressed, and failed. Just when you
think you may have deciphered one of
the many mad scenes in the perform-
ance, off it hurtles once more on a
tangent you would never have thought
possible.
The title Arab and Jew are Allel
Nedjari and Amit Lahav, which make
up Gecko. The Arab and the Jew
sets about to celebrate their brother-
hood and laugh and cry at their own
reflections.
But on what? Those who care not
for current affairs, history or com-
mon sense might not be aware that in
1948 an arbitrary border was created,
dividing Palestine in half thus creating
the state of Israel. This was following
a huge surge in Jewish Immigration to
Palestine on account of the National
Socialism threatening Germany. Need-
less to say, the people of Palestine – the
Arabs – did not take too kindly to this,
and it remains a source of conflict.
This really is experimental theatre at
its best. However, I am reluctant to call
it that, as “experimental” may suggest
insubstantial and slightly pointless:
being different for difference’s sake,
though thoroughly enjoyable and ef-
fective it may be. The Arab and the Jew
has substance and it is in no way point-
less. It offers so much originality, not
only in subject matter but in presenta-
tion as well.
Nedjari and Lahav compliment each
other perfectly and the whole play runs
seamlessly as a result. Their synchro-
nicity and co-ordination with props,
sound and each other makes for a stun-
ning performance.
The use of such a small stage was
impressive and the atmosphere cre-
ated beautifully with the help of light-
ing and music, both Arabic and Jewish.
One highlight was the slapstick-in-
spired “comedy show” which adds a
whole lot of humour without adding
tackiness or detracting in the slightest
from either the talent of the two actors
or the theme of the play. Which is still
an ambiguous matter!
My total confusion throughout must
be down to my miniscule knowledge
and understanding of this political sit-
uation, or so I thought. However, upon
leaving the play slightly dumbfounded,
I came to realise this was the general
feeling of the audience as a whole. I had
at least grasped, and was proud of the
fact, that the men’s quarrel over an or-
ange was symbolic of the quarrel over
the land! Another possible explanation
for the dusty and disheveled doll is the
fact that children are often forgotten
during such conflicts.
Regardless of how much you know
about politics or history, this play is a
joy to watch and provides both hilarity
and thought provoking entertainment.
The Arab and the Jew is on until
9th February at the Studio, Lyric
Theatre, Hammersmith. Tickets
can be booked from www.lyric.
co.uk.
Now that is what you call waiter service. Impressive moves at the Lyric Theatre, Hammersmith
W
elcome to Lent! I do
hope more of you
got to gorge your-
selves on delicious
pancakes on Tues-
day, unlike me who has not had that
pleasure since before I was sent away
to boarding school. I do not count the
cold, rubbery offerings doused in arti-
ficial lemon juice from the St Mary’s
kitchen as my Shrove Tuesday treat.
Not that I deserved a final indulgence
before the forty days that lay ahead of
supposed fasting. I was never too good
at fulfilling my Lenten promise to ab-
stain from my vices. It all seems rather
futile to have one “last” mad day of
frenzied hedonism when we know that
Lent will be anything for us but chaste.
However, I am never one to turn down
an excuse to party so bring it on I say! If
I were writing this in Rio I would most
definitely be nursing a severe hangover
on account of the magnificent Carna-
val that had just taken place over four
days, from last Saturday and ending on
Mardi Gras (“Fat Tuesday”). As one
can imagine, given the vast cultural
diversity of Brazil, the Brazilians’ lust
for all things fun mixed with tropical
weather and a stunning landscape set-
ting, that would make for one exotic
fiesta. Simply by typing “Rio carnival”
into Google images (or perhaps Yahoo)
one can begin to appreciate the techni-
clour madness that has just ensued on
the streets of Rio.
A European equivalent is the Ger-
man Carneval where the hard work-
ing nation is granted a period off from
their Fleiβ (hard work) and woman
have to right to cut in half the tie of
any man who crosses their path. Count
ourselves lucky us Brits do not have an
equivalent tradition: it would only have
been abolished by now on account of
“Health and Safety” laws. (Bastards).
Lent seems to come just a tad on the
late side to be an antidote to our Yule-
tide pleasures. Had Jesus gone into the
desert and died a few months earlier,
then we might have found ourselves
more motivated to start that diet or
stick to those resolutions due to the
coming of Lent. January might not
seems so dismal if we had a scapegoat
for our forced miserly penny pinching
that follows the Christmas excesses.
January may even be an unofficial Lent:
we are coerced into sobriety by situ-
ation rather than by religion. Enough
talk of that ghastly month. Here at Arts
Felix we are paying no heed to Lent as
we seek to delight and indulge you in
lots of arty goodness.
And so, we give you The Arab and
the Jew review! Our poem comes
from a woman who certainly does not
agree with fasting and challenges the
roles that society sometimes forces us
to play. The surrealist nature of Der
Nachst Zug definitely echoes some
of the themes in my article on the in-
fluence drugs can have on art. And
lastly, our Student Art in Focus ties in
nicely with the theme of chemicals and
psychedelia. Rather an adulterated is-
sue of Felix Arts to start our period of
“fasting” wouldn’t you say? Allel Nedjari and Amit Lahav partake in some light gymnastics

