Friday 8 February 2008 felix 19
How to... take drugs, become an
artistic genius and not die trying
Caz Knight gives us a lesson on narcotics and how they infuence artistic masterpieces. Don’t do drugs, kids
D
rugs and Art. It is very
easy to start thinking
about the hordes of art-
ists,musiciansandactors
who have been dedicated
followers of the narcotic tradition that
seems to often follow a rise to fame:
every rock star in the sixties, seventies
and eighties; Jim Morrison, the Stones,
Janis Joplin, Jimi Hendrix, the whole of
Guns ‘N Roses and so on ad infinitum.
Nowadays things seem to have cleaned
up, so much so that there are only a few
true party animals that spring to mind
(Winehouse and Doherty). What we
are dealing with here is not artists who
take drugs, but instances where drugs
have affected art in various forms. And
given that the ingestion of chemicals,
prescribed or not, is deeply seated in
human nature, society and culture, this
article seems a little futile; especially
considering how many examples of
this there are.
From the dawn of time, civilisations
have taken drugs to enhance mood,
bring people together, awaken inner
thoughts and emotions and as part of
religious ceremonies. It is, therefore,
obvious how such things can aid one in
the plight of artistic creation.
The Wooster group is a performing
arts troupe from New York who took
LSD (Lysergic acid diethylamide, dis-
covered in 1938 by Albert Hofmann)
in 1984 in rehearsal and filmed them-
selves performing a play. Afterwards,
they emulated their actions whilst on
the drug and it became “L.S.D. (…Just
the High Points…)”. Among the actors
were Willem Dafoe (Spiderman) and
Steve Buscemi (Conair). This is an ex-
ample of drugs being used as an artistic
aid to bring something new to a per-
formance and to shed a new light on
ideas the creators had for the play.
Another instance whereby “art” has
been carried out under the influence of
the same drug is in a US Government
experiment during the 1950s. A pa-
tient was given 50 micrograms of LSD
and instructed to draw his doctor at
hourly intervals. As time progressesd,
the drawings become more and more
minimalist and less representative of
the subject matter. Obviously, the in-
fluence of drugs on an artist and their
work comes from memory of a drug
experience. As can be seen from the
drawings done under the influence of
LSD, if artists were to create art whilst
on a drug, their works would be sham-
bolic and potentially senseless!
A literal example of drug and art is
Pill Wheels by Fred Tomaselli. In 1996
he created patterns using assorted pills
and capsules, acrylic and resin on a
wood panel. It had to be removed from
a museum in New York due to the po-
tential risk of drug addicts trying to
sequester the pills from the surface of
the wood panel. It also posed a prob-
lem at airports when immigration of-
ficials saw it as a possible method of
drug smuggling. Some of the more
ridiculous critics also saw it as a way
of condoning drug use! Another of To-
maselli’s works is a collage made up of
plasters and nicotine patch; perhaps
this work was seen as a waste of patch-
es which could have otherwise been
used to cure smokers of their cigarette
addiction.
Reams of singers have immortal-
ised and praised their beloved heroin
in songs; so much so that it no longer
seems a very original subject mat-
ter for… any type of art. The Rolling
Stones’ Brown Sugar; Guns ‘N Roses’
Mr. Brownstone and Strangler’s Gold-
en Brown. When I was ten, my more
innocent mind thought Brown Sugar
was an ode to a particularly lovely
Black girl. In some ways, infatuation
with a person may be akin to a drug
addiction. Both are damaging in dif-
ferent ways. Jimi Hendrix, guitar God
and genius, sang of Purple Haze (LSD
infused marijuana).
Authors and poets have also used
their trips to gain inspiration for liter-
ary pieces. Samuel Taylor Coleridge,
the founder of the Romantic move-
ment, was an avid nitrous oxide user
and also harboured an opium addic-
tion. His poem Kubla Khan is an ex-
tract from a particularly vivid opium-
induced dream he once had. It is also
rumoured Lewis Carroll ingested the
ergot fungus (whence comes LSD)
from which sprung ideas for his clas-
sics Alice in Wonderland and Alice
Through the Looking Glass.
It begs the question: do people take
drugs because they are creative, or are
they creative because of the experi-
ences they have had on drugs? Defi-
nitely not the latter – creativity is not
conjured simply from drug taking, as
attractive as that idea is. Instead, per-
haps creative people are sometimes
more open to ideas and experience
and so are more likely to try drugs and
use them as a catalyst to art. That is
not to say one needs drugs to enhance
our artistic capabilities. Salvador Dali
didn’t believe that. “I don’t do drugs. I
am drugs. Take me, I am the drug; take
me, I am hallucinogenic.” Indeed, his
paintings are very surreal and anyone
wishing to trip out without polluting
their blood and brains should take a
look at his art. The notion of “taking” a
human being was taken to the extreme
by Keith Richards when he snorted
his father’s ashes. No small feat by any
means: an urn full of ashes would have
taken tens, or hundreds, of sessions to
finish, I am sure and would not have
gone down as well as other snortable
illegals. However, that has nothing to
do with art, only the eccentricities of
an artist.
Science fuelled inspiration for art
when, in 1954, maverick scientist John
Lilly conducted a set of experiments
based on sensory deprivation research
in isolation tanks. He was adminis-
tered a variety of drugs including LSD
and ketamine. He was injected with
2-hourly doses of the “horse tranquilis-
er” for 3 weeks during which he claims
to have communicated with alien and
god-like entities. Ketamine is actually
used in combination with other seda-
tives on the elderly, children and small
animals, although the notion of a horse
tranquiliser is all the more amusing.
The research was the basis for the plot
of the 1980 Ken Russell film Altered
States. “In the province of the mind
there are no limits”, said Lilly. And he is
completely right. Our brain is so com-
plex that we have not even scratched
the surface of possibilities. By using
drugs which alter perception and shed
a new light on things, we can only in-
crease the possibilities. However, this
is not an advocation for abuse; any-
thing used to excess for long periods of
time will have a detrimental effect.
One person who did encourage the
use of mind-altering psychedelics was
Timothy Leary, psychologist and au-
thor of Turn on, Tune in, Drop out.
The phrase was thought up by Leary
as a catchy means to promote the ben-
efits of LSD; the book was a compila-
tion of essays on religion, neurology,
educational psychology, politics and,
of course, drugs.
During the sixties, when LSD was
still legal, the youth often misinter-
preted the phrase to mean: turn onto
drugs, tune into the counterculture
and drop out of school. Instead, Leary
meant turn on/activate your neuro-
nal and genetic equipment; tune into
and act harmoniously with the world
around you; drop out and detach from
convention.
Given the myriad chemicals out
there yet to be discovered, coupled to
the infinite possibilities from a multi-
tude of human brains, it is a comforting
thought to know that we will never run
out of inspiration for something which
makes life, and our world, infinitely
more pleasing and beautiful – art. Left: 20 minutes after LSD taken; Right: 2 hours after LSD taken
Art on Acid by Anon
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk Arts

