Stanzas for Students: When I Am Old
When I am an old woman I shall wear purple
With a red hat that doesn’t go, and doesn’t suit me,
And I shall spend my pension
On brandy and summer gloves
And satin sandals,
And say we’ve no money for butter.
I shall sit down on the pavement when I am tired,
And gobble up samples in shops and press alarm bells,
And run my stick along the public railings,
And make up for the sobriety of my youth.
I shall go out in my slippers in the rain
And pick the flowers in other people’s gardens,
And learn to spit.
You can wear terrible shirts and grow more fat,
And eat three pounds of sausages at a go,
Or only bread and pickle for a week,
And hoard pens and pencils and beer mats
and things in boxes.
But now we must have clothes that keep us dry,
And pay our rent and not swear in the street,
And set a good example for the children.
We will have friends to dinner and read the papers.
But maybe I ought to practise a little now?
So people who know me
are not too shocked and surprised,
When suddenly I am old
and start to wear purple!
by Jenny Joseph
E
veryone should remember
this gem from their school-
days! A simple poem to un-
derstand, yet it raises a lot
of issues about conforming
and convention.
Pensions and care for the elderly is
always a hot political topic, with a re-
cent news item claiming old people
nowdays often live in such poverty that
they are forced to chose between heat-
ing or food.
The population is ever growing old-
er, with a higher percentage of people
over 70 now than there ever has been.
Old age seems such a bleak notion if
one lives under the present govern-
ment with their constant talk of dwin-
dling pensions and pensioners existing
in a life of solitude.
Jenny Joseph turns this idea on its
head and celebrates the prospect of
grey hair, reduced skin elasticity and
the potential of neuro-degenerative
disorders.
Growing old presents us with the op-
portunity to defy the rules society has
laid down for us and enjoy life, as that
is what life is about. There must be a
balance between the things we have to
do and our own happiness, as one can-
not be fulfilled adequately without the
other.
Old age, for the undergraduates at
least, is many decades away, but we
can apply Joseph’s logic to our younger
years and make sure our youth is not
“sober” as hers was and to pay no heed
to the ways in which society expects us
to operate.
Go on, try wearing horrible shirts
and hoarding things in boxes: you’ll
feel much better for it, I’m sure!
The Girl in the Red Hat by Vermeer
Dygood, dybbad and dyugly: Dy Dybbuk review
Caz Knight celebrates wearing horrible shirts and growing older with a poem from Jenny Joseph
Film Editor Alex Casey swaps actors for players and heads to the King’s Head theatre to catch a production
When I Am Old
Friday 8 February 2008 felix 21
I
nspired by his own experience
travelling between Russian and
Ukranian Jewish shtetls, S. An-
sky wrote The Dybbuk in 1917
and created what is long con-
sidered a seminal work in Jewish thea-
tre. Centred on the age-old theatrical
themes of love and betrayal, it places
them in a small community inspired
by the folk tales that Ansky discovered
on his travels. Now being staged in the
King’s Head Theatre, Islington, The
Dybbuk has been brought resurrected
in a production that is as possessing in
experience as it is in theme.
The main hilt of the story is the love
between the almost destitute Chonen
and the beautiful Leah, the latter of
which is destined to be married once
her wealthy father has chosen a viable
suitor. As Chonen’s all-consuming love
causes him to question and explore the
boundaries of his faith, he unravels as
a husband is found for Leah, dying of
grief. In death he becomes a Dybbuk, a
spirit capable of possessing the body of
any creature and soon seizes control of
his beloved to expose what kept them
apart in life.
A brief synopsis of the story does
not do justice to the script, constitut-
ing of a delightful blend of philosophy
and social commentary with some in-
triguing emotional imagery delivered
deftly by a skilled cast. As the lovers
of the piece, Edward Hogg as Chonen
and Hanne Steen as Leah excel, the
former conjuring a tortured soul with
an incredible intellect trying to evoke
the true power of scripture surrounded
by others who simply practise as habit,
and the latter as the enchanting beauty
who beguiles him.
The cast equip themselves well with
the exception of Chris Courtenay as
Leah’s father who is miscast in the role,
appearing too much like a comedic fool
to be believable as an unscrupulous foil
to the lovers’ plan. David Meyer’s turn
as the Rabbi Azriel called in to exor-
cise the Dybbuk manages to remain on
the right side of hammy for the most
part whilst Tam Williams’ Messenger
conveys the correct spooky quality de-
manded of the role, if perhaps a little
too much by the end.
The staging of The Dybbuk however
is its greatest achievement alongside
the lead performances. From the open-
ing scene, the intimacy of the rather
smalltheatrelendsitselfperfectlytothe
story and the director has employed it
to full effect. More than anything, the
ingenuity with which the possession of
Leah was choreographed is wonder-
fully successful and any scenes without
the pair can seem drawn out by their
absence. Despite a slow down in the
pace of the play towards the end, com-
plete with some revelations of dubious
credence, there is a good attempt to
hold the interest of the audience even if
it doesn’t maintain the visceral appeal
of Leah and Chonen’s scenes.
The Dybbuk is by no means treading
old ground despite its central themes.
With its top notch cast and a vitality
seldom matched in larger productions,
it is nothing less than enchanting. Edward Hogg as The Dybbuk, Chonen
Hey! Quickly! Pull her finger! There’s not a moment to lose
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk Arts

