22 felix Friday 8 February 2008
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
23
Friday 8 February 2008 felix
Arts
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Arts
And now for something completely different
Ghosts, Gas Lights and Guinness
Holborn Station
London is the most haunted city on earth: built over a fen of undisclosed horrors, believed to contain
occultic lines of geometry, a city where the very mist is like a sigh from a graveyard. If in a dark window
you see an even darker silhouette staring back, or if the branches of a tree suddenly shiver like a spider’s
web that’s caught something, or if you follow a stranger into a graveyard (or a pub where everything
isn’t as it seems)...you could well be wayfaring to the rebecks of eternity. Fancy a pint? The Ghosts,
Gaslight & Guinness Walk takes place every Wednesday evening at 7.30 pm with London Walks.
Naked Clubbing
65 Goding Street
Vauxhall Station
Starkers is a club in central London for anyone who enjoys being
nude. It’s a naked disco! Get your clothes off and get to this
(fortunately) warm location and get bopping!
Wellcome Collection
183 Euston Road
Euston Square Station
Henry Wellcome, entrepreneur, philanthropist, patron of science and pioneer
of aerial photography, created one of the world’s great museums: a vast
stockpile of evidence about our universal interest in health and the body. This
musuem shows a cross-section of extraordinary objects from his collection,
ranging from diagnostic dolls to Japanese sex aids, and from Napoleon’s
toothbrush to shrunken heads and chastity belts (shown in photo). It also
provides a very different perspective on medicine and health!
Jack the Ripper Tour
Tower Hill Station
Jack the Ripper came silently out of the midnight shadows of August 31, 1888, butchering East End
prostitutes, leaving a trail of blood and gore that led... nowhere. Inspect the murder sites, sift through
the evidence - in all its gory detail - and get to grips with the main suspects. This tour, led by London
Walks, is one of the best out there. Prepare to be scared...
Chapter Eight – Quirky things to do in London
Written by Sally Longstaff, designed by Rosie Grayburn
Anonymous Scientology Protest
Blackfriars Station and Goodge Street Station
This Sunday is hosting what promices to be one of the weirdest events in London ever! Anonymous is
making a stand against the Church Of Scientology. These gatherings are being held all over the world on
Sunday. The London plan is to congregate first at the Scientology HQ in Queen Victoria Street and then
move to the recruitment centre on Tottenham Court Road. The organisers hope for a peaceful protest with
participants wearing masks. More info can be found on the internet.
Torture Garden Valentines Ball
St Matthews Church
Brixton Station
Torture Garden is the world’s largest fetish/body art club. Their Valentine’s Ball is going to
be held at Mass in Brixton and promises to be a very interesting night, including fashion
performances, pole dancing displays, a dungeon playroom and a Couple’s room! Dress
code: Red Boudoir, Bordello, Bleeding Hearts, Sacred Hearts, Broken Hearts, Lustmord,
Love & Hate, Tragic Love Couples, Suicide Love, Forbidden Love!! No street clothes!
Tickets cost £25 for non-members and £20 for members (advanced).
Hunterian Museum
35-43 Lincoln’s Inn Fields
Temple Station
Based on the collection of John Hunter (1728-1793), a surgeon
andscientistwhocollectedandpreservedthousandsofbiological
specimens.Thecollectionconsistsforthemostpartofthousands
of glass jars containing preserved biological specimens. There
are cases containing dissections of digestive tracts taken from
horses, lampreys, and humans; cases containing genitals of all
sorts of different mammals, showing both healthy and diseased
specimens; a whole section on nipples; and a wide array of
other, no-less-lurid subjects. Also there is the skeleton of a giant
and cases containing hideous-looking 18th-century medical
instruments and a really squirm-inducing video of surgeons
performing brain surgery.
The Intrepid Fox
St Giles High Street
Tottenham Court Road Station
A scary looking place from outside and even scarier inside. If you
like longhaired men, big cleavages and even bigger riffs, then the
Intrepid Fox is the place for you. An haven of hard-rock, it has
a crouching, demonic gargoyle above the door. Sitting amongst
a variety of car-parts and crucified metallic-skeletons is a feature
unique to The Intrepid Fox. Its a high-camp, gothic experience!
Old Operating Theatre
9a St Thomas’s Street
London Bridge Station
The Old Operating Theatre Museum is one of London’s most
intriguing historic interiors.It is located in the garret (Herb Garret)
of St Thomas’s Church, on the original site of St Thomas’ Hospital.
It includes: the oldest surviving operating theatre in the country
(from 1822), used in the days before anaesthetics and antiseptic
surgery; the herb garret used by the hospital’s apothecary to store
and cure herbs used in healing (including opium!); a collection
of artefacts revealing the horrors of medicine before the age of
science, including instruments for cupping, bleeding, trepanning,
and childbirth (they’ll make your eyes water!).
London Duck Tour
Outside Country Hall
Waterloo Station
Departing from Country Hall, these amphibious vehicles drive
past famour landmarks, such as Big Ben and the Houses of
Parliament., Trafalgar Square and Picadilly Circus before driving
into the Thames for a cruise. A very different way of seeing the
sights! Tours cost £19.

