And finally,
please book
rooms in
College
before you
use them
It has been brought
to our attention
that some student
groups are using
rooms in College (particularly in SAF) without
booking the space first.
There have been several instances of rooms
that were booked for other uses, including
teaching being used by societies who
shouldn’t be there. It would be a shame if the
actions of a minority see booking privileges
withdrawn by College for the majority of
clubs who do book rooms in the correct
manner. College are very happy for Clubs to
use rooms and lecture theatres and it isn’t
that unreasonable on their part that they ask
for a bit of notice to check that there are no
time tabling clashes.
If you would like to use space in the Union or
College please contact the Student Activities
Centre who will be able to guide you. It is
not difficult and it will be to the benefit of the
whole student body if everyone wanting to
use some space in College follows this very
simple procedure.
Stephen Brown
President
president@imperial.ac.uk
day 10 February
stand at imperialcollegeunion.org/vote
submitting a bid if you feel your Society can
do something worthwhile with additional
support. Information on the IC Trust and how
to apply are online at http://www3.imperial.
ac.uk/secretariat/governance/committees/
ictrust.
Last chance to stand
Nominations for the elections for the
positions of President, Deputy Presidents
and Felix Editor will close at the end of
this weekend. It is excellent that so many
of these positions are so hotly contested
already but I would like to give some final
words of encouragement to those of you
who are considering standing for a sabbatical
position but haven’t put themselves forward
yet. Nominate yourself online at
imperialcollegeunion.org/vote
Nominations for Student Trustees and
delegates to NUS Annual Conference are also
still open and will close at the same time as
the sabbatical ones. Student participation in
and engagement with the Union’s democratic
structures keeps the organisation member
focused. Regardless of how much or how
little interaction you have with the Union’s
advice services, catering, bars, democracy
or clubs you have a vested interest in the
elections process and how the Union is run
so even if you don’t fancy standing yourself
look out for the election candidates around
campus over the coming weeks.
Elections clarification
For the avoidance of doubt I would like to
clarify that nominations for the sabbatical,
NUS delegate and Student Trustee elections
will close at 0.00am this Monday, that is,
midnight Sunday. The Elections publicity
is correct in saying that nominations do
close on Monday but if you are considering
standing you do not have the whole of
Monday to secure your nominations.
Graduate Students’
Association Election Results
The results of the GSA election are now in
with the position of Treasurer being settled
by a very narrow margin of only 4 votes!
If you are a postgraduate student your
new GSA Chair is Kilian Frensch who
will be supported by Olayinka Bisiriyu.
Congratulations to both the successful
candidates.
Beit Redevelopment Working
Group
Regular readers of Felix will be aware that
recently the Union is now in a position to
proceed with the construction of a new
Student Activities Centre. The renewal of
our facilities is a massive project split in to
3 phases which will take years to complete
so as part of this process we are forming a
working group so that current users of the
space can discuss the practicalities of the
building work and what it will mean for them.
If you would like to offer your input please
drop me an email at president@imperial.ac.uk
101

/08"7"*-"#-&*/5)&6/*0/#"3
Being a Sabb can make a diﬀerence;
stand for election.

