Morrissey
That’s How People Grow Up
★★★✩✩
Adele
Chasing Pavements
★★★★✩
Lightspeed Champion
Falling off the Lavendar Bridge
(Domino)
★★★★✩
El Guincho
Alegranza
(Discoteca Océano)
★★★★✩
That’s How People Grow
Up is the new single off the
forthcoming album ‘Greatest Hits’
available February 11th.
music.felix@imperial.ac.uk
26 felix Friday 8 February 2008
Music
Music Editors – Peter Sinclair and Susan Yu
Fall of Lavendar Guincho
Last week saw the release of Dev
Hynes’ latest musical project under the
name Lightspeed Champion. Dev was
a member of the short-lived band Test
Icicles who received limited critical ac-
claim, but still had East London club-
bers dancing for a year or two before
the group parted. This album marks
a large shift from the loud, aggres-
sive, style-over-substance nature of his
previous band. Don’t worry, though -
from the look of the album cover he
still manages to have an approach to
fashion that sets him apart from the
rest (but with less pink and neon now,
thankfully).
The music could be roughly de-
scribed as Indie-folk with a few hints of
country thrown in. Obvious compari-
sons with bands such as Bright Eyes
and Cursive can’t be helped, especially
as it was recorded in Obama with the
help of Saddle Creek’s producer Mike
Mogis, and features guest members
from a few of the labels bands. Despite
this, Falling off the Lavender Bridge
still manages to sound unique. After a
brief intro song with the highly crea-
tive name ‘Number One’, the album
starts gently pulling the listener in with
“Galaxy Of The Lost”. The deliciously
catchy tune sets the tone for the album
with light acoustic guitars, pianos and
mild drumming, backing the almost
musical sounding vocals. Throughout
the 12 songs, Dev highlights problems
of modern society, staying poign-
ant and stimulating at all times. This
is done with a frankness and honesty
that’s far away from the cringe mak-
ing and emotionless bullshit spouted
Last week, Spanish dreamboat El Guincho and Hoxton hero Lightspeed Champion
released their debut efforts. Our reviewers donated their ears to save you the trouble
by pop singer-songwriters of the Allen
and Nash type.
Dev has managed to craft some
beautiful pop songs while also main-
taining his indie scenester credibility.
His voice sounds its best when strug-
gling to reach and hold long notes,
exposing a harshness that contrasts
with the overall softness of the album.
Upon listening to the lyrics, however,
it’s clear that theses songs are anything
but cute. ‘Tell Me What It’s Worth’
flows perfectly on from the second
song and, with its catchy beat and pop
sensibilities, it is a clear choice for a
single. The lyrics hint at abuse that Dev
has experienced for not conforming to
the racial stereotypes expected of him,
Myspace. Myspace. In the past few
years, there has been this prevailing
trend of making it big through good
old Myspace. With the likes of Kate
Nash and Lily Allen, everyone is want-
ing a slice of fame and what a perfect
way to promote oneself and one’s mu-
sic. In the case of 19 year old Londoner
Adele, Myspace seems to have done a
very satisfactory job. Being best friends
with Jack Penate may, according to
some, have helped her on her way to
stardom, shall we say.
‘Chasing Pavements’ follows Adele’s
first limited edition single ‘Hometown
Glory’; this sweet, mellow number re-
flects lost love and regret, something
that most of us sadly have to endure
Oh, Morrissey. What are we going to
do with you? Following his surprisingly
well-received ‘Ringleader of the Tor-
mentors’ just a year or so ago, he’s back.
Erm. Sort of. Recently, he’s sold out 5
nights at the Camden Roundhouse,
soon there’s a Greatest Hits compila-
tion, with a couple of new tracks on,
this and the drippingly ironic ‘All You
Need is Me’. You know, this is going to
mark me out as a bit of a fanboy, but
surely he actually knows this is the
kind of devilry he slated in The Smiths’
Paint a Vulgar Picture? It even says “ex-
tra track and a tacky badge”. It’s not
like things are bad for Morrissey fans
though. It’s got the chugging power
chords that he’s become fond of again,
now and again. But heh, that’s life. Her
voice is surprisingly soulful; strong and
rich unlike Kate and Lily who have lit-
tle to offer in terms of vocal versatil-
ity. Melancholic, tinged with nostalgia,
one truly feels a sense of helpless-
ness - ‘Should I give up? Or should I
just keep chasing pavements even if
it leads nowhere’? Certainly, it makes
one question one’s own life, whether
it’s worthwhile chasing for that some-
thing beyond reach. To be or not to be
is the $64,000 question. Adele’s voice
is unquestionably a revelation. With
the gloriously soaring chorus comple-
mented by powerful strings and brass,
you’ll have this tune stuck in your head
for a long long while.
Indeed, Adele is a talent to watch out
for this year. The new Amy Winehouse
is in town. Let’s hope there will be no
mentioning of rehab. Chasing Pave-
ments sure delivers the goods!
Susan Yu
and the typical hum-de-dum melody
that’s sure to get stuck in your head for
a bit. A sprinkle of self-pitying but not
overly whiney lyrics (they’re about how
you don’t really find love when you’re
young, but that’s just part of life) sung
in – er – Morrissey’s style, and you’ve
got another single-worthy track. I’m
not really sure what to say. It’s hardly
a radical departure from his previous
work. If you already like him, you’ll
probably like it. It’s not a particularly
great song though, and certainly not
about to convert you if you’ve already
decided that you hate his guts and that
he can stick his stupid fucking flowers
up his stupid fucking quiff-laden arse.
Matt Long
Bitesize chunks of tasty, tasty music
I’ll say it here and now, up front: El
Guincho makes super catchy tropical
pop sounds which capture the sound
of summery Spanish festivals and seals
it up into four-minute-long musical
packages of joy.
Alegranza, released in Spain last
summer, sounds a lot like Animal Col-
lective’s tribal psyche-folk would if
they had grown up in Barcelona and
spent their teenage years getting high
under the stars at tropical beach par-
ties, instead of the sadly less exciting
scenery of Baltimore, Maryland.
Much like a hot, sticky, wonder-
ful dream, there are dancing drum
rhythms, tribal chants and hand claps
in Cuanda Maravilla Fui, steel drums
and whistles in Kalise and a sprin-
kling of magical sparkly sounds in the
single Fata Morgana. Overlaid with
sickly, sweetly, lovingly sung melodies
and quirky spoken samples, all of this
melds together and laps over your high
stung Imperial-student nerves like the
warm Catalonian Ocean over your
sun-baked toes. Some may dislike the
repetitive nature of the songs, but if
you enjoyed Person Pitch last year (yes,
it’s impossible to escape the Panda Bear
reference), you’ll enjoy this also, as it’s
in much the same vein.
It’s taken a while for his album to fi-
nally be picked up by a UK seller, but
it’s the perfect thing to cheer you up
on these dreary February days. Hurry
up for one of the 25 copies available for
sale on the Rough Trade website. lter-
natively, just listen to it all for free on
his MySpace page, you cheap bastard.
Clemy Walker
Peter Sinclair
Music Editor
H
i, nice to meet you. I’m
Peter. The fabulous
Susan Yu and myself
are the new Felix music
editors (look forward
to Susan’s mugshot next week). We
will be your gateway into the world of
awesome music, taking you by your
clammy little hands and leading you
through the minefield that is being
super-cool in the London music scene.
That being said, you had better start
kissing our asses - we have tremen-
dous influence now. I’m joking of
course but, you know, better safe than
sorry.
So now that we know each other a
little better, let me tell you about my
problems. It’s February, it’s mid term,
and my favourite Azalea plant is dying
in front of my eyes because I live in
a fucking basement flat that is lucky
to see five minutes of sunlight a day.
Winter really is a depressing time of
year. As the great bluesman Robert
Johnson once said, “I woke up this
morning and all my shrimps was dead
and gone. I got Dead Shrimp Blues”.
I may not be from Mississippi, and
I may never have been fishing in my
life, but I understand what he’s talking
about.
Not wanting to wallow in my own
Dead Shrimp Blues, I have turned
my thoughts towards summer and
the annual piss-up hoedown of the
summer festival season. The publicity
department of Glastonbury began to
crank it up this week with the open-
ing of ticket ‘registrations’ on the 1st,
and the announcement of a couple of
headliners to get the mouths of the
masses salivating. Amongst them, in
a move that is sure to attract much
criticism from festival purists, the
Jigga Man himself, Jay-Z, has been
confirmed as a main feature. Don’t get
me wrong, I think Jay-Z is awesome,
but for a festival that wants to be edgy
and maintain the hippy festival spirit
of old, it’s a bit of a poor show, adding
more fodder to the growing backlash
against the now shamelessly middle-
class mainstream festivals. This has
been the case for a good few years,
so it is by no means the beginning of
the end for festival culture, but once
the cool has gone, it’s only a matter of
time before the money is gone and the
people go elsewhere.
I’m not totally cynical about festivals
just yet. One great thing that has come
out of their growing popularity is the
variety of festivals off the beaten track
which could never be sustainable
without the popularity of the main-
stream. This summer I’m hoping to
go to a minimalist-electro festival in
Austria, but closer to home there’s a
whole load of folk and jazz and what-
ever festivals for those of you who are
as sick to death of the NME as I am.
In other news, the NME awards are
coming up soon. I implore you all to
give as little of a shit as I do.
and the lines “Clean your blades and
start swinging, don’t stop till the red
runs out” long to be sung along with,
despite their brutal message.
The final song, ‘No Surprise (For
Wendela)’ starts with singing that in-
stantly brings Weezer to mind while
the music slowly builds up in layers,
culminating with a string section, wind
instruments and the repeated line “The
more I hear, the more I hate”. Thank-
fully, the same is not true for this al-
bum, with each listening bringing out
subtle parts that are missed on first in-
spection and some brilliant pop songs
to introduce a new year of music.
James Houghton
If you fancy reviewing some
music or gigs, send us an email
to music.felix@imperial.ac.uk and
get yourself on the mailing list.
Free music giveaway soon, stay
tuned!
Lightspeed Champion poses with a plastic deer

