27
Friday 8 February 2008 felix
Gregory Mead
Nightlife Editor
Goodbye beloved Turnmills
The landlord’s have been understand-
ing and I’ve got nothing but respect for
them. They’ve allowed us to do what
we wanted over the past year while we
were deciding what to do, then recently
they presented us with a deal that felt
right, at the right time, and it was the
obvious choice to move on. It feels as
though it’s come to a natural end, and
we are finishing on a high. The club
has been the best and busiest it’s been
in its history, and that’s the way I want
it to be remembered. I’m really proud
of what we’ve done and been through
at Turnmills; the club will always have
a special place in my heart. I’ll miss
it dearly, as it will so many people.
Thanks to everyone that ever came
down, it was YOU that made the place
what it was, we were just doing what
we do behind the scenes.”
Don’t worry though, the people be-
hind Turnmills won’t give up that eas-
ily, they’ll still be bringing events such
as Get Loaded In The Park and Electric
Gardens Festival (which Felix was lucky
enough to visit the past few years), and
the flagship clubnights The Gallery and
Together will be re-launching at a fa-
mous London clubnight very soon, so
watch this space for information when
it comes, we may even have competi-
tion tickets for those nights too.
Turnmills is the latest London club to fall to developers, but never fear, the wonderful
clubnights Together and The Gallery will be relocating shortly. Felix talks to them
Gregory Mead
nightlife.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Nightlife
Nightlife Editor – Greg Mead
After 23 years and over 3000 club-
nights, the legendary nightclub Turn-
mills will be closing its doors for good,
thanks to evil developers who want to
turn the club into flats. Over the week-
end of 21st-23rd March, Turnmills
will present its best and last series of
clubnights, and Felix is lucky enough
to have 3 pairs of tickets, one for each
event to give away to our readers. Read
the box for more details, but before you
do that you can read what Danny New-
man, the director of Turnmills had to
say about their departure.
“The most important reason is of
course that the lease is nearly up and
the landlord wants to develop the site.
To be honest it’s been on the cards for
a couple of years now, we’ve always
wanted to leave on our terms and it just
seems like the right time to go - from a
business and personal point of view. So
many different people love Turnmills
for so many different reasons and the
Easter Weekend allows us to do eve-
rything we want to do properly, for all
the acts, DJs, promoters and friends
along the way that have made it such
a very special place and more impor-
tantly to do it the right way... our way
(line up to be announced very soon).
Nightlife Editor
Can you read and write
English?
Do you like taking photos?
Do you like music and
clubbing?
Do you like editing nightlife
pages in Felix?
If the answer is yes to any of
these questions (or none of
them) then you’re perfect for
the job of Nightlife Editor ex-
trordinaire. No previous expe-
rience is necessary, we’ll teach
you everything you need to
know...and more.
If you are interested in this, or
just fancy being a reviewer,
then send us an email:
nightlife.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Competition!
Guess what? We’ve got a pair of tickets for each of the three
LAST EVER EVENTS at Turnmills on 21,22 and 23rd March to give
away to our wonderful Felix readers! The lineup is secret, but we
know it’ll be huge.
Toenter,justemailnightlife.felix@ic.ac.ukortextTURNMILLS,your
email address and the date you’d like tickets for to the Felix
phone: 07980 148 785.
Expect it to be more full than this
Groove Armada take up residency
with Lovebox at The End and AKA
Yet more competition prizes from The End. Groove Armada start up their new
residency on Saturday, so email or text us quickly to win the tickets for the launch
Saturday 9th February sees the start
of a brand new residency at The End -
Lovebox presents: Bang the Box. After
a handful of one-off parties at The End
last year under the Lovebox banner,
including a great after party for July’s
Lovebox festival, Groove Armada have
found a permanent home at The End.
After concentrating on finishing their
fifth studio album to date, ‘Soundboy
Rock’, and creating a great festival this
summer (Felix approved of it for sure),
Andy Cato and Tom Findlay are finally
ready to return to their DJing roots
with a London residency.
Both halves of one of the duo are ex-
cited about the new night, and Tom ex-
plains to us: “We’re really looking for-
ward to the new residency – it’s been
a long time since we played regularly
on the London club scene. For the first
party I’m playing the main room – I
love The End’s main room for its total
chaos, being right in the middle of all
that mania! However, I’m also looking
forward to playing the back room at
future parties – you can get that real
house party vibe in there.”
Alongside Groove Armada, Bang
the Box will also line up a plethora of
excellent residents and guests to keep
them company. Digs from DIY, Rachel
Barton from Radio 1 and The Lovebox
Allstars will be on hand at every party.
For the launch on Saturday, Def Mix’s
Hector Romero, one of the stars of
the New York club scene will be join-
ing Groove Armada’s Tom Findlay,
Digs and Rachel in the main room.
In the lounge, Manchester’s masters
of eclectism the Unabombers will be
jumping from genre to genre, with
help from Severino, resident at Vaux-
hall’s most notorious ‘21st century tea
dance’ Horse Meat Disco. Up in AKA,
there’s another reason to celebrate, as
the legendary Nocturnal returns with
The Shapeshifters.
If this all sounds good to you, then
why not email in to Felix, or text The
End and your email address to the Felix
phone 07980 148 785, and you could
win the two tickets!
Gregory Mead
Grooverider. Hopefully your vision won’t go like this. If it does, you’re very naughty
Hello, and welcome back to the Night-
life page, you might have noticed the
lack of material in this section the past
few weeks, which has mainly been
down to me having way too much work
at the moment to make the wonderful
page you’re all used to, which is why
I’m looking for a new Nightlife editor!
you’ll have access to all the free stuff we
get given (plenty of festival and club-
night tickets), and have the honour of
having your words published in the
legendary Felix. This is my fourth year
working for Felix, and I think it’s about
time I gave up the position of nightlife
editor to another person, especially
since I won’t be able to do it next year
and I don’t want all the wonderful con-
tacts we’ve built up over the years to go
to waste.
So, if you fancy it just email in to
nighlife.felix@imperial.ac.uk.Youdon’t
even have to do it alone, you could do it
with a friend if you like, most sections
in Felix have more than one editor.
Readers shouldn’t be worried though,
until the new section editor is found,
I’ll still be making the pages for your
reading pleasure, and organising our
world famous competitions.
This week we’ve got articles on Turn-
mills and The End, both lovely clubs if
you like a nice night out, which you can
do for free by simply texting or email-
ing in to Felix, courtesy of the lovely
Turnmills and The End PR teams.
Upcoming in the future should be
some previews and reviews of all things
big happening in London, one of them
being a night with 2ManyDJs, and an-
other by Felix favourite, Boys Noize.
Expect ticket giveaways for both these
events.
Anyway, as ever - that’s all I’ve got
to say this week, apart from a very late
happy new year. Remember we always
need keen reviewers to write articles
for us, so feel free to email us about
that too. Have a good rest of term!

