games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Games
Games Editors – Azfarul Islam and Sebastian Nordgren
29
Friday 8 February 2008 felix
Azfarul “Az” Islam
Games Editor
S
trategy. It permeates into
every aspect of modern day
living. Even your humble
breakfast is a smorgasbord
of choice: will the nutritional
values of cereal outweigh that of egg-
and-toast? Or how about skipping
breakfast, whetting your appetite for
a hot lunch which you can enjoy in a
moreish way now. Ah, strategy.
Riiiiiiiiiight.
As you can probably tell, this week’s
overarching theme is that of the mul-
tifaceted forms of strategy in gaming.
Ranging from the hatred of tedium
that sets into C&C 3 to the revered
boardgame that is The Settlers of Ca-
tan, we explore this age-old genre that
has defined battlefields of yore.
Don’t get Samir wrong here: he’s
quite a robust C&C player on any field,
but if he says it’s getting tedious then
he’s probably right. Personally I find
most PC RTS’ quite grating although
I do have a soft spot for Battle for
Middle-Earth II, mainly because of the
brilliant Lord of the Rings mythos that
provides the singularity for the game.
Settlers of Catan was a game we
discovered quite soon after Ticket to
Ride and what a wonderful unearth-
ing ‘twas. Quickly replacing “the train
game” as our corridor fave, we’ve man-
aged to get a fair few people involved
and with good reason, as you’ll find out
soon enough. Interestingly, the game
embraces the concept of expansion
which is something quite endemic to
computer games.
Disgaea may be roughly four years
old but its depth of strategy and flex-
ibility of play are still as compelling.
True, graphically it hasn’t aged partic-
ularly well but there’s more to it than
just that. PSP owners can take this
gem on the go since a port – named
Disgaea: Afternoon of Darkness – is
available, wherever you like to get your
games from.
Alexander Stubley offers his exper-
tise and cogent advice as we explore
the various strategies that have defined
or have been defined by the RTS genre.
From familiar terms such as turtling to
more esoteric tactics like critical mass,
Dr Stubley gives a 101 on all things that
need additional Pylons. Although the
lack of rushing is a bit disappointing.
Ah, well. I’m sure he’ll be back with
more since there’s a lot to these games
that I, quite frankly, don’t care about.
This week in Byte, we have a full col-
umn dedicated to the addicting PAX
Galaxia which is pretty much like a re-
al-time version of Risk. In space. With
colours. And no dice rolls. Our News
Ed, Andrew, has graciously agreed to
review the game. By the way, it’s also
Tomo’s all-time favourite and if any of
you are reading this and want to get
him a birthday present this would be
the ideal gift.
As an aside: Yahtzee of Zero Punc-
tuation fame has given in to the hoards
and offered his messiah-like take on
Call of Duty 4. Go watch it. Now.
Please don’t hesitate to send in your
comments, critique and articles to
games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
This
Week
The dark hour approaches
Settlers of Catan
C&C gets Kaned RTS Masterclass Pt. I
Flamebait: Nod off, C&C
Samir Talwar realises that the Kane Edition wasn’t as able as he wanted
C
ommand and Conquer 3
... what a beautiful game.
And yet, somehow, they
got everything wrong.
Before you get around
to forming that tried-and-tested lynch
mob, let me explain. If you’ve played
any other Command and Conquer
game, you’ll understand they’re quite
simple as strategy games go. You get
stuff, you use stuff to make other stuff
then you use the other stuff to kill yet
more stuff. Tactics usually focus on
doing one of these three steps faster
than the opposition. The beauty of the
game was that you could learn how to
play with any of the randomly-named
factions and have some chance of win-
ning. Until C&C Generals came out,
the series was easy to learn and hard to
master... just like it should be.
Then they introduced that third side,
and everything went to hell.
At some point, very shortly (coin-
cidentally, of course) after Electronic
Arts folded Westwood Studios into
their own ever-greater bosom, they
decided that Blizzard, best known
now for the soul-sucking behemoth
World of Warcraft, made better strat-
egy games, and promptly stole all their
ideas.
What they didn’t realise is that
StarCraft, while one of the best games
released for its time, was starting to
date, and that its approach to the genre
– three factions: one for newbies, one
for experienced players and one for
both – was not what C&C fans were
looking for. Or it may have been... I
don’t particularly care. Essentially,
they took a game that my little sister
could play and turned it into Generals
2: With Even More Cataclysmic Weap-
onry. The aliens are overpowered, the
good guys are slow and while the bad
guys are funny, one out of three ain’t
exactly a winning score.
For those of you that don’t care about
this game, let me enlighten you: there’s
the Global Defense Initiative, who
believe Tiberium is bad and people
should stay away from it; the Brother-
hood of Nod, who believe it’s good and
people should inject themselves with
the stuff, and the Scrin, a race of aliens
who only exist because the lead de-
signer saw Independence Day during
his weekend off. Nod are fast, not great
at blowing stuff up but amazing at be-
ing blown up themselves. The Scrin
are slower than that goddamn tortoise
(lil’ tip, Mr. Tortoise: just ‘cos the hare
is stupid doesn’t mean you’re not just a
lazy sod) but after a little while, you get
access to the big, beefy space ships that
blow up everything in sight. GDI are in
the middle... yes, they’re boring and I
refuse to write any more about them.
There are good aspects to C&C 3, of
course. It’s stonkingly pretty, the cam-
paign is quite fun and you start grin-
ning like a rampant monkey on happy
pills every time you see that last futile
defence turret explode in a shower of
sparks and shrapnel. However, fire up
a multiplayer game and problems hit
you faster than a sack full of upside-
down anti-gravity boots.
The resources disappear far too
quickly – despite Tiberium being de-
scribed as a cancer that’s close to cov-
ering the entire planet due to its rapid
growth, you can completely obliterate
the map of the stuff in no time at all.
I’m not entirely sure how EA thought
this might be a good idea, as all it’s ef-
fectively done is shortened the game
length.
All you can do after your funds have
run out is attack with the force you
have: on a large map with lots of Ti-
berium (as an aside, why exactly is a
radioactive, poisonous crystal the re-
source in these games? How do you
sell the stuff?) this can take a good half
an hour, but fill up the map with the
number of armies it’s designed for and
the fun disappears after ten minutes.
It sure is gorgeous though.
Can you catch the movie reference here? The clue is the giant frikkin’ “laser” beam
Even on PCs, brown is the new next generation of visual artistry and resplendence; gorgeous, like my arse

