news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
3
Friday 8 February 2008 felix
News
Babar Ahmad at the centre of bugging row
Heated debate as ex-Imperial computer technician and MP Sadiq Khan under “illegal” surveillance
3&&
/P
ͳVSTEBZ
/07&.#&3
ͳFTUVEFOUOFXTQBQFS
PG*NQFSJBM$PMMFHF
GFMJYPOMJOFDPVL
GFMJY6-6
$PVOD
DIBJS
TFOU
QBDLJO
Charles Clarke, Home secretary
has order the extradition of Babar
Ahmad. The 31 year old former
Imperial College computer techni-
cian is accused of running terrorist-
supporting websites and recruiting
new members for terrorist organisa-
tions in Chechnya and Afghanistan.
The US Department of State has
claimed that websites run by Mr
Ahmad urged Muslims to use “every
means at their disposal” to train for
jihad, or holy war.
The home office said it had “given
full consideration” to representa-
tions made on Mr Ahmad’s behalf.
Mr Ahmad, speaking from Woodhill
prison in Milton Keynes said: “This
decision should only come as a
surprise to those who thought that
there was still justice for Muslims in
Britain. I entrust my affairs to Allah
and His Words from the Quran”.
ill be
Rupert Neate
Editor
High Court.
On 17 May magistrates ruled
t dited but
most prominent last year, it hasn’t
prevented the Home Secretary’s
decision. Our policy still stands, so
orted by the
$MBSLFPSEFST#BCBS
"INBEFYUSBEJUJPO
'PSNFS*NQFSJBMTUVEFOUBOETUBĉNFNCFSUP
GBDF64USJBMPOBMMFHFEUFSSPSJTNPĉFODFT
Lawyers acting for Mr Ahmad are
concerned that he could face the
death penalty if he is sent to the
US and then transferred to military
t th extradition hear-
Imperial College Union has supported a fair trial of Mr Ahmad in the UK
On 15 November U
of London Union)
a Motion of No Co
council chair, Luca
result of homophob
As previously re
(1333) Manfredi p
bic messages on
message board. Co
included, “I would
and shoot my gay
Nicky Grant, (UL
of Welfare and
who proposed the
impassioned spee
that every studen
study in an envir
prejudice, no on
study in fear. Th
tion for threats o
individuals… The
expressed by st
resolve that we
in the chair”.
Luca Manfred
deal of “stupidi
said “if I could
would and stop
I said.”
h b
Rupert Neate
Tom Roberts
Editor-in-Chief
The MP ‘bugging’ incident which
emerged in the national media late last
week involves former Imperial College
computer technician Babar Ahmed.
Mr Ahmad was arrested during a po-
lice raid on the Mechanical Engineer-
ing department of Imperial College in
December 2003. Mr Ahmad was origi-
nally arrested under the Anti-Terror-
ism, Crime and Security (2001) act and
later accused of running terrorist sup-
porting websites and raising money for
terrorist groups. He was subsequently
released without charge after six days,
but in August 2004 he was arrested
again on an Extradition Warrant issued
by the United States and has remained
in prison since.
Mr Ahmad is still being held in
Woodhill Prison where Tooting MP
Sadiq Khan visited him in 2005 and
2006during which the bugging took
place. Since his second imprisonment,
Mr Ahmad has attempted to have his
extradition appeal heard in court on a
number of occasions. In June 2007 the
House of Lords refused to give him a
hearing, however, Mr Ahmad’s lawyers
approached the European Court of
Human Rights to see whether it would
hear an appeal. They are currently
waiting to hear its decision; should the
appeal be rejected Mr Ahmad will al-
most certainly be extradited to the US.
Mr Khan has a background in civil
liberties law and is believed to have
visited Mr Ahmad to find out how
his extradition appeals were proceed-
ing. Voice recording bugs were hidden
within a table during the meetings.
MPs are protected by law from bug-
ging, whilst supporters of Mr Ahmad
see it as another infringement of his
civil rights. Felix spoke to ex-Imperial
College Union Councillor Kareem Os-
man, who protested the treatment of
Mr Ahmad at the time of his arrest in
2004. Mr Osman felt that the bugging
was “outrageous ... because Mr Ahmad
has already wasted four years of his
life in prison” and that not being able
to communicate with his MP in con-
fidence “like you would your lawyer or
doctor was a further infringment on
his rights.”
Initial reports were hazy, but over
the course of this week it has emerged
that a Thames Valley Police officer was
responsible for bugging the meetings
after he claimed he was pressurised
by the Metropolitan Police. When
contacted by Felix, the Metropolitan
Police declined to comment, saying
“we do not discuss matters of national
security.” Scotland Yard has cast doubt
over the legitimacy of the Metropoli-
tan Police’s actions, saying that the
only appropriate circumstances for
bugging an MP is when they are sus-
pected of “being involved in some sort
of conspiracy.”
Justice Secretary Jack Straw has
launched an enquiry into the bugging
events, which Mr Khan stated he was
pleased about, however as tensions
rise in Parliament Mr Ahmad remains
forgotten in all of this, with his situa-
tion unchanged and a 50-year sentence
in a US prison a realistic possibility
even after the UK originally released
him without charge.
Students pictured protesting the extradition of Babar Ahmad to the US
on the front page of Felix in November 2005
Accusations and conflict over forum
High profile panel attracts international debate: Political Philosophy Society caught in no man’s land
Controversy in the international press
surrounding an Imperial event has led
to accusations of bias in the event or-
ganisers, suppression of free speech,
and “bowing to Israeli pressure,” after
Dr Azzam Tamimi, one of the speakers
originally invited to participate, was
asked not to attend after it was alleged
that he supports suicide bombing.
The row centres around the first
event in ICU Political Philosophy So-
ciety’s (PPS) inaugural ‘Conflict Case
Study Week’ on the topic ‘Israel/Pales-
tine.’ The week is designed to examine
the core themes and events of a series
of conflicts from around the world,
inviting high-profile speakers on each
side to put forward their perspective
on the conflict.
The furore raised the tensions at the
debate to such a level that mass protest
was feared, security was heightened,
and several members of the audience
vocalised their offence, one member of
the PPS was even angry enough to also
voice support of suicide bombing.
The original speakers invited to the
‘Israel/Palestine’ forum were Robin
Kealy (former UK Consul-General
in Jerusalem), Prof David Newman
(professor of political geography at
Ben-Gurion University and prominent
speaker advocating progressive Israeli
policy), Dr Azzam Tamimi (direc-
tor of the Institute of Islamic Political
Thought in London and Hamas sup-
porter) and chaired by Greg Artus.
On Friday, footage was brought to
the attention of Prof Newman by a
journalist showing Dr Tamimi on the
BBC’s Hardtalk programme, and on an
Iranian TV station. In these videos Dr
Tamimi appeared to voice his support
and admiration of suicide bombers:
stating that martyrdom was “glorious
and honourable,” and in response to
a question on suicide bombing: “You
see sacrificing myself for Palestine is a
noble cause. It is the straight way to
pleasing my God and I would do it if I
had the opportunity.”
Andrew Somerville
Deputy & News Editor
The panel, from left to right: Ghada Karmi, Greg Artus, Robin Kealy and David Newman
Regarding the launch event in our ‘Conflict Case Study Week’ enti-
tled ‘Israel/Palestine’, the panel was not as it was originally advertised
and Dr Azzam Tamimi was replaced by Ghada Karmi. This change
in speakers took place to carry on with the event as we originally
intended it to be, where representatives from all countries would be
present, which would not have been possible with the original panel
due to some irresolvable differences.
The sad fact is that some inaccurate and hasty reporting from the
Jerusalem Post made the situation worse in what we feel was an at-
tempt to malign the reputation of our society, our university, and all
speakers involved. We would like to protest such poor journalism and
will do what it takes to clear our name.
We have also received criticism about limiting freedom of expres-
sion and being sensitive to external influence. To that effect, we would
like to make it known that an offer to appear at a debate in the near
future has been made to Dr Tamimi and he has accepted.
The Imperial College Union Political Philosophy Society reserves
the right to call upon any speaker it chooses to in its endeavor to
promote a fair and free exchange of dialogue and ideas.
ICU Political Philosophy Society:
Official statement by Ammar Waraich
Following this discovery, Prof New-
man contacted the event organiser
Ammar Waraich and said that he could
not share a platform with a man “on ei-
ther side of the political debate” who
“promotes the use of violence,” and
withdrew from the debate.
Dr Tamimi’s comments were previ-
ously unknown to the PPS event organ-
isers and, wishing to avoid controversy,
they then arranged a second speaker,
Ghada Karmi, to replace Dr Tamimi,
and invited Prof Newman to rejoin the
panel, which he accepted.
The Jerusalem Post, a widely read
Israeli newspaper, subsequently pub-
lished a story stating that Prof New-
man had withdrawn from the debate,
an article which was widely dissemi-
nated in various press publications.
Meanwhile the event organisers Am-
mar Waraich and Farid Froghi were
subject to a barrage of angry emails,
messages and phone calls from people
disappointed at the treatment of Dr
Tamimi, also levelling accusations of
pro-Israeli bias and Islamophobia at
the distressed pair.
The PPS issued a statement at the
event (see below) explaining the soci-
ety’s position. The majority of the de-
bate ran smoothly and was attended
by almost 150 people. However, this
statement did not quell some of the
ill-feeling in the audience, especially as
the event itself was on such a divisive
issue. One member of the audience
called for an apology from the society
over the treatment of Dr Tamimi, and
accused the event of paralleling the
“Israeli-dictated” situation in Palestine,
even going on to say during the discus-
sion of terrorist activity that: “...I also
support suicide bombing, in that case.”
The organisers will be relieved that
the event marginally managed to avoid
descending from conflict study into an
outright conflict in itself.

