games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
31
Friday 8 February 2008 felix
Games
Oh noes. Is it can be? Gairaigo returns
like the proverbial Godzilla sequel: big-
ger and erm... bigger. Really, it’s more
of the same stuff that you all love and
hate. Mostly a mixture, no?
Going with the strategic motif that
defines this ludological issue of the pe-
riodical, we muse over one of the Play-
Station 2’s finest pot pourris of strat-
egy, role-playing (in the typical, crazy
Japanese way, of course) and humour.
Yes, Disgaea: Hour of Darkness for-
goes poignancy (read: whiny existen-
tial angst) in favour of juvenile humour
that gracefully carries a sense of clever
parody about it. Prince Laharl wakes
up after a two-year nap only to find
out that his dad King Krichevskoy has
passed away. In between, the remain-
ing denizens of the Netherworld have
seen fit to vie for the throne. Pissed off,
Laharl begins his own reign of terror in
a bid to fight back against the pretend-
ers alongside his treacherous (if she
wasn’t, it wouldn’t be the Netherworld,
dammit) vassal, Etna. Despite the story
taking a puerile, whimsical route, it’s
easy to get sidetracked off the main
gameplay elements and actually pay
attention. Along the way, you’ll bump
into a smorgasbord of personable
characters ranging from the Sphenis-
cidaen Prinnies (who suffix the word
‘dood’ to everything) to the constantly
derided Mid-boss (real name: Vyers).
While the predominant expositions
are left to Laharl, Etna and a confused
angel trainee named Flonne, these oth-
er personalities flesh out the comedy
with their unique antics. The writing
may not be particularly sharp or witty,
it makes do with sardonic commen-
tary, an overabundance of Narcissi-
cism and some deliciously ham-fisted
voice-acting. And yeah, there are a lot
of prurient jokes that’ll induce childish
grins, groans and a mixture of both.
The game is visually quaint and
thankfully the characters are animated
with sprites since Nippon Ichi’s forays
into the third dimension of visuals are,
well, crap. These hand-drawn avatars
make up for it with plenty of individu-
ality though. Musically, the game offers
a silly carnival-like atmosphere with
tracks that will either grate or get stuck
in your head. Or worse: do both.
However, the overarching focus
of Disgaea falls upon its abyssal, idi-
osyncratic gameplay elements. It’s a
self-styled turn-based Strategy Role-
Playing Game that you may have expe-
rienced with the likes of Final Fantasy
Tactics or Disgaea’s lesser successors.
The combat is conducted upon grid-
based levels that allow discrete move-
ment and attack patterns for your
characters. The first step will be for
Gairaigo – Disgaea: Hour of Darkness
you to position your characters on the
map to take advantage of a variety of
situations. This way you can attempt
to attack a foe’s backside (deals more
damage) or try a pincer attack with
more of your party.
Once this positioning is done, you
may select your attack strategems,
magical tactics, et al. And voila! With
everything ready, you finally let the
action commence procedurally. Once
your turn is up, the enemy party does
the same and the combat continues
thusly. Without even delving into the
finer nuances of the game, you can
judge from the onset whether this
game will be tedious or not; some
will, no doubt, be turned away and
rightfully so. For me, it was my first
time playing a game of this type and
I personally found the flexibility and
time to consider options a blessing.
Once you figure out group attacks and
combo benefits, it’s really time to look
further in.
Like some sort of comedy scene
about to go wrong I picked up all my
characters who emerged from the por-
tal and created a human ladder about
eight men- (and women-) high. Why?
To throw them, of course. Isn’t it obvi-
ous? I proceeded to throw groups of
characters in a well-calculated series
of manouevres that saw the last one,
the victor, standing dizzily in front of
a crystalline coloured-gem. Normally
it would have taken me many turns to
walk up to it and all the while I would
have been under the influence of a
-50% defence penalty that defined the
glowing areas. This could all be solved
by destroying the accursed Geo Stone
Azfarul Islam
Games Editor
in front of me, but I had other plans.
Instead, I picked it up and hurled it
into the yellow series of panels thereby
causing all squares glowing yellow to
be imbued with a lovely -50% defence.
And hey, what do you know, all the en-
emies happened to be on them. Glee.
The introduction of throwing, Geo
Stones and Geo Panels are only part
of this holistic experience. Other high-
lights involved dirty politics in the Dark
Assembly to get certain bills passed
(like making stuff at the Item Shop
cheaper, which is quite awesome): one
way to accomplish this is to keep of-
fering tributes to the Senators. You
can of course, piss some of them off,
which can be a Very Bad Thing™ since
the bastards remember you. If all else
fails, stand up for your rights (and get
squashed... but hey at least you tried).
You’re even able to Transmigrate be-
tween character classes (not genders,
sorry) to pick up different skills and
even have little Pupils of your own that
level up faster and allow you to borrow
their unique abilities. Aww, they grow
up so quickly.
And... ah, forget it. It’ll only ruin the
fun and I’m running out of space to
boot; that in itself says much about the
depth of this game.
So what’s really on offer? A compel-
ling, emotive RPG that innovates like
no other? No freaking way. Rather, it’s
a compelling, hilarious strategy game
that involves you to OCD levels of
tinkering and offers you some of the
strangest gameplay quirks you’ll ever
see. Yeah, so it’s an old game but this
kind of charm is truly untarnished by
time.
No one states the blinding obvious better than our Flonne
Special attacks are complemented with some snazzy effects
Character recruitment

