32 felix Friday 8 February 2008
One of the most enduring genres of
PC gaming is that of the common
RTS. Over time the skills required to
play competitively in these games have
become as diverse as the games them-
selves. Working through a web of tech-
nical terms for different play aspects
can be daunting, as can learning how
much each type of strategy is needed
in each individual game to achieve
the best balance of your brain’s clock
cycles. This brief guide should help
people nail down the basics required
for the more standard multiplayer RTS
games out there. While these tips are
not designed for squad-based strategy
games, turn based strategy games or
single player games, some tricks might
still apply.
The largest facets of strategy which
appear to a greater or lesser degree in
all RTS games are those of microman-
agement, macro-management and
unit strategy. Achieving a balance of
these three attributes can be difficult
in any given game due to it varying be-
tween games so greatly. More interest-
ing however is how many of the more
complicated concepts are simply a col-
lision between two of the facets.
Micromanagement
First to be covered is the aspect of mi-
cromanagement. As the name suggests
micromanagement (or simply micro)
is the art of little things, attention to
detail. Micro can take many forms in
a game, ranging from focusing fire
on key targets in skirmishes to plac-
ing turrets in a perfect arc as to focus
fire on a choke point to meticulously
spreading units out to avoid splash
damage attacks.
An important thing about micro is
that it requires a time investment, so
although it allows your forces to oper-
ate more effectively under given cir-
cumstances, it can be to the detriment
of other areas. Those who want to im-
prove micro will do well to memorise
the hotkeys in the game, although hav-
ing good basic control of the mouse
will also work wonders.
Macromanagement
On the opposite end of the scale is the
art of macro-management (or sim-
ply macro). Again opposite to micro,
macro is the skills of looking at the big
picture. While micro is metaphorically
a leader in the field pointing and say-
ing “shoot that, attack its weak point
for massive damage!” or “build turrets
in a perfect hyperbolic arc here”, mac-
ro would be the general asking how
many tanks can be made in 5 minutes
or pushing those cool coloured blocks
around a map.
The largest aspect of macro in games
is that of base building, map control
and resource generation. Basically it is
important to try to keep your empire
at maximum efficiency, with incom-
ing resources being maintained in an
almost perfect equilibrium with out-
going costs. If any imbalance in your
economy springs up it should be recti-
fied immediately by either more forces,
more factories or simply searching out
additional resources.
In general, you should always be
producing forces except in the cir-
cumstance when you are not sure
what your opponent has in reserves, in
which case keeping some emergency
resources on hand can allow a counter
to be built within short order.
Unit Strategies
The third major aspect in strategy
games is that of the unit strategy. In its
most basic form unit strategy takes the
guise of what counters what in a game,
but it also is important for figuring out
unit combinations.
Unit strategy varies greatly between
games due to the individual units
themselves varying, unlike macro and
micro which remain almost univer-
sal between games in the RTS genre.
Those who want to improve unit strat-
egy in particular have two main routes
to follow, either learn or research ef-
fective counters and combinations
and stick by them, or alternatively one
could memorise a variety of the most
important unit stats to allow counters
and combinations to be thought of on
the fly for a particular situation.
Those who do not play strategy
games often will usually find simply
learning various counters sufficient,
but those who plan to play a particu-
lar game often will find it particularly
useful to be able to recite various im-
portant stats about each unit. A solid
knowledge of each unit's strengths and
weaknesses can allow a single effective
counter to be found against combina-
tions of enemy units, as well as letting
sickeningly cost-effective combina-
tions to be found against your oppo-
nents forces.
Before investing much time trying to
learn several tables of unit stats howev-
er it is worth checking how much unit
strategy affects the game you are learn-
ing to play, as depending on the game a
single unit can wipe out armies, while
in a different game the perfect counter
may still only be capable of fighting a
battle at a 2:1 efficiency.
Reconnaissance
Now learning what counters what is
nice and all, but it just makes it all the
more important to know quite what
you need to counter in the first place,
as this is the place of reconnaissance in
games (usually just called recon). Good
recon in games takes quite a lot of mi-
cro, but the end result is that you know
your opponents units and movements
so an effective counter can be found.
Due to micro mostly helping you find
what units your opponent has, it plays
a much greater part in games with an
emphasis on unit strategy. But as well
as checking what your opponent has,
recon also plays several other roles,
such as keeping your own forces safe
from harassment, or highlighting im-
portant choke points on the map to be
defended.
The final thing recon does for you is
to allow you to stifle early expansions
on your opponents’ part, as they can be
difficult to defend and are quite an in-
vestment for your foe. But the best part
of recon in games? It only takes time.
Give or take a single unit all it takes is a
bit of micromanagement on your part
and all these benefits can be yours.
Knowledge of your opponent’s army’s
location can allow easy harassment of
everything he/she owns that isn't right
next to his/her forces. A vigilant player
can easily make quick attacks followed
by equally quick retreats to chip away
at the opponent's bases or pockets of
supporting forces with little to no cost
to his own economy. In addition to the
slow wearing down of your opponents
supporting forces, harassment is also
psychological attack where your op-
ponent may become excessively defen-
sive to try to stop your attacks if you
are lucky, or might try a rash attack
with his current army to try to end the
game before he takes too many losses
which may or may not be to your ben-
efit. Building a suitably mobile group
of units with which to harass your op-
ponents can seem like quite an invest-
ment, but remember that those units
can regroup with your main army
quickly if needed and offer much-
needed support.
Critical Mass
A little trick that only appears in cer-
tain strategy games is that of the criti-
cal mass. Certain units in certain games
The Player’s Guide to Real Time Strategies
Alex Stubley have to be treated differently when in
very large numbers. Typically the units
that critical mass are long-range, some-
times with associated splash damage,
and usually rather fragile.
Counters to an individual unit will
either not work against the critical
mass, or sometimes will work even
more effectively against the mass than
the individual.
Counters of the former kind are usu-
ally due to having shorter ranges than
the mass (less ranks firing at once, or
simply dying before getting in range
due to sheer volume of fire), while the
latter counters are due to either some
sort of immunity against the mass or
simply because they command a splash
damage attack. This dividing of the
counters can usually be figured out
by remembering unit stats, saving the
number-centric players much hassle
when it comes to defeating an oppo-
nent's force.
Critical massing is often used late-
game to help cover weaknesses in larg-
er armies, as a mass usually only relies
on small amounts of support to keep
particularly nasty counters away, while
the other half of the counters are ren-
dered less effective due to the massed
firepower. Fighting against a mass that
uses support is a matter of either find-
ing a counter that neither the mass can
beat nor the support, or using micro to
eliminate the support with lightning-
fast strikes followed by a crushing at-
tack using all of the counters for the
mass itself.
Mass on mass combat, however, is of-
ten determined by sheer numbers and
monetary investment, although some-
times one mass might be more “mass-
able” thereby giving the advantage,
so it can be important to learn which
mass beats which mass. In general the
“massability” of a unit is proportional
to its range divided by its size, as they
are the two factors that decide how
much withering fire it can hail down
on anything that opposes it.
Turtling
games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Games

