33
Friday 8 February 2008 felix
games.felix@imperial.ac.uk Games
Defence is important in any strategy
game, some would argue almost as im-
portant as attack in fact. The basics to
defending your own base are to iden-
tify entrance points (sometimes with
attached choke points), as well as not-
ing down what forces can attack from
angles other than the entrances (think
air units or naval units).
Choke points are easy enough to de-
fend, as it's a simple matter of placing
turrets and fortifications near them to
concentrate firepower while the enemy
forces are channelled into that loca-
tion. If the choke point is particularly
narrow the usage of splash damage
weaponry can be particularly devastat-
ing, even if it wouldn't be on a normal
field of battle.
Other methods of entering a base de-
pend on the game, but in general you
can leave them lightly defended unless
you know your opponent is planning to
hit you in that manner. The final thing
about fortifying a base, or any other
position for that matter, is to know the
siege weaponry your opponent is likely
to bring.
Generally, siege weapons are either
incredibly effective against buildings,
or simply outrange them in combat,
or sometimes both. If your opponent
is likely to use weapons shorter range
than your defences, simply building
more defences can work (a critical
mass of turrets?) although sometimes
it works better to mingle mobile units
amongst your defences. If your oppo-
nent is using weaponry that outranges
your defences, you can either keep a
small, fast army around to kill off any
long-range hardware your opponent
may bring, or to simply integrate long-
range siege weaponry into your own
defence.
Integrating longer range defences
into your fortifications brings the
problem that against an opponent with
equal range you will have to place your
longest range gear at the front of your
lines, which is arguably the worst place
for it, so if both players have access to
the same range siege engines then a
mobile army is likely more effective.
Laying Siege
My personal favourite form of defence
is that of the siege. Against an oppo-
nent who bunkers himself up and tur-
tles, it is a good idea to take map con-
trol and to surround his base with your
own defences. Not only does it guaran-
tee that none of your newer expansion
bases will get destroyed or even har-
assed, but it is also presents you with a
smaller surface area to defend.
However, sieges are not only useful
for isolating your opponent in his base
for defensive purposes, they are in-
credibly useful to use as a staging point
and a forward base of operations. Sieg-
es not only give you the option to build
units in the field instead of all the way
back at one of your main bases, but
the proximity of nearby base defences
make harassment far more risk-free as
a safe haven is always a short distance
away.
Sieges can lastly be used to encroach
on an opponent’s base by the use of
“leap-frogging”, which is where you
build defences closer and closer using
the previous line of fortifications to
cover the ones being produced from
your enemy’s attack. Once you and
your opponent’s lines are just out of
range of each other it becomes possi-
ble to bring siege engines in for the kill,
and if your opponent wishes to bring
them down they will either need their
own siege engines or they will have to
break the front rows of the siege, either
way you will have the home ground
advantage.
Notes on the Late Game
One final aspect that separates into
two radically different gaming plans is
that of the extreme late game, where
one of two things occur:
1) Games where players can build re-
source generators see an escalation of
the battles and micro takes a back seat
as armies become larger and larger as
players resource generation scales up-
wards until something drastic happens
and their economy gets taken out.
2) Resources on the map dry up and
once-major battles degenerate into
minor skirmishes where macro almost
entirely disappears as players franti-
cally micro their remaining forces to
make the most of them.
The simple first step to stand up in
the late game is to know whether situa-
tion 1) or situation 2) will occur in the
game you are playing, which is intrinsi-
cally related to whether resources are
limited or whether you can produce
your own resources. The second step is
to alter your playing style to make the
most of the situation.
In situation 1), economy becomes
your lifeline as well as it also becom-
ing your opponents’ lifeline. Due to the
likely abundance of resources, armies
become larger and almost infinitely ex-
pendableastheywillbereplacedasthey
are lost, and the entire objective of the
game becomes trying to destroy your
opponent's base and economy. Once
one player has lost their economy then
they lose their ability to replace forces
lost to random throwaway armies and
those random clashes around the map
become devastating to your opponent
as he cannot keep up with his armies
destruction.
Situation 2) causes the opposite to
happen, as there is no longer an econo-
my to speak of. The rarity of resources
means each loss in the field is a blow
to a player, and the game starts to re-
volve around keeping each individual
alive while trying to harass your oppo-
nent's pockets of forces at little cost to
yourself. Bases themselves start to lose
strategic importance as an objective as
they serve little purpose other than a
metaphorical brick wall for your oppo-
nent to waste forces trying to destroy.
Situation 2) normally ends with one
player having the last remaining forces
to show for his micro skills, following
which he will proceed to slowly and
systematically destroy his opponents'
bases while trying to keep his siege en-
gines intact.
Conclusion
So there are my views on general strat-
egy in a nutshell, warped by my own
taste in gaming and tempered by my
own little likings and cravings. Bear
in mind that each game requires a dif-
ferent skill balance to play, and so it is
important to realise when it's the time
for micro and when it's the time for
macro.
No matter the balance the following
sentence will apply all the time: make
sure you have the right units in the
right place at the right time attacking
the right target, and make sure you
have enough of them.
Wholesale slaughter: horse carcasses for sale, going cheap at your local market; roasted for free
Through the fire and flames only to be swallowed, spit out and stamped on by an angry turtle
Even the trees eat meat in Warcraft III; it’s official: vegans have no place in the WoW
You like this one, eh, Legolas? Eh? Think you can bring this one down? Didn’t think so, nyaaah!

