34 felix Friday 8 February 2008
Google vs MicroHoo! It’s on
James Finnerty explains what one of the largest tech mergers ever really means
O
nce again welcome to
the wonderfully gadget
packed corner of the
newspaper. We’ve had
a fair bit of news this
week in the Tech world so lets bring
everyone up to speed. With all the big
news on Microsoft and Yahoo! we have
delivered coverage on this as well as a
slightly overlooked product in Micro-
soft’s arsenal.
Once again Apple have updated
some of their products. Their prod-
ucts have been filling these pages for
a few weeks but thankfully their most
recent announcement is brief enough
to mention here. The iPhone and iPod
touch have had their storage capacities
increased.
At the moment there exists 4Gb and
8Gb iPhones aswell as 8Gb and 16Gb
touches. On Tuesday the 16Gb iPhone
became available for about £60 more
than the 8Gb and a 32Gb iPod touch
should be in the shops in a few days,
maybe even by the time of going to
print. Also, any new touch purchased
included the new applications that you
would have to pay for on any older
ones.
Heathrow has started testing new
security measures that will be imple-
mented in Terminal 5. The guinea pigs
of the new system will have the pleas-
ure of providing a blood, urine and
stool samples as well as iris scans. Only
kidding, they just take a photo and
your prints, but this has added heat to
recent discussions about giving the US
access to UK biometric databases.
Nokia are making their long an-
nounced concept of shifting its N-
Gage gaming platform to smartphones
a reality. The first phone to have this is
the N81 so anyone using one of these
should be able get more games and
some clever sods have got the platform
working on pretty much every Sym-
bian S60 phone.
Here’s one for all the environmental-
ists out there. Airbus have successfully
test flown an A380 that is fueled by a
synthetic fuel produced from natural
gas. The test flight used a cocktail of
60% regular jet fuel and 40% synthetic
with plans to increase the ratio in favor
of the synthetic fuel in upcoming tests.
This change is expected to make a sig-
nificant impact on the airline indus-
try’s global footprint. But will this be
enough to satisfy the hippies? Maybe
for now.
An IBM research paper has been dug
up which reveals their future plans to
take over the world, I mean internet,
although I think there are a fair few
people who can’t tell the difference an-
ymore. They plan to modify their Blue
Gene super computer architecture to
support traditionally server executed
functions such as Apache and MySQL
as these tasks require larger levels of
computing power.
You may remember that during the
last American election there was a high
level of distrust in the electronic ballet
system. Well shock horror all the fears
have surfaced once again so expect to
see ten recounts of the upcoming su-
per Tuesday votes before the next stage
of the election in November.
Lets move on to the articles.
felix@imperial.ac.uk
Technology
Technology Editor – James Finnerty
James Finnerty
Technology Editor
After a decade online and heading towards a downard spiral, will Microsoft take charge?
A
huge rock was thrown
into the calm pond of
Google'sfuturethisweek.
Microsoft have offered a
staggering £22 billion to
buy the long standing Yahoo! search
engine company. Now why would they
do this? Their key product is sub-par
with millions of people drifting over to
the big G monthly, making this appear
a very bad investment. The reasoning
comes from Microsoft's Steve Ballmer
explaining that the purchase is intend-
ed to increase Microsoft's audience,
improve the brand of both companies
and to literally build a bigger company
that can rival Google.
This buy out will mean a huge deal to
anyone currently lucky enough to own
shares in these companies. Microsoft's
share price has famously been more or
less static for the last 5 years and due
to Google, Yahoo! shares have been on
the downward spiral. How this pur-
chase will affect Google's value is yet to
be seen but if their lower than prom-
ised quarterly profits are anything to
go by people may start to stray.
Other sources have reported that
Microsoft executives plan to move
more into the online services market
and hence wanting the Yahoo! brand.
Sounds great on paper as Google
dominates this market, how this will
affect the products produced by each
side will be one to watch as Google has
always updated and improved it's serv-
ices irrelevant of the competition.
Rumours are also floating around
that someone may have a rival bid in
the works. Now this really poses the
question what other company has £22
billion to place in a high risk buy out?
I don't really see any oil or car compa-
nies buying a search engine and the
only other tech company that could be
interested would be Apple, who aren't
ones to take on other companies prod-
ucts. Could this mean Google would
try and buy Yahoo! just to stop Micro-
soft doing it? But this would increase
their monopoly and thus risk having
the company divided so it’s not a likely
option.
If the purchase is successful the next
hurdle to overcome is how MicroHoo!
will merge their business models to
compete with Google. The breaker is
that Google famously uses large clus-
ters of cheap computers and a system
of distributing tasks to these modes
that handles machine failure without
breaking a sweat. This strategy is very
cost effective and provides a high level
of reliability. MS and Y! on the other
hand are known for buying more com-
pact “high quality” systems were the
reliability of each machine is more
important. Ultimately this costs them
more money and they still end up less
reliable. We've all had MSN Messen-
ger and Hotmail go down due to busy
servers, but when did you last see this
happen to Google?
To fix these kinds of problems would
take a very brave move from Microsoft
as they would most likely have to stray
from their own homebrew software or
spend millions/billions of dollars and
waste years producing their own re-
placement system from scratch. A big
ask on top of what they have already
blown buying Yahoo! in the first place.
There are growing concerns about
whether or not Microsoft will prop-
erly support what is broadly accepted
as Yahoo!'s greatest achievement, their
Bill, I have a cunning plan, all I need is £22 billion and a turnip
support for software developers. Via
their developers network Yahoo! has
actually maintained a good business
model that allowed it to survive the
end of the internet boom. The key to
this is extending your platform to in-
crease users and this allowed Yahoo! to
keep afloat, albeit not as successfully as
some of it's rivals. The question lies in
whether Microsoft will want to merge
its popular developer's network with
Yahoo!'s incarnation, producing a one
stop shop for coders, or go along with
some sort of internal rivalry between
the departments.
A lot of people also feel that the
merge of these two companies is fun-
damentally set to fail as they have dras-
tically different philosophies. Yahoo!
has played a hand in the open source
world where as Microsoft has been the
antithesis of this, sticking to the tra-
ditional method of charging users for
their products instead of using meth-
ods such as advertisement to generate
revenue.
As an interesting note, Google have
questioned Microsoft’s bid and have
asked for the regulators to verify that
the purchase is sound. Could this be
Google quaking in its boots? They have
also argued that Microsoft’s decision
goes along with its history of trying to
obtain a monopoly, but the problem
with this accusation is that the market
of advertising which MicroHoo! would
be trying to take on is almost already
monopolised by Google. So basically
we’ve got two big babies arguing over
who gets to have a bigger share of the
internet.
In my opinion Google is the one
causing this to happen though. If they
didn’t have such a large market share
then Microsoft and Yahoo! would not
have to merge to stand a chance of suc-
cess in the hostile internet market.
If Yahoo! accpet this offer they will be
confessing that they themselves could
not turn their company around which
may cause a lack of confidence in their
management, but it will still be a re-
lief to those not wanting the company
to fail. There is still a huge chance of
failure even if the merger goes ahead.
If MicroHoo! cannot output products
that genuinely are of better quaity than
Google then this could destroy both of
the companies leaving Google with a
monopoly.
So will this be the birth of the greatest
technology company ever or will it be a
waste of time and money from some of
the only serious rivals to Google? Only
time will tell.

