Coming round the mountain
Alexander Borresen reports on the Mountaineering Club’s 2007/08 winter tour to Snowdonia
T
he end of the term had
passed, and on the Sat-
urday afternoon, after a
mildly heavy Friday, five
of us gathered in the un-
ion. Earlier that day Tim had passed his
minibus test, which was good. It meant
the trip could actually go ahead. As the
bus was loaded and we were almost
ready to go, we received a surprise call
from Juha. Turns out we would be hav-
ing some extra company on the trip.
So after a quick guidebook purchase, a
stop at Tesco’s and another call to learn
we would be met by four more ICMC-
ers who were driving down from Scot-
land, we set on our way.
Arriving at the hut we were expecting
to be greeted by 15 rampaging fellwan-
derers, but it was empty so we carried
our stuff out of the bus, lit the fire and
settled in for the night. Eventually the
rest of the ICMC group and the fell-
wanderers showed up, but there were
only four of them and they weren’t ex-
actly rampaging.
The next day, we took advantage of
the good weather to ascend Snowdon
with the sky clear and the temperature
dipping below zero, going up via Crib
Goch to find there was actually snow
at the top of Snowdon this year. Re-
turning to the bottom, we had enough
time for a warming hot chocolate in
the café.
The weather, as it turns out, would
remain beautiful for the whole trip. It
did, however, remain a little cold. Yet
after a distinctively softcore first day,
we decided not to heed the advice of
our compatriots who had gone and
climbed over the pass. Over some food
and an indoor bouldering session in the
hut, they had warned us of the extreme
cold finger syndrome and general lack
of warmth they had experienced. Pffff!
“Nah, they’re just being a bit lame”, was
the initial thought of the rest of us so
we decided to proceed as planned.
This meant the next we got a fairly
bright start and headed over to Idwal
Slabs. These are North facing, a slight
oversight. So John and Kunal set off up
in mountain boots up a fairly straight-
forward climb to make sure they could
top out the crag in time, Tim and Ari
made their way up a climb further right
on the slab and myself, Al and Adam
found a VS on the left hand corner of
the slab. Trickier than the other routes
maybe, but surely it couldn’t be that
bad. Hmmm, climbing when after a
minute your fingers are merely hooks
of numb, sensationless flesh is tricky.
Looking at your hand to see if your fin-
gers are actually on a hold, now that’s
fun. Anyway, fun as that was, we de-
cided to make a detour onto an easier
route after the first pitch, and a wise
decision I couldn’t help but think. We
descended as it was turning dark, but
there was still time for one of us to run
naked into the freezing lake.
The day had left us tired, so we de-
cided that Tuesday called for some laid
back bouldering. With no need to get
up early, we had a bit of a lie in, said
goodbye to half our group who were
heading back to London later that day
and then drove to Cromlwch Boulders
on the Llanberis Pass. The walk in real-
ly killed us, as it was a whole 25 metres
to the nearest boulder. There were a
number of good little problems which
kept us busy for the day.
With just one days worth of climbing
related activity remaining, we headed
for warmer ground down in the Trem-
adog area. A little crag with some good
climbing and friendly conditions greet-
ed us. A number of good climbs went
down, including an E1 for Tim, which
included some good nut recovery ac-
tion. The day had gone well until the
very end when a small accident led to
me hobbling in pain down to the bus.
As we returned to the hut we re-
membered that earlier in the day the
water had not been working. Strangely,
when we got back it still wasn’t work-
ing and after searching for the problem
and various calls, we discovered the
toilet was still working. Diverting wa-
ter from the cistern allowed us to start
cooking up some food in a somewhat
unconventional manner.
That night the traditional ICMC win-
ter tour Christmas dinner and secret
Santa took place. Pork chops, roast veg
and mange-tous adorned our plates,
followed by some suspicious looking
apple pie and custard. Beer and strange
gifts followed as we used up the rest of
the firewood and got set for heading
back to London the day after.
“I can see my house from up here!”
Give us your best pout guys They say the air up here can make you a little crazy
Maximum cool points
39
Friday 8 February 2008 felix

