sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
40 Friday 8 February 2008
felix
Sport
Portsmouth have had a very good sea-
son at home so far, not only have they
not lost a game at home, but they have
managed to not concede a single point.
With such a record, the home side
were undoubtedly full of high hopes as
they entertained top of the table Impe-
rial 1sts last Wednesday.
The game started with the high tem-
po that Imperial finished with towards
the end of last term, however Pom-
pey were more than ready for the on-
slaught. A month and a half off over the
Christmas period was clearly evident
as some of the sparkle had clearly dis-
appeared for Imperial and Portsmouth
were more than ready to pounce on
this window of opportunity.
Playing a very physical and forward
-oriented game, Portsmouth continued
the onslaught, consistently penetrat-
ing the edges of the rucks and mauls
before off-loading to their large cen-
tres who tried to break the line. Some
great defence by Imperial was the only
thing that stopped any tries from being
scored. But as already mentioned, the
Christmas break was evident as small
mistakes were being made all over the
pitch. At times, Imperial started to run
like crabs and failed to push forward,
which resulted in some shoddy pass-
ing and poor attacking decisions. Even
the line-outs, which had been a strong
point, were suffering. Portsmouth
eventually got a penalty within kicking
distance and made Imperial pay by tak-
ing a slender 3 - 0 lead.
It was Imperial’s counter-attacking
1st XV fight for
win over Pompey
Rugby
BUSA
Portsmouth Men’s 1st 3
Imperial Men’s 1st 6
Jovan Nedić
Sports Editor
that was the most impressive, with
the greatest play coming from Max
Joachim and Edward Spofforth-Jones
on the wing. Imperial managed to
gain 40 metres with superb interplay
between Joachim and the captain An-
drew Jasudasen, before the Portsmouth
second row decided to put in a late
high tackle on centre Dan Godfrey and
rightly earned himself 10 minutes in
the sin-bin. Even with this advantage,
Imperial were unable to optimise and
were trailing 3 - 0 by half time.
After some stern words from the
captain and the coach, Imperial went
into the second half determined to turn
the deficit. With a more structured at-
tack now showing, Imperial slowly
made their way towards the Pompey
try line, however persistent high tack-
les and hands in rucks broke the play
and Imperial were eventually awarded
with a penalty in front of the posts that
hooker Alexander Johnstone comfort-
ably converted.
Portsmouth, having conceded their
first points at home this season, and
also having their sin-binned player
returned to them, picked up the ag-
gression in a more controlled manor.
The Pompey forwards increased the
pick and drive around the edges of the
rucks, but the Imperial forwards were
more than ready for them and only
gave away inches at a time. When this
failed, they tried a catch and drive from
the line-outs, which the forwards were
again able to contain. Eventually, Im-
perial were awarded another penalty
that Johnstone converted and Imperial
were finally in the lead, a lead that was
heavily defended until the dying sec-
onds, with Rob Phillips even receiving
a yellow card in the last minute for his
efforts.
A groggy start to the new term for
Imperial, but there are signs of great
things to come, and this will hopefully
improve for next weeks game against
RUMS.
Rowing demands high levels of both
endurance and power being produced
from nearly every main muscle in the
body. So what we eat when we are
going to row has a big impact on our
performance. Lets go into a bit more
depth about it.
The energy demands of a rower are
high, so the number of meals you will
need in order to consume the amount
of calories your body needs for recov-
ery and repair should be between 4 and
6. If you have the typical “London diet”
as I call it (no breakfast, a sandwich at
lunch, a mound of food for dinner and
the usual chocolates or crisps while
watching Eastenders/Corrie), you’ll
probably find that getting your boat
out to water is hard going let alone
the seemingly endless amount of work
that’s done on the Concept 2 rower!
Typically, a rower will have much
higher energy demands than someone
whoisn’texercising.Theywillneedcar-
bohydrates in particular, which should
account for 55-65% of the overall calo-
ries taken in. So if we take a rower who
needs 2900 calories a day, between
Nutrition for rowers and high energy demands
Ben Richens
Energia Fitness Instructor
The rowers and their high energy demands
1600 and 1900 of these calories should
be from sources of carbohydrate (the
rest coming from a mixture of fat and
protein) spread throughout the day
over about 4-6 smaller meals rather
than trying to cram all those calories
in at dinner!
Differences in how many calories
someone needs a day depends on
many factors: such as gender, amount
of lean muscle, activity level and so on.
So if you are in any doubt please talk
to a member of the Ethos gym team
who can give you some more specific
advice.
Before
If you train first thing in the morning,
having something to eat beforehand is
important but the amount and timing
of when you eat is a very important fac-
tor; otherwise you could end up “doing
a Radcliffe” and having an impromptu
toilet break off the side of the boat!
The speed at which we digest food
will differ for everyone, so the main
thing is to find out what works for you
and stick to it! A good guide is eat-
ing 30-45 minutes before you train.
Try something which isn’t going to
be too “heavy” , e.g. fruit, yoghurt or
nuts/seeds or if you have a bit more
time choose something with a higher
amount of calories from carbohydrates
as it will give your body more “fuel” to
burn during your session. Good exam-
ples of this are wholegrain bread with
a healthy filling: again, the best option
being something you eat regularly (the
meal before a race isn’t the time to try
out the spicy curry your housemate
has just made!).
During
Most people prefer to drink water
during training but with intense ses-
sions, or those lasting over 45 minutes,
sports drinks or juices are a good idea
as this will not only re-hydrate you but
will also give your body additional car-
bohydrate and electrolytes which are
lost during exercise. You can make you
rown sports drink by filling up a 1.5 li-
tre bottle with water, adding a pinch of
salt and some juice concentrate - about
a cup will do you if don’t want it to be
too concentrated.
After
This is quite often the most overlooked
aspect, but definitely one which needs
to be examined to promote optimal
refuelling and recovery. After train-
ing, the sooner you can eat the better.
Carbohydrates will make up a signifi-
cant part of the meal but protein has
to be included as this crucial for repair
of the lean muscle that’s been working
so hard!
A good guide to selecting carbo-
hydrates is something that has either
grown from the ground or from a tree
(vegetables, cereals or grains) and with
your selection of protein something
that once had two eyes and could either
walk, fly or swim (poultry, beef etc) the
less processed food you have the better
and that means if you can’t pronounce
the ingredients, don’t eat it!
England Saxons comes to IC
for pre-Italy training
The England Saxons rugby team, oth-
erwise known as the England ‘A’ team
came to Harlington on Tuesday for a
training session before Saturday’s 2008
Six Nations game against Italy ‘A’ in Ra-
gusa, Sicily. As a treat, 8 members of
the Imperial College Rugby Club were
invited along to take part in the train-
ing session.
Initial the ‘luck’ 8 thought they would
effectively be used as human tackle
bags in an effort to improve the Sax-
ons defensive play, and this proved to
be the case. The Imperial players were
told to attack the England team, at-
tempt to disrupt the ball and generally
be a nuisance where possible. Eager to
impress, the 8 players did exactly that
and in the process got valuable first
hand experience of what top level rug-
by is actually like.
The training session wasn’t without
it’s share of fun and games, the Sax-
ons’ forwards managed to persuade IC
flanker James Petit to hide the scrum-
halfs hat, before he was politely asked
to return it by said scum-half. IC cen-
tre Alex Fergusson, however, gave the
best quote of the day, claiming that
two years ago he could have out sprint-
ed any of the players that were at the
training session; a view that the Saxons
team undoubtedly didn’t share.
1st XV captain Andrew Jasudasen
commented that: “After hearing of our
phenomenal season so far, the Saxons
coach Steve Bates thought that this was
an opportune moment to inject fresh
blood into the England squad! But on
a serious note, it was a win–win situa-
tion where our boys got to experience
something new and a standard of play
to which we should be aiming for.”
On behalf of the Imperial College
Rugby Club, this reporter would like
to thank the England Saxons for this
opportunity.
Jovan Nedić
Sports Editor
Breakfast time! IC Gabriel Ibru gets eaten by the Saxons front row
IC and Saxons posing for a photo after the training session

