4 felix Friday 8 February 2008
Comment, Opinion
& Letters
Ammar Waraich and me
T
he hand’s healing up well,
thanks for asking. The
week’s been fairly pain-
less, other than the con-
stant wanking jokes I’ve
had fired at me every time I explain my
injury. Good god. Anyway, as I slowly
regain the use of my hands and finish
adding everyone who made that joke
to the torture list, I find myself read-
ing Felix properly for the first time in a
week. I know, I write for it, but frankly
that makes me less likely to bother
reading it, all right? I spend literally
minutes every week churning this stuff
out, thank you very much, when all
you can manage is to gurn at the text
during a Friday afternoon lecture. And
then complain, or something.
Naturally, I turn to my stuff first.
There’s something weird about go-
ing over what you’ve written, because
it’s only then you realise just how shit
it is. But what struck me even more
strongly was just how shit the rest of it
was. I mean, the comments section is
burgeoning with, you know, comment.
And that’s great. I’m all for people giv-
ing their opinion. It’s just that it’s all
pretty much bollocks. Check out last
week – page one includes two tits dis-
cussing whether we’d rather pay thirty
thousand pounds this year, or in five
years’ time. Then there’s me, a self-
obsessed cretin with a beret and a copy
of A Very Short Introduction To Sound-
ing Like A Philosophical Tit. You’ve got
Master-of-the-Overextended-Analogy
Mr. Amit throwing another (admit-
tedly loveable) literary curveball at
you, and Samuel Black – Captain Pseu-
donym who would probably marry
his pen name if he loved it any more,
although that would merely force him
to change his name to it, thus negating
the entire point of it.
And Noel Forrest! Mr. Forrest of
Felix 1393 – the doors rotate slower
than the Earth? Slower than the Earth,
which rotates at more than nine hun-
dred miles an hour, Mister Forrest the
scientist? What kind of fucking irony is
that, exactly?
Truthfully, I enjoy the comment sec-
tion. I think of us as the Felix equiva-
lent of Have I Got News For You – a
few disgruntled regulars who try to be
quick-witted where they can, and take
the piss out of the guest writers where
they can’t. But if this is your favourite
section of Felix, then you’re wasting
your fucking time. All of you, in fact,
are wasting your time. Except Ammar
Waraich.
That name probably doesn’t ring a
bell, because you don’t look at a writ-
er’s name all that often, and if you did
read the articles I’m about to talk about
then the writer’s name was probably
the last thing you were interested in.
However, if you don’t regularly read
as far back through Felix as the Travel
Section, then I implore you to hunt
down the last few weeks of back cop-
ies and take it all in, because the most
gripping journalism of Felix’s year may
have just passed you by.
Hang on, the hyperbole machine’s
just stalled. While I try and restart it,
just go and have a look at one of the
past weeks. Mr. Waraich is a medical
student, who took it upon himself last
summer to do a placement for a month
out in rural Kenya. Far from being
full of white people in khaki chasing
leopards with cameras and suchlike, it
turns out that rural Kenya is actually
in pretty bad shape. Not the kind of
bad shape that you see on the news –
there’s nothing immediately awful go-
ing down out there, not some horrible
disaster occurring that BBC News 24
hasn’t managed to pipe into your eye-
balls. It’s just sitting there. Festering,
almost.
If you can choke down my Schaden-
freude, I’ll elaborate a little – his ex-
ploits in Kenya take him quite far afield.
Off the beaten track lies, amongst oth-
er things, death, suffering, knife-edge
survival, lack of resources, more death,
more suffering, and yes, it’s Africa,
we’ve all seen Live Aid, right? We don’t
need to see another trip around that
big place with the trees.
The thing is – as with all student
journalism – there’s something dif-
ferent about seeing someone who
isn’t intentionally trying to publicise
something, being put up against the
reality of the thing in question. That’s
why Emily Wilson’s critique of art in
London is so frequently hilarious, and
it’s why Ammar’s experience of be-
ing a doctor in Africa is so absolutely
fresh and cutting. He tells you that he
was angry with people for not follow-
ing what he saw to be common sense
– only to find that it was poverty and
exploitation that had forced them into
such situations. He tells quite harrow-
ing stories about how he failed to save
lives by a matter of minutes.
We all know people who’ve been on
gap years and whatnot, and probably
read their pisspoor attempts at chroni-
cling it, but even the furthest jour-
neyman did little other than lay some
bricks on a floor or talk very loudly in
English at bemused children. Ammar’s
account is powerful, honest to a fault,
and illustrated by some of the finest
images I’ve seen. I can’t criticise it. I
can’t be cynical or harsh. It’s just great
journalism, and it puts whining shits
such as myself to shame.
This is what being a student is about
– seeing the world with eyes that aren’t
jaded by experience and bias, seeing it
first-hand and relating it to others. It
makes me thoroughly proud to be a
writer, and simultaneously ashamed of
my incapability to match his frankness.
As we sail on into Valentine’s Day like
an elephant on a Hornby train at the
edge of a rather pink minefield, clutch-
ing closer to our loved ones and curs-
ing our inability to spend a banker’s
wage on a diamond the size of our
genitalia, I’m not asking but demand-
ing that you go and hunt his writing
down. It defines, for me at least, what
it means to be young and free in this
world. Something that, by reading his
words, you may come to cherish even
more.
A. Geek
T
he recent spate of celeb-
rity deaths is causing no
end of concern for the av-
erage citizen. First Heath
Ledger was cruelly ripped
from our bosoms and now Jeremy Bea-
dle joins the toll. It feels like only yes-
terday that Richard Whiteley shuffled
off his mortal coil. I mean who’s next
– Terry Wogan?
It is hard to come to terms with these
emotional bombshells but, given time
and the right sort of support, perhaps
a few sensitively compiled retrospec-
tives, one hopes to be able to scrabble
together some sort of a life without
Heath and Jeremy.
However, it is impossible to achieve
such a remote objective when there is
a small but persistently vociferous mi-
nority of people who seem to think it
very funny when famous people bite
the dust. Not least of these is the bul-
bous freak-ball Charlie Brooker, who,
in this Monday’s edition of G2, digs
another foot and a half towards hell
as he spews his indiscriminate ill-will
over the dead bodies of the recently
departed. His latest attempt at humour
involves him advocating a text mes-
David Stewart
Leave Britney alone!
sage notification service called ‘eVul-
ture’ to advise customers of recent ce-
lebrity deaths. He dares to recommend
this to us, the caring public, jibing in
his feckless, irresponsible manner with
his fat, stupid lips that “if you want to
be notified the moment the Milk Tray
man winds up in a box of his own, then
eVulture is the service for you”. Does
Brooker know for sure that the Milk
Tray Man is still with us? What if he
found out that the he’d died in a skiing
accident or something? Perhaps that
might wipe the gawping smile off his
pile-of-dog-turd-with-two-pokes-for-
eyes-and-a-smear-for-a-mouth face?
But no, without stopping for breath
or moral fibre, the rancid pus-flow that
“
Naturally, I
turn to my stuff
first. There’s
something weird
about going over
what you’ve
written, because
it’s only then you
realise just how
shit it is
”
is Brooker goes on to callously point
out that he could make money out of
these poor, real people’s misfortunes.
This is, of course, just the latest in a
series of “I hate, I hate, I hate” diatribes
from the mealy-mouthed mother-
freaking Brooker in a desperate trans-
parent ploy to garner support for his
twisted celebrity-hating cadre. Only
very recently was he found to be taking
the piss out of Jimmy Saville.
Even Britney Spears isn’t safe as he
glibly sneers his way over her psycho-
logical imbalances, or as most peo-
ple with the glimmer of a conscience
would call it, humanity. I implore those
who feel that our celebrities need to
be given our love and support to help
them stand up tall and proud upon the
earth and walk about with dignity and
respect.
I implore you and exhort you to find
the malicious Brooker, to hunt him
down, and to kill him and all his love-
less cronies. Then when you are stand-
ing over his body with a bloody sword
in one hand and his mobile phone
in the other, text all of your friends
and smugly notify them of Brooker’s
passing.
The good doctor: A picture from Ammar Waraich’s (left) trip
The shocking website asking visitors to predict the date of Britney’s
death to win a PS3
Let us know your views: comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Letters may be edited for length and grammar purposes
Views on these pages are not representative of Felix

