41
felix
Friday 8 February 2008
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk Sport
On Sunday, IC Women’s Football de-
cided to follow the example set by the
men’s football team and took a team of
eleven plus, a novelty substitute, to play
RUMS in the women’s challenge cup.
Just to make things more challenging,
their three goalkeepers were unavail-
able and so they ended up having au-
ditions for a stand in during warm-up
and Vivian won the honour of donning
the green jersey.
The match began and RUMS won
an early corner as IC settled into the
game. Their onslaught created a cou-
ple of chances but Vivian collected the
ball easily on all accounts, helped by
a makeshift backline of Emma, Yoke,
Laura and Cheryl. IC began to push
back with Dehydys and Rita leading the
charge in midfield. Barbara and Steph
provided width down the sides and
with Chin and Pav upfront it looked as
if IC were due a goal any time. How-
ever, RUMS played in a Spartan-like
phalanx with the entire team charging
after whichever IC player had the ball.
While IC was having a frustrating first
half, the referee was having a busy one,
calling offences against various hair-
clips and bobby pins. He stopped play
a couple of times and requested vari-
ous IC players to take out the felonious
hair accessories, finally announcing
the next player found with a hair clip
would be given a yellow card.
The second half started and IC won
an early corner this time around.
Chances bountiful but still the ball re-
fused to go into the back of the RUMS
net. RUMS had a few breaks but were
unable to get past the IC backline. IC
finally took the lead fifteen minutes
into the second half.
They had won a corner which Rita
took, passing it short to Laura who
passed it back to Rita who, from the
edge of the box on the backline, hit a
stunner of a strike into the back of the
net from an angle that can only be de-
scribed as near zero. Karen came on in
Barbara’s place to help IC defend their
slender lead to prevent the match from
going into extra time (else they pay the
taxi driver a small fortune for waiting).
IC are through to the quarter finals to
face UCL in the Women’s Challenge
Cup.
Wednesday came around and saw
IC taking seven lovely ladies down to
Portsmouth to play the last match of
the BUSA league season. With Queen
Mary sitting comfortable at the top of
the league, IC was in battle with the
University of Portsmouth and Brunel
for second place, who were just a point
each behind. Morale was running low
until the IC players were told that
Portsmouth could only field ten play-
ers themselves. Fuelled by a desperate
hope, IC played a 3-3 formation (true
story) with one attacker and five natu-
ral defenders. Needless to say it was a
very defensive match.
It started off with Steph taking the
ball down the right wing but she went
down to the ground after a Portsmouth
player five times her size gave her a
hefty shove. Unfortunately, no free
kick was given but Steph ended up get-
ting her beef on. Skipper Emma and
Pav dribbled past the Portsmouth play-
ers effortlessly but due to the lack of
strikers up front, and the fact that the
Portsmouth goalie was almost as good
as Emily (IC goalie), chances were dif-
ficult. Laura, Kate and Cheryl held the
line in the back, closing down plays
Portsmouth tried to set up. It turned
out to be easier than expected when
trying to mark two opposition players
simultaneously.
After a string of IC attacks, painful
tackles and Portsmouth ballerina-like
foul throw-ins, Portsmouth had their
chance as Emily was taken down and
panic and confusion was widespread in
the IC box. They did however, fluff it,
and Kate and Laura threw themselves
in the melee and managed to clear it. A
minute from full time, IC had their best
Outnumbered ladies perform in cup and league
Football
ULU
Imperial Women’s 1st 1
RUMS Women’s 1st 0
Football
BUSA
Imperial Women’s 1st 0
Portsmuth Women’s 2nds 0
Cheryl See
IC ladies after their win against RUMS in the Women’s Challenge Cup
The Imperial Medics 1st XV achieved
a miraculous victory over high-flying
Swansea University, keeping hopes
alive of surviving for another year in
BUSA Prem B. A squad of just 17 play-
ers (including two debutants and seven
freshers) embarked on the four hour
coach journey down to South Wales,
knowing that it would take a mighty
performance to beat a Swansea that
had run away 47-21 winners in the pre-
vious fixture between these two sides
in October.
Arriving late, the Medics had just 30
minutes on the pitch to warm up and
shake off the long drive. On a clear
but blustery day, both sides started
the game cautiously, with tactical
kicking featuring heavily in the open-
ing exchanges. The medics, led from
the front by stand-in captain Austin
Dekker, grew in confidence as the first
half developed, attacking with pace and
power, getting wide in ever-increasing
numbers.
The Swansea backs, slick and skil-
ful, also posed a regular threat, but
fantastic cover defence from both
sides kept the scores level until the
half hour mark. Back-row cum centre
chance; Emma took the ball from the
IC half down the left wing all the way
into the Portsmouth box on her own.
The Portsmouth goalie slipped and
was on the ground leaving their goal
wide open this time. Emma crossed it
in across the face of the empty goal, but
Pav was unfortunately unable to reach
it in time.
IC ended the match on a high be-
cause Brunel had lost their decid-
ing match and so IC Women’s finish
second in their BUSA league, and are
through to the play in the plate!
Rugby Medicals live to fight another day
Rugby Union
BUSA
Swansea Men’s 1st 7
Imperial Medicals 1st 10
Cameron Sullivan
Craig Nightingale made a superb ini-
tial break into the Swansea 22, with the
Medic forwards working hard to win
quick ruck ball, allowing mercurial fly-
half Dan Neville to slip a pass to lock
Rob Anderson to crash over from close
range. Neville converted to give the
Medics a 7-0 lead, which they held at
the half.
In the second period, Swansea came
out flying, playing an attractive brand
of expansive rugby, looking to score
from every possession. But the Medics
tackling was equal to it, and forced the
opposition into several key turnovers
as they became increasingly impatient.
Fly-half Neville kicked a simple
penalty to extend the lead to 10, after
good work by the Medics backs forced
Swansea onto the back foot. With a full
half hour remaining, Swansea began to
introduce several substitutes, adding
size and experience in their front row.
At this point, the home side began to
exert their dominance at the set-piece,
allowing plenty of clean ball for their
dangerous backs. Wave after wave of
the Swansea attack was contained due
to more impressive defence from the
visiting Medics. Freshers Steve Jor-
dan, Ed Pickles and Matt Sarvesvaran
racked up an impressive tackle count
between them, while the rest of the
pack worked tirelessly to repel the ma-
rauding Welshmen.
The Medics kept Swansea scoreless
until the 71st minute, when sustained
pressure and quick handling led to a
try out wide, expertly converted from
the touchline by the Swansea fly-half.
The final nine minutes were brutal,
as the Medics fought to protect their
line, barely escaping their half for the
remainder of the game. The referees
whistle was a welcome relief, with
the Medics holding out for a tense
10-7 victory. A remarkable perform-
ance from the Medics, and a vital win
against a very strong Swansea side, who
played with great endeavour, but were
guilty of sloppy finishing at key mo-
ments. Victorious, the Medics players
descended on the hallowed Reynold’s
Bar in Hammersmith to celebrate de-
feating the Welsh on their own turf.
This result places the Medics in a good
position for their final three BUSA bat-
tles, with survival now one step closer.
The medics backs looking somewhat relaxed

