felix sport Send in your sport reports:
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
High resolution photos only
Tim Keating
Waterpolo
BUSA
Imperial 13
University College London 2
Surrey was all that stood between the
Imperial water polo team and a place
in the BUSA second round. After back
to back wins the team was on a high,
wanting to extend their unbeaten run.
The fixture wasn’t to be taken lightly
as Surrey came top of the South East
group last year and hoped for a repeat
performance.
The first minute saw Imperial score
first, Jack Ellis finding the bottom cor-
ner from the centre forward position.
Surrey responded instantly with a
poorly defended long range shot, show-
ing a hole in the IC defence. From that
moment Imperial stepped up a gear,
with the opposition only managing to
get a couple of shots on target. Every
stolen ball in defence resulted in an IC
counter attack, the Surrey keeper un-
able to save a series break away goals.
This pace continued throughout the
first half, the Surrey team looking de-
moralised during the half time break.
In the second half IC picked up from
where they left off not allowing Sur-
rey to get any quality possession. In
a strange turn of events the referee
stopped play after a complaint by the
observing UCL players. Imperial were
accused of swapping hats midway
through the game, an illegal act which
threatened expulsion from the match.
Bemused by these unfounded claims
coach Adam Walzer consulted with
the referees and play was allowed to
resume. Un-phased by the stoppage
IC continued to dominate, with every
player in the team getting their share
of pool time.
It was clear towards the end that the
officials were taking pity on the tired
Surrey team, giving a couple of un-
necessary fouls against IC, these de-
cisions were contested by Adam who
was subsequently yellow carded. The
final score was 13-2, showing a gutsy
performance by the whole team. Spe-
cial praise should be given to the team’s
newer players, all of whom held their
own and displayed confidence against
an experienced Surrey team.
A strong and confident Cambridge
team wait in the next round; however,
Imperial will take some beating on cur-
rent match winning form.
Surrey left dead in
the water by IC
Jovan Nedić
Sports Editor
What a week it has been in sport, both
at college and worldwide. The six na-
tions kicked off this weekend and
things didn’t go exactly as planned.
Firstly Ireland were extremely disap-
pointingly, or Italy were extremely
impressive depending which way you
look at it. The Irish, and particularly
Eddie O’Sullivan, have been under
pressure as of lately to perform, and
even though they did beat Italy, the
performance was far from impressive.
England against Wales was meant
to be a nice easy start for England,
and this seemed to be the case in the
first half with England dominating in
every sense, even if replacements were
made earlier on that led to the debut
for Lesley ‘The Volcano’ Vainikolo. Yet
somehow in the second half they de-
cided to stoop to a level of rugby that
isn’t even seen at schoolboy level and
subsequently lost to Wales.
Sunday’s game was again a surprise,
after a fairly impressive performance
in the World Cup, Scotland were ex-
pected to perform well against a young
and relatively new French side who
had only been together for 4 days.
Although there were initial signs of
promise, the young French side were
worryingly good and are going to be a
serious threat in the competition.
Sunday also saw the 42nd Superbowl
in Arizona between the New England
Patriots and the New York Giants. The
Patriots were expected to win this,
having an unbeaten season till then,
but yet it seemed that the Giants just
wanted to win it more, and as such it
made for a very exciting 4th quarter.
In football, Fabio Capello has brought
insomenewrulestotheEnglandsquad,
hoping to bring more class and style to
the gentleman’s game. Rumour has it
that he has banned mobile phones and
wives/girlfriends before games and the
team is encouraged to use each others
surnames at dinner, to which everyone
is expected to attend. In his eye’s “It is
all about respecting each other and be-
ing punctual is key”.
Lewis Hamilton has been upset with
the Spanish at the pre-season testing at
the Circuit de Cataluña in Barcelona.
Some members of the Spanish crowd
had coloured their faces and put on t-
shirtswithHamilton’sfamilywrittenon
it, whilst others just booed and insulted
him. This recent abuse is believed to be
due to the rift that appeared between
Hamilton and his former Spanish team
mate Alonso during last season.
Meanwhile at college, the build up to
Varisty has begun, posters are appear-
ing all over college, with the event be-
ing billed as the ‘Big One’. The Medicals
have already had some wins over Im-
perial in netball and hockey, with the
same for Imperials hockey. The rugby
clubs had a mixed season so far, with
Imperial impressing and the Medicals
slowly finding their feet it promises
to be great match. The football club,
despite a poor season so far are fairly
confident, so much so that they may
put out their 2nds to play the medic
1sts again!
Varsity is definitely going to be a
great event this year and tickets can
be found on the union web site. Come
along, get your friends to come along
and enjoy the friendly rivalry that ex-
ists between the medics and IC.
You may have noticed that I’ve de-
cided to do a short of summary of the
weeks sport, and if anyone is interested
in submitting anything interesting
Spanish supporters at Barcelona
Same lot with writing on the back
DAVE
MURRAY
IC battles Saxons
How many England players does it take to bring down an IC one?
Six, apparently! See page 40

