Be the change you want to see
International Medical Corps UK
Communications Website/Graphic Design Intern
London
Salary negotiable
A fantastic opportunity has arisen to work for a renowned international organisation as a
Communications Website/Graphic Design Intern.
Background
International medical Corps UK is a global humanitarian organisation saving and
rebuilding lives through health care, training and community development. IMC UK
works along side IMC worldwide which over the past two decades, has responded to
humanitarian emergencies and communities afflicted by conflict, poverty and natural
disaster in more than 20 countries.
Scope of Work
The communications intern will report to the Communications Assistant and will work
with the communications team to build the profile of IMC UK by developing our current
website. Duties will include:
• Updating the IMC UK website on a regular basis
• The post holder will be responsible for supporting the communications assistant on
a range of communications activities including print, electronic and web-based media,
press and supporting the coordination of various outreach events
• Responsibility for any other administrative and general duties assigned to you by the
Communications Assistant
Requirements
• Graphic Design and IT Skills
• Knowledge of InDesign and/or QuarkXpress Dreamweaver
• Strong interest in the humanitarian sector and a willingness to learn
If you are interested in the role, contact Laurence Holmes. Telephone: 020
7553 4069 or email: lholmes@imcworldwide.org.uk
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
5
Friday 8 February 2008 felix
Comment
Cleaning the cover
I
’m foreign. As a consequence,
I don’t like Marmite, have lit-
tle patience for scatological in-
nuendo, and speak more than
one language. Despite this, I
think I’m adapting fairly well to the
customs of this sceptred isle. In one
thing, though, I continually display my
ignorance; and that is when it comes to
choosing newspapers.
Every country has its own wide selec-
tion of newspapers: those catering for
all colours of the political spectrum,
those dedicated to the entertainment-
seekers, and those designed for the
sports-mad. Yet few others countries
have the same national divisions along
paper lines. Here, you are judged im-
mediately by the sort of newspaper you
read. Choose a paper and your position
is carved in stone. You will be accepted
by fellow readers of that newspaper and
have your position ridiculed by every-
one else. In this country, the choice of
M
y rainy Tuesday
started with a rather
predictable head-
line “Malawi severs
links with Taiwan”
scrawled across the BBC website.
As some of you may be aware of the
problem across the Taiwanese strait,
it is not uncommon to see developing
countries switch recognition between
Taipei and Beijing. While this should
have been a proud honoured politi-
cal statement by Malawi to declare
their stance of political ideology akin
to UK standing behind US in inter-
national issues, Malawi’s moves have
now been reduced to mere squabbling
over which side they can squeeze more
financial gain out of. Rumours of the
Marshall Island following suit are also
being reported.
What really annoyed me wasn’t re-
ally the move, I respect people for
choosing their sides and in a harsh
world – yes – the abandoned side gets
hurt. But what really fucked me up was
the statement the Malawian officials
made a day before the announcement:
“Malawi had only recently denied it
had switched its allegiances from Tai-
pei to Beijing”. I mean, for goodness’
sake, have some guts and balls to say
you are going to do whatever you think
is right. Don’t go around telling people
you are one thing, and then backstab
them afterwards – stab them there and
then – make your word accountable.
How can any nation be of any integrity
if they go back on their word?
In some ways the US defiance of the
UN and invading Iraq is better: they’ve
got the guts to do so. No wonder some
nations stay small and insignificant.
In some ways I admire Chavez, Ah-
madinejad, and Juan Carlos for saying
what’s on their minds rather than some
politically correct shyte. Be direct,
state your point, and say the unsayable!
How satisfying was it when the King
reprimanded Chavez to shut up!
When will we hear the Fukuda tell
the Chinese to “just drop the past!”? Or
when could the Latvians tell the Rus-
sian to “sod off” about some statues?
Have some balls
Giramondo
Gilead Amit
Read between the headlines
print media defines the person.
My situation is further complicated
by the fact that I have not yet under-
stood these subtle distinctions. I still
don’t know which newspaper repre-
sents which position. Even more prob-
lematically, I’m not even sure which
position I hold, or would like to be
seen as holding. My knowledge is re-
ally very limited. When I walk into a
newsagents’ with a friend, which pa-
per do I pick up? This one has a fairly
conservative-looking typeface but uses
three exclamation marks in the head-
lines. That one has a heavily pixellated
picture of what I can only imagine is a
sinning celebrity; this one has a com-
pletely pixel-free version of the same
picture. Which one to choose? Is the
Guardian a good choice for a cynic
with little interest in sports and even
less interest in economics? Will the In-
dependent satiate my craving for celeb-
rity gossip? Can the Spectator rival the
Times on Sunday for theatre reviews?
Will the News of the World be proof-
read this week? Which paper should I
take? What to do?
The names stare at me from the rack.
The Guardian. The Times. The Daily
Telegraph, the Daily Mail, the Evening
Standard. I take a wild guess and as-
sume that the Star and the Sun are
not the most literary of choices. I have
also learned (the hard way) that Metro
and the London Paper are not for the
discerning newsreader, but that really
doesn’t narrow the field.
All I really know is that everyone
loves jumping on the Daily Mail – figu-
ratively and literally. I have no idea
myself, of course, but I think I may
get funny looks later on if I admit to
reading it. Better leave it. How about
the Times? Ah, now obviously I know
about the Times. This is the Rolls-
Royce of newspapers, even though it
has been reduced to tabloid format.
The intelligent man’s newspaper. Or
is it? Maybe it’s become too popular.
Maybe that’s the latest fashion and
I’m just jumping on the bandwagon. I
don’t like being a follower … I should
be a trendsetter. Choose a paper that
no-one ever reads, like the Observer.
Or the Financial Times – meaning-
less numbers, statistics, and symbols
backed by incomprehensible pseudo-
theory. I am studying physics, so it
should be right up my street.
What’s the fashionable man about
town reading this winter? Do I decide
based on font size? Number of pages?
Breast size of centrefold? Complexity
of crossword? Percentage of paper giv-
en over to the sports section? Number
of swear words in the headlines? Or
should I decide based on something as
pedestrian as price?
In all honesty, I can’t decide on a real
newspaper to read. I think I’ll just stick
to Felix.
W
hat's the opposite
of blind? No, not
20/20. The other
end of the spec-
trum, like when
Weirdos yank your eyeballs out, lick
them and suck them before squeezing
them (now lubricated, so it’s easy) back
into your eye sockets for you to see the
world through the eyes of a Weirdo.
Well, I feel like I have been Weirdo-d
by Photoshop.
Everywhere I look, Design gets there
first, fooling me with its trendy curves,
well-chosen font and minimalist col-
ours. Or its sexy, macro-shot, soft-lit
Chicken McHeartAttack. Or its com-
forting, wood-panelled homely feel re-
minding me of my days spent catching
butterflies and frolicking gaily through
my grandad's corn-field while he took
a midday siesta underneath the old ap-
ple tree. In Birmingham.
My Incredible Imperial Intellect (III)
deduced a long time ago that the real
world was in hiding. Every now and
then I think I get a glimpse of truth
only to realise that the girl is only
sobbing like that because EastEnders
taught her how Sadness Looks. It all
gets a bit vague. Once though, I saw a
sleeping tramp! But I was so mortified
at the Gritty Real World Drama that I
quickly graffitied his face with my my
biro, covering it in ironic dollars. How
terribly LOL. I took a photo and pho-
toshopped it just to be sure.
It seems we are wading through a
man-made veneer. There is so much
comment, image and reverse-neo-
post-modern-not-reallyness that get-
ting to golden nuggets of actual truth is
exhausting. By the way I'm a Muslim.
Stop. Wait.
I say it because even my beloved faith
has been coated with a cultural varnish.
One that needs to be stripped.
On the one hand we have the incred-
ible unifying effect of a common reli-
gious tongue and a consistent criterion
of belief. Stealing its glory is a forced
synonymity between Islam and the
arabesque (or pakiesque). I don't see
the Pope rolling around in sandpits or
sitting on radiators to celebrate the his-
toric land of Nazareth. Similarly there
is a cultural cage of sands and snakes,
camels and caravans, turbans and Tali-
ban that surrounds Islam in the mod-
ern psyche. It alienates me as a Muslim
too.
It does injustice to the universality of
Islam's message. Of course there is the
Sunnah, the importance and adherence
to the actions of the Prophet (pbuh)
as an example unto humanity, com-
ing with it things that are superficially
linked to Middle Eastern culture; but
for deep contentment there requires a
harmony between faith and one's envi-
ronmental and social framework.
What is the red pill? To unplug from
this alienating Matrix of media and im-
age to intellectual Terra Firma? Knowl-
edge. Proper, bookish facts. And fight-
ing fire with fire: a generation carving
a new niche in a new habitat.
And thus I come subtly to Islamic
Awareness Week. Some misguided
mistake put me in a position of respon-
sibility (and power*), and I am ecstatic
to see the rappers, the clean aesthetic,
the history of 'Islamic' invention and
the multitude of ethnic backgrounds
involved, as well as the decision not
to hire out snake charmers and camel
costumes. As aforementioned this is
partly fighting fire with fire, pitting
one bit of cultural flab with another,
but hopefully they'll fight it out (as flab
tends to) into neutralisation and get us
to see past the blubber to some kind of
truth beneath. One that we can all read
with untainted spectacles, and be that
little bit more wise for it.
*Uncle Ben/Huda
Islamic Awareness Week runs
from the 18th February with the
Exhibition in Sherfield Stairway
on the Monday and Thursday.
(Literally) Unmissable.
Omar Hafeez-Bore

