science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Science
Science Editor – Ed Henley
9
Friday 8 February 2008 felix
Hot science: Cold prevention at IC
E
arlier this month, a team of
scientists headed by Impe-
rial’s Professor Sebastian
Johnston announced in Na-
ture Medicine that they have
successfully infected mice with rhino-
viruses for the first time.
It had been previously thought that
these viruses, which cause about 75%
of common colds, could only infect hu-
mans and chimps. Professor Johnston,
from IC’s MRC/Asthma UK Centre in
Allergic Mechanisms of Asthma, says:
“Until now it has not been possible to
study rhinovirus infection in small ani-
mals. This has been a major obstacle to
developing new treatments and there
is currently no effective treatment for
rhinovirus infection.”
The reason for this “immunity” of
other animals to rhinoviruses is mainly
due to a binding molecule, found in
90% of rhinoviruses, called ICAM-1.
This is found on the surface of human
cells and it is this that the viruses use
as a receptor to bind to the cells. Other
smaller animals do not have this recep-
tor, and so as Professor Johnston says:
“the virus couldn’t infect the mouse cell
because the receptor (acting like a door
key) couldn’t get into the cell.” His team
modified the receptor in mice, allowing
the infection into the cells.
Over two weeks, the mice were then
studied for any symptoms and had
their lung fluid analysed for the pres-
ence of mucus proteins and interfer-
ons, cytokines and chemokines – pro-
teins produced by the immune system
in response to infections.
Whilst rhinoviruses are at worst an
inconvenience to most of the popula-
tion, they can have severe and even fa-
tal consequences for some. For asthma
sufferers like myself they can trigger
asthma attacks, pneumonia in people
with weakened immune systems, and
chronic bronchitis and emphysema.
The team combined exposure to
Sally Longstaff reports on how a team at Imperial is leading the way in tackling the common cold, by
infecting mice with rhinoviruses. Great news for asthma sufferers, but cold comfort for the sniffly mice...
the virus with an allergic reaction to
ovalbumin (found in egg white) and
observed that the mice showed simi-
lar symptoms to humans when asthma
is worsened by a viral infection. At
present the only preventative measure
for virally-induced asthma attacks is to
use steroids, only partially effective.
As the mice responded similarly to
humans, this leads to hopes that they
I’ll warn you at the outset that this is
rather a navel-gazing article, as the
topic for today’s story has been cho-
sen for somewhat ulterior motives. I’ll
reveal those motives at the end, when
it’s time for some editorialising. In the
meantime, it’s high time for an expla-
nation: how could the ionosphere and
the 2004 tsunami possibly be linked?
On the face of it, it is hard to see how
one might affect the other. The 2004
tsunami (triggered by a magnitude ~9.2
earthquake off the coast of Sumatra on
the 26th of December) powerful as it
may have been, occurred at sea level.
The ionosphere, an electrically con-
ductive layer of the atmosphere (the
highest one, in fact) lies far above, be-
tween 85-600 km altitude. And though
it forms the upper edge of the atmos-
phere, potentially linking it to events
lower down, it is also the lower edge
of the magnetosphere – the
bubble-like region
which Earth’s mag-
netic field carves
out of the solar
wind, a flow of
plasma stream-
ing outwards past
us from the sun. The
ionophere’s location and
conductive nature means that
changes in the solar wind and magnet-
osphere, such as those associated with
aurorae, can have significant effects on
the ionosphere.
Another main cause of change in
the ionosphere is also due to the sun:
radiation. The ionosphere is electri-
cally conducting because radiation at
frequencies from UV and above ion-
ises the neutral atoms, leaving a cloud
of ions and electrons. Though these
attract each other, and so should po-
tentially recombine, the atmosphere at
ionospheric altitudes is so tenuous that
this cloud of charged particles can per-
sist for long times, as a plasma, provid-
ing the generation mechanism – the
sun – is visible, offsetting any losses
due to recombination. At night, when
the sun has no effect, the number of
charged particles decreases greatly.
Some of you may have had practical
experience of this, if you listen to long-
wave radio stations: the signals bounce
off the ionosphere, at an altitude where
the number of free electrons floating
around causes that layer to become
opaque to radio waves, and act like a
mirror instead. As this altitude
changes over the course of a
day, it affects the range of
radio signals: a higher
layer means signals
from further away
can be picked up.
However, iono-
spheric changes are
also due to atmospheric ef-
fects, which may in turn be due to
changes all the way down at the sur-
face. And it’s this type of mechanism
which American researchers publish-
ing in the Journal of Geophysical Re-
search a few weeks ago think might
explain their observations. They were
using the Arecibo radio dish on Puerto
Rico to probe the ionosphere around
the time of the tsunami, and found that
abut 25 hours after that event, an unex-
pected rise and fall in one ionospheric
layer occurred. Unusual, because it oc-
curred at night, and when there was
little magnetospheric activity, immedi-
ately ruling out two of the above caus-
es for ionospheric changes. Nor did it
look like this was due to waves caused
by a storm – there were none nearby at
the time. Instead, Lee et al. suggest that
the tsunami waves on the ocean caused
associated gravity waves (nothing to do
with space-time: these are waves due
to fluid parcels being displaced into
regions of different density – gravity
or buoyancy acts as a restoring force,
causing oscillation about an equiib-
rium) in the atmosphere. The effects of
these gravity waves leaked into the ion-
osphere, causing the variations seen at
Arecibo, and also by various GPS satel-
lites, which are sensitive to the electron
content of the ionosphere.
What has this got to do with the
Science and Technologies Facilities
Council (STFC), the body which funds
astronomical, space science and parti-
cle physics research in the UK? Keen
readers of science news amongst you
may have spotted that the STFC is
going through a funding crisis at the
moment – there’s an £80 million hole
in its budget, which threatens swinge-
ing cuts in many areas. Notably in the
could provide models of rhinovirus in-
fection, whch the researchers conclude
could be useful when investigating
treatments for both the common cold
and asthma. These findings could also
develop further, aiding research into
other conditions, including chronic
obstructive pulmonary disease.
The research was funded by the
Medical Research Council, Asthma UK
and GlaxoSmithKline. Sir Leszek Bory-
siewicz, chief executive of the Medical
Research Council, said: “This impor-
tant and fundamental discovery will
enable us to understand the effects rhi-
noviruses and common colds have on
our health. It will open up new paths
to finding treatments which have been
delayed for many years and provides
us with the opportunities for further
breakthroughs in the future.”
This experiment is of great interest
to the scientific community, and many
newspapers and other publications
have lauded this as a “breakthrough”.
Mice are often used as models of dis-
ease and to test treatments. Because
previously the rhinovirus was only able
to infect higher primates, this made
research difficult. By finding a way to
infect mice, this study represents a very
significant step forward.
However, animal models of human
disease are a very early step and it may
take many years for new treatments to
become available. A significant obtacle,
amongst other problems, is that viruses
have many different strains; developing
a treatment that will cure every cold
will be nigh on impossible.
It is also important to consider the
risks of overprescribing medication.
The common cold, as mentioned, is
a mere irritant to most of the popula-
tion, and only dangerous to a few. The
widespread use of medications to treat
common colds may lead to the devel-
opment of resistant strains – potential-
ly threatening to the most susceptible.
Dishy: the Arecibo radio telescope is really rather a looker
The 2004 tsunami, the ionosphere, Arecibo and the STFC: all connected?
research area which the above study
belongs to: STFC has said it will “cease
all support for ground-based solar-ter-
restrial physics facilities”. This is where
I need to confess something: I might
not be entirely objective here, as my
research area involves looking at part
of the magnetospheric system. My area
does not directly look quite so threat-
ened, yet for various personal reasons,
I see the loss of UK solar-terrestrial
physics ground facilities as a blow.
You see, the UK is really rather good
at solar terrestrial physics, and puts its
facilities to good use. I almost went to
do my Ph.D. at Leicester, a particularly
strong institute currently under threat,
as I was attracted to their way of view-
ing the complicated interactions from
the solar wind all the way down to the
atmosphere as one cohesive system,
which needs to be treated as such to be
understood. The above study is a nice
example of energy transfer between
regions covered by different funding
councils: the STFC above, and the
Natural Environment Research Coun-
cil below. At a time when we recognise
the need to understand the processes
affecting climate, surely it is foolish to
squander world-class expertise in an
area interacting with climatic science,
merely because the funding councils
define a remit boundary at a particular
altitude, a boundary which is flouted in
at least this case, and likely in others?
SNIFFLEZ
SNIFFLEZ
I CAN HAS TISHOOZ?
I CAN HAS TISHOOZ?
Edmund Henley

