10 Clubs and Societies
Imperial College Alumni Association Malaysia
Celebration Dinner for the participants of the Hibiscus Evening 1993 held by the Malaysian Society
Currently the second largest overseas student
group, Malaysian students have had a long
history with Imperial College, perhaps for more
than half a century. A rough estimate will put the
number of graduates from this institution at
between 600 and 1200. Trends show that the
figure will rise in the years to come.
Degree courses in the British universities are
traditionally renowned for their depth and
rigour, so much so in the case of Imperial
College. Obtaining a degree from this pres-
tigious university is just a beginning. The
graduates of Imperial College will bear a similar
outlook and share common identities. They will
appreciate the values, friendship, environment
and educational training they received.
Over the years, Malaysian Imperial College
graduates have been striving to set up an alumni
association. Their efforts have seen a measure of
success with the formation of the Imperial
College Alumni Association Malaysia (ICAAM)
and its pro-tem board, headed by Datuk F.S.
Lau.
The advantages of having an alumni are
multi-fold. The most fundamental and important
of all is that it helps to strengthen the
relationship amongst graduates. By organising
events like reunions, graduation ceremonies and
dinners, as well as the publication of regular
magazines, I C A A M will be able to overcome the
geographical distances and provide an effective
linkage. It will also foster the exchange of ideas
and information among the members.
In addition, I C A A M can assist the graduate
in job-seeking, or by providing discretionary
grants and employment advice though their
various trusts and wide ranging contacts within
industry. More routinely, I C A A M will provide
information and assist any potential students
who are intending to study in Imperial College.
Working in parallel withe the Malaysian
Society, orientation days and talks could be held.
Also, as a learned society, it will inevitably
contribute towards the achievement of
excellence in the profession though the activity
of its membership. Indeed, it will find itself
concerned with issues that have a direct bearing
or consequence on the professional community
as a whole.
The benefits of the alumni are not restricted
to its member alone. Imperial College will also
see the fruit as they will be gaining valuable
recognition in the eyes of the Malaysian public,
thereby increasing the number of potential
students (for example, two current Government
Ministers of Singapore were from Imperial
College).
In this country, the Government support for
higher education has been on the decline.
Coupled by the tight spending brought by the
current downturn in economy and the ever
fiercer competition among the universities for
students and staff, many universities have been
led to re-assert the worthiness of their old boys.
For instance, the 1992 Annual Fund,
managed by the Imperial College Trust,
managed to raise £98,000 for the College. This
goes to show that the alumni can play an
important role in helping the A l m a Matar
achieve its goals.
Imperial College has long been a beacon for
advanced study to the Malaysian students. As in
many parts of the world, an Imperial College
degree commands a great deal of respect; the
graduates find themselves identified with the
respected community within the larger fabric the
society.
We believe that the trip of the Rector, Sir
Ronald Oxburgh, to the Far East this week,
aiming primarily at strengthening the alumni
relations in the region, augurs well for the
inception of I C A A M , which is awaiting the
approval from the Registrar of Organisations in
Malaysia.
The Imperial College Malaysian Society will be
holding an Annual General Meeting on 'The
Inauguration of the ICAAM Subcommittee' at
2pm, LT 220 Mech. Eng., on Wednesday 8th
December 1993
Rock Around The Clock
Anyone near the walkway at 6pm on Saturday
was in for a shock - forty unkempt, wild-eyed
figures lurched out of the JCR and vanished into
the night. Was Michael Jackson re-shooting the
Thriller video in Imperial College? Or perhaps
the Imperial College Voodoo Club was having
its first meeting! (...And are they RCC or SCC?)
These zombie-like figures were actually the
survivors of a 24-hour sponsored dance in aid of
the BBC's Children In Need Appeal. Last year
the Dance Club raised over £900 for the Sesame
Institute; this year we have returned to our usual
charity and hope to beat that total.
It all started very quietly at 6pm on Friday
with a dozen of the die-hards who would dance
for all 24 hours. B y 8pm (elegantly late as
usual), we were up to about 30 and were soon
joined by contingents from Cambridge and U L U
clubs. We had thrown the event open to all;
some danced for a few hours, others much more.
We'd kidnapped the Cambridge minibus in the
car park, so they stayed until the end.
We had hoped to put on a series of work-
shops to break up the hours. Unfortunately, the
'flu had decimated our trainers. Instead, we
resorted to silliness. At 3am, we started a Disney
hour, with highlights from The Jungle Book,
The Little Mermaid and Aladdin (Prince A l i is a
quickstep). In exchange for showing us some
old-time dancing, we taught Cambridge some
1920s Lindy Hop and the Stroll (a close approx-
imation to dancing whilst asleep).
The survivors of the graveyard shift of
4.10am were joined by the Dance Team for their
regular Saturday morning practice. Under strict
orders not to show off their routines in front of
Cambridge, they still managed to look horrify-
ingly energetic (at least those who hadn't been
up all night).
By mid-afternoon, we were being re-joined
by those who had danced until the early hours,
then retired to bed. There were over 40 of us for
the final dance...not the Last Waltz, but Rock
Around The Clock. (Yes, it's corny, but we
couldn't find a copy of I Could Have Danced All
Night)
Thanks to all who took part and their sponsors.
A new recording of Lady Macbeth is reviewed on page 16

