Reviews 11
Russian Salad
by Julia Watson
Moscow in 1986 sees the beginning of Mikhail
Gorbachev's new regime. This is a stimulating
time for people like George Mason, Russian
correspondent for a British newspaper. For his
wife, on the other hand, the main concern is to
cope with life's everyday problems: beetroot
may be very nice but you soon get fed up with it
if you have it seven days a week.
Russian Salad is about the life of the Masons
amongst the foreign community in Glasnost
Moscow. Everyone learns to live with the
restrictions; even the Diplomat's shop does not
sell onions. They also adjust to being under
surveillance from the KGB. Some take it light-
heartedly and start requesting light bulbs from
the 'walls', others learn to argue by writing!
The first half of the book lacks any story,
making it an unexciting read. However, when
something major finally happens, it and the
consequences make the book more interesting.
This is definitely not an action book, but if
you can make it through the first half and all the
shopping trips it's worth reading.
JD
Price: £5.99
Published by: Bantam
The Light Fantastic (The
Graphic Novel)
by Terry Pratchett
How many adaptations are better than the
original? Not many, that's for sure, and this isn't
about to buck the trend. Not that it's particularly
bad or anything, you just can't help comparing it
unfavourably with Pratchett's original. And let's
be honest, only fans of the discworld books are
likely to buy this.
For those who joined the programme late,
The Light Fantastic was the second book in the
seemingly never-ending Discworld series and
featured the adventures of the hapless wizard,
Rincewind, and the even more hapless
Twoflower.
Most of the plot is there (and, more
importantly, most of the jokes), but it's
inevitable that some of your favourite bits will
have been missed, especially since Pratchett's
humour isn't visual - a problem when trying to
translate it into comic form! For example, it's all
very well describing the 'expression' the
Luggage has, but how do you draw the damn
thing? The art is beautifully painted, but doesn't
succeed in grabbing your attention.
i V,OQfV «!'••?£ Off SGM£TH/rVG.
| \ OR \ U v 3 E TWE.VKTE JUST KEEN,
The bottom line, I guess, is I can't see anyone
enjoying this much unless they'd read the
original.
Joe
Price: £7.99
Published by: Corgi
ICDS PRESENTS
The Ideal Husb What a^e you
doing on ,
lSaturda%
% 5th
February?

