14 Reviews
Starring: Angelica Huston, Raul Julia,
Christopher Lloyd, Joan Cusack,
Carol Kane.
Director: Barry Sonnenfeld
From the opening credits onwards, the film
looks great. With the high quality of both the
sets and the direction, you are forced to suspend
your belief in what is normal and find yourself
willingly entering the world of the family
Addams. I always found the cult T V series
mediocre and preferred instead the blunt
humour of the Munsters. But this, the second
Addams Family movie has lost nothing in the
transition to the big screen and has indeed
gained greatly in status.
There's a new member to the Addams, the
baby Pubert, arriving amongst the opening
credits. The kids are jealous, the uncle's lonely,
the hand is rollerskating. A nanny is hired, uncle
falls for nanny (who's after uncle's money),
kids realise the nanny's only after their uncle's
money, nanny gets kids packed off to summer-
camp...and so the stage is set for one of the
funniest movies I've (we've) seen all year. The
plot is split in two, with one part centring on the
nanny and uncle and the other part on the kids at
summercamp.
Definitely a film for all ages; fun for the kids
but with enough subtle one liners (often so
subtle that I was one of the only people in the
cinema laughing) to set it above the slapstick
Home Alone set. Thankfully, the baby Pubert
was not given a larger part, otherwise it would
They 're really rather spooky and utterly quite kooky - The Addams Family and their Values
be in danger of stealing the show. From the
moment that he is born with slicked black hair,
pallid Addams complexion and that cute little
Addams moustache, up to when he is recovering
with a hangover (still in cot, but with shades on)
from a wild party, you can't help but like him.
The person that does steal the show must be
the daughter, Wednesday. Placing her and
Pugsley (their son) in an o.t.t. summercamp was
a scriptwriter genius. Camp Chippewa is hell on
Earth for the pair, full of the offspring of class-
conscious yuppies with the two leaders being
soooo cheery and friendly as to make you puke.
What makes the camp complete, though, is
the Harmony Hut where naughty children are
sent to make them nice. With its nice friendly
atmosphere (Michael Jackson posters on the
walls), the children are sent here to watch
Disney videos, and such horrors as The Sound
of Music, The Brady Bunch and Annie! As I
said - Hell on Earth.
The problem with sending something up so
much as to go completely over the top, is that
you often lose the humour (Mike C. take note).
This, however, holds on to it with skill and style
and makes for an hilarious finale.
With great performances and a pacing so
steady and smooth, the ending arrives all too
quickly. Perhaps the only down point is the
character of Uncle Fester (Christopher Lloyd).
Between us we didn't think his costume was as
naturally realistic as that of others and that his
mannerisms weren't quite right for the
character. Having these things niggling
throughout the film doesn't help, especially
when it is one of the central characters of the
film, but it takes nothing away from the film
itself. With neither of us having seen the first
film, we can't tell you i f this was better or
worse, but we definitely enjoyed it immensely.
Bonnie & Clyde
Silent Tongue
As you might expect from the writer of Paris,
Texas, the new movie from American play-
wright Sam Shepard is both slow and low on
plot, despite probably uniquely, being a Western
Ghost story.
Talbot Roe (River Phoenix) is mad with grief
at the death of his half-native Indian wife, Ebon.
He obsessively holds onto her body, refusing to
let her memory go.
Unable to escape his manacle grasp, her
spirit cannot rest and so her ghost returns
angrily to haunt him and generally cause havoc.
River Phoenix, in his final film, acquits
himself well and with his highly acclaimed
performance in My Own Private Idaho gives an
indication of how he perhaps desired to
undertake more challenging roles.
Alan Bates gives a bold performance as the
comic Eamonn McCree, a travelling showman
peddling patent medicines.
The film exploits our notions of primitive
native mysticism in an attempt to bolster the
traditionally simplistic Western. However, the
fine performances are unable to raise this film
above the hum-drum level of a tired genre.
John
Child's Play
This is a German film examining a thirteen year
old boy's disillusionment with life.
Embarking on the path towards adulthood
has already been focused upon and many cliches
can be found in the film, which does have some
good moment. The characters, too, are
completely stereotypical and therefore
somewhat uninteresting. This comment applies
to males, females, children and adults.
The film captures the ill effects of life in a
far-from-ideal family and environment, but not
quite well enough to make it worth seeing.
Amir Rehman Khan
ICSF are showing Predator and Predator II. See page 5 for de

