16 Reviews
SiIB m
" .... ' •':
Lady Macbeth (a new recording)
It was 1936, Leningrad opera-goers were
flocking to Lady Macbeth of Mtsensk, and the
young Dmitri Shostakovich seemed to have
managed the delicate balancing act of writing an
original masterpiece which pleased both the
public and the Communist Party ideologists.
But, as David Fanning points out in his essay on
the opera, successful satire is in the eye of the
beholder and one scene, the Pirates of
Penzanski-sVyXt caricature of an ostensibly
Czarist police sergeant, was too close to the
bone for Stalin.
The opera sank almost without trace and has
only recently begun to regain its initial
popularity, despite the composer's attempts to
restore the work to grace with his bowdlerised
rewrite of 1963. (In the revised version, although
she still poisons her father-in-law and strangles
her husband, the eponymous Katerina Ismailova
no longer goes so far as to commit adultery.
There's family values for you.)
Thankfully both available recordings are of
the original version. Mstislav Rostropovich's
1979 E M I set is good, but Myung-Whun
Chung's new Deutsche Grammophon (DG)
recording is preferable. While Rostropovich and
the London Philharmonic Orchestra (LPO) can,
where necessary, command an abrasive edge
The Tales Of
Beatrix Potter
Ballet Imperial was created by George
Balanchine in 1941 to the music of
Tchaikovsky's Piano Concerto No 2 and has
been in the Royal Ballet's repertory since 1950.
Although exquisite, the dancing did not have the
synchronised precision expected by this
demanding viewer. This revival of the 1950s'
version, as I was told by an elderly ballet
connoisseur who was seeing the mixed
programme for the third time this season, would
have done Balanchine proud (in terms of the
costumes and interpretation, at least).
If the first part of the evening dragged, Tales
of Beatrix Potter was as delightful as anticipated
- a pure and unashamed love for Peter Rabbit,
Squirrel Nutkin, Jemima Puddle Duck and
Pigling Bland kindled in childhood of coutse
helps. The costumes are sheer magic, the cast
very brave to pirouette elegantly in costumes
very hot to dance in and barely possible to see
out of. The mice in assorted sizes are endearing,
with their tails coiled and tucked neatly to one
side. The exceptions to this are the incorrigible
Tom Thumb and Hunca Munca who revel in
which eludes Chung; their somewhat dry,
immediate sound cannot match the warmth,
depth and dynamic range D G give the Orchestra
of the Bastille Opera. And Chung brings more
suppleness to the many passages of rich
sensuality that fill the score - music described as
'pornophony' by one contemporary commen-
tator. The situation is similar as far as the title
role is concerned: Maria Ewing for D G is
warmer and more flexible, while EMI's Galina
Vishnevskaya is steelier.
Chung is sometimes too smooth though: as
depicted by the L P O for Rostropovich, the
horrible Boris Timofeyevich seems to clump on
in hob-nailed boots whereas, for Chung, he
might as well be gliding on in a tutu for all the
notice the first bassoon takes of the phrasing.
DG's Boris, Aage Haugland, deserves a better
introduction than this; he is outstanding among a
fine cast whose acting has surely benefited from
the run of stage performances which preceded
the recording.
Of the two sets, it's Chung and his singers
who have the full measure of the crucial scene,
grotesque and also eerily beautiful, in which
Boris forces Katerina to swear fidelity to her
departing husband (disc 1, track 3).
Rostropovich is better in the black comedy of
being naughty.
Another famous tale of a tail is of course that
of Squirrel Nutkin dancing up and down like a
sunbeam whose impertinent riddles try the
patience of even Old Brown, the owl. The ample
Aunt Pettitoes tearfully sends two of her fine
piglets Pigling Bland and Alexander to market,
whereupon the dashing Pigling Bland stumbles
upon Pig Wig, a sweet shy Black Berkshire Pig.
The romance struck amidst some beautiful piggy
Shostakovich in his twenties
Act III; more relaxed than Chung in the police
station scene, tipsier in the wedding festivities.
Here, incidentally, E M I are generous with their
sound effects, which include breaking glass as
the toasts are drunk. Elsewhere, such as in the
hypnotic first meeting between Katerina and
Sergei, her lover-to-be, it's Chung who
generates greater atmosphere.
Patrick Wood
Tonight in the Great Hall, ICSO play
Shostakovich's awesome Fifth Symphony, his
response to official criticism o/Lady Macbeth.
ballet results in a wedding even Beatrix Potter
didn't envisage!
A superb ballet for children and (I rather
suspect) adults who have never quite grown out
of the tales of Beatrix Potter's world. Highly
recommended.
Rekha Nayak
At the Royal Opera House, Covent Garden,
WC2. (071) 240 1911. Tube: Covent Garden
Until 8th January. Tickets from £2 (upper slips).
Those incorrigable mice, Tom Thumb and Hunca Munca, get up to all kinds of mischief.
Don't forget: The Sports Questionnaire has a prize draw

