Reviews 17
Tflnmm
The Mayflies
A parody of the Greek myths, The Mayflies was
first performed in this year's Edinburgh Festival
and is the comic story of the consequences of
divine (and modern) intervention in the city of
Maeflos in the 8th Century BC.
Zeus, the supreme deity, aided by his loyal
servant Death unleashes his wrath on mortals to
punish them for accepting fire, stolen from
Heaven by the Titan, Prometheus. Zeus
sentences mankind to die at sunset like mayflies
who live only from dawn to dusk after indulging
in an orgy of procreation. The trouble (of
course) begins when Zeus orders the creation of
Woman in the mould of Aphrodite, the goddess
of Love, to be unleashed on errant mortals.
An excellent and very strong cast of three
play the dozen or so parts of gods, heroes,
villains and ordinary mortals, male and female.
Aphrodite, played by Kate Terrence, was at
times the queen of vamp and at others, a bored,
spoilt teenager. Julian Protheroe played a rather
guileless Hector, lover of Phoebe. Particularly
enjoyable was Priestess Hermione, also played
by Kate Terrence, desperately looking for a fall
from grace before sunset.
The versatile costumes designed by John
O'Callaghan who works with Vivienne West-
wood are both comic and effective. Hector's
costume of chainmail, presumably worn in the
Trojan War, seemed to be made from silver
lurex and Aphrodite's cape was what can only
be described as the colour of lust.
Don't look too deeply for a moral; the play is
more an exercise in style which is, by the way,
very enjoyable. Written in the form of 'poetry'
in the Homeric style and mixed with modern day
colloquialisms, there were curious and humorous
shades of Margaret Thatcher in Aphrodite and
Del Boy of Only Fools And Horses, in Zeus. It
did take the audience the whole of the short first
act to become accustomed to the style. A much
longer second act gave us time to enjoy it.
The play seemed to fall short on one
important point: omitting the underlying message,
essential to good satire. Abuse of power and the
existence of suffering may be just another
manifestation of the futility of existence, but this
does not sustain a credo. One could possibly
equate the activities of the gods with those lesser
gods, politicians, but that would somehow
encumber the enjoyment of this essentially light-
hearted play. It's just good fun, more in the style
of a Carry On film.
Rekha Nayak and Ariana Sen
Attic Theatre, The Ballroom, 103 The
Broadway, Wimbledon, SW19. 081 542 6141.
Tube: Wimbledon. Cones £4, £5. (Membership
£1).
Strip
Strip is a play that deals with extremes of
experience; and regrettably it's extremely
tedious. Jo (Fionna Padfield) and Gunter (Archie
Koffgaard) gradually reveal their respective
perversions: he has a penchant for sado-
masochism, she gets of on stripping. If this
sounds promising, read on...
It turns out (after some time) that a desire to
dominate is Jo's reaction to an inferiority
complex and she finds nakedness on stage a
powerful expression of it. She revels in the
control of her body and, through that, the control
of her spectators. Gunter, however, is cool and
analytical throughout; he yearns release from the
control of his mind and the rationality which
tempers his existence.
The playwright (also Fionna Padfield) is
advocating exploration of one's perversions; and
rather simplistically she isn't held back by any
complications of real life, for example, the real
changes inherent in all this (especially for
women). But that's not really the issue here; the
point is that the sado-masochism which is the
emotional climax of the play, in fulfilling the
character's desires of domination and sub-
mission respectively, ultimately liberates them
from their obsessions; a process of purification.
An old proverb says 'One showing is worth
one hundred tellings', or ' A picture is worth a
thousand words'. It's a shame that most of the
plot is narrated in long tiring monologues rather
than acted out. A l l speech is directed at the
audience, rather than between Jo and Gunter.
Call it subtlety underplayed if you like, it's
like watered down Berkoff and would work
better on radio. Go and see Mike McShane in the
main theatre instead.
Mike
Lyric Studio, Lyric Theatre, Hammersmith, W6.
081 741 8701. Tube: Hammersmith. Cones: £5
(lhr before performance starts).
An article about the Malaysian Alumni Association is on page 10

