Feature 19
"All You Know Is What You See..."
So says Juliana Hatfield in 7 Got No Idols' and Owain reluctantly concurs.
How does a dreamy shoegazer meet his stars?
We roared here in a rocket fuelled on
speculation, liquid anticipation, burning our
seconds above the Cambridge snow. A thirty
minute touchdown on the surface of another's
reality. And I don't mean she's a goddess and I
don't mean I'm an undiscovered marvel - I'm
just trying to make friends. Tintin has a different
philosophy and we expound and pound each
other in the pub next door for hours after. But
first the interview.
Juliana Hatfield, ex Blake Baby, ex her own
woman ('Hey Babe' her sole solo outing), now a
third of the much praised and purchased Juliana
Hatfield three. 'Become What You Are', their
debut album, is like an expanding bubble of
bubblegum pop; bright, light and deceptively
sweet. Listen harder and find the saccharine, the
additives, the aftertaste. Cryptic? Juliana is as
she seems, but not as you might see her.
We are talking in a vault high above the
rafters of the Cambridge Corn Exchange. She
appears bored, shy, interested, restless and
exhausted all at once and fidgets and slams her
boots near our tape recorder too often for
comfort. Listening later, the mic has picked up
other-roomly sounds; footsteps outside, cars
passing, the Posies in the massive hall below.
But it can't record the glances, the angle of her
head, the shape and timbre of a person's tone.
Just the way she says the usually thrown away
phrase T don't know', as if caught in a Faustian
moment of indecision. I'm won before we start.
And she's lost. I pass her a Felix to sample.
"Let's see if there's anything about me in here,"
she smiles and flicks through to a Lemonheads
review wherein I describe her backing vocals as
'squeaky' and 'girlie'. I blurt out something
about meaning the way she just pops up on the
tracks being intrusive and even beneath her, but
she insists it was Belinda Carlisle and rather than
argue we move swiftly on. H o w ' s the tour
going? "Good, yeah, I got sick as soon as I got
to England." The start is aimless; we have to talk
a while before she begins to open up. Tintin asks
if it's hard singing such personal songs.
"Nah, because they're not real songs. I made
them up." She pauses. "It's really a compliment
that you believed them...sucker!" So it's more in
the tradition of old transportable lyrics? "Err,
yeah. If I kept a diary, I wouldn't want anyone to
read it. That's why I don't have a diary. I don't
want people to know how I think. So I'm not
going to put my diary in my songs you know?"
She continues, "I like music because it's in
the air. I like music because no-one can take it
away from me - I could write it down but I
don't, it's in my head. If my house burnt down
or the world blew up I'd still have my songs."
Years ago Miss Hatfield belonged to an
audacious band of child prodigies, Blake Babies,
described recently by N M E as one of their
greatest ever oversights. Juliana is non-plussed
about the release of a Blake Babies compilation.
"Well, I don't really care about it, it wasn't
my idea. I dunno, I guess they're trying to capi-
talise on it."
Juliana, am I doing you justice? This wasn't
an interview, it was three unheard soliloquies.
Maybe you were just bored.
Tintin blunders in with a quote from the press
describing her as fermented from 'illicit beer,
chocolate and Biactol' - the girl next door (with
pimples.) "What?" she exclaims. It's not his
own phrase he blusters back. "Oh." If she gets
this involved in a conversation with two no good
studes, is it any wonder she's rebuffed the studs,
or is described as difficult, tortured, a bit mad?
"Was she nice?" my little sister asks later.
Look Rhian, she's a human being - am I nice?
People are not drawn on flat paper...
"It's not my fault if people try to paint me as
a cartoon character. I don't put a lot of effort
into my image." She pauses, breathes in, slams
her boot down. "I'm just trying to come across as
a complete person, like anyone would." But the
press don't like their copy standard A4. She says
they're jealous, basically, "of people having fun
making music. They put so much passion and
hate into writing about bands and who's going to
be the next big thing and it's like, who cares?
It's really not that important."
She says she doesn't read the press so she
doesn't care how they colour her. But isn't that
part of her game? If she sings songs that aren't
real then she's fair target for their fantasies?
"We'l, I've real feelings and stuff but I just
discard them," she objects. "It's not like I'm
some cold-blooded writer." A l l this press talk
was irrelevant, she really is above it, or sideways
removed from it. And that's why she's precious,
because she's just living her life like you, me or
Joe sixteen. We go back to serious music talk.
"Yeah, I gave up the solo stuff because it was
just too much hassle to audition people. Plus, I
don't trust myself to do the right thing."
The title 'Become What You Are' was stolen
from a book she reveals with a blush. No, the
fact that the other band members only appear on
far distant plains in the group photos doesn't
come from her. And no, she doesn't listen to or
even like her own music much. I mention a
rather bitchy comment I read which disallowed
her from sadness because she was rich and
attractive. Her reply is slow and thoughtful; the
weight of the room is on her shoulders.
"I can't help the way I look or that I wasn't
living in poverty," a long pause, "ever...I suffer,
just in different ways to some other people.
Everybody suffers." The way she says this, so
honest I know I won't be able to relate this back
in London, that they'll think me overblown or
blown over. I let slip the dreaded name of Evan
Dando and our noble pact is broken.
"Evan," she corrects. " A h , Evan, like in
Heaven!" I say and mention his comment that it
would be better to mess up with drugs then make
another ten Lemonheads albums.
"Ahhh," she giggles. "Well, I don't think
they've made a bad album yet." (Of course she's
going to be biased, being an old head.) The
conversation gets rolling and informal and it
almost doesn't matter that both me and Tintin
are here (a mistake, we decide later. Impolite,
possibly rude.) We plug our favourite new bands
and collide spectacularly with a mutual love of
Madder Rose. Hmmm, N M E claimed they stole
all their best ideas from Blake Babies.
"That's a bunch of bullshit - they don't sound
a thing like the Blake Babies. I read that and I
was like 'What the Hell?' We toured with them
and they're really cool." We talk about fans.
"You'd be surprised. Some people follow
bands around the whole country. Wackos." Then
later, "I didn't really mean wackos." Can't she
let anything go?
We tell her of our visions of rescuing her
from a Cambridge scrum of admirers and syco-
phants but she insists she's never recognised. In
order to raise her profile Tintin suggests a quick
photo.
"Oh, I don't want to," she says, recoiling into
her chair. "Okay, okay," says Tintin soothingly.
We worry about our rock star and she's just
human, worries about what people might think
of her, what you might read. There's no twist in
that uncertainty. We end and say our farewells.
It all went wrong.
I don't want to be a journalist.
"I was born of people's needs and what they don't wanna believe"

