20 Reviews
Radial Spangle,
Idaho
Powerhaus
For those stranded in the spiritual wasteland,
Idaho are the V a l i u m for your tortured mind.
Vocally related to RHP's Mark Kozelek, Jeffs
voice emotes but with depth beyond belief. Its
pain stretches and soars, drives valleys through
mountains of stone-cold rock and leaves the
earth quaking in its wake. And yet, it still
manages to leave a glimmer of hope to even the
barrenest of deserts. Lost souls, listen carefully,
Idaho have spoken.
And they aren't just a case of self-pi tying,
muddled geniuses deepening their sociopathic
stances and thriving on moping misanthropy.
Sure, they have lived life, but the essence here is
that they're looking for a way out. But anywhere
will not do. Somewhere special, perhaps.
Somewhere special...
With tinsel wrapped around their mic-stands,
Radial Spangle loll around with a goofy
Christmas spirit. That's all anyone needs in
November. Not unlike Mercury Rev, they sculpt
seemingly impossible shapes in solid space and
frankly defy logic. It's this absurdity I like, but
for reasons best known to herself, Shannon
looks flustered. Poor girl.
Camille
Idaho get laid back and spaced out in the wilderness which is the Powerhaus.
ill111
111JlMJIll
Sidi Bou Said
Brooooch
Throwing Muses comparisons still dog their
tracks, but the only real similarity lies in the self
assuredness of their debut offering. The album
bristles with musical invention, recalling even
the mighty Pixies at times, as it veers from
nursery rhyme spookiness to guitar frenzy.
Their political stance is not evident in the lyrics
but half of the album's cover is given over to the
Women's Environmental Network, an organ-
isation presently targeting the environmental
threat from the disposal of sanitary towels. This
down-to-earth attitude has attracted the attention
of Chumbawanba and the end of 1993 finds
them supporting the agit-pop superheroes at the
Brixton fridge. Be there ! (8)
Ridley Dash
Released on Ultimate
The Orb
Live '93
Releasing a live album is simply not good
enough for a band like The Orb. They exist to
push back our musical boundaries, not to sit
back and play safe. So how come they get away
with it? It's not simply a hard copy of an Orb
gig, more of an instrumental voyage, taking in
performances at Tokyo, Copenhagen, and
Glastonbury, revisiting and reworking tracks
from their back catalogue.
Excellent sound quality does not allow the
crowds to intrude into the worlds they create as
they transform and blend everything under the
sun into their own musical heaven. Full marks
seem inevitable, except for the sneaking
suspicion that they could be doing this one just
for the money. (9)
Ridley Dash
Released on Island
Dread Zone
360 Degrees
'360 Degrees' comes across as a fairly com-
mercial sounding record and certainly it has it
moments. The Moricone inspired 'The Good,
The Bad And The Dread' is quite interesting,
but ubiquitous and dissimilar are the words that
come to mind, and from a wordless tiny mind
such as mine, that could very well be an insult.
Dread Zone, it would appear, are all former
members of Big Audio Dynamite, which means
very little to me outside of the fact that one of
them was married to Patsy Kensit instead of me.
On that sour note, this one receives a yawning
thumbs down, and an all expenses paid trip to
the Gulag of boring parties. (4)
Glyph
Released on Creation
Kingmaker
To Hell With
Humdrum
Well it's not crap, but only just not crap. One
side of Radio 1 sessions and one side of new
studio songs does not an album make. However,
Kingmaker haven't made a good record for at
least two years now and some schools of
thought would have you believe that even that
one was dreadful. The problem is that they had
to stop being good upon the arrival of Suede, in
favour of being 'interesting' (a peculiar niche
occupied by people like the Trash Can Sinatras).
Oh who cares anyway? Go and read a book
instead. Broaden you minds as opposed to lining
the pockets of this little matriarch. (6)
Glyph
Released on Scorch
1
13
Slowdive
SEP
This new EP takes Slowdive in the direction that
they were inevitably heading for. 'In Mind'
almost strips them of their traditional guitars,
replaced with a sparse electronic atmosphere to
which Rachel Goswell offers her usual distant
vocals. 'Country Rain' is a pretty good finale,
and I didn't even mention the word ambience.
Yuen'
Released on Creation
Who is Juliana Hatfield? You can find out on page 19

