Union / Puzzle Page 21
Reform? Not on your life.
At long last, the Government have announced their intended reforms for
student unions. Do you want to know what will happen to your club or
society? Read on....
Reform?
The Government have long resolved to 'reform'
student unions. Their aim is to make them more
accountable, to stop any mismanagement that
may exist and above all to give students a
greater choice in whatever collective involve-
ment they wish. Sounds good, doesn't it? But
how are they going to go about it?
You may have known that the Government
wanted to make certain activities open to all
students. These are 'core' activities and they can
be funded using public funds. Currently all of
our Union's activities are funded by public
funds.
As for the rest, they are 'non-core'? This
would be on a 'voluntary opt-in basis', to coin
John Patten's phrase. You want to take part in a
non-core activity? Then you pay your own way.
That may seems fair to some, but what is a
legitimate 'core' activity?
To put it simply, core activities break down
into four main areas:
• Sport
• Welfare
• Internal Representation
• Catering
If your club, your society or any student
activity doesn't fit into one of these areas, then
not a penny of public funds could be spent on
that group, no matter how worthwhile it may be.
If your activity does fit into one of these areas,
then you should expect less money. Why?
Implementing these reforms means bureaucracy,
which means time and time means money. That
means less money for the residual 'core' clubs.
The Reform Bill is going before the House of
Lords. In it, the Secretary of State asks the Lords
to allow him to choose, at a later date, what he
considers to be legitimate student activity. It
isn't even described in the Bill what will be
legitimate to fund and what activities will not be.
What can we do?
Write. Write to your M P here at college and at
home. Tell your M P what you think of the Bill,
how it could ruin you club, ask him to question
the Minister and to report back to you. By now,
the Union will have started its campaign to
inform Members of Parliment of the value of
student unions. If we all write to our MPs then
we can change this Bill for the better. Listen for
details at your club meetings, in your department
and in your hall of residence. At the same time,
our Union officers are contacting M P s ,
ministers, local council members, business
leaders, anyone and everyone who can help us to
keep all of our clubs, teams, societies.
For further information, contact Andrew
Wensley on extension 3501.
Elimination by Sphinx
Eliminate two words from the right hand columns for each clue on the left.
Which is the word left over?
a. Become angry at this temperature ? 1. Key 22. Libra
b. Two words with Union 2. Out 23. Peach
c. Leaving ticket 3. Red 24. Point
d. Two star signs 4. Bean 25. World
e. Angry nation on the run ? 5. Bear 26. Breast
f. Two homonyms 6. Belt 27. Cancer
g- 1/1 to 31/12 7. Card 28. Random
h. Unannounced examination of skin condition ? 8. Draw 29. Safety
i. Two synonyms 9. Fool 30. Stores
j- To unlock life support ? 10. Jack 31. Stroke
k. Pooh sees it! 11. Lots 32. Boiling
1. Two anagrams 12. Fall 33. Country
m. Nuclear argument 13. Spot 34. Showers
n. Two going with runner 14. Year 35. Student
o. It should keep you in your seat 15. Chain 36. Whirled
P- Two with April 16. Cheap 37. Witness
q- What a gambling artist does ? 17. Check 38. Calendar
r. Petting in the swimming pool ! 18. Cross 39. Skeleton
s. Two linked with spirit 19. Early 40. Surgical
t. Group of bondage shops ? 20. Front 41. Premature
21. Level
The answers to last week's crossword are over the page

