Letters 23
Union Building Lift Is Vertically
Challenging
Bent Review
Dear Felix,
On 26th November you published what
purported to be a 'review' of Martin Sherman's
important play 'Bent'. As the play ended on
November 28th, it did not give those 'with some
interest in the subject matter' much time to see
it, especially observant Jews such as myself who
are unable to attend the theatre Friday
afternoons and Saturdays.
Adrian Thurston the reviewer accuses 'the
eternal Jewish intellectuals' of hijacking the
holocaust, which was, he informs us, 'the
persecution of political prisoners, criminals and
gays'.
I have never heard of any Jew deny that
communists, gypsies, homosexuals and others
were persecuted in the holocaust. Martin
Sherman, the author of this play, focusing in on
persecution of homosexuals, is himself Jewish.
Maintaining that the 'butt of Nazi hate was
not the Jews', and that there were 'certain
privileges and luxuries only allowed to Jews', is
the sort of revisionism practiced by 'historians'
such as Irving, who is rumoured to have once
said that "the holocaust never happened, and it's
a shame Hitler didn't finish the bloody yids
off.
I have never heard of any concentration
camp survivor talk about the luxuries of the
camps, nor have I read any account, first hand
or otherwise that described the death camps in
those terms.
Now the only reason any Jew has in stopping
the world from forgetting that the Holocaust
happened is to prevent a reoccurence; -
something which does not seem so unlikely
when observing the anti-Turk activity in
Germany, and the disgraceful treatment of
Bosnian Moslems in former Yugoslavia.
If people submit offensive and ignorant racist
articles, which you feel are worthy of
publication, could you please print them in a
separate column, as I would rather skip them out
and just read the normally excellent reviews.
Yours sincerely,
Michael Factor, Materials IV.
It's The Pits!
Dear Felix,
The Editors of PIT would like to express
their support for Beccy, at a time when many
people are signing petitions condemning her.
Whilst Felix has been tediously boring this year,
people should remember that Beccy is the
Editor not the writer.
If you want an interesting read start
submitting interesting articles or shove it up
your pode hole (sic).
Lots of love,
Ed and Gareth.
P.S. PIT Christmas Special out two weeks
today (3rd December).
Dear Beccy,
I have never been particularly good friends
with the Union lift. It never invited me to any of
its birthday parties, and always refused to buy a
round in Da Vinci's. But it's gone too far this
time. I'm not sure what I've said to it, but it has
a distinct grudge against me. Two weeks ago, it
pretended it had amnesia, and couldn't
remember which floor was which. The only one
it could get right was the ground floor, where I
always get in anyway. I don't really like walking
up three flights of stairs to STOIC from the first
floor, especially when I know the lift is quietly
following me up, laughing to itself in the safety
of its shaft.
This in itself was not too bad, until I found
the lift had a real grudge against me. Three times
in the last two weeks, it has found it necessary to
do my bidding and take me down to the ground
floor, but then to refuse to open the doors. I
wasn't too pleased, as you may imagine. No
amount of cajoling, stroking, hitting random
buttons, breaking down in tears, and many other
tricks of the lift user's trade would budge the
doors. So I tried something I'd never done
before whilst sober. I pressed the alarm button.
Some hope. Five minutes later I was still inside,
becoming seriously late for my tutorial or
something. Then, out of the blue, our user-
Dear Beccy,
It is estimated that at least 40 million people
will be affected by Aids at the end of this
century. Aids effects everyone, so it's important
that we mark World Aids Day. This year we had
stalls, a fire eater, benefit disco and article in
Felix.
On behalf of ourselves and Paula Collens we
would like to thank everyone who helped during
the day to organise the events: Ian and all the
bar staff for their hardwork and support and for
donating the barrel of beer; Yvonne and the
catering staff for their help and donating 5p
from every drink sold in Da Vinci's; the Union
staff, especially Michelle, Ali, Sam and Charlie
for manning the stalls; the Fire Eater for
freezing in Beit Quad; the Ents kiddies for the
benefit gig; and last but not least each student
who wore their red ribbon and contributed to the
day.
With your help we're sending a large
donation to the Terrence Higgins Trust to help
in the battle against Aids.
Thanks to everyone.
We love you all!
Nicky Fox, ICU Welfare Officer.
Min Kavlak, Union Adviser.
friendly (not) lift decided to wring some blood
out of its heart of stone. It deposited me on the
first floor, leaving me to walk down the last
flight of stairs. But when I reached the bottom,
even more of a surprise met my eyes. Security
officers peering into the lift doors, Union staff
shouting in to find the person who rang the
alarm, firemen with cutting gear forcing the
doors open...You'd never have noticed they
were missing. Nothing there. Not a sausage. I'm
not counting the chuckling coming from the
shaft as the lift shot up to the top floor for its
next victim.
Surely someone must have noticed the alarm
being raised...Surely someone in the Union
Office must have taken some notice of me when
I told them the lift had trapped me each time it
happened. Surely something should be done
about it?? Mind you it did take them two weeks
to mend the door so it could tell when it was
about to rip your arm off as it closed and went
up. Will it take a death, from arm-ripoffitis or
claustrophobics trapped in there for days on end
without food, water or clean undies?? Or will
someone finally take notice of this lift trying to
tell people how ill it is and how it needs early
retirement so badly??
Bryan Crotaz, EE2.
A fire eater outside the Union Building marking
World Aids Day last Wednesday.
Photo: Simon Govier
Aids Day - A Success for ICU
The deadline for letters is 6pm on Monday

