Clubs and Societies
A Weekend in the Life of Climbers and Cavers
If only everything in life was as reliable as an
Imperial College Union van. One van, hired
externally, had no cassette player and would
only tune to Tom Jones on Radio Wales F M
outside of London. But the journey was made
exciting by a brief encounter with a kamikaze
rabbit on an icy 1 in 5.
While hardened mountaineers opted for a
night outside, the cavers punished themselves by
sleeping communally in the hut's married
quarters.
Although we didn't reach the crag until
midday, we climbed several worthwhile routes
on sandstone until it got dark. The alpine 'neck'
belay and super-solo were techniques most of us
opted not to try. Others went down local caves
and got thoroughly immersed.
A beery evening started with lots of wild
plans for routes on Sunday and ended in confes
sions in the married quarters, lots of heavy
breathing and other noises.
The climbers were up bright and early, had a
full breakfast and were outside in the falling
snow push starting the van up a Himalayan
mountain before the rest started stirring. We
drove to the coast where it was decided not to
climb immediately with ropes due to risk of
avalanche and drowning at the bottom of an
abseil. Instead, wicked bouldering problems
were tackled at the beach, we ate pots of jam and
cream at the tea shop and went to inspect further
along the cliffs (where we found about three
bolted routes just as it was time to be heading
back). A little rough driving (on purpose) and
some navigation of sorts got us back in time to
make a first ascent of the economy pork sausage
mountain before the caving party emerged.
We travelled back to the sounds of Bob
Dillan and the Jam. Oh, for Heaven's sake! A
ticket to ride in the other van please!
ICMC's traditional final trip of term will be
to Bosigran in Cornwall. There is excellent
climbing to be done just below the hut at this
awesome winter resort. Anyone who'd like to go
should sign up on the MC's notice board (by the
climbing wall next to the JCR).
IMPERIAL COLLEGE MALAYSIAN SOCIETY
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
To Discuss THE INAUGURATION OF
IMPERIAL COLLEGE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION
MALAYSIA SUBCOMMITTEE
CRUCIAL FOR A L L
MEMBERS TO ATTEND
TIME: 2.00PM
VENUE: 220 LT MECHANICAL ENGINEERING
DATE: WEDNESDAY, 8TH DECEMBER 1993
ENQUIRIES: H. M. KHO (071) 373 6 8 7 3

