Clubs and Societies 5
They Made
Beautiful
Music Together
We would like you all to share in a little known
activity that has been going on all term. Un-
beknown to most of the college, small groups of
people have been getting together in any small
room they can find, to make beautiful music
together.
Now, we would like to invite the rest of
college to witness the results. This is not an
invitation to a show that would put Soho to
shame, but to hear an hour of chamber music
expertly performed at our concert. This will take
place in the Read Lecture Theatre at 8.15pm on
Tuesday 7th December. Works performed will
include the Pachelbel Canon, and pieces by
CBE Bach, Mozart and many, many others.
Admission will be free for members and
£1.50 for everyone else. Tickets are available
from K i m Dyos (see below). For £3 you can
join on the night and gain free admission to
further concerts and master-classes during the
year, or play in a group if you feel like taking a
more active role.
If there is anyone who would like to play in a
group next term who has not yet joined, please
contact Kim Dyos, Materials P G (EM group) to
register your enthusiasm. We will do our best to
arrange the type of group you want to play in.
Hope to see plenty of supporters at the
concert on Tuesday.
ICSF is dead chuffed to announce the start of its
video showings in Chem Eng LT1. These are no
ordinary video showings; they're projected onto
a whopper screen (so no, it's not just a bunch of
anoraks grouped round a portable TV).
The first double bill is on Monday 6th
December at 6pm in Chem Eng LT1. Predator
is more stylish than most monster
movies with ace visuals and bad one
liners from Arnie Schwarzenegger.
The story concerns a covert
rescue team sent on a mission which
involves more than they know.
They discover a trail of brutal
flayings deep in the south American
jungle. Tension is built up by
director McTiernan's skillful use of
thermal-imaging point of view shots
as the Predator stalks the com-
mandos and picks them off in
various interesting ways. Fun, tense
and a chance to see Arnie in his
Predator and
Predator II
natural habitat.
The sequel is a more blatant actioneer,
quoting heavily from Robocop and Aliens, but is
hugely enjoyable and gives Danny Glover a
chance to shine outside his Lethal Weapon
buddy cop sidekick role.
The Predator comes to Los Angeles for a
spree of violence {He's in town with a few days
to kill) adding to the going carnage caused by
King Willy and his voodoo posse. Watch out for
a pretty damn scary subway chase and ultra-
violet tracking of the Predator in a warehouse in
particular. A very entertaining mix of two genres
(buddy cop and monster movie). It's a fun film.
Both films are free to ICSF members with
membership costing £3 including free entry to
one of our 35mm presentations (watch out for
The Exorcist at the end of term) and access to
our library in the corner of Beit Quad with its
300 books and videos.
Japanese Endurance, Dating Games, Karaoke...
... What More Could You Want?
After a lot of persuasion from our members,
Japan Society is going to have a Bonenkai End
of Year Party on Saturday 4th December from
7pm ' t i l late. But it ain't gonna be just an
average party, it's gonna be mega. So I want all
you coooool dudes out there, and the rest, to be
there.
It's going to have events for everybody.
Naturally, as we are meant to show off our
culture, we're gonna have the very traditional
'Endurance' game! This will be based on the
highly infamous gameshow which was serialised
on Clive James On TV. For those of you who
don't know what it is, you don't know what
you've missed. Ask anybody who's watched it.
They'll all tell you how funny and excellent it is.
Of course, to hold this event we need
'volunteers'. They will get free drinks and food
and there's gonna be a big, big prize. The more
contestants there are, the more willing we are to
put up the prize. For those who are interested,
please either turn up early to the party or contact
one of the committee members. (N.B. It isn't
going to be at all harmful and is going to be a lot
of fun for both contestants and spectators.)
But this isn't the only event. We're also
going to be holding a Japanese dating game.
This was held last year and was extremely
successful. Basically, it's a good opportunity to
meet members of the other sex and possibly the
girl/guy of your dreams. But, be warned, some
of the committee members have been known to
dress up as the opposite sex, especially our
President. (Actually, he would be very beautiful
if he was born a girl but, alas, he was born a
guy.) Anybody who turns up can join in and it
really is a good opportunity/excuse to talk to
other people at the party. More details about
how it actually works will be at the door.
Of course, this end of year party will not be a
Japanese event without the infamous Karaoke.
This is a wonderful chance for those who are
talented/brave/drunk/stupid enough to sing to
their hearts content. A warning, though. If you
see our President approaching the microphone,
either tackle him or run for your lives.
There will also be a disco which will end this
wonderful night allowing you to show off your
wonderful moves and groove on down or just
watch our committee members make complete
dick-heads out of themselves.
And how much is this all going to be, I hear
you ask? Only £1 for Japan Society Members or
£1.50 for non-members. Excellent offer, I hear
you cry. And it's promising to be an excellent
event to end this term. For more details just
contact one of committee members or look at
our notice board (No. 56) which is just opposite
the Union Bookshop.
Make sure you show up to the party on
Saturday (tomorrow)!
Find details about a Cultural Extravaganza on page 9

