6 Clubs and Societies
Trailer Time
at the
ICU Cinema
Due to a distinct lack of films this week, we
thought we'd trail some of the FilmSoc screen-
ings during the last week of term.
Kicking off the week is the blockbusting
feature with Harrison Ford as The Fugitive.
Ford stars as the wrongly convicted Richard
Kimble and Tommy Lee Jones is US Marshal
Sam Gerrard, his relentless pursuer in this tense
suspense thriller based on the hit T V series of
the '60s.
Moving swiftly onwards, Filmsoc is pleased
to re-screen the first ever film to be shown at the
ICU Cinema. Michael Douglas is the extremely
tense motorist 'D-FENS' (after his personalised
license plate). Have you ever had the feeling
that everything is going wrong for you? Your
marriage? Sex life? Money? Job? Michael
Douglas experiences this ten times greater than
you in the film Falling Down (18) presented in
wall to wall, ceiling to floor Cinemascope.
Later in the week, we all get a chance to see
the gorgeous Sharon Stone in the bath in Sliver,
The ever chunky, hunky William Baldwin is the
love interest. You all like to watch, don't you?!
Look out for the Filmsoc posters for times
and dates and details of our special price movie-
binger tickets. Advance ticket sales available
from ICU Union office (9pm - 5pm) otherwise
box office opens 15 minutes before start of
screenings and closes 30 minutes after the
advertised performance time.
Next week: details of the other movies in our
end-of-term movie mania: The Firm, True
Romance, Monty Python's Life Of Brian and
(gasp of breath, hang on it's) Stallone in
Cliffhanger]
Sports Results
Gangsters and Custard Pies
Rugby:
IC lsts 21 •
IC2nds 15
21
13
Charing Cross
Charing Cross
Splurge guns, sarspiralla, chorus girls and catchy
chorus'! Yes, instead of waiting for the annual
Christmas re-run of Bugsy Malone on BBC2,
why not sample the new in-the-flesh production
about to hit the boards over at St Mary's? Watch
medical students dress up as children dressing
up as gangsters! Oh, the irony of it all!
A plot summary. Dandy Dan's on to a sure
thing with his new deadly weapon - the
splurge gun. With this in hand he marches
towards the empire of Fat Sam, who runs the
Grand Slam Speakeasy. Fat Sam tries to resist
but he's an old fashioned guy and his antique
custard pies are woefully inadequate. So he
calls on tough-dude-with-a-heart-of-gold,
Bugsy Malone. Bugsy however is more
interested in a young starlet, name of Blousey
Brown. He saves Sam from a frame up but
then Sam discovers his gang is on the rails,
worse, down and out for the count. 'Bugsy,'
he pleads, 'you gotta help me'. B u g s y ' s
supposed to be going with Blousey to
Hollywood, what'll change his mind? About
400 smackers...then the gooey pandemonium
breaks out.
The production stars A v a K w o n g as
Blousey Brown, Jim Coward as Leroy, Toby
Shepard as Fizzy, Simon Walton as the fat
man at the top, Fat Sam and Rob Hughes as
affable hero Bugsy Malone.
Production of the m u s i c a l has swept
diagnosing illnesses and exams under the
operating tables for a while, with over a fifth
of the medical school being involved in some
way. A great night out is promised. So get out
your glad rags and catch the performance! Or
who knows, maybe the cast will find a more
sinister use for that splurge gun!
The Great Egg Race
Chess:
ICII 5'/2-2'/2 U L U I
IC II 4 - 4 Kingshead IV
Somewhere near to you, in the last two weeks of
term, the Great Egg Race is hitting the college
scene. If you believe you could be the next
designer of a widget or the fuggelbinder then
come along and test your designing skills.
There are six departmental heats when you
will be designing something to save a stranded
egg from the clutches of the evil Baron
Schlumbog using paper, string, little bits of
sellotape and any other bits and bobs we can
find. You will need four or five people to enter
as a team, just sign your names on the posters in
your Departments. The date of the heats are as
follows:
Aero Eng Monday 6th December
Chem Eng Tuesday 7th December
DoC Wednesday 8th December
Elec Eng Thursday 9th December
Mech Eng Monday 13th December
Civ Eng Tuesday 14th December
A l l the heats will start at 6.30pm and will
finish around 8pm. Anyone is welcome to come
along to spot which members of your
department have the best brains for the job and
to see who will make it to the final.
The final is on Thursday 16th December in
the Mech Eng foyer. There will be one team
from each department; again everyone is invited
to come along to watch and cheer on your team.
The final will have a much harder problem to
attempt to solve and this time you will be let
loose on various power tools.
We have got some celebrities coming along
to judge the final: Sir Hugh Ford, patriarch of
the Motor Club, and Tomorrow's World marvel,
Bob Symes. There will be a certain amount of
food and drink around, but get there early as this
will not last. The final starts at 6.30pm and the
Egg Race Masters of the Year should be
announced at around 9.30pm.
If you think you can solve any problem that
you may be given, enter a team. Sign up in your
department and make sure you turn up for the
heat. No-one knows, maybe you have got what it
takes to become Egg Race Masters 1993!
Rugby lsts Rugby znds
I.C. lst X V 21 - 21 Charing X
Imperial College were unlucky not to beat a
reasonably strong Charing Cross side in this
'friendly' match. Imperial College scored
through three well-worked tries by A . Sell, A .
Montgomery and the referee. To avoid being
biased, the referee scored for the opposition too!
I.C. 2nd X V IS -13 Charing X
Revenge after last year's disappointing defeat
was taken on Charing X by IC 2nds. After a
sluggish start, forwards and backs began to get
together and a try just before half-time by Henry
Middleton put us in front. Another try just after
the break by Lee Jefferson stretched the lead and
set up a frantic finish with Charing X piling on
the pressure with only solid defense keeping
them at bay. Eventually, however, the IC line
was breached, putting Charing X 13 -12 up with
only minutes to go. A last gasp attack by us led
to a difficult penalty which was slotted over by
the golden boot of Middleton to give IC a
deserved win.
Bugsy Malone is being performed from 6th to 10thDecember

