Clubs and Societies 9
Shankarabaranam - A Cultural Extravaganza
The International Tamil Society w i l l be
presenting Shankarabaranam as one of its main
cultural events on Saturday 11th December
1993. A feast of young, talented artistes are
waiting to make this performance a great success
and to capture the hearts of the audience.
A variety of entertainment will be provided
including a traditional Veena recital, Karnatic
vocal, Bharathanatyam (dance) and pop music,
Tamil style!
Veena is an ancient, divine stringed instru-
ment well known for its captivating and peaceful
melody. It consists of four main strings which
are plucked to produce music and three side
strings which provide the Thala (beats). Featured
will be the London Veena Group on six veenas,
accompanied by the Miruthangam, Moresing,
and Ghatam.
Karnatic classical music is an ancient, south
Indian music originated from Karnataka - a state
in India. It involves the interaction of the voice
with other stringed and percussion instruments
such as violin, miruthangam and ghatam.
A vital accompaniment to all Karnatic music
is the miruthangam. It is a percussion instrument
made of a wooden trunk and two leather heads.
It is held across the lap and played in a
horizontal position.
The moresing consists a flexible iron strip
called the tongue which is fixed on to a ring. The
cavity of the mouth acts as a resonator when the
curled end of the tongue is plugged. Despite the
fact that it is difficult to play, it produces a
delightful and pleasing effect when played
alongside the miruthangam. The ghatam is a
mud pot used to provide rhythmic accompani-
ment and is an ancient time-keeping instrument.
Bharatha Natyam (translated as dance of
India) is the purest and oldest form of Indian
classical dance. It is a very attractive dance
depicting postures of sculptures and art forms
which can be seen on the walls of Hindu
temples. The dancer dances to the Nattuvangam
(beats) which coordinate with the Sathankai
Natham (rhythm of the bells) which he or she
wears on the feet. The overall beauty of the
dance lies in the blending of the Bhava
(expressions), Raga (music) and Thala (rhythm)
in harmony and communicating to the audience
feelings and emotions of the dancer.
The show will conclude with Tamil pop
music. This is an item where east meets west.
Many eastern and western instruments will
combine provide a great climax to the evening.
This is the first major cultural event to be
held by the newly formed International Tamil
Society and we hope to gain a lot of
encouragement and support to make this event a
great success!
Touche Away!
On Saturday 13th November the Fencing team
went to Reading University to compete for the
U A U South Central title. The other participating
universities were Thames Valley, Reading,
R H B N C , Kingston and Portsmouth. Our foil
team were Jeffrey Wong, T i m Wynn and
Poomjai Nacaskul. The epee team were Jeffrey
Wong, Tim Wynn and Chris Ince. Finally, our
sabre team were Shafik Saba, Chris Ince and
Sean Jauss.
Imperial College won this division by a solid
margin, allowing us to compete in next month's
South championships. The results were:
Event vs Reading vs R H B N C vs Th. Valley
Foil 5-4 8-1 6-3
Epee 3-6 4-5 4-5
Sabre 6-3 4-5 6-3
The total number of victories were compiled to
determine the winners: Imperial - 47; Thames
Valley - 40; Reading - 39; RHBNC - 36.
(Kingston and Portsmouth did not show up
for some very important and secretive reason!)
Thanks to all the team members for a great
effort arid loads of enthusiasm. Special mention
goes to Shafik Saba for an exceptional perfor-
mance and for coming on such short notice; Tim
Wynn for a great performance and for driving
most of us to Reading and back; Jeffrey Wong
joining the team at the last moment; Poomjai for
his exciting fencing; Chris for being Captain of
this miscellaneous group and finally myself for
writing this silly article which is little more than
an advertisement for the club!
The South division title is on 8th December
and we will try to win it with equal fervour.
Boat Club Results
On Saturday 27th November, Imperial College
took part in the National Indoor Rowing
Championship at Bracknell, Berkshire.
Deciding to concentrate on the new team
event rather than individual glory, the squad of
twelve dominated the event with an average
time over 2500 metres from the top rowers of
7mins 51 sees, which demolished the opposition,
including Under-23 World Champions from the
University of London Boat Club and the
Reading University Boat Club.
A stunning individual time of 7mins 42secs
from newcomer Alistair Middleton, second only
to Olympic Champion Matthew Pinsent, was the
highlight of a great team performance that netted
the club the prize of a £700 brand new Concept
II Ergometer rowing machine.
Volleyball
IC 3 - 2 City
The Imperial College Volleyball Club travelled
to City University on Wednesday evening for
their first U A U game of the year. City, who had
beaten Brunei last week 3 - 0 , had an impressive
line up consisting of National Division players
and an International England player.
The warm-up started with some intimidation
from City's England player. Balls he had
casually hit over the 2.44m net bounced around
our feet and into the ceiling.
We won the first set 15 - 12. Joel Ikoal got
his customary yellow card when he questioned
one of the referee's decisions. The second and
third sets were lost by us, despite the valiant
attempts of Robert Stravens at drawing the
opposition block on his many dummy runs.
We entered the fourth set doubtful of
winning. However, some incredible hard hitting
by Peter Desing and Joel easily outshone City's
international and won us the set 15 - 3.
The fifth set was the best one we played. The
winner of this set would win the game. Good
blocking by Shervin Badamshi and Sebastian
Fanlan, of City's international (not bad,
considering some two to three feet height
difference between him and us), caused him to
lose his nerve, hitting balls out. This allowed
Peter and Joel to attack, slamming ball after ball
into the ground. This set also saw good play by
Piotr Stancyzk. We won that set 15 - 9 putting
us into the next U A U round.
Fancy playing the Japanese 'Endurance' game? See page 5

