f l 0 4 l
19 June 2002
Issue 1240
The Student Newspaper for Imperial College
http://www.union.ic.ac.uk/felix/
Molko: looks a bit like Alex
and sounds a bit like Moloko.
Like Clockwork. (Page 27)
It's a tick. For our
questionnaire.
Obviously... (Page 13)
Summer Ball Success
This year's Summer Ball has been hailed
as a success, despite concerns that insuf-
ficient tickets were sold to enable the
event to break even, in spite of the large
donation given by the Rector to enable the
event to go ahead.
While much effort had gone into making
sure that the evening would run smoothly,
less attention was paid to its advertising,
meaning that while those who went to
the Ball enjoyed themselves thoroughly,
the Union may find a funding shortfall
which it may have difficulty in absorbing,
particularly after the big losses of previ-
ous years.
A lack of cash had threatened to cancel
the Ball earlier this year, but it was revived
after the College agreed to donate £20,000
to underwrite what it sees as "an impor-
tant part of College life." While it was
thought that this year's Ball finances
would once again place its future in jeop-
ardy, last week's meeting of Union Council
was assured that the event will take place
in 2003, possibly with a similar donation
from College as was received this year.
JTQ rockin' da joint.,
The night's entertainment was provid-
ed by Cornershop, Mos Eisley and the
James Taylor Quartet on the main stage,
while the ICU Big Band, and Jazz and
Rock societies played to appreciative
audiences in the Main Dining Hall. Dance
music was provided upstairs by, amongst
others, Mark Home, the Scratch Perverts
and Timmi Magic.
Less than a week after the Queen's
Golden Jubilee celebrations had lit up the
night sky of central London, the residents
of South Kensington were treated to
another impressive fireworks display,
which was launched from the roof of the
Sherfield building at the stroke of mid-
night, and considered to not have been far
short of the Buckingham Palace offering.
The feel-good nature of the event was
marred however by a group of students
who saw fit to steal confectionery, bis-
cuits and other items from the Senior
Common Room, also unsuccessfully
attempting to steal some of the alcohol on
offer later in the evening. College Security
have made it known that they have clear,
colour C C T V footage of the men and
women involved in these incidents, and
strongly advise them to make themselves
known to Security. Otherwise, the images
will be released to Imperial's publications
- including Felix - with a request for any-
one with knowledge of those identified to
contact College Security to assist in the
investigation into the thefts.
John S
REFERENCE
29 Issues, 5 Writers, 100 000 Words,
5C I n
Long Year For Felix News.
This Year's News In Brief
Imperial College and
Science Museum Libraries
29 Issues, 5 Writers, 100 000 Words,
5C I n
Long Year For Felix News.
This Year's News In Brief

