music reviews
Mmmmmmmmusic. Great. It's been fun,
but after 29 issues, (well, 28 really, after
last week's 4-page spectacular) it's time
to relinquish my automatic right to pock-
et any CD that finds its way into the Felix
office. I'm off to take over as manager of
our fantastic student radio station, to
which I'm sure you are already a regular
listener, and to do some general writing
and editing stuff for this wonderful pub-
lication. I'm pleased to announce that
Sajini Wijetilleka is brave/stupid enough
to be taking over from me next year.
Without my talented, dedicated team
of reviewers, there would, I think, be two
possibilities: either I would spend my
entire life in the West basement of Beit
Quad, slowly forgetting what natural
light really looks like, or there would sim-
ply be no music pages. So, thanks to the
following people for all their hard work in
writing reviews:
Patrick, Alex, Jess, Sajini, Derek,
Oscar, Chris, Ben, Toby G, Libby,
Robert, Tom X, Jamie, Francois, Tank,
Warul, Robin, Toby B, Kunal, Marcus,
Nick, Koram, Tommy Mack, Tom B,
Russ, Alexis, Jon, Jeannette, Tom R,
Rob, Vic, Komal, Leyla, Bharat, Jo,
Johnny, Dominic, Linus, Ken, Daniel,
Elena and, last but by no means least,
Raoul Duke and Dr Gonzo.
Dave
DJ SHADOW COMPETITION
Thanks to everyone who entered our
recent D J Shadow competition.
Congratulations to the following
people, each of whom wins an exclu-
sive D J Shadow mix CD:
Chris Bates (Maths II)
Robin Clark (Medicine IV)
Hannah Johnson (Bio. Sci. PG)
Chris Pollock (Physics I)
Becky Wilson (Bio. Sci. PG)
Layo & Bushwacka
Night Works
Out Monday 1 July on XL recordings
These two first began working together
in the mid-nineties, when drum 'n' bass
was taking over the hardcore scene and
the new tech-house and breakbeat styles
were emerging from the clubs. Both from
London, they began to play together
more often and released an album on
End recordings called Low Life.
Since then, they've got bigger and big-
ger, mixing together techno, electro and,
in their words, "proper tunes". They have
even been known to turn down the
opportunity to play at a club unless
offered a full five-hour set to showcase
their talents.
On their second album Night Works,
Layo and Bushwacka broaden their hori-
zons with more diverse tunes and sam-
ples. It begins with an intro called Vinyl
and then bursts into Ladies And
Gentlemen, a tune in a similar style to the
music of D J Shadow.
The album drifts on brilliantly to We
Met Last Night, a chilling yet brilliant
electro tune, using brilliant samples and
a good bass line to make you stand up
and listen. Sleepy Language, as the title
suggests, lulls you into a relaxed state of
consciousness with its fading electronic
noises.
Eventually, we reach their anthem
Love Story, previously known as For The
Fans, which was renamed by their fans in
Argentina who sit down rather than
dance through the track as a mark of
respect for its majesty.
Thought of by some as the most eager-
ly anticipated dance album of the year,
Night Works is definitely a must for those
into dance. Have it!
Gary Numan
Exposure
Out now on Universal records
Whilst most music stars have a fall from
grace taking in drink, drugs, "artistic dif-
ferences" and perhaps even an untimely
death, Gary Numan uniquely made an
appearance on it's A Celebrity Knockout
as part of his downward trajectory.
But that was the lowest point in his
career, and it really is cruel of me to men-
tion it. However, the release of Armand
van Helden's Koochy, The Sugababes'
Freak Like Me and the Basement Jaxx's
Where's your Head At?, all of which sam-
pled his work, have helped bring Gary
Numan back into the public conscious-
ness.
If, for any reason, you place Numan in
the "eighties relic" bracket, then now
would be a good time to reshape your
opinions. It is no secret that he has influ-
enced artists as diverse as Afrika
Bambaataa, Marilyn Manson and a
whole shipload of DJs. He is a pioneer of
electronic music. Whilst Kraftwerk may
have given synthesised sounds a brain, it
was Numan who gave them spirit.
Listening to tracks such as Are
'Friends' Electric?, Cars and M.E., it's
easy to see that a million and one bands
have pilfered samples from Numan's
work. Through the album, we get to hear
how the infective electro-pop sound of
Cars has developed into his dark, atmos-
pheric and brooding recent work, such as
M y Jesus.
Ultimately, with this album, you get to
be a sightseer visiting Gary Numan's
work - you check out the salient tracks
without having to bother with the sur-
roundings. For the uninitiated, this is an
ideal introduction to his music.
ID Toby B Patrick

