reviews music
Cee-Lo
Cee-Lo Green...
Out now on Arista records
[Full title: Cee-Lo Green And His Perfect
Imperfections]
It just goes to show that you can never
judge an album by its cover - Cee-Lo
looks nothing less than a five-star hip-
hop fool on the front of his debut album,
with his flowing locks and top hat.
A n d you can never judge an artist by
his lyrics. A preliminary glance at the
inlay yielded such gems as "Let me be,
set me free, free, super chicken". Indeed,
nor should you judge an artist by the first
tune on his album - Bad Mutha sounds
totally silly, and about as "bad" as an
episode of Jackanory. Because, bizarrely,
it does get better.
Cee-Lo was once a coveted rapper
with Outkast, but has since gone solo,
peddling a much more chilled brand of
hip-hop on this, his long-awaited debut.
About halfway through the album,
things get really interesting, because the
melodies become enjoyable and the
lyrics stop being so stupid. One For The
Road has a suitably funky trumpet line,
and Spend The Night In Your Mind
blends what is almost a choir of voices
together very nicely.
His rapping and singing fit together
well, even if it all sounds a little more
tame than the efforts of some of the best
hip-hop lyricists out there at the moment.
Also featured are the now commonplace
random interludes, which are strangely
entertaining, where Cee-Lo talks with
his homeboys about how he's the true
lyrical master, or whatever.
So, not one to bang your head or shake
your fist to, but maybe you could nod a
little and hum along.
Gonzales
Presidential Suite
Out now on Kitty Yo records
Hmm... what an odd little album. Quite
possibly the most inexplicable thing I've
ever heard, but I'll give it a go anyway.
Presidential Suite contains a mysteri-
ous selection of musical styles, together
with rather a lot of silliness, the closest
comparison, perhaps, being with the
Beastie Boys.
Chilly Gonzo (I kid you not, that's real-
ly what he calls himself) raps over quirky
synth tunes. Musically, it's not particu-
larly good, but they clearly aren't taking
themselves seriously anyway. The single
Take Me To Broadway is a good example
- if you appreciated that, then you wont
be going far wrong with the album.
However, things get a whole lot sillier.
As if from nowhere, the album suddenly
goes into a slow serenade, with haunting
(female) lyrics, silly keyboards, the odd
cameo appearance from Chilly, and, best
of all, synthesized drum sounds all
round. A n interlude of haunted house
music, and then back to "normal" for a
bit.
Now, I never expected to own an rap
album containing a slow waltz. Not
many people would. Chilly demonstrates
that he can impersonate Matt Munroe,
(not that you asked, mind) and you can
almost see the mirror ball.
As the album draws to a close, the ran-
dom silliness shows no sign of abaiting
(wasn't that a hint of In The Hall Of The
Mountain King?).
Presidential Suite will stretch most
people's taste for the bizarre to its limit.
You'll either think that it's great in its
own unique way, as I do, or that it's just
crap.
FC Kahuna
Machine Says Yes
Out now on City Rockers
It would be sloppy and, surely, facile to
begin a review of FC Kahuna by compar-
ing them to the Chemical Brothers.
However, by saying that they are very
much like the Chemical Brothers does
make my job a whole lot easier.
FC Kahuna's debut album exhibits the
panache, the versatility and the flair that
we might associate with a Chemical
Brothers album, whilst showcasing what
is distinctively their own stylistic direc-
tion. In many ways, FC Kahuna's brand
of music is more intimate than that of
their counterparts: where others choose
grand explosions of sound and soaring
intensity, FC Kahuna favour subtle inflec-
tions, and, on the more dancefloor-friend-
ly tracks, sheer rhythmic muscle.
This album is glorious, and this is due
in part to the great guest vocalists that
have been enlisted. Gruff Rhys, for exam-
ple, makes his contribution in the form of
the beautiful opening track Fear Of
Guitars, and Hafdis Huld's vocals are
deftly twisted into the head-scrambling
title track Machine Says Yes.
Now, if you are still unconvinced that
this album is worth your attention, then
just get a listen to Nothing Is Wrong and
North Pole Transmission. Because
between these extremes, all of the other
tracks lie. My personal favourite Nothing
Is Wrong captures the experience of a
pill-fuelled night out, as frantic and com-
pulsive partying descends into claustro-
phobic paranoia.
Hopefully, FC Kahuna will go on to
have the success and the international
acclaim that the Chemical Brothers now
enjoy. Undoubtedly, they deserve it.
Derek Jamie ID Patrick

