LIVE: System Of A Down +
The Dillinger Escape Plan
@ Brixton Academy
This is unquestionably the hottest rock ticket in town. Three
shows at the 5,000-capacity Academy, all sold out about four
months in advance, together with a host of other venues sold
out across the nation, would suggest that anticipation is run-
ning a little high.
The Dillinger Escape Plan (pic above) are the only rock band
capable, and insane, enough to cover Aphex Twin and make it
sound better than the original. On record, they are an utterly
blistering fusion of extreme metal, free jazz and punk rock.
Unbelievably, when they play live, they really pull it off, making
everything faster, louder, phatter and heavier.
Stage antics are at a maximum as they go apeshit, hurling
themselves off speaker stacks and ploughing into the crowd
and each other. Unfortunately, they go down like a turd sand-
wich with much of the audience, although the ten-or-so one-
man moshpits (mine included) and healthy applause suggest
that several of the more enthusiastic onlookers certainly appre-
ciate their efforts.
Where the Plan are a study in wild chaotic excess, System Of A
D o w n are brutally regimented. Each riff is spat out, every
polemic lyric barked, crooned, shrieked or gurgled. The opener
is perhaps the model SOAD track Prison Song, with its chugging
guitars, its sudden turn-on-the-spot switches from noise to
silence, and, most importantly, its massive catchy chorus that
gets everyone jumping.
System ensure that the kids go home tired but ecstatic. They
are probably one of the oddest mainstream bands around today,
as they fearlessly mix together modern metal and their
Armenian folk roots with gleeful abandon. But the important
thing is that it works, again and again and again, for each 180
second salvo.
music reviews
LIVE: The Cooper Temple
Clause + Biffy Clyro +
Oceansize @ Astoria
The first band on were Oceansize. Based in Manchester,
although apparently from all around the country, they blew
everyone away. Completely.
I'm used to walking into gigs slightly late and there being
loads of room on the floor, with people sitting down and half-lis-
tening to the support - but not today. The Astoria was already
totally packed out, with people peering over each other at the
stage, listening in awe at the amazing prog-rock with devilish
undertones - take Matt Bellamy's guitar playing and the drums
from Tool, and you're not far off. Go see them! Now!
The Biffy Clyro set was disappointing. Although the boys
themselves were on good form and played right the way
through 27, 37, 47 and 57, the sound was shocking. I wanted to
hear beautiful rock music again, but the drums and bass were
up too high and the vocals were completely screwy, with
Simon's mic much louder than anyone else's.
The band (pic above) made a valiant effort to keep it up, but I
think we were all secretly glad when their set came to an end.
Launching straight into Did You Miss Me?, The Cooper Temple
Clause were itching to get on with it, but they were still coher-
ent and composed, and they rocked the joint like they always
do. They played every single track from the album except 555-
4823. Unfortunately, Murder Song was completely desecrated
by feedback and interference. Sort it out!
They also previewed a new song, which may or may not have
had a name. Absent fans will be glad to know that it was in the
same vein as most of the songs on their album - The Coopers
have found a niche, and they're sticking to it.
• • • • • Kunal Jess

