reviews music
LIVE: DJ Shadow
@ Astoria
There is no support band to precede one of the year's most
eagerly awaited performances b y a DJ. There are only funky
tunes to greet us before Shadow comes onstage with four
turntables and various electronic boxes. Rarely seen live, he
shows humbly his joy at being here, thanking his public for
spending their time and money on him.
Before beginning his set, Shadow introduces a 12-minute
movie directed by a friend, showing on a big screen in the mid-
dle of the stage. It shows the extraordinary meeting between
jazz drummers and hip-hop DJs from San Francisco, images
which, at once, make us aware that rhythm is a major force
behind D J Shadow's music.
Alone, but surrounded by his array of machines, Shadow
gives us an original show. It is a D J set at face value, but the live
versions of his tracks make it into a gig. Videos, shown behind
him, complement the music perfectly, from accelerated traffic on
the Golden Gate bridge to a visit to the record shop on the cover
of his debut album Entroducing.
But by letting the camera do some of his work for him, D J
Shadow reveals that he is, to an extent, limited by the fact that
he plays alone. The excellent sound makes this barely notice-
able, but I think that some more musicians would give him the
chance to deliver a better performance. Confirmation of this
arrives when he plays one of his demos accompanied by a
drummer. Here, w e really begin to notice the abstract hip-hop
that is a real feature of his music.
In spite of the "coldness" that some of Shadow's detractors
accuse his tracks of possessing, the man from U N K L E will
always be saved by his love of music - the jazz, the hip-hop -
and his obsession with rhythm.
A n almighty encore provides us with a glimpse inside the
new musical drawer in which D J Shadow's future works are
hidden: look out for some outstanding tracks with very very big
beats.
DJ Shadow's new album The Private Press is out now on
Island I Mo Wax records.
B B B B B Frangois
OUT THIS WEEK
A L B U M
THE D4 - 6Twenty L P
SINGLES
ALPINE STARS - Carbon Kid
ATHLETE - You Got The Style
AUBURN - Dreams
B A S E M E N T J A X X - Get Me Off
CURVESIDE - Save Yourselves
FANTASTIC SUPER FOOFS - Bilo Boss
BEVERLEY KNIGHT - Gold
MUSE - Dead Star / In Your World
PARSLEY SOUND - Platonic Rate
Singles
Roundup
ALPINESTARS feat B R I A N M O L K O - Carbon K i d
I can't decide whether this record really needs Molko's voice,
which I feel was purpose built for his o w n songs and absolute-
ly nothing else. It matters little though, as the Alpinestars con-
jure up a pleasurable soundscape in this brief big-beat number
which bears more than a slight resemblance to early Chemical
Brothers work.
B B B B O Derek
F R O U F R O U - Breathe In
This is the new musical brainchild of Guy Sigsworth, who has
worked with Madonna, Seal and even Bomb The Bass during
his (possibly) illustrious career. A n d this little ballad is actually
surprisingly easy to listen to, given the very soppy lyrics. Watch
out for more from Frou Frou over the coming months, and if
you're feeling bored, check out their excellent website at
www.froufrou.net.
B B B B O Derek
OUT THIS SUMMER
Just to whet your appetite, the following should appear in
record shops over the next month or so. Current release dates
are in brackets.
A L B U M S
IDLEWILD - Remote Part (8 July)
LAYO & BUSHWACKA - Night Works (1 July)
M O R C H E E B A - Charango (1 July)
PAUL O A K E N F O L D - Bunkka (24 June)
OASIS - Heathen Chemistry (1 July)
BETH ORTON - Daybreaker (15 July)
THE VINES - Highly Evolved (15 July)
SINGLES
DIRTY V E G A S - Ghosts (22 July)
THE PRODIGY - Baby's Got A Temper (1 July)

