clubbing reviews
INTERVIEW with
FC Kahuna
Bridge & Tunnel,
Old Street
For years, FC Kahuna have stood in the
wings and watched the rise and rise of
contemporaries such as The Chemical
Brothers and Fatboy Slim. But with the
release of their debut LP Machine Says
Yes, they are about to jump boldly into
the limelight.
A couple of weeks ago, I met up with
Dan Kahuna...
FELIX: So you guys have just finished
the debut album, but w h y did it take
over two years to make?
DAN: We knew it was going to have to
take a while, as we really didn't want to
do what everybody expected of us. That
meant that we had to find something a
bit different, something unique, so we
just had to spend a lot of time experi-
menting until we found it. We were
always trying out new ideas.
The album features some great collabo-
rations, such as Gruff Rhys' vocal on
Fear Of Guitars. What was it like work-
ing w i t h these people?
Everyone seems to moan that it's diffi-
cult to get collaborations off the ground
and that it's difficult to get people
involved, but we didn't have anything
like that. We worked with people who
we'd already met - it wasn't like a big
corporate endeavour.
A n y particular memories?
Working with Gruff was brilliant. We had
wanted to work with him for ages, and
once, when we were in the studio, we
saw him there. We were daring each
other to go and ask him, and in the end,
Jon went over and Gruff was like "Yeah,
'course. Cool". He later came into the
studio with us and started singing this
sea shanty - it was mental - singing
things like: [imitates Gruff] "I got fishy,
fishy fingers pointing at me" and "bread
crumb hands are strangling me". Jon
and I sat there and got steadily more and
more stoned in the studio. We thought it
was hilarious and so we weren't being
that constructive as to whether he was
going overboard or not. The next day,
Gruff rang us up and said: "Hello, er, I
think I may have gone a little bit over the
top".
Was your long-standing residency at
Headstart a testing ground for the
tracks on the album?
Before Headstart, we had been running
the Big Kahuna Burger night in bars and
basements, with crap sound systems.
When we went to Headstart, it was this
big warehousey place with a half-decent
sound system - a complete change.
Playing there really nurtured our appreci-
ation of space.
Lastly, you and J o n have been working
together for seven years. What has it
been like?
It's been good. It's had its ups and
downs - it can get a bit annoying sitting
in the same room, year after year, with
the same ugly bloke. No, he's not a bad
bloke... Ultimately, we've done some
good things and we've enjoyed our-
selves, and we've been to some great
places. What more would you need?
Situated within ten minutes' walk of Old
Street tube station, this new D J bar is a
good place to head to on a Monday night,
should you feel like continuing your
weekend.
Unfortunately, the opening night was
full of annoying media types, so it is diffi-
cult to say much about the people who
go there.
Regardless of the clientele, the atmos-
phere of the place was impressive, creat-
ed by great DJs playing the tunes they
want to play, and by the informal, mean-
dering layout of the newly designed
venue.
The Bridge and Tunnel has two floors -
the basement and ground level. The
basement has an old school-style sound
system and a small dance floor, which
gives the place a back-in-the-day feel.
The music in the basement depends on
the night you go; we were lucky enough
to be treated to an excellent mixture of
breakbeat and deep house.
The ground floor is more like a normal
bar, with nice lighting, a long bar and a
great seating area - brilliant to just laze
around and chat while listening to DJs
mixing it up in the background. James
Lavelle and Ross Allen were present on
the opening night, but on an ordinary
Monday the Bridge and Tunnel's residen-
cy is held by Ross Allen and Tony
Farsides.
The one major drawback about this
place is its location - were it in South
Ken, it would be continuously packed
with Imperial students. But as the Bridge
and Tunnel is situated in Old Street, the
handy tube is needed, which could be a
bit too much hassle for a night out.
Despite this, it is well worth a visit.
Patrick TobyB

