reviews film
Editorial
"a film by Cedric Kahn"
Q. What happens w h e n you cross a spider w i t h a human?
A. Don't be stupid! You can't cross w i t h a scalar.
Spider-man has broken virtually every box-office record. In the
US, it has had the biggest opening day ever, biggest single day
ever, and biggest week ever. It has been the fastest film to $100
million (in just three days) and it has been hugely successful
since. This should not however be your reason for seeing it. I
like everybody else felt almost forced to see Titanic (1997) and
that turned out to be a three-hour long insult.
Spider-man will overshadow everything else in the next cou-
ple of weeks but if you can, find Roberto Succo (pictured). Based
on the story of one of France's most notorious and vicious serial
killers, Succo stalked the south of France during the early eight-
ies, randomly killing anybody that stood in his way. Cedric
Kahn's film is made in a documentary style that disturbs in its
brutal honesty. He presents the facts of the case without mak-
ing any attempt to glamourise the motives and actions of the
criminal in the same way other based-on-real-life movies like
Goodfellas (1990) do. Succo is disturbing because he fits no
stereotypes and, similarily, to Joe Pesci's Tommy DeVito is high-
ly unpredictable and remorseless. The difference between
Tommy DeVito and Roberto Succo is that outside of being a psy-
chopath Succo is one of us. To check where Roberto Succo or
other films are being shown go to the website www.scoot.com.
Back to Spider-man. You might have heard about all the con-
tinuity errors in the film. Despite all their efforts to digitally
remove the twin towers from the skyline in the movie, there is
one instance in which they are visible. So Ron Fatkinson spot-
ter's badge for anybody getting that. I shit you not.
This is the final Felix oi the year and I will no longer be edito-
rialising Film next year. In fact, I hope I won't be at Imperial
next year. So shout outs to the following: Cromwell firm, Physics
firm (they're 2rude2B2ru), the r m l 9 syndicate, the family, film
reviewers, anybody who knows me. Special thanks to will who
took a gamble which I hope has paid off. So let's hear it for the
master of ceremonies, M C Joka 2K2, because this is the end so
I'll finish like I started... Bam.
Darius
Spider-man
in cinemas nationwide...now
At the screening I attended, the young boy sitting next to me
could hardly sit still as the opening credits rolled. A n d by the
end of Sam Raimi's take on everyone's favourite human-arach-
nid, it was difficult to tell who had the biggest, stupidest grin
on his face, him or me.
A stoic, chin-stroking seriousness is the normal demeanour
required of any self-respecting critic at these screenings, but
from the moment a freshly bitten Peter Parker (Tobey Maguire)
awakes to find himself the bemused owner of big biceps and
rock-hard pecs, my Cheshire grin appeared. It barely faded for
the remainder of the film.
I'm sure the story is familiar to you: boy gets bitten by genet-
ically modified spider, boy finds himself in possession of fantas-
tic superpowers, boy rids world of evil green baddie. But Raimi,
along with a fabulous leading cast, makes things far less black
and white than that.
A few people may have raised eyebrows at the choice of
Tobey Maguire, but his fraught, troubled take on Spidey fits so
well. From the amusing boyish delight Parker takes in his new-
found abilities, to the final acceptance of his responsibilities,
Maguire is spot on. So too is Willem Dafoe, as the truly unset-
tling bi-polar Norman Osborn, desperately clinging on to his
corporate empire, whilst battling to suppress his evil alter ego,
the Green Goblin.
After initially being content to earn a few quid from back-
street wrestling he eventually becomes more responsible with
his powers, pulling babies from burning buildings etc.. But, at
the same time, he has to contend with a suspicious newspaper
magnate bad-mouthing his every move. A n d if that wasn't
enough, he has his love, Mary Jane, stolen by his best friend.
In direct contrast to Episode 2, the story in Spider-man more
than holds up and provides an excellent setting for the lead
characters to fight it out. It is this that sets the film apart from
its contemporaries. The CGI-fuelled action sequences are exhil-
arating and there lots of laughs to be had, but the great charac-
ters and story make it all the more enjoyable.
Adam Joyce

