books feature
Hay Book Festival
It seems that most of the nation have given themselves over to
some form of patriotic fervour, either sporting or royalist, but
here in a small Welsh town just north of the Black mountains,
another form of passion is in the ascendant. In Hay-on-Wye the
crowds come to worship at literary shrines. The week-long Hay
Festival programme includes an international list of writers,
from star names to new voices promoting their first novels.
Having unpacked at a hotel in Bredwardine, a few miles from
the festival site and the final home of the famous diarist Kilvert,
I make my way into Hay on Saturday evening for my first festi-
val event. This is a poetry reading by Linton Kwesi Johnson, for
30 years a champion of the Afro-Caribbean community, a sec-
ond generation member of an immigrant family; the "rebel gen-
eration," as he calls it. He is reading from a new volume of
selected verse which spans the whole of his writing career, Me
Revalueshannary Fren published by Penguin Modern Classics
[paperback, £6.99]. L K J comes from the oral tradition of
Jamaican poetry. The printed verse is written in phonetic
English. The voice and the rhythm rise clearly from the page,
but nothing equals the power of live delivery. L K J holds the
book before him, checks the opening line, but never looks down
again as he recites directly to the middle of the marquee. The
poetry lives in the performance. "No applause between poems
please. I'm as vain as the next man, but I've got a lot I want to
Michael Frayn
read this evening", and so we hear selections from his
Seventies, Eighties and Nineties verse. Much of this poetry
reflects the times in which it was written and L K J sets the con-
text for each poem, although this isn't really necessary to
appreciate the power and subtlety of the message. M y main
misgivings are that the audience are 99% white, (100%
Guardian readers I imagine) and there is a faint smell of cultur-
al tourism here; from the nods and cheers you might have
thought some members were tapping into a wealth of shared
experience in poverty, prejudice and oppression. L K J is in com-
mand though. He controls the show effortlessly and leaves the
crowd wanting more.
Michael Frayn, former journalist, now playwright, novelist
and translator, is another author who knows how to entertain a
crowd. On Sunday, as the audience begins to wilt in the stifling
heat of the 'Orange Word' marquee, Frayn gives an inspiring
talk on the nature of childhood memories; how the seemingly
unrelated fragments that we tend to recollect without any
sense of chronology in fact hold the key to much of our early
development and our changing perceptions of the world. In his
latest novel Spies, [Faber, 2002, hardback £14.99] Frayn uses
memories of his own childhood in the suburbs of south London
during the second world war, (which he recalls as a big adven-
ture, with no sense of the danger involved) as the starting point
for a story which demonstrates how children exercise their
imaginations to try and make sense of the world, which during
wartime seems even more skewed and perplexing than normal.
There are two mam characters in Spies, Stephen and Keith, both
eleven year old schoolboys. The narrative is from Stephen's
point of view, the poorer of the two friends. He attends the state
school, has fewer toys and competes with his older brother for
his parents' attention, but he is clearly part of a loving family
unit although he may feel envious of Keith; an only child des-
tined for prep school, with a room full of pristine possessions.
Keith's father however is a monster and his treatment of his
family is horribly abusive. The main plot of the novel centres on
Keith's wild assertion that his mother is really a German spy.
The boys begin to follow her about the neighbourhood, but their
prying accidentally uncovers a real mystery, with calamitous
consequences. Frayn is wholly successful in seeing events
through a child's eyes, maintaining the fine balance between
the comedy of their misinterpretation of the adult world, and
the tragedy that their games bring about. This achievement is
recognised at Hay with a Bollinger award; a case of vintage
champagne and a pig named in his honour, (it isn't made clear
if the pig is to called 'Michael' or 'Spies').
On Monday the fine weather finally breaks, which seems
appropriate as Joanne Harris is appearing to talk about the
flood plagued island community in her new novel Coastliners
[Doubleday, 2002, hardback £12.991. The PA system is also play-
ing up, but Harris politely declines when her interviewer sug-
gests they share the microphone attached to her ample bosom.
At this point it looks as if the session might quickly degenerate
into farce, but order is restored and Harris talks on a wide vari-
ety of topics such as finding your true authorial voice, (she was
writing for more than a decade, experimenting with gothic

