feature books
romances before the huge success of Chocolat), the importance
of food, (she is currently writing a cookery book based on the
recipes in Chocolat, Blackberry Wine and Five Quarters of the
Orange) and dealing with Hollywood, (some writers may com-
plain about the film treatments of their books, but she hasn't
heard of anyone giving back the money). The film option to
Coastliners has already been sold and this time she is writing
the screenplay herself. The novel is her most ambitious work to
date, portraying two rival communities fighting to survive on
an inhospitable island on the French Atlantic coast. The main
character in this drama is Mado, who has returned to the island
after ten years. When her parents separated, she lived with her
mother in Paris, gradually building a reputation as a painter.
Following her mother's death, she returns to the island to seek
a reconciliation with her father, a withdrawn, silent man, who
was once the island's main boat builder. The local population
has remained fairly static in the years since Mado left, but there
is an important new arrival from Ireland, the enigmatic Flynn.
Employing a number of devices, Flynn manages to manipulate
the inhabitants, and by persuading them to construct sea
defences, brings prosperity to the poorer side of the island.
Mado is drawn into his scheming, but only gradually does she
become aware of the true nature of his designs. There are many
twists towards the end of the book, but as Harris says, she is
essentially an optimist, so you can be assured that something
positive will be salvaged from what appear to be terrible odds.
She is certainly a prolific writer, with the first draft of her next
novel already completed. It is set in a seventeenth century
French convent, where for political reasons an eleven year old
girl has been appointed head. Later on Monday the storms have
passed and William Boyd takes the stage in the 'Orange Word'
marquee. Boyd is a different sort of celebrity; he seems to have
a rather breathless tribe of groupies in his wake. He's also sad-
dled with John Walsh as interviewer, a man with a huge ego
who overplays his "good mates with the author" card. In earli-
er books Boyd has attempted fictional memoirs (The New
Confessions) and a celebrated hoax biography {Nat Tate). His
new book Any Human Heart, [Hamish Hamilton, 2002, hardback
£17.99] is a similar conceit, being the intimate journals of anoth-
er fictional character, Logan Mountstuart. He claims that the
diary form gives the novel an immediacy without the commen-
tary of autobiography such as "if I had only known then that
In fact what these faux diaries lack is the mass of undi-
rected, inconsequential and mundane events of a real life. Each
section recorded here reaches a natural climax, like a well
structured novel and it is a much better book because the real
author is unable to hide his craftsmanship.
Boyd says that he promised himself never to revisit the terri-
tory of public school life, but if Mountstuart was to follow the
traditional path of the early twentieth century writer then this
was one of the obligatory rites of passage, together with a
mediocre student career at Oxford and the early attempts to
establish himself as a writer in London. Mountstuart has two
great friends from school, Leeping and Scabius, (Walsh can't
help commenting on Boyd's choice of outlandish names) and he
maintains contact within them throughout his life and in many
ways uses them to gauge his success in the world, (Leeping
runs art galleries in Paris and New York, Scabius becomes a
popular writer). Boyd says that to make Mountstuart a believ-
:
Ian M c E w a n
able minor figure in the footnotes of twentieth century literary
history, he had to integrate his activities with real events and
bring him into contact with significant writers of the period. So
we find Mountstuart eavesdropping on a Bloomsbury gathering
at Garsington, encountering James Joyce in Paris and
Hemingway during the Spanish Civil War and extensive meet-
ings with the Duke and Duchess of Windsor, who appear as
ghastly characters involved in the cover up of a murder in the
Bahamas. Boyd stresses that this part of the novel is based on
real evidence. He also seems to be doing his best to tarnish the
reputation of Virginia Woolf, who is portrayed here as vain,
spiteful and snobbish. It seems odd that he is so anxious to
knock the elitism of Bloomsbury when he takes such pleasure in
recounting the Nat Tate hoax, carried out with the help of
celebrity friends such as David Bowie. Could he possibly be try-
ing to emulate Woolf's involvement in the Dreadnaught affair of
1910? On Monday evening Pete McCarthy gives us a taste of his
new book The Road to McCarthy, which is published next
month; more travellers tales, but this time not limited to the
public houses of Ireland. The closing event for my time at the
festival is a concert by Baaba Maal, the great Senegalese musi-
cian with his fantastic dancers. I spot Ian M c E w a n slipping
away after half an hour of the performance, but perhaps he's
had a long day as well. He's due to give a talk in the morning.
After all, Hay is where writers have to sing for their supper.
Adrian

