union talk
State of the Union
The Union's Annual General Meeting took
place this term on Thursday 16 May. The
A G M is your chance to hear what your
Union is doing for you, the students, by
students.
This year, the Union underwent a huge
constitutional change to fall in line with
the College's new faculty structure. While
this took much time and work, we're con-
fident that we are now better equipped to
represent you to your departments, and
ensure you receive the education you
deserve. We also abolished the distinction
between postgraduate and undergradu-
ate students.
This year also saw a dramatic develop-
ment in the services available to students.
The basements in Beit Quad were com-
pletely refurbished, and now provide a
state of the art media centre, dark room
and science-fiction library in the West
Wing. The East Wing houses the
Chaplaincy, Union Advice Centre, R A G
office and MicroClub, providing urgently
needed student support services. The
Charing Cross refurbishment was also
completed, greatly improving the enter-
tainment services at the campus. The
gyms have also been refurbished at Wye,
Charing Cross and Silwood.
The Union relies heavily on volunteers to
help it run. This year, the Higher
Education Funding Council established
the Active Community Fund to encourage
recognition of volunteers. Even before this,
the Union was working to better support
the volunteers that form the backbone of
its activities. A new student activities co-
ordinator, Nicholas Gore, has been
appointed to help run the clubs and soci-
eties aspect of the Union. Training will
now be provided to club volunteers at the
beginning of next year, and the student
activities centre is now located in the East
Wing basement, closer to these support
services.
This year has seen some great events
organised by students. Most recently, the
Summer Ball was a huge success after the
Rector kindly donated £20,000 towards the
event. Thanks go to all the Summer Ball
team. International Night dazzled a vast
audience last term, and the R A G Sports
Day filled the Queen's Lawn with bizarrely
dressed athletes. This year, along with
RAG, Imperial students have raised over
£100,000 pounds for good causes.
Finally, I'd like to thank all those people
who give their time to run and take part in
the Union. I look forward to welcoming
many back next year, and to those that are
leaving, the best of luck. Sen
IMPERIAL COLLEGE UNION
Recreational Clubs Committee
Colours Awards 2001-2002
In recognition of their efforts this academic year, the Recreational Clubs
Committee wishes to announce the following Colours awards
Full Commitment Colours
Katie Sykes, Melanie Tan
Half Commitment Colours
Alan Bamford, Alexis Biller, Gemma Cansell, Rebecca Day,
Gareth Gretton, Ruth Harman, Kah Lee, Stephen Perrott
Half Achievement Colours
Martin Taylor, Jennifer Wood
Half Social Colours
Pooi Cheong, Hemraj Nithianandarajah
Awards will be presented at final meeting of this academic year;
Thursday 13t h
June 2002 at 5pm in the Union Dining Hall

