felix talk
South Ken Electrical Power Shortage
As the summer weather gets increasingly
warmer, the South Kensington campus
could find itself faced with a power short-
age. If nothing is done, we could be faced
with a black out. There will be a controlled
shutdown of sub-stations on a least prior-
ity basis which means Southside resi-
dences, then Sherfield, will be shed, fol-
lowed by the academic departments.
Last summer, even with an automatic
load-shedding system that intermittently
switched off non-essential loads for short
durations, the South Kensington campus
frequently came within a few percent of
its maximum available power limit of 11
megawatts. New refurbishment projects
in many departments has added extra
load to the supply, and it is forecast that
demand will exceed the limit this summer.
Summer is the time when the problem
becomes apparent because of the extra
electricity required for cooling systems
and air conditioning.
Standby generators will be used this
summer in three main buildings and that
will help to reduce the excess demand.
However, these measures alone will not
be enough to reduce the demand to 11
megawatts. The Estates Department has
been taking precautions to prevent this
happening in future years; there are plans
to increase the supply available by laying
a new cable through Hyde Park by 2003.
The only way to prevent a black-out this
summer is to reduce the electricity
demand, especially during the main peri-
ods 10.30 - 15.30 Monday to Friday, but of
course we want to be saving electricity all
of the time. So what can you do to avoid an
electrical shutdown in summer 2002?
There are some simple housekeeping
habits that could make a sufficient differ-
ence if everybody follows these guide-
lines:
•Set air conditioning thermostat con-
trols to a minimum of 22°C. A 1°C sav-
ing on room temperature saves 10% of
the heating/cooling energy.
•Switch off unnecessary main lights.
Make best use of daylight and local task
lighting. Every kW of lighting power
used in every room has to be removed
by 0.35 kW of cooling power, so equip-
ment left on wastes power twice over.
•Ensure that blinds are kept down to
prevent excessive solar gains, which
would have to be cooled. If blinds are
left up overnight, the sun will already
be cooking your room by 09.00 the next
day when you arrive.
•Keep doors and windows closed in
cooled rooms.
• Fume cupboards waste fan power and
remove all the expensively cooled air.
Help by not using fume cupboards as
chemical stores and close off all non-
essential systems
•If you have a choice, try to restrict use
of high power consumption equipment
such as lasers, glass washers, compres-
sors, large pumps/motors and sterilis-
ers during peak periods.
•Switch off unused PCs, which waste
power and add to the cooling load. As a
minimum, switch off the monitor when
unattended, as this will reduce the
work station's power use by almost
75%.
•Assist your department in identifying
non-essential equipment, which can be
added to the load shedding system.
For further information you can contact
the energy manager, Michael Parry on
m.k.parry@ic.ac.uk.

