medicine feature
Medicine In The Digital Age
Looking at the changes in the lifestyle of
our parents' and grandparents' lives it is
hard to disagree that life has improved
substantially. Every decade has seen a
technological revolution. If the '70s, '80s,
and '90s have seen semiconductors, PCs
and the Internet respectively, in the 21st
century 'pervasive computing' will be
poised to transform our lives. This would
mark a fundamental transition in medi-
cine with an increasing adoption of per-
vasive computing and broadband net-
works in the provision of high quality
care. Today, the network and computer
are as essential to providing medical care
as the stethoscope and reflex hammer.
This new environment of bits and optical
pulses is transforming virtually every
aspect of medical care. This text address-
es the opportunities central to our transi-
tion to a 'digital age' in medicine.
So, here's a sneak preview: I have been
assimilated. I am hooked up to an elec-
tronic device 24 hours. A n d I love it! This
is how many people might feel in the not-
so-far future. If you are asking why?, then
think about this.
The Smart Medical Home (SMH) is a
project at the Center for Future Health,
University of Rochester in collaboration
with MIT's Media Laboratory. According
to Philippe Fauchet one of the co-
founders, "today we wait until you get
sick, drag yourself to the doctor, and then
we throw this multimillion-dollar heroic
technology at you. So we wondered if it
was possible to do early detection, even
before you got sick, with technology that
is very inexpensive, consumer friendly,
and doesn't require a complex change in
lifestyle."
The Smart Medical Home would include
a series of devices working in conjunction
in the home to monitor a family's health.
With the present work on networking pro-
tocols like Bluetooth, etc, it is not far
before we could realise such a smart
home.
Consider placing an adhesive bandage
on a cut, and having the bandage tell you
immediately that dangerous bacteria
have got into the wound and you need to
seek a doctor's help. Once you scan your
bandage, the chip will connect to a home
PC responsible for monitoring residents'
health, reporting what kind of bacteria is
present. The house will check a medical
database via the web to determine what
kind of treatment is necessary, confer
with other sensors that have been moni-
toring your gait for signs of stroke, your
skin for signs of melanoma, and your med-
icine cabinet to make sure you haven't
been taking anything that may conflict
with any new medication, and suggest to
you in spoken English (or for that matter
A Smart Medical Home
any language you prefer) what steps you
need to take to treat your infection.
Cripes, hypochondriac alert...
The California-based Stanford
University Medical Center and Providence
Everett Medical Center in Seattle,
Washington, became the first two medical
facilities in the United States to implant
Biotronik's novel pacemaker, which fea-
tures home monitoring technology. Home
monitoring is the first technology of its
kind to be approved by the Food and Drug
Administration, and is anticipated to rev-
olutionize the way physicians currently
monitor their pacemaker patients.
The home monitoring system implanted
is one of the most exciting technologies
that have been developed in the field of
arrhythmia management. This technology
will serve as a platform to deliver true
21st century patient care by allowing
physicians to provide more prompt
response as well as more complete
patient management to those with
arrhythmia problems.
With home monitoring, the pacemaker
can be customized to automatically trans-
mit a detailed cardio report to the physi-
cian's office on a daily or weekly basis, or
if the patient experiences a significant
change in their heart condition, allowing
the patient's clinician to be able to
respond more effectively to their patients'
changing cardiac status.
This remote wireless pacemaker could
become a critical telemedicine applica-
tion, where cardiologists could monitor
their patients with cardio-vascular condi-
tions anywhere in the world. In the future,
consumers will use personal medical
technology in the privacy of their homes
to maintain health, detect the onset of
disease and to manage disease proactive-
iy.
Another area of interest in the way
technology is being used for medical
monitoring is 'Smart clothing,' that not
only has the capability to make you look
smart but would be able to think as well.
VivoMetrics of Ventura, California, have
begun beta-testing its LifeShirt. It looks
like a sleek fishing vest and records more
than 40 health parameters. Sewn into the
vest are electrodes for heart monitoring
and three conductive bands that gauge
the movement of the heart and lungs from

