feature medicine
changes in their magnetic field. The sen-
sors measure both vital signs and indica-
tors of psychological state, such as sighs.
The data can be sent via the Internet to a
doctor who can adjust medications
according to fluctuations.
However, Nexan of Alpharetta, Georgia,
has invented smart monitoring without
wiring clothes. Its sensors - which look
like an elaborately bent paper clip -
adheres to a patient's chest and radios
data to a storage device up to fifteen
metres away. Electrodes in the sensor
measure respiration and contraction of
the heart.
The interface between flesh and silicon
is evolving quickly. I quote one of the
visionaries Mario Ferrari, who said, "the
child is not born yet, but at least we have
the marriage."
David Ross in the September 2001
Technology Review stated that every year
approximately more than 50,000
Americans with diabetes must undergo
foot or leg amputations. In many of these
cases, poor blood circulation is the villain.
Imagine, then, having socks with built-in
pressure sensors that would alert you to
put your feet up for a while.
Smart socks are just one example of the
growing push to make high-tech home
medical devices a part of our everyday
lives.
Wouldn't it be wonderful to have a per-
sonal futuristic jogging suit, like a second
skin, with interfaces to the inside and the
outside? From the outside your jogging
suit monitors the weather and terrain,
while on the inside your bio-physiological
state is detected. The suit can analyze
your movement, and advise on the dura-
tion and intensity of the exercise, accord-
ing to your personalized training pro-
gramme, stored on a smart card. When
your suit 'notices' that you are getting
tired, it can encourage you to go on, or it
can immediately adapt the training
scheme for the next days, and if neces-
sary make the 999 call to the doctor.
Most of these first-generation gadgets
grab data on vital signs and then radio
the information back to a home health sta-
tion or a receiver connected to the PC.
Now physicians and engineers at a hand-
ful of universities and start-ups are push-
ing the technology even further. Their
goal is to harness new materials and
powerful microelectronics to make
devices that are even more intelligent and
self contained to make not only data
11 IIH
hi-
«f M I S
Mi*!!**
Ms#:rysi»iqf<ffc
'LifeShirt'
reporters but preventive aids that detect
dangerous medical conditions.
Researchers at Andersen Consulting's
Centre for Strategic Technology Research
are redefining the concept of 'personal'
computing by bringing the Internet into
the bathroom with the Online Medicine
Cabinet (OMC).
The O M C is a computerized bathroom
cabinet that greets you, checks your
blood pressure, communicates with your
health care provider and reminds you to
take your medicines on time. It combines
special sensor technology, embedded
computers and the Internet to create
what Andersen calls a "situated portal."
The O M C integrates technologies such as
face recognition, voice synthesis, flat
panel displays and smart labels. On
entering the bathroom the computer initi-
tt
The doctor can
poke at the computer
screen w i t h the
pointer and w o u l d
feel in his finger that
he is actually touch-
ing it
ates a dialogue by greeting the person
through voice technology. Special sensors
detect when a medicine bottle is lifted out
of the cabinet and when the supplies are
running low. If a refill is required, the
O M C generates an email request to the
pharmacy. A n d using smart labels, it
warns if you pick up the wrong medica-
tion. Sounds too good to be true, but this
kind of technology is available.
2002 marks a decade of accomplish-
ments in the field of interactive computer
based technology - virtual reality - for use
in medicine.
One such example: nowadays when
doctors perform an abdominal examina-
tion on a patient, they have to rely on their
hands to do much of the guesswork.
Tender livers, pea-sized tumors, and
swollen spleens are often diagnosed this
way, and followed up with high-resolution
scans that take precise recordings of the
size and location of those bumps and
lumps.
A new virtual reality glove being devel-
oped by researchers at the State
University of New York at Buffalo promis-
es to change that.
The information will be transmitted to
the second doctor through a haptic feed-
back device; a small, transportable robot
that fits on a user's hand like a thimble.
The robot allows a user to manipulate an
image on a computer screen and feel the
physical results of that virtual manipula-
tion. The doctor can poke at the computer
screen with the pointer and would feel in
his finger that he is actually touching it.
Future health care delivery will rely on
an aggressive, preventive model that is
vastly different from the reactive, episodic
model utilised today. Individuals will
assume a more active role in their care.
Medical systems, including home health
systems, will exhibit collective intelli-
gence of individual devices.
One way or the other, our daily lives will
depend on computing at many levels.
This is just the beginning...

