talk felix
Entertaining Angels
The old wisdom says, 'Don't look a gift
horse in the mouth.' That is of course
unless it is a completely free handful of
delicious high quality chocolate. Last
week we were giving away, yes giving
away, chocolate, biscuits, coffee, tea bags
and fruit juice. It was all part of a series of
events to raise awareness of Fairtrade
products and why they are important in
an effort to end global poverty and world
hunger. If you are a regular reader of this
column you will have taken the Fairtrade
message to heart by now, so no further
sermonising on that issue!
Instead I want to think about the experi-
ence some of us had standing of the walk-
way trying to give away a free sample of
a tasty morsel all in aid of a genuinely
good cause.
Many people stopped and chatted,
munched and slurped and read the
leaflets. Some came back for more, and a
few came back and back. That was great.
It was a moment of freely given gifts.
But those of us dispensing the chocolate
had a common experience: we felt the
deep suspicion of many people who hur-
ried past. "Free chocolate - where is the
catch?" "What are you selling?" "What
will this cost me in time and energy to
stop, find out what it is about and taste
the chocolate?" Several volunteers felt
they wanted to have T-shirts that said, 'I
am a decent, pleasant human being real-
ly and I genuinely want to give you this
gift, for free and there are no hidden
catches. HONEST!'
Now some of us are shy, some of us are in
a hurry, and a few of us may have good
reason to be wary because of previous
bad experiences... but that still fails to
explain the huge number of people who
hurried by, finding it impossible to believe
that something could be offered as a free
gift with no catch. We seem to live in a
society that, by and large, sees it as nor-
mal and acceptable to not get involved.
Now, there are some good reasons to be
wary of strangers, but mistrust and cyni-
cism on this scale surely points to some-
thing wrong.
Our freebie chocolate experience con-
cerns me because of what it says about
the way we are being conditioned not to
be surprised. We are encouraged by
unnecessary anxiety of urban life not to
take even a very safe risk, the risk of a
fleeting encounter with a stranger.
Is this about a deep cynicism towards
anything offered for free? A n avoidance of
any unplanned encounters, an isolation
from any surprising contact with others?
Not all strangers are dangers, and (reas-
suringly) not all contacts are conducted
like this. In some places, rural villages for
example, people stop to pass the time of
day, to chat or simply to make eye contact
and smile.
In the Judao-Christian tradition there is a
valued story about Abraham, the father of
many nations. It runs like this: one day,
sitting at the door of his tent, Abraham
was confronted by three mysterious
strangers passing by. He took the risk of
hospitality, openness and human engage-
ment, and (so the phrase was coined)
'entertained angels unawares.' From that
encounter he became the father of many
nations precisely because of his open-
ness, his willingness to engage. He took
the risk of being open. Shouldn't we?
Radio: Impossible
It's an impossible mission: to sell science
to a few thousand undergraduates who,
day in and day out, live and breathe sci-
ence, and who are quite possibly utterly
bored with it. But impossible missions
suit some people just fine, and those are
the committed people studying science
communication. Tune in to IC Radio
between 6 and 7 on Thursday evenings,
and you will be admitted into the world of
Mission Impossible.
The Mission Impossible show is to sci-
ence what napalm is to a bail of hay -
except that while napalm would destroy
your average haystack, Mission
Impossible merely chooses to ignite sci-
ence with a refreshing brand of humour
and intrigue.
What will you hear? Rest assured that
Imperial's science communication stu-
dents are out searching for the best sci-
ence news every week, ready and pack-
aged for you in a five-minute burst of cur-
rent affairs. A n d any topical science news
during the week will be digested and
debated during the show, with special
guests from such places as the Science
Museum.
Mission Impossible also promises to
bring you fiction and drama on the radio.
There's Imperial College's first ever radio
soap opera, 'Empirical College,' which
the production team would like to call a
comedy series, if only the plot didn't
involve quite so much infidelity. A n d the
show's special reporter Stian Reimers
produces a weekly update on the science
wars - the eternally raging battle
between those who believe science
searches for the 'truth', and those who
argue that science just a piece of modern
culture.
Or, does anyone enjoy a quiz? There's a
different science quiz on mission impossi-
ble every week, and most recently the
production team came up with the first
'Science Call M y Bluff show. For example,
do you think 'bathycolpian' is a bout of
unexpected depression, or a deep, fleshy
cleft? A n d do you think the Mission
Impossible show is unnecessarily vulgar?
Answers can be sent to our e-mail
address: imperialradio@hotmail.com.
There's also a weekly update on what's
new, what's hot, and what positively
stinks, in the world of technology and
gadgets.
If you read this before 20 June, then be
sure to check out Mission Impossible's
end-of-term-special - a show purely
devoted to the study of where science is
today. What does science mean to you?
Why do you study science, and why is
science important?
Mission Impossible will also be running
over the summer, and as with all of the IC
Radio shows, you can listen and down-
load at www.icradio.com. Remember, sci-
ence isn't just about the cold and clinical
search for the truth - it's about fun,
intrigue, humour, and above all, the
human beings who actually do it.

