10 Feature
Dangerously Close To A Winner?
Michael Winner (Director) and Lia Williams (Bella) discussing thefilming of Dirty Weekend on location in Brighton.
"I'm a cross between a sort of jolly holiday
camp host and Hitler. Leadership sometimes
callsfor tough action."
This seems like exactly the sort of comment
you would expect from Michael Winner.
Renegade restaurant critic, sometime journalist,
robust supporter of law and order, this darling of
the tabloid press seems to relish the limelight.
So, a half hour with him can seem like a long
time to a young boy reporter such as myself. The
fact that he is also a film director at times seems
to get lost in the hype. Yet his latest controversy,
Dirty Weekend, is his twenty eighth feature
without the words Death Wish in the title.
The story of Bella, fed up with men's abuse
and fighting back with a vengeance to match
Freddie Kreuger, is bizarre and engaging. But
more bizarre is that fact that Michael Winner,
who everybody had been warning me about for
weeks, turned out to be one of the nicest blokes
I've ever talked to. Here are some extracts from
our chat:
Your films are often criticised for being
overtly violent? Do you think our censors are
stricter than those in America?
"Oh they're much stricter. The British tend to
be a little looser on sex but much tighter on
violence. It's very common for American films
to be substantially cut when they play here."
People will inevitably compare Dirty
Weekend to Death Wish. How do you think
times have changed?
"I think Dirty Weekend is a more serious
film. It says i f you persecute any minority
enough they will come out fighting with
disproportionate force. Times have changed
because mugging is common now and it wasn't
in 1974. The things which are put upon women
nowadays are all around us. It is a story which
shows very clearly that women are badly treated
in all sorts of ways."
What do you think of Hollywood revisionism
about violence?
"Well, what they are saying is that in very big
films that cost $30m, or even $60m-$70m, it
can't have an 18 certificate. The American
cinema will go where the money is. I don't think
there's a mass movement towards non-violence."
Do you feel there is a parallel with what
Thelma does to the rapist in Thelma and Louise?
"That was a far lighter picture, they only
killed one person and after that they were nice to
everybody. When they locked the man in the
trunk they made sure he had air. Bella would
have killed the lot of them."
Do you think the kind of direct action Bella
takes can ever be excused?
"I have to say that of the seven men that
Bella killed, if I had read that six of them had
been killed and then read what they had done
before they were killed, I would say they
deserved it. They were such awful people, who
cares?"
Tell me about the Police Memorial Trust.
"Well, it's a charity I set up in 1984 when
Yvonne Fletcher was killed in St James's
Square. Its object was to put up memorials to
officers slain on duty and encourage people to
appreciate the good things that police do. I'm
not saying they're perfect, of course they're not -
I don't know any person that is perfect, never
mind 160,000 people who are perfect. I did it
because I felt very touched by her death."
You often edit your own work - why is that?
"Well I think I'm rather a good editor."
I'm amazed at the range of films you made -
do you ever feel frustrated by the way Death
Wish has pigeonholed you in the public's mind
as an action director?
"Well, it's a pity. I would have preferred
some of the films that I think were every bit as
interesting to have done the same worldwide
business because then I could have, for example,
been doing historical films or comedies more
often! I'd rather, quite frankly, be directing
comedy all the time."
What do you think about the state of the
British film industry?
"It's a very poor state because it's made so
many films that people haven't seen. We tend to
make films that make a statement or please the
artistic minority and we don't make the mass
entertainment like Hollywood. I don't think the
taxpayer should pay for British films that the
public don't want to see."
But you encourage talent as well; can you tell
me about the BAFT A Best Beginner Award?
"They asked me if I would do something for
BAFTA. I had a think and I decided the people I
would like to help are the kids at the bottom who
are struggling, who get a job for a few weeks
and sweep the floor and go and get the pizza.
But they're very important and I thought rather
than give all these awards to people at the top,
let's help the people at the bottom. Not only do
we give them the award but we gave them a
damn good cash prize as well. It was won by
four very young people, they were absolutely
thrilled and I was very happy to give it to them."
Told you he was a nice bloke.
Tony Grew
Kate Bush's new album is reviewed on page 6

