Reviews 11
The Concierge
Starring: Michael J Fox, Gabrielle Anwar
Director: Barry Sonnenfeld
This movie will be discussed in film schools for
years to come. I'm being serious, it's a perfect
example of how a film which should be
successful can go horribly wrong.
Not that this has anything to do with the plot;
it is a starry-eyed 'homage' to the genre of the
New York romantic comedy. Michael J Fox
plays Doug Ireland, the streetwise and genie-like
concierge of the opulent Bradbury Hotel, who
spends his life catering to the whims of guests
while dreaming of building a hotel of his own.
He meets a wealthy entrepreneur named
Hanover, who agrees to finance the construction
provided Doug 'returns his favour' by
babysitting his attractive young mistress, Andy
(played by Gabrielle Anwar). Inevitably, Doug
and Andy end up together as they realise that
Hanover is using both of them for his selfish
purposes.
Despite the promise of the plot, this film is,
on the whole, disappointing. The reason why is
not obvious; the cast are excellent, especially
Michael J Fox, who displays surprising comic
timing in an assured performance. The direction
is rather jolly, with upbeat camera angles and
editing. The problem is the producer, Brian
Grazer, who made the appaling Far And Away.
Doug (Michael J Fox) has problems when he has to babysit Andy (Gabrielle Anwa
His choice of director is simply inappropriate.
Don't get me wrong, Sonnenfeld showed a fine
comic touch with The Addams Family, but his
style just doesn't work with this script.
Consequently, the film lacks the pace needed
to be truly funny. There are, however, several
extremely good gags (approximately one every
twenty minutes), so you are almost guaranteed to
laugh at least once.
This film is almost perfect for those intending
to snog someone in the back row of the cinema -
you won't miss seeing anything important and
every time you come up for breath there will be
a good joke to listen to. The lonesome, on the
other hand, may be better served elsewhere.
Michael
Century
Starring: Robert Stevens, Clive Owen, Miranda
Richardson, Charles Dance,
Director: Stephen Poliakoff
Welcome to the New Century - because this film
is set at the turn of the century.
The interesting things about this are the
parallels made to the time we are living in now,
even though the dimensions are fairly different.
In both cases, a new era is starting. We laugh
about the imaginations they had about the future
just as the people in 2020 will laugh about
current science fiction. Of course, many features
of society have changed but many structures,
especially those concerning power, have
remained. The ways of science have developed,
but somehow many features are not that
different after all.
Nowadays, we are faced with ethical
questions concerning genetical engineering
whereas, at this time, eugenics was actually
considered a serious topic by many academics.
They thought they didn't have to ask the
'underclass' whether they want to be sterilised;
we do not 'ask' the embryos whether they want
to be conceived in a test tube.
The film is beautifully made, with carefully
defined characters. There is Robert Stevens as
M r Reisner, an eccentric and overwhelming
Jewish Scotsman - I think I would like his
parties. Clive Owen plays the ambitious and
very capable Dr Paul Reisner who starts at a
medical research institute but subsequently gets
into severe difficulties. This is not made easier
by the fact that he finds it impossible to tell his
father (who is very enthusiastic about his son's
new career) about the situation. Additionally,
Paul falls in love with Clara (Miranda
Richardson), who is a rather unconventional lab
assistant at the institute.
Charles Dance plays a charismatic figure,
Professor Mandry, the head of the institute,
excellent in his field but secretly ruthless against
everybody standing in his way. Paul suddenly
becomes his brutal enemy after having been his
protege and unfortunately, connections can not
only be made but also broken.
Welcome to the New Century again!
Kristine
The Forbidden Quest
Starring: Joseph O'Connor
Director: Peter Delpeut
This film is expansive in many ways. The use of
historical footage from early expeditions to the
Poles is the most obvious. The slight jerky
images of furlined pioneers are comic, even in
the black and whiteness of the environment they
endure. But the obvious problem with the film is
that the wide encompassing of the plot, a creepy
attempt to find the mythical tunnel between the
two poles, cannot be supported only by repeated
images of men running through the snow and
ships stuck in the ice.
The cohesion between it all is Joseph O'
Connor, who plays the ship's carpenter, the only
cliche to escape the icy ordeal. Yet even he
never really holds in a sufficient way to fully
justify the attempt, however laudable; and it is
laudable.
The point that did trouble me was the killing
of a polar bear. The king of all it surveyed was
broken by means it could not understand. It was
spine chilling.
Tintin
Bo' went to Brighton - read all about it on page 17

