Clubs and Societies 15
The Great Rag Bash: Footballers Not
Bands And Bungee Running Disheartened
Last weekend, lots of fun events were going on
as part of Rag Week. On Friday, Guilds staged
their Carnival in the Union.The Blues Bunch
entertained us with their excellent music and
then some people, including our distinguished
Rag Chair, had a go at the inflatable Sumo
wrestling which was a good laugh.
If that party is anything to go by, next
weekend should be absolutely amazing. First, on
Friday 12th, there is the Rag Bash in the Union.
Entry is £2 (pay on the door) which is a bargain
for the entertainment that will be provided. We
have three bands playing: The Humble Slug
(featuring one of our own sabbaticals),
Silverscreen and Slithey Tove. There will also
be Bungee Running, which should prove to be
fun. The Union will be open until 2am with a
bar until lam.
On Saturday, anyone who wants a good
laugh should watch the Sponsored Nude
Kamikaze Parachute Jump taking place outside
Sharks Spotted
Last weekend saw the first trip this year for IC
Sharks, the Boardsailing Club, to Brightlingsea
in Essex. We left College on Friday afternoon
with seventeen people and as much kit as we
could carry without overloading the minibus
(honestly, constable). After a trouble free
journey we arrived at Essex University Boat
Club. After quickly dumping our stuff we drove
back to Essex University at Colchester, where
we met up with our hosts. As soon as we got
acclimatised to the totally different union bar
(i.e. there were girls there) we went on mass to
check out the disco, which again was different
(there were people dancing) and there we stayed
until it finished.
The next morning we headed for Clacton
beach and some sailing with average wind
Match 1: IC 1 - 0 C X W M S
Match 2: IC 0 - 9 Cambridge University
Only the Dribblers that do both in the same day.
We started off strong, back to the old form with
the keeper only touching the ball once in the
first half and that was for a goal kick. Despite
dominating, we hit the post, the keeper and
everything but the back of the net and at half
time it was still 0 - 0.
Ten minutes into the second half Chris
collected a goal kick and returned it over the
head of the keeper for our first league goal. A
couple of minutes later, also true to form, Chris
re-did last year's injury and had to be carried off
the pitch. Thanks goes to the ref for expert first
aid. A bit of reshuffling and we finished at 1 - 0.
We played our best match yet.
Harrods at midday. This involves the
participants jumping out of a minibus wearing
no clothes and then running as fast as possible to
College without getting arrested first. In the
evening there is a Pub Crawl in aid of Leukemia
Research. Anyone wishing to take part should
meet at 4pm in the Union lounge.Afterwards
there is a party in the union for all
collectors.Many colleges are participating and
there are prizes for top individual collector , top
team and top University;they are a T V for the
individual prize and lots of beer for the latter
two categories.We hope to see lots of you there.
Sunday is the very last day of Rag Week
(aaah!) and it is the day of the Rag Rugby.The
IC Virgins are tackling the Royal School of
Mines team so it should be an excellent match.
Thanks to everyone who has helped towards
the running of Rag Week and we hope everyone
has enjoyed the events so far and most
importantly had fun.
conditions, so everyone could sail with 'relative'
ease. We came off the water as it got dark and
headed for Brightlingsea to defrost ourselves in
the showers. Several hours later, everyone was
showered, we then spent ages deciding which
restaurant to go to, only to find out that our
eventual choice didn't want us, so we got take-
aways instead.
Later, we drove into Clacton once more and
hit one of the local bars (although some of our
number thought the amusements next door
looked much more interesting and took a
detour). At closing time, feeling that we had not
had enough beer, we drove back to the boat club
where we set about finishing the five crates that
we had brought along, as well as a couple of
bottles of spirits. Suffice to say that by the end
We came into the second match (20 minutes
later) still on a high from our win and were
quickly brought back down to earth with three
goals in ten minutes. Well the keeper, Linda,
said she was bored in the first match! After 15
minutes we settled down and played well
defensively. In the second half a cracking shot
from just outside the box was saved by
Julianna's face (on the edge of the box) - yet
another player had to be assisted from the field.
We were out-played and out-classed as the score
shows, but we were playing a team that would
usually take on the U L U side but we're not out
of it yet. The usual post-match boat race was
replaced this week by a wheelchair race at
Ashford Hospital.
I C A F C 1st 2 - 4 Goldsmiths
Having made a tactical withdrawal from the
U A U in order to concentrate on the league and
cup, IC lsts travelled to Goldsmiths with a new
line up and high hopes for their first victory.
We was robbed! Within ten minutes, their
referee gave them a dubious penalty to put them
one up. However, the lads were not dis-
heartened and equalised through Tom Robson's
throw and Bill Khatib's quality finish. Ben
Willis, Tom Robson, Cristas Mettouris and Rob
Williams held the team together until one of
Goldsmith's forwards walked through five
tackles to slip the ball past Mark Nally.
An inspirational talk at half time resulted in
an equaliser. However, suspect midfield play
and poor attitudes from Rickie Dixon, Tellis
Botzios and Alex de Stefano allowed the
Goldsmith's players to queue up to score twice.
We were crap, the sandwiches were awful
but 'lovely boy' Dennis' smile was all that IC
lsts needed for hope for the future (maybe!).
of the evening, everyone had had enough to
drink.
We awoke on Sunday morning to the smell of
a cooked breakfast, just what you need after a
night like that. We set off after breakfast back to
Clacton, where conditions were fairly similar to
Saturday. The only difference was that we
managed to break three boards, a sail and a
boom. We loaded all the kit back onto the
minibus one last time and set off for the boat
club. Once we had made sure that everything
was as we found it, we set off back to London,
with James (or Dorothy as he had been called)
finally getting a chance to drive the bus.
Surprisingly enough we got back to college
without any disasters and so ended the first and
very successful trip for the Sharks this year.
Sports Results
A l l matches were away games and were
played against Brunei University:
Squash:
IC 3 - 2 Brunei
Mens' Hockey:
IC 1st 1 - 1 Brunei
IC 2nd 2 - 0 Brunei
IC 3rd 1 - 1 Brunei
Ladies' Hockey:
IC 1st lost to Brunei
IC 2nd lost to Brunei
(unsure of scores at time of going to press)
Last Weekend At Clacton
Win Some, Lose Some
Overseas Week previewed on page 16

