16 Clubs and Societies
A Preview To The Overseas Societies' Week
Soon, one of Imperial's greatest assets, its multi-
cultural diversity, will come alive. Next week is
Overseas Week. It takes place in the JCR and
runs from Monday 15th November to Friday
19th November, 10am to 4pm. During this
period some of the roughly 2,500 strong
overseas community will display the richness of
its culture to the College. Each day, stalls from
various societies w i l l be run by overseas
students from around the world. A l l 25
constituent societies of the Overseas Students
Committee (OSC) will have the opportunity to
educate and explain their culture to you. At the
stalls will be music, videos and other displays.
You will be able to speak to the society
members and find out more about their country
and its culture.
Overseas Week is just one of many events
organised by the OSC. Their objective is to co-
ordinate and develop the interests of the
overseas students at the college. It achieves this
by supervising and financially supporting the
running of 25 overseas societies, co-ordinating
its own larger scale events and representing the
interests of overseas students on many College
and Union committees.
As with Overseas Week, the OSC tries to
integrate the local and overseas communities by
arranging events that act not only as a meeting
point for international students, but also serve as
a forum where home students can get to know
more about the vast diversity of cultures on
offer. The hugely popular International Nite in
March, as well as many other events organised
by the OSC and its constituent societies, are
open to all students of Imperial College. You
will probably never encounter such diversity
again, so come along and take part!
Christmas Extravaganza!
Where can you experiment with paint and tinsel,
design Christmas cards on an Apple Mac and
watch Father Christmas float in ajar of snow?
How do you give your silhouette to your
friend, write your name in Chinese, capture your
handprint in plaster and smash a rat?
When can you meet Father Christmas,
answer a police quiz and build some scientific
games? What is the date for the best children's
Christmas party in town?
The Christmas Caper is on Sunday 5th
December from 2.30pm-5.30pm in the Sherfield
Building - the children's party with a
distinctively scientific flavour with craft stalls
and games for children of all ages to experiment,
model, paint, design and play. Bob
Thingamybob will entertain younger children
with action songs, magic and a puppet show.
The explainers from the Science Museum will
bring along the best of the Launch Pad exhibits
and Father Christmas will arrive from Lapland
on 'Bo' before entertaining in his festive cabin.
Blue Watch will be on hand with their fire
engine, a fascinating street of 'hands on' and
engineering stalls will intrigue older children
and everyone will be treated to a delicious tea.
This is the ideal opportunity to introduce a
child to the wonders of science, technology and
medicine through an event that will be high
calibre, exciting and enormous fun for you and
your young guests. Do come, it will be a
wondrous day. Don't you wish you'd had the
chance to go to a party like this when you were
under 12?!
For further information and tickets, please
contact HUB, rm 355, Sherfield, ext 3405/3021
We need more volunteers to run craft and
science stalls. Please contact H U B if you can
help.
American
Menu
TUESDAY 16th
NOVEMBER
MAIN DINING
HALL
11.45 - 2.00
SHERFIELD

