Clubs and Societies 17
Imperial College Rifle and Pistol Club
This is the oldest Student Union club at Imperial
College, running continuously since 1908. Its
origins can be traced back to 1859. Past
members included three Commonwealth Games
medalists (one gold and two bronze), four
Olympic Games finalists and two world record
holders. More recently, successes include
retaining the Howe Cup (Universities Long
Range Pistol) for the last five years and winning
all of the last two years' worth of shoulder to
shoulder matches against other universities.
The range is situated in the Sports Centre,
behind the door euphemistically described as
'Projectile Hall'. This is a purpose built range
originally for .22 rifle only, but upgraded to
cater for pistols of all calibres in 1984. There are
plenty of club firearms to choose from and all
instruction and coaching is free.
The subscription is £8 per year and the
ammunition attracts a generous subvention from
the Union. Currently we are shooting every
Wednesday afternoon and all day Saturday each
week and other times by arrangement. The club
has been well endowed with trophies to shoot
for, both individual and inter-CCU.
Shooting is truly a sport for all, we can even
cater for toxophilists (archers) so come along
and give it a try. If you've shot before you may
be interested in competition. There are numerous
disciplines catered for from UIT air rifle to
service pistol. If you are a novice no problem - a
handicap ladder is run to encourage that
competitive edge. We also run trips to other
ranges such as Bisley for full bore rifle shooting
and long range pistol practice. Come along and
give it a try. Y o u don't know what you're
missing.
Bo' Goes To Brighton Rowing Results
The London to Brighton Veteran Car Rally takes
place once every year and is an opportunity for
present day motorists to experience the joys of a
day at the seaside as experienced by their fore-
fathers. It achieves this very well if one
discounts the non-period traffic lights, all the
other cars on the road, and the fact that no-one
in their right mind would choose the first
Sunday in November to go for a drive to the sea,
whatever the historical period.
Last Sunday's veteran car run to Brighton
must qualify as one of the longest Bo' has taken
part in. Ever. What with the ever lengthening
detours up increasingly steep hills (or so it
seems), Bo' and the other 60+ cars are finding it
harder and harder to arrive each year. Bo's
abysmal mechanical condition this year possibly
didn't help either.
To give you a clue as to the sort of effort
Team Bo' (as his maintenance crew is known)
had to undertake, at 10am on Saturday morning
he had no M O T or road tax and most of his
engine was on the garage floor. However, a
small miracle prevailed and somehow all the
requirements for him to reach the start line were
met and off we trundled.
A couple of miles down the road we hit our
first problem and spluttered to an untimely halt
for no apparent reason. On opening the bonnet,
it was found that one of the cylinders had sprung
a water leak and water was now gushing out in a
great arc and landing in the engine air intake,
Half an hour, a tube of bathroom sealant and
several strips of binding rag later we were off
again, this time as far as Streatham, where we
had a puncture. Another quarter of an hour and a
new inner tube was what it took to get us back
on the road on this occasion. By now we were
well behind the rest of the field and discovered
that all the helpful police who marshal you
through red lights had gone home. This made
trying to catch up harder, even more so when we
hit the first real hill, overheated and broke down
again. Another stop to cool and refill with water
and off to Redhill, our first scheduled stop!
As the engine was very stiff at this point, we
added several squirts of oil to the pistons to get
them moving and, suitably freed up, we were off
again at a comparatively cracking pace. We kept
this up with only a couple of stops (one to
change co-driver) until Brighton, where we
discovered fortune had smiled on us - it hadn't
rained all day!! Eventually, we crept over the
finishing line with only 45 minutes to spare
before it was closed, having taken seven and a
quarter hours to cover 58 miles.
Thanks for getting us there must go to all
concerned, especially the Jez and Clem crews
who helped to get Bo' to the start line (and also
helped en route) and Dr Crofton for his sterling
work as our trailer driver and general mentor for
the event. To all who were there - it was great to
see you. To those who weren't, we hope to see
you next year, whether you are Guilds, RCS or
RSM. The Brighton Run is something you will
(cliche!) remember for the rest of your life.
The Boat Club entered a smaller than usual team
for the Fullers Brewery Four Head of the River,
four and a half miles from Mortlake to Putney.
A very strong headwind in the middle of the
race caused big margins to separate crews.
Considering that three of the seven IC entries
had been re-shuffled in the last week, our results
were encouraging.
The best performances were by the women's
lightweight four (pictured in Felix 977) who
were the fastest women overall finishing
strongly in 101st place. The college senior II
coxless four, who finished 22nd out of the 500
crews, won their division by a massive margin
also beating all the senior I crews and were the
sixth placed sweep-oared boat. The college
senior I coxless were denied their pennant by a
disastrous crash in the final minute.
Overall, the college performed well with four
crews in the top 50, posting their intentions for
the coming season after the recent heavy
national (and student) press coverage of Bill
Mason's coaching achievements.
Results in short:
17th IC I Quad Senior 2 Scull (4th)
22nd IC V Senior 2 Coxless 4 (Winners)
28th IC II Quad Senior 2 Scull (7th)
49th IC III Senior 1 Coxed 4 (2nd)
79th Queen's Tower II Senior 3 Coxed 4 (3rd)
80th IC IV Senior 1 Coxless 4 (3rd)
101st Queen's Tower I Women's Open Coxless
4 (Winners)
Sports results deadline is 8pm on Wednesday

