18 Feature
Lots Of Fun
The Photographic Society is a club on the move
in more senses than one. Not only have we
moved into a brand new darkroom, but we are
also expanding into other areas. These include
studio photography, presentations by guest
speakers and trips to exhibitions and galleries.
The club's raison d'etre is to allow your interest
in photography to develop and to teach you how
to make your own prints and to develop your
films.
But why develop and print your own pictures
when you can get it done in the shop? Three
good reasons: Firstly, save yourself money -
guaranteed unbeatable prices and half price
black and white films. Secondly, you are
completely unrestricted in the size and style of
picture you want - this is particularly useful for
those personalised posters of your dreams.
Finally, you can express yourself artistically -
there are numerous printing techniques which
we can show you that can transform the
ordinary into the fantastic.
This year has seen the opening of a brand
new darkroom which is equipped with a full
range of equipment for both colour and black
and white film. It is in this spacious
environment that much more of the club's
activites take place, including assistance in
those first few delicate development sessions.
The darkroom is stocked with films, paper and
chemicals to make it as convenient as possible.
Feature 19
In The Dark
The main activities this term include a
number of group sessions for printing,
developing and studio work. These offer a great
chance to meet new and interesting people and
to learn skills that you would find difficult to
acquire elsewhere. Last Wednesday saw the first
of our presentations by guest speakers, which
will be a regular feature throughout the year
and w i l l cover photojournalism, portrait
photography and more. Wednesday night saw
Oliver Sheregold presenting slides of his
expedition to the Pamir, Tadjikistan to over
forty people. He gave a fascinating insight into
taking pictures in difficult conditions (such as
climbing shear ice faces), camera in one hand
and rope in the other!
Later in the year we are holding an
exhibition of photographs by our members, an
exciting prospect for many people to show off
the fruits of their labour. The exhibition brings
the club together and the opening nights are
social events not to be missed.
If you feel chained down by the limitations
of the everyday shapshot taker, the
Photographic Society can solve your problems.
For more information see us in Southside
lounge every Tuesday at l p m or in the
darkroom on Wednesday afternoons, (3rd floor,
Union Building) or contact the Society's
Chairman, Andy Forbes, via the Mech Eng
undergraduate pigoenholes.

