20 Clubs and Societies
ICSF Presents: Jurassic Park and Kim Newman
Imperial College Science Fiction Society (ICSF)
is pleased to present this coming week the
highest-grossing film of a l l time: Steven
Spielberg's Jurassic Park.
Since you all know the story, I shan't bother
to regurgitate it here. The special effects are
courtesy of various industry wizards who,
between them, brought you Aliens, the
Robocops and the Star Wars trilogy. They are, of
course, still just as fabulous as they were when
you first saw them. Other features worthy of
mention are (Sir) Richard Attenborough's really
rather good performance, the great Hawaii
location photography and John Williams' terrific
score, surely one of the best and almost certain
to get a nod at next year's Oscars.
Anoraks like me are also going to love all of
Spielberg's classic, ET-ish torchlights-being-
waved-around-in-dusty-atmosphere shots. The
film's rather scary, as if you hadn't guessed, so
bring along someone's hand to hold tightly.
The ICSF showings are at 5pm and 8pm on
Sunday and at 7pm on Tuesday and cost £2 for
everyone to get in to.
As a special offer, for just these two days, the
cost of annual membership has been cut to just
£1. For that, you also get (depth breath) to
borrow 3,000 books, graphic novels and videos
and you also get into our video screenings and
guest speaker talks for nothing as well as our
other films for 60p less than if you weren't a
member. Good, eh? Y o u ' l l really believe
dinosaurs could exist and i f adventure has a
name, it must be Jurassic Park.
On Monday 15th November we present Kim
Newman, film critic for magazines too
numerous to mention and SF/Horror novelist
('Anno Dracule', "The Night Mayor', 'Jags' and
various 'Warhammer' short stories). He'll be
answering questions and being interviewed in
Chem Eng LT1 at 7pm. Entry is free to ICSF
and Japan Society members. Please note that
ICSF membership is back to £3 for this event.
FilmSoc Presents: Jurassic Park
Firstly, we must apologise for the distinct lack of
'varied entertainment'. Unfortunately Jurassic
Park was only available for a seven day run and
consequently the said film is being run for eight
days.
I don't think many words need be said about
this film, except that it's already taken
something in the region of a quarter of a billion
pounds. Again, as with his other films, Spielberg
has excelled himself again and Michael
Lantieri's special effects really need to be seen
on the big screen to be appreciated. All in all, a
great evening out.
This week's 'Chairman's Choice' is a bit of a
mystery. When I first looked at UIP's 'late show
product' list, my eyes were diverted to a film
entitled Private Parts. I then looked at the film's
certificate 18.1 don't think that this really needs
more plugging.
By the way, my salesperson at UIP says it
involves voyeurism, sadomasochism and sex.
Good late show material - bring your mates.
Jurassic Park (PG) is being screened on Sunday
14th at 5pm and 8pm, Mon 15th - Thu 18th at
7pm and Fri 19th - Sun 21st at 5pm and 8pm.
Private Parts (18) is being screened on Saturday
13th at 11pm only.
Coming Soon: Harrison Ford stars in The
Fugitive on 12th December.
City & Guilds CollegeAssociation
Career Networking Reception
at the National LiberalClub
Meetpast Guilds Students already working in
Engineering, the Professions andthe City
TUESDAY 23rd NOVEMBER
Wine and Refreshments FREE to COCA Members
Student CGCA membership is only £3
More information from the Guilds Office, Level 3, Mech Eng or Room 301, Sheffield Building

