imperial College Union 21
The President Speaks
What is the Union doing about the Student Union Reforms and what will b
happening at next week's Union General Meeting? Andy Wensley tells all.
Student Union Reforms
...it would be illegalfor Imperial College Union to
fund the Orchestra...
Elections
In order to work for you, the Union has many
Student Officers. They may run clubs, work
on welfare issues or academic problems,
serve on committees, help make financial
decisions...the list goes on.
These officers are democratically elected
at Union General Meetings, like the one
coming up on Friday 19th November.
There are three posts currently available:
The Accommodation Officer.
Had problems with your hall of residence in
the past? Do you feel that accommodation
for Imperial College students should be made
better? Then this could be the job for you.
Liaising with hall committees, wardens, the
Accommodation Office, working with other
Union Officers, the experience could be
highly valuable for later life.
The Communications Officer.
The Communications Officer exists to let
you know what the Union is doing. The
Officer is responsible for the internal
promotion of campaigns, meetings and
issues. Along with the Events and Marketing
Manager, the Officer helps to promote the
services of the Union to the community of
Imperial College. Do you think of yourself as
a budding PR officer? This could be the one
for you.
Felix Business Manager.
Fancy babysitting the 'budget' of Felix and
the Print Unit? Described by a previous
Business Manager as 'hard work', this post
gives you a valuable insight into business
and how Felix and the Print Unit operate.
How do I get elected?
Simple. Opposite from the Union Office in
Beit Quad are the 'papers'. It is here that you
sign up your name and get the person
proposing you and your seconders to do the
same. They must all be registered students of
Imperial College. The papers will stay up
until 12.30pm on Friday 19th November.
Where am I elected?
You will be elected at the Union General
Meeting, lpm, Friday 19th November in the
JCR.
Any questions?
Just contact Andy Wensley, I C U President
either on extension 3501 or pop into the
Union Office for a chat. He'll be happy to
see you and to answer any questions that you
may have.
If you haven't yet realised, the Government
wants to change what student unions, like ours,
can spend their grants on. The changes would
mean our Union could only fund a limited
number of activities:
• Sport
• Welfare
• Internal Representation
• Catering.
This means that most of our clubs could not
receive funding; it would be illegal for Imperial
College Union to fund the Orchestra, for
example.
Just as concerning are the ways in which the
Government wants student unions to ensure that
they do not spend money illegally. To enforce
the proposed 'cost centring' measures would
mean more time, more staff and consequently
more money being spent on administration
instead of on student activities.
Over the last few months, student unions
have been responding to these proposals, saying
how their students would be affected, usually to
the detriment of student welfare. Imperial
College Union has been doing just that. A
detailed report was sent to the Secretary of State
reporting how Imperial College students would
be affected, how their 150 clubs and societies
would be damaged and how much extra money
we would have to find from non-public sources.
If these proposals were implemented, we may
have to find over £200,000 - a lot of money in
anyone's language.
Now that our formal report has gone to the
Government, the Union isn't stopping there. A
petition urging the Secretary of State to
reconsider the proposed reforms is making its
way around the departments. By last Friday, it
had already gathered over 750 signatures from
only four departments! If you haven't heard
about it, contact your Departmental
Representative; there still is time if you want to
sign. Union Officers are meeting local MPs,
telling them how their student voters will be
affected. Hopefully, a mass letter writing
campaign should be starting soon, where you
can all write to your local M P and tell him what
you think about these reforms.
What can we expect? From numerous
sources we are already hearing that the
Government is taking note of what student
unions, universities and other organisations are
saying and may be changing their proposals.
They may even be dropping the entire proposal.
To find that out, we can only wait. In the mean
time our student union will carry on talking,
working and convincing people that student
welfare has to be protected, that student unions
play a valuable role in the life of an institution
such as Imperial College.
If you want to know any more about the
student union reform and what Imperial College
Union is doing, come to the Union Office, 1st
floor of the Union Building, Beit Quad and ask
to see the President, Andy Wensley. He'll be
only too happy to talk to you.
Union General Meeting -
Next Friday, lpm, JCR
This is the forum where you can determine what
Imperial College Union should be doing. It is
also the place where you can question the Union
Officers on what they have been doing on your
behalf since the last Union General Meeting
(UGM) and where you can elect new Officers to
work for you.
The next U G M will be held on Friday 19th
November in the J C R (off the Sherfield
Walkway) at lpm.
Each meeting has several parts:
• reports
• questions
• elections
• motions.
The reports are given by Union Officers.
You can ask them questions on their reports and
any other part of their work you want to know
about. There are elections for new Officers and
motions directing the Union and affecting
students are debated and voted on.
If you want to submit a motion for the U G M ,
it must reach the Union Office by 6pm today. If
you want to submit a motion later than that, talk
to the President.
If you want to stand for a post, see the article
titled 'Elections' elsewhere on this page.
Remember, the motions must be handed in
today but the U G M is a week today on Friday
19th November.
Motions must be submitted to the Union Office by 6pm today

