22 Letters
Editorial
Fundamental Mistake
This last week I had the pleasure of various
members of the Islamic Society complaining at
great length to me about a Diary entry in last
week's Felix. They were all objecting about the
entry for the Fundamentalist Society which was
supposed to be advertising their Friday prayers.
They were unamused at being referred to as
Fundamentalists and they each tried to argue at
great length that I should have known that no
such society existed.
The Diary entry in question was handed in to
the Felix Office with the society name listed as
the 'Fundamentalist Society'. With so many
societies within Imperial College Union
(somewhere in the region of 150) and with new
societies being formed all the time, why
shouldn't there be one called the Fundamentalist
Society. Sounds quite possible to me. Certain
meirlbers of the Islamic Society didn't seem to
think so.
The individual responsible for submitting the
Diary entry left a note in my pigeonhole letting
me know that his/her foolishness had 'pissed a
lot of folks off. I'd never have guessed. The
person also requested a large anonymous
apology to be printed on their behalf. The
Islamic Society members requested an apology
from me. I am not going to apologise and I am
not going to print an apology from someone who
does not have the guts to admit to their fellow
society members that they call the Islamic
Society the Fundamentalist Society.
One final comment: Thanks to Amir for
putting his point in writing. The letter is short
and to the point, which is more than can be said
for the 'discussions' I had with some members
of the Islamic Society.
Hyped Up And Over The Top
Late last Wednesday evening, whilst the news
team were in the midst of writing the news,
Felix received a press release concerning the
withdrawal of the cover of the rowing magazine,
Regatta. The exact same release went to
numerous other news institutions around the
country. We did not receive a press release
informing us of Bill Mason's Associateship or
his Medal of Honour.
We do not deny that the Boat Club under the
coaching of B i l l Mason has achieved great
things, but we cannot, surprisingly enough,
report on news that we know nothing about.
Maybe if this 'magnificent achievement' meant
so much to the Boat Club, they could have
ensured that Felix was made aware of it. We
would then have been able to report on it.
Could K. Woods please come into the office
with some form of ID.
All letters must be accompanied by a Union card or
some other form of identification. Letters without
this will not be published in the future.
Hyped Up And Over The Top
Dear Rebecca,
I was very disappointed with the article in
issue 978 of Felix concerning the withdrawal of
the latest issue of 'Regatta' magazine, and in
particular the manner in which Bill Mason, the
Boathouse Manager and coach, was portrayed.
Bill Mason has made an enormous contribution
to the College and the Boat Club in his fourteen
years with us, resulting in his being awarded an
Associateship of the College and the Amateur
Rowing Association Medal of Honour last
month. These honours are the highest possible
recognitions of his long and dedicated service to
the College and the sport of rowing. However it
took a very unfortunate incident before Felix
reported these magnificent achievements, and
only then in an uncomplimentary manner. The
article written by Michael Ingram, went, in my
opinion, way over the top in an attempt to 'hype-
up' the story, by emphasising the possible
likeness of the withdrawn cover photo with a
terrorist. The publication of such an article, like
the publication of the photo, is "inappropriate in
any circumstances". The photo in question was
taken over six months ago, in the middle of
winter, when such dress is essential for a rowing
coach who could be out on the water for an hour
and a half in average temperatures of ten degrees
below freezing. (Two years ago, the Cambridge
coach ended up in hospital with pneumonia as a
result of not taking sufficient precautions against
the weather.) We also believe that the photo has
been touched up to make M r Mason's clothing
appear completely black.
I should add that on the same day that Felix
was released, a half page article was published
in the Daily Telegraph, on the success of Bill
Mason's coaching and the recent awards that he
has received. Imperial featured very favourably
in the article - it would be nice if we could
recognise within the College, some of the things
for which the College achieves national, and
even international acclaim.
Ben Poulton
ICBC Captain.
CAREERS INFORMATION
There are three Careers Talks this coming week
in different venues.
Tuesday 16th November: Accountancy by Mr
James Robb of CASIS and M r Alan Morris,
Financial Director, Sirnmons & Simmons in The
Clore Theatre, Huxley LT213, lpm - 1.50pm.
Tuesday 16th November: Civil Engineering by
Mr Peter Rutter of Scott Wilson Kirkpatrick &
Partners in Civil L T 208, lpm - 1.50pm.
Thursday 18th November: Industrial Research
by Dr Kerry Mashford of Unilever Research in
the Clore Theatre, Huxley L T 213, l p m -
1.50pm.
A l l undergraduates and postgraduates are
welcome. No need to book - just turn up.
Improve your Interview Skills is a short
course for all students on Wednesday 17th
November from 2pm to 4pm in Huxley Room
344. Sign up in the Careers Office.
For further information come to the Careers
Office, Room 310 Sherfield - open from 10am
to 5.15pm Monday to Friday.
A Duty Careers Adviser is available for
quick queries from lpm - 2pm daily.
SMALL ADS
Professional Stringing Service for all racket
sports available here in IC. Call Jinyee on
college ext 4336 or alternatively drop by rm
227, Chem Eng Dept.
Students needed for stewarding at a College
function on Wed 17th Nov, 5.30-7.30pm. £3.50
per hr. If you are interested, contact Michelle or
Mandy in the Union Office or call ext 3500.
Save Charing Cross Hospital
Crisis Candlelit Vigil
on Remembrance Sunday
14th November
outside Charing Cross Hospital
from 7pm - 8pm
Credits
Andy Thompson
Rose Atkins
Steve Newhouse
Simon Govier
Andrew Tseng
Joe McFadden
Michael Ingram
Shaun Joynson
Lynn Bravey
Jon Jordan
Owain Bennallack
Rekha Nayak
Kamran Malik
Juliette Decock
Tony Grew
Charlie Leary
Penguin
Kin Wei Lee
Sphinx
Diana Harrison
Ivan Chan
Becky from Rag
Collating last week:
Jon Jordan
Owain Bennallack
Penguin
Ivan Chan
Steve Newhouse
Joe McFadden
The deadline for letters is 6pm on Monday

