Letters 23
Rag Mag Lacks Laughability
Wot No Letters?
Dear Bee,
I couldn't help but notice the lack of letters
on the letters page of Felix last week. Why
could this be? Is it because you've banned the
Christianity vs Islam vs Conservative Society
letters? Or are IC students even more apathetic
than they used to be? Or is Felix so boring that
no one reads it let along bothers to correspond?
Maybe it's a combination of all three. Who am I
to judge? Here's a letter for this week anyway
just to prove that someone still reads the letters
page.
Rachel Mountford.
Fundamental
Mistake
Dear Rebecca,
You publicised 'Friday Prayers' as being
organised by 'The Fundamentalist Society'
(Felix 978 5th November 1993).
Why were some of the Rag Events not
publicised (in a similar vein) as:
'Alcoholics Festival' (3rd November)
'Stripper Auction' (4th November) and
'Sponsored Indecent Exposure' (13th
November)?
Sincerely,
Amir Rehman Khan
Dept of Computing.
Price Tags
Dear Beccy
I was very interested to read your editorial in
issue 978 of Felix. Although your opinion of
being careful with money does you credit, I do
object to your reference of purchasing musical
equipment as 'frittering money away'. Any
hobby is worthwhile to the person concerned,
although other people may not be able to
understand spending time and money on a
particular pursuit, they must recognise that
entertainment takes many forms and has
different values to people.
As a person very into clubs and societies, I
can perfectly understand the motivation that
people have towards their chosen activity. Some
activities do cost a lot of money and it is
necessary in a lot of cases to buy equipment you
need before you can indulge. One person may
consider spending money as unnecessary, but I
think that anyone would agree that you cannot
put a price tag on entertainment.
Yours anonymously,
The Deputy President
(Clubs and Societies)
Dear Beccy,
It is definitely one of the 'most looked
forward to' events of the year at Imperial
College. But I am afraid to say that this year it
just hasn't lived up to the expectations placed
upon it from the previous years. I am talking
about the '94 Rag Mag.
From the first reading I was seriously not
impressed. What happened to an amusing cover?
What happened to the sexist, racist and general
slag off everyone jokes. I don't think the
political climate can be blamed for such a lack
of jokes that make IC Rag Mag the best in
Britain. There is no "This is offensive" warning
on the front page, the start of the downfall? Then
what happened to the offensive pull out section?
The dead baby jokes? The 'have to be included'
homosexual jokes? Talking about old
jokes...why so many, if they were the funny ones
I may have let you off, but they are the 'not at
all funny' old jokes. Don't you think that the
Essex girl books published about two years ago
Dear Editor,
I am spending my first year as a student in
London, studying for an MSc. Having applied
for accommodation in the student halls, I was
told that as a student from the E E C I was
unlikely to obtain satisfaction. In September
having had no response from the
accommodation office, I rang them only to learn
that all available accommodation had been
allocated to students of a higher priority. By
then, finding private accommodation within my
budget proved very difficult, as it was already
coining to mid-September.
On starting my course I learned that a
classmate of mine who's permanent address is
along with the Sun newspaper may have just
covered all the possible combinations of Essex
girl jokes. Even as late as 1982 we were still
printing holocaust jokes, but then we can't
oppress the Jews for too long, I suppose they
might get offended.
Seeing the editors of the mag are women,
perhaps the fact that most women tend to act
politically correct and go on lovely marches
through London for a worthwhile cause, acted
against their ability to include some more of the
more offensive jokes.
I am sure that this years Rag Mag will sell as
well as last years, but how will this edition affect
future years when some good (racist, sexist, slag
them all off) jokes are included. I sincerely hope
the laugh ability of future mags will
automatically bring an increase in sales and so
more money for charity.
Yours not laughing at all,
Frank Poole
P.S. No Islamic jokes at all, what is going on?
less than one hour from Imperial is living in the
South Ealing estate (Clayponds Hall). What's
more, since the beginning of term and to this
day, this hall is filled to only approximately 70%
of its capacity.
It appears to me that the Accommodation
Office is run in a rather unprofessional manner.
Furthermore, would the Accommodation Office
please explain why they turned me (and many
others no doubt) down, only to end up with
spare rooms in some halls; also, would they
please clarify the logic behind their selection
process.
A frustrated student, paying £70/week for
private accommodation, (name & dept supplied)
Hypnosis Hiccup
Dear Beccy,
I would like to make an apology and an
explanation to everyone who came to the
Hypnosis event on Tuesday 9th November. I'm
sorry that the start of the event was delayed by
45 mins. This was due to the considerably late
arrival of Geno Washington himself for which
we got no explanation or apology. He arrived at
8pm and not at the previously arranged time of
6.30pm which meant that we hadn't been able to
perform all the necessary sound checks and
previous arrangements that normally proceed
before an event begins. Therefore I'd like to
apologise for any inconvenience caused by the
late starting and ending of the event and I hope
that everyone had a most enjoyable evening.
I would also like to extend a very large
thanks to everyone who helped on the evening,
and I know that Steve from I.C. Radio would
endorse these thanks, especially to Andy Nu and
his Dramsoc Crew, B.J., Andy Kerr and all the
other Ents people who helped, Rob from I.C.
Radio for the Disco and to everyone else helped
on the night. Also I'd like to thank Beccy Land
for letting me squeeze this into Felix at the last
moment and for the rest of the help she's given
all term.
Many thanks,
Jane Hoyle
Rag Chair 93-94
Accommodation Frustration
Details of this year's Christmas Caper are on page 16

