4 Reviews
The Busybody
The Busybody, by Susanna Centlivre, is a
restoration comedy written in the early 1700s
and is an adventurous undertaking by Southbank
Productions. The dialogue is eloquent
eighteenth century, the poetry rich and witty, the
prose clever and bawdy. The action takes place
on a chequered dance floor which is a symbol of
the perpetual manoeuvring between the
characters. The dialogue is punctuated with
ballroom dancing - an interesting touch as the
characters metaphorically dance around one
another.
The characters include Sir George Airy and
Charles, two rich young fops with plenty of
spare time to indulge in matters of the heart.
Marplot is the interfering fool. Sir Jealous
Traffick is the puritanical father of Isabinda.
Patch and Whisper are the chamber maid and
footman respectively, who keep the wheels of
'lurve' lubricated and running throughout.
Memorable performances came from Steven
Woodhouse (Sir Jealous Traffic) and Jeremy
Fowlds (Marplot), with some excellent body
language from Patch and Whisper (Catherine
Standen and Harry Gostelow).
In the final analysis, an audience full of wine
guzzling wastrels would complement the play.
So, theatre lovers, dust down those eighteenth
century threads, shamble down to Battersea,
pick up a large bottle of claret and enjoy.
Lisa and Rob
Bridge Lane Theatre, Bridge Lane, Battersea,
London SW11. Telephone 071-228 8828. Cones
£6.50. Ends 20th Nov.
i i f i
Soiree
Fresh from the Edinburgh Festival, the Yvette
Bozsik Theatre Company fuse acting, dance and
mime in this memorable double bill. If this
combination might lead you to expect an
evening of gratuitous piddling about, think
again, for Bozsik achieves a refreshingly
unpretentious observation of human behaviour.
Soiree examines the developing relationships
of two women and a man at a party. The former
are relentlessly vying for the latter who is
forever losing interest and falling asleep.
The stylistic, even ritualistic, movement and
dance allows the characters to develop slowly
and in detail. In one superb tableau, they are
drinking champagne. Eva Magyar sips
seductively, Robin Blackledge takes the bouquet
with nonchalant panache, Bozsik stares
awkwardly down into her glass. It's all captured
with unerring simplicity and honesty - and as an
observation of life is a thorough success.
Billed as a companion piece, Interiors is a
(yet) more intimate and erotic one, a meticulous
(almost too meticulous) interpretation of piano
music by Chopin, Ligeti and Satie.
If you are interested in theatre it's a show
you can't ignore. It's the very essence of fringe:
simple talent and offbeat creativity and if the
intricacy of Soiree occasionally fails to keep the
attention, it's worth it for the sheer beauty of
Yvette Bozsik and her captivating performance.
Mike
Hampstead Theatre, Avenue Rd, NW1, 071 722
9301, Swiss Cottage tube. Tickets: £8 - £12.50,
cones £4 (not Sat eve). Ends 13th November
Exact Change
The simple story interwoven with juicy and
intriguing details opens up with a set on which
no expense was spared.
The three characters, all partners in a
business (the business being a semi-grotty bar)
meet one Sunday to discuss their financial
arrangements with the Mafia. They can't pay (if
they did the play would be very dull) and hence
resort to a drastic measure to get some cash and
fast.
Kevin McNally and Steven O'Shea do well
as the extras to Mike McShane, even though
they wouldn't like being referred to in that
manner.
But the truth must be said, Mike McShane is
the star. He delivers one liners that are funnier
than those produced on Whose Line Is It
Anyway? with an ability that's hard to top. It is
shame however that the rest of the play has the
same Whose Line Is It Anyway? feel to it
because it tarnishes what would have been a
shiny, prime example of a blend of comedy and
not-to-serious drama.
The end, to my annoyance, wasn't left open,
it just wasn't finished properly. Apart from that,
I see no reason not to spend a bit of money on
tickets.
Harry
Lyric Hammersmith, King St, W6, 081 741
2311, Hammersmith tube. Tickets: £7.50 - £10.
Ends 6th December
The Party
Card
The Party Card, by Russian playwright Nicolai
Erdman and translated by Peter Tegel, is a farce
in the same tradition as the Whitehall farces or
those of Michael Frayn's. The play was written
in 1924 when there was a tremendous flowering
of creativity in the arts which came to an abrupt
halt with Stalin's reign. While much of Europe
was trying to put World War One behind it,
Mother Russia was coming to terms with life
under Communism.
The Party Card is the story of two families,
the Guliatchkins, once monied but now fallen on
hard times and the Smetaniches, wealthy and
powerful. The Smetaniches have everything
except... a party card, essential protection in
these times! Mrs Guliatchkin's plan, hatched
with M r Smetanich's eager endorsement, is to
marry off her daughter to Valerian Smetanich
and offer her son, Pavel, as a party official - the
dowry.
The only trouble is that Pavel is not a
Communist, does not have a card and besides,
does not even know a member of the working
class, apart from the family maid, Anastasia. As
if this doesn't forebode enough trouble, Mrs
Guliatchkin's trials are added to when she is
asked by an aristocratic friend to look after a
very valuable dress that once belonged to a
member of the last Czar's family.
In the best tradition of farce, the play is full
of cases of mistaken identity, unfortunate
timings and potty characters. The company, The
Wedding Collective, clearly enjoyed their
performance. Jim Pyke (Pavel) is just right as a
young man who takes to playing the heavy
handed party official with alarming zeal.
Varvara Guliatchkin, his sister, is divine as a
young lady who is desperately keen to snap up
Valerian Smetanich. Patrick Kealey plays
Valerian, a droopy young man who is rather
suspicious of his intended's peculiar behaviour.
Anastasia, the goofy, good humoured maid is
wonderfully played by Sue Maund, and David
Price as the much maligned neighbour
Shironkin, is perfect as a man who is always
raging (and losing) against the world.
No-one escapes the ridicule and pity of
Erdman, the Communists, the capitalists, the
monarchists, the working and middle classes - in
fact all of Mother Russia. The play is very funny
and the company have made excellent use of
limited resources. Beneath the humour lies a
truth: because we all aspire to a country in our
own image, we fight over its possession, only to
find that one group cannot exist without the
other. The losers in this power game are those
who belong to neither side.
One last note, much of the humour directed
against the aristocracy and middle classes
seemed rather close for comfort and I wondered
if seventy years on, the implied criticisms were
more relevant to Great Britain than Russia.
Ariana Sen
New End Theatre, 27 New End, NW3. 071 794
0022. Hampstead tube.Tickets: £8.50 (£9 on
Sat), cones: £6 (not Sat).
Next Week: A review of Looking Through A Glass Onion

