Reviews 7
Pipers Who Call The T\me
The Docklands Sinfonietta are playing three fresh and different programmes
in the Queen Elizabeth Hall this month, under the baton of conductor Sian
Edwards. Patrick Wood talks to her about concert-giving in the capital.
Sian Edwards, Music Director of the English National Opera
At first glance, London, with its five major
symphony orchestras, seems in rude musical
health. But the Arts Council thinks differently
and is going ahead with plans to withdraw
funding from two of them. The Philharmonia,
Royal Philharmonic and London Philharmonic
orchestras have submitted bids to a committee
who will select a winner to receive an increased
grant. For the other two there will be nothing.
The reasoning is that there is no longer a
broad enough audience base to support all these
orchestras and the cut-throat competition
prevents any one orchestra reaching the
standards of the Berlin or the Vienna
Philharmonic. While this may sound like an
attempt to give an acceptable face to a cost-
cutting exercise, a disappointing lack of variety
in the programming of recent seasons (the BBC
Symphony excepted) begs the question of
whether London concert-goers are really getting
five orchestras' worth of repertoire.
Later this month, Sian Edwards, best known
as Music Director of the English National Opera,
conducts the Docklands Sinfonietta in three
concerts which contains more interesting music
than some other orchestras manage in a year.
Edwards offers a plausible explanation for
the current homogeneity of many concert
programmes: "Now we have such wide access to
mass media of all types, it's more clear perhaps what
pieces people will buy and what they won't, whereas
in Brahms' lifetime, people were less aware in South
Germany what someone in North Germany was
writing. It's a phenomenon of the 20th century
that serious classical music has split off from the
mainstream and become a thing in itself."
The resulting exclusion of people from all but
a small number of classical pieces is something
which calls for longer-term measures than the
planned orchestral cull: "I know that the
orchestras themselves have very strong
education projects going and have done an
enormous amount of work in sending their
players to schools and trying to make a whole
scene of classical music more user-friendly. It's
not just a problem of having five orchestras all
chasing a tiny audience."
The forthcoming Docklands Sinfonietta
concerts feature works such as Takemitsu's Tree
Line, Berg's Violin Concerto, Kurt Weill's
Second Symphony, and Lutoslawski's lyrical
modern masterpiece, Chantefleurs et
Chantefables. But doesn't the fact that the
orchestra is entirely privately funded put more
pressure on the conductor to choose a
marketable programme? Edwards feels that the
flexibility of the freelance Docklands players
allows them to target more adventurous concert-
goers. "Because we don't play all the time, we
only get together for specific concerts at certain
times. We're able to tap into that particular
audience. So what we're doing are works which
interest the orchestra at the moment. It's a very
exciting time for us because in the middle of
these concerts we're taking two programmes to
the Wien Modern Festival, and that had some
bearing on the works that we chose because the
Festival is featuring Takemitsu."
The third concert, with its Lutoslawski and
Szymanowski, fits nicely into the B B C Polish
Season and, in the second concert, another
Polish composer, Penderecki, provides the only
really uncompromising dose of modernity with
his Intermezzo, six minutes of fascinating, hair-
raising quarter-tone slitherings and spiky
rhythms for 24 strings.
Penderecki's later tonal style and the post-
minimalism of Gorecki, among others, seem to
be doing something to counteract the in-
difference felt by audiences in general towards
contemporary music. Edwards believes that this
feeling of alienation "is a problem that people
need to address, but not by writing works
because they want to get an audience in. Each
one must go in their own direction, but I do
think it's interesting that people feel they have to
go back to a tonal centre to reaffirm their
musical beliefs." Cautiously: "I don't find
anything wrong with that, intrinsically. Whether
you like the music or not is another matter."
Edwards prefers to woo her audience by
subtler means, once remarking that she would
like her concerts to have more of the ambience
of, say, a jazz club. "Yes - the worst thing I think
can happen is that people come and feel that
they're almost afraid to be human. I really do
like it when an audience feels they can be
relaxed, that they don't have to sit rigidly in their
seats and 'appreciate' the music as if it was
some kind of product being put out that they
can't have a response to there and then. They've
just got to take it in as high culture. I think all
that is very stultifying. I love it when audiences
are fresh and they respond; in the opera house
they laugh, they cry, that's what it's all about.
And I think that if an audience really does have a
sense of excitement and elation at the end of a
concert, that's wonderful and I really hope that
people feel they can respond in that way."
Future plans include Jan&cek and Berlioz,
both on the stage and in the concert hall, as well
as a continued commitment to new repertoire.
"I'm interested in doing new music and hope I'll
continue to do that. I think Britain has a huge
group of interesting and talented composers at
the moment."
Hopefully, there are also enough interested
and adventurous concert-goers and sponsors to
ensure that the new and the different continue to
have a place on London's concert platforms.
The Docklands Sinfonietta, sponsored by
Morgan Stanley International, are at the Queen
Elizabeth Hall at 7.45 pm on the 16th, 23rd and
26th of November. Box Office (071) 928 8800.
The author gratefully acknowledges the
assistance of Neil Bond of IC Radio in carrying
out this interview.
A review of The Concierge is on page 11

