Reviews
I I I
I I I
Gate, Gate
by Andrew Nickolds
and Richard Stoneman
Beware of books that use silly quotes to
advertise themselves! Gate, Gate is one such
book. Thus we find that Halley described it as
"No comet" and that King Harold considered it
"better than a poke in the eye with a sharp
stick". The book, it must be said, is based on
sound premises: to discover the great inter-
connectedness between 'Somethingorothergates'.
We begin with 'Hawking-gate', a reflection
on space, time and the brain behind it all. Via
Applegate (what was Eve really doing?),
Watergate (hardly avoidable) and Hoovergate (a
cunning newtheory, linking Kennedy's
assassination with a famous make of vacuum
cleaner), we reach the climax, 'Thatchergate'.
By using a mixture of spoof newspaper
cuttings, imaginary taped dialogues, and
fabricated evidence, the authors give us a
refreshing and witty vision of history's major
events. Or maybe not. Unfortunately Gate, Gate
is another one of these books that will invariably
end up in your toilet because, having been
unable to cope with it in one go, you will
attempt to read it whilst answering the call of
nature, bit by bit, chapter by chapter and,
essentially, crap by crap.
It is not that the book is fundamentally bad, it
is just not good; a collection of unrelated
chapters that fail to be more than rib-ticklers and
come short of satire. Maybe worth a look at...
but only in someone else's loo.
Oliver Cow.
Published by Pan Books
Price: £4.99.
Tom and the
Island of
Dinosaurs
by Ian Beck
Can you think of a single marketable product
that hasn't exploited the wave of 'dinomania'
that has been sweeping the world? No? Well, I
don't think anyone's failed to notice it unless
they're completely deaf, dumb, blind and
hibernate from January to January.
This seemingly innocent book is yet another
ploy to confuse vulnerable youngsters of these
long-extinct reptile predecessors of ours. The
book subtly suggests that two little kids were the
saviours of "the last dinosaurs of the whole
world" when they cleverly rescue them from a
volcanic eruption. What it doesn't say is
whether the event was pre-Jurassic Park or post.
But for this annoying attribute of the story
line, this hardback will be much loved by all
those who have a dormant adventurer lurking
within them. Ian Beck is a splendiforous
illustrator who matches that talent with literary
simplicity. The magnificent illustrations are
enough in themselves to tell the story without
the text (also excellent). The true spirit of high
adventure is captured by the consistent use of
deep yet realistic colours. Thoroughly
recommended as a present for that irresistibly
cute little cousin, nephew or niece, though
you'll need to save up a few weeks in advance.
Ziegler
Published by: Doubleday
Price: £8.99 (hardback)
i
The Deal
by Peter Lefcourt
"Ladies and Gentlemen may I present the latest
$30 million blockbuster from award winning
producer Charlie Burns: Bill and Ben - William
Gladstone and Benjamin Disraeli and protective
tariffs in England in the 1870s (the movie)."
No, doesn't sound very likely does it? But
this hysterical book goes into the making of this
world famous screenplay. Okay, so the plot
changes a little during rewrites, such that
Disraeli is played by the current Schwartz-his-
name-again lookalike and ends up being shot in
Yugoslavia (some very definitely politically
incorrect jokes about Bosnians and Serbs made
in the process), but made it is...
Read the book. It's funny, contains what
must be the 'chic-est' suicide attempt on record
(involving a Mercedes 560 SEL and Eine Kleine
Nachtmusik) and makes very little sense the
whole way through. Marvel as everyone tries to
muscle in: Rabbi 'are we talking above the line
here?' Emprin, Norman ' M y shares. Should I
dump them now or wait?' Hubris, and many,
many others.
It's pulp, gets a little tedious towards towards
the end, is typically overpriced at £4.99 for a
paperback but is a rollicking good read. "I
couldn't put it down", as the actress said to the
bishop.
M . J .
Published by: Arrow
Price: £4.99
Sin
by Josephine Hart
To say that Sin is an obsessive, civilised tale of
hatred within a middle class family would be an
understatement. In the style of Damage,
calamitous events result from jealousy and lust.
Elizabeth is the favourite daughter of her
adoptive Aunt and Uncle. Ruth is their natural
child who grows up with an intense, jealous
hatred of the "golden" Elizabeth. "First born but
not the first child" is her impetus to invade and
destroy her sister's life. A l l else is secondary,
including career and a suffering husband. Only
the reader is privileged to glimpse Ruth's
terrifying, disturbed psyche.
Freak accidents force a situation whereby
Ruth is able to inflict pain. This she does,
satisfying her briefly, until fate deals a severe
retribution. Henceforth, we enter a collapsing
world destined for ultimate tragedy.
With Sin, Hart shows a mastery of
minimalistic yet elegant prose determinedly
preying on the voyeuristic tendency that resides
in all of us. Or is it just me?
Ethan
Published by: Arrow
Price: £5.99 (paperback)
lll:
flra
The Lightless
Dome
by Douglas Hill
We have to nuke Canada now. It's the only
solution. Y'see, this is the third fantasy novel by
a Canadian author reviewed in Felix recently,
and all three have sucked. Coincidence? Ha! An
insidious attempt at psychological warfare, more
like. But wasn't Douglas Hill only born in
Canada; hasn't he lived in London for thirty
years? Well, yes, but my guess is he's some
kind of sleeper agent...
If any masochists still want to know what the
book is about, try this: Our hero is Red Cordell.
He finds himself transported to a magical land
of cardboard cutout characters, recycled plots
and naff sex scenes. The rest of the story is as
predictable as poisoned apples and about as
interesting. Anyone who survives this book can
then look forward to the rest of the trilogy.
Can't wait.
Now, has anyone ever noticed how the
Canadian flag is mostly red? A n d they say
international communism is dead...
Joe
Published by.Pan
Price: £8.99 (paperback)
There is a Photographic Society feature on pages 18 & 19

