Page 8 F E L I X 19th March, 1974
F E U X
S P O R T
1
X-COUNTRY
Saturday, 2nd March saw the few remaining
stalwart members of the X-country club meeting
at St. Pancras at the unearthly hour of 9.00 a.m.
The reason was that yearly farce, the English Na-
tional Championships, held this year in a suitably
muddy park in Sheffield. However, we did not
leave unnoticed — our poor injured captain was
there to wave us goodbye—mainly because he
couldn't work out how to get four rail tickets under
a Southside door. His journey was not wasted how-
ever. We sold LSE the four tickets for a tenner—
it kept us in beer money for a while. . . .
But that's another story! Mike Welford was our
sole representative in the four mile Youth race
(is he still under age?). He saw the course at its
best, and true to form ran at his worst coming
a masterful three hundred odd out of only a few
more.
In the 6 mile Junior event we finished a team
with lan Ellis finishing quite well up coming 152
followed by Dave Houlbrook 194, Keith Ahlens
213 and not quite last Pete Johnson 218.
The only Senior foolish enough to brave the by
now very muddy 9 mile course was Steve Webb
who eventually finished after being gone for the
best part of an hour in position 894—about 100
from the back.
The running now finished we got down to the
serious business of drinking. Two scouts were sent
to explore Sheffield looking for an off-licence, but
then discovered the pubs had opened. Dave and
Steve were reported to have run the fastest mile
of the day getting from the pub back to the train
with the beer.
Wednesday, 5th was the date of the last London
Colleges League race. At the end of the previous
League race the 1st team were in the precarious
position of being 3rd in the 1st division 7 points
ahead of Royal Vets. However Parly Hill took its
toll and we failed to retain this position, eventu-
ally finishing 4th behind vets. Notable perform-
ances of the day were lan Ellis in 20th place and
another lan (making yet another comeback) in 81st
place. Other team results were the 2nd team 4th,
the 3rd team 9th, and 4th team (super 'W's) 17th,
all in division 2. A l l , however, was not lost, as
lan managed to wangle medals for the 4th team
in division one this year. This was celebrated in
traditional style with yet another jug evening (I
really don't know how Pete can afford to buy all
those jugs).
Saturday, 9th the runners went yet again to
Parly Hill for a U.L. match and the P.A.'s went to
Lewisham for some training on Young's Ale. The
first streaker of Wimbledon was reported to have
been seen doing press-ups on the changing room
floor. If any Gaysoc member wants the address of
this place please contact 'Sailor' c / o Union Letter
Rack (under'S').
The Fire Brigade relay on the morning of Sun-
day, 10th deserves a write up but I can't remem-
ber too much about it as, like most present, I was
recovering from Saturday night. Granny set the
pace in first leg covering the 3 mile course in
approx. 15.40. The times then got worse, Dave
Jones doing 16.30, Pete Johnson 18.19 and Steve
17.00. Pad defected to LSE and did his usual job
as a fifth columnist returning in a time of 18.24.
We finished 44th but this could have been im-
proved upon somewhat if members of our regular
1st team had put down their ale and run instead of
some of the above mentioned runners.
Future events include the 5,000m 'all stars'
race, the dinner and Isle of Man trip at Easter.
And on that note if anyone has a large plastic
dustbin (no lid) that is guaranteed watertight, and
they are not using it at Easter please contact C. H .
Under, ,c/o Union Bar. We might need it for the
boat crossing.
A happy easter to all our readers.
W.W.
GOLF
THE SOCIETY TRAIN ARRIVES
AT ITS WATERLOO
It is never pleasant to record a defeat in one's
memoirs, particularly when one's recent past has
been dominated by an unbroken string of victories.
However, it was a defeat that we suffered against
Southampton on Wednesday, 5th March, crush-
ing our hopes of a speedy victory in the League.
Southampton proved a devious bunch, primarily
due to a committee which prides itself upon its
skill at subterfuge. It was they who christened I.C.,
U.C., and Reading as the 'Big Three' for the title
thus lulling us into a false sense of security over
our chances against the remaining 'riff-raff opposi-
tion. Much blame for the defeat must thus go to
the committee who decided that this would be an
'easy' match and so we could forego our tradi-
tional late night tactics talk plus film at the local
Jacey. As a result we were not able to give our
players the usual information about their oppon-
ents (e.g. 'He's from a broken home, hates people
blowing bassoons while he's putting and gets
upset if you tread on his balls). Thus our boys
were at a disadvantage when they faced South-
ampton's 'Side of the Century' (i.e. six players).
Unlike ours, their committee knew exactly what
they were up against and had filmed reports pre-
pared on all of our players as well as several back
numbers of 'Felix'. This documentary evidence un-
doubtedly played a crucial role in the subsequent
victory they derived. Evidence of this can easily
be brought into view when one sees that Mike
Strickland suffered his first ever defeat in this
match by four and three. In a confidential discus-
sion with the press later he confessed that he was
somewhat put off by his opponent's funny walk.
'How did his opponent know to do a funny walk?'
I hear you ask. Well, all I know is that in Mike's
confidential file it says that he is averse to funny
walks and that the last borrower of this file was
a certain Q.E. Too from Southampton, it does not
take a genius to see that Q.E. Too is a pseudonym
for 'Southampton Golfing Society' and thus we
can conclude that the I.C. Golfing Society had been
investigated prior to the match.
In the match itself, Bill Calderwood suffered a
rare defeat by four and three mainly because he
failed to find his usual 'par-busting' form on that
blustery day. New cap Mick Carr lost his opening
singles by one hole after a stirring comeback. He
was three down with four to play and pulled back
three holes on the trot to tie the match at the
seventeenth. His loss of the eighteenth hole was
apparently due to a freak blast of wind which car-
ried his ball into unpenetratable jungle. When I
checked this with the Met office they confirmed
that such a wind had indeed crossed the course
at the time. When I enquired as to its likely origin
I was informed 'Southampton'. Hmm, the plot
thickens. Chris Cobbledick chalked up another vic-
tory for the society by the margin of four and two.
I gather that he never had to extend himself. Mike
Marx was recalled to the team for this match but
unfortunately was opposed by an on-form opponent
who defeated him three and two. Mike you will
recall gained fame in the Barts match when he
defeated the renowned Jim Foster ('Big Brother'
to the I.C. Captain). This feat alone has earned him
a place in the coveted Society 'Gallery of Stars'.
The only other result to record is the victory
of John Mendonca by five and four. He played
almost to par for this match giving his opponent no
chance. I have heard since that he is an ex-Portu-
guese Youth International; thus his place in the
team is unlikely to be in jeopardy for some time.
So we lost 4-2; a sad defeat but one to remind
us that even great teams are fallible.
Team:— Bill Calderwood (Capt.), John Men-
donca, Mike Strickland, Chris Cobbledick, Mick
Carr, Mike Marx.
HOCKEY
I.C. 2nd XI 2, Hendon 3rd XI 3.
Basically the better team on the day won. Hen-
don had ample opportunities to open the scoring
in the first half but failed to capitalise on them.
Half time came with I.C. leading by 2-0 thanks to
two goals by Tim Feline. However, in the second
half the I.C. performance, with one or two excep-
tions, became even worse and Hendon soon drew
level. Their winning goal came from a penalty
flick, which although correctly awarded was
illegally taken. This was overall a poor perform-
ance by an I.C. side capable of much better things.
I.C. 2nd XI 4, Barnes 3rd XI 1.
Due to numerous excuses, I.C. could only field
seven players in this match. However, Barnes lent
us two players and an enjoyable match ensued.
Ably led by captain-for-the-day Dave Price (lan
Read having declined to play as he was suffering
from what is known in horse racing circles as
"the cough"). I.C. and guests emerged as com-
fortable winners. Within five minutes I.C. opened
the scoring with a brilliant goal by Julie (yes, he's
still here) Andrews (guess who wrote this re-
port?). Two more goals quickly followed both
scored by one of our guest players. Although
Barnes did score in the second half a second goal
by J . A . ensured that I.C. emerged as comfortable
winners. After the match, the Barnes players did
complain, with justification, about our lack of play-
ers, however, a few drinks in the bar soon calmed
ruffled feelings.
I.C. MIXED HOCKEY
REPORT
Despite fielding a slightly weaker side than usual
(due to the presence of a first team game at the
same time) I.C. defeated Guinness by 3-2. Storm-
ing into the attack straight from the bully I.C. came
close to scoring on numerous occasions but fine
goalkeeping by that ex-I.C. star Sid Boulton pre-
vented a goal. In fact it was Guinness who opened
the scoring with a well taken goal following a mis-
take by a certain long-serving member of the
hockey club who shall remain nameless. The sec-
ond half started similarly to the first and eventu-
ally I.C. equalised with a fine goal by Andrew Hall.
A second goal soon followed from Viv Hughes
(—the sheer pace of the shot deceived Sid). To-
wards the end of the game lan Read somehow
managed to score (miracles do happen) and Guin-
ness added their second goal in injury time.
Team:— Nigel Harrison; Shirley Fairweather,
John Andrews (O.A.P.); Dave Balderson, Andrew
Hall, Anita Tellam; Geraldine Bowden, Norman
Sayles (appearance courtesy of I.C.U.), lan Read,
Viv Hughes, Sarah Horn.
IC 1sts 1, v.
Presidents XI 5
An IC 1st team, very
depleted in strength and
only able to field 10
players took to the field
against what was to turn
out to be a very strong
President's XI. Notable
old faces included Dave
Richman (captain, lasf
year's 1sts), Chris Fork-
clodger, - Pete Bates,
Julie Sargent (old IC
captain now with Black-
heath (who are they?)
hockey club), and John
Astley. The president
had in point of fact pull-
ed 'a fast one' on IC by
fielding one of our own
players, Jack Gahir,
against us.
Having left the field
at half-time we later
took revenge by feeding
him a little too much
beer after the match.
Enjoy the trip home in
the van, Jack?
The President's XI
proved to be competent
in stopping the IC XI's
efforts sometimes by un-
usual means. Perhaps
the scoreline should also
credit the President's XI
with one cut and black-
ened eye and cut up
mouth, produced on
Mick Downs by Julie
Sargent, and another
belt across the face of
Tim Hanson by Dave
Richman. These are ack-
nowledged accidents but
did show up the IC
attack.
The one IC goal was
scored by Nigel Wood-
house from the penalty
spot after Mick Downs,
complete with swollen
features, was viciously
cut down by the goal-
keeper whilst measuring
up the angle to score
with. Although the goal
score is excessive IC
held the opposition well,
and were only slightly
down at half-time. How-
ever, the pressure prov-
ed too much and their
goals came as the result
of some silly mistakes.
Dave Riicbman got a very
weak flick past an un-
believing defence, and
(contd. page 7)

