Students' rights to stay in Hall at Christmas? 'No—they've got no rights
anyway. '—Senior Assistant Finance Officer, Malcolm Aldridge
Southside sold out
Students of Southside and Linstead halls
have no guarantee that they can live in hall
over Christmas, according to M r .
Malcolm Aldridge of the Finance
Department at IC.
'No student is entitled to residence in
hall', he stated, though he said there would
be no problem except in the above
mentioned halls, where only half the
rooms were available for students. Priority
would be given to overseas students who
had to stay he said. In the minutes to the
students residence comittee (SRC) of last
November it states that 'all students would
continue to pay one weekly rent for the
Christmas break, which would entitle
them to leave their possesions in the room
and occupy it for seven days'.
'A lot of water has gone under the
bridge since then', said M r Aldridge. He
admitted that they might break this r u l e -
students may have to remove their luggage
to storerooms if rooms cannot be found
for the Christmas conferences. Last
Christmas had no conferences so the
problem didn't arise. Mr Aldridge said
that if the halls became overcrowded they
would advertise in Felix for rooms in other
halls for the displaced students.
He added that 'we have a contractual
obligation to the conferences which we
cannot back down from; we have no
obligation to the students—they may be
required to vacate a room' .On being
pressed if students had a right to stay in
their rooms if they so wished he replied
'No—they've got no rights anyway.'
An additional rule this year is that
students must pay rent at the normal rate
for all the Christmas holiday, and not just
for one week getting the rest of the holiday
rent free, as with last year. M r Aldridge
concluded ' I cannot give a cast iron
guarantee to please everybody'
Ms Loretto O'Callaghan, of the
Accomodation Office, declined to
comment on most of the questions, but
said that problems were unlikely to arise
as not very many students usually stayed
over Christmas, though she admitted that
there was the possibility of difficulties.
Dr John Hassard, warden of Tizard and
Selkirk Halls also said that not that many
students would want to stay, so no clash
would occur.
Professor New , warden of Falmouth-
Keogh hall said 'it's highly likely that it's
all a storm in a tea cup.' He said that the
number of rooms needed was 'not all that
great.' 'It's not an ideal situation,' he said,
'everybody realises it's a compromise'
IC's Director of Undergraduate Studies becomesfirstlocal councilor to instigate
Clause 28 of Government bill
Glad to be Levitt
ICs director of Undergraduate Studies, Dr
Bryan Levitt, is behind Kensington and
Chelsea Borough Councils plans to be the
first London council to use the
controversial 'Clause 28' against its
homosexual community. The clause, from
the recent Conservtive Local Government
Act, explicitly forbids local councils from
openly 'promoting' homosexuality. It has
been condemmed by civil liberties groups
who claim that it gives too much room for
prejudice.
The council has decided to stop funding
the 'Notting Hill Lesbian and Gay Youth
Group' apparently without consulting any
of its members or any outside specialists.
Dr Levitt believes that the group promotes
homosexuality at an age when people are
still unsure of their sexual preferences,
adding that he 'wouldn't want to
encourage sexual experience for anyone
under the age of 18'. Despite this, he
claimed to be aware of his own
heterosexuality at the age of 16, but said
that was different.
Imperial College Welfare Officer,
Jackie Scott, told FELIX that attitutes
towards homosexuals at IC had 'improved
dramatically over the last few years' and
said it was worrying that a key member
of college could apparently hold such
'narrow minded opinions'

