THE
DELATOR
COLUMN
I have been asked to clarify a statement made in last
week's column regarding the department of Electrical
Engineering. The decision taken by some lecturers to
leave was based solely on their dissatisfaction with
an academic appointment. It was not intended to infer
that the exodus of staff was due to poor lecturing.
Hammersmith &
Fulham:
Fraudulent?
Hammersmith and Fulham council were bailed out
by the high court last week over some very dubious
business practices. The decision to invalidate deals
made by council leaders in the period 1987-89 has
left five major banks in deficit to the tune of £500m.
The activities, known as 'interest-rate swaps', are
highly speculative. What the leaders of Hammersmith
and Fulham council did amounts to nothing more than
glorified gambling. The leaders of the council (of both
political parties) were playing kismet with rate-payers'
money.
It seems fraudulent to enter into a deal and later to
try and renege on it because it had started to make
a loss. The amount to be covered by the banks is
directly the fault of the council leaders. Furthermore,
the Labour-controlled authority has admitted in the
high court that it undertook illegal transactions.
Bearing this in mind, it seems farcical that council
leaders have got off scott free. There should be some
provision in law to account for what is tantamount
to defrauding the banks of such a large sum of money.
Maybe any civil action taken will remedy this.
Rottweilers risk
to children
Yet another incident with rottweilers hit the papers
this week. A four year old child was attacked by a
pack of three and needed 21 stitches. The dogs have
not been destroyed due to a loophole in the law.
The clauses laid down in the new Dangerous Dogs
Act (1989) require owners to be accountable for large
dogs-such as rottweilers or alsatians. Failure to
comply can result in the animal being put down. This
does not apply to the incident in question, since it
occured before the passing of the bill.
This new act has been welcomed, particularly in the
wake of recent attacks. However, I feel it does not
go far enough.
All breeds of dog that are considered a possible
danger to life, such as the rottweiler, should be made
illegal to possess in the home. These genetic
mutations belong in zoos or in the wild. The risk to
human life, especially children, is far too great to allow
these animals to exist in an artificial habitat.
S m a l l A d s
ADVERTISE IN THE FELIX SMALL ADS SECTION
FREE IF YOU ARE A MEMBER OF IMPERIAL
COLLEGE UNION
ANNOUNCMENTS
• Ladies Only-Wednesday 15th November sees
the start of a ladies only Water Polo session to be
held at IC Sports Centre at 6.30pm. If you're
interested, or better, enthusiastic, be there and
don't miss out on the fun.
• Singer needed for College band. Supreme vocal
ability not essential, liveliness helps. Influences
include Stones, Hendrix, Clash, Bowie etc. Gigs
this term. Anyone with any interest contact R
Isaacs or D Whiting, Life Sci IV.
• SF Lovers do it non-stop. Video marathon, Sat
11 Nov, 10am-?, Union SCR, at least £1 to Rag.
• Keep-Fit Club: Anyone wishing to join should
come to Southside Gym during a lesson. Details of
classes in What's On guide. (Trial lessons
available.I
• Overseas Students-If you wish to spend
Christmas with an English family in the country, it
may be possible to arrange this through HOST
(Hosting for Overseas Students). We need to
know now! Please ask for a form from the
International Students Office, Room 335 Sherfield
Building or from the Kensington Committee of
Friendship for Overseas Students, Basement, 13
Princes Gardens, SW7.
• Bored, depressed, tired of life? Come and work
for the Conference Office-as one of the leading
employers of cloakroom attendants in the
business. Good pay (£2.60 ph), excellent
conditions and a great chance to read up on that
thesis you always meant to. Call in for
application....today!
• Jewish Society is having a meeting on
Tuesday November 14 at 1.30pm in the Union
SCR. The meeting is entitled 'Reasons and
revelations, the controversy over philosophy' by
Rabbi Rashi Simon.
• Interested in Competitive Cycling? Contact Rob
Harwood, Life Sci III. Beginners welcome.
• Gain experience and earn £1000+ working in
the USA next summer. For further details contact
G Narine, Physics.
FOR SALE
• Large Sanyo microwave oven. Perfect working
order-1 need the money! £50 ono. Contact:
Steph Parkin via Life Sci pigeonholes or 03727
42406 (after 6pm).
ACCOMMODATION
• 2 people to share flat in West Kensington. Rent
£60 per week. Deposit £260. Excellent location.
West Ken, West Brompton Tube stations nearby
(5-10 mins). TV, telephone, shower, etc. Contact
Nomtha Gawe on ext 3531 at lunchtimes or
evenings or through Materials pigeonholes.
• Double/Single rooms in Wood Green. Phone
368 0606 after 6.00pm. Would suit Greek person.
PERSONAL
• How does Eva kill herself? See for yourself in
'Absurd Person Singular', 7.30pm Sat 11th,
Concert Hall-it's a pisser!
• Rabid dogs, laxatives, gas, electricotion,
exkrutiating boordome, bad spelling: Absurd
Person Singular. How does Eva kill herself?
Dramsoc at Scabnite, 7.30pm Saturday.
• Cream crackers wanted. Transport provided,
fone 3531.
Toby.
Page 10

