• Myth: Soviets deny Arms Treaty Violations. Some
do: we asked our Soviet students if they thought the
Krasnoyarsk phased-array radar violated the ABM
treaty. Some nervously said that they had never heard
of it; most thought it was OK, including one who lived
in its shadow in the Siberian Steppes. Then academic
Sagdeev stepped up and blew it for his junior
colleagues. Yes, of course it violated the ABM treaty,
dammit, and it was a stupid mistake which will cost
over 1 bn roubles to put right. But why had the US
waited until Reagan's Star Wars speech to point it out,
when they'd known about it for ages?
• Myth: Military and political needs drive the arms
race. Wrong. Ted Taylor, from the US and an expert
in weapon development, claimed that the weapon
developers in bath blocs make new gadgets first, then
take them to their political and military masters, like
a dog with a bone. 'Do you want it?' they ask, and
the answer is always 'Yes'. Take penetrating
warheads: An exciting technology which allows the
targetting of underground bunkers and command and
control centes. Strategically, they are of dubious
utility: in a nuclear exchange, probably the last thing
you want to do is kill the people who can stop the
thing. But the technology is very exciting, and is
attracting big funding.
*Myth: Mankind learns from science. Maybe, but
with a delay of centuries. Academic Sergei Kapitza,
head of the Moscow Institute of Physical Problems,
worries that too few politicians know any science.
Politics, he claims, has yet to reach the statistical
physics and thermodynamics of the 19th century, let
alone the non-linear dynamics, turbulence and chaos
of our century. It's firmly rooted in Newtonian action-
reaction. The solution? Scientists must force
themselves, if not to leave their ivory towers, at least
to start shouting from them.
*Myth: cockroaches are different from people.
Unfortunately, from a chemical toxicity point of view,
it's all too easy to convert pesticide plants to chemical
weapons plants, claimed a key Soviet ex-worker in
this field. The US decision to continue with binary
weapons even if a treaty is in place was no surprise.
But don't despair: unlike cockroaches, people can
learn to cooperate, to inspect each other's plants. We
must, he concluded, or we bequeath our world to
them.
*Myth: God has no place in Soviet Society. Wrong.
We saw many demonstrating Ukrainian Catholics
arousing much benign interest in Arbatskaya (a sort
of Covent Garden Market). We visited Orthodox
seminaries. Our translator dismissively claimed that
there were only 70 or 80 million practising Christians
in the Soviet Union. One Soviet nuclear physicist
claimed that God had made the half-life of Tritium,
needed for H-bombs, only 12 years so as to set the
pace of nuclear disarmament.
*Myth: Soviet students don't know what the state
doesn't want them to know. They knew about
Chernobyl, and how to organise protests. They knew
about, and largely approved of, the Nationalist
movements in the Baltic, especially in so far as they
are environmentalists. They knew about acid rain, and
the damage to their forests. They also knew about
Acid House and Heavy Metal, though all seemed to
prefer the Beatles. One even knew about credit cards
and Euroyen forward exchange rates.
And that's the way it's all going.
Vinita Khanna
UK participation was funded by Imperial College and
the British Council. Views expressed here do not
necessarily reflect those of either organisation. The
Second International Summer School on Science and
World Policy will be held in Washington DC next July.
Changing over to nuclearfuels may not be an answer to the greenhouse
effect. To use less energy may. be a better solution
Nuclear illusions in the
greenhouse windows
Ever since the 'green' conversion of the Government
we have been repeatedly told that the best way to
reduce C 0 2 emission is by a massive expansion of the
nuclear power industry. It is undoubtedly true that
producing electricity with nuclear fuel does release
less C 0 2 (and other greenhouse gases) into the
atmosphere, but by concentrating on this point alone
we are only looking at one part of a multi-faceted
problem and so could unwittingly increase the
greenhouse effect.
The main problem with the pro-nuclear solution is
that carbon dioxide from coal fired power stations only
constitutes 10% (approx) of the total produced on
earth. So even if we converted completely to nuclear
power the larger contributions from transport, oil and
gas combustion (20% +) deforestation (approx 20%)
and CFC's (14%) and, amusing as it may sound,
'farting' animals, combined with rice paddies and pipe
leakage, (18%), would remain unchanged.
Looked at in this light the nuclear power debate
seems an irrelevant one. Why should we spend billions
in solving only one tenth of the problem? To replace
all of the world's coal fired power stations by 2025,
allowing for a 2% increase in consumption per year
would mean a new nuclear plant being built every 1-2
days. This would increase the number of reactors from
398 to 8,000 at a cost of around $2 billion each. Even
if this kind of expansion could happen, no geologically
safe technology exists to dispose of the waste we
have now, let alone that from 8,000 reactors.
Uranium too would eventually become a problem, but
for the opposite reason: there wouldn't be enough of
it-like oil and coal it's a finite resource. To use less
energy may be a better solution.
The Government's own adivisers have indicated
that energy consumption in the UK could be reduced
by 40% (per capita) by 2025. Examples of ways in
which we could save energy would be using new
technology which makes new buildings 75% more
efficient than before, a better, subsidised public
transport service, setting efficiency standards for new
electrical appliances, and using longer lasting
fluorescent light bulbs instead of incandescent ones.
Schemes such as using methane gas from rubbish tips
and coal gasfires (ie turning coal into methane before
combustion) could also reduce the amount of non-
renewables used. These schemes could be introduced
in a few months, instead of the six years minimum
for a new nuclear plant to be built. We don't have six
years to waste.
The true madness of expanding nuclear power in
an effort to combat the greenhouse effect is realised
when we consider the Third World countries. All of
the underdeveloped nations want their chance to
enjoy the prosperity that we have had this century-
we have no right to stop them. However for them to
compete in a nuclear powered world they would have
to spend around $64 billion per year on power. This
figure is laughable when you consider that the Third
World nations owe over $1000 billion now and have
to pay $50 billion just in interest every year. It really
is up to the developed countries to research cheap,
effective, energy saving technology, so that the
underdeveloped nations have an alternative to the
slippery slope of atmosphere polluting industrialisation
that we have pursued.
According to the USA institute, an energy saving
strategy can be up to seven times more cost effective
in reducing C 0 2 than a nuclear strategy. Why then
does the Government persist with its expansion
ideas?...A vision of the miners' strike springs to
mind-wouldn't life at no 10 be much easier without
a lot of bolshy miners? Also, if you're as keen on
nuclear weapons as Mrs Thatcher is, then a
guaranteed supply of plutonium is necessary.
Therefore by promoting nuclear power at the
expense of energy efficiency schemes, we are in very
serious danger of the greenhouse effect continuing to
accelerate. This could lead to devastating floods, food
shortages, loss of drinking water supplies and wars,
to name but a few. There are also most sinister
overtones such as an increased arms race, terrorists
utilising readily available plutonium and accidents.
To quote Greenpeace 'There is no room in the
greenhouse for nuclear illusions'.
Clare Davis, Geology 3.
Page 13

