President
McCluskey
Welfare
At the beginning of term I mentioned at both of the
Rector's Receptions the problems often experienced
by students being approached by members of religious
'cults'. It has come to my attention that students of
this College are being pestered yet again. Everyone
has the right to follow whatever religion they care to
but people should also be aware of what they are
getting into. To this extent INFORM (Information
Network Focus On Religious Movements) was set up.
Based in the London School of Economics its aims are
to supply information about religious movements. If
you have any doubts about any movement please
don't hesitate in contacting them.
INFORM
Lionel Robbins Building
10 Portugal Street
London WC2A 2HD
Tel: 01-831 4990
If you do experience any problems do not hesitate in
letting me know.
Accommodation
Following my comments last week in FELIX I was
visited by the Manager of Hamlet Gardens, Matthew
Bridgwater. Matthew was a little disturbed at what
I said about Hamlet Gardens. My comments were
based on what I had seen at Hamlet Gardens last year,
in order to update my experiences of those flats I will
be having a look around some of the flats with
Matthew this week.
With reference to Willis Jackson House and the
stories about its warden then I have this to say: I am
grateful to FELIX for bringing my attention to the
problems with the amenities accounts but I do
sympathise with Joe Cartwright, the warden, to a
certain extent. I myself sent a letter of reprimand to
Joe Cartwright, this he took very well and on speaking
to him and other wardens it is apparent that wardens
are quite often left in the dark as to what their
responsibilities and duties are. Joe was in this position
and has now learnt. I hope that this year the wardens
can get together and tie down some of their
responsibilities and duties and put them onto paper
for future use. I have heard very little from people in
halls of residence so I presume everything is going
fairly well, if this is the case; congratulations to the
wardens, the sub-wardens and the re-apps.
PS. I hope I never hear again somebody suggesting
removing fire appliances from halls or head tenancies!!
Conferences
Kings College European Society and London Young
Europeans will be hosting a conference at the New
Theatre, Kings College, London, tomorrow between
10am and 5pm entitled '1992: Your Career'. Cost
is £3 for the day and speakers include notables from
British Airways, BAT Industries, Electricity Council,
Nat West 1992 Unit. Further details available from the
Union Office.
N.B. McCluskey, ICU President 1989/90
Calamvokis the king
of rags
Rag week is now in full swing, so here's a recap of
the events:
Tonight: Hypnosis Lecture, 7.30pm, Great Hall
(£2.50).
Saturday 11th: Poppy Day Rag Raid, sign up at the
Beer Festival. The Sci Fi Marathon starts at noon in
the SCR and SCAB Night is at 8pm in the Concert Hall.
Sunday 12th: The Raft Race and Tug 'o' War start
at 11 pm in Prince's Gardens with a Reconciliation Bar
Night afterwards.
Monday 13th: Comedy Night at 8.30pm in the
Concert hall.
Tuesday 14th: Guilds Slave Auction at 12.45pm in
Mech Eng 220 and the RSM Dirty Disco at 8pm in the
JCR.
Wednesday 15th: Bar Quiz at 7.30pm (no
vodaphones).
Thursday 16th: Exec Torture, AeroSoc Darts and
Monster Boat Race all at 12.45pm in Beit Quad. The
RCS Smoking Concert in the evening at 8.30pm in the
Concert Hall.
Firday 17th: Dance Marathon in the JCR and the
Guilds Carnival at 8pm in the Union Building.
Saturday 18th: 24-hour Collection somewhere and
Nude Kamikazi Parachute Jump.
Enough said?
Hal Calamvokis, Rag Chair
Turner's tiny trainers
Why is it that I never have space to talk about 'nice'
things-because there are so many incompetent
people about!
This week I'm going to have a minor gripe at the
College Estates Section, with particular emphasis on
a chap called lb Hagen. Now, this man is supposed
to deal with ICU Deputy President, Dave Williams,
when problems occur with Union facilities. Then Mr
Hagen sends the boys round to do the business.
Usually this is OK. But with the issue of replacing
the Union Gym floor, which is to be carried out over
the Christmas hols, thus affecting very few people,
Mr Hagen has been a little over-zealous. He assumed,
without consulting Dave, that because we want to
replace the Union Gym floor, students obviously aren't
using it!
On this basis he ordered the wood for the floor,
thinking it could be stored in the Gym. This rather
stupid assumption, backed up by lack of
communication (how much does an internal phone call
cost your department, lb?) has resulted in severe
inconvenience to all the clubs that use the Union Gym
for the period up till the Christmas break, as there is
no other place to store the wood.
Sorry, everyone, but gross incompetence strikes
again. Remember, when you work hard to build things
up from below, it requires only one lapse for you to
be sh*t on from above.
15 Page

