Football | Rugby
IC 1sts-3 Goldsmiths-1
IC extended their lead at the top of the ULU Premier
Division, crushing second-placed Goldsmiths with a
display of clinical finishing. IC had developed an
alarming habit of playing atrocious football until they
conceded a goal. So it was again with Goldsmiths-
all over for the first 15 minutes so deservedly taking
the lead with a sweetly struck half volley. This
stunned the IC boys into action and they immediately
began imposing themselves on the match. Femi
Omotoya levelled the scores with a delightful finish
from Adam Thomas through-ball and Pip Peel
thumped home a defender-assisted goal from outside
the box to give IC the half-time lead.
IC started the second half sluggishly but still looked
the sharper in front of the goal. Toni de Lyon secured
the points midway through the half when his
spectacular overhead kick found its way through a
packed area into the net. High drama followed soon
after though when Felix Francis, already cautioned in
the first half, was dismissed for a cynical foul-running
a full 35 yards to viciously chop down his man!
Reduced to 10 men, IC were forced to defend but Stu
Miller marshalled the back men superbly and
Goldsmiths were held to shooting from outside the
box. IC still had the audacity to attack and Pat
Fancock cracked in a 30 yarder, only for it to be ruled
offside.
Surrey-1 IC 1sts-1
IC dropped their first point of the season in a game
they really should have won, totally outclassing Surrey
University in the second half.
On a difficult pitch IC struggled early on to move
the ball around and Surrey had much of the early
running. IC, though, had the better chances, Pat
Fancock dipping a shot just over the bar. An
uncharacteristic mistake led to Surrey's goal-George
Habib and Felix Francis collided allowing the Surrey
number 9 to nip around Si Holden and score. From
then on the IC pressure was relentless, but it took an
own goal by the Surrey keeper punching an inswinging
Pat Fancock corner into his own net, to bring the
scores level midway through the second half. IC
pressed forward for the winner and several chances
went desperately close, the best being when Pip Peel
hit the post but Adam Thomas could only fire the
rebound at the keeper.
IC 1st XV-14 Surrey 1st XV-7
IC expected this match to be one of the hardest in the
UAU round. This was true and the team found
themselves coming away with a narrow but well
earned win.
All match the Surrey team unsettled the stronger
IC team by infringing around the scrum and lineout,
generally being a bit of a nuisance all round and IC
were not helped in this respect by a poor standard of
refereeing. IC always had the upper hand in every
department but almost certain balls were lost by
stupid knockons, mistakes or Surrey intrusions.
Without doubt, IC missed scrumhalf Simon Bicknell,
out due to an ankle injury. Without him, IC could not
click together as a team. Stand-in Matt Tilbury coped
IC 2nd XV-7 Surrey 2nd XV-10
IC 2nds did not fair well in their encounter, going down
narrowly by just three points.
IC, leading at half time with a try by nifty stand-off
Andy Felmming and a penalty by Tintin, were assured
of a clear win. The Surrey pack, heavier and more
adept, took the initiative and soon pressurised the IC
line. Whereas IC were unable to match their
opponents up front, after a valient defence, Surrey
pierced through to tighten the score.
admirably, playing very well, considering his lack of
experience and situation of being thrown in at the
deep end.
At half time the score was 3-6 in IC's favour, thanks
to a pushover scrum scored by Alex Prince and Mike
Anderson converting it.
The second half was rather a stalemate situation-
IC keeping play tight, always in control, relying on
stand off Mike Anderson to keep pegging Surrey back
with superb line kicking. Eventually the forwards got
their reward with two well worked tries from Pete
Drew and Alex Prince. As the final whistle blew, relief
was evident. After a hard battle IC deserved to be the
victors, ensuring the beer flowed and hymns were
sung well into the night.
With continuing pressure Surrey scored their second
and conclusive score, after slip-shod tackling let them
through to score an easy try.
With only minutes remaining IC made one last
assault which was met directly with subborn
resistance and never looked like creating an opening.
The final whistle blew and fifteen dejected IC players
trudged back to their gloomy changing room.
After a hard and dogged battle, resulting in two
players being taken to hospital, IC now know that
things do not always go your own way.
Hockey IC 111-11 Surrey 1
1
1
—
0
IC lis—2 Surrey lis—0
Although the better team, IC 2nds didn't manage to
convert their chances again and could only gain a 2-0
margin of victory over their Surrey opposition.
IC started on the offensive but didn't manage to
break through as the pitch resembled a sandy beach
rather than a plush green grass surface. It was nearing
half-time when Steve Burton managed to get into the
Surrey 'D' and hit the ball into the net to make the
score 1-0 to IC. Then, straight after the restart, IC
attacked and gained a well earned short corner.
Despite the other ones being squandered, the 'shortie'
Page 16
team of Bob Anderson hitting out, Dave Millard
stopping and Colin Wright striking, get it right and
Colin struck the ball home to leave the goalkeeping
in no man's land. The half-time whistle went, to leave
surrey shocked by the sudden surge of goals going
into the interval.
Surrey started the second half trying their best
which wasn't good enough for IC's standard.
However, the ptich got in the way of some good
hockey and only Steve Burton staying offside could
deny Colin Wright his second goal of the afternoon,
leaving the final score at 2-0 to IC.
After winning last year's UAU game 3-1, IC Ill's
expected a low scoring and difficult match against
Surrey Ill's, and tor at least two minutes it was just
that with the score remaining evenly balanced at 0-0.
Then IC made a vital breakthrough from a nicely
worked move down the left wing involving numerous
players to take the lead. A further ten 'vital
breakthroughs' followed; which the reporter can
remember very little about except that they were all
superbly executed against the run of play. The scorers
were however recorded for posterity: Jon Briggs (3),
Ian McGovern (3), Dom Howard (21, Adam Pritchard
(2), Kevin Hill (1).

