Anchors away
Nine members of the Imperial College Yacht Club have
set up a syndicate, the Imperial College European
Sailing Challenge (ICESC), to take part in the Spi
Dauphine Race, which takes place in St Tropez
(France). The race also takes its form in an exhibition
the team-sponsor is promoted on and off the water.
Every syndicate takes part with two yachts, one
crewed by the university, and the other crewed by the
sponsor. The final result is calculated on an aggregate
of the two yachts' results. University students and
sponsors from all over Europe take part in the race
week, which is a good opportunity for companies to
promote themselves and their products, and for the
students to make industrial contacts. Last year there
were 110 yachts on the starting line, sponsored by
55 different companies. The skipper of ICESC, Pierre
Grosgogeat, won last year's race, and expects to do
well this year again. The syndicate is currently looking
for a sponsor. If interested, please contact Pierre
Grosgogeat on 01 -837 0746, room 551 or via Imperial
College Union on 01-589 5111, ext 3500.
Too risky
Betty Blue
Now I've got your attention...Sixteen years before
Betty Blue there was Last Tango in Paris-another
French masterpiece tracing a similar highly erotic, but
ultimately doomed, relationship between two illicit
lovers overcome by desire. Its extreme explicitness
caused a huge sensation at the time, and indeed the
film is still considered too hot for TV-even for
Channel 4 who have tried for years to screen it,
without success. Now IC Filmsoc gives you the
chance to see this unique cinematic extravaganza
yourself on Thursday November 16, at 7.30pm in
Mech Eng 220. Cost is 50p to members, £1.50 to
others. Be there, and don't forget the butter!
Real Ale
Last week's episode was cut short, so this one won't
be as long. Firstly thanks to everyone who turned up
last night (Thursday), especially as it was the day after
the Beer Festival (c'est la vie, as they say in Grenoble).
Next week we are going to the Pig's Ear Beer Festival
in Stratford Town Hall, so anyone who is interested
is welcome to come along (District Line tube to Mile
End, then Central Line). That's all folks.
ISLAM THE SYSTEM OF THE FUTURE'
talk by A. HASAN
Room 542 Mech Eng, 1.30-2.15pm
Tuesday 14 December
BLOOD DONORS
Tuesday 21st November
Sign up for a time in the
Guilds Office
fife
Ladies only please
Friends, Romans, Countrymen...'Men what? Bog
off!' This is jus! for the girls!
What is? Well, thanks to the cooperation of all those
at the College Sports Centre, the Swimming and
Water Polo Club has arranged a ladies water polo
session on Wednesday evenings, starting next week,
between 6.30 and 7.30pm. Interested participants
from College, St Mary's, AIFS, or wherever are
welcome, and positively encouraged to come along
and have a go.
For those of you who don't know what water polo
is about, in short, when played properly it's a fast-
moving, fun and thrilling, non-contact team ball-game.
The rules are similar to those in basketball and hockey,
except the game environment is obviously the
swimming pool, and not terra firma. As such, to get
maximum enjoyment from participating, some
confidence in the water is recommended. But that
isn't to say that exceptional swimming skills
necessarily make a good polo player. Enthusiasm
might help as well!
Coaching and tuition will be provided for all abilities
from beginners upwards, at every session.
We want the session to be a success so, ladies,
come along next Wednesday evening and give it a go.
You won't be disappointed.
Any enquiries to Malena Zubov, via the Swimming
and Water Polo Club pigeonhole in the Union Office,
or just turn up next Wednesday 15th, at 6.30pm, at
IC Sports Centre.
Thanks again to all those at the 10 Sports Centre
for your help and cooperation.
City & Guilds Union needs hosts for the
5th Annual
COCKTAIL PARTY
on Monday 4th December
FREE to all Guilds students
who want to host a dignitary
from industry, the City,
College or Government
Come to the Guilds Office for more details
PIMLICO PROFESSIONAL TYPING
For fast, efficient word-processing service.
Laser printing.
01-834 6700
Spectators wanted for this year's LORD MAYOR'S
SHOW (tomorrow!), Anyone who wants to see the
Guilds float in the procession should come to the
Guilds Office at Sam prompt tomorrow to go to a good
place on the route.
ICU
NURSERY SUBSIDY
Closing date for applications is
Friday 17th Nov. 1989
If you wish to apply please contact
Yve Posner, Welfare Adviser
Ext, 3507
or Neil McCluskey, ICU President
Ext. 3501
for an application form

