F e l i X
This week and this issue has been hectic. I wish to
advise any future editor reading this-never do a
photostory. They take hours to produce. Enough of
this tosh!
Christmas accommodation
Senior Assistant Finance Officer, Malcolm Aldridge,
has only served to confirm my fears of his future
deceitfulness over rent in halls. Earlier this term I
suggested that rents would be affected by the
College's risky purchase of a new hall last year; Olave
House. The College promised not to incorporate this
into the general rent system since such a move would
vastly inflate rents in other halls. This they continue
to promise. If this pledge is as good as the one made
over Christmas rents by Student Residence
Committee (SRCI, however, it won't last.
FELIX contacted the Rector to ask him who would
be Chairing SRC in the future, now that Brian Levitt
has vacated the position. The Rector said he did not
know; this is interesting since he appoints the
successor at present. My fear is that he will appoint
one of his lackeys to the post, making the body
powerless. After all, if the body that advises the
Rector on residences is chaired by his beloved
appointee, what will it say against his wishes?
Thanks to the perverse thinking of the twisted little
money man in Sherfield who goes under the name of
' Mr Aldridge, students will now be kicked out of hall
to make way for the big spending Christmas
conference guests. Why do Mr Aldridge and Loretto
O'Callaghan, the Accommodation Officer, not take
any notice of decisions made by the Student
Residences Committee unless it suits them? They
liked the idea of students paying for a week at
Christmas before; now they just don't like the
students staying in their rooms.
Whilst I am on the subject, how much of a
guarantee is there that students' possessions, stored
in their rooms, will not be moved out to make way
for conference guests, when the lettings inevitably
screw up? The whole issue stinks of money grabbing
in a pathetic attempt to make up for past and future
clangers in student residences.
Life Sciences
I hope that students in Biology I
I enjoyed their
impromptu timetable change when the department
paniced over their visit.
Alphabet
We have now reached the letter 'E' in the competition.
Thank you to the donor for last week's 'D'. Next
week's letter is 'F'. We have a few entries for this,
but I am sure everybody can try harder to get things
in a more ordered fashion in future. To spice the whole
thing up a bit more, I am also accepting entries for
the letter 'M' next week, with this letter also rotating
each week. It still seems difficult to get away from
'A' but that's life, I guess.
Meetings
Staff meetings are now on Tuesday lunchtimes at
1pm. Please pop along if you fancy getting involved.
Today there will be a special meeting for those
interested or involved in reviews. We can get you into
films and plays for nothing, as well as obtaining free
books for review.
Credits
Thanks to everybody this week for working until
ridiculous hours. Chris Stapleton is a mega-hero for
staying 'til 5.30am on Wednesday to help me with
the photostory. Andy Bannister is a hero for writing,
pasting and seemingly everything this week. Adam
has worked his balls off doing the News, many
thanks. Thanks also to the permanent staff, Rose and
Dean; Ian Hodge for being a super-hero; DAN; Paul
'Barry Norman' Darby; Toby; Adam Tinworth; Richard
Crouch, Susan Appleby, Laurence, Neil Lavitt,
Grahamlamlor, Chris M, and Chris Leahy for music;
Stef, Kaveh, Chris, Andy and Shan for the photostory;
Vinita Khanna, Clare Davis and Jason Lander for
science; all the union officers and clubs who wrote;
Dave Millard for sports; Jim for pasting and lots of
help; Liz, and Pippa for loads of help.
Double credit to Steve Farrant, Caroline
Cruttwell, Jackie Denial, Mark Bland and Fermi
Jhooti from Rag for collating issue 847. Many thanks
to last week's collator's Lisa Ingram, John Graham,
Chris Stapleton, Fiona Nicholas, Jim Lucy, Doug,
Sebastian, Joseph Andrew and anybody who I may
have forgotten-please let me know if I do.
FELIX is published by the editor for and on behalf of Imperial College Union
Publications Board and is printed by the Imperial College Union Print Unit,
Prince Consort Road, London, SW7 2BB (Tel. 01-589 5111 ext 35151.
Editor: Dave Smedley. Business Manager: Stef Smith. Advertising Manager:
Ramin Nakisa. Copyright FELIX 1989. ISSN 1040-0711
Council
By Andy Bannister
Council is a traditional forum for the emergence of
new sabbatical candidates, and this one marked the
first really serious moves on the part of six people.
First to make a move was Athos Ritzbiscuit, who
announced his intention of running for president by
taking off his sunglasses to gasps of awe. The ploy
started strongly, but rather petered out.
Next to go was next years Hon Sec Events, Murray
Williamson, who not only appeared without shades,
but put in a further bid in the form of an unusably
ambiguous motion about paying people we already
pay, to do jobs they already do, but doing it differently.
I think that was what he said...
Four further contenders for unannounced posts
contented themselves with wearing dark glasses and
letting off indoor fireworks. Actually, this was a
relatively sensible way of registering a protest at the
recent decision of the non-smokers on Council to spoil
everyone else's fun by banning the evil weed from the
meeting the moment the gloves came off.
And to the business: the Greeks and the Cypriots
have been writing rude letters to the STA about the
Turkish Cypriots. It only took half an hour to decide
that McCluskey was to write a rude letter to both the
Greeks and the Cypriots, being rude about the Turks.
The debate was polite and to the point. More so than
the debate about Union vans, which managed to work
out that if we buy some more, we might have to pay
for them, so people ought to book vans six months
Sketch
in advance. This was presented as a move to
maximise the efficiency of usage of the van stocks.
Logical? You bet.
At least one logical motion was passed on behalf
of Dave Williams, which ended up saying that the
snack bar has walls, and that the Union lives in a grade
2 listed building, so nobody should stick any. posters
on it. It seemed to make sense at the time, but the
meeting failed to reach any conclusion about precisely
where anyone with a poster could stick it. Answers
on a postcard please...
The meeting did manage to reach a conclusion on
the subject of minutes. It decided that reading through
the minutes of the major Subcommittees, or MSCs
in Councilspeak, which Council is supposed to oversee
would take a very long time, and Council members,
finding themselves in danger of having to do some
work, voted that one down smartly. In fairness, one
could see their point; Council meetings are after all
long enough, and any possibility of their continuing
past bar closing time should be firmly stamped on.
There being no more sabbatical candidates, the
meeting was closed before anyone else could put their
oar in, and the assembled masses picked up their bags
and lit cigarettes with an audible sigh of relief, before
heading off to the bar to sun themselves in the
reflected glory of membership of the Union's highest
body.
ST MARY'S HOSPITAL
AMATEUR OPERATIC SOCIETY
presents
LITTLE SHOP
OF HORRORS
Monday 4th to Wednesday 6th December
Tickets: £3.00
Tickets can be bought through Nick Stafford via St
M a r y ' s internal mail system o r through T C Station
Ltd (ticket agency) on 323 5481, or by credit card
(24 hr) on 284 1221 (subject to 2 1 % booking fee)
DEVELOPMENT
OFFICE
HELP WANTED
£3.14 per hour
EVENINGS & WEEKENDS
The Development Office needs
assistance with computer-data entry,
research and filing. The ability to type
and computer literacy is desirable.
Apply to:
Jeannie Lyon,
Room 305 Sherfield Building.
Telephone: Ext 3025

