Michelle Consoc Quorum
ma belle Fox hunt caller
Dear Michelle,
In reply to your letter (Issue 848), concerning the
decision to ban Price-Waterhouse from the Careers
Fair, I should like to say the following.
Like so many other people you are keen to condemn
without finding out the facts. You criticise decisions
which you denied yourself the opportunity to be party
to. Above all else you damn the decision without
proposing any alternatives.
Your letter had about as much thought and
preparation put into it as the motion that was
proposed at the Extraordinary General Meeting. The
difference between the motion and the letter is that
I used the motion in a sensible manner to achieve
reasonable objectives at no cost to any student. Your
letter quite blatantly undermines all student unions in
all their activities over one small matter about which
you apparently know none of the facts.
You suggest in your letter than there are 'both
sensible and stupid ways to fight' the loans scheme.
Of your sensible methods I presume you advocate
writing to your MP, have you done this? Have you
persuaded anyone else to do this? Or even questioning
your MP personally, do you know how to lobby your
MP? Or peaceful demonstrations, or petitions. Open
up your eyes, clear your ears, have you not seen or
overheard the thousands of students already doing
these things? All to no avail because this government
is blind and deaf to the students' requests as you
appear to be.
One of the remaining ways open to try and stop the
loans scheme going ahead is to persuade the persons
responsible for implementing the scheme that it will
not work. If the motion had been a personal attack
on Price-Waterhouse then it would surely have
advocated removing all Price-Waterhouse literature
from the Careers Office. Did it? No. Do you really think
that removing Price-Waterhouse from one Careers Fair
will affect students' job prospects? You certainly have
a lot to learn in your next two and a half years here:
if you can afford to stay here that long, that is!!
The banning of Price-Waterhouse is presently being
used to:
1. Promote awareness of the effects of the student
top-up loans scheme.
2. Gain access to the financial institutions who will
be running the scheme so that we can put across our
argument in a professional and educated manner.
In the light of your concern I am sure I will see you
at future Union General Meetings or at least in my
office asking for information and contributing to the
decision being made.
Yours sincerely,
N.B. McCluskey, ICU President 89/90
PS. Chopping off your legs to evade the Poll Tax
is not too good an idea. Disabled access in this College
is absolutely appalling. Monasteries do not pay Poll
Tax though?
Letters should be addressed to the editor. The
letters column is a forum for general debate, not
a slagging match between individuals. I have not
altered this letter. In the future, letters written in
this style will be heavily edited. Ed
Dear Dave,
I read in last week's FELIX that Miss Nicky Fox felt
compelled to resign from her post of Chairman of the
ICU Conservative Society, as she was opposed to:
1. Government policy on student loans.
2. The Community Charge.
3. The charisma-cult of Mrs Thatcher.
None of the above factors have altered significantly
since Miss Fox was elected earlier this year. This
makes me wonder why she actually stood for the
position.
Miss Fox informs me, that although the above
reasons are true, the more significant reason for her
resigning is of a personal nature. If this is true I cannot
see why Miss Fox did not inform FELIX that she was
resigning for personal reasons. As a result of her
actions surrounding her resignation she has wounded
the Society even further.
It is vital that the Conservative Society now elects
a Chairman who actually believes in Government
Policy (however unpopular) and has the ability to start
to repair the damage that the Society has sustained.
Yours sincerely,
Mark Page, Mech Eng 3, Former Vice-Chairman
of External 1988-1989 ICU Conservative Society
Fizzical
reply
Dave,
As the 'enterprising student' referred to, I would like
to inform the anonymous writer of the very inaccurate
letter in last week's FELIX, of the facts.
Firstly, Applied Biologists were not forbidden to do
placements overseas. When my placement in the
Gambia was being arranged, the outcome of the AUT
action was not yet decided. The exams might still
have been set before the end of the Easter term-or
they may not have been set at all.
By the time I left in April the situation was still
uncertain. I had a 20kg baggage allowance to last for
a 6 month stay-so I wasn't able to take 10kg of
books to revise from in case the exams were
scheduled for the summer.
I returned just before the start of the autumn term
and started the exams in the second week. Since the
only gap in my timetable is Wednesday afternoon*,
I had to take the exams one at a time, at weekly
intervals.
The implication that I received preferential
treatment as a result of 'flattering male lecturers' is
petty and absurd.
Felicity Marsh, Applied Biology IV
*l hope this won't herald another torrent of abuse
for the Life Sciences Department.
Dear Dave,
An ICU General Meeting took place at 1pm today
(Thursday). For most students, this constitutes news.
There were, to the best of my knowledge no posters
advertising the meeting, and there had been but a one
line casual mention of the fact in last week's FELIX.
As a result, only some thirty odd people, mostly Union
hacks, present.
I called 'quorum'. Why?
The main purpose of the meeting was to conduct
elections for a number of Union posts. There averaged
about one candidate per post, mainly because few
knew about the availability of the posts, or saw the
canditate proposal papers on the noticeboard on the
walls of the Union Office staircase. As a result, a
handful of hacks would have elected candidates in a
form of 'one candidate elections' that have been
rejected by most communist states. All this from a
Union that wishes to conduct business in the name
of all of its students.
IC Students' Union is a union of all the students.
If ICU makes a stance against loans, for increased pay
for lecturers or whatever, it must do so because that
is what the students, the Union members, wish. At
the moment, Union hacks pass the policy and the
students watch: sometimes in anger, sometimes in
support, but almost always lacking sufficient strength
of feeling to walk all the way to the JCR, sit down,
listen, and raise their Union cards at the relevant
moment.
What the ordinary students of Imperial believe in is
apathy, and the Union policy should reflect that. In
other words the Union should NOT indulge in any form
of political or social campaign.
This is a sorry state of affairs. I would much rather
see 300 students at each and every (or even most)
meetings, listening to debates and passing motions
on strongly felt issues. I would call upon all students
to make an effort to attend such meetings and I urge
the Union Exec to publicise the existence of, and
educate its members on the merits of attending Union
General Meetings.
Until that happens, it is unacceptable that the Union
should pass motions on anything, or elect candidates
for any posts, as the students that the Union
represents obviously don't care for or believe in such
things.
THAT is why I called quorum.
Thomas Wyatt, Maths II.
PLEASE NOTE
A number of letters have been received on the
subject of last week's 'Personal' letter.
Unfortunately it was not possible to print a
large number of them, since they did not carry
a name. FELIX will withhold names by request,
at the editor's discretion, but we have to have
the name of the author of each letter. It is not
sufficient to place the words 'Name withheld
by request,' at the end of a letter. We will
endeavour to print every letter received, but
reserve the right to edit. Deadline for letters
is 12.30pm Tuesday.
21 Page

