Beer festival
trouble
Trouble flared at the Beer Festival on Wednesday,
after an incident over the shortage of festival beer
glasses. IC Rag Chairman, Hal Calamvokis, told
FELIX that the beer and glasses ran out by 9.30pm
this year.
Mr Calamvokis said that they had bought 1150 beer
glasses this year—a record number—and had sold all
of them , including those left over from last year. He
calculated that £3000 had been raised from beer and
glasses alone. On average, he added, each person
drank 4.7 pints. There were more people this year
than last, he said.
Trouble started at 9:45 after more people turned
up though all the glasses and beer had been sold. Two
young men, described as 'about 5' 11' with short, dark
hair' and 'with glasses and very blond hair' probably
from Mechanical Engineering and 'third years or
pretending to be third years' tried various ruses to
obtain glasses, for instance saying theirs had been
stolen or broken.
After this failed they resorted to stealing glasses
from members of the RCS, and these members then
turned them out. They tried twice to get back in.
In the morning it was discovered that many rag
posters had been torn from walls. Hal Calamvokis
claimed that this amounted to a loss of about £100
in publicity. Though he conceded that the wind may
have been responsible for some of this, he was sure
that the cleaners had not 'blitzed' the walls, and some
of the blame lay with these troublemakers . During
the night the glass cabinet reserved for college welfare
notices at the Electrical Engineering end of the
Sherfield walkway was smashed. M r Calamvokis
thought these two may have been responsible for this
as 'generally they were vandals'.
Five tickets for rag week went missing , valued at
£16 each, though these were returned the next day.
He concluded by saying there had not been as much
vomiting as usual and the mens conveniences had not
been trashed as they usually were, probably becuase
when the beer ran out the revellers went elsewhere
to continue drinking. ' Next year we will hopefully
have 800 pints more and more glasses', he added.T
was stone-cold sober.and I went home alone.'
Community
news
Mr Peter Mee, College Registrar, is in the process
of sending letters on Poll Tax registration to all full-
time students at IC. The letter is to reassure them that
he will be giving only the minimum information to
local authorities, following the statutory requirements
for the poll tax (or community charge).
According to law, the college need only disclose
students' names and term-time addresses, although,
Mr Mee said, certain authorities had asked for more
information. He told FELIX 'We hold a lot of
information—previous schools etc. I am giving the
absolute minimum to them.'
He explained that he thought that Borough Councils
may take a census of their area and^may expect
students to present themselves to the council offices
with the registrar's certificate as proof of where they
are currently studying. He stressed that according to
the Department of the Environment practice notes,
no student is required to part with the certificate at
any time.
Paper planes
On Tuesday 14th November, paper plane makers
from all over college will have a chance to practice
their art at the Annual Paper Aeroplane Competition.
The planes will be launched from the Union Building
from 1.30pm.
Entry is 50p with an additional lOp for each flight.
All the money will go to Great Ormond Street
Hospital. Prizes include 3 books from Dillons
bookshop, jigsaws from the Science Museum, 3 free
video hires from IC Bookstore, a free haircut, a
parrot-on-a-spring, dinosaur or zebra mug and animal
puzzles from the Natural History Museum.
All the entries must be on paper of less than A3
size, and the winners will have the fruits of their
labours displayed in the bookshop in the Science
Museum.
Anyone interested in entering should contact
Andrew Chipling on extension 4748.
Prizes!
Prospective honours graduates in Chemistry or
Chemical Engineering who are in their final year have
been offered the chance to win £700.
The ten such prizes are being made by the 'Salters
Institute of Industrial Chemistry', and are given on
the basis of 'the candidates potential....to occupy a
leading position in the U K chemical industry'.
The head of each related department can nominate
only one candidate.
UFC visit
Student timetables were unexpectedly rearranged on
Thursday as Imperial received its five-yearly visit
from the University Funding Council (UFC). Council
representatives visited the Civil Engineering and
Biology departments.
College had known that the visit was due for some
while although no-one appeared to know of the
Council's exact plans. This, explained Professor Roy
Anderson, Head of the Department of Biology, was
why changes were made to lectures and lab work at
very short notice; second year undergraduates from
Professor Anderson's department, who were
expecting a lecture on 'Comparison of Plant and
Animal Physiology', unexpectedly found themselves
doing practical work. The delegation had specifically
asked to see a practical group at work.
SPORTS RESULTS
Saturday 2 8 t h October
F O O T B A L L
Q M C - 0 IC- - 3
Q M C 11-1 IC II--1
IC III-O Charring X -- 2
IC V - 2 IC IV-- 0
Please note: Correction from previous table:
St Thomas 11-0 IC VI--1
HOCKEY
Mens
IC-2 Righing's Park--2
IC 11-2 Richings Park II--2
IC III
Ladies
IC-0 Goldsmiths--0
Wednesday 1st November
FOOTBALL (U.A.U.)
Surrey Univ— 1 IC- -1
Surrey II—0 IC II--3
Surrey III—2 IC III--2
FOOTBALL (LEAGUE!
I C - I V - 0 UCL V--2
IC V - 0 Goldsmiths Ill--2
Ladies
London Hospital—6 IC- -0
RUGBY (U.A.U.)
Surrey Univ—7 IC- 14
Surrey- 10 IC ll--7
Surrey III-O IC al-33
HOCKEY (U.A.U.)
Mens
Surrey Univ—0 le-
-2
Surrey II—0 le ll--2
Surrey III-O IC al- 11
Ladies
Surrey Univ—4 le-
-0
Surrey 11—3 le II -0
Saturday 4th November
HOCKEY
Mens
IC-2 Tilehurst -2
Tilehurst II-0 ic a-2
Ladies
Charing X Hospital—3 IC II -0
Wednesday 8th November
HOCKEY (U.A.U.I
Mens
RHBNC-1 IC -1
RHBNC II- 1 IC II -3
RHBNC III-O IC III -4
Ladies
RHBNC-0 IC -0
RHBNC II-0 ic a-1
FOOTBALL (U.A.U.)
RHBNC-4 IC -0
RHBNC 11-2 ic a-4
RHBNC III- 1 IC III -3
RUGBY (U.A.U.)
RHBNC-3 IC- 18
RHBNC 11-6 IC ll- 12
RHBNC III-3 IC at -8
BADMINTON
Mens
IC-7 RHBNC -2
IC 11-9 RHBNC II -0
Ladies
IC-6 RHBNC -3

