M31—A family romance
Stephen Wright pp214 £3.99 available from the IC Union Bookstore
To those of you who do not know (probably the
majority) M31 is not a motorway or even a trouser
size but the Anchromeda galaxy. With that in mind
you may well expect a fantastical account of
intergalactic war, warp drives and all, but fortunately
you would be very wrong. (All you science fiction
types with your Iron Maiden t-shirts; most of us got
past the 'beam me up Scotty' stage about ten years
ago.)
The cover of a mid-western church gives a better,
if somewhat vague, insight into the book's contents.
The setting is earthbound if the story itself is a little
pie in the sky. Perhaps the best clue to the weird and
often confusing story within is the large blue radar dish
perched on top of the church.
Dash and Dot are two all too typical American
cranks who believe passionately that they are
descended from aliens from the aforementioned
galaxy. They travel the country spreading their
message on talk shows and radio phone-ins.
They say that 'The Occupants', the name they use
for the aliens, are everywhere constantly hovering
above us feeding on electricity which they say is a
form of highly concentrated information. If you are
wondering why we never see them they are in blue
space ships that blend into the sky; something to think
about.
Returning from a week of shows with their daughter
Zoe (who they believe is being use by 'The Occupants'
as a method of communication) to their home in the
church to find they have gained two guests.
Gwen and Beale are both fanatical about UFO's and
follow Dash and Dot around the country. Beale carries
with him a rucksack full of newspaper cuttings
concerning UFOs saying that 'sometimes words are
more important than food'.
The family is a complex contortion of personalities
that are in almost constant conflict. Ranging from the
vicious and brutal Dallas who spends most of his day
with a can of Budweiser in his hand to Maryse who
is quiet and gentle with her baby.
As a piece of creative writing the book is very good,
in places brilliant, but not too verbose allowing the
story to develop through the book and the characters
to reveal their true nature. Not only is the narrative
well done but some of the character comments show
real brilliance. Dallas at one stage describes the sky
at night as 'Gods dandruff and Dash uses the
sarcastic comment 'why is it every time I leave the
house all the alcohol evaporates?'.
Things do get slightly cluttered as I feel the number
of characters used was excessive and the author
could have done well to leave a couple out completely.
In addition to this the book has a major problem;
although not as bad as some books the plot can get
quite confusing particularly at the end. For this reason
you do need to concentrate on every page for
everything to remain clear.
Overall I feel I can recommend the book as being
good with some excellent descriptive passages
throughout.
Stephen Wright has also written Meditations in
Green which won the Maxwell Perkins prize for best
first novel 1985.
Ian Hodge.
Motor Mania 89-Earls Court
The 1989 Motor Fair, held at Earl's Court recently is
best described as nine days of macho posturing by
car producers.
Well, to some extent that's what it's all about and
let's face it, if your stand is host to several gruesome
looking pieces of red metal (Ferrari, Lamboughini) it's
quite difficult not to be accused of posing.
This year saw the trend towards a green lifestyle
and the family car. Most manufacturers took the
chance to proclaim their latest environmentally
friendly machines. Most of the cars present have been
able to run on unleaded petrol and the three-way
catalytic converter (the 'Cat) is also becoming
increasingly common and often a standard item.
From the end of 1992 all new cars from Robin
Reliants to Ferraris will, by law, have to have a
catalytic converted fitted to comply with tough new
EC legislation on exhaust emissions.
All of the major European and Far Eastern
companies were present with several notable British,
as well as world, debuts. Lotus were showing the
sensational new Elan. This 2-seater, open top
sportscar was designed in conjunction with the
Japanese company Isuzu, and is built using some
components manufactured by Isuzu in the Far East.
Other new, but less exciting, models included a
sleek new Vauxhall Coupe, the Calibra; the restyled
Ford Fiesta XR2i-same as its predecessor but with
a new letter for fuel injection. Peugeot Talbot, another
company with a penchant for lots of letters were
showing the latest 405 in its various forms including
a four-wheel-drive version.
Some notable vehicles included the brand new
Porsche 911 Camera and the BMW Z1 which is
probably best known for its doors which are operated
by an electro-hydraulic mechanism, the doors and
windows slide into the sill of the car to produce a truly
'open' sports car. I shudder to think what happens if
the fancy electrics decide to give up the ghost.
One or two companies failed to draw attention in
quite the way they intended. Forinstance Citreon-
showing the new but rather ugly XM-got more
attention for their stand which was a huge revolving
contraption with a large upside down pyramid in its
centre. Was this, perhaps, Citreon's contribution to
the bicentenial celebration of the French Revolution?
DAN
Page 3

