Opens 22nd December
The Return of Swamp Thing
Adapted from the original DC comic story, this is a
light-hearted good versus evil movie, though for a 12
certificate, it has some scary moments.
The swamp thing, played by Dick Durock for the
second time, used to be brilliant scientist Alec Holland
until he was turned into a vegetable by the evil Dr
Arcane and his assistant Dr Zurrell (played by Louis
Jourdan and Sarah Douglas, famous as Ursa in
Superman). Swamp thing retained the intelligence and
emotions of Alec but ashamed of his appearance he
lives in solitude in the swamp until he meets Abigail.
Abigail is Arcane's step-daughter played by Heather
Locklear from Dynasty. In the film she investigates the
mysterious death of her mother only to fall foul of
Arcane's mad experiments on an immortality serum
for which she has the correct rare blood type (as did
her mother).
Swamp thing comes to Abby's rescue more than
once and slowly she falls in love with the man behind
the gunk. Arcane, however, has other ideas, but
although he destroys them both during the film, true
love pulls them through. As for Arcane, well that's
for the inevitable sequel.
So if you're a fan of DC comics or if you just want
some light evening's entertainment, The Return of
Swamp Thing is for you.
Toby.
Two Moon Junction
He knows she is engaged. He also knows that whilst
the fiance might make a superbly clean-cut and
respectable husband, loved by her wealthy daddy and
himself alike, her obvious sexual hypertension could
only really be satisfied by Him: the sweat-glistening
rough guy, waving a sledgehammer at fairground tent
pegs to kill the time between brawls and bottles of
Bourbon.
The director of this film makes no bones about it
being based on the same idea as 9'A Weeks. So you
can guess what will happen. She wants him, he
knows it, and is prepared to let her beg. Unlike its
sister movie, however, much of this is blazingly
unsubtle-the principal actors are both symbols of
Page 4
sexuality, the camerawork is much more open than
in 9% Weeks, lessening the sensation of erotic
titilation for a far more earthy bum-and-tits production.
In between the slagging and the shagging there is
a real story going on -probably to make up for the re-
casting of the kitchen fridge as a humble video
recorder and it cannot be denied that certain humanist
touches came across, not least the obvious angst to
do with her forthcoming marriage, although, on the
whole, this was purely an excuse to get your nerve
endings tingling and to sit there wishing you dared
behave like that. And why not, indeed?
Paul Darby.
Great Balls
of fire
This film chronicles the rise of Jerry Lee Lewis (the
'Killer'), from his early inspiration, listening to
forbidden 'nigger music', to the point where he is a
contender for the crown as 'King of Rock 'n' Roll'
when Elvis is drafted. It also tells of his subsequent
fall into obscurity when an English reporter-a superb
cameo by Peter Cook-discovers that Lewis has
bigamously married his thirteen year old second
cousin, twice removed.
The film's major fault is that it never finds itself a
style, careering between a love story, a Good/Evil
parable and a musical, with some scenes jarring badly
with those that precede them. This is partially
compensated for by the sheer enthusiasm that runs
through the whole film, mostly emanating from Denis
Quaid who plays Lewis as a manic, posturing,
immature egotist whose only real redeeming features
are his talent at the piano and his devotion to his child
bride. The film implies that the only reason this
relationship survives is that each is as childish as the
other-witness the bubblegum 'kissing' scene.
The acting, on the whole is good, although both
southern and English accents are occasionally over
played—especially the 'cockney porter' in the tour of
England sequence (notable for a short pan down
Prince Consort Road).
The period detail is well maintained too, although
in one or two of the shots of London you feel that you
have seen something that you weren't supposed to.
The songs, re-recorded for the film by Lewis
himself, keep your feet tapping throughout and even
help sustain the rather limp ending-Lewis having not
done the producers a favour by dying early but instead
living to a rather obscure middle-age.
The film makes for a good evening's entertainment,
but if you want a more serious look at the life of Lewis
read his wife's book.
Adam Tinworth.

