FELIX interviews rising ex-indie band The Wedding Present
Past, present and future
The Wedding Present emerged from darkest Leeds
some five years ago. Their frenetic guitars and
bittersweet songs proved immensely popular and the
group rose steadily to become one of the biggest indie-
bands in the country. After a succession of fine singles
and an excellent debut album, George Best, they
dropped their indie status by signing to RCA records
and have just released a new album, Bizzarro. Richard
Crouch, Susan Appleby and City of London Poly's
Laurence Brewere spoke to David Gedge and Peter
Salowka, of the band, at the Kilburn National
Ballroom.
Wedding Present are not your favourite group, and it's
a bit outside your taste in music, I'm sure the two LPs
are going to sound very similar. In the same way, to
me I'm sure all eight Simple Minds LPs are going to
sound similar. But for me Bizarro's completely
different.
R.C: What number did Kennedy, the single from
the album, reach in the charts?
D.G: It came in at 34 and zoomed up to 33. If it kept
on going at that rate, we'd have been Number One
by March!
R.C: What made you decide to sign with a major? R.C: Were you on Top of the Pops?
D.G: Without trying to sound too pompous or
bigheaded about it, I think we were just getting too
big for an independent label. It was our own label,
Reception Records, which was distributed by the
Cartel, and we just found it was really difficult to get
records to the people who wanted them, especially
abroad. We wanted a more efficient service, really.
R.C: Were there many majors after you?
. D.G: I'd be hard pressed to name a major who we
haven't talked to, but we've been quite hard to get,
I think. We saw different people and as soon as we
found out what kind of contract we wanted, most of
them said no.
R.C: Why is Bizarro named after an old Superman
villain? Did you know about that?
D.G: No, not really. It was pure coincidence. I was
reading an old Superman comic the other day, and I
noticed after the word Bizarro on the cover it had TM
in a little circle, so I think we'll probably get sued for it!
P.S: Is it spelt differently?
D.G: No, it's the same.
P.S: Shit, the end of a promising career, that!
L.B: How do you think the new LP compares to
George Best?
P.S: It's better, but then we're bound to say that! If
we've just spent weeks in the studio and we came
out with something we didn't think was better than
something we did three years ago, we wouldn't be
here now.
D.G: You do feel a bit pretentious talking about it,
because every group you ask what's the new LP like?
they're all going to say 'Oh yeah, it's really good, go
out and buy it', but unfortunately we do believe it's
a really good LP. And we didn't with George Best.
R.C: How do you respond to the criticisms of lack
of progression?
P.S: Well, what do they want us to do ?
D.G: For me they're unfounded. I think in many ways
it depends on how closely you follow the group. If the
D.G: In between Sabrina and the Pet Shop Boys, I
believe. A snapshot of us! We had a sweepstake for
what number the single would be; we got everyone
to pay a quid, and my girlfriend won it. Did quite well,
actually.
money out of it, couldn't we?
P.S: I was just thinking we might be looking back on
this when we're about 50, in a little bedsit in Leeds...
D.G: ...thinking 'Why didn't we do it! Why didn't we
sell out!'
R.C: How do you think your music translates from
the small clubs you used to play to these
cavernous venues like Kilburn?
D.G: It doesn't really, I don't think. For me, probably
the most disappointing thing about being successful
is that you've got to play these big venues where, as
you know, the atmosphere is pretty well non-existant.
You feel like a pop-star, which I don't really want to
be. Kilburn isn't too bad because it gives the
impression of being a bit smaller and more intimate,
but we've played some places on this tour where the
stage is bigger than most of the venues we've played
in the past. There's loads and loads of space and you
just feel like Genesis, or something.
L.B: Do the Kennedy lyrics represent a change in
approach away from the usual love songs you
write?
D.G: Oh yeah, obviously. Well, I've had a go at a few
diferent things before, but they've always been
rubbish, to be honest. They've always been the fourth
track on the 12". I'm still not completely happy with
Kennedy's lyrics. There were reams and reams of
writing that got pared down to two verses, and Keith,
the bassist, thought it was really good, so I decided
to stick with it. I think the song's good, but I'm
happiest writing about things I know about, really. I
don't know much about Kennedy or conspiracy
theories, it was just interesting to think about for a
while.
R.C: Is there some sort of agreement within the
band that you handle all the songwriting?
P.S: He's better at it than anybody else is!
D.G: Not better, they're just lazy!
L.B: You did an LP of Ukrainian music which is
totally different to the other two LPs.
D.G: Oh yeah, that's Pete's fault, that.
P.S: That doesn't really fall into the same category
as the other two, though.
D.G: It doesn't count!
R.C: Were you surprised when it took off?
D.G: To be honest, no I wasn't because it's something
that's got novelty appeal. A lot of people who
wouldn't normally like the Wedding Present liked it.
RCA loved it. They wanted us to release Those Were
the Days.
P.S: They could have hyped it into the charts.
D.G: Oh no! Can you imagine having a Number One
record with it, y'know, get Mary Hopkins for the video
and all the rest of it. We could have made a lot of
R.C: How is such an essentially British band
received when you tour abroad?
P.S: A lot of the people who come to see us tend to
be British people who are actually over there.
D.G: Soldiers, isn't it? Especially in Germany.
P.S: Yeah, or in Spain it's people who teach English
as a foreign language. It's like a British evening out!
D.G: The Dutch don't really see us because they're
stoned out of their heads. They're there, but they're
not aware of anything going on. We're on stage
playing this really fast music, and they're just going,
clap...clap...clap. It's weird!
S.A: What are your immediate ambitions? What
directions will you be shooting off in?
D.G: People tend to disbelieve me, but I've really got
no ambitions for the near future-my ambition was
to make a better LP than George Best, and I think
we've done that. I'm thinking of writing new songs
now, but we haven't got any real plans apart from to
do this tour, then go to Europe, and then release an
EP next year.
R.C: Have you ever thought about when you want
to end this, or do you want to carry on forever like
the Fall?
D.G: I go through phases of it, but I genuinely can't
imagine not being in a group anymore.There would
be...not so much sadness, more like nothing-it's
irreplaceable. I love the position that I'm in, but there's
times that I hate it as well, and I don't want to be
doing it when I'm 40, like Mick Jagger. It's a real
paradox, because part of me says 'you've got to set
a limit on it', and there's another part of me saying
'but why? I'm enjoying it now more than ever!' It does
get easier when you're bigger. It would be a shame
to finish now after struggling for the first 2 or 3 years
and at last being satisfied with it.
Page 5

