Wembley Arena
Anderson, Bruford,
Wakeman, Howe
Another revitalised 'supergroup'? Well, we've seen
them before haven't we? Deep Purple, The Who, even
the three survivors of Led Zeppelin stunning us at Live
Aid. And now A.B.W.H. For all the various legal
complications, already well documented elsewhere,
the tickets were billed as 'An evening of Yes music'
and if you have never heard a Yes album in your life,
you have more than likely heard them described by
various so-called 'music journalists' as a pompous and
self-indulgent ensemble of egomaniac musicians. It
may well be for this very reason that the solo spots
(to many people, myself included, an integral part of
such an event) were consigned to the opening fifteen
minutes of the concert.
Although most of the audience were there to hear
the old Yes pieces again, the revitalised band knew
they had to sell the new songs from the recent
A.B.W.H. album in order to survive and prosper. But
representing such an immense track repertoire within
a 254 hour set, and paying heed to the future is no
easy task, and consequently the 90125/Generation
material was ignored. Long Distance Runaround was
played a little more slowly than usual, and the absence
of Chris Squire and his distinct Rickenbacker bass
sound detracted from the piece. However, all the
evident new technology did not betray the 70s sound;
the ballad And You and I was extended brilliantly with
a full orchestral sound.
In all fairness, it could have been better. The poor
Arena acoustics, coupled to a 'flying' PA system paid
token justice to the band's huge sound and many Yes
veterans told me that the lighting wasn't like the old
days either. But it's very easy to be blase about such
an event as this. Suffice it to say that my friends were
all very impressed and some said it was the best
they've ever seen. This proves a very basic but
overlooked point: at the end of the day, a group will
not be remembered for its image, publicity stunts and
record sales, but by its music.
Chris M
All About Eve
Scarlet & Other Stories
Scarlet and Other Stories is the album from All About
Eve. It's the follow-up to the album of the same name
as the group which brought us such gems as Martha's
Harbour a track which will always be remembered for
Jullianne Regan's refusal to mime along to it on Top
of the Pops.
This is a fine album. From the first play it was a hit,
the reason being two-fold: Jullianne Regan's voice and
the many guitar styles of Tim Bicheno. Ms Regan is
truly blessed with a stunning voice. Not only is it
melodic but it has depth and character. It sounds
childlike one moment and is charged with emotion and
maturity the next. Accoustic and electric guitar as well
as banjo playing are very well thought out, forming
the most important aspect of the soundtrack.
Powerful percussion and supporting bass complete
the sound.
If any criticism were to be placed it would be that
this album could get tedious with overplaying.
Influences are clearly a mixture of 70s and 80s rock
such as Genesis, Led Zeppelin, Marillion, Mike
Oldfield, Iron Maiden and The Mission.
The track which has to stand out is Road to Your
Soul which is beautiful and stunning. Credit has to go
to Paul Samwell-Smith for excellent production.
Page 6
Powerhaus
Colourblind James Experience,
The Veldt, God's Little Monkeys
Country and Western: You might love it, you probably
hate it, but you can't ignore it. Not tonight anyway.
The stuff is pumping out of the PA at no mean volume,
hoary old classic after hoary old classic. Everyone
knows the words-it's that sort of crowd.
Halfway into REM's Rockville, York's finest God's
Little Monkeys bound on stage with a new album,
New Maps of Hell. A European tour behind them, this
lot are full of confidence and it shows. Despite a few
problems (a lost voice and lack of sleep thanks to a
'bloody awful' ferry crossing) they treat us to an
electrifying half hour of folk rock, then they're gone
and the place fills with country faves again.
The Veldt are from North Carolina. 'Hi', they tell us,
'we're from North Carolina'. 'Ha!', we think, 'a
countryish band, I'll be bound'. The Veldt then tell us
they think country is crap and launch into some of the
best white indie noise I've heard in ages. The trip
starts somewhere between Ar Kane and The
Telescopes and pays service to just about every other
blissed-out feedback/noise band you'd care to
mention on the way. With an album out in February
[Cocteau Twins and Ar Kane connections,
apparently), the Veldt look set to steel the thunder of
the best in British indie. The next big thing?
What exactly is the Colourblind James Experience!
Imagine an unlikely looking bunch of blokes churning
out a warped, loony-toon country blues. Imagine a big
fat acoustic bass, trombones, clarinets, xylophones.
Imagine Colourblind James himself, a latter-day
Beefheart, tongue inserted firmly in cheek as he
relates quirky tales of America from a big black book.
This is the experience. It's infectious and the crowd
get happy and love it. Considering a move to
Memphis? You bet!
Graham Lamlor.
Union Lounge
Bliss-FELIX interview
Bliss have been together for the past three years. Their
present live line-up is, to say the least, musically
comprehensive, comprising lead and backing vocals,
guitarist, bassist, drummer, keyboards as well as
violins.
Cast in shades of blue and red Bliss played their
hearts out. The urgency they put into their music was
clear for everybody to see. Excellent vocals were
coupled with steady drumming and some quite
wonderful hammond organ keyboard playing to
provide a sound which was never tiring to the ears.
The sound quality was good and credit should be
placed not only with the band, but also with the Ents
team for this.
The audience response was extremely well natured
with an air of enjoyment clearly present. The band
returned for encores, despite me nearly unplugging
one of the PA power lines in the FELIX Office to plug
the kettle in.
After the concert I managed to grab a few words
with the very attractive figure of lead vocalist Rachel
Morrison, despite their tiring performance and
intensive schedule ahead.
The emphasis in the band on Rachel is very definite,
with her singing brimming over with expression and
emotion. Exhaustion is a problem and she claimed that
with the intensive schedule ahead, she is going to
have to be careful.
Bliss are not well known in the UK but feel that with
hard work and patience they will achieve success.
This is a contrast to Italy where they are quite popular,
playing large venues and cultivating their own fan
following. After this they have found it difficult playing
in smaller British college venues where the audience
is practically on top of the band. Rachel does not enjoy
this intimacy claiming: 'You have to concentrate much
harder and at times can be put off by being able to
hear comments the front row are making'. Despite
this, the very nature of these gigs makes them more
rewarding if you captivate an audience.
Having covered venues in England, Wales and
Scotland, they have found southern England venues
less responsive, whereas the far northern England
venues tend to be rowdy, with drunkeness and wolf
whistling being a common feature. This is ascribed to
the availability of cheap beer in student unions,
together with the fact that they go on stage late in
the evening.
Their live work has greatly influenced their studio
recording technique. Rachel feels the urge to 'hold the
microphone in the studio' and to use first time takes
on the LP rather than trying again or overdubbing.
The roots of their music is set in the soul, gospel
style of the 60s, drawing inspiration from soul and
blues artists like Van Morrison. There is an optimistic
air about their future but little optimism for the music
industry as a whole. With their stage presence and
very competent musicianship Bliss have a bright
future. They are at a very important stage in their
careers and they clearly are trying hard. It will be of
great interest to see whether they succeed. It would
be a shame to waste such talent especially with
talentless Australian soap stars topping the charts-
no names mentioned! Many thanks to Chris Stapleton
for some fine photographs.
N.E.M.L.

