Felix
The Baron of
Cheapskate
Andy Meritless was a worried man.
The citizens had decided they didn't
want to count the votes from Bloody
Mary's Medical School. They were
upset because the Bloody Mary's
Chief Citizens had told the lesser
citizens which candidates to vote for
in the citizens' elections. A n d y
Meritless was upset because he
thought they were all going to vote
for h i m . W h y else had he sold his
soul, his grandmother and his fire
engine to Phil Doodle, the Bloody
M a r y ' s C h i e f Citizen? N o w
everybody would have to wait until
Thursday before they knew the
result of the elections.
The first that most citizens knew
about the elections was when the
playground next to the 'Quite Tasty'
Burger Factory was plastered with
posters, the mediocrity of which
was surpassed, with only a few
exceptions, by the mediocrity of the
twelve candidates.
Grovlin Shittyhouse, possibly the
most boring person to have stood
for election since Dr David Death,
made the big mistake of standing in
front of a brick wall which looked
good job the Snack Bar is a poster-
free zone, or untold members of
citizens would have thrown up their
nutburgers at the sight of them.
Day two of the campaign, and the
perfect o p p o r t u n i t y f o r the
candidates to show off their verbal
banter: A Citizens' meeting. N o w
that the proposal to do away with
the Citizens' meetings h a d been
thrown out, this was just like any
other Citizens' meeting—no one
knew about it and no one turned
up. Even the great defender of the
Citizens' rights, the man (?) who is
to democracy what Derek Dash is to
e x p a n s i o n i s m , Phallix Editor
Willhebe G o o d f o r a c o l u m n i n c h
didn't know until an hour before the
meeting. N o t s u r p r i s i n g l y ,
therefore, there were no histrionics
from the 'Dirty Dozen', apart from
Grovlin Shittyhouse, who proposed
that the big book of the 500 or so
slightly less random citizens who
were on club committees should be
sold to people who gave jobs to ex-
citizens. T h e companies that
Grovlin had i n mind were boring
money counters such as Proctor and
Shambles; Snoopers i n Y-Fronts;
Peat, Marwick, McRipoff; and
Stock, Aitken, Watermen. It was
unfortunate for Grovlin that nobody
could be bothered to tell him what
a crap idea this w a s , as he
desperately wanted to tell everyone
how wonderful he was.
After a day's rest, everyone
gathered again for the highlight of
the week: The Hecklings. This was
when the Dirty Dozen would try
and tell the citizens how they sat on
several zillion committees, how .they
considerably more interesting than
he did. Clare McUseless, a former
clown and hot-tip for Chief Citizen
produced some very nice posters,
which looked as if they'd been done
by her very good friend, and
candidate for Phallix Editor,
Smuggly. He, meanwhile, looked as
if he was about to hatch out of his
eggy posters into some sort of green
salmonella-infested mess. It's a
basically ran the Citizens' Club
already, and how much better it
would be if they were paid for doing
so next year. Fortunately, there
were a few exceptions to this rule,
and they will receive a prize far
more important than electoral
success; something that cannot be
bought by money, favours,
popularity or notoriety: A mention
in 'The Duke of Sluicegate'.
Phallix photographer D o u g
Queen was running a squeaky-clean
campaigning. Clean because he
printed his handouts on toilet
paper, squeaky because one of the
patches on his jeans was too tight,
although he tried to rectify this by
getting well oiled on stage.
Alistair Goodfornothing stood on
an amazingly courageous 'I'm not
a hack or on any committees'
platform which was novel a n d
refreshing but probably too brutally
unsubtle, even for Cheapskate.
Finally, Says Who was too scared to
even speak, so she sat on the front
row whilst her Dracula lookalike
proposer claimed that she had been
kidnapped by Daleks, who were
coming to exterminate everyone.
Unfortunately, no one told him that
'we will exterminate' is not quite so
funny when given as a reply to the
25th consecutive question.
G r o v l i n Shittyhouse then
reminded everyone h o w like a
Thunderbird's puppet he was,
although it must be said that at least
they have some character, and far
better dress sense. A n o t h e r
candidate accused of being a puppet
was N e i l M c S l i m e s k y , whose
answer to Cheapskate's debt crisis
was to send a Rag Tit Squad to kill
Hillman Rustbox, the author of the
Moronic Verses. N o w it's funny that
he should mention that, for the next
day's Grauniad suggested that the
brass plaque from the 'Friendly hit-
squad Embassy round the corner'
was not o n its way home in
diplomatic baggage, but had been
stolen by the l u m p s o f m e t a l -
vvorshippers. This was hotly denied
by their n e w vice-clown, Keven
McCannot, who pointed out that
they were busy stealing a lion at the
time.
Anyway, back to the elections,
and the only one you lot really care
about—the one that delivers you this
twenty pages of toilet paper every
F r i d a y — T h e P h a l l i x Editor.
Standing for this were Smuggly, the
fairy-story writer, and Winthrop
Cravat, the in-depth fairy-story
writer—and Winthrop certainly
knew an in-depth fairy when he saw
one. The Hecklings for this post
were particularly boring, apart from
when Smugglv (proposed by Julian
Less, chair of Cheapskate Citizens
against Water Polo Society) forgot
about the wonders that 1992 and the
single European market will bring,
like rabies.
O n Monday all twelve candidates
thought that their problems were
almost over, and that they would
soon learn the deliberations of
Citizens of Cheapskate.Now they,
and everyone else, would have to
wait another two agonising days.
I bet you expected some silly
questions here — Ed.
FELIX is published by the Editor for and on behalf of Imperial College Union Publication Board and is printed by the Imperial College Union Print Unit, Prince Consort Road, London, SW7
2BB (Tel 01-589 5111 ext 3515). Editor: Bill Goodwin. Business Manager: Liz Warren. Advertising Manager: Nick Jones. Copyright FELIX 1988 ISSN 1040-0711.'

