14 felixonline.co.uk/culture culture.felix@ic.ac.uk Friday 24 February 2017 Friday 24 February 2017 15
culture.felix@ic.ac.uk felixonline.co.uk/culture
felix C U L T U R E
felix
C U L T U R E
who will win, and who should win
Best Cinematography
Cinematography is often overlooked, but it can make or
break a film. This is most apparent in Moonlight: James
Laxton, the film’s cinematographer, has created a world
of nuanced tones and hues, with great attention to detail.
This is apparent even on the film’s poster, which reflects
the three-part structure of the film whilst also highlight-
ing the masterful role colour plays in the work. Without
such additions, Moonlight wouldn’t be half the film it is.
Bradford Young’s work on Arrival is similarly moving, as is
Rodrigo Petro’s stunning work on Silence. All signs point to
Linus Sandgren winning, for his technicolour dream La La
Land – the cinematography was the best part of the film.
However, nothing is set in stone: the American Society of
Cinematographers presented their award to Greig Fraser,
for Lion, so don’t be surprised of an upset on the night.
Should win: James Laxton (Moonlight) | Will win: Linus Sandgren (La La Land)
Best Original Screenplay
Adapting the works of another is a daunting enough pros-
pect, but equally intimidating, if not more so, is creating
a world completely from scratch. In this respect, my alle-
giances for Best Original Screenplay are split: on the one
hand, we have Yorgos Lanthimos’ and Efthimis Filippou’s
script for The Lobster – a masterful black comedy, which
managed to invent an uncanny Earth-like world; on the
other, we’ve got Mike Mills’ equally-astonishing script for
20th
Century Women – a masterful work, combining witty
dialogue with a multitude of visual images and film clips.
Mills’ screenplay is worth reading as a stand-alone piece
of art, and for that it’s my top choice for the award. In all
likelihood, however, the prize will go to Kenneth Lonergan
for his drama Manchester by the Sea, and to be fair to
Lonergan, it would be well-deserved.
Should win: Mike Mills (20th
Century Women) | Will win: Kenneth Lonergan (Man-
chester by the Sea)
Best Original Score
At this point, it seems pointless to debate the winner of
this award. It will be Justin Hurwitz, whose score for La La
Land has been picking up plaudits all season. Hurwitz’s
music is certainly good, although I would argue that little
of it is memorable – a cardinal sin in the musical theatre
world. On leaving the cinema after seeing La La Land, I
could remember one song – two at most – and the rest I
had to listen to online. This contrasts unfavourably with my
experience of Mica Levi’s score for Jackie, which wormed
its way into my brain. Like in Under the Skin, the score
is filled with haunting strings, sliding between notes until
they find a place to land. Levi should really be the winner,
for a score that accentuates the haunting nature of Jackie
without ever detracting from the on-screen drama.
Should win: Mica Levi (Jackie) | Will win: Justin Hurwitz (La La Land)
Best Adapted Screenplay
This year’s nominees are marked by the fact that none
of them were based on a straight-forward novel: instead
we’ve got films based on plays, short stories, and
non-fiction books. Fences marks an unusual posthumous
nomination for August Wilson, whose play formed the
basis of the script. Eric Heisserer does well to adapt the
complex short story Story of Your Life into Arrival; similarly
Allison Schroeder and Theodore Melfi manage to make a
balance between true life and drama in Hidden Figures.
In my opinion – and it seems likely that the Academy will
agree with me – Barry Jenkins and Tarell Alvin McCraney
should win for their screenplay Moonlight, based off the
play written by McCraney; it manages to retain the orig-
inal play’s structure, but bring it wholly into the world of
film, and for that, they should be rewarded.
Should win | Will win: Barry Jenkins and Tarell Alvin McCraney (Moonlight)
between La La Land and Moonlight, and what a contrast
those two films are: Moonlight is a film that is political to its
bones, while La La Land is the very opposite, almost anath-
ema to politics, light and fluffy to the core. In a year like
this, where the political arena is dominated with hatred
and division, it would seem remiss for the Academy to not
place a film about a gay, black, poor man at its heart,
showing that these stories are needed now more than ever.
Moonlight is also, in my opinion, a far superior piece of
work to La La Land, which doesn’t have much to say.
At the end of the day, however, it seems most likely
that the Academy will choose to award La La Land the
top prize, since it’s a celebration of everything those in
Hollywood hold dear: themselves. While I would love for
Moonlight to take home Best Picture, I’d put my money on
La La Land – above all, a safe choice.
Best Picture
S
ince 2009, the Best Picture nomination list has
swollen from five to a maximum of ten, and
as a result the category tends to feel bloated.
This is definitely the case this year, when a
number of the nominees provoke little more
than a surprised ‘huh?’ Hacksaw Ridge and
Hell or High Water both seem completely unlikely to come
anywhere near the top prize. Similar could be said for
Lion, Fences, and Arrival, which – despite being good
films – don’t seem to have a chance of reaching the top.
Manchester by the Sea could get a late-in-the-day burst of
support, but it seems more likely to pick up the acting and
screenwriting awards; similarly Hidden Figures, while one
of the most popular films nominated in terms of box office
revenue, seems unlikely to make it.
So, at the moment, it seems to be a two-horse race
Should win: Moonlight | Will win: La La Land
\\ Alamy
\\ Alamy
\\ Alamy
\\ Allstar
\\ Film Society of
Licoln Centre
\\ Fox
Academy Awards 2017 | Our predictions of
Best Supporting Actor
A rare category in which La La Land isn’t nominated, the
Best Supporting Actor award is also noticeable in having
the only nomination for Nocturnal Animals, which was
widely seen to be one of the main snubs of this year’s
awards. Lucas Hedges is a welcome addition to the short-
list for his explosive performance in Manchester by the
Sea, and Dev Patel could provide some competition for
this category, for his role in Lion, in which he was able to
display great emotional control. The award is most likely
to go, deservedly, to Mahershala Ali for his role of Juan in
Moonlight. Juan is only present in a few scenes in the film
– he’s a neighbourhood gang member and drug dealer
who becomes a father figure for the young Chiron – but
he makes a powerful impact, leaving an impression on the
remainder of the film.
Should win / Will win: Mahershala Ali (Moonlight)
Best Actor
A short time ago, it seemed that Casey Affleck had this
award locked down for his performance as an emotion-
ally-repressed, grief-stricken janitor in Manchester by the
Sea – and so he should, his performance is great. But
nothing is certain in Oscar-world (except my judgments on
what should win; those are infallible). With the increased
attention on Affleck, sexual harassment lawsuits have
come to light, which could put a dent in his chances. And
who’s that coming up on the horizon? Why, it’s Denzel
Washington, whose performance in Fences, which he
also directed, has been in second place behind Affleck
all awards season. He could prove to be a challenger to
Affleck, especially since Hollywood would never rehabil-
itate or celebrate anyone who’s been accused of sexual
harassment… oh wait. It’s probably Affleck’s year then.
Should win / Will win: Casey Affleck (Manchester by the Sea)
Best Supporting Actress
Viola Davis is widely predicted to take home this award
for her role as Rose Lee Maxson in Fences. Michelle
Williams’ performance, also up, in Manchester by the Sea
was a complete stand-out of the film for me, a deeply pow-
erful performance born out of a chasm of grief. Octavia
Spencer and Nicole Kidman were good in Hidden Figures
and Lion, respectively, but at this point the nods seem
like… well, little more than just nods. For me, it would be
fantastic if Naomie Harris were to take home the top prize
for her astonishing performance in Moonlight: in a film
bursting at the seams with incredible actors, Harris left the
strongest impression as a crack-addicted mother, whose
narrative arc never quite reaches redemption, but comes
damn close. Plus she filmed it in three days – girl’s got skill.
Should win: Naomie Harris (Moonlight) | Will win: Viola Davis (Fences)
Best Actress
Just one gripe before I get on with the predictions: it is a
complete travesty that Rebecca Hall has not been nomi-
nated for her central turn in Christine. Anyway, moving
on… Meryl Streep has her customary annual nomination
for Florence Foster Jenkins, but she has no chance of
winning. Similarly Ruth Negga doesn’t seem to stand much
of a chance, but it’s great to see her break through. This
leaves us with a three-horse race. Emma Stone has been
garnering a number of awards for her turn in La La Land,
but I think (or hope) the role is too light to stand up to the
Academy. As such, the award will likely go to Natalie Port-
man for her portentously campy performance in Jackie,
and she would be a worthy winner; but for me, Isbelle
Huppert’s powerhouse performance as rape-victim-turned-
avenger in Elle deserves to take home the top prize.
Should win: Isabelle Huppert (Elle) | Will win: Natalie Portman (Jackie)
Best Director
It seems likely that Damien Chazelle will snatch this award
for La La Land, but it would be a pyrrhic victory, given
that his far-superior breakout feature Whiplash didn’t even
earn him a nomination. Chazelle manages to mine the
classic trope box of old-fashioned Hollywood musicals, but
doesn’t add anything new to the equation. Kenneth Lon-
ergan similarly takes cues from emotionally bleak, realist
dramas, but seems to be able to draw out better perfor-
mances from his cast. In an ideal world, however, the prize
would go to Barry Jenkins for his even-handed portrayal
of a gay black man growing up in poverty, Moonlight.
Moonlight’s plot is never overshadowed by Jenkins’ mas-
tery with the camera, despite the numerous awe-inspiring
shots. The fact that this is only Jenkins’ second feature –
and his first on a major budget – makes his achievement
all the more astounding.
Should win: Barry Jenkins (Moonlight) | Will win: Damien Chazelle (La La Land)
\\ Alamy
\\ Wiki-
media
\\ Alamy
\\ SBS
Produc-
tion
\\ Allstar
HeadingtoanOscarspartyandunsureofwho
torootfor?NotseenFences,butwanttopretend
you have? Just want to seem like someone who
has an opinion? Then read on, as our Culture
Editor Fred Fyles takes you through all the top
prizes, letting you know what’s coming out on
top, who’s coming home empty-handed, and
why you should be pissed off when La La Land
wins everything

