Union Page
imperialcollegeunion.org
This Sunday (26 February) is your last chance to celebrate excellent teaching
and support at Imperial. Don’t miss out on your chance to say thank you to a
member of staff that has made a difference to your educational experience.
Imperial is one of the best universities in the world; have your voice heard and
help us to identify and celebrate best practice in teaching, research & support
at the College that will keep us on top.
Nominations close Sunday 26 February, get yours in before its too late!
imperialcollegeunion.org/sacas
You still have time to stand forThe Leadership Elections 2017! Nominations
close at 23:59, Sunday 26 February. The Leadership Elections 2017 are your
chance to shape the future of student life at Imperial. Every single Imperial
student, no matter their subject, degree level, or campus, can cast their vote
for the students that will lead the groups that make this student community
what it is. Imperial College Union brings together Clubs, Societies & Projects,
Constituent Unions, Liberation Officers, Academic Representatives, and
Community Volunteers into one vibrant and active organisation.You can grill
your candidates next week at our unmissable MeetThe Candidates event, see
it on Wednesday 1 March! Find out more and stand now at:
imperialcollegeunion.org/elections
There is still time to stand in
The Leadership Elections 2017
SACA nominations close 26 February
LEADERSHIP
ELECTIONS
The
2017
Friday 24 February
From 27 February through to 5 March, the Union will be helping to highlight
beats’ national campaign to help raise awareness of serious eating disorders.
There are plenty of amazing events held across the week, from tower tours
to prize draws, and subterranean expeditions to cake sales. Emily-Jane
Cramphorn your Deputy President (Welfare), is leading on this week.
For more information check out our posters around campus or head to:
www.is.gd/EDAW2017
Eating Disorders Awareness Week 2017
VarsityFest is back this year! It starts with a Hockey Varsity on Wednesday 1
March before a day of sport at Heston on Saturday 4 March.You can book your
tickets online now - there are a range of options and bundles to choose from!
It’s set to be a fantastic day with students, staff, family and Alumni coming
together to celebrate and showcase sport at Imperial College London.
Don’t miss out make sure you get your ticket!
imperial.ac.uk/sport/club-sport/varsity
VarsityFest is almost here, have you got
your ticket?
VarsityFest 2017

