November
1998
issue
1125
K E E P T H E C A T F R E E EST 1949
The S t u d e n t s ' N e w s p a p e r at Imperial C o l l e g e
Meningitis Claims IC Student
Meningitis tragically claimed its first IC vic-
tim on Wednesday 28 October. The first
year medic was admitted to St Mary's
Hospital that morning and died in the
early evening. The depth of shock
throughout IC has been reflected in uni-
versity campuses nation-wide as the dan-
gers presented by the lethal bacteria hit
home. The funeral took place on Satur-
day 31 October and was well attended by
numerous students and college repre-
sentatives.
After spending only one night of the
preceding week on college premises,
the student was found to be unwell on
Wednesday morning, complaining of a
headache and stiff neck. Within ten min-
utes of the discovery, the hall warden
requested an ambulance under inspec-
tion of the health centre. On admit-
tance to St Mary's many of the other
symptoms of meningitis developed.
The loss of life has truly been a cruel
blow to the college and has over-
whelmed many; a re-app from the indi-
viduals hall commented "he was really
By the News Team
calm and quiet, very smiley and friendly".
Chris Edwards, Principal of ICSM, told
Felix "We are all very upset at his death.
This is a real tragedy."
The hall warden concurred; "I le was
a friendly and popular student and the
shock of his loss will be felt by many of
his friends in hall, in the medical school,
throughout College and at home. Our
thoughts are with his family at this time."
He went on to pay tribute to the hall
community; "I'd like to thank my sub-war-
dens, re-apps and all the students in the
hall for their thoughtful and mature
response through this difficult time."
The college has duly activated its
newly constructed response regime. The
system takes into account the retro-
spective advice from Southampton and
Cardiff, both of whom have experienced
outbreaks. Government recommenda-
tions formed the basis of the action plan,
which details the network of communi-
cation, along with a chain of responsi-
bility that takes effect in the event of a
suspected case.
"People have to continue to think
about meningitis until the spring," was
the precautionary advice from Dr Irene
Weinreb, Director of Clinical Services at
the health centre. There has been a con-
certed effort within the college to allay
students' fears through education and
avoid a potential wave of panic, which
has for the most part been successful. A
small minority of students have returned
home as a result of recent events, but it
is believed these actions were instigated
by the parents. Dr Weinreb was keen to
appease worried parents, but discour-
aged their late night phone calls, which
only serve to cause disruption. The ICSM
Principal described his conference with
the hall's students, explaining "I told
them to speak to their parents and let
them know what had happened. It is
important to understand why it is not
appropriate for students to go home,
even though that may be an under-
standable reaction. The college has a
policy for dealing with meningitis. It is
much more sensible for people to stay
at college where we have the best pos-
sible knowledge and understanding of
the situation. At St Mary's Hospital we
also have, right by us, a national centre
for dealing with meningitis."
The college has extended its con-
dolences to the family and is prepared to
provide support for them and its stu-
dents. The warden has maintained con-
tact with the family and the way in which
he has dealt with the situation was com-
mended by the ICSMU President, Wade
Gaycd, as "absolutely brilliant".
Edinburgh and Newcastle have
taken an especially keen interest in the
developments at IC due to similar,
though less grave, cases at their cam-
puses this term.
Facts about Meningitis on Page 2
Inside..
Letters 6
Editorial 8
Columns 10
Books & Cartoon 12
Computer Games 13
Film 14
Music Feature 16
Feature on Delhi 18
Music 20
Arts 26
Sport 30
Diversions 31
Crossword 32
Mundane Hustings Hassle Cook
The prospect of an easy victory for Stu-
art Cook in this week's elections for
Deputy President (Clubs & Societies) has
been thrown into doubt after a dubious
showing at last week's hustings.
Although poor turnouts at both the
South Ken and Charing Cross campuses
produced inconclusive results, Mr Cook
faced a much sterner test from the
assembled crowd at St Mary's on
Wednesday. The proceedings were
topped-off by Mr Cook's admission that
after five years of his materials degree,
he had decided to run "because I'm a bit
bored".
Most questioning concerned the
future of the Medical teams in sporting
contests. Mr Cook had clearly done his
homework, explaining the current situa-
tion regarding the BUSA and UL entries.
When questioned, he explained that
"whilst ideally the Med School and IC
would enter as two separate teams, that's
just not going to happen because we're
all one College". For non-sporting teams,
however, he did pledge to listen to the
By David Roberts
views of the teams concerned.
Asked at the Charing Cross hustings
about the future of IC's three sports
grounds, Mr Cook responded that "I
believe we can keep all three". When
asked which of the three he would get
rid of if forced to decide, he replied "the
smallest one" - which in practice would
mean Teddington, the ground formerly
home to St Mary's. By Wednesday
evening, however, he had toned down
this response, stating that it is "not a
decision I can take right now".
Looking at the suggestion that the
Union should form a separate "Athletics
Union" to administer sports clubs - an
option which could result in increased
funding for sports - Mr Cook stated that
he would favour such a split. When asked
if that would mean a concerted effort on
his behalf to push ICU Council in that
direction, he simply replied "I guess so".
These hustings could, however,
prove academic, as suspicion is growing
that Mr Cook may withdraw his candi-
dature. Thursday's meeting of ICU Exec-
utive was asked to approve Mr Cook's
request to be allowed, if elected, to take
every Wednesday afternoon off, so that
he can continue his membership of the
football team. Although he refused to be
drawn into a direct answer on the sub-
ject, expectations run high that if they
refuse his request - as widely predicted
- then he will withdraw from the election.
Voting, if happening, takes place
today and tomorrow. Ballot boxes are
open from 10-5; results are announced
on Tuesday evening in DaVinci's.

