Prizes sponsored
by usit
C A M P U S .
All students !^Nro°uIder
th
get up late, live t o
f S ^ ° p
off caffeine, are c
7<Zi
experts in day-time
T v a n d wouldn't recognise
a g o o d career opportunity if
it wore a pink tutu and tit them
on the backside.
Don't you just hate it when someone puts you into a box?
Tell us about it.
There are a number of graduates out there (admittedly fewer every year) who think that we're just an electricity
company that pays poorly, offers little scope for development, and recruits mainly engineers wearing yellow hard-hats.
Taking each of these in turn, we happen to be one of the world's leaders in our field. As well as generating enough
electricity to power the homes of 12 million people in the U K and selling electricity and gas to households, we are at the
forefront of international power generation, acting in projects across Europe, India and Asia Pacific.
As for pay and potential, most graduates start on around £17.5k, but with our individually structured training
programmes, we expect you to rise quickly and earn rather more (and rather sooner than you might expect).
And though it's true we need a steady flow of graduate engineers, we're not just a haven for hard-hats. In fact, we're
just as keen on hard-headed business sense. Because when you're trading in fbillions, you also need
people with real commercial flair, and in fields as diverse as IT, finance, business and R & D
(among others).
And if all this doesn't strike you as one of the best graduate opportunities around, perhaps you'd
better go back to watching Supermarket Sweep over a nice cup of instant.
On the other hand, if you've got an open mind and a good honours degree, get in touch now
and we'll send you our brochure and keep you in touch with developments.
For an application form and further details, including which Careers Fairs we are attending,
contact The Graduate Recruitment Section, PowerGen pic, Westwood Way, Westwood Business
Park, Coventry CV4 8LG. Telephone 01203 424785. Fax: 01203 425045.
email: graduate.recruitment@pgen.com
(Sola auaarCi
for
©ccupational&atetp
C V.
. J
IWFSTORS IN HiOPLIi
'9002J
PowerGen is an equal
opportunities employer.
www.pgen.com
Electricity

