16
Feature 9 November 1998 9 November 1998
Feature 17
Everybody Else is Doing it. So Why Can't We?
Name: U2
Title: The Best of 1980-1990
Rating: 83%
Who's the geezer on the left?
O
K, so here's a brief history of the band that's
sold more than 70 million records worldwide,
tarry Mullen, 14, posted a notice at Mount
Temple Comprehensive School in Dublin, which said he
wanted to form a band. Paul Hewson, 16, used to
scribble song lyrics between pumping petrol at a sta-
tion and decided to join, later changing his name to
Bono-after a local hearing aid shop. Others joined and
the band Feedback was formed. Bono tried his luck as
guitarist and band manager before settling for front-
man's duties. They won their school talent competition
in 1976 and changed their name to The Hype, then U2
- name suggested by a mate called Steve. They signed
to Island records in 1980 and began a decade of inter-
national success unrivalled by anyone not from Amer-
ica. It took them just 3 years to be voted 'best band on
the planet' and a further four to release the fastest sell-
ing album in American history, The Joshua Tree, an
album that went on to sell over 1S million worldwide.
And that's not to mention the '90's. Which is right,
because this album has nothing to do with the '90's,
except for the recent Cher-beaten remake Sweetest
Thing, This Best Of... comprises 14 tracks which - as on
most compilations - refuse to be placed in chronolog-
ical order. As ever, the big hits come first.
U2's first album, 1980's Boy, was a seminal debut
that failed to make the Top 40. We are given a taste of
this first attempt with the single / Will Follow. It reveals
Bono's vocal influence, half Spandau Ballet, half The
Cure. Whilst on tour in America the next year, all of
Bono's lyrics for the next album were stolen. A hastened
rewrite produced October, their less-than-impressive fol-
low-up. Wisely, no songs from it are included here. It
was their 1983 No. 1 album War that catapulted U2 to
stardom with their first anthem New Year's Day and the
anti-violence military chant of Sunday Bloody Sunday.
Next year's The UnForgettable Fire wasn't as hit-filled but
still gave them their biggest hit to date with Pride (In
The Name OF Love).
It was the greatly-anticipated The Joshua Tree in
1987 that gave us U2's best loved songs of the decade
and this compilation's undoubted highlights. With Or
Without You takes a lifetime to grow - the intro not
unlike the tranquil music in Bill & Ted's future. Bono's
whispering vocals eventually giving way to the roar of
'And you give yourself away...' / Still Haven't Found What
I'm Looking For is probably their most epic to date - T
have scaled these city walls only to be with you' and
Where The Streets Have No Name, the song that took
many months to petfect in the studio, is quite frankly
superb.
Their last release of the decade was the infamous
Rattle & Hum. Accompanied by a video of live footage
and backstage madness ('We were probably the worst
rock 'n' roll stars there ever was') it was considered by
many as a step in the wrong direction, taking a more
bluesy approach - B.B. King was brought in for When
Love Comes to Town. It gave them their first No. 1 with
the let's-do-the-hand-jive INXS-style Desire.
Of course, they went on to release many more
great singles such as One and Even Better Than The Real
Thing before last year's Pop campaign. No doubt we'll
be hearing The Best Of The '90's before long, although
the band are against a warts-'n'-all Anthology style
release.
For the U2 faithful out there, there is a limited edi-
tion version of this album, complete with an extra CD's
worth of B-Sides from the mid- to late-80's. Officially, this
is only available until the end of today, so you'd best
hurry. Of interest on this extra CD are covers of Ever-
lasting Love - later made famous by Gloria
Estefan, Unchained Melody, and the
original not-very-good version
of Sweetest Thing.
Inevitably, this CD is
Y
our response to this album will depend on how
far back your musical memory goes and what
sort of Depeche Mode background you have.
Since the late eighties, I have had an enduring taste for
Depeche Mode and having enjoyed a few songs off
their last album, I looked forward to listening to this col-
lection of singles which is basically a remastered ver-
sion of an LP by the same name released in 1985 with
a couple more tracks thrown in. I wanted toknow if I
would discover some long-forgotten jewels from their
early stages that would set my heart on fire for the
genius of four blokes from Basildon.
Well now I've listened to it, I can say that I liked it
but didn't discover as many jewels as I would have liked.
The album contains music that captures the essence of
Brit eighties pop: synth-based sound, catchy tunes,
good lyrics and trademark delivery. The
Name. Depeche Mode
Title: The Singles 81 -85
Rating: 69%
+
.+ w + *
songs on this album contrast sharply
I M O W t l d t i y S / w i t h t n e m o r e
expensive studio-
polished sound of later
- art llOre BeSI Ot... albums W&Music For the
Masses. A lot of peo-
'e thought DM
were wrong to
drift from the
insophisti-
cated but
charming
simplicity
you find in
this album.
I can't
make up
my mind if I
agree or
Zt:T°ZT/ compilati g about than
album released in
the same week
Oasis' The
Masterplan.
Anyway,
go out and
buy this
album now
and you
too (sorry!)
can experi-
ence the
'80's greatest
survivors.
EdJ.
there are Charles and Diana books. It
seems that everyone's having a go. U2,
Depeche Mode, The Orb. Even Suzanne
Vega's doing it! Compilations like this are
usually taken in one of two ways - a cynical
attempt to cash in or a perfect way to
draw together those fans who like the
artist but haven't had the time or
money to collect every single sin
gle. Market ploy or market
joy? You decide!
not.
Now for those jewels I mentioned. Dreaming oFme
could have been made by any of a host of eighties
bands but it's cool. Can't get enough is a classic which
deserves a mention despite being very close to an irri-
tating classic. Everything counts captures the eighties'
greedy headiness. Blasphemous rumours and Shake the
disease are great subtle tracks that show the direction
DM headed into the future. Somebody is about the
Depeche Mode, diamond geezers.
only slow song in the album and is thought provoking.
This collection is probably the best summary of DM's
work between 1981-1985.1 don't think any other singles
album would give you the range this does.
Ahmed
T:
Well,
Name: Suzanne Vega
Title: Tried And True - The Best Of
Rating: 52%
H
ow can you have a Best Of., collection of
Suzanne Vega without Solitude Standing?
Come on! Then, you have the 'disco' version
of Fom's Diner, not the original! This album is supposed
to contain the best and quintessential songs of this
woman. This means her own originals, not derivative,
souped-up versions! You can't help feeling the record
company chose the wrong strategy for this album.
They decided to go for a selection of songs to com-
plement those of the 1987 album - Solitude Standing,
which is probably Vega's biggest-selling album. Granted,
it isn't easy to select a certain set of songs from a reper-
toire of tracks covering her five albums and a few not-
on-album singles. But they could've done better. On the
plus side, two new songs are offered that ar quite good
- Books, A Cover and Rosemary.
The album starts off well with Luka, messes up with
that 'DNA featuring Suzanne Vega' one, then goes on
to Marlene on the Wall to repent for its sins. Caramel
and 99.9Fare then served to appease but it is the lovely
Small Blue Thing - from her debut Suzanne Vega - that
does it for me. Left of Center is also a real treat because
it's great and you probably haven't heard it before. In
Liverpool, Blood Makes Noise, and When Heroes Go
Down ate featured from the 99.9Falbum. I am not sure
I'd include these among her best songs. We get only
one song from her Days of Open Hand album - Book
oFDreams, which is OK. I hadn't listened to anything
from the 1996 Nine Objects oF Desire album, so the two
great tracks taken off it pleased me a lot. All in all,
despite the presence of some great SV on this collec-
tion, I can't get over the fact that Solitude Standing could
have been squeezed in. Also, that the original version
of Tom's Diner should have been there. A bolder, not
Tried and True - read popular - selection was needed
to make this collection hold together.
Ahmed
he
Orb,
eh?
they've been
around for awhile. In
fact, they've been
around long enough to
start growing whopping great
tufts of white hair from various facial
orifices. They know this and they've looked
at their watches. So what time is it kids? It's 'Greatest
Hits' time!
Until now, I had never been too sure about The
Orb. Perhaps an over-hyped, electric eighties sound.
Maybe just a happy, chart-friendly outfit. The jury has
finally returned a verdict. Let the double-barrelled
assault on U.F.Off commence.
The Orb certainly never leave their home without
their laptops and a power supply to fire electricity at
everything they come across. Everything on this album
is synthesised, digitised and disappointingly, sterilised.
One attribute summarising the development of The Orb
over the past decade is diversity. Obviously there are
similarities flowing through every track, but this is just
the dub style that they embody. The diversity comes
from the fact that the only reason The Orb have survived
until now is that they simply mix, re-mix and re-mix some
more whatever is popular at the time. So, as the charts
have changed from UB40 through 2-Unlimited to The
Verve, so have The Orb. Unfortunately the UB40 and
Name: The Orb
Title: U.F.Off-The Best of The Orb
Rating: 31%
Verve sound was never meant to be 'dubbed' and so
falls flat on its face. Worst of all, they have even torn
apart Return to Innocence by Enigma, a modern day
classic in the music world.
Various attempts at ambience only achieve bore-
dom, and the sheer inconsistency in sound just adds
irritation - at least you can sleep to ambience. Finally I
have realised why I was undecided about The Orb. I was
lucky enough to have never encountered such a life-
less, PC generated excuse for musical expression. Mes-
sage to The Orb: Why don't U.F.Off!
Derek
The Orb, ambient wannabes.

