18 Feature 9 November 1998
A Taste of India
Simon Llewellyn provides us with an insight into life in New Delhi, as he tells the story of his first trip to India...
S
itting in the comfort of my envi-
ronmentally controlled Air France
jumbo jet flight, reading a copy of
Forster's A Passage to India, I realise how
little I know or understand about this
country. Apart from the food and the
documentaries about the slums of Cal-
cutta I am largely ignorant of what lies in
store for mc. The taxi driver had given
me several sage pieces of advice during
our early morning trip to the airport. It
was a grey drizzly morning and I was
more than a little apprehensive; "You've
got to watch that lot over there, they're
different to us. And don't go eating the
food either, and the water..." He later
reluctantly admitted to never having actu-
ally visited Asia.
For some reason most flights leaving
Europe arrive in India at about midnight
local time. There are several theories as
to why this may be. Some say it is to do
with flight path regulations, others say it
is so flights leave Europe at a conve-
nient time. I have another suggestion;
it is a clear conspiracy by the Indian air-
port authority to throw unwitting travel-
ers into the jaws of the locals at a time
when they are tired and suggestible...
perhaps.
New Delhi is the ostentatious, British
built and designed capital of India and
also the arrival point for most visitors to
the country. It is a city that has been con-
quered, destroyed and rebuilt on many
occasions during its turbulent history, a
city that is impossible to possess, or so
the legends would have us believe. Yet
little of this history is evident from
Mahatma Ghandi international airport as
I find myself queuing up at the immi-
gration counter. The tales of endless
bureaucracy seem to be a thing of the
past and within twenty minutes I am
standing in the exit lobby, with back-
pack firmly on, and clutching a prepaid
taxi voucher in my sweaty right hand.
This voucher scheme was introduced in
an attempt to stop new arrivals being
ripped off by less than honest taxi drivers.
At a booth in the airport you state your
destination and amount of baggage and
are given a voucher valid on any of the
standard class taxis, or so the theory
runs.
Making my way outside, an
entourage of enthusiastic taxi drivers
soon encircles me, but when I show the
voucher most of them leave disap-
pointed. However the one remaining dri-
ver helps me with my pack into the back
of a yellow and black ambassador car;
this is the ubiquitous taxi car of New
Delhi and an instant reminder that India
used to be under colonial rule. Soon we
are driving in the middle of the road,
speeding round blind corners and form-
ing part of the local car horn orchestra,
which I am later to find makes up the
most important part of driving in India.
Unlike in Europe, where horns are gen-
erally used to warn of danger or express
annoyance, in India they play a far wider
role. Atypical honk could me "Watch out
I am about to run you over", "hello, I've
got a nice horn too" or may simply be
something for the driver to do with his
idle left hand in between gear changes.
Because of the great importance
attached to these noisy contraptions, a
huge and bewildering array of different
sounds are available. For the serious
minded business man the good old bor-
ing straight honk is preferred, but for bus
drivers, a particularly kamikaze breed, a
dazzling array of different tunes are on
offer. Leading the popularity contest at
the moment seems to be the Lambada,
played as a series of beeps which add a
strange electronic orchestra feel to traf-
fic jams - an acoustically far more excit-
ing experience than their European
counterparts. And believe mc, this is for-
tunate; sitting for hours in traffic jams is
more of a way of life than elsewhere.
New Dehli has many distinctly dif-
ferent sides to its character. The huge
India gate surrounded by large open
avenues and ornate stately buildings
contrasts starkly with the run down nar-
row streets in which thousands of peo-
ple sleep every night. Indeed, walking
around the streets late at night can be a
vaguely surreal experience, with lines of
people sleeping on makeshift beds
stretching into the distance. But come
sunrise a flurry of activity converts these
dormitories into a flourishing market
place, selling everything you can imag-
ine, including a large array of different
spices and small, spiky, insidious looking
fruits. The range of culinary dishes avail-
able is quite staggering and you will
never have a problem finding a deli-
cious (if somewhal suspect looking) meal
to gorge yourself on. Served from large
blackened pans from street side stalls,
these dishes are usually'incredibly good
as well as very cheap. I sit on a low wall,
contentedly munching my way through
a bowl of surprisingly tasty brown sludge,
and trying not to think of the myriad dis-
eases associated with bad food hygiene.
In front of me a constant stream of yel-
low and black auto-rickshaws weave in
and out of each other. Somehow, no
matter how reckless the driving, they
never seem to collide.
Poverty is, alas, one of the mosl strik-
ing things about the city, and in fact the
entire country. Mutilated beggars with
old world diseases are common place. It
can be hard to adjust to the sight of
bandaged lepers walking the streets.
After only a few days in the country I
already feel overwhelmed, having been
thrown into such an environment, and
this is only the first week of the months
I have left.

