2 News 9 November 1998
Theft at Wilson House
On Thursday 22 October a student living
in an IC hall of residence was the victim
of a burglary. The incident happened
between 8:30pm and 11:30pm and left
the third year student without his stereo
and missing some clothes.
He usually kept his £1,500 laptop
lying on his desk but luckily he had lent
it to a friend that week. Also the mini-disk
he had purchased the day before was
left untouched in his draw. Unfortunately
that was where his luck ran out. the inci-
dent occurred only four days after the
student had moved into halls. He had
been looking for accommodation since
the beginning of term and was sup-
posed to be temporarily housed in Wil-
son Hall for two weeks.
The thieves made off with a stereo-
system, CDs, clothes and a bag: property
with a total value of about £600.
The student, who wishes to remain
anonymous, telephoned the police, and
notified the sub-warden, who called Sher-
field security Immediately. By the next
day signs were put up in the hall of res-
idence and the police sent around some-
one to take fingerprints, but they did
not find anything unusual.
The individual still feels slightly Inse-
cure at times but his transfer to a differ-
ent room has helped him to overcome
the trauma. He commented "I thought
this might happen to me in a flat but not
in halls". He is frustrated at the situation
and feels "it could have been avoided".
The student insists that a security camera
installed to monitor the first floor win-
dows would act as suitable deterrent for
By Tony Ofori
burglars.
The person admits that he was par-
tially to blame because he left his win-
dow open. This along with the fact that
the flat roofed houses that back on to
Wilson Hall provide someone with easy
access is a welcoming situation for
opportunist burglary.
At the moment the student is going
through the time-consuming task of mak-
ing claims to the insurance company. I lis
advice to any student in hall of residence
is that they should take out additional
insurance if they have very expensive
possessions in their room as basic insur-
ance only covers items up to a total
value of approximately £600.
Ken Weir, chief security officer, said
that to avoid such incidents students in
halls of residence should lock all win-
dows and doors since they do have locks
fitted to them. He added that as of late
such burglaries have been very rare. Stu-
dents should be aware that the problem
does exist, but should not become para-
noid about it.
In response to the issue about secu-
rity cameras Mr Weir pointed out that
CCTV is effective but they are limited in
the area that they can cover by cost and
privacy. If installing a camera means that
residences from the surrounding area
feel a violation of their privacy has
occured, then the camera has to be
removed or re-sited. Referring to Wilson
Hall, the chief security officer also stated,
"security has increased by a consider-
able amount over the past two years" and
college are always "looking to reduce the
risk of crime". He, in conjunction with
someone from the police's crime pre-
vention unit, are currently reviewing the
situation around Wilson House.
Just before the beginning of term
another similar burglary was reported at
the same Hall. The items that were
allegedly taken were not as expensive as
this occasion but nevertheless the two
incidents do share some similarities. As
yet no connections have been made
between the incidences, and the matter
is the subject of an ongoing investiga-
tion.
issue 1125
9 November 1998
Editor: Ed Sexton
News Lditor. Andy Ofori
Photographic Editor: William Lorenz
Music Editors Jason Ramanathan and
Denis Patrickson
film Editor: David Roberts
Sports Editor: Gus Paul .
Arts Editor: Helena Cochemc
Games Lditor: Gary Smith
Books Lditor: Kent Yip
Layout & Photo Editing: Joel Lewis
Delivery last issue: Andy Ofori
RAG Week Postponed
Following the difficulties By Gareth
of finding a location for
the RCSU Beer Festival, this year's RAG
week has been rescheduled for the end
of January, to coincide with the Medics'
RAG. It is hoped there will be some joint
activities, as well as separate ones. The
beer festival is currently searching for a
suitable venue, although Dave Hellard is
attempting to rectify the situation. Tar-
gets are currently been set for RAG week.
Part of the reason for the postponement
of RAG week has been that the new
RAG chair, Sarah Coburn, only took over
four weeks ago. However, plans and vol-
unteers for fundraising events are begin-
Morgan ning to come together.
RAG organises char-
ity events throughout the year, not just
during RAG week, as demonstrated by
Sunday's collection for the Poppy Appeal
in Cambridge. Ms Coburn said that she
didn't want RAG to be entirely focused
on one particular week, or on the five
charities which will benefit from thai
period: Shelter, Imperial Cancer
Research, Avert, Trinity Hospice and IC
Community Action Group.
Anyone interested in helping with
any aspect of RAG should email
sarah.coburn@ic.ac.uk, or go to the RAG
office (above dB's) at lunch time.
Meningitis: What to Watch For
The college has executed the task of
informing students of the facts of menin-
gitis admirably,- unfortunately recent
events have made it necessary to ensure
that everyone knows what to look out
for.
What are the different types?
There are two types: Viral and Bac-
terial, whilst viral is the most common it
is unlikely to be life threatening. Bacter-
ial meningitis is quite rare but may be
very serious, there are two types of bac-
terial meningitis: meningococcal and
pneumococcal. In addition the bacteria
can result in septicaemia.
How is bacterial meningitis spread?
Many people carry the bacteria in the
back of the throat. Whilst the bacteria can
be spread by kissing,
sneezing and cough-
ing it is weak outside
the body. After exposure
symptoms usually
appear after 2-10 days.
What is the prognosis?
If diagnosed early
and treated rapidly then
a full recovery is likely.
What does meningitis
do?
It inflames the tis-
sues that cover the brain
(meninges) and spinal
cord. The same bacteria
responsible for inflam-
mation of the meninges
By Brett Donovan
& Andy Ofori
If a rash appears under the skin
which doesn't fade when
pressed (most easily tested
using a glass), call a doctor
Immediately, as this is a symp-
tom of septicaemia.
are also responsible
for the variant
meningococcal septi-
caemia, which causes
bleeding under the skin.
Can I develop meningi-
tis?
The risk of develop-
ing meningitis is very
small, even if you have
been in direct contact
with a diagnosed case.
The causal bacteria is car-
ried, in fact, by approxi-
mately 10 percent of
people. There is still a
risk, however, and it
saves lives if you are
aware of the symptoms.
What are the symptoms?
The symptoms are similar to flu in
many respects, but symptoms get pro-
gressively worse very rapidly. Symptoms
include; vomiting, fever, severe
headache, joint pains, aversion to bright
lights, lethargy, confusion and fits. In
addition to this rashes appear during
septicaemia. It is important to note lhat
not all the symptoms may be present.
What do I do if I think I have it?
Don't panic, check the symptoms,
and get medical help as soon as possi-
ble. The health centre has open clinics
every day from 8.30 to 10am. In the
evenings and weekends you can phone
the emergency number, 0171 584 6301
(internal 49375).
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB Internal tel: 58072 Internal fax: 48072 External tel & fax: 0171 594 8072 URL: www.su.ic.ac.uk/felix E-mail: felix@ic.ac.uk
Printed at MCP Litho Limited, Units B2 & B3, Hatton Square, 16 -16a Baldwins Gardens, London EC1N 7RJ Felix is a registered newspaper: ISSN 1040 - 0711
Felix is produced for and on behalf of Imperial College Union Publication Board. Copyright © Felix 1 998. Photographic copyrights remain with photographers.

