9 November 1998 Music 21
TALVIN SINGH
Talvin Singh. He'll bend over
backwards to please you.
F
or the past five years the Asian
music scene has been creeping
its way into the consciousness of
the music buying public. Bands like
Cornershop, who have been around for
at least the past seven years and Asian
Dub Foundation are only now receiving
the sort of critical acclaim they deserve.
Equally Talvin Singh has pioneered a
much more roots oriented musical
sound. First acclaimed for his amazing
mastery of the tablas, a kind of drum,
which he began to learn to play when
he was seven years old, Talvin then pro-
gressed to start his own club night
Anokha, at the Blue Note. It was and
still is, a great success.
Talvin found he had some rathet
unusually famous groupies. Amongst
these wete the diminutive Icelandic pixie
Bjork and the flaxened haired image
monger Madonna. I le played an influ-
ential part in various tunes on both of
their last albums. I le's also supported
David Bowie on tour and has remixed
one of his tracks.
So what of this Asian music pio-
neer's new album OKI The feel is defi-
nitely an ethnic one with Instruments like
the shenai, the veena and the rabab. The
bass lines are not only the pure Indian
tabla sounds, though. There are also the
sort of drum breaks normally associated
with hip-hop or drum 'n' bass driving a
great number of the tracks. This fusion
gives a kind of other worldly feel, some-
times like a chaotic techno-Delhi in the
year 2100. Other tracks are more serene
and floaty. Those with vocals are the
strongest especially the excellent Sutrix
with its hypnotic I lindi chant. I he album
hangs together very well but some of the
tracks are difficult whilst only a few are
exceptional. Very good for a chill out
room. El
Ramzi
FAT HARRY WHITE
Fat Harry White
L
ast summer, I was working at a
car factory. Every day, at 3 pm we
would have a tea break. We
would always look forward to this
break. After lunch, rather than grudg-
ingly returning to the lathes for a soul-
destroying slog of filing and welding,
the break gave us a sense of optimism.
What made these moments of hope
precious was a radio show with Mark n'
Lard. We'd eagerly huddle around that
collection of wires and transistors and
chortle our socks off to I larry's puerile
innuendoes. Titles include Fingering
the Keyboard of Love. Looking Deep
Inside for Love and the classic My Baby
Stroked My Bread. It's not cutting edge
humour, but I larry does those smutty
double entendres better than anyone.
So if you want to hear about I larry's
exploits with his 'very sexy lady friends'
get hold of a copy now. After a short
session with Fat I larry, I guarantee
you'll be satisfied. H lorn
Singles
ARCO - Longsighted
The A-side to this delightful record is Distant Lies - a
strangely mystical tune that leaves you feeling warm
inside. As the record label suggests, it has a dreamy,
mellow, chilled-out feel - reminiscent of those Welsh
wizards, Gorkys Zygotic Mynci. All in all, it is not a
record to rock to and it won't make the charts, but it is
definitely worth a listen.
Eve 6 - Superhero Girl
There's nothing actually wrong with this song, but
there is something I can't put my finger on. It must be
that I've heard it millions of times before under many
different guises. It rocks, but it's nothing new.
Groop Dogdrlll - Personal/Hedly hadly
This tension filled mass of musical frenzy comes on bot-
tle green vinyl - what more need I say! Only that Per-
sonal begins with a whiplash of drumming that
continues at breakneck pace throughout the entire
song. I leavyyet listenable. Unfortunately lledlyhadly
is a disappointment compared to the A-side as it is just
a mess of disorganised noise. It does not do the
record justice.
Neutral Milk Hotel - Holland
A suspicious mind would be saying to itself, 'They must
have something to hide by creating this fancy 7" pic-
ture disk - do they really have to use this cheap gimmick
to get people to buy their records?' Well it works does-
n't it? Anyway this particular band have no need to do
such a thing. Their record is bubbly with a cheeky, cheer-
ful tune surrounded by an ominous presence of some-
thing heavy and less innocent in the background.
I lopefully it will be in my head for some time.
Rachel
The Genles - Every Little Thing
On the first track the band offer up a happy poppy lit-
tle number, that is not too dissimilar to Dodgy. Next is
a moody cover of the Who's / can see for miles, which
is quite good in all fairness. On the finai song they man-
age to sound a lot like Soundgarden did on Black-hole-
sun. Next time it would be nice if there was a little
continuity.
T H E E S S E N T I A L C H O O N
Daddy's Favourite - / feel good things for you
The beginning gives rise to a sense of a complete lack
of musical creativity as the tune is just a basic rearrange-
ment of the X-files theme. Do I leave now before my
brain becomes numbed? Although tempting, it is
worth hanging on in there as the music manifests itselfI
into something rather more interesting. Halfway
through the epic a jazz piano emerges through the
main core of synthetic sounds and slots in suprisingly
well with the groovy drumbeat, which is the lifeline of|
this piece. An inspiring piece of music.
Rachel
Mucho Macho - The Airport Freeze
This is a good piece of electronic music. A latin-style beat
really spices the sound up. There's a nice level of
energy to this, the beats are not so slow that you feel
that you are falling asleep, nor are they so fast that you
suspect a heart-attack is going to be induced. This
would go down well in a club, but it still has enough
variation to allow home listening.
Sebadoh - Flame
Quite simplistic, but effective. A single beat is pretty
much played thtough the song, with only a single
break. The keyboards match this with a single repeti-
tive scale, with little effects drifting in and out. Over this
are vaguely bluesy vocals. The song goes nowhere and
yet is quite good. It would have been nice to have had
at least another track to listen to however.
The Divine Comedy - The Certainty Of Chance
Another single stack affair. The actual single has more
tracks claims the postcard that came with this. The
song is sweeping and grandiose (and pretentious),
and yet all of this is created with only vocals.strings, a
piano and some drums. This truly fits the description
epic. It would also fit right in during the slushy bit in
most films.
Radar - Slow Down
This band's take on rock includes a feel-good uplifting
vibe. Unfortunately, the vocals are of the slightly breathy
sort that is popular in this style, which are supposed to
sound emotional,but usually don't. The songs are
played well and have sufficient versatility. It's worth a
look for the final track, It ain't over.
Paul Weller - Brand New Start
A melancholy song. It's really well written, the lyrics are
quite good and are reasonably sung. The guitar work
in particular is not only well done but is also tasteful and
interesting. It's good to hear a musician exerting con-
trol for once. The new b-side is rubbish, probably the
reason that it is a b-side. Also there's a cover of the Jam
song, The Riverbank which is pretty cool, but how
much it differs from the original, I don't know.
Marc Almond - Black Kiss
Not a bad song - a bit sparse at times - but cool
nonetheless. The music gets going during the chorus,
but during the verses it only occasionally tries to do
something. It's the vocals that make this good, and
some sample of a guy talking in a foreign language. The
b-side. Satan's Child, sounds better as more happens
musically, whilst maintaining a laid back vibe. Finally
there is a live version of Black Kiss, which sounds bet-
ter than the original due to a denser sound. H
Jamie

