22 Music 9 November 1998
Tha Bomb!
Taking s o n 8 tine off so you can nod your h ead toRoni'S ravings
This week has been shit, too much stuff to do and
so little time. So this week I have left the page in the
hands of my understudy - Roni, he's gonna hit you with
some hip hop, but do not fear I shall return and bring
ya the low down on R&B.
And before I go, you all gotta go out and buy the
Faith album today understand, this is the Bomb,
there is no substitue for class and this got fucking
loads of it. Keep The Faith from Faith Evans....just buy
it!
Milen
Roni's Raving
Yo, here it is... The lethal lyricists Ras Kass from the
Left Coast, and Canibus from the Fast dropped their
albums. Both suffered from the production not match-
ing their lyrical carnage. While Canibus educated us on
songs such as Channel Zero, Ras Kass showed his ver-
satility with a whole range of subjects, and although the
beats were better than his first album, it was patchy.
Check out some of his lyrics: 'You ain't got enough cal-
cium to pick a bone with mcYStay true to the game,
but the game ain't true to the emcee/When N***a's is
bootleggin' Makaveli 2 and 3.' Damn, that's tight! His
album is better than Canibus', though Canibus is
rumoured to be angry to the reception of his album.
He plans to release an EP over Xmas giving the people
what they wanted. People likely to be on it are DJ Pre-
mier and Raekwon. Also, Wyclef may not be his man-
ager anymore, but who knows in the world of rumours?
Oh yeah, LL Cool J shot his returning salvo at Clef in the
form of Rasta Impasta, and believe me, this one really
gets raw, and there is no news of this being released,
probably cos of not disappointing his fans. Ilmmm,
guess I'll have to play it on my radio show huh ? Speak-
ing of the Fugees, Pras' Blue Angels should be out by
now sampling the theme from Grease (and Pras has
never seen the movie!) and his album should also be
out. The true headz were sampling the delights of
Mos Def & Talib Kweli on their Black Star album on
Rawkus. These two got rhymes for days. Outkast
dropped a third classic album, looks like they arc gonna
be replacing Tribe in Flip Hop's consciousness. Speak-
ing of Tribe, they retired with a fifth album out, and a
solid one at that, don't under-rate this. Heltah Skeltah
dropped Magnum Force - I'm really feelin' "I Ain't
Havin That" even if they jacked Tribe's Hot Sex beat. The
big Willie himself, Jay Z, drops his final album, with the
title track Hard Knock Life proving to be one of the
dopest with the creative use of the hook from the musi-
cal Annie. Flipmode Squad released The Imperialwnich
is a solid album, and if you like Busta you will lap this
up. Cha Cha Cha is the single out right now but the real
party starter is Everybody On The Line Outside, while
Duck Down's Buckshot shows up to recreate the old
Black Moon magic on We Got You Opin Part 2. Same
beat, same dopeness. Speaking of Black Moon, they are
reforming but not under that name due to their acri-
monious split from Nervous Records a few years ago.
The first single is around, called War Zone, and fellow
BCC soldiers Cocoa Brovaz have a remix of Bucktown
with M.O.P. who dropped First Family 4 Life with some
JohnBlaze shit on there, fat Joe came up with Don
Cartagena another solid album, straddling the line
between hardcore and commercial. The West Coast
were repped by Xzibit producing a quality album that
only the real headz will appreciate, althought everyone
will love the party starter Pussy Pop with Method Man
(a remix is coming out with Lil Kim!!!); the real jewelz
are in the form of 3 Card Molly and Let It Rain though
others abound. The trend for 'old skool' bands reform-
ing continues with the unification of DJ Alamo, Grand
Puba, Sadat X and Lord Jamar as the original Brand
Nubian line-up. Their album, loundation, is tight with
the single Foundation/The Return out now, DJ Premier
producing the latter. Gang Starr have been busy with
1/2 & 1/2 on the Blade soundtrack with MOP, and also
found time for a few remixes off their album (of the
year!) in The Militia Part 2 with WCand Rakim! Also, the
B-side has a remix of The Militia by the chocolate boy
wonder Pete Rock, who also has a solo single out fea-
turing some heavy hitters, Tru Master. Dogg Pound
member Kurupt put out Kuruption! after relocating
back home to Philly
and taking years setting up and running his own label
Antra. It's a double album, with one disc for each
coast, although it would've been better to just have one
disc with the best cuts. It ain't as good as it should've
been and doesn't match up to Daz's album released
before the summer. The Wu-Tang came up with The
Swarm-a compilation with some good and bad tracks,
and Sunz of Man finally dropped The Last Shall Be lirst,
a solid effort. Watch out for albums coming out from
the Rza (aka Bobby Digital), Inspektah Deck and Method
Man in the near future. The rest of the Wu-members
and affiliates ain't far behind, with ODB, Ghostface and
Raekwon slated for releases, and the all-woman crew
of Deadly Venoms (check em on the compilation and
the Kurupt album) also comin'. La the Darkman's album
should be out by the time you're reading this. Death
Row have been quiet lately, due to the falling through
of their distribution deal with Breakaway Entertain-
ment, so no Deaf/r Row: Inside Out for now. There is
a 2Pac Greatest Hits coming out on Interscope with
some new songs, and Nate Dogg released his double
album G Funk Classics Vol 1 & 2 which featured a host
of Death Row inmates including 'Pac, Dogg Pound,
Snoop, etc. A class 12" worth looking for is Queen Lat-
ifah's Name Callin' Part 2 where she blazes on all cylin-
Triumph, Big's Kick In The Door, MOP'S How About
Some Hardcore, LL's 4,3,2,1 and finishes it with Busta's
Put Your Hands... and with the line "on your knees is
the only way you bitches gonna blow/so what you say-
ing yo" Ow! Don't know who she talking about, but she
continues in a similar vein on the B-side Get Off Minez,
this time on the DMX Get At Me Dog beat. Sadly, these
didn't appear on the album due to sample clearance
costs, and the album is a lot more R&B orientated, with
only a couple of rough hip hop tracks. The Beatnuts
have some crazy wild tracks on their new album com-
ing soon, featuring I at Joe, Noreaga, Big Pun, Ghost
Face Killah, and the usual boriqua affiliates. Canibus has
also done a great track with AT. See Ya
Roni
Phat Selection
smooth vocals over a lovely keyboard
riff.
Keep The Faith - Faith Evans
Tune of the year came first, now
we have album for the year. God
damn!
Room 112 -112
The hugely talented bad boy outfit
return with their second set, much
better than the first. Packed full of
floor fillers.
Little Bit ofLovin - Kelly Le Roc
Classy British soul, beautifully

