9 November 1998 Music 23
dim
The Narrow Mindedness of Today's Dance Scene by Tony Thorpe (Language Records)
Who is Tony Thorpe? He DJs in public very rarely, and
as far as I know he hasn't made much music recently.
So why are we devoting this column to him?
Nowadays Tony is the boss of Language Records,
responsible for bringing to us, amongst others, the
excellent Buckfunk 3000 (aka Si Begg). Don't expect me
to tell you what musical catagories you'll find on this
label as it crosses many boundaries, fanguage has
been described as three-and-a-half years of adven-
tures, passion, discoveries, danger, madness, courage,
faith, audacity, political-incorect-ness...
Tony has been in the music scene since 1984
when he started making music as part of the 400 Blows
(Illuminated Records). You might know him as one of
the Moody Boyz (XL Records) from the late 1980s. As
for his DJing abilities? Well all I can say is that it's a real
shame he doesn't play out more. During our meeting
he recorded an hour mix for the radio show that cov-
ered a range of music from hip-hop to electro to jazz
and breakbeats. It wasn't a matter of seamless mixing
in one sub-genre. This is a man who simply loves the
power of music (if I may coin such a cliche) and is totally
in love with what he is doing. Is that enough of an Intro-
duction?
Tony talked to us about the days when he started
off in 400 Blows. 'We were doing underground, weirdo
music really. After the sort of punk thing it all sort of
'weirded out' and everything became funky and peo-
ple were mixing all different influences. People like The
Cabs and 23 Skidoos were mixing funk with avant
garde music and so were we really.
'In the early 80's I was into listening to a lot of funky
soul and funk stuff. I heard a band called A Certain Ratio
and they totally blew me away really because It wasn't
typical black American funk. It was totally different.
That kind of stuff really inspired me to make music. At
the time I met up with a guy called Andrew Beer who
had a deal with Illuminated Records. It was really my
musical background that made me a part of the band.
I came from black roots whereas Andrew had more of
a punk, gothic background, so together the two influ-
ences just came up with weird stuff.
'When I first started making music I had no idea
what I was doing. I didn't play any instruments. There
weren't computers around. I remember making records
by taking a massive tape loop, putting it on a broom-
stick and trying to get a breakbeat out of it! I was doing
stuff pre-samplers and making music any way necessary.
'On the first album we had country and western,
electro, funk ambient. Everything was on it! We really
didn't care what wc were doing. We just did what we
wanted to. People used to think we were mad. Just
these couple of odd-bods really! Whereas now I listen
to what we were doing ten or twelve years ago and it's
almost like things have caught up with it.'
At the moment Tony is making an album of new
material for a company called III Recordings. 'When I do
one thing I then want to move on to something else.
I've never been stuck in a rut. With my stuff, it's just
whatever I wanna do when I wanna do it. If I had just
made one style then I probably would have burnt out
long ago, but people have never been able to pin me
down so it gives me the room to continue. That's why
I'm still here. My music is concepts, it's feeling, it's spon-
tanaity, it's everything. Half the time I never know what
I'm going to end up with when I start.'
I asked Tony if his mix was a typical set that he
would play out. T didn't get all my influences in there.
Obviously there wasn't enough time for that. I'd prob-
ably need about 5 hours for that. Whenever I play out
it's always that kind of stuff. I'm not into lhat 'It's got
to be 180 BPM to make it work!' I like people to listen
to music. You never know, there might be something
they like there and they might want to go out and buy
it, so I'm not into that kind of formula DJing really. I'm
into playing whatever I want to play and that's the way
I am. I've always been that way really.'
Tony doesn't see himself as a regular DJ. 'It's just
a hobby. It's something I do for a laugh and it's not seri-
ous. No way! It's too much pressure I think. At the end
of the day I actually think that records are more impor-
tant than DJs. I think the people who make the records
are more important than the people who play them. I
wish things would go back that way because right now
I think that DJs are just too powerful.
'Also if you're a DJ and you're in that position of
power you should give the audience the opportunity
to hear all types of music and nol just the one genre.
But the problem is that because things have just bro-
ken up into many different genres it's difficult for peo-
ple to concentrate on one thing. It's become either one
thing or nothing. It's either drum'n'bass or nothing,
techno or nothing etc. It's a bit sad with the millcnium
that people are still very narrow-minded with music. It's
actually gone backwards in that respect. Everything's
being recycled right now. Sixteen year old kids are sam-
pling an old Parliament Eunkadelic record and they
haven't got a clue what the original is. People arc just
going into the past, digging up as much as possible,
sampling it up and putting it out. It's weird because my
record collection is being sampled when people should
be having their own ideas. But they're playing it safe
and that's the easiest thing to do.'
Despite being central in the avant garde electronic
music scene with his Language project, Tony prefers not
to go clubbing. 'DJs I like arc Darren freak Nasty,
Andrew Weatherall and Alex Patterson (The Orb). I've
often seen them play and they play a mixed set, but at
the same time they'll do a club and it's one type of
music so DJs can be very frustrated people because they
can't play what they want to play. They have to play what
the crowd wants and keep the floor going. You can drop
something and the floor clears and people aren't will-
ing to take that chance. I don't think anybody is really.
So I don't really go to clubs because there's nothing I
want to hear. I here are no clubs playing the sort of
music lhat I want to hear so really I just don't!'
Tony desctibes fanguage as The mosl eclectic
label there is. It reflects my tastes. I'd be so frustrated
and bored if I was doing just a techno label, or just a
drum'n'bass label. I'd go mad. If you look in my col-
lection there's classical, there's rock, there's funk,
there's soul, there's jazz. I listen to everything. So that's
why my label reflects what I'm into. I know people have
a problem with that but I'm never going to change. The
label's like a developement label. People come to me
with ideas and with my experience I help people. I try
to develop and put them in the right direction with what
they're doing. I will never release on Language. The
emphasis is not on me. It's on giving other people the
opportunity to put things out.'
tony has put out a compilation of new and released
tracks called the Family Album. It brings together the
last four years of the label and is a stunning collection
of tracks that mark the philosophy and ideals of this very
unique label. It is an excellent starting point for those
interested in Language. alick
i . J i i i i i i i a i

