9 November 1998 Arts 27
POETRY I N T E R N A T I O N A L 1998
Royal Festival Hall
T
his event was billed as "Britain's
biggest and best poetry festival",
so I was surprised when, after
picking up my ticket, I was directed not
to the main auditorium but to a small
room containing about forty chairs and
two lecterns in the upper reaches of the
Festival Hall complex. The strange neon-
scaffolding thing was even visible
through the window at the back. Known
as "The Voice Box", this room makes for
an intimate, up-close venue. Sat amongst
a varied audience of women's Institute
types, bearded intellectuals and the occa-
sional skinhead, I listened intently to the
introductions.
Tonight's performance comprised
specially commissioned translations of
works by two poets, who arc well known
and highly regarded in their own coun-
try yet almost unheard of over here. Juan
Luis Panero, from Madrid, writes deeply
emotional, often erotic pieces. His influ-
ences, including cinema, arc regarded as
more contemporary than many of his fel-
low artists. The first poem to be read was
the translation of Witness to Ashes, fol-
lowed by the original Spanish version.
This was the form of the entire evening.
Jane Duran, the translator, read her ver-
sion in steady deadpan American. She
was a set of human subtitles, supplement
Panero's performance - which was
breathtaking. His voice, a deep clear
bass, expressed the passion and moti-
vation behind his poems as much as the
words themselves. Some of his poems
were deeply philosophical, reflecting on
existence, dreams, reality and certainty,
whereas others were erotic, sensual and
titillating. It was easy to see why his style
is regarded as unique among Spanish
poets.
Valerio Magrclli, a lecturer from Pisa
University, is considered by many to be
the finest Italian poet of his generation.
His approach is precise and sharp yet at
the same time emotionally rich. A selec-
tion of his works was read by the trans-
lator, Jamie McKendrick, poet in
residence at Hertfield College, Oxford.
Again, the poet reading his own cre-
ations in his native tongue really brought
the poetry to life. Magrelli is technically
taut and writes capricious observational
sketches about his motivation among
other topics. He describes himself as "a
tailor who uses himself as a roll of cloth"
and compares his poems to "faint ceram-
ics of dreams that flow over onto the
page". His strength was thought pro-
voking imagery and incisive observation,
although his performance did not match
that of Panero.
I'm no poetry critic but I enjoyed
the evening immensely,- certainly more
worthwhile and inspiring than drinking six
pints in front of the football. I'm glad I
made the effort to go.
lain
WITNESS TO
ASHES
uan Luis Panero
(translated by
Jane Duran)
On the rock that the sea beats
or on the dry bark of that tree,
in the wind that cries against glass,
on the footprint in sand, or in hard earth,
in smoke that vanishes in your hands,
write, write, as if you were still discover-
ing words.
Write for skin or stones,
for white horses, for those eyes
that never looked at you, that you never
looked into.
Write without pride, but without false
modesty,
how your passage through this world
was not in vain.
Afterwards, forget that stupid sentence
and look at the sea, the sails of that boat
coming to rescue you, nodding patiently
over the waves,
its light reflecting in foam.
And - above all - write when you see it go
under,
when it disappears like a dream or a
haze,
when it no longer exists - It Is known that
it never existed -
write and repeat it aloud for the deaf sea,
for the distant sky.
So learn, witness to ashes,
the implacable end of your illusory
labour,
and then, without doubting - so your
hand does not tremble -
write, write, write, write.
THE EMBRACE
Valerio Magrcll
translated by
Jamie McK-
endrick)
As you lie beside me I edge closer
taking sleep from your lips
as one wick draws flame from another.
And two night-lights are lit
as the flame takes and sleep passes
between us. But as It passes
the boiler in the basement shudders:
down there a fossil nature burns,
down in the depths prehistory's
sunken fermented peats blaze up
and slither through my radiator.
Wreathed in a dark halo of oil,
the bedroom is a close nest
heated by organic deposits,
by log pyres, leafmash, seething resins...
And we arc the wicks, the two tongues
flickering on that single Palaeozoic torch.
REAL C L A S S Y AFFAIR
Royal Court Theatre Upstairs
R
eal Classy Affair is Nick Grosso's
new play. He has already
received a lot of praise for his
two previous works Peaches and Stveef-
heart which were also sucessfully staged
at the Royal Court Theatre. This "affair"
follows the lives of five childhood friends
in Finsbury, North London. They are all
now approaching thirty and one of them,
Stan has recently married and wants to
move with his wife to Streatham into
the flat his Nan left empty when she
died. The scene opens in a pub; the lads
walk in, all dressed in the exactly the
same way - wearing a bright, flashy suit.
Only Billy stands out because his cos-
tume is a different colour. We later dis-
cover that he has been away for a while.
They start talking about beer, women
and other ladish topics. It's very funny,
with Joey collecting rounds of drinks and
returning every time with the most hilar-
ious stories about women approaching
him and asking him out. Harry, on the
other hand, is the quiet, shy one who's
in love but won't admit it. Finally, there
is Tommy, the guy in charge; he seems
to control them all. I rom the way he
comes across, he probably was the
leader of the crowd when they were
kids. The set then alternates between the
be her best friend... Since his return, Billy
is constantly fighting with Tommy; they
constantly show off in front of the oth-
ers, trying to prove who's the boss.
pub and Stan's flat, where Louise, his
wife is always ironing. As the play
unfolds, we discover that Tommy has
slept with Louise and that Billy seems to
All this confrontation makes for quite
a realistic observation of this particular
class of society. The blokes have it all
sussed out. But underneath this macho
attitude towards life, they are very vul-
nerable and full of insecurity. Harry feels
so relieved when he finally admits to his
being in love. They are pressured into
behaving a certain way, often this burden
comes from within their own little group
and from the strains of friendships. They
are scared to death of disappointing one
another. The arrival of a woman also dis-
rupts their peace,- she takes one of them
away and then dares to fool around with
a couple of others.
I enjoyed this play very much, mostly
thanks to the actors. I hey arc all part of
the new generation: Lisa Walker (also
seen in Closer) proving she is brilliant on
stage, Joseph tiennes, easily as talented
as his brother and Jason Hughes follow-
ing his success in This Life.
D.
Until 14th November
Nearest tube: Leicester Square
Ticket prices: £5-£10 (lOp standing!)

