28 Arts 9 November 1998
OUR COUNTRY'S GOOD ONE WOMAN (part 1)
Young Vic Theatre Battersea Arts Centre
W
hen a play this good is done
this well, reviewing becomes
more an art of self-restraint
than anything else. It would be easy to
rave about so many things that it is hard
to know where to start or more to the
point where to stop. Directing, staging,
acting, humour, excitement and tension
were all performed with such smooth
clarity and refinement that it allows the
actors and audience to live and experi-
ence the play at a different level.
Adapted byTimberlake Wertenbaker,
the play, set in 1 784, is about a group of
convicts, transported for various crimes
to Australia, and the attempts of some of
the officers to reform them by allowing
them to put on a play of their own. Such
a situation allows the script to explore the
role of theatre in society, despite its
apparent lack of relevance with the mod-
ern era. Indeed it is this stark difference
in circumstances that allows a fair, bleak
and honest analysis of its true worth and
benefit.
The production challenges; it chal-
lenges the actors with all of them play-
ing multiple characters of completely
different natures; it challenges the audi-
ence with perceptions of theatre; it chal-
lenges society with the way it deals with
offenders, races and sex,- and it chal-
lenges the individual with their attitudes
to hope, inspiration and desire.
During the performance, the audi-
ence was rolling with laughter and silent
in anticipation almost at the same time
- the sharp insight almost mocking itself
to the core and foundation it is written
on. Sometimes the comparisons are laid
down so transparently that it could eas-
ily leave the public cringing with embar-
rassment. However, the production
subtly avoids these pitfalls, by building
character relationships with the audi-
ence.
The play has now gone on tour (and
dare I say to what I'm sure will be for the
country's good) but if you get the chance
to see it, I would recommend it whole-
heartedly. It's enjoyable, fun and is best
left with some of its own words - "A play
should make you understand something
new. If it tells you what you already
know, you leave it as ignorant as you
went in."
Matt
GRINLING GIBBONS AND THE
ART OF CARVING V&A Museum
already glimpsed his creations without
realising it. He's worked on Windsor Cas-
tle, Hampton Court Palace, St Paul's
Cathedral, Trinity College Chapel in
Oxford, Wren Library in Cambridge... Gib-
bons received numerous commissions
(for chimneypieces especially) from the
nobility, including his acclaimed master-
piece the Cosimo panel (pictured in
detail) ordered by King Charles II. His typ-
ical repertoire is profoundly naturalistic-
garlands of lush foliage, succulent fruit
and blooming flowers, interspersed with
the occasional hunted pheasant. How-
ever, most interesting of all in my opin-
ion was a model workbench, displaying
the types of chisels which Gibbons used
to carve his limewood reliefs. Once you
have observed the rudimentary tools at
his disposal, the sculptural dimensions
and flowing lines, which Gibbons intro-
duced into his Baroque composition,
become all the more astonishing.
W
ith a name like Grinling Gib-
bons (1648-1721), you'll either
be famous or a complete
oddity - maybe even both. Although I
haven't a clue about his personal life, his
excellence as a craftsman has warranted
this retrospective, which coincides with
the 350th anniversary of his birth. As this
exhibition proves. Gibbons is to wood-
carving as Chippendale (in the singu-
lar!) is to furniture,- they define a style
generated and Inspired by their work.
It's certainly ironic that this greatest
of British decorative sculptors was actu-
ally born in Rotterdam, where he was
apprenticed by Dutch masters. He only
immigrated to England in 1 667, shortly
after the devastating Fire of London
(quite an astute career move, consider-
ing all the interiors in need of drastic
redecorating).
The catalogue of projects to his
credit is impressive - you've probably
Helena
Until 24th January
O
ver the next few weeks, the
BAC is putting on a festival of
theatre and music, dedicated
to women. A single woman performs
each show and although the subjects
vary enormously, they all have a com-
mon end theme - the place of women
in society. Each artist draws on her own
experiences, highlighting her gift for
singing, acting or dancing.
This week, I went to see a couple of
these creations. The first one, Female
Paris was an adaptation of three short
stories by Dario to and franca Rame,
danced and played by Heather Davics.
She begins by narrating the story of a lit-
tle girl and her naughty dolly who swears
all the time. She describes their adven-
tures in some obscure fantasyland. The
tone is comical but also quite frighten-
ing; do all little girls live and dream like
this? Davies then proceeds to act out the
typical morning of a working mother; she
has to get the baby up and ready for the
nursery without the help of her hus-
band, who has an extra half hour in
bed. It's a very touching account of the
struggle some women have to go
through just to survive. Finally, she tells
the story of Medea, the Greek heroin,
who is devastated at the thought of part-
ing from her children.
the second performance was called
Mother of the Pride. Eileen Page, a
famous West End actress, performs the
last few hours of Eleanor d'Acquitaine's
life, a strong woman who ruled France
and then became Queen of England,
eventually giving birth to Richard the
Lionheart. Page appears on stage, looks
towards the audience and starts talking
to what she believes are the ghosts of
her family. The whole play is fascinating
as her life was an endless struggle. She
had to suffer through the infidelities of
both her husbands, the premature
deaths of her children and the harshness
of life in medieval times. She comes
across as a very powerful character, stat-
ing several times that "woman equals
man". She was definitively ahead of her
time in her beliefs.
There will be more about this festi-
val in next week's issue, but do take a
look because some of the performances
are very exciting.
D.
Until 22nd November
Nearest tube: Clapham Common
Ticket prices: concessions £5.50 (Thurs-
day 12th and Tuesday 17th November -
"Pay what you can" nights)
TWO GENTLEMEN OF VERONA
Guildhall School of Music and Drama
Nearest tube: South Kensington
Admission: £5, FREE for students
Opening hours: daily 10am - 5.30pm
(Mondays from 12pm)
T
wo gentlemen of Verona is a
Shakespearean comedy based
around the conniving antics of
the treacherous Proteus and his dim-
witted friend Valentine. The two are
friends from school but while Proteus is
enraptured by his love for the dizzyjulia,
Valentine is bored of Proteus's constant
pining and wishes to find adventure
elsewhere. Valentine sets off for Milan
where he falls in love with Sylvia, the
daughter of the Duke, who is the unwill-
ing object of the clueless Thurio's affec-
tion. The man thought to be most
suitable for her by the Duke. Proteus is
sent after Valentine despite his desire to
remain with Julia but on his arrival he too
falls hopelessly in love with Sylvia,
instantly forgetting Julia. He embarks on
a plan of betrayal and infidelity in an
attempt to win her love.
What follows is a series of ever more
implausible situations culminating in a
bare-chested Valentine, covered in blue
body paint and branches, attempting to
throttle Proteus for his deception. At this
point the Great Bard apparently grew
bored and without further ado every-
one falls in love with everyone else and
goes home. The end.
The presentation was put on by
third-year students at the Guildhall School
of Music and Drama and was entertain-
ing and extremely professional through-
out. The acting was universally excellent
with particularly good performances by
both Finn Caldwell and Gemma Saun-
ders as the servants and Oliver Franks as
Valentine. Also extremely popular with
the female element of the crowd was
the small fat dog which played Crabb.
The performance comes highly recom-
mended but unfortunately I believe it has
come to a close, so that's the end of that
then.
Marina
Nearest tube: Barbican/Moorgate
The next production, Mephisto by
Thomas Mann, is on between November
27th and December 2nd. Seats are free
of charge but admission is by ticket
(booking line 01 71 382 7192)

