9 November 1998 Sport 31
Football
ist XI
IC 2 - 2 LSE
Sat 31st October
Despite some areas of the field being
submerged in water and the rain show-
ing no sign s of stopping.the referee
decided that the game should go ahead,
this was to be the first of some odd deci-
sions.
IC were under the cosh a little in the
first half and after 25 minutes LSE were
awarded a penalty. Rob was adjudged
to have handled the ball despite not
knowing anything about it. Eric then pro-
duced a brilliant score only for the ref to
make LSE take it again.
After an inspiring team talk at half-
time, IC came out like a team possesed
for the second half. It wasn't long
before we equalised. Rich was hacked
down on the edge of the area. Warren
floated the resulting free kick to the
near post and Phil rose like a salmon to
level the game. 10 minutes later IC
were in front. Till going on a McMana-
man style run, laid the ball off to Warren
who lashed the ball into the top corner.
IC continued to dominate but failed to
build on their lead and sure enough, two
minute from time, the jammy bastards
from LSE did It again. One of the weak-
est shots in the history of the game
somehow dribbled into the goal.
Not the best start to the league
campaign, but there's still time.
Attention Sports Teams!
Please have all you sports reports at the Felix office by
8pm on Wednesday, AT THE LASTEST!
Late reports will only be published at the discretion of
the editor (me) and only with a valid reason for lateness.
Good to see all the various sports first Xls getting their reports in. I notice the IC
IV football team are still saying they haven't got the trophy....while London Student^
is campaigning for the Fourths to be thrown out of the competition for hiding the
trophy away. Does IC have the trophy or not ? (Please note I am much more inclined
to believe anyone from IC then any of the rubbish written in LS.)
^ Gus
4th XI
IC 8 - 0 GKT IV
Wed 28th October '98. BUSA
As usual, we won, they lost. I lowcver, they didn't just lose,- they bore the brunt of
the Fourth's most impressive performance of the season, and were thrashed into
submission by a team seemingly possessed by the spirit of Brazil 1970.
The pressure built in the first half, with a shot off the inside of their post and
a shot blatantly handled on the line, but with the ref still in the wrong half our calls
for a penalty were ignored. Justice came with a fantastic diving header - albeit by
a GKT defender - which put us one up at half-time.
And so the floodgates opened. I he GKT team was helpless In defending wave
after wave of out attacks and just as Moses parted the Red Sea IC pulled apart the
GKT defence by their vision and movement. I'm sure Adam, Gurn, Tom and some
others must have scored to guarantee our passage into at least the BUSA Shield,
though the BUSA Cup must be our ultimate aim.
IC 1 - 3 KCL III
Sat 31st October '98. ULU Division III
Congratulations must go to the Kings who won this fiercely contested battle of Ihe
two most social teams in ULU sports. Following King's Fourths promotion and King's
Thirds relegation, KCL Thirds have taken over the prestigious mantle of being the
"Badgers" of Kings College. Most of our previous encounters ended up being game,
"set" and match to the Baiters from IC, but this year they were just that little bit too
strong for us.
Following a trip down the Arches Ricky turned up very late resulting in him miss-
ing the kick-off so we had to shuffle our troops and move John into midfield. Unfor-
tunately things never quite worked out and we found ourselves two goals down
very quickly. When Ricky finally did turn up we started to improve and it was his
back post corner that was clinically volleyed home by Aidcn. Back in the game and
after an inspiring team talk at half-time the fourths started to put together long peri-
ods of pressure on the Badgers' goal. It was thus a bitter blow when a swift counter
attack resulted in that Scouse Twat heading home unmarked from just a few yards
out. But where was the 'keeper?
This defeat was even harsher considering the bad press between the two teams
following their accusation that we've stolen their ttophy. One last point on the sub-
ject, "Come to our Bar if you think you're hard enough" and we'll settle it wilh a
few boat races...
Diversions
Around IC
Mon 9 Tues 10 Wed 11 Thurs 12 Fri 13 Sat 14 Sun 15
DP C & S V O T I N G
10am-5pm
ConSoc - Oliver Letwin
MP, Huxley 213 1pm
CAG Meeting 6pm
Basement of Beit Quad
Standing Room Only -
DaVinci's Bar 7pm
D P C & S V O T I N G
10am-5pm
Quiz Night - DaVinci's
Bar 8pm
CAG Soup Run 8pm
Basement, Weeks Hall
ConSoc - Bill Cash MP,
Mech Eng Rm 542 1pm
Club XS - ICU 9pm-1am
Cocktail Night
DaVinci's Bar 5-11pm
CAG Soup Run 8pm
Basement, Weeks Hall
Bust-A-Gut Comedy -
dB's 8pm
Shaft - ICU 9pm-2am
Bubbles Squeak (NfW
pre-club night) - dB's
8pm-12am
Standing Room Only -
DaVinci's Bar 4pm

