4 News 9 November 1998
An Uncertain Future for the NUS
On Friday 30 October a meeting was dents care abou
held at UMIST's Student Association on prices of prod-
how student unions can survive outside ucts." Ideally
the NUS. The event, discussed in helix NUSSf and NUS
issue 1122, was somewhat under should be split,
attended but nevertheless raised many separating the
interesting issues on the role and success services from the
of student organisations. politics, but this
The meeting, organised by David has been
Hellard (ICU President) and Sabih Behzad opposed by the
(UMIST Student Association President), NUS, aware that
resulted from talks between ICU and it would reduce
UMIST SA over the last few months, while their power. Out-
UMIST was in the process of leaving the side NUSSL, how-
NUS. ever, unions can
One of the major reasons student still find good
unions are affiliated to the NUS is that deals and cheap
they provide subsidised services, through services: ICU left
their service provider NUSSL. As David the NUS twenty
Hellard put it, "if there's one thing stu- years ago and has
By Ed Sexton
David Hellard, Sabih Behzad and Nick Bibby
stand united for the future Photo: Ed
almost all products at
competitive
prices. "Local
consortiums area
lot better way of
getting things"
explained Mr Hel-
lard. Referring to
the high cost of
NUS affiliation,
and the cheap
deals ICU has
negotiated, he
commented "we
don't have to pay
to pay more".
Also present
was Nick Bibby
from Northern
succeeded in getting Services, a buying consortium that serves
non-NUS affiliated colleges in Scotland
and the North of tngland. He explained
that the affiliation fee for Northern Ser-
vices was a mere £100 for the first year,
dropping to £25 per year there after,
substantially less than the thousands
demanded by the NUS.
Messrs Hellard and Behzad have
expressed interest in setting up a coali-
tion of higher education student associ-
ations (CHtSA), to "help establish the
transition for unions that want to leave
the NUS". Central to CHESA would be a
removal of the vast number of policies
that NUS currently pursue. As Mr Behzad
put it, "there'll be no 'capital P' Politics
attached in any way". It is hoped that
another conference on surviving outside
the NUS will be organised sometime in
the future.
Evelyn Gardens Halloween Party 1998
Saturday 31 October saw dB's hosting
Evelyn Gardens halloween party. The
event was a successful mix of first years,
fancy dress and frolics, not to mention
copious amounts of drinking, helped by
the complementary drinks included in
the ticket price.
Tickets for the event
sold out quickly, and this
enthusiasm for the evening's entertain-
ment was obvious during the night. As
well as a good selection of dance music,
which kept the ctowd heaving (thumbs
up to the DJ), games and competitions
By Ed Sexton were organised for
those present. An on
stage boat race between the various
halls was certainly one highlight of the
evening, with there being some dis-
agreement over the eventual winner.
There were also prizes for the best
dressed lady and man.
A good atmosphere and strong
crowd ensured that this was one of the
best Saturday nights in the Union for a
long time, even if it was a private func-
tion. Well done to the organisers, the
Union and all those who attended.

