8
Editorial & Small Ads 9 November 1998
Out of the Frying Pan...
I have been trying to avoid this entire
medics' merger debate, as it seems to be
a minefield of opinion and prejudice,
but recent events (not least the seventy
or so signatures attached to the letter in
this week's issue) have forced me to
change tack. So here goes...
Firstly, I suspect that many of those
whose names appear on page six were
not entirely aware of the contents of the
letter when they signed what is essen-
tially a petition. May I suggest you take
the matter up with Mr Fmohare.
As for the rest of you, I have several
points to make. The initial article [Felix
1120] explained that the figure could
not be confirmed. As for our source, I
will not reveal who it was, suffice to say
that it was a (usually) reliable person.
I agree that our factual information
has been incorrect - hence the article in
last week's Felix pointing out our mis-
takes, and correcting them where pos-
sible. Again, I am not in the habit of
taking heresy as fact - our 'source' for that
article is usually reliable, and I was as irri-
tated as everyone else when I found
out the truth.
As for Nick Carter's statement, I
printed the only message I got from him
on the letters page. As the matter is still
under investigation, I think it would be
foolish to speculate on the eventual out-
come.
The article on the doctor who
received compensation was not printed
because she "just happened to have
worked at Charing Cross", it was printed
because it was in national headlines at
the time and therefore of interest to
Imperial students.
As for last week's "racist" article, I
would point out that Imperial Medical
Schools are not mentioned until halfway
down the second paragraph, and only
then in a list compromising several other
universities. I cannot be held responsi-
ble if you choose to read 'ICSM' for 'Med-
ical Schools'. I would also point out that
the article concerned a public report of
undeniable importance, not a private
Felix investigation, and is being taken
seriously by those institutions mentioned
within its pages. Whether or not it is true
is open to debate and investigation, but
to deny outright a report commissioned
by the Medical Schools' own Council is
hardly a mature attitude. These are seri-
ous allegations and deserve to be treated
as such by anyone interested in a fair and
non-discriminatory admissions proce-
dure. While I am confident the college
does its best to ensure such a procedure,
the McManus Report must surely be
cause for alarm.
Finally I do not hold medics in con-
tempt. As for the rest of the Felix staff,
I obviously do not know their personal
opinions, but I ask them to be impartial
when reporting for the newspaper. I also
find it tasteless that you think readers are
"amused at the expense of medics" by
articles concerning missing finances and
allegations of racism. Personally, I am
not amused.
...And Away from the Fire
All that said, I do agree that some factual
information has been inaccurate, and
every effort is made to correct such mis-
takes when they occur. I also agree with
your comments regarding Messrs Carter
and Heeps. When mistakes are made,
however, we will report them, irrespec-
tive of what person or institution is
responsible.
As a large number of medics voted
for me, I feel an obligation to try to do
more than previous Felix editors when it
comes to listening to medics' views. We
currently have two medics writing
columns, and I would be very happy to
see more involved in Felix.
At the end of the day there is preju-
dice on both sides of the divide, but
thankfully it is confined to a small num-
ber of narrow minded individuals like
'The Censors' on this week's letters page.
I print such letters in the hope that sen-
sible IC students (i.e. most of us) may
recognise the person or persons respon-
sible, and avoid them in the future.
We are now all one institution, like
it or not, and we've got to live with that.
Personally I think it's a great opportunity
for all IC students. I've seen first year
medics at South Ken Ents nights, and
their presence is very welcome (and, no,
not just because they tend to even up
the sex ratio). I think non-medical stu-
dents do need to remember one thing,
however. It's all very well to expect med-
ical students to have friends from all
departments at Imperial. We (South Ken
residents) leave after three or four years
- medics are here for twice that. If they
don't have more medic friends than non-
medics, they could end isolated for their
last few years. It's all a question of get-
ting the balance right - and from what
I've heard and seen, most first years
seem to be coping just fine while older
students on both sides keep the preju-
dice going. Ed
Careers Fair
Wednesday 18 November
11am to 4pm.
There will be a free booklet with brief details about each com-
pany, and some advice from the College Careers Service.
The Careers Service can be found in the Sherfield Building,
Room 310 and It's open 10am to 5.15pm Monday to Friday.
Exploration Board
Students planning expeditions for next summer should note
that the Exploration Board meets on Wednesday 2 December
1998. Expedition leaders are welcome to discuss their ideas in
advance of the meeting with the Board's Chairman, Professor
Bob Schroter (ext 45175) or with the Secretary, Nigel Wheatley
(ext 48055).
Written proposals must be submitted to Mr Wheatley, Deputy
Academic Registrar by Wednesday 18 November 1998.
Student Hardship Fund
This is a College fund set up to try and help students who might not be able to
continue their studies here without additional funding. Anyone can apply, (although
please don't unless you really need it), all you have to do is send a nomination let-
ter to t.cullen@ic.ac.uk before the 13th November, fill in the application form sent
out to you and return it to room 334 In Sherfield. If you can get a supporting let-
ter from your tutor, outlining more specifically the problems that you are facing and
how critical the money is to your academic performance, this will improve your
chances. The fund is limited and, despite the pressing nature of some financial
problems, the Committee assessing applications will be reluctant to provide assis-
tance in cases where the aid is unlikely to contribute to the successful completion
of the course. There is an Access Fund available for home students, so this S.I I.
fund will concentrate mainly on overseas and EU students, but if you feel you have
a worthy case, please apply.
Bubble
&
Squeak
Saturday 14 November
8pm -12am @ dB's
DJs Mad Dog and Karnage introduce a
new monthly mash up of fun, funky
beats and bedlam.
Free entry, Union Bar Prices, guest sur-
prises & optional dress code.
Community
Action Group
Needs Blankets
and Clothing
If you have any spare blankets and/or
clothes, the ICU Community Action
Group will be pleased to hear from
you, as we often need them to distrib-
ute to homeless people on our soup
runs. If you can help, please contact:
communIty.action@icac.uk

