1 2 /
T*"*-^ Feature 26 October 1998
The Truth Behind Halloween
The end of the month is approaching and those who are inclined to party can do so legiti-
mately on 31 October. Yes, it's that time of year when many people throughout the world
celebrate Halloween. Most just readily accept the occasion for a party and an excuse to be
mentally obliterated, to aggravate neighbours and play silly pranks. But how many people
know exactly what Halloween is? Halloween has rather a convoluted history and under-
standably one which people often ignore.
In essence Halloween is about the 'other side', not ITV, but a night in which evil spirits
supposedly roam the earth. Perhaps today the original meaning of Halloween is lost, but retail-
ers arc ti. il lost and Halloween is increasingly becoming a commercialised affair - just look
al llii winol\ ol products on offer. But what is the significance of the icons displayed?
tor all those who have participated in 'trick-or-treat' this period conjures up childhood
ins) relatives and neighbours, with the intention of being rewarded wilh
I lalloween is in lad an ancient tradition that has been hijacked over the
erenl groups. Originally in ancient pre-Christian Britain and Ireland the
ain (pronounced sow-in) on 31 October. It signified the end
! and ol the harvest
Dclohi i 31 was the eve ol the New Year for both Cells and Anglo-Saxons. It was cus-
fires in order to ward off evil spirits. This date is significant for il was associ-
i pastures and when legalities where renewed. Once a yeat
galive powers influencing nature. II was their belief in
he tor the i olebrallonswe have loday, and lor much
of the i onsumerism associated with I (allow :
< :n.
Iii i ii rituals that in', i , , 1 1
il ol 'all lallows'or'all saints'.
a lime to remember all II 1, ha., passed awa clue lotting
festival from the pagans: I • name, derived from hallow (meanrt ig holv
- Hallow-e'en.
Where does 'trlck-or-treat' originate?
•d the:
this originates from the Pagan festivities in Ireland On the 1 • n
pie in Iheii houses vvei |; v : •.• : i . . . . ,
they would leave the village alone. In at 1 l » •.|.ir,r " p m i l s j I e !•
would wander round villages lo draw tin spirits away fr on 1 1 \ .Mil
I his tradition continues, particularly in Amc. in a vuth c hildren dressed a > ononis Hid pu-
tts of the dead.
What is the symbolism of the pumpkin?
This is commonly known as the jack-o'lantern and isj
iar icons of Halloween, ii m.iv ii<'.: 11;-is 1 ' •
originates from that of night watchmen.
im ot it, .in1
! unit
evil „ i," as ih name
Did you know?
In \
\
< ico I lalloween is known as I I >
i 1 I' 1 « 11 H . (Ihc: day of the dead). It is
• i- e e ol gieal rejoicing. A! this liine is to its native home in
and arc welcomed
:'.;( v
as it is utilised in (loan
in" .piiiiiiel n|,i, e< i iliiiin. 1 1, 1 1 1 i'd ii J! be a complement as wik h is
Saxon for wise-one.
Traditionally at Halloween women attempt to peel an apple in its entirety in front of a
candle-lii mirror. If Ihis is achieved her future partner is supposed to appear.
Approximately two million people were executed for witchcraft between 1 Sth and 18th
century - 80% of these were women.
This year
Mask manufacturers in the US are said to be raking it in, with the latest craze in Hal-
loween fashion. Party stores are stocking props associated with the Clinton affair, with items
such as Clinton masks, something not original in itself, but these have Pinocchio shaped
noses. Due to legalities there is not yet a Monica Lewinsky mask, and lets hope it remains
that way; the casually departments will never cope with the influx of heart attack victims.

