14 Books 26 October 1998
The Tasmanian Babes Fiasco
John Birmingham
Harper Collins
; ;
v : ;
: : . :
y y::
*t H*u*m.8hartno Q*t4 i-
y:"/:;/• : yyyyyyec;e;e::e:
e yyyyyyy
yyyyyyyy ;
y-yy^/y- :
-[yyyy^fyyyy
Drink, drugs and dire sexual shenani-
gans... a lot of this sound familiar: fresh-
ers Week perhaps? Ah, but fond as those
memories are to recall, this is no time to
reminisce about weeks previous, more
to provide you with an insight into John
Birmingham's "The Tasmanian Babes
fiasco".
Put your hands up anyone who
shares or has shared a flat or house,
come on we're at university for God's
sake, don't most people houseshare?
That aside, flatmates and the trials of
sharing a house with some people you
know and some you don't is what this is
all about (you can put your hand down
now). This is a collection of short stories
all bound together by one big one, much
like the author's last book, "He Died With
a Felafel In His Hand". It centres around
JB (for the book is written in the first per-
son) and the story unfolds around the
house's new flatmate, Jordan, who
moves in after two goths skewer the
fridge with an arrow (read the book). It
turns out that Jordan is a bit of an odd-
ball and he proceeds to steal everything
that isn't nailed down, including a soda
siphon (read the book). What ensues is
a hard to categorise party across Eastern
Australia: there's your road-trip element
in battered vans and vehicles in various
states of disrepair up and down the
coast, your advertisement for every sub-
culture and counter-culture under the
sun, from karate lesbians to men who
hang naked in trees (that'll be "Naked
Tree Guy" then); and your visit via the
author's imagination to every place,
name and event in recent pop-culture.
Although it's hard to pin the style down
to one in particular it is a cracking insight
into one persons experiences in life.
Perhaps the style isn't that hard to
put your finger on, it's in the vein of
Irvine Welsh and lain Banks but so many
times throughout the book it strays, that
is what makes it hard to categorise.
I liked "The Tasmanian Babes Fiasco",
I liked it a lot, but I didn't like it so much
that I can't spot the reasons why you
might not like it. There's a bit of a drugs
theme running through it, well when I
say a bit I mean a fairly hefty one. It is
central to the story and, if it is to be
believed, the prologue implies that ail
the sub-stories are true to a greater or
lesser extent so the drug content can't
be helped. He also enjoys flitting around
in time backwards and forwards to tell
these little sub-stories as characters recall
them. This way of writing can get tedious
when you're trying to read late at night
and you start to think, "What just hap-
pened? Did I miss something?". Birm-
ingham also lets his characters "do all the
talking": they unfurl as the story pro-
gresses (which I kinda like) and you don't
get to know them until about halfway
through the book.
I was kept interested right up until
the end when it strangely turned into a
wine review on the last three pages.
And to me, that's what a book is all
about, you shouldn't want to put it down
(except to have your tea and do other
things like sleep and talk to people) and
I didn't. It's not the all time best book I've
read but I did enjoy It and perhaps the
greatest thing is that I learned something
through reading this, I learned that there
is another group of people out there like
these and that I wouldn't mind meeting
them.
Christian Elliott
Saints & Sinners
Marcelle Bernsteine
Bantam Books
janie Paxton, a feature writer and inter-
viewer, agrees to write the authorised
biography of Madga Lachowska, the cha-
rasmatic spiritual leader of a group called
the Chalice. Although Magda Lachowska,
otherwise known as Mama, is consid-
ered a living saint in whose footsteps
lavander plants had been seen to bloom,
Janie takes the job for other reasons. Her
professional reputation is on the decline
due lo a fondness for the bottle and her
personal life is also a shambles as she
has just divorced her husband. She sees
the opportunity of writing Mama's biog-
raphy as a means of making money and
restoring her reputation to its former
glory. However, as Janie investigates
Mama's background discrepancies begin
to emerge in the offical version of
Mama's history, and Janie has to chose
whether to listen to her instincts and
uncover the real story or not.
Marcelle Bernstein is perhaps most
well known for her novel "Body and-
Soul". It was made into a TV series a few
years ago with Kristin Scott Thomas (of
"The English patient" fame) as the lead
character, a nun with trouble up at the
mill. Bernstein often has a religious
theme in her books and she has con-
tinued the trend in this one. The angle
she's taken is that even saints are human
and make mistakes, and so are sinners
just like the rest of us.
Bernstein's strength is her ability in
creating believable characters and then
developing those characters throughout
the novel. The story takes place over
many years, from the Nazi work camps
in Poland during WW2 to the present
day. The lives of those in the camp form
an important part of the book in under-
standing what motivated them later on
in their lives, and Bernstein quite adeptly
uses flashbacks to keep the reader inter-
ested.
On the whole this is a very good
book, the kind to take on holiday to
read on the beach. If that was the case
I would happily fork out the money for
it but if not, this is the kind of book I
would enjoy taking out of the library.
Nicole
I C U C I N E M A PRESENTS:
F l S L I D I N G D O O R S
S H O O a O N i a n s
Starring Gwyneth Paltrow
Thurs 29th (8:30pm) & Sun 1st (8pm)
Concert Hall
Union Building 2nd Floor \
Drinks available from Da Vinci's
Also Showing
Mad City 6pm Thurs 29th Oct

