26 October 1998 Music 15
THE BEAUTIFUL SOUTH
Ladles and Gentlemen, you are frowning with The Beautiful South
T
his is the 'South's sixth album proper. By now, it's known in kindergarten
that I leaton and Rotheray are the most successful song writing partnership
since two blokes in the sixties and they deliver some humorous and some
serious output here on Quench. Yes. there was a bit of production work by former
I lousemartin Fat Boy Norman but those expecting a radical change of direction
and drum loops searing in and out of the dual vocals of Paul I leaton and
Jacqueline Abbott arc mistaken. Quench is unmistakably The Beautiful South.
Intelligent lyrics, 'Aren't I clever?' lyrics and sometimes inane soundbites all figure
amidst the mixture of catchy snatches and slower slumberings. Those disillusioned
with Blue is the Colour will see it as a return to form.
The sexy Perfect 10 has already drummed itself into people's minds with its
funky I lammond intro and dubious, or perhaps even obvious, sexual references:
'When he's at my gate with a big fat eight, you wanna see the smile on my face.'
Mind you, this is Just baby talk considering it came from the same creative source
that conjured up 'Don't marry her, fuck me.' The experiment in melancholy, how-
ever, is over. Quench is fuller and more rounded than Blue is the Colour. There are
plenty more singles that could be released. Album opener, I low Long's a Tear Take
to Dry? is upbeat while The Lure of the Sea sees a lull in the run-a-long rhythm. Bit)
Coin will probably be re-recorded and also performed a capella to great success;
basically the one where people go, 'Wow. they can sing. And really well too!'
Quench's Essential Choon. though, is Window Shopping for Blinds. Powerful
in its musical content without going over the top, it has all the necessary ingredi-
ents for a popular song: interesting but not outright attention grabbing verses,
melodic pre-choruses and finally a chorus that can't seem to escape the sonic com-
partment of your brain. The opening lyric, 'One day I'm loaded, next day I'm broke.
Spent all my money on whisky and coke,' is typical of the now expected pub talk
content of the album, took What I Found in my Beer is probably the best example
of this style of colloquial lyricism.
So, it's better than Blue is the Colour and Quench is, as stated previously but
worth emphasising again, a return to form. In a musical marketplace where every-
one is trying to grab a piece of sound history in generating a new genre or new
style, Quench is reassuringly old-fashioned in its simplicity. 'South fans but proba-
bly not the 'South themselves would argue that this is a new musical direction but
it's not. It's excellent pop music with a touch of blues and soul. It's created by experts
and it's built to last. The Beautiful South. God bless 'em. CI
Dennis
DUB PISTOLS
Point B l a n k j
Err album cover
P
oint Blank does exactly what it
says: shoots you with experimen-
tal beats that lie on the bound-
aries of hip-hop, funk, jazz and raggae.
All of these influences appear on
almost every track, and they do not dis-
appoint. When you hit play on your CD
player you'll think there's an electrical
fault with the way the intro uses strung-
out keyboards and struggling beats. You
quickly calm down, though, with the
soft rapping and then they drop some
real catchy loops. If Unique Freak was
released as a single it would definitely
get a 'This recording contains material
which some may find offensive' stamp,
but don't worry, because it won't!
The second track is nothing out-
standing but the Pistols continue to keep
you attentive with the fresh beats and
loops they always use. This is typical of
the entire album and the Dub Pistols
style. Cyclone sounds so familiar (I'm
convinced it samples something but
can't put my finger on it - maybe It
appeared in a TV ad' or something?).
The raggae beats and simplistic rapping
are so fresh but it's the bass-line which
gives me deja vu. Putting your CD player
on 'Repeat 1' at this point would be
acceptable. You would be excused for
breaking wind when Ghetto rolls: the
phattest bass just force it upon you. Rag-
gae-tipped vocals keep the bass in check.
Although it gets repetitive after about two
minutes, who cares, this is just so rough!
I didn't even realise we came out of
Fowerblock Trash and went into FVesf-
way. Once again a phat bass-line on
both. The experimental beats are accom-
panied by some raw sampling.
Towerblock Trash features cool semi-
breaks and trumpets (I guess) bring us
back to an electronic voice demanding
'money'. Just as you feel the repetition
on Westway, the progression begins.
Excellent keyboards and harder beats,
and then the bass gets so deep that the
whole place starts vibrating! The key-
boards get progressively frantic and the
general tempo seems to rise.
There's a backing vocalist who drops
a few lines on several of the tracks and
totally annoys the fuck out of me. I le
appears on track seven as well. Why? -
the main vocalist performs more than
adequately on his own.
I he title track relies more on the
electronics. Still, there's always some-
thing new on each track. If you get this
far you have become an expert in the
Dub Pistols sound. The rest of the tracks
sound much the same but the sound
gets slightly more ambient as we
progress, the electro becomes more fre-
quent and we eventually bang our heads
to hard-core techno, d
Abu

