16 Music 26 October 1998
VARIOUS ARTISTS THE KING
Big Beat Elite Complete The Gravelands
Norman Cook tries to
guard the bandwagon
W
ith the success of Fat Boy
Slim's wicked Gangster
Tripping and the Run DMC
Versus Jason Nevin's number one hit It's
Like That we're probably going to see
an avalanche of these big beat com-
plilation albums. The first one to arrive is
this, the double pack (with free mix
disc) Big Beat Elite Complete from
Lacerba Records. Its being marketed as
the best and most complete big beat
collection and although it is a varied set
it comes up well short of being elite.
Each track gives you a slightly different
look at the range of big beat, some
bring a Latin style to the mix, some a
hint of drum and bass.
Disc one starts off well. The
I lerbaliser brings us Wall Crawling Insect
Breaks. Some excellent breaks are stuffed
in along with the Spiderman references.
This is definitely worth a check. Next up
is the funky Different Strokes by
Psyechedelia Smith. The tune uses a
highly infectious 'Nan, Nah, Nah' chou-
rus. Simple but so cool. You've got to
check Marlon Sea's Disco Del Marl sim-
ply for the comic value; it sounds like
something from the Pulp Fiction sound-
track, only faster! The standout track from
the first disc is The Worlds Made up of
This and That by Deeds Plus Thoughts;
this is fast and really gets you going.
Disc Two is poor, only one track really
stood out, that being Ruffneckftom The
Freestylers featuring Navigator. Ruffneck
starts off slow till the reggae lyrics kick in
and the beats pick up, giving an up-
tempo ragga boy tune. There's a track
from DJ Kool and the Crooklyn Clan called
Here We Go Now. It follows the same
basic DJ Kool call and respond lines over
some very strange beats - please stop.
If you've never heard any big beat
you might wanna check this out, other-
wise I'm sure you can wait for the next
one. H
Milen
SENTIENCE
An Eye For An i
*•
Sentience: sense perception
not Involving Intelligence or
mental perception. Hmm!
T
he conditions of the universe
have led to life on earth, the
only sentient beings in creation.
Sentience are Nick Fryer, Martin
Dawson and Tom Neville. The opening
sentence of this review is what they say
on the inlay. An Eye For An i is a cool
blend of techno and electronic music.
Turn up the volume, sit back, relax and
enjoy a trip to a different world.
The first track is a wild demonstration
of cool, sharp techno. Totally funky,
heavy beats and phat drums. We hear
perfect sampling of Onyx's / lere 'n' Now,
in hand with minimal vocals (quite liter-
ally just the song title on Time Is Now).
It's wicked how the drums roll up and
then you're hit hard by a phat bass-line.
Machine Directa gives you loads of
hard beats and electronics.-Too much
artificiality for my liking; loses its artistic
appeal and just becomes a computer
program! Eternal features more beautiful
loops, and fresh keyboards await us on
the other side of the break. Loud and
hard. Track four, Alive, begins dark and
slow, then a female voice asks ques-
tions. The pace just picks up slightly and
we gradually hear sampling in the back-
ground until it takes over and breaks
away hard. Questions are still asked
though, giving you plenty an opportunity
to ponder over 'what is a brain and what
is a mind?'. At over nine minutes of the
same thing it's a bit too long, I think.
The next three tracks are a gradua-
tion from softto hard. A.O.K. (Everything
Is) starts dark but very sharp. We hear the
sound of an annoying siren in the back-
ground, and the foreground doesn't
move you too much either. 2nd Step
has funkier beats; hard and fast, remi-
niscent of Cypress I Nil's Latin Lingo. It
softens and calms you down with fancy
loops, but then breaks hard again. Finer
Scale holds an interesting electro intro.
There are no vocals on this, but who
needs them when the music speaks for
itself!
Full-on beats take you in to Magnif-
icent Speed. It really is energetic, and it
contains elements from Eric B and
Rakim's Follow The Leader. The vocals are
deep and commanding with lovely
breaks all round. Pressure Them is such
a killer. The 2-3 step drum-beats are just
as interesting as the accompanying pic-
ture on the inlay of a guy with a gun to
his head. Phatter beats are introduced
later and then comes an outer-space-like
effect. The beats keep rolling till they
drop!
Experiment On God is basically
another narrative just to finish off. All in
all, Sentience have got talent and if they
break into the mainstream they are going
to do some serious damage, but it will be
difficult to achieve the initial recogni-
tion. Nevertheless, keep an ear out for
sounds from the Nukleuz stable. El
Abu
T
he problem with novelty
records lies in the fact that they
are a novelty. And, like all nov-
elties, they wear off very quickly. The
Gravelands is no exception. On paper,
the idea seems a winner. Get an Elvis
Presley impersonator to sing some
'90's songs and classics from the past,
that Elvis would be totally unsuited to.
And hilarity, mega-stardom and a sell-
out appearance at the next Capital FM
gala concert is guaranteed. Well, not
quite...
The opening track is also the
album's best track; a rollicking version of
Nirvana's Come As You Are. I learing
The King sing the line 'Well, I swear that
I don't have a gun' is close to hysterical.
Unfortunately, from here on, the album
takes a sharp down-turn. Where we
would expect to be treated to some
Mike Flowers-type pastiche, the ensuing
songs are comedy-free, the singer actu-
ally trying to create songs that will be crit-
ically acclaimed. But, with second-rate
production and session musicians, that
can never be achieved. And, in any case,
his Elvis impression is not far above
karaoke standards.
It is surprising how many '60's soul
songs he has chosen to cover, given that
the main difference between him and
the real king is the lack of soul in his
voice. I lence, Dock Of The Bay, Piece Of
My Heart and / Heard It through The
Grapevine are the dreariest songs on the
album and the easiest to skip over. Actu-
ally, there are a few interesting tunes
tucked away on this 18-track compila-
tion. The Small Faces' All Or Nothing gets
a humorous seeing-to, as does Sweet's
Blockbuster complete with police siren.
The low point (without mentioning
a forgettable Voodoo Chile) arrives with
The King's version of No Woman No Cry,
which he somehow manages to sing
almost all on one note, adding his own
Elvis excerpts as and when he feels e.g.
'Wise men say: no woman no cry.'
Played at half speed, for no appar-
ent reason, is a laughable rendition of
Twentieth Century Boy. Still, it's better
than Placebo's offering.
What could have been a hugely
entertaining comedy record and a sur-
prise Christmas success has turned out
to be a pain to listen to. It looks like The
King's next vocation will be something
Elvis had a real interest in. Burgers and
fries. H
Fd

