26 October 1998 Music 17
McALMONT
A Little Communication
TIN STAR
The Thrill Kisser
*•••
1 •
• •
McAlmont. Pictured
here without Butler
S
ince his critically acclaimed col-
laboration with Bernard Butler
some years ago David McAlmont
has been pretty quiet. A Little
Communication is his debut solo
album. Mostly co-written with pianists
Peter Gordeno, Guy Davies and gui-
tarist Graham Kearns. If you are familiar
with McAlmont's previous work then
you will immediately recognise the
voice hewn from the halos of angels.
This refreshing album features a brand
of blues soul heavily influenced by
American artists like Marvin Gaye.
Other influences on this work include
Gospel music and Frank Sinatra.
Opening with the very soulful and
really rather good Lose My Faith which
clocks in at over 7 minutes this is a touch
long but retains your interest throughout.
Other high points in the album are the
quite brilliant A Little Communication,
(from which the album takes its name)
and current single Honey. If the entire
album was of a similar quality then this
could have been seminal. The Gospel
influenced Sorry, possibly the most
upbeat of all the tracks, illustrates a ten-
dency to go a bit over the top in pro-
duction. There's the attitude, 'Let's chuck
in a trumpet solo to disguise how
mediocre this Is sounding.' The Train, the
only track solely credited to McAlmont,
is possibly the worst on the album sug-
gesting that he still needs another musi-
cian with him for guidance in finding
those better songs. (Although Bernard
Butler's album would suggest otherwise.)
In an attempt to break away from for-
mulaic blues, some of the tracks are
more experimental or minimalist in feel.
It's Enough, Love And Madness and AFter
Youth seem to be works in progress
rather than finished tracks. Uses of drum
machines and samples don't really add
anything to the album and could be said
to be taking something away. Yet
despite this McAlmont should gain some
credit for attempting to inject life into
what could have been just another Boyz-
2-Men album. If you really feel in the
mood for blues soul then your best bet
would be to search through Marvin
Gaye's back catalogue for true classics
like For You My Dear. CI
Craig
W
hat do you get if you mix U2
with Madonna and a couple
of expensive samplers and
computers? A bloody awful noise
about which your parents would revel
in moaning about, saying such things
as 'It's such a racket,' and 'In my day
music had a tune that you could sing
to,' is probably the best bet. I lowever,
by some feat of amazing computer
knowledge, Tin Star have done just that
and created what could be one of the
best albums from a new band that I
have heard since The Propellerheads'
album Decksanddrumsandrockandroll.
Mellow, invigorating and sometimes
downright groovy, their music style is
truly confusing. Some tracks, such as
Wonderful World, verge almost on very
mellow drum and bass, fast Machine is
definitely big beat but the opening track,
/ lead, is just plain alternative indie. Not
very confusing you may be thinking but
what makes them stick out from other
bands you hear is the beauty and intri-
cacies of the songs. David Tomlinson's
vocals flow somewhat darkly around the
room, sounding surprisingly like Bono
without the massive singing range, min-
gling with wonderful electronic sounds
and Tim Bricheno's sparse guitar. The
effect is not unlike a deeper version of
Madonna's Ray of Light or perhaps POP
by U2 without the guitars. The standout
track on the whole of The Thrill Kisser is
Picture of a Girl, which is very trip-hop
and good to lie back to and be a love
puppy.
The only criticism that I couid lay
upon Tin Star is that the sound can
become repetitive and that they do lack
a bit of a sense of humour. Also, there's
a necessity to stop the tracks just mean-
dering into each other.
Never the less, if you like this kind of
music, as I do, this CD will be in your
player for long periods of time as you lay
back in a darkened room, entranced by
the dark melodies and big beat bass
sections, this album is brilliant Jet down
only by a few hashed up, boring tracks
The band is refreshingly new and I hope
they become as big as they deserve.
Or will you all just go out and buy the
next sodding Ibiza collection? A big phat
four stars, and tin ones at that. CI
Eddie
Singles
Beastie Boys - BodyMovin'
A classic Beastie's track. Full of funky and fun flavas.
Definitely one to get you movin'l!
Badly Drawn Boy - EP3
The first track, My Friend Cubilas, is a brilliant mellow
trip hop tune. Unfortunately the rest of the EP is spoilt
by Badly Drawn Boy's badly sung voice.
Freekspert - Gas Mark 5
Thrash metal/rap cross over group. If you like lots of
men screaming down a microphone and guitar
screeches this is definitely one to buy.
TowaTel- GBI
Kylie Minogue features on this bizarre single about print-
ing type-faces. After a great Dee-lite sampled intro the
single plummets down hill. Unfortunately the remixers
can't do anything with it either.
Cornelius - Star Fruits Surf Rider
Japanese electro-indie is a very strange combination.
But suitably good for Damon Albarn (Blur) to remix it.
Worth a listen.
Grandaddy - AM 180
Mellow little ditty, sounding very much Weezer or
PUSA. Typical American College indie sound Pleasant
enough.
Garbage - Special
You know who they are, probably know what the song
sounds like and almost certainly saw Shirley Manson in
a short skirt singing it on Top of the Pops.
3 Colours Red - Paralyse EP
Quite an aggressive and dark sounding EP with heavy
guitars and drums. None of the tracks are outstanding
but none are too bad either.
The Supernatural - Sheffield Song
A whiney little pop song about love. But it is pretty
catchy and the lyrics are funny. A sure fire chart hit.
T H E E S S E N T I A L C H O O N
Jurassic 5 - Concrete Schoolyard
Excellent mellow hip-hop from this San Franciscan
group. Concrete Schoolyard is one of the best singles
taken from the superb J-5 fP. CI
Ramzi

