18 Music 26 October 1998
D a n c e M u s i c
Artist Profile - Steve Rachmad
i il
A-
Steve Rachmad may not be a familiar name to many fans
of house and techno, but he Is definitely a force to be reck-
oned with, and has picked up plaudits from many of the world's
best DJs and producers.
You may have heard his deep melodic techno as Sterac
on 100% Pure Records, or perhaps a series of EPs out on Spir-
itual Records called The Rachmad Projects, or his newer ven-
tures Ignaclo on Music Man and A Scorpion's Dream on
Derrick May's Fragile label.
If you have heard his musical output, then you will know
that Steve Rachmad is one of the most prolific and dynamic
musicians that modern electronic music has to offer. If you
haven't heard him before, then you have plenty of ideas of
new music to check out from the last paragraph!
I was lucky enough to meet Steve recently .,
when he paid a visit to London and made a
guest appearance on The Electric Cafe radio A
show. I knew that as well as being a talented I
music maker he was an excellent DJ, but I j |
had never had the chance to sample his
deck skills. I le played a great one hour set
for the show; minimal techno from th
likes of the Advent and Jeff Mills with
great emphasis on the way the tracks
were mixed. "For me it's based A
on mixing a lot; to fit tracks
together because some of
them are quite empty on
their own. To create layers of
tracks." Indeed, the latest i
Sterac album (Thera on 100% j
Pure) incorporates this j
harder sparser sound.
This is quite a departure I
from the old Rachmad j
sound of a few years back, j
I lis style then was more |
melodic and delicate, l i e '
incorporated strings a lot
more, and the overall sound
was fuller and richer. Steve
acknowledges this as a natural pro-
gression.
Starting with the bare minimum of
equipment at the age of twelve (a mixer
with no cue, one record deck with no pitch
control and a tape recorder!) Steve learnt
through experimentation how music was constucted and how-
to have fun playing around with it! "After a while I wanted to
do more so I did remixes of existing tracks. I played melodies
over the track or let a drum machine play alongside the track.
After a while you want to do more and more so I started com-
posing my own music."
As a DJ, Steve is finding himself more and more in demand
over Europe. "I played in Cosmos parties in Belgium, in Ghent
I'm their resident but they do parties every four or five months.
Also a few clubs in and around Amsterdam. I've been to
Switzerland, Germany, Sweden, Denmark, Ireland and Scotland.
I still prefer Belgium because people are really into it there!"
Steve is very modest about his mixing skills. "For me I
taught myself mixing when I was twelve. But I didn't make
myself any mix tapes to give to a club because I didn't want
to play at a club every week. I would have heard the same
records week. I was afraid that I would get tired of them so I
didn't do that. Then I was doing 80s disco stuff, for example
Jammin' fewis, Janet Jackson, I luman feague, Alexander
O'Neal and of
course Babyface and
guys like The System.
Those are really my
influences."
As mentioned
above, Steve's musi-
cal sound has devel-
oped over time. He
attributes this to his
roots. "The first
records i bought
were 80s disco, but I
always listened to a lot of different styles of music in the old
days. I think the only thing I didn't listen to was the
• hip-hop thing that was going on. I wasn't really into
that. I loved a lot of different styles of music, and I
didn't only want to do one thing."
I After releasing so much of his own compo-
F sitions, Steve has decided to put out his own DJ
mix CD. Called Emerging, you can find it on a label
called Emerge. Steve describes it as his "business
ard" In other words it is a perfect introduction to his
ing style, the types of tracks he plays and how
he puts them together. This is very good min-
imal techno with one or two twists. Check out
the very first section; from the pure classical
strains of Icct I ledral by Philip Glass and the
Aphex Twin he manages to find a seam-
less mix into the techno-dub of Maurlzio.
Despite the abundance of minimal
techno mixes on the market nowadays,
this is one I would recommend to any DJ,
clubber or individual who is interested in
the music in general. And do look out for
that name; Steve Rachmad. I le's going
to be big!
Alick Sethi
Competition
The Electric Cafe has three copies of
the new Steve Rachmad mix CD Emerg-
ing on Emerge Records, to give away. All
you have to do Is answer this simple ques-
tion. Name two record labels that Steve
has released music on.
Answers to the Felix office (located in the Beit Quad) or
by email to music.felix@ic.ac.uk by Friday 30/10/98. Good luck!
Future Electric Cafe Dates
Thurs5/11 ©Southsidebackroom(7-11pm)1
hill-outl ir.
Dj Darren Nesbeth
Sat 7/11 @ IC Union (8pm- midnight) club night
Thurs 19/11 @ Southside backroom (7 - 11pm) chili-out b
guest Dl Mark I lorne
Milen and Tha Bomb! willretu
to these pages next week....

