2 News 26 October 1998
RCSU
Who?
Photo: Jonas The usual suspects - who on earth will stand?
by Gareth Morgan
The Royal College of Science Union's
problems continue to mount. Douglas
Graham's resignation from the post of
Vice President (Education and Welfare),
reported in last week's letters page, has
left the RCSU with nine vacant positions,
as well as several empty seats on the
Committee.
VP (Finance) William Bentley said
that most vacancies resulted from offi-
cers needing to devote more time to
their academic studies. There seems to
be a general lack of interest in the run-
ning of the RCSU on the part of most of
its members, which has made the offi-
cers' jobs harder, increasing the pres-
sure on their time. These difficulties
seem to mirror those of the ICU, who are
having trouble filling the post of Deputy
President (Clubs and Societies). The
prospects for the RCSU seem gloomy If
by David Roberts
The fate of Medical School entries into
sporting leagues and cups hangs on
Monday's meeting of the British Univer-
sities Sport Association (BUSA) Council.
Although last week's meeting of Uni-
versity of London Union (ULU) Council
voted to allow medical students to be
able to pick whether to play for their
own side or for their "parent institution",
this conflicts with current BUSA policy.
Consequently, the prospect of continu-
ally changing rules promises to produce
a situation described as "a complete
mess" by one senior figure.
If the BUSA meeting rules against
the ULU decision, then the prospect of
teams being forced to change between
every game looms large. Indeed suspi-
cion is growing amongst senior sports
officers that BUSA may decide to simplify
the entire issue by forcing all institutions
to entire as a single unit. In the words of
one senior official "BUSA could legiti-
mately turn round and tell us we must
have single entry now".
At present, the discussion revolves
a paid Sabbatical post cannot be filled
because of a lack of interest in student
politics.
Nomination papers for the posts of
President, VP (E&W), Union General
Meeting Chair, Honourary Secretary, Wel-
fare Officer, Web Editor, Archivist and
around the exact interpretation of a sys-
tem known as "hybrid entry". This was
introduced for the first time this season,
to allow institutions currently undergoing
mergers with medical schools (Imperial,
UCL, King's and QMW) to enter a mixture
of separate medic and non-medic teams
and joint institution-wide sides. For Impe-
rial, this means that College wide teams
enter all sports except Rugby, Football
and Hockey, where separate medic and
non-medic sides exist.
At the ULU meeting, the ULU Vice-
President (Sports), Nick Dunnet, sug-
gested that the proposal to allow
students the right to pick which team to
play for was only a "clarification" of the
hybrid entry system adopted by BUSA.
However, minutes of the BUSA Executive
meeting held on the 6th of March this
year clearly state that entries will be
decided on "a sport specific basis". In
other words, ICSM students can only
enter as part of a College wide team if
no medical team exists. This directly con-
tradicts the motion passed by ULU Coun-
cil (which applies lo UL competitions
only).
Publications Officer are up in the RCSU
office on Unwin Road. There is also a
vacancy for a Biology Departmental Rep-
resentative. In the meantime, Mr Bentley
and VP (Clubs and Entertainments) Bob
Walker are filling the role of acting Pres-
ident.
As a result, Monday evening's meet-
ing of BUSA Council is being asked to
adopt the ULU interpretation of the
hybrid system. Consequently, three real-
istic possible outcomes exist: BUSA
refuse to set the precedent of changing
eligibility rules in mid-season, forcing the
sports teams to field different teams for
different competitions - and in all likeli-
hood forcing ULU to back down; BUSA
accept the new "interpretation" of hybrid
entry, and the merger process speeds
up; BUSA complain about the inherent
problems of checking up on the correct
enforcement of the system, and force
single entry now (rather than in three
years time, as originally forecast).
Although this may all seem hideously
complex, it is a real cause for concern
amongst senior sources, and has major
implications for Imperial's chances in
competitive sport this season. Whatever
decision is reached, ICU Rugby, football
and Hockey teams will not be merging
this year, so if BUSA accept the ULU
decision, we stand to loose out, with
UCL (whose teams will merge) the largest
beneficiaries. However, if BUSA refuse,
keeping a check on who is allowed to
play for what team will become a night-
mare, and all hell could break loose.
Either way, troubled times would seem
to be ahead.
If you have any views on the situa-
tion, then please get in contact with
your club captain.
26 October 1998
Editor: Ed Sexton
Photographic Editor: William Lorenz
Music Editors: Jason Ramanalhan and
Denis Patrickson
News Editors: Andy Ofori and Joel
> Lewis
I ilm Editor David Roberts
Games Editor; Gary Smith
Arts Editor: I lelena Cochcme
Literary Editor: Kent Yip
Sports Editor: Gus Paul
Freeze on
Fees
by Gareth Morgan
Ever since the Dearing Report and the
introduction of tuition fees for most UK
students, several universities have been
contemplating charging extra 'top up1
fees. These would be paid to the uni-
versity on top of existing fees, and fig-
utes of up to £400 per year have been
mentioned. Particularly interested have
been the 'Russell Group', a club of about
twenty prominent institutions including
IC. The Oxbridge colleges have a par-
ticular interest in this since there have
been threats to the £2500 they receive
from the Government for each student
on top of usual tuition costs.
LSE have been contemplating the
introduction of top up fees, a move
which may prompt the other Russell
Group universities to do likewise. How-
ever, ICU President Dave Hellard recently
met with the Rector to discuss the new
fees. The Rector stated, and confirmed
in writing, that IC was not considering
implementing top up fees, and this
would not be affected by other institu-
tions' actions or the forthcoming Gov-
ernment review of the definition fees.
Dave Hellard said that "Top up fees
would have a disastrous effect on the
accessibility to the best education for
poorer students. It would create a two-
tier system based on wealth and not
intelligence". He added that the agree-
ment with the Rector was a decisive
step in the right ditection, especially
given IC's influential position within the
Russell Group.
Med School Sport
Hangs In Balance
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB Internal tel: 58072 Internal fax: 48072 External tel & fax: 0171 594 8072 URL: www.su.ic.ac.uk/Felix E-mail: felix@ic.ac.uk
Printed at MCP Litho Limited, Units B2 & B3, Hatton Square, 16 - 16a Baldwins Gardens, London EC1N 7RJ Felix is a registered newspaper: ISSN 1040- 0711
Felix is produced for and on behalf of Imperial Coilege Union Publication Board. Copyright © I elix 1998. Photographic copyrights remain with photographers.

