20
R e v i e w s
Film
A Perfect Murder * • * v*
Starring : Michael Douglas, Gwyneth Paltrow, Viggo Mortensen
Director: Andrew Davis
26 October 1998
F
or no readily discernable reason,
remaking old Hitchcock films is
very much in vogue at present.
Witness Good Will Hunting director Gus
Van Sant's current project - a shot by
shot copy of Psycho. Consequently, A
Perfect Murder lands on our screens as
a reasonably direct reworking of I litch's
Dial M For Murder.
Gwyneth Paltrow eases comfortably
into the footsteps of Grace Kelly, demon-
strating with ease the same kind of ethe-
real grace that made her predecessor
famous. Meanwhile, Michael Douglas
revisits his more vilanous days as her
husband (originally played by Ray Mil-
land). He happily retreads the roles that
made him famous in the late eighties, in
films like Wall Street, Fatal Attraction and
Basic Instinct, utilising his full range of evil
grimaces, sneers and stares. All of which
probably gives away the fact that Douglas
is playing the bad guy and Paltrow his put
upon wife.
Douglas is a multi-millionaire (owner
of one of the nicest apartments ever
created) who is understandably miffed
when he discovers that his wife is having
an affair. As well as being stunningly
Gwyneth Paltrow. Married to Michael Douglas? I don't think so.
attractive, Paltrow, whose one failing is
a tendency to become very obviously
uncomfortable whenever the romance
moves above a PG rating, is heir to a mas-
sive fortune. Consequently, when Dou-
glas fears his business is going down the
drain, he decides to bump her off.
So far, so what. I lowever, as those
who have seen the original will be well
aware, his next move is far less orthodox.
I le offers her lover - struggling artist
Mortensen - half-a-million dollars to do
his dirty work for him. Odd to say the
least.
At this point, director Davis (whose
previous work includes Fhe Fugitive)
steps up a gear and does Hitchcock
proud. The action scenes, which to Davis'
credit avoid the seemingly mandatory
car chases and explosions, still have you
fearing for Paltrow, even if they do lack
the edge-of-the-seat tension of the orig-
inal. And at least for those who haven't
seen the original, the plot twists will keep
you interested - even if much of the
action does seem fairly predictable.
Sadly, however, when the pace
slows the movie falls back into a flat,
translucent, one dimensional story. You
realise that the idiotic affluence of these
people (even Mortensen) is so far
removed from the everyday world that it
pushes the film towards fantasy. More-
over, whilst the psychological games pro-
vide a break from normal big-bucks
thrillers, the denouement is never really
in doubt, and Douglas' hamming con-
stantly eschews reality in favour of enter-
tainment.
Indeed, top class entertainment it
undoubtedly is, thanks to good lead per-
formances and a treatment which avoids
becoming reverential. I litchcock it cer-
tainly isn't - but so what. Judge it on Its
merits, not on its predecessor, and you'll
be pleasantly surprised. Q
Dave
I Want You * • • •
Starring : Rachel Weisz, Alessandro Nivolo, Labina Mitevska, Luka Petrusic
Director: Michael Winterbottom
Rachel Welsz.- a bright spark In a gloomy tale.
G
ritty, depressing, obsessive,
bleak, tinged with grey....sound
arthouse enough yet? Well, if
arthouse means low budget, British,
story driven and very good, then art-
house it certainly is. Once in a while,
however, you have to forget such tri-
fles, and just watch films on merit. So
it's low budget - so what.
Far more bizare is the fact that /
Want You counts amongst its stars two
young former-Yugoslavians, whose pre-
vious work has solely concentrated on
the Croatian stage. This may become
slightly more obvious when you realise
that director Winterbottom met them
whilst filming his last movie, Welcome to
Sarajevo. This also explains the decision
to use acclaimed Yugoslav cinematogra-
pher Slawomir Idziak. I le brings with him
his trademark strange camera effects
and filtering techniques, in an attempt to
capture the action through fourteen year
old Petruslc's eyes.
Despite all this, however, the central
role still belongs to British born Weisz
(Stealing Beauty, Chain Reaction, Fhe
Land Girls). She plays I lelen, the centre
of a vicious love triangle that also
includes fourteen year old mute Petrusic
and old flame Nivolo. Naturally, all have
hidden secrets and sad tales to tell, and
over the course of ninety minutes, they
are slowly and convincingly revealed.
Petrusic hasn't spoken for years, and
Instead spends his time listening in on
other people's lives, with an impressive
array of recording and surveillance equip-
ment. Consequently, he becomes
embroiled in Nivolo's obsession with
Weisz, and learns the reason for Martin's
eight year imprisonment.
If all this sounds very vague, then
that's because giving away any more
would destroy the plot. Suffice to say,
everyone's clearly setting themselves up
for a big fall when the finale arrives - and
when it arrives, it certainly won't disap-
point.
Obviously, / Want You is not going to
suit all tastes, and will be either too force-
ful, too depressing or just too weird for
a vast number of people. I lowever, if
you're prepared to accept a little bit of art-
house in your diet then this will prove a
powerful, thought provoking tale. By
turns dark, seductive, hilariously funny,
brutally violent and mind numbingly
grim, it's brilliantly executed by both the
well known and obscure faces amongst
the cast. A fine ensemble production,
from both cast and crew, that's well
worth a look. Q
Dave

