24 Arts 26 October 1998
FILUMENA Piccadilly Theatre THE FATHERING Courtyard Theatre
Y
ou may have never heard of this
play before. Neither had I,
although Judi Dench was acting
the title role. That's about as much as I
knew before entering the theatre. Well,
it was a very pleasant surprise. It's origi-
nally an Italian play by Eduardo de Filippo,
translated here by Timberlake Werten-
baker, about a middle-aged woman, Filu-
mena, who fakes an illness to marry the
man that she loves. He finally accepts,
thinking she is about to die In her bed.
She then bounces out of bed claiming
that it was all just put on. At this point,
the play actually starts. Domenico, Fllu-
mena's husband, simply cannot believe
his eyes and is also immensely cross
with himself for having been fooled in
such a way. The first scene between the
newly-weds is a jewel of humour and
lightness.
They each have an ally in their fight:
for Domenico, his old time friend Alfredo
and for Filumena, her "dame de com-
pagnie" Rosalia. Domenico has been
having an affair with the nurse, half his
age, who took care of his wife. The
whole play has a very vaudeville feel to
it and Is full of hilarious moments. The sit-
uation only grows more complicated
when Filumena tells Domenico that she
has three sons, which brings absolute
chaos to the household.
The acting is very good - the timing
is always perfect and one can't help
laughing all the way through. Judi Dench,
as always, is a dream to watch. She flips
from one personality to another so nat-
urally. Michael Pennington is a fantastic
Domenico and gives poor filumena a
very hard time too. But behind a light
and funny exterior, the play does raise
some very interesting issues: the conflict
between rich and poor, friendships, per-
sonal dignity and, most important of all,
the way people relate and manage to
survive together despite all the difficul-
ties they encounter. A lovely night out
full of laughs and a little reflection, amaz-
ing actors and great directing. What else
could one ask for?
D.
Until the end of December
Nearest tube: Piccadilly Circus
Tickets: standby places available for con-
cessions (check beforehand)
T
he Finnish playwright Jussi
Wahlgren apparently started
directing plays at the tender age
of five. Perhaps, you can't help but won-
der, if there is a hint of autobiography in
his play The Fathering, which tells the tale
of how a boy "prodigy" is forced by his
ambitious mother down a path he
wouldn't necessarily have chosen for
himself. Of course, to a certain extent we
are ali moulded by what our parents
want for us. However, most of us are
lucky enough to have a say in our future,
but the fate of Thomas, the lead of this
play, was decided for him before he
was even conceived.
Now, considering himself an adult,
he is torn between wanting a normal life
and still wanting to be the virtuoso
pianist that he was always told he would
become. It is clear that the mother has
had a greater influence on his life than
perhaps she had intended, seeing
friends as a distraction, denying him girl-
friends and even orchestrating his first
lay. Yet he is not strong enough to
branch out. Her unrelenting pushiness
backfires, eventually leading him to mis-
guidedly pursue a talent he doesn't have.
It may sound like a well worn topic, and
at the outset the play does indeed
appear stereotyped and uninventive, but
as the story unfolds it becomes clear
that there is much more depth to it. The
play explores the motivations behind
the characters, revealing Incidents in the
mother's past and aspects of her life
that lead her to use her son as an expres-
sion of her own feelings of resentment
towards his dead father. We see the
son, supposedly aged twenty, acting as
a spoilt, bratty child, trying to break free
from his mother, yet still craving her
security.
There are also several novel twists In
the story, all unforeseen and perfectly
paced. These plots and subplots come
together very well, culminating in an
engrossing final scene that leaves you
thinking. The Fathering highlights well
the fine line between trying to help your
children fulfil their dreams and trying to
make them fulfil your own, stressing the
importance of keeping things in per-
spective. A thought-provoking play
brought to life by the endearing piano
tuner Max (Peter Hamilton) - and the
ridiculous hand puppets.
Judith and Christian
Until 8th November
Nearest tube: King's Cross
Tickets: concessions £5.50 (Sundays, pay
what you can)
Performance times: daily 8pm (except
Mondays)
CRAVE Royal Court Theatre MERCE CUNNINGHAM Barbican
A
few months ago, I talked in these
pages about a play called
Cleansed, which I found such a
revelation. The author, Sarah Kane, has
just presented her latest piece. She takes
a new direction in her career by cutting
down on the extremely outrageous and
sometimes very repulsive style of her
previous work. In Crave, she settles for
something much more accessible to an
average theatre-goer. The four actors
walk onto the stage and sit next to one
another, facing the audience. After a
few seconds they start talking furiously
and with no particular structure. They
repeat words endlessly, as one of them
starts a sentence and the others finish it.
The whole process is fascinating and
very well performed.
None of the characters have names,
only a letter. There are no amazing set
design or direction tricks and the play
takes place in an unnamed city; every-
thing is kept bare, giving the words and
action a much stronger presence than in
a usual play.
The author still remains faithful to
her themes: the search for love in a
world that seems so disintegrated, where
human beings seem to have forgotten
how to communicate and interact. They
appear to be making an enormous effort
to get to know one another: "M" is try-
ing to have a baby with "B", although it
is not obvious whether they have actu-
ally met before. "A" is a middle-aged
man who has had a lot of experience in
life and still hasn't quite found what he
needs. "C", on the other hand, is a young
woman learning life the hard way. Abuse
in Sarah Kane's work is always a very
strong point; it often makes for very dif-
ficult scenes and situations. Sarah Kane
is definitely enforcing her position as
one of the most exciting writers around.
If you still haven't seen any of her pieces,
run for it on the next occasion.
D.
T
his year, the Barbican has put on
one of the most exciting festivals
In London: the international the-
atre event (BITE), which has brought us
plays from all over the world, most of
them experimental or cutting-edge. The
Barbican also decided to incorporate
some dance events into the programme,
one of them by Merce Cunningham's
American company. Cunningham is part
of that older generation of choreogra-
phers like Maurice Bejart or Pina Bausch,
who have been creating the most
astounding and daring work for over 50
years. He brought two programmes over
and I am very sorry to have only been
able to see one. The performance was
made up of three distinct pieces, two
recent creations and a special composi-
tion for the festival.
Mercc Cunningham's choreography
has always been fascinating; all of his
movements arc quite simple and repet-
itive. But what an impact! He gets the
most out of his dancers and they per-
form perfectly. The first piece, with decor
byjohn Cage, was extremely minimalist;
the musical accompaniment was a suc-
cession of electronic noises stretched
out to their maximum. Of course, this
was also reflected in the dancing, invok-
ing an atmosphere of deep thought.
The second piece was the creation for
the Barbican, more an "experience of
dance" than dance itself. It was thrilling,
with yet again very bare music, empha-
sising the dancers' movements. The
evening came to a close with some-
thing a little lighter: Scenario, a piece with
the added feature of costumes designed
by Rei Kawakubo, the woman behind
"Comme des Garcons".
The decor was completely white with
very strong lighting: the whole set was
compelling. The costumes restricted the
dancers' possibilities of expression.
Cunningham's work is In a league of its
own. When watching his creations, one
enters a very special world where things
arc not as they seem. But one can very
easily relate to them. This is dance and
more generally art at its best: daring,
innovative and provocative. Don't miss
out when he next comes back to Europe.
D.

