Letters 2 6 October 1998
A World of Terrorists
Dear Felix,
If Mr Stringer might be persuaded to
pause in his breathless moral outrage for
just a moment ('An Alternative to Air
Strikes?', Felix 1122), he might perhaps
realise that Israel is hardly alone in acting
the way that it does, unfortunate though
this maybe. In fact, I can think of a much
closer country where "torture of prison-
ers", "imprisonments without trial" and
"forbidding people to travel freely within
their own country" have been the norm.
Stumped? Try adding "massive military
occupation", "massacres of unarmed
demonstrators" and "multitudes of mis-
carriages of justice". I would add "lock-
ing civilians into their own homes" except
that it doesn't begin with an M. Astute
readers will of course have already
divined that I speak of none other than
the British government in Northern Ire-
land. Glass houses?
Naturally the actions of Israel,
Hamas, the RUG and the IRA are all
deplorable. The point is simply that
Israel, like Britain, has motivations for its
deplorable behaviour, be theyjustified or
not - if Mr Stringer doubts this, he may
wish to consider where he was when the
Aldwych bus bomb exploded. To believe
in a simplistic strategy of going-home-
and-sorting-it-all-out, while ignoring the
problem of addressing these motivations
(such as Israel's very real security con-
cerns), is naivete of the highest order.
Theodore Hong (Computing PC)
CCU - Strike Two
Well, since my letter on the subject of
change in the CCUs I have been inun-
dated with comments. Most (80%+)
have been along the lines of "great let-
ter" or "about time someone said that..."
Others have not been so good. To any
of those who I upset, I apologise, how-
ever my views on Union politics still
stand.
It is no good having the CCUs run by
a select few forming a quasi members
only club, making it hard for non friends
of officers to get involved. The age of
people coming into influential roles with-
out any background training must end in
this academic ycat. I am concerned not
only with the welfare aspects of my CCU
but I want to try and help all future stu-
dents of all CCUs.
Next year we will have a new sab-
batical officer (sabb) in charge of welfare
in the Union, he/she should have control
over the way in which Departmental and
Welfare Officers do their jobs. The dep-
reps should have a good team of year
reps below him/her and should then
report back to the sabb. The same rules
need to apply for this as they do to
finance. All new welfare officers and
dep-reps should be given training in wel-
fare and basic techniques needed to
complete their tasks properly.
If ICU is now in charge of Welfare,
what is left for the CCUs? I am not call-
ing for the abolition of these. Tradition
does have its place at college. They
should be made up of the heads of the
departmental societies and be con-
cerned solely with providing events and
a certain amount of support for their
students. This is because there are dif-
ferent needs from different places - Engi-
neers need advice on industrial
placements, Physicists need to learn how
to have fun etc.
I am currently working on a paper to put
to ICU council later in the academic year,
outlining the changes that I feel need to
be made. If you have any comments
then e-mail me at
douglas.graham@ic.ac.uk
Douglas Graham (Physics UGII)
Change the Music!
I am writing to complain about the music
played in the Union, particularly on
Wednesday nights. Often on Wednesday
I go to the Union for a few drinks with
my mates. Every week, without fail [the
Ents & Marketing Manager] or one of his
clan churns out the same old Brit Pop
Indy shite. I normally don't mind if the
music being played is not to my taste but
when I hear the same stuff week in,
week out, I wonder if the music is played
for our benefit, or to keep the Dj's happy?
Not only is it the same style of music, but
the same tunes are played every week.
There are plenty of good Dj's at the
Union's disposal who can play a massive
variety of music. Personally I would like
to here more good (particularly non-
commercial) electronic music. I know
many people that feel the same way
who simply avoid the Union because it
does not cater for them. I am not asking
for Wednesday night to be turned into
industrial Acid-Techo night, but simply
that more variety is played. There is plenty
on electronic music out there that many
people enjoy.
I know that letters with the same
point have been written before and in
the past [the Ents & Marketing Manager]
has responded by saying that 'We play
the music because people want to here
it. The dance floor is always full between
1T30 and 1:00'. Well, firstly the dance
floor Is always full because most people
by that stage are quite pissed and would
dance whatever music was played. Sec-
ondly, the fact that people like what you
play is no reason not to have variation.
Please, please, please give some of the
other Dj's the 11:30- 1:00 slot, let's have
some variation, you can try to please
everyone. Anyone reading this letter who
agrees with me do something, speak to
the Ents Manager, or reply to this letter.
Tim Wright (Computing 4)
Ents Replies...
First things first, my personal musical
taste has no effect on the ents musical
policy at all (except if I'm Djingl). I won't
even get into the 'musical tastes' argu-
ment, though it is nice to see that in your
opinion anyone in the Union dancing
has to be pissed.
If you check round what the other
Unions in London put on themselves
(as opposed to their clubs and societies)
I think you'll find we actually put on a
diverse range of events.
lor instance on Saturday nights we
run a range of pre-club nights including
'the electric cafe' which, with incredible
synchronicity, happens to focus entirely
on eclectic electronica, 'Tha Bomb1
, a
hip hop, funk and soul night and 'Bubble
& Squeak which will be playing a mix of
electronic dance.
That's on top of the chill out room
we run every Wednesday and Friday,
which anyone can tell you is certainly
diverse as we have an 'anything goes'
musical policy up there. And I haven't
even mentioned the four alternating
club nights we run on a Friday. I hope
I've answered the points raised; if you
don't like a Wednesday night, then why
not try one of the others? I'm fairly con-
fident that you'd like at least one of
them.
Ents & Marketing Manager
Medical Indoctrination
Dear Sir.
I feci I must complain about the appal-
ing attitudes senior medics have regard-
ing the non-medic students of IC. In
conversation with a first year medic
recently it emerged that he was actively
encouraged by senior medics and ICSM
Union officials to avoid socialising with
students of other subjects.
Whilst I am not surprised by the us-
and-them attitude of the relics left over
from the old system, indoctrinating the
new students to dispise other students is
clearly not on. I can only hope that the
first year medics learn to live with us
during their time at the BMS, away from
the hate-mongers.
James Browning (Physics II)
A Word from Estates...
As a proud member of the Estates Divi-
sion, a former warden, ICU Hon Life
member and manager of the car-park, I
must comment on the planter. Setting
aside the VFM question, there is a good
environmental case to be made.
Next month, 2 Jags will flesh-out the
tax implications of those driving to work
in London. The College may well be
obliged to charge staff and students.
The demand for spaces may well
drop below the supply, and if it doesn't,
there are plans to build an attractive (if
Sir Norman can't do it, no-one can car-
park on Dalby Court to satisfy the
demand.
Parking is a lucrative business, and I
enjoy maximising the profit with mini-
mum disruption to the core activity of IC.
However, parking is not a core activity of
IC. If we lose research income (and we
have) because our campus is unsightly,
surely we are obliged to act. How we act
is a matter for consideration.
VFM does not stand for Vegetation
For Ma'am.
Ken Young
Charing Cross not a Loss
Following your article above I would like
to clarity some of the facts that seem to
have been distorted over time.
1. There was, and is not any 'suspect
book-keeping'. All aspects of the plan-
ning of the ball have been and still are
availble to college.
2. £28,000 was not spent on the
largest marquee in the country. This fig-
ure relates to the total marquee cost
and on the night there were 5 marquees,
the largest of which is smaller than the
largest marquee in the country.
3. Only £600-00 was spent on Cham-
pagne, not £7,000-00 as reported in
the article.
I hope this clarifies any points in
your artcle that readers may have
been worried about.
Yours sincerely,
Nick Carter (Ex-Deputy President ICSM)
Deadline for letters is
12noon Wednesday.
Letters may be edited
for length, but will not
be altered in any other
way. Letters need not
be signed, but a swipe
card must be shown
when submitting
anonymous letters.

