8
Columns 26 October 1998
Right Angles to Reality
I
don't dance. Not since the "Boncy
M Affair" at Leonard Gliterstein's par-
ents' barbecue party in 1978 when,
full of youthful exuberance, six bowlfuls
of sherry trifle and half a glass of Double
Diamond I threw myself rather too force-
fully into "Brown Girl in The Ring" and
then threw up on the Gliterstein's garden
furniture. I really can't see what all the
fuss was about. The sun lounger
escaped virtually unscathed because I
vomited into the lap of Leonard Gliter-
stein's mother's great aunt Lene who
was the guest of honour at the event, it
being her ninetieth birthday and all. Any-
way as I pointed out at the time, it was-
n't as if the dress suited her already -1
think Chanel is wasted on the over-75s,
made to measure or not - but she was-
n't having any of it. She just kept com-
ing at me, spittle flying from the corners
of her mouth, her face a twisted mask of
hate, alternately leaning on one of her
sticks and swinging the other wildly at
what, to a child of nine, was head height.
In fact, recalling the situation, I think she
was more to blame than anyone for the
garden shed being set on fire. If she'd
only given up the fight after she fell for
the first time, I might not have backed
into the barbecue and sent it flying with
inevitable consequences. Still, it could
have been worse; great aunt Lenc only
broke one of her hips and the burns
inflicted by flying embers were kept
down to second degree. Unfortunately
however, the shed itself and the upper
two floors of the house next door were
beyond saving. The repercussions with
Mr and Mrs Golightly the next door
neighbours went on for some time, and
there wete even those who went as far
as to try to pin the blame on me. But as
my father told the subsequent local gov-
ernment enquiry, it was hardly my fault
that in an effort to economise after Mr
Golightly had lost his job due to a global
slump in the lava lamp market, they had
let their Lire and Contents insurance
lapse. You'll be glad to know that we
managed to get the stain off the dress
after four washes although Leonard's
mother was on Valium for rather longer.
I bring all this up to try to impress
upon you the fact that I don't like to
dance although I admire and envy peo-
ple who do. Those ballroom fans
amongst you will no doubt have heard
of the Tarantella, a fiery Latin dance that
nobody north of Barcelona can do prop-
erly. I was once told that the moniker of
this comes from the fact that its appar-
ently random and violent, jerky move-
ments are supposed to represent
someone in the death throes that result
from being bitten by a tarantula. The
Tarantella was, you understand, invented
in pre-Lcstasy days when the only way to
get your kicks was to cheat death with a
giant hairy arachnid. Did the older gen-
eration back then shake their heads, I
wonder, in sad what-kind-of-world-is-this-
when-our-youngsters-have-to-get-spi-
dered-out-of-their-tiny-minds-in-order-to-e
njoy-themselves type disbelief ? Were
there banner headlines in the Tijuana
Times dectying the pernicious evil of
arachnid abuse or gritty "real life" inter-
views in the LI Dorado Evening Chroni-
cle with Mexican teenagers who, having
started on tarantula had graduated onto
the hard stuff and now had 300 peso-a-
day Black Widow habit ? Possibly. The
truth of the matter is that I don't really
want to think about it because if there's
one thing I'm even worse at than danc-
ing it's dealing with spiders, and so to
have the two things come lumped
together Is for me, a scenario of unimag-
inable horror. A bit like if the Bay City
Rollers reformed and went on a world
tour with Darts.
Now I don't mean to imply that I'm
a total arachnophobic. I don't jump up
on a chair, pulling up my petticoats and
yelling "Thomas, Thomas", but the fact
remains that spiders are definitely per-
sona non grata in my apartment, they
don't pay rent or Council lax and there-
fore have got no business making them-
selves at home. I know it sounds mean
spirited but there you are. The problem
lies in the fact that however hard I try, the
spiders just don't take the hint. It's got so
bad that it's like the insect house at Wind-
sor Safari Park in my flat (yes, I know spi-
ders aren't insects, take it up with the
Head of Creepy-Crawlies at the loo).
To begin with I used to kill them
outright with the flip-flops that my par-
ents brought me back from Cyprus and
whilst this was devastatingly effective, it
did not present a long term solution to
the infestation. I next tried a policy of
inflicting debilitating but non-lethal
wounds on the insurgent in the hopes
that he (or she, I never stopped to ask)
would be partially incapacitated but not
to the extent that he wouldn't be able to
drag himself back to the nest to warn all
the others of the fate that awaited them.
But even this enlightened, scmi-Jainist
approach seems to have failed judging
yesterday's encounter.
I had got back rather later than usual
- I'd foolishly assumed that because both
the destination indicator on the platform
and the sign on the front of the train that
I had boarded said Wimbledon, that the
train itself was going to Wimbledon. Hav-
ing fumbled around in my trouser pocket
for a not unpleasant five minutes I took
my keys out of my briefcase and opened
the door. There it was. Only it wasn't a
spider. It was a SPIDER. It sat there cross-
ing and uncrossing its Chewbacca-like
legs, regarding me with a haughty look
in its ten beady eyes, a sarcastic half-smile
playing about its mandibles. To say that
it was huge would be to say that George
Best played football. To add insult to
injury, it was smoking one of my ciga-
rettes (no only kidding, it was actually
smoking a hand-rolled one). My first
instincts were to finish it off with a sin-
gle blow from my Hush Puppies, but I
hesitated - what if they only worked on
dogs ? Besides, there was no guarantee
that it wouldn't grab the sole of my shoe
and twist me off balance with a deft flick
of one of its wrists - a spider this size
might even know judo. Robert the Bruce
would probably have drawn some kind
of strength and encouragement from
the situation, but not this sasenach. Try-
ing to retain as much dignity as possible
I darted into the lounge slamming the
door behind me, and waited until my
breathing had normalised and the
intruder had slunk out of the front door
chuckling menacingly.
I've not seen him since. Since I her-
metically sealed all the windows and
doors that is. Some people might say that
such behaviour is going a bit far and
maybe they're right. And when you think
about it it's a bit silly really. After all you're
so big and they're so small. I suppose I'm
just imagining thi wait a minute... did
you see something scamper under the
sofa ?
Matt Salter
A Reminiscing Medic
O
ver familiarity with the clubbing
scene, getting absolutely
pissed... slaughtered... licked on
cheap beer and wine, partying in
obscure, not-even-vaguely familiar
decrepit student dwellings, getting
acquainted with a bunch of out-of-their-
face strangers, getting more and more
intimate with the hazy, murky world of
drunken stupor night after night. Your
head finally hitting your pillow / your
mate's floor.... a floor, never before the
disrespectful hour of 5a.m., when the
birds annoyingly decide to give you a ren-
dition of their version of 'Morning has
Broken'. You only notice this for a few
seconds though, because before you
know it, you're in the deep recesses of
the realms of heavenly slumber.
Another missed lecture... practical...
study period; nightmarish visions of end-
less, incessant queues at the photo-
copying machine the week before the
exams fail to motivate you to move an
inch. Welcome to student life!
No doubt, at this very minute, thou-
sands of freshers are getting over bouts
of 'freshers' flu', and experiencing the
post-freshers'-weck blues, with various
strains of paracetamol-resistant hang-
overs. The novelty of being at University
is probably slowly wearing off. The initial
excitement becomes over-shadowed by
the increasing pile of essays and projects
you have to hand in and the looming
end-of-term exams that your tutors won't
let you forget about.
And then when you finally get pro-
moted to the upper years, you start see-
ing everything in a different light. Life
seems less rousing and you find that
you have lost the ability to cope with the
whole morning-after fiasco. You sec the
new intake of fresh-faced students, ooz-
ing idealism from every pore, full of
enthusiasm and getting excited at just
about everything and anything. At this
point you think to yourself, "God, I was-
n't like that... was I?"
You know you're one step closer to
drawing your pension when you'd rather
stay in on a Saturday night to watch that
missed episode of L.R.. recorded by your
mate's thoughtful mum, than go out;
when you actually enjoy cooking a three
course meal rather than grabbing a RFC
or heating a 99pTesco microwave meal...
and alright the string of twenty-first birth-
day parlies you've recently attended kind
of gives it away too!
You feci that the 'oncc-a-term-regurg'
experience is quite enough and even
necessary lo keep alive the ever flicker-
ing, ebbing flames of the youthful, juve-
nile spirit entrapped within the ever
sencscing 21 going on 30 body. This
does not in any way imply that you are
ready for the responsibilities of adult-
hood. The thought of a C & G mortgage,
nasty Pampers, parents evenings and
Virgin pension plans makes the contents
of your stomach churn, far more than
cider ever could.
Alright... so you're quite content to
be floating around in the waiting-room
of adulthood, a string of forty-some-
things in front of you in the queue, com-
forted by the fact that you can at any
point indulge yourself in juvenile pranks,
but act like an adult when you have to.
So what? You're stuck in the com-
fortable rut between post-teenage ado-
lescence and premature adulthood.
Don't worry, you're not alone. Chill out...
enjoy... it's only a matter of time before
the anti-ageing pill will be available at a
store near you!
D. Devadas

