ISSUE 1669
FELIX
ARTS arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Embankment
Barbican
Southwark
Aldgate
East
Waterloo
Covent Garden
Leicester Square
South
Kensington
Sloane
Square
Piccadilly
Circus
Green Park
Pimlico
Blackfriars
The Barbican: With an auditorium housing the
London Symphony and the BBC Symphony Or-
chestras, a theatre housing the Royal Shakespeare
Company, as well as a gallery, cinema, and library,
the Barbican is largest performing arts centre in
Europe. Basically, it’s arts Mecca. It’s ‘What’s On’
section is jammed packed year-round so anything
and everything you could hope to see is here. On
top of that, it’s housed in a Grade II listed building
which itself is worth a visit.
Tate Modern: On the river at the South Bank,
the Tate Modern is one of the most exciting
venues in the capital for modern art. Soul of a
Nation: Art in the Age Black Power, an exhibi-
tion exploring the rich and varied legacy of the
African American artists working during the
Civil Rights Era is on at the moment.
National Theatre: Reliably excellent, the NT is home
to three theatres; the Olivier, Lyttleton and Dorfman.
The roster is varied, from political dramas to blockbuster
musicals, so there’s something for everybody.
Royal Opera House: The main venue for
opera performances in London, the historical ROH
runs an extensive programme of operas, ballets
and contemporary genres ranging from classical
productions to more experimental interpretations.
English National Opera: The ENO is the
second-largest opera company in London, but
with all its performances sung in English. A good
introduction to the world of opera, the ENO has
a calendar of classical pieces and contemporary
works.
Whitechapel Gallery:
Near Brick Lane where all the
top curry houses in London
are, the Whitechapel gallery is
the one of the most interesting
venues in the capital, a longtime
champion of all types of con-
temporary art, particularly film.
The Whitechapel often has its
finger on the pulse of what’s
about to make it big in the world
of art.
The Young Vic: Also in Waterloo, the Young Vic Theatre
was established in 1970 and showcases some fantastic theatre
for fantastically low prices. The theatre claims to have the
most ‘diverse and engaged audience in London’ and features
a main auditorium with a seating plan that changes from
production to production.
Donmar Warehouse: Located in Covent
Garden, the Donmar Warehouse is home to
exciting new writing, contemporary reappraisals
of European classics and small-scale drama and
musical theatre.
through London’s cultural hotspots
ARTS
FRIDAY, 29TH
SEPTEMBER, 2017 FELIX
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Where’s the culture at? Felix’s Arts Editors take you
Royal Court Theatre: Prides itself on being
the ‘writer’s theatre’ showcasing some of the
best scripts from upcoming and established play-
wrights. Two of its plays – Cyprus Avenue, and
The Children – featured in Guardian Theatre Critic
Michael Billington’s top 10 list for 2016, and its
production of the Ferryman earlier this year was so
popular it has been revived for an extended run in
the West End.
The Old Vic: Located in Waterloo –
10 minutes from Xenia Hall if you’re
living that far out – the Old Vic puts
on some of the most impressive pro-
ductions in the capital outside the West
End, for those of all ages.
V&A: A world leader for all things decorative
arts and design. Admission is free, but for some
of the more in-depth exhibitions, you’ll have
to pay – like for the Pink Floyd: Their Mortal
Remains exhibit, which we highly recommend.
It also has some great cafes if you’re looking
for somewhere to study off-campus.
National Gallery: Right in the middle of
London’s tourist heartland, the National Gallery
houses everything fantastically alien-looking
babies painted in the Middle Ages to the work of
the Impressionists and Cubists, all for free. There
are frequent excellent special exhibitions too; look
out for Van Eyck and Pre Raphaelites, opening
next week. The gift shop is great for arty posters
(complete with handy student discounts) to liven
up your new rooms.
National Portrait Gallery: The cosier neigh-
bour to the National Gallery, the NPG focuses just
on portraits. The BP National Portrait Awards is
being exhibited right now, brilliant for looking at
the work of lesser known artists. Each Friday the
gallery is open until 9 pm, a cocktail bar pops up,
there’s live music, and a free drawing session (all
materials provided) all as part of the Late Shift.
Royal Academy: Best known for its annual ex-
travaganza - the Summer Exhibition - the RA hosts
a whole range of exhibitions. Upcoming shows
not to be missed are Jasper Johns; ‘Something Re-
sembling Truth’, and Dali/Duchamp, an exhibition
that will explore how their outlook on art and life
intersected.
Tate Britain:Home to fantastic art and is another
gallery that regularly throws its doors open late into
the evening. Uniqlo Tate Lates take place on the last
Friday of each month; go to enjoy live music, talks,
and interactive workshops as well food and drink.

