ARTS
FRIDAY, 29TH
SEPTEMBER, 2017 FELIX
14
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
National Theatre: Entry Pass
The NT offers an Entry Pass to those aged 16 - 25. After registering and providing
proof of age, you’ll be entitled to a whole range of NT delights including access to
exclusive workshops and events, and discounts in the NT bookshops, cafes, back-
stage tours and prop hires. Most importantly, you’ll be able to register to £7.50 tick-
ets to all NT productions. This year, the NT has doubled the number of tickets avail-
able to Entry Pass holders and there’s even the option to bring along a mate for £10.
Arts editors completely destroy box office incomes!
Felix Arts gives you the lowdown on the best arts deals in London, in a tear-out and keep guide to the capital
Barbican Centre: Young Barbican
Similar to the NT, the Barbican Centre runs aYoung Barbican scheme for 14 - 25 year
olds. 50,000 Young Barbican tickets are released each year for all things art, film,
theatre, and dance. Prices for most tickets will run you either £5, £10, or £15, with
new film releases every Monday - Thursday for just £5. A friend also gets to join in
on the fun for the same price. Oh, and there’s no annoying booking fees. Win, win,
win.
English National Opera: Access All Arias
The AAA programme allows any full-time student - or anyone aged 16 - 29 - to ap-
ply for up-to two tickets for productions at the London Coliseum. You’ll pay £30
for stalls, £20 in the dress circle, and £10 in the upper circle (plus a £1.50 booking
fee *cries*). It’s a chance to nab some of the best seats in the house for amazingly
cheap.“Accessible, Affordable, Amazing”according to the ENO. We agree.
Royal Opera House: ROH Students
By registering for ROH Students, you’ll unlock a world of goodies: Over 10,000 ded-
icated student tickets ranging from £1 - £25; 10 Slips and Standing tickets for every
main-stage performance at face value (£4 - £9); 1 complete performance of Swan
Lake next Season; 4 dedicated Amphitheatre performances; 2 tickets for £10 at par-
ticipating cinemas; dedicated booking days for each Booking Season; Last-minute
£10 Student Standby tickets; and discounts in bars. That’s probably more than you
deserve, frankly.
The Old Vic: PwC £10 Previews
In partnership with PwC, the Old Vic prices at least half of all their seats for the first
5 previews for every production. These are released 5 weeks in advance and you
can by up to 4 tickets per transaction. Make sure to sign up to the PwC £10 Previews
mailing list to be reminded when the tickets are released; they go fast.
Royal Shakespeare Company: RSC Key
If you’re aged 16 - 25 (by this point, we’re assuming you are), and have a burning
passion for Shakespeare, this is the deal for you. By signing up you’ll be able to reg-
ister for £5 tickets to any of the RSC’s Stratford-upon-Avon (too far away, no thanks)
or London (yes, please) shows for just £5. On top of that, you’ll receive a loyalty card
- experience 5 shows and get 1 for free. And if you’re into that kind of thing, you’ll
also get the chance to write for the RSC Key blog and review their shows.
Royal Court: Various schemes
The Royal Court Theatre offers a range of ways to save on their latest productions.
First Look tickets are available for the first three performances of every production
at a reduced price, while £12 Mondays reduces the prices of all Monday tickets -
available for purchase 9am the day of. Finally, there’s 10p Standing: a limited num-
ber of standing spots in the Jerwood Theatre Downstairs, that go on sale one hour
before the performance for just 10p. That’s half the price of a lime-cordial in the
Union. Mad.
Donmar Warehouse: YOUNG+FREE
1,000s of the Donmar’s tickets are available to under 25’s for absolutely free. Liter-
ally zero money. Just sign up to the YOUNG+FREE email alerts on their site and you
can register for up to two tickets per performance.
Felix Arts
In our opinion, the deal to trump all deals is our very own. By joining Felix you can
apply for a press ticket to practically any production or exhibition in London. You
might even get a plus one. All you have to do in return is write a 500-word minimum
review of what you saw. We’ll even publish your name which, let’s be honest, is as
close to a BNOC as you’re ever going to get.

