ISSUE 1669
FELIX
15
MUSIC music.felix@imperial.ac.uk
The Felix Music Fresher’s Guide To Fresh Jams
The best night out in London. An experience formative, refined, divine. You’ll laugh, you’ll cry, you’ll never want to say goodbye.
Welcome to London, to Imperial, and most impor-
tantly, to the Felix music section! This is the city that
brought you the likes of David Bowie, Queen, Led
Zeppelin, Pink Floyd, and Blur, to name a few. There
is an inordinate amount on, both on campus and around
the city; we hope to be able to give you a smidgen of
guidance on how to access this wealth of audio treasure.
In this section we shall, every week, present to
you the hottest reviews of recent albums and gigs,
special features that break frontiers for your ears, and
updates on what’s hip and happening (at least in our
lame opinions) in London at the moment. Join us for
rambling and raving about genres of all kinds – be it
smooth jazz or metal so hard it’ll break your neck.
If you want to get involved (in literally any way at all)
with the music section of Felix this year, come see us at
fresher’s fair or drop an email to music.felix@ic.ac.uk.
Don’t worry about your lack of experience, we’re a col-
lection of chimpanzee derivatives piloting the shittiest
starship of all time on a vast musical journey through
the ages. If you think you can write better, prove it!
Jazz & Rock
Live Music is Imperial’s society for supporting small(ish) bands. We run a high
quality practice room (£3/hr), fortnightly Jazz Jams, Gigs, Masterclasses, Bar Socials,
and a few trips to other gigs. Find out more on our website, JazzAndRock.org, or get
updates from our Facebook group: fb.com/groups/ICJnR
Alternative Music
What exactly is “alternative music”? There is no simple answer. From indie to
IDM, soul to shoegaze, glam to grunge; the alternative music umbrella is one of great
breadth. What unites us all, however, is a mutual passion for music, an open-minded
approach when it comes to listening, and an intrinsic appreciation for all the subtle
beauties it entails. As a society we have weekly meetings in the union (Tuesdays,
6pm), regularly attend gigs and run social events such as our upcoming record store
pub crawl on Saturday 7th October. For more information join our Facebook group,
Imperial College Alternative Music Society.
Rock & Metal
The home for all lovers of music! Our socials focus on gigs, bar and club nights,
pub crawls, house parties and karaoke in some of the coolest spots London has to
offer, as well as enjoying our music closer to home with our weekly requests-based
radio show. Our members have a diverse music taste and the lowdown on the best
upcoming shows and bands, so come along and discover something new. Come find
us at Freshers Fair, join our Facebook group (Imperial RockSoc) or sign up as a
member to get involved!
MusicTech
MusicTech is Imperial’s very own DJ and Production Society. We host weekly
sessions with CDJs and/or vinyl. Learn how to produce: we hold sessions every
Tuesday, as well as guest talks from well known producers like Zed Bias and Tessela.
And gig with us! - we host regular nights at the Union through our events wing,
Imperial Soundsystem, and externally through Ministry of Sound and Corsica Studios.
GIG VENUES OF LONDON
Royal Albert Hall
Generic big venue that’s up the street and has a swanky inside.
Alexandra Palace
Generic big venue with a nice view and a long commute.
O2 Arena
Generic big venue with a spiky roof.
Wembley Arena
So generic, so big, so sports-focused.
O2 Academy Brixton
Generic medium venue with a sloping concrete floor.
Camden Roundhouse
Generic medium venue that’s a circle.
Eventim Apollo
Generic medium venue in a convenient locale (i.e. near Hammerspoons).
O2 Forum Kentish Town
Generic small venue with overpriced beer.
O2 Shepherd’s Bush Empire
What is it with generic small venues and overpriced beer?
THE IMPERIAL MUSIC SOC CLASSIFIEDS
Ministry of Sound
YOU’LL PROBABLY WASTE A SIZEABLE FRACTION OF YOUR LOAN HERE
Fabric Coronet
KOKO
Egg
You won’t ‘find yourself’ here; you probably won’t
even find your friends.
Enjoy it while it lasts! F*CK ME it’s a let down!
Gigs, a club, and a blackout hub.
Scramble your friends and poach yourself
a ticket for a cracking night out!
XOYO
“I dunno, I’ve had at least one good night there?”
Heaven
Good luck getting past the breathalyser.
The Slug
The moment you know, you’ll know you know. You
know?
Embargo Republica
How low can you[r overdraft] go?
Metric

