TELEVISION
FRIDAY, 29TH
SEPTEMBER, 2017 FELIX ISSUE 1669
FELIX
28 29
tv.felix@imperial.ac.uk TELEVISION tv.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Medics are the wildings incarnate. They’re natural
enemies to the Math’s Watch, constantly covered in
somebody’s guts and blood, and they’ll die for their
freedom (or their last bottle of buckfast). On top of
that, there seem to be thousands of them.
Wildlings - Medics
“I shall take no wife, father no children, and win no
glory. I pledge my life and honor to remembering C++,
for this night and all the nights to come.” Despite their
unwashed appearance, and voluntary celibacy, the
Math’s Watch are basically good people. Even if there
are very few women among their ranks.
The Night’s Watch - Mathematics
The alchemists dwell deep below the streets, are
a bit weird, and have this thing about fire. Sound
familiar? Well, we recommend that you keep an
eye on that chemist in your flat, and watch out for
any suspicious green fluid they might have stashed
away. Also, the word chemist is literally in the word
alchemist. Hard-hitting journalism, this.
Alchemist’s Guild - Chemistry
Like the Math’s Watch, this ancient guild takes a
vow of celibacy upon initiation. I’ve heard they add
another link to their blockchain for every programming
language they learn. Though their pursuit of knowledge
is a selfless one, unfortunately they are destined to serve
nobler houses (as IT support).
Maester’s Guild - Computing
They have seemingly endless
wealth, and are situated in a far off
land. While not at the forefront of
the action, these are the true holders of
Power in Westeros. Need new hockey sticks? A stock
of wildfire to stash across the walls of King’s Landing
to burn any prospective besiegers? Minibus to your
next inane board game tournament? No problem,
they’ve got you covered. Be wary though, the Iron
Bank will have its due.
The Iron Bank -
International Student’s
Parents
Hiding in plain sight, and not to be trusted. These two
faced snakes walk amongst us, and anyone you pass
could be one of them (though you’d probably notice
the obnoxious blazer and chinos). Most would rather
underpay you for working at their startup than skin
your face off and wear it to their next careers seminar,
but they’re not fussy.
The Faceless Men - Imperial Business School
Tall, strong, and hairy, these warriors value strong lead-
ership above all else and are not to be crossed. However,
it’s far more likely that the rugby team get their horses
from daddy’s stables than the open plains of the Dothraki
Sea, and they prefer to lose the boiled horse-leather tunics
for tweed jackets.
The Dothraki Horde - ICU Rugby
No one really knows what they do, and they have so
far been irrelevant.
Shadowlands - Materials
The Lannisters - College
Their image is that of a wealthy, beautiful elite. But
when it comes to ruling, they’re more interested in
their own politics than the petty squabbles of the
peasants. Preferring to hold onto power at all costs
than to spend any time or resources improving the
realm over which they rule, the Lannisters of Kens-
ington Rock seem to operate without any regard for
their people and are entirely out of touch with their
subjects. They look pretty good though.
Sean Bean always dies, and this role is no ex-
ception. A hero to the Northerners and a bastion
of virtue to the Southerners, this fan favourite
was doomed from the beginning. Unlike Ned’s
the SCR Breakfasts untimely demise has not yet
started a civil war, but we’ll keep you posted.
LordEddard‘Neddy’Stark-TheSCRBreakfast
Everything was probably running smoothly until
these creatures showed up. We’re not even sure
they’re human. Huh, you haven’t heard of them?
Think they’re a myth? You’d best hope so – the only
things these guys are proficient at is making a royal
mess of your sport or realm. Though they are quite
good at javelin.
The White Walkers - Sport Imperial
Freshers are coming – Which Game of Thrones faction is your department or society?
It’s the first issue of the year, and Felix are already desperate to stay relevant. What is it the kids are into these days:
politics, sex, and dwarves? Best do a Game of Thrones™ double page spread then! Spoilers ahead.

