ISSUE 1669
FELIX
31
TRAVEL travel.felix@imperial.ac.uk
London Calling! Felix’s guide to the capital’s best spots
Chinatown &
Leicester Square
L
ocated in the very centre of London, Chinatown contains
many Asian shops and restaurants, and is one of London’s
must-see places. If you crave traditional Asian food, like
dim sum or bubble tea, or want to enjoy the views of
Chinese-style gates and lanterns, this is the place for you! It’s also
the most popular destination for Chinese New Year celebrations in
the spring.
Moreover, Chinatown is just next door to Leicester Square, which
is surrounded by cinemas, English pubs, and restaurants. You can
also find an enormous M&M’s World shop there,
containing more chocolate in one place than you
could ever imagine. Beware though – it’s full
of screaming kids at any given time, but is
still an interesting place to see if you have
a sweet tooth.
Minutes away from Leicester Square
is Piccadilly Circus, with the famous
statue of Eros; and Regent Street, one
of the biggest shopping destinations
in London. The best way to reach these
spots is to take the tube to Leicester Square
station and just walk around the area. Enjoy
the views!
S
tarting at universi-
ty, especially one
as highly demand-
ing as Imperial,
can be both exciting and
overwhelming. Most
students often find them-
selves swamped with work
from the second week
of term, but it’s always
worth remembering that
by studying here you also
live in one of the greatest
and most well-known
cities in the world.And the
best thing about London is
that it has so much more to
offer besides the famous
tourist spots, such as Big
Ben or London Eye. So
here’s a short guide to
exploring London, which
includes less touristy
places, well worth a visit.
Most of them are free – a
huge win in London as
you’ll soon realise – and
can be used as nice study
break destinations. So let’s
put our walking shoes on
and explore this beautiful
city!
Covent Garden
J
ust within a walking distance of Leicester
Square you’ll find Covent Garden. Its main
attraction is the indoor market, with cute –
albeit quite pricey – restaurants and shops.
Just outside the market is the Royal Opera House,
and the surrounding areas are always full of street
performers. One of the coolest things around is
Maxwell’s Bar & Grill restaurant, just opposite the
Covent Garden tube station. This place sells amazing
freakshakes – super delicious milkshakes with cakes,
marshmallows, and ice-cream on top – that are not
to be missed. So take your SO, friends, or even just
yourself out on a freakshake date for a well-deserved
sugar boost after a long and tiring week!
TRAVEL
Edita Pileckyte
Travel Editor
Little Venice
T
his little gem, hidden in the heart of
Paddington, is a perfect place for romantic
walks with that special someone, or even
just by yourself. It’s a smaller and much
cheaper version of the actual Venice in Italy:
basically a collection of beautiful canals,
full of colourful boats. Some of them
are used as cafes, where you can get an
affordable deal on cream tea, some-
thing you have to try at least once
while visiting the UK. The best way
of getting around is taking the tube
to Warwick Avenue station, which is
just within walking distance of Little
Venice. Walking alongside the canals
will eventually lead you to Paddington
station, where you can depart home, or on to
your next destination.
Shoreditch
O
wing to its artsy and hipsterish vibe,
Shoreditch has become a popular
destination for young people, particu-
larly famous for its vibrant nightlife.
However, besides many cool clubs and bars,
you’ll also find amazing graffiti almost
on every corner. So whether you’re a
hopeless party animal or have an eye
for street art, this is a place for you!
In addition, walking further east from
Liverpool Street tube station will lead
you to Brick Lane, where huge street
and indoor markets take place every
Sunday. You’ll have a chance to try street
food from all over the globe, find inter-
esting clothes and collectables, and enjoy
talented street performers. You can even walk
all the way to the Flower Market on Columbia Road
if you fancy some plants for your new room.
London’s Parks
O
ne of the coolest things about London is that among all the
grand buildings and busy streets you can also find many
parks, perfect for jogging, cycling, or having a picnic with
friends to maintain that study-leisure balance. Most Imperial
students opt for Hyde Park, conveniently located minutes away from
South Kensington campus, where even a short walk can be a nice break
from the library. Another option is Holland Park, where you’ll find the
Japanese Kyoto Garden with colourful flowers, peacocks, waterfalls,
and fish ponds. If you fancy spending more time outdoors, it’s worth
paying a visit to Regent’s Park, home of beautiful gardens, fountains,
statues, and diverse wildlife. Situated on the northern side of the park
is Primrose Hill, offering an amazing view of London’s skyline, which
makes it a popular destination among picnickers.

