WELFARE
FRIDAY, 29TH
SEPTEMBER, 2017 FELIX ISSUE 1669
FELIX
32 33
welfare.felix@imperial.ac.uk WELFARE welfare.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Imperial survival guide: how to stay sane, safe and
supported throughout your studies
Coming to university can be a difficult and stressful time. There are loads
of new things to try, club mailing lists to sign up to, and people to ask
“Which Oxbridge college rejected you?” But along the way, it’s important to
make sure that you’re taking good care of youself, not only physically, but
emotionally, mentally, and financially. We’ve teamed up with Ariana Sadr-
Hashemi, Mental Health Liberation Officer, to give you the low-down on
how to look out for yourself.
Taking care of your mental health during
freshers’week
1. The beginning of the year is going to bring some massive changes; from meeting more new people
daily than you can count, to suddenly drinking copious amounts of alcohol, the last thing on anyone’s
mind is their mental health. Luckily, taking care of your physical health has the bonus of also benefiting
you mentally, so take advantage of Imperial’s free gym to get active – and try not to have potato waffles
for every meal (check out studentrecipes.com for ideas).
2. Imperial is a high-pressure environment where everyone is ridiculously smart, which makes it a per-
fect breeding ground for imposter syndrome. Everyone gets it at some point, and you will (like everyone
else) eventually prove yourself wrong. However, if it’s affecting your studies or everyday life, don’t be
embarrassed to talk to someone about it.
3. You may get sick of having the‘Name, Subject, Hall’conversation a bazillion times a day but feel like
you can’t duck out of events due to the fear of missing out. In reality, if you miss a few Freshers’ events
you’ll still have plenty of opportunities to make friends, so you can afford to take time out for yourself.
4. Finally, if you aren’t enjoying the Freshers’ events, that’s fine. Parties and heavy drinking aren’t for
everyone and you haven’t‘failed’at being a university student if you don’t think it’s the‘Best Thing Ever’
™.There’s more to the first few weeks than nights out – if you hate them there are plenty of ways to meet
people who will want to befriend you in situations with which you’re more comfortable (check out the
Union Society A-Z page for some options).
That said, if you are concerned about your mental health, both in Fresher’s fortnight and throughout the
year, there are a couple of things you can do. The most important thing is to register with your local GP; the
counselling service at Imperial can provide basic counselling – clue’s in the name – but nothing beyond that.
If you’re struggling with something that’s more than a sudden distressing event, then counselling won’t cut
it and you should see a GP about your options.
It’s also important to keep in contact with your existing support networks: message old friends, call your
family, and ensure that you’ve got people to talk to if you feel like you’re struggling. You can even keep a
contact list of emergency services, such as the Samaritans (116 123) or Nightline (020 7631 0101), and draw
up an emergency plan of who to contact in what order if you’re in a mental health crisis.The College also has
information about other sources of help in the counselling section of their website.
Finally, make sure to use your support networks if you’re having difficulties. It may not be easy, but taking
that first step can be the best decision you make at Imperial.
WELFARE
Ariana Sadr-Hashemi
Mental Health Liberation
Officer
It’s important to remember to take care of your mental health,
especially at the start of the year. As you fumble your way through
the first few weeks, here are some things to bear in mind:
Keeping safe in the
sack
So, you’re at university now, and chances
are that, as well as getting a degree, you
might get some action along the way. Felix
is in no way qualified to give out medical
advice, but here’s where you can go for
help:
STI Clinic: Also known as a GUM (Geni-
to-Urinary Medicine) clinic, or just“the clinic”, these
are places where you can go along to get tested for
a range of sexually transmitted infections, ensuring
that you aren’t passing anything on. Most offer a
drop-in service, but it’s best to check online, and
ensure that this is the case. All the information you
provide will be kept confidential, and you don’t
need to provide them with your real name if you
don’t want to. They’ll be able to answer any ques-
tions you might have in a non-judgemental, calm
manner.
GP: It’s recommended that you sign up to
a local GP once you’ve moved down to London
for university – you can check online to see your
nearest surgery. You can attend your GP to ask for
contraception – both regular and emergency – as
well as to get advice about any information you
might need about sexual health. They will often
be able to point you in the right direction if their
surgery doesn’t offer what you need.
Family Planning Clinics: Similar to
the STI clinic, these may have walk-in sessions, but
it’s always best to check beforehand. They often
offer a wide range of services, from emergency
and regular contraception (including condoms),
to pregnancy testing and advice about concep-
tion. Some clinics will also offer more specialised
services, such as gynaecology clinics, and abortion
referral, but again, it’s best to check what your
nearest centre offers.
Mind on my money, money on my mind
Food: Being thrifty with your food is one of the best ways you can reduce how much you spend whilst at university. The
internet can be a fantastic resource, with websites like BBC Good Food having a wealth of cheap recipes. Some food writers
also specialise in cost-efficient cooking, such as Jack Monroe, whose easy recipes are all cost-tested, or Meera Sodha, who
specialises in vegetarian Indian cookery. Going vegetarian (or flexitarian) is also a great way to reduce costs - just ensure you’re
getting all the nutrients you need!
Finances can have a bearing on so much that you do at university. Constantly
worrying about where your money is going can be a source of anxiety for many
students. Luckily, Felix is here with some steps you can take to cut down on
spending, and places you can turn to for help:
Travel: While London is a big city, it is really very walkable. Apart from those living in Woodward Buildings, most of you in halls should be able to walk to South
Kensington - just avoid walking through Hyde Park after dark. If you do need to make regular journeys, then ensure you have an 18+ student oyster card, which can
save you 30% on season tickets, and consider getting a 16-25 railcard: if you connect it to your oyster card you only pay off-peak fares.
Entertainment: A lot of things in London are expensive, but getting your cultural fix needn’t be! Many theatres offer very competitively priced seats for young
people, and nearly all art galleries will offer student discounts for exhibition entry. And that’s not even mentioning the museums on our doorstep, which are free
(there’s a suggested donation, but the hint’s in the word:‘suggested’). Cinemas like the BFI Southbank and the ICA also offer great prices for students.
Halls life: Before you move into halls, it’s likely that most people will take a little trip to that giant blue and yellow wonderland, IKEA. Now, I realise this might be
coming too late for some of you, but really consider what you need when you load up on supplies. Hall kitchens aren’t terrible, but it’s unlikely that you’ll be cooking
up any feasts, so put down the aeropress and the pie dish, and just think about getting a few pans and baking trays. You can always stock up on more if you need it,
but overpack and chances are most of your equipment will remain languishing in a cupboard.
Support: For some people, despite endless budgeting, there will still be problems when it comes to meeting costs. It’s important to remember that Imperial of-
fers a number of avenues of support, and that you should never be afraid to ask for a little extra help rather than suffer in silence. As well as a number of scholarships
on offer, the Imperial Bursary can offer financial support to those with a household income of under £60,000. There’s also the Student Support Fund, which offers
grants and loans to students who are struggling - they only offer them to students who apply, however, so don’t leave it until you’re on your last can of baked beans
to get in touch.
Let’s get physical (and spiritual, and emotional)
Ethos: Here at Imperial there’s a fully equipped gym for students and staff. There’s a £40 induction fee, but that’s
pocket change if you compare it to even the monthly price of a lot of private gyms in west London. As well as the gym and
swimming facilities, you can purchase a monthly pass for the classes for £14.50, which lets you go to any sessions you want,
ranging from yoga to spin. For a lot of people, the gym can be an intimidating place, but there’s enough on offer at Ethos for
most students to find something they enjoy. There are also gyms at other campuses, like St Mary’s and Charing Cross, as well
as iGym at Woodward Buildings.
Taking good care of yourself physically doesn’t necessarily mean 6am work-outs
and protein diets; it’s about ensuring that you’re doing the things that make you
feel good, whether that’s getting a good night’s sleep, or being able to ask for help
when you need it. Here’s the Felix guide to looking after yourself:
Sleep: Establishing a healthy sleeping pattern is one of the most valuable things you can do as a student. Not only does being
well-rested mean that your physical health improves, but it also works wonders for your mental health and concentration. We’ve all been there: you’ve crammed for
an exam the night before, struggled through with a few hours of sleep, and now you can barely focus, let alone learn anything. Do yourself a favour – turn off your
screens before you go to bed; avoid caffeine after lunch; and try and avoid watchingTV or eating in bed. Conner Qiu, Campaigns Liberation Officer, is running a Sleep
Imperial campaign this year, which launches at midday, 13 November, in the Chaplaincy.
Healthy Eating: When planning a weekly shop, most of us go for convenience and price as priorities, with nutrition falling behind. However, it’s possible to
make food that is quick, cheap, and healthy – look for vegetables that are in season, which will be easier on the wallet, the environment, and your palate. Keep up a
stash of fruit, so you’re never left without anything to munch on. And make sure to keep a couple of quick and healthy recipes to hand, so you can carry on looking
after yourself even when you’re snowed under with lab reports.
Disability Advisory Service: When many people think of what‘disability’is, they think of people with physical, visible disabilities – those in wheel-
chairs, or who have difficulty walking. However, the definition of disability is incredibly broad, including both physical and mental spheres, and disability may be
visible or non-visible. For students who believe that they may have a disability, the Disability Advisory Service (DAS) can be an invaluable source of help. As well as
providing support, they are able to show students where they might be able to get more assistance – should they so need it – including catering to accommodation
requests and providing assistive technology. Located in the Sherfield Building, they can easily be contacted online.

