Union Page
imperialcollegeunion.org
Friday 29 September
Welcome to Imperial College Union!
Welcome Week 2017 Autumn Elections
WhoisImperialCollegeUnionandwhydoesitmattertoyou?
As a student at Imperial College London, you are also member of Imperial
College Union.
Imperial College Union exists to enhance the education and development
of our 18,000+ members, and has been doing so since 1907. We have over
370 Clubs, Societies and Projects, our Academic & Wellbeing Representation
Networks, Liberation Officers, Union Council, four bars, two nightclubs, a
shop, a newsagent, and much, much more
We are a democratically-run charity, with our members - students of Imperial
College London - able to lead, create and influence change in every one of our
activities, campaigns and services.
Find out more: imperialcollegeunion.org
Your Officer Trustees
The Union is led by the Officers Trustees who are elected every year in our
Big Elections in a cross-campus ballot. They take a year out of their studies
and work full-time, making your
Union and Imperial even better.
Your Officer Trustees are here
to improve the student voice
for all students at Imperial.
They represent you to College
on issues such as your course,
department and faculty as well
as any other problems you may
have during your time at Imperial.
imperialcollegeunion.org/officertrustees
Freshers’ Ball
The Freshers’ Ball is the biggest night of Welcome Week and will be taking
place on Friday 6 October and none other than Kristian Nairn (Hodor, Game
of Thrones) will be headlining!
Freshers’ Fair
Get the best out of student life at Imperial! Freshers’ Fair, on Tuesday 3
October, is an exciting day that will show you what you can get involved
with through Imperial College Union. The fair will be held for one day across
our South Kensington campus and will be buzzing with a variety of external
exhibitors and 370+ clubs, societies and projects available. You can even pick
up some freebies as well!
Mingles
Mingles are Imperial College Union’s official Welcome Parties for new
students! They’re a great way to get to know your new friends and meet new
ones. Undergraduates can get their tickets in their halls of residence, and
Postgraduates can buy their tickets on the Union website (listed below). Open
to everyone are our Lite Mingles, where we show outdoor movies on the
Queen’s Lawn. These are alcohol free events.
For more information on these events, and much, much more, visit:
imperialcollegeunion.org/welcomeweek
Autumn Elections
Raise your voice. Change Imperial.
Imperial College Union is a democratic organisation. Every club, event,
campaign and difference we make is led by student volunteers and guided
by our members. Over 2,500 students a year enrol to volunteer. Our
newest members are just as important to us as our oldest ones. That’s
why we hold our first democratic election of the year right at the start:
to give all students, from Freshers to Postgrads, an opportunity to make
a difference to the lives of their fellow students, while accelerating the
development of their personal and professional skills.
The Autumn Elections include over 400 roles from our Academic &
Wellbeing Representation Networks, sixteen roles as Ordinary Member of
Union Council, and several Constituent Union and Club, Society & Project
opportunities.
Raise your voice and change Imperial by nominating yourself here:
imperialcollegeunion.org/elections
AUTUMN ELECTIONS
Raise your voice.
Change Imperial.

