Jingjie
F
rom vandalising the walls of my
homewithstickfiguresasatoddler
to studying English Literature, my
seemingly scientific inclinations
have always been irrevocably entwined
with art. I have always loved drawing and
visual art, and studied it formally for a fair
number of years. Literature is my other
passion – words speak more to me than
any science.
Science can never stand independent
of art. I’m sure chemists see artistic
beauty in their molecules, the molecular
biologists appreciate the poetry of
their pathways and proteins, and the
physicists marvel at the elegance of their
equations. As a medic, I see the practice
of healing more as an art than a science,
one that interweaves communication
with problem-solving, scientific acuity
and compassion. In my eyes, it is less
of a problem “balancing” an interest in
science and art than the impossibility of
escaping from the connection between
them. Going about life without an
appreciation for the arts would mean
missing out on a great deal of what life
has to offer.
There is arguably a relative
disadvantage to not having arts and
humanities students in our artistic clubs
and societies, simply because we lose
out on the expertise that studying a
degree provides. However, we do have a
student body that is incredibly talented,
and in my personal experience many
STEM students have some cool extra-
curricular interest. Perhaps we should
then embrace the all-roundedness and
diversity that pursuing both art and
science entails.
ISSUE 1669
FELIX
11
ARTS arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Get to know your friendly neighbourhood Arts team!
Indira
P
ainting, making up stories,
and endlessly ambitious crafts
projects have been part of my life
since early childhood. My writing
in particular however never really found
a focus until I came to Imperial. Maybe
it was watching too much Gilmore Girls
during my formative years, but the one
thing I knew I wanted to do when I came
to university, was write for the paper. It
was at Felix, through writing reviews that
my lifelong love of writing and the arts
came together.
Society often places the arts and
the sciences in direct opposition to
each other, but that has never been my
experience. Anything that broadens
horizons, fosters empathy, helps us
understand what might be happening in
another person’s mind is bound to enrich
any potential career, especially one as
communication centric as medicine. I
started med school with the vague idea
of someday becoming a desi female
Oliver Sacks, five years on, my love for
medicine has sometimes wavered but I
still see the path of being a doctor with
a deep interest in writing and the arts
as the best route of combining all my
passions.
Studying at a university where only
STEM subjects are taught can sometimes
be stifling when you just want to get
away from it all and escape into paintings
and fiction, but it can have advantages.
Imperial affords STEM students to get
involved in and be at the helm of the
clubs and societies dedicated to the arts,
where at another institution students
studying the arts formally may take the
lead.
Adam
A
t first, writing for Felix Arts was
just a good way to bag some
free theatre tickets; to see
shows regularly in London can
eradicate funds very quickly. As I began
writing reviews, however, pieces of
writing that weren’t rushed lab reports,
I realised how much I’d missed non-
technical writing.
At school, I was more of a natural at
subjects like English but had to work
harder in science and maths. I think that
difficulty made me gravitate towards
science in the end; the challenge made
it seem like I was learning and not just
indulging in a hobby. I don’t regret my
degree choice, but I do regret how long
it took me to come back to writing. I used
to think I had to make a concrete choice:
scienceorthearts.Ithinkalotofstudents
at Imperial think that as well.There are no
art students here serving as the first port
of call to discuss Shakespeare, Beckett,
or whatever other nerdy-artsy stuff that
gets you going. You’ve got dig around
before you find other Imperial students
who also harbour the dirty little secret of
liking the arts.
Nowadays, I’ve realised that I don’t
have to pick between one or the other. In
fact, I think Imperial students are in the
uniqueandenviablepositionofsampling
the full spectrum of human ingenuity
that science and the arts have to offer.
So, if you too are like I was first year, don’t
feel like you’ve made your cold-clinical-
heartless science bed and now you have
to sleep in it. Do the digging around and
you’ll find hundreds to like-minded folk
here.

