NEWS
FELIX
Friday 26 NOVEMBER 2010
10
In brief
News Editors: Matt Colvin
Alex Karapetian
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
“Major changes” to security staff
after Metric launch violence
Controversial Justice W
Felix investigates accusations and counter-accusations made ab
Photo by Miles Robertson
about the injustices in Darfur, or against
Kurds and Christians across the Middle
East but no, as usual with such events, it
has to do only with the delegitimization
of Israel, America and her allies” and al-
leged that Justice Week “is only to do
with injustice and hate”.
Also quoted in the JP article were
members of Student Rights. This or-
ganization claims on its website to be
a “non-partisan group dedicated to
equality, democracy, and freedom from
extremism on university campuses”.
However, an investigation by London
Student earlier this year accused Student
Rights of being a right-wing pressure
group with a questionable student sup-
port base, allegations which they deny.
JP quoted Matthew Walker of Student
Rights as saying, “Justice Week appears
to be dedicated to jihadist propaganda on
taxpayer-funded university campuses”.
Campaigning from both these groups
led to a similar event, which featured
Jamal Harwood – a speaker at Justice
Week – being cancelled at Queen Mary
Student Union in December last year.
QMSU were unable to comment on this.
ISoc president, Umer Hakeem, told
Felix that his society was not contacted
by The Jerusalem Post to give a response
to the accusations made in the article.
He explained, “Justice Week intends to
highlight various injustices that resonate
with our members and around the world
and offers Islam as a potential solution
to these”. ISoc is one of the biggest soci-
eties on campus and is heavily involved
in ICU activities. It raised more money
than any other society for Charity Week
this year, totaling £29,414.50. Post-
ers around campus advertising Justice
Week bear the slogan: “Be the change
you want to see in the world”, quoted
from Mahatama Gandhi.
In response to the objections to Jus-
tice Week voiced in the article, Hakeem
answered, “We encourage all to attend
our events and respectfully challenge
our speakers if they disagree with their
views rather than attempting to elimi-
nate one side of the debate by censoring
speakers”. He added, “We don’t consid-
er attempts to censor legitimate debate
as conducive to achieving the aims of
Justice Week”.
Felix contacted Jonny Paul, the author
of the JP article, who admitted that he
did not make any attempt to approach
Imperial College or ISoc for a response
to the article. He said he saw “no reason
to contact them … the article speaks for
itself”, but refused to comment further
Raheem Kassam, the Director of Stu-
dent Rights, was asked to explain the
comments made by his organization in
the JP. He said that he saw Justice Week
as “anti-west, due to the nature of some
of the events”. When confronted about
the investigation by London Student,
Kassam described it as “irresponsible
reporting”. He pointed to a “personal
grudge” between himself and the author,
Hilary Aked, but refused to disclose spe-
cific details.
London Student offered Kassam a
right of reply to the investigation but he
notes that he “didn’t see the point” of
pursuing this.
All external speakers invited by soci-
eties to talk on Imperial College campus
are subject to a vetting process, which
the guest speakers for Justice Week
passed. Coordinating this process was
Heather Jones, Sabbatical Officer for
Clubs and Societies, who commented,
“the article obviously raised some of our
concerns but we have a duty to uphold
Freedom of Speech on campus accord-
ing to The Education Act, 1986”. The
Jewish and Israeli Societies were con-
sulted as part of this vetting process.
In response to the article published in
the JP, the College called a crisis meet-
ing on Monday to review the events and
speakers scheduled for Justice Week.
Reportedly, this meeting included col-
lege security, a representative from
ISoc, and senior college officials.
Security concerns led to cancellation
of the first of the Justice Week events,
due to have taken place on Monday.
However, these were related to room
booking capacity and were largely ad-
ministrative according to Jones who
described the affair as “unfortunate but
actually quite tedious”.
Rory Fenton is Officer for Interfaith,
which promotes good relations between
the religious societies at Imperial, and
said that the scheduled event and speak-
ers for Justice Week were “not damag-
ing to interfaith relations”.
A screening on Wednesday of the Mi-
chael Moore film “Capitalism: A Love
Story” was followed by commentary
from Jamal Harwood – an expert in Is-
lamic finance. He said, “the article is a
bit of a rant against the Imperial Islamic
Society” and “all these people are doing
is whipping up anti-Islamic sentiment”.
He assures students that “the week isn’t
at all anti-western” and has “nothing to
do with jihad”. He also said that, “If he
[Douglas Murray] was really concerned
about social cohesion he wouldn’t be de-
monizing this small community”.
Harwood is a spokesperson for Hizb
ut-Tahrir, an Islamic political organiza-
tion that is currently subject to a “no
Jerusalem Post journalist admits
he did not attempt to contact the
Islamic Society for a response
...Continued from Front Page
The otherwise trouble-free opening night of Metric
was tainted by violence after a student was forcibly
ejected by stewards and a member of security staff
who the Union have said “will not work at the Union
again”.
The trouble began as students began to re-enter
the Union after a fire alarm at around midnight. The
student allegedly attacked the door staff as he re-
entered the building and was as a result removed
to the back of the Union. According to the Union,
the student committed “criminal assault” by biting a
steward on the arm. At the time of writing Felix had
not received confirmation of this from the police.
However the Union have also admitted that the
student was removed from the building in an “over-
zealous way” and that a member of security had
taken an “old-fashioned attitude” to bar security
and that his actions did not reflect the ethos of the
Union to provide a safe place for students to enjoy
themselves.
As a Felix photographer attempted to record the
events, the same member of security seized his
camera and threatened to smash it on the ground.
The Union have described the security staff’s ac-
tions as “regrettable” and re-assured Felix that the
Union is committed to protecting the freedom of
press.
The Union have confirmed that major changes will
be made to the security team and to “the way that
we run security”, including better briefing of the staff
on big nights.
The student involved didn’t wish to comment on
the events. Kadhim Shubber
Corrections
In the article entitled “Rector joins London-Brigh-
ton Veteran Car Run”, published in Issue 1473
(12/11/10), the City and Guilds College Union was
incorrectly referred to as the City and Guilds Con-
stituent Union.
The article entitled “RAG Week raises over £2,000”,
published in Issue 1474 (19/11/10) did not make
clear that RAG raised £3269.12 during RAG Week.
In the article entitled “A dummy’s guide to Indian
curries”, the text for Tikka Masala was erroneously
repeated for Vindaloo.
The Word Wheel in Issue 1473 (12/11/10) and the
Nonogram in Issue 1474 (19/11/10) were unsolv-
able. Felix apologises for this.
Positively Red Week
Medsin Imperial will be raising awareness about
HIV/AIDS around campus as part of their “Positively
Red Week”, 29th Nov – 3rd Dec. The week of charity
events including an 80s night at Metric on Wednes-
day and a Dodgeball Tournament on Thursday 2nd
December (email Alan Soltani, as3509@ic.ac.uk for
information)
Asim Qureshi spoke at Imperial College this on Thursday

