Week on campus
bout speakers invited on campus by Islamic Soc
FELIX Friday 26 November 2010 11
INTERVIEW
platform policy” by NUS. This does
not include Imperial College, which is
not currently a member of NUS. Chair
of ICU Political Philosophical Soci-
ety, Naida Dzigal, spoke on the subject
of hosting NUS “no platform policy”
speakers on Imperial College Campus-
es. “I am of the opinion that this should
not be done generally, but only because
the students who organize such events
are usually of the same opinions as the
controversial speaker or are on their
way to becoming such [...] However, I
also think that there should be an excep-
tion to this policy if the event is planned
carefully and is conducted with regards
to the complete student body’s opinions
and views”. She added, “some speakers
might have valuable opinions on other
subjects that are not fascist or racist in
any way”.
Speaking on Thursday on behalf of
Cageprisoners, a human rights organiza-
tion that raises awareness of the plight of
prisoners at Guantanamo Bay, was Asim
Qureshi.
He made news in 2006 after a rally out-
side the US Embassy in London when he
declared, “It is incumbent upon all of us
to support the jihad of our brothers and
sisters in these countries when they are
facing the oppression of the west”.
London-based counter-extremism
think tank, The Quilliam Foundation,
contacted Felix out of concern for
Qureshi’s platform on Imperial Col-
lege campus. Their research stretches
from radicalisation on university cam-
puses to the BNP’s demonisation of
British Muslims. They provided Felix
with transcripts of speeches made by
Qureshi at Queen Mary Student Union
(QMSU). In December 2006 at QMSU,
while discussing suicide bombings in
Palestine, he said, “when you’re talking
about things like martyrdom operations,
then its not for us to judge anything be-
cause we don’t live out in those places”.
Again at QMSU in January 2007, while
discussing the actions of a group of fe-
male Chechen suicide bombers called
the ‘Black Widows’, he said “we are
not here to judge them. We do not live
in their paradigm, we do not live their
daily lives”.
Speaking about Qureshi – Lucy
James, a research fellow at Quilliam,
says “he has clearly condoned acts of vi-
olence abroad in the past” and his pres-
ence on campus is “beyond a Freedom
of Speech issue”. Felix attempted to
contact Qureshi but he was not available
for a response. The Quilliam Foundation
also voiced concerns as to whether the
vetting process for external speakers at
university campuses is currently tight
enough.
Justice Week ends with talks by Pro-
fessor Norman Finkelstein on the 2009
Gaza Invasion, in connection to his new
book “This Time We Went Too Far:
Truth and Consequences of the Gaza
Invasion”. Next week’s issue of Felix
will include an interview with Professor
Finkelstein by our political editor. Tick-
ets for the event with Finkelstein sold
out within 24 hours. However, a second
talk later on the same night was sched-
uled to capacitate the extra demand and
tickets have been made available to non-
Imperial students. Finkelstein’s UK tour
has been accompanied by a Facebook
group “No to hate! No to Norman Fin-
kelstein!” This group plans to protest at
all of the dates on his UK tour, includ-
ing Imperial College, but is limited to
a small number of individuals - at time
of printing only 9 people have declared
attendance. The talks take place tonight
(Friday) from 6pm and will be held in
the Clore Lecture Theatre in the Hux-
ley Building. Tickets are £5 and can be
bought from the ICU website; protesting
at the event will be free.
A spokesperson from the college
wrote to Felix about Justice Week. “Im-
perial College London campuses are
places of intellectual debate, tolerance
and openness among its diverse staff
and student community”. And “the Col-
lege has concluded that the events tak-
ing place during Justice Week meet the
requirements under its Code of Practice
on Freedom of Speech”.
Editorial: Page 20
Cageprisoners
This is a human rights campaign
group which gives a voice to de-
tainees in the war on terror.
Recently, they have taken on
the case of Aafia Siddiqui who
was convicted in September of
attempting to kill her US inter-
rogators. She was subsequently
sentenced to 86 years in prison.
They obtained an exclusive in-
terview with Anwar al-Awlaki, the
infamous Islamic preacher, after
release without charge from US
detention. Since his release, he
is believed to have radicalized
Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab, for-
mer student and president of
ISoc at UCL, who made a suicide
bombing attempt in December
last year.
Hizb ut-Tahrir
Hizb ut-Tahrir translates into Eng-
lish as “party of liberation”. They
are a radical political organisation
which seeks to establish a ‘Ca-
liphate’ – an Islamic state across
the Middle East. It is opposed to
western-style democracy as we
know it.
They hold the view that ‘jihad’
is a part of Islam but do not advo-
cate violence, instead encourag-
ing intellectual debate. However,
their ideology is shared by groups
which do support violence.
Tony Blair said he would ban the
British branch of the party while
still PM, but ultimately did not
carry out action against them.
After gaining Fairtrade status in Sep-
tember 2007 but then failing to renew
it in 2009, Imperial is rushing to en-
sure that it doesn’t drop off the list of
130 Fairtrade universities and colleges.
Desperate efforts are being made by
the Fairtrade society, union sabbaticals
and college in order to retain the status
but they have been met with opposition
due to the higher costs associated with
Fairtrade products. Gemma Morris,
head of catering operations has said that
“although the renewal is overdue this is
not an indication that Imperial has in any
way lost its commitment to Fairtrade.”
So should students be forced to pay
more for their food and clothing? And
should the Union shop potentially run at
a loss, or face a decline in sales for the
Fairtrade cause? Felix investigates the
importance of fair-trade status at Impe-
rial and attitudes around college.
But firstly, what does Imperial need
to do to renew its status? There are five
goals which must be achieved to ensure
Fairtrade status. Firstly, the Student
Union and universities authorities must
create a fairtrade policy which encap-
sulates the details of the other goals.
Deputy President (Welfare) Charlotte
Ivison told Felix that she “aims to pres-
ent a Fairtrade policy to Council early
next term which will specify our goals
and commitments regarding Fairtrade”.
Secondly, Fairtrade food and drinks
should be made available for sale in all
campus shops and used in all restau-
rants and bars, a goal largely being met
already. For example, all tea and coffee
sold on campus is 100% Fairtrade. Simi-
larly, the third goal stating that Fairtrade
food and drinks should be served at all
meetings hosted by the university or stu-
dent union is also already being met.
The fourth goal states that there
should be a commitment to campaign-
ing for increased Fairtrade consumption
on campus. This is where Imperial’s
Fairtrade society comes in, holding
student-related events throughout the
year. The biggest event, Fairtrade Fort-
night, will take place from 28 February
to 13 March 2011, and aims to persuade
people to replace their normal purchases
with Fairtrade alternatives. However,
the application for renewing the col-
lege’s Fairtrade status requires proof of
such events and it is likely that the forms
cannot be submitted until Fairtrade Fort-
night has taken place next year.
Lastly, a Fairtrade steering group must
be established, made up of students,
members of Commercial Services, ca-
tering staff and the union, another goal
already achieved.
However, there is fuel for potential
conflict at Union Council if the renewal
is to require an increase in pricing of
union products. Scott Heath, RCSU
President, argued that “students would
rather the beer prices at the bar be rea-
sonable than for us to have Fairtrade
Status”.
There has also been speculation that
all the Union’s clothing products must
be sourced from Fairtrade cotton, a
move that would significantly increase
costs of Imperial branded clothing in the
Union shop.
“If I have to vote between the outright
use of Fairtrade cotton and a dramatic
increase in clothing prices, or a loss of
income, I will always vote against [the
use of fairtrade cotton]”, said Scott
Heath. However, he added that “if it is
shown that the raise in cost for clothing
would be low then I would more than
happily support and assist this new cer-
tification.”
These views are mirrored by those of
many students around college. One stu-
dent commented that whilst he would be
“very happy to pay an extra 20p or so for
Fairtrade tea or coffee, a hike in cloth-
ing prices of several pounds would not
be welcomed.”
Some also believe that forcing stu-
dents, already financially burdened, to
pay extra for Fairtrade products is unfair.
“It’s not like we’re earning £100,000,
we have weekly food budgets”, com-
mented another student.
Felix has since found that although
the university must show commitment
to sourcing Fairtrade cotton where pos-
sible, it is not yet a full requirement.
“There currently isn’t wide enough
availability”, said Sarah Jewell, Cam-
paign Manager of the Fairtrade Founda-
tion.
She also added that the Fairtrade Foun-
dation have launched a Fairtrade cotton
campaign that will result in “competi-
tively priced cotton that universities can
purchase”.
Unsurprisingly, Noor Hasnan, Chair
of the ICU Fairtrade society would feel
“hugely disappointed” if Imperial was to
lose Fairtrade status. “Being a Fairtrade
university is our acknowledgement that
there are still unfair trading practices go-
ing on in the third world countries. If we
lose it, people will see us in a complete-
ly different light, even though we do
have all the Fairtrade products in store
and related events throughout the term.”
Another student commented that
“people are willing to spend twice the
price of a normal product for one with a
fashionable brand, so why not pay a bit
more for Fairtrade?”
With such conflicting views on
Fairtrade products, students need
choice, which is something that Deputy
President Charlotte Ivison supports: “we
don’t want to force students but hope-
fully they’ll make an informed choice
about paying more for Fairtrade or not.”
Fairtrade fuss over
status renewal
Sophia David

