SCIENCE
FELIX
12
Science Editors: James Goldsack
Katya-yani Vyas
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
The Trouble with Physics
by Lee Smolin
And a few suggestions...
Schrödinger’s lolcat
Climate change is causing some sheep to shrink.
Since 1985 the Scottish Soay sheep’s legs have got
shorter and their body weight has decreased. The
lonely sheep live on the island of Hirta, home to a
diverse ecosystem of sheep and vegetation. Lead
researcher, Tim Coulson from Imperial College, said
that it is “too early to say if, in 100 years, we will
have...pocket-sized sheep.” Let’s hope so.
Smolin, a brilliant theoretical physicist himself, at-
tempts in this book to provide a concise and spe-
cific tour of modern physics and its complexities.
Creating a link between the somewhat unfathom-
able different areas of physics, he explains how the
discipline has progressed from Einstein through to
quantum mechanics and the notorious string theory.
Smolin is sharp and provocative in his writing. He
does not simply put forward ideas, but also ques-
tions them and their proponents. He also raises
some interesting economic and political implica-
tions caused by physics research. This is the most
refreshing attribute of the book; it is not simply an
‘ode to physics’ as so many popular science book
are, but rather a critical analysis of the state of the
science and the bold theories and claims that are
made about it. Smolin is engaging and entertaining,
leaving us with a greater insight into how the theo-
retical physicist thinks. Katya-Yani Vyas
Students with ‘Parasight’
Victoria Bignet
The science behind the iGem team’s successful project
MIT hosts an annual undergraduate Synthetic
Biology competition called iGEM (Interna-
tional Genetically Engineered Machine), aim-
ing for each university team to build biological
systems and operate them in living cells. Im-
perial made an outstanding performance and
landed fourth on the podium out of a total of
some 129 participating universities.
The Imperial team built their project on bio-
sensors. Sensors developed so far require hours
or weeks of waiting before a detectable output
is produced, jeopardizing the product’s appli-
cation on the field. Current designs also only
respond to a small range of basic inputs and
lack flexibility in input/output modulation.
For the detection target, the Imperial College
team wanted something with a strong health
impact. They envisioned a cheap, safe and fast
sensor that could detect the presence of a range
of human parasites in water, which would indi-
cate to people in developing countries whether
the water is safe to drink/touch – hence the
project’s name “Parasight”! The IC team fo-
cused on the schistosoma parasite, a neglected
tropical disease (NTD) which affects 200 mil-
lion people worldwide, second only to malaria
in severity.
They engineered a system which allows for
fast detection of a range of parasites, and may
also be used as an environmental tool for map-
ping parasite spread. Synthetically modified
Bacillus subtilis, a harmless gram positive soil
bacterium, was used to give a clear colour read-
Friday 26 November 2010
You won’t believe it...
out upon detection of the waterborne parasites.
The team designed the project in three
modules. Their detection module constitutes
a brand new approach, exploiting parasite re-
lease of elastase to penetrate host skin. They
synthesised a novel protein bound to B. sub-
tilis cell surface, with a protruding signalling
peptide attached via a protease cleavage site.
When the parasite protease comes along, the
signal peptide is released and activates the
signalling module. To transduce the signal,
the team used a quorum sensing system which
they extracted from Streptococcus pneumoni-
nae and transplanted into B. subtilis. Activa-
tion of this classic two-component system in-
duces gene-transcription and triggers the fast
response module.
Cercaria (larval stage) is the most useful life-
cycle stage of Schistosoma to target, as it would
prevent the disease altogether. Cercariae are
common in water, but their spatiotemporal ap-
pearance is unpredictable. With this detection
method, locals or NGOs could easily check the
water to see if it is infected.
The project’s design was based on the pre-
infection release of elastase by cercariae, with-
out which they would be unable to progress
in their life-cycle. The cell-surface protein
of B. subtilis has three components: an auto-
inducing peptide (AIP), a linker peptide and a
cell-wall binding protein (CWB). In order to
activate signal transduction, the AIP must be
cleaved, i.e. it cannot access its specific re-
ceptor if still attached to the surface protein.
Cleavage by elastase releases the sequestered
intercellular quorum sensing signal. It is the
linker which confers specificity to the surface
protein; the elastase recognises a four amino-
acid sequence (SWPL) included in the linker.
The latter is anchored to the cell-wall by an
isolated domain from the LytC protein, native
to B. subtilis.
Cercariae do not readily release elastase in
the water. They need to detect human lipids in
ambient temperatures of around 37°C. How-
ever, cercarial elastase is a crucial protease for
successful infection, and is thus guaranteed to
be released assuming these conditions.
While an elastase has cleaved a protein link-
er, the team designed a resulting downstream
signalling pathway. The so-called ‘ComCDE’
system of genes in S. pneumoniae signals via
a linear AIP and uses a two-component signal
transduction system. The ComC gene-product
is CSP1 (competence-stimulating peptide-1)
which is the system’s AIP. CSP-1 is exported
out of the cell and is detected by the CWB –
sensory histidine kinase ComD. The kinase
then activates response regulator ComE. This
transcription factor then binds to its specific
target gene to induce transcription; the team
synthetically set the Tobacco Etch Virus (TEV)
protease gene as target by adding a ComE bind-
ing site upstream from it.
Previous trials have been based on transcrip-
tion-translation of a specific reporter molecule
(e.g. GFP) which is time-consuming and might
need sophisticated equipment for detection.
This system is not only revolutionarily fast but
it involves the expression of a protease which
Synthetically modified Bacillus subtilis was used to give a clear colour readout upon detection of the waterborne parasites

