FELIX 13
SCIENCE
Friday 26 November 2010
acts on a pre-existing pool of substrate,
yielding an output signal several orders
of magnitude faster.
Catechol (2,3)-dioxygenase (C23O)
is the protein product of the XylE gene.
It originates from Pseudomonas pu-
tida and is active as a homotetramer of
C23O monomers. The enzyme naturally
catalyses the conversion of a colourless
substrate (catechol) into a bright yellow
product (2-hydroxymuconic semialde-
hyde) within seconds of substrate addi-
tion.
Modifying the XylE gene by fusing
it to the GFP gene, they obtained GFPs
fused to the N-terminus of C23O mono-
mers. By allosteric inhibition, GFP pre-
vents the C23O monomers from tetra-
merising; they hence remain inactive in
the cytoplasm.
The fusion gene construct reveals the
James Goldsack
Space-time
cloaking
possibility
“Light normally slows
down as it enters
a material, but it is
possible to manipu-
late...so that some
parts speed up”
Scientists at Imperial College have de-
veloped a metamaterial that allows the
manipulation of the speed of light as it
passes over an object, ‘cloaking’ the ob-
ject’s movement, according to a paper in
the Journal of Optics.
Previously, a team led by Professor
Sir John Pendry showed how an opti-
cal invisibility cloak was viable. Now,
a team led by Professor Martin McCall
has mathematically extended this idea to
one that conceals events.
“Light normally slows down as it
enters a material, but it is theoretically
possible to manipulate the light rays so
that some parts speed up and others slow
down,” says Prof. McCall, from the De-
partment of Physics.
The leading half of the light speeds up
and arrives before an event, whilst the
trailing half is made to lag behind and
arrives too late. The result is that for a
brief period the event is not illuminated
and escapes detection.
Such a space-time cloak would open
up a temporary corridor through which
energy, information, and matter could be
manipulated or transported undetected.
While this technology in practice is
still science fiction, there are many se-
rious applications for the new research.
Co-author Dr Paul Kinsler developed a
proof of concept design using custom-
ised optical fibres, which would enable
researchers to use the event cloak in sig-
nal processing and computing.
One of the greatest difficulties faced
by the team was how to speed up the
transmitted data without violating the
laws of relativity. The researchers de-
vised a clever material whose properties
varied in both space and time, allowing
the cloak to be formed.
“We’re sure that there are many other
possibilities opened up by our introduc-
tion of the concept of the spacetime
cloak,’ says Prof. McCall, “but as it’s
still theoretical at this stage we still need
to work out the concrete details for our
proposed applications.”
secret of the output module’s inducibil-
ity: the GFP gene is fused to the XylE
gene through a protein sequence rec-
ognised and cleaved by TEV protease.
Thus, when TEV is present in the cell,
the GFP is cleaved off from its C23O
monomer and the free monomers can
tetramerise.
TEV protease is a natural viral prote-
ase. In the system, ComE transcription
factors bind to their native ComCDE
promoter upstream from the TEV prote-
ase gene. Since ComE is activated only
when CSP1 is cleaved, TEV protease is
only transcribed and translated upon de-
tection of the Schistosoma parasite.
The TEV gene has high cleavage site
specificity and a relatively low molecu-
lar weight (242 amino-acids) resulting in
a relatively quick synthesis of the gene-
product. TEV protease would then act
upon a pre-existing pool of the inactive
GFP-C23O substrate in the cell. Being
relatively fast, it has a high turnover rate
of substrate molecules. This is the first
amplification step, making the response
exponential over time instead of linear.
The activated C23O is itself an enzyme
with a high turnover rate, meaning that
colourless catechol molecules would be
converted to yellow coloured products
very fast. This second amplification step
makes the response hyper-exponential.
The IC team also ran a series of school
workshops based on NTDs. “Bridging
the gap between academics and cap-
turing the wider public’s attention can
achieve so much”, says the team. The
iGEMers even developed a software
toolkit that can be run autonomously
and customised to the desired input. By
changing the protease recognition site
New anti-psychotic
drugs in pipeline
Schizophrenia could be caused by ab-
normal levels of neurotransmitters do-
pamine and glutamate, according to new
research carried out at Imperial College
London.
Researchers found evidence that glu-
tamate-releasing cells in the hippocam-
pus influence the activity of dopamine-
releasing cells, which in turn are linked
with causing psychosis.
The Medical Research Council funded
the research and the team scanned the
brains of 16 people at-risk for psychosis
and 12 healthy volunteers, to measure
levels of dopamine and glutamate.
A correlation was found between the
glutamate levels in the hippocampus and
the dopamine levels in the brain.
This is strong evidence that there
could be a link between glutamate and
psychosis in many patients.
Current medication used to treat
schizophrenia blocks the effects of do-
pamine in the brain and can have seri-
ous side effects. Some side effects are
bad enough to stop the patient taking the
medication.
This research suggests that drugs that
interfere with glutamate signals in the
brain may be able to prevent psychotic
symptoms in schizophrenia sufferers,
hopefully with less negative side effects.
James Goldsack
Light and death for
hospital superbugs
A new technology that uses light beams
to kill bacteria could be used in hospitals
to stop the spread of MRSA and other
antibiotic resistant bugs, say scientists
from the University of Strathclyde.
The technology, known as HINS light,
uses visible light wavelengths to excite
molecules within bacteria, producing
highly reactive chemicals which are
lethal to bacteria yet mild enough to
be completely harmless to patients and
staff.
Professor Scott MacGregor, Dean of
the Faculty of Engineering, said “HINS-
light is a safe treatment that can be eas-
ily automated to provide continuous
disinfection of wards and other areas of
the clinical environment. The pervasive
nature of light permits the treatment of
air and all visible surfaces, regardless of
accessibility.”
The team are hopeful the new technol-
ogy could become the foundation for a
hospital-wide decontamination system,
by using the HINS light alongside tradi-
tional hospital lighting.
Clinical trials at Glasgow Royal In-
firmary have shown that the HINS light
provided significantly greater reduc-
tions of bacterial pathogens in the hospi-
tal environment than could be achieved
by cleaning and disinfection alone.
Charlie Harvey
Washing your hands is also rumoured to work...
Brain scans enabled researchers to look at the mechanisms involved
on the linker of the surface protein, any
protease could be detected.
The team now hopes their system
will come to good practical use. The
biochemical reaction in itself is “in the
box”; the skills and protocol are there for
having it rapidly synthesised and ready
to go. Now it needs to be incorporated
into a clever device for use on the ter-
rain. The team have envisioned a test-
tube like reservoir with the transgenic
B. subtilis colony at the bottom and a
lid with a stick attached. The user would
unscrew the lid and dip the stick into the
water to be tested. The stick contains a
foamy coat containing skin lipids which
attracts cercariae in the water if present.
They will release elastases, thus causing
a reaction! Yellow product or not yellow
product..?

