14 felix
FRIDAY 26 NOVEMBER 2010
TECHNOLOGY
Technology Editor: Samuel Gibbs
technology.felix@imperial.ac.uk
T
he Galaxy Tab is a 7-inch An-
droid-based tablet device from
Samsung. It’s been dubbed the
first serious competitor to the
current king of the slates, Apple’s
iPad. But does the the Galaxy Tab really have
what it takes to top wishlists this Christmas
or will the iPad reign supreme? Read on to
find out.
The Galaxy Tab has a clean design with the
hallmarks of something that came out of Cu-
pertino. The tablet features a 7-inch TFT touch-
screen, which looks great: it’s bright, gives
clear and high-resolution imagery, and is re-
sponsive. The screen is multi-touch enabled so
you can use gestures such as “pinch to zoom”
for web browsing, newspaper reading and pho-
to viewing. The device has a hardware volume
rocker, expandable memory using a micro-SD
card (up to 32GB), and a SIM card slot for 3G
browsing and phone calls. A headphone socket
is available for the bundled handsfree kit and a
docking port at the bottom of the device allows
you to connect it to your computer or a hard-
ware keyboard.
Apple CEO Steve Jobs has publicly slated
7-inch tablets, such as the Galaxy Tab, say-
ing that they’re not big enough to give a good
touchscreen tablet experience and that’s why
Apple went for a 9.7-inch screen for the iPad.
As the surface area of the screen scales with the
square of the diagonal length, the Galaxy Tab
works out to be half the size of the iPad. With
both products costing roughly the same, you
might ask why anyone would buy the smaller
device. I’d argue that a 7-inch tablet is better
because it’s more portable: it fits snugly into
my jeans pocket. The device is also lighter (the
Galaxy Tab is 380g compared to 730g for the
iPad) so it’s ideal for use on the go.
Samsung are marketing the Tab as a por-
table multimedia and entertainment device.
It plays music in all the common formats and
high definition video (up to 1080p), which
looks pretty good on the large screen even
though it’s not HD itself. Applications are
also bundled for reading e-books, magazines
and newspapers such as the Financial Times.
Google Maps looks great and the free turn-
by-turn GPS navigation is a winner on this
screen. The camera lets the Tab down though
-- it’s only 3 megapixels and takes pretty poor
quality photos.
One of the interesting features of the Tab is
that it’s a fully-functioning mobile phone too! I
must admit to getting some funny looks round
campus when I actually used it as a phone…
it could easily be something straight out of
a Dom Joly sketch! But in reality it’s more
practical to use the Tab as a phone than you’d
think. Calls play out over the speakerphone by
default (which limits the privacy of your con-
versations) or through the bundled handsfree
kit. Reception seemed pretty good as the de-
vice probably fits a bigger antenna – I was able
to pick up signal in the basement of Blackett
where my HTC Desire couldn’t.
Performance-wise, the Tab was fairly smooth
in operation and rarely lagged even with HD
video or 3D games. The 4,000mAh battery
gave me about two days of typical daily usage
as an e-book reader, phone and the occasion-
al game of Angry Birds during lectures. This
compares fairly well against the typical 3-6
hours you get out of a laptop or a day with a
smartphone.
Overall, the Samsung Galaxy Tab is a great
device. It’s halfway between a phone and a net-
book – small enough to fit in your pocket and
large enough to comfortably read magazines,
books and watch videos. For these tasks the
Tab gives a real first-rate experience. But it’s
not ideal for everything – if you want to write
essays and lab reports on the go, you’re bet-
ter off with a netbook or Macbook Air. And if
you’re unlikely to take your tablet out of the
house, the iPad’s larger screen could still be a
winner.
Free App of the Week
iOS - Urbanspoon for iPhone
Ever been stuck for a place to eat? Want something
to suit a particular budget? Get the Urbanspoon app
and you’ll be covered, wherever you are in the UK.
The Urbanspoon Android app works the same as the
iPhone app, but won’t run on all Android phones. If
it’s a no go, head to urbanspoon.com/m instead.
Android - Urbanspoon for Android
Samsung Galaxy Tab:
Finally a real iPad killer?
Kin-Hing Lo puts the Galaxy Tab through its paces

