BUSINESS
FELIX
Friday 26 NOVEMBER 2010
16
Business Editors: Sina Ataherian
Afonso Campos
business.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Rifts reappear less than a
fortnight after G-20 pact
News Summary
Government to measure happiness
The Office for National Statistics (ONS) is to start
measuring quality of life in the UK from next April.
The decision to follow in the footsteps of such
economic powerhouses as Bhutan was announced
on Tuesday by David Cameron, who gave no indi-
cation of how ‘well-being’ would be measured but
stated that current indicators would be insufficient.
The ONS currently measures indicators such
as economic growth, unemployment, crime and
mortality.
David Cameron insisted that the next well-being
index would not distract from these other functions,
maintaining, “I am clear that our most urgent prior-
ity is to get the economy moving, create jobs and
spread opportunity to everyone.”
He justified the policy by claiming that “just as we
can create the climate for business to thrive - by
cutting taxes, slashing red tape and so on - so we
can create a climate in this country that is more
family-friendly and more conducive to the good life.”
There are suggestions that the main purpose of
the new statistics would be to divert attention from
a still stagnant economy.
France has already started work on a similar pol-
icy, headed by former World Bank chief economist
Joseph Stiglitz who is to come up with new ways of
measuring economic growth to account for broader
changes in ‘social progress.’
British banks in discussions to
cut bonuses
Four of Britain’s biggest banks are discussing a plan
to pay out smaller bonuses this year and to increase
lending to small businesses.
According to insiders familiar with the negotia-
tions, the Financial Services Authority is involved in
the talks and a joint statement is expected before
Christmas.
The banks that are involved are Barclays, HSBC,
Royal Bank of Scotland and Standard Chartered.
The deal is seen as coming amid pressure from the
Government, which now owns large stakes in British
banks, including controlling shares in the Royal Bank
of Scotland.
It is also being seen as a potential forerunner to
increased intervention in the sector, with the new
Coalition already committed to enforcing the previ-
ous Labour Government’s policy of forcing banks to
reveal the names of any executives making over £1
million in bonuses.
After meeting in Seoul two weeks ago, govern-
ments from the G-20 group of the world’s 19
largest economies plus the EU agreed to halt
competitive currency devaluation in hopes of
allaying fears of an all-out currency war. The
G-20 finance ministers vowed to address ten-
sions in the currency markets.
The Seoul Summit was only the latest in a se-
ries of such meetings and aimed to provide a
forum for heads of government from the mem-
ber countries, central bankers, finance ministers
and institutions such as International Monetary
Fund (IMF) to discuss key issues like fighting
poverty and building global financial safety
nets. In addition to the G8 members, G20 also
boasts an expanded membership list that in-
cludes emerging economies such as China and
Russia.Against the backdrop of growing unease
over the potential impact of a currency war, the
leaders of the twenty member countries agreed
to a broad goal of containing the rise of large
current account deficits or surpluses.
The agreement seemed then to be a tempo-
rary truce and now, less than two weeks since
the warm hand-shakes and smiles, several
governments have resumed ‘talking down’ the
price of their currencies, with a potential view
towards further monetary easing. The “Seoul
Action Plan” was reminiscent of many previ-
ous, toothless, international monetary agree-
ments with its promise to “pursue the full range
of policies conducive to reducing excessive
imbalances.” The pledge made during the Pitts-
burgh G-20 summit last year had a similar ring
to it, and countries have yet to uphold it with
concrete policies. Now in the aftermath of the
financial crisis, politicians are even less likely
to muster the political will to implement poli-
cies to address trade imbalances for the fear of
angering domestic exporters.
Furthermore, unlike supranational organiza-
tions like the World Bank, the G-20 has no real
power to back its promises. While countries
can agree on a vague sense of direction such
as “correcting the trade imbalances”, they can-
not lay out specific policies to be implemented
in order to achieve a measurable outcome. The
US, for example, has proposed “indicative
guidelines” for current account balances. This
move immediately came under attack from
ministers in countries such as Germany and
China, which have large surpluses.
The costs of inaction are high: if countries
across the board cheapen their currency at the
same rate, no one will gain an advantage over
others but everyone will face inflationary pres-
sures that will threaten their economy. Devalua-
tion will also have a net negative impact on the
economy as importers suffer from higher prices
of goods denominated in foreign currencies.
The countries are now trapped in a classic ‘Pris-
oners’ Dilemma’: while every country will gain
if the promises are kept, the high payoff gained
from unilateral devaluation will eventually
cause a race to become the first country to re-
sume lowering its currency value. This prompts
other countries to react with similar measures,
and everyone will be worse off as a result.
Moreover, emerging countries that stood by
the market mechanisms rather than resorting to
currency control will be hard pressed to stem
the upward spiral of their currency. As the val-
ue of US Dollars weakened due to the Federal
Reserve’s quantitative easing measures, capi-
tal flowed elsewhere as investors looked for
higher yields. The destinations of such capital
outflow are mainly the emerging economies,
destabilising their economy by causing curren-
cies to appreciate.
Unless the Federal Reserve eases the down-
ward pressure on it currency, the pressure on
other nations for debasement is unlikely to
abate. Even though the US government claimed
that it would never seek to weaken the US Dol-
lars as a tool to gain competitive advantage, the
effects of its monetary policy will be keenly felt
elsewhere, especially since the Federal Reserve
embarked on another round of money printing
a few weeks ago.
On the other hand, the G-20 is not com-
pletely impotent when it comes to stopping the
currency war. The meeting promotes a global
network of key policy makers and their staff,
which can contribute greatly to the coordina-
tion of macroeconomic policies, especially at
times of great uncertainty. There is a grow-
ing consensus amongst the G-20 leaders that
international economic cooperation is neces-
sary given the growing interdependence of the
countries. France, the next chair of the group, is
optimistic that it will have growing clout as the
main platform for international governmental
co-ordination.
It remains to be seen how effective the G20
summit will be at tackling the issue of trade
imbalances. By actively involving the emerg-
ing economies in multilateral dialogue, it may
have the highest chance of establishing a global
framework for monetary policies since Bretton
Woods in 1944. However, international agree-
ments of this kind on their own rarely mean
much. Only when the G-20 makes real progress
on cooling the current currency conflicts will it
earn any credibility as a body capable of solv-
ing global economic problems.
Businesses and investors given new causes for concern
Ouch, brown shoes... bad move bro. Well o.k. I’ll concede that the handkerchief in the breast pocket saves the ensemble slightly
Lingxi Huang
I’d measure her as ‘somewhat’ happy...

