Pyongyang – crumbling from within?
The North Korean State has been constructed
on the ideology of Juche - total self reliance:
“man is the master of everything and decides
everything.” Some people describe this as a re-
ligion without God.
In the heart of Pyongyang, on the banks of
the city’s Taedong River, opposite Kim Il Sung
Square, stands the Juche Tower. Completed in
1982, to celebrate Kim Il Sung’s 70th birth-
day, at 170 metres the Tower stands margin-
ally taller than the Washington Monument, on
which it appears to be modelled. To my eye,
it appears more like the Tower of Babel – the
construction of which is described in the Book
of Genesis and revolves around man’s determi-
nation to compete with God. Whilst making my
third visit to North Korea, I was taken to see the
Juche Tower.
Perhaps symbolising both the current condi-
tion of North Korea’s economy, and its desper-
ate need for more than self reliance, my em-
barrassed guide explained that we could not
ascend, as debris was falling from within, onto
the elevator. The situation, he explained, was
very dangerous – it seemed an appropriately
graphic metaphor.
No nation wants to be in thrall to others, es-
pecially one that experienced half a century
of Japanese occupation, but isolation has not
served North Korea well.
Beyond North Korea’s sloganeering rhetoric
and the proud braggadocio is a nation which
senses change in the air.
The Soviet model is discredited; its powerful
neighbour, China, is in the throes of a liberal-
ising revolution; and North Korea knows that
self reliance will not be enough.
Senior officials, including the Speaker of
their Assembly, Choe Tae Bok, insisted to me
that over the next two years the new priorities
are “prosperity and dignity” with a “unified,
denuclearised Korea” as their first objective.
The West should listen carefully and respond
appropriately. The alternative does not bear
thinking about.
POLITICS
FELIX
18
Politics Editors: Hassan Joudi, Rory Fenton
James Lees, Rajat Jain
politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
North Korea attacks – an act
of desperation?
N
orth Korea’s unprovoked at-
tack this Tuesday on a South
Korean island, just 120km
from Seoul, threatened to
break the fragile peace with its
southern neighbour. Resulting in the death of
two soldiers and two civilians, the artillery as-
sault was denounced by the UN as ‘one of the
worst violations’ of the armistice which ended
the Korean War in 1953. But far from show-
ing strength, many analysts are suggesting
that the attacks signal the final thrashes of a
dying beast. Rumours abound that North Ko-
rea’s aging ruler, Kim Jong Il, is in poor health
and many have questioned his choice of his
youngest son, Kim Jong Un, who is perceived
as a weak choice to head the world’s fourth
largest standing army.
Writing for Felix before Tuesday’s attacks,
Lord David Alton (chair of the All Party Com-
mittee on North Korea) sheds some revealing
light on the state of the isolated country, fol-
lowing his recent visit there, and suggests a
path to peace.
The world beyond
College walls
Edited by Kenneth Lee
Canada
South Korea says it will retaliate with missile strikes
against the North if faced with “further provoca-
tions”, after an exchange of fire in which two South
Korean marines and civilians were killed. 15 South
Korean soldiers and 3 civilians were also hurt in the inci-
dent when the North bombarded Yeonpyeong Island with
artillery. The island lies near the disputed Northern Limit
Line which serves as a de facto border between the two
Koreas. South Korean President Lee called the incident
an attack on South Korean territory and deployed mili-
tary jets to Yeonpyeong Island. The North meanwhile
disputes the incident claiming that it was in self defence
after South Korea fired shells into its territory. North Ko-
rea is facing a looming succession to ailing leader Kim
Jong Il and the recent aggression could be an attempt by
his heir Kim Jong Un to burnish his credentials amongst
the military hardliners.
South Korea
British Columbia’s Supreme Court has begun hear-
ings on whether Canada’s anti-polygamy law violates
the freedom of religion guaranteed by the Constitution.
The case will focus on a breakaway Mormon sect which
has practised multiple marriages since the 1940s. Canada
has so far declined to prosecute polygamists, fearing that
the 19th century anti-polygamy law could be declared un-
constitutional. 36 witnesses, including women in polyga-
mous marriages, are expected to testify in court. British
Columbian officials want to pursue polygamy cases, say-
ing that it causes serious social harm and has no place in
Canadian society. Supporters of polygamy, however, con-
tend that it is their right to form the type of families they
want as guaranteed by the Constitution.
Gambia
Gambia has severed all diplomatic and economic ties
with Iran and expelled all Iranian diplomats and
state representatives.
Gambian officials did not offer any explanation for the
move, which Iran claims was taken under US pressure.
The recent interception of Iranian arms bound for Gam-
bia in violation of UN Security Council resolutions may
have played a role in Gambia’s decision. The decision to
sever all ties with Iran could be costly for the West Af-
rican nation as several
Iranian funded proj-
ects, including a £1.3
billion agreement to
supply Gambia with
heavy and commer-
cial vehicles, will now
come to an end.
Friday 26 November 2010
Standing tall but
crumbling inside:
Lord David Alton
of Liverpool
– Switzerland and the UK, perhaps – and held
in Beijing, could enable the North and South to
formally end the War, and to conclude a Peace
Treaty. This would transform the situation; and
breathe new life into the six party talks on de-
nuclearisation.
Throughout the Cold War, the West coun-
tered Soviet aggression with formidable de-
fences.
Simultaneously, through the Helsinki Pro-
cess, Margaret Thatcher and Ronald Reagan,
elevated discourse on human rights and funda-
mental freedoms. Through engagement, they
encouraged economic and political reform.
Today on the Korean peninsula we need “Hel-
sinki, with a Korean face.”
Writing in “Peace While Advancing Rights:
The Untried Approach to North Korea” the
American analyst, David Hawk, also advocates
this approach.
Without over exaggerating the outcomes, or
slipping into a self congratulatory naivety, over
the past seven years I have doggedly raised
questions of political and religious freedom
and human rights with the North Koreans.
And I have witnessed some modest develop-
ments – the building of a Russian Orthodox
church, the opening of a Protestant seminary,
and significant English language teaching pro-
grammes in the universities and schools. But, in
a year when there have been further reports of
the execution of Christians in North Korea, we
should not become complacent - and continue
to work for the sort of change that brought the
peaceful collapse of the the Berlin Wall.
Given that the United Nations say that
300,000 people still languish in North Korean
camps, many because of religious convictions,
I am particularly struck by the positive impact
of faith-based initiatives and the determination
of Christians to remain engaged.
The brand new Pyongyang University of Sci-
ence and Technology (PUST) established by
the charismatic Dr.James Chin Kyung Kim, is
a fine example.
And he is not alone: an American Catholic
priest, Fr. Gerry Hammond, has now legally
entered North Korea on 43 occasions, taking
life saving medicines and equipment to combat
tuberculosis; other projects aim to increase rice
yields and harvests.
Men like Fr. Gerry and James Kim represent
the way in which Korea can move on. As the
debris falling from within the Juche Tower un-
derlines, to ignore a crumbling structure is to
create an even more dangerous situation.
2010 is the sixtieth anniversary of the Ko-
rean War – which claimed the lives of an esti-
mated 3 million Korean people. Almost 38,000
American and British soldiers died, along with
183,000 Chinese.
The DMZ, at the 38th parallel which di-
vides the country, bristles with weapons and,
in a country where malnutrition is wide-spread,
North Korea diverts its meagre resources into
sustaining the world’s fourth largest standing
army of one million men. The situation is made
even more dangerous by the addition of a nu-
clear capability.
Since the 1953 Armistice there have been in-
termittent spats and skirmishes – some, like the
sinking of the South Korean vessel, Cheonan,
in March this year, with loss of life; others, like
the recent shots fired across the border repre-
sent bellicose sabre rattling.
For nearly sixty years there has been neither
war nor peace – merely a shaky stop-gap ar-
mistice. The US has no diplomatic presence -
although Britain opened an embassy a decade
ago.
I was in the country in my capacity as Chair-
man of the British All-Party Parliamentary
Committee on North Korea – founded follow-
ing my first visit in 2003. Three years earlier
Britain had created diplomatic relations and we
have had an embassy in the country ever since.
Our Ambassadors and parliamentarians have
been pursuing a painstaking and patient strat-
egy of constructive critical engagement.
This needs to be taken to its logical conclu-
sion: a new Peace Conference, jointly con-
vened by a neutral nation and by a combatant

