POLITICS
FELIX 19
Friday 26 November 2010
Hassan Joudi assesses the coalition’s new openness website
A gimmick or new era of transparency?
E
arlier this month, David
Cameron launched a new
government “transparency”
website as part of his Big
Society plans for Britain.
Visitors to www.number10.gov.uk/
transparency will be welcomed by three
live items: “Business plans”, “Who does
what in Whitehall” and “Who ministers
are meeting.” The opening sentence
boldly declares “We want to be the most
open and transparent government in the
world.”
Ever since the MPs expenses scandal
in 2009, “changing politics” or “clean-
ing up Westminster” have become oft-
repeated phrases. The episode has been
disastrous for Britain’s confidence in its
elected representatives. But could this
“transparency” website initiative start to
turn back the tide?
It can be argued Britain is an already
extremely transparent nation, with web-
sites like www.TheyWorkForYou.com
that present what each and every MP
says in parliamentary debates, their vot-
ing record and expenses claimed. It
works by employing open source code
to aggregate the content from Hansard,
the official record of debates in the
Houses of Parliament.
In addition, www.Data.gov.uk is a
government initiative launched in Janu-
ary 2010, designed to link data pub-
lished by public bodies in one place,
ranging from local police crime statis-
tics to money spent by NHS Primary
Care Trusts.
Away from the web, legislation like
the Freedom of Information Act 2000
introduced by the previous Labour gov-
ernment (came into force in 2005) has
arguably brought a whole new level of
transparency to British politics. It allows
members of the public and businesses to
request access to information held by
certain public authorities which is not
freely available, and despite the numer-
ous exemption clauses the act contains,
has exposed many revealing facts that
were formally state secrets. After all,
the MPs expenses scandal began from a
FOIA request by a journalist in Febru-
ary 2008.
So is this new government “transpar-
ency” website anything new? Perhaps
the business plans are. The publishing
of “business plans” for all government
departments represents the fulfilling of
a Conservative Party manifesto promise.
This was broadly to “publish data so the
public can hold government to account.”
This was among many others Big So-
ciety ideas expounded by the Conserva-
tive Party in the run up to the May 2010
general election, including a Big Society
Bank to provide finance to charities and
NGOs, and a National Citizen Service
for 16 year olds.
“We’re shining a bright light of trans-
parency on everything government
does,” was among David Cameron’s
carefully crafted sound bites in the web-
site launch speech. The new standards
for transparency the government has set
itself are certainly greater than anything
ever seen before in the UK. To select a
few examples, from now on all central
government spending above £25,000 is
to be published, as are all tender docu-
ments for government contracts over
£10,000 and the organograms (organ-
isational charts) of each department in
a common format. The Financial Times
described the coalition as “creating a
rod for its own back.” Moreover, there
are further transparency standards to be
introduced in January 2011, including
the publication of all local government
spending above £500.
It is hoped that the mass of published
data will spur enterprising NGOs, think-
tanks, charities and companies to take
hold of this data and use it, manipulate it
and campaign for the change they want
government to do. In theory, all these
private institutions will be engaged in
the public debate, whilst also pressur-
ing for high standards of performance in
public services.
Viewing Britain on the global stage,
the country is apparently the 20th least
corrupt nation. This is according to
the 2010 CPI (Corruption Perceptions
Index), a ranking of all 178 countries
in the world produced every year by
Transparency International, a respected
Berlin-based NGO that campaigns to
reduce levels of public sector corrup-
tion.
On the About Us page of TheyWork-
ForYou, their stated aim is to help bridge
the gap between we the people, and our
MPs, in the belief that “there is little
wrong with Parliament that a healthy
mixture of transparency and public en-
gagement won’t fix.” In a way, this new
“transparency” website is perhaps trying
to extend this principle from Parliament
to government departments and the civil
service too.
Just a few week’s old, an optimistic
view of this new “transparency” website
would be to call it a revolution, a new
era in British politics and bringing gov-
ernance into the 21st century. Pessimists
would usher it away as nothing new, just
more data on top of the thousands of
PDFs already published on government
department websites, or a copy of La-
bour’s Public Service Agreements under
a different name. But still in its infancy,
only time will tell how useful a resource
www.number10.gov.uk/transparency
will become.
Last Tuesday IC Debating Society, Is-
raeli Society and Palestinian Society
collaborated, bringing together four
prominent speakers to discuss the Is-
raeli-Palestinian conflict under the title:
“The Debate for Peace”.
In his closing remarks, Dan Judelson,
former chair of Jews for Justice for Pal-
estinians, echoed the feelings of many in
the room by describing the event as “one
of the most good-natured discussions
I’ve ever had on the subject.” While such
debates often tend to regress into parti-
san heckling, Tuesday’s event managed,
for the most part, to develop a more ma-
ture dialogue. In addition to the speak-
ers, the organisers are to thank for this
who, anticipating the difficulties of such
an event, took steps to ensure the format
was as non-adversarial as possible.
Mr. Judelson was joined by Ran Gidor
of the Israeli embassy in London, Ghada
Karmi of the Institute of Arab and Is-
lamic Studies and Joel Braunold of One-
Voice, a movement working towards a
peaceful resolution of the Israeli-Pales-
tinian conflict.
Unsurprisingly, the major issues such
as settlements, security and refugees
featured prominently. Mr. Braunold
lamented that “at the moment all Pal-
estinians can see is settlements expand-
ing.” But Mr. Gidor countered these
arguments, referring to past experience
with disengagement in Gaza and stating:
“No Israeli government which is demo-
cratically elected is going to voluntarily
commit political suicide by evacuating
the settlements without getting a peace
treaty in return.”
On the subject of occupation, Mr.
Braunold said near the beginning of the
debate: “Israel will not enjoy security as
long as it is occupying the Palestinians.
It cannot.” Israeli security – an issue
many of her citizens feel very strongly
about – was raised on a number of oc-
casions. Mr. Braunold maintained that
occupation and security were “two sides
of the same coin.” And in his closing
remarks, Mr. Gidor stated plainly: “oc-
cupation is wrong.”
The debate covered issues too nu-
merous and too complex to cover ade-
quately in this space. To name but a few:
the power asymmetry between the two
sides, the role of the United States in the
peace process and the plausibility of a
single-state solution. This is not, and nor
should it be, a comprehensive report of
the event; you just “had to be there.”
At the start of the discussion, Mr. Ju-
delson stressed the importance of people
putting their individual narratives aside
in order to make progress towards a
workable compromise. However, as the
debate wore on, sectarian disputes over
history, from both sides, started to take
hold. Mr. Braunold interjected with a
sincere “plea” to the audience: “There
are people with different opinions in
here, and you will never be able to agree
on the history of things … Stop point
scoring. It won’t help anyone.”
This captures the essence of what
made the debate so successful. There
was a fair amount of “point scoring”
from both sides; but there was also a
good deal of real, honest, constructive
dialogue; dialogue aimed at a lasting
peace agreement, rather than a tempo-
rary feeling of moral superiority. No side
“won”, but everyone gained something.
Debating Israel and Palestine
The new standards
are greater than any-
thing ever seen be-
fore in the UK
Navid Nabijou

