20
COMMENT
felix
FRIDAY 26 NOVEMBER 2010
T
owards the end of my sec-
ond year at Imperial, I was
approached by the chair of
what was then the Athe-
ist and Agnostic Society
with a view to becoming his successor
as official Union Antichrist. Owing to
a number of other commitments that
would have made Beelzebub blanch, I
regretfully declined. Much to my cha-
grin, the society has since done likewise.
Now, older and wiser as the special-
ists suppose me to be, I look back on
that decision with tremendous gratitude
towards my former self. I hasten to add
that this has nothing to do with the ludi-
crous suggestion that I have since found
god, nor to the frankly terrifying sug-
gestion that god has since found me.
My issue with any grouping of indi-
viduals based on a common atheism
is that such a grouping entirely misses
the point. Atheism is not a way of life.
It is not a mindset. It is not a school
of thought. Individuals for whom the
refutation of a creator is an overriding
preoccupation seem to me to be leading
narrow and unimaginative lives. At any
rate, certainly no broader or more imag-
inative than those who are preoccupied
with proving the creator’s existence.
Atheism, for all its importance in
this 21st Century world of Dawkins,
Hitchens and Ratzinger, is no more than
a consequence of having a logically
trained mind. Inevitable, but in no way
noteworthy. To claim that a non-belief in
god should somehow be the dust jacket
illustration for post-Enlightenment hu-
manism is to show a tragically warped
view of what is contained in the blurb.
The rational thinker will not find suf-
ficient evidence for the existence of a
god – any god – in the world as we know
it. This is hardly a unique conclusion, as
they will also fail to find evidence for
gnomes, ogres, unicorns, smurfs or any
trace of humour in BBC 2’s Miranda.
The need to trumpet any one, logically
unremarkable stop along this mental
highway seems to me to undermine the
sense behind taking the journey.
A credible justification for this prefer-
ence arises from the comparative lack
of extremism displayed by believers in
smurfs or gnomes – although people
who find Miranda Hart amusing are ca-
pable of any monstrosity. Nonetheless, it
is true that the ubiquity of religious be-
lief in America still precludes the elec-
tion of an openly atheistic President, and
accusations of blasphemy can still cause
writers and cartoonists to run for cover.
None of that interests me for the mo-
ment. This piece is unlikely to reach the
depths of the Bible Belt, and my charm-
ing though prolix style is unlikely to
win me over any supporters in the Vati-
can. The only people that matter to me
are you – the readers, and the only is-
sue I feel comfortable addressing is the
tenor of debate on campus.
And as far as I’m concerned, something
somewhere has gone terribly wrong with
the way self-styled ‘secular humanists’
deal with their religious confrères. Lean
back in your chairs for a moment, and
join me on a little thought experiment.
Not to worry – won’t take a minute.
Which would you rather be: a lone atheist
in a group of religious students, or a lone
Christian, say, who has fallen in with
Dawkinsians? Which would make you
feel more comfortable? Where, to use a
loathsome weasel word, would you feel
that you were being respected?
Were I asking this question at the
height of Torquemada’s excesses in
Spain, or in the presence of the sinis-
ter cronies of medievalist ayatollahs, I
would perhaps expect a different answer.
But among today’s enthusiastic guard-
Losing proportion
ians of rationalism there is an unforgiv-
able aggression towards those espousing
the supernatural or the spiritual.
The sad truth is that we are not autom-
ata capable of making decisions based
entirely on a sequence of logical deci-
sions. We gloriously and subjectively
prefer yellow to red, choose to listen to
Verdi over Wagner, and irrationally love
our partners more than the billions of al-
ternatives the world has to offer. These
are not decisions we can justify or ex-
plain – and so long as we are aware of
this demon in the machinery there is no
reason to suspect we are any the poorer
for it.
Humanism at its most fundamental
level embraces the individual over the
organisation. Our right to be free of
overarching religious dogmas or politi-
cal affiliations, and our duty to respect
each other in this one life we possess.
It saddens me that those who claim to
be motivated by such sentiments are so
blindly set on neglecting them when it
gives them a chance to sneer at others.
One does not become a bigger person
by knocking down someone else’s god
– one becomes a bigger person by throt-
tling one’s own ego.
Today’s strident, aggressive atheists want to fit under the
umbrella of ‘secular humanism’– but do they deserve to?
Justice is a powerful word. It can transcend
borders to liberate the wrongly accused, to
rescue the vulnerable and to topple govern-
ments. If used cynically, however, it can pro-
vide a veneer of respectability where it is not
deserved.
One of the senior editors on this news-
paper is an Iraqi Muslim; another is an Is-
raeli Jew. We understand what it means to
feel threatened on campus, and know how
hurtful it can be to have people presume to
speak in your name. Consequently, the pur-
pose of this editorial is not to attack Impe-
rial’s Islamic Society, but rather to defend its
Muslim students.
With Islamic societies around the coun-
try under increasing scrutiny from official
quarters, Muslim students are right to feel
vulnerable and targeted. The world is clearly
suspicious and worried of what goes on be-
hind the closed doors of British campuses,
and so long as the enemy is seen to be at
the gates, the temptation will be to pull up
the drawbridge and man the battlements.
But further isolation is not the answer. Na-
tional and religious societies have a respon-
sibility towards their members to ensure
that they represent all views in an open,
positive atmosphere. Such societies are in
the unique position of having a membership
which could not be more different when it
comes to age, choice of degree, background
or political leaning. And yet when the society
speaks, it speaks for everyone. The bonus
of having large numbers of students who
are reliant on you for help and pastoral care
brings with it a responsibility to represent
their views with sensitivity.
There has been little of this inclusive spirit
visible on campus over the past five days.
This week, coinciding as it did with National
Interfaith Week, could have been an unpar-
alleled opportunity for openness and dia-
logue. A chance to show critics that Islamic
societies are decidedly not, as is frequently
and unfairly claimed, sites of radicalisation
and extremism.
Instead, Muslim students on campus were
presented with a series of events dedicated
to a decidedly one-sided view of justice in
Islam. These consisted of talks on the ex-
ploitation of the third world, human rights
violations in Gaza and Guantanamo, and the
Islamic view of capitalism.
Are these the injustices that Muslims
feel need combating? Not the genocide in
the Sudan, or the murder of Kurds in Tur-
key? Not the victimising of Muslim women
and homosexuals in Iran and Saudi Arabia
or the limitations imposed on democracy in
Syria and Egypt? These are issues that tran-
scends political viewpoint or selective apa-
thy: if you claim to associate yourself with
the concept of Justice, these are questions
you must answer.
FELIX
Gilead Amit
Have your say on
this article at
felixonline.co.uk
Justice is a powerful word
and it must not be misused
If you turn your back on those you disagree with, take care which way you end up facing...
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
“
“
with, take care whi
”
Atheism is not a way of life.
It is not a mindset. It is not
a school of thought. It is a
consequence of a rational mind
– inevitable, but not unique
Comment Editor: Anna Perman
Illustration by Ben Kennedy

