24 felix
FRIDAY 26 november 2010
Comment Editor: Anna Perman
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
The F-word. Not that one
B
efore you begin to read, please excuse
the crumbs.
I love to snack while I write. I’m not
picky; from the humble chocolate di-
gestive, perfectly married with a nice
cup of tea; to a sandwich in the small hours, filled
with whatever in the fridge doesn’t move when I
touch it; to an entire roast chicken with all the trim-
mings, not forgetting the gravy.
But the point is that I love to cook. Every new
recipe that doesn’t result in a trip to A&E is a suc-
cess for me, another notch in my wooden spoon.
However, I have been burned, and not just liter-
ally. For example, the difference between a korma
and an apocalyptic fire-storm when adding jalapeño
peppers to a curry can be as small as a factor of
ten. Accidents like this are why most of my lower
intestine is currently stored in a glass jar in Charing
Cross Hospital. But these aren’t failures – they are
lessons by which to improve my artistry.
I have come to learn that, in order to make a good
meal, food must satisfy three principles.
Firstly, the food must taste good. This can mean
solving lengthy equations to find the correct bal-
ance of different spices or it can be as simple as
choosing strawberry jam over Marmite when look-
ing for something to spread on toast. (I don’t want
to start any arguments over this so I’ll say it plainly.
Marmite lovers, you are against nature. Seek pro-
fessional help immediately...please?)
Secondly, and perhaps most importantly effort
must go into the food. As a rule, I am totally against
ready-meals, after one particularly bad experience.
I once tried curry from a can – to this day, I have no
conclusive evidence that it wasn’t dog food.
Thirdly, sugar, fat, calories; these all improve
a meal ten-fold. As a medical student I really
shouldn’t be advising that you inject cream into
your omelettes with a syringe so use half cream
instead. Again, this is obvious – how appetising is
a salad? Cottage cheese? Muesli? Are you salivat-
ing yet? No, I didn’t think so. Now think about a
plate full of bacon and egg, with beans, fried toma-
toes and fried bread. Would you like a towel? I can
comfortably say without hyperbole that a full Eng-
lish breakfast cooked by my house–mate will raise
the dead. It works wonders on a Monday morning
hangover.
With these three tenets behind you, you cannot
go far wrong in the kitchen. However, the most
important lesson I’ve learnt is that the best meals
are those you make yourself. This is something that
applies not just in the kitchen, but in all rooms of
the house and beyond. Whatever life throws at you,
don’t choose the gentle path and don’t choose the
difficult path. Make your own path and see where
it goes!
Also, make sure to wash up as you go.
Rhys Davies
COMMENT
Letters
To the students of Imperial College London,
I sincerely regret to hereby resign from the post
of ICU Disabilities Officer.
For those of you who do not know me, my
name is Nicola Hopkins and I was elected as
Imperial’s first Union Disabilities Officer. I am
also completing my final year of an MSci in
Physics and have mobility issues of my own.
I am sure that those of you who have met
me will attest to the fact that I was eager to
fulfil this role to the best of my abilities. Un-
fortunately, this role has expanded to the point
where it is not possible to undertake as a volun-
tary part time role.
Before the new term began, I raised the is-
sue of the lack of disabled access to the new
Union venues and that the disabled lift in the
Union Building is faulty and therefore unus-
able for disabled students. Neither issue has
been resolved to date (8 weeks later) and I feel
that the lack of urgency over these matters is
disappointing, especially given that Imperial’s
Disability Equality Scheme states that all “re-
furbishments have considered accessibility as a
major priority”.
I am sure that the Union will eventually deem
that the expense at this juncture will be worth
it to allow all members of the student body to
actively participate in university life and sin-
cerely hope that the appropriate adaptions will
be made in due course.
At the Student Union, we should be leading
the way in accessibility for students, not lag-
ging behind the rest of the university.
I cannot, with clear conscience, undertake a
role without giving it my absolute best and due
to my very heavy academic workload and own
health problems, I regret that I can no longer
continue in this position.
Nicola Hopkins
Dear Sir
As I come from a certain country in southern
Europe, I am already vexed enough by our
leader, who appears often on every medium in
Italy.
I was taken aback when I saw him eyeing me
from Felix; my disconcert grew when I saw
that the article condoned his practices.
Berlusconi’s values are antiquated, and it
shows: other than the “better to be like girls”
remark, he also said “no” to a “multicultural
Italy” and suggested that unemployed women
marry rich to escape poverty.
This reflects in his policies as well as giving
a certain image of Italy abroad. Italy consist-
ently ranks poorly whenever women in politics
are considered, as well as being behind in gay
rights.
It is not an either/or choice whether to attack
his “values” or his policies. The main televi-
sion news programs, the only way, for most
Italians, to acquire news, barely mention his
escapades. The pensioners, the religious, the
entrepreneurs, the housewives who vote for
him often do not get to know of his crimes.
Who will tell the public that the man who sup-
ports the Christian family sees 17 year olds and
prostitutes, that he is associated with the mafia
and drug rings? It’s certainly not going to be
his media.
While Italy isn’t at the level of Greece and
others, it’s not doing well. Italy’s inherent eco-
nomic strength allows it to remain afloat, but
this cannot last indefinitely. Italy’s the last of
the pack when it comes to the great European
economies, and losing terrain. Berlusconi is
doing little to nothing to stop this.
Even if the left is lethargic, there is a line be-
tween being useless and being harmful for the
country, and Berlusconi crosses it.
I think that if Italian politicians had had a bit
more bravery, Berlusconi would have never
been allowed to get where he his today. They
bargained with him and tolerated his nefarious
presence.
They trusted the people to realise that he’s
corrupt and dangerous, but obviously this did
not happen.
The argument that Italy would suffer without
him doesn’t stand.
Berlusconi is a dreadful politician and a
dreadful person, and everyone should know
this.
Pietro Aronica
Very fleetingly, at the age of nine I had a spe-
cial interest in marrying Prince Harry. I chose
Harry over William believing us to be better
suited if we were closer in age (6 years
rather than 8). I then proceeded to foster
sincere hopes of such a relationship in the
future. My ideas of the wedding were Barbie-
like, i.e. there would be a carriage drawn by
four white horses. (At that time I didn’t see
Barbie for the tart she is; check out how
easy she is when she encounters Ken in Toy
Story 3, that ho bag.)
However my fantasies were short-lived; I
had some intense Spice Girls dance routine
practise to do. Ok that’s not strictly true.
I never got to do the dance routines. they
would never let “the Lesbian Monster” have
a go. Honest to god, I did have this nick-
name at primary school; it’s a long story
so let’s just say we frequently played Kiss-
chase in the playground with the boys and I
must have got confused or something.
Sad ugly loner memories aside, Prince
William got engaged to Kate Middleton. So
WHAT? Wouldn’t you rather read about my
fascinating life? Not that I gave you much
choice – see above. But with my rampant
egoism duly noted, I shall instead educate
you in spouse selection. Much more relevant
than the Royal Wedding. I hope you deem
me qualified to do so despite my somewhat
homosexual experiences.
Love makes people do silly things, like
err… oh crap, can’t give an example from
my loveless personal life… Hold on, lemme
think.
So some poor Medic geezer falls head
over heels for a hot Civenger (yes, that’s
right, interfaculty relations - doomed before
the off but hey, how’s a fresher to know).
Three minutes after texting her, he’s yearn-
ing for a reply. When he hears nothing after
another minute he thinks his phone must
have been on silent (ignoring the fact that
his silent mode actually involves vibration).
After checking his sound mode for the third
time, he envisions what she might be doing
that has prevented her perfectly formed fin-
gers from typing a text back.
And when, inevitably, his love is unrequited
(an apparently painful experience that in-
duces uncharacteristic song-writing tenden-
cies) he keeps calling her but with claims
of friendship. She accepts in order to avoid
being thought a bitch, fully knowing his less
than innocent intentions. Thus she rips his
heart to pieces indefinitely.
So, my marriage-material criteria: 1. They
are in love with you. 2. You are not in love
with them. Look out for the ones that say
they’d “do anything” for you, those are the
keepers. That way, for the duration of your
marriage (a period which ideally takes up the
majority of your life), you can keep a clear
head whilst your partner is in the giddy and
crucially, malleable haze of love.
By Alexandra Nowbar
All this RoyalWedding tosh
has got me reminiscing...
“I once tried curry
from a can – to
this day, I have no
evidence it wasn’t
dog food”

