ARTS
FELIX
Friday 26 NOVEMBER 2010
26
Arts Editor: Rox Middleton
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
If you read nothing else
this week...
Chris Self, Broadsheet Editor,
chooses fiction dealing with
anarchism and libertarianism
For possibly the first time, all three of our drama societies are s
by Imperial students. We meet the playwrights to talk about th
We want to know what to read next. Tell us in 300-
400 words and send it to arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Imperial Talent, Class
Communism is dead. The final failure of the Soviet
Union, the movement of our labour party away from
its socialist roots and the lack of the necessary
social tension for a revolution have rendered its
dreams unattainable and removed this ultimate out-
sider and enemy from western political discussion.
The great issue of today is instead, once again,
the debate over the extent and power of govern-
ment. This has an enormous precedence: it is an
old, long, complicated back and forth with endless
swapping of names and ideas and an absolutely dis-
by
Ayn Rand
Atlas Shrugged
Do you all want to start by telling us a bit
about what your plays are like?
Gilead: Let’s see, mine is a musical revue in
the traditional sense of a revue, lots of catchy
tunes with different words put to them, largely
based on all the anecdotes I’ve picked up over
my three years here. It sends up all the trends
and attitudes and habits that you know and love
around you, and it’s all sung by a wonderful
cast and accompanied by a fantastic fourteen
piece band.
Shamini: There are lots of very well-known
songs in yours actually, people will definitely
know the songs
Gilead: Yes, you’ll walk out whistling them
and hating me for choosing them.
Shamini: But really funny new lyrics...
Gilead:Am I paying you for this endorsement?
I feel like I should be!
Shamini: Mine’s a shakespearean, panto-
mime, melodramatic, murder mystery, horror,
non-musical. It has lots of blood and horrible
deaths, but it also has knitting… It’s irreverent
and a lot of fun, there are fewer Imperial refer-
ences, to be honest mine’s got a lot more geeky
references. A lot of science fiction and fantasy
pop culture references, which is still something
I think appeals to a lot of students - I hope it’s
not just me! It’s really good fun and very funny.
You get quite immersed in what’s happening,
it’s not the kind of play where the actors stand
about on stage quoting things, you really feel
like you’re actually there.
Pranav: And mine’s rather different, it looks at
the creation of the first atomic bomb, but look-
ing at it from the side of the scientists involved,
especially focussing on Einstein, Oppenheimer
and Szilard; exploring their motivations and
consequently how they felt when they heard of
the use of the bomb. So it’s quite a dark play,
it’s very dramatic… It sheds a new light on the
scientists if you’ve never thought about what
that felt like before.
Shamini: Yeah, we tend to lose sight of the fact
that science occurs in a social context, that sci-
entists are real humans. Also in this particular
case that science can actually have such a huge
impact on the world and on people’s lives.
What made you want to start writing to
begin with?
Shamini: It was definitely over a year ago
when I started writing down some of the ideas
with a plan to write something. I suppose when
you’re around drama a lot, and involved in lots
of artistic things, you get these bits of inspira-
tion and you think, “wouldn’t it be great if I
could kind of cram all these things together and
create something to direct myself.”
Gilead: The reason I wanted to do it, and the
big challenge for me, is that I’m not musically
talented in any way but I have a tremendous
amount of admiration for people who are. So I
wanted to try and immerse myself in that sort
of environment with people who know music
and knew what they’re talking about, and not
to be so scared of it.
Shamini: But before you started this project
you’d been rewriting the lyrics of songs hadn’t
you? You knew all about it…
Gilead: Yes, that’s true; sad and alone in my
room... Shamini’s kind enough to conjure up
the image of a misspent youth rewriting lyrics
to songs, which is actually largely true to life. I
knew I wanted to do this and about a year ago it
occurred to me to actually see if this could fly.
So I started writing a couple of songs, and then
over the course of the year, I built a plot around
it and suddenly it’s all become real.
Pranav: My inspiration actually all came
from having a discussion with a friend about
people who’ve changed the world in whatever
way, and the regulars came up; Mahatma Gan-
dhi, Hitler, Martin Luther King, and then my
friend mentioned Albert Einstein. Obviously, I
agreed about the importance of E = mc2
but he
said he’d actually been referring to the atomic
bomb. I’ve always had ideas about writing
in my head, and they’ve always come in and
gone out again, but this idea sort of stuck, so I
thought I’d better do something about it. This is
the first thing I’ve tried to write, but I just tried
writing it down and kept going and going and it
really seemed to come together.
Shamini: Mine was eventually kick-started
when I’d written the first act and it had taken
me ages because I really wanted it to work. But
having written it, I suddenly realised that the
dramatic society were having their meeting in
which they invite you to come and propose a
play that week. I realised that I only had a first
act so I sat down for a day and scribbled out a
really rather brief and very bad second act…
Gilead: Oh no, it wasn’t bad...
Shamini: I’ve rewritten it since; it’s good now!
But obviously the first draft was about five sec-
onds of “and then the play ends and everything
gets tied up and that’s the end”. I proposed it
entangleable web of connections between the sub-
sets of each camp. But essentially it comes down to
the fight between Classical Liberalism: something
a little akin to light Anarchism where the rights and
freedoms of the individual are key and government
must be strictly limited and decentralised; versus
Federalism which is the opposite: social fairness,
international security and economic progression en-
sured by the presence of a strong central authority.
Ayn Rand’s Atlas Shrugged is infamous for its as-
sociation with the American new right and the poli-
tics of Margaret Thatcher and Ronald Reagan. It is
also often held up as a bible of the modern variant
of Liberalism: Libertarianism. But wait, Margaret
Thatcher was the “bad guy” right? She wanted to
nationalise the NHS and I heard she drank the blood
of northern children to keep her going. But you said
it was like Anarchism and that’s cool isn’t it?
Atlas Shrugged is a passionate extolment of the
rights of the individual and for that a fascinating
read. It disassembles what we in a country with as
central a welfare state as the UK has would gener-
ally consider the cruel heartless views of the money
hungry and builds them up as instead a burning hu-
man desire to be free. In doing so, it changes your
perspective and opens you up to the on-going politi-
cal discussion.
As a story it is fiction, a grand Old-Testament
style drama envisioning the end of the world. Set
in a subtlety altered 1950’s America as New York
rots from the inside out and a mysterious force is
‘stealing’ the key figures of science and industry.
Ayn Rand writes extremely powerfully and to read it
really is a very enjoyable story.
The conflict between security and freedom is
completely central to personal, moral and political
philosophy. And for that reason, despite its biblical
length (nearly 1300 pages), I would highly recom-
mend this.
Gilead Amit – Imperial Collage, 13th Dec. Shamini Bundell – The Dark Side, 8th Dec. Pranav Ma
Photo by Kadhim Shubber

