FELIX Friday 26 NOVEMBER 2010 27
ARTS
staging shows written
heir productions
s of ‘10
and they said “yeah, sounds ok…” and then I
sat down and really improved it over the sum-
mer.
Pranav: I don’t think you ever have the fin-
ished article though, it only took me a couple
of months to finish the first draft but since then
it’s been redrafted and redrafted and fine-tuned,
and even today, two days before the produc-
tion, we’re still making changes.
Shamini: Yeah, my cast is getting really an-
noyed with that!
Gilead: I tried very hard to separate the hats, to
be a writer and then a director; I realised that
I couldn’t judge myself, I had to imagine that
this is the script I’d been handed by someone
else, and isn’t he an idiot for rhyming answers
with finances? But let’s work with it and make
it work, it hasn’t been easy, the first few re-
hearsals I had real difficulty.
Pranav: Directing’s been a lot of fun. I think
I was expecting the hard times, the organising,
having to rehearse every day, but I’ve got such
a great team with me and I think you need that,
as a director. Your production team, your light-
ing, your sound, your costumes and of course
your cast, but it’s fun for everybody just to see
this idea and words on a page just come to life.
It’s really good.
Shamini: The most difficult thing is that when
you’ve written it you have a really distinct
view about how it should go, and I’m a bit of
a control freak anyway. But the most reward-
ing thing is when I’ve written this page, and
the actors just sort of get it; they know what it
means. We did a scene for the first time, and I
almost wasn’t sure if we’d rehearsed it already
because that was exactly how it was in my
head, and it’s the most amazing thing because
they’ve literally brought the characters to life
and I didn’t even have to tell them.
Pranav: I actually think that’s the most enjoy-
able part, when you sit there and someone has
interpreted what you’ve written in a completely
different way, but better.
Shamini: That’s always really good, you just
think “Oh my god! yes! Why didn’t I think of
that?” It’s about other people bringing their
creativity, and it’s all of you working towards it
together, that’s so nice.
Gilead: I found the most stressful thing was
having a personal stake in the writing, I don’t
know if it’s the same for you but I’m a hugely
sensitive person to criticism. Not because I dis-
regard it, but because I consider any criticism
to be absolutely justified, and it sends me cow-
ering into a corner thinking, “Why am I in this
room with such knowledgable people?!”
Pranav: That for me is the most exciting thing,
that my name is written on this and any criti-
cism is going to come back to me, but I’m just
laying myself out there and saying, this is what
I can do, what do you reckon?
For me the hardest thing was casting because
I had to turn down so many great actors who I
couldn’t cast. That’s the hardest thing so far,
I’ve still got three days… I hope people will
come because it’s important with all three
productions to remember that these are Impe-
rial students acting, they’ve got their studies
and everything else going on but they’ve also
worked extremely hard to put on these shows;
rehearsing day-in day-out and learning lines in
their spare time. It’s important for them to see
their colleagues, their peers and their friends,
anybody, coming and supporting them because
it’s pointless just performing to an empty room.
Gilead: Hear hear.
Will you be continuing to write?
Pranav: Absolutely, I’ve got all sorts of ideas
bumping about that I’d like to get down.
Gilead: Well, I’m graduating this year, so I’ve
had a lot of fun out of this, mainly because I
may not be able to do it again. Revues tend to be
the stuff of boarding schools, prisons and mili-
tary outfits rather than just general workplace
humour. So I’ve enjoyed this while I can, I’ve
loved working with talented people and there’s
nothing more rewarding than being taken seri-
ously by people you set out to collaborate with.
hajan – The Destroyer of Worlds, today & tomorrow
Perhaps the most well known principle of pho-
tographic composition is the “Rule of Thirds”.
It is one of the most basic tools that can be used
to create balanced and visually appealing shots.
However, before we get into it I must warn you
that rules are meant to be broken and ignoring
this one does not mean that your pictures will
necessarily be unbalanced or uninteresting. In
fact, the opposite can often be true!
What is the Rule of Thirds?
Put very simply, the basic principle is to break
an image down into thirds both horizontally
and vertically so that you have 9 parts (as seen
in the picture to the right). Now keeping this
grid in mind, the “rule of thirds” gives you four
lines - two horizontal and two vertical - that
can be used to help you compose your shot.
Try positioning the points of interest in your
picture either along one of the lines or at the
intersections.
Quick tip: some digital cameras can overlay
the rule of thirds grid on top of the viewfind-
er to make this a lot easier, so have a browse
around in the menu to see if you can find it.
The theory is that by placing the points of in-
terest in accordance with the “rule of thirds”,
your picture will look more visually balanced
and it will be easier for the viewer to focus on
the object of interest. Studies have shown that
when viewing an image, people’s eyes usually
go to one of the intersection points more natu-
rally than to the centre of the photograph; so by
using the ‘rule of thirds’ your picture will work
with the viewer rather than against them.
Applying the “rule of thirds” to your pho-
tography comes naturally to some photogra-
phers but it can take a little practice for it to
become second nature. Once again, remember
that breaking the rule can result in some strik-
ing shots too, so once you have learnt it experi-
ment with purposely breaking it to see what
you discover.
Finally, keep the “rule of thirds” in mind as
you subsequently edit your photos. Photo edit-
ing tools today have good features for cropping
and reframing images so that they fit better
with the rule. Experiment with some of your
old pictures to see what impact it has.
If you would like to learn more about com-
position, or anything else to do with photogra-
phy, then get involved with the Photographic
Society.
You can find out more at our website:
union.ic.ac.uk/photosoc or you can email
us at photosoc@imperial.ac.uk
Improve your digital photos with
Photosoc: The Rule Of Thirds
Jonathan Kim
The Destroyer of Worlds by Pranav Mahajan
for ICSM Drama is on today and tomorrow.
The Dark Side by Shamini Bundell runs
from 8th - 11th December.
Imperial Collage for Musical Theatre
Society by Gilead Amit runs 12th - 13th
December
If you’d like to direct a play next term for
Dramsoc, play proposals are on the 3rd
December. Email acting@dramsoc.org for
more details. Auditions will also take place
for several shows in the last week of term.
Photo by Jonathan Kim
“Remember that break-
ing the rule, once you’ve
learnt it, can result in
some striking shots too”
Read this
article online at
felixonline.co.uk
Pranav’s show is
on tonight and
tomorrow (26th,
27th Nov)

