Dillinger have been one of my favorite bands
ever since I first heard “Calculating Infinity”.
I distinctly recall a spasm-inducing epiphany.
Since then they’ve changed a fair amount:
guitar virtuoso Ben Weinman is the only re-
maining original member of the band and their
music, though firmly rooted in math-metal and
avant-garde metal, has known some pretty
wacky stylistic mutations.
10 years on, I remain an avid listener of their
albums, which have been consistently gripping
and thrilling in a world of Metal gone bland. I
remained skeptical however as to their ability
to maintain their dense, technically-intensive
sound in a live context, whilst maintaining
their reputation for physical debauchery and
complete disregard for their health and safety.
This was all I could think about until Rolo
Tomassi kindly reminded me that you definite-
MUSIC
FELIX
FriDAY 26 NOVEMBER 2010
28
Music Editors: Greg Power
Luke Turner
Christopher Walmsley
music.felix@gmail.com
Album of The Week
Kanye West
My Beautiful Dark
Twisted Fantasy
Roc-a-Fella/Def
Jam
2010
I’ll admit it, I didn’t think Kanye’s comeback album
was going to be this good. Not because he’s zany as
shit, but mainly because anyone who follows West in
the slightest knows a lot of these tracks were already
released as part of his weekly “Good Friday” series
of online releases. And that’s without counting those
showcased in his epicly insane 30 minute promo
movie “Runaway”. But the songs are given new life
here, ensuring that it is worth listening to the album
in its entirety. Multiple times. It is a madman’s mas-
terpiece, candidly exposing his humongous ego, as
well as his immense vulnerability and humanity all at
once. Few hip-hop albums manage to achieve a pop
sound with big sing-along choruses whilst remaining
gritty and twisted. All his friends are onboard too,
but nothing comes off as gimmicky: it all feels like
an awesome celebration of Kanye’s strange world,
his demented genius and his inner child. One of the
strongest albums of the year. - Greg Power
Most lis-
tened to
this week by
Felix Music
members on
last.fm
Make sure not to miss
Gonjasufi
The Rhythm Factory, Whitechapel
Thursday 9th December
7:30pm
The scariest yoga teacher you’ll ever meet, Sumach
Ecks also doubles as a vocalist in FlyLo’s Brainfeed-
er crew, boasting a thunderous and versatile voice;
he switches effortlessly between rapping, crooning
and screaming. From stoner-rock to hip-hop beats to
jazzy electro, his songs are all freeflowing and unit-
ed by their originality and excentricity. These will be
played in all their full glory by Gonjasufi’s full backing
band, for the first time in the UK. It will be a thrilling
show performed by one of the most interesting sing-
ers out there today, and he might drop a few new
tunes and a couple of freaky surprises. And if we get
really lucky, he might offer us a free yoga workout.
Come on, value for money or what??! - Greg Power
A
s you’ve probably gathered by
now I enjoy contrast. Travers-
ing the musical spectrum from
disco Permanent Vacation
style, to Night Slugs’ grimiest
bass music in the space of a fortnight has set
my stall out nicely I think. This week I intro-
duce to you: Turbo Recordings.
Unlike new boys on the scene Night Slugs,
Turbo Recordings has been releasing music
for over a decade now. The label, founded in
1998, is run by two brothers from Montreal;
Tiga and Thomas Sontag, and is widely
considered one of the most influential labels
in electronic music. Tiga is most commonly
known for his 2001 cover of Corey Hart’s
‘Sunglasses at Night’ and his strange sense
of humour, while Thomas (a.k.a. Thomas Von
Party) scouts out the best new talent to bring
to the label and makes bizarre YouTube videos
(see the video to ‘Peanuts Club’ by Noob &
Brodinski). This combination of eccentricity
and impeccable music taste has helped bring
the likes of Chromeo, Boys Noize and the
Soviet Empire’s devil child, Proxy, to dance
floors the world over.
Turbo Recordings’ greatest success however
has been in melding the flash-in-the-pan hyste-
ria for electro in 2006 with the long-established
but often under-appreciated genre of techno.
The result is a breed of dark, acid-tinged tech-
no, championed by the biggest names in the
scene. This is not to say that Turbo Recordings
has become a one-trick pony. The exact oppo-
site is true in fact. Sure the likes of the Dahl-
bäck Brothers, Jori Hulkkonen and new boy
Gesaffelstein form a backbone familiarity to
the (now nearing 100) Turbo releases but out-
put from Proxy, Boy 8-Bit and remix packages
covering the likes of Fever Ray and Chromeo
mean that you never know what Turbo have got
Join in at: http://www.last.fm/group/Felix+Music
TECHNO
NONSENSE
Pt. 3: This week Simon
Hunter takes on the
electro & techno gods of
Turbo Records
lined up next.
Many of you will probably be aware of
Proxy and his destroyer-of-worlds outlook to
making music but if not check out ‘8000’, a
song that somehow came to be my soundtrack
to boating through the Amazon during the
summer. For a textbook example of how
sampling should be done refer to Kolombo’s
‘Sniff’, the sample used is pretty self-explana-
tory but brings the track to an almost orgasmic
climax.
I’ll admit that this style of music isn’t for
everyone but at 5am on a Sunday morning in
subterranean London, there’s nothing I’d rather
hear.
The Dillinger Escape Plan are
goddamn terrifying... and terrific
DEP’s Greg Puciato reaching for a fan...
so he can strangle the poor fucker
1. Radiohead
2. The Beatles
3. Daft Punk
4. Florence + the
Machine
5. LCD SS
6. The Killers
7. Sufjan Stevens
8. Muse
9. Rolling Stones
10. Gorillaz
ly can tear shit up on stage and sound bloody
sweet. These guys are becoming a model for
how progressive hardcore should be done. And
Eva Spence still makes me shiver all over. But
really it was just a matter of buying time.
The lights go out, a burst of electronic noise
announces a trend for the night: a lot of jump-
ing, a lot of moshing and wild stage dives/
belly beatings. The second the band entered
the entire room burst into a fit of rage and utter
bliss. Opening with “Farewell, Mona Lisa”,
the intensely violent and cathartic first track
from this year’s masterpiece Option Paralysis,
they spent the entire show hitting all the right
buttons and giving everyone there freaky fan-
gasms. New fan favorites “Black Bubblegum”
and “Milk Lizard” got all the sweaty metal-
heads crooning along like a room of horny
Tom Joneses, and they dropped just the right
amount of old classics, including pitch-perfect
renditions of “43% Burnt” and “Sugar Coated
Sour”.
Their technical prowess is unquestionable,
and even past their 30s they deliver their ma-
terial with an energy that would leave most
Tiga tearin’ it up on the decks
performers breathless. Greg Puciato possesses
an incredible vocal range comparable to Mike
Patton’s and his comedic interaction with the
crowd (“Don’t make me come down there and
beat you myself!”) kept everyone smiling and
kicking the shit out of the dude to the left. All
in all it was a brilliant performance, made only
more intense by the brilliant combination of
strobe lights and bulbs hanging from the stage.
Without a doubt, Dillinger is a barrel of fun
for the whole family. Giant circle pit included.
Dillinger Escape Plan
Electric Ballroom
5th November 2010
★★★★★
Greg Power

