30
FILM
felix
So is it any good after all?
plot too simple. Perhaps the split was to include
as much depth as possible. Sounds like a great
idea, but too much time is spent meandering,
plodding through the muddled plot. Without
the split, the 150-minute running time would
have worked as a fast-paced, efficient road
movie but Yates seems to have saved the best
scenes for the very last.
The film jumps from place to place and seems
to lose its focus. There is an attempt to create
conflict between the three of them, mostly in-
volving Ron’s jealousy towards Harry and Her-
mione’s close friendship, but since these three
have been bound so tight in the previous films
the melodramatic fight between Harry and Ron
does little to convince the audience of anything
drastic happening.
Radcliffe, Grint and Watson have been in
these roles for a long time but even they cannot
handle this kind of rapid development. By con-
trast, the vast amount of talent at Yates’ dispos-
al in his costars seems to go to waste. Starring
in at least one Harry Potter film seems to be
a rite of passage for any British acting legend
Classic Cinema
Dr Strangelove: Or How I Learnt to
Stop Worrying and Love the Bomb
Surprisingly pertinent given that errant shells are fly-
ing over the world’s highest concentration of military
hardware on the border of Korea, Dr Strangelove is
Stanley Kubrick’s 1964 dark comedy about what hap-
pens when the wrong people get their hands on The
Bomb.
Peter Sellers initially takes on two, equally stressed-
out characters. Firstly, as the second-in-command to
an Air Squadron leader who has gone insane and
deployed his B-52 bomber fleet to launch a nuclear
attack on the Russian mainland; and secondly as the
President of the United States, who is summoned
to his command room to impotently watch while his
country accidently declares war from beneath him.
In the final act, he takes on a third character as the
eponymous Dr Strangelove: the eccentric scientific
adviser to the government.
The decent into chaos and madness of the men in
charge of the country and military as they realise that
their best-laid plans have collapsed around them mir-
rors the madness and chaos inherent in the logic of
the nuclear deterrent. The film was originally written
as a completely serious drama, before the scriptwrit-
ers realised that the sheer ridiculousness of the situ-
ation best suited comedy.
Meanwhile, on one of the bomber command B-52s
sent erroneously to attack Russia, the crew get on
with their job. Led by the Slim Pickens, playing the
Texan pilot, their grim determination to get the job
done while fearing about what it could all mean adds
the most human element to the story. However, it still
allows for plenty of comedy, notably the much refer-
enced moment when Pickens rodeo rides the bomb
down to the ground.
During the final scene in the war room, when Dr
Strangelove is giving his talk to the assembled Gen-
erals and Civil servants, no matter how many takes
were filmed (and with Kubrick, this was a notoriously
large amount) there wasn’t a single one without a
member of the cast laughing. When watching the one
that made it into the final cut, keep an eye open for
the Russian ambassador failing to suppress a huge
grin at Sellers’ amazing turn as the crazy German.
Hilarious but serious, Dr Strangelove brilliantly cap-
tures the stupidity of it all.
I think he’s heading to the Lib Dem HQ...
Film Editors: Jade Hoffman
Matt Allinson
Ed Knock
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
You know the drill: every Harry Potter sequel is
“darker” than its predecessors. Now that we’re
at the penultimate chapter, things must be get-
ting very gloomy. Dumbledore is dead, Lord
Voldemort’s (Ralph Fiennes) power is growing,
and the Ministry of Magic has been compro-
mised by those controlled by Voldemort and his
merry band of wizards and witches. With no-
where and no one to turn to, the ambitious trio
must rely on each other and work together to
fight evil.
But don’t let the rather simple summary fool
you from just how complicated some of the cru-
cial sub-plots can be. There are so many names,
places, prophecies and spells that unless you’ve
brushed up on your knowledge of the Harry
Potter universe, chances are you will struggle
to understand absolutely everything. Harry Pot-
ter films have always been criticised for strip-
ping down its original material and keeping the
and once again we get far-too-brief glimpses
of outstanding actors making the most of their
five-minute screen times.
A convoluted plot and unimpressive lead-
ing actors aside, there is much fun to be had in
the longest set-up of the franchise. The CGI is
impeccable and a couple of scenes will sure-
ly blow you away. Shame the rest of the film
doesn’t quite live up to that standard but the
millions that will inevitably sit through this one
should get their pay off by next July, when the
real final part is expected to arrive.
Too much time is spent
meandering through the
muddled plot
“
“
“
to understand absolu
to understand absolu
ter
te films have alway
ve al
r
ping down its origin
n its
Too much t
Too much t
”
”
it was to include
it was to include
ugh the
ugh th
Stop complaining about student debt, I turn into a fucking werewolf
iCU Cinema - Inglourious Basterds
£3/£4 for members/non-members
Tue 30th Nov. 6:30pm.
Union Concert Hall
EVENTS
Director David Yates
Screenwriter Steve Kloves, JK
Rowling (novel)
Cast Daniel Radcliffe, Rupert
Grint, Emma Watson, Ralph
Fiennes
Harry Potter and the
Deathly Hallows: Part 1
John Park
Friday 26 November 2010
forced to hold the movie together pretty much
on their own.
Emma Watson, it must be said, is the glue
keeping this section of the film together. Her
acting has improved immensely since the first
film and her portrayal of helplessness and be-
trayal is very convincing. Rupert Grint also
finally gets the chance to show us a different
side to him as he is no longer simply the comic
relief. By contrast, Daniel Radcliffe is still, at
many points, quite wooden, and though we see
glimpses of real emotion, some of the book’s
more emotional scenes came across somewhat
underwhelming on screen.
It’s difficult not to compare this film to Half-
Blood Prince, as they were both directed by
Yates and yet are so different. Maybe it’s the
fact that because of the split, he has more time
to focus on the little things, but he truly did an
amazing job with this film. The book-to-film
adaptation was the best so far, even using a
lot of dialogue word-for-word from the book.
There were only a couple of glaring errors,
which can for the most part be forgiven. Alex-
ander Desplat joins the crew as the composer,
while Steve Kloves returns as the screenwriter
for the penultimate time. Together, they have
produced the best Harry Potter film so far and
leave this fan anxiously waiting for July 15th,
when the final movie will be released.
Lucia Podhorska
Before I start, I feel I should admit that I am a
die-hard Harry Potter fan, but I will do my best
to leave out the unpunctuated, hysterical gush-
ing love. Those who have not read the books
– shame on you!
I have by now read a few reactions to the
movie and a lot of people seem to be hung up
on the fact that there’s so much time spent fo-
cusing on the trio’s travels as they search for
the Horcruxes. As anyone who’s read the book
knows, this takes up a good chunk of the story
so it makes sense to translate that to the screen.
There is still something going on the whole
time, as they make new discoveries, and it’s
nice seeing the core three together for greater
lengths of time. We are also treated to some
truly beautiful shots of the British landscape.
The way the camera captures the scenes of the
vast countryside with no one but Harry, Ron
and Hermione in sight really drives home their
isolation. Taken away from everything that is
familiar, they are forced to rely on each other
to pull through. It also poses a challenge to the
three young actors as for the first time they are
Emma Watson’s acting
has improved immensely
and her portrayal of
helplessness is very
convincing
“
ses
ses
eir
eir
“
rn into a fucking w
Emma Wats
Emma Wats
”
mensely
mensely
l of
l of
very
ery
The new Harry Potter film proves controversial
God help me it’s bad...
Outstanding...

