31
felix
FILM
Friday 26 November 2010
QuentinTarantino:
style over substance?
Navid Nabijou
profiles the
controversial
director and
his latest work,
Inglourious Basterds
O
ver the past two decades,
few directors have man-
aged to excite such ac-
claim – and controversy
– as Quentin Tarantino.
His work has sharply polarised critics,
spawning a plethora of varied interpreta-
tions and deconstructions. Each new re-
lease is followed by a blaze of feverish
publicity, and through all of this, Taran-
tino and his films remain something of
an enigma.
His debut, the playful and gritty Reser-
voir Dogs, was in a certain sense a mod-
est affair. Produced on a tiny budget and
screened in only a handful of cinemas,
the film went mostly unnoticed at first.
It does, however, set the precedent for
all of Tarantino’s later work: nonlinear
narratives, razor-sharp dialogue, profuse
profanity and a healthy dose of violence.
It’s a heist film without a heist scene, a
bleak tale of greed, loyalty and madness.
Tarantino’s strongest asset is undoubt-
edly his treatment of dialogue. While
many directors regard dialogue simply
as an inconvenient necessity, Tarantino
recognises and defends the importance
of conversation for the sake of conver-
sation. A considerable, and often unap-
preciated, layer of characterisation is
weaved into utterly mundane discus-
sions about hamburgers and television.
The writing – at times incredibly real-
istic, at times borderline fantastical – is
consistently incisive, witty and, above
all, entertaining. And nowhere else is
this talent exhibited better than in the
film many consider to be Tarantino’s
finest: Pulp Fiction.
Pulp Fiction, released in 1994, is a
dizzying ride through the underworld
of Los Angeles. The audience is pulled
back and forth through space and time,
as the stories of the many colourful
characters unfold in fragments. Hugely
influential, it has been described as “the
most quotable movie of all time” – and
it’s not hard to see why. The writing is
simply sublime, oozing with depth and
sparkle.
A thorough watching of a Tarantino
film will make at least one thing appar-
ent: this man loves movies – a lot. In his
youth he worked in a video rental store,
giving him the freedom to watch and
discuss film for hours on end. The scope
and depth of his expertise is formidable;
he has probably seen more movies than
anyone else alive. This ingrained pas-
sion for, and connection with the world
of cinema pervades the films he creates.
Tarantino, far from repudiating the in-
fluence of other filmmakers, relishes in
it: his films are packed full of little nods
to movie history. This can, however, go
too far and he has often been criticised
for being derivative; his films have been
dismissed by some as pastiches of the
past instead of genuinely original works.
Another, related criticism is that his
films favour style over substance. This
is true to an extent; there certainly are
deeper, more profound films out there,
but, all in all, there is a good deal of sub-
stance present, even if we might find it
difficult to recognise. Take the “Super-
man monologue”, a metaphorical mus-
ing on the human condition that builds
to the climax of Tarantino’s fourth mov-
ie, Kill Bill. Which conveniently brings
us back to the issue of style.
Kill Bill tells the story of The Bride, a
former assassin who embarks on an epic
journey of revenge. Though containing
all the standard Tarantino hallmarks,
the film’s most distinguishing feature is
its high aesthetics: it is a visual stunner
from start to finish. Everything, be it a
hospital ward, a Yakuza boss or a sev-
ered arm, drips with vibrancy and en-
ergy. Let’s be honest: when there’s this
much style, who cares about substance?
Perhaps this argument might be an-
swered by Tarantino’s next film: Death-
proof was released in 2007 to a luke-
warm response and slinks in as one of
his lowest grossing movies. But despite
the disappointment of his fifth film,
there was a definite air of excitement in
the run up to his sixth. This project was
particularly special to him; he had been
talking about it for years. So it was to an
eager, hopeful audience that, in August
2009, Inglourious Basterds was finally
released, more than a decade after it was
first conceived. Set in Nazi-occupied
France, Inglourious Basterds, in keep-
ing with tradition, consists of a number
of interweaving storylines. Prettier than
Pulp Fiction, subtler than Kill Bill, it
draws together all the best features of
his cumulative body of work, resulting
in one of his finest films to date.
One thread follows the Basterds, an
American guerrilla force dropped be-
hind enemy lines and charged with
“doing one thing, and one thing only:
killing Nazis.” Running parallel to this
we have the striking Shosana Dreyfus,
a French Jew living undetected and op-
erating a cinema in Paris. Finally, the
consummate SS Colonel Hans Landa,
whose performance earned the actor
an Academy Award. A charismatic,
shrewd, deeply unsettling fascination,
Landa (described by Tarantino as “one
the greatest character I will ever write”)
turns everything he touches into gold.
Inglourious Basterds is a return to
what Tarantino does best, and he packs
his latest film full of fast-paced dialogue.
The atmosphere is electric; as the banter
perpetually accelerates and intensifies,
at a few points the suspense grows al-
most unbearable. His writing has cer-
tainly never been better. Stylistically, the
film builds on the formula of Kill Bill,
exploiting with finesse a number of con-
trasting styles, which blend seamlessly
and make the film thoroughly enjoyable,
if difficult to classify. In all, Inglourious
Basterds is a treat; great to look at, listen
to, and generally be entertained by.
Quentin Tarantino is, in spite of his
detractors, a remarkable filmmaker.
His flair for sharp dialogue and stylistic
excellence make each and every one of
his movies a joy to watch. Inglourious
Basterds is living proof that, now ap-
proaching fifty, Tarantino is still at the
top of his game.
Inglourious Basterds is showing at
the iCU Cinema at 6.30pm on Tues-
day 30th November.
Expressing his great vision or going in for a grope? Tarantino has always been controversial...
“Even with all the
feverish publicity,
Tarantino, and his
films, remain an
enigma”

