GAMES
FELIX
Friday 26 NOVEMBER 2010
Games Editor: Simon Worthington
games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
sincere. I tried memorising the exact timing re-
quired for my finger presses, counting out loud
my finger aerobics. I even tried changing the
graphics settings from ‘Basic’ to ‘Basic And
Blurry’! I think it’s running… a little smoother!
But a one frame animation of death can only
get so smooth, and it certainly didn’t get any
less familiar.
*Wail*. By now it was just part of the
soundtrack. Thirty minutes of retrying is pit-
tance, but divided by a 10-second stretch of
level it becomes something else altogether. My
only glimmer of hope was that I was gradually
increasing my survival distance through Veni,
Vidi, Vici’s spiked vertical ascent. Bit by bit.
Web Games
Each week we’re going to bring you a selection of
fresh, free and fun web games that you can play right
away in your browser. Unless otherwise specified,
you’re going to need the Adobe Flash Player plug-in
which can be installed from http://get.adobe.com/
flashplayer/.
Doeo
raitendo.com/games/doeo
Hovering your mouse over as many coloured blocks
as you can against the clock may sound like a bor-
ing idea on paper, but when you put it together with
a big dollop of Japanese craziness things suddenly
start to work out.
A ‘doeo’ is a little pink or green block embellished
with a cute animal face and you’ve got just under a
minute to catch them as they ride by on trains and
explode from volcanoes. It’s never really possible to
know where they’re going to appear next and keep-
ing up with them as they pop in and out leads to a
frantic forty seconds of mouse mayhem. Play it on
hard to get the full adrenaline-pumping effect!
Am I the most successful person ever? Winston
Churchill described success as “going from
failure to failure without losing enthusiasm”.
Well, I did that.
I did not give up dousing the flames of Fire
Leo. I cried and cried until I could laugh in the
face of Ninja Gaiden’s final boss. I can play
Ikaruga’s black and white switches like piano
keys and can cruise through F-Zero like it was
built on Scaletrix. If there was a noble prize for
tenacity and unwavering spirit in gaming, I’d
have gold-plated Birmingham (may it forever
stand tall) by now with the gold from all my
melted medals. And they’re small medals.
But one short, ten-second segment in a little
game called VVVVVV proved almost too much.
I just kept. On. Dying.
In theory, it was optional; getting the trin-
ket just raised another number in the menu. In
practice, it was irresistible. The tight gameplay
and charming aesthetic had me hooked, glued
to my screen like pixels were squares of crack.
If the average gamer brain can contort its syn-
aptic pathways until the ‘Pause - Menu Scroll –
Retry’ mantra is as automatic as a nerve reflex,
what chance did i stand ignoring a challenge
in which respawns were instantaneous, where
reincarnation is a word that takes longer to say
than it actually does to-
*Wail*. And I’m back. Ready to jump into
action over the-
*Wail*. And I’m back. Again.
How embarrassing! I couldn’t call these re-
peated wails just random blips, whatever they
sounded like in digital form. The level named
‘Veni, Vidi, Vici’ had me dying continuously. I
tried to blame my little monochrome man and
some suicidal attraction he had to the spikes
lining the walls but his one-frame grimace of
death and his 8-bit wail for life were just too
32
Alice Is Dead Episode 3
tinyurl.com/pandasbigadventure
This point-and-click adventure provides a plunges
Lewis Carrol’s Alice In Wonderland into a sordid world
of crime, violence and shady science. You play as
The White Rabbit – now an assassin who after an
attempt on his life has lost his memory. Graphics are
gorgeous and bring the world to life, and voice acting
is particularly good for a web game.
*Wail* … *Wail*
This is ridiculous! Nearly an hour on this
one bit? This was too retarded. The program-
mer must be retarded. Did he scrape his teeth
clean in the morning with razor blades too?
Maybe he uses Tabasco instead of milk on his
cereal for a similar dance with danger. I bet
he walks bare foot to work in the crazed hope
that some phone booth has been smashed in,
spilling shards of glass that he can dodge like
some pervert of pain. Hell, I bet he even cuts
his boxer-shorts out of sandpaper and then jogs
in the cold! In fact, he probably unplugs all
the plugs in the house at night so that he might
step on one on the way to the loo, the freak. I
wouldn’t be surprised if he only goes out with
girls with tongue studs, in the hope of suffering
some personal oral damage. Whatever he does,
he is clearly an absolute, total-
*Ping!* Huh?
I had done it? But, I wasn’t even concentrat-
ing! YES! I cheered to an audience of no one
and shouted things that should never be repeat-
ed in genteel company. I was made of win.
My mind had been too consumed by anger
and got in the way of gameplay instinct! I had
been consumed by anger, cursing the sick mas-
ochism of Mr Terry Cavanagh (programmer
and producer).
In that instant, I was King of Kong, Master of
Mario and Titan of Tombraider. I was Lord of
Lylat and His Highness of Hyrule. I was Victor
of VVVVVV.
Alas, such a triumph cannot be adequately
described in this medium of words, divorced
from the narcotic pull of audio loops and pixel-
perfect-precision. This is but an ode to fantastic
games and near-fantastical challenges.
VVVVVV, I salute thee. I am whole again.
VVVVVV is available now and can be down-
loaded for £3.99 from Steam.
VVVVVVictorious!
Not like ‘8-bit’ retro cool, you understand.
Or like, ‘just a little bit of cake please today’
and getting that fat juicy slice of black forest
your obese stomach was really pining for. No.
these were bits of gaming dignity, hard earned
through death and determination. Even my lap-
top had hushed its baseline of alerts and annoy-
ances, an act of respect for this pixel-purgatory.
Soon, my eyes glazed over and my finger mus-
cles started to act of their own accord. They
were now mere fleshy automatons, locked in
an endless dance of digital death.
*Wail*. Spike by spike, I was learning that
damn wall. Work needed to be done, food
needed to be eaten, bowels needed emptying,
but my fingers carried on in autopilot, the keys
click-clacking away like I was typing.
“
edals.
t in a little
n a lit
too much.
oo m
g the trin-
g the trin-
e menu. In
menu. In
gameplay
mepla
”
I had d
I had
ing! YES
ing! YES
and shou
and shou
ed in gen
ed in gen
My mi
My m
and got i
and g
been con
be
u understand.
under
please today’
plea
“My fingers were now
mere fleshy automatons,
locked in an endless
dance of digital death.”
Omar Hafeez-Bore

