FELIX Friday 26 November 2010 33
GAMES
servants) to do physical work for you. An adap-
tor light informs you when your game is being
processed, and there’s no need to waste time
upgrading as all information is automatically
sorted for you. It also has Wi-Fi connectivity,
which makes it even more portable.
Perhaps you are trying to feebly contemplate
how you control your game with the OnLive
MicroConsole? You are? Then let me fill you
in – you can thank me later. The OLMC comes
with a wireless controller (usable only for the
MicroConsole, mind) and rechargeable bat-
teries, so that you don’t have to spend more
money on fresh batteries and can instead splash
out on crusts of dry bread. If you’re not so keen
Hear me now, peasants, with your antiquated
computers, bowls of gruel and embarrassing
outdated fashion sense! No longer are you quite
so inferior to the glorious PC gaming master
races with their diamond studded octo-core
processors, water cooled graphics cards and
jewel-encrusted laser mice, for today hear of
OnLive!
What was that I heard you cry? What is On-
Live? As a most learned and informed gentle-
man let me guide you along the path to nirvāna.
OnLive is a form of cloud computing, where
game processing and synchronization occurs
on remote servers, controlled from a video feed
(up to 1080p) delivered to your laughably bad
PC or Mac (at least OS X 10.5.8) via the mir-
acle that is the Internet. So long as your com-
puter has a good internet connection (we are
talking at least 5 Mbit/s) and can display video
you can play a fine albeit small-ish selection of
games such as Assassin’s Creed II, Borderlands
and the ever amazing LEGO Batman in eye-
popping high quality, even if your chuggingly
slow machine couldn’t handle them locally.
And before you start drooling all over my
expensive Italian loafers, no, the games aren’t
free; you are required to purchase a PlayPass to
run them, which will give you either unlimited,
5-day or 3-day access to your game of choice.
Most of the games do have a demo mode avail-
able, so if you’re really worried about parting
with what little hard-earned cash you have you
can play the full game for a while before com-
mitting.
Now, down to the release of the OnLive
MicroConsole (OLMC), those of you without
mountainous stacks of cash can connect to
games and play them on your HDTVs (though
how you got your grubby hands on an HDTV
is beyond even my great understanding). If you
don’t have an HDTV, just find something with
HDMI connectivity and you will be set to ex-
perience the gaming equivalent of Columbia’s
finest. Provided you have the broadband line to
stream the information, of course – the larger
the screen, the fastest your broadband needs to
be to get a smooth experience.
The physical console is about the size of an
iPhone, and light enough to carry around if you
don’t happen to have an army of slaves (sorry,
It’s raining games! Cloud gaming hits TVs
OnLive extends service to your front room with the launch of the new MicroConsole
Laurence Pope
“Those of you without
mountainous stacks of
cash can connect to
games and play them on
your HDTVs”
on the rather small controller you can hook up
a mouse and keyboard via USB/ Bluetooth to
game with.
A bonus feature that you may like is the abil-
ity to record any moment of your game with
the record button on the controller, which you
can show off to your friends and look very
smug about. That is, if you have any friends.
Or the ability to pull off any amazing gaming
moments.
So do I recommend this magical little box to
you? If you have a good broadband connection
and a computer that struggles to run Pong, I’d
tell you to sell a kidney and invest in a Micro-
Console as that the package isn’t that costly and
doesn’t require constant updating. Plus, with
over a hundred new games supposedly in the
pipeline your fickle attention will be kept well
and truly captivated. Now if you’ll excuse me,
I have to go and purchase another solid gold
Rolls Royce.
More student cuts
More student cuts for Imperial
students at South Kensington’s
FRESH Hairdressers.
Men’s cuts £20
Women’s shampoo and cut and
shake dry £26
Women’s shampoo, cut and
blow-dry £36
All of our cuts are done by highly
experienced stylists.
Tuesday to Fridays 9.30 to
4.30 (sorry no discounts on
Saturdays).
We are only 70 metres from
South Kensington tube station
Sponsored Editorial
Discount haircuts for Imperial
students at Fresh Hairdressers
To book an appointment,
call 0207 823 8968. Ask for a
student discount and bring your
Imperial ID.
Cash only.
Light Opera Society
Disney’s Beauty & the Beast
6-10th December
Curtain Up: 19:30
John McIntosh Arts Centre,
London Oratory School
Tickets + Queries:
mch06@ic.ac.uk
EVENTS
No the games
aren’t free;
you have to
purchase a
‘Playpass’ to
run them
Not many games are available, but Lego Batman is. WIN

