FOOD
FELIX
Friday 26 NOVEMber 2010
34
Food Editor: Dana Li
food.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Don’t be a couch potato:
rationing on a student loan
Your review
Dana says:
A change from the norm. Restaurants put aside, a
Youtube recommendation is due. Anyone who read
the Metro on Wednesday will recognize this guy and
his awesome burger. The Canadian trio that pio-
neered Epic Meal Time, Harley Morenstein, Alex Per-
rault and Sterling Toth regularly churn out their sky
scraping calorific inventions, each week attempting
to break their own record of a 5,800 calorie meat-
loaf. What? Yes, beef patties, hotdogs, bacon and
cheese make up the horror that contains 747g fat.
Myocardial infarction, yes please. Canadians are an
odd breed, indeed. No offence. Where else would
you find a 5343 calorie sandwich that contains nine
slices of bacon, three hotdogs, chips covered with
cheese and gravy, a french baguette, twelve eggs
and heck loads of maple syrup? That is one mouth-
ful to say... let alone eat. You’ll definitely not find it
down your regular Maccy D’s although stick ten Big
Macs down your throat and you’ve almost matched
the record with 576 calories per Big Mac. Saying
this, it makes great viewing over dinner and rids you
of the guilt you had after eating that 125g Galaxy
bar. http://www.youtube.com/user/EpicMealTime
Dana Li
Step aside GBK, the big daddy is here...
The classical image of the poverty-stricken
student living off baked beans, with pride and
clothing similarly frayed, may not apply to
most of us here at Imperial, but still we must
appear so to our debt-a-phobic parents. In this
section I’m planning to introduce all of you to
some war inspired recipes that are perfect for
mornings where a trip to the shops is impos-
sible without substantial amounts of analgesia.
Having been in this position last week, with
nothing more than potatoes and dark sunglass-
es in my possession, I turned to Ireland for sal-
vation and was rescued by a delicious Potato
Cake recipe.
Since then, in far more able condition, I have
played with a few embellishments; the versa-
tility of this humble staple being music to my
mouth. So here is the main recipe and a few al-
terations which worked, but feel free to experi-
ment, as there’s not much that can go wrong
with these.
Traditional Potato Cakes
· 200 g plain flour
· 200 g warm mashed potato
· 75 g butter
· a big pinch of salt
· two glugs of milk
· a few slices of bacon (optional)
Boil the potatoes in slightly salted water (re-
member Thermo - this speeds things up) for
20-25 minutes or until the skins start to crack
and the potatoes become soft. Mash ‘em, skins
on.
Sift the flour with the salt into a mixing bowl.
Add the butter and rub through until completely
mixed. Whack in the mashed potato, add salt,
then knead thoroughly before adding milk a
glug at a time until it forms a soft sticky dough.
Spread some flour onto a chopping board and
pull your dough into 4-5 patties, form a ball
then press down each side into the flour.
Heat some oil (leftover bacon oil is best!);
fry on medium heat until brown on both sides.
Serve with oodles o’ butter, bacon and tomato
ketchup!
I’m pretty sure potato cakes is the way he wanted to go... RIP Mister Potato Head (Photo by mivox @flickr)
Alex Thompson offers rationing recipes for hungry times
Herbed up Potato Cakes
Extra Ingredients:
· 5 small shiitake mushrooms
· a heaped teaspoon crushed ginger
· a clove or two of garlic chopped and crushed
Simply add these ingredients into the mashed
potato for more flavoursome potato cakes!
Salmon Potato Cakes
· 170 g plain flour
· 350 g warm mashed potato
· 350 g cooked salmon (tinned for ease)
· 75g butter
· a big pinch of salt
· juice of ½ lemon
· a teaspoon of crushed ginger
· a teaspoon of dill tops
· a tablespoon of fresh parsley
· a beaten egg
· breadcrumbs
Add the salmon and herbs to the mashed potato.
Once the patties are formed, cover in flour, dip
in egg and into breadcrumbs. Pop in a (200°C)
preheated oven, turn occasionally, wait to brown
and Bob’s your uncle: Salmon Potato Cakes!
“The classical image
of the poverty-stricken
student living off baked
beans with pride and-
clothing similarly frayed”
1kg minced beef (preferably not lean)
1small onion, finely chopped
4tbsp fine bread crumbs
1egg, lightly beaten
1red chilli,finely chopped
1tsp salt
1tsp mustard power or mustard
1/2 tsp black pepper
2 cloves garlic, crushed
Place the beef in a large bowl and add the remaining
ingredients. Mix it all together by hand until just com-
bined. (Overworking it will make the burger tough.)
Wet you hands then shape the mixture into burgers
by flattening the mixture in your hand about 2cm or
1 inch thick and smoothing the edges.
Pre-heat the frying pan to a medium heat. Cook the
burgers on a non-stick frying pan with a splash of oil.
Cook the burgers for about 5 minutes on each side,
turning them once only.
Classic beef burgers
Photo by SWNS
Photo by mivox/flickr

