FOOD
FELIX Friday 26 november 2010 35
You can understand why I was distracted by Nemo and Dori... not!
T
he 12th November, 4:48
pm: e-mail received asking
me to review Mr Wing, a
Chinese restaurant in Earl’s
Court.
4:49 pm: Apprehension begins. Past
experiences of Chinese restaurants have
never been favorable for me, but that
is a different story in itself. Of course,
I could have given it to somebody else,
but a quick look on Mr Wing’s website
reassured me that this could finally be
the place to dampen my fears.
As I arrived I realized the Internet por-
trayal was spot-on: a modern, fresh and
unique experience awaited me. Famous
for its food, foliage and jazz, Mr Wing
offers a non-conventional feel to a popu-
lar Chinese cuisine. My excitement lev-
els grew as I walked down the staircase,
past a flowing waterfall, to be seated in
the sophisticated, chic, modern, ground-
floor basement; a fish tank wall on one
side of me, a tropical tree on the other.
Wow. The first restaurant I’ve been to
where I couldn’t care less how long they
take to deliver my food, I had the ‘fat
fish’ chasing Nemo and Dori around to
keep me occupied.
But then you stop. Stop and realise
how relaxing the atmosphere is, with
a warm piano touch from the jazz pia-
nist, with a hint of waterfall in the back-
ground and low lighting directed at your
table. It was truly mesmerizing.
With a menu full of traditional Chi-
nese dishes, this restaurant is not for
those who struggle with decision-
making. Their unique dishes are based
on recipes from culinary capitals and
regions across China, such as noodles
from Beijing to hot spicy dishes from
the southwest. After finally deciding,
the horror on my face began at the re-
alization I was about to receive a deep-
end discovery of how to use chopsticks.
Luckily, my steaming food, overpower-
ing both the jazz band and the waterfall,
was enough to drag my attention away
from Nemo and Dori, to realise that
thankfully knifes and forks were pro-
vided. Phew.
The Honeyed Barbeque Pork Ribs
(£7.50) provide succulent meat, which
literally falls off of the bone, leaving a
lovely smoked barbeque after-taste. Ac-
companied with Thai prawn crackers
(normal crackers with a uniquely spicy
kick for £3.50) and Mixed Vegetable
Lettuce Rolls (a warm mix of vegetables
wrapped in a cold lettuce leaf, the Chi-
nese answer to Fajitas for £9.50), this
left my taste buds impatient for more.
Luckily, the main courses did not dis-
appoint. As cruel as it felt eating fish
next to a tropical fish tank, the Steamed
Seabass Fillet with Ginger and Spring
Onion (£17) added a sweet, textured
feel to the tongue, complemented with
the fresh Spring Onion and Egg Fried
Rice (£4.50). The jazz-muting, sizzling,
It’s just love and peas at Hummus Bros Company
The Hummus Bros spoke, and we lis-
tened. They said, rather politely, “Think
outside the sandwich” and we did just
that; every bite was a savoury delight.
Oh yes, the offerings from Hummus
Bros were healthy and accommodating
as well. Faithful readers of Felix would
have learnt from a previous issue that
Hummus is an Arabian dip made from
garbanzo beans (or chickpeas) blended
with lemon juice and tahini (sesame
butter). It is commonly served along-
side pita bread as an appetizer. Hum-
mus Bros plated the chickpeas puree
as a base on which various condiments
were piled upon. Toppings ranged from
chunky beef (for the carnivorous) to
chickpeas or blended fava beans (for
the traditional) to guacamole (for the
pretentious). Radiant sprinkles of pa-
prika and parsley provided the spicy
and earthy flavour that made the humble
hummus that much more vivid, and the
dollop of tahini deepened the flavours
with a distinct nuttiness. If desired, a
bit of garlic-infused lemon juice (in a
convenient squirt bottle) can be added to
add a slight tartness that complemented
the intensity of the toppings. The taste-
ful ensemble was served with a fluffy
(and warm, thank goodness) pita bread.
Hummus Bros epitomizes honest fresh-
ness, with hummus made daily, the qual-
ity far exceeds store bought variants.
Hummus Bros rewards students with
a 50% discount on sides and drinks with
every hummus dish. The Greek salad
came with crisp vegetable cubes topped
generously with briny Feta cheese, a
brilliant companion to the hummus.
Wash everything down with the gently
warming spiced apple juice on a cold
day or a refreshing mint and ginger lem-
onade for a warmer one. For those look-
ing for a little candied ending to their
Giving peas a chance, Hummus Bros layers toppings on the hummus
Mr Wing: The perfect treatment for Chinatown blues?
Jamie Williams visits his local Chinese gem in Earl’s Court in hope of an alternative to the West End
Cantonese Fillet Steak with Spring On-
ion and Ginger (£14.00) provided an
understated tender meat mix with the
overpowering ginger and undertone of
onion. It was mouth-watering. Enough
said.
After a short break of listening to the
old-meets-modern jazz pianist, who
plays the likes of Lady Gaga and Taio
Cruz on Thursday, Friday and Saturday
nights, and desperately trying to associ-
ate the Acappella with the song name
Chinhua Yap
“Unique dishes are
based on recipes
from culinary capi-
tals across China”
meal, go for the Malabi — a petite milk
pudding served with an unapologetic
and gloriously honeyed syrup.
Also impressive was the customis-
ability offered, a mix of toppings can be
chosen instead of just one and the pita
bread can be swapped for carrot sticks
or tortilla chips. Vegetarian-friendly op-
tions were aplenty and the serving staff
would offer suggestions and customiza-
tions, if required.
Honestly, I was surprised at how deli-
cious the hummus was, simple and clean
tasting with no gimmicks. The hummus
was fresh and smooth, toppings were
full-bodied and attendance was most
delightful. If you have been downing
one plate too many fish and chips and
your arteries scream for your good be-
haviour, pay Hummus Bros a visit. It is
not creative to quote excessively, but I
think Hummus Bros’T-shirts say it best,
“Give peas a chance.”
Hummus Bros 88 Wardour Street W1F
0TH. Take-away and delivery available.
Nearest tube: Oxford Circus.
(Beware: it can get competitive to see
who’s the quickest!), dessert definitely
felt natural. With a collection of Haa-
gen-Daaz ice creams or sorbets, fresh
fruit and hot toffee apple or banana
slices (£4.50); the dessert menu is short,
but plenty to be excited about. Not being
able to decide which dessert to choose,
the perfect solution is to get them all,
right? Now that was an interesting con-
versation with the waiter. The hot toffee
banana slices were definitely not what
I was expecting, think sweet and sour
chicken balls crossed with banana, but I
am sure somebody out there likes them!
But what is sure, you cannot go wrong
with Haagen-Daaz. Personal favourites
were the Cookies & Cream and Belgian
Chocolate scoops. That, mixed with the
refreshing lemon sorbet, provided the
perfect end to a fantastic evening.
Mr Wing can appeal to anybody, with
a range of prices and dishes and I defi-
nitely recommend it. What I will say is
that the prices may not be suitable for
a standard night out for every student’s
pocket. But it is certainly something you
can book once-in-a-while for a fancy
celebratory meal and you will not be
disappointed. P.S. Remember, fish are
friends, not food!
Mr Wing 242 Old Brompton Road
London SW5 0DE. Nearest tube:
Earls Court
I think Hummus Bros’
T-shirts say it best,
“Give peas a chance”
Photo by Chinhua Yap

