NEWS
FELIX
Friday 26 NOVEMBER 2010
4
In brief
News Editors: Matt Colvin
Alex Karapetian
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
BP Refining Chief Exec delivers
Newitt Lecture
Iain Conn, the Group Managing Director and Chief
Executive of Refining and Marketing for BP deliv-
ered this year’s Newitt Lecture to a packed Chemi-
cal Engineering Lecture Theatre on Tuesday 16th
November. Iain is a former student of the college,
graduating in Chemical Engineering in 1985 and
was introduced to the students by Deputy Rector
Prof. Stephen Richardson who was his personal tu-
tor during his time at Imperial.
The lecture covered a broad range of energy is-
sues from the current BP view of world energy mar-
kets to the pathways to lower carbon energy tech-
nologies of the future.
In addressing the recent BP problems in the Gulf
of Mexico, Iain shared his views on the likely impact
on the engineering and politics of future large en-
ergy projects.
As a senior member of BP’s management team,
Iain spends time liaising with governments on ener-
gy policy and he gave students a fascinating insight
in to the wider role of engineers in an increasingly
complex energy world. After delivering his talk, Iain
presented three awards to departmental graduate
students Mahdi Sharifzadeh, Yiyun (Jessy) Zeng and
Fausto Ciotta, recognizing their research achieve-
ments then joined staff and students for refresh-
ments before leaving immediately to fly to the USA.
Ian Swords
Discouraged by higher fees
Results show majority of Imperial students would be dis-
couraged from university by £10,000 tuition fees
With protests going on up and down the coun-
try, there is a great deal of anger about the gov-
ernment’s plans for higher education. Almost
all of us will be leaving university with some
debt, however this debt did not deter us from
coming to Imperial in the first place. However
a Union survey has shown that Imperial stu-
dents are just as concerned by debt and rising
fees as other students in the U.K. In light of the
Union’s support for the Browne Review and
the government’s proposals, is it being truly
representative of the majority of Imperial stu-
dents?
Chances are, that during your GCSE’s or A-
Level’s, university tuition fees was not a deal
breaker in your decision to go to university.
However it is something we all think about at
some point, whether it is “How will I pay it
back?” “Where will the money come from?”
“How long will I be paying it back for?” we
are all in the same boat. Right now for a three-
year course as a home student total tuition fees
equal £9,870, if fees increased, a total of al-
most £30,000 would need to be paid back by
the student. For many students, this cost is
now an issue in deciding in whether going to
university is feasible. In the recent study car-
ried out by Imperial before the Browne Re-
view was released, 9.3% of Imperial students
said that they felt they should have no debt on
leaving university. 31.3%, the largest propor-
tion, of students felt a debt of £10,000-£20,000
was reasonable. But only 5.3% thought debts
above £30,000 would be reasonable. Under
the government’s new system, a student on a
four-year course at Imperial would likely leave
with £36,000 debt. It is therefore clear that al-
though the vast majority of students agree that
they should contribute somewhat to the fund-
ing of their course (78.9% agreed that they
should contribute), they have strong reserva-
tions about the amount that they should have
to contribute.
Union President Alex Kendall agreed that
students “are worried about debt and it’s some-
thing that we definitely need to tackle. we need
to make an effort to translate the reality to stu-
dents it’s not the same as a normal debt. it’s not
like credit card debt. it’s the cost of a degree
and somebody in the end has to pay for it.”
Furthermore students overwhelmingly re-
jected the idea of removing the caps on tuition
fees, i.e. allowing universities to charge what-
ever they want for degrees. 86.5% of students
taking part in the study said they were against
the idea of an uncapped funding model which
the Browne Review recommended and Impe-
rial College Union supports. A similarly large
proportion of students, 78.9%, said they were
against the graduate tax idea which is advo-
cated by the N.U.S. and also the Labour leader
Ed Miliband. Alex Kendall commented, “The
graduate tax model doesn’t link money to uni-
versities and doesn’t give the universities an
Priyantha Kulatilake
incentive to develop. It is also worse for poorer
graduates because you have to start paying it
immediately, not at £21,000 like the govern-
ment’s model.”
When asked whether an increase in fees
would discourage them from attending uni-
versity, two-thirds of students agreed that it
would. However the data does not specify
what size increase would deter students. Of
the third that said that they wouldn’t be dis-
couraged by higher fees in general, 54% still
said that they would be discouraged by tuition
fees of up to £10,000. President Alex Kend-
all attempted to re-assure students saying,
“the headline fee does include anything about
bursaries or the fact that unless you go into a
high-paying job, you won’t have to pay back
all that you owe.”
It is clear that students are more concerned
about the current higher education situation
that previously thought. Given that fees at
Imperial are almost certainly going to rise to
£9,000 if the government’s plans are enacted,
the assumption that Imperial students won’t
be affected by the changes or don’t care about
them is certainly challenged by the findings.
The results
78.9% disagree with a graduate tax model
Only 5.3% believe that
leaving university with
more than £30,000 in
debt is reasonable
86.5%
disagree that
universities
should be able
to charge what
they want i.e.
support a cap
on fees
“It is clear that students
are more concerned
that previously thought.
The data challenges
the assumption that
Imperial students don’t
care about the rise in
fees proposed by the
government”
Photo by Jacky Kwan
Illustrations by Veronika McQuadeova

