SPORT
40 felix
FRIDAY 26 NOVEMBER 2010
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Sports Editor: Jovan Nedic
David Wilson
Handball
Forgotten Sports
This week, Felix Sport takes a look
at one of Imperial’s sporting new-
borns. Carina Carter is no stranger
to using her hands
Team Handball is a very popular sport in continental
Europe and has been an Olympic sport for years.
The modern handball sport started in the latter half
of the nineteenth century, although the origin of
the game can be traced back to the ancient period,
when Greeks played a similar game.
In Handball, two teams of 7 players each (6 field
players and a goalkeeper) pass and dribble a ball to
ultimately throw it into the goal of the other team.
It is a fast game with almost a goal scored every
minute of a game.
Crisp, fluent and creative ball movement is para-
mount in setting up scoring opportunities in Hand-
ball, since no players are allowed inside the six-me-
ter arc outlining the goal area. The offensive team
works the ball quickly around the perimeter and tries
to set up a shot, which can reach a speed of over
100km/h. That makes the Handball the 2nd fastest
indoor sport and arguably the most exciting one to
watch and play.
This might all sound a bit hectic and confusing,
but it is easy to pick up and helps to develop many
of the basic athletics skills needed in other sports.
Imperial Handball
What is Handball?
Can’t kick, won’t kick?
Sign up for Handball
Formed in 2007, handball or the’ Imperial
Eagles’ as they like to be known, is one of the
latest sporting additions at Imperial. Despite
being hugely popular with our neighbours on
the continent, handball is still relatively new
in the UK so you can be excused if you’ve
haven’t got a clue what the sport is about.
The sport’s popularity in the UK is growing
though, with more universities forming teams.
Team GB are also entering a handball team in
2012 for the very first time.
Handball must be one of the few sports
played at Imperial not to be part of BUCS,
showing how new the sport really is, and
so their fixtures are organised by the British
Handball Association. As well as friendlies
they play four league fixtures a term, where
they compete against other universities and
also non-university teams. The club has a
men’s team (obviously, it is Imperial...) but
also have a joint ladies’ team, last year with
Oxford and now with UCL, so that the girls
can compete too. Several members also play
for a local team (the ‘Ruislip Eagles’), allow-
ing them to play more.
“There were six Imperial players that went
on to win the EHA (England Handball Associ-
ation) cup, which qualified us to play on a Eu-
ropean level” says the clubs secretary Stefan
Bauer; “As you can see, we cater for beginners
and give strong players the chance to play at a
very competitive level too”.
Whilst the club do not go on tour as such
like other sports teams, they are lucky to com-
pete in various tournaments in the year and so
have several weekends away. They travel to
France every year to take part in the ‘Chal-
lenge Centrale Lyon”
This involves around 8000 uni students de-
scending on Lyon to compete in a variety of
sports and is apparently a lot of fun. They
also compete in the UK University Champion-
ships and were awarded the ‘fair play award’
last year. The club is currently trying to set up
a South England tournament as a way for uni
teams around London to get more games.
Handball is still a fairly small club with
around 30 members, which means that the
social side is good because everyone knows
each other.
Always intrigued to find out about clubs
drinking traditions, I was told the Imperial
Eagles tipple of choice is ‘vodka cornichon’,
which is vodka with a pickle water mixer (I
think I’ll stick to the more traditional mix-
ers personally). The club had a good intake
of freshers with many of them having never
played before.
If you fancy giving it a try, the club trains at
ethos on a Wednesday night 8-10pm. Mem-
bership is £25 for the year and taster sessions
are free.
Carina Carter
The Imperial Eagles in action
Rugby: back on track
the final ten minutes behind, the team even-
tually emerged 26-22 victors thanks to a late
try from Ed Labinski who is making a habit of
scoring ‘game winning tries’.
The victory got Imperial’s season back on
track and provided a first win for stand in skip-
per Charlie Esberger.
There is only one game remaining this term
against Saint Bart’s and the team are deter-
mined to put in a big and impressive perfor-
mance before Christmas which they hope they
can carry through into the new year culminat-
ing in a league title as well as the ever elusive
Varsity victory.
***
The Second XV put on a spirited display but
were knocked out of the BUCS cup by UCL 1st
XV, losing 21-19. The team will no doubt feel
hard done by after what appeared to be a legiti-
mate try was not awarded in the dying minutes,
furthermore fly half Rob Dowden had the op-
portunity to win the game with a penalty kick
in the last play of the game however, his kick
went agonisingly wide of the left post.
The team put on a spirited performance
throughout the match with the forwards pro-
viding a useful platform for the backs to work
off. In the lital last few minutes of the match,
with Imperial knowing that they were chasing
the victory, the forwards continually provided
thrust, battering UCL backwards. The out-
come however, eluded Imperial but they can
take heart from the fact that they competed
well against and probably should have beaten
a team which inflicted a heavy defeat on them
in the opening game of the season.
The team will take this experience and use it
to their advantage as they look to end this term
on the back of a decent run of results, hoping
that they can turn around a run of narrow losses
in the new year.
***
The fourth team succumbed to a crushing
60-3 against a supposed Imperial Medicals
third XV, a team which contained a number
of players who seemed to resemble players
who played in the Varsity match earlier in the
season. The fourth team put on a spirited per-
formance against a team who were clearly of a
better standard.
The team will look forward to their next en-
counter with the medics and will be confident
of achieving a result against their rivals before
their eagerly anticipated Varsity matchup in
March.
....Cotinued from back page

