SPORT
41
felix FRIDAY 26 NOVEMBER 2010
Imperial fencers foil Oxford efforts
Tom Carpenter
What better way to start a weekend than
waking up to a glorious hangover at half
past six on a cold winter’s morning.
Early starts are what rowing is all about
apparently, but it was still a huge shock
to many of ICBC’s novices.
After some light dozing and a good
few bananas, London was left behind
and they were soon being thrown off
the coach in an obscure housing estate
in north Cambridge. The Cam, a mere
stream compared with the might of
the Thames tideway, gave confidence
to the competitors at least for a good
result.
With all parts of the boat successfully
remembered and reassembled this was
it, time to get on the water and meander
to the start line. A cox down, the Men’s
B boat drafted in the help of a prepubes-
cent Westminster school boy, with little
to no coxing experience.
Paddling up to the start it was dis-
covered that 2500m wasn’t as far as
it sounded and some of the competi-
tion was definitely beatable. With all
three crews safely at the start line, Alex
‘Crabz’ Quigley produced a powerful
speech, full of Cambridge bitterness to
rally the team for the race. Crew t-shirts
adorned, the race was on.
The Men’s Student Novice Boat A
was away, powering through the first
hundred metres, feeling good. Sudden-
ly, the IC Novice Boat B could be seen
careering diagonally across an almost
straight section of river towards the only
tree on the course. Shouts from bow-
man Reuben ‘Cameron’ Hill to “BACK
IT DOWN” were too late to evade the
inevitable. Colliding with the only tree
sticking out of the bank, their race was
over after only ten strokes. Our school
boy friend would soon be receiving nu-
merous death threats.
Back in the race Men’s A steamed
through the first 1000km with great skill
and power. Valuable time was unfortu-
nately lost in the second 1000km due
to strokeman Tommy ‘pedo-rapist-train-
ers’ Hirst sliding straight off his runners
owing to a previously mentioned issue
with his seat.
Finishing fast and making up ground
on the team in front Men’s Novice boat
A came in a satisfying third position (15
seconds off first )destroying all our Lon-
don competition and leaving Cambridge
gawping at the rowing talent they had
rejected. Without seat issues, could first
have been theirs?
Meanwhile the Woman’s Novice Boat
were giving a master class in competi-
tive rowing, streaking past the boat in
front in the final 1000m and pulling
lengths ahead to obliterate the competi-
tion and post the fastest time in class, by
a large margin.
Anyone would think they were trying
to make a point: Imperial College does
accept girls? No wait, Imperial Wom-
an’s Novices are a force to be reckoned
with.
Men’s Boat B gingerly made its way
down the course where eventually the
pressure on the vulnerable cox became
too great, abandoning the crippled boat
for some poor excuse of needing to race
in his own crew. Will ‘Captain Side-
burns’ Blyth took control of the situa-
tion to avoid the boat disrupting the next
race, Tom ‘lycra’ Carpenter stepped in
for his coxing debut and with the help of
strokeman Hugh ‘facial’ O’Connell the
boat was successfully coxed the rest of
the way down the course and to safety.
At least the finish line was reached in
the end.
The Novice A boats set out again re-
christened Men’s Boat C and Woman’s
Boat B. Crashing boats again proved to
be the problem of the day with a boat
catching the bank and jack knifing
across the river right in front of the Men.
Thankfully with a more experienced
cox, potential disaster was avoided.
Xavier ‘pension’ Lorrain and Tom ‘blue
shirt’ McArdle et al put in a sterling
effort in the final 500m to finish their
second race of the day in style ahead of
a queue of other boats.
The woman once again showed what
imperial can do with a fifth place finish
from the second boat beating both Kings
College boats and many Cambridge col-
leges.
After a few dozen more bananas, and
the longest discussion about lemonade
and pimms in history, ICBC headed
home to celebrate their success in cen-
turion drinking style.
Apparently the opening of metric was
pretty good too. What better way to end
a weekend than waking up to a glorious
hangover.
Rowers cut their teeth on the Cam
Charlotte Levin
IC Fencing Women’s first team visited
Oxford last weekend as a first part of
BUCS Premier League South Division.
It was a weekend well spent, fencing
against Oxford, Cambridge, King’s Col-
lege and Queen Mary and eventually re-
turning with excellent results.
First up on piste was the foil team,
consisting of Alice Mitchell, Hanna
Bryars and Outi Supponen. They liter-
ally danced their way through the four
first matches, emphasising how strong
the team is and also building a comfort-
able margin for the other weapons. Past
lunch time, weapons were switched and
Clare Harding replaced Alice for sabre.
Having good confidence from earlier
years and the successful morning, the la-
dies continued standing strong and bare-
ly even gave the other teams a chance
to show what they had. Queen Mary did
put up a tougher fight, but Imperial had
their mind set on victory and rounded
off nicely.
Counting the score at the end of the
day was a pure pleasure. It turned out
that the team had done so well that
three out of four matches already were
won, and very was required to win the
last one: 8 hits in total, in a match of
first to 45. The night was spent with-
out worrying, complimenting everyone
for the good performance and putting
up goals for the next day. It was after
all a competition, and what would it be
without a challenge to strive for? The
aim was set as high as possible: leave
Oxford undefeated. It had never be
done before, and sometime had to be
the first one.
Arriving to the venue on Sunday
morning, Emily Bottle, Charlotte Levin
and Alice warmed up to fence epee
while the rest of the team got ready to
support. Cambridge was the most de-
manding opponent, having been so over
the past years and hence building up a
mental challenge as well. It was an even
match throughout, the teams taking turn
of being in the lead and sometimes se-
riously threatening the goal that had
been set. Emily fenced the last part of
the match, and she got the rest of the
team standing on their toes before win-
ning with a single hit, 45-44. The last
match was fenced against Queen Mary,
a match that required more tactic con-
sideration. Nevertheless, thanks to very
good team work, good estimations of
individual performances and of course
great supporting, Charlotte was able to
finish the match at 45-40. It was a con-
fident, proud and happy team returning
to London.
Imperial’s reliable and diverse attack-
ing plays, which include cleverly named
schemes like “Wurst” or “Dagmar”, and
the fact that the opponent goalkeeper
had only played handball twice in his
life helped to quickly turn the game
around. The aggressive 5-1 defense in-
terrupted UCL’s attacks, forcing numer-
ous turnovers, whereas on the other end
of the court precise and fast passing set
up the wing players to score easy goals
on several occasions. Midway through
the first half it became obvious that our
opponent was lacking in coordination
and variability, which mean that Impe-
rial established a well-deserved 4-goal
advantage in the final minutes before the
interval.
With the comfortable advantage, and
fully aware of their opponent’s weak-
nesses, Imperial players stepped up
their game right away and increased
their lead constantly throughout the
second 30 minutes. UCL became in-
creasingly and visibly frustrated, which
was indicated by many German and
French swearwords being used on the
court, and culminated in attempts to de-
capitate and mutilate the Eagles goal-
keeper (who had an excellent 2nd half)
from the penalty spot and the wing po-
sitions. Severely unimpressed by their
opponent’s vulgar display of disap-
pointment, the Imperial Eagles contin-
ued to exploit the turnovers and soared
to a justified ten goal advantage at the
end of the game.
It was a perfect and very encouraging
start to the season, which was elaborate-
ly celebrated in Metric, but no reason to
be complacent if the talented team wants
to bring some silverware to London over
the course of the season.
Imperial overcome rivals
They just needed to push away and they would be in business!
....Continued from back page
Imperial College Boat Club take hungover newbies rowing on a cold morning

