FELIX Friday 26 November 2010 5
NEWS
On Monday the Public Awareness of
Science and Engineering organisation,
PAWS, held The European Science TV
and New Media Awards Evening at the
prestigious Institute of Engineering and
Technology (IET). A fitting location to
celebrate science in the media, as the
IET was once home to the BBC many
years ago! This is the first year which
has seen the celebration of science in TV
and New Media throughout Europe. The
awards recognised a variety of countries
for documentaries, general program-
ming and new media, as well as more
unusual categories such as science in TV
drama.
The evening was a celebration of sci-
ence in media, but highlighted some
important points that those involved
in science at Imperial should take note
of. Susan Rae, voice of Radio 4’s news
facilitated the evening and highlighted
that the awards were presented to those
who “bring daunting science and tech-
nology to light.” This was echoed by Dr
Mike Short, Director of the IET. He not-
ed that over the last two decades science
have developed at a phenomenal rate,
to the point where people cannot keep
up. There is always a constant need to
communicate science. But it seems that
people from different walks of life, from
researchers to broadcasters, have vastly
different views on who should commu-
nicate science, and how that communi-
cation should take place.
Professor Ann Dowling, from the Uni-
versity of Cambridge and keynote speak-
er of the evening, highlighted the impor-
tance of science in society. “Choices
[about science and technology] are too
important to leave to engineers and sci-
entists alone.” She emphasised the need
for more dialogue between scientists and
the public, and suggested that increased
objectivity could be obtained on science
policies if everyone were more involved
in the decision making process. The
challenge for any scientist is therefore
to find a way to convey the complexity
of their science without undermining
the fact that they can make a consider-
able difference to the world. Profes-
sor Dowling maintained that “science
and engineering communication should
remain a priority for the considerable
future.” Science is undoubtedly increas-
ingly prevalent in society. Professor
Dowling’s views highlight the views of
many; that present and future scientists
will need to find a way to communicate
their science, or work with those that
can do that for them.
The second keynote speaker, Andrew
Cohen, head of BBC science, noted
that earlier this year “[science broad-
casting] started to get noticed in a way
that [the BBC] were not used to.” This
was heavily linked in with the public’s
reception of the ‘Wonders of the Solar
System’ series, and the now phenom-
enally popular ex D:RREAM keyboard
player and physicist Dr Brain Cox. Mr
Cohen praised Brian Cox with inject-
ing romance and emotion into science
broadcasting. As any researcher knows,
despite a relationship with your research
that can sometimes fall rather on the
hate side of love-hate, you would not be
doing it unless you had strong emotions
about the subject, so it is interesting to
see this recognised.
Mr Cohen also highlighted the im-
portance of finding different methods
of communicating science to difference
audiences. There seems to be an over-
whelming push to have more research-
ers communicating with the public, ei-
ther directly or through media outlets.
However, this push is coming from
broadcasters and large organisations,
not the researchers themselves. When
budgets are being cut and researchers
are being forced to do even more in the
same amount of time; can they really
find the time to increase their dialogue
with the public, and do it in a number of
different ways?
One of the special awards at the eve-
ning was for “the best presentation of,
or by, a woman in science and engineer-
ing”. It is well documented that there are
fewer women participating in science,
and that is certainly still true. This is also
the case across the media, and I wonder
whether we shouldn’t be doing more to
address this.
“I think everyone in all walks of life
should have certain mental objectives.
And one of them should be are there
enough women on your panels and on
Celebrating science in media
Photo by Lizzie Crouch
An evening of awards and discussion on the challenge of communication science
Lizzie Crouch
programmes,” explained Andrew Mil-
lington, director of the awards. “There
is a big gender issue that needs to be
addressed. If you do comparisons with
other countries, for example in Italy
there are? 42%, or about that, of phys-
ics undergraduates that are women.
That’s well above what that is [in the
UK]. There were three reasons that were
identified. One of them is that they spe-
cialise later [at school], at 19. Two is
that physics is seen as part of culture in
Italy, going back to Gallileo, Leonardo
and so on. And three, they get support in
the home. It isn’t seen as something that
a girl shouldn’t be doing. Now all those
three things aren’t the same here and
I’m a little surprised that people haven’t
been taking an international comparison
and worked on it.”
The BBC and the UK was well repre-
sented in almost all categories but nota-
bly absent from one; science and tech-
nology in TV drama. The representative
who presented the award even highlight-
ed this before presenting the award, “It’s
a bit sad that the UK isn’t represented.
Why aren’t we getting more funding
and more commitment from the com-
missioners [in the UK] for science and
technology in TV drama?”
Andrew Millington explained that one
of the objectives of the evening was in
fact to highlight the potential for sci-
ence in TV drama. He explained that it
is currently an area which is massively
underrepresented. Drama is classed un-
der arts, and this label automatically im-
plies a socially imposed separation from
science and technology. Where science
has featured in drama previously, it has
mainly taken the form of science fiction.
Andrew explained that “science fiction
was born in an era where science wasn’t
so dominant,” and now that ‘real’ sci-
ence is much more dominant it might be
easier to incorporate. However, it is still
a massive challenge for writers. Andrew
gave an example of a BBC drama writer
who had explained the depth of research
he had to do. “It took him four years,
from starting research right up to the end
of the production.”
I suggested that people are scared of
taking on that challenge. Andrew agreed
strongly, “From two points of view.
Firstly, writers don’t think the commis-
sioners will respond to it and two be-
cause they themselves have got to do a
lot of work for which initially they don’t
get paid. So there are several barriers to
overcome. We find almost all arts peo-
ple recognise intellectually that science
is becoming more and more dominant
but they haven’t internalised it emotion-
ally if you like.”
These awards celebrating science in
the media may be one step in addressing
science’s separation from society, but
there are others. I wrote recently about
the phenomenon that is Zooniverse, a
citizen science project which invites
the public to participate in scientific re-
search online. Julian Phillips mentioned
that projects such as this could be a way
of enticing the lay public’s interest but
with the benefit of generating actual
scientific data; Zooniverse has over a
dozen scientific papers to its name so
far. The BBC is doing something similar
with LabUK, which “harnesses a huge
audience that academics might not be
able to.” Earlier this year a Nature paper
was published off the back of a huge La-
bUK study which famously showed that
brain training games don’t work.
However, as a final thought, when An-
drew Cohen was asked whether he felt
the pressure of representing all areas of
science, he simply said, “I represent the
viewers.” The aspects of science the li-
cense fee payers are already interested
in are the ones that get broadcast. So as,
well as finding the time and best way
to introduce dialogue between the sci-
ence community and the public, it turns
out it’s also a competition to get their
attention!
“When budgets are being cut can research-
ers really find the time to increase their dia-
logue with the public, and do it in a number
of different ways?”
From left: Andrew Cohen, Professor Ann Dowling, Susan Rae, Dr Tara Shears, Julian Phillips, Professor Chris Mason

