NEWS
FELIX
Friday 26 NOVEMBER 2010
6
World Aids Day
News Editors: Matt Colvin
Alex Karapetian
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Universities Allied for Essential
Medicines launches campaign
A new campaign has just been launched on campus
by the Universities Allied for Essential Medicines
(UAEM) group, which is an international organisation
aiming to improve access to essential medicines in
developing countries. They hope to do this by chang-
ing the way the college licenses out its patents
concerning healthcare-related technologies, includ-
ing but not limited to therapeutic drugs. 10 million
people a year die from diseases that have available
cures, because of limited access to drugs. As not-
for-profit organisations, universities are in a unique
position to alter the way drugs are licensed in devel-
oping countries, so that research done on campus
can make a difference to as many lives as possible.
UAEM started out at Yale in 2001 when both stu-
dents and academics campaigned for the availabil-
ity of the HIV antiretroviral (ARV) stavudine for gener-
ic production. Since then, UAEM has spread all over
the world and has changed the licensing policies
of many universities, particularly in America. Last
year saw the signing of the Statement of Principles
and Strategies for the Equitable Dissemination of
Medical Technologies (SPS) by 20 institutions in the
US, including the Centers for Disease Control, the
National Institute of Health, and the Association of
University Technology Managers (AUTM). This was
a huge advance for improving access to essential
medicines in developing countries, but we still have
a long way to go. Within the UK, the Universities of
Oxford and Edinburgh recently adopted Global Ac-
cess Licensing Policies. UAEM argues that if Impe-
rial is to maintain it’s position as a centre for excel-
lence in the field of Global Health, it should be a
forerunner of this movement.
Another aim of UAEM is to promote research into
neglected tropical diseases (NTDs). These diseases
affect the world’s poorest people and are seriously
under-funded. In fact, only 10% of R&D investment
goes towards research into 90% of the world’s
health problems. Imperial is one of the few institu-
tions in the UK to have an organisation entirely de-
voted to NTD research, called The Schistosomiasis
Control Initiative, which is based at the St Mary’s
Campus. UAEM would like to see NTD research be-
ing integrated into the Life Sciences and Medicine
curriculums within Imperial and across the UK.
Next Wednesday (1st December) is World AIDS
Day. UAEM is organising an awareness campaign in
Trafalgar Square. The hope is that this will put pres-
sure on pharmaceutical companies to put patents
for HIV ARVs into the patent pool.
Many ARVs are now available, but at astronomical
prices well beyond the reach of citizens of develop-
ing countries. It is important that students as well
as humanitarian campaigners put pressure on the
universities and pharmaceutical companies to put
ARV patents into the patent pool to allow the generic
production of ARVs at dramatically reduced costs.
The aim is to think of the Trafalgar Square fountains
as the patent pool, and the campaigners (dressed
in red, of course) as the patents. Make sure you
come along!
Today (26/11/10) there will be workshops for the
NTD and Research Team at 4pm in SAF and the IP
and Law Team at 5pm in Room 119 SAF. To get
involved with UAEM, email uaem@imperial.ac.uk, or
come along to the next general meeting at 5pm on
30/11/10 in SAF G70. Harriet Gliddon
A NIGHT TO
REMEMBER
The opening of the Union’s new
club Metric goes off with a bang
By Kadhim Shubber
W
ell, finally Metric is at long
last open and to answer
your question, yes, it defi-
nitely was worth the wait.
The sellout opening night
was a frenzied affair of live music and ab-
solute disbelief on the part of students at
the fact that they were genuinely having a
quality night out in their own Union.
The live music was a roaring success.
The bands, who sounded mediocre on
record, were full of energy on stage. The
night took some time to get rolling, with
the first band playing to a mostly empty
room (a fact that they didn’t fail to notice,
or remind everyone of constantly). Howev-
er by the time Citadels took to the stage
the room had filled out. They took the mav-
erick step of placing a bunch of percussion
instruments on the floor amongst the audi-
ence. It was a genius move, often reluc-
tant and reserved students were suddenly
Things turned weird when she started demanding that someone smell her armpit...
“Come on lads! Let’s go burn down Lib Dem HQ! I say Clegg! You say?” “Had to make some difficult decisions...” Uhhh what?
Photos by Kadhim Shubber

