FELIX Friday 26 NOVEMBER 2010 7
NEWS
banging and bashing away in time with the
music.
As the night progressed, Metric packed
out and the atmosphere was as electric as
you would find at any great gig venue in Lon-
don. There was crowd-surfing, a momentary
moshpit and one excited girl at the front of
the crowd during Missing Andy seemed as
if she would faint at any moment.
It wasn’t all plain sailing. A fire alarm at
around midnight was met by groans from
students who quickly became restless
waiting in the cold outside. However on the
whole, students were positive about the
night and the new club. One student told
Felix, “I had my doubts but actually I’m, I’m
well impressed. The bass is still shaking
through me at the back and the Soundsys-
tem is bette than most of the soho clubs.
The bar service is quick and Snakebite is
still £2. I don’t care about the vodka red
bull to be honest.”
The Union President from last year, when
much of the planning behind Metric was
done, Ashley Brown gave his thanks “ to
everyone [...] who helped make [Metric] a
great place” and also to “all the students
who gave feedback, particularly those on
the phase 3 working group who put their
comments directly into the process.”
Deputy President (Finance & Services)
Ravi Pall said “I was incredibly impressed
with the high calibre of the entertainment.
The success of the night, is proof that the
venue is amongst the best in the country.”
Tonight (Friday 26th November) will host
a trio of bands headline by Edith Bowman.
As someone who can remember what the
Union was like 3 years ago (never mind last
year), If the Union can keep this up and if
students keep coming back, there’s abso-
lutely no reason why Metric won’t start to
feature as one of the best student clubs
in London.
If the Union can
keep this up, there’s
absolutely no reason
why Metric won’t start
to feature as one of the
best student clubs in
London
“
Totally unimpressed by the size of the fish that she caught one time but forgot to take a photo of even though it was like THIS BIG...
What you can’t see is that he’s holding a cat by the scruff of the neck. It’s the latest accessory don’t you know?
“OMG, OMG, OMG, OMG, OMG... I LOOOOVE BIEBER!”
Left to right: Fit, fit, fit
Left to right: Fit, SUPER-FIT, fit
Left to right: About to choke, passive aggressive, fit
Photo by Kadhim Shubber

