NEWS
FELIX
Friday 26 NOVEMBER 2010
8
First person
News Editors: Matt Colvin
Alex Karapetian
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Why I protested, by Caroline Clark
A wave of student occupations has been sparked off
by mass protests taking place all over the country.
Students from UCL, London South Bank University,
Birmingham, Warwick, Oxford, Strathclyde, Cardiff,
Dundee, University of East London, Portsmouth,
Leeds, Royal Holloway, SOAS, Manchester Metro-
politan and UWE Bristol have all gone into occupa-
tion this week.
In London, 5000 students converged on Trafal-
gar Square and attempted to march down Whitehall
to Lib Dem HQ. However, in stark contrast to the
NUS protest, it soon became apparent that the po-
lice wanted absolute control. They kettled the main
march for 10 hours in the cold before releasing
them in handfuls at around 10pm.
When we arrived at 5pm, a group of 1000 stu-
dents and workers stood outside one end of the
kettle. We tried to join those inside, but could only
stand outside in solidarity. The police pushed us to-
wards Trafalgar Square with horses and batons. At
one point, without warning, the line of police horses
charged the crowd. Panic erupted and people ran
down the street or tried to jump over a wall to safety.
We were impressed by the scale of demonstra-
tions yesterday and proud to be part of them. They
came only two weeks after the largest student dem-
onstration since 1987, during which thousands oc-
cupied the courtyard of Tory HQ. This sparked an
intense media and police backlash, leading to the
aggressive tactics used by the police yesterday.
However, many support the protesters, including
trade unions and lecturers.
The savage cuts announced by the coalition gov-
ernment will resonate through Higher and Further
Education, with fears that 22,000 university jobs
will be lost and fees of £9000 a year threatening
to carve a layer of poorer students from university
education. Allowing a market in education will create
a two-tier education system; only the privileged elite
will be able to afford to study at the top universities.
Aaron Porter stated that he “absolutely condemns
the actions of violence” at Millbank. However, bro-
ken windows are insignificant compared to the dam-
age that will be done to everyone by the govern-
ments cuts. In itself breaking windows won’t change
the position of the government, but it shows workers
that it is possible to fight back, giving them confi-
dence to strike. As we have seen from history, civil
disobedience is a powerful force that is an integral
part in bringing down a government. Through actions
like this, the Heath government came crashing down
in the early 70’s and Thatcher was brought down
after the poll tax riots.
Our Union President may be attempting to dis-
tance himself from the growing student rebellion,
but growing numbers of Imperial students are show-
ing that they’re prepared to get out and march. The
protests, strikes and occupations we’ve seen so far
all hint that an enormous wave of organised resis-
tance to the government is on its way.
At Imperial, those involved in the demonstration
yesterday will be holding an organising meeting early
next week – look out for posters on the walkway or
email swss@ic.ac.uk. Everyone is welcome to join us.
Just as the anti-poll tax campaign ended the Thatch-
er era, so too is it possible for protests, occupations
and direct action to break today’s government
Caroline Clark is the Chair of the Socialist Workers
Students’ Society at Imperial.
Students around the U
anger grows over educ
Students have once again clashed with
police during protests over proposed
changes to higher education. The pro-
test, the second this month, planned to
target the Liberal Democrat headquar-
ters in central London.
Thousands of students and school
pupils gathered around Whitehall and
Trafalgar Square to fight against govern-
ment plans to raise tuition fees and cuts
to university teaching grants and the Ed-
ucation Maintenance Allowance (EMA)
Violence escalated quickly as one police
officer had his arm broken and with was
dragged from the crowd unconscious
with leg injuries. The police deployed
the controversial ‘kettling’ technique
used at the G20 protests. Bottles and
placards were thrown at police and fires
were started as darkness fell.
Vandals damaged and graffitied a po-
lice van stranded in the protest. School
children who disagreed with the vio-
lence, however, formed a protective
shield around the van to prevent further
damage. Later protesters broke into a
van, smashing the windows, stealing
police uniforms and using the van as a
dance platform.
The demonstration, organised by sev-
eral groups, began peacefully with a
“Carnival of Resistance” at 11am, start-
ing at Malet Street and progressing to
Trafalgar Square, where students from
across the nation assembled prior to
the planned protest outside of the Lib-
eral Democrat’s headquarters in Central
London and later in Downing Street.
However, in light of the Millbank Ri-
ots two weeks ago, police detained pro-
testers in the Whitehall area before they
reached Parliament Square. Attempts to
break through the police cordon were
unsuccessful, a stark contrast to the at-
tack on Conservatives’ headquarters a
fortnight ago.
Organisers, who have dubbed the
mass demonstration “Day X”, are call-
ing students to protest against the Lib-
eral Democrat party leaders, accusing
them of breaking their promised pledge
of voting against a hike in tuition fees.
Tuition fees are set to soar to £9000
per year by September 2012, with plans
to withdraw public funding for arts-
based university subjects and removing
the EMA which is paid to students who
would otherwise not be able to remain in
education past the age of 16.
Protests, walk-outs and marches took
place across the country. The largest were
in Manchester (3000), Bristol (2000),
Sheffield (2000) and Brighton where
3000 students marched. There were also
demonstrations in Glasgow, Edinburgh,
Newcastle, Liverpool, Southampton,
Oxford, Cambridge, Bournemouth and
Cardiff. Occupations were also staged
in colleges and universities including
SOAS, London South Bank, Royal Hol-
loway, UCL, Essex and UWE Bristol.
Nick Clegg, in a speech made on
Tuesday night, pleaded with students to
“Listen and look before you march and
shout. Our plans will mean that many of
the lowest income graduates will repay
less than they do under the current sys-
tem.” The Deputy Prime Minister, who
has been warned against cycling to work
amidst fears he could be attacked, was
further targeted by angry protesters who
hung an effigy outside a building where
he was due to give a speech on Tuesday.
Many school children attended the
protests on Wednesday. Milly, aged
14, from a north London school, said
she had attended the protests as they
were relevant to her and that she would
be “one of the people affected by the
changes”. Her friend Harry, also 14, said
that they agreed with the protests, but
disagreed with the violence, saying “it
won’t achieve anything”.
Another protester, a current student
at UCL, said, “Violence gets our point
across, they can see how strongly we
feel and it will make them change what
they have said”. Most people that we
spoke to believed that the violence was
sending the wrong message across about
students and that those who were being
violent were out looking for trouble,
rather than protesting for the cause.
Sixty arrests have been made so far
following the occupation of Millbank
two weeks ago. Student Edward Wool-
lard, 18, from Southampton, is facing
jail after admitting throwing a fire extin-
guisher from a rooftop during the violent
riot. Woollard has been charged with
violent disorder, an offence that carries
a maximum of five years in prison.
Olivia Ribeiro
Kirsty Seager
Milly, aged 14, said
she had attended
the protests as she
was “one of the peo-
ple affected by the
changes”
Photo by Miles Robertson
A protestor climbs onto a building at Whitehall
Photo by Olivia Ribeiro
Police were far better prepared this time around

