Luba's Bistro
6 Yeomans Row, SW3
589 2950
Not having found a suitable recipient for a
really bad review in recent weeks, I decided to
try Luba's.
Situated off Knightsbridge, vaguely opposite
the Brompton Oratory, the interior evokes
much of the charm of a Siberian dentist's
waiting room.
Starters cost from £0.90 for corn on the cob
to £1.85 for spiced herring with sour cream.
With a sense of masochistic glee, I plumped
for Kapoostniak—braised cabbage with
IREVIEWS
prunes and sour cream. The inspiring name
together with the revolting combination of
ingredients suggested a sure fire failure. I was
therefore most disappointed to find myself
tucking into a very tasty and spicy concoction
with the added bonus of being able to play,
tinker, tailor, soldier, sailor with the prune
stones.
My companion ordered Piroshki—minced
beef and egg wrapped in a pancake and deep
fried, £1.40. This was also judged to be
excellent.
A good rule of thumb for determining
whether or not a restaurant is expensive is the
Chicken Kiev test. This ubiquitous dish is a
useful pointer because it offers little scope for
variations. Some may be a little bigger or be
served with a few more chips than others, yet
prices vary enormously. Luba's Chicken Kiev
at £5.25 puts it well into the extortionate
bracket.
Nevertheless, main course prices vary from
£1.95 for spaghetti to £6.25 for steaks.
Spaghetti at £1.95 was rather dull but an
adequate portion. The Chicken Supreme,
| however, at £2.95 came in an over salty
; glutinous sauce which verged on the inedible.
Puddings start at £0.95 for yoghurt with
\ honey. We both went for Luba's special
I Sernic, £1.30, which consists of cream cheese
and raisins wrapped in a pancake and served
I with peaches and cream. This was delicious.
An unusual feature of Luba's is that you can
bring your own wine. This means that instead
| of paying £4 for revolting, undrinkable wine in
I a restaurant you can buy some revolting,
j undrinkable wine for £1.73 from an off-licence
I and take it with you. As a way of cutting down
I the cost of eating out it has much to
:
recommend, but one suspects that because
i enormous profits are not being made on the
wine, there is a compensating mark-up on the
food.
The bill for two at Luba's came to £11
including service—a result achieved by limiting
choices to the cheap end of the menu.
Although by no means the best value for
money around, it is sufficiently interesting to
be worth a try.
Film
Reviews
Handgun, Cert 18, directed by Tony
Garnett showing at A B C Shaftesbury
Avenue.
Chauvinism is apparently not dead, but:
alive and well and living in Texas. Obsessed
with their frontier image this is a macho state
where a man can still be a man and the
women are grateful for it, or at least the men
think so. Into this red-necked society comes
Kathleen (Karen Young) who finds life a bit
different from her Boston upbringing.
This is essentially a serious film which
addresses itself to the problems of chavin-
ism, attitudes to rape and gun law, but at the
same time builds to a tense climax and is
competently performed throughout.
To a non-Texan, and especially a non-
American, the attitude towards guns is
frightening and this film is quite timely as there
is a growing lobby in the States to do
something about the huge numbers of guns in
private hands. Texas was chosen, obviously,
as an extreme example. At one point Kathleen
decides to buy a gun, and her instructor from
the local club takes her along to the local gun
store. This place is not some discrete little
emporium specialising in huntingriflesand air-
rifles for junior to try and assassinate sparrows
with; this place is reminiscent of a large arsenal
and looked like it could outfit a fair proportion
of the US Army. T-shirts, that medium of
macho agit-prop display anti-gun law slogans
and the radio relates moral little tales of the law
of the West; why bother to turn a burgler in,
when you'd derive more satisfaction by
blowing him away with your nice little
shotgun.
The result of all this mega machismo is that
Kathleen's easy-going New England ways are
taken as 'the green light' and when she resists
she is raped at gunpoint by her boyfriend who
obviously believes this is what a man would
have done in the ol' days, before welfare
cheques and health care. The police are loth to
act: this is Texas, juries rarely convict, she
asked for it. So, in the tradition of the old west,
Kathleen decides she must take revenge
herself and learns to use a gun with
singleminded determination.
Thus we have a fairly standard format of
attack and revenge, but the ironies of the
setting raise it out the humdrum. It is a piercing
fEuxwmtmmmmmmmmmmm
look at a society in love with the gun: they
wiped out the Indians with it and now they'll
use it however they choose. Among this
society armed to the teeth are the survivalists'
who long for the return to the wild west and
the collapse of civilisation so they can emulate
their heroes, wear the badge and be the
arbiters of life and death. Perhaps life is bad
enough for the world beneath the shadow of
an old third rate actor who'd like to be John
Wayne. Beware a president from Texas, he'd
probably think he was John Wayne, charged
to run them commies outa town.
Educating Rita, Cert 15, directed by Lewis
Gilbert, starring Julie Walters and
Michael Caine. Now showing Classic
Haymarket and Warner West End.
This is the film of the successful stage
comedy by Willy Russell.
The Rita of the title is a twenty-six year old
hairdresser from a Northern working class
neighbourhood. She is married to Denny, who
wants to start a family, but Rita does no*: want
to have a baby until she has 'found herself. In
an effort to do this she enrolls on an Open
University course because, as she says, she
wants to 'know everything'.
The task of 'educating' Rita falls to Frank a
disillusioned academic who is causing concern
to his colleagues by arriving at his lectures in a
somewhat inebriated state. On his first
encounter with Rita he tells her 'all I know is
that I know nothing'.
When Denny discovers that Rita has
I secretly been taking the pill, he burns all her
books. Given the ultimatum to stop studying
or leave, she leaves.
[ Soon she is sharing a flat with Trish, a
i cultured extrovert who is not quite as carefree
as she seems.
After attending Summer School, Rita
discovers that she is now on equal terms with
• the other students and is soon in great demand
with the 'proper students'.
This change in Rita frightens Frank as he
thinks she is losing her original personality and
becoming 'academicised'. When he challenges
her she replies 'What you can't bear is that I'm
educated now. I've got what you have and you
don't like it—because you'd rather see me as
the peasant I once was. I don't need you. I've
got a room full of books, I know what clothes
to wear, what wine to buy, what plays to see,
what papers and books to read. I can do it
without you.' Frank asks her if this was all she
wanted; 'Have you come all this way for so
very, very little?'
Rita has achieved what she wanted. She js
'educated'. But that doesn't seem so important
to her now. She has other things to think
things to think about.
This is a charming film, well worth seeing
(even if you've seen the play) and strongly-
recommended.

