Anything For A Choired Life
What a hard time musical organisers are going
to have next week in Primelia College! The
Wind Band are doing the '1821' Concert on the
steps outside the Queen's Arms on Tuesday,
the orchestra are doing a concert on
Wednesday and on Friday the Choir take over
the Great Hall.
The Wind Band ex-committee (Dune U
Verymuch, Chris Taltipps and Mike Entucky-
home) have decided that putting out more
than twenty-five chairs is too much for them,
so on the Queens Lawn, 25 chairs will be put
out in a 5x5 square.
Here comes the difficulty: the choir, headed
by Erich von Braun, and the orchestra, led by
Rich T Biscuit, will, between them, be sending
a party of four people to listen to the concert.
The people from the choir only sit on high
chairs, while the orchestra members only sit in
armchairs. In the traditionally over-organised
style of Music Society, the party have been
told that they must sit in a 2x2 square, in a
certain pre-set seating arrangement, and the
Wind Band have been told that this 2x2
arrangement of seats must appear in their 5x5
arrangement of seats. Unfortunately, no-one
has told the Wind Band how many choir or
orchestra members there are (eg they could be
all choir, three choir, one orchestra etc), and
certainly not what the 2x2 seating arrange-
ment is (ie for three orchestra and one choir
member, there are four different arrange-
ments).
Fortunately the committee have found an
arrangement of armchairs and high chairs so
that, no matter what the party is, they can be
sat down without moving any chairs.
Can you give a sample pattern that will
suffice?
Solutions, comments, criticisms to me at the
FELIX Office by Wednesday, 1:00pm. £5 from
Mend-a-Bike for a randomly selected entry.
Last Week's Solution
Bombed Out
The maximum number of garlands needed is
10. Its necessity is shown in the two diagrams
(the second of which was shown by the great
algebraist Sylvester), and its sufficiency was
shown by the argument submitted by Elizabeth
Berry, a physics PG, but since the argument is
rather tedious, I don't propose to write it out
here.
The winner this week was Tim Pigden from
Man Sci, who can collect his £5 prize from the
FELIX Office after 1:30pm on Monday.
A Slice of the Pi
In this week's Footnotes, there is no puzzle; I
shall simply suggest a definition, and a few
deductions, then suggest a few questions, and
print anything interesting that comes up.
A definition of pi for a polygon could be:
pi = Perimeter
width
where the width of the polygon is defined as
the greatest distance between two points on
the perimeter. This definition works best for
convex polygons (ones for which all interior
angles are less than 180°).
Consider a triangle sides a, b, c, with a the
largest of the three. The greatest distance
between any two points is clearly the longest
side so:
pi = a + b + c
a
Therefore, for a triangle, pi ranges from
2 (b + c = a) to 3 (a = b = c).
What can you say about four sided
polygons? What shape polygon maximises
pi? Is there a general rule for the maximum
value of pi (eg for maximal pi for a polygon
of n sides (call it say pin, is it true that
pin is always greater or always less than
pin-l)?
Tell me about pi!
WMKABOVT-
100KSH
by MtMe Optics Inc.
The process of lithography was invented by
Aloys Senefelder in 1798: the artist uses a
grease crayon, or liquid grease, to apply an
image to a granular surface—originally
Bavarian limestone, now more often an alloy
plate. The surface is then dampened and
inked: the dampened surface rejects the ink,
but the greasy image retains it and carries it, in
turn, to a sheet of paper. Commercial
lithography developed during the 19th century.
By the 1880s it was common practice to photo-
sensitise a lithographic plate and transfer an
image to the plate by light, through a half-tone
screen. Offset lithography was achieved by
1900: the image is transferred from a curved
metal plate to a rubber blanket and then to a
sheet of paper. The rotary principle not only
speeds up production but enables the image to
be set down the right way round on the plate,
rather than reversed as in the direct process.
Original versus Reproduction
The jargon term is 'offset-litho', as in FELIX, as.
in glossy magazines, as in posters and book
illustrations. There is no technical reason why
these should not be 'original' prints—the
reason is the snobbish desire of the print
market to perpetuate art patronage as an
esoteric pursuit open only to a moneyed elite.
As a result the offset process is outlawed as a
fine art medium, a mystique has grown up
around 'originality', and a reproduction is
assumed to be, at best, a mediocre version of
the artist's original concept. And so it may be,
falsifying colour, tone and texture, but equally
an original drawing or watercolour may be
reproduced so faithfully (either manually or
photographically) that the facsimile could be
mistaken for the original: by limiting the edition
and signing the prints, the price of the
reproduction sky-rockets from a few £s up into
two or three figures.
Prints Framed or Unframed
The above is neither Walkabout or Looksee,
but prompted by my excursion to 'The Roster
Shop' (168 Fulham Road, open six days a
week) and 'Zella 9' (2 Park Walk, open seven
days a week until 9:00pm) on the same
afternoon.
Zella 9 has, and I quote, 'the largest (and
nicest) collection of limited edition prints in
London'. Their prices are from £4 (for postage-
stamp-sized etchings) to around £100. Some
are very fine: Tully Crook's 'Beyond the
Plantations' silkscreen is of tropical vegetation
in disconcertingly untropical, swimming pool
colours which emphasise the dreamlike quality
of the scene; Rosamund Jones' etching of a
golden cockerel is a delicately traced flash of
ochre feathers. They also sell picture
postcards (21p each) of Ronald Searle's manic-
depressive and amorous cats—offset-litho
from ink, watercolour and pencil original.
At the Poster Shop the posters on sale are
mostly advertising exhibitions held in
European or American art galleries. Prices
start around £3 and rise well into two figures.
These prints are unsigned and do not qualify
as 'originals'.
Does this reduce their artistic appeal? Is a
Bresson photo on a poster advertising an
exhibition of Bresson photos any less 'good'
than a signed copy on Kodak paper? And what
if the poster is framed, rather than pasted on a
hoarding?...like Zella 9, the Poster Shop offers
a framing service. The moral seems to be, buy
what you enjoy—if the kick of a signature or
rarity value adds to the pleasure of ownership,
be prepared to pay for these.
Meet Henry and Caroline
As you ponder, investigate what else this part
of the Fulham Road has to offer.
The Pan Paperback Bookshop also sells
Picadors and Penguins; its open until 10:00pm.
Find fresh tomato and mozzarella salad (50p
for a small tub) and umpteen different kinds of
Italian salami, at Luigi's Delicatessen. Splurge
at Midnight Blue on a peppermint-green,
stonewashed denim jacket (£35), or be
extrovert in 'Midnight Blue' jeans—pink or red
or orange or yellow...through to violet, at £15 a
pair. Indulge in mouth-watering patisseries at
le Boulevard or discover chocolaf
e croissants
(28p each) at Summers' bakery, where the
shelves overflow with poppy-seed loaves and
Danish pastries. This is Sloane Ranger
country, with prices to match, but the quality
of goods is high and the delights of people-
watching huge!
FELIX is published by the Editor for and on behalf of Imperial College Union Publications Board, and is printed by the
Tel. 01-589 S i l l Ext 1048 or Internal 2881 Editor: Martin S Taylor; Business Manager: Peter A Rodgers. Adverti
Union Print Unit, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB.
sing Manager: Nick Thexton. Copyright FELIX 1983

