Last year a group from IC published a book on the effects of nuclear
weapons. In this article J Martin Taylor writes about the book and
interviews two of its authors.
Bombs Away!
'Do you believe you could survive a nuclear
war? If you do, you will find the facts
contained in this book extremely disturbing.'
The book London After the Bomb, written
mainly by a group from our own Physics
department, is a concise and readable
account of what the authors predict would
be the effect of a nuclear attack on London.
It is a well researched and thought out
prediction too, and the conclusions that they
reach are as bad as one might expect they
would be. If anyone is still in the dark about
this and imagines that nuclear weapons are
actually quite cuddly then I would strongly
recommend this book to them.
The authors have in the main attempted
to present facts rather than make points in
the disarmament debate, although as they
concede they 'have not attempted the rather
artificial exercise of concealing our views
altogether.' In particular they seem to
exaggerate for effect the risks of an
'accidental' nuclear war, and in a section
labelled 'The Breakdown of 'Deterrence"
tucked away at the back of the chapter on
Civil Defence they are also guilty of some
misrepresentation in saying that the
deterrence policy requires that 'we must
learn to live with their (the nuclear
weapons') eventual use'. But I suppose they
can be allowed a few excesses, after all it
makes the book seem more relevant if you
•believe that the balloon might go up
anytime.
In addition to the chapters on the effects
of a nuclear weapon, the likely pattern of an
attack, and the immediate and long term
effects, they point out the severe inade-
quacies of the Home Office's Civil Defence
plans and 'Protect and Survive' particularly.
It surprises me that they ever expected to
find that civil defence was a realistic
proposition, if indeed they ever did. They
correctly conclude that 'there can be no
effective civil defence against an all-out
nuclear attack'.
After reading the book I was able to
interview two of its authors, who are both
still at Imperial College: Dr Philip Webber
and Neil Turok. What follows is a
summary of the discussion in which I tried
to find out how their views on disarmament
relate to the findings of the book, and then I
finish with some of my own conclusions on
the disarmament debate. Please note that the
interview was conducted in March and there
have been some new moves in the Geneva
negotiations since then.
JMT: What prompted you to, write the book
in the first place?
PW: We wanted to know what would
happen if there was a nuclear attack, and
there didn't seem to be much information
available about it. We never intended to
Page 8 H M B H H B H H H B E H B M H H i
write a book; we intended to write
something like a four page pamphlet, but the
more we researched into it, the more we
found discrepancies with what the Home
Office said, and there was so much material
that it became very long. Then the
publishers became interested and ap-
proached us about it.
JMT: And has it sold well?
PW: It's sold very well; over 25,000 copies.
JMT: You say in the introduction that in the
book you tried to present the facts rather
than your political views, and I would agree
that there is very little in the book which
isn't factual. Could you briefly outline your
views on the issue of nuclear arms?
PW: I don't think we realised until we wrote
the book the sheer scale of the numbers of
weapons and more particularly the new
developments in the types of weapons and
what they are capable of. Once we did
realise, we felt that the risk of nuclear war
breaking out was higher than ever before
and that should things continue as they are
doing at the moment then there is no way we
aren't eventually going to have a nuclear
war. It's a real arms race, and no arms race
has ever finished without a war in history
before, and there's no reason to suppose this
one will; we can't see any way out of it other
than a de-escalation of the numbers of
nuclear weapons.
NT: But all five authors have our own
political views, and we've tried in the book
to avoid putting them before the facts.
PW: I think it's important for people to
make their own decisions based on accurate
information, but the point is that they're not
given accurate information by the Govern-
ment.
JMT: So could your views on nuclear
weapons be described as unilateralist?
NT & PW: No, no not at all.
NT: To a certain extent I think that the
nuclear issue is not a political one and our
motivation in writing the book was not to
make it into one. We think it's an issue of
such importance that everybody ought to be
concerned about it regardless of their
political affiliations. Obviously some of the
political parties seem to be more interested
in getting rid of nuclear weapons, like the
Labour Party who have a unilateralist
policy.
JMT: But your personal views you wouldn't
describe as unilateralist?
PW: I don't just want unilateralism, I want
to reduce the numbers of nuclear weapons
by whatever process.
NT: I don't think unilateralism is a useful
word actually.
JMT: To be more specific, do you feel that
this country should not have any nuclear
weapons?
NT: Firstly, there is no doubt that Cruise
missiles and Trident are a large escalation in
the number of nuclear weapons owned by or
stationed in Britain and I regard them as a
major threat to peace in Europe, so Cruise
and Trident in particular I am very strongly
against.
JMT: You focus on these two types of
missile as being a new threat to peace?
PW: Take the case of Trident, for example.
One Trident submarine is more powerful
than the entire Polaris fleet now, so that's a
massive escalation, and Cruise missiles are a
potential first-strike weapon, although the
present government deny that they are.
JMT: But Cruise missiles take a long time to
reach their target, don't they?
« A r *
I f H , : i
Neil Turok (left) and Philip Webber: 'A cut in the West's numbers of weapons.....would be a
very good reason for the Russians to follow suit.'
PW: But if you can't see it coming It is
certainly stealthy enough to be a possible
first strike weapon aimed at a missile silo,
which is very disturbing.
We don't just see it as an arms race in
quantity, the point is there is a change in the
quality which is destabilising. The numbers
have gone way beyond deterrence, I don't
think that this level of weapons is a deterrent
at all, I think it's destabilising and likely to
bring us to a nuclear war starting by
accident or even to force the USSR into such
a corner that they feel they have to fight.
JMT: So you feel that we should be
extremely cautious about improving our
armories, not to be seen to be building up,
although you aren't in favour of scrapping
all our nuclear weapons at the moment?
NT: The priority at the moment is not to
have any more weapons. Once that is
achieved, and I think everybody should be
concerned to achieve that, then we can talk
about scrapping Polaris. But that's a
secondary issue at the moment.
JMT: But do you feel that both sides have to
be involved, that you have to take the
balance of arms into account?
PW: One thing I would advocate is
multilateral disarmament by unilateral
stages.
NT: That's the only way multilateral
disarmament ever comes about.
PW: Negotiation is not going to work.
• • • • • i ^ ^ H I H H H B B I i ^ H M a y
JMT: So you feel that if this country or
another in the West were to reduce their
arms by a certain level that this could be
followed by the Easterion bloc?
NT: Yes, or vice-versa. The Russians have
just offered to reduce the numbers of their
nuclear weapons and I think we in turn
should offer to reduce ours.
PW: It's appalling the way the government
has reacted to the Russian offer. I'm not
saying that they should accept it, but they've
just dismissed it as being totally unimpor-
tant.
JMT: Do you think that the Russian
government has the same pressure on them
to negotiate as the West? In the West there is
public opinion pressuring President Reagan
and Mrs Thatcher and, since politicians
always like to be popular, there must be a
strong incentive for them to try to reduce the
levels of arms which would be a popular
achievement.
PW: I think there's intense pressure of the
Russians from within because of internal
problems they have with the other Warsaw
Pact members and their large non-Russian
communities, and they have severe
economic problems. All these things make
them not want to spend so much on arms.
But what I think really motivates the arms
race is basic fear, fear of the Russians and
the Russians' fear of us.
JMT: What would you see as being a good
13,19831~
way, if any, to break through this fear and
distrust?
PW: By communication, and I think a very
strong form of communication the West
could make about their intentions would be
a cut in their numbers of weapons which was
clearly announced and performed and seen
to have been done. I think that would be a
very good reason for the Russians to follow
suit.
Civil Defence
JMT: In the book you take a lot of space
attackiqg the government's civil defence
plans and the pamphlet 'Protect and
Survive'.
PW: We don't attack them actually
JMT: You point out how inadequate the
plans are.
PW: I think it's worth pointing out that we
didn't set out to criticise what they said at
all. We were shocked by the level of
inadequacy of the Home Office advice, and
in fact we found it very misleading in some
cases, particularly when you consider that
their private internal documents present a
totally different picture to their public ones.
JMT: What advice do you think the
government could usefully give and what
preparations do you think they should make
for a nuclear war, given that all such
eventualities have to be planned for by the
government.
PW: Well, they could start by telling the
truth.
NT: It is very important to let people know
how bad nuclear war is, because only if
people do know that, and realise how much
money is being spent on nuclear weapons,
do they start to take an interest in what's
happening. But more than providing
'information on what nuclear weapons can
do, it becomes a question of whether the
government should be encouraging people
to build deep shelters. To us it seems a pret'y
irrelevant question at the moment because
very few people can afford one. And I don't
think the government could justify spending
a large amount of public money on shelters
because it's just not practicable; people
would face such serious problems in the long
term anyway after a nuclear attack. The only
viable option at the moment is to try and
avoid a nuclear attack; it's not really a
serious option to try and survive one.
JMT: Do you not feel that what the Home
Office is trying to do is to provide
reassurance, because they wouldn't want a
general panic if a war seemed likely? Of
course the Home Office must know that the
measures suggested in 'Protect and Survive'
are inadequate.
PW: The danger with that point of view is
that as long as you don't know the truth you
cannot make decisions about your future
which are valid. If you are going to be
destroyed in a nuclear war in ten years' time
is the government being helpful by not
telling you; because the point is if you know
there could be a nuclear war in ten years'
time you could do something about it and
stop it. If we felt people couldn't do
anything to stop it happening then obviously
we wouldn't be saying what we are saying, it
would be an absolute waste of time and it
would be totally irresponsible. But people
do have the power to change things so that
we can have a society where we are not living
under the threat of a nuclear war. That's
what we're really talking about, and we're
talking about that globally, because it won't
work in isolation.
J. Martin Taylor: 'Unconvinced'
JMT: I imagine a lot of the government's
thinking must be that obviously they can't
have everyone running around the country
trying to escape; that in itself would create
great problems for survival.
PW: That is actually one of the main reasons
for civil defence, because in fact strangely
enough here we are supposedly defending
our freedom with nuclear weapons and the
very preparations for nuclear war are the
complete removal of such freedoms. You
would have the rounding up of likely
subversives and there is no definition of
what a subversive is. It's probably somebody
like us for all we know.
JMT: So you don't feel that there is much
the government can do about Civil Defence
other than setting out the facts?
PW: As long as they continue to lie and say
that most of the population could survive a
nuclear attack they are just misleading
people and encouraging them to put their
heads in the sand. As far as we can see with
the number of nuclear weapons we've got,
the civil defence of this country is a
nonsense.
Deterrence
JMT: Perhaps the only part of the book
which I didn't find entirely factual was in
chapter six where you talk about the
breakdown of deterrence. Given that
deterrence is designed to prevent a war
taking place, how do you justify saying that
it has failed?
PW: Well, it hasn't failed yet.
JMT: When you say it's broken down you
mean that in some way it's no longer
working as it should do?
NT: It's no longer a reason why a war hasn't
started, it's no longer preventing a war. In
fact at the moment the principal danger of
world war is the fact that these weapons
exist, because that leads to the hostility there
is between East and West.
PW: Take the Pershing II missile which can
get to Moscow in five or six minutes, once
that's deployed Russia has to go for a
launch-on-warning response, there's no
other way they could possibly reply to that
(continued on next page)
IPage9

