(continued from previous page)
missile. The new weapons are just so much
more accurate, the« targeting is totally
different. You can talk about counter-force
strategies with these being fired against
other missiles. The NATO doctrine is no
longer deterrence, it is flexible response, it is
fighting a war in Europe, it is flexible
escalation of nuclear war.
NT: It's only the politicians who talk about
deterrence.
PW: I don't think the politicians really
understand what's happening.
JMT: So you don't think that what prevents
a war is fear of retaliation?
PW: We're not saying that nuclear weapons
rJon't deter by retaliation, but the point is
we're not talking about retaliation. We're
talking about a pre-emptive strike, that's
totally different. Deterrence is there when
you have retaliation, but if you've got a
weapon that you could possibly fire first and
use to destroy your opponent's missiles,
that's not retaliation at all, that's getting in
quick before your opponent does, and that's
very unstable.
J M T : Aren't many missiles based on
submarines, making them invulnerable to a
first strike?
NT: Actually this is not true as far as Euro-
strategic weapons are concerned because
very few are in submarines, most are based
on land.
PW: Eighty percent of Russian forces are in
missile silos.
In fact I'm not sure that in practice a first
strike is actually a reality, but it's certainly
something that the Americans talk about
and I think that any talk like that is very
dangerous because it's going to frighten the
hell out of your adversary. And there comes
a point when frightening your adversary is
counter-productive because they're so
frightened they fire off.
NT: What you're saying is that the existance
of these weapons deters the Russians, or the
Americans, from starting a small war in
Europe. And that's true, given our present
situation which is that neither side wants to
start a war, because a conventional or a
nuclear war would lead to a huge damage on
both sides. So that's one point, the reason
there hasn't been a war since the second
world war is that nobody wants one, because
it would be a disaster, nuclear or otherwise.
JMT: Well, surely that's deterrence, isn't it?
NT: That is deterrence, yes. But when you
consider the specific role of the new nuclear
weapons there is no way you can argue that
the Cruise missile and Trident are a
deterrent in any sense more than what we
have now, because there is no point in
destroying people ten times over. And when
it comes to destroying other people's
missiles, that isn't a deterrence either, that's
just an incentive for them to send theirs off
sooner. So we don't disagree with the notion
of deterrence in military strategy, but the
point is that the sheer numbers of weapons is
making a nonsense of deterrence.
JMT: The reason for that surely is to have
enough missiles so that enough would
survive a first-strike by your opponent to
enable you to retaliate.
PW: That's one reason why the whole
concept of first strike is dangerous.
Negotiations
JMT: President Reagan has recently offered
to meet Mr Andropov, and his negotiating
position for such a meeting is the 'zero
option' to eliminate all land-based medium
range missiles in Europe. Do you see this as
a reasonable offer to the Russians?
NT: Well, he's ignored a whole lot of
weapons. He's ignored all the aircraft and
submarine based weapons, and the British
and French weapons. There are 400
Poseidon missiles allocated to NATO for use
in Europe in American submarines. So he's
carefully ignored all those, so we have to say
the offer is unfair to the Russians because
they have relied much more on land based
weapons.
PW: What the offer essentially means is that
the Russians would have to get rid of every
single SS20 and the Americans wouldn't
deploy their proposed missiles, but they
would still retain a very strong force. In fact
what they are suggesting to the Russians is
that they unilaterally disarm very, very
heavily.
NT: But having said that I personally feel
that it would have been something of a coup
if the Russians had accepted the zero option,
because my feeling is that the Americans saw
it as a way of outmanoeuvering the Russians
in the public eye. I don't think it was ever
intended as a serious disarmament initiative.
JMT: When you're negotiating of course
you have to start from a position and
hopefully work towards somewhere in the
middle.
NT: The worrying thing is that the
Americans don't seem to want to do that.
They haven't made any shift in their position
at all from the zero option, whereas the
Russians have at least made several offers.
JMT: What do you feel that the Russians
have offered?
PW: They've offered to reduce their
weapons to the equivalent size of the
combined French and British weapons,
which seems perfectly fair to me.
JMT: Of course the British and French
aren't directly involved in the present
negotiations.
PW: That's precisely what's wrong with
them, that's another reason why they're not
going to work.
Page 101
JMT: So you're not optimistic that anything
could come out of the present negotiations?
PW: Well it could, certainly. But as long as
the media regard it as a propaganda battle
and as long as politicians go on the way they
do, just trying to score points off each other,
then I don't think the negotiations are going
to get anywhere.
Conclusions
So what do I conclude from all this.
Personally 1 remain unconvinced that the
peace-loving Soviet government is just
waiting for a conciliatory gesture from the
West and they will reduce their military
build-up. I find the increasing tendency to
see Russia and the US as equally guilty for
the present impasse in negotiations
disturbing as well as being a distortion of the
truth. Let's not forget that in 1976
Jimmy Carter was elected pledged to reduce
military spending and to negotiate an end to
the arms race. The Soviet response was to
increase their levels of conventional and
nuclear forces, and to invade Afghanistan.
In the end it was Carter who had to agree
with proposals from Europe to plan
deployment of new weapons, and to develop
the M X missile. Those who doubt the
determination of President Reagan to
achieve arms reductions cannot dismiss
Carter's sincerity so easily. The fact is that
the Kremlin would regard a lack of
determination by the West to deploy new
weapons if necessary as a victory not for
human survival and the good of mankind,
but as a victory for their negotiating and
propaganda tactics enabling them to step
ahead in military strength. If there are
doubts in some peoples' minds about the
sincerity of Ronald Reagan's commitment to
peace, there can be no doubts about the lack
of sincerity displayed by the Soviet
government. I cannot believe, much as I
would like to, that they will agree to arms
limitations unless they are forced to.
The issues surrounding the disarmament
debate are both numerous and complex and
I cannot cover all aspects in this article.
However, I feel it is important to counter the
de facto argument that because nuclear war
would be a tragedy of unprecedented scale
as described in London After The Bomb we
should rid ourselves of nuclear weapons.
The idea that possession of weapons makes
you a more tempting target flies in the face
of the lessons of history. Wars have started
when one state believed it was sufficiently
strong to overpower another without risk of
defeat. The strong attack the weak every
time.
This is an extremely depressing topic,
despite being of the utmost importance.
There is no doubt that the proportion of the
world's wealth and resources being
squandered on military purposes is absurdly
high, and it is a sad reflection of the type of
governments ruling most of the world. It is
hard to see a solution in the short term, but
what is required is that the leaders of all the
major world powers are responsive to the
wishes of the majority of their people. I
believe that we do have this responsiveness
in the West, but there is little chance of
seeing it in the Eastern bloc whilst
totalitarian governments hold power.
mmeamiaummmsamammFE

