N O . 177.
F E L I X
N E W S P A P E R O F I M P E R I A L C O L L E G E U N I O N
T U E S D A Y 5TH J U N E , 1962. 4d.
I.C. HAS A UNION
MEETING!!
D E M O C R A C Y TRIUMPHS—JUST A B O U T
by T O N Y M U S G R A V E
The date Tuesday, May 29th, 1962. The
place the Union Concert Hall. The time 1.20
p.m. Seaforth Lyle, hereinafter to be de-
noted as Si rises, admits the meeting's inquo-
racity, but with a fine transatlantic desire to
get to business brushes aside our English
worship of the rule book and declares the
meeting open.
Martin Stacey begins a recital of the min-
utes of the last Union meeting held on Nov.
6th, 1961. Words and events which now have
a faded period charm.
The minutes close. Any errors or omis-
sions? The cry goes up "Where's Herbert?"
Mr. John White, one of the Union mascot
bearers explained that he was too short and
that anyway it was Trevor Porridge's turn.
Mr. White then congratulated Mr. Stacey
for making the minutes of the Nov. meeting
last longer than that meeting itself, a poetic
rather than a factual remark but one much
appreciated.
Now business. The elections we had all
come to vote on, so that we the people could
decide on our representatives on the College
Conucil next year. But no there were no Coun-
cil elections, all 6 candidates were elected
unopposed, an unheard of state of affairs.
It is 1.30 p.m. and Si has come up against
the hard fact that there has to be an actual
election for the Entertainment Committee 5
from 6 to be chosen and an inquorate Union
meeting under the Union rules couldn't elect
a rice pudding. So Si states that Council
will elect the Entertainment Committee. Up-
roar. Various Jesuitical arguments float a-
round but in the end M r . Richard Lewis car-
ries the day by stating that it was more valid
for the 320 or so in the Concert Hall to vote
than for the 20 on Council. This was met
with shouts of "A load of bloody rubbish"
from one of the Union Court Jesters, and
accordingly it was decided to proceed with
the vote. The six candidates were lined up
at the front of the Concert Hall as if before
a firing squad and the vote taken by ballot.
While the count was being made the reports
from the Clubs Committee were given.
Ged Brough, Chairman of A- C. C , re-
ported an , extremely successful sporting
year with trophies galore. He said that
the Sports Centre to be sited at 1-7 Prince's
Gardens was not likely to be in use for an-
other two to three years, but the extensions
at Harrington—new changing rooms—would
be completed by next January.
The results of the Entertainments Com-
mittee elections were then announced, and
it was noted that there were 396 votes cast.
So we wuz legal after all and business and
constitution could now walk hand in hand.
Those elected were: Ray Jones, Dick Foster,
Dave Loftus, Hilary Lear, P.R. Mooring.
The following reports were then given.
Stu Gardiner, RCC—successes by the Dram.
Soc., Bridge and Jazz clubs, and a report
that the Cambridge Scout and Guide club
had enjoyed • Mooney's food.
Brian Bond, SCC—a good year for the
Contacters club and the International Relat-
ion club. A n inter-religious societies foot-
ball league was to be started up.
The president's report. Felix. Since
there was no guarantee of firms advertising
regularly, the only way to stop present los-
ses—£250 subsidy this year—was to cut prin-
ting costs and this has been initiated by the
purchase of printing equipment for the U n -
ion which will halve the costs of printing
Felix. The last issue this year will appear
using the new process. The rector had ap-
proved the idea of a mechanical workshop
where the mobile mascots could be housed
and students could service their vehicles. Tt
remained to find a suitable site. As for South
Side, the Executive Committee had persuaded
the College that the two floors of general
student area in that building should be con-
sidered as another student's Union to be run
by the students. This would provide 50%
more Union facilities. A t this there Was
loud applause. Dr. Cameron's proposals
to decentrilize I.C. Union and build Hall
spirit were then discussed. Si said that
Dr. Cameron had made his proposals
ifor |the past three years and would
make them again next year. Jon Bareford
then reported on the Carnival which had been
a great success except for the weather which
at the Fete on the Saturday had caused the
takings to drop from £500 to £200. The
overall profit made was in the region of £1,100
as opposed to £945.17.9 last year.
We then moved on to Motions. Brian Bond
proposed that the Quorum should be red-
uced to 300 which was passed with little ar-
gument, with the necesary \ majority.
Martin Stacey then carefully explained to
us how hard our President worked and that
a Deputy President was needed. There were
mutterings and Finlay McPherson clarified
the situation by suggesting that the two is-
sues involved in Stacey's proposal—the es-
tablishment of the post of Deputy President
and the method of his election—should be
considered separately. The first of these was
then put to the vote and carried. But the
method of election of the said officer caused
much discussion. Stacey wanted him nom-
inated and elected by Council as is the pre-
sent Secretary, which in effect means choser.
by the President. McPherson suggested
election by the Union. Lawrie Austin then
said it would be better if the Secretary was
elected by the Union and the Deputy Pre-
sident by joint Council. This motion was ac-
cepted, discussed, voted on and defeated by
65—200 votes. Hence the Deputy President
will be elected by joint Council.
Both these motions, Mr. Bond's and Mr.
Stacey's need to be ratified by a regular Un-
ion meeting.
Under A O B it was announced that the
Duke of Edinburgh was going to open the
new City and Guilds building on July 12th
and volunteers for stewards on that day
please see Brian Bond.
Lastly Mr. Roger Thomas proposed that
Council should disband two or more impor-
tant societies per session so as to ensure a
quorum at Union meetings to protest about
this. Si said this had already been contem-
plated and with that the meeting closed at
2.35 p.m.
The various votes of thanks that were made
have not been reported but they expressed
the gratitude of the Union to the student
Officers who have given up a great deal of
their free time to run the Union extremely
well this year.

