- 2 FELIX
IIWIA to tht Sdltc
Dear Sir,
There are many rumours circulating, in the
Union concerning the position of the bar in
\the light of the new licencing laws. I feel
that there are some of next years' officials
and students who would like to be enlight-
ened on some of the following points:—
1. What will be the future closing time and
can the duty officer extend this?
2. Are extensions available in the xear and
if so are they more limited in number and
laws than this year?
3. Are extensions dependent on the clos-
ing time of the bar?
Perhaps someone could answer these?
Yours,
IK. MARSHALL
ANSWERS.
1. 10.30 p.m. The duty officer and bar at-
tendants can at their discretion extend this
till the legal closing time of 11.00 p j n .
2. Extensions will not be effected by the
new lease.
3. No. This information comes from re-
liable sources.
Garden Hall
Look 'ere Mister,
What's this we read in Felix about that Car-
nival Barb-q then, with 'dismal dancing un-
der the Marquis' and some 'pepole' in Weeks
Hall bar?
We and our merry men haven't seen no
'pepole' despite many a nights boozing in
this 'ostelry. As for the large and unwanted
earl, if We catch 'air or 'ide of 'an again on
Our Estates, Wei
will fill 'im in.
We know our rights.
L O R D G A R D E N
LAMLEY9
S
T E C H N I C A L & G E N E R A L
B O O K S
A R T M A T E R I A L S
D R A W I N G I N S T R U M E N T S
S T A T I O N E R Y
P A P E R B A C K S
1. 3 & 5 EXHIBITION ROAD, S.W.7.
Dear Sir,
I was very interested to read of the dis
content about the Union Refectory by Dave
Wilbraham and your sympathetic comments.
Having been at I.C. for just a few months
as a P.G. from Birmingham, I would like
to mention that I was appalled at the differ-
ences in the standard of the food and service
between the two Unions. The food at Brum
Union was much better, of more choice,
slightly cheaper and more quickly served, and
the atmosphere of the staff very good—there
being none of the resen'ful bitterness which
I notice here. All this is despite the same
overcrowding and overworked canteen staff.
The interesting point I wish to be raised is
that food was served in exactly the same way
that Mr. Wilbraham suggests-
From what I have found out about
Mooney, it appears that it is much better
than it used to be, but this doesn't seem to
mean very much if there is still cause for dis-
content, which I think there is.
Apart from the way food is served, I
should have thought these could be of more
choice in the main dishes, vegetables, cheese
rolls (e.g. brown). I've noticed that often the
main rush is over by about 1.30, at least in
the upper refectory, and this is when the
•food often reaches it's worst. Perhaps the
Halls could be closed earlier thus eliminat-
ing this standing around of staff which is
costly, and also tiring for them. If it became
established that they closed (top at 1.15 and
bottom at 1.45) then students would get used
to it and it may work well.
Nutritionally speaking (I'm a biochemist)
I feel that it may be a real possibility that
unless a student obtains extra food such as
fruit and fresh veg., then over a long period
of time, he risks landing himself in a very
sub-heathful condition. Since the question of
nutritional value was raised a few comments
may be of some use here. It seems that from
the point of view of bulk carbohydrate, pro-
tein, and fat, then we get all we need and
perhaps more. But from the point of view of
vitamins, salts and trace elements, the food
may be harmfully lacking. (However, mod-
ern food theory says that it isn't what you
eat but the form in which it is taken.).
Another point I would like to raise con-
cerns the meat bought. It strikes me that
there must be several grades of 'say, stewing,
and I.C. must take the lowest. The quantity
of the stewing meat seems to be particularly
bad.
Finally, its a fact that vast numbers of
us grumble, but as usual do nothing. How-
ever, we have concrete proposals which could
be implemented at fairly low cost (Mr.
Mooney seems to be liberal enough financial-
ly on the important occasions—Hall dinners
for example, though I don't really know
whether this h subsidised). Anyway if there
is a genuine money shortage some method
should be found of making more available.
Yours faithfully,
P.J. R O Y
(Plant Physiology)
Dear Sir,
A question many of us in First Year
Mech. Eng. would like answering is, Why
does Mr. T. Prout attempt to sit in close pro-
ximity to Miss Kate Tait during the only
lecture which Mech. and Aero, have together?
G.P. White, J.H. Grent, l.K. McKerrow,
K.L. Macrea, G.C. Goddard, F.J. Mosser.
A T H L E T I C S
On May 5th the club entertained both Car-
diff Training College and Bristol University
to a home match. Cardiff easily beat I.C. into
2nd position the effects of the previous even-
ing's May Ball taking its toll on the home
team. Olympic bronze medalist, Peter Radford
(O won both sprints in 9.7 sees, and 21.4 sees,
respectively. The highlight of the match was
the 440 yards in which J. Wood (I.C.) set a
new College record of 49.1 sees, and P. Clif-
ton (I.C.) finished 3rd with a personal best
time of 50.5 sees. I.C. provided 4 other
winners—a credible performance in the
face of strong opposition, these were:
880 yards — P. Clifton, 1 min. 58.0 sees.
1 mile — E.C. Wilkins, 4 mins. 27.4 sees.
Discus — D.J. Williams 116'4"
Shot — J. White 38'0"
The University championships were held at
Motspur Park on Saturday 12th May. De-
spite numerous very fine performances by
the I.C. athletes, we were runner's up for the
3rd year in succession to St. Mary's Hospital
in the team championship. The Hospital's
team was a very fine one and it was certain-
ly no disgrace to be 2nd to such a team which
contained 3 international representatives.
John Cleator set a new Championship re-
cord with his winning time for the 3,000
metres steeple-chase of 9 mins. 6.6 sees.—a
time which has only been once this year in
the country. Other notable performances
were as follows: —
220 — J. Wood, 2nd; 22.9 sees.
440 — J. Wood, 3rd; 49.9 sees.
880 — P.A. Clifton, 3rd; 1 min. 57.2 sees.
1 mile — E.C. Wilkins, 2nd; 4 min. 18.9
sees.
3 miles — J.A. Cleator, 1st; 14 mins 18.0
sees.
Triple Jump — R. Gordon, 40'9"
Pole Vault — A . Sekun, 2nd; 10'9"
440 hurdles — D.J. Colvin, 2nd; 61.3 sees. •
Javelin — A . Turner, 4th 150'0"
UNIVERSITIES A T H L E T I C U N I O N
CHAMPIONSHIPS
At Loughborough this year 4 I.C. athletes
competing for the U.L. team reached the fin-
als of their events. John Wood who seems to
improve with every race won the 440 yards
title in 49.8 sees. The other finalists were—
3 miles — J.A. Cleator, 4th; 14 mins. 17.0
sees.
880 — P.A. Clifton, 4th; 1 min. 58.7
sees.
1 mile — E.C. Wilkins, 7th; 4 mins. 22.0
sees.
G O O D S E R V A N T
F E L I X , having noted the omission of a vote
of thanks to Jon Bareford at theUnion Meet-
ing, wishes to thank Jon for organising the
most profitable Carnival yet, and thanks to
Angela for organising Jon.

