FELIX 3
State of the Union
The societies which form the Imperial Col-
lege Union Social Clubs Committee are some-
times joculary referred to as the "talking soc-
ieties". This description does contain a great
deal of truth, for the basic ingredient of the
social clubs jis talking. They discusls mosi
subjects that intelligent students would want
to discuss, namely—religion, politics, philo-
sophy and international matters. These sub-
jects, whether taken in the context of social
clubs or not, are an essential part of one's
university education and the social clubs pro-
vide a platform for such discussion.
It is essential, therefore for any Collegw
Union not only to have successful social clubs
but to give them the opportunity to expand
This is where the poor relation aspect comes
in. In the past there have been attempts to
minimise the influence of the social clubs.
Not so very long ago there were no such
societies as the Conservative Society and the
Socialist Society but all political activity was
lumped together into a wierd concoction
called the Political Society. As recently as two
years ago an attempt was made to join all
the national societies into an International
Society. As regards the religious societies,
it is only in the last few years that any de-
nominational society has been formed. Fin.
ally, there was that piece of intolerance at
the end of last session. The difficulties of
the social clubs in the past therefore has been
twofold. On one hand there has been some
degree of intolerance and on the other there
have been these attempts at amalgamation
which could only serve to restrict the activ-
ities of the clubs concerned.
At the present time the Social Clubs Com-
mittee is being much less hampered in its
activities and as a consequence has less re-
ason for the so-called left-wing attitude for
which it was once so notorious. So, I am
led to think that my idea of the poor relat-
ion making good is a fair picture, though
this is said in fear and trepidation for, as in
politics, so if is in S.C.C. affairs, and the
'never-had-it-so-good' phase cannot last for
ever. For the time being, however, all is
well, after all Scrutiny is respectable with
very satisfying sales (and content!) a success-
ful year has been had by most societies, the
Africa Society has gained a new lease of life
and a new society, the Theosophical Society
has been formed.
However, good as they are, things could
be better. The relation may be making good
but it is definitely still poor and also unre-
warded for its efforts. By this of course, I mean
that the budget is still very tight and that
a person who does good work for his social
club has no chance of official recognition
other than the extremely remote possibility
of a Union General Award.
On the financial aspect, of course, I re-
alise that money is tight in the Union and
that it is likely to remain so in the future
and I also see only too well the fallacy in
the argument of comparing the assistance
given to the S.C.C. with that given to say, the
Gliding d u b , but what the S.C.C. needs at
the present is expansion and this means some
degree of .elbow-room financially. Granfted
this it should be possible for the Union to
have the benefit of more attractive and inter-
esting meetings by the social clubs as the
committees of the clubs could be somewhat
T H E P O O R R E L A T I O N M A K E S G O O D
by B.D. BOND
more ambitious in their choice of speakers,
etc.
As regards colours, the present ruling is
that only those societies that take part in
competing activities are eligible for colours
and this means, for the S.C.C. that only the
Debating Society qualifies. There is the Un-
ion General Award which in theory can be
awarded to any number of people and there-
fore people active in the social clubs qualify
for such an award. However, in the past,
and quite rightly, the number of such awards
has been limited to seven or eight each year.
Such a limitation serves to preserve the hon-
our and the stature of the award.
But this leaves the S.C.C out in the cold
and it has been suggested, threfore that a
Social Club's Award be instituted and awarded
to those people whose work among the soc-
ial clubs justified such an award. This &
ward would naturally also be open to those
clubs in the R.C.C. which are not covered
by the present system for social Colours. This
award would in no way conflict with the Un-
ion General Award but would be complemen-
tary to it just as chips are to steak.
If these two weaknesses, finance and awards
were rectified then I can see a very bright
future ahead for the social clubs in Imperial
College.
W H A T AWARDS?
R E L I E F F R O M T E D I U M
S.P. GARDINER
The clubs in I.C. Union are split into three
groupsi—Athletics, .Recreational and Social
Clubs Committees. Three years ago the
R.C.C did not exist and all the clubs under
its control were part of the S.C.C. There,
were *hus forty clubs in S.C.C. and the com-
mittee was consequently completely unman-
ageable. To ease administration the S.C.C.
was devided roughly in half. The new
S.C.C. contained religious, political and nat-
ional societies together with a few others
whose man activity was excerise of the jaw.
The remainder—bridge, mountaineering dra-
matic, music, wine tasting, etc.,—were put
into a new group which described their act-
ivity, the Recreational Clubs Commeette,
The formation of the Recreational Clubs
Committee served to relieve its members of
the tedium of the S.C.C. wranglers. Con-
stitutions of clubs under its control were ah
olished, and the clubs were subject only to
the R.C.C. constitution and I.C. Union rules.
Such has been the system for two years, and
it has run very smoothly, but it is forseeable
that under the influence of one constitution-
monger as chairman, all this could change.
R.C.C. would again be shackled by standing
orders instead of guided by recommendat-
ions, and the chairman's task would be more
difficult. The position.of Chairman involves
less work than the presidency of an active
club, but is of course a far more responsible
position, both in matters of finance and Un-
ion politics.
It is unfortunate that, because of an an-
tiquated system of 'colour' awards, th rifle'
and sailing clubs remain in A.C.C. instead of
taking" their logical place in R.C.C. The
club themselves are not to blame, it is the
system which is at fault. The clubs resist any
change which would deprive them of athletic
colours and make them qualify for social
colours, an award held in lower esteem. Ath-
letic colours are available only to clubs in
A.C.C., while R . C . C and S.C.C, award soc-
cial colours for competitive representative
activities. If this inconsistency is to be rfa
moved from an otherwise reasonably logical
system, action can take three different cour-
ses.
The offending clubs could be re-
moved to the R. C.C., presumably against
their will, such that they would then only
qualify for social colours. They thus come
into line with the gliding club whose only
recognition for national representation is the
social colour. This scheme has the merits
of being the simplest to put into operation
but will of course offend the clubs in quest-
ion.
To avoid resentment, some adjustment
should be made in the svstem of colour a-
wards. Thus the A . C C . colour would have
to be extended to selected cl"bs in R . C C
A n extension of the colours committee would
be required so as to include the R . C C. chair-
man. A workable scheme is produced with
some symmetry; the R.C.C. clubs could qua-
lify for either athletic or social colours, de-
pending on the nature of their activity.
A n alternative scheme for modifying the
colour award system is to abolish the social
and athletic colours as such, and have only
one award for competitive representative act-
ivity called the I.C. colour. This is by fai
the most obvious and logical scheme, but it
will meet with blind, unreasoned opposition
from the A.C.C., who believe that they would
be lowering their standards. This supercil-
ious superiority of the A.C.C. is completely
illogical as a perfunctory examination of club
records will show.
The whole question of colours has been
discussed before, but the reiteration of these
ideas may bring some new ones to light.

