— 4 FELIX
FELIX
(Circ: 1,500)
Editor Asrr CHANDMAI.
Production A N D R E W PAVLOWICZ
Manager
Business M I C H A E L C O M B E S
Manager
Sales CHRIS BAGNALL
Manager
Art ROGER H E N S O N
Director
Editorial R O B
C H E E N E Y
Advisers D A V E GILBERT
The series on the Union that started two
issues ago has been very interesting, and I
am sure most of you now have a better in
sight into the operations that go on behind
the scene.
The only article that did not deal directly
with the Union was the one concerning the
refectories. In that article the quality of the
meals in the lower refectory was discussed
and a solution for their inconsistent quality
was suggested T o say that the meals in the
lower refectory do not leave something to
be desired would be hypocritical, but a few
words on the present conditions are in or-
der.
A l l of the refectories and snack bars in the
College are administered by the refectory
committee which consists of staff and stud-
ents. M r . Mooney, as refectory manager, is
responsible for his staff and the day to day
operation of the refectories. T o say that M r .
Mooney and his staff can' only produce poor
quality food, or lack any imagination of how
to improve the present facilities is indeed un-
fair. One needs only attend a club dinner.
Hall Dinner, or a special function to realise
that the kitchen staff can prepare excellent
quality food, and at a very competitive price.
The chief difficulty with the meals served
at lunch or supper in the lower refectory is
that the kitchens in the Union are now cop-
ing with 50% more meals than the number
for which they were designed. This increased
demand has been met as much as possible
by changes in the kitchen equipment, how-
ever, the servery in the lower refectory has
always been the outstanding difficulty which
has seemed to defy solving. Sometime ago
Mr. Mooney had hoped to completely mod-
ify the present counter arrangement, but
it was learned that the middle pillar is a sup-
porting column which cannot be removed.
It thus remains for us to hope that with
the opening of the refectories in the South
Side the demand on the Union kitchens will
be reduced.
The Editor wishes to thank Andrew Pav-
lowicz for his unbounded enthusiasm in work-
ing for Felix; to Mike Combes for getting so
many advertisements and risking double
pneumonia for the sake of a Felix poster (this
is the second person Felix thanks for risking
pneumonia; the first actually caught it but
she has recovered now); to Chris Bagnall for
organising an excellent sales staff of Year
Reps, and attractive ICWArians; to Roger
Henson for sacrificing a lot of his time tak-
ing excellent photographs; to Rob Cheeney
and Dave Gilbert,, who not only placed their
wealth of editorial experience at my disposal
but also helped type copy and do layouts; to
the staff of Wing Cmdr. Garby-Czerniawski,
of ihe West London Offset Co.; and to all.
those who wrote for Felix, Robin Salmon in
particular, and those who helped to sell Fe-
lix.
The poster series was initiated and executed
by Mike Combes, Chris Bagnall, and Roger
Henson. It will continue next year. I think
they deserve special thanks for this. As a
result Felix has doubled circulation and
broken even financially this term. Quite
frankly, all .of us (even Cat Call) are very
proud of this.
The remainder of the articles covered
many other topics, and one that I should
like to pass further comments on is that of
colours and awards. This topic is of particular
interest as it will undoubtedly come up at
the next council meeting.
The chairman of the S.C.C. in his article
has suggested that awards should be avail-
able for those who are not eligible for social
colours. The chairman of the R.C.C. in his
article has suggested that the social colours
should be put on the same level as the athlet-
ic colours by establishing I.C. colours, which
would be presented rather than the present
athletic and social colours. Both of these
gentemen go on to explain why their
schemes would be opposed, but I do think
then proposals merit further consideration.
A rational solution would be to establish
I.C. colours for all competitive activities and
awards for individuals who have contributed
to the Union but who are not eligible for
colours. The I.C. colours would then be
given in place of the present,athletic colours
and social colours. The' adminstration
of these colours could be handled by the pre-
sent athletic and social colours committees. The
athletic clubs who feel that this would red-
uce the standard of the colours need only
compare their activities with, for example,
the national reputation of the bridge ano
gliding clubs to see that the standard would
not be. jeopardised
The awards would then have two categ-
ories; Club Awards, and Union General A-
wards, both to be administered the same as
the present Union General Award. This sys-
tem has the advantage that Union members
who do contribute outstandingly in any Un-
ion activity can have his or her work recog-
nised even if it is not within the scope of the
present Union General Award. /
If the above scheme was established then
it would be possible for any Union member
regardless of his main interest to be elibible
for some of recognition.
S c r u t i n y
by D A V E GILBERT
"Surely the idea that Scrutiny is a magaz-
ine run by the stirrers and troublemakers is
a little out of date . . . I supposed that we
had seen the last of statements of this kind
but, alas I did not count on Mr. Gilbert."
Thus M r . Donald Pearson in the last Felix
of last term. Alas, not only did the then
Editor of Scrutiny omit to count on me, he
did not count on his successor either., M r .
Wusteman, who in the last isue of Scrutiny
brings the aformentioned idea right up to
date. In a previous review of Scrutiny I
suggested that perhaps a searingly crtical art-
icle on Felix might be a good thing (Scrutiny
being a searingly critical magazine) and I was
quite looking forward to this term's issue. How-
ever, the staff were not quite up to this effort
and contented themselves with what they call
constructively critical comments.
Let me quote a few. "In what must surely
be a self-parody the Rugby Club's item is en-
titled 'Booze-Ups in Belgium." Well, thank
you, but so what? The Rugby Club went to
Belgium over Easter: half the time they spent
in boozing and the other half they spent in
soundly thrashing all their opponents in ex-
cellent fashion, but of course, your delicate
sensibilities prevented you from mentioning
this last
"Rowdy Union meetings are described for
once without mention of a debagging." Felix
is a newspaper: debaggings interest and a-
muse some of its readers: when they occur
they are reported, when they don't they aren't.
This seems entirely reasonable.
Mr. Wusteman, who was responsible for
the above extracts, also makes some prud-
ish noises about the picture of the Carnival
Queen when appeared in a recent issue of Fe-
lix. H e says, " . . . one must assume that he
was. badly short of copy when trying to fill
the Carnival pages." Your perspicacity is am-
azing, M r . Wusteman. Felix appears once <x
fortnight, not once a term, and the first issue
of term is always hard to fill; a photogrph
of young lady partly naked seems an admir-
able way of taking up the odd page which
would otherwise be emptv. A n d surely even
the Editor of Scrutiny finds the sight of Miss
Petri's naked back just a little pleasurable?
Of course the only valid criticism to be made
is that it was a pity that the photographer
had insufficient powers of composition and
persuasion to obtain a more aesthetically
satisfactory picture, but valid criticism does
not seem to be M r . Wusteman's strong point.
However, by an elegant series of mental
gymnastics, he does manages to conclude
that because I take in account the alignment
of the writer when assessing the vitality of his
argument, "Felix does indeed exibit a cons-
cious bias." Eeven without the non sequiturs,
I relinquished the job of Editor in January,
and any virtues or defects since are nothing
to do with me. But thanks for the publicity.
In short. M r . Wusteman has looked at Fe-
lix and far from making any useful or relev-
ant comments, he has sneered at it, taking
half page to do so. Is this what Scrutiny
was founded for? Has Scrutiny really nothing
better to do than sneer?
Si Scams part of the scene

