Imperial College is particularly fortunate
in the international diversity of its student
population. Seventy countries are represented
among our 600 or so overseas students, the
vast majority of this kaleidoscope of races,
colours and creeds being post-graduates. How-
ever, anyone who thinks that we have been
taking advantage of this particular feature
of College life is sadly mistaken. Year after
year it is realised that of all the groups in
College the overseas students are the least
intergrated into the corporate life of the Un-
ion. If this article serves its purpose it will
show some of the ways we can improve our
domestic international relationships. Encour-
aging progress has already been made, M r .
Mac's "Wind of change" has recently been
heard whistling round the Union.
Father Ivor has explained many of the
reasons why our overseas students do not
feel particularly welcome at College. The
causes of considerable insularity among both
British and overseas students are the follow-
ing:
(i) Most of our foreigners are mature and
serious-minded post-graduates, largely uninter-
ested in the wilder aspects of undergraduate
life. Also most of them have no social con-
tact at all with undegraduates—even in then
own departments.
(ii) Many overseas students are over here
only for a year or so on D I C courses—not
long enough to become fully integrated. flHow
long does it take to make friends?).
(iii) British students tend to stick around
with their immediate group of friends and
hesitate (apathy, or that celebrated British
"reserve"?) to make an approach to the ob-
viously lonely bloke from overseas, out' of
the swing of British University life.
(iv) Bewildered by lack of social contact,
the shattering insults of racial bigotrv when
hunting for digs, and difficulties usually with
their studies, or with the language perhaps,
some of the overseas students become des-
perately lonely, withdrawing completely from
College life, or restricting their circle of
friends to a small group of fellow "outsiders"
from back home.
You may feel an understandable hesitation
in making a friendly approach to a partic-
ular Englishman /Foreigner. He may be an
unpleasant slob, inebriated, depraved, after
your girl friend, thick to the verge of idiocy,
a deadly patronsing bore, a brown-bagger or
even a Guildsman. But by and large the
chances are that you will be able to find
stronger arguments for mutual friendship and
understanding than you will for setting on
each another with knuckledusters and flick
knives, or hiding behind silly little walls of
insularity.
Very successful attempts to provide social
contacts for students visiting this country are
made by the British Council, U L U Goats
Club, the National Students Union in Lon-
don, the International Friendship League, the
Kensington Committee for Friendship, and
so on. Although all of these organisations
provide invaluable services there are a
few which are so patronising I was tempted
to add Our Dumb Friends League to the
above list
Within College a fine social programme for
overseas student visitors has been organised
during the past two summers by Brian Man-
ton and Brian Bond but this did not affect
our own overseas students very much.
After a short lived attempt by the SSC last
year to promote social contact by "con-
tocters" inviting a few of the lonelier over-
seas students into their rooms for coffee, the
International Relations Club, with the back-
ing and active support of national and relig-
ious societies at IC, tried a new venture by
organising a series of "International Even-
ings" during this academic year. These even-
ings, usually held over coffee and sandwiches
in Weeks Hall Lounge, sought to provide in-
teresting topics for discussion in an informal
atmosphere, and a regular audience of be-
tween 30 and 70 is not bad by anv standards.
The programme included discussions led by
Professor Blackett, and Sir Willis Jackson,
on "Technology and the Emerging Coun-
tries", evenings of Indian classical music and
English folk songs, "Islam and Christianity"
and "Contemporv Poland". There were also
visits to "Tiger at the Gates", and the Houses
of Parliament. (ind an International Party
organised by the Church Society. If you add
to this a very fine year of activities for the
Chinese. Indian and Pakistan Societies, and
the magnificence of the International Even-
ing during Carnival Week vou will see what
I mean by the "Wind of Change". The over-
seas students are beginning to find their place
in College and to make a really impressive
contribution to the corporate life of the Un-
ion.
Whilst it is important to continue our pre-
sent spate of international activity, there are
a number of ways in which the effectiveness
of our work next year may be greatly in-
creased.
(i) Every effort should be made to wel-
come the fresher overseas students from the
moment of their first arrival at College—pos-
sibly a special evening could be arranged for
this purpose at the very beginning of the
autumn term.
(ii) Early on in the term great attempts
should be made.
(a) By the national societies to recruit
members from outside their immed-
iate national groups;
(b) By clubs in the SSC, A C C and R C C
to recruit overseas students and help
them to join in the corporate life of
College.
(iii) A n international activity in which as
wide a selection of the College's international
community as possible participates should be
organised later on in the autumn term. Pos-
sibly a mock United Nations assembly on the
lines Si Lyle has previously indicated on
this journal could be held on United Nat-
ions Day .
(iv) As soon as possible an effective body
should be established to co-ordinate the
International Relations Club, the National
Societies and the official College machinery
for helping overseas students.
(v) Parties of IC students should be organ-
ised to help the British Council in their
"Operation Landlady" for lodgings for our
coloured students who have not a place in
Hall, and so avoid the humiliating insults that
so many have had to face up till now.
M O S C O W M U R A L
F O R 3rd Y E A R PHYSICS
The third year physic students have been
given a well travelled mural for their com-
mon room in the Physics Block. The 20 feet
long mural was originally designed by Abram
Games R . A . for AEI's stand at the British
Industries Fair in Moscow and depicts 30
electrical products of the company. Besides
being used at Moscow the mural was also
copied by the Central Office of Information
for use at the Nigerian International Trade
Fair at Lagos 27th October-18th November.
How did the third year physics students
get the Mural? The third year noticed a col-
our illustration of it on the cover of AE1"»
1960 Careers for Graduates and wrote to
them asking whether a copy could be ob-
tained for their common room. The letter ar-
rived just about the time the Central Offico
of Information decided that it wanted a cop>
instead of the original for Lagos so A E I
offered the original to the third year physics
—with the proviso that it can have the Mur-
al back if it should want it for an exhibition
in th future.
There will be no formal presentation be-
cause of the exams.

