FELIX
PRESIDENT E L E C T L I D D L E
G U I L D S U N I O N A G M
by D . GILBERT
The last Guilds Union Meeting of this
term was attended by 240 members, in spite
of the fact that the first year exams started
the next day. The main item of business was
the election of next year's Executive, and
the results were: —
President — Chris Liddle
Secretary — John KlaSchka
Vice-President — John White
Hon. Jun. Treasurer — John Skinner
Council Rep. S.P. Gardiner
O.C. Rep. — Lawrie Austin
The last two posts were unopposed. The
other election was of course for the Norris
Muck-Stirring Trophy, and the two candid
ates nominated before the meeting, Ged
Brough and Denis Harburn, were surprising-
ly defeated by a last-minute entry, the Pre-
sident, Lawrie Austin. The result was re-
ceived with acclamation from the floor and
blushes from the President.
In his report Lawrie mentioned the sport-
ing triumphs, far too numerous to detail here,
which Guilds had achieved in the. past year,
and thanked the Executive and the Union
for all their work to make it a really vintage
year for the College. He stressed the difficul-
ties which the move into the new buildings
would bring for the Union, and asked all
members to pull their weight next year. Firsi
years were asked to try very hard to pass
their exams so that there would not be a
shortage of hosts at the next year's freshers i
dinners.
At the conclusion of his report the Pre-
sident received an unprecedented ovation
lasting several minutes, a fitting tribute for
all his efforts for the Guilds Union, and the
vote of thanks, proposed by the new Pre-
sident, was carried with acclamation and pro-
longed cheering. The Union certainly appre-
ciated their President.
After the concluding Boomalacka, the
Field Cup Race was announced. This was
marred by an incredible coincidence; at
least a dozen policemen were hanging round
the Serpentine Bridge, and this held up the
race for a long time. Two oil drums had to
be brought back to the Guilds Building and'
one had to be carried through the Serpentine,
itself; the coppers did not appear to look
favourably upon this, and called out a motor-
boat to ensure that a dastardly crime was
not committed, i.e., that a student should
swim across the Serpentine. Eventually the
drums were taken to the far ends of the lake
and across that way, and Chem. Eng. and
Civils arrived at the finishing post simultan-
eously. A sort of wall-game developed, and;
after a great deal of argument about who
cheated and how, the two departments shared
the Cup and the beer.
PRESIDENT E L E C T HARRIS
R.C.S.-A.G.M.
by ROBIN S A L M O N
Chemistry Lecture theatre B this year saw
one of the noisiest A.GjM.'s for some time.
On Tuesday, May 24th 250 people assembled
to see the last rites performed over the an-
aen regime.
The preliminary formalities were dealt
with quickly by taking a large portion of the
minutes as read, and then M r . Bogod, the
President of R.C.S.A. sought to encourage
members to join the Association by pointing
out the benefits which membership conferred
After he had finished his speech he left quids,
ly as if he foresaw the barrage which was
shortly to fall on the front bench.
After the reading of the Annual reports,
the next item on the agenda was the announ-
cing of the recipients of social colours, an
award given in recognition for services per-
formed for the Union not covered by the
Athletic awards. The Union also approved
a suggestion by the President that Dr. Hills
the senior treasurer who is leaving to take
up a post elsewhere, should be awarded soc-
ial colours.
As the Elections began, a barrage of flour
bombs and eggs was hurled, Mike Harris,
the secretary receiving a large proportion of
the missiles with less than gentlemanly grace.
The most keenly contested election was for
the post of trophy officers, in which Alan
(Booboo) Smith and Dave (Gimme the Boats)
Dean were successful. In the meantime, the
customary beer was passed round Union
members in the various cups which R.C.S.
have won this year, and the health of the
Union drunk.
For the positions of President and Vice-
President, there had been only one nominat-
ion each, so the candidates were declared el-
ected.
They were: —
President — Mike Harris.
Vice-President — Chris Tye.
After the President's Report, in which Fin-
lay McPherson spoke of the tremendous spir-
it and co-operation which he had felt behind
him all year, the handover to the nouveaux
hommes was carried out, amidst further
broadsides from the ranks of the anarchists.
Relations by the executive heightened the
chaotic atmosphere and "wrought havoc a-
mong the militant mob.
Then followed the customary votes of
thanks, the awarding of posts, and the shak-
ing of hands, and the new President rose for
the Kangella, but could not quell his mutin-
ous minions who chanted, "To the
Queens", "To Guilds". "To Hell".
M I N E S U N I O N M E E T I N G
by J. CORNISH
The last R S M Union Meeting was held on
Thursday, 17th May. Some belated elections
were held, mainly due to the absence of the
people concerned at the previous meeting.
Amongst these, George Manson was elected
Ents. Secretary, and Nigel Gracette the Cab-
aret Manager. Three Sports captains were ap-
proved : Cliff Davis (Swimming), Fred Nichol-
son (Athletics), and Craig Dunn (Boxing).
The Petroleum Engineering Society pro-
posed that they would become an integral
part of the London Institute of Petroleum
Engineers, the main object being to obtain
extra funds, and the motion was passed. Min-
or changes were made in the constitution of
the Mining and Metallurgy Society. Graham
Hachen apologised to the Union for the ab-
sence of Clementine in the Carnival Proces-
sion, but explained that the mascot was on
the sick list with gasket disorders. A n early
recovery was expected.
The latest world record to be broken by
a Minesman was announced: two minutes
eleven seconds to swill two dozen eggs. M r .
Heape stated that he readily accepted the
challenge of the Dagenham bird who has
claimed 90 seconds in practice; he considered
this impossible.
During his retiring President's report, John
Fairfield ceremoniously mounted the Presid-
ential Throne, a fine piece of vitreous china
by Thomas Crapper and Sons of Chelsea.
After a fine report on another successful
Mines year the throne was handed over to
Spud Oldfield, who presented the retiring Pre-
sident and Secretary with tankards filled with
Final Selection. These were drunk to the
traditional calls of "Up, up". The meeting
closed with a fine rendering of "Cat" led by
the new President seated comfortably on his
throne.
S M A L L A D .
G E N U I N E B A R G A I N Electric Razors:
Accura 3 (German). British and Continental
Mains, 6 volt car battery or tapping, self
contained regenerative battery lasting 10
days. One year guarantee. Retail Price
£9.18.6. Price to anyone interested at I.C.:
£6.17.6. Contact: P.J. Lawrence, P.G.E.E.
##. Kamae
(boohs) Ltd.
N E W B O O K S
S E C O N D H A N D BOOKS
and now . . P A P E R B A C K S
Visit our new paperbacks shop at 56,
Gloucester Road, where a comprehensive
selection of general technical and
scientific paperbacks are on display.
56-S89 Gloucester Mood,
S.W.7

