-8 FELIX
30ft spanner laughs at security
>1
v
L A W R I E , B E R N I E AND S P A N N E R
At 22.00 hrs. on the night of 16th May.
1962 five persons of unknown identity as-
sembled in a room in a Hostel, well loaded
with equipment, well prepared for the ard-
ous task they had set themselves (if sober).
A sixth, equally unidentified person, joined
the assault group having volunteered to act
as watchdog at the last moment.
Preparations were completed and the six
people stealthily left the Hostel at 23.15 hrs.
heavilv laden with the following: —
1 6" Brush
1 Bucket
i Gallon of paste
600 ft of rope
1 Sling
100 ft. of String
Rugby shirts—numerous
1 roll of paper 30 ft. long painted with red
stripes, vaguely resembling a spanner in
outline
1 enormous bag to get as much as possible
of the above into.
By 1.45 hrs. the assault group of five, two
mountaineers, two pullers, and one who
thought of the idea, arrived at the top of the
Physics building. The luggage was trans-
ported to the other side of the roof and a
rope lowered about fifty feet onto the level
of the Senior Common Room.
The first mountaineer descended, and the
one who thought of it was half lowered, to
the accompaniment of whispered swear-
word and anglo-saxon descriptive nouns.
Then followed the luggage. The other pul-
lers descended in approximately the same way
followed by the second mountaineer.
At this point we discovered the rope was
stuck. The easiest way to release it was to
climb through a conveniently open window in-
to the S.C.R., unlock the door, go up the
stairs, out of the window, throw the rope
down and return the same way. This was
done.
The time—1.00 hrs. Thursday morning.
Final preparations were completed. The
Spanner-hanger (the first mountaineer) climbed
into the sling and was lowered over the edge
of the building with an extra rope in the Ap-
saal position. The three pullers were grimly
hanging onto the rope and were stuck there
for the next hour.
The spanner, brush, and bucket of paste
were lowered and the operation of pasting
began. After about twenty minutes of, "Down
six inches" (Grunts), "Down a bit more"
(Grunts), "Up a bit" (Those anglo-saxon
nouns again), one of the security officers de-
cided to look round the S.C.R., turned on
the lights and checked the windows.
We was worried.
The paper hanging was eventually finished
and the mountaineer descended to the
ground. The rest of the party apsaaled
down the. 90 ft. wall, the luggage having been
lowered first. The watch-dog announced that
nothing had happened on his level so we
cleared up and left at about 3.15 hrs., the
job having taken about four hours, and the
mountaineer had been hanging for about an
hour.
Signed,
"The one who thought of the idea"
L O O K I N G B A C K
It is not inappropriate to recall how Span-
ner was captured and repainted in R.C.S.
colours towards the end of the Guilds Fresh-
ers Dinners last Xmas.
It has been observed that the Guilds Mas-
cot Bearers always took the same route from
the bar after each Fresher's Dinner. This
gave the R.C.S. Vice-President an idea. Af-
ter one of these Dinners, as the Spanner
minders turned the corner half-way up the
stairs besides the snack bar, they saw wait-
ing for them a hand-picked bunch of Geo-
logists, Chemists, and Mathematicians who
swept down on them. Turning and retracing
their steps the Guildsmen saw the other half
of a neat pincer movement, composed of
Physicists, Zoologists and Botanists, wno
swarmed up to meet them. Spanner was cap-
tured, and pushed through the Snack Bar
window into a waiting car. A n interesting
point about the actual painting of the R.C.S.
colours was that the paint was mixed in the
bulb of an old experimental model of Theta
which was in fact the float from the ball-
cock of a Guilds lavatory. The Spanner was
buried in the tow-path at Putney, and Guilds
regained the Spanner on Morphy Day.
I T T O O K P R O F E S S I O N A L M E N T W O
D A Y S T O R E M O V E T H E S P A N N E R
S T O P P R E S S
C A T - C A L L has been fired. His parting word
was "meaow!"
D 1 . . _ . Published by F E L I X B O A R D , Imperial College, London, S.W.7
Plates & offset printing by WEST L O N D O N OFFSET CO., 86, Lillie Road, London, S.W.6. Tel.: F U L

