Sour Cream
I must say that I am surprised by the response
of the 22 Club to Mr Marshall's Soapbox
article (see letters page). That they choose to
defend themselves is not surprising, but to try
and defend the sordid actions of Mr
Thompson by denying matters of indesputable
fact is unwise. As a witness to the event which
prompted Mr Marshall's article I am in a
position to assess the factual content myself. 1
could not have printed such allegations if I had
not been able to confirm their validity.
As for his own interpretations and
conclusions about the results of such actions, I
for one agree with his main point, i.e. that the
indulgence of excesses in public can only serve
to damage the reputation of the College as a
whole. Those people who are proud of the
RCS (as the 22 Club members undoubtedly
are) should try to prevent such excesses from
re-occurring by not supporting the loud and
abusive behaviour which inevitably leads to
such events.
The fact that the need was felt to write such
an article must surely indicate that there really
is a problem. It's no use denying it, so why
bother.
Bored Stiff
I'm not surprised that Tuesday's U G M was
inquorate. Fristly the Exec News produced
last week was hardly inspiring. The one motion
which was included proved to be pointless and
totally uninspiring, which would hardly
encourage people to attend.
It was stupid to censure Barney McCabe
for late arrival, and not take advantage of the
situation to question his ridiculous report.
What about a no-confidence motion next time,
instead of this weak "censure" approach all the
time?
I think it is indicative of the failings of this
year's Executive that UGMs so far have had to
rely on Rag Mag motions to maintain quoracy.
If there are no worthwhile motions it is either
because a stimulus from them is not there or
that they are incapable of proposing motions
themselves. The primary example was the
token opposition to the recent increases for
Halls and Houses this term. Despite the fact
that ICU Council has policy against mid-
sessional increases, not one of the Executive
considered stiff opposition to the rent
increases or even a rent strike. When I asked
Nick Morton why he didn't consider a rent
strike he said "Nobody proposed one." If we
cannot rely on the President to lead, who will?
Big Equipment
On Wednesday Mr Pallab Ghosh walked into
the FELIX Office and proudly announced "I'm
after 8mm equipment." He was somewhat
perplexed by the convulsions of laughter
which ensued and proceeded to explain that
he was talking about equipment for the Film
Society which may be set up next year. If you
are interested in starring in, producing or
directing films meet above Southside Bar,
Tuesday, 12:30pm, with a view to reforming
Film Society.
Republic Day Celebration
Don't forget that India Society are haying a
Republican Day celebration and .disco in the
Junior C o m m o n Room at 7:00pm on
Saturday, February 6, 1982. Tickets are £1.50.
It sounds like fun, so make a note in your
diary!
Credits
People I forgot last week: Matt, Rich and Paul.
My thanks once more to all those who
helped this week: Soheel, Ramzi, Peter, Martin
S., Steve, Eddie, Lesley, Paul, Pallab, Mo, Jez
and the other collators, Maz and Ian.
Rotary Club
Appeal
Some years ago the Rotary International was
asked to assist in the formation of a service
oriented association for young people and as a
result a number of Rotoract Clubs were
subsequently formed linked to and sponsored
by local Rotary Clubs. The age limits for,
membership were between 18 and 28 and the
intention was that apart from association
participants should involve themselves in
charitable and local community ventures.
Mr Hunt, the Manager of the Imperial
College branch of National Westminster Bank,
is a local Rotarian and understands that
interest has been shown on forming a Rotoract
Club based on Imperial College. Will anyone
seeking further information please contact him
on phone number 581-2881.
There's a certain mathematical precision
about the way my barber works: he offers any
of seven different styles and for each he cuts
off a certain number of grams of hair according
to the following.
Long and shaggy (the 'Marco Ledwold' look),
26 grams cut off.
Long and not-so-shaggy (the 'Nick Morton'),
27 grams cut off.
Short and sophisticated (the 'Barney
McCabe'), 36 grams cut off.
Short and very sophisticated (the 'Mark
Smith'), 37 grams cut off.
Pan-American (clipper right over the top),
47 grams cut off.
Short back and polish (the 'Eric Brown'), 54
grams cut off.
The complete Dave Gayer, 55 grams cut off.
After a fairly brisk day's trade last week, he
swept up just 150 grams of offcuts. What range
of styles had his customers requested?
Solutions, comments, criticisms to me at the
FELIX Office, please. There are a bumper set
of prizes this week. The winners drawn at
random at 1:00pm on Wednesday will receive
£5 (donated by Mend-a-Bike), a voucher for a
free cut and blow dry (donated by Jingles,
Gloucester Rd especialy for this puzzle), and a
pair of free tickets to the film Taps (see page
3).
Last Week's Solution
The Hon Sec must be enthusiastic, dedicated,
cheerful and friendly.
The prize was won by Richard Fox, Chem
Eng 1.
'Next week's Ents film is Star Trek-The It appears that Star Trek 2 is on the way,
Motion Picture. The film has some and will be shown in the cinema rather than on
interesting sequences, especially the effects television (as has been suggested). Paramount
work which was completed in record time by now say that both William Shatner and
Douglas Trumbull. Leonard Nimoy will star again.
FELIX is published by the Editor for and on behalf of the Imperial College Union Publications Board, and is printed by the Union Print Unit, Prince
Consort Road, London SW7 2BB (589-5111 ext 1048 int 2881) Copyright FELIX 1982. Editor: M A Smith, Advertising Manager: S M Giblin.

