"You'll find it tastes just as good
coming up as it does going down.
99
Patrick Coll interviews
Victor Mooney
I'd like to «fart by atklng you what are your
responsibilities at College?
I'm responsible for providing the Refectory
service or maintaining it, subject to economic
considerations, to the satisfaction of the
College authorities.
So, roughly, how many meal* do you serve
each day?
Between two and two and a half thousand. It's
dropped a fair bit in the last few years.
Do you tee any reason why the numbers have
dropped?
Yes, it's a general downturn in business,
every university is suffering the same. Senate
House have gone down by 30% of their
business and they don't rely so much on
students.
So you think that students are eating a lot
less?
Yes, when I first came here all the students
coming to College from various schools had
been having school meals, and we used to
supply milk for them. We used to buy
hundreds and hundreds of half-pint cartons,
then suddenly school milk stopped and now
hardly anybody drinks milk in the mornings. I
think a trend began with comprehensive and
grammar school students no longer taking
school meals, and now this trend has spread
to us.
I'd like you to outline your life so far. If as you
aay In FELIX In May 19SS, your life as a cook
didn't atari on Joe'a Stall on the Mile End
Road, when did you take up catering?
In 1948.
/ think you've been to sea at a cook?
Not as a cook, no.
Have you any cures tor seasickness?
Just eat as much as you can.
When I feel seasick I find It difficult to eat.
Yes, I know, but you want to eat as much as
you can, you'll find it tastes just as good
coming up as it does going down.
Have you any particular memories of the
Selsden Park Hotel or the St James Court
Hotel?
Well, they were different worlds, of course.
Did you enjoy your period at the Grand
Hotel?
Harrogate? Very much. I enjoyed Harrogate.
It was a very nice area.
/• It true you started your career at Imperial as
"Union Dietician In Chief?
Well no, I started as Refectory Manager, and
that's still my title.
Do you regret coming to Imperial?
Not really. I've enjoyed the years I've been
here. I get ups and downs like anybody else,
but I have no regrets.
So you think It provides a good outlet for your
abilities?
I think so, and I think I've worked at the job,
and certainly I've put as much as is humanly
possible into it. I'm not always right, of
course.
Have you ever been confused with members
of the Unification Church?
No.
So, If you were not what you are now, Is there
anything else you'd rather be, maybe fulfilling
a childhood ambition?
Oh, something like Sir Francis Chichester.
I'd like to move on to your hobble* and other
activities. What tort of music, art or film* do
you like?
I very seldom see films, but I must confess to
watching the odd late-night cowboy on the
television.
Victor Mooney: the most hated man at IC.
So that'* one of your favourite sort* ot
television programme?
Yes the late-night cowboy film, which is a
distraction. My musical tastes are fairly low
brow I would have thought, just middle of
the road stuff.
Are there any thing* that you really like or
dislike?
Well, I very much like sailing, and carpentry, I
enjoy that side of my life quite a lot. I dislike
smoking, I don't like smoking at all, I find it a
terrible habit. That's probably my main
dislike.
What newspapers do you read?
The Sunday Times mainly, Telegraph and the
Evening Standard.
Do you find they give a good balance of
views?
Yes, I think so. I disregard a lot of the
Telegraph's views because they are like the
other side of the coin, too biased to be
presentable. You read a Communist paper
and you get one side and you read the
Telegraph and I suppose midway between
the two you get something right.
A* an aside, how do you feel about abortion
on demand?
Abortion on demand?
Yes.
I don't know. I can see it happening, but it
isn't the sort of thing I'm qualified to talk
about, I can see that, as an onlooker, it's
going to happen, probably; in fact it does
happen in some places.
What about sport, do you like watching
cricket?
I don't watch much cricket.
Do you like watching rugby?
Occasionally, but not too much of it. I like the
New Zealanders. Their game is tremendous.
How do you feel about team* playing In
South Africa, do you think that'* right?
I don't think so. I think it's almost a
hypothetical question in as much as there has
been nothing going there in the last few
years. I don't think unless you go there you
are ever going to get them to break down the
laws that they have got. I mean they have
broken them down now, and I think the more
they insist on playing mixed teams, the more
chance the other people have of coming
through. And one story I used to like, and
you've probably heard it, is that the English
cricket team used to love playing in South
Africa because all the blacks used to cheer
them on. They got more support there than
they did in their own country. It must be like
the West Indians at the Oval.
Whilst we are on South Africa, how do you
feel about Aparteld In general, a* I think the
Union ha* discussed It In the past?
Oh, I think that it's a dying thing. It will die out
like all these things. It's already altered
altogether now and I think that given time it
will go. Obviously, it's not going to be fast
enough for the blacks and its going to be too
fast for the whites some how or other, like
Rhodesia is coming round.
So you think It will be a good thing?
I think it will eventually. I think its going to be
quite a few years before the blacks are
educated to the necessary standard because
until that time there is bound to be a lot more
violence and unpleasantness.
Just talking about the Union, how do you
regard It not being part of the NUS?
W9ll, they have been in and out more times
than I can remember. They keep on coming
and going.
Doe* It make much difference?
I don't think it makes a lot of difference.
Do you play much sport, like golf?
No, I used to play golf, but I find I don't get
the time.
You probably had a very low handicap.
No, my handicap was about twenty-four.
/ shouldn't have thought there were many golf
clubs around College?
No, I used to play on holiday mainly.
You said you have done a bit of tailing, how
do you feel abut the current ttate of Britain's
Inland waterways?
Well, they are coming up healthy, I think.
They're improving all the time.
/ understand that you are a connoisseur of
wine* . . . .
Well, no I just enjoy wines.
I've aeen a cabinet of wine* for tale In the
Sherfield Building, perhapt you could explain
to ttudentt If they can buy wine* from the
College cellar* and how they would go about
It?
Yes, they can have any wine they like, six
bottles and over, and they get a 7 V 2 %
discount. I think you'll find that represents a
great deal of value on some of the wines, on
others, it just brings them down to the off-
licence price, but in general it does give a
good deal.
And they can have them for any reason?
Yes, anytime they want some, just give us a
ring, or drop in, and we'll get them up for
them.
On the subject of food and drink, you must
have tatted a great variety of food, do you
have, tor Inttance, a favourite Ice cream?
I like sorbets.
Do you read FELIX?
Oh yes.
Do you like It?
I enjoy it. I have to accept that it is a student
newspaper, and when they write about me
sometimes I feel tempted to reply. The last one
wasn't too complimentary, but on the other
hand, it's something that has to be written
among yourselves and it's for your own
therefore I have to not so much ignore it, I
Page 4 FEUX November 28, 1980

