always take notice of what it says, but I never
have replied to it, I think it is only fair that you
are entitled to your point of view, and to voice
it. I would rather they didn't use that sort of
language.
So you think It's been a bit harsh on you In the
patt?
Sometimes it has, but I think I've had a fair
crack of the whip.
I'd like to ask you about the cockroaches. Is It
true burnt you said In 1970 that cockroaches
were basically clean harmless animals?
It was put to us by a biologist that they were
not dirty.
But do you agree with his view?
No. I don't like them. They come in, we can't
do much about it, in packing cases, but we
have a cleaning contract with Rent-o-kii who
spray the premises weekly and in the bars, as
well. But they can't get rid of them in Linstead
Hall. Did you know that? Linstead Hall is in-
fested upstairs where the students keep food,
and they keep dropping down into our areas.
Do you still assert then that the Savoy Hotel
has cockroaches?
They did have at the time, but I don't think
they have now.
Do tiles still present a ma/or health hazard In
the kitchen?
No, I don't think so. We've got fly killers
situated at the main entrances.
Can you reassure students that the cutlery
looks as It It has been badly washed, not
because It has been badly washed, but
because of the hard water In this area?
Basically it's the hard water in the area.
Occasionally, it is air dried and we get streaks
if the water is not hot enough and in fact it is
a deposit of lime, it's not dirt. They are
washed as hygenically as possible.
How Is It then that the cutlery In the Royal
College of Art has no scales on It?
I don't know, because I haven't seen their
cutlery. I think one reason that they can get
away with a better standard than us, is the
numbers we do. It is a smaller unit. Possibly
they have got nicer staff or better staff and
they may have more modern machines for all
I know. There could be a variety of reasons. I
would accept that we should do as well as
them, we shouldn't make excuses. At the
moment we have a bit of a problem with the
chlorifier outfit, and when that's back in it
shouldn't be any worse than anything else.
Are you satisfied with the way In which food
Is transferred to Southside and Linstead
kitchens?
No. There is a problem here in as much as
we are using frozen food in the transfers.
They should certainly be covered and sent
across in sealed containers. It shouldn't go on
a trolley because we have got a van now.
But It Is still taken from the van to the kitchens
by the trolley.
In that case it should be covered.
So you Intend to do something about It?
Yes.
Do you eat In the Refectories or Senior
Dining Rooms?
I eat here in the office usually. I eat the same
food as yourselves.
Do you enjoy It?
Yes I usually have something off the counter
every day usually a salad, because I will
confess, like everybody else in the catering
business, I have a weight problem.
Maybe you could give students some advice
as to where to eat outside college as I gather
some aren't particularly keen on the meals
here.
Well, it depends on what sort of thing they
want to eat. If you go along to MacDonalds in
Kensington High Street you'll pay half as
much again for the same dish, because we
use the same sort of burger, and same sort of
bun as they use, all we do is don't put the
dressing in the middle of it, and the chips, you
probably get twice as many chips for half the
money. I've been to the Hot Pot, it is
continuously recommended to me.
Mr Riz Shaklr, Deputy President In 1975, said
of your meals "for the poor quality of food
such high prices can only be described as
unreasonable". I suggest that many students
would have other words with which to
describe your meals and prices. Do you think
that this criticism Is still valid today?
No, and it wasn't valid then. We were about
half way down the league in University of
L o n d o n prices, and we still are. T h e
difference is that we provide a longer and
bigger service than any other college in
London. No others stay open at weekends or
evenings. The functions and social side of the
catering in this College is something that no
others even attempt. If we abolish this, and
the breakfast service, cut out weekends and
evening meals we would be able to be
cheaper, or at least not raise our prices with
inflation.
/ understand that the breakfast service may
be closed down?
It doesn't pay. It serves about thirty
breakfasts each morning.
/ get the Impression that, as a whole the
Union Isn't particularly keen on you. You
were described In FELIX In 1973 In these
terms: "listening to his Union meeting
offering It seemed hardly credible that he has
any responsibilities towards Imperial College
catering at all". Do you think the situation has
changed since then?
Well, I don't remember the Union meeting
concerned. I've been to a couple of meetings
and I don't think that's true at all. I've had a
responsibility to IC ever since I took the job
on, and I've given the best part of my life to it.
Certainly, I've done the job to the best of my
ability, and the staff have worked as hard as I
have.
Do you charge VAT?
Not on student meals, but on staff meals.
On the subject of money: do you think that a
reduction In the rate of growth In the money
supply Is a necessary and sufficient condition
for a reduction In the rate of Inflation?
I'm not convinced. I can't see a lot of sense in
putting people out of work and paying them
to do nothing. I can see that people.. just ask
for a rise. They think it's their right to have a
rise every year. I was brought up in an age
when you got a rise every five or ten years.
Do you think that the Introduction of the
cook-freeze system has been a success?
Limited. Unfortunately it coincided with the
drop in business, so it's not been used to its
full potential.
Earlier this term FELIX said: "frozen food
from the Sherfleld kitchens Is being kept In a
normal refrldgerator In Southside for a
number of weeks before being served up In
the Refectory there. After this period of time,
It Is long thawed out and getting rotten". Is
that the case?
No, definitely not.
But yourself and your assistant went over
there . . .
Yes, because they kept the lunchtime meals
after heating them up, through to the evening.
That is definitely wrong. In general the food
goes straight into the deep freeze and is
stored there.
Is It true that you said In 1967 In FELIX that If
a meal seems particularly bad It can always
be exchanged?
You are asked to give it back at the counter,
and that's the best bet, because it can be
looked at, at the time
Before It Is payed for?
No, even if it has been started and there is
something wrong with it, then bring it back.
How much of a portion must be left for an
exchange to be acceptable?
Well, we don't expect you to have eaten 90%
and come back with 10%. If you feel there's
someting wrong with it — bring it back.
The catering has been described In FOR-
WARD as a "service which everyone agrees Is
totally Ineffective and Inefficient and
produces completely Indescribable and
Inedible meals". This Is a fair and accurate
description of the current situation. Do you
agree?
Is FORWARD a Conservative newspapet?
No, Liberal. ****
No, I don't agree. If you go on to read his
complaints, I think it is mainly concerned with
there being no cups of tea or coffee.
What are your main difficulties?
iWe have to provide a capacity service until
Christmas and for half that number for the
rest of the year.
Do you think that the quality of the meals Is as
high as It could be?
In general, yes. Certainly, there are odd
dishes that we fall down on.
Would you like to tell students which dishes
you fall down on, so they can avoid them?
Well, my impression is that we fall down on
some dishes, but other people's tastes may be
different. For example, the baked minced
beef roll is extremely popular. It's a cheap
dish, it's a tasty dish, and it's a filling dish.
Now I would find that too much. In general
the meals are good value. If one dish one
day doesn't come out alright, it doesn't mean
we've made a mess of everything.
So you think that students should look
forward to eating here?
I think they could. I'm not an exception; this
goes on all over the country. The same
problems arise in every other university. We
get RCA and RCM students eating here. I
know you may find that hard to believe and
some of the RCM students have said they
don't like the food there and would much
rather eat here. I'm not saying we have a
monopoly of good food, but certainly they
haven't any more than we have.
I think our main fault at the moment is that
most of our premises are too big and too
institutional looking.
But your main task Is to cater for IC students
rather than RCM students, so do you have
any future plans to Improve the catering here,
or are you content to leave It In the disgusting
state that many feel It has degenerated Into
since you came here?
I disagree. I don't think it has degenerated
into a disgusting state. I'm unhappy about the
Union. The manageress resigned and now we
have no manageress. As far as the Union is
concerned the food there is as good as it has
ever been, and over the last couple of years it
has enjoyed a very good reputation.
We are looking all the time for improve-
ments. We've changed Southside twice in the
last four years, and we may change it again in
another two or three months. We don't rest,
we try to change with the times. The problem
is there is no money to make it look as if we're
changed. I think you've got to appreciate
there is no money now left in the College to
do anything. Southside Refectory is a giant, it
is far too big for it's purpose. It is impersonal,
it gives the impression that nobody is around.
Unless it's busy, it looks almost like an
aircraft hanger. Until we can alter that, I think
people will say that the food isn't good.
Are you suggesting that the size of the
building affects the quality of the food?
No. I'm suggesting that the surroundings you
eat in affect what you think of the food. If not,
why do restaurants and brewers spend so
much on decor? It does enhance it, it's like
alcohol served with a meal.
Thank you very much tor your frank
Interview. I'll have to go, I'm having lunch at
the RCA, would you like to come?
No thanks, but I think that the chairman of
the Refectories Committee eats there
sometimes.
FEUX November 28, 1980 Page 7

