U N I T E D N A T I O N S
U N I V E R S A L
D E C L A R A T I O N O F
H U M A N R I G H T S
T H E G E N E R A L A S S E M B L Y
proclaims
T H I S U N I V E R S A L D E C L A R A T I O N O F
H U M A N R I C H T S as a common standard of
achievement for all peoples and all nations, to
the end that every individual and every organ
of society, keeping this Declaration constantly
in mind, shall strive hy teaching and education
to promote respect for these rights and freedoms
and hy progressive measures, national and inter-
national, to secure their universal and effective
recognition and observance, both among the
peoples of Member States themselves and among
the peoples of territories under their jurisdiction.
Article 1. All human beings are born free and
equal in dignity and rights. They are endowed
with reason and conscience and should act
towards one another in a spirit of brotherhood.
Article 2. Everyone is entitled to all the rights
and freedoms set forth in this Declaration, with-
out distinction of any kind, such as race, colour,
sex, language, religion, political or other opinion,
national or social origin, property, birth or other
status.
Furthermore, no distinction shall he made on
the basis of the political, jurisdictional or inter-
national status of the country or territory to
which a person belongs, whether it be independ-
ent, trust, non-self-governing or under any other
limitation of sovereignty.
Article 3. Everyone has the right to life, liberty
and security of person.
Article 4. N o one shall he held in slavery or
servitudej slavery and the slave trade shall be
prohibited in all their forms.
Article 5. N o one shall he subjected to torture
or to cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or
punishment.
Article 6. Everyone has the right to recognition
everywhere as a person before the law.
Article 7. All are equal before the law and are
entitled without any discrimination to equal pro-
tection of the law. All are entitled to equal pro-
tection against any discrimination in violation of
this Declaration and against any incitement to
such discrimination.
Article 8. Everyone has the right to an effective
remedy by the competent national tribunals for
acts violating the fundamental rights granted
him by the constitution or by law.
Article 9. N o one shall be subjected to arbitrary
arrest, detention or exile.
Article 10. Everyone is entitled in full equality
to a fair and public hearing by an independent
and impartial tribunal, in the determination of
his rights and obligations and of any criminal
charge against him.
Article 11. (I) Everyone charged with a penal
offence has the right to be presumed innocent
until proved guilty according to law in a public
trial at which he has had all the guarantees
necessary for his defence.
(2) N o one shall be held guilty of any penal
offence on account of any act or omission which
did not constitute a penal offence, under national
or international law, at the time when it was
committed. Nor shall a heavier penalty be im
posed than the one that was applicable at the
time the penal offence was committed.
Article 12. N o one shall be subjected to arbi-
trary interference with his privacy, family, home
or correspondence, nor to attacks upon his hon-
our and reputation. Everyone has the right to
the protection of the law against such interfer-
ence or attacks.
Article 13. (I) Everyone has the right to freedom
of movement and residence within the borders
of each state.
(2) Everyone has the right to leave any country,
including his own, and to return to his country.
Article 14. (I) Everyone has the right to seek
and to enjoy in other countries asylum from per-
secution.
(2) This right may not he invoked in the case
of prosecutions genuinely arising froin non-polit-
ical crimes or from acts contrary to the purposes
and principles of the United Nations.
Article 15. (1) Everyone has the right to a
nationality.
(2) N o one shall be arbitrarily deprived of his
nationality nor denied the right to change his
nationality.
Article 16. (1) Men and women of full age,
without any limitation due to race, nationality
or religion, have the right to marry and to found
a family. They are entitled to equal rights as to
marriage, during marriage and at its dissolution.
(2) Marriage shall be entered into only with the
free and full consent of the intending spouses.
(3) The family is the natural and fundamental
group unit of society and is entitled to protection
by society and the State.
Article 17. (1) Everyone has the right to own
property alone as well as in association with
others.
(2) N o one shall be arbitrarily deprived of his
property.
Article 18. Everyone has the right to freedom
of thought, conscience and religion; this right
includes freedom to change his religion or belief,
and freedom, either alone or in community with
others and in public or private, to manifest his
religion or belief in teaching, practice, worship
and ohscnance
Article 19. Everyone has the right to freedom
of opinion and expression,- this right includes
freedom to hold opinions without interference
and to se^-k receive and impart information and
ideas through any media and regardless of
frontiers.
Article 20. Everyone has the right to free-
dom ot peaceful assembly and association
(.21 \ o one may he compelled to belong to an
association
Article 21. v 11
Everyone has the right to take-
part in the government ot his country, directly
or through treelv chosen representatives.
1.21 Evervone has the right of equal access to
puhlk service in his country.
13) The will ot the people shall he the basis of
the authoritv ot government; this will shall be
expressed in periodic and genuine elections
whiv.li shall he In universal and equal suffrage
and shall he held hy secret vote or hy equivalent
tree voting procedures
Article 22. Evervone. as a member of society,
has the right to social security and is entitled to
realization, through national effort and inter-
national co-operation and in accordance with
the organization and resources of each State, of
the economiv. sovial and cultural rights indis-
pensable tor his dignitv and the free develop-
ment .ot his personality
Article 23. (1) Everyone has the right to work, to
tree choice of employment, to just and favourable
conditions of work and to protection against
unemployment.
(2) Everyone, without any discrimination, has
the right to equal pay for equal work.
(3) Everyone who works has the right to just
and favourable remuneration ensuring for him-
self and his family an existence worthy of human
dignity, and supplemented, if necessary, by other
means of social protection.
(4) Evervone has the right to form and to join
trade unions for the protection of his interests
Article 24. Everyone has the right to rest and
leisure, including reasonable limitation of work-
ing hours and periodic holidays with pay.
Article 25. (1) Everyone has the right to a
standard of living adequate for the health and
well-being of himself and of his family, includ
ing food, clothing, housing and medical care
and necessary social services, and the right to
security in the event of unemployment, sick-
ness, disability, widowhood, old age or other
lack of livelihood in circumstances beyond his
control.
(2) Motherhood and childhood are entitled to
special care and assistance. All children, whether
horn in or out of wedlock, shall enjoy the same
social protection.
Article 26. (1) Everyone has the right to edu-
cation. Education shall be free, at least in the
elementary and fundamental stages. Elementary
education shall be compulsory. Technical and
professional education shall be made generally
available and higher education shall be equally
accessible to all on the basis of merit.
(2) Education shall be directed to the full de-
velopment of the human personality and to the
strengthening of respect for human rights and
fundamental freedoms. It shall promote under-
standing, tolerance and friendship among all
nations, racial or religious groups, and shall
further the activities of the United Nations for
the maintenance of peace.
(3) Parents have a prior right to choose the kind
of education that shall be given to their children.
Article 27. (|) Everyone has the right freelv to
participate in the cultural life of the community,
to enjoy the arts and to share in scientific ad
vancement and its benefits.
(2) Everyone has the right to the protection of
the moral and material interests resulting from
any scientific, literary or artistic production of
which he is the author.
Article 28. Everyone is entitled to a social and
international order in which the rights and free
doms set forth in this Declaration can be fully
realized.
Article 29. (1) Everyone has duties to the com-
munity in which alone the free and full develop-
ment of his personality is possible.
(2) In the exercise of his rights and freedoms,
everyone shall be subject only to such limitations
as are determined by law solely for the purpose
of securing due recognition and respect for the
rights and freedoms of others and ot meeting
the just requirements of morality, public order
and the general welfare in a democratic society,
(3) These rights and freedoms may in no case
he exercised contrary to the purposes and princi-
ples of the United Nations.
Article 30. Nothing in this Declaration may he
interpreted as implying for any State, group or
person any right to engage in any activity or to
perform any act aimed at the destruction ot any
of the rights and freedoms set forth herein
13

