ROGER STOTESBURY - JUST A SECRETARY?
BIG CONFERENCES AND ELECTION RULES O.K.
JUST A SEC(RETARY)
If this article was a forum for my personal
views it would have a resoundingly depressive
air to it this week. For as a sabbatical I have a
good idea of what the potential of this Union
could be. I am convinced we have the potential
to achieve alot more for the wellbeing of us all.
College life, including the course content and
presentation, is by no means perfect and it
could just be that if you cared and took the
initiative things might be changed.
YOUR VIEW
O K so many of you read the last Exec News
and thought "what a bore!" or "how does that
affect me". If that's the case you have only
yourself to blame. If you want to see a motion
on refectories, accommodation, the social life,
your course, etc, why not put it in yourself.
The deadline for motions for the next
UGM is Tuesday 29th January. They
should be handed or myself in the ICU
Office.
BIG CONFERENCE
This Union is proud that it will be staging the
most important annual conference of students
of science and technology in Europe. For a
week during Easter 1981, we will be hosts to
one hundred students. It is not only an
occasion to discuss common matters relevant
to our education or careers, visit industry,
sightsee, but also the chance to get to know
many new friends.
At a meeting this Thursday 31st January
I would like to see thirty first or second years
who would like to be involved in the week. The
meeting is in the S C R and starts at 1:00pm.
DUREX MACHINE A N D RECIP-
R O C A L ARRANGEMENTS
Following my piece two weeks ago two
points: Girls, there is a machine, of course, in
the ladies toilet in the Union Building, but not
one in Southside (hopefully there will be soon).
Also, thanks to those who have been giving me
info concerning our reciprocal arrangements. I
will reply to you on the outcome of my
investigations.
NUCLEAR WASTE
I was pleased to see at the U G M a motion
presented on an environmental issue (the
transport of nuclear waste through London). It
was decided that the I C U banner should go on
a protest march rfiis Saturday. I must
applaud the individual who whilst saying he
was in favour of nukes also said that we must
eradicate the unnecessary safety risks involved.
If you feel the same way join me at Beit Arch
on Saturday at 11:00.
ADVENTURE PLAYGROUND
O n e event of last term's Environmental
Week was of a practical nature. We visited an
adventure playground in Hackney to begin the
job of rebuilding it.
Since then I C U has adopted it and a return
visit was o r g a n i s e d last week by the
Community Action Group. It really was fun.
We rigged up a fence to stop the hall getting
flooded again and began construction of a rope
swing. We shall be returning on 2nd February.
O n the same note, Art club will be joining us
on the project by painting murals on the wall
with the kids.
FINNISTON
O n 9th January a report was published
which might have a fundamental effect on your
c a r e e r . A s students of engineering it is
important we c o n c e r n ourselves with the
Finniston Report. A s a student union we
should concern ourselves with the educational
aspects. That is why in March there will be a
major event Education Engineering Following
Finniston.
ELECTION RULES
O n Tuesday's U G M , I presented a motion
on election rules. This altered three areas:
candidates publicity, media and the appeals
procedure. The new election rules are:
1. Enforcement
The enforcement of these rules shall be in the
hands of the Elections Committee, which will
consist of the I C U Hon Secretary and Council
members chosen at random. Subject to the
constraint that all candidates are satisfied with
the impartiality of the latter.
The Committee shall have the power to:
1. Ratify an election.
2. Order that the election procedure be re-run.
3. Disqualify one or more candidates, without
reference to a U G M .
2 or 3 above may be order if:
a. One or more candidate goes beyond the
limits given below.
b. T h e r e is e v i d e n c e that one or more
candidate was prohibited or discouraged from
using FELIX, S T O I C , or IC Radio or that
submitted material was detrimentally altered by
the editorial staff of such media. All Union
m e d i a m u s t be e q u a l l y a v a i l a b l e to all
candidates.
c. A candidate does permanent damage to any
Union or College area.
d. A candidate directly attempts to influence
the impartiality of any member of the Section
Committee or Union staff.
e. A candidate employs campaign tactics
designed to give him/her an unfair advantage
over the other candidates.
f. The election is unconstitutionally run by the
Returning Officer.
g. All media or newsletter reports or comments
on the election do not mention the names of all
the candidates standing for a post.
Any decision taken shall require a simple
majority of the committee, the chairperson
having the casting vote.
2. Limits
a. The maximum amount which may be spent
on a campaign in one session will be decided
by th Elections Committee and displayed when
papers so up.
b. The total area of publicity produced must
not exceed that of 300 posters and 6 reams of
A4 handouts and must not appear prior to
papers down.
c. Material produced must be covered by an
invoice and/or bill.
d. T h e use of Sherfield facilities must be
reported immediately to the Hon Sec and or
F E U X Editor.
e. G u m backed material is not permitted
f. C C U newspapers may not be used as media
for campaigns in ICU elections.
g. The insignia of any current union publicity
may not appear on a candidates election
material.
3. Objections
Objections, except those directly relating to
the counting procedure (these may be lodged
at any time up to the next U G M ) may be
lodged at anytime up to the commencement of
the count.
4. Appeal
A n appeal against a decision of the Election
Committee can be made only to the I C U
Executive of which only the Returning Officer,
may sit on the Elections Committee.They shall
have the power to uphold or overrule the
appeal. In any case the matter may be referred
to a U G M according to the wishes of one or
more of the candidates.
5. Alteration
The alteration of these rules shall be subject
to the approval of a two thirds majority of a
U G M .
6. Interpretation
The interpretation of these rules is at the
discretion of the Elections Committee.
PG GROUP CHAIRPERSON
I recently learnt that Richard Earl, who held
the above post, would be leaving College
today. He is hence ineligible to continue as a
Union Officer. I am told by the secretary of the
P G Group that papers will be going up next
week. A description of the job is as follows:
The PG Affairs Officer shall sit on the
following Union committees: ICU Council,
Welfare Committee, and Academic Affairs
Committee. He/She shall advise members of
the Executive and other officers of the Union
on matters regarding PG students or PG
education. The PG Affairs Officer shall sit on
the Graduate Students Committee. The PG
Chairman shall chair the postgraduate group
committee which comprises representatives of
departments and large research groups, and
which acts as the postgraduate affairs
committee of the Union.
As PG Chairman he/she must be responsible
for ensuring that the group encourages the
growth and development of departmental
postgraduate groups. He/she should ensure
that PGs have regular social gatherings, in
order to maintain interdepartmental commu-
nications.
The PG Affairs Officer shall be a rep to the
ULU PG Group and should stand for ULU
SRC and go regularly if elected. He should
represent the Union on PG issues and effect
liason with ULU and other external bodies on
such issues.
Roger
PS: Dear Gwen Griffiths, when are you going
to challenge us to a pancake race? Or are you
convinced that
SIR MONTY
FINNISTON
T O S P E A K A T IMPERIAL
2:30 p.m. March 3rd
BIG D E B A T E with four
speakers on the same evening
9

