14 Music 19 October 1998
PLACEBO
Without You I'm Nothing
Placebo let rip with
their second album
• * * y 2
P
lacebo are pretty much a house-
hold name now, you know the
whole deal, black eyeliner and
Brian Molko's sexual nature. They've
made the front cover of nearly all the
music press since they broke into the
nation's consciousness after the release
of the re-vamped single version of
Nancy Boy. Their debut Placebo (why
do bands never think of imaginative
titles anymore?) wasn't exactly shifting
shed loads of units beforehand but
then soon everyone wanted to get their
hands on it. Placebo was thrashy, trashy
and definitely full-on, so have they man-
aged to live up to their own and other
people's expectations with this second
helping?
The two singles from Without
You...will certainly be comforting to fans
who want more of where Placebo was
coming from. The version of Pure Morn-
ing on the album is much more toned
down than the single but this doesn't
mean that it has lost any of its edge. One
of the most classic lines of any song
released this summer has to be: 'A friend
in need's, a friend indeed / A friend with
weed is better'. Last week's 'Essential
Choon', You Don't Care About Us, and it
is certainly worthy of this esteemed posi-
tion, is probably the best track on the
entire album. Here Placebo appear to
have driven down the road heading
towards 'jangly pop' which they detoured
well clear of on their previous LP, happier
with grating thrash outs instead.
The energy rush of the singles is
only mirrored in a couple of other songs.
Brick Shithouse and Allergic (to Thoughts
of Mother Nature), while the rest of the
album is an exercise in self indulgence
on the part of Brian Molko and friends.
These atmospheric moody ballads sound
at times as though they would be better
heard as a backdrop to some 'film noir'.
Placebo performing ballads is admittedly
not as appreciated as Placebo racing
along on grinding guitar mosh alongs,
but if you allow them to grow on you,
then you soon see through to their
soothing beauty.
Placebo haven't rehashed their first
album and tried to feed us more of the
same; instead they have opted for a
more introspective sounding album
which incidentally casts an air of maturity
to their new songs. There isn't any sense
of togetherness which is what you'd
expect when half the album is a manic
mosh out, and the other half contains a
few sublime ballads and a couple of
album fillers. This may be due to the
dreaded 'difficult' second album syn-
drome that affects many bands' careers,
and although Placebo haven't quite man-
aged to emerge from it with a pristine
and shiny A+, they have passed pretty
Comfortably. CI
Jason
WHALE
All Disco Dance Must End In Broken Bones
SILVER SUN
Neo Wave
S
tockholm's Whale have certainly toned down the
'quirkiness' factor since their debut album, despite the
cover closely resembling a scene from an early X-Files
episode.
There are no tracks which show the 'in your face' anthemic
quality of their debut single (and MTV favourite) / lobo I lumpin'
Slobo Babe but this doesn't mean that Whale have become
boring - far from it.
The single that has been released from this album is Four
Big Speakers, which can be best described as trip-hop. Although
a good track, it's not really an accurate representation of what
can be found on the album, which shows quite a diverse range
of styles. If you can imagine a slowed version of Sleeper's Lie
Detector from The It Girl album coupled with a Faith No More
mosh-along chorus and some solid guitar riffs, then you have
Losing Girl. In my opinion, one of the best tracks on the
album. For some lighter listening and sheer hummability So
Where You're Feeling Free and No Better ate to be recom-
mended. The tune Puma Gym is especially catchy - a built-in
Batman-esque backdrop to the tune is an added bonus. The
only poor track is the last tune, entitled 2 Cord Song which
lengthens the album up to nearly an hour and is too Dire Straits
for my liking. Fifty minutes would have sufficed nicely
Altogether, this album is one hour of diverse music, which
is much easier on the ear than the debut album. OK, it took
several listens to get into it, but it was worth it.
If what I have written hasn't convinced you to buy this -
at least nip down to your nearest music store and ask to lis-
ten to it, vou will be pleasantly surprised. CI
Katherine
•
And All IC Degrees End In
Student Loans
P
lease let this not be the new
wave. Silver Sun's singles have
suggested a sugary feel good
tinge. Sixteen tracks of this and it's
about time the sweet shop on the cor-
ner closed. Opener Cheerleader is a
strange beast and a complete red her-
ring. It's all out 80s heavy rock and one
must assume that they are actually tak-
ing the piss. Fither that or too many
drugs were taken and this track was
voted in as a good idea. Rather appro-
priately it starts the album with the line,
'I tried and I tried and I tried and I tried
and I tried.' In case you were wonder-
ing, I tired. Easily.
There are other smatterings of
appropriate lyrical genius splattered
across the album. There's the cheesier
than cheesily cheesy cheese puffs stu-
pid rock of Would've If I Could've, 'Well
I would've if I could've but I couldn't so
I didn't so I should have, if I could have.
Fuck off! There's the poignantly titled,
from a critic's perspective. Dead End,
'Take me to nowhere. I fit in there.' And
not forgetting the 'Oh oh pixie pixie, do,
do, doing what they do,' of Pixie, Pixie.
Granted, a lot of lyrics look inane when
put into cold black and white but if you
listen to this album, you'll understand
from where the irritation arises. Too
much, too little, too late? Too much,
melhinks, too much. CI Dennis

