19 October 1998
THE JON SPENCER BLUES
EXPLOSION
• ••*
The 'Blues Explosion demon-
strate their excitement In
obtaining a four-star review
U
nsurprisingly, The Jon Spencer
Blues Explosion make blues
music. With the standard three-
piece guitar band set up and a plentiful
amount of soul, the 'Blues Explosion
have always managed to impress. Their
unique style involves the marriage of
classic blues and modern style with the
aggression of a rabid dog thrown in for
good measure. Their new album,
Acme, is no exception to this as the
'Blues Explosion stay right on form, and
the production from Steve Albini of
Nevermind fame ensures that the JSBX
don't pull any punches either.
The music featured on Acme is clas-
sic JSBX with powerful vocals and per-
fectly timed breaks and beats. Track titles
also follow the standard blues formula.
There's Lovln' Machine, Do You Wanna
Get Heavy?and, of course, a blues men-
tioning track called Talk about The Blues.
Each title cannot, however, manage to
sum up the feeling and originality that
has obviously gone into each song.
As for the overall quality of the
album, Acme never falters. The afore-
mentioned Lovin' Machine is a classic,
and the uniquely titled Blue Green Olga
is a full-on no holds barred affair. The free
flowing style of crescendo and diminu-
endo the Blues Explosion impressively
employ and the production from Albini
ensures the listener Is always given an
engaging listen.
In conclusion, Acme is a wonderful
album which provides more style and
feeling than ten of your average indie
bands could muster. Sit back and let Jon
Spencer explode the blues through your
stereo. CI
James
JAZZ & ROCK GIG
Union Concert Hall
D
uring Freshers week some of
you just might have chanced
upon the Concert hall. It
seemed that quite a number of you
somehow did drag yourself and your
beer to the top floor of the Union on
the first Thursday of term and had the
good fortune to watch three of the
Union's premiere bands in action.
First up were THE MEN ON THE
GRASSY KNOLL, a supergroup of kinds
drawing on the remarkable vocals of a
certain Mark Elliott (ex of POG fact fans),
the shade wearing, guitar playing Mat
and the tight playing of regulars Jon on
bass (who seems to be becoming some-
what of a sex symbol these days, or so
I'm told) and James on drums. The lights
went up, and off they went running
through an impressively tight set of
crowd pleasers starting with Let me Enter-
tain you and ending with a particularly
kickin' rendition of Killing in the Name of
giving Mark an excuse to say 'Fuck' lots
of times....definitely lots of enthusiasm
and fun in the music
Next up, the mighty Cereal Killer
were unleashed upon the unsuspecting
freshers! For those who still haven't
heard them then why not? Possibly the
second best band ever to come out of
college, they've still got plenty of time to
catch up with Queen in album
sales and on the evidence of this gig
who would bet against them? The sum-
mer break has obviously been fruitful
with their set being perfected and,
refreshingly, also experimented with.
Paul on drums pounded away as if there
was no tomorrow, the guitarists Simon
and Shaz played almost as one and
Gavin's singing was the best I've heard
from him. From the entrance music to
the soulful playing by all four of them,
their brand of rock is always a treat. Most
of all though it is the sense of fun that
pervades their music which draws in the
crowds - this is the standard all the fresh-
ers out there starting bands have to
beat.
Fold were on next and looked quite
nervous about following Cereal Killer.
They played a particularly tight and pol-
ished set as we might expect after a
long sabbatical, with a pleasantly
Garbage-esque produced sheen to it.
Professionally turned out with custom
made drapes bearing their bastardised
BBC logo, no one could fault their per-
formance yet it lacked the atmosphere
of fun that had been built up earlier -
dare I say it was soulless? Certainly they
didn't have the charisma that's required
to bring in and keep the crowds. A
shame as their use of samples is a good
example of what can be achieved here
at Imperial.
All in all a good evening and I hope
more of you will make it to future Jazz
and Rock club events or even be part of
one of the bands on stage. Come to the
next gig before the bands become too
big to play for free - you'll be pleasantly
surprised. CI Martin
S i n g l e s
Candyskins - Somewhere Under London
Put together well but it just doesn't appeal. Although
the tune bounces due to the fancy guitars, the guy's
vocals are bit dull ('somewhere under London' sounds
very much like 'summer under London' - okay!). A lit-
tle bit more enthusiasm would have done it for this
track, but it was not to be, I'm afraid.
Jon Spencer Blues Explosion - ACME
Starts off very mellow with deep, soothing vocals. Great
bass on this and lovely guitar-strings, and did I also get
a hint of organ? Blues fans will love this to bits. The three
songs on the B-side are as good, with additional influ-
ences of jazz and pop.
Stetsasonlc - Talkln'AII That Jazz
The vibrant saxophone Intro is quickly followed by
decent (slow) rapping. The sax player really is the star
of this 'hip-hop' band (as they like to call themselves);
unmistakably fresh, funky jazz. The promo version that
I got contains five mixes, totaling over 35 minutes, but
don't expect more than 20 minutes of this due to the
crappy rule imposed on singles.
Sugarglider - Love In Vain
Strangely enough, this pop-ish tune kicks off with deep
and funky beats and then the sweet female vocals of
the lead singer does damage. I picture this tune being
played at high volume while driving well over the limit
in an open-top Lotus Elise (under the influence of alco-
hol and drugs of course). I guess that makes it a tune
to buy then?
T H E E S S E N T I A L C H O O N
Dem 2 - Destiny
Been waiting a long time for this to surface. Absolutely
super-cool, silky r 'n' b with wicked beats. The beats rock
you immediately and the vocals are full of soul (the
female vocals on the male also works). The only bad
thing about this tune is that it might be just a bit repet-
itive, but switching between the Radio Edit and the
Rhythm Masters' remix (with heavier beats, fewer vocals
and clever sequencing) should take care of that. Go out
and buy this on the 18th, no questions asked. Locked
On do it once again - baad bwoyz, coming through!
Stony Sleep - Lady Lazarus
I just hate songs that start off dead boring with depress-
ingly slow vocals and then suddenly abuse the fuck out
of your ear-drums with a blur of drums and shouting.
The lyrics aren't all that interesting anyway, and why he
needs to shout at the top of his voice beats me - the
boring vocals were just as audible.
Adamskl's Thing - Intravenous Venus
Funky beats and fresh keyboards with catchy lyrics
from the crisp vocals of Gerideau. 'Old-timer' Adamski's
thought and production all come together naturally. A
mix with minimal vocals and slightly heavier bass would
definitely fill any dance-floor, and the synthesized
vocals on MARKI's Twisted Soul Vocal remix are inter-
esting.
Jack- Steamln'
One of those rare singles that has the words on the
sleeve. This one really does grow on you. Excellent key-
board Intro and then sharp vocals. Its musical direction
seems to be indecisive though; we hear the e-bow and
saxophones on this too but ask why. Nevertheless, it
holds together and you're waiting for the chorus to
repeat endlessly.
EVE 6 - Inside Out
The chorus is moving, literally, but the verses only just
have enough rhythm to maintain it. Still, it's loud, hard
and vicious. What more do you want to jump around
and smash bottles to? Showerheadon the B-side is just
as good and a little softer. Groups like Green Day
would probably consider this chart-hit material. C]
Abu

