16 Music 19 October 1998
Tha Bomb!
LAURYN HILL
The Miseducation of Lauryn Hill
Albums
ERIC B & HAKIM
• • • •
L
oads of albums get hyped up
before release only to die when
they actually hit; perfect example
being the Jagged Edge album that did-
n't live up to expectations, not even
close. After months of hype the Lauryn
I iill album The Miseducation of Lauryn
/////dropped and quite simply blew the
hype away, it took the world by storm.
Many people have claimed this to be
the best album of the year, well people
were right. Lauryn has become one of
the most famous young black women
in the world today and this album will
probably elevate her to the same stand-
ing as Aretha Franklin; Lauryn of course
mastermindered the re-launch of
Aretha, recreating the Aretha sound for
the hip hop style nineties, as shown
with A Rose Is Still A Rose. The even
more surprising thing to note is the lack
of any assistance from her Fugees
mates Wyclef and Pras, who were off
somewhere making some wack shit.
The reason for their absence is unclear,
although rumours about a Fugees split
have been going around. Even without
the boys, many tracks sound like they
may have been taken direct from a
Fugees album with Everything is
Everything and Lost Ones being the
best in regard. Wyclef and Pras might
be missing but two other stars have
given their sultry tones to Lauryn,
D'Angelo kicks it on the slow groove
Nothing Even Matters, while Mary J
Blige sings on / Used To Love I Urn.
Other tracks of real quality are Ex-factor,
Dop Wop and the tilte track fhe
Miseducation of Lauryn Hill. The album
is devoid of any really poor tracks and it
may, in years to come, be considered a
turning point in hip-hop, only time will
tell. (Check Lost Ones it's a killer). CI
Milen
H
ere we go. as you all may have
realised Old Skool I lip I lop is
fashionable again. With the
influence of certain remixers, groups
like Run DMC and the Jungle Brothers
have reinvented themselves for the
late 90s.
And so Paid in Full, Eric B and
Rakim's first album, which was originally
released in 1987 is set to be re-released.
This time however it is re-mastered and
with the addition of some remixes. So it
looks like Paid in Full: The Platinum Edi-
tion is looking to cash in on the hype.
That having been said, Eric B and
Rakim were highly Influential hip hop
pioneers from the middle of the 80s.
Rakim, whose own solo album was
released earlier this year, was hailed by
many as the best MC ever. Dubious per-
haps but there is no doubt of the qual-
ity of these two. With the inclusion of
these rare remixes especially, Coldcut's
version of Paid in Full and Richie Rich's
/ Know You Cot Soul, it is definitely
worth buying. This is especially true if
you don't have any of Eric B and Rakim's
back catalogue or you are a die hard fan
A classic no doubt.CI
Ramzi
Lauryn Hill Where You At! Canibus Where You At! Right Here!
The start of another week in the hellhole we all know
as Imperial College, but at least this week you have me
and my incoherent ravings about the state of the R&B
world. This week i'm bringin' ya a special review of the
finest album of the year, the much hyped Lauryn Flill
album and a look at a killer rhyme from the illest rap-
per Canibus.
As far as news goes - there isn't any! The MOBO
awards are the only thing I can think of and they take
place today (Wedensday), so by the time you're read-
ing this the awards would have been given out, the
fights would have been fought and you'll be wonder-
ing what the fuck I'm chatting about; so I'm just gonna
skip over to the singles and albums.
Canibus is considered by most to be the most
skilled rapper out there, his hard hitting lyrics actually
mean something. After his lyrical battle with LL he
needed to come with the skills and with his debut
album Can-l-BuShe comes correct. Canibus brings hard
lyrics over beats laid down by Wyclef (his manager),
Clark Kent and others. You gotta check Buckingham
Palace where Canibus name checks Brixton and
Clapham (no mention of Ealing).
R Kelly is dropping his latest offering the long
player simply titled R. After hearing the first single from
it, Half on a Baby, I wondered whether Robert was
gonna bring anything new to the table. I le has a great
talent for the slow grooves, but they get a bit same
same after a while and I really didn't want to listen to
an album full of ballads. So you can imagine my surprise
when I actually checked it out only to discover it was
only half full of ballads and the rest were mid tempo
grooves. It holds your attenion and is deflnitley worth
a listen.
I ast year I started plugging this track after hearing
it on the radio. I even called it the single of the year,
only problem was they never fucking released it. Now
a year later they have got round to releasing it and it's
still as bangin' as last year. What's it called? Love Like
This from Faith Evans, it's quite simply stunning, vocals
are briilant and Puffy comes through with the produc-
tion. Buy this!
Milen
Phat Selection
The Mlseducatlon ofLaufyn Hill (LP) - Lauryn
Hill
Singing, rapping, writing, producing is
there anything this gjrj can't do?
Love Like This- Faith Evans
Tune of the year? YES
How Deep Is Your Love - Dru Hill feat. Red-
man
The boys come with the skills
5weef/iea/T-JD feat. Marleh
Sweet soul sounds from Marieh, only draw
back is JD

