19th October 1998 Music 17
D a n c e M u s i c
the (dhciijric c<diife
H
ello and welcome to another year of the
Electric Cafe. If you've just joined IC then wel-
come! The Electric Cafe is a joint project incor-
porating a weekly radio show on the Student Radio
Network (National Student radio), this column in Felix
and two club projects.
All these projects began about three years ago.
Dance music and electronica Is often viewed as face-
less, cold computer music. As with many underground
art forms this is a huge misconception. The term techno
was actuallly first coined by Detroit musicians who had
created music inspired by their jazz heroes such as Miles
Davis and I lerbie I lancock. Many other influences are
apparent in early Detroit techno, such as Motown, the
Blues Disco... The list goes on. Trance, acid, rave and
gabber all came later.
I wanted to try and communicate the hidden
aspects of techno to both people who might not feel
they were into club culture and hardcore partygoers and
DJs alike. Much of the best electronic music is just that,
music that was created for dancefloors and home lis-
tening pleasure. So I started a radio show called the Elec-
tric Cafe.
Each show isn't an easy listening experience in the
sense that you won't find seamless endless mixes of
one style of music throughout. We believe in diversity
and the only criteria for a track to land on our
playlist is that it must be electronically created
some sense of the word and trying to push forward
in some way.
So I play all styles from club-techno to brea-
beats, tech-funk to deep house, drum'n'bass
electro, jazz-fusion to experimental brats,
and ambient.
If you would like to listen, Ihen the show
goes out on the Student Radio Network to over
thirty universities every week for two hours. You
can catch us on IC Radio(999 AM) every Sunday
night/Monday morning between 1 and 3am.
The column that appears in Felix each weekj
will run hand-in-hand with the radio show. Each
guest that appears in the show will make an
appearance in these pages. For example we fea-
tured exclusive interviews with Colin Dale (Kiss
100FM) and Jeff Mills from Detroit last term. This!
term you will be able to read news from Ritchie
I lawtin (The Plastikman) and many others. I will
also talk about albums and singles and artists that!
I particularly recommend. Look out for CD and clubl
ticket competitions too!
As well as all the excellent union events that have
started up this year (Pop Tarts, I ledonizm, etc) The Elec-
tric Cafe has also started its own monthly club project.
Situated at The Union, we kicked off on Saturday 10th
October. Many thanks to everyone who came to the
first night. We are looking to make this event bigger and
better represented. As with the philosophies of the radio
show, we will play a variety of music, from house to
techno to drum'n'bass. Look out for some experienced,
well-known DJs who will be making appearances at this
event. The most important thing is that the venue is
brand new and state-of-the art and the entrance is com-
pletely free. I low many Saturday night clubs can boast
that?!
If you fancy yourself as a DJ then we would love to
hear you spin at another event organised by the Elec-
tric Cafe. Designed as a chillout event, it takes place
every second Thursday in the backroom of the South-
side bar (an extremely chilled location). Last year this
proved to be a popular event and we are expecting no
less from this season. The music policy is completely
freestyle and eclectic. You can come and have a drink
or spin some records or CDs. The next event is on Thurs-
day 22nd October. If you would like to come down then
make your way to the backroom of the Souithside bar
between 7 and 11pm this Thursday. If you would like
to spin then contact me by email (a.sethi@ic.ac.uk).
OK enough plugging for now! Onto the main busi-
ness for this week. I have been playing a great new
album called Soulspective (Offshoot Records) to death
on the radio show lately. It is out now on CD and vinyl
and well-worth checking out.
The album was put together by Dave Mothersole,
a well-respected London DJ who plays many open-
minded styles of music; techno, house and electro to
name but a few. Dave also writes about electronic
music. You can read his columns in Musik, Magic Feet
and Jockey Slut.
Many DJs release mix albums to showcase their mix-
ing talents. The market is flooded with so many big-
name mixes that many people don't know where to
start listening. Dave has very cleverly put a twist onto
his debut into the field of personalised DJ albums. This
album consists of 10 tracks (8 on the vinyl) that are totally
exclusive. You won't find these tracks anywhere else!
w
and Medicine labels have contributed a piece of music
called Sandwich Man. It follows their normal style; of
music that lies somewhere between house, techno and
dub. A more minimal track with plenty of rhythm and
funk!
Next up we have Paul Mac with Rhythm Subject.
This is slab of delicious jazz with an rhythm section. The
track as a whole is excellent, mixing stuttering jazz
breakbeats with smooth deep melodies. Unmissable!
Gerd is Gert-Jan Biji. I le has produced a track for this
album called Arquasium. A really quirky little piece,
this takes some very cool rhythm patterns which con-
tinually build-up and breakdown, an infectious bassline
and some lovely light keyboards. The result is a really
well put together piece of music.
Matthew B. records as Bushwacka. I le is widely
acknowledged as the king of breakbeats and a highly
talented producer and DJ. I lis own label Plank is con-
sistently regarded as being an outlet of electronic
music of the highest calibre. The track on this album is
called Demolition. It takes no prisoners and is definitely
not music to be put on in the background. Infectious,
danceable and full of feeling, this is one of the high-
lights of Soulspective!
Pure Science's contribution here is Ooohhh. This
track works well in all environments. I have played it on
i chill-out section of my radio show and seen
, j \ '- it move people at The End nightclub! This is
i.iWm house meets techno at its sexiest and most
*Th * t alluring. So often this kind of tech-house can
' feel unsure of itself, or not merge well. Not
Ooohhh at all!
Stefan Robbers is probaly one of techno's
•most respected producers. I le has been mak-
jing music for years and under a variety of
•pseudonyms. Sunset Boulevard is an excellent
i !h •
•
• : • • 1.1: 'ii it.11 •>! ilfi ii ;'n'hass thai nr or
porates many aspects of Stefan's normal
techno over the rhythm. I am sure that this track
will cross over and find Its way into the record
••boxes of many d'n'b DJs.
The pairing of Sterac (Steve Rachmad) and
Dave's concept was to approach some of his personal
favourite artists, whose tracks he has played down
thtough the years, and ask them to record tracks for this
compilation. The result is an entertaining album that
appeals to both the dancefloor and the bedroom
usage.
The collection kicks off with a track from Ian O'Brien
who has made a name for himself following excellent
releases on Pacific, Ferox, Clear and Compost Records.
I lis musical style is soaked in jazz and tinged with sub-
tle rhytms and melodies. The unpredictable nature of
his music means that you will never know whether a
future track will be harder and pumping or light and
breezy. I lis contribution to this album is called Tireless
Devotion, and is a slower effort with a very full sound
and contains a good mix of synthetic and organic com-
ponents.
Swayzak who have already released on the Pagan
erome have appeared most notably on 100%
Pure Records from Amsterdam. Both artists
have been responsible for some beautiful
excursions into deep melodic techno; music
with expression. The track on this album (Som-
sault) is no exception. It contains all the usual
irademarks, a lovely string section, melody and
variety. Not your average so-called four to the
floor boredom at all.
My personal favourite track here is called Boxed
from Starpeace (Charles Webster). This is deep house
at its best. I have nolhing to really say about this track
except listen to it for yourself, it is unbelievably good!
Finally the Future Beat Alliance put a wrap on
things with New Path. This is slower and very melodic.
Echoing and bursting with life, this is music to dream
lo!
All in all, an excellent and versatile EP. I am sure this
will find its way into many DJ boxes, but if played in the
right environment will be the perfect comedown after
a hard night's clubbing. It also acts as an excellent way
for the unitiated to get to know a variety of artists on
one CD. If only more music was like this...!
Soulspective is out now on Offshoot Records. Look
out for Dave Mothersole who appears frequently at
many top fondon nights.
alick sethi

