2 News 19 October 1998
Queen to
Open New
College
Building
b y Ed L a n y o n
Her Majesty The Queen is to visit Impe-
rial on Wednesday 21 October in order
to officially open the new Sir Alexander
Fleming Building. Designed by Sir Nor-
man Foster & Partners, the £65m, 22,000
square metre building will house 2000
Bio-Medical Sciences (BMS) staff and
students.
The visit comes as part of a royal
tour of South Kensington including an
exhibition at the Royal College of Art and
the final unveiling of the refurbished
Albert Memorial.
While in the building Her Majesty
will be shown examples of current
research including work on cancer, trans-
plant immune responses, and biological
rhythms.
The number of non-BMS students
allowed into the building has been very
limited, but there will be an opportunity
for everyone to see Her Majesty as she
arrives and departs along Imperial Col-
lege Road at around 6.00p.m. and
7.00p.m. respectively. It will also be pos-
sible to attend the re-opening of the
Albert Memorial (in Hyde Park) at
7.45p.m. which will close with son-et-
lumiere celebrations.
Students and staff should note that
a car-parking ban will be enforced along
the entire Imperial College Road (includ-
ing outside Civil Engineering and Chem-
istry) from 6pm on Tuesday until 11pm
Wednesday. This ban includes motor-
cycles and bicycles - any found on
Wednesday morning will be removed.
Charing Cross:
Massive Loss
As reported in Felix
1120, Charing Cross
and Westminster Med-
ical School's farewell Summer Ball has
ended with a massive financial loss, with
estimates ranging from £40,000 to
£55,000 now seeming conservative as
the investigation into the somewhat
suspect book-keeping continues.
A special committee was set up to
organise the ball consisting of repre-
sentatives from College, CXWMS Alumni
committee, IC Alumni committee and
the CXWMS student union, not just
CXWMSU as was previously incorrectly
reported. The ball cost in the region of
£85,000, including £28,000 spent hiring
the largest marquee in the country,
£7,000 on champagne and £3,000 on
fireworks (the resulting display being
described as "bloody excellent").
The event, held at Cobham, was to
be the final send-off before the com-
plete merger with IC. The financial prob-
lems appear to have largely arisen from
many of the tickets allocated to CXWMS
alumni not being sold and the non-
materialisation of promised sponsorship
monies. Student tickets were at a sub-
By A n d r e w B r o w n
sidised £45, with non-
students paying
approximately £75.
However, few of the 400 tickets allo-
cated to non-students were sold, and
some of them were made available to
students at the reduced price, further
compounding the loss.
The situation worsened when, at
the end of the evening after all of the
medics had gone home, the event's bar
takings were "unaccounted for". Cash
of the order £10,000- £14 000 was taken
and is yet to be recovered, with the bar
manager on the night seemingly the
prime suspect. John Green, who was in
charge of 'mopping up' the day's debris,
said that the matter was "still under
investigation" but refused to comment
further while David Hellard, ICU presi-
dent, said that he "cannot confirm or
deny" these reports.
Several things remain unclear: What
happened to the bar takings, what is the
total amount lost (the sums are still
being done) and, perhaps most impor-
tantly, who is going to pick up the bill?
Caldwell, Caldwell, Why does your Garden Grow?
For those of you who did not read the
article last week about the intention to
plant flowers at IC, here is a little back-
ground. The estates division is in the
process of planting a large flower bed
By T o n y O f o r i
adjacent to the Waterstonc's bookshop
on Imperial College Road, and in addition
to this, several trees will be introduced at
the front of the new BMS building. The
total cost of this project has been csli-
issue 1122
19 October 1998
Editor: Ed Sexton
Photographic Editor: William Lorenz
Music Editor: Jason Ramanathan
News Editors: Andy Ofori and Joel
Lewis
Film Editor: David Roberts
Games Editor: Gary Smith
Arts Editor: Helena Cochemc
Sports Editor: Gus Paul
mated at £110,000. This figure stands to
grow by £50,000 per annum since the
college will lose revenue from the park-
ing spaces sacrificed. Amidst rumours
that this expenditure is solely for the
Queen's visit on the 21 October, the pro-
ject goes ahead undeterred.
As funds from the college are ulti-
mately intended to improve the college
for the students and lectures alike, their
opinions were sought. A small survey
highlighted the fact that an over-
whelming majority of the students
thought that the idea was "pointless" and
"a waste of money". "You only need to
look along Imperial College Road to sec
that on this part of the campus more
[trees] aren't necessary" was one
response. The lecturers on the whole dis-
played a more cautious opinion saying
that in principle the idea is a good one
but questioning the justifiability of the
expense. There may be some people
that think that this venture is sensible but
Felix was unable to find any.
Unable to find someone in the first
survey who wholly believed that the
idea was a good one, Felix approached
as many random people as possible
with the sole intention of finding a
believer, but to no avail. Some judged
the idea of planting more shrubbery
around college as a good one but none
thought that £110,000 was a reasonable
figure for it. ICU and RCSU were con-
sulted but neither were prepared to
express an opinion. Undeterred, Felix
pursued the investigation to the col-
lege's estates department where people
are supposed to be able to financially
justify any building projects undertaken
by the college. They denied any knowl-
edge of the exact price for the floral
enhancement, and when asked hypo-
thctlcally: "If the entire project did cost
£110,000, would you consider it rea-
sonable given the magnitude of shrub-
bery that is going to be planted?". The
unanimous response was "no"...followed
by the word "comment".
elix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB Internal tel: 58072 Internal fax: 48072 External tel & fax: 0171 594 8072 URL: www.su.ic.ac.uk/Felix E-mail: felix@ic.ac.uk
Printed at MCP Litho Limited, Units B2 & B3, Hatton Square, 16 - 16a Baldwins Gardens, London EC1N 7RJ Felix is a registered newspaper: ISSN 1040 - 0711
Telix is produced for and on behalf of Imperial College Union Publication Board. Copyright © 1 elix 1998. Photographic copyrights remain with photographers.

