19 October 1998
Elizabeth * • ' • %
Starring : Cate Blanchett, Christopher Ecclestone, Geoffrey Rush,
Director: Shekhar Kapur
O
ddly, for a film which has seen
its entire marketing drive
focused on a "revolutionary"
re-working of history, Elizabeth comes
across as surprisingly cliche. Watch
Richard Attenborough as the ford
Chamberlain: short, dumpy, red faced
and permanently confused. Joesph
fiennes, our romantic lead is the classi-
cal Elizabethan effeminate fop. And
Christopher Ecclestone is pointy beard-
ed evil incarnate. Indeed, Elizabeth her-
self is straight out of my school text
book. OK, so she may not have been
the virgin queen that history remem-
bers, but, to be honest, that's only
going to shock the odd half-dead
Oxford don.
Nonetheless, its still a well, if unad-
venturous, piece of movie-making,
largely due to some fine performances
from it's stars. Ecclestone turns in another
sterling performance, oozing devious
charm (albeit with a slight hint of Dick
Dastardly) as he plots to overthrow the
young queen and restore Catholicism to
England, whilst Rush lurks in shadows
with the kind of looming intensity that
any royal protector worth his salt requires.
Lord Robert Dudley, renowned historically for being subtle as a brick
I lowever, it's Blanchett's central perfor-
mance that stops Elizabeth slipping off
into utter parody. She perfectly captures
the image of a young, innocent girl,
thrown unexpectedly into power. Con-
stantly battling against the suppressing
will of her advisors, she is forced to
rapidly mature, to decide her own life,
and, above all, find out who she can
really trust.
Director Kapur, working outside his
native India for the first time, holds the
whole thing together very well, and hints
at a promising future career. Some nice
touches of cinematography (filming
through drapes, mirrors and so forth)
help to make what might otherwise be
very predictable scenes come alive. Plus,
his avoidance of the obvious directorial
traps - lots of swashbuckling, bodice rip-
ping and the like - makes a refreshing
change. Instead, he chooses to centre
the film on Blanchettt's loss of inno-
cence, and her progression from con-
fused child to the stern, aloof leader that
history remembers.
Eventually, however, it's the script
and plot that lets Elizabeth down. It's
simply too obvious, too text-book to be
believable - think Jane Austen with Eliz-
abethan costumes. Which would be OK
if that's what you were expecting and if
that's what the makers were trying to
achieve - but they seemed to be aiming
for so much more. The genuine feel of
what life was like at the turn of the sev-
enteenth century is missing, and conse-
quently there's no sense of wonder, no
sense of believability in what appears on
the screen. And as a result we're left with
a nice story, but nothing more.
A solid cast, good direction and the
words "Channel Four Films Present" could
(and should) have combined to produce
so much more. A real missed opportu-
nity. Q
Dave
Actua Tennis * * • * Buggy • * •
Tennis, hmm strawberries, cream, warm
sunny afternoons. Computer tennis: tin-
nies of beer, ice cream and cold, wet,
autumnal afternoons. Fortunately I did-
n't mind the weather outside, as I was
too involved in trying to win a tourna-
ment on the clay courts. Actua - the UK's
answer to the EA sport game empire
have managed to produce a complete
smash of a game. They've lobbed the
opposition into the sidelines and (game-
set-and) matched the best sports games
out there (ok I'll stop the tennis puns
here).
So what makes it such a good
game? Is it the simplicity of the controls?
Controls that allow the beginner to put
a serve in after a few attempts and return
the ball after a few more, yet allow you
to perform point winning strokes when
you sort out the positioning and timing
of the stroke. Is it the ability to customise
your player from being a 6' 1" heavily
built female 120+ mph serve machine
(well almost) to a 5' lightly built nymph,
wearing shades and black shorts? Is it the
fact that a British player can make the
final of what is obviously Wimbledon
and have a decent chance of winning?
Actually it's all these. If you just add on
the motion captured players, the eye
candy of the scoreboards in the back-
ground that change even if they are
only visible for a fraction of a second and
you have an almost complete tennis
game.
Notice the almost bit. I realise this
sounds like I'm slagging off consoles
again but the little voice bits always
seemed staccato, and generally made
the umpire sound like a 6 year old.
"Player One"...wait wait wait...
"won"...wait wait., "by". Ok you've got
the idea. I lopefully the PC version cou-
pled with a decent 3D card will have an
umpire with an adult reading age, and
ball boys and girls slightly wider than a
piece of paper. But I'm protesting too
much about the eye and ear candy. If
you've got a hankering to give pistol
Pete a damn good whipping, watch
Anna smash a few balls or generally like
tennis or sport games then go and buy
it, rent it, just do it (I lied about the
puns). O
Magpie
Everyone's complaint, about Playstation
games these days seem to be with the
quality, and unfortunately Buggy falls
into the category of nice idea, poor
implementation. Buggy is based on that
favourite adolescent pastime - remote
control car racing. The game play is cen-
tred on racing against other cars or
against the clock; unlocking hidden
tracks; and mix'n'matching powers in
the right sequence to obtain special dri-
ving modes. Such power-ups as 'speed
up' and 'meanie mode', which enables
you to barge you way through the pack,
also help to win races.
In the beginning Buggy is not very
challenging, but with each progression
you start to see how mixing and match-
ing the power ups gives you the edge
over your opponents. There is a slight
incentive to find these enhancements, as
some combinations have some inter-
esting consequences, but concentrat-
ing on this usually means coming in at
last place. The tracks are well thought
out, with the plenty of power ups, in the
form of coloured gates, allowing a cer-
tain degree of flexibility in the game
play. I lowever the game engine suffers
greatly when racing against other bug-
gies. It often slows down to an intolera-
ble frame rate when a pile up occurs and
then your buggy seems to take a life of
its own with the handling.
Buggy is definitely a wanna-be N64
Mario racing - it even copies the head
over heels flip when you are hit by
another car, but does it at the expense
of the game frame rate. Analogue con-
trol Is available In this game, but with the
steering done with the right thumb and
the acceleration with the left, it's counter
intuitive. Those of you who can remem-
ber racing a remote control car will prob-
ably feel right at home with this odd
configuration.
There are enough hidden tracks and
new cars to discover for those who per-
severe at this game, but with the slug-
gish graphics it lets the games down
and makes it uncomfortable to play.
After the fluidity of both Wipeouts, any
racing game that does not conform to
that standard simply isn't really worth
playing. Q
Magpie

