19 October 1998 Film 21
Reviews it Competitions
Mulan • • * *
Starring : Ming-Na Wen, Eddie Murphy, Donny Osmond
Director: Tony Bancroft, Barry Cook
F
or the last few years, Disney's ani-
mated output has basically fallen
into two primary camps. Firstly,
there are the epics - Pocohontas and
The Hunchback of Notre Dame spring
to mind - historical stories, sanitised for
the kiddie audience. Secondly, there
are the classic Disney films, like
Hercules and Aladdin, full of larger-
than-life characters, idiotic songs and
big comedy.
Largely, this is due to two competing
teams within the Disney set-up, produc-
ing different types of movies. Conse-
quently, the two conflicting styles very
rarely overlap - The Lion King standing as
a recent notable exception, when gen-
uine comedy and a sense of plot com-
bine. Mulan therefore comes as a
pleasant surprise, as, despite coming
from the Pocohontas camp (which is
very clear from the style of character ani-
mation), it still contains genuine comedy.
Admittedly, this will probably come
as less of a surprise once I tell you that
celebrity vocals are provided by Eddie
Murphy. The resurgent comedian stars as
the voice of Mushu, the helpful dragon
- providing a vein of comedy suitable for
T
wenty years on, Michael Myers is
aack to his old ways. Which basi-
cally means frightening the hell
out of Jamie fee Curtis, and generally
being extremely unpleasant and scary.
Oh, and hacking up lots of young girls
in tight tops. You remember.
Tried and trusted as the formula may
be, Halloween 1120 has received both
critical acclaim and a hefty box office
from the States. Above all, this latest
reincarnation has been acclaimed as the
scariest movie released in years, tipping
a knowing nod to the horror classics, and
even including a cameo from Vivian
Leigh.
To win a pair of tickets to see Hal-
loween IT20, simply answer the following
question:
adults and children alike.
The plot is a sanitised version of an
ancient Chinese legend and is, in itself,
fairly weak (but then what Disney plot
wasn't). We follow the adventures of
Mulan after she enters the army to stop
her frail father from being forced to
serve. To stop her enlisting, her ancestors
conjure up Murphy's dragon, but he
Would you pick a fight with that horse?
fails, and Mulan sets off to fight the
invading I lun army.
The rest is, for the large part, utterly
predictable, but that's hardly the point.
Mulan is fun. It's pure Disney entertain-
ment, the way Walt intended. And, at the
end of the day, you can't ask for more
than thai. •
Dave
VIDEO UPDATE
Titanic
The world's most successful movie hits
the retail and rental shelves today, and
is sadly bound to become one of the
highest selling videos of all time by
Christmas. I'm sure that the majority of
you have seen it already, so I'm sure
there's no need for a plot synopsis.
Opinion continues to be split over
the merits of Jim Cameron's epic, but
one thing is certain - it simply doesn't
deserve to be the highest grossing film
ever. OK, so it's not a bad film, but it's
a long way from being a classic (good
acting, direction, plot and script would
help). Even technically, it's no master-
piece, with the little figures running
around on the back of the boat are
hardly state-of-the-art CGI. Buy it if you
must, but see if you enjoy it half as
much on TV.
Wild
Things
Wild Things clearly demonstrates that
film appreciation is entirely based on
what you're looking for. If you're look-
ing for high production values, top
notch directing and all the rest, then
you'll be disappointed. If, however, you
want a hot, funny thriller, packed full of
plot twists and staring two of the sexiest
stars in I lollywood, then Wild Things is
the movie for you.
Neve Campbell and Denise Richards
star alongside Kevin Bacon in this I litch-
cockian tale of cross, double-cross, triple-
cross and more. It's hardly a classic, but
the style of execution turns Wild things
into a great piece of entertainment.
[Note: Wild Things isn't released
until next Monday...but it's film of the
week anyway.]
A Life Less
Ordinary
After Shallow Grave and Irainspotting,
we all expected another dark, off-beat
thriller. Boy were we wrong. Off-beat
though it most certainly is, the only con-
nection to A Life Less Ordinary is star
Ewan McGregor.
This sense of surprise and disap-
pointment led to a very lukewarm
response to A Life... first time around.
With the benefit of hindsight, however,
it's a very original story, deliberately sen-
timental whilst at the same time refresh-
ingly off-beat. Very, very strange.
Win tickets to Halloween courtesy of
KENSINGTON
How many outings has Halloween had
In the last twenty years?
Email your answer to
film.felix@ic.ac.uk before 6pm on Tues-
day to be in with a chance. The first five
correct entries drawn from the virtual
postbag will win a pair of tickets courtesy
of the lovely people at the Odeon Kens-
ington. Winners' names will be printed
here next week.
We also have ten pairs of tickets to
a special preview of new John Travolta
starrer Primary Colours.
To win, simply be one of the first
people through the office door after
1 pm today, and ask (nicely) for your free
tickets to next Sunday's preview.

