'1 News 19 October 1998
Hybrid
Entry in
Doubt
by David Roberts
This week's meetings of both University
of London Union Council and IC Union
Council were dominated once again by
questions over medical students' eligi-
bility for sports teams.
The topic, which had been a major
bone of contention at colleges across
London throughout last year, seemed to
have been settled at the end of last
term when the British Universities Sports
Association accepted the concept of so-
called 'hybrid entry'. Under the previous
system, medical students could only
play for their own side where one
existed, but could play for their parent
institution where one did not. In the
case of Imperial, this meant that medical
students played for ICSM teams in
hockey, football and rugby competi-
tions, but were otherwise represented in
College wide teams.
A clarification of the ruling, how-
ever, was demanded by UCL students,
leading to Monday's debate at ULU. The
ULU Vice President (Sports), Nick Dun-
nett, put forward a proposal which
would allow medical students to choose
whether to play for their own sides or for
their parent institutions. In other words,
ICSM students would be able to opt to
play for either ICSM Rugby or ICU Rugby.
Despite an absence of representatives
from medical schools, this proposal,
described by Mr Dunnett as "a minor
clarification", was accepted by the meet-
ing.
Importantly, however, the BUSA
rules have not changed; only those for
University of London Leagues. Conse-
quently, the possibility of teams fielding
completely different squads for different
competitions now exists, although Mr
Dunnett (who sits on the BUSA execu-
tive) believes that BUSA will accept this
ruling nationally. Other senior figures
seemed less sure.
The issue was raised again at Tues-
day's IC Union Council meeting. Former
ICU President Andy Heeps criticised the
ICU delegation's support of the pro-
posal, which he saw as "a massive
breach of trust" which would "wipe out
everything that was achieved last year".
However, current ICU President Dave
Hellard, countered that the new ruling
"does not contradict what was passed by
ICU last year, as hybrid entry was never
very clearly defined". Mr Heeps voiced
the concerns of all medical students
present, fearing that this policy could
lead to all medical teams being dis-
qualified from competition. Deputy Pres-
ident Chris Ince countered that the ICU
delegates (who included Messrs Ince
and Hellard) only accepted the motion
once "Nick Dunnett promised that all the
problems raised lover BUSA and trans-
fers between teams] would be over-
come".
With no satisfactory conclusion
reached, Mr Hellard accepted that there
are clearly greater problems surrounding
the issues than at first realised, and
promised to rethink the ICU position on
the issue.
Malaysian
Melee
by Havaca Johnson
The devastation of the Malaysian Eco-
nomic crisis is being felt by many of the
18,000 Malaysian students studying in
the UK. Amongst their number are the
four percent of Malaysian students at
Imperial College.
Malaysian government funding for
the exchange students is diminishing.
The Malaysian tmbassy stated fifteen
members of the Malaysian Student Com-
mission have already been sent back to
Malaysia due to the lack of funds.
They went on to say, "Many stu-
dents have been sent home. Some are
in their second year of study and don't
have anything to show for it".
According to recent newspaper
reports, Malaysia is allowing students
near graudation to finish their degrees.
Some freshers are being forced to drop
their current overseas programs to
A doctor who pricked her finger with
a needle at Charing Cross Hospital has
been awarded damages of nearly
return to Malaysia.
Many students, colleges and uni-
versities are taking action to make up for
the lack of funds. Universities such as
Cambridge and Oxford have already set
up forms of scholarship funding for
Malaysian students. Many of the schol-
arships are based on merit and acade-
mic achievements.
Other institutions such as UMIST
and Bournemouth University, are setting
up distant learning options and branch
institutions in Malaysia, allowing the stu-
dents to have a more cost-effective edu-
cation.
According to the Malaysian
Embassy, universities are also holding
graduation ceremonies in Malaysia. By
having the ceremonies in Malaysia fam-
ilies of the students can attend the event
without having to pay for their trans-
portation to Britain.
To find out more information about
scholarships and educational options
for Malaysians studying in the UK,
http://www.brltcoun.org.my/ provides a
wealth of information.
ing, that IC was not considering imple-
menting top up fees, and that this
would not be affected by other insti-
tutions' actions.
In brief...
Get on your bike -
If you can find it...
Once again students are being
asked to make sure their bikes are
locked up whilst on campus. There
have been approximately twenty bike
thefts on the South Kensington cam-
pus since August, despite strong mea-
sures taken by security, including the
use of plain-clothed officers on patrol.
"We are doing everything we possibly
can" explained Ken Weir, Deputy Secu-
rity Manager at the college. He advised
students to use D-locks rather than
chains, and to attach bikes to recog-
nised 'bike parks' and not to railings
and signposts.
Cyclists arc also reminded that
there is no parking in Prince Consort
Road during the Mount Batten Festival,
which this year takes place between 6
and 8 November. Bicycles found after
the evening of 5 November will be
removed by the police.
£500,000 for Doctor
Afraid of Needles
£500,000. The doctor, who cannot be
named, stabbed her finger in 1992 on
a used hypodermic needle, which had
been left on a trolley at the Imperial
teaching hospital.
She did not contract any disease,
but her unease with needles following
the incident developed into a phobia
so severe, that in October 1994 she felt
no longer able to practice medicine.
She decided to press for compensation
after reading a similar case, and was
this month awarded £465,000 in dam-
ages, plus legal costs.
Although the gravity of phobia is
not in question, there appears to be
some doubt in the medical community
as to whether the incident in question
was the underlying cause. Claire
Raynor, on behalf of the Patient's Asso-
ciation, said that the amount given
was far too high and could have been
better spent on operations.
Very, very, very briefly
Despite murmurs from LSE on sup-
plementing their tution fee income by
the use of additional charges to stu-
dents, the Imperial Rector Sir Ronald
Oxburgh stated, and confirmed in writ-

