Small Ads 19 October 1998
Important notice to all BIDS Users
BIDS to ATHENS Username change
Your BIDS username and password expired on the 31st of August. However, you
should have received your ATHENS username and password by email, with the fol-
lowing subject heading: ATHENS Personal Account created
This may be used to access all BIDS and NISS services,
Eg: BIDS ISI Service, OVID Biomedical Service (Includes Medline and
80 Electronic Journals), OVID Embase, BIDS Compendex Service etc.
Your ATHENS username will normally be a variant of your Imperial College email
login name. Eg: icljbloggs However, your password will NOT automatically be your
email password. For security reasons you arc advised to change your ATHENS pass-
word as soon as possible after receiving it by email. We recommend that you do
not change it to your College email password. To change your password, go to
http://admin.athens.ac.uk/personal.athtml. Please contact your Department/Cam-
pus Librarian if you need further assistance.
Please Note: New students will receive their ATHENS usernames and passwords
soon after they receive their email usernames.
Wine Tasting
Wine tasting Society meets each week for a tutored tasting.
Our programme for this term is as follows:
13th Oct Introductory tasting
20th Oct New world vs. Old world
27th Oct Australian
3rd Nov Bordeaux
10th Nov Tuscany
All meetings take place In dB's and start
at 6.00pm each Tuesday evening.
ICU Colours
The following have been awarded ICU awards and honours.
Half Colours
Mike Gibbs
Half Colours
Mike Gibbs Hannah Pearson
Shanaka Katuwawala Caroline Gibbons Phil Miller
Ali Campbell Nayanee Perera Rob Park
Adam Cherrington Phil Pearson
Despina Crassa Natasha Newton Outstanding Service
Reuben Connolly Catherine Sheehan Award
Julia Harries Simon Cooper Anne Ovens
Simon Maycock Michelle Cope Andy Kershaw
N'Diorel Ba Mark Sharman
Robin Hill Full Colours
Mandar Trivedi Alex Tylee-Birdsall
William Smith Tanya Siraa Fellowship
Ling Li Claire Penketh David Roberts
Tony Hickson Brian Tucker Jon Lambert
Nick Chapman Darren Hubbard
Andrew Swift Hamish Common
Wendy Russell Karen Yates Distinguished
Sanela 1 lodzic Richard Marshall Fellowship
Paul Hopkinson Lloyd Kilford Chris Ince
James Carter Richard Edgington Mark Baker
Leonardo Soc
Art classes start on Tuesday 20 October
at 6pm, Room 301 Civil Engineering.
Classes cost £2 per lesson.
Contact c.lindsay@ic.ac.uk
For Sale
A pair of Celestion DL8 speakers for
sale. I hey are 150 Watt and come with
speaker stands, they are all you can ask
for in clarity and loudness.
Price £110 or near offer
Contact scbaslian.comber@ic.ac.uk
E ^ O N
C H E M I C A L
Esso & Exxon Group Of Companies In The U K
Esso and Exxon Group of Companies in the UK is part of the world's leading energy concern, the Exxon
Corporation (USA). We seek high calibre, numerate individuals with excellent academic attainment (2i
minimum obtained/expected) from A L L degree backgrounds, especially engineering/scientific for our technical
positions.
The Companies have 60 plus vacancies for 1999; initial appointments being in Refining, Gas, Chemicals
Manufacturing, Lubricants Manufacturing, Research, Sales & Marketing, EssoAir, IT and Logistics.
We also offer a Xmas Course to Chemical and Mechanical Engineering finalists and paid Summer Courses in
our Engineering, Research and Commercial Departments for a variety of penultimate year students.
All of our graduate appointments are supported by our comprehensive development programme run in
conjunction with the London Business School.
Closing date for Xmas Course and Summer Course applications is 30th October . For Graduate 1999 entry,
closing date is 5th January 1999.
See our materials at the Careers Service and SIGN UP IN ROOM 310 SHERFIELD for our evening
presentation at Lecture Theatre 1, Chemical Engineering (THIS IS A CHANGE OF VENUE FROM THAT
PUBLISHED IN CAREER CHOICE) at 6.30 p.m. (prompt) on Tuesday 27th October 1998.

