2 F E L I X
FILM SOC
Black
Death
The next show is on Friday,
23rd Oct., and features Ingmar
Bergman's "The Seven h Seal."
The story takes us back to the
days of the Black Death. The
Knight and his Squire are on
their way home from the Cru-
sades. When a day's ride from
home the Knight plays chess with
Death, the stakes being a short
respite of life. From then on
the story alternates between stark
drama and tragedy, the strange
fate of the Knight and his friends
being woven into an amazing
sequence of supernatural happen-
ings. This film is a winner of the
Jury's Prize of Honour at the
Cannes Film Festival. Also show-
ing is "' The Bespoke Overcoat,"
directed by Jack Clayton and
starring David Kossoff and Alfie
Bass. The films will be followed
by an Extraordinary General
Meeting which has been called to
elect officers to fill vacancies on
the Committee.
On 30th October, in our Special
Season, we shall show Hitchcock's
" Psycho." Starring Anthony
Perkins, this film is as terrifying
and shocking as possible. Admis-
sion will be all one price, 2/-.
JAZZ CLUB NEWS
For the last 5 or 6 years I.C. Jazz Club has been basically a club
for musicians. The result has been a very high standard of live
Jazz in the Colleges, as anyone who went to the U.L.V. Jazz Com-
petition or the South Side Stomps last year will recall.
DRAMSOC
Last year's Big Band have a practice blow.
This year, however, the Jazz Club is opening its membership
to non-musicians—in tact to the majority of people who like jazz
and want to know more about it. This term record recitals will be
given on specific jazz topics and personalities, and there will be an
integrated Jazz and Poetry concert and one or two jazz evenings with
records and live jazz. Next term, of course, we will be holding mid-
week jazz dances again.
You will be able to join the club at any of the meetings, and
if you like jazz I hope you will find the programme for this year
both interesting and informative. Our- aim will be to develop and
to broaden interest in jazz, and if you have any suggestions or would
like any more information come and see us any lunchtime in the
Jazz Room (above the Union Bar).
A L . HIGSON, O L D BEIT 20.
A Man
For All
Seasons
We made a mistake on Freshers
Night. We sent a poster to Bed-
ford. It was quite a party.
The Christmas Production is to
be " A Man for All Seasons " by
Robert Bolt. This is the most am-
bitious production we have done
for many years. It will tax us all,
in acting, staging and effects.
Bedford Camaraderie
There will be a play visit during
the next few weeks to one of the
West End Theatres (as yet unde-
cided). By booking large numbers
of tickets we get them cheap.
These visits are open to all mem-
bers of the College. We shall try
to get Bedford along too.
I am very keen to form a Revue
and Cabaret Group in close asso-
ciation with Dramsoc. To this end
I am forming a library of such
material as a stimulus for ideas.
If anyone is interested please get
in touch.
Our most ambitious and excit-
ing plan is to make a film in place
of our usual Easter Production.
H. I. FRAZER.
AN
OPEN
INVITATION
The idea that having an account with a nation-wide bank like the
Midland is something reserved for people of substantial means is a
fallacy. So also is the belief that banks are interested only in those
who are older and already established. The Midland Bank is inter-
ested in YOU — and all young people like you. You would find a
bank account extremely useful for, besides the convenience of pay-
ing bills by cheque, you will find that it helps you to keep track of
your expenditure.
Midland Bank
THE G O - A H E A D BANK FOR GO-AHEAD PEOPLE

