music.felix@imperial.ac.uk
18 felix Friday 28 November 2008
Music
Music Editors – Peter Sinclair, Susan Yu & James Houghton
music.felix@imperial.ac.uk
19
Friday 28 Novmber 2008 felix
Music
Susan Yu
Live music mania...
Hot Chip, five brainies who are masters of electro-pop. Nice sunglasses, a change to the ususal nerdy specs
We all like a bit of live action, so this week, we deliver Hot
Chip, Goldfrapp and Ani DiFranco for your pleasure
Hot Chip are a brainy electro-pop
quintet, with four out of the five mem-
bers being Oxbridge graduates. They
have been on the scene for a while now,
formed in 2000 and now three albums
down the line, they are on the road
again, touring along the country and
showing that you can be both intelli-
gent and play equally good music.
It was almost midnight before these
guys emerged onstage. We were pre-
sented with a bizarre circus figure
who appeared in front of our eyes, a
sore sight indeed. This could be no-
one but Alexis Taylor, the frontman of
Hot Chip, wearing his trademark ner-
dish spectacles and sporting a rather
in-your-face garishly-coloured robe
which, thank goodness, he shed off
later on in the show to reveal more ac-
ceptable and less alarming stage-wear
consisting of plain white overalls.
It was inevitable that the anthemic
‘Over and Over’ was going to be on the
ecstatic agenda for this cracking live
set. The crowd reached their climax
of the evening for sure on this wild,
extreme energy bulldozer. Cacophony
reigned recklessly, whilst adrenaline
pulsed through our veins as the flash-
ing lights lit up the entire stage in a epi-
leptic, chaotic demeanour.
‘Ready For the Floor’ was also on the
bill. If you haven’t checked out the vid-
eo, well, you are missing out on some-
thing that is just beyond strange, with
false teeth, weird women that appear
to have been cut half due to the clear
choice of backdrop as well guys trying
to dodge sticks that poke out at them.
Crazy layout, crazy costumes and cra-
zy colours. Completely bonkers. It’s all
in there.
Another prominent crowd-pleaser
was definitely one of the highlights
of the show- ‘And I Was A Boy From
School.’ This swoonsome song has a
fantastically gripping tune which is
melancholy in sound yet simultaneous-
ly catchy and even at times joyous and
hopeful. The amalgamation of Taylor’s
somewhat poignant vocals with God-
dard’s baritone in this tune lead to an
oddly touching effect. The strong pulse
that ran through this number is again
highly hypnotic; the texture builds up
as more instruments are added layer by
layer before the vocals kicks in. Teasing
and wetting our appetites for sure. The
chorus had the entire Brixton crowd
singing ‘We try but we don’t belong.’
It is safe to say that Hot Chip are no
longer outcasts in life now that they’ve
gained wide recognition and success
across the UK as well as most of the
globe and are reaching more and more
new audiences by the day.
Amongst the tracks that they played
that night included their new song, ‘Al-
ley Cats’, a soulful, slowish, euphonic
number,atracklikelytofeatureontheir
forthcoming fourth album, which they
plan to record soon. What Hot Chip
does best is texture and good melodies
and this song epitomises both key as-
pects. Likewise we were delighted by
another slower track: the ambiguously
titled ‘Playboy.’ Do the five of them look
like playboys? We don’t think so. They
should just stick to their music for the
time being.
‘One Pure Thought’ was dominated
by the repeating mantra – ‘I won’t be
on my way’ with dynamic beats and a
confusing mesh of electronic sounds
providing a rich, polyphonic-textured,
lively soundscape.
The band showed off their reper-
toire of stuff with ‘My Piano,’ an upbeat
slinky number heavy on the synthesiz-
ers and keyboards with short bursts of
piano chord stabs to amplify the jilt-
ing rhythm. ‘No Fit State’ taken from
their second album ‘The Warning’ was
a classic belter-‘We caught the fire but
the body escaped/
Love other people but I don’t know
their names.’ What peculiar lyrics,
ringing of some truth though.
The show was not complete with-
out a spectacular combination of laser
beams and dramatic use of glitter-
ing disco lighting which tantalisingly
conveyed the hectically exhilarating
atmosphere.
The band finished their set with
their fiendishly compelling, mellow
version of Prince’s classic ‘Nothing
Compares 2 U.’ Well, for that magical
epoch, nothing could have compared
to Hot Chip and their maverick musi-
cal gifts.
The show was overwhelmed with the
euphoric atmosphere, compounded
by the release of a dozen or so enor-
mous balloons into the buzzing crowd
towards the end of the set. The eager
crowd jumped up like a bunch of five
year-olds fighting for lollipops, every-
one was reaching into the air, either
to the music or lured by these crazy
floating beauties. With some luck and
maybe some tall genes, we got to be lit-
tle kiddies again, happily playing in the
playground that was Brixton. A fabu-
lous show that thoroughly entertained
with the invigorating energy and infec-
tious enthusiasm that exuded from the
band.
Top notch action from these Ox-
bridge alumni. Boffins they may be,
but they sure can churn out some de-
cent original stuff, doing it with style.
The fabulously charming Forum used
to be a cinema, built in the 1930’s, but
has been rendered as a considerably
grandiose musical venue in the last fif-
teen years or so. The powerful yet inti-
mate stage has been testament to many
well-established artists strutting their
stuff on stage, with the likes of Jamiro-
quai, Robbie Williams, Travis and Van
Morrison on the performance bill. Fol-
lowing this tradition of having a highly
talented line-up, this time around with
Ani DiFranco, we could expect noth-
ing but the same electric, intimate and
intense aura all around. Looking in
either direction, we were treated with
the lavish architecture and décor that
complemented the intricate lighting,
the stage that was bathed in beautiful
blue hues that sent out a serene seem-
ingly mysterious vibe, a premonition
for the startling performance that was
to follow.
The turnout was to be expected,
there were an eclectic bunch of people
of all ages and of both genders, which
comes not so much as a surprise really
as DiFranco has such a wide diversity
of fans with her music crossing many
genres. No doubt there are legions of
fans across the globe, some liking her
folky style, others maybe the rocky in-
fluence or even the jazzy feel that she
incorporates into her music. It’s terri-
bly hard to pigeon-hole her as being of
any particular genre, so with DiFranco,
you get variety, and that is what makes
her stand out and probably the key to
her success in carrying on being well
received for two decades now. An in-
credible woman who knows how to
capture and recapture audiences again
and again.
Before DiFranco came on stage, the
hum of expectation was in the air, the
crowd having been treated to the fan-
tastically ferocious Hamell on Trial
and the delicate folk-acoustic set by
Anais Mitchell.
DiFranco certainly can have her pick
when it comes to doing live shows,
with a twenty year career to look back
on and seventeen studio albums in the
bag, the possibilities for the set-list are
countless, so most likely, she played
what took her fancy that night and
went for it with much passion, fire and
maybe a little tenderness in some of the
slower, more soulful tracks. No matter
what, the adoring fans would certainly
not hold a grudge against her for not
playing their favourites because, with
such a collection, you could not miss
out on something that you loved.
Ani Difranco is someone who is not
afraid of speaking out. Being some-
one who feels strongly about politics,
a topic which features frequently in
her songs, we were given a blast of her
discontent towards the current admin-
istration in the U.S, her expectations
towards the elections and her explicit
inclination towards the Democrats
during the intervals between the songs.
Who can blame her? It’s the right time
that America had some change with
the first black man in history to ever
become president. God bless America.
And the rest of the world of course.
DiFranco had many lovely goodies in
store for us. We were again charmed
with some of her old artillery like the
breathtaking ‘Overlap’ which had the
audience singing along and clapping
their hands enthusiastically. The shim-
mering guitar loop, showering of the
vibes in conjunction with the laidback
drumming complemented Ani’s soul-
fulness, casting a deeply chilled, blissful
spell throughout the whole auditorium.
Likewise, in the upbeat ‘Both Hands,’
what stood out the most was the re-
freshing quality of Ani’s vocals, playful
and heavenly harmonising. ‘Imagine
That’ saw DiFranco carving crushingly
sweet and flowing melodies, ‘Imagine
Hot Chip
Brixton Academy
HHHHI
that I’m on stage’ she coos, well, dar-
ling, the world is your stage.
In contrast, DiFranco belted out ‘Na-
polean’ with much gusto, the melodi-
cally meandering verse leading to the
crescendoing chorus, delivering her all
and deeply sustaining the word ‘Na-
polean,’ as if her whole might depend-
ed on the emotions that were conveyed
through the deliverance of these three
syllable. The simple chord strumming
on the guitar and not so full instru-
mentation allowed the vocals to soar
freely, exhilarating indeed.
The night’s success has to be also
attributed to DiFranco’s trio backing
band; they did their customary excep-
tional job, with Alison the drummer,
blazing away with the suave beats,
Todd the double bassist and keyboard-
ist, adding warmth and strength in tex-
ture with the strings and last but not
the least, there was Mike who added
saccharine tinkering on various per-
cussion instruments such as the metal
xylophone and marimba.
Several songs from her new album-
‘Red Letter Year’ were given a twirl
throughout the course of the evening.
With the song ‘Red Letter Year,’ the
strong sense of rhythm was conveyed
through the almost waltz-like beats
and the repetitive heavy instrumenta-
tion. In contrast, ‘Present/Infant’ was
given a touch of tenderness, DiFranco
was neatly embraced by the tranquil
aura of contentment, a testimony to
her loving bond to her daughter and
her lyrics defining her intact feminist
ideals in the wake of motherhood.
Smiling all the way, DiFranco’s trade-
mark blistering guitar audacity was
acutely demonstrated in most tracks
that were performed, especially in the
anti-war protest that is ‘Alla This,’ – ‘I
won’t support the troops, cos every last
one of them’s being duped,’ it wasn’t
just Ani, the guitar did a fair share of
the talking.
Before the curtains were drawn, the
enraptured audience were given a pre-
view of her new song ‘Splinter’ which
she had only just added the finish-
ing touches to. It was a bouncy, light
hearted, warm melodic piece that
had a Mediterranean feel to it, with a
constant cute xylophone refrain run-
ning through that gave away to a fuller
textural, coquettishly sensual, instru-
mentation interlude from time to time,
ultimately, this carefree number pleas-
antly filled the night with complete-
ness. One could not forget that her
signature percussive finger picking was
on show again for this number. Spicy
mama mia!
We will be correct in saying that Di-
Franco has stamped her trademark in
the music business, not only does she
leave a lasting imprint with her mu-
sic by producing a CD every year, but
when it’s given to us live, we will defi-
nitely take, take, treasure, and there’s
no stopping. She is still one of the most
energetic and enjoyable acts ever to
grace a London stage, being a small
woman with just an acoustic guitar and
her valuable vocals, together you get a
mighty musical force that is awfully
difficult to contend with. Expect to
see her career continue to flourish and
maybe we will see her in UK. Again.
Susan Yu
Ani DiFranco
The Forum
HHHHI
Ani DiFranco’s vocals soar. Photo by Michael Eccleshall
Album Review
Keane
Perfect Symmetry
HHHHH
DiFranco picks up her guitar and mixes politics with music
“See the light” is a not too timely release
from The Hours, an indie rock seven
-piece whose first album was released
last year to critical acclaim. However
if the first single of the second attempt
is anything to go by they have firmly
thrown themselves in the pit-marked
“One Album Wonders.” It’s so repeti-
tive that if you haven’t seen the light by
Single Review
The Hours
See the light
release: 8th December
HHHII
the end of this seven-minute epic then
you really are dead.
The sound is the same: huge, echoing
and faintly mournful but it doesn’t flow
anywhere like “Narcissus Road” or “Ali
in the Jungle”. Ant Genn, a successful
producer and Martin Slattery, jazz pi-
anist, who have worked beside their
fair share of big names between them,
fail to emulate or exceed the great mu-
sic they’ve helped make. Moreover
with Damien Hirst, their friend, creat-
ing the album art, and Flood (U2, Sigur
Ros…) producing the ensemble, they
could have done so much more. It‘s like
taking the first bite of a sandwich and
getting only the lettuce. There could
be some meat in the next bite or it all
could be entirely unsatisfying. Only
time will tell.
Sarah-Emily Mutch
If you haven’t listened to Keane’s new album, just go and listen to it!
I expect there are a lot of you who, like
me, were rocking out in your bedroom
at 15 to the thumping electro-clash
tunes of Black Cherry and later Super-
nature, customising your T-shirts and
wearing fishnets in a vain attempt to be
even a little bit as cool as Alison Gold-
frapp. But eventually, probably, we all
chilled out and started drinking tea
and watching the news before bed, and
these CD’s ended up in a box in the loft
along with those Boyzone albums we
never admitted to owning. (Hopefully,
a similar fate befell the fishnets…)
Even so, if this does sound familiar,
then this year’s album Seventh Tree
will have been regular ear-candy since
its release in February. Its tracks have
the same electronic energy as those
we loved in our teens, but it’s calmer,
more subtle and less brash. Basically,
it’s Goldfrapp, but grown up.
The live show was incredible. The
so easily just-a-bit-too-big-and-im-
personal Brixton Academy had been
transformed into a mythical and magi-
cal wonderland, the stage sprawled
with fairy-like musicians dressed in
white playing almost every instrument
imaginable, a choir in cult-esque ani-
mal masks and centre stage was a kind
of maypole with… antlers.
Alison appears barefoot amid
screams from the audience, manag-
ing to look effortlessly breathtaking
in what seems to be the top half of a
clown's outfit made from a bin-bag and
some glittery pompoms. Her silky, liq-
uid vocals fill the stage and the punters
look on in awe as their undeniably im-
pressive set unfurls.
‘A&E’ispiercinglybeautiful,‘Number
1’ is sweet and personal, ‘Caravan Girl’
is uplifting and ‘Happiness’ is… ac-
companied by four bouncing dancers
in pastel-coloured, hairy jumpsuits. It’s
all very theatrical, all a bit odd and all
so Goldfrapp.
The audience clap madly to the beat
of ‘Train’ and I suddenly realise that
the maypole has lost its ribbons and
become, well, just a pole. Out come the
dancers in bikinis with wolf masks on..
it’s weird, and disturbingly sexy, but by
the chorus everyone around me is go-
ing mad and I think we’ve all realised
what is being said; Yes, we’ve mellowed
out, but it’s still okay to go crazy for the
new wave raucous hits like ‘Twist’ and
‘Strict Machine’, and to dance like a lu-
natic to ‘Ooh La La’.
The show was a perfect mix of their
newer work and a re-visitation of their
more in-your-face dance tunes. It was
like reminiscing with an old friend (al-
beit a much more successful and at-
tractive one) who is classy and modest,
but with an unashamedly wild side who
makes you feel okay – nay, proud- of
that 15 year-old inside you who loves
to let it all go. All things considered, it
was definitely a show worth seeing.
Goldfrapp
Brixton Academy
HHHHH
Goldfrapp glitters at Brixton
Fiona Watt
Susan Yu
For their third album released back
in October, Keane have definitely
changed their tact, venturing into new
exciting sounds. With a departure from
their previous pretty piano-pop style,
‘Perfect Symmetry’ sees Keane experi-
menting with a more varied instru-
mentation, featuring appealing elec-
tronically-based sounds. It includes the
introduction of guitars, incorporation
of tasty synths, all in combination with
string arrangements and tinkerings
of saxophones and the musical saw.
Overall, fans will be greatly pleased to
see such a divergence. Believe it or not,
Coldplay are not the only ones to have
the experimental flair.
‘Spiralling’ into the deep abyss of
lyrical and musical ambition, we hear
Keane emerging from a 1980’s synth-
pop influenced style with sheer mas-
tery. This anthemic odyssey explodes
at the word go, the 80’s booming beat
pummelsthroughtheentiretrack,driv-
ing it forward, sending delicious tin-
gles down your spine whilst the blaring
keyboard fires off in the background.
The second track tells the story of
dreams, we hear echoes of The Killers
with the use of synthesisers in the prel-
ude that builds into a choral climax.
Grippingly, we hear the lead vocalist
Tom Chaplin’s gorgeous voice soar–‘I
dreamed I was watching young lovers
dance’ yet ‘The Lovers are Losing.’
In ‘Better Than This,’ the syncopat-
ed rhythm is joined by a picked gui-
tar hook, something novel, giving the
whole piece an upbeat, bouncy feel.
Pleasantly playful and light. When Rice
hits the high notes, we are definitely
reminded of the legend that is Justin
Hawkins from The Darkness. How we
miss those rockers…
We see the synths feature in the son-
ic soundscape in ‘You Haven’t Told Me
Anything’ as well as the appearance of
new wave guitars. Unsurprisingly, with
the fifth track-‘Perfect Symmetry,’ we
see Keane’s trademark piano arrange-
ment. ‘I wish we can make sense of
what we do.’ These guys turn to phi-
losophy in this intoxicatingly lush, me-
lodic piece- ‘Who are you and what are
you living for? ... [Some may] find life
is unkind and over so soon.’ It is im-
possible not to say that Keane have a
tremendous gift for writing splendidly
provocative and moving lyrics, they
really do possess lyrical prowess that
has been manifested through all three
albums.
With ‘You Don’t See Me,’ again we
cannot but be obliged to compare these
guys to The Killers, with the moody
soundscape and the underlying syn-
thesisers and piano accompaniment.
The brilliance of this track is empha-
sised by Chaplin’s amazing intonation
and range in the vocals.
‘Again and Again’ has us reminiscing
at the quaintly bewitching and dynam-
ic sound that was their debut album
‘Hopes and Fears.’ But with a twist to
it, as we hear the synth-pop influence
coming through once more.
The pace dwindles in ‘Playing Along.’
The change of palette sees sprinklings
of mesmeric repeating electric guitar
refrains and a sirenesque mixture of
distorted sounds at the end. We should
all ‘turn up the volume until’ we ‘can’t
even think.’
Simple piano chords with hints of
hip-hop beats help accompany the
ninth track ‘Pretend That You’re Alone.’
‘Love is the End’ is the sentimental
ultimate track of this wonderful con-
coction of varied soundscapes. The
melody is achingly wistful yet delight-
fully beautiful, Chaplin’s soulful vocals
wholesomely replenishing our hunger
for pure quality singing. Breathtaking.
Heavenly. Words are not enough.
The palette used for this album is
painted with powerful shades of all col-
ours that are provocative and exhilarat-
ing. Bold, extravagant and evocative,
Keane has achieved something that is
tantamount to ‘perfect’ion! revelation.

