Friday 28 November 2008
22 felix
nightlife.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Nightlife
Nightlife Editor – Catherine Jones
A little voice, but lots of spirit(s)
W
hy only a little noise
in the nightlife sec-
tion? So maybe
acoustic sessions in
a haunted church
are a strange choice to review? This
low volume gig was a unique night
to remember, raising funds for a very
worthy cause.
The Mencap Little Noise Project are
a series of fundraising events in aid
of the Mencap Arts Awards Scheme.
They provide grants for local art
projects involving people with learning
disabilities. As Andy Kee, an artist and
youth worker puts it “As arts develop
so do people”.
Why was there so little volume ? De-
spite the great acoustics in the chapel,
localcouncilimposednoiserestrictions
limit output to a paltry 85 decibels.
Each night there have been unique
acoustic performances from the likes
of Glasvegas, Kasabian and Razor-
light. On Wedsnesday 12th Novem-
ber headliners Biffy Clyro returned to
the Union Chapel, with Friendly Fires
and Frank Turner in support. Last year
Biffy Clyro made an strong impression
in this venue, singing acapello from the
pulpit. They were understandably keen
to return, describing it as one of “best
acoustic type shows we’ve done. Very
good cause.”.
Friendly Fires
On first impressions, St Alban’s
Friendly Fires were a strange sight.
Dressed with more than a hint of iro-
ny, shirts were tucked into chinos and
side partings smoothly drawn. Boring
first impressions were quickly cast
aside by some amusing showmanship
. Friendly Fires singer Ed MacFarlane
minced charmingly on stage, some-
what resembling the animatedness of
Brendan Urie of Panic! At The Disco.
You couldn’t help but smirk, watching
them writhing around in their preppy
clothes like innappropriately slutty cub
scouts (See photo montage).
The highlight from the electro-pop
outfit was the recent, superior single
“Paris”. You could tell the audience
were actively restraining a secrete urge
to let go and manically dance on the
pughes. In all honesty Friendly Fires
have too much zeal to be wasted in the
acoustic format. I recommend seeing
them perform at the Brixton Acad-
emy next February for the Shockwaves
NME Tour.
Biffy Clyro
It was clear who was in their element
that night. Headliners’ Biffy Clyro epic
stage presence stole the show. Like a
group of friends gathered around a
camp fire, they had a humble, peaceful
spiritual presence. The audience were
captivated throughout. Nothing could
have been more intuitively right. The
huge acoustic sound resonated through
the vast gothic spires. I felt the bass
vibrate through my feet. A throughly
well produced acoustic set.
Set list-wise they opened with “Liv-
ing is a problem because everything
dies”. New song “God & Satan” pre-
miered that night, but they refused to
utter the title in a place of worship.
Visually the Union Chapel made a
magical venue, with full on gothic Vic-
torian architecture imaginatively uplit
casting ghostly shadows. Biffy Clyro
connected with the audience and it
was a beautiful, unique event for a
great cause.
And Finally.....
Friendly Fires are playing the Brixton
Academy on Saturday 21st February as
part of the Shockwaves NME Awards
Tour 2009.
Mencap Little Noise Sessions HHHHI
Union Chapel, Islington
Best: Magical atmosphere.
Worst: Uncomfortable pughs.
Price: £44 with proceeds going towards The Mencap Arts Awards
Scheme.
Nightlife Editor CJ reviews a charity fundraiser featuring Biffy Clyro, Friendly Fires and Frank Turner
Biffy Clyro and Friendly Fires

