THE CLERKENWELL
Otherwise known as ‘Little Italy’, this
should begin to give you an idea of
what this collection looks like; Origi-
nality, signature elegance, and most of
all attitude. This high heeled peep toe
shoe boots which are now the fashion
rage gives you a specific look; that of
custom- made fluid sophistication. It is
a show off piece which shows off indi-
viduality and uniqueness.
THE ROXY
What shall we call this? They are not
shoes, not boots, not sandals but a
mixture of both; Perhaps Sandal Boots?
The picture tells it all - Brash, bold and
beautiful.
THE BRIXTON
Think trainers + heels + colour and
finally style = rock chic trainer heels.
That is the formula for Rohan’s Brixton.
Oh yeah, they’re ‘Brixton’ but don’t you
go thinking “gosh, who wears this in
Brixton?” As well as being extremely
dangerous, Brixton also has brought
forth the unique arty type. Like who?
Now think Sharon Osbourne rock chic
Numero Uno. Yeah, these trainer heels
are not what she might wear now, she
being old, but 10 years ago these would
have been her favourite. What have we
learned from this? Yes, trainers too can
be classy.
Next week, watch out for Part 2 of
this article, where we get to speak to
Rohan himself.
fashion.felix@imperial.ac.uk
24 felix Friday 28 November 2008
Fashion
Fashion Editor – Dan Wan
Ramblings of a Fashionista
Vicky Masding acutely suffers from ‘Beit Syndrome’, so felix
stays away and lets the horrifically inane ramblings commence
Daniel Wan
Fashion Editor
I
was going to comment exten-
sively on the last three weeks’ of
fashion happenings, but other
news a little more important,
and I reckon relevant, turned up
at the felix offices late last night.
Last night gave evidence that the
combination of passion and sustained
hard work pays off. Last year’s Editor-
in-Chief, Tom Roberts, triumphantly
walked out of the Guardian Student
Media Awards clutching the Student
Newspaper of the Year Award he richly
deserved.
The felix team worked immensely
hard last year, and there is nothing I
can put in print to describe exactly
how pleased I am that felix has got
the national recognition it deserves
from Tom’s editorship. It’s an even bet-
ter feeling knowing we achieved this
through our own passion entirely.
What I mean is, writing for felix was
never toil, or ‘real’ work. We are all en-
gineers, scientists and medics whom
have already signed away our immedi-
ate futures into fields so far from jour-
nalism. In charge, was a geeky Physicist
already in question. We have no Jour-
nalism or English courses here. Yet, we
managed to beat off numerous other
publications produced by journalists,
design artists and literature students.
So, it all comes down to a mutual
passion for writing. Through passion,
came dedication. Through dedication,
came hard work. And through hard
work, comes rewards. And Student
Newspaper of the Year is only a frac-
tion of ours. The rest of our reward
is from you, the readers. The sense of
pride seeing students value your work
within their busy week is something no
Guardian Award can give.
Saying that, this award sets a bench-
mark for the newly assembled team
this year. By no means is it impossible
to repeat the achievement. The paper
is picking up speed as the academic
year unfolds. So boys and girls, let’s
set award-winning felix cat free once
again.
Have a little gander at the interview I
held with Tom in the News this week,
and laugh at his funny, yet accom-
plished, face of confused terror as he
collects his award.
So much for a Fashion editorial then.
The boy done
good
F
irstly I would like to warn
you – this article may be
rambling and incoherent in
style. This is in part due to a
distinct lack of research and
Beit syndrome: the inability to write ar-
ticles or do anything productive. Ever.
Rest assured, in no way does this cor-
respond to a diminishing passion for
clothes. Far from it, I spent my week-
end shopping! ‘Spent’ of course being
the ‘ha-ha’ obviously operative word. I
had planned on buying a new bag, or at
least something that would not make
my lecture notes look like waste by the
end of the day, and possibly a dress.
However, I came back with two tops,
a cardigan, one skirt, one hat and two
pairs of sick shoes!
“Fail!” I hear you cry. To which I reply
with withering enthusiasm “your face
is fail.” Others of course would hi-fric-
kin-five me on the success of my trip.
Such a loot!
As we roll on a few weeks and I fi-
nally have the bag! However this is a
mini-saga in itself, so much so it war-
rants column inches. I will now paint
you the picture.
I have been shopping for hours, it
is dark and raining and I have scuffed
holes in my slouch boots – so I have
wet feet at this point. Never good for
morale! I make it into Topshop, head
straight for accessories. No prancing
around, toying with all the garments
on the rails, or smoothing all the fab-
rics. NO. I am on a mission! Upstairs.
Bags. Giant bag. Awesome! Two min-
utes later and I’m at the cash register,
thinking I’m about to spend £45 for a
fake leather bag. Incorrect. I am actu-
ally purchasing an £80 real leather bag.
Frick.
I will pause the story there to ac-
knowledge the fact most people would
E
ver wondered about the his-
tory of the shoe? Where
and why it was made? It was
first used by the Greek fol-
lowed by the Romans. In the
early Christian days (third century),
they were worn by women to cover the
feet replacing sandals.
In the 1600’s it became FASHION. It
became a commodity- quality, design,
extravagance all part of the deal. Just
think of those different styles, shapes,
constructions, decorations etc.
Fashion in now expressed in different
ways through gender, age, economic
strata and social echelon of its wearer.
“In every step she takes a trail of fire
follows her. With every stride she navi-
gates, there is no one beside her. A for-
tuitous wall serves simply as a paper
kite punctured by a lethal heel……
”
Rohan Anthony Clarke is a shoe de-
signer that takes a romantic view of
shoes. Ladies, isn’t that just what we
need?
At the London Fashion Week Sep-
tember 2008, the Spring and Summer
collection of clothes were not very
inspiring as I went through the stalls.
Accessories on the other hand took a
leading edge. Rohan’s stall got me ar-
rested in my tracks: The colours, the
style, the design. But most of all, the
shoes had a history.
London with its distinctive area was
his muse, creating shoes with a variety
of London areas in mind.
A mixture, blend, of east meets
west ranging from THE BRIXTON, to
SLOANE RANGER. Rohan takes you
on a different journey depicting the
vibrancy of both sides on his centre
stage.
With Rohan Anthony Clarke, there is
no rush; each woman’s stride should be
taken purposefully and confidently.
SLOANE RANGER
Sloaney or not? Needless to say these
shoes make a statement about where
you come from. Of course sloaney girls
usually dress with a slightly scruffily
though with expertly made up faces; a
look which I like to call ‘The Bedroom
Look’. That doesn’t mean it is their
evening look. Oh no, they transcend
into expertly coiffed looking girls tip-
ping it up with expensive classy shoes.
Rohan shoes show you what class is all
about, appropriately termed British
nostalgia. Those cowgirl boots discern
the hardworking form the lazy bum-
mers! What’s more? These range of
shoes have gold plated holed heels.
THE BEAUCHAMP
POSH or NOT? Think posh on a night
out hanging on her man’s arm, cam-
era’s clamouring for her attention.
SNAP SNAP!!! Wonder where the fo-
cus is? SHOES! Rohan‘s Beauchamp
collection attract the young twenty
something crowd who know how to
look good. Teemed with highs, they
guarantee that you are going to be the
head turner in every crowd. Every girls
envy and every guys wet dream.
Forget diamonds, shoes are a girl’s best friend
Swiri Konje was unimpressed with September’s London Fashion Week. One designer restored her faith in
fashion that day; Rohan Anthony Clarke’s illuminating collection of romantically inspired shoes
ask the sales assistant to restate the
price and then calmly back out of the
purchase. My approach was somewhat
different. I instead remained cool and
just bought the bag. I guess the lesson
here is: look at the tag that corresponds
to what you are actually buying. The
End. And FYI the bag and I will live
happily ever after.
Needless to say many other purchas-
es took place and chip-and-pin ma-
chines were fucked good and proper
by my debit card.
In other news, in an attempt to sab-
otage the studying of a friend, I went
on his laptop and began asking his
opinion of women’s clothes. This did
successfully distract him (lols). The
premise of “the game” (OMFG – I just
lost the game) was this; (OK. I will give
you a minute to console yourself about
losing the game. Right, a minute’s up.)
each page displayed a variety of dresses
and he was made to say which ones he
would like to see a girl in. Of course he
picked the waste ones. This could of
course highlight that I am not dressing
to maximize my appeal to the oppo-
site sex. Alternatively he probably just
has no taste, but has what I like to call
‘waste-taste.’ But it’s always interesting
to ponder, do you dress to get some?
Some of Rohan Anthony Clarke’s
delicious creations: (from top left
clockwise) The Clerkenwell, The
Sloane Ranger, The Brixton, The
Roxy and The Beauchamp. Try not
to lick the pages please.
Picture of the Week
Shaolin Gong Fu, by Annabel Slater
We want to exhibit your art. Send in your photographs.
felix@imperial.ac.uk

