28 felix Friday 28 November 2008
Ten affordable gadgets that you should get...
felix@imperial.ac.uk
Technology
Technology Editor – Ravi Pall & Richard Lai
felix@imperial.ac.uk
29
Friday 28 November 2008 felix
Technology
Richard Lai
Technology Editor
Y
ou just can’t avoid them
- they’re everywhere! As
we speak I have two items
being sold on eBay, one of
which is the lovely Sony
Ericsson Xperia X1 (as much as I love
the phone, money does come first). It
was pretty obvious that the phone was
going for at least £400 at that time, but
I had this one douche bag who had the
balls to ask, “Would you sell this for
210 pounds including delivery?”
Then I had another one who first
buttered me up with “I like how you
describe the phone” and “your confi-
dence in accepting personal collection
inspires me that you are a trustful sell-
er”, followed by a slightly more sensible
offer of £300. Sorry, but the buttering
up just ruined it all.
And literally just now a buyer by the
name of “big.ojsimpson” offered to buy
my phone in person, and I am not mak-
ing this up! For some strange reason he
insisted on paying me via PayPal before
collection, instead of paying by cash
which would save me the PayPal fees.
Also I fear his PayPal payment might,
for some reason, become void after-
wards. Anything could happen, right?
I swear I’ve never encountered that
many weirdos outside Engadget - a
respectable technology blog which
has comment sections flooded with
posts like “FIRST!!!!!111!” and “APPLE
RULEZ”. Shut up already! The number
of Apple fanboys there is definitely
nothing to joke about. Someone please
get those kids out of their basement.
There is definitely a trend of online
anti-socialism going on here, some
sort of new-found disease like the
online-gaming addiction. I’ve tried
to imagine what the equivalent rehab
training camp would be like (yes, they
do have such camps for Warcraft ad-
dicts in China), but the only cure I can
think of is to just dump those idiots on
Mars and make them build houses for
us. Now let’s see who’ll build the 100th
house FIRST!!!!!111! (Only if they man-
age to sort out the oxygen problem
beforehand).
On a more serious note, lately eve-
ryone seems to be down with the flu,
and I might have caught a bit of sore
throat from my flatmates too (cheers!).
It made me wonder: if we can remotely
control a robot on Mars, how could it
be that we have yet to defeat the annoy-
ing viruses on our own planet? Perhaps
Biology really is the hardest subject on
the campus? Well, at least that’s where
most of the hot girls are too (ladies,
please note that I didn’t say ‘all of’); in
our Information Systems Engineering
group we literally have zero girls, so
perhaps some of us are already on the
right path to become genuine, hard-
core engineers.
Either way, please don’t send us to
Mars with those Internet douche bags.
Well, not me anyway - I’ll say behind
to exterminate the remaining trash-
talkers.
Oh, and the Star Trek trailer is great!
Internet
douche bags
Weekend Timewasters
TotallyRadShow.com
This is a quality weekly podcast
reviewing the latest movies, comics,
video games and TV shows.
Samorost
Check out this weird yet beautifully-
designed point-and-click game:
http://amanita-design.net/
Zero Punctuation
Watch video game reviews done
with minimal breathing and hilari-
ous animation: http://is.gd/rN0
Last.fm
Listen to music for free on this on-
line jukebox, as well as finding out
what other artists you may like.
No, it isn’t all about being a geek; it’s about spending your pile of copper coins on something cheap and fun.
1. Laser Pointer, ~£5, ebay.co.uk
So you see your neighbour’s cat sat
aloneoutsideandyouwanttosomehow
get its attention. Well, here’s a cheap
toy you can play with: the bemused cat
will try to catch the red/green dot for
hours, until either it gets too frustrated
or your batteries run out. Ah, good
times.
2. Sudokube, £3.49,
BoysStuff.co.uk
Bored of your Rubik’s Cube already?
Then it’s time to move on to this new
puzzle: rather than having to get all the
same colours on each side, here you
have to get all 1 to 9 on each side, just
like you do in Sudoku. Even though
it’s essentially the other way round as
Rubik’s Cube, it’s not as easy as you
think...
5. Maggie Nut Cracker, £9.99,
iwantoneofthose.com
Nuts are good for your brain (and so is
the magazine, in my opinion), so while
you’re munching away in front of a
pile of revision, let the former British
Prime Minister motivate you at the
same time. Do check out the amusing
demo video on the website.
4. Magic 8 Ball, £5.95, firebox.com
At some point in life you will come
across many tough questions, such as
“Should I dump that rich loser?”, “If
I ask the postgraduate out, will I be
rejected?” and “Is it OK to feed the cat
some cheeseburgers?”. Fear not, as the
Magic 8 Ball is here to help. Don’t let
the shiny plastic fool you - I’ve tested
one before and it was quite accurate.
E
ver wondered why Sony’s
PlayStation 3 is so expen-
sive? Well, my friend, I’d like
to tell you that it’s actually
an underpriced supercom-
puter. No, it’s not just about its Blu-ray
playback feature - it’s the Cell proces-
sor which makes the PS3 your home
supercomputer.
Last week EESoc invited John Eas-
ton, Senior Consultant of IBM Systems
and Technology Group, to talk about
the Cell Broadband Engine (Cell BE,
in short) technology. His emphasis
was that in the past business estab-
lishments were competing over the
number of pieces of technological
equipment they possess, but today it’s
a totally different story: technology has
become part of commodities and to be
able to trade faster you have to look
into “doing something you could never
do before”.
According to Easton, the current
latencies in the trading arena are
counted in milliseconds, and each can
cost about $55,000 (which is eleven
years’ worth of a Home student’s un-
dergraduate tuition fees). Methods to
keep such latencies down were very
different even just five years ago: the
performance-constrained market
meant that companies relied on scaling
to drive performance and drive down
cost; today, the market trend indicates
that there will be no more space for
data centres in London in the next ten
years, which is why IBM believes that
innovation is the new scaling.
However, the concept of the Cell
processor started way back in 2000,
when SCEI (Sony Computer Enter-
tainment Incorporated) approached
IBM for an engine that would make the
PS3 future-proof from day one, and
about 1000-times faster than current
consoles. From that point onwards,
SCEI, Toshiba and IBM formed STI - a
joint technology development alliance
on the Cell BE, and in September 2006
IBM launched the QS20 blade module
- the first commercial product utilising
the Cell BE, followed by the highly-
anticipated PS3 in November.
The current generation of Cell is es-
sentially a 90nm nine-core chip with
ten threads, clocking over 4GHz with
100 GFLOPS in labs (the PS3’s Cell
is clocked at 3.2GHz). Instead of us-
ing the traditional scalar code, Cell
is programmed with the more com-
plex vector language (known as array
programming), in order to achieve a
higher level of parallelisation. This is
essential for heavy encoding/decoding
and compression/decompression in
signal processing, digital filtering, Fast
Fourier Transform, advanced video
rendering and many other real time
processing tasks.
Easton provided some very interest-
ing examples of Cell applications, with
the first video being of a medical com-
puter tomography (CT) scan of a hu-
man heart. It seemed to be an ordinary
animation, but then we were told that
with a 3GHz Wintel box, such 3D ren-
dering from 313MB of raw scan data to
just five 1MB slices would take about
a hundred seconds, which is not very
good for the average high-resolution
CT scanning of 3000 slices (the cur-
rent Siemens Somatom 64 takes about
16 hours to process that); but with four
Cell blades a sequence of fifteen sam-
ples can be rendered to an even higher
resolution in less than one second!
Another video rendering demo was
of a terrain rendering engine (TRE),
which showed the performance differ-
encebetweenanIntel-basedmachine,a
G5-dual-CPU one and a Cell machine:
Intel’s video was still rendering the
landscape within the first few frames,
then the G5 gave a jumpy animation,
and finally the Cell gave a smooth visu-
al flight over the mountains.
Easton then played a recorded vid-
eo of a life-like Ferrari car rendering,
demonstrating IBM’s Interactive Ray
Tracer (iRT) running on fourteen Cell
blades which, as the name suggests, is
able to change a render interactively in
real time - a feature that is very impor-
tant for movie productions and prod-
uct video demos.
Toshiba has also been making use of
the Cell BE: back in CEATECH 2005
they showcased their “Magic Mirror”,
which virtually puts makeup on you as
well as changing your hairstyle. Today
we have the SpursEngine - a derivation
of the Cell BE, running on just four
cores and clocked at 1.5GHz peaking
at 48 GFLOPS, and is already featured
on selected Toshiba laptops for hand
gesture visual recognition.
Of course, we mustn’t forget the
PS3, the power of which has been har-
nessed by Stanford University’s Fold-
ing@home, a distributed computing
project for studying protein folding
and misfolding.
As of 25th November 2008 the
PS3 has provided 38.9% of the to-
tal TFLOPS with just over 58k active
CPUs - a very impressive ratio com-
pared to Windows’ mere 5.26% over
235k active CPUs. And of course, you
get to play games with stunning graph-
ics and physics on the console!
When asked if NVIDIA’s GPGPU
(General-Purpose computing on
Graphics Processing Units) is seen as
Cell’s biggest competitor right now,
Easton simply admitted that it is defi-
nitely more powerful than Cell is in-
tended to be (as proven by Folding@
home statistics: 42.2% of TFLOPS from
16k active CPUs), but for programmers
the GPGPU is harder to work with; the
only real fear will be Intel’s Larrabee
GPU, due out in late 2009. Don’t worry
though, IBM, as the PS3 will keep us
happy for many more years.
3. USB Cup Warmer With Mug,
£2.99, Gadgetshop.com
Cold tea is no good on a cold winter
day, so this cheap peripheral should
be a necessity for those who haven’t
bothered paying for central heating. I
got one of these last Christmas, but the
warm winter in Hong Kong made me
think I wouldn’t need it here. Fail.
6. Powerball, from £7.99, Play.com
Here’s another one for the ball-
lovers: the gyroscopic exercise tool
strengthens your arm muscles and
fingers by exerting centripetal force,
while you practise your wrist action. I
strongly recommend getting the £14.99
model which has an LCD speedometer
- everyone will be wanting to take up
theRPMchallengeatparties,anditalso
provides great visual entertainment.
PS3 is so underrated
IBM’s “Inside the Cell Processor” lecture last week explains it all
IBM’s Cell Broadband Engine - the heart of Sony’s PlayStation 3
7. Toastabag, £5.99 (for pack of 2),
Lakeland.co.uk
As dumb as it may sound, this baby
does work fantastically! Here’s the
list of food that you can cook with
one in a toaster: toasted sandwiches
(obviously), non-soggy eggy bread,
scrambled egg, burgers, fish fingers,
omelettes, salmon fillets, etc. And the
best thing is cleaning is just as easy as
using the reusable bags!
8. Dippy Egg Set, £7.95,
firebox.com
I smiled when I saw this kit, as earlier
this evening my flatmate, Guto, was
preparing Eggy Soldiers for supper
(I know). The set comes with a cute
microwave egg boiler (which also has
a pin to prick the raw egg shell) and a
handy soldier cutter, just the perfect
combination for a quick, lazy meal. You
should add this to your Christmas list!
Easton’s placement of Cell on the purpose-speciality line
10. SanDisk Ultra II 2GB SD Plus
USB Card, £7.49, Play.com
I must thank my flatmate, Jon, for
this suggestion: if you have a digital
compact camera, chances are you are
using an SD card. Annoyed with the
camera’s USB cable or external card
reader (stupid MacBook...)? Now you
can just plug this odd memory card
straight into the USB port!
9. Glowrings, £5.45, RVOps.co.uk
These mini glowsticks contain the
radioactive tritium (don’t worry,
unlike radium it’s completely safe and
housed in a very tough case) that will
continuously glow brightly for ten
years, very useful for marking your
camping kit and keyrings, as well as
luring fish when you’re out night-
fishing.
Background image: http://deepfriar.files.wordpress.com/

