clubsandsocs.felix@imperial.ac.uk
311
Friday 28 November 2008 felix
Clubs and Societies
30 felix Friday 28 November 2008
Clubs & Societies Is your club cooler than the cat that
got the cream? Write to us.
clubsandsocs.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Clubs & Socs Editor - Alice Rowlands
A
brief look over previous
DramSoc productions
reveals some impres-
sive and ambitious fare:
Christopher Hampton’s
Les Liaisons Dangereuses, Tom Stop-
pard’s Arcadia, Brian Friel’s Transla-
tions, even outdoor Shakespeare Per-
formances of Much Ado about Nothing
and the magical A Midsummer Night’s
Dream.
All these have shown a Drama troupe
with taste, class and theatrical nous. So
you’d be forgiven for asking, upon see-
ing the poster for our latest offering:
Robin Hood: A Pantomime, ‘Why the
hell are you staging a pantomime!?!?’
I’m the producer, and I was asking that
very question when we decided to.
However, after reading the script,
getting a cast together and working
on some of the craziest technical chal-
lenges we’ve had recently, it all began
to make some sort of surreal sense.
Robin Hood is a story so worn over
you could tell it in your sleep. A hero of
English folklore, he has a band of mer-
ry men, robs from the rich to feed the
poor, splits an arrow in half at a tour-
nament, and is a thorn in the flesh of
a corrupt monarch, Prince John, who
has taken rule of the country while his
Brother King Richard is away. Also,
most of the tales of his heroism cen-
tre around conflicts with the Sheriff of
Nottingham, and he invariably gets the
lovely Maid Marian, who has no choice
Why a pantomime?
Recently, DramSoc has put on
shows with a variety of styles; rang-
ing from Shakespearean classics
to the artistic Arcadia. These, of
course, can be a lot of fun for ac-
tors and audiences alike.
With this play, however, I was
aiming for something more like Ter-
ry Prachett’s Mort – specifically, to
have a large cast and for the focus
of the play to provide light enter-
tainment as opposed to the more
serious drama of the recent past.
Given that Mort was two years ago
now, I felt that it was high time to
head in that direction again.
Another consequence has been
getting a lot of new actors in-
volved with the society, which
has been very good for us. And
hey, it’s Christmas. What better
than a panto?
How did you come up with
the idea to do Robin Hood?
I visited the girl who
wrote the play – a good
friend of mine – in Canada
over the summer, and she
was kind enough to show
me a recording of the first
production of the show. I
fell in love with it then and
there, and made her agree to allow us to stage the first UK produc-
tion of it.
Knowing the playwright has had the secondary benefit that I’ve
had a good deal more freedom to change bits of the script here and
there, which I hope will translate to the show being that bit more
alive for the audience.
This is the second play you’ve directed this term. Are you the only
person allowed to direct DramSoc plays?
Ah, no, not at all. On the contrary, as the Acting Director I’m only
supposed to step in and direct plays when no one else can be found
to do so. Unfortunately, a lot of the long-term actors left the society
all at once at the end of last year, meaning that the number of pro-
posals was fewer than we might have liked. As a result, here I am
directing my second of the two plays for this term.
There’s a rumour flying round that this production of Robin Hood
has no arrows in it. Explain yourself.
I think I’ll just leave my answer to this: this isn’t Robin Hood as
you’ve ever seen it before.
So can we expect anything different from what Wikipedia tells us
about Robin Hood, then?
Hell yes.
Why should we come to see it?
Because it’s going to be a great show? The comedy in the show
is witty and intelligent without being difficult, and the cast has thor-
oughly enjoyed rehearsing the show, which in my experience usu-
ally translates to the audience enjoying it.
Pantomimes usually involve audience participation. Is this any
exception?
The audience is important to the show, certainly! There’s plenty
for them to get their teeth into – though you’re going to have to
come along to find out exactly what…
Isn’t that risky? What if the audience doesn’t interact?
At a panto? Please.
How did you start in DramSoc?
My first play was Mort. Basically, I just went along to an audition
and got handed one of the lead roles… and DramSoc hasn’t let go
since. So, in a way, Robin Hood is a bit like revisiting my start in the
society. Ah, memories… I hope it’s the start of a good thing for all
the new people in my cast, and for all of the people in the audience
who’ve never been to one of our shows.
So round it up for us?
The show’s going to be accessible, contemporary, entertaining
and relevant. Come see it!
T
raditionally summer
brings with it a long,
well deserved break
fromacademics,sched-
ules and the relentless-
campaign, that is, student life at
Imperial. For most, it also brings
opportunities. Opportunities for
work, opportunities for leisure and
sometimes even opportunities for
service to the underprivileged.
Such an opportunity this year
was presented in the form of two
journeys into the worlds of those
who desperately need, but sel-
dom receive. The journeys I refer
to were the summer volunteering
trips offered by Imperial PASS,
officially the Imperial College Po-
litical Awareness and Social Service
society.
During the months of July and
September this year, two teams of
volunteers associated with PASS
and a non-profit organization
Po Yin Association originating in
Hong Kong, set off with the desire
to make a difference to the lives of
those who have little. To bring them
happiness, if only for a short while,
but ultimately, to return hope to
those who had none.
The first team ventured out to a
village in the North-Western part
of the Guangdong province in Chi-
na on a 6 day visit, while the second
team departed for a village in the
neighbouring Guangxi province,
for the duration of 12 days.
With the regions incorporating
some of the poorest settlements
in the country, the volunteers at-
tempted to enlighten lives of un-
derprivileged children, by impart-
ing basic knowledge of the English
language, at selected village schools
in the respective regions. Using
unconventional methods to “teach
through enjoyment”, the hope was
to ease the children from the grim
reality of their world, if only for a
few hours, and allow them to redis-
cover their childhood.
Over the course the two trips, the
volunteers immersed themselves in
the same atmosphere of poverty
stricken existence
which
clouded the pros-
pects of each one of these chil-
dren. Through a series of home vis-
its the volunteers tried to share the
weight of the adverse living conditions
the children were subjected to and the
adult responsibility which they were
required to carry from such an early
age. In an attempt to mildly ease their
struggle the teams donated what they
could to their households in the form
of essential supplies.
The volunteering team visiting
Guangdong concluded their experi-
ence at their village school by setting
up a scholarship fund for the academi-
cally able while also providing mon-
etary donations to the school for the
improvement of facilities.
The teams also proceeded to visit
historical and cultural points of in-
terest. In Guangdong the volunteers
visited the aptly named “underground
galaxy”, a series of subterranean geo-
logical structures created through
natural geographic processes over
hundreds of years.
PASS volunteer to
make a difference
Varun Sharma writes about the PASS summer trip to China
They
were also able
to witnesses a cultural performance
by the locals in the host county of
Liannan Yao. While those present in
Guangxi were privileged enough to
be present during the mid-autumn
(Moon cake) festival celebrations
which take place throughout China
in the month of September.
Upon leaving China the volun-
teers unanimously agreed that they
were taking with them, a special ex-
perience which would allow them
to view life with a new perspective.
PASS has organized and will be
organising a host of fund raising
events to finance their future hu-
manitarian projects. As part of the
fund raising initiative a “Charity
Show” is being hosted in the Read
Lecture theatre on the 9th of De-
cember, further details about PASS
and their events can be found by
contacting their President, Jason
Lin, at hing.lin07@imperial.ac.uk.
Director of Robin Hood, Kristen
Farebrother talks to Tosin
Ajayi about DramSoc’s latest
production
but to swoon in his Manly arms.
Er… yeah, our story is a bit different:
you’ll recognize some things: we have a
Robin Hood, a little John, a Maid Mari-
an, a Wilhelmina Scarlet (yep, you read
right) and a gaggle of Merry Persons.
We’ve got robbing from the rich to
give to the union of disgruntled work-
ers, we’ve got Maid Marian seducing
Robin into stealing so she can rob him
and head for a life of freedom in Paris.
What we’ve got is whole lot of fun.
As the director says, this presents
a totally different type of acting chal-
lenge to what we’ve had in the recent
past. And the peculiar performance re-
quirements of a panto have proved fun
for the actors to get their teeth round.
One thing we can guarantee, that as
the audience, you will be participating.
On the technical side, with a scene
change seemingly every 5 mins, we’ve
had to be inventive, especially when
designing one scene that has 4 visible
rooms on stage at the same time, with
characters switching between differ-
ent rooms. Theatre is a hard mistress
indeed.
In the end, as always, the final prod-
uct proves to be worth all the sweat.
The cast of freshers, first timers and
older hands really have come together
– as you can see from the picture above
– to produce a great atmosphere on
stage and off. We all had tremendous
fun, and come next week we know you
will too.
DramSoc: ‘Tis the season for a Panto
Tosin Ajayi tells felix about DramSoc’s latest production– Robin Hood, the Pantomime:
These crazy kids are practicing their sword fighting; you should practice yours too if you go and see their performance – it’s a Pantomime so that means audience participation
What do DramSoc do?
DramSoc usually put on around 4 plays a year,
two in the first term and one in each of the remain-
ing two terms.
We have recently also started putting on smaller
productions in the second term, tied to the acting
workshops that are run in the union every week
from 2 pm to 5. Anyone can show up for a trial
workshop.
Aside from the regular workshops, we also pro-
vide a number of one-off workshops, aiming to
develop skills in anything from stage fighting or im-
provising to how to direct or produce a play.
Members also get opportunities to design, build
and ‘dress’ (i.e. paint) the sets, or to help out with
hair and makeup, lighting, sound or stage man-
agement for the plays for the more technically
minded.
If that isn’t enough, DramSoc are also regularly
contracted to provide lighting, sound or other tech-
nical support for a variety of events in and around
the union and college (both for clubs and societies
and for external organizations hosting events in
college).
Are most people experienced before they join
DramSoc?
We get a mixture of experienced people and
those new to theatre. There’s something for every-
one; people with less experience quickly learn from
those who have been involved for longer. Passing
skills on is an important part of the society, and we
believe that the best way to learn is to do, so every-
one is given the opportunity to be involved as early
on as possible.
How are plays chosen?
DramSoc holds a play proposals meeting on a
Tuesday (advertised on our mailing list). Two weeks
later, the committee hold a play choosing meeting
to review all the proposals made and decide upon
the one we feel will be the best for the society to
put on.
How do people get involved with DramSoc?
DramSoc have a long tradition of meeting in the
union bar every Tuesday evening from around
7:30. This is a great way to get to know the past and
present members of the society – even those who
have graduated still come back every week (and
are often roped into helping with the shows).
felix asks Kristen Farebrother: Who are DramSoc?
DramSoc’s production of Robin Hood is showing in the Union Concert Hall
from Wednesday 3rd to Saturday 6th December at 7pm.
Tickets are £7 or £5 with a student card.

