felix sport Send in your sport reports:
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
High resolution photos only
W
e managed to cre-
ate quite a spark by
introducing the no-
tion of ‘superclubs’.
Valid points have
been made although in my mind there
is definitely no place for any more. But
wait, RCS hockey now exists!
Anyway, moving onto good news.
The league table exists in full, there are
six pages of sport and Wednesday was
the biggest day of sport for Imperial
ever! A huge number of fixtures were
played, and Harlington was buzzing.
Having interviewed Dan Neville this
week, we can sense the Varsity rivalry
and atmosphere is slowly, but surely
starting to intensify.
In response to Tim’s opinion on the
‘superclubs’ debate we would not like
to keep dispelling the sometimes spu-
rious claims, thus we will bring it to a
close, barring one last response from
us.
For both football and hockey there is
movement between the teams. A no-
Following two spirited yet unsuccess-
ful displays against Bedford and Ox-
ford earlier in the season the IC Gaelic
Football took the trip to Cambridge
this Sunday. Resting on their laurels
may have had Cambridge the bookies
favourite, but it was also to be their un-
doing as they were clearly unprepared
for the blitzkrieg football that was in
store for them.
The late withdrawal of Finian Mc-
Cann from the team due to injury was
cause for concern leaving Andrew Lav-
ery to step into the overly large shoes
in the midfield role with Sean ‘U-turn’
Cleary replacing Noel Ryan in defence,
alongside Jamie Sanders - the baby
face of the team fast creating a niche
for himself in corner back. Though the
pair were rarely tested, IC’s full back
line never looked liked conceding.
The game started sharply with IC
gaining possession at the throw in.
With an air of arrogance befitting the
Oxbridge type, Cambridge looked
lacksidasical in both attack and de-
fence, and were soon stunned by IC’s
flamboyance and flair, snatching a goal
and a point in the early exchanges.
Conor Taylor, who dominated the half
forward line, supplied Frank O’Neill, in
this the first of many well taken chanc-
es by the Naomh Bríd pair. Claiming a
brace of points IC went 1-03 up to no
score when Cambridge made their best
effort of the half, still only resulting in a
45’, which admittedly, was struck clean
over the bar in a great display of kick-
ing from the ground by the Cambridge
number 9.
Imperial duly replied with the best
score of the day. Winning possession
in the half back area, Lavery combined
well with Taylor, their swift passing on
the right wing, running riot through
the Cambridge defence. Midfielder
Edward O’Hare was soon in on the
act as IC continued to cleave through
any resistance offered. With the trio
completing at least 10 passes full for-
ward O’Neill got himself in the right
place and was given the ball with ex-
pectations of nothing less than a goal
which he delivered; a full force drop
kick from three yards into the back of
the net. The half played out in much
the same vein, with Cambridge attacks
never even breaching the half back line
of Donnacha Kirk, Pat McMullen and
notably Club Sec Phil Jakeman, ac-
quitting himself like he’d been playing
GAA all his life - despite the headband
making him look like Rafael Nadal a
soppy fagel.
Ardent words from Lavery at half
time left the team in no doubt of what
we were about to achieve. A new club,
in its first season, with only 30 minutes
You will have to ask the ICUGFC players to find the ball. After you have succeeded, try and digest the intricacies of the scorecard. Hint Imperial convincingly beat their Oxbridge rivals
Andrew Lavery
Gaelic Football
Imperial Men’s 1st 3-09
Cambridge Men’s 1st 1-01
Jack Cornish &
Mustapher Botchway
Sports Editors
Debate nears
it’s end
table example is with the football ULU
cup winning side of 2006. 4 players of
that side had come through the ranks
starting in the 5th team. So to say there
is rigid movement is quite debatable.
What we are trying to get as is that
these faculty teams do no need their
own society. They can easily be a sig-
nificant part of their constituent club.
If you say that you play for RSM hock-
ey so you can have a casual game on
a Sunday then why don’t you join the
hockey club and organise casual hock-
ey sessions on a Sunday. With the size
of these teams, you could experience
improvements in the logistics of trav-
elling to a hockey pitch.
In addition, having a faculty team
where non-faculty players play is ri-
diculous. This reinforces the view that
these teams should be part of their
constituent clubs.
On a separate note, best of luck for
next weeks games and we hope you en-
joy your Christmas dinners/socials in
the next few weeks.
separating us from a historic victory,
not least over the prematch favourites
and rivals Cambridge, meant IC re-
took the field with all the same verve
and spirit of the first half. With the
truly weak second half display against
Oxford still echoing in our minds, the
intervening weeks fitness training was
evident as IC showed no signs of fatigue
and continued to add scores. James
Skeen, on loan from ICUAFC’s 4th XI,
managed to keep a clean sheet but for
the horrific ‘header’ in the second half.
On several occasions John McDonnell
showed poise in retaining possession
under pressure and was rewarded with
a score of his own late on. Notching up
some well taken points with fine shoot-
ing from play, Damian Phelan earned
himself man of the match, quickly re-
scinded however when he elected not
to head to the pub. ‘Forgotten soldier’,
Stephen Gallagher of course got him-
self involved with a goal in the dying
minutes from close range. Claims that
he was only feeding of the scraps of
other forwards were left unchallenged
as Gallagher himself was unavailable
for comment / not asked at the time of
writing.
All in all a very successful trip was
had to Cambridge with generous post
match hospitality from our hosts.
ICUGFC have got their first win under
their belt and look set for many more
successes to come in this season and
the next. Next match vs. St. Mary’s
College this Sunday. Training contin-
ues Wednesday 1330 in Hyde Park.
IC Gaelic smash Cambridge

