4 felix Friday 28 November 2008
Comment, Opinion
& Letters
Let us know your views: comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Letters may be edited for length and grammar purposes
Views on these pages are not representative of felix
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
5
Friday 28 November 2008 felix
Comment
Jovan Nedić
Editor in Chief
A
s you may have noticed,
the Guardian Student
Media awards were this
week and we did erm,
very well. But it got me
thinking: what is it that makes a good
newspaper, or for that matter, what do
people consider to be good media?
Outside the student environment
there are a myriad of media outlets,
each targeting a different audience.
When you look at people in the café
you will see that even though there are
many national newspapers out there,
each person has their own taste. As
Gilead put it last year in one of his col-
umns, a person can be defined by the
paper they read.
So, as I say, this got me thinking: how
can the Guardian determine which
of the many student newspapers out
there is the best? I believe, as I pointed
out during my campaign, that students
want a mixture of the serious and the
light-hearted. felix doesn’t exist to feed
the egos of the writers it has working
for it, but to inform and entertain the
students that it serves.
Last year the paper was very good at
getting the news across, as well as do-
ing several investigations and features,
but what it lacked was the light-heart-
ed aspect. I know it, you know it and
even your lecturers know it because
I’ve seen them pick the paper up on a
Friday as I deliver them: the paper is
also there to keep you amused during
those long Friday afternoon lectures.
The fact that so many students and
staff do read the paper (and this can be
proven thanks to the number of com-
plaints we got when the paper was not
up to standard) is surely a testament
to the quality of the paper. However,
is that what the Guardian looks when
they decide the eventual winner?
Every week, we get a sneak preview
of what some of the other student
newspapers are doing (some of them
even send us a copy!) and every week I
hear people in the office come up and
say ‘Oh I like how they’ve done that,
we should do the same,’ or ‘why can’t
we make our section look like that?’
My response is simple, why should
we? We have developed a style, a style
that people at the college can relate
to; they look at the paper in the boxes
and can immediately relate to the big
picture and the headline on the front
page. It’s different, and it works! Yes
we have been changing the appearance
of some aspects of the newspaper, and
the reasons were explained last week,
but there is no need to copy what oth-
ers do.
Speaking of change, come the new
year some of you might realise that fe-
lix will be slightly different. The size of
the paper will change, mainly because
the printers have decreed it so. Con-
sider yourselves warned.
But, once again returning to the
question at the start, what does make
a good newspaper? My main aim is to
keep you guys happy; if you like read-
ing the paper every week, take the time
to do the puzzles, to read the com-
ments and reply, or to read the whole
thing and point out the mistakes, then
we are clearly doing a good job. I’m
sure if students outside Imperial read
felix, then a majority would say that it
wasn’t to their taste, and it wouldn’t be
because the paper is written to suit the
students at Imperial.
But what about the magazines? I
hear you ask. Well, the same can be
argued there. There is a larger variety
of magazines than newspapers in the
world, simply because each magazine
targets an even smaller group of peo-
ple. I, science is a fantastic magazine
that caters to the very large science
community at Imperial, and it is writ-
ten by students from the Science Com-
munication course, which is the best in
the country. So, rather unsurprisingly,
the quality of the magazine is very
good and clearly the Guardian thinks
so. But there are others who don’t be-
lieve that a science magazine belongs
in the Guardian category because it is
not all-encompassing. Surely, by the
sheer fact that our one topic magazine
is in the same category as magazines
which cover a wide range, means that
we are doing something right, no? But
this is just self-assurance.
For now, we’ll carry on going as we
have been, and if you guys out there
don’t like something, or think the pa-
per can be improved, drop us a line.
We are here to inform and entertain.
What makes a
good newspaper?
A pedant, Tim Walls writes
D
ear felix,
As an alumnus of Impe-
rial I had the pleasure
of attending the City &
Guilds decade reunion
luncheon today, at which I was also
fortunate enough to pick up a copy of
the current felix.
Firstly, I would like to say what an
excellent occasion the C&G reunion
was - a real pleasure, and my thanks
go to all those involved in the organisa-
tion. Secondly, I have to congratulate
you on the standard of felix - the pro-
duction quality clearly puts to shame
some of the efforts during my time at
the college.
Sadly, however, I am obliged to find
a bone to pick - inevitably (as I’m sure
your postbag is bulging on this subject)
Yasin Fatine’s ‘Ranting Cubed’ column.
If one is going to write such a diatribe,
and proudly claim within that it is per-
fect and without error (“Go ahead (you
won’t find any!)”,) one cannot complain
too loudly if one’s bluff is called. To
take the most jarring example, I sin-
cerely hope the irony in the statement
“the thing that I was most appalled
with was the amount of spelling and
grammatical mistakes” was intentional
- Yasin must surely be aware that mis-
takes are discrete and countable. Sec-
ondly, his use of ‘St. James’s Park’ as an
example of incorrect grammar in pub-
lic use is baffling; the assumption must
be that he is criticising the use of the
possessive apostrophes following an s,
but of course as any fool knows, both
‘St. James’ ‘ and ‘St. James’s’ are equally
acceptable, if stylistically different.
In any event, as they say in Private
Eye, I shall of course be cancelling my
subscription, just as soon as I have ob-
tained one.
Keep up the good work.
Yasin lies defeated on the ground
after a brutal verbal assault
Gilead Amit, as opposed to his avatar, has no hat
“The cartoonist
inhabits the
centre of what
must be one
of the most
remarkable Venn
diagram layouts
found outside
of an A level
statistics module
exam paper.”
A. Hannan responds to Felix Whitton
V
oltaire never said “I dis-
approve of what you say,
but I will defend to the
death your right to say it”
(PF Boller’s ‘They Never
Said It: A Book of Fake Quotes’, p124).
People promote what they hear as fact
either due to sheer ignorance, malice
(deliberate misrepresentation) or mis-
conceptions (they could be lies which
goontobecomeperceivedtruths).Mis-
conceptions are formed from the ideas
which permeate through the education
system, the media and statements of
politicians (spin or propaganda), these
then form concepts which become be-
liefs. So you go on to believe that if you
hate what a person says, you will still
let him say it, i.e. it’s a concept.
Voltaire (pen-name of François-
Marie Arouet, anagram of the Latin
spelling of ‘Arouet’), was an Enlight-
enment thinker whose ideas have
shaped liberalism and hence capital-
ism. Voltaire had a few things to say
about economy and trade. Alongside
other fathers of capitalism like Adam
Smith, David Ricardo etc., Voltaire’s
words have also become sacrosanct
and worthy of quotation; quotations
which go on to become State laws or
institutions.
Last Thursday (at a talk organised
by the Islamic Society), Tarek el-Di-
wany (author of ‘The Problem with
Interest’) quite clearly put forward
the Shariah-based Islamic solutions
to dealing with economics. Whereas
statements of Enlightenment thinkers
become law for capitalists (and then
get refuted, but we’ll ignore that part),
el-Diwany showed how statements of
the Prophet Muhammad (salla-Allahu-
‘alaihi-wasallam) became law for Mus-
lims, such as using gold and silver as
money.
The week before el-Diwany’s talk
at a talk organised by the Ahlul Bayt
Society, Rodney Shakespeare (profes-
sor of economics) also exposed the
fallacy of interest-based economics.
He showed that not only does interest-
based finance add 50% to the price of
world trade, it is highly inefficient. In
this case, it is malice (from financial
authorities), which prevents the public
from seeing an alternative. I don’t think
I need to prove to anyone the failures
of free market capitalism; just ask the
families who have had their houses
repossessed, they’ll tell you. And the
bankers who used to work for Lehman
Brothers, they’ll second that opinion.
Capitalists effectively conclude that
man does not deserve life unless he
contributes to the production of com-
modities and services. Communists
(and the different flavours of socialists)
strive to achieve real equality through
the individuals and deny man’s natural
instincts; an impossible hypothetical
assumption and not an alternative.
What isn’t clear is whether Islamic
(Shariah-based) solutions will ever be
seen as an alternative. But how can
they be? If a nation is nourished on a
diet of ignorance, malice and miscon-
ceptions, what would cause an alterna-
tive idea to even register?
The severity of the economic crisis
should remove the blinkers from those
who unthinkingly assume capitalism
or communism are the only valid sys-
tems out there.
“If a nation
is nourished
on a diet of
ignorance,
malice and
misconceptions,
what would
cause an
alternative
idea to even
register?”
I
don’t own a hat. I never have.
Partly because the size and
shape of my skull makes any sort
of cranial accessory irredeem-
ably silly and partly because I
was brought up in a household where
the general belief was that the sort of
people who wore hats were the sort of
people that needed to. Don’t ask me
what that means; I’m still working on
it. Suffice it to say that every time some
form of headgear would find its way
on to the old luscious tresses, spittle
would fly, heart rates would rise, and
my father would make sure the hat
would be ripped from the aforesaid l.t.
With almost Sophoclean irony, today
I remain headbare whereas my father
owns a dark green alpine homburg.
With a feather. My only reason for not
disowning him is that he never actually
wears it.
In short, thanks to my monastic up-
bringing and the elephantine dimen-
sions of my frontal lobe, I have no
bowler to help me pass unobtrusively
down the streets of the City, no boater
to oversee my footloose frolics through
the days of Spring, no top hat for the
countless glamorous evenings I never
get invited to, no beret or deerstalker,
no fedora, ten-gallon or trilby. My
knotted and combined locks remain
vulnerable and open to the elements,
as Nature doubtless intended.
Not owning a hat is, in my opinion,
a relatively minor failing. Men with-
out hats have gone on to achieve great
things – albeit with slightly colder ears
than their appropriately accoutred
cousins. At this moment, however, I
do wish I owned one. Nothing fancy:
a tricorne or a panama, say; a coronet
or a sombrero; or, to tread the slippery
heights of multiculturalism, a Shtre-
imel, a fez, a busby, a Santa hat or tur-
ban. If only I owned one of the above
then I would, logically speaking, be in
a position to remove it.
As it is, I doff all of my hypothetical
hats. All of them – from my kepi to my
keffiyeh, my newsboy cap and my mi-
tre, my cardinal’s zucchetto, my Native
American headdress, my mortarboard,
my dunce cap and my tam o’shanter.
To put an end to this circumlocutory
nonsense and stop pointlessly flagellat-
ing about the shrubbery, may I just say
that I bare my head with respect to the
political cartoonist.
The political cartoonist inhabits the
centre of what must be one of the most
remarkable Venn diagram layouts
found outside of an A level statistics
module exam paper. No one else in any
of the three professions he belongs to
needs to work so hard on the fast sell.
No artist needs to capture a moment
in time so economically; no interna-
tional analyst is expected to make his
commentary fit in a blank space left
over between a crossword and a fash-
ion review, and no humourist needs to
get a topical joke across in the fraction
of a second reserved for the cartoonist.
Granted, an image is worth a thousand
words: but according to that exchange
rate a single line drawn by David Low,
Sidney Strube or Ranan Lurie is worth
ten to a hundred of your Earth words.
When was the last time you were able
to draw a line that conveyed as much?
When was the last time you were able
to write a line that conveyed as much?
Certain moments that have occurred
within my lifetime – certain attitudes,
sentiments and atmospheres – will for-
ever be represented in my mind by a
political cartoon. Anyone unfortunate
enough to have taken the tube with me
over the past year and a half will have
felt me pin their struggling arm to the
side of the carriage, seen me gleam at
them with my wild and bloodshot eyes
and have experienced my helpful ges-
ticulations as I attempted to recreate
for them what has to be my favourite
21st Century cartoon thus far.
A rendering of a work of art in any
other medium is always bound to be
massively anticlimactic. And while I
am sorely tempted to embark on a ver-
bal description of page after page of
my favourite political caricatures, I will
limit myself to this one.
Morten Morland, drawing for The
Times four days after the 7.7 bomb-
ings, depicted a Muslim man in reli-
gious dress, with a white tunic, a beige
taqiyah cap and a long black beard
nervously perched at one end of a row
of seats in the Tube. At the other end
of the carriage, passengers are huddled
together for protection, shivering with
fear, holding their newspapers up over
their faces as makeshift shields. In the
cavernous empty space between them
are written the three words: Mind the
Gap...
The build up to the First World War
for me will always be summed up by
Tenniel’s ‘Dropping the Pilot’ and
Francis Caruthers Gould’s ‘The Holi-
day Season AD 1914”, with a skeleton
king wrapped in a thin sheet, emerg-
ing from his coffin-shaped caravan to
take a brisk swim in a river of blood.
David Low is the Second World War in
my eyes, and in the eyes of many who
lived through it.
For sheer succinctness, power and
humour, you can’t beat the political
cartoon. When opening any newspa-
per that has a cartoonist on staff, ex-
amine their work. Those small mono-
chrome or colour images are probably
the densest sections of the paper, with
the weightiest messages packed into
the smallest volume. Simultaneously,
however, they are also the lightest and
most easily digestible.
Angry Geek makes it big, and
steps up to defend the cat
H
mm? Oh, the sack of
money? Sure, the sack,
yeah, that’s just my
Guardian Student Me-
dia award, right. Yeah.
Just a token gesture, you know. Obvi-
ously it’s very nice of them, but I’m big
time now. I’m co-writing Elton John’s
obituary and shit like that. Yeah. Yeah.
Some kid named Rowling came, asked
me for some tips. Said she’s a big fan.
You know how it is. Hell, I don’t even
write this column any more, it’s all
ghostwriters from Fleet Street.
If only, eh? Clearly, not much has
changed since The Guardian decided
to bestow upon me a distinctly regular-
sized cheque. I mean, the guy who out-
did me didn’t get a comedy-sized one
either, but he managed to bag a lump
of glass with his name etched into it, so
I’m a little bitter. But really, things are
still the same. Although Tomo Roberts’
newfound love of hookers, cocaine and
interviews with Time Magazine are
beginning to clog up the felix office a
little. Sellout bastard.
Despite the fact that I’m thoroughly
pleased that felix itself got the recogni-
tion it well deserves, I’m feeling a bit
distanced from mass media as a whole
this week. In between bouts of 2am
Left4Dead, I’ve finally chanced upon
the superb graphic novel Watchmen,
due to become a movie sometime next
year. It’s a really gripping work, with a
lot of plot gubbins that I certainly don’t
want to spoil for you. However, I would
like to mention one of the enduring
questions it poses, about the duty that
those in power have to the vast, idiotic
masses.
The drop in VAT this week was quite
clearly a very simple attempt to make
people feel better. We might be quite
thick as a public, but we can do basic
arithmetic – a 2.5% saving on a three
quid food bill is unlikely to make your
eyes widen and wallet swell, unless you
have a bowel condition and a wallet
made of sponge. And really like sand-
wiches. But subconsciously, we feel
a bit happier. Prices stay steady for a
month or so, no miniature price hikes
on butter and bread and those other
weird things that newspapers always
cry about. It was, unusually for the
government, a good move.
But that wasn’t good enough for
Mister Media, because he felt the need
to explain to everyone that they were
being duped. The Metro, for instance,
gleefully sprayed their usual standard
of bile into my lap on the tube this
week, declaring that the change would
‘do nothing’ and that it was just a pub-
licity stunt to make people feel better.
Well bugger me with an egg whisk.
We can’t have any of that shit. Making
people feel better? When’s that ever
helped a society! I mean, it’s not like
the majority of people are gibbering
morons, entirely guided by the televi-
sion into a mass panic. It’s nothing like
that. I mean, the media’s been calming
people down just fine, why would the
government need to start getting in-
volved! The bastards! Everyone panic,
the government’s trying to make you
calm again!
So I got angry for a bit, and tore
through a few telephone books, that
sort of thing. Jeffrey Archer called up
to ask for me to proofread his latest
novel, and I was just really rude to him.
I feel bad. But then another thought
occurred to me, as I reflected on the
last year of felix and recalled the infa-
mous ‘gagging’ issue that changed the
felix logo to this day. The paper was
silenced, ostensibly for the common
good, and most us were up in arms
about it. Oppression! Gagging! We
must dissent! Et cetera.
So on the one hand, I’m clearly very
frustrated that bearded men in small
waistcoats are tapping away and cre-
ating panic among a large section of
the population. But on the other hand,
stopping felix from saying what it
wants feels like the trapping of some-
thing very rare and special. Naturally,
most of you are extremely condescend-
ing about felix anyway, and wouldn’t
consider it on the same level as a ‘real’
paper, even the toiler-paper-with-pho-
tos-on that is The Metro. So maybe
for you, the dilemma doesn’t exist. But
reconciling these two examples was
hard for me, and remained so until I
heard news of the Guardian Student
Media Awards.
There’s a gap that needs to be
bridged, then, between these two ex-
amples. There’s a tendency with felix to
criticise it, mock it and generally laugh
at it. People are very unappreciative of
the hard work the editors and writers
do – with myself firmly excluded here,
as all I do is write eight hundred badly
structured words and leisurely email
them in once a week, while the real
work goes on late into the night in Beit
Quad. Yet they do this work primarily
to entertain you, to inform you, rath-
er than from some grab for fame and
glory.
I think sometime this year we, as a
student body, should work to free lit-
tle felix from his ball gag on the cover.
Because the wafer-thin sheets of con-
gealed human suffering that are sold at
newsstands each day aren’t worth your
time; they’re cynicism in ink and paper
form, a horrific cycle of information
and misinformation, all aimed at keep-
ing your money and attention dancing
around. But felix; felix is different. Stu-
dent are different. And, I hope, you are
different.
I’m not, though. So it’s back to writ-
ing my autobiography and making top
hats out of twenty pound notes. Now,
where did I put that acceptance speech
for the Nobel...
“There’s a
tendency with
felix to criticise
it, mock it
and generally
laugh at it.
People are very
unappreciative
of the hard work
the editors and
writers do”
Clearly Tomo knew what made a good newspaper
He’s angry. And he’s watching you.
I’m not jealous of Angry Geek. Not even slightly.

