6 felix Friday 28 November 2008
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Comment comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
7
Friday 28 November 2008 felix
Comment
A
s far as I can see, this
country’s government
has a huge problem
ahead of it in addition
to the seemingly more
pressing ones such as the economy and
healthcare. For years Britain has been
a country of promise for many abroad
who seek a better life for themselves
and are prepared to toil at the expense
of their dignity and a decent wage – a
lot more than can be said for many of
Britain’s own citizens. I admire these
people who lead a life I cannot even
conceive, as I sit here in my comfy flat
free from the grind of employment,
idling the day away after my lectures,
languishing, writing and what I like to
call philosophising. I need to embark
on this opinion piece with extreme
caution, lest it be taken the wrong way
and I get marred with the wrong label.
Caz Knight ‘philosophises’
T
his week, let’s try an arti-
cle under the right name,
and maybe even with a
picture representing my
actual gender…
I love body mod. I mean, really, re-
ally love it. Not just tattoos and nor-
mal piercings, but all the crazy stuff
most people consider going too far
– surgical modifications, tongue split-
ting, dermal anchors, microdermals,
implants, scarification – I even think
suspensions are cool (for those of you
who are mod purists, yes I know some
of those are technically piercings.) I’m
not saying I’d get everything on that
list. There is such a thing as knowing
what suits your body; in the same way
as you don’t wear a circle skirt if you
have ‘powerful’ legs, you don’t get 30
facial piercings if you have elfin fea-
tures; but just in general I think body
mod on the right person in the right
style, is awesome.
On the other hand, the other day I
was talking to an old friend of mine
who was considering getting a breast
augmentation, and I was arguing ve-
hemently against it. She’s gorgeous.
She doesn’t need bigger boobs, she
looks absolutely stunning the way she
is. In fact, she’s been one of my beauty
idols for a long time - when we were
small, I always wanted to look like her.
Cosmetic surgery makes me very un-
comfortable – I don’t like the idea of
altering your body just to fit in with the
ideal of how society thinks you should
look. She looked me up and down and
replied “So why do you get pierced?”
I have to admit, for a minute or two
there, she did have me. Body mod is
just that – a modification made to your
body to change the aesthetic appeal,
and anyone who argues otherwise is
in denial. Implants – shaped silicone
surgically inserted under the skin to
make a shaped bump on the surface –
are even generally made out of a simi-
lar stuff to the silicone implants used
in breast augmentation. It seems really
hypocritical to be pro mod and anti
cosmetic surgery. Especially given the
huge fashion for tattoos and piercings,
and the increasingly large subculture
of ‘alternative’ people.
This is where I start to realise why
one is ok and the other isn’t – it comes
Body mods are purely for
looking cool says Calliope
I know the government meant well
when they tried to inject this utopian
ideal into British life but this notion
has gone horribly, horribly wrong.
What it has come to mean is many dif-
ferent cultures living in their own little
corners, going about their business all
the while trying to tolerate each other.
Tolerance is another value Britain
loves to celebrate thinking that is a
good thing. It isn’t. Tolerance breeds
contempt. It grits its teeth and bitches
about you when your back is turned, “I
will put up with you but I won’t do a
thing towards trying to like you or even
understanding you”. So, on the surface
the government has fulfilled its ethical
duty by encouraging a tolerant, multi-
cultural society.
Britain in 2008 is anything but West-
minster’s daydream of that pan-cultur-
al society they envisaged. Little is done
towards integrating people into Brit-
ish society: having Diwali posters in
tube stations simply just isn’t enough
to eliminate these racial barriers and
make Britons more savvy to the ways
of our new friends. Nor will Notting
Hill Carnival suddenly bring many
cultures happily together. 363 days of
tension-woven tolerance builds up and
manifests itself at the end of those 2
days, which are otherwise a glorious
affair and a chance to stuff my face
with deep-fried Jamaican dumplings.
Anyone not of British extraction
feeling anger or victimisation are well
within their rights given the huge
amount of ignorance that comes from
many Britons. I look with disdain on
anyone who condemns immigrants
for ‘stealing’ all the jobs, leaving noth-
ing but the more menial ones: the jobs
are there, go and get them and make
something of yourself! Better work
flipping burgers than on the dole. A
friend of mine who was on the dole
reacted with indignation when I sug-
gested he try McDonald’s as a stop-gap
until he found something more suited
to his abilities. (Perhaps not applica-
ble to current economic situation… I
wouldn’t know, obviously.)
On a walk through Bishop’s Park the
other week, I saw a Muslim man kneel
on the ground and begin to pray at his
designated time. I admired his lack of
self-consciousness and his faith and
wished I could approach anything
with that steadfastness in life. A group
of children stopped and stared and
gawped, totally baffled by this scene
and I was reminded of the level of
misunderstanding, especially among
younger generations who should be
used to cultural diversity.
The problem the government faces is
unraveling this self-induced situation
where people of different backgrounds
live and lead their lives in isolation from
each other. One cannot send everyone
back to their respective homelands at
the peril of human rights and further
economic collapse. Stay the way we are,
and we are nothing more than a time
bomb until the next civil war rips us
apart. The problem is so large because
most people are not interested in other
cultures and are much happier associ-
ating with their own kind and to hell
with integration. Comforting to hear is
that Boris Johnson plans to tackle this
by holding less cultural events aimed at
specific ethnic minorities, instead hav-
ing events which emphasise how all
our cultures are interlinked.
We need to stop tolerating and
start embracing, loving and learning
more about those different from us.
My last sentence seems a little naive,
but if people’s attitudes changed to-
wards what multi-culturalism stands
for, then maybe minorities would not
feel oppressed and not feel the need to
form gangs and shoot people. (Gross
over-simplification, I know.) However,
even if we reach this new level of cul-
tural symbiosis, the government still
needs to think fast about immigration
and the fact that physically, there will
just not be any room left in which to
breathe.
“We need to stop
tolerating and start
embracing, loving
and learning
more about those
different from us. ”
One way of bringing different cultures together... maybe not for everyone though
down to fashion. I do not agree with
getting your body modded for the
sake of fashion. Period. Mods are not
a fashion statement; they are a perma-
nent thing, which is either expensive,
dangerous and difficult, or worse, im-
possible to completely remove. Pierc-
ings leave scars. Laser tattoo removal
leaves hideous marks everywhere, and
converting them rarely works out. An-
ything more serious than that is pretty
much forever. Going into a studio for
something you think is pretty when
you’re 16 and regretting it the rest of
your life is idiocy. I have never had a
piercing I didn’t seriously think about
first. I still have no tattoos because
I’m still working out who I want to do
them, and saving up for the best artist
I can find, who’ll do the style I want.
These things are not fashion and nei-
ther should cosmetic surgery be.
If you’re a happy, comfortable person
who is fine with their body and wants
the new surgery OR mod because
you’ve genuinely thought about it,
think it looks cool and are fine with it
being that way for the rest of your life,
go for it! If you’re horribly insecure, or
look at yourself in the mirror and hate
what you see, modifying it will never
be a permanent solution. I hate to be
one of those people who go around
telling everyone to look at their inner
beauty and embrace their flaws – eve-
ryone has fat days. But believing that
your bad body image days will van-
ish forever if you can just look more
like your favourite ideal - whether it’s
Dita von Teese, Britney Spears, Agy or
Squeak, is just plain dumb. Sort out
your image as it is before you start try-
ing to change it.
Incidentally, if you’re interested in
body mod, I know I’m not the only
person who’d like to see a body mod
section in felix. It’s not fashion. There’s
loads of stuff we could write about -
where the good and bad studios are
located, what the different types of
modification actually are, costs, spe-
cific artists, design ideas, even the
culture behind body mod. Our emails
have been completely ignored – even
a polite rebuttal with an explanation
why we’ve been rejected would be bet-
ter than silence. Email calliope206@
googlemail.com with support.
“If you’re horribly insecure, or look at
yourself in the mirror and hate what
you see, modifying will never be a
permanent solution”
Old Imperial Women isn’t her mother yet: she can’t cook chicken
I
mostly browse felix in that inter-
mittent, anonymous space be-
tween morning classes and af-
ternoon essay/class, munching,
somewhere in the library café
after snatching a copy from that space
by the door. The first few pages tend
to be news bits and lengthy columnist
ramblings, enough to get me mildly le-
thargic and skimming over the rest of
the paper with its nice mix of thought-
fully written articles. Although I am
regularly amused by the Angry Geek,
to whom I give the honour of seeking
out first in the mess of columns.
I see Imperial Girl has come under
fire of late for a) being too femininely
fluffy and b) having the nerve for swip-
ing her own precious column space in
felix for such writings. Meh. Imperial
Girl, I could join in with the rest throw-
ing bored jibes at you, or just shrug and
say that there’s a reason that most men
despise Sex and the City, and there-
fore it’s not surprising that in a male
dominated university and newspaper,
most appear to despise your column
when all you’re writing is just what
most of the girl-girl conversations in
the JCR are full of. Instead, let me offer
myself up for sisterly sacrifice. Read-
ers, the likes of Imperial Girl might be
just right for this paper, if you give her
more of a chance. Someone else could
be even more nuts.
Like myself.
I’m not a hot, young, single under-
graduate anymore. I am in fact an
anonymous postgraduate, the kind
lurking within less well-known chunks
of the university, in a fairly well-trod-
den relationship. More clearly, I’ve got
three compulsory classes a week, tons
of reading to do, plenty of time to be
worried about not schooling myself
damn well hard enough, and lots of
wondering about how a relationship
is meant to change as it ages. Yep, in-
doctrinated geek girlfriend, that’s my
alternative label. And I’m aspiring to
turn into an old housewife, it seems.
Last night, lurking in my too far-away
private housing, I attempted to single-
handedly cook a roast chicken dinner
with all the trimmings for my long-
term boyfriend and I.
Many hours later than planned and
nursing extremely painful burns while
surreptitiously quaffing the accom-
panying red wine from the bottle, the
realization comes.
Why?
Why, why, oh why?
To mark for my efforts, I’ve got one
several times microwaved, very prettily
arranged plate (designation: Boyfriend)
on the table. (Ready for presentation if
he ever comes in and gets it – no, no,
mustn’t nag, mustn’t accuse, what I
have now learnt from this mature 16
month-long relationship is that a real
relationship is surely about compro-
mise…). My own plate is somewhere
amongst the clutter of the kitchen
countertop, with a few viciously splat-
tered blobs of mashed potato swung
off the spoon, vegetables boiled to hell
until they gave up, and some shreds of
meat that look like they were pulled
from the roast chicken by hand. They
were, in fact, in between hopping about
waving my pre-scorched fingers vigor-
ously in the air and trying not to swear
within earshot of no one in particular.
It wasn’t all my fault- the chicken was
partly spoiled after sitting in the fridge
for five days and I’d already had to snap
the raw legs off it with my bare hands
and hack off bits of too-soft fat in a
one-handed way that would make my
dissection supervisors of yester-degree
cover their eyes in pain, then cook it
vehemently beyond recommended
roasting time.
But at what point had roasting a
chicken become on par with a night
such as ‘Go out and get wonderfully,
resoundingly smashed with friends’?
Just what the hell was I doing? I looked
at the one well-arranged plate with a
calculated 80% chance of not giving
Boyfriend food poisoning. To com-
pensate for the extra wetness of the
vegetables, I’d sprinkled gravy granules
straight on the plate and then spent
a few minutes pounding them with a
fork to make them stop looking like
pellets of grey rat poison (I swear they
weren’t, honest) and more like, well,
gravy. My vision blurred; I saw a fro-
zen pizza instead, like the other three
he’d already bought at the time when
I laid hands on the chicken and then
eaten singlehandedly. Why. Don’t. I.
Just. Buy. Pizza. For us. Too? My mind
boggled.
I’d said it was because of the credit
crunch, but now I realized that I was
just another woman, mad on the power
of ostensibly making her own choices,
vowing never to be like her mother
whilst being exactly like her, trying to
resurrect and remake the memories of
the crappy parts of her own childhood,
making a civilized roast dinner by
herself (Boyfriend defensively playing
Warhammer 3000 in the next room,
vowing he didn’t know a thing about
roasting chickens), for absolutely no
bloody reason whatsoever. It seems I
am not yet a fully grown woman. I’m
just another hybrid of girl and the nos-
talgic memories of her mother. In more
accurate terms, I’m a slave to my own
nurture and upbringing. Genes don’t
make you aspire to good roast dinners
in your very early twenties.
Boyfriend surreptitiously hid his
own full plate for later disposal, pos-
sibly full of wine or, more likely, fear-
ing the overcooked, oversoft chicken.
I slid back to my chair to pretend to
write my essay and instead write this
sorrowful lament.
Readers, be thankful you still have
someone young, single, sweet and fe-
male to write columns full of wonder-
ings and romantic dabbles for you,
instead of the rantings of some wild
inscrutable postgrad kept woman
hack. If you’re male? Just accept that
some really do think like Imperial Girl
and turn the page if it gets too painful.
Come now, don’t look like that. What
else are they going to fill the space
with? More half arsed horoscopes?
Eat and get fat, my chickens. I’m going to make a meal out of you. Well I’ll try, I can’t say how it’ll taste...
Viscount Kensington thinks
everything is absolutely fine
E
verything is fine. Everything
is indisputably spiffing. I
have noted that it is a little
chilly outside but that, my
dear ladies and gentlemen,
is why we have central heating systems.
If you are one of the people without a
central heating system then this news-
paper ought to make very good insula-
tion, so do feel free to stop reading and
stuff this page into your coat.
Ah, I appreciate that I am assuming
you have a coat there. If you are lacking
one, then permit me a pompous chuck-
le, a miserly humbug and a recitation
of a line from Dickens’ ‘A Christmas
Carol’ about surplus population.
Enough with the tangents, the devia-
tions, the endless musings and inces-
sant ponderings and infernal consid-
erations! I am going to assume that
you, reader, are not homeless, are not
starving, are not sobbing into your pil-
lows to the music of some dark and
mirthless artist. I will credit you with
more ambitions than suicide and get
on with the damn point. Everything is
absolutely fine.
The economy is shepherded by wis-
er men than you or I. Wise men that
I perfectly intend to do all possible to
remove from power in the next Gen-
eral Election, after which I shall duly
spit upon the corpse of their principles
from the vantage point of some fiery
equine paid for by the exploitation of
the poor.
Afghanistan and Iraq are probably
but a few days away from blooming
into paradises of freedom, prosperity
and peace. It is said that you reap what
you sow and we sowed cluster bombs,
the harbingers of hope.
Why, already from Iraq we are reap-
ing an awful lot of oil, which, being
traded in Euros, is leading to copious
amounts of the weak Pound Sterling
inundating my already burgeoning
accounts.
In truth, we must confess that across
the world there are a great many other
issues that may seem to detract from
everything being absolutely fine. A
few people are starving. Some are sick.
Others are a trifle beneath the poverty
line. There are a few trivial matters like
that.
Really, in the grand scheme of things,
these people are somewhere else; they
are not here. If they were here they
might eat my horse, like those chaps
across the Channel so often do. Smug-
gling their foreign selves into my es-
tates and cooking my prize stallions. It
is intolerable. It ought to mean war.
No matter. You are fine. I am fine
(and wealthy). Everything is absolutely
fine.
“I will credit
you with more
ambitions than
suicide and
get on with the
damn point.
Everything is
absolutely fine.”
EXCLUSIVE COMPETITION
FROM HUGO FRAGRANCES!
WIN HUGO FRAGRANCE GIFT SETS COURTESY
OF HUGO URBAN RULES CONCERT, FEATURING
SUGABABES
The UK’s biggest ever girl band, the Sugababes, who have
notched up a whopping 10 million record sales, will be headlin-
ing the nationwide music programme from HUGO Fragrances
that uncovers and invests in new talent. Heidi, Keisha and Amelle
are perfect ambassadors for HUGO URBAN RULES. The winning
artist will not only have their music professionally produced and
released but they will be performing live on stage before the Sug-
ababes at the exclusive London showcase event at Cargo, which
is filmed and later broadcasted on MTV.
To celebrate this event HUGO Fragrances are delighted to offer
two lucky readers the chance to win either HUGO Deep Red gift
set for the gals or HUGO Green for the guys.
Deep Red is a distinctive, seductive scent for the woman who
insists on wearing a fragrance that is consistent with her values
of fun and independence.
Hugo Green is the clean, simple choice for this next generation
male, today’s non-conformist “Freethinker”.
To enter just answer the following question, just:
Name all three members of the Sugababes.
For more info on the HUGO URBAN RULES campaign and how
you can get involved, log on to www.hugofragrances.com

