politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
8 felix Friday 28 November 2008
Politics
Politics Editors – James Goldsack & Katya-yani Vyas
Rodothea Americanou discusses and provides analysis on Cyprus’ problems and their consequences
T
he Republic of Cyprus
became an independent
state after the British co-
lonialists consented on
the 16th of August 1960.
The Constitution of the Republic was
composed in such a way that it would
safeguard the values of both commu-
nities inhabiting Cyprus, the Greek
Cypriot and the Turkish Cypriot, by
providing them with equal represen-
tation in the government. A Treaty of
Guarantee was also signed which gave
power to Cyprus, Greece, Turkey and
the United Kingdom to intervene in
order to maintain the basic provisions
of the Constitution and the territorial
integrity and sovereignty of Cyprus.
However, keeping up to the provi-
sions of the constitution proved to be
difficult quite early on, resulting in
recurrent demands for amendments
to the constitution. Inevitably, tension
built up between the two communi-
ties which subsequently erupted in a
series of violent acts all over the island
on 21st of December, 1963. By 27th of
December, the UN Security Council
received a complaint by Cyprus which
claimed that Turkey was inappropri-
ately intervening in the country’s inter-
nal affairs accompanied by aggression.
Turkey though, denying the charges,
maintained that the Greek Cypriot
political leaders had tried for more
than two years to diminish and virtu-
ally eradicate the rights of the Turkish
Cypriots.
Ten years of disputes between a pro-
portion of members from both com-
munities followed, climaxing on 15th
of July, 1974. A coup d’état was brought
on in Cyprus by the Greek Generals
(Greece was under a military junta
from 1967-1974) and a group of Greek
Cypriots who favoured union with
Greece. The coup was directed against
the democratically elected government
of the island but the attempted murder
of the state’s president Archbishop
Makarios failed.
Cyprus was caught in turmoil for five
days, with the head of state being an
un-elected president positioned by the
coup leaders in power. The coup d’état
was followed by Turkey’s military forc-
es intervening under the pretext of the
Turkish Cypriot residents of the island
being threatened by the coup’s leaders.
Turkey took control of the North of the
island and established Turkish Cypriot
rule on these areas by the evening of
20th of July, 1974. Following the first
stage of the invasion, Turkey contin-
ued to seek control by a second suc-
cessful military intervention. The UN
Security Council called for a ceasefire
and laid the basis for negotiations be-
tween Greece, Turkey and the United
Kingdom.
By the time that ceasefire was ap-
plied, 36.2% of the island was occupied
by Turkish troops.
Archbishop Makarios returned to
his legal position and the main politi-
cal figures of Cyprus initiated attempts
to drive the illegally stationed Turkish
troops out of Cyprus. In 1974, the UN
voted for resolutions demanding the
immediate withdrawal of the foreign
military forces from Cyprus (Res. #
353) and the European Commission on
Human Rights issued that Turkey was
guilty of violating six articles of the Eu-
ropean Convention on Human Rights.
The consequences of this military in-
tervention are still haunting the Cypri-
ots (both Greek and Turkish) even to-
day. The Turkish troops number about
35,000 soldiers on the island with the
total population of Cyprus being about
800,000. The peace operation, as being
quoted by Turkey, resulted in 162,000
people being forcibly expelled from
their homes. These people became
refugees in their own country and were
displaced from their towns in search of
a safe ground controlled by the Repub-
lic of Cyprus government. These peo-
ple comprised 70% of the inhabitants
of the now occupied part of Cyprus.
These people are still denied access
to their rightful property and are un-
able to act against the illegal foreign
land-developers exploiting their native
land.
A more tragic side of the invasion
(stemming back from the era of in-
tercommunal disputes) is that of the
missing persons. About 1474 people
(both military personnel and citizens)
were captured or disappeared during
the invasion period. Persistent efforts
from the Republic of Cyprus govern-
ment following several UN resolutions
for locating these persons have been
made. Since 1963, Turkish Cypriot
and Greek Cypriot families have been
looking for their loved ones, some with
success, but the majority of the missing
people are thought to be dead. For the
past 5 years, the two communities have
joined forces and a program was set up
to locate and exhume human remains
from sites that have been marked as
graves in order to establish the exact
fate of these people.
Furthermore, significant cultural
heritage sites in the occupied areas
have been vandalised. Unique archae-
ological artefacts from all the histori-
cal periods of the Cypriot civilization
- including sculptures, ceramics, figu-
rines, manuscripts and other works of
art - have been stolen and were ille-
gally exported for trade in the interna-
tional market and to private collectors.
In addition, a significant number of
churches were converted into mosques
and stables, and several of them were
demolished, despite their historical
value. For example, the Church of the
Avgasida Monastery in Famagusta
which dated to the 15th century has
been demolished and many Byzantine
era icons have gone missing.
The problems are not only faced by
the Greek Cypriots who possess offi-
cial citizenship of the Republic of Cy-
prus. On the 15th of November, 1983
a new state was declared to be formed
in the occupied part under the name of
Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus
(TRNC). The TRNC is only recognised
as a sovereign state by Turkey. Follow-
ing this unlawful creation of the TRNC
state in the north, the Turkish Cypriots
do not have the opportunity to engage
in international trade nor political,
cultural, and athletic organisations.
People who live in the northern part
have to endure these embargoes that
have been imposed by the internation-
al community, as the UN recognises
that the legitimate authority on all
the parts of the island is the officially
elected government of the Republic of
Cyprus.
To make things worse for the Turkish
Cypriots, Turkey has adopted a policy
of importing a large number of Anato-
lian colonists for settling in the occu-
pied area. This has resulted in a change
of the demographic character of the
island. The statistical data on arrivals
and departures of Turkish Cypriots
compared to the ones for Turks from
Turkey indicated a significant emigra-
tion trend of the indigenous Turkish
Cypriots. The Turkish Cypriots are
systematically being outnumbered by
the incoming, illegal colonists from
Turkey. Turkish Cypriots are emigrat-
ing as a result of the unemployment
and the social and economic depriva-
tions. It has been estimated that 58,000
Turkish Cypriots (out of a population
of 116,000) have emigrated since the
invasion. The Turkish Cypriots have
therefore become a minority in their
own area.
Following the Anan Plan, rejected by
the Greek Cypriots, that proposed a
solution for the problem (Greek Cypri-
ots claimed that it was arguably insuf-
ficient for offering a viable solution) a
new set of talks between the president
of the Republic of Cyprus, Demetris
Christofias and the Turkish Cypriot
leader Mehmet Ali Talat have begun.
The two politicians are now carrying
the burden of the previous unsuccess-
ful attempts for finding a solution that
can be implemented in reality without
causing injustice to either of the two
communities.
However, both of them expressed
good will and declared that significant
positive progress will be noted by the
end of 2008.
President Demetris Christofias and Turkish Cypriot leader Mehmet Ali Talat shaking hands in a promising gesture of good will.
A new era dawns for a divided Cyprus
politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
9
Friday 28 November 2008 felix
Politics
Congolese children approach United Nation troops, a stark portrayal of the desperation of the citizens for the fighting to cease.
Katya-yani Vyas, reports on the developments in the Congo Republic as the army general is replaced
T
he Democratic Repub-
lic of Congo is a country
in turmoil at the best of
times; never long out of
the news, we have grown
accustomed to hearing about the vari-
ous dramatic events that have shaped
its recent history. The latest develop-
ments have seen a series of defeats
against rebels in the east of the coun-
try, necessitating the removal of the ar-
my’s chief of staff. This news followed
statements from the advancing rebels
who are loyal to Tutsi Leader, Laurent
Nkunda, that they would be withdraw-
ing from two fronts to facilitate the cre-
ation of humanitarian corridors.
President Joseph Kabila decided to
replace General Dieudonne Kayembe
with General Didier Etumba, citing
the “urgency of the situation” as the
reason. “Kayembe has been removed.
I guess the president wants to change
the dynamics after the losses,” was
the reaction of a source close to the
President. It would appear that Ka-
bila is taking steps to ensure that the
circumstances improve, so perhaps
more changes are to come. Following a
number of chaotic army retreats from
advances by Nkunda’s rebels, the deci-
sion is most definitely not one that has
caused surprise.
A government army base was seized
despite promises from Nkunda that his
insurgents would observe a ceasefire, a
clear sign that they were not planning
to conduct themselves in accordance
with the Congolese government’s rules.
Congo’s fractured army has also come
into combat with the Mai Mai militia,
a faction that are usually considered to
be loyal to the government, suggesting
worrying splits in the national defence
force. It has been in poor shape recent-
ly, affected by increasingly low morale,
terrible discipline and allegations of
corruption, an example of which is that
four soldiers were recently convicted of
rape, looting and deserting their posts.
With these worrying facts in mind,
it is not surprising that the President
wishes to take drastic steps to quell the
insurgency.
Perhaps, however, a solution is on
the horizon. The government had been
adamantly refusing to enter into nego-
tiations with Nkunda and his allies,
steadfastly denying that any means,
other than the use of violence, would
not be employed in resolving the situ-
ation. This was a decision that led the
British Foreign Office to announce that
Lord Malloch-Brown, the minister for
Africa, would be travelling to Congo
to meet Kabila and the Rwandan presi-
dent, Paul Kagame, to discuss the vio-
lence, which erupted at the end of Au-
gust and has displaced at least 250,000
people. Now, ahead of talks between
the UN, the rebels and the army, there
have been withdrawals from the east of
the country, a possible move towards
cooperation.
At the same time, various community
action groups in the area have written
to World Leaders in an attempt to per-
suade them to send more troops to halt
the atrocities. They outline that the
scenes being witnessed in the region
are horrific, the worst that they have
experienced in their troubled history.
Civilians are executed on the spot and
their corpses line the streets. This is an
image that has caused stir amongst the
world powers with the UN consider-
ing a French resolution to increase the
number of troops in the country by
3,000, a move that would facilitate an
improvement in peacekeeping efforts
and control of the situation.
So what should be expected for Con-
go in the coming months? A resolution
to the conflict? This is an overly op-
timistic suggestion, the situation will
ride out this brief lull in the violence
and will deteriorate unless the UN,
the army and the rebels find a way of
negotiating so that a compromise is
reached. “Never back down” is the age-
old adage, one that has been used by
Nkunda and Kabila, and one that nei-
ther side wishes to relinquish.
Rebels withdraw in DR Congo
President Joseph Kabila and his close allies. The conflict had been worsening due to his hardline attitude that negotiation was impossible. UN forces have now stepped in.

