Culture &
The Arts
Arts Editors – Caz Knight, David Paw and Emily Wilson
Budding culture vulture? Write for us.
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
13
Friday 28 November 2008 felix
Who Saw What?! Banksy, watch out
Caz Knight discovers another artist to add to her list of favourites at South Bank’s Hayward Gallery
keeps his face covered either by avert-
ing his face from the camera or don-
ning some tights over his face burglar-
style. This down to earth characteristic
pervades in all his pieces right into the
atmosphere of the whole exhibition.
Rhode strives to come as close to his
art and the process of his art as possi-
ble by drawing an object and interact-
ing with it – “find a wall and make a
drawing without getting arrested”. Here
is an artist who quite clearly loves what
he does, does it for him and has FUN
while he is at it! This truly is something
special in an art world so often drip-
ping with pretension.
It is tempting to use phrases like
“South African Banksy” but that would
undermine Rhode as he achieves so
much more than drawing on walls in
an interesting way and getting up to
high jinks. This is, without question,
the best art exhibition I have seen in
London for as long as I can remember
and its comparatively small size is per-
fect and will not leave you drained and
resentful like a lot of the other larger
ones which just try and cram too much
in.
M
y recent visit to the
Hayward Gallery let
me experience two
extremes of art; the
ostentatious and the
modest. Paying ten pounds gets you
access to both the Andy Warhol exhib-
it and Robin Rhode’s lesser known one.
I am a great fan of Warhol’s work, more
from an aesthetic perspective than the
themes his work stands for or what he
means by them – as shallow as that
may sound. Warhol’s fascination with
fame, social issues and interpersonal
relationships is a marked contrast to
Gerhard Richter (whose most recent
exhibition is reviewed here, by me)
who shuns interviews and giving psy-
chological insight into his work. The
great, multi-talented Goethe also took
this approach and let his art do all the
talking instead of him. Tracy Emin, on
the other hand, lives on this exhibition
of personal history and emotion which
she intertwines with her art. It is hard
not to see a Jocks and Geeks social
strata emerging in the art world with a
section of artists striving for fame, for-
tune and recognition and others who
go about their business doing art for
art’s sake.
Back to my experience of Andy
Warhol which was predominantly
a homage to the artist rather than
an exhibition of his works, although
there was a wide range of his creations
including never-before-seen photo-
graphs and the only ever collection of
Caz Knight
Arts Editor
all his films in one space. My ears and
eyes were overloaded with sounds and
colour and garish décor only helped
to highlight the sort of riotous experi-
ence which would have been had if one
were a regular at his studio the Factory,
home to amphetamine use, sexual ex-
perimentation, cross dressing, hang-
ers-on, silver filled helium balloons
(one of the best features of the actual
exhibition) and, of course, Warhol’s
creative flow.
Perhaps it was a clever move by the
Hayward or mere coincidence that
Rhode’s Who Saw Who is situated af-
ter the Warhol collection and couldn’t
be more of a contrast in experience. At
least half the size and devoid of colours
other than black or white we never
even get a glimpse of the artist’s face
despite him appearing in many of his
stop-frame photographs. Admittedly,
it is no surprise that Rhode appears
more down-to-earth than one of the
most well-known artists of our time;
maybe Rhode will reach those epic
proportions in years to come! My more
detailed experience of that subliminal
exhibition of Rhode is also reviewed
here, by me. Again..
Emilie Beauchamp reports back
smugly after missing nothing at T.S.
Eliot’s esoteric and intense The Fam-
ily Reunion. A far cry from highbrow
verse, Eddie Izzard’s stand up comedy
is scrutinised by Thomas Weight, who
is eager to see whether Izzard is up to
form after his Stateside tour.
Right off the
Richter Scale
has used the most basic material avail-
able to him: an urban landscape, a
piece of chalk or charcoal and himself,
to create still scenes which are often
funny and always original. If we look
carefully we can see that the objects in
these stop-frames (drawn or real) are
touched with symbolism; from the use
of black chalk to the fact that Rhode
is clad in a white boiler suit with his
face in a mask in Stone Flag which was
realised in his mother’s back yard us-
ing a piece of bent pipe and a couple
of bricks. The urban settings are highly
reminiscent of London’s own land-
scapes also prone to gangs, warfare
and racial segregation.
A recording of one of his perform-
ances sees a work of art in the making:
combining his Capoiera skills with his
drawing skills as he creates a work,
slipping in and out of black or white
shoes made of chalk (a material used
consistently in many forms throughout
most of his work), crushing them as he
creates the picture and then clamber-
ing on his hands, lest his feet touch the
floor, to the next pair!
The smaller, second room, in phase-
contrast to the main room, has black
walls and a Mussorgsky piano suite
playing as part of another one of his
recorded performances. The texture
of his photograph Keys, the lacquered
black of the background and his dinner
jacket sleeve contrasted perfectly and
starkly to the white, granular surface of
the chalk pieces on which he ‘plays’, is
nothing short of stunning.
It would be possible to take in the
whole collection blissfully unaware of
any “ulterior motive” or hidden mean-
ing or message in his art were we not
privy to the fact he was a half-black
South African who had grown up in
one of the most dangerous cities in the
world. (Oh, and the names of a few of
the works – Blackhead, for example –
give a very gentle, subtle reminder of
some of the themes.) Whereas most
modern art strives to ram home a po-
litical (or other) message, be as contro-
versial or as overtly emotional as pos-
sible, it is very refreshing to see Rhode
in his own world here as he creates
something he loves.
A common theme in all his photo-
graphs and performances is that he
R
obin Rhode: Who Saw
Who is a cool, calm haven
above the jamboree of the
latest Andy Warhol exhi-
bition. For an artist with
an aliquot of the fame and reputation
of Warhol, Rhode certainly goes a lot
further in terms of beauty by his sheer
innovation.
Growing up as a ‘coloured’ in Johan-
nesburg, Rhode was exposed to gangs
and rough neighbourhoods which are
an influential factor in the aesthetics of
his work right down to the simple use
of colour and materials, urban back-
drop and subject matter.
Here is a collection of Rhode’s work
from 2002 to the present day which
includes photography, drawings, per-
formances (recorded) and interesting
outside installations. The white walls
make for a perfect surface on which
to place his predominantly black and
white pieces and photographs which
are arranged in islands of nine or more
with the effect of a flip book. As our
eyes wander from frame to frame, the
sense of movement is easily appreci-
able. In all these ‘Storyboards’ Rhode
Stone Flag (2004) – Part of Robin Rhode’s Who Saw Who at the Hayward Gallery
“Robin Rhode: Who Saw Who”
at the Hayward Gallery, until
December 7th. Student entry is £6
12 felix Friday 28 November 2008
quency of each colour, whether darker
or lighter ones predominate and how
they are grouped together has a great
effect on the overall impact the panel
will have. Some look ‘darker’ than oth-
ers despite the fact each colour’s tonal
intensity is identical to prevent any one
colour standing out.
Five minutes or less is all that is need-
ed to pace around the space but 4900
Colours II is worth a glance at if only
to submerge yourself in another bright
kaleidoscopic environment, hitherto
possibly immured only with things of
a scientific nature.
Sadly, this article was not published
in time for you devoted arts fans to
read before the end of the exhibition
but the subsequent Indian Highways
at the Serpentine from 10 December
promises to be ground-breaking.
H
e is regarded as one
of the most important
German artists of our
time, so it is little won-
der that he was selected
to redesign and reinstall the main
stained glass window of Cologne Ca-
thedral, which had been destroyed in
WWII and had made done with a plain
sheet of glass ever since. Based on his
1974 painting 4096 Farben (4096 Col-
ours), the abstract design is composed
of 11,500 individually blown glass
squares in 72 colours which fill the
window space. Richter began experi-
menting with colour charts in the mid
60s where he used charts from paint
shops as a basis for paintings made up
of simple squares of colour.
And so it is also for his latest exhi-
bition 4900 Colours: Version II at the
Serpentine gallery. The collection has
been specially designed by Richter to
fit the gallery’s interior layout and wall
space, also bearing in mind its tall ceil-
ing to floor windows which provide
a sharp contrast between rural park
landscape outside and vivid, Rubiks-
cube like works inside.
Based on 4900 Colours, the second
version was created using the same
computer generated approach to de-
vise how the 100 squares were ordered
to make up each of the 49 large pan-
els using a selection of 25 colours. All
that was left for Richter to do was hand
paint each square in the prescribed
order and erect each panel. By roll-
ing a dice the element of chance was
relied upon again when deciding the
order and orientation in which to hang
each panel. It was during the 60s when
Richter first started using this-pre-
determined colour order to eliminate
artistic whim thereby bringing all con-
centration onto what we receive visu-
ally as opposed to sub-visually, i.e. hid-
den meaning or message.
His approach rejuvenated the me-
dium of painting in an era where it was
thought almost extinct. Ever the taci-
turn artist, reluctant to provide insight
into his works, 4900 Colours: Version
II stays true to his style as it presents
us with cubes of lacquered colour in
each panel. It takes a good five or ten
minutes to warm up and start shirking
the idea that these paintings are utterly
devoid of imagination and interest giv-
en that they are essentially of the same
thing.
However, if you give it a chance and
amuse yourself – letting the Imperial
logician within take over –by trying to
find patterns in colour order and fre-
quency you are definitely getting more
than what you didn’t actually even have
to pay for: the exhibition is free! (In one
painting he uses three of each colour
save for dark green of which there are
four squares).
Of course, there is no defined pat-
tern to find as the colour order was
randomly generated, but try all the
same. Alternatively find inner calm
through gazing at the colours and use
it as a new-fangled way of meditating,
just a suggestion. There is also a cer-
tain uniqueness in taking in all this
loud modern art malarkey, turning
around and beholding some autumnal
park scenery better fitted to a Roman-
tic poem.
One must also remember that the fre-
Sick panoramic view of Kensington Gardens’ Serpentine Gallery, home to 4900 Colours: Version II
Hypnotised by giant Rubik’s cubes
Caz Knight finds beauty, intrigue and a lot more than meets the eye in Richter’s 49 paint shop colour charts
Izzy any good after his American tour?
Thomas Weight goes to see Eddie Izzard with high expectations. No cross-dressing this time, though
E
ddie Izzard is one of the
greatest success stories in
British stand up comedy.
Since his critically acclaimed
showsthroughoutthe90’she
is now one of the few British comics to
have made it big in the US, co-writing
and staring in the series The Riches,
as well as numerous blockbuster film
appearances from Ocean’s 12 to The
Chronicles of Narnia. After a five-year
break, he has now returned to the UK
off the back of a 34 date American tour
performing in his new stand up show
Stripped to sell-out audiences.
Monday night’s show was the first
in a month-long London stint at the
Lyric Theatre and fans will not be dis-
appointed to hear that Izzard’s origi-
nal mix of meandering whimsy and
stream-of-consciousness delivery has
not changed a jot. He took to the stage
with a roaring ovation from a house
packed with die-hard fans, though this
time not cross-dressing as with previ-
ous shows. After the disappointment
of his last show, Sexie, expectations
were high for him to make a return
to form. After a slightly apprehensive
start it seemed that Izzard was a little
out of touch with his London audience.
He is a performer known for his comi-
cal take on intellectual subjects, though
his opening comments on the recent
election of Obama were not only light
on gags but on insight as well. This
would be a recurring theme through-
out the evening with constant pleas
that it is now Europe’s chance to make
a daring and bold change for the better.
Unfortunately this never progressed
beyond the suggestion to “make shit
happen”. It would be interesting to
know how different the material being
used in the London shows is to that in
the American tour, as the slightly hesi-
tant delivery would suggest that there
were substantial alterations which he
has yet to get used to. There was an
awkward few minutes of empty stage
while Izzard fetched his new iphone,
to do nothing more than to show off
its light sabre sound effects. The men-
tion of Darth Vader got a cheer from
old fans but it did seem to show a lack
of substantial material from such a vet-
eran comedian. However, as the first
half progressed and Izzard grew in
confidence we saw a return to the Ed-
die we know and love.
The second half opened where the
first left off, with much more substan-
tial routines and more challenging
material. Though there was almost no
deviation from the usual themes of an-
imals, religion and science, the thread
of gags flowed and the audience were
drawn into the remarkable atmos-
phere Izzard is capable of producing.
This bubble was unfortunately burst
at one point with some utterly shame-
less plugging of his recently cancelled
show The Riches, co-staring Minnie
Driver, reminding us that America is
very much his home now. His musings
on why God created the world in six
days and personification of the appen-
dix were just some of the many true to
form routines that he is capable of pro-
ducing, riffing through these themes to
conclusions that only he could reach.
The show ended with the now ob-
ligatory encore that comes with all big
name stand ups, and though it never
reached the dizzying heights of his
late 90’s peak it is hard not to delight
in having Eddie back on this side of the
Atlantic doing what he does best.
Eddie Izzard is performing at the
Lyric Theatre, Shaftsbury Avenue,
until the 23rd December. Tickets
on eBay range from around £1 to
about £300.
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk Arts

