14 felix Friday 28 November 2008
Family misery brought to life by stunning verse
Emilie Beauchamp is not defeated by T.S. Eliot’s emotionally overwhelming play, The Family Reunion
A
fter eight years of ab-
sence, Harry finally re-
turns to his ancestral
home for his mother’s
birthday and reveals his
darkest secret... only to discover that
the family also hides its own demons”!
Sounds familiar? At first sight, such
a play’s plot does seem like a déjà-vu:
the eternally-unsolved mysteries of an
individual surrounded by even more
mysterious secrecy. Typically these
plays evolve into an ascending series
of discoveries for the trepid audience;
either well-realized and spectacular,
otherwise rather platonic if the infor-
mation is not well-disseminated. To
which category does 15-17 - Arts.indd,
by T.S. Eliot, then fall into? After some
thought, The Family Reunion ought to
be put into the first rather than the sec-
ond category, but for different reasons
then one would expect.
For starters, The Family Reunion is a
verse play. Written in poetic dramatic
style, the lyricism of the lines is spec-
tacular. Distinguishingly emotional
declarations are followed by expressive
and poignant speeches with a surpris-
ing array of vocabulary and stance,
making the play anything but platonic.
In fact, T.S. Eliot, who was awarded the
Nobel Prize for Literature in 1948, has
been recognized for his Shakespear-
ian dramatic style infused with Greek
tragedy staging techniques. Therefore,
his plays include many choruses and
“apartés”, increasing the drama but also
informing the audience of important
information taking place outside of the
scene. While his style is very classical
and even conservative, Eliot explored
common themes for his contemporar-
ies. The play, written in 1939, portrays
an upper-class family stricken by their
own misery, a subject of much appeal
for all crowds at the time. In this sense,
Eliot used real and accessible settings
to bring poetry to the wider public.
While T.S. Eliot’s approach seems
to serve verse drama through the best
means, his style does sometimes be-
come overwhelming, as tirade after
tirade of over-emotional confessions
are followed by more theatrical state-
ments. At the end of the almost 3 hour
play, one can be quite proud to have
picked up all the clues displayed in the
exchanges – and looking around me
not all of the spectators had. What is
more, The Family Reunion was written
during Eliot’s phase of reconversion to
Christianity and it is only at the very
end of the play that its true meaning
can be understood. This means that
the spectator is left in limbo for most of
the third quarter of the play and that if
concentration is not maintained, many
hints that are central to the conclusion
can be missed.
It also means that the play leaves a
gulf between the worldly matters ap-
proached at the beginning and the
spiritual themes with which it ends:
life, death and the passage to the af-
ter-life; sins and expiation of sins. Put
more simply, many audiences today
might not even be interested in such
matter: Christian spirituality served
in dramatic verses... Not for theatre
novices!
However, the play is particularly ap-
propriate for those ready for a good
dose of theatrical discourse. The lead
characters of Harry and his aunt Ag-
atha, played by Samuel West and Pene-
lope Wilton, are fantastic orators, very
well-spoken. And verse drama, as one
can imagine with the above descrip-
tion, is not the easiest dialogue to pro-
duce... The rest of the cast is also very
experienced and gifted, without which
talent the play would not have been so
well-realized.
T.S. Eliot’s unique style makes him
one of the greatest literary figures of
the past century. To celebrate the au-
thor, the Donmar Warehouse presents
a festival in tribute to him until the
17th of January 2009. Other plays be-
ing staged include his most famous:
Four Quartets, Murder in the Cathe-
dral, The Cocktail Party and Waste
Land. Presented as the centrepiece of
the festival, The Family Reunion is a
specimen of a play worth discovering,
with a cautionary label for theatre first-
timers. While it cannot be said that the
piece reflects the society of its time be-
cause of its singularity, it presents an
excellent picture of how British litera-
ture can be diverse and original.
The “T.S. Eliot Festival” is on at
the Donmar Warehouse until the
10th of January. Tickets range
from £15 to £29. Gemma Jones as Amy and Penelope Wilton as Agatha in The Family Reunion
The fantastic orator Samuel West, as Harry
An invitation from SIFE
Imperial
We are inviting you to visit ‘Unheard
voices of Africa’, showcasing an in-
triguing blend of styles and unique
mediums - highlighting the versa-
tility of minds and the talent of the
TEKUA students.
At the exhibition you will have the
oppurtunity to purchase paintings,
sculptures and handmade jewllery.
By doing so you will be contributing
to the betterment of TEKUA school
With the funds raised from this exhi-
bition we plan to enhance the living
and learning conditions of the chil-
dren of the school.
29 & 30 November 2008
Room 301, Royal School of Mines
14.00-20.00
We look forward to seeing you all
there.
Arts arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk

