film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
16 felix Friday 28 November 2008
Film
Film Editors – Zuzanna Blaszczak and Jonathan Dakin
Never been scared?
After her mother remarries, Bella
Swan (Kristen Stewart from Into the
Wild and more recently What just hap-
pened) is send to live with her father in
the rainy town of Forks, Washington.
In a town with a population of 3000
she quickly becomes the ‘local news’
at her new high school but soon finds
out that the mysterious and dazzlingly
beautiful Cullen kids have a monopoly
on the school’s gossip. Sharing a desk
with Edward Cullen (Robert Pattison
from Harry Potter and the Goblet of
Fire), Bella rapidly comes to under-
stand the all-round interest in the Cul-
lens, herself being drawn to the intel-
ligent, witty and impenetrable boy that
sees straight into her soul. When she
connects his superhuman strength and
speed, his cold hands and his shunning
of sunlight to the old vampire legends
spread by the local Indians, it’s already
too late; the forbidden love affair be-
tween a vampire and a mortal has by
now begun. But Edward is not the only
vampire for whom Bella’s scent is an ir-
resistible primal pull, it attracts three
hunter vampires, who unlike the Cul-
len family don’t mind feasting on hu-
man blood.
I really don’t see how a plot line like
this could appeal to anyone but girls
aged thirteen to seventeen, and then,
only to those of them that tend to pro-
claim themselves different and smarter
than your average ‘prom queens’. And
yet, I can’t bring myself to say the movie
was bad. There’s nothing I can openly
critisize. If you let yourself accept the
story as just that, another story whose
aim is to provide entertainment in the
simplest form, Twilight becomes sur-
prisingly enjoyable. The film is well
structured, with no plot holes, no an-
noying breaches of time or space con-
tinuity; it has a nice flow to it. The ac-
tors, though not remarkable, do a very
good job at being believable and have
been very well cast, with Pattison look-
ing every bit the alluring and danger-
ous vampire (he got all the girls in the
audience screaming during the screen-
ing). This is mainly thanks to the cos-
tume and make-up artists who manage
to make the Cullens visibly stand out
without resorting to using fangs and
long dark coats. Also worth mention-
ing is the scenography; filmed in the
gloomy and moss abundant rainfor-
est of the Olympic Peninsula the set-
ting for the film is a character in its
own right. The one thing that I would
have really liked to see more of is char-
acter development. As much as the
story-line was immaculately adapted
from the book, the psychology of the
characters is rather hard to decipher.
Although Bella’s gradual deepening of
feelings towards Edward is easy to fol-
low, Edward’s behaviour is confusing.
Millions of American delusional
teenagers flocking to the cinema
meant that Twilight earned $35 million
on its opening Friday. Compare that to
the $27 million scored by Quantum of
Solace and you have the answer to why
the movies that are made are made.
Jonathan Dakin
Film Editor
Filmed in ‘shaky camera’ with the
premise of being a documentary,
Quarantine opens with two televi-
sion reporters, Angela (Carpenter)
and her cameraman Scott (Har-
ris) walking around a fire station.
They plan to follow the firemen for a
night to give their viewers a taste of
what really goes on in the fire serv-
ice. After seeing Angela slide down
the fireman’s pole several times, and
flirt with fireman Jake (Hernandez),
the station is quickly called to a local
block of apartments, where a woman
has locked herself into her apartment.
After finding her they quickly realise
that she is infected with a deadly vi-
rus, as do the outside policemen, who
trap everyone into the building with
the zombiefied victims. Cue long
dark corridors, out of focus camera
work and scary looking zombies who
soon turn nasty, splattering blood
across the camera in some unique
and original ways. Will the survivors
ever escape? And what exactly is the
virus that is infecting everyone?
When the film eventually gets into its
stride, it never stops. Building up nerv-
ous tension and fear, and then letting
it explode into horror style jumps and
leg snapping gore, Quarantine is a re-
ally good chiller-thriller with plenty
of blood splattering to appease horror
fans. Although it is a remake of the
Spanish film REC, Quarantine is one
adaptation that deserves to be treated
as well as its original counterpart.
Boasting an incredible (though some-
times annoyingly) realistic perform-
ance, Jennifer Carpenter delivers a
solid and scene-stealing role, carry-
ing the audience along with her as
she runs, screams, and freezes with
fear. How would you act if zombies
were chasing you around a dark block
of flats? She perfectly captures how
most people would react to this un-
real situation, and this heightens the
film’s scares.
The action sequences are very effec-
tive: this film is not for the squeamish
as the blood and body parts fly at the
camera thick and fast, one brilliant
bit involves the cameraman using his
own camera to bludgeon a zombie
to death. Pretty grisly stuff, but also
pretty cool.
Quarantine will keep you on the edge
of your seat, but will also have you
jumping out of it, as the scares are
not done for cheap laughs but for real
terror. Sometimes the camera work
can get annoying, mainly because a
professional cameraman would not
be so out of focus and shaky, but
once you get used to it you get im-
mediately sucked in, finding yourself
wishing he would turn it certain ways
so you could get a better look at the
environment.
As a horror fan, I am usually disap-
pointed with what film makers have
to offer, but Quarantine is a highly
effective and enjoyable film, and I
would definitely recommend it to
horror fans, as well as anyone who is
up for being scared: and I mean really
scared. But if you leave the cinema
and find yourself looking over your
shoulder, and then sleeping with the
lights on, don’t say I didn’t warn you.
Quarantine HHHHK
Director: John Erick Dowdle
Writer: John Erick Dowdel et
al.
Cast: Jennifer Carpenter,
Steve Harris, Jay
Hernandez
Probably not if you haven’t seen the newest bone-chilling horror
from the director of the 90s indie classic Full Moon Rising.
Remarkable success of Twilight
Twilight HHHKK
Director: Catherince Hardwicke
Writer: Melissa Rosenberg
Cast: kristen Stewart,
Roebrt Pattinson,
Cam Gigandet
Zuzanna Blaszczak
Film Editor
This new Baz Luhrmann (Moulin
Rouge, Romeo and Juliet) period epic
has been heavily promoted, and heav-
ily praised. Starring Nicole Kidman
and Hugh Jackman, Australia is about
an English aristocrat Lady Sarah (Kid-
man) who fights against English cattle
barons trying to steal her land, joining
forces with a rugged Australian Drover
(a person who moves livestock across
long distances, played by Jackman)
who helps her move her cattle. Tipped
as an Oscar contender, Australia has
had its fair share of controversies, the
main one being the casting of the lead-
ing man, as Russell Crowe dropped
Coming Out Soon
out half way through shooting, leaving
Jackman to be replaced last minute.
Will this love story be a success?
Think Gone With The Wind with
cows, deserts, Japanese bombers and
evil English people. If you like direc-
tor Luhrmann’s other works, as well
as long epic historical love stories (e.g.
Cold Mountain) then this film should
be for you. Hopefully a film about his
homeland should not be as sickeningly
patriotic as an American film, although
I am still unsurprised to see us English
as the villains. But with a (relatively)
good director, and a strong cast, Aus-
tralia should be an enjoyable romp, as
long as you can sit through a good two
and a half hours of yearning passion.
A
crash course in the his-
tory of film would go as
follows. 28th December
1895, basement room
of the Grand Cafe in
Paris becomes the ‘official’ date of the
birth of cinema and the series of one
minute short films created by the Lum-
iere brothers make up the first movie
screening. We will not go into details
here and so we ignore the fact that this
was not the first screening of a moving
image, and the fact that Edison’s kine-
toscopes played films at a small price
of one nickel already in 1894. Moving
on. It took only about ten years for the
cinema industry to transform from a
period when films were one shot fea-
tures maximum one minute in length,
with a static camera placed like an au-
dience at a play, to a point where the
movies, apart from being silent and in
black and white, were not much dif-
ferent to what we can see now. Apart
from continuous technological im-
provements which brought the film
format ever closer to its present form,
the movies of the 1910s are so similar
in their structure because of one man.
He wanted to be a playwright. His
goal in life was to touch on as many
political, social and moral issues in his
creative work as possible. Ironically,
the person who completely mastered
the film form was the person who
pronounced that ‘any man enjoying
such a thing [cinema] should be shot’.
Between 1908 and 1913 D.W. Grif-
fith directed or supervised over 450
films, shaping the basic elements of
film making into the language that has
served cinema for the last 100 years.
It’s thanks to Griffith that actors now
look natural when acting, that they act
Zuzanna Blaszczak
Film Editor
with restraint rather than using the
over-the-top gestures of the first ac-
tors. It’s thanks to Griffith that films
consist of shots put together in such a
way as to mirror the process in which
our minds create space and time. It’s
thanks to Griffith that something like
80% of movie shots are close -ups. He
was a person to single handedly create
the classical form of narrative cinema
which today we are so trained to detect
and immediately fall for and which, for
most of us, is the only form of cinema
we know. Incidentaly, Griffith, togeth-
er with the studio stystem that evolved
in the 1930s is to blame for the univer-
sally formulaic movies we are served in
the cinemas right now.
The foundations of film syntax have
been laid fairly rapidly and proved to
be very lucrative, bringing the movie
industry vast amounts of money. Thus
when sound and image were finally
successfully synchronized at the end of
the 1920s the studios were laregly re-
luctant to make a move from the silent
movie form that has been mastered to
make a profit to films incorporating
sound and dialouges. The conversion
seemed to involve too many impon-
derables and went against the ‘no risk’
policy of the studio system. Yet Sam
Warner persuaded his brother to go
for it and invest in the Vitaphone disc
system. The consequent commercial
success of The Jazz Singer in 1928 sig-
nified that the sound era had dawned
and other companies instantaneously
followed suit; the conversion process
costing the industry over $300 million.
And so we arrive at the 1930s and the
beginning of the Golden Age of Hol-
lywood. But that story will make for an
interesting article on its own.
The early years of
cinema
Jonathan Dakin

