Swimming & Water Polo
So the weather's cooler—so what, you
still get to rip off all your clothes in
public! Where? At the IC Sports Centre
every Monday and Friday evenings
between 6.30 and 9.00pm. What's the
occasion? None really, it's just what we
like to do! And no, we're not
exhibitionists, it's just that clothes make
what we do harder! It makes what
harder? Getting wet, dummy! Twice a
week the IC Swimming and Water Polo
club get naked (well almost) for a total
fitness workout. So, if you've got any
flabby bits that could do with being toned
up, tightened or just in need of a lift
(ladies!), come on down.
At each training session, participants
are put through a schedule aimed at
continuously improving their
performance. The atmosphere isn't
serious—rather more relaxed and
convivial, since it's only for fun. There's
no pressure—we just encourage you to
try and do a bit better every time you
come along. So why not give it a try?
Remember that swimming is the only
true means of achieving a total body
workout (aerobics sucks!). So come for a
swim once or twice a week between 6.30
and 7.30pm.
ICYHA
Three weeks of uncharacteristically
settled Highland weather contributed to a
successful Scottish summer
camping/walking tour, which took in
areas of scenic grandeur such as Glencoe,
Loch Torridon, Sutherland and Cape
Wrath. For those with the will and the
legs to match, staggering up the nearest
mountain was one means of escape from
the forced attentions of the local midge
Then if you've got any energy left, stick
around and join in our 'Balls and
Rubbers' session. Kinky? Not at all—it's
just Water Polo, and it's not for the faint
hearted! Both men and women are
encouraged to join in and give this most
strenuous sport of all a try. After
swimming, between 7.30 and 9pm,
Mondays and Fridays coaching takes
place for external (to College)
competitions, after which most evenings
are concluded by a quick friendly (sic)
game. So if you're good with balls
(irrespective of which anatomical
appendage you use), are confident in the
pool and feel like giving one of the most
social clubs in College a crack, come
along and give 'the game' a go.
For those of you intent on joining for
the year, membership fees are currently
£6/annum for students, AIFS etc, and
£12/annum for staff/public etc. To join
either come along to any regular club
session or for the next two weeks only,
come to the upper Southside Lounge on
Mondays between 12.30pm and 1.30pm.
Remember to bring not only your
subscription fee, but also a passport-size
photo.
population. However, the lure of the
inviting secluded beach generally proved
inexorable on occasions when the heat
rendered both legs and will-power
inoperative.
Details of this term's events can be had
at our regular Thursday meetings
(12.30pm in Southside Upper Lounge) to
which all are welcome.
Wing
Chun
CLUBS
The Wing Chun Boxing Academy again
had a very successful year in the 89/90
season. Excellent tuition was given
personally by Master Sofos throughout
the whole year and this was reflected in
the very high standards the students
reached in just one year. The quality of
the equipment and apparatus used by the
students was maintained, ensuring that
the Academy remained one of the best
martial arts clubs in Europe.
The Academy also had a very busy
year with a full diary of events including
advanced Kung Fu seminars and a winter
camp. The winter camp was a great day
out for all with the outdoor training,
barbecue and the famous assault course!
However, the highlight of the year was
the charity show, 'A Night of Magic—The
Master'. This spectacular event was the
first of its kind, a live martial arts show,
and was created and directed single-
handedly by Master Sofos. Many of the
students took part in the show and they
will never forget the thrill of performing
their Kung Fu in front of six hundred
people. The show was a complete success
and in the end it helped to raise over
£2000 for charity.
Now we look forward to a new season
which promises to be just as active and
enjoyable as the last. We are always
eager to help new students who are
intrigued by the beautiful and highly
practical art of Wing Chun Kung Fu, so if
you're interested in finding new meaning
and strength in your life or just an
effective form of self-defence, then come
along and see us at the Freshers' Fair,
you've got nothing to lose!
FilmSoc
Next Thursday's Filmsoc presentation is
When Harry Met Sally.
The film charts the relationship
between Harry Burns (Billy Crystal) and
Sally Arbright (Meg Ryan). They first
meet in their college days when they find
they each have differing views on life,
sex, the universe and everything.
They part as enemies but find that as
the years pass they slowly become more
tollerant of each other and eventually
they become the best of friends.
The film is best remembered for the
classic deli scene in which Sally convinces
Harry that women are capable of faking
orgasms by doing just that while eating
lunch.
The film is the first in the Filmsoc
season which will be shown in Mech Eng
220 at 7.30pm every Thursday. Admission
is free for new members of ICU Filmsoc
and £1.50 for non-members.
11

