CLUBS
ICSF
presents the film
Batman
Over a year ago, one of the most hyped
films of all time was made. Batman
restarted a trend in films based on comic
strips, continued this year with Dick
Tracy and Hardware. No expense was
spared. The film featured three of
Hollywood's most popular stars (Michael
Keaton, Kim Basinger and Jack
Nicholson), a soundtrack by Prince, and
spectacular effects.
The film tells the story of a murder of
Bruce Wayne's parents and his transition
into 'Batman', crime fighter
extraordinaire. The Joker (Nicholson) was
chosen to be Batman's (Keaton)
adversary. The makers broke with
tradition though by changing the car into
an armadillo, and wiping the Boy Wonder
out of the script entirely.
Nicholson's acting was disturbing as
usual, and Keaton manages to convey
both the vulnerability of Bruce Wayne
and the quiet efficiency of Batman with
equal panache.
Batman will be shown by icsf on
Tuesday 9th, 7pm in Mech Eng 220.
ULU Gay and Lesbian
For some lesbian and gay students new
to London, the wide range of gay clubs,
pubs and discos in the capital can seem
an exciting terrain waiting to be
explored. But for most gay people
especially those who have yet to come to
terms with their sexuality, the prospect
can appear intimidating. The London
University Lesbian and Gay Society is run
by, and for, students and we are always
happy to welcome new faces along to our
weekly meetings. Sometimes we invite
well-known speakers to talk about issues
of concern to the gay community; last
year we welcomed many such speakers,
including Derek Jarman (film producer),
Matthew Parris (the Tory ex-MP) and
David Fernbach (Director of the Gay
Men's Press). On other occasions we show
videos, or organise outings to restaurants
and pubs. Most importantly, however, our
group offers you somewhere you'll be
able to meet and chat with other gay
students from all over London.
On the schedule for this term is a
speaker-meeting with Britain's only only
gay MP, Chris Smith, and a discussion
evening with Peter Tatchell, the
campaigner on AlDS-related issues. This
coming week we hope to be joined by
Michael Cashman, the actor who played
Eastenders' gay character, Colin. This
meeting will also be open to non-gay
students.
We meet each on Thursday evenings at
7.30pm in Room 2D at the University of
London Union, Malet Street, London
WC1. For further details, you can contact
me direct on ext 6779 here at Imperial.
Michael Phillips, Treasurer.
Finance, Business & Investment (FBI)
A brief flick through the College Alumni
directory is likely to be more than a little
daunting—directors, executives, senior
managers, entrepreneurs and consultants
abound—responsible and influential
people working for a diverse range of
major institutions such as Merrill Lynch,
ICI, Prudential, Citicorp, Arthur Andersen
& Co etc etc, who have all graduated in
various disciplines from Imperial College.
Yet how many of the aspiring workers
among us think of themselves in this
light? Similarly, if you say that you can
read this morning's edition of The
Financial Times, The Investors Chronicle
or Business magazine with something
approaching a smooth comprehension
then you are in the minority again and
I've never met you. If, however, you
could sustain an intelligent and informed
conversation on some aspect of finance,
business or investment then you are an
endangered, if not extinct, species. Do
you strike yourself as the sort of person
who has demonstrated an interest in and
knowledge of an area of employment that
you are quite possibly destined for? (If
not, prepare yourself for painful
interviews and tough competition for the
best career opportunities.)
Hence, the Finance, Business and
Hence, the Finance, Business and
Investment Society at Imperial College.
Our most important aims include getting
people interested in, and absorbing the
facts, concepts and current issues in as
stimulating a way as possible. The hope is
that by participating in the Society's
activities you will begin to build a
familiarity and understanding of the
world of finance, business and •
investment, that will serve you in many
ways in the future, even if you do not
work in these areas. You may discover
an opportunity to develop your potential
in ways that have not occurred to you—a
project with the management school, an
interview with the director of a company,
a summer placement at a business school,
an article or survey in our magazine etc.
If you are one of those rare students
with an appreciation of these areas or just
enthusiastic and willing to contribute then
get in touch with us—there's loads of
interesting stuff to do!
The first event will be on Tuesday 9
October at 5.45pm in the Mathematics
Department room 410. A company
called 'Financial i' will be showing the
first of three films in a series entitled 'UK
equities', which assume no prior
knowledge and are pitched at an
elementary but progressive level. Topics
covered in the first part will include
'What is a Share?', 'The Securities
Market', Mergers and Aquisitions' and
much more. The following two films deal
with 'Brokers', 'Bulls and Bears', 'Unit
Trusts and Investment Trusts', 'The FTSE
100', 'The FT Actuaries', 'Gross Dividend
Yield', 'The 30 Share Index' among many
other subjects. Companies and
professionals using Financial i's training
material include Banks, Accountancies,
Securities Houses, Lawyers and Fund
Managers in over 40 countries worldwide.
Those interested in the vacant committee
posts should attend the first event.
Our second event, 'How to read the
Financial Pages' is presented by Terry
Byland, the Financial Times author of
'Understanding Finance With the
Financial Times'. All attending will be
presented with a copy of The Financial
Times to be used during the session.
Come along on Wednesday 17 October,
Maths Room 410 at 12.45pm. At the
end of this event, names of those
interested in The Stock Exchange
Investors' Club (details in the FB Eye—the
Society magazine) will also be collected.
So, we look forward to meeting you
soon at the FBI Soc.
12

