T o i l e t C o m p e t i t i o n ?
PRIZES
Following the inundation of the FELIX
office with entries for the Jim Beam
competition we are running a competition
of our own.
The toilet in the office is boring, it lacks
interest and lustre. Not that it is the place
that we reside for most of the time, but it
would be nice to have better decor. At
the moment it is a dingy yellowy white.
DOOR
TOILET
SINK
WINDOW
Rant Reply
Dear Chris,
When reading the 'RANT' column in the
freshers' issue of FELIX, it occurred to me
that the author had forgotten two very
important IC stereotypes.
The first of these is the 'commuting' IC
student. Usually residing at one of the
intercollegiate halls of residence, the
commuting student can often be seen
disappearing into the depths of South
Kensington tube station. Their
distinguishing feature is the smug smile
worn by someone who knows that they
can escape the IC campus at will. A
favourite topic if conversation for the
commuting student is 'other colleges wot
I have partied at'.
The second, and much more noticeable,
of these forgotten stereotypes is a
variation on the 'enthusiast'. Generally
Above you will see a plan of the toilet,
the walls are approximately two and a
half metres and one and a half wide.
Your challenge is to create an
interesting, atmospheric design in
whatever style you like. Whether
colourful and garish or sombre and
moody, infact anything you want. Entries
should be drawn, coloured or painted on
the plan or an enlarged version.
The winner will receive S20 in cash
and the pleasure of seeing their design
come to life. Paints to be provided by us.
known as an 'IC Knocker', this beastie
can most frequently be found inhabiting
the letters page of FELIX. The object of a
knocker's enthusiasm is his total lack of
enthusiasm for anything vaguely related
to IC. He pursues his cause with all the
dedication and fervour that can be
expected from a true enthusiast and, like
all true enthusiasts, he has a one track
mind when it comes to conversation.
Indeed, he feels that he cannot tell you
enough times what a mistake you make
in coming here. Of late, knocking IC has
become something of a religious cult, the
two sacred commandments of which are:
i) Thou shalt not like IC (not even a little
bit).
ii) Thou shalt spread the word of the true
awfulness of IC to all who would hear the
word, all who much rather wouldn't and
all who sayeth 'Sod off you broing, manic
depressive'.
So, the profile of IC life is complete. As I
watch the last of this year's ex-freshers
pack their bags and head for Nether-
Wallop, I am left to wonder if I am the
only one who still thinks that IC is a
decent place to be. But, then again, I
don't spend all my time there.
Chris Holgate (commuting student in
Elec Eng 2).

