• I l l 4kkM\
" H U M «Hk£<
j^jjEaling Hall Survives Hoax!
The future of Clayponds (the new Ealing
Halls of residence) was decided at
midnight on Wednesday when contracts
were finally exchanged.
There was pressure on the part of the
vendors, Beazer Homes (South) pic to
complete the deal and this should occur
on the 12th October.
Part of the delay was due to a covenant
on the site forbidding any use but private
accommodation. The college needed a
waiver from the secretary of state before
•the land could be used for student
residences. This has been granted and a
deed of confirmation is expected soon.
Other delays came from changes in the
An experiment designed by Imperial
College's Space physics department will
probably go up on the space shuttle
'Discovery' this weekend. The experiment
is part of the 'Ulysses' mission. The space
probe will be sent on a trajectory which
will sling it around Jupiter and then onto
a polar orbit of the Sun.
This will be the first time that a space
probe has attained a course that was not
within the plane of the planets. Professor
Stan Cowley, head of the Space and
Atmospheric Physics group at I.C., said
that this had not been attempted before
because the trajectory was very energy
expensive. He said that the probe
'Ulysses' would be launched from the
payload of 'Discovery' with solid fuel
boosters attached. Once these fired,
'Ulysses' would become the fastest man-
made object ever.
Professor Cowley said that the mission's
main aim was the study of the solar wind
and the accompanying solar magnetic
field. He added that the two instruments
that I.C. had produced were a
magnetometer that could detect a
magnetic field of one tenth nanoTesla -
the earth's magnetic field at South
Kensington is 50,000 nanoTesla - and a
detector of solar particles, which are
mainly protons with energies of about
lMeV. Institutions from all over the
world, but particularly the USA, will be
contributing their know-how towards the
instruments on board, all of which will be
studying factors related to the Sun's
effects.
The magnetometer is a small box less
than a foot cubed and is attached to the
end of a extendable boom to keep it
away from the electrical interference of
the probe itself. It cost £1/2 million to
build and was funded by Science and
Engineering Research Council (SERC). The
whole project will cost many hundreds of
millions of pounds and is the result of a
collaboration between the European
2
specification, including alterations to
comply with security arrangements. The
cost of the estate is now S10.5M including
furnishing but excluding financing and
professional fees.
A few buildings have already been
started, including a show home. Building
work continues and should be complete
at the end of 1991. There are four phases
to the building work and students will be
able to move in as these are completed.
The venture was described by Angus
Fraser, Managing Director of Imperial
Collage, as 'a great opportunity' for
Imperial.
A hoaxer set of the fire alarm in Beit Hall
during the Fresher's carnival last Tuesday
morning. There was only one security
guard present to deal with the situation.
Ben Turner, Union Deputy President
stated that there should have been two
on duty all night.
The alarm, which started at 12.15am
was found to have originated on the
second floor of Beit New Hostel. On this
floor, however, the alarm bell failed to
sound. A bell at the top of the West
staircase in the Union Building also failed.
Owing to the loudness of the disco, few
people left the Union Building even
though the alarm was sounding. When
the music was turned off, however,
people started to move out. Ben Turner
said that this was reasonable as it allowed
stewards to get into position. The party-
goers continued leave even when the
alarm stopped.
IC Spaced Out
Space Agency (ESA) and National
Aer.onautics and Space Administration
(NASA).
Professor Cowley said that the period in
which the launch could take place started
from October 5th and only continued
until October 25th, with a 2 hour period
each day in which the shuttle can be
launched. If this window is missed the
programme will have to postponed for 13
months until the Earth and Jupiter are
once more in the correct alignment. He
said that the favourite launch date was
this Saturday. The probe 'Ulysses' should
reach Jupiter by February 1992, and pass
the south pole of the Sun by summer
1994. It should then continue around to
pass the north pole a year later. Professor
Cowley said that this marked the end of
the mission but the machines would still
be running and further measurements
could be taken.
The original idea for the mission had
been put forward before 1977 and the
instruments were built, with the help of
the Jet Propulsion laboratories in the
USA, ready for launch in 1983. NASA got
into financial difficulties and the next date
was in 1986, to be taken up in the Space
Shuttle 'Challenger'. Professor Cowley
said that the I.C. team, including himself,
had witnessed the Challenger disaster.
Since then they had kept the equipment
in good working order. He said 'the
whole effort has taken much longer than
normal' and added that it would be
another five years until the end of the
mission and a further five years until all
the data is analysed.
Mr Andre Balogh, head of
Instrumentation in the Space Physics at
I.C. and principle investigator for the
magnetometer, is at Cape Canaveral at
the moment supervising the machine's
last earthbound moments. Professor
Cowley, a co-investigator for the
instrument, said that the mission was of
'no practical consequence - it is pure
science exploration at this stage.'
Stop Press.Stop Press.Stop Press.Stop
A fire broke out in Weeks Hall at around
1.30am this morning. The incident was
caused by a faulty heater turned on for
only a minute. Following a banging sound
from the unit, the fire caught and soon
filled the room and corridor with smoke.
The flames were extinguished by two
residents. Despite the smoke no alarms
were triggered.

