REVIEWS
C a d i l l a c M a n
Robin Williams is not in an enviable
position. He has had two successive box
office smashes (Dead Poets Society and
Good Morning Vietnam), for both of
which he was Oscar nominated. So far, so
good. Now all he has to do is follow
them.
. Superficially Cadillac Man is more
similar to Good Morning Vietnam in that
Robin Williams is very much the driving
energy behind the film—without him it
would be nothing. It is, though, an
altogether lighter effort—a simple, if
genuine comedy.
Williams plays Joey O'Brien, who is a
man with a problem. He likes to make
women happy. This means indulging in
relationships with emotionally draining
Joy, financially draining Lila as well as
supporting his ex-wife and a teenage
daughter who is rapidly going out of
control. Let's not forget his widowed
mother, either.
Unsurprisingly this is costing him a lot
of money, obtained from his job as a car
salesman and a rather substantial loan
from a mate in the Mafia. Just to
complete this rosy picture, his job is on
the line and so he has one last day to
prove himself. Things are going well until
Larry, the husband.of pretty and
flirtatious secretary Donna smashes
through the window wielding a gun and
an insatiable curiosity into his wife's illicit
sex life. It's time for Joey to spin the
ultimate sales pitch.
So, Williams gets to dominate the rest
of the film. Luckily the rest of the cast
are given rather engaging little character
sketches to act in, which they do with
aplomb. From the Chinese waitress, to
the Russian customer, Joey's world is
filled with interesting people. Interestingly
from a nearly all male production staff,
the film's strong characters are all
women.
Initially, the film lacks a 'hook', as we
are led through the intricacies of Joey's
social life. Then Larry arrives, and Joey's
talking allows all. The whole film is then
rendered a little pointless, as all returns
to an implied pre-film stance, abandoning
the set-up that was the comic heart of the
film. Well, it virtually guarantees that we
can't get a sequel.
This is by no means a great film, but it
isn't bad. Gently humorous, refreshingly
optimistic and in fact generally nice. One
to lift you from a depression. (Hey you're
at IC you're going to need it.)
Pendragon.
B a r b a r i a n s
The RSC's present Stratford season has
gained a formidable reputation, giving the
batch of new productions in the Barbican
quite a challenge. Also in the back of the
minds of the viewing audience will be the
fact that these are the last new plays
before the three month closedown. A
disaster now might be fatal to audience
numbers at the reopening.
Barbarians is not an obvious choice.
One of the quartet written by Maxim
Gorky at the beginning of the century, it
deals with the coming of a railroad and
the attendant construction engineers to a
small Russian village. The contrast
between the simple village folk and the
landed aristocracy is used throughout the
three acts (the play is three hours long
with two 15 minute intervals) to explore
the nature of each group as they interact
and affect each other's live, and to
determine who really are the barbarians.
It's a weighty topic and a play which
does not immediately strike one as being
very accessible. Staging this does not
seem a wise step for a company in
financial crisis. The reality of the play is
somewhat different. Although the
inevitable themes of coming revolution
and the arrogance of the aristocracy are
there, this new translation brings the
more immediate theme of cultures in
conflict that is relevant today, and will be
for the foreseeable future. Backed up
with some superb ensemble playing, from
which Louise Jameson (Best known for
Dr. Who and Bergerac, but with great
theatre experience) shines forth, bringing
a pivotal and unusual character from a
potential cliche to a powerful but subtle
motive force.
The result? A compelling, even
enthralling, three hours, at least as
enjoyable as the current crop of
Shakespeare in the Barbican, and well
worth the fiver at student standby prices.
Barbarians is playing in repertoire in
the Barbican Theatre, part of the
Barbican Complex. The nearest tube
station is, unsurprisingly, Barbican. Arrive
at the ticket desk half an hour in advance
for Student Standbys, waving your brand
spanking new Union Card.
Adam T.

