Bad I n f l u e n c e
I don't mind admitting that I fully
expected to loathe Bad Influence. Why?
Well, firstly, it is apparently a buddy
movie, and secondly, it stars Rob Lowe,
star of such immortal classics as Oxford
Blues and Class (in which his co-star had
his way with Jacqueline Bisset) and of
course that other unofficial motel-room
classic in which Rob Lowe 'starred' with
an underage girl.
This film starts in familiar buddy movie
territory—successful yuppie Michael
(James Spader) with the right job, the
right fiancee, the right car, and the right
future is saved by handsome loner Alex
(Lowe) after a macho brawl in a seafront
bar. Yes, that old scene again. The
inevitable progression sees Alex
introducing Michael to his fab and groovy
lifestyle—weird Los Angeles nightclubs,
even weirder women—and to his
philosophy of life, which increasingly
reveals itself to have a very dark,
cunning evil streak.
At first, Michael is quite happy to go
along with Alex's schemes, since he
manages to score points off his rivals at
work and has a very good time with a
lady who is definitely not his
straightlaced WASP fiancee. Obviously
Rob Lowe has learnt the power of video
cameras, since he takes footage of
Michael in action and uses it to
devastating effect to terminate the
engagement. Gradually, Michael realises
that this situation is becoming
dangerous—but by now it is too late: he
has joined in an armed robbery and a
few other things beside. Here the film
really gets interesting because it departs
from the normal well-worn path of the
buddy movie as Alex and Michael slug it
out increasinly deviously and gruesomely.
The film is genuinely exciting; you
really don't know how it is going to
finish, as Michael's latent cunning is
tested to its limit by Alex's cruel
strategies. David Koepp's strong, albeit
The Guardian
Have you ever been looked after by a
babysitter? Did he or she steal you away
to be sacrificed to an evil tree only to be
snatched back just in time by ycur
parents? No, I thought not. Whilst most
horror movies stretch your credulity, this
flick takes it to the limit.
The adverts speak of druids and fights
between good and bad but this has
nothing to do with the film, being more
involved with a woman who is the
material extension of the evil tree's spirit
(a dryad). No druids and no spectacular
fights between trees.
After a sacrificed baby, the film starts
slowly with the selection of the
babysitter. Since the baby must reach a
certain age before it can be sacrificed, the
film concentrates on how nice the parents
are. Only in the second half of the film is
there any action, mostly concerning
flying leaves.
A scene involving potential muggers
gives the tree a chance to kill a few
people with maximum on-screen violence.
This paves the way for the sacrifice and
the defeat of the evil tree. This is handled
well, with the best effects of the film.
It is a pity that these effects did not
penetrate further into the film since the
suspense is adequate but could have been
improved with more FX. Overall a second
rate thriller/horror movie but good for
mild entertainment.
Toby Jones
»• ted
9
REVIEWS
somewhat far-fetched story, is helped by
Curtis Hanson's sharp direction in a
moodily lit night-time Los Angeles, but of
course all this would be as nothing if the
performances were not up to scratch.
James Spader showed in Sex, Lies and
Videotape that he can act and this is
another strong, thoughtful performance
which will certainly do his career no
harm. However, the real surprise is Rob
Lowe, who in previous films has
demonstrated all the charisma of a brown
paper bag. His performance here is
mature and assured, playing the difficult
character of Alex with smooth charm that
barely conceals the menace lurking below
the surface. In fact the whole film,
excepting the slowish start, almost
crackles with tension, although there are
a few laughs on offer to season the
recipe. If you are planning to go to the
flicks soon you would be well advised to
put this near the top of your list.
Michael Kirsch.
Total
Recall
This book is so awful that I have no idea
how Mr Anthony can put his name to it.
What seems to have happened is that the
script for the film was given to him so
that he can add bits, and then they
market the result in the hope of making
even more money.
There is no plot—those of you who
have seem the film will know exactly
what I mean! The extra parts are very
fragmented and hard to understand,
something about mutant ants making the
sun go nova if we are bad?
If you are into mass murder and
maiming you will be more than satisfied,
although the descriptions are a bit tame.
Nothing to recommend and if you have
seem the film reading the book will only
confuse you.
Ian Hodge.
Extraordinary People
'Idiot Savant' is the technical term for
people who have brain damage or a
mental problem. Yet have an ability that
would be extraordinary in a 'normal'
person. From amazing musical talent to
calendar calculations they show that the
normal idea of 'intelligence' is very
narrow.
This is a book of two halves, initially an
interesting and informative account of
one of life's great mysteries which is
followed by what seems to be an extract
from a medical journal. This spoils what
would otherwise have been a marvelous
book, but even so it is still far better than
the average documentary-style book.
He does bring up some very interesting
points—most of the savants have
exceptional memory which he suggests
that it is more an inability to forget.
Included are three detailed accounts of
savants which tell the true story rather
than the 'wonder-boy' image that is
promoted in the press. Reading about
these people made me stop and think
about the way we should treat people
that have mental difficulties, instead of
locking them away as we do far too
often. There is much that we can learn
from them.
It is written in friendly and informative
style that makes most of it a joy to read.
When you move into the more technical
'why does it happen' sections the style
remains but the subject matter does make
things a bit tough.
Well worth reading.
Ian Hodge

