N e w M o d e l A r m yPurity LP
The Army marches on with a new line-
up, a new tour, and a new album,
Impurity. The cover art-work and photos
are all typical NMA, beautifully done in
mauve by Joolz (she of the red hair and
tattoos). Cackling laughter echoes out of
the speakers and NMA fly into Get Me
Out. This is classic NMA. For the
uneducated, NMA call themselves 'folk-
rock', wear clogs and use loads of Celtic
images. The noise they produce is
referred to as a 'light metal roar' with
hard-hitting vocals by Slade the Leveller.
ALL their songs involve political / social
statements. About half the album is
predictable NMA but in amongst it all,
Space, Purity and Bury The Hatchet
provide a much more acoustic and folky
sound. Space is brilliant and features
Joolz (the punk poet). Bury The Hatchet
says something about the new East-West
relations and Luhrstaap gives NMA's view
on a united Germany. In Purity, Slade
even questions if NMA's ideals are pure
and righteous. If you are a virgin (to it
all), have a listen, you may well like what
you hear. NMA play the Town and
Country Club on October 24 and 25. If
you are a follower, it's fantabidoosy and
NMA ate slowly changing.
Colin Toombs.
F i e l d s o f t h e N e p h i l i m
Elyzium LP
Black clouds obscure the sun and the
stormy neo-classical and awesomely
smoke-wrought (Dead But Dreaming)
heralds the Nephs finest achievement so
far. The whole album is a single complex
piece, reminiscent of Marillion's Misplaced
Childhood in structure, but infinitely more
evoking and full. The first fights straight
into For Her Light. Now in its true
context, the single booms out with more
strength and accusation from the mythical
start. Then, just as you thought it was
safe to cower back to the trembling
speakers, Carl McCoy's voice indites you
as you flee back from the magnificence.
For the first time, all the lyrics have
been published and read, as the music, in
one long flowing monologue, a pendulum
between emotion and mystique. To read
the lyrics alone acts as sacrilege, as
alone they may be coined as cliche. In
fact, they jump and soar through the
intricately powerful guitars, perfectly
T h e C u r e
complimented by the wandering bass and
inevitably complex drums to conjure a
deeper experience.
The delicate majesty of At the Gates of
Silent Memory is balladic but not subdued
until memories switch into play to startle
the pace to a full bolt. This is a creation,
not a composition, as the pure harmonic
melancholy of the guitar slices out.
Through (Paradise Regained) is reached
the eerie simplicity of Submission which
grows to a frenzy of darkness and
demonic dynamics before subsiding back
to stillness. The moment is passed.
Touches of Pink Floydian guitars seep
into Sumerland and then on with the
driving of Psychonaut but far further
refined and varied now, and employing
more subtleties than ever. The whole
masterfully capped with the tingling
beauty of Wail of Sumer which slides
inperceptably into the final majesty of
And There Will Your heart Be Also.
This genius provides an hypnotic
experience which creates a frame of mind
totally incompatible with the frivolity of
everyday existence. Completely
compelling.
SJH
Never Enough Single
Bob! What are you playing at? This
dancey track is a comedy of all that The
Cure are known for by those who don't
know them. The Cure mix dance and
rock and come up with more than
enough. Loyal fans will probably be
shocked, but the charts should love it.
After the immense success of
Disintegration, Robert Smith vowed to
end The Cure, only to be hounded for
more by his disciples. The entire song is
a protest of his inability to quit while the
going's good, all set to some of the .
popiest music yet written. Like Let's Go
To Bed before it, Never Enough tries to
destroy all that The Cure stand for in
their fans eyes and in attempting to
destroy, he ends up with a hit—jammy
sod. It was apparantly written on the tour
coach en-route to Glastonbury in June!
The flip features Harold and Joe, a
definite dance track and may well get
more air-play than the A-side. It's an
inspiration to the uninspired and almost
ends several times in a sigh and
completely nothing. If only someone
would mention what Harold and Joe have
to do with it except rhyming with 'Go go
go'. As if to rub wounded Cure bastions
with salt, the 12" end with a totally out
of space club mix of Let's Go To Bed, the
track written to destroy The Cure back in
1985. This is definitely a quick, no-
nonsense chart onslaught, and will
undoubtedly be a hit.
SJH.

