FEATURES
Roland Flowerdew and Sarah Harland report on the trade flying display from Farnborough this year...
Farnborough International 1990 v
FEATURES
Every two years, a quiet airfield in
Hampshire comes to life for a fortnight as
it hosts the world's largest trade airshow:
Farnborough International. The peace of
the area is shattered as aircraft fly in and
start rehearsing their displays, which aim
to demonstrate how much better they are
than the opposition since the clinching of
rnajor deals can depend on how well a
particular aircraft is flown.
Despite its huge commercial
significance, most members of the public
come to Farnborough to marvel at the air
displays, flown by some of the best pilots
in the world. Although aircraft are
pushed to their limits, each display is
strictly controlled and must be approved
before the airshow itself takes place.
Farnborough is a show of superlatives,
and this year, as ever, no-one was
disappointed.
Flying began with the McDonnell
Douglas MD530N NOTAR helicopter,
making its airshow debut. NOTAR,
standing for NO TAil Rotor, is a
completely new system replacing the
conventional tail rotor. An internal fan is
used to pressurize the tail boom,
controlling the torque by ducting the air
through slots. (The system has recently
been described in detail in New Scientist.)
Advantages of NOTAR include low
weight, lower noise, less vulnerability,
higher manoeuverability and lower pilot
workload than associated with tail rotors.
These were shown to the full as the pilot
put the helicopter through a punishing
and impressive routine that included
loops and rolls.
Aerobatic basic trainers were in
abundance this year: Slingsby T67M-200,
ENAER T-35 Pillan and Namcu, Shorts
Tucano, Pilatus PC- 9. Each of these gave
a crisp display, but when the nth trainer
starts its display, eyes tend to glaze over
and minds switch off, unless you are
about to buy one.
There were also plenty of advanced
trainers to be seen. The Rhein
Flugzeugbau Fantrainer 600, flown by
aerobatic champion Walter Extra, from
Germany, caused more than a few frayed
nerves, pushing aileron control
demonstrations to the knife-edge, and
landing on an approach path greater than
60 degrees to the runway. The aircraft
has a single ducted fan openly housed
behind the pilot, leaving the forward
fuselage free thus providing compactness
and high cockpit visibility. From
Argentina, the FMA Pampa is a neat and
simple design, with high reliability and
low maintenance. It has a straight, super-
critical wing (ie configured for low drag
and high maximum lift etc) and is very
stable at low speed aileron control, shown
from knife-edge to knife-edge. The IAv
IAR-99 Soim is the first ever entirely
Romanian designed and built aircraft to
perform - even the Rolls Royce Viper is
assembled there. It is a conventional jet
McDonnell-Douglas CF-18 Hornet
trainer cum light attack aircraft, but still
achieves 7000 ft/min climb and 520 mph
at sea level on maximum take-off weight.
Once again, the flying bug, the Optica
demonstrated its ability as a low cost
helicopter substitute for surveillance. The
low noise and low vibration make it an
ideal camera platform, with an eight hour
endurance surpassing that of helicopters.
The Optica has had a chequered history,
with the factory being burnt down, the
manufacturers going bankrupt and so on,
but now current owners Lovaux Ltd are
hoping to sell up to 100 a year for
policing, coast-guard patrol, pollution
monitoring and power line surveying.
Westland provided a dramatic display
with the EH101, Black Hawk and Lynx 3
helicopters. The EH 101 was displayed in
civil heliliner variant, offering a true
VTOL capability useful for oil-rig support
and inner city work. The Black Hawk
display began with a light strike gun lift,
but then stunned the crowd by its agility,
with an 80 degree rolling dive and sharp
rolling turns. The Black Hawk has good
serviceability and an all-up weight of
22,000 lb resulting in a versatile and
lethal assault aircraft having the ability to
win and hold ground with 19 troops and
8000 lb external load. The Lynx 3 is used
in an anti-submarine role by the Royal
Navy, and has the unusual ability to pin
itself onto a ship's deck using its negative
thrust rotor.
In comparison to the Black Hawk was
the Agusta A129 Mangusta, another low-
profile helicopter designed for air-to-air
combat and reconnaissance. It can carry
up to eight TOW missiles, and has a
unique on-board computer management
system. With twin engines and 2.5 hr
mission endurance, the Mangusta is an
agile and formidable opponent, mission
effective in all weathers.
British Aerospace (BAe) started its
display with the two new Hawk versions,
the 100 and 200. The 100 is a two-seater
as in previous versions, but has state-of-
the-art avionics. The 200 is a single seat
dedicated fighter, again with advanced
avionics. Both aircraft displayed the
manoeuverability and effectiveness
associated with earlier Hawk variants.
Following the Hawks was an old
favourite, the Tornado GR1. Still a head
turner, this strike two-seater seemed just
as happy inverted as in normal attitude,
and also proved very agile with wings in
fully sept position. Particularly impressive
was the way the pilot accelerated around
a 360 degree turn whilst maintaining a
constant radius. The landing run is
surprisingly short, utilising powerful
reverse thrust.
One of the highlights of this year was
the six aircraft display of the Harrier GR5
from No.l Squadron on the 30th
anniversary of the Harrier and VSTOL
flight. The GR5 is the latest variant of the
Harrier, being developed jointly by BAe
and McDonnell- Douglas. It will carry
either the same load twice as far as the
GR3, or double the load the same
distance. It has sold to both the USA and
Spain, and has a much-reduced workload
for both pilot and ground-crew.
The aircraft demonstrated their
versatility in a beautifully choreographed
display incorporating vertical take-offs,
and short take-offs from both concrete
and grass. Two opposition 360 degree
turns at 120 and 350 kts proved
manoeuverability at both ends of the
speed range, important in the approach
to carrier decks and camouflaged strips.
The display included high speed ground
strikes and explosions before a
syncronised hovering nod and pirouette
before returning to the ground.
BAe continued its display with aircraft
from its civil division. After the roar of
six Harriers hovering 100 ft from the
crowd, anything would seem quiet.
Quietness is now a very important
consideration for civilian aircraft,
particularly those expected to operate
over cities at night, and the BAe 146 is
among the quietest aircraft in the world.
This aircraft was the subject of a massive
promotion, with three examples at
Farnborough. The 146 is a regional four-
engine jet STOL airliner with advanced
wing and high bypass turbofans, and it
seems likely that it will be allowed to fly
from London Docklands airport soon.
Flying in Pan-Am livery was the BAe
Jetstream Super 31. This pressurised
turbo-prop commuter biz-jet.boasts a high
degree of comfort, and has made its
biggest breakthrough into the notorious
American market. The advanced airscrew
design gives low noise and high
efficiency. The ATP also has very
advanced airscrew design, and is capable
of using jetways at regional airports. It
too is very quiet. ,
Last from BAe was the 125-1000, the
latest development of the 125. It should
continue the 125's success, on average
one has been delivered every nine
working days since 1964. The rear
fuselage has been reshaped, giving less
aerodynamic drag and more fuel storage.
The 1000 carries six passengers with low
fuel consumption. So far nine have been
ordered.
The Dornier Do228, a square-fuselaged
19-seater, or freighter has a bat shaped
advanced wing, resulting in incredible
STOL performance: it seemed to be in the
air from take off before it even started
rolling. It can fly at exceptionally slow
speeds - instead of taxiing down the
runway it flew - and is remarkable
manoeuverable given its size.
A revitalised oldie displayed: a BAC
1-11 re-engined with Rolls Royce Tays.
This upgrade dramatically reduces the
noise levels, and provides better
performance for less fuel. The 1-11
airframe is now built in Romania, and this
new version should prolong the life of the
airliner. Smaller, but distinctive, the four-
seater CMC Leopard made its flying debut
as a prototype here. It is a very compact
aircraft, powered by two Noel Penny
turbojets that look small enough to fit
under the bonnet of a Rover Metro. With
max cruise of 500 mph at 45,000 ft,
weight 1900 lb, the Leopard should be on
sale by 1994 for just under one million
US dollars. Another debut, the Embraer
CBA123 from South America had only
flown 35 hrs before the show. This light
regional airliner has two pusher Garret
TPF351-20 turboprops, also brand new.
The fuselage is developed from the
Brazilia, and has a very high aspect ratio
super-critical wing. It can carry 19
passengers at 400 mph for nearly 700
miles.
The Lake Turbo Renegade presented
another unusual shape to the air world: it
is an amphibian with a pusher prop
mounted over the wings. It carries up to
six people, designed primarily for
pleasure use. It was flown by the first
female pilot to display at Farnborough.
As always, fighters featured on the
Farnborough menu. Dassault
demonstrated the Alpha Jet 2, and two
Chichester Miles Leopard
versions of the Mirage 2000, intended to
fill the gap before the Rafale is
introduced. General Dynamics showed its
F-16A Fighting Falcon, and McDonnell-
Douglas its CF-18 Hornet twin-tailed
multi-role fighter. The CF-18 shown was
from the Canadian Air Force, and has a
cockpit painted on the underside of the
aircraft to confuse potential attackers.
The Soviets displayed some of their
aircraft that have only rarely been seen
in the West before. Mikoyan displayed
the Mig-29, a small but powerful fighter.
It has an initial climb rate of 65,000
ft/min, 13,000 mile range and max speed
of Mach 2.3, and all this from a manual
hydraulic control system. Sukhoi
displayed its Su-27, similar in shape to the
Mig-29, but larger and with a fly- by-wire
control system. Both these aircraft gave
very impressive displays, including the
famous tail-slides, and 'Cobra' manoeuvre,
where the stick is snapped back, putting
the aircraft into a vertical attitude, before
dropping back down and continuing in
level flight.
The aircraft that could not be missed
was the Antonov An-225 Mriya, the
largest aircraft in the world. With a
maximum payload of 250,000 kg and six
engines producing total static thrust of
over 300,000 lbs, to say that this aircraft
is impressive is understatement, it only
flew a few times during the airshow,
because the Soviets could not afford the
fuel at Gulf-inflated prices. The An-225
used nearly all the runway to get
airborne, but when it did finally leave the
ground, the display was awe-inspiring
with nimble turns and bank angles
approaching that looked far too close to
wing-over for safety. Few people will
forget the sight of this huge aircraft
coming down on finals, dangling 32 huge
tyres, and then the cloud of smoke as the
wheels accelerated on touchdown.
The Red Arrows gave their usual
polished display, including a new
manoeuvre for the syncro pair. In the
'Revolver', both aircraft, flying very close
on a low pass, simultaneously roll
through 360 degrees. In the same
aerobatic vein were two dramatic
aerobatic displays, one from the Extra
300, the other from the Marconi LO.100
Gliders. The Extra 300, designed, built
and displayed by Walter Extra, is capable
of far more than any pilot can take. In
contrast, the gliders presented their
unique and silent display. The two
aircraft fly very close, all the more risky
when there is no power to pull away
from a collision, more so when one flies
inverted above the other as if there were
an airborne mirror between them. The
gliders gave a soothing finale as traders
and public returned to join the traffic
queues which are themselves so much
part of the air show for the local
residents.

