Page 2 FELIX 8th May, 1969
COMMENT
The Parliamentary Select Committee on student relations
has attracted a fair amount of national publicity recently.
Few people seem to be in any doubt that the committee are
enquiring into student protest and what can be done about it.
The events at Essex are well know and further comment
on them would probably incur the wrath of Mr. Speaker,
despite the obvious value to the country of press comment
on such a topical event Undaunted, the sub-committee
decided to visit LSE; at first they did not want to meet any
of the 'militants', merely Union 'bureaucrats', but, under
pressure they met a delegation of a dozen from the Uniaf
meeting. Why, it will be asked, this reluctance to meet
'protesters', the people they are supposed to be enquiring
about?
To many students today this fracas seems typical of the
basic paradox of our society. We can reach for the moon,
control complex nuclear reactions and extend our dominion
over nature in a thousand and one ways, yet the world is
not far from the brink of total disaster. This state of affairs
comes not from lack of control over nature, or God's crea-
tion, but rather our lack of control over our own creations,
the institutions man has set up. Thus parliament, originally
thought of as the institution through which popular opinion
could control the government, increasingly looks like an
institution through which the government tries to influence,
and hence control, popular opinion.
Seen in this light, the reluctanec of the committee to meet
real protesters no longer seems amusing but disquieting. Is
the committee really trying to find ways in which the govern-
ment can control outbreaks of student violence, because the
institutions they represent are unable to really do anything
to cure the disease of which protest is a symptom. How
would the committee suggest that the contradictions of the
present system can be solved ? How can academic freedom
be reconciled with the " demands of the economy" or
equality of opportunity be brought about in a society of
unequal wealth?
Now we hear this committee is to visit IC on May 14th,
and the Rector was asked to provide a wide spread of opinion
from staff, students and authorities. Now this is a distinctly
more encouraging idea but how tragic the failure to rise to
the occasion has been! Lord Penney and Rex Lowin, who
was asked to provide six student representatives, have fallen
into the error of " trying to preserve the good name of
Imperial College". They have both submitted uninspired
lists of respectable staff, and students involved in various
reformist activities, but not a hint of an unorthodox ' pro-
testor ', staff or student. Unfortunately the committee will
probably learn little from these eminent Daily Telegraph
readers.
In passing, it might be noted that this same attitude is
exercised towards FELIX. The ' good name preservers'
would prefer to empty this newspaper of opinion and lower
it to the turgid level of a house journal. Whereas we intend
to maintain FELIX as a paper where all views can be
expounded.
Perhaps some day those in authority at IC will ask a
few outsiders what the standing of IC really is. The National
Front types can't distinguish one student from another and
those progressives who can regard such antics with the
derision they deserve. No, come off it, Rex and Rector, let
that committee meet a ' wide spread of opinion '; more than
the good name of IC is at stake.
Published by the Editor, Les Ebdon, on behalf of
ICU Publications Board at Imperial College, London,
S.W.I (01-589-2963).
With: Assistant Editor Malcolm Williamson News
Andrew Holrnan Features Ian Carr Sport Bob Pine
Felicity John Probst Business Tony Kirkham Adver-
tising Pete Chapman Phil Rainey Circulation Ian
Quarrinton Photographies John Rogers Robin Gostick
Simon Hoyle, Posters Mike Lang Also Paul Heath
Rex Lowin Piers Corbyn John Schofield Frances
Campbell Caroline and all our super sales stands.
National Advertising J.E.P. and Associates 0-353-3712.
Printers F. Bailey and Son Ltd., Dursley, Glos.
Many LC. students were present at various conferences over th
tion. Here we publish reports from three of the most interesting,
by members of the I.C. delegation.
Universities and
industry
About 250 students from
23 countries attended a con-
ference on ' The Relation-
ships between Universities
and Industry", held in
Churchill College, Cam-
bridge, during the vac. The
whole thing had been con-
ceived and organised by a
group of undergraduates
there and paid for by vari-
ous companies they ap-
proached.
The conference was split
into five sessions, each con-
sisting of two lectures, a
break into small groups to
discuss the points raised and
then back into the lecture
hall for questioning of the
speakers and further discus-
sion. Some of the subjects
dealth with were ' Universi-
ties' aims', Industry's needs',
'The years before and after
business school', 'Organisa-
tional careers' and ' An
economist's view '. The class
of the lectures varied from
excellent to pretty poor, with
the best session being given
by Prof. Casimir, Director of
Research and Development,
Philips N.V., Eindhoven, and
Prof. Leavitt of the Stanford
Business School.
The widely varying back-
grounds, nationalities and
politics of the students pro-
duced many interesting heat-
ed and entertaining argu-
ments. To say that any con-
clusions were reached would
be a great fallacy, but per-
haps some of the points
brought out were a general
dislike and fear of industry
by the student body and a
feeling that industry should
change to accommodate uni-
versities and their graduates
and not vice versa; a general
plea for a break from the
specialised education to a
more general one and the ad-
vice that it would be a good
idea for all students and es-
pecially those doing science
and technology to spend a
year 'out' before going to
university.
On the social side, our stay
was most enjoyable, from the
opening dinner with its im-
pressive selection of guests
topped by Prince Philip
through an international folk
evening with Lilian enter-
taining on her recorder, to
the final discotheque and
late-night film. Perhaps the
fact that the bar was open
until 11.30 helped.
It was altogether a worth-
while experience giving an
insight into what went on in
other universities in this
country and abroad. Most of
this information was gleaned
during a few late-night ses-
sions consuming imported
duty-free liquor. It also sup-
plied an opportunity to see
Cambridge at the expense of
industry. Our thanks go to
the organisers, Churchill Col-
lege, and those companies
who paid for it.
Dermott Corr
The Red Base
theory
At the University of Manchester, on Saturday and Sunday,
March 22nd and 23rd, the first delegate conference of the
Revolutionary Socialist Student Federation took place,
attended by two hundred delegates, including three from the
I.C. Group. In a serious and co-operative atmosphere, with
a high-level of debate, the wide spectrum of left-wing mili-
tancy represented aired its views. Differences were never very
far below the surface, but these were frankly discussed, not
hidden behind a fragile facade of complete unity. They were
in the main differences of means, not ends. The maximum
common ground was sought, but principles were not sacrificed
to this end.
After the election of a triumvirate to chair the meeting,
an agenda and standing orders were adopted. The announce-
ment that the record of the open Round House Conference
of last November had disappeared along with the steno-
grapher (whose dedicated note-taking no-one had ques-
tioned) was met with some derision and speculation as to
their whereabouts. By 96 votes to 92, the press was excluded
from the conference on the grounds that press distortion
rendered the publicity useless.
Regan Scott, on behalf of the National Co-Ordination
Committee, reported that a nation-wide organisation was
now functional with its own resources, and that the confer-
ence must decide on its future direction. Manchanda called
for evaluation, stressing that there can be no revolutionary
movement without clear objectives which RSSF lacked at
the moment. After a financial report and a defeated proposal
Manchester congress
The Manchester Congress ' Response to Crises' was held
over the Easter Vac, to study the problems of poverty in
the world. A series of main plenary sessions were held,
though two of the most important speakers were unable to
attend. Jesse Jackson, the American Civil Rights leader had
his passport impounded by the U.S. authorities, and Conor
Cruise O'Brien was stuck in Biafra at the time.
Of the other Speakers, Ronald Segal described ' The Hist-
torical Causes of the World Crisis '. Much on the lines of his
book, 'The Race War', he emphasised the way the developed
societies of the non-European world were raped by the slave
traders and the colonial exploiters. The failure of the col-
oured races to fight back effectively gave the white man a
general feeling of superiority which still intensively survives,
often in the assumptions made of how the poor countries of
the world should deal with their internal problems.
The second main speaker, Dom Helder Camara, Arch-
bishop of Recife Brazil, spoke on similar lines, especially
critising paternalistic attitudes. "The root causes of dis-
agreements between social classes in one country lies in the
attitude of the rich, who feel that the problem can be solved
by aid, generosity and the proper distribution of the crumbs
that fall from their tables ".
A large number of secondary meetings took place with
speakers such as John Davy, whose articles on the study of
human nature have recently appeared in the " Observer',
Michael Duane, the ex-headmaster of Risinghill Comprehen-
sive School, and Merlyn Rees, minister with special respon-
sibility for immigration.
The general level of contributions and discussions were
high, and there was a great deal of agreement as to the root
causes of the problems considered. I found the event particu-
larly enjoyable for the opportunity it provided to meet
students from other places, who were concerned with the
problems, and to have enlightened discussions with people
who did not resort to entrenched standpoints.
However, no detailed answers emerged—perhaps it was
foolish to expect magic solutions to arise. ' The Revolution'
was urged, but to most this did not mean necessarily a violent
revolution. A quite substantial minority did, all the same,
decide to occupy the South African Airlines Office, conven-
iently placed opposite the conference hall. To most the
' Personal Revolution' and ' Not compromising with the
system' were the answer, By this was meant not living
within the narrow horizons of personal affluence, but being
willing to help the poor, and to stand out against the wrongs
committed by ones compatriots—indeed being aware of them.
To realise that the reformist treating of symptoms will not
work, but widespread political awareness of the needs of
others, and the willingness of a majority of people to tackle
the problems are all that will bring real results.
To members of I.C. this congress could have considerable
significance. Not only do we work within two miles of
Notting Hill, considered by some as the worst Ghetto in
Britain, where all the classic causes of poverty exist—large
scale political domination by the surrounding areas, com-
bined with indifference; bad housing; racial problems and
efforts at social aid generally underfinanced. We are also at
the forefront of the move to create the post-industrial society
—a frangmented society, where the successful will increasing-
ly forget the unsuccessful. Perhaps through our work as
Scientists and Technologists, the better, more integrated world
can arise.
Pete Elphick
that a horse-shoe shaped conference was more conducive
to discussion, the base reports were given, particular emphasis
being given to the activities of the London RSSF and the
LSE. Activity was by no means confined to London how-
ever. The recent events at Essex were however unique, and.
though reported in an extremely amusing manner, still gave
a clear warning of the result of lack of direction and purpose
At Essex, a large but undeveloped ' left' had been demobil-
ised and demoralised by the ease with which its ' aims'
had been achieved ! ! A two-week occupation, a strike and
a boycott of lectures had brought the University—and the
' left'—to a standstill. The Aberdeen delegate, on the other
hand, stressed the need to separate those who were in earnest
from the ' cowboy-socialists'. Self-education in every field
was the real crux.
Continued on page 7
J

