Page 4 FELIX 8th May, 1969
T
E
A
C
H
I
N
G A
N
D L
E
A
R
N
I
N
G
Following the Teaching and
Learning Methods Conference,
three students give their views on
what can and should be done.
Action to be taken
by Brian Hains
There has been considerable discussion over the past year
or so about the purpose and structure of our degrees, and
also about their means of assessment. Many proposals have
been brought forward for reform, but before trying to press
on with reform, however, we must first of all establish the
need for reform. Though this need may be self-evident to
those working in academic affairs, I have the impression that
relatively few of the total number of students are really in-
terested in trying to change the existing system. Many stu-
dents have accepted the examination as a fact of life and
have probably never thought of the purpose of the examina-
tion, and even less as to whether the examination achieved
this purpose.
This, then, must be the first objective. Students involved
in academic affairs must not hide their light under a bushel.
Each and every student of this college must be encouraged
to think in depth about what he is doing and why he is
doing it.
The second objective is the staff themselves. The simplest
way to involve large numbers of staff in this discussion is
through the tutorials. Instead of being solely concerned with
" sheet 2 — problem 3," tutorials could be seen as a ready
made means by which four or five students can discuss the
purpose of their education with a member of staff. Informal
meetings between staff and student are also very valuable
and should be held on a regular basis in each department,
similar to those held in Electrical Engineering.
It is important to realise that there are quite a number of
progressive staff, and while they must be given all our
encouragement, none the less the initiative for reform must
come from the students. Otherwise the progressives will get
nowhere, conservative staff will claim that everything in the
garden is lovely and that things should stay as they are •—
witness the lack of student objection.
The staff-student committees provide a valuable forum
for student dissension to be resolved. However, their terms
of reference are rather ill-defined, as also is their power.
I should like to see these become a vital ancillary to the
staff meeting and to have a more precise function to fulfill.
At present they are mostly concerned with minor adminis-
trative details such as coffee machines, availability of prob-
lem sheets and the size of a lecturer's writing. If these com-
mittees are not give a more imaginative role to play. I fear
that they will degenerate into a mere " grouse and moan "
session.
The diversity of student opinion is probably comparable
to the number of days in the year. Clearly, then, there should
be some way for the student body to present the staff with a
coherent policy. To achieve this I would suggest meetings
similar to those I have begun in physics, namely a meeting
for year reps, student members of the staff-student commit-
tee and anyone else who is sufficiently interested to come
along. It is often useful in studying one's own department
to know what goes on in other departments. I would, there-
fore, advocate IC year rep meetings whose purpose would
be the free exchange of information between departments.
They could also, possibly, make recommendations to the
Rector's Education and Technology Committee.
Although any fundamental changes must be approved by
innumerable committees in the University of London, I feel
it is true to say that if a department really believes that a
change is necessary, then this change will be granted. It is
up to us to convince the staff body of the need for this
change.
Purpose of Education by Piers Corbyn
Man is moulded by his social environment — this is no
less true for the students at IC who, being influenced by two
contrasting and conflicting claims on their time, lead dual
lives, the conflicting influences being:
(1) the course of study . . . work
(2) the rest . . . influence inside and outside 1C which
are not part of the degree course.
The moulding effect of the degree course is dictated by
what is in it and the way it is taught. What is taught, is
largely decided by the needs of industry which are in turn
controlled by the profit-motive, rather than by human needs.
The two are synonomous as was shown by Les Ebdon
when discussing research in last FELIX.
Students in IC may be considered to have their existence
justified on three accounts:
(1) training for industry
(2) Indulging in the ' disinterested pursuit of knowledge '
(3) Being educated as responsible members of society
and the world who have a good grasp of the way the
world works.
Teaching is influenced in various directions by each of
these justifications. In IC, training for industry is by far the
most influential factor and any education to be responsible
members of society is negligible. In RCS, the 'disinterested
pursuit of knowledge' is taken more seriously than else-
where.
As far as training for industry is concerned, IC functions
mainly to produce experts but we know, as Mr. Carpenter
pointed out at the conference, recruiters from industry look
for abilities such as those of applying ideas, recognising the
significant and exercising judgement, rather than for people
who have assimilated a lot of facts. Most of the courses as
they are taught now suppress most of these abilities, at
least in the first two years. Promotion of these abilities
necessitates the complete re-structuring of the degree courses.
Obviously the actual re-structuring depends a great deal on
the department, but broadly speaking ' task-work ' should be
the centre of courses — to teach students how to formulate
problems. Lectures would then have a new lower status,
being more like demonstrations and question-posing meet-
ings. The work entailed both for the students and staff
would be more difficult in initial stages but would pay
greater dividends in the long run. The re-structuring of
courses will not be easy and necessitates a lot of work in the
Board of Studies, Depts., and staff-student committees.
" I don't want to change the world, I want to be an
engineer " someone once said. This attitude is symptomatic
of IC's failure to demonstrate the relationships between
science and society. Engineering — applied science — has
changed the world; ' science is social' said the " New
Scientist " and the BSSRS. Science is to do with scientists —
and vice versa — as was stated by Dr. Topping. The prob-
lem before us is how is ' social responsibility ' taught ? Social
responsibility is encouraged by not giving students time
to study how the world works, as Gerald Leach said in the
Observer (April 27). Scientists' education is usually lament-
ably bad at helping them see the broad significance of their
work.
Social responsibility is concerned with attitudes and it is
probably fair to say that people's attitudes are moulded by
the people they meet or work with. For this reason a special-
ised institution like IC tends to foster social irresponsibility
through its uniformity of mind and corresponding lack of
appreciation of ' other minds' and feebleness of criticism.
This brings us to ' the rest' — moulding influences which
are not part of the degree course. The presence of arts stu-
dents in IC would improve the situation — as should the
coming of the Architectural Association and as will the USK.
It might be possible in the future to have a limited number
of courses common with the nearby colleges but if this does
happen we should not assume that joining the colleges under
the same administration would be a good thing, because IC
is so industry-orientated that a common source of money
would be detrimental to the nature of the work done in
those colleges.
In closing let us say that a great deal needs to be done in
IC and can be done if we all take the initiative and accept
radical changes — perhaps extending to a 4-year course to
cope with what should be done.
Methods of assessment by John MacAdam
The " Teaching and Learning Methods " conference held
at IC at the end of last term drew attention to certain aspects
of the teaching here that have been bothering at least some
staff and students for some while. To these people there
appears to be something fundamentally wrong with the
teaching here — something that cannot be corrected simply
by a change in lecturing style or the use of audio-visual
gadgets. The trouble lies not so much in the way the courses
are taught, but to what end they are taught. The aim of a
course naturally determines its content and also the way in
which the student is assessed, since the assessment should
measure the degree to which the student has fulfilled that
aim. As a corollary, the true aim of a course, whether
specifically stated as such or not, can be determined by
examining the content of the course and, more precisely, the
methods of assessment.
The predominant form of assessment throughout IC at
the moment is the written exam. The most important of
these exams, and so the major part of the assessment, gen-
erally comes at the end of the course. This indicates that the
aim of the course is to develop in the student some faculty or
faculties and the extent to which this has been done for the
particular student is estimated at the end of the course.
What is the most important faculty looked for in these
exams ? One point raised by Prof. Elton of Surrey Univer-
sity was that, on average, over 50% of a Finals exam in a
scientific subject tests pure memory only. Furthermore, the
remainder of the exam tends to test skills that are heavily
dependent on memory; for instance, solving problems of the
types the student has previously been shown how to ap-
proach. The time-limit on these exams also exaggerates this
memory dependance — there is just not enough time for a
student to complete a question by working from basic prin-
ciples. In general, it appears that the aim of teaching a
course at IC is mainly that of getting the student to commit
that course to memory as best he can.
Such issues were raised at the teaching methods con-
ference. Dr. Topping, Vice-Chancellor of Brunei, pointed out
that more general than specialist scientists are in fact re-
quired by industry in the ratio 3 : 2. He went on to
criticise present courses in which " the facts concealed the
principles" and urged that the education of scientists and
technologists should " encourage flexibility " and give them
" an appreciation of their role in society." Prof. Elton dealt
with the assessment side from the same point of view. He
recommended that rather than having one type of assessment
testing one skill, many different types should be used to
test the student's ability over a wider field. One example
would be the student's ability to work with others, rather
than competing against them as occurs with the traditional
exam system. The result of such an ' all-round ' assessment,
which has already been tried at Surrey, would be a profile
of the student's particular skills, rather than a grade of
degree.
If such a teaching methods conference is to be of any use,
some positive action must come of it. Firstly the views of
all staff and students on the issues of (i) the aim of the
teaching at IC; (ii) the content of the courses here and (iii)
the methods of assessments best employed, must be collected.
A committee must be set up, one would hope by JURGO's
initiative, to organise, co-ordinate and analyse a wide ranging
questionnaire. This committee should be made up of both
staff and student representatives, the latter preferably elec-
ted by, and responsible to, ICU. It should be interdepart-
mental, for the issues to be dealt with are basic to the teach-
ing throughout the whole of IC. The committee will also
provide a forum for the exchange of ideas between depart-
ments (in the past discussions and changes in course content
and assessment in one department have often not even been
heard of in others). When the views of all concerned have
been collected and analysed, there must be machinery made
available to begin to put any changes indicated into effect.
This machinery could well be based on the staff-student
committee mentioned above (it would be simpler if there
was student representation on the Board of Studies). What-
ever the case, authority must be given so that all changes
considered necessary can be put into effect in all depart-
ments.

