8th May, 1969 FELIX Page 5
Vive la France! by John Spenc
Whatever you say about the French! However much you
cackle at them for Trafalgar and Waterloo, whether or not
you argue traditional ineptitude on the basis of the Maginot
Line or the Fourth Republic, and even if you attribute at
best French kissing to them, and at worst onions — you
have to give them at least one thing — their art.
For in visual art, at least, France has probably shaped
the course of Western culture more than any other European
country. From Van Gogh to Picasso, with Degas, Gauguin,
Matisse and Cezanne in between, the French instigated and
sustained the Impressionist period and when, in 1902, a
rapid succession of images under the collective title of " Les
Victimes de L'Alcool" enthralled a Paris audience, most of
whom were seeing their first film, the stage was set for the
cinema's takeover of public entertainment. Not surprising
then, that that film — probably the first ever social docu-
mentary — had a certain Monsieur Zecca as director who,
as a Frenchman, blazed a trail in 16 millimetres which the
archdeacons of the art, Louis Feuillade, Rene Clair, Louis
Bunuel and Jean Renoir so magnificently exploited half a
century ago.
Millions of words have been written on the effect early
French cinema had on French (and western) painting—mov-
ing images on a screen having been used to explain why, in
turn, Picasso went all " bitty," Toulouse-Lautrec all " sexy,"
Magritte and Dali all " eerie" and Jackson Pollock all
" screwy," and it is a point, that, with the cinema and
Cartier-Bresson's camera reflecting realism into the public's
eye, the painter simply had to find something else. But
much is speculation and many theories are spurious — what
is not in doubt is that nowhere is the development and
transformation in visual art seen better than in France and
nowhere is French cinema, from the early silents of Feuil-
lade to the noisy riot films of young Phillippe Garrel, better
represented than in the Cinematheque Francaise — and that
is the subject of this article.
The Cinematheque is a film archive and is to cinema what
the Natural History museum is to Paleontology. It is not
the oldest one — our own Natural Film archive dates before
it but it has easily the largest and most varied selection of
films of any such institution. It's oldest piece is an epoch
making bit of celluloid from 1896 and, collecting con-
tinuously, it is bang up to date with the new, new, new wave,
many of which make Godard look like Cecil B. De Mille.
"The cinematheque is a school. From this school have
come the best directors of our time," said Jean Renior, and
Luc-Godard likened the place to a " permanent film ". Both
these comments are very apt. Night after night apparently,
you find at the place all the great French directors you
would expect—projections can last ten hours and more
with no breaks except to allow the audience to assimilate
the impressions of the previous film. Yet the physical ex-
haustion could not have surmounted the essence of the
training since early patrons like Chaplin, Lang, Losey,
Dreyer, Orson Welles, Truffaut, Marlene Dietrich, Simone
Signoret and Jeanne Moreau have all, I think you'll agree,
turned out pretty well.
So where lies the appeal of the place — its not as smart
as our National Film theatre, not as comfortable as the
Empire, screen probably a third of the size of Cinerama,
but it goes on and on, and in a sense, perpetuates itself by
keeping French directors in the forefront of the " nouvelle
vague" in addition to contributing some refreshing new
terms such as " cinema verite " or " cinema d'hauteur " to
film jargon which under Hollywood got no further than
" sobbies," " weepies," " cliff-hangers " and " horse-operas."
My guess is that it is the policy of its director — Henry
Langlois — which gives the Cinematheque its unique quali-
ties. For thirty years Langlois has been an omnivorous col-
lector of everything, disregarding contemporary critical opin-
ion since often only age can bring out the rare qualities of a
piece of art. Langlois endears himself to successive genera-
tions of young Parisian intellectuals by selecting his mater-
ial fairly with no artistic or intellectual prejudices. He is a
perceptive critic of the medium and sees Warhol, Reynaud,
Jean Vigo and Claude Lelouche as a great panorama of art,
a vision he has sought to impart to his audiences.
His film programmes are renowned and anyone who sees
his, presentations at the National film theatre in May will
see how the careful juxtaposition of one film with another
will evoke from each its own very special qualities. He is in
effect a showman.
As a proud citizen of this " nation of shopkeepers" it
saddens me that in Britain we have nothing to rival the
Cinematheque Francaise; the National Film Theatre does
well without actually maintaining a stock of films, but it is
a sorry reflection on the British industry that almost every-
thing you see at the NFT needs subtitles, earphones or an
American accent. The individual efforts of British directors
have been remarkable — especially when endowed with
American money — but there is as yet no true national
achievement in " technique," and even that's a French word.
It seems to me that unless someone somewhere begins to
collect all that is great about the British directed films, and
some not so great, young film-makers in this country will be
forced to look French-wards for any stimulation to evolve
new colours (Lelouche), new editing (Godard), new struc-
ture (Rivette) and new music (Previn). I see a time when
the subtitles will disappear and if you can't roll your " r's "
you'll be OUT on to the street.
RECORD REVIEWS
FELIX wishes to apologise for any in convenience caused to our film re-
viewer by the appearance of the word "genousiconoclasts" in the article
"Romance and Revolt" in the last issue of FELIX.
Elektra EKS 74033—
Judy Collins: Who
knows where the time
goes?
Friends in the U.S. tell me
that July Collins' songs are
sweeping the land. DJs de-
vote three-hour programmes
to them; on the strength of
this album, it is easy to un-
derstand this. Nearly all the
nine tracks are memorable;
there are two Leonard
Cohen songs, Dylan's " Poor
Immigrant" and the Incre-
dibles' " First boy I loved "
featured, and one penned by
Judy herself. " My Father "'
demonstrates the emergence
of a new talent in songwrit-
ing. Judy's sensitive treat-
ment of the songs charges
the lyrics with a new power;
instrumentally the album is
characterised by a tendency
towards C&W sounds, a
trend which is growing at the
moment. C&W normally
leaves me cold, but I found
the combination of contem-
porary songs and country-
influenced instrumentals very
attractive.
Incidentally, Steve Stills,
late of Buffalo Springfield,
plays guitar on all but one
track.
It would be pointless to
select any particular track
for praise—the whole album
is superb.
Phemius.
Spooky Two — Spooky
Tooth—Island 1LPS
9098.
The latest LP from
Spooky Tooth contains eight
long heavily stylised but still
individualistic tracks. Most
of these are heavy and full,
commonly termed a " good
sound." After three or four
hearings the complete re-
cord is very likeable indeed
and it is difficult to pick out
any of the tracks for sep-
arate comment but perhaps
the best is " That was only
Yesterday," a plaintive but
fast number with an easily
recognisable melody.
Among the other songs
there are " I've got enough
Heartache " and " Hangman
hang my shell on a tree,"
both sad but not really
slower than the other tracks.
There is also " Better by
you, Better than me" and
nearly ten minutes of " Evil
Woman " both with admir-
able guitar work.
My only criticisms are the
lack of variation in the
music and the rather poorly
designed sleeve. All the same
this is an excellent buy for
all devotees to current main-
stream pop.
package from a new group,
Leviathan. The first record
is conventional repetitive
pop, with better than aver-
age instrumentality, and the
second consists of " The War
Machine" and " Time,"
both of which could have
been better if their themes
were not so overworked.
Four Faces of Levia-
than — E l e k t r a —
EKSN 45052/57.
This is a double single
Threshold of a Dream
— Moody Blues —
Deram.
This much-heralded LP
follows the basic format of
their previous " Lost Chord,"
with 10 songs and 2 poems.
The music, as one has come
to expect from the Moody
Blues, is excellent but in
several songs the words are
weaker than one would ex-
pect. I thought the best
tracks were " Never comes
the day," also released as a
single, and "Have you
heard ?", which contains
an interesting instrumental
piece, " The Voyage."
The cover contains some
ecstatic blurb from David
Symonds and Lionel Bart, all
of which can be safely ig-
nored; the Moody Blues
play good music and
shouldn't take themselves
too seriously, lest they go th<.
way of most pop groups.
• M l
Judy Collins

