Page 6 FELIX 8th May, 1969
FIGHTING THE SYSTEM
Dave Christopher gives his own personal views on teaching methods
There is much discussion at the moment about teaching
methods. A l l this is meaningless without a clear concept
of the purpose of teaching; a concept both of the purpose
that should direct teaching and that which directs it in
practice. From a liberal definition of education, present
teaching falls far wide of the ideal. In fact education in this
country follows clear cut lines and is highly efficient.
A list of the active governors of this college reads like the
Board of Directors of some giant industrial complex. As
such people are the loudest single voice in the ear of the
government, it is clear that they will be moulding the broad
lines of policy upon which the college is run. Just as 19th
century public schools arose to supply a need for colonial
administrators and the like, our present system of further
education supplies the people to keep the industry and com-
merce of monopoly capitalism running.
Imperial College's main role is to provide research work-
ers and technically qualified administrators. The industrial
system in which they must work is not a simple one of
striving for increased production for the benefit of all. The
western industrial nations are in a crisis of overproduction.
Their economies are constructed in such a way that existing
stores of wealth would quickly lose their value unless sur-
plus production were absorbed in some harmless way.
We have an essential place in this scheme of things. It is
scientists that absorb surplus production by the million;
rocketing metal into outer space; writing programmes to
improve the efficiency of killing asians; inventing processes
for taking the foam out of washing powders; inventing pro-
cesses for putting a more attractive foam back into washing
powders . . . you know the pattern already—the mass media
are full of it. In addition to playing these games with the
fruits of labour of the exploited and with the hope of the
starving, we help dupe the mass of the population into blind-
ly accepting it all by our complicity; by laying the weight
of the popular mystique of science behind it for its justifi-
cation.
It is hard to imagine anyone leaving school with such
an aim in mind. Freshers are more likely to see science as
the means of man's development from necessity to control
his environment, or to wish to pursue a particular branch of
science for its own sake, in a pure search for knowledge.
It is the function of a university to replace such ideals
with alienation and cynicism and thus prepare the student
for his career.
By the time we have completed three or more years of
weekly lectures, problem sheets, practicals, tutorials, etc., we
will have been subjected to a formidable conditioning pro-
cess. If we then enter industry and find that our hard-won
knowledge is either largely out of date or else mostly irrele-
vant to our work, we might feel it had all been a waste
of time. That would be to miss the point. Our methods of
thought and work and our attitudes to our work are
moulded in these years. We are taught to investigate set,
isolated topics with scientific rigor, while any grasp of a
wider view is discouraged and stunted. Our courses largely
consist of little compartments which we must explore along
the lines of past examination questions. Teaching is reduced
to an uncritical churning out and learning to a passive con-
sumption. The sheer volume of work and our limited
energy and interest stops us from really learning about our
subject, as opposed to merely learning to perform exercises
in it or write essays about certain related topics. When we
are given a task, be it a practical or a problem sheet, or a
lecture to learn, no-one justifies its usefulness. We may ques-
tion this ourselves, especially in our first year, but with
time we accept the work automatically.
The staff always know best—we just follow along. By
the end of it all, we are capable of performing certain tech-
nical functions well, even of directing others to do them,
but have no idea, and no wish to have any idea, of what lies
behind it all—we accept unquestioningly the authority of
others to direct us.
With such a mentality we will be capable of performing
practically any allotted task without question, however
ridiculous or inhuman it may be. We will be a credit to any
employer.
This process does have disadvantages for the system.
Science and technology are progressing at such a rate that
one's knowledge must be constantly developing. For this, a
broad-based knowledge of science is required, as more and
more fields are related to one's own and thus used. That the
powers-that-be tolerate this deficiency is a measure of their
reliance upon the passive subjugation to authority which
our education has instilled in us.
Not all I.C. undergraduates will end up in industry or
some related bureaucracy. Some may take up teaching or
lecturing. Here, encouraged by their own attitudes, the
system and the pressures of their teaching load, they will
continue the process in the minds of future generations.
This state of affairs is deeply entrenched. You may be
sure that any changes in teaching methods at I.C. will not
break the pattern.
I.C. Rugby tour of Ireland
The IC tour team again
made an Easter pilgrimage
to the Guinness country,
ostensibly to play three
games of Rugby. Following
in the wake of an apparent-
ly rowdy (surely not?) Ox-
ford University team, the
warmth of the welcome was
a little in doubt, especially
after the odd escapade by
two ginger-headed brethren
on the ferry.
The boat arrived on Sun-
day at 7 a.m. in Dun Laog-
haire; by 10 a.m. all were
breakfasted and asleep in
Moran's Hotel and by 3
p.m. all (well, nearly all) were
lined up ready for the kick-
off against Monkstown.
Unfortunately IC were a
man short as Pine had been
injured the day before in an-
other game but our hosts ob-
ligingly provided the extra
man. Against a much bigger
side IC went extraordinarily
well for the first half culmin-
ating in a gem of a try by
Keith Devaney who flashed
in untouched from 25 yards
out. Unfortunately just be-
fore half-time Devaney was
laid out along with his Bir-
mingham mate Charlie.
Your correspondent was
then obliged to accompany
the injured to St. Vincent's
For the latest books on :
History
LAMLEY'S
Architecture A
Languages
M
•
for your —
Qrama
M
• BOOKS
Anthropology
Natural History
JTconomics
Visit the
L
E
Y
ART MATERIALS
PAPER BACKS
STATIONERY
H a l d a n e L i b r a r y
14 Prince's Gardens,
9
*
Open : Mon.-FH. 10—7; s
Wed. 10—5.30 1 EXHIBITION ROAD, S.W.7
Hospital (where all the
rugby players go) where the
nurses and nuns performed
the customary miracles.
Devaney was detained —
something wrong with his
head — and Charlie emerged
sporting a sling. In the mean-
time, a gallant IC team went
down 11-6 despite 'help'
from another Irish guest
player.
Monday was a day of rest
spent mainly in taking
waters and passing the water
in the next bar. On Tuesday
a gallant 14 stood trembling
before the might of some
very mature-looking ' fresh-
ers ' from University College.
The result was predictably
unfavourable. The whole af-
fair is best forgotten especi-
ally as our opponents disap-
peared rapidly after the
game leaving us to amuse
ourselves — not too diffi-
cult with Moffat and
Smithies in the party !
After paying an exorbitant
hotel bill—the proprietor
was ' at the dentist's ' when
we complained, Wednesday
was spent in travelling to
Athlone in the rural heart of
the Irish peat bogs.
The bus driver flogged his
vehicle along at a frighten-
ing rate in complete contrast
to all else in the Shamrock
Isle. The reason became ap-
parent when after an hour
LC. break away
the bus stopped and all and
sundry piled out and into
the nearest bar for 20 min-
utes. This is apparently part
of the service! The rest of
the journey was uneventful
apart from being made to
feel like caged monkeys by
some curious junior Irish-
men at the other end of the
bus. The sight of Messrs.
Moffat, Mowat, Smithies,
Ballard and all fast asleep
was apparently fascinating.
Arriving in Athlone, one
and all were immediately
struck by the preponderance
of bars—well over 60 which
lined the streets. It trans-
pired that in the Summer
months these hostelries ex-
tract £2 million from the
American tourists. Apart
from this Athlone appeared
very poor with little alter-
native income but with
friendly natives and a posi-
tion straddling the Shannon.
Our hotel, the Shamrock
Lodge Hotel, was excellent,
cheap and noted for the fact
that Queen Salote of Tonga
and every other important
Monsigneur stayed there.
The game against Athlone
RFC on Thursday was
played in the evening on a
sloping pitch in brilliant sun-
shine. The home side were
obviously limited in imagin-
ation but not in physical
effort. In reply to two good
tries by IC they could only
muster two penalties under
the IC posts, awarded by an
' impartial' referee. This
gentleman, it transpired, was
their coach, refereeing his
first game — " Really?"
The only other point of
note was that the Vice-Cap-
tain was late due to the vet
treating his bull for arthritis
and that we won 8-6.
The ensuring evening was
the climax of the tour with a
banquet and a bar evening
laid on in the hotel. We re-
plied to their Irish ditties
with some English ones, to
the great delight of the hotel
manager who was heard
humming ' My sister
Belinda' for days after-
wards.
Friday was spent in nurs-
ing sore heads and delicate
insides and in travelling back
to Dublin, on the train this
time. The tour party was
unbelievably quiet (and
broke) on the return ferry
and with the dispersal at
Holyhead ended another epic
in the saga of IC Rugby
Tours.
Bob Pine

