""LICENSING LAWS (XOTRAVENED.
The bar extension was abused at the May Ball by people improperly dressed who gate-
crashed the function merely to drink after normal closing time. This behaviour is in con-
travention of the license extension granted for special functions, and pits the entire
license at risk. These people are the "in " bar crowd, who are not discouraged by the c
barmen from i l l i c i t drinking in the bars both after closing time and when there is an
extension for a specific function. Rumours circulating with respect to the May Ball link
the names of the following: Dr.G.Munday, John Andrews ( and girlfriend), Tony Mason, Steve
Moffat, Stan (the Southside bairman ) and Dave Acock. Others, including certain Council
Members are rumoured to take part in such activities on other occasions.
HENRY CONCERT "For IC a very experimental & f a i r l y enjoyable evening"
This marvellous event on Monday started off vdth poems and song, before getting down
to the main event, "Circles", by Malcolm Pox, including I.C. people, Hornsey peolpe, the
audience, and much help from Dramsoc. Tape loops of electronic Music were on tape recor-
ders alternately playing and recording, surrounding audimce, surrounding gauze, surround-
ing girl, and gradually removing her immediate surroundings. The audience noise gradually
became superimposed on the taped music, and thus the music became the audience1
s reaction
to i t - a true case of audience participation. Tape recorders and amplifiers weren't
quite matched until the end, when the audience clapping and cheering was taped and replayed
indefinitely, leaving the ajidience to make its own ending. ( Nick de Klerk ).
FINANCE a SCANDAL AT COUNCIL
A 5 hour council meeting on Monday managed to get through a large amount of business,
but many of the pressing and important measures were insufficiently discussed.
Finance caised a few storms. Pactions in the sub-committee investigating the Presi-
dent' s Dinner and Dance had submitted two conflicting reports. Nevertheless, Council voted
away £ 400 without any discission,,and accepted tru? majority report, which maintains the
status quo. It was also revealed that a boat costing £ 3050 lias been ordered by the Student
Finance Committee- a non democratically elected body. - without a Council decision. Of this
amount, £ 2100 i s a loan from the college,, repayable over 7 years or sooner. There was some
bitterness over this large expenditure arid loan being presented as a fait accompli, while
Council is left to haggle over a few pounds for the welfare committee.
Other important issues arising were the discipline impasse ..in JURGO, and the selection
of ttudents to be .interviewed by Parliamentary Sub-Committee"C* There was also seme discussion
on the future of the colour T.V. in the Union., which id under-used, and has broken dam 8
times this year. The possibility of putting in Southaide is to be investigated* After the
Rugby Club Dinner, the anti theft frame-was snashed when members of the club kicked the set
out of the frame ; the club members are-to be asked to. make good the damage.-
A. letter will be sent to various members of Brent Council protesting about their cut
off of Mature student grants and dependants llowance for those who get married after the
start of their course. The Rector is seeking student opinions, coiacerning,._the futura devel-
opement of the college. New curtains will be bought .for the Concert Hall, at a cost, of £370
and £ 10 has been given for alarms for Mike*.. Miss Basden, the Bookstall Manageress, has
been made an honorary life member of ICU, Jeff Steer is investigating the possibility of
hiring..a.-Juke Box for somewhere in Southsids.
LATE NEWS: Due to a last minute rush of applicants for student houses, the final
number of direct applications is 130. Also Wardens have now been chosen; they are: Bob
Mackraan ( for the mixed house) , Boyd Gunnell, and Nick Brown. ( A.J.IC.)
JEZ GOES TO BRIGHTON ( OFFICIALLY )
At 6. an ( i ) on Sunday last an .intrepid band of sleep-walkers-arrived at the R.C.S,
Motor Club garage in .preparation for the annual London to Brighton Run. firv Commercial
vehicles. Arriving at Battersea at 7,15 and setting off for Brighton at 7.45, the. only
mishap was when we ran out of petrol in London. This was soon remedied by a. trot down the
road with two gallon cans..
The run down was pleasant, and the weather at Brighton was. a31 Sunshine. Prizes for
oonoourse were awarded as usual but this year only the winner of our class ( E7 ) was
given a prize. The. return -was a great non-event, with only a pause for liberation of
the crew. ( JJick Holmes ) .
About 15 IC Students joined 20,000 workers in the sunshine at lower H i l l at 10.15 on
May 1st. The march - holding up traffic - and. making the inevitable Zeig Heil problems
outside the newspaper offices in Fleet "Street - which did not contain any printing, workers,
as these were. all. on the march. It wended its way to Lincoln Inn Fields, where there was
a meeting before workers left for the House of Commons to join the lobby against the
proposed anti-union, .laws.
FELICITY: Published, by -the -Editor on-Behalf of I.C.U. Publications Board.
Editor : Tony Kirkham. With Les Ebdon, Da e Wield, and Caroline.

