5
ISSUE 1720
NEWS
FELIX
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY, 10TH
MAY, 2019 FELIX
NEWS news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Dear Prof. Buitendijk,
We represent members of the student and staff body at Imperial and we are concerned about your engagement with transphobic material and social
media accounts. Specifically, we are writing to you about your previous following of Transgender Trend (@Transgendertrd) and others on Twitter and
your engagement with some tweets which claim that provision of life-saving support and healthcare for trans children and teenagers is tantamount to
abuse. Over the last month we have been communicating with you about our concerns, and are reassured that you have heard them and that the College
is taking them seriously.
For trans students and staff within the Imperial College community these issues are important to address with immense care, as it impacts their ability
to be open at work without fear of harassment, bullying, and harm.
In recognition of these challenges, the College Policy is significantly in support of trans individuals and makes the pledge“The College believes that,
as a leading institution, it will benefit from employing trans people at all levels of responsibility, thus providing role models for staff and students who
identify as trans.”Furthermore, the policy continues to state that there is a“Public Sector Equality Duty”which“gives public bodies legal responsibilities
to take proactive measures to address equality.”As a senior figure within the college, it is likely that members of the college will look up to you and see
you as a role model, and therefore to be in line with this policy it is important that you aim to act as an ally for the trans community.
We urge you to recognise that many members of the Imperial College community have deeply personal experiences with their gender. For many
students, university presents the first opportunity for them to be themselves. The 2016 APS Climate in Physics Report addressed the impact on trans
researchersandfound“30%oftransindividuals[...]characterizedtheoverallclimateoftheirdepartmentordivisionasuncomfortableorveryuncomfortable.”
and for trans individuals 60% had observed and 50% had experienced exclusionary behaviour.We must work to create an inclusive community for all our
members, understanding the difficulties they face.
We understand you have unfollowed these accounts and appreciate the words of support you have expressed in meetings. We urge you and the
college to publicly respond to the large number of students who have expressed concern over this issue and commit to further supporting the trans
community at Imperial College.
We object to groups like Transgender Trend because their conception of equality excludes the most marginalised. We hope that as a member of the
College community you can continue to work with members of the LGBT+ community and their allies within college to support trans-inclusive feminism.
Yours,
Josef Willsher
STATEMENT IN RESPONSE TO LETTER
Prof Simone Buitendijk and Prof Stephen Curry have confirmed their full support for trans students and staff and their commitment to working
together and maintaining an open dialogue on these issues. This follows productive discussions between Prof Buitendijk, Prof Curry and representatives
of the student and staff LGBT+ community. The meeting came after concerns were raised by students and staff about some social media accounts that
Prof Buitendijk was following and some engagement with these accounts.
Professor Buitendijk said:“Although I support the freedom of academics to follow and engage in debate in all areas, including on social media, on this
occasion I now realise that social media is not the correct forum for such sensitive debates. I have elected to stop all engagement with these accounts
and apologise for hurt or anxiety caused to members of our community. I fully support all trans staff and students and I hope that the open and honest
discussion we have had can lead to improved collaboration to ensure a sense of safety and belonging for all trans students at Imperial.”
Professor Curry, Assistant Provost (Equality, Diversity & Inclusion), said:“I am determined to help create a diverse and inclusive environment at Imperial
where all staff and students feel free to be themselves and all members of our community are free to express their views. We must uphold both the
individual rights of all our members of our community and also the importance of universities remaining places of open and respectful debate. I was
pleased that members of the LGBT+ community felt able to raise their concerns; the ensuing discussion was very constructive and provided a valuable
reminder of the need to be mindful of the power dynamics in any form of public discourse.”
Imperial College London is committed to equality and diversity, including the active support and inclusion of trans people in our community. We are
pleased that a significant body of students has expressed support for the trans community in response to this issue.
One of the offending tweets in question // Twitter: @SEBuitendijk
NEWS
(cont.)
Following this, Josef
engaged academics and
staff in the Physics LGBT
Representation Network
and, with the support
of academics, staff and
other co-signatories,
started writing the letter
addressing their collective
concerns to Professor
Buitendijk.
“There's
a pattern
of lots of
accounts, lots
of likes, lots of
engagement
with things
that we
consider
transphobic”
Professor Buitendijk
has since apologised,
deleted the offending
tweets and unfollowed the
accounts in question.
The issue was particu-
larly sensitive because
many of the posts with
which Professor Bui-
tendijk had engaged were
TERF-related. TERF,
or Trans Exclusionary
Radical Feminist, is a
category of feminism
which "seeks to exclude
trans women". Josef
explained to Felix: "Lots
of trans women we've
spoken to about this
are very aware of how
damaging that sort of
rhetoric can be. It's a
really harmful debate to
be having and unfortu-
nately it's dominated the
public discussion about
trans rights in the UK."
In addition to the
Physics LGBT Rep-
resentation Network,
many of the letter's
co-signatories are from
Imperial 600, the Col-
lege's LGBTQ+ network
for staff and postgraduate
students, IQ, Imperial's
LGBTQ+ society, as well
as Imperial's political so-
cieties, including Labour
Society and Left Forum.
Early drafts of the letter
were leaked to College
Management and an
initial meeting was held
on 16th
April between
Professor Buitendijk,
Professor Stephen Curry
[Imperial's Vice Provost
(Equality, Diversity and
Inclusion)] and those who
had expressed concern.
This meeting has been
described by some as
"very political". Although
debate on campus is to be
supported, Josef shared,
"we were trying to explain
to them how LGBT people
and trans people are very
sensitive to this cry for
both sides because both
sides means supporting
and also condemning your
actual identity". There
has since been another
meeting, held on 29th
April, and both College
and those concerned have
agreed a suitable resolu-
tion to the issue.
“Professor
Buitendijk
has since
apologised,
deleted the
offending
tweets and
unfollowed
the accounts in
question”
Felix approached
Professor Buitendijk for
a response to staff and
students' calls for her
to distance herself from
the offending tweets and
re-confirm her commit-
ment to inclusivity and
diversity, to which she
replied: "Yes, I want to
do that. The last thing I
want is to cause anxiety
or harm. That is, of
course, absolutely not my
intention. I've apologised
about any potential or real
harm and anxiety that I've
caused and I really under-
stand now, much better
than before, the dangers of
having these kind of very
complicated exchanges
of opinions of Twitter.
I've totally taken a step
back from all of that and
we're hoping that we can
continue the conversation
and work with Imperial
600 to make sure that we
do right. I'm hoping that
we can use this as a good
way of mobing forward.
I'm hoping we can do
something together so
“Simone
represents
College
Management
and College
Management
has an
obligation to
protect trans
people”
we're not seen as being at
odds with eachother."
The staff and students'
letter to Professor Bui-
tendijk and the College's
statement in response can
both be seen overleaf.
“I've
apologised
about any
potential or
real harm and
anxiety that
I've caused”
Josef ended the discus-
sion with Felix by noting:
"Simone represents
College Management and
College Management has
an obligation to protect
trans people and has an
obligation to support
them. Using her public
Twitter account to engage
with tweets and to share
articles... we really didn't
think it's the place to do
that. A respectful debate,
if you want to have that,
means something else."

