NEWSPAP
SMITH: U-TURN?
There is a chance that the Southside Penthouseflatsmay still be
used for student accommodation following a change of heart by
College Secretary John Smith. The Student Residence Commit-
tee will now take a decision on the matter at its next meeting in
May. Mr Smith has also dropped the idea that wardens living in
Southside could be in charge of othc; ; evidences some distance
away.
It seems that pressure on M r
Smith following his controversial
policy statement, reported in
F E L I X last week, has resulted in
him re-thinking his approach to
these issues.
However, the central policies
in the statement are to go ahead.
The post of Managing Surveyor
(Residences) has been created
and additional costs are to be
charged to the residence
accounts.
In the next academic session
the wages of the messengers and
security employees in the Halls,
and the salary of the Managing
Surveyor will be a direct charge
on the residence account. These
potential costs are hoped to be
offset by an increase in vacation
lettings income. However the
future implications of the policy
with regard to the financial
burden on residences is
uncertain, and could result in an
increase in students' rents and
less money being spent on
residences.
College still plans to gu ahead
with the appointment of a staff
'superwarden' to oversee the
Evelyn Gardens residences. It is
felt that this will help the College
maintain a good relationship
with neighbours and provide a
focal point of security and
authority, particularly if the
College acquires additional
houses. There is no intention to
change the status of the student
wardens in Evelyn Gardens.
Also, the meeting heard that a
decision not to renew the lease on
the Gerrard Mansions head
tenancy in the heart of Soho
taken two years ago is to be
reviewed. Following protests by
present residents who consider
the five flats for two offer
perfectly good accommodation
in a unique location the College is
to attempt to renegotiate the
lease.
See page 4 and editorialfor comment.
RCS Beaver aw
L S E M a s c o t Captured
In a dramatic dawn raid on Tuesday morning, R C S U captured LSE's
mascot, five foot tall Bruce the Beaver. Posing as a group of L S E
students meeting for a trip to Edinburgh, the RCS mascoteers entered
the foyer, and distracted the security guard while two members of their
team made their way to the room where Bruce was secreted to kidnap
the mascot. All five foot of Bruce was hastily stuffed into the back of
the getaway car (see photo).
A triumphant Kangela attracted the attention of the police, but the
team were allowed to leave after they had explained their mission.
LSE students union have asked R C S U to make sure Bruce is fed
regularly, and have expressed interested in paying the ransom (100
pints of blood and £50 for Rag).
Bruce was too homesick to comment.
Cuts campaigner Hugh Stiles handing a petition of over 1400
signatures to Peter Brooke MP.
No
Brooke Shields Policy
The parental means test was described as 'illogical' by Peter Brooke
M P , Under Secretary of State for Higher Education whilst speaking in
College yesterday. M r Brooke was addressing a well-attended meeting,
organised by the Conservative Society, on Higher Education.
In his speech he outlined the factors to be considered in the future of
higher education. He claimed the Government was still adhering to
the 'Robbins principle' of access to higher education for all those
suitably qualified regardless of means. The value of the full grant, paid
to those.whose parents' income is below a threshold, had been
maintained last year. But he admitted that those whose parents earned
between £12,000 and £18,000 had had a substantial reduction.
In answering questions after his speech M r Brooke agreed with a
member of the audience who said that the parental means test on
grants was totally unjustifiable. Several searching questions were
asked, including some by members of the academic staff present. M r
Brooke was able to offer sympathy but very little in the way of
practical help. . %
FELIX, February 17, 1984 • • • • • • M H H B H Free.'

