A l l this weekend we are overhauling Jez.
The main work to be done is on the
pump—turn up outside the garage in old
clothes if you want a diploma in advanced fire
engine maintenance.
Also this weekend, after the papers for the
top five posts come down is the production of
the manifesto issue of Broadsheet in the office
on Sunday.
Next Thursday is the Hustings U G M at
1:00pm in Chem L T B . This is important
because you will be electing those people on
Monday week to spend £10,000 of the
Union's money. So, if you are interested in
the survival of R C S U and all its clubs come
along and ask nasty questions to see how
much megalomaniacs know!
Also coming up in the new future is the Rag
Race—see me about what that involves and
the Swimming Gala, which this year we
intend to stuff the others. So, if you are at all
capable of keeping your head above water for
fifteen seconds or more do not waste any time
in chasing down the chief coach—Eric
Darbyshire to persuade him to let you
race—one restriction: you must not be in
Swimming Club!
Finally, I should mention the Rag Week (Pt
2) which is crawling closer and closer. Keep
your eyes open for this one; it's a biggie!
Don't forget: Chem L T B , 1:00pm Thurs
23.
Dave P the VP
Tonight, Friday, we have the event for those
of you who are of a more lazy disposition—
yes a Tap Crawl in the Three Kings, near
West Kensington tube. You sit in a nice warm
pub all evening and work your way from one
end of the bar to the other.
Tomorrow, Sat 18, we are all going to
Cambridge to, amongst other things, sell Rag
Mags. We are leaving from the Guilds Office
at 9:00am.
On Tuesday, 21, there is a U G M so we need
as many people as possible there, ie Mech Eng
220, by 1:00pm.
Don't forget the C C U swimming gala on 1
March. Anyone interested should send their
. names to the Guilds Union Office.
Scout & Guide
Last weekend we went to Silwell Park Scout
Camp Site to 'do our bit': our Service Project
for this year. This year our voluntary work
was to convert an old storehouse to a coffee
bar.
We found tht the club has many potential
interior designers and some good painters
and decorators. We even have several Irish
electricians.
Next weekend (17 Feb) is to the Gower
Penninsula of South Wales, to go climbing,
walking and caving.
Spike
Page l O H H H H H H H B H
Iolanthe—not to be missed!
It is very easy to produce a Gilbert and
Sullivan opera if you are content to let it
conform to the same old formula that has
been used for the last hundred years. The
result is a staid, lacklustre production that
would be dull if it weren't for the brilliance of
Gilbert's words and Sullivan's music.
But from the very start of Opsoc's
production of Iolanthe, it was obvious that
they have not been content to conform.
Their performance is highly original, innova-
tive and has a polished sparkle rarely seen in
amateur companies.
The key to this success is enthusiasm. The
cast obviously enjoy themselves very much;
the male chorus playing upper-class twits
sipping champagne; the female chorus
scantily clad fawning over the male chorus.
All the male principals sang very well—
deserving of particular mention were Richard
Cartmale who sang Tolloller, and Lord
Chancellor Paget for his notoriously difficult
patter song. Amongst the ladies, Jenny
Foster shone as Phyllis.
The choral singing was always good and
well supported by the orchestra. Singers and
orchestra were skilfully conducted by Robin
Fountain.
The performance was marred by two
groups. The audience (who didn't start to
respond to the humour of the show until the
last half hour) and the front of house lighting
crew (whose comments were audible).
In short I recommend Iolanthe un-
reservedly to anyone. The last two perfor-
mances are tonight and tomorrow, 7:30pm in
the Concert Hall, Union Building. Tickets
£1.50 (students). _^ . .
David Rowe
OSC
The Overseas Students Committee will be
holding its elections on Thursday 23 Feb. A
nominations list has been put up on the
Union noticeboard in the Union Buidling. All
posts are open for nomination. It is vital that
all overseas students take part in the elections
since the OSC represents the overseas
students at the Union, and looks after their
affairs.
JSoc
Well, there are a number of interesting
speakers appearing here this week, starting
with Ephraim Potash, who will be speaking
tonight at the fortnightly Friday Night Meal
on ' A System of Psychology in Judaism'. (See
'What's On').
Next week is Israel Week at IC and in
honour of this there will be two speakers,
firstly Israel Medad on 21 Feb, who is a
member of the Knesset for the Likud Party;
and on 23 Feb Adele Pevlov, who will be
speaking on 'Everything you ever wanted to
know about Israel but were afraid to ask'
which should be quite revealing and also
informative. These events will both be at
1:15pm in the Union Dining Hall.
For more information contact Laurence
Gergel, Maths 2 or follow the girl wearing
dazzling fluorescent socks—that is I.
Dramsoc
Peter Shaffer is most famous for his play ' A
Man For All Seasons'. Yet he has also written
some of the best, recent British comedy
including 'Black Comedy'. In this play,
Shaffer combines some of the best aspects of
comedy—an element of farce, some witty
one-lines and the ubiquitous homosexual.
Boyfriend and fiance are preparing to meet
her father-in-law for the first time together.
With a flat furnished by furniture borrowed
from his neighbour without his permission
the evening starts faltering—and the lights
fuse. The neighbour returns with hilarious
results. This play is really not to be missed. It
is showing on Wednesday and Thursday,
February 22 and 23 at 8:00pm in the Union
Concert Hall. Entrance £1, on the door.
Debsoc
This Tuesday at 1:00pm in the Union SCR (1st
floor of the Union Building), we are holding a
debate on a religious theme. The Christian
societies have a large number of members so
we are providing an opportunity for believers
and atheists to argue the point. The full
motion is 'This House Believes that there is
enough evidence for thinking man to believe
that God exists'. Everyone is welcome,
whatever your opinion.
UROP
Jazz
If you wish to get involved in the U R O P
scheme then you should get hold of the
U R O P Directory, which is available from
your department, or Prof J C Anderson,
EE714. It lists the names of staff offering to
take U R O P students and describes their
iesearch.
Up to date information of programmes is
included in the small ads each week and next
week more details will be given of the scheme.
The Jazz Club is back!! Can you sing or play
an instrument or compose? Do you want to
form any sort of group. If the answer to either
of these questions is 'yes' then get in touch
with me (Peter Snowdon, Physics 1) or Neil
Buchingham, Chem Eng 2, or leave your
name and department and instrument(s)
played on the list provided in the Union
Office. If you are already in a group but need
somewhere to practice, joining the Jazz Club
would allow you to use the Jazz Room and
S C A B P A .
Friday, February 17, 19841 \ FELIX

