Lots of reports this week, most of them
conforming to the guideline and amusing.
(Well, sort of anyway.) So the wankers who
wrote that pathetic letter can PISS OFF.
No articles have yet been chucked into the
bin as I don't agree with that bit of the
guideline. One or two clubs have winged about
their articles being cut. They might like to
notice that their reports have gone in and
badminton reports haven't recently.
The A CC meeting is on Tuesday 21 February
at 5:45pm in the Lower Refectory.
Thinks 'what the hell's the point in writing a
longish report when good of Sports Ed will
chop it?' Space for hilarious Sports Ed
comment: ( -Sports Ed)
So here it is.
Dear Felixmyicecreamilllickhis
B R C potentially excellent stop Burks only
bring three good players stop IC drafts in yet
more yanks to boast team stop even scoring
till juice time stop 39-48 up stop start second
burst away stop 7 mins 26 up stop blow it
when those (of us) who've been pulling bench
splinters out of arses get a go stop Arnest
decline stop near ton stop Robert Jones 30
stop (American star) stop El big return match
vs Q M C last Wednesday stop full stop stop
Unstop where the bending moments are all
the British players anyway? Stop really full
stop stop .
Luv n Dunks Super Splintered Hog
(er...don't sports matches very occasionally
have things called results attached to the end of
them?-Sports'Ed)
London 1 Lesser Universities 0
Last weekend at Crystal Palace, in the British
U n i v e r s i t i e s c o m p e t i t i o n s , L o n d o n
convincingly crushed all 'opposition', ending
with a 4-0 victory against Manchester in the
final. A particularly impressive performance
was given by our own Mark Smith, who won
all his contests, and picked up 30 points
towards his black belt into the bargain. This
leaves him with only 1 more point to get!
Perhaps the best performance of the
weekend was that of Tim Binding, in the
individual competition. He beat many
opponents, most of whom were graded higher
than he was (including several black belts)
and it took a British young international to
rob him of gold.
In the area competition, it took the might
of Scotland, a sprained shoulder, a fractured
fibular and a dubious referee's decision to
stop London taking the double.
On the whole, an impressive weekend's
Judo.
Coarse Rugby
Willis Jackson 26 Southwell 0
The date: Sunday 29 Feb. The place:
Harlington. Thirty students, mostly still
suffering from Saturday night, take the field.
They are watched by a crowd estimated at
almost twelve. A n hour and a half later they
collapse on the ground, looking considerably
worse for wear and gasping for cigarettes.
What passed inbetween is less easy to
describe.
Willis Jackson, fielding a substantially
more experienced side, started as favourites,
and this was reflected in the final score. They
had much more possession, and dominated
more of the forward play, particularly in the
scrums. Southwell, however, were probably
the fitter side and were unlucky not to score
several times as they wree always dangerous
on the beak. The Southewll forwards are
rucked well, and their strong front now
( managed to disrupt the otherwise dominant
Willy-J scrummaging on a couple of
occasions, causing problems for one
inexperienced prop.
Both sets of backs put together some
promising moves, more of which could have
resulted in tries, but for a lack of match
practice.
Consistent Willis Jackson pressure paid
off, however, and five tries were run in, three
of which were converted. Try-scorers were
Ian Pennington (2), Lee Morton (2), and
Mark Turnbull.
Speculation is now rising as to who Willis
Jackson are to play next: Holbein? IC 1 st XV?
London Scottish? France? (At the time of
writing most of the side are in Paris to arrange
the game. The rest of us are waiting for our
invitations to tour with the British Lions.)
To finish, I should like to pass on our
thanks to Southwell House for a very hard,
clean and sporting match.
H y d e P a r k Relay
2:30pm Rotten Row
Saturday 25 February
Sponsoed by Nike International Ltd
Just, after the war Cross Country Club held
its first middle distance relay in Hyde Park.
Today the 6 x 3 mile course around the
Serpentine forms the most prestigious
student relay event in the country with all the
top athletic universities and colleges
competing. Dave Moorcroft Sebastian Coe
and Hugh Jones have all competed in past
years and have all held the course record in
their time. (Current record: Hugh Jones
13:06). This year the man to look out for is
undoubtedly Steve Harris from Borough Rd
who has already earned himself an
international vest at 5000m. So if you want to
see some talent (over 40 womens teams) and
over lOOmen's teams (ladies) be there next
Saturday.
Nigel Fenwick
Organiser
Inter-Residence Football Cup
A n Inter-Residence football knock-out cup
has been organised. Sixteen teams
representing nearly all of Imperial's halls of
residence and students' houses entered the
cup and although some teams had some
difficulties in getting 11 players on the pitch
and others in getting a pitch once they had the
players because of the bad weather the first
round matches were completed on Sunday 12
Feb.
All matches were played in friendly
atmosphere and the results are given below.
Doug with the quarter-finals draw.
We hope that the final will be played early
in the summer term and that this competition
will become an annual event as it is evident
that all participating teams are enjoying
themselves so far.
Ron Wiggins & Christos Christou
Organisers
All the matches in the first round of the
knock out cup have now been played and the
results are as follows:
Garden Hall 3 Linstead 2nd X I 4
Selkirk Hall B Y E
Tizard Hall B Y E
Hamlet Gdns 1st X I 7 Southwell Hse 1
Willis Jackson 6 Hamlet Gdns 2nd X I 0
Linstead 1st X I 7 Beit Hall 1
Fremantle Hotel 5 Mining House 9
Falmouth/Keogh 3 Holbein Hse 1
The draw for the quarter final is:
Selkirk vs Linstead 2nd X I
Tizard vs Hamlet Gdns 1st X I
Willis Jackson vs Linstead 1st X I
Mining Hse vs Falmouth/Keogh
Matches to be played by Sun 4 March.
Good luck.
Ron Wiggins
Pretty quiet week. Team 1 didn't play. Team 3
won again. Team 4 almost played (one of
them did) and I don't know about Team 5.
Seriously, the only reportable game was
Team 3's. They played at 1 Mech E and beat
them, despite Geoff Parsons turning up late
(for valid reasons) and having to play all his
games in a row. The recent league table shows
that the present run of wins has put team 3
second in Division 4.
Team 4 should have played but since only
one team member turned up (sorry Steve)
there is nothing to report.
PS: What are these guidelines everybody's
raving about?
Page 12 Friday, February 17, 1984 FELIX

