Badminton reports return at last after two
weeks of me leaving them out in fairness to
other clubs. What a hero. A lot of things have
happened since then. Our Knockout Cup
team trampled all over Q E C and are now in
the final against Kings.
Mens 1 need to win all their remaining
matches to win the league as do Mens 2 and
Mens 3. This should be no great task,
however.
The Ladies are destined to finish near the
bottom of their league, despite having the
strongest team on paper. The trouble is it's
totally impossible to get them in the same
place at the same time unless the place sells
alcohol.
Mixed 1 have lost twice to K^igs, but
should finish second and might win if Kings
slip up.
Mixed 2 had to beat Kings and Guys to wit
the league. Guys chickened out of playing us,
but Kings beat our out of form team 5-4. We
should finish second in the league barring the
unlikely possibility of us not beating R H C 9-0
in our final game.
IC2nds 0 Loughborough 2nds 9
After last year's comprehensive 9-0 victory
over Loughborough the IC team were pretty
confident about this return crunch game.
It wasn't long before the lack of
organisation became apparent only five out
of our six players were present so Christian
and John Sierrs went to get Sean Weir out of
bed.
There's no need for any real comments on
the game itself as I think the score is a fair
indication of the incompetence shown by the
IC team. One thing to note is that at least
John, Pete, Sean and myself managed to keep
o u r h o r r i f i c p e r f o r m a n c e s a n d
embarrassment confined to the grounds of
IC. Mike Shepherd saw fit to book a court on
Hyde Parkand partnered by Mark McBridge
managed to give disappointing (although
that's not really the word I'm looking for)
performances to the whole of central
London.
The only satisfaction gained out of this
game was the thought that the
Loughborough team must have been up at
8:00am on a Sunday morning to be here for
11:30.
If you think you can do better and have the
qualifications required to be in the IC 2nd
team ie you can recognise a racket (but don't
necessarily know which end to hold) then
your presence would Jje welcomed on a
Wednesday afternoon at l':00pm on Linstead
tennis courts.
My apologies to Christian for mentioning
his name in this report as he played no part in
this pathetic performance, he and the first
team should have been playing up at
Loughborough but that's another story.
FELixWmmMMnWmmumwMMwmmmm
Cup Semi-Final IC III 2 U C IV 1
—Now U C them, then you stuff them!
The combined delights of a good pitch, a fair
ref and the welcome return of Anton Milner
inspired IC to cup victory at Colliers Wood
on Saturday.
Understandably, nerves dominated the
first hectic twenty minutes during which U C
were unlucky not to score as Paul Simpson
lived up to his reputation as the most
improved keeper in IC with several
spectacular saves.
However, having cleverly allowed U C to
run themselves stupid and get depressive
about their finishing, the IC midfield machine
of Snedker, Milner, Wadsworth and
Whitehead then began to get to grips with the
game. Shortly after the break IC finally
unlocked the U C defence with their secret
weapon. Captain Chris Gordon stormed up
~ *W from his usual sedentary position in
cci:.>al t.wfcnce, exchanged a 'one-two' with
Milner and iasJ on the chance for Dave
Wadsworth who converted effortlessly with a
cunningly disguised short (miskick).
An intense period of IC pressure followed,
during which Torsten's goal was disallowed.
The pressure finally paid off when Steve
Coussens, about to squander his second good
chance of the game had the ball clumsily
handballed away from him. Tension
mounted again but Anton, cool as a
cucumber, aimed his penalty low, hard, left
and scored in the top right-hand corner.
Further conversational structuralism from
Mark within earshot of the ref all but earned
him his second booking of the week but
further drama ensued as both Wadsworth
(scythed) and Milner (seizing up with old age)
became substitution candidates.
Substitute Horse in fact came on three
minutes into injury time and saw U C score
the obligatory consolation goal. In the
absence of a team list I would like to praise
the solid defensive work of Bryce
Goldsbrough, Dave Kellend, John Barden
and also Dave Keene who came along to
watch and ended up running the line.
PS: I'm sorry the report's a bit vague but I
was still pissed when I wrote it.
-Flash
IC ran onto the pitch full of energy and will to
win, but after realising how big the
opposition was, they soon realised that a
difficult match was ahead. Sidcup had a well
drilled pack of forewards (most about 16
stones) and in the first half, breaks by their
backs led to two tries. Although the game was
played in a friendly atmosphere the second
half saw the departure of four players due to
injury (two persons each side), but although
they never looked like overhauling the
opposition IC remained persistent and after
some good work in the forewards followed by
some penetrating running in the backs, they
were unlucky not to salvage some points from
the game.
After the match, due to Capital buses
keeping up their usual standards IC had to
leave just as the opposition were buying them
a jug, so James Rymer was left to polish it off
on his own—hope you enjoyed it James.
- IC 660 Kings 703
Once upon a time there were 4 IC pistol
shooters were ventured up to Oxford with 4
Kings' pistol shooters. Their aims? To destroy
the wicked Oxford University team (for a
second time).
But behold there was a new member on the
'. Oxford team. A wicked witch, who wore a
short leather dress and fish net tights. She cast
a spell over most of the London team (the
male part). We were powerless, and lost (by
13 points).
Once upon another time (Wed 8) 4 I t
pistol shooters battled with 4 Kings pistol
shooters at IC's range. Careful pre-match
analysis and strategy suggested a close
contest. It wasn't. We were wiped.
Our star shooter (from Physics 3) shot like
a Wally. We now believe the Kings team must
have nobbled him (ar d the rest of our team
for that matter!).
Top score from 1C was by Miss N J
Hallows, the rest of the team wish to remain
anonymous.
Friday, February 17, 19841 \ Page 13

