Jitorial
Residences
As a result of pressure from the Students Union, College Secretary
John Smith is holding an open meeting next Thursday in the Read
Lecture Theatre, Sherfield, next week to explain College's reason
for implementing the policy on The Management of Student Resi-
dences. The policy document is the end result of the Report on
Student Residence at the College by John Lauwerys, published last
year. At the moment student residences receive an effective subsidy
from central College funds. The residence account does not have to
bear the cost of external maintenance, redecoration, the messenger
system and administrative costs. The aim of the policy is to identify
these costs and shift them to the residence account. The College
hope the residence account can bear the burden of these costs
through the Summer Lettings Scheme when residences are let out to
tourists during the summer. The tourist trade can fluctuate and if
these costs cannot be met over the summer its going to mean large
rent increases for students well above the annual grant increase or a
drastic reduction in services and the maintenance of residences.
The need for efficiency is clear, however the proposals are I feel a
false economy. Accommodation is one of the prime factors a pros-
pective student considers when he decides which university to come
to. The more talented students are usually able to pick and choose
which university they go to. Imperial College is certainly going to lose
out if students see that it offers the most expensive and inadequate
accomodation around.
The importance of the meeting on Thursday cannot be over
emphasised. It is not about porn, or Nicaragua, it is about an issue
which affects you directly—the place you iive in and the rent you pay
for it. It is essential that students make their opinions felt in an
attempt to effect some change in the policy.
Elections
If election candidates want publicity in time for papers down (next
Friday 5:30pm), camera-ready artwork must be submitted to the
FELIX Office by Tuesday 10:00am. (This means any phototype-
setting required must be submitted today.) Elections committee
have decided that printing of all publicity is restricted to the FELIX
Office and the Union Office (for Gestetners). This means no badges,
photocopying, dyelines etc. I understand that a candidate has
appealed against the decision and Elections Committee are meeting
today to review that policy.
Credits
Lynne James, Jon Jones, David Jones, Hugh Southey, Tony Joyce,
J Martin Taylor, Tim Noyce, David Rowe, Peter Rodgers, Michael
Newman, John Scott, Diane Love, Jon Burgess, Pete Hobbis, Matt
Fawcett, Ulysses, Juvenal, the Sherfield Mole, Tony Atkins, Guy
Riddihough, Dave Parry, Nick Thexton, Pete Coleman, Mike Smith,
Hugh Styles, Robin Graham, Jen Hardy-Smith, Maz and Pete.
Pallab Ghosh
In response to several requests, this week's puzzle is
a chess one for which I am once more indebted to
Anatoly. It is not so difficult that only chess experts
can solve it, so even if you don't know too much
about chess, you may still be able to work it out.
The problem is for White to move and win.
G o o d luck, everyone.
Solutions, criticisms, comments to me at the
FELIX Office by 1:00pm on Wednesday please. £5
from Mend-a-Bike for the randomly selected winner.
Last week's solution
This was fairly easy. If you write out all the possible
combinations, you will find that there are nine,
knowing that Alan took at least one shield. With each
statement you can eliminate combinations, eg you
can eliminate the combination '1,4,5,6' after Barry's
first statement, because it is the only combinatin
where he takes four. If you repeat this process for the
whole conversation, only two combinations remain
after Barry's second statement, namely 1, 3,5, 7 and
1, 3, 4, 8. Since you are given that Chris took two
more shields than Barry, the only combination
which satisfies is therefore 1, 3, 5, 7.
Of twenty correct solutions, Chris Dunn of Maths
1 was the randomly selected winner and can collect
his £5 cheque courtesy of Mend-a-Bike from the
FELIX Office after 1:30pm on Monday.
Many thanks to whoever it was who dropped a
crossword into my box during the week. Could they
please give me a name or pseudonym sometime.
Thanks also to Sharpshooter for the football puzzle
as well; I'd be grateful if s/he could get in touch
again.
FELIX is published by the Editor for and on behalf of Imperial College Union Publications Board, and is printed by the Union Print Unit, Prince ConsortRd, SWJ
Tel 01-589 5111 extn 1048 or internal 2881. Editor: Pallab K Ghosh; Business Manager:PeterRodgers;AdvertisingManager:HughSoutheyCopi>rightFEUX 1984

