Reviews
S C A R F A C I E
Scarface (Empire, Leicester Sq) is one of
those rare films that will attract both film
buffs and the average punter. It is similar to
the original 1930's Scarface. but now
concerns drug-deaiers in sunny Florida and
not the molls and gangsters like Al Capone of
gloomy Chicago. On the surface the film tells
the traditional story of the rise and fall of a
man blasting his way into his share of the
American Dream. Beneath, however, there
is a subtle examination of the mobster's
personality and the society that permits his
type to flourish.
The prevailing mood of Scarface is
cynicism. Everyone is out for themselves, as
President Carter grins inanely on. In 1979
Castro released many of the worst criminals
in his jails and mixed them up with the
125,000 Cuban refugees then being allowed
by a liberal US regime to sail to Florida and
join their relatives. Tony Montana (Al
Pacino) is one of these criminals. He is soon
involved in drug-trafficing, proving his worth
in a horrific scene when he and his best friend
are captured by a rival gang. Montana
refuses to reveal where his consignment of
cocaine is stored, even as the friend is being
sliced up with a chain saw, like the Sunday
roast.
This scene sets the tone of the film—it is
violent, explicit and apocalyptic in its vision of
a totally corrupt society in which Montana
excels. 'All I have in this life is my balls and my
word, and I don't break them for anyone."
Scarface is extraordinarily violent, but it is
a quality film in its skilful unravelling of
seve al themes in parallel through the plot's
steady progression in extremes. The film
studies the disintegration of a man, and the
motivations beneath his fragile and vicious
personality. Throughout the action Montana
strives for a 'normal' family life. He wants his
mother and sister with him, he wants a wife,
he wants children, in a kind of sentimental
Latino manner reminiscent of 'The
Godfather'. It is this spark of humanity, his
love for children, that is his undoing. It also
destroys his sister, for whom Montana's
FELIXl
incestuous protective love is as pathological
as his need for power and success.
Al Pacino is a small output, high quality
actor, and it shows. He is superb—dynamic
and full of menace. The Cuban-American
dialect is sometimes rather hard to under-
stand and the film is long at 2 j 4 hours, but
Scarface is still the best film I've seen in a long
time. The seats at the Empire are excellent
and in 120mm the final orgy of destruction
and Montana's spectacular downfall leave
you stunned. When you finally stagger out
into the grey daylight of Leicester Square, the
machine gun fire still ringing in your ears,
reality can seem a let-down at first. But then
you feel relieved that real life isn't like
Scarface. At least, not yet.
Star 80 (Warner West End) is worth
seeing for one main reason: Mariel
Hemingway. As her murderer says in one of
his first lines: 'She is beautiful.' It was love at
first sight for me. Unfortunately I can't say
the same about the film.
Dorothy Stratten. Playboy's Playmate of
the Year 1980, was murdered-by her insanely
possessive husband. The plot is based on
their story, and is reasonably attractive, with
a variation on the theme of Hollywood Sex-
Symbol destroyed by the 'Tinsel Town'.
Dorothy is 'discovered' by a seedy
character called Paul. At first she is incredibly
naive, but she learns to cope with all the
pressures of the glamour world and becomes
an actress. Paul is terrified of being left
behind, and remaining the loser he was
before he met Dorothy. He persuades
Dorothy to marry him, when she doesn't
know any better. 'The guy has the
personality of a pimp,' advises Dorothy's
father figure Playboy boss. 'Get rid of him.'
'But he's changed those awful clothes he
used to wear!' cries Dorothy. 'He dresses
smartly now!'
Star 80 is spoilt by its documentary format
(similar to that in Zelig). We are told from the
first that Dorothy has been murdered and
that her husband did it. The interest
therefore focuses on why he did it. Then
Friday. February 17, 1984MMWMM
throughout the plot are splattered a series of
'interviews' with people who knew
Dorothy—these invariably reveal what is
going to happen next. The whole film
therefore becomes just a case-study,
crippled by interruptions for talk and
analysis. It lacks emotional punch or many
moments of tension, because for long
periods your concern for the fate of the
characters isn't stimulated, whatever else is
stimulated by all the naked flesh spread
liberally throughout the film to get the '18'
rating. If we could have followed the slow
cracking-up of Dorothy's husband by stick-
ing to the skill of actor, as in Scarface and
leaving out the analysis, this film might have
been good. 1 suspect Star 80's main
attraction, like Cat People with Natassia
Kinski, will be Mariel Hemingway, who looks
good and acts well. The film itself was a
shambles.
Lianna (Screen on the Hill; Screen,
Baker St) is another rare film—one that
strikes a balance between the ghetto of'gay'
cinema (whose supporters are often as
limited and prejudiced ?s those they
complain about) and the superficial sex-
ploiting Hollywood efforts like Personal Best
that merely titillate and pretend to be daring.
Lianna is partly about the development of a
lesbian relationship and the various res-
ponses of one woman's friends, husband and
children. More importantly, it is about self-
discovery. Lianna is a 'normal' housewife,
baring for her self-satisfied husband and her
children, living in a day-to-day dream. Her
affair with Ruth destroys all this, and Lianna
has to learn to face up to herself and cope
with being alone, no longer emotionally
paralysed and dependent on her family. Gay
cinema would move into slogans and
pretentious philosophies, but the director
John Sayles keeps the story in real life.
Lianna has a hard time of it, but she copes.
The film is attractive because of its calmness
and the feeling it puts over that this sort of
thing could happen to any of us, that is, how
people respond to drastic changes in their
lives; without self-pity and a surprising
amount of humour. T Al_, .
Tony Afkms
wmmm
Mariel Hemingway
Page 9

