SCIENCE
FELIX
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Science Editors: Katya-yani Vyas
Kelly Oakes, Charlie Harvey
Get there faster. Start here.
Oliver Wyman is a leading global management consultancy.
Visit us at oliverwyman.com.
Oliver Wyman is a leading global management consultancy. We combine deep industry knowledge with specialised
expertise in strategy, operations, risk management, organisational transformation and leadership development.
Oliver Wyman is looking for talented Imperial penultimate year students to join our industry-leading
Summer Internship Program
Real-life client projects including opportunities for international travel
!
Dedicated development program including orientation week, business training, mentorship and career advice
!
from senior consultants
... And the possibility to join our friendly and entrepreneurial team full time after university
!
Application deadline: 30th
January 2011
To find out more or apply online, visit us at www.oliverwyman.com/careers
Backing the future of Parkinson’s research
Thea Cunningham
Imperial College is set to become a re-
search centre in a major new study into
Parkinson’s disease, led by Hollywood
star Michael J Fox.
The research, co-ordinated and part-
funded by the Michael J Fox Foundation
for Parkinson’s Research, will recruit
patients in the earliest stages of the dis-
ease in a bid to boost our understanding
of how it progresses over time.
Scientists intend to use samples taken
from 400 patients from five research
centres in Europe, including ones in Ita-
ly, Germany and Austria, as well as from
14 hospitals in the United States.
Parkinson’s disease is a neurologi-
cal condition that affects about 120,000
people in the UK.
It is caused by a loss of nerve cells
in the brain that produce dopamine, a
chemical messenger important for co-
ordinating movement. As a result, suf-
ferers often experience slow movement, No, no, no. Denim with a gilet? You must be mad Michael!
tremors and rigidity.
Scientists do not currently have any
cure for Parkinson’s, nor any definitive
way of measuring how the disease pro-
gresses.
Research suggests drugs already being
used to treat the condition are to some
extent effective at halting its progres-
sion, but more data on the progressive
process is needed, which is why the
study – the first of its kind – will be cru-
cial.
It is hoped the research will produce
biomarkers that will enable doctors to
monitor progress in Parkinson’s suffer-
ers and help assess drug efficiency.
The research centres will follow pa-
tients for 3-5 years, recruiting them
before they begin any treatment. The
patients will undergo brain scans and
have their motor skills analysed. Scien-
tists will also examine samples of their
blood, urine and spinal fluid.
The data will be compared along the
way with that from healthy volunteers
to pinpoint how the condition unfolds
in their bodies and how and why their
nerve cells are dying.
Michael J Fox was diagnosed with
young-onset Parkinson’s disease in
1991, aged just 30. The Back to the Fu-
ture star set up the Michael J Fox Foun-
dation for Parkinson’s Research in 2000,
with the intention of raising awareness
and funding for the disease.
“If there’s one thing I know for sure,
it’s that better treatments aren’t going to
fall from the sky”, said Fox. “Real chal-
lenges stand in the way of the results we
need”.
The study is set to start in the next few
months and the UK site will be led by
David Brooks, Professor of Neurology
here at Imperial.
With one person being told they have
Parkinson’s every hour in the UK, let’s
hope the study will help improve our
understanding of this debilitating dis-
ease and how it progresses as soon as
possible.
10 Friday 21 JANUARY 2011

