TECHNOLOGY
Technology Editors: Samuel Gibbs
Feroz Salam
technology.felix@imperial.ac.uk
With the introduction of the Motorola Atrix
at CES, we saw a modern implementation of
the “One Device to Rule them All” paradigm.
Smartphones have reached a state where they
encompass our phone, media player, casual web
browser and camera, all to a level that is more
than acceptable to the average user. The Atrix
takes this to the next level with its laptop dock
accessory, potentially making it our primary
computer on top of everything else.
This contrasts to the way that the majority of
the technology industry seems to be heading.
With Internet speeds and accessibility improv-
ing at such a fast rate this past decade, the con-
cept of “the cloud” has been on everybody’s
lips. Services like Dropbox and Apple’s iDisk,
as well as the idea of home servers, have made
it possible to have several devices all linked
up to one source of data. We see this at Impe-
rial every day. Wherever I am, on whatever
campus, I know I can log in to any computer
and see the same desktop screen I always see.
Moreover, I can VPN in from home and have
access to any file I have stored on their system.
Google are currently the ones spearheading
the cloud concept. With services like Google
Docs and Google Calendar, should anyone
decide to steal all my gadgets, I know that all
that work and all those appointments are safely
stored on our future overlord’s servers. Soon,
we will see this taken to the extreme with
Chrome OS. The principle behind this new
browser-based operating system is that any-
one can log into any machine with an Internet
connection and be taken to their own account.
All of their applications, Internet history, book-
marks, themes, documents, etc, are presented
to them in the same way as their home comput-
er. While this seems like a drastically new ap-
Free App of the Week
iOS - Google Places for iPhone
Google Places lets you search for and rate places to
go, all with the ‘Hotpot’ personal recommendation
engine. Data is a bit out of date, but one to watch.
As with all things Android, integration with the core
apps is easy. Places has been built directly into the
Google Maps app for instant access.
Android - Google Maps with Places
The Motorola Atrix 4G
Versus the Cloud
Chris Fonseka
Facebook was forced to beat a hasty retreat
over the previous week as plans to allow third
party access to user phone numbers and ad-
dresses caused strong concerns among se-
curity experts, even before the feature was
fully rolled out. Less than 72 hours after a blog
post announced the new capabilities, anoth-
er posting was made stating that the capabili-
ties were ‘temporarily on hold’ until required
changes were made to the system.
As a repository of one of the largest collec-
tions of personal information that has ever
existed, Facebook is no stranger to privacy
controversies, with at least one major issue
blighting the company every year. Yet for
a company that prefers to plough through
Facebook in address privacy u-turn
Feroz Salam
proach to how we use computers, in reality it’s
a recycling of ideas. In the days of the main-
frame system, thin clients would connect to a
central computer system for everything, acting
as a simple terminal. Of course this now out-
dated technology relied on wired connections,
but with technologies like 3G making the inter-
net far more accessible everywhere you go, it’s
a concept that is getting increasingly feasible
on the move. Therefore, the idea of a thin cli-
ent connecting to, and pulling all information
from, a server has morphed into what we see in
cloud computing today.
The other approach is lot less of a stretch of
the imagination, at the moment. The technolo-
gy we see every day involves: 32GB of storage
on components the size of a thumbnail, laptops
that are more powerful than 1980s supercom-
puters, and other laptops that are lighter than
the majority of textbooks available at the Cen-
tral Library. CES revealed the future of mobile
devices. One that involves multi-core proces-
sors, super-fast WiFi and 4G Internet connec-
tivity, plus phenomenal graphics performance,
all housed in a pocketable device, which we can
take with us everywhere. The big question is: at
what point does this one small device meet the
universal functional needs of the majority.
These two very different approaches to
how we use computers both come with draw-
backs, but as with all other fields of technol-
ogy, there’s no telling how magical they could
become in the near future. What I really like
about this outlook is the fact that it is us that ul-
timately benefits, regardless of which method
dominates. Whether it’s in your pocket or in the
cloud, all your data will soon be wherever you
want it to be.
its problems by simply refusing to acknowl-
edge that they exist, the quick reaction and
retraction mark a paradigm shift towards PR
friendly policy.
In Facebook’s vision of this mobile-friendly
future, users could use their mobiles to access
up-to-the-minute deals while shopping or eat-
ing out, while shops could benefit from having
direct contact with customers who shop regu-
larly at their stores, instead of having to route
their ads through Facebook.
While an advertiser’s dream tool, such
open access poses a huge number of privacy
concerns. Facebook already suffers from a
sizeable data mining problem as profiteer-
ing devlopers attempt to gain access to user
data under the guise of providing some other
service, and it’s not a stretch to imagine the
trouble this would cause if they were allowed
to reach you at home or at work.
The problem with the Facebook develop-
ment system is the ease by which a developer
can start distributing an application. Face-
book only requires developers confirm their
phone numbers or their credit card details,
after which they can publish any number of
applications. This is different to the system at
Apple, for example, where developers have
their code vetted before it enters the market.
Facebook’s reversal suggests that if they do
launch a revised version, users might be in
much more control of when and where they
may be contacted by developers. Yet it again
brings up the question of whether users under-
stand what they sign up for on the Internet, and
if they do, whether they really care.
FELIX
12 Friday 21 JANUARY 2011

