TECHNOLOGY
I
n November last year the latest in
a seemingly never-ending string
of social networks launched.
‘Path’was hyped as a new way to
socialise online and claimed to be
founded on scientific principles. Its cre-
ators call it ‘a personal network’ where
users can augment existing relationships
instead of replacing them. Uniquely, on
this social network you are limited to
50 friends. So what are these scientific
principles, and what questions does this
new network raise about our ability to
manage our online relationships?
The hope is that, since users are re-
stricted to sharing pictures and videos
with 50 friends, they will be encour-
aged to share more personal moments
with their nearest and dearest, instead of
broadcasting their lives indiscriminately.
Why 50? Path’s creators claim to be
inspired by the anthropologist Profes-
sor Robin Dunbar. In 1992, Dunbar
used data from primates to generate a
number, popularly known as Dunbar’s
number, which predicts the stable social
group size to which humans are cogni-
tively limited. This lies between 100 and
230, but the commonly cited figure is
150. He extrapolated this number from
data showing a strong relationship be-
tween the number of primates in a social
group and the volume of a brain area
called the neocortex.
Dunbar found that personal relation-
ships in these groups expanded approxi-
mately by a factor of 3. “Your personal
real world social network actually con-
sists of a series of circles or layers that
typically number 5, 15, 50, 150, 500,
1500 (with each layer inclusive of the
ones inside it),” Dunbar explains. Path’s
creators limit your online friends to 50,
saying that these are the people who “we
consider to be the most important and
valued people in our lives.”
Social groups are traditionally main-
tained primarily through close physical
contact, but online social networks can
simulate physical proximity with friends
all over the world. Does the virtual world
therefore function differently to the
physical one? Is Dunbar’s number rel-
evant online? Some people believe that
in the age of extreme social connectivity,
Dunbar’s number is increasingly irrel-
evant due to the fact that we can main-
tain some form of relationship with huge
numbers of people. In an influential blog
post, Chris Brogan, businessman and
journalist, outlines how to ‘beat’ Dun-
bar’s number and maintain huge social
networks through extreme organisation.
However, Dunbar argues that, in real-
ity, this is not possible. “Network size
in the virtual world seems to mirror
network size in the real world, both ac-
cording to our data and that of others.
Facebook did a complete analysis of
the [average] number of friends [people
had] in their entire database in February
2010, and the average was 120-130.”
“There is a question as to what limits
network size in the real world -- time,
memory or (emotional) cognition,”
Dunbar explains, “If it is time or mem-
ory (i.e. keeping track of what people
have done), then digital media should
solve that and allow us to increase net-
work size. There seems to be no evi-
dence that the electronic world actually
does allow us to increase network size,
suggesting that the constraint is some-
thing to do with the kind of interaction
or emotional cognition.”
What is this emotional restraint, and
why is it related to the size of your brain?
“I wish we knew!” says Dunbar “It is
clearly something to do with the capac-
ity to process relationships. In part, this
is a time problem, because you have to
invest time in a relationship to make it
work at a certain level of quality.”
“But there is a cognitive constraint
too. We have recently shown that the
size of your social network correlates
both your competences
on metalizing skills
(the ability to under-
stand what others are
thinking) and the size
of core areas of the
brain involved in
metalizing com-
petences. So this
looks like a processing
capacity constraint.”
Although we do not
fully understand why,
it seems that the fun-
damental wiring of our
brains prohibits us from
increasing our social
network size. Why do we have so many
online friends if we cannot cognitively
facilitate everyone? “150 isn’t the limit
on the number of people you can know,
just on the number you can have a per-
sonalised relationship with,” Dunbar ex-
plains. “The [other people you know] are
people you recognise, but the quality of
relationships is different and impersonal.
1500 is around the limit of the number of
faces you can put names to. You can al-
ways add more friends to your Facebook
page, but this doesn’t make all of them
friends in the true sense. They are more
like voyeurs onto your social world.”
Another of Path’s aims is that, by lim-
iting users to 50 friends, members will
post more personal moments of their
lives. This concept was inspired by the
work of Nobel-winning behavioural
economist Daniel Kahneman.
He studied the nature of mem-
ories and experiences relating
to happiness, quantita-
tively demonstrating
that our percep-
tion of happiness
is often skewed by
what we last experienced
rather than the entire expe-
rience. The creators of
Path are reported to have
heard Kahneman speak
early in 2010, and de-
cided to make their network
one where more personal
memories could be shared.
Does this mean the online relationship
on Path is better quality? As Path is so
new, this remains to be seen. However,
it is worth examining whether online
relationships are of equal value to those
in the physical world. This is relatively
unknown territory, but more research in
this area is taking off. Aleks Krotoski,
a technology journalist and academic,
has extensively researched the social
psychology of online relationships. She
believes that if you want to understand
whether friendships are different online
compared to offline than you need to
get to “the nitty gritty of what defines
friendship, you have to look at the psy-
chological features of closeness.” One
area she examines is trust.
In her PhD thesis, Krotoski studied
people who used Second Life, and ques-
tioned them thoroughly on the issue of
trust. She found a whole spectrum of
different degrees of closeness between
people who didn’t know each other of-
fline, and “that this closeness developed
in the same way as offline friendships
and relationships develop: through shar-
ing, through disclosure, through recip-
rocation of personal information and
through perceptions of similarity.” In
order words, people found new methods
to develop values essential for friend-
ship and have close relationships.
But this doesn’t answer whether on-
line relationships are equivalent to those
An Anti-
Social Path?
Elizabeth Crouch takes a look at the new social network that argues
fewer friends leads to more meaningful relationships
in the physical world. Robin Dunbar has
recently completed studies looking at
how different modes of online social in-
teraction affect relationship quality.
“None of the digital modes yields the
same relationship satisfaction as face-
to-face interaction, with the possible
exception of Skype,” Dunbar explained.
“What seems to be critical, however,
is the amount of laughter you do in the
process. [However], trust is crucial to all
relationships, online or face-to-face, and
is built up through interacting frequently
and by the signals we give off.”
The amount of time we spend online,
and the relationships we establish, is a
controversial topic. Currently, it appears
that our brains are not physically capable
of supporting larger friendship circles
and our social structure appears to be the
same online and offline. However, the
scientific evidence that supports this also
shows that we already only keep in touch
with a core group of friends online and, if
users are proactive, then they can select
who sees their information. It is possible
that Path is simply a more convenient
way to share moments with those who
actually mean something to you.
The important question that remains
unanswered is whether the same value
can be attributed to online friendships as
those in the physical world. Here, Path
will be judged along with all social net-
working sites; none of the scientific prin-
ciples on which it is based will alter that!
FELIX 13
Friday 21 JANUARY 2011
Hamish Muir

