BUSINESS
FELIX
Friday 21 JANUARY 2011
14
Business Editors: Sina Ataherian
Afonso Campos
business.felix@imperial.ac.uk
A
s the sovereign default
crisis in Europe con-
tinues to send tremors
through the global finan-
cial system, the next per-
fect storm in the market may already be
brewing on the other side of theAtlantic.
Meredith Whitney, whose fame is attrib-
uted to her accurate predictions of the
2008 subprime mortgage crisis, issued a
warning in an interview on 60 minutes,
the flagship CBS interview programme,
about municipal bonds.
She warned that the United States was
“facing sizable defaults of municipal
debt on a nationwide scale”. If the pic-
ture is really as grim as she painted it to
be, expect plenty of hand wringing for
investors and governments alike in the
coming weeks and months.
Municipal bonds are a type of debt
security issued by states or counties,
which are used to finance expendi-
tures such as the construction of roads
or schools. Traditionally, they are con-
sidered low risk investments that offer
steady, tax-exempted earnings. Many of
them are bought by individuals from the
high income tax groups for their favour-
able tax implications.
Once considered “risk free” invest-
ments because of trust and implicit guar-
antees that the governments’ backing
provides, municipal bonds have been
facing substantial outflows of capital
since last November. Individual inves-
tors have already withdrawn US $3.1
bn from funds specialising in municipal
bonds.
Yields for bonds issued by local gov-
ernments and similar entities have shot
up, reflecting an increase in perceived
risk for such bonds and the borrowing
costs for the issuers. Some even argued
that states like California are already in
default due to their poor financial health,
which makes it almost impossible for
them to honour their debts.
The Federal Reserve’s quantitative
easing is responsible for this sudden
change in investors’ attitudes. Fearing
that the Fed’s QE2 program could lead
to higher inflation and depress the value
of the dollar, investors began selling
government bonds. This in turn led to a
sharp rise in bond yields in the market
that then affected the municipal bonds.
In addition, there has also been a deluge
of new issuance that flooded the munici-
pal bond market, as cash-strapped states
turn to issuing new debt to raise more
funds.
The brewing problems in municipal
bonds have wider implications than fi-
nancial hardship for American states
and their residents. It calls into question
whether any states or nations are truly
safe from a Greek style crisis. When
discussing the current Eurozone crisis,
analysts seem to have drawn a clear dis-
tinction between the struggling “periph-
eral” economies and more robust ones.
However, no one can say for sure where
the line is drawn for the rest, and when
crossing the line will trigger another cri-
sis in government debt.
Municipal bonds:
The latest bubble?
Lingxi Huang considers the credibility of the latest
concerns being raised about municipal bonds in the US
Read this article
online at
felixonline.co.uk
Snippets
BoE monetary policy criticised
This week several MPs have been adding their voic-
es to the economists who have been warning of un-
controllable inflation for some time now. The Bank
of England (BoE) has been failing in its mandate
of holding inflation rates below 2% for over a year,
as a result of record low interest rates. December
saw especially high price rises, and new figures will
be published in February. After that, BoE governor
Mervyn King will face the British Parliament’s Treas-
ury Committee to justify his policies.
John Thurso, a Liberal Democrat member of the
committee has warned that he is “looking for reas-
surance that we’re not just quietly abandoning the
inflation target.” A Conservative fellow committee
member, Mark Garnier (not of laboritore fame) add-
ed that fuel price inflation in particular is “especially
a problem outside London where people rely on
their cars to move around.”
However, the Government is relying on the current
weakness of Sterling to lower the rate of increase
in the national debt. The fear is that tightening mon-
etary policy may endanger this.
The opposition Labour party has been taking this
position, with one of their Treasury Committee mem-
bers arguing, “the recovery has enough problems
with the spending cuts and growing unemployment.
If the MPC lost its nerve at this moment, I really
think that would be the final straw. We would be in
danger of going back into recession.”
Goldman profits fall, bonuses cut
Goldman Sachs announced this week that its fourth
quarter profits for last year were £1.5 bn, less than
half of the figure for 2009. The poor showing had
been anticipated by the market, resulting in a drop
of only 2.7 per cent in Goldman’s share price on re-
lease of the figures.
The combined profit from all four quarters of 2010
was reported as £5.3 bn, almost 40 per cent lower
than one year ago. Goldman has blamed low client
activity in the fixed income, currencies and commodi-
ties group for the weak performance.
This is confirmed by the fact that the bank made
most of its profits from proprietary trading. This is
where banks use their own money, rather than cli-
ent money, to trade for their own account. The prac-
tice has been made somewhat more difficult as a
result of the major financial regulation Bill that the
US passed last year.
But the bank has still been able to set aside £9.6
bn for its end of year bonus pool, down only 5 per
cent on last year. This represents almost 40 per cent
of its net revenue for 2010, double the amount set
aside for share holder dividends.
The Bank’s Executive Chairman Lloyd Blankfein re-
mained optimistic, seeing, “signs of growth and
more economic activity” in the near future.
California was the first US state to look insolvent after 2008, largely because of don’t-tax-but-spend-anyway ballot initiatives
“[The United States
is] facing sizable
defaults of municipal
debt on a nationwide
scale”

