FELIX Friday 21 JANUARY 2011 15
BUSINESS
Bank bonuses again rile politicians
It’s that time of the year again: the banks have disclosed the size of their bonus pools
and Patrick O’Driscoll thinks the public needs to know more before judging
Following the financial crisis of
2008, many developed nations like the
UK and France, are facing burgeoning
public debt. Since deficit spending is
largely funded by issuing government
bonds, the exodus of capital from mu-
nicipal bonds foreshadows something
more ominous looming ahead for the
sovereign debt market. The US Trea-
sury bills, long held as the golden
standard in risk against which all other
investment are measured, may suffer
from a similar crisis of confidence,
with disastrous results for the rest of
the world.
So far, any newly issued US bonds
would be snapped up quickly, but if the
appetites of big buyers such as Japan
and China wane, the US government
may have trouble finding investors who
can stomach its national debts. There is
already a real possibility of an US de-
fault, causing the mother of all financial
crises. With its public debt hovering in
the range of 14 trillions, the US is go-
ing to hit its debt ceiling in as early as
March, accordion to the US Treasury
Secretary Timothy Geithner.
If the United States Congress fails
to lift the ceiling, he warned, there is a
threat of an US default. Similarly, the
US may also be forced to renegade on its
obligations should it fail to roll over its
debt. While still a very, very long shot,
it is no longer unimaginable. Moreover,
it is becoming clear that the most likely
scenario under which the US is able to
honour its sovereign debt obligations
will involve continued money printing
and a corresponding depreciation of the
Dollar’s value.
Right now, it might be too early for
a verdict on the solvency of states that
have issued too many municipal bonds.
Some, like Deutsche Bank, say that mu-
nicipal finance stands “on the cusp” of
improvement, citing signs of recovery in
the US economy. Since municipal bonds
are strongly affected by macroeconomic
indicators like GDP and employment
rates, a rebound in performance of mu-
nicipal bonds is likely if economic pros-
pects improve in 2011.
B
usiness theorist Frederick
Winslow Taylor believed
that performance related
pay was the way to en-
courage production and
efficiency. Investment Banks have been
paying bonuses on Wall Street and the
Wharf for decades.
Investment Banks are split into vari-
ous departments: back, middle and front
office. Bonuses are distributed amongst
the entire company’s employees - back
office accounting, legal and technology,
along with the Risk, Product Control,
the middle office coders, and the front
office business teams, research, trad-
ing and sales are all given a generous
bonus each year. The people closest to
the money are given the most generous
bonus.
I once overheard a young lady saying
if she got the same bonus the follow-
ing year she would be able to retire in
the Hamptons. The following March,
the lady of Hampton wishes, was made
redundant along with 40% of the sales
force. Bankers are paid huge wads of
cash because they live on risk, and turn-
over can be high for many roles that
generate this cash. If we are going to
bash bankers, we need to know who we
are bashing and how to bash them!
Is an analyst programmer in the back
office a banker? I would argue not but
maybe he should be aware of what the
work he is doing is contributing to.
Most desks at investment banks these
days are process desk, rarely is there
proprietary trading occurring (where
people invest their own money for the
sake of making money), especially af-
Arizona has sold its landmark Capitol building to help repay its debts
“Deutsche Bank says
thatmunicipalfinance
stands “on the cusp”
of improvement”
ter the Dodd-Frank act tries to deal with
this. It is far from brain surgery, rocket
science or any other intellectually chal-
lenging profession. The commissions
charged would drop if more could offer
the same services. Some hedge fund
managers charge 10% of any return
for the money you invest with them.
Yet according to numerous academic
articles and heuristic arguments they
cannot beat the market.
According to CAPM, a theory in-
vented in 1961 by academics and an old
equation, a stock will generate returns
above the market index in accordance
with its risk. Desks will use this equa-
tion to help product control understand
their risk that needs to be clearly ex-
plained to investors in financial state-
ments.
If we assume that government bonds
are risk free, a silly idea if you are Eu-
ropean right now, this would mean that a
stock will return more than a bond over
a year in accordance with the company’s
risk. But most investors know this well,
or do they? Studies have analysed fund
managers returns along with their risk
and the evidence points to your average
rich investor being better off if they just
invest in the FTSE 100 or leaving their
money in a high street account. So apart
from charity events and tips to wait-
resses do Fund Managers generate any
value at all?
If this was common knowledge that
many more hedge funds would go out
of business more quickly, not many in
London would have survived the credit
crunch. The government is in a posi-
tion of needing to persuade the public
that what they are doing is the best way
to handle the bonus issue so that other
corporations and individuals don’t feel
that they are being unfairly treated. But
why not change the system and reward
genuine innovation and make the re-
wards more longer term? Quick solu-
tions don’t exist.
If an analyst creates a new financial
product reward him; if a Managing Di-
rector cuts costs whilst producing the
same value reward him; but don’t hand
out bonuses to people because they gen-
erate above average returns for one year.
This encourages risk taking and an en-
vironment of cash grabbing. If employ-
ees were concentrating on their jobs and
the process of generating value instead
of the end of year bonus there would be
less risk, happier employees and a less
emotive public gang of banker bashers.
At the same time, the corporate world
and the public should realise that they
will be unfairly treated by bankers until
they understand what the banks actually
do.
The general impression of bankers rolling in wads of cash is only true of a small proportion of their staff
“The evidence points
to your average rich
investor being bet-
ter off if they just [...]
leave their money in a
high street account”

