POLITICS
FELIX
16
Politics Editors: Rory Fenton
James Lees, Rajat Jain
politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
The world beyond
College walls
Edited by Kenneth Lee
Haiti
Three ministers have
resigned from Tu-
nisia’s one day old
unity Government.
The three ministers
come from the UGTT
party which played a
key role in ousting Mr.
Ben Ali from power. Many of the protestors were
unhappy about the fact that several ministers from
Mr. Ali’s RCD party have kept their jobs. Riot police
was deployed in central Tunis as people gathered
to voice their dissatisfaction with the new Govern-
ment and there were fresh riots in other parts of
the country. Tunisia is in a state of civil unrest fol-
lowing widespread protests over corruption, high
unemployment and high food prices which toppled
Mr. Ben Ali. Other Arab leaders are watching events
in Tunisia with concern amidst fears that they could
inspire similar revolts in their countries.
China
Human rights groups have urged the Haitian gov-
ernment to arrest and prosecute former President
Jean-Claude Duvalier for abuses committed during
his 1971-86 leadership. Mr Duvalier, who is com-
monly known as Baby Doc, inherited his father’s re-
gime at the age of 19 and stands accused of corrup-
tion, embezzlement and human rights abuses during
his brutal rule which relied on a militia known as the
tontons to maintain control of Haiti through fear and
violence.
Tunisia
Chinese President Hu Jintao has arrived in the
Washington today, marking the start of a four day
long state visit to the United States. President Hu
is expected to discuss trade, currency and a host of
other issues which include North Korea with Presi-
dent Obama. Chinese state media reported that
President Hu would stress on how a constructive,
comprehensive partnership between the powers
could be mutually beneficial and help ensure world-
wide stability. President Hu’s visit is set amidst a
backdrop of increasing trade tensions between the
two powers with some US senators introducing a
bill to penalise China for manipulating its currency,
which critics say gives China an unfair advantage.
We are approaching a time when Holocaust
survivors and other eye witnesses of the largest
mass murder in modern history will no longer
be alive. On Tuesday 25th January, it will be
both an honour and a privilege to have Holo-
caust survivor Mrs Lily Ebert among us, to tell
us her experiences, on the occasion of Holo-
caust Memorial Day.
From 1933 to 1945, Nazi Germany, headed
by Adolf Hitler led the systematic persecution
and murder of Jews, gypsies, the handicapped,
homosexuals, Jehovah’s witnesses, Soviet pris-
oners of war and political dissidents. People it
considered politically, racially or socially “un-
fit”.
It is the mission of Holocaust Memorial Day
and of the dissemination of Lilly Ebert’s story
to advance and propagate the knowledge of this
genocide. The aim is to preserve the memory
of the millions who were murdered and to en-
courage reflection of the moral and spiritual
questions raised by these events, as well as to
recognise our responsibilities as students of a
renowned university and citizens of democ-
racy.
Remembering the Holocaust and listening
to testimonies like Lilly Ebert’s are a call to
the conscience of our world. This massacre oc-
curred in the heart of Europe, in what was re-
garded as a civilised, modern nation. It was the
consequence of the silence of people who fol-
lowed orders without question. Who watched
and did nothing. Pastor Martin Niemöller fa-
mously said,
“They came first for the Communists, and I
didn’t speak up because I wasn’t a Communist.
Then they came for the trade unionists, and I
didn’t speak up because I wasn’t a trade union-
ist.
Then they came for the Jews, and I didn’t
speak up because I wasn’t a Jew.
Then they came for me and by that time no
one was left to speak up.”
It is by keeping alive the memory of what
happened that we make sure we aren’t the si-
lent ones standing by, contributing to the suf-
fering of others.
In 1945, nobody thought there would be
another holocaust. Yet we have been and are
witnesses to the persecution of people in Bos-
nia, Ruanda and Darfur because of their eth-
nicity.
Join us in order to learn a powerful lesson in
the fragility of freedom and the need for vigi-
lance in preserving democratic values.
We are the last generation who will be able
to hear from a Holocaust survivor. Come while
you can.
Remembering the Holocaust
Andrea Levy
Filibustering dinosaurs
Friday 21 January 2011
Holocaust survivor
visits Imperial
Join IC Jewish Society for an in-
creasingly rare opportunity that
should not be missed: Holocaust
Survivor, Mrs Lily Ebert at Imperial
College.
In July 1944 Lilly Ebert was just 14
when she, her three sisters, brother
and mother were herded into cattle-
trucks and taken from their home in
Hungary to the Auschwitz-Birkenau
concentration camp. Upon arrival
Lily was registered and tattooed
with the number A-10572.
She will be talking about her experi-
ences, followed by a Q&A session.
Tuesday 25th January, 6.00pm,
Huxley Building LT130
For more info, contact jsoc@impe-
rial.ac.uk
James Lees
The chance of the country getting a referendum
on the alternative vote system was held up in
the Lords this week. The key point of conten-
tion is in the title of the bill discussed- ‘The
Parliamentary Voting System and Constituen-
cies Bill’ groups together reforms to the way
we vote for MPs along with the number and
borders of constituencies. At the time of writ-
ing, the bill was still not settled, although the
front bench members were talking again.
Labour Peers object to the two issues being
bundled into one piece of legislation, as they
believe the government’s plans to reduce the
number of MPs would hit Labour dispropor-
tionately. However they say that if the bill were
to be split, then the part concerning the change
to the voting system could be passed much
more quickly. Following clear messages from
Cameron and Clegg that they were determined
the bill would pass, it appeared that the Labour
Peers would back down especially if modest
concessions could be made on the size or num-
ber of constituencies.
Many Labour MPs approve of the alternative
vote system, but object to the grouping with the
change in constituencies and for some reason
having the vote on the same day as local elec-
tions The government argues it has paired the
two issues together because both are about how
MPs are elected to the House. A more cynical
view would be that as the issues were linked in
the coalition agreement they are both required
to pass simultaneously for political purposes in
holding the coalition together.
The Peers have rejected claims that they are
filibustering the bill- wasting time until it is too
late to pass the bill with time to organise the
vote for May 5th. The accusations clearly had
foundation especially after one Peer spent quite
a while discussing the history of the Venerable
Bede- a monk from the 7th century.
Nick Clegg, amongst others, accused Ed
Milliband of tactically using his “dinosaurs” in
the Lords to prevent the public from deciding
whether to change the voting system- another
allegation that was vehemently denied.
It could also be said that some Peers are
holding the bill up to show the government
they won’t just be a rubber stamp when it
comes to changes to parliament – setting up
the inevitable defiance for when Lib Dem
hopes for a predominantly elected Lords
make it as far.
“I have strong feelings on constituency boundary issues”

