U
ntil last week, Tunisia,
normally considered
one of the more politi-
cally stable North Afri-
can states, had had only
had two presidents since gaining inde-
pendence from France in 1956. Now,
following weeks of street protests and
civil unrest, President Zine al-Abidine
Ben Ali’s 23-year reign has come to
an abrupt and unexpected end, leaving
neighbouring Arab leaders fretting that
the contagion may spread.
Over the last few days, in what is
widely being dubbed the jasmine revo-
lution, tanks have been deployed to pro-
tect government buildings and police
have opened fire on protesters on several
separate occasions. Human rights organ-
isations estimate that around 50 protes-
tors have been killed in total and looting
and rioting have spread throughout the
country. In the worst incident, a prison
riot in the city of Monastir resulted in a
fire which killed over 40 inmates. The
police, who are generally viewed as
little more than a corrupt presidential
guard by ordinary Tunisians, have so
far done little to prevent the looting. As
a result, many local residents have re-
sorted to forming ad hoc militia groups,
armed with rocks and other rudimentary
implements of defence, in order to pro-
tect their homes.
Tunisians are unhappy about high
unemployment levels, food price infla-
POLITICS
FELIX 17
ity over recent years has also made it a
popular tourist destination. The current
crisis has meant that over 3,000 Britons
have had to be flown home and there
are fears that the violence could have ir-
reparably damaged the tourism industry
upon which Tunisia is so heavily reli-
ant. However, Tunisia has always been
one of the Mediterranean’s more exotic
holiday destinations, a fact to which my
own experience bares testament. Last
year, I was travelling through the south
of Tunisia, when the French tour bus I
was on was attacked. We had been driv-
ing through the desert for hours when,
suddenly, a large window pane came
crashing down and a woman started
screaming. Had we been shot at? We
quickly tried to press ourselves against
the floor. It was a brick, and it was fol-
lowed by a barrage of rocks and men
chasing us through the streets. Fortu-
nately, some impressive evasive driving
meant we were able to elude the attack-
ers and make a dash for the safety of
the local mayor’s office. The Tunisians
whom I later spoke to about these events
unanimously shrugged them off as fairly
unremarkable. They explained that the
frustration generated by the lack of em-
ployment opportunities available mean
that such attacks have become common-
place, particularly in the underdevel-
oped south.
Now that an interim government has
been put in place by Prime Minister
tion, corruption, poor living conditions
and a lack of freedom of speech. This
December, their collective anger with
the governing regime suddenly became
united following Mohamed Bouazizi’s
desperate act of self immolation. There
have since been copycat suicides in both
Egypt and Algeria, and an Egyptian pop
star has even written a song about Mr
Bouzazi’s martyrdom.
So far, the international reaction to
the events in Tunisia has been, on the
whole, positive. US President, Barack
Obama, has said “I have no doubt that
Tunisia’s future will be brighter if it is
guided by the voices of the Tunisian
people”. However, Paris’ reaction to the
crisis has been notable for its muted tone
and the French government has come in
for some pretty heavy criticism because
of this. The cynics argue that the French
simply have too many vested interests
in the Tunisian economy and that this
revolution, reported to have cost Tu-
nisia about £1.3bn, is plainly seen as
bad news for French national interests.
However, the French could also be seen
to have acted quite shrewdly. By show-
ing few overt signs of support for the
uprising, they have denied Ben Ali the
chance of pulling a Mugabe and accus-
ing the former colonial power of orches-
trating the uprising by proxy.
Tunisia is an important trading part-
ner, not only for France, but for the
whole of the EU and its relative stabil-
Optimism among the trouble in Tunisia
Mohammed Ghannouchi, it is hoped
that the situation in Tunisia will begin
to calm down. However, many Tuni-
sians are disappointed by the prominent
role the RCD, the party of the former
president, remains set to play. Immedi-
ately following the announcement of the
new government on Monday evening, a
crowd gathered outside of the Tunisian
embassy here in South Kensington.
Medhi Boujomaa, an office worker,
who has been living in exile for over 20
years, said “the dictator is gone, but not
the dictatorship”. Habib Ben Gharbia, a
22-year-old student said “the whole of
the governing party is responsible for
the corruption and we don’t want people
from this party in the new government”.
Mr Ben Gharbia believes that there are
too many corrupt individuals in and
around the government who “know they
will be judged by the people of Tunisia”.
“They know that if this revolution suc-
ceeds it will be the end for them – they
have nothing to lose”.
The protestors, who continuously
chanted “No more RCD, no more one
party rule”, were also quick to acknowl-
Andrew Purcell looks at how Tunisia became the unlikely scene for the Arab
world’s first popular revolution in over half a century
edge the role social media had played in
this revolution. Noura Ellgoulli, a man-
agement consultant born in Tunis, said
“Facebook and Twitter have meant that,
for the first time, all Tunisians can be
on the same page.” “When the shooting
started, it was because of social media
that the people got to know that the pres-
idential guard were turning on their own
people”. Ms Ellgoulli accused the presi-
dential guard of using “pre-meditated
scorched Earth tactics” to destroy what
was left of Tunisia’s wealth. She said:
“Basically there are around 800 men in
the presidential guard who are willing to
sacrifice their lives in order to prevent
the people of Tunisia gaining true demo-
cratic rights”.
Yet, despite fears that some of the old
regime may try and cling to power in the
new government, the mood of the crowd
was generally one of optimism. Ms Ell-
goulli proclaimed “this is the first time I
can be proud of being Tunisian”. Anoth-
er protestor said that she felt “reborn”
and Chahin Rouhini, an 11-year-old
boy from Hampstead School in Crickle-
wood, simply put it like this: “Ben Ali
has been trying to steal everything that
is precious to the Tunisian people, – I’m
so happy he’s gone”.
Amira Ben Rejel, a young female pro-
tester, said it was important to remember
that “this is not a revolution carried out
by Islamists or socialists... this is a revo-
lution for all of the Tunisian people”.
Friday 21 January 2011
“The Dictator is gone,
but not the dictator-
ship”
Tunisia is a land of contrast. The panorama shown here is adjacent to one of the nations busiest ports
Andrew Purcell

