18
COM M ENT
felix
FRIDAY 21 January 2011
I
passed my viva a few months ago.
The day before my 27th birthday,
coincidentally. This should have
marked the beginning of the next
stage in my life but I now feel
strangely confused, unable to move on.
Where is my life going and all that? I’m
hoping this article will have a cathartic
effect. Writing for my former university
paper to help me move on might seem
ironic but this is not some purely ego-
maniacal exercise. I’m sure others are
going through a similar experience, or
will go through it on graduating from
university. So this article is dedicated
to you.
First a small digression. You may have
noticed the bright set of abstract paint-
ings on the ground floor of the central
library. These were donated by an artist
named Bob Brighton. A plaque situated
opposite the library helpdesk states that
“since becoming a professional artist
in 1983 he [Bob Brighton] has given
most of his work away and lived a fru-
gal existence on the dole.” This plaque
flummoxed me. Here was Imperial, pro-
moting this guy who’s decided to com-
pletely break with the system, forget
about remuneration and live on the dole
instead, and proclaim it proudly too. I
know the paintings came for free, but
what the hell was Imperial thinking?!
Now me, I have always lived to the
system. I worked hard on my equations,
did lots of extra-curricular activities and
I kept my weight in check. I had a Plan; I
was going to be an academic. The work
is interesting, can have some higher pur-
pose and it’s cool telling people you’re a
physicist. I wasn’t looking to be the next
Lord Robert Winston, just somebody re-
spected in my field. Maybe my own re-
search group in some former polytech-
nic. That’s “The Plan”. Not much, but I
do have to keep things realistic.
But now it seems that I just can’t be
bothered.
Academics work hard. I mean really
hard. Forget Saturdays for the next few
years if you want to get that permanent
post at some time in the future. And
even after that it doesn’t get much easier
if you want to be half-successful. And
it’s the same for the other jobs I have
been looking into; teaching, software
engineering, management consultan-
cy… Do I really want all that hassle?
I am currently working as a tutor.
Working just one day a week is enough
for a frugal but stress-free existence, à
la Bob Brighton. And it seemed to work
out just fine for him. Sometimes I want
to hit my head against a wall if the kid
is particularly dense but they usually
improve with time. Most importantly,
tutoring gives me all the time in the
world to do what I really want to do.
I’m still working out exactly what that
is; as you can see I have a problem with
decision-making.
But being a tutor wasn’t part of “The
Plan”! And it’s not a real career! (no dis-
respect to career tutors out there). And
there’s the British taxpayers I have to
consider. They kindly paid for my uni-
versity education out of their pocket,
surely I owe it to them to get a job that (a)
uses the scientific and analytical skills
they equipped me with to serve the Brit-
ish economy and (b) is in the higher tax-
Repainting the plan
band? It did make me think about the
whole university fee thing, whether it’s
such a bad idea after all. In theory, with
the current system I wouldn’t need to re-
imburse the fees until I earned a certain
amount but you get my drift.
It’s not like I haven’t tried. I have
filled in a couple of job applications.
There’s also some papers my supervi-
sor wants me to write on my research,
which should make me more employ-
able. But the energy and ambition isn’t
there anymore. Reading Bob Brighton’s
plaque didn’t suddenly shatter “The
Plan” (that would be silly). It just proved
there were so many options out there,
and not necessarily conventional ones.
I just don’t know.
Soumaya always followed her life plan, but an aimless
artist type has made her reconsider if she really needs to
A College committee, the unimaginatively
named ‘working group on the extension of
the College Day’, is investigating a number
of changes to the timetable, which, if im-
plemented, would change Imperial for the
worse. The proposals are to extend post-
graduate teaching to 8pm on Mondays and
Thursdays, extend undergraduate teaching
to 8am-7pm on Mondays and Thursdays, re-
duce the lunch break to only one hour and
to offer humanities options in the evenings
from 6pm-8pm.
The motivation for these ideas seems
simple enough. There is a finite amount of
space on campus and a great deal of de-
mand for that space. The task of timetabling
the myriad classes, activities and lectures
that occur on campus is extremely difficult
and certainly unenviable.
It’s tempting to think that with an extra
hour here or there, the immense task of
juggling all of the competing demands for
space would be made substantially easier.
Perhaps it would, but what is clear is that
such a change, however tempting it may be,
would throw up a host of needless and po-
tentially insuperable problems.
Take the idea of having 8am lectures.
Most students at Imperial live 30 minutes
or more from campus, which means that a
conscientious student hoping to be 10 min-
utes early would need to wake up between
6-7am. That’s assuming that all Imperial
students are so punctual. It is well known
that 9am lectures are rather poorly attended
when compared to those in the afternoon.
This effect would only be exaggerated at
8am. And what of the lecturer? Many live
much further from campus than their stu-
dents. Can it actually be expected that they
will leave their families at 6am, maybe 5am,
to teach a lecture that will only be sparsely
attended by their students?
Admittedly, this is the worst of the pro-
posals, but the others are open to similarly
unfortunate interpretations. Lectures later
in the day would reduce the availability of
departmental rooms for use by Clubs & So-
cieties while those athletic students who
are committed to their sports team would in-
creasingly face the difficult choice between
skipping their lectures or missing out on par-
ticipating in a sport that they love.
The College must of course innovate and
be unafraid to make changes where they
bring about a positive outcome. Blue-sky
thinking should be encouraged and the de-
mand on space on campus is a problem that
requires an imaginative solution. Admittedly,
Felix does not have the magic solution. But
the status quo is far preferable to the Impe-
rial that would be created by these propos-
als. They are, as they stand, deeply unim-
aginative, unjustified, and to the detriment
of both students or staff. They should be
rejected.
FELIX
Soumaya Mauthoor
8am lectures? No thanks
That vortex on the 13th floor of the library is a right pain...
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
“
“
s a right pain...
”
I have always lived to the
system. I worked hard on my
equations, did lots of extra-
curricular activities. I had a
Plan; I was going to be an
academic.
Comment Editors: Anna Perman
Jan Piotrowski
Benjamin Kennedy

