HIGHLIGHTS
FELIX
Friday 21 january 2011
2
FELIX
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB.
Email: felix@imperial.ac.uk. Tel: 020 7594 8072. Fax: 020 7594 8065.
Printed by The Harmsworth Printing Ltd, Northcliffe House, Meadow
Road, Derby. Registered newspaper ISSN 1040-0711.
Copyright © Felix 2010.
Lolcat of teh week
The Felix Sex Survey
On campus
Wind Power 2
The Band of the Cold-
stream Guards lead Im-
perial College Winds in
a benefit concert hosted
by Lord Robert Winston.
The concert aims to sup-
port Imperial’s strong
commitment to music.
Contact Linda Romain –
l.romain@imperial.ac.uk
– for tickets and more in-
formation. General £25.
Students £15.
Faculty of Medicine
Fellowship Ceremony
The Faculty of Medicine Fellows are elected annu-
ally and this year, Dr Pontiano Kaleebu – Director of
the Medical Research Council, Professor Christopher
Higgins – Vice-Chancellor and Warden, Durham Uni-
versity and Professor Sir Nicholas Wright, Warden,
School of Medicine and Dentistry, Barts and The Lon-
don will receive the award.
Sir Alexander Fleming Building, G16
27 January 18:00-19:00
Sherfield Building, The Great Hall
26 January 18:30
Felix has launched a survey into the
sexual activities of the Imperial student!
It’s a light-hearted ‘investigation’ for our
Valentine’s Day issue at the beginning of
February. The survey will ask you to sign
in with your College details but don’t be
put off, your answers will remain 100%
anonymous, especially to us, and all the
data will be deleted as soon as we’ve
compiled the data and made some pretty
graphs. Please answer all the questions
honestly but don’t feel that you have
to answer anything with which you are
uncomfortable.
The survey can be found at:
www.felixonline.co.uk/sexsurvey
Real Tricks: Quantum
Mechanics Show
Dr Nic Harrigan and his gang of post-graduate
quantum physicists will be recreating the world’s
favourite magic tricks. You’ll learn how quantum
physicists perform real magic – from teleportation to
telepathy. Contact admin@friendsofimperial.org.uk
to be put on the cancellation list. £3.
Sir Alexander Fleming Building
25 January 19:00–20:00
Union Notice
National Student Survey
What do you mean you haven’t taken it yet? Are you
mad? The National Student Survey (NSS) is your oppor-
tunity to rate the quality of your course and of the teach-
ing that you received. The results are used in a range of
university league tables and hence influence prospec-
tive students when they are choosing their university. So
get to it! Don’t let your opinions go unheard!
www.thestudentsurvey.co.uk
Editor-in-Chief Kadhim Shubber Deputy Editor Gilead Amit Copy Chief Lizzy Griffiths Assistant Editor Dan Wan News Editors Alex Karapetian Matt Colvin Layout/Design Editor
Veronika McQuadeova Features Editor Lizzie Crouch Sports Editors Jovan Nedic David Wilson Science Editors Katya-yani Vyas Kelly Oakes Charlie Harvey Business Editors Sina
Ataherian Afonso Campos Politics Editors James Lees Rory Fenton Rajat Jain Technology Editor Samuel Gibbs Feroz Salam Comment Editor Anna Perman Jan Piotrowski Arts
Editor Rox Middleton Music Editors Greg Power Christopher Walmsley Luke Turner Film Editors Jade Hoffman Ed Knock Tv Editor Matt Allinson Food Editor Dana Li Fashion
Editor Saskia Verhagen Games Editor Simon Worthington Online Editors Niharika Midha Dakshaa Rai Ravi Pall Chris Birkett Jonathan Kim International Editor Kenneth Lee
Puzzles Captains Polly Bennett James Hook Aman Nahar Photo Editor Thomas Welch Travel Editors Dylan Lowe Chris Richardson Copy Editors Alex Nowbar Hannah Thomas Kai
Li Loh Ayyub Kamaludin Shruti Mishra Sophie Lambrakis Sharanya Subbu Ritika Gupta Deepka Rana Charles Betts Zainab Ali
Oh man, that’s some seriously hot stuff! Are we even allowed to print
this kind of material?
Editor

