SHOULD WE WORRY
ABOUT CLIMATE
CHANGE?
T
he end of the world always
seems to be approaching.
The Millennium Bug was
supposed to turn every computer
on the planet mental, activating
every nuclear bomb and killing
us all on verse two of Auld Lang
Syne. The UK chief medical of-
ficer told us in 2005 that bird flu
would wipe out 50,000 of us Brits. And now we are all going to fry un-
less we recycle, turn the TV stand–by light off, and use a bag for life.
Climate change is a new religion. We’re led to believe that unless we
put all our paper and plastic into separate bags, the entire world will
flood and Al Gore will be in a very smug I–told–you–so mood. People
that dare question climate change are treated like non-believers, in the
same way religions mock one another.
Yet there is ignorance about climate change on both sides of the debate.
I bet Samuel Furse, supporting climate change to my right, regularly
goes to his local health store to buy organic nuts and dried fruit flown in
from Brazil. And weather statistics can be distorted by either side – what
if I told you that since 1998, the average temperature of the earth has
shown no discernible warming?
Global summit upon global summit is spent harping on about how gov-
ernments need to unite to fight this problem. What is the carbon footprint
of flying the politicians to the talks? And for what? So that they can agree
that something needs to be done, but not until some later date in the fu-
ture? They are effectively saying that they don’t believe in any of it, but
need to placate the media.
The whole thing removes valuable resources from more immediate
and concrete issues, such as people trafficking, developing nations’ in-
frastructure, and developing an HIV vaccination. Governments should
not pretend that climate change is a special case.
Implementing a green tax is simply a political ruse to get more money
with minimal effort. I cannot believe that it would ever be popular to the
majority of the population.
I do, however, see the benefit of a less polluted city. And a quieter
one too. If introducing electric cars can help that, then excellent. I also
like to pay less for my utility bills. So if using less gas saves me money,
then great. And I understand the benefits of energy independence, so if
nuclear power helps achieve that, fantastic. But don’t insult my intelli-
gence by making me pay more tax if I want to drive a gas guzzler, or fly
to Hawaii, simply on the premise that it will delay the end of the world
by another year.
20 felix
FRIDAY 21 January 2011
COMMENT
Comment Editors: Anna Perman
Jan Piotrowski
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
A
lot of rubbish is talked
about climate change.
A lot of work goes into
the science of climatology, and
there are a great many aspects
to what this can mean. I am a
biological chemist, so I tend to
start from this perspective. It is
as good as any, and provides
an entry into understanding the physical aspects of climatology as well
as the biological ones.
What is undeniable about human activity is that it has greatly increased
atmospheric carbon dioxide concentrations. The burning of wood, coal,
gas, oil, have all contributed to this. The loss of trees and plants has also
greatly reduced an ecosystem’s ability to absorb this excess carbon diox-
ide. Although a rise in algae numbers might offset this, we are left with a
net increase in the carbon dioxide. Studies by Lovelock et al., quoted in
a recent documentary on his life’s work suggest, that this increase might
be as much as 6%. This may sound like very little, but could have big
consequences. The hole in the ozone layer (now repaired) was caused by
a much smaller reduction in the percentage of ozone.
Let us change tack for a minute, and look at this from another angle.
Geologists have found evidence for several ice ages over the last 500
million years. This we understand from three perspectives; paleonto-
logical evidence based upon the movement of fossils, chemical evidence
based on storage of radio isotopes and geological evidence based on the
characteristic impact of ice on sedimentary rock.
All of these point to a cyclical change between warmer and colder pe-
riods on Earth. What is perhaps more surprising is that we are ‘overdue’
for an ice age, and have been for several thousands of years. What has
stopped it? Well if we assume that an ice age has been prevented because
things have not been warm enough (controversial I know) we must look
for reasons for that. A small increase in carbon dioxide could well be
it. Certainly there is plenty of evidence for carbon dioxide being a good
retainer of heat. The atmosphere of the planet Venus is 96·5% carbon
dioxide and has a surface temperature of 460°C – hotter than Mercury, a
planet much nearer the sun.
So, there is evidence than climate change has happened, but that does
not necessarily mean an apocalypse. Of course we do not want too much
heat, otherwise we would face a myriad of problems that might well kill
us and quite a lot of everything else too. But, without warming, the Earth
might well be deep into a -20°C ice age today which would also kill us
all off.
“People that
question climate
change are treated
like non-believers”
Charles Betts Samuel Furse
We are told that climate change is the most
dangerous threat to the world today, but as
measures to combat it stall, the question is...
Science doesn’t play by
its own rules
Happy 450th birthday Francis Bacon! In
case you didn’t know, it’s thanks to him
that you are studying here, and that science
exists as it does. It was he who said that
we should make observations and draw
from them the physical laws which govern
our planet. He also wrote that as scientific
minds, we should work to free ourselves
from ‘idols’, the social and professional bi-
ases which are part of being human. Our
minds must be pure and rational before
we can draw accurate conclusions about
the world. The scientific method that we all
follow started with him. The problem is, he
was wrong about quite a few things.
First of all, the scientific method doesn’t
quite work like that. Plenty of people over
the years have found fault with his ‘scien-
tific method’, but it’s not their birthday and I
don’t have much space, so I’m not going to
bore you with their theories.
No, what I’m interested in is the idea that
we can ever truly free ourselves from ‘the
idols’. Many people think of science as a
rational movement, uninfluenced by wider
society. Scientists should be blind to race,
gender and social status, and success in
science should be down to merit alone.
I don’t mind telling you, and I’m sure you
can guess from my name, that I’m a wom-
an. There aren’t many of us in science and
there certainly aren’t many of us at Impe-
rial, so try not to get too flustered.
Eureka, the Times science magazine
recently looked into why there are so few
women in the upper echelons of science.
It’s true we are under–represented high
up in most fields, but science seems to
be particularly bad. I can’t believe this
is due to being less academically able. I
look around my friends and I find women
to be just as hard-working and intelligent
as guys.
During my biology degree, most of my
lecturers were men. They shared ideas, col-
laborated on papers and went to the pub
together. Female academics were few and
far between and didn’t seem to fit into the
blokey structure of the department.
Science is an incredibly sociable field; we
spend a lot of time working together in labs,
sharing ideas in seminars and networking
at conferences. Any scientific paper in-
volves collaborations between several sci-
entists – take a look at a report from CERN
and you’ll find it is mostly just a list of the
authors, with a bit of data tacked on the
end. Scientists do not work alone.
I think we are reluctant to accept that we
might not be a completely rational meritoc-
racy. But before science can find an equal
balance between men and women, we need
to accept that we are not isolated from so-
cial pressures. Sorry Francis, but we can
never completely escape the idols.
By Anna Perman
“A 6% increase may
sound like very little
but could have big
consequences”

