CLUBS & SOCIETIES
FELIX
24
What’s On
Oxfam Talk
Want to learn a little more about the issues affect-
ing international development in an ever-changing
world?
On Tuesday 25th January, Duncan Green, the Head
of Research at Oxfam UK, will be giving a talk at
Imperial College in Chem Eng. LT1 at 6pm, hosted
by Engineers Without Borders Imperial.
This April sees the launch of a new Oxfam global
campaign entitled ‘Food justice in a resource con-
strained world’.
Duncan will be promoting this new campaign and Im-
perial students are invited to come and listen to the
talk and join in the discussion afterwards. Debate is
welcome about where international development is
headed in the near future as well as the problems
faced by both developing countries themselves and
organisations such as Oxfam.
Having learned about the impact of politics in pov-
erty stricken nations whilst working as a journalist in
South America, Duncan has been researching and
writing about those less well off for nearly 30 years.
Nowadays, as well as working on research for Ox-
fam, he has recently written the book ‘From Poverty
to Power’. This collaborative text gets a 21st cen-
tury perspective on the issue of inequality in poorer
countries. The book aims to promote realistic solu-
tions to restoring the balance of power for the aver-
age family from a political and economic standpoint.
This talk is a great opportunity for anyone interested
in development to learn about the current global sit-
uation and how we may help to establish a world of
equal opportunity from an expert in the field.
Also on the 8th February at 6pm, the Global Pov-
erty Project (GPP) will be presenting their ‘1.4 Billion
Reasons’ presentation. Founded by a team from the
‘Make Poverty History’ campaign, the presentation
aims to encourage small changes in our daily life-
style to help alleviate extreme poverty. Those wish-
ing to attend can register here: http://www.global-
povertyproject.com/events/attend/37100126
James Hook
Friday 21 January 2011
He must be
Friesian!
Simon Federer
Duncan Green, Head of Research at Oxfam UK

