CLUBS & SOCIETIES
FELIX 25
Ski Trip spots Super Cow
shredding up the slopes!
By Elisabeth Burks
O
n the last week of the hol-
idays it was time for Im-
perial College students
to hit the slopes in Val
Thorens! Two busloads
of students spent 22 hours travelling to
the Alps on New Year’s Day, most still
suffering from the revelries of the night
before. However, duty free alcohol and
a port to port challenge tempted people
back over to the dark side with one bus
having a bit too much fun – and as the
trip’s Worried Mum, I was called in to
clean up the mess!
Having arrived safely, with rental pick
up, and checked in to our cosy quarters
it was soon time for us to check out the
local. So, dressed to impress in some
delightful Christmas jumpers, a ‘calm’
night ended for most in the wee hours
of the morning. Still, long nights out
does not lead to lazy days on this trip
and it was early starts all round to hit
the slopes! It’s safe to say that despite
the snow blizzard that affected most of
Europe, well, there wasn’t much up the
mountain! Sure it was great piste ski-
ing, but off piste the snow was already
shredded with rocks lying bare. Yet with
140km of piste in Val Thorens and over
600km in all three valleys – there was
still plenty to do and see.
Tuesday night was the night that will
go down in history for IC Snowsports –
Imperial students took over a bar! Yes! I
know! How? Well, you know the classic
fancy dress theme Cowboys vs. Indi-
ans? It’s dated and quite frankly not P.C.
So on this historical night, we went to
a lovely place called Moo Bar as Cow-
boys vs. Cows. There was some seri-
ous effort put into the costumes which
inspired some spontaneous rodeo, cow
congas, pole dancing, moshing and
some awesome dance moves (milking
the udders/grazing the grass).
Back on the slopes and in true Impe-
rial style, people were using their smart
phones to clock their speed down runs.
Friday 21 January 2011
Luckily, we had rules in place for this
and any ‘Imperial’(i.e. nerdy) comments
were reprimanded.All in all it was going
well, the beginners were making prog-
ress and there were some totally rad
moves being thrown in the park – can
anyone say 5? – gnarly man, we’re all
totally stoked! Some horrifically awe-
some retro ski wear was also spotted in
the park cruising alongside Super Cow.
A brief moment of silence is required
here for our injured – one broken leg
and a tragic incident with broken glass
being left lying around a club ended up
with two hospital visits. However, nei-
ther were put off the sport nor clubbing.
By midweek it was established that the
committee did not have food poisoning
(attributed to the infamous ‘poo beers’)
but had the resort’s stomach bug virus.
Call in our only medic Dr. Simon! Oh
wait he’s ill.. How bout back-up option
Dr. Saftey? Nope he’s ill, too. I’d like to
take this opportunity to apologise if we
brought it back with us and it disrupts
your January Exams...
The final night saw us to the Moun-
tain Meal. This is basically meat fondue,
lots of wine, some half-naked dancing
followed by an epic ski down the green
slope back to the apartments. Now, most
can handle this night. Some can even
ski down with another person standing
on their skis – quite a skill. However,
there are always exceptions. The sight
of one skier and one snowboarder get-
ting clothe-lined by a face-height fence
was enough to send those watching into
a fit of hysterics! Look for those with
red fence marks on their faces for the
culprits. It was dark!! The last night was
also the event of the Felix centrefold
photo, which if it’s not been published
will be Snowsport’s second rejection for
too much nudity. If you are feeling that
sinking feeling of missing out, there’s
Easter’s trip coming up and also next
year’s January trip which promises to be
even bigger!
Young Scientists’
Symposium 2010
ICSMSU Muslim Medics host another successful
evening of academic prowess
The School of Medicine has always
maintained the importance of research
within the medical field both as a stu-
dent and once we graduate. On Tuesday
23rd November ICSMSU Muslim Med-
ics showcased the academic research
achievements of Imperial students from
all years. The tough competition from
6 high-class presentations was indica-
tive of the fact that the Young Scientist’s
Symposium (YSS), now in its 4th year,
had established itself as a renowned
symposium for medical students.
The lecture hall was packed out with
Imperial students from all years as well
as year 12 and 13 students that were in-
vited from the hugely successful PotMed
that took place in September. We were
extremely privileged to have on our judg-
ing panel Dr Laki Buluwela, a reader in
molecular biology, Dr Ken MacLeod, a
reader in cardiac physiology, and as our
head judge, Professor Chris Tang, a re-
searcher in infectious diseases. All three
judges had been lecturers within our first
two years of Medicine and so it only
seemed apt that we invite such honour-
able members of the medical school that
the presenters, and the rest of us, would
not only know but also regard as role
models and people from whom we can
learn a great deal. In our company as a
fourth judge we also had MohammedAl-
Hairi, last year’s audience winner, which
was indeed a pleasure for us all.
These final six contestants were to
give an eight minute presentation on
their particular research topic followed
by a maximum seven minutes of ques-
tions and answers from both the judging
panel and the audience alike. At the end
the judges would deliberate who they
thought was the best presenter based on
criteria of appearance, structure, scien-
tific knowledge, delivery and evalua-
tion. In addition, the audience would
vote too on who they thought delivered
the best presentation. The challenge was
to deliver very advanced research to an
audience mainly made up of a younger
community that had little experience in
the chosen fields in such a manner that
was both engaging and refreshing. The
judges’ winner would an engraved glass
trophy and the audience winner would
receive a £20 Waterstones voucher.
The excitement was brewing more
and more as Dr MacLeod was ending
his presentation on the importance of
medical students to get involved in re-
search from an early stage; the audience
were awaiting the first presentation and
our excellent chair, Samee Siddiqui,
not only welcomed the proceedings in
a confident and motivating manner but
also eased the nerves with some of his
best jokes – undoubtedly the crowd’s
favourite was remarking upon the effec-
tiveness of Dr Buluwela’s presentation
on how to give an effective presentation.
The topics covered in the ninety min-
utes showed an insight into the different
areas of medicine such as David Bar-
giela’s presentation on the role of astro-
cytes in multiple scleroris, Harsh Bhatt’s
presentation on unexpected stimuli af-
fecting saccadic latency and ethnic mar-
keting science, an area never discussed
before at the symposium, delivered by
Atif Khan. In the end there was very lit-
tle separating the best two presentations
of the evening: Bharat Pahilwani’s fas-
cinating talk on using cortisol to moni-
tor hydrocortisone replacement and Re-
enam Khan’s intriguing and refreshing
look at predicting post-operative pain
outcomes, with the former winning the
audience vote and the latter deservedly
being crowned Young Scientist’s Sym-
posium 2010 winner by the judges.
For me the highlight of the evening
was not the enthralling presentations,
the chair’s best lines or even the tasty
snacks, although all three were excellent
in their own right, but the heart warming
brother and sisterhood that took place
at the end between the contestants once
the results were announced. Normally
at Imperial we see fellow colleagues
leaving no stone unturned to be the best
of the best whether it comes to passing
examinations, winning awards or get-
ting work published. And because of
this competitiveness, that most prob-
ably arises from the fact that striving to
be top is part of the norm, we tend to
overlook others’ achievements and suc-
cess and sometimes even our own if it
doesn’t match up to others’. But if you
were to be there at the end you would
have seen all the contestants not only
congratulating the winners but them-
selves too for they all have succeeded
in delivering excellent presentations;
a point emphasised by Professor Chris
Tang at the end. And this is exactly what
YSS aims to achieve: unity and a cel-
ebration of achievement amongst all stu-
dents of this medical school.
Another thing to point out is how the
contestants were not just from 5th year
like the majority of previous sympo-
siums, but ranged all the way from final
year to second year. Special mention
must go to Neha Panda, a second year
medic, who took part in research before
she attended the medical school – which
completely encapsulates the Impe-
rial students’ enthusiasm to achieve and
advance not only their careers but the
quality of life in the community which
without doubt will be the foundations of
a successful healthcare service brought
by the next generation: our generation.
Simon Federer
Aamir Shamsi
Bilal Sahib
You know you love the pun on the opposite page...

