MUSIC
FELIX
26
Music Editors: Greg Power
Luke Turner
Christopher Walmsley
music.felix@gmail.com
Students of Imperial College, UNITE! Sorry,
I’ve always wanted to say that.
We’re throwing a party at Imperial College’s
very own Union live music venue and all
around super-club, Metric, on Saturday 19th
February. It will feature a showcase of Impe-
rial’s musical talent, featuring three live bands
from Jazz’ Rock Soc and three electronic acts
from Music Tech, alongside a handful of DJs.
It will be a celebration of our local musical
scene, where young men and women are bal-
ancing their degrees with providing balls awe-
some on-stage entertainment. A golden oppor-
tunity to bond with other music-lovers, share
a drink and make new acquaintances. There’ll
be laughter, there’ll be music, and most impor-
tantly there’ll be you, my friend. Along with
all my other friends, and all your other friends.
Album of The Week
Modeselektion
Modeselektor pres-
ents Modeselektion
Vol. 1
Monkeytown
2010
Modeselektor are bringing the bass and techno
from Berlin to the big wide world in a cautious but
thought-through way, this isn’t to say they hang
about when it comes to the thumping electro strain-
ing the notes through the dance-driven drum beats,
just that they really think about the structure of a
dance song. Clean staccatto buzzes and echoing
taps and clicks keep the album running through its
ten tracks, adding in swooping waves of raw electric-
ity which can be predicted on the horizon but still
wash over you when they arrive. If there was un-tech-
no-like techno, it would be this, blurring the lines be-
tween genres, the music is emotive but simple and
will certainly rumble your inner bass. Luke Turner
Most lis-
tened to
this week by
Felix Music
members on
last.fm
Make sure not to miss
Coachella 2011
Empire Polo Field in Indio, California (USA)
April 15-17 2011
Okay, so it isn’t in this country and it’s still a while a
way, but at least that means you can get a cheap(ish)
flight if you book now. And God would it be worth it.
Coachella is acclaimed as one of the best festivals
in the world, and just one quick look at this year’s
line-up is enough to make your eyes water and your
knees shake. Imagine getting to see The Arcade
Fire, Crystal Castles, Animal Collective, Robyn,
Titus Andronicus, The National, Cee-Lo, HEALTH,
The Kills, The Black Keys, The Chemical Broth-
ers... and Kanye Motherfriggin’ West all in the same
place. Add to that bolting up-and-commers like Odd
Future and the long awaited return of The Strokes
and you’ve got a line-up to die for. There’s a surprise
too: a set by lords of noise Death From Above 1979,
reuniting for the event. Greg Power
T
ucked away down side streets, in
basements and attics away from
the crowds, small gig venues give
you the opportunity to see the
bands that will be playing the big
venues in a year or two’s time up close and per-
sonal at a fraction of the price. Here are a few
of the best ones:
The Social:
5 Little Portland Street
Tucked away in a little backstreet off Oxford
Street, The Social is a tiny venue with an up-
stairs diner bar area where you can chill out to
the Rough Trade powered jukebox and stuff
your face with their pies or fish finger sand-
wiches. Heading down stairs, there’s a con-
crete nuclear bunker feel to the gig venue - the
apocalypse could happen outside and the gig
would carry on obliviously. There are tables
and benches leading along the sides up to the
stage, so you can grab a seat and enjoy the gig
with a nice pint of their Kopparberg Cider. This
is a great venue for free gigs - last yearAlt. Mu-
sic Soc. saw a free Memory Tapes gig there
the day before he played a sold out Koko show.
Felix Music Night
Join in at: http://www.last.fm/group/Felix+Music
We continue Charlotte Ridler’s chronicles of gigging off
the beaten track with three kick-ass music venues
ATTICS &
BASEMENTS
1. Kanye West
2. The xx
3. Daft Punk
4. Radiohead
5. Muse
6. Caribou
7. Biffy Clyro
8. LCD Soundsystem
9. Arcade Fire
10. Gorillaz
Joanna and the Wold at The Social
Since its refurbishment, Imperial’s live venue
Metric has become an amazing venue, that we
believe could easily rival with clubs like Fab-
ric, except with much, much cheaper drinks.
However to make the most of these awesome
resources at our disposal, we think it’s cooler
to let Imperial’s own budding artists perform
there for you. This is why we are inviting you
to come check out 19.02, the first Felix Music
Night.
We have some great performances lined up
for you, and with the variety of acts on the
bill we can guarantee there will be at least one
group that will tickle your fancy.
Over the next four issues we’ll be presenting
the people who will be performing at 19.02 and
reviewing some of their performances around
London as we build up to the event. We begin
next week with an interview of alt-rockers The
Vetoes, the night’s headliners.
So keep checking the Music pages, and look
out for the nifty posters around campus, featur-
ing a sick design by Luke Tomlin.
19.02
Metric (ICU)
February 19th 2011
Felix Music Editors
Buffalo Bar:
251 Upper Street, Islington
Down in the basement beneath a pub called
“The Famous Cock”, the tiny 150 capacity
Buffalo Bar is one of the focuses of London’s
Indie Pop scene. Lots of bands that like uku-
leles, glitter and knitting turn up there (al-
ways fun!) but for those not that way inclined
they have other less saccharine performers
there too. It’s a great intimate venue and the
performers tend to mill around in the crowd
when they’re not playing. There’s a projector
Coming to Metric on Saturday 19th February!
aimed at the stage that plays old film footage
on the back wall when the bands are on and
the bar serves crazy flavoured shots as well as
the usual beverages. Once in a while you get
an absolute gem of a gig there: The Pains of
Being Pure at Heart, a band usually filling
1000 capacity venues, played one of the best
and most energetic gigs I’ve ever been to with
the crowd practically bouncing off the walls
of the tiny venue.
Notting Hill Arts Club:
21 Notting Hill Gate
Apart from being insanely stylish, with amaz-
ing artwork covering the basement walls and
projectors everywhere, the main attraction
of Notting Hill Arts Club is their free band
showcases every single Saturday. Each week
Rough Trade puts on a line-up of bands
showing off a selection of talent that can be
anything from indie, folk, punk, psychedelica,
electronica or even something in between.
The bar serves a variety of drinks and cock-
tails, and there are lots of sofas around to relax
on to the music. Turn up and hope for the best,
since as it’s free you have nothing to lose and
you stand a chance of making some amazing
discoveries.
Feel free to message Alternative Music
Society at alt.music@ic.ac.uk and come
along to band nights like these
19.02: The first Felix Music Night
Luke Tomlin
Charlotte Ridler
Friday 21 January 2011

