FILM
Hitchcock Ballet
Classic Cinema
Breakfast at Tiffanys’
This year marks the fiftieth anniversary of one of leg-
endary actress Audrey Hepburn’s most celebrated
works: Breakfast at Tiffany’s – a film which saw Hep-
burn’s return to the screen, having just had her first
child. Directing was the renowned Blake Edwards,
who passed away last month.
Breakfast at Tiffany’s revolves around Holly Golight-
ly, a scatty yet irresistibly charming young woman.
Her life in New York, a whirlwind of fine dining and
hedonistic parties, is financed by her numerous at-
tentive and devoted ‘gentlemen admirers’. When a
struggling writer moves into Holly’s building, the two
strike up a friendship and, as he is pulled deeper
and deeper into Holly’s world, he begins to explore
her murky past and the secret longings she has kept
hidden.
Hepburn’s career-defining portrayal of Holly abso-
lutely steals the show. She creates a character of
such otherworldly elegance, such refined femininity,
that the audience is captivated by her every move.
At the same time the girl’s dark side bubbles quietly
at the surface, a gentle but significant provider of
depth, that goes a long way.
Seen today, the film certainly shows its age; a ben-
efit in some ways, but a drawback in others. Seg-
ments of dialogue often verge on the unbearably sen-
timental; the plot is quite predictable, and as a result
a little unsatisfying.
But Breakfast at Tiffany’s is a ‘pleasant’ film, in a
way that films today cannot be. From the very open-
ing scene, with its measured pacing and gorgeous
camerawork, the film is, above all, nice to look at.
Watching it is like watching Miss Golightly herself:
refined, glamorous; exuding a positive air of good
health.
Navid Nabijou
Japanese Schoolgirls will never be able to
reach this level of adorableness
Film Editors: Jade Hoffman
Ed Knock
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Director Darren Aronofsky provides a master-
ful account of the human psyche’s masochistic
tendencies in a tale of the corruption of inno-
cence, paranoia, and one hell of a psychotic
breakdown. Black Swan is the story of shel-
tered ballerina Nina Sayers (Natalie Portman),
who has recently been handed the much-cov-
eted lead role in Swan Lake. Quiet, innocent
and dedicated; Sayers has the perfect qualities
to represent the purity and grace of the White
Swan, however, it is her portrayal of the erotic
and passionate abandon of the character’s alter
ego that presents the greatest barrier between
Nina and success. It is no mean feat for a vir-
ginal teenager, who lives at home, and sleeps in
a room that looks as if it has been decorated by
a team of loved-up Care Bears, with a particu-
larly strong penchant for pink.
She attempts this metamorphosis into the
Black Swan under the mentorship of the show’s
artistic director, Thomas Leroy (Vincent Cas-
sel), who uses seduction and bullying in equal
measures to draw Nina out of her shell. Throw
a smothering, bitter mother (Barbara Hershey)
and a sly seductress (Mila Kunis) intent on
stealing her part into the mix, and all the ingre-
dients are there for a monumental melt-down.
And what a melt-down it is. Nina’s loss of grip
on reality is marked by a series of hallucina-
tory, increasingly violent episodes that blur the
boundaries between reality and the imaginary
manifestations of Nina’s insecurities. The re-
sult is a frenetic, and completely absorbing
film within a film; where the events on and off
the stage tragically mirror one another as Nina
attempts to become the titular Black Swan
whilst maintaining her sanity.
Whilst you can sympathise with Nina, how-
ever, and appreciate the caustic environment
that she exists in, this film does little to actu-
ally make the viewer like the character. She
is distrustful, paranoid and it is hard to fight
the feeling that she somehow has brought all
this upon herself. This is my major problem
with the film, as I find that narratives of this
type work best when the audience feel strongly
one way or the other about the lead character.
The power of Aronofsky’s previous films (The
Wrestler, Requiem for a Dream) relies on a real
emotional connection with the characters; The
Wrestler is mainly such a fantastic film be-
The result is a frenetic,
and completely
absorbing film within a
film
“
The resul
The resu
and comp
and comp
b bi
bi
”
y
y
m within a
m within a
Director Darren Aronofsky
Screenwriter Mark Heyman, Andres
Heinz, John McLaughlin
Cast Natalie Portman, Vincent Cassel,
Mila Kunis
Black Swan
Jan Piotrowski
cause you geuinely care about Rorke’s persona.
Whilst Sayers’ spiralling descent into psycho-
sis is undoubtedly tragic and gripping, the lack
of connection with the character creates more
of an adrenaline-packed experience rather than
an emotionally harrowing one. This is by no
means a poor reflection of Portman’s acting
ability, who delivers a fantastic performance
that marks a departure from her usual roles as
quirky, yet generally harmless heroines. Nei-
ther is this necessarily a wholly negative point
as the film still works tremendously well – it is
just a matter of personal preference.
One thing that must be said is that the film
looks fantastic. Cinematographer, Matthew
Libatique, creates an atmosphere that fits per-
fectly with the duality of the plot by switching
between slow and graceful scenes, and scenes
that move at nausea-inducing speed. The most
surprising revelation was that the film created
a completely unexpected appreciation of the
ballet itself. A combination of the fluid cam-
era work, and Portman’s discipline (she spent
6 months in gruelling training for the role) re-
sults in scenes that are quite simply beautiful
to watch. Despite all the pirouettes and demi-
pliés, however, Black Swan is, above all, a psy-
chological thriller bordering on horror. While
it may be accused of pushing the melodrama
to the limit, it is definitely a couple of hours
of fantastic (if a little stressful) entertainment
that goes beyond anything that you would ex-
pect from a film based around ballet. It is dark,
moody cinema at its best, and will keep you on
the edge of your seat better than any slasher or
gruesome horror flick could hope to achieve.
When I see this in the mirror, I’m usually trippin’ balls
FELIX
28 Friday 21 January 2011

