FILM
Based on the book Between a Rock
and a Hard Place, 127 Hours is the true
story of Aron Ralston, an outdoors-
man in his late 20s with a passion for
mountaineering. While canyoning one
sunny afternoon in Utah, he misjudged
a boulder and took a fall. This would not
have been so bad – he is an experienced
climber after all – except that his right
arm is pinned under the boulder and he
is trapped 100ft inside a canyon in the
middle of the great wilderness. The film
charts the tale of Aron Ralston’s struggle
to stay alive and is is certainly not for
the faint-hearted.
There are many sound reasons to go
and see 127 Hours, not least because it
is Danny Boyle’s latest film. The British
director whose debut with Trainspotting
gained him a cult following, and recent
Oscar-winning hit Slumdog Millionaire,
has thankfully not lost his unique style
in going international. 127 Hours is a
pure brew of Boyle’s essence and it ex-
udes a very indie feel for a mainstream
film. Boyle is not afraid to experiment
with the unconventional and the brilliant
cinematography is one of many things
that make this movie so worth watching.
Boyle combines dreamy surrealism with
a hardy “Man vs. The Wild” film: an
unusual, heady concoction that is fresh
and invigorating.
In a role that earned him a well-
deserved Golden Globe nomination,
James Franco pulls off a wide-ranging
portrayal of mountaineer Aron Ralston.
Aron Ralston was an avid cameraman
and documented his adventures exten-
sively. Staying true to this, Boyle uses
Ralston’s self-documented videos as an
integral part in exploring his character
transformation, propelling the plot for-
ward (it’s like what James Cameron did
in Avatar, only better). From the care-
free adventurer we were introduced to at
the start of the movie, Franco’s Ralston
transforms into the solemn man facing
his impending death as things gets des-
perate under the boulder. It is a perfor-
mance that shines through to the heart of
the audience.
Franco’s performance, however, is
not enough to carry the film and it is a
surprising stumbling block for Boyle,
who has created some excellent charac-
ter driven dramas (Slumdog Millionaire
and Sunshine), that 127 Hours’ main
weakness is its lack of story. It feels very
much like one of those indie films that
have so much style but lack plot content.
After the first 15 minutes or so, Aron
gets trapped under the boulder and, for
the remainder of the movie, his strug-
gle to free himself to no avail is an on-
slaught of sentimentalism with death at
Director Danny Boyle
Screenwriter Simon Beaufoy,
Danny Boyle
Cast James Franco, Kate Mara,
Amber Tamblyn, Clémence Poésy
127 Hours
Guo Heng Chin
Director Profile: Danny Boyle
Ed Knock
The creative void of the ‘80s in cinema
did not leave British cinema unaffected.
The ‘Carry on…’ films and Hammer
Horror series had fizzled out aons ago
and the legacy of Ken Loach and Lind-
say Anderson’s Kitchen Sink dramas
still left a stale aftertaste of gritty mis-
ery on British filmmaking. However as
shoulder pads and big hair were quickly
discarded in favour of baggy t-shirts
and high waisted jeans and electro and
disco mutated into the craziness of rave
music; a special talent emerged to help
re-energize the wayward film scene and
pull it out of the doldrums. That talent
was Danny Boyle and now a household
name, his distinctive style and ability to
transcend genres hadn’t been seen since
the golden days of Stanley Kubrick.
It was obvious from the opening of
Boyle’s debut film Shallow Grave that
this director was special, a furious and
dizzying display of the streets of Glasgow
accompanied by a blistering acid techno
track composed by a then unknown Left-
James Franco gives his right arm to 127 Hours
his elbow that all gets rather repetitive.
The book upon which this movie
is based featured extensive flashback
scenes. This is something that Boyle
could have used more extensively to
develop the character of Aron Ralston
with more depth and empathy. Whilst
Boyle does capture the tale of a young
man’s struggle for life and the introspec-
tive transformation that follows, the film
does, unfortunately, become tedious at
times with its monotonous setting only
occasionally punctuated by sentimental-
ism and shock.
127 Hours is a noteworthy cinematic
achievement but I doubt it can compete
with the highly intelligent The Social
Network and the heartfelt King’s Speech
in the Academy Awards around the cor-
ner, mostly due to its lack of solid plot.
At only 93 minutes, however, its im-
aginative and harrowing build-up to the
finale is masterfully executed, and will
still keep you glued to your seat.
field. Boyle would persue his affinity for
dance music in later films, helping launch
the careers of Underworld by featuring
their famous Born Slippy track in the
iconic ending of Trainspotting.
Danny Boyle was born to an Irish
family in Lancashire in 1956. His strict
Catholic upbringing was a direct influ-
ence on the morality of characters in
many of his films and was directly ad-
dressed in brilliant but underappreciated
Millions. Dissuaded from joining a sem-
inary by a priest, Boyle eventually cut
his teeth directing plays in London and
producing programmes for the BBC in-
stead of learning his craft at film school.
To say that Shallow Grave was a
breath of fresh air is an understatement;
it launched the careers of Christopher
Ecclestone and Ewan McGregor and
became the most successful British film
of 1994. The unnerving atmosphere of
the black comedy was achieved with
minimal dialogue, disjointed editing and
unusual camera shots maximising the
impact of shadows. Boyle casted Ewan
McGregor again in the adaptation of Ir-
ving Welsh’s Trainspotting, the film that
came to symbolise Tony Blair’s ‘Cool
Britania’. The combination of snappy
editing, surreal montages, fast camera
work and an excellent soundtrack twist-
ed audiences into enjoying what was es-
sentially a horrendous tale of how hard
drugs ruin lives.
With the reputation of being the hottest
director in England, it was inevitable that
Boyle would be snared by Hollywood
and reunited with his regular screen-
writer John Hodge he headed to Thailand
to film The Beach. It was his first flop,
universally panned by critics. The Beach
suffered from studio interference and a
miscast Leonardo di Caprio, who was
flown in to replace Ewan McGregor who
had fallen out with the director.
It took only two years for Danny Boyle
to bounce back and single handedly re-
invent the forgotten zombie-apocalypse
drama with 28 Days Later. Shooting
many sections on digital and starring
newcomers Cillian Murphy and Naomie
Harris alongside Christopher Ecclestone,
28 Days Later was soon declared a hor-
ror classic. The mesmerisings scenes of
a hospital robe-attired Cillian Murphy
wandering hopeless amongst a desolate
central London ravaged by rage-inflicted
zombies is timeless. Buoyed by the suc-
cess of 28 Days Later, Boyle made his
most personal film, Millions. It dealt with
the moral dilemma of finding a large
amount of money and the innocence of
children and was a critical triumph.
Sunshine reunited Boyle and Cillian
Murphy for second time. Murphy, hav-
ing been elevated to star status with
roles in Batman Begins and The Wind
That Shakes the Barley, could not rescue
the film from being a commercial flop.
However Danny Boyle eventually joined
the ranks of superstar directors when
Slumdog Millionaire took eight Oscars
in 2009 including best film and director.
127 Hours, reviewed below, is the sec-
ond outing of Boyle’s with writer Simon
Beaufoy and looks to be his most suc-
cessful film yet after winning a slew of
accolades from the critics. Alfred Hitch-
cock’s crown of being the greatest British
director of all time looks ever more pre-
carious with each film of Danny Boyle’s.
I hate it when it slowly dawns on you that you’
re going to have to chop your own arm off with a penknife
FELIX 29
Friday 21 January 2011

