NEWS
FELIX 3
Friday 21 january 2011
Further student protests planned
New wave of student protests cause counter-terrorism police to contact Imperial
Last year students took to the streets
in reaction to the Tories’ plans to hike
up tuition fees to up to £9,000 a term.
Protesters urged Nick Clegg and his Lib
Dems to remember their pre-election
pledges which promised to vote against
a rise in tuition fees.
Peaceful protests were quickly over-
shadowed by mounting violence from
rioters and police alike. Last week Ed-
ward Woollard, who threw a fire extin-
guisher from the roof of Millbank and
was identified on video footage by his
ridiculous hair, was sentenced to 32
months in jail. Judge Geoffrey Rivlin
QC, who oversaw the case, stated that
“the right of peaceful protest is a pre-
cious one. Those who abuse it and use
the occasion to indulge in serious vio-
lence must expect a lengthy sentence
of immediate custody” – a warning to
participants in future protests. After the
Millbank occupation NUS President
Aaron Porter tweeted his disgust at “a
minority of idiots trying to undermine
50,000 who came to make a peaceful
protest.” On the other hand Clare Solo-
mon, ULU president, denied the Mill-
bank protest was extremist or unrepre-
sentative of the movement as a whole.
Despite the vote having been decided
in December, and the law passed, pro-
tests are planned to take place later this
month and in February. Porter said he
expected to see “continued student pro-
tests, sit-ins and petitions in the new
year”. He said that students must accept
the law has been passed and that now is
the time to pressure university manage-
ment directly to force a decision by their
finance departments to only raise tuition
fees to £6,000 rather than the maximum
£9,000. Solomon urged students to “take
the action up a notch” and cause “maxi-
mum disruption” to the higher education
system in occupations and protests.
The Guardian reported this week that
counter-terrorism police have contacted
20 London universities, including Impe-
rial, for any intelligence about upcoming
tuition fees protests. The news has been
met with hostility. Though it’s hardly
surprising that the police are trying to
find out details of any plans early, many
students feel vilified as potential terror-
ists for exercising their right of protest,
a fact that Porter finds “worrying”. Solo-
mon defended the upcoming protests,
supporting “vigorous occupations” as
“a long established tradition in the stu-
dent movement”. At the time of writ-
ing, Imperial College London had not
confirmed, or denied, that they had been
contacted by counter-terrorism police.
In contrast to the student unions of
other London universities, which have
supported or organised protest events,
Imperial’s Student Union has kept a dis-
tance from the protests. The Union re-
leased a statement last year confirming
that it “broadly supports the proposals of
the Browne Review” and perhaps this is
the reason for the lack of action at Impe-
rial. Alex Kendall, whilst wholehearted-
ly supporting the right of peaceful pro-
test and freedom of speech, condemned
the violence of the previous protests and
some students’ behaviour as “hideous”.
Though some protests were planned
by members of the student body they
fizzled out before gaining any real mo-
mentum around campus. So even if Im-
perial staff did decide to turn informer
and gossip to the police they’d probably
not have much to chat about anyway.
Victoria Druce
Miles Robertson
We might see a bit more of this kind of thing, who knows? All I know is
that the baby blue cap TOTALLY doesn’t go with the high-vis
Kennedy Institute to close
Leading rheumatology research centre moves to Oxford University
The Kennedy Institute of Rheumatol-
ogy, one of the world’s leading research
centres in rheumatology, currently
housed within the Faculty of Medicine
of Imperial College will be relocated
to Oxford University in what Felix has
been told is a sensitive matter for the
Faculty.
In November last year, an announce-
ment was made detailing the collabora-
tion between Oxford University and the
Kennedy Institute Trust. The construc-
tion of a new rheumatology research
centre at Oxford means that the size-
able grants awarded to Imperial through
the Kennedy Institute will no longer be
Deepka Rana
Ian Wei
available.
A spokesperson for Imperial College
London reassured Felix that no jobs
were at risk.
Professor Sir Marc Feldmann, the
current director of the Kennedy In-
stitute at Imperial, told Felix that the
move had been known about for ap-
proximately 2 years but declined to
comment further.
A spokesman for Arthritis Research
UK, one of the main funders of the
Kennedy Institute stated that this
wasn’t the first move for the Kennedy
Institute and that it wasn’t unusual for
research grants to move as they de-
velop. They insisted that they have a
“longstanding relationship with Impe-
rial and fund a significant amount of
[other] work at Imperial.” The spokes-
man added that Arthritis Research UK
“believe in working with the best talent
that the UK has to offer”.
The Kennedy Institute has enjoyed
success and contributed significantly to
the field with important research such as
the discovery of TNFα (Tumour Necro-
“Should you pick
up any relevant
information [...]
please forward it
onto me.”
Reported email from
Counter Terrorism Unit
sis Factor), a type of protein that plays a
large part in a specific type of arthritis.
This led to the realisation that blocking
this protein can alleviate the symptoms
of the condition.
The Directors of the Kennedy Institute
have also enjoyed global recognition,
receiving several awards each. Nota-
bly, Professor Sir Feldmann received
a knighthood in the Queen’s Birthday
Honours list last June.
The Kennedy Institute was first
formed in 1965 with a foundation gift
from the Kennedy Institute of Rheu-
matology Trust formerly known as the
Mathilda and Terence Kennedy Institute
of Rheumatology Trust (Mathilda be-
ing the daughter of Marks & Spencer
founder Michael Marks) and the origi-
nal site was found in Bute Gardens. In
1997, Arthritis Research UK relocated
the Institute closer to the medical school
at Charing Cross Hospital.
The Kennedy Institute of Rheu-
matology is currently based at
Imperial’s Charing Cross campus
“A spokesperson
for Imperial College
London reassured
Felix that no jobs
were at risk.”

