GAMES
FELIX
Friday 21 JANUARY 2011
Games Editor: Simon Worthington
games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
era to the record set by the DSi for a grand total
of three cameras, one on the inside and two on
the outside of the lid. Using these two cameras
it will be possible to take 3D photos, saving
them onto the 2GB SD card that comes with
the system. It was also revealed a depth slider
can be used to adjust the 3D effect.
Shortly after Wossy made another Sachsgate-
esque comment about Laurent Fischer’s wife
(we think), ‘SpotPass’ and ‘StreetPass’ were
named as the two new ways to take advantage
of the DS wireless functionality. SpotPass is
Nintendo’s always-on Internet connection:
whether playing games or in sleep mode (with
the lid closed), the 3DS will connect automati-
cally to compatible access points and down-
load content in the background. Eurosport and
Aardman were named as partners who will be
delivering exclusive 3D content via SpotPass.
StreetPass instead uses a local Wi-Fi con-
nection to exchange details with nearby 3DS
Web Games
Each week we’re going to bring you a selection of
fresh, free and fun web games that you can play right
away in your browser. Unless otherwise specified,
you’re going to need the Adobe Flash Player plug-in
which can be installed from http://get.adobe.com/
flashplayer/.
Goblin War Machine
bigblockgames.com/games/goblin
Sometimes it can all get on top of you. Girlfriend trou-
ble? Exam stress? Then maybe it’s time to kill some
people... in this vehicular-action game of course!
Take to this cannonball-firing monster truck and jump,
drive and shoot all over the native human population
of hamlets, villages and towns. Towers and buildings
stand in your way, and warriors will fight back with
spears, siege towers and even parachutes.
Although the gameplay is really fun when it gets go-
ing, the war machine’s general bouncyness and in-
stability means the car is constantly flipping onto it’s
back from which it’s not possible to recover. Players
can press ‘F’ to flip the wheels back over, but both
hands are on the arrows and mouse so this is awk-
ward. Otherwise, graphics fit well with the mood and
the upgrade system keeps the game going for longer.
Although Nintendo let their big bosses have
the honour of announcing the Nintendo 3DS,
the successor to their current range of handheld
consoles, the task apparently fell to Jonathan
Ross to host the latest press conference on the
upcoming device.
With disgusting beard and sharp quips in evi-
dence, Ross took the stage on Wednesday along
with Nintendo marketing exec and Clooney-
lookalike Laurent Fischer and even Ubisoft
CEO Yves Guillemot. Together they revealed
a wealth of information about the new console
and also announced a March 25th launch date,
no doubt chosen to coincide with the end of
term at Imperial.
Along with the no-glasses-required 3D
screens, it was revealed that the 3DS will also
feature a motion sensor and a new circular di-
rectional pad. Proving again that you can make
products better by simply sticking more stuff
inside, Nintendo have added yet another cam-
30
owners, and is again active even when in sleep
mode. This allows users ‘in the street’ to ex-
change Miis and exclusive game content auto-
matically just by walking past each other. DS
owners will also be pleased to know that the
disgustingly complicated friend code system
has been simplified to give one code per system
instead of one per game.
Nintendo also showed off some cool aug-
mented reality features, a new Mii Maker stu-
dio capable of making Miis automatically from
pictures taken with the cameras, and ‘Face
Raiders’ – a shooting gallery made up of the
faces you’ve taken. So, you can take your own
picture, insert it into the gallery and shoot your-
self in the face. Brilliant!
Also announced were the games: Metal Gear
Solid: Snake Eater, Pro Evolution Soccer 3D,
Dead or Alive Dimensions, a new Resident
Evil title and even remakes of The Legend of
Zela: Ocarina of Time and Starfox 64.
The next level for web games
programming. This has also opened the way
for 3D graphics directly in the browser without
the need for any third-party plugins like Flash
through a yet-to-be-standardised technology
called WebGL. Couple this with the myriad of
improvements in JavaScript, the programming
language that makes the web interactive, and
suddenly game developers have a new, usable
platform for making online games.
But HTML5 is entering an already saturated
playing field. With Adobe’s Shockwave Flash
by far the most popular platform, and Micro-
soft’s Silverlight and Java being less widely
used alternatives, it might be hard to see what
room there is for another way of creating and
deploying online games. HTML5, however,
has some significant advantages over the
competition. Because HTML is the part of the
Gaming is no longer all about consoles. Web
games have gone from being the domain of be-
spectacled nerds to the salvation of the chroni-
cally bored masses. As game authors set the bar
increasingly higher and tax our browsers to the
limit, a new contender enters the eternal web
format wars. To make a difference, it’s going to
have to be fast, good-looking and feature-rich.
Every webpage you have ever visited was writ-
ten in a special computer language called HTML,
or ‘HyperText Markup Language’, which tells
your browser what to display, where to display
it and how it should look. As it’s the language
the runs the entire Internet it’s pretty important
that everyone is speaking it in the same way, and
for this reason HTML is a standardised language
with a static set of features. The last update to the
standard was in 1997 with HTML 4.0, and back
then the web was a much simpler beast. No-one
watched videos on YouTube and no-one chatted
on Facebook, and it was impossible to see how
the web would evolve and to design HTML with
this in mind. Almost fifteen years of progress lat-
er and HTML 4.0 just doesn’t cut it for building
web sites to the standard we’ve come to expect.
HTML5 is the name given to a collection of
new technologies, championed and standardised
by web watchdog the World Wide Web Consor-
tium, that updates the core technology that lies
at the very heart of the web. Offline storage,
rich browser-site communication and all-new
graphical effects are among the features that will
be landing in browsers soon, if not already: up-
to-date users of Firefox, Chrome and Opera can
start using HTML5-enabled sites immediately.
It hasn’t been around for long and not every
web browser supports it, but HTML5 has already
begun making ripples in online game develop-
ment. HTML5 effectively adds a ‘canvas’ to the
web, allowing game developers to ‘draw’ shapes
and sprites to the screen just like in conventional
very fabric of the web the content is rendered
right in the browser without the need for any
third-party plugins or extensions. This is of
particular advantage to phone users: HTML5
is already supported on the iPhone and iPad
(where Flash isn’t allowed to tread) and on
Android phones, and games built using it can
be played on all three without modification.
HTML5’s strength is also unfortunately it’s
downfall. When it comes to displaying the
graphics and running the game the browser
is strictly in charge, but this also means that
the browser sets the limit of what’s possible.
Flash outperforms HTML5 in a number of key
performance areas because it can be given ac-
cess to a computer’s graphics card via ‘hard-
ware acceleration’, and because Flash runs the
game and moves the screen around simultane-
ously where HTML5 and JavaScript do them
one after the other it can handle more taxing
graphical effects and physics. Browsers get
better every day, but developers still have to
work hard to match the performance of Flash
whilst still having visuals that look as sweet.
But there is some good news for develop-
ers. To write a game for Flash or iPhone needs
specialist software which, naturally, Adobe
and Apple charge large sums for. HTML5,
however, is a free and open standard, meaning
that anyone can start using it without having to
buy licenses or programs. This is great for the
home developer and opens up the world of on-
line games to anyone and everyone who wants
to have a go at making their own. Plus, there
are already scores of specially-built libraries
that can make writing a game significantly
easier and quicker than starting from scratch.
The community at Internet news site reddit.
com have compiled (redd.it/f094j) a large list
of available libraries that solve problems in
key areas like game physics, graphics, anima-
tion and sound, so there’s no excuse for the
budding developer not to give HTML5 a go.
Simon Worthington
Wossy reveals Nintendo 3DS details
Five HTML5 games to try!
• Pirates Love Daisies pirateslovedaisies.com
The most impressive title in this list! A fully-
featured tower-defense game that’s just as fun
and good-looking as any Flash title.
• This Shell thisshell.com
Cool jigsaw game where the pieces are a live
music video!
• Z-Type phoboslab.org/ztype
Awesome-looking typing game. Type the words to
shoot the incoming aliens.
• The Legend Of Sadness tinyurl.com/losadness
Zelda-inspired RPG game. Short and looks a bit
weird, but fun nonetheless.
• Torus benjoffe.com/code/games/torus
3D rotating Tetris! A moden twist on the classic.
@FelixGames on Twitter
For all the latest gaming news from
a source you can trust... me!

