FASHION
Fa sh ion Editor: Saskia Verhagen
fashion.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FELIX Friday 21 January 2011 31
Men
swear in Milan: Trendwatch
Every type of gentleman is catered for on the menswear runways this season, from
the fashionably daring to the handsomely debonair – Saskia Verhagen reports
Crayola Bright Colour Suave English Gentleman
Fear and Loathing in the 1970s
Layered Urban Hipster
Unusually for the Autumn/Winter mens-
wear collections, the runways were rath-
er jolly - credited to the flashes of colour
seen especially at Burberry Prorsum, Jil
Sander and Bottega Veneta. There was
none of the jewel-hued colour blocking
we saw over at womenswear, but just
pops of juicy brights: burnt orange, pea
green, mustard or royal blue featuring as
just one piece in an ensemble, a sweater
perhaps, or coral red trousers - a favou-
rite at Jil Sander, or maybe an eye-catch-
ing overcoat, as seen at Bottega Veneta
and Burberry - choose from rainbow-hued
pea and trench coats at Burberry (where
the drama of the clothes was matched by
the faux rain in the finale), or warm wool
duffels at Bottega Veneta. No pastels in
sight, and certainly no patterns: simple,
high-impact pieces and astute colour us-
age is the key here - overkill is not an op-
tion. Pick one thing, and stick to that.
Translation: take cue from Tomas Meier
at Bottega Veneta, who combined his el-
egant monochrome basics with shots of
rich, bright hues.
The 1970s throwback seen on the
Spring/Summer 2011 womenswear cat-
walks was always bound to translate into
menswear, though with somewhat varying
success. But let’s put it this way - Satur-
day Night Fever is definitely upon us, like
it or not. At Prada, there were V-patterned
nylon tracksuits, emerald green lurex
turtlenecks (oh no they didn’t) and pump-
kin suede patchwork jackets. A collective
curled lip and hiss of disgust from every
man worth his sartorial salt. But over at
Salvatore Ferregamo and Roberto Caval-
li, the story was a little different, with a
slightly more subtle, and moreover taste-
ful approach to the groovy influence. The
palette was splashed with teal and ter-
racotta, with licks of leather and velvet,
and touches of fur (fur on men? Save me)
lending a more retro vagabond feel. Less
kitsch travelling salesman, more Johnny
Depp.
Translation: channel your inner 70s rock-
star and throw caution to the wind in a co-
loured 3-piece suit à la Raoul Duke. Warn-
ing: this one isn’t for the faint-hearted.
This is Russell Brand meets a young
Johnny Depp, with a bit of expensive
Milanese polish. The dark, brooding,
existentialist hipster at John Varvatos
could teach an onion how to layer: per-
fect textures were combined effortlessly;
loose ties, cardigans, suit jackets, but-
ton-ups and slouchy biker boots - every
ingredient your grown-up hipster needs
to maintain his nonchalant charm. How
To Layer 101: a great colour palette
(shades of grey, black and khaki), luxe
textures (leather, jersey and loose knits)
and some of that raffish rogue attitude -
plus don’t forget your fitted trousers (not
too tight; remember the hipster that got
thrush from his skinny jeans? It’s a true
story). The sexiest trousers were seen
over at Costume National along with the
ultimate insouciant throw-over-every-
thing overcoat - perfection.
Translation: embrace your inner hipster
- he’s cool again. Side swept hair (no
need to remind our Editor-in-Chief) skin-
nies and round sunglasses complete the
look.
From the penthouse on Canary Wharf
to the manor house in Derbyshire, every
type of English gent was catered for, with
super-sleek debonair tailoring at Dolce
and Gabbana and Ermenegildo Zegna
for the former, and heritage tweeds, fur
and shearling at Burberry Prorsum and
Gucci for the latter. Plenty of playful tar-
tans complete with leather elbow patches
at Moncler Gamme Bleu for the dashing
Scotsman too. For suits, the dapper gen-
tleman has his pick of the bunch, with 2
vs 3-piece, double vs single-breasted and
endless variations on fabric (pinstripe vs.
plain), buttons (2 or 3) and lapels (wide
vs. narrow) - the key here is to know your
body type, and what suits you (sir). For
heaven’s sake, choose wisely - a great
suit is for life. With the right choice, he
goes from “off-the-rack” to a bespoke,
elegant and refined gentleman - and who
doesn’t want one of those?
Translation: if ever there was a time to
buy yourself a suit guys, it’s now. The
tailoring is at its most flattering, turning
even Homer Simpson into Don Draper.
bottega
veneta
dolce
&
gabbana
john
varvatos
roberto
cavalli

