FOOD
FELIX FRIDAY 21 JANUARY 2011 33
Russian Service or French?
I PREFER ENGLISH
By Samuel Furse
A good recent example of this is Nigel
Slater, whose early life was dramatised
on the BBC over Christmas – arguably
more for the gay kiss than for the lemon
meringue, one might say.
The problem then comes with how
this is going to happen. You might think,
well, duh, cook the food and then dole
it out. Putting together the flavours that
one wants to serve for various occa-
sions is usually not transferrable; the
way food is served at a wedding will be
utterly different to that of a few friends
at home, arranged at only a few hours’
notice. Added to which, as any QI geek
will tell you, thanks to an answer from
David Mitchell for which he was award-
ed ‘Teacher’s pet’ in the ‘Food’ episode
of series 6, there are two ways of doing
this.
Service à la Française is the older
of the two in western Europe. Various
descriptions exist, but it seems that this
was used for larger banquets and social
gatherings. The food was served rather
more like a buffet than a sat-down meal
at a table. Thus, in order to get one’s
choice of dishes, and to get the hot food
before it went cold one had to be tall and
long-limbed. Whether or not this was
selected for genetically in any strong
sense is unclear, but if it was it clearly
counted against the French aristocracy
later on, as longer necks are easier to
guillotine.
Service à la Russe is the one we are
altogether more familiar with, in which
food is brought out in courses, one dish
at a time. In company I find this too re-
strictive. How often in a restaurant have
you seen a dish go past that you would
like to try? What about formal dinners
in which there needs to be special provi-
sion made for nut allergies, fussy eaters
or people who choose to be vegetarian?
Well, you hope they would tell you in
advance but even if they do, there is an
unfortunate isolating effect of a ‘special’
One of the things
all the top chefs say
is that one of the
reasons they are in
the job is because
they like putting
a plate of food in
front of someone...
meal. I find myself wanting everyone to
be able to eat together on a level play-
ing field. Of course we could go down to
the lowest common denominator and all
eat like free vegans but as that made me
want to reach for my gun, I looked for
a different approach. Also, would it not
be a bonus if they were able to enjoy the
food and talk about it at the same time?
Food is not Granny-incest, it can be talk-
ed about without upsetting anyone.
So where does that leave us? We know
the disadvantages of service à la Fran-
çaise, though it must have allowed 18th
century French diabetics to fit in but it
is awkward to organise food like that,
especially for a smaller group like a din-
ner party. I call my solution service à
l’Anglaise. I cannot be sure whether it is
original to me – nothing in Larousse is
similar, nor that I can find on Wikipedia.
As that gives pretty much the two ends
of the spectrum for gastronomic reliabil-
ity I think I am safe in presenting it as
original.
Service à l’Anglaise is based on two
or three dishes to each course, typically
with a theme between them. An example
of a theme would be a flavour, such as
paprika or Roquefort. It could even be
something as simple as pasta, but two
different roasted meats served with the
same roasted potatoes and vegetables
does not count as Service à l’Anglaise.
Another problem with weaker formats
is that it is a lot more fun to do other
things – and gives everyone a chance to
try things that are different, as well as no
one being singled out.
I designed the List of Comestibles
(above right) for a dinner party at which
I had Jewish guests, thus it needed to
be possible to avoid pork, shellfish and
mixtures of meat and dairy products. I
am reliably told that ‘eating Jewish’usu-
ally means fish rather than meat anyway.
There was also a cocoa issue.
The wine choice with this list must of
course be in the proper sommelier tradi-
tion and thus go with the dishes as far as
possible. I like chenin blanc, particular-
ly South African ones as they are more
acidic. This is often tiresome when tak-
en alone, but with a dish like this starter
will be a valuable flavour enhancer. Ad-
ditionally, fresher whites will go well
with fish and so this wine will also work
with the Kedgeree of the main.
The theme between the pair of dishes
for the main course was twofold. I put
paprika in the rice of the kedgeree, and
in the pastry. The inclusion of ched-
dar was originally by accident, but it
When food has no meaning and gets you down, call for Uncle Sam (Furse that is, not the pointing chap with the hat)
List of
Comestibles
Raspberry Cocktail
§
Taramousalata, with Potato
pancakes
South African Chenin blanc
§
Bacon, Tomato and Onion Pie
~
Smoked Haddock and Paprika
Kedgeree
Cherry Tomatoes ~ Sweetcorn
~
Sweet Peppers
§
Orange and Chocolate Cake
~
Raspberry Cake
Apple and Raspberry Ice Cream
§
Whisky ~ Disaronno ~ Port
worked well so I left it in. Though the
pastry dish could go with white wine
I think it works better with a light red.
Anything too tanniny kills any subtlety
in the paprika so an aged merlot or pos-
sibly one of the less fruity cabernet sau-
vignon is best. These can drift into the
desert course (avoiding the faux pas of
opening red wine in the sweet course),
but the acid of the chenin blanc should
have gone by the time the mellow, peaty
digestif arrives. Lighter reds please my
female Jewish guest – she has a liking
for red wine but not pork – so it was also
useful for the red to be compatible with
the fish.
It is fair to say that service à l’Anglaise
is not necessarily easier for the host than
any other way of serving food, but with
a little thought it means that you can be
sure the food will not let you down.

