TRAVEL
FELIX
Friday 21 JANUARY 2011
34
TravelEditor: Dylan Lowe
Chris Richardson
travel.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Wishing You Were Here
Big croc on campus
AirAsia is a Malaysia-based budget airline. They’re
a great point of contact for those seeking flights
across the world on a more modest budget. If you’ve
ever used EasyJet then you’ll be more than familiar
with the procedures: pack your own blanket, pillow
and sandwiches and you’re set to go.
Flights are between Stansted and Kuala Lumpur,
and once in Kuala Lumpur you can continue on a
connecting flight to several other destinations.
AirAsia have recently introduced FLY-THRU, where-
by customers can catch connecting flights via a con-
venient transfer hall with a minimum waiting time of
90 minutes.
Their latest great offers include one-way flights to:
Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia from £249
Bangkok, Thailand from £269
Bali, Indonesia from £279
Melbourne, Australia from £319
Christchurch, New Zealand from £389
Visit AirAsia.com to find out more!
Travel Deals of the Week
Breathtaking sights by Chris Richardson
Want to see your travel photograph featured here?
Send it to travel.felix@imperial.ac.uk.
Planning a trip and want some advice from expe-
rienced travellers? Have a travelling tale to share
with Imperial? Send us a tweet with #FelixTravel or
drop us an email at travel.felix@imperial.ac.uk
W
ord on the street is that next
week will be a sweaty one
for Biology fresher Mari-
anne Teoh, as on Monday
she gets engulfed by the
crocodile suit which she’ll be confined to for
the subsequent week. A far cry from the oh-so
tiresome leg shaving and cookie baking ‘an-
tics’ to which we’re all so accustomed, this
campaign is one to watch. I decided to find out
what it was all about.
So... you’re wearing a crocodile suit, huh?
That’s right. All day, all night, rain or shine,
for as long as I can starting on Monday. Walk-
ing down the street with a bucket and sign can
be a little, well, boring. My crocodile debut
involved selling cupcakes around South Kens-
ington: it generated loads of enthusiasm so I
decided to take it to the next level.
This is just the beginning: these antics will
continue, if I get the support. Watch this space.
But why the humiliation? What’s the cause?
This summer I will be volunteering with The
Foundation for Mother and Child Health in
Indonesia. The charity provides a way for
communities to lift themselves out of extreme
poverty – from feeding programmes, health,
hygiene and nutritional education, to providing
pre-school education, medical services, skills
training and microcredit. The charity trains
local community health workers to spread the
word. As well as programmes in Indonesia,
they now have a separate charity in the slums
of Mumbai.
Following this placement I’ll be joining
an Operation Wallacea project in Sulawesi
as a research assistant. The Trust supports
community-based forest conservation pro-
grammes in Indonesia, and students like me
join as part of the research team to support the
charity. Through research, teaching and com-
munity development they aim to maximise the
benefits to local families while defending the
rainforests.
How can Imperialites help you on your
quest?
From my waking hour, while cycling to uni-
versity, through lectures, and onto nights out
clubbing, as well as everything in between, I’ll
be confined to the crocodile suit. But as if that
display of impracticality and downright stupid-
ity isn’t enough, I’m open to suggestions, and I
invite sponsored challenges from anyone!
If you’ll sponsor me on the condition that
I have a photo taken performing an activity
(keep it clean) or at a ridiculous location, such
as atop Big Ben, then I’ll do my best to meet
that challenge. So far I’m booked in for a dip
at the Serpentine Lake next Friday – I’m deter-
mined to survive this one and look forward to
getting more requests in the future!
Next week Marianne Teoh will be undertaking a week of
humiliation to raise awareness for charities in Indonesia
Wishing you the best of luck with the
fundraising – croc on!
We certainly wish Marianne all the best and
hope that her experience in Indonesia is a
valuable one. You can find out about how
her travels work out in the follow-up article
when she returns.
If you’d like to find out more about the
charities involved, or sponsor Marianne to
do something stupid, visit the links below.
Interview by Chris Richardson
Indonesia, the facts: Challenge Marianne!
More than 80 million Indonesians
currently live on less than $1 a day
Nearly 28% of Indonesian children
under 5 suffer from malnutrition
Indonesia’s global hunger index is
defined as serious by the World Food
Programme
(Source: Ministry of Health)
JustGiving.com/MarianneTeoh
Pledge your donation here.
on.fb.me/etEKK8
Join the Facebook page and present
your challenge!
MotherAndChildHealth.org
The official site for The Foundation
for Mother and Child Health
(UK Registered Charity No. 1117793)
A taste of things to come: next time let’s challenge her to get on the bike!

