FELIX Friday 21 JANUARY 2011 35
Success story of an Imperial miser finding happiness on the islands of manta rays,
volcanoes, surfs and opposite-sex attention – Charles Betts visits Hawaii
The Hawaiian antidepressant
T
here are an awful lot of
grumpy people in London
at the moment. They’re fed
up with the daily commute
on overcrowded trains,
the fellow passengers sneezing all over
them, and the realisation that they just
don’t have the will power to keep any
New Year resolutions. But actually their
crabbiness does not stem from any of
these things. It’s all down to a bad case
of seasonal affective disorder, aka win-
ter depression.
For different reasons, these people
have decided to live in an overpopu-
lated, polluted, and very-wet city. They
find themselves longing to be some-
where sunny, constantly dreaming of
those never-ending summer days, the
sea, and the outdoors.
I’m no doctor, but I think a trip to
Hawaii might just fix their tempers –
it worked for me. The 50th
state of the
USA is the most isolated population
centre in the world, and is constantly be-
ing reformed by eruptions of undersea
volcanoes. It’s not just a place for beach
holidays and partying – though there’s
ordered a beer before I was explaining
which “Circus” I lived in in London,
that the UK hadn’t adopted the Euro,
and that England is not the same thing
as Britain. They were very nice to me
– they even thanked me for Blair go-
ing to Iraq…I’m afraid to say that my
moral beliefs quickly left the room when
confronted with several voluptuous
blondes. When asked where I was resid-
ing, I stated the local hostel. I was told
to not be silly, I could stay at theirs. I’m
deadly serious.
During the daytime, Oahu has oodles
to offer. There’s the world-famous
Hanauma Bay, a snorkelling para-
dise with hundreds of tropical fish and
turtles. The Byodo-In temple is a scale
replica of the temple at Uji in Japan, and
the Buddha is the largest carved figure
to be built since ancient times. Then
there’s Pearl Harbour and the USS Ari-
sun-kissed beaches.
The oddest site on Oahu is the Church
of Latter Day Saints temple. It lies
within a huge compound full of spotless
white houses. It was pretty scary – there
was even a brainwash-learning centre.
Avoid at all costs.
The Big Island (called Hawaii) is not
to be missed. Don’t let the rain in Hilo
(the rainiest city in the US) get you
down – Hapuna Beach, rated one of the
best in the world, can be found at the
other side of the island with its turquoise
sea and white sand. There are also great
diving opportunities – one can go night
diving with Manta Rays that have 15ft
wingspans.
The village of Volcano (population
2000) is located next to the Volcano
National Park, where you can see the
world’s most active volcano glowing at
night. By the coast, it is possible to wit-
ness new land in the making where the
lava reaches the ocean.
The Big Island is also host to the
world’s tallest mountain – Mauna Kea,
which starts at the ocean floor and
climbs 13,700ft above sea level. It is
possible to drive to the peak, where there
are numerous observatories. The land-
scape resembles Mars, and it is here that
Apollo astronauts rehearsed with their
lunar rover.
The Big Island is much quieter than
Oahu. For that reason, it is worth sand-
wiching your trip there between your
stay in Oahu – but the volcanoes are a
must see.
zona memorial. And treks through the
rainforests, not forgetting the countless
“You know that scene
in Love Actually when
the English chap
goes into a bar? It’s
actually like that in
Honolulu”
Yes it’s a beach... again – now quit staring at the photo, go to one and shag something
A very inviting-looking hole isn’t it?
Surely your face isn’t as rough as Gordon Ramsay’s?
TRAVEL
plenty of that on offer – but also offers
the chance to see flowing lava, whales,
and 8000 species of animal found no-
where else on the planet. Hawaii is all
about water sports, rainforest treks, wa-
terfalls, cocktails with small umbrellas,
and Hula girls.
It’s a myth that the place costs an arm
and a leg. For around £1500 – includ-
ing flights, car rental, accommodation,
food, and activities – I spent 3 weeks
out there. Isn’t it nice that a car in the
US only costs about £5? The best place
for the parties and nightlife is certainly
the island of Oahu, the most populated
of the lot – the North Shore is also re-
nowned for surfing (it’s where they
filmed James Bond riding the waves in
Die Another Day).
An English accent is a sure-fire way
of making friends. You know that scene
in Love Actually when the quiet English
chap goes into a bar? Well, it is actually
like that in Honolulu. No sooner had I
“There are a lot
of grumpy people
in London at the
moment...I think a
trip to Hawaii might
just fix their tempers”
You know when your dad ‘took you to Mars’? That was a lie. Your entire life is a lie

