Scorpio
This week is frankly just dreadful.
There’s not a single other thing that
could go wrong for you this week. I
mean this week is the fucking Emile
Heskey of weeks. It’s the fucking ASDA
of weeks. It’s the fucking... Oh hey! A
pringle! What was I talking about?
THE NEWS WITHOUT THE NEWS
37
felix
Horoscopes
Aries
This week you become a stand up co-
median. Suddenly the world becomes a
more interesting place. You start stand-
ing up, anywhere and everywhere. On
the bus, in lectures, on the toilet. You’re
thinking of going global! Right after
you’ve figured the comedian bit...
Taurus
This week you wish that a hole would
open up in the ground and swallow you
up. Instead a hole opens up in the wall.
A really big missle shaped hole. Oh
dear you live in a war zone. You don’t
remember what peace-and-quiet feels
like. Hey, whose limbs are those? LOL.
Gemini
This week is a tough one. The days are
blurring into each other and you know
you’re not getting enough sleep. There’s
really no way out. This is life. It’s an
endless sequence of alarm clocks, coffee
and disapointment. WTF! That guy over
there is smiling! Pffft! Asshole!
Cancer
This week some slobbering fat guy
presses up against you on the tube. You
try elbowing him and asking him to
move away from you but it doesn’t work.
What an asshole. You bring out the heavy
guns. You spread your legs and let out an
almighty female fart. FUCK YEAH!
Leo
This week you make a decision. It is the
most important decision that you will
ever make. It could make you the most
famous Imperialite ever lived. This deci-
sion...oh I’ve built it up too much now.
There’s nothing I can write that will be
funny enough. Ummm... TITTIES!
Virgo
This week your stomach rumbles really
loudly in lectures. Fuck all that ‘blushing
face and “I’m so hungry”’bullshit.You’re
all about the truth. You stand up, farting
as you do, and declare “So what? I’ve
got hella GAS!” You receive a standing
ovation from your peers...
Libra
This week, you try to share a smile with
someone that used to be special to you.
The magic just isn’t there any more. It’s
no good, you’ll never get it back. I guess
somethings just can’t last forever, but it’s
o.k. you’ll meet someone new. You sigh
and put his body back in the closet
Sagittarius
This week you are Michael Barrymore’s
head which has mysteriously sprouted
on some twat’s arms. It’s torture. You
spend weeks and weeks in his bedroom
being forced to suck his dirty cock. Man
you Capricorns really need to get some
action. I mean, get a grip...
Capricorn
This week your hands fall off and in their
place, the head of Michael Barrymore
sprouts. Which is fucking awesome
because everytime you have a wank, you
get a double blowjob. Fuck yeah Michael,
you’re one dirty ex-tv presenter... Mmm
oh yeah, just like that, keep going...
Aquarius
This week you start to look forward to the
summer. It’ll be hot and you won’t have
to wake up when its dark.You’ll be free to
do whatever you want and will hopefully
go travelling. You’ll meet a beautiful girl
and have so much fun. Seriously, this one
doesn’t have a catch... shit isn’t it?
Pisces
This week you realise the almighty power
that you hold as an Imperial student. You
walk up to girls in swanky London clubs,
jab a finger in their face and say “HEY.
I’m a SMART GUY. I know so many
FUCKING things. Let’s GET IT ON.” It
works! Well, not actually... Pint?
China hails new underground
bus service a success
DRUNKEN MATE
OF THE WEEK
Listen mate, if you’ve got a bit of tinkle from your winkle on your jeans, the LAST thing you want to do is fucking
dry it in!!! No wonder that American girl never called you back...
Friday 21 JANUARY 2011

