NEWS
FELIX
4
News Editors: Matt Colvin
Alex Karapetian
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Silwood
Social space at Silwood Park to
undergo refurbishment
Feasibility of longer day
called into question
Zainab Ali
Sophia David
Maciej Matuszewski
Veronika McQuadeova
Professor Julia Buckingham has sought to reassure students and staff, saying: “staff and stu-
dents would not be expected to work longer hours”, but some members of staff warned that
this might be hard to ensure with the flexibility offered to students when choosing modules
Friday 21 january 2011
It came as a shock to many last week
when Felix reported that a College com-
mittee is investigating changes to the
length of the College day. The proposals,
which include extending the day to 8am
until 7pm for undergraduates and until
8pm for postgraduates, on Mondays and
Thursdays, are still under consideration
but they have been treated with appre-
hension by students and members of
staff alike, many of whom were not of-
ficially informed of the proposals. The
first meeting of the committee on Mon-
day 17th January was cancelled at short
notice for unknown reasons.
Imperial College Union has raised
a number of concerns about the wide-
spread effect of the changes including:
the possible negative impact on partici-
pation in clubs and societies, reduced
attendance in lectures, the impact on
participation in humanities courses and
the negative impact on student welfare.
Pro-Rector for Education, Professor
Julia Buckingham, said that the pro-
posals would help Imperial “use [its]
teaching space most effectively and
ensure that [it could] accommodate the
growing number of Master’s courses
and extra-curricular programmes the
College offers.” She reassured students
and staff that the committee was simply
investigating the proposals and that any
recommendations that it made would
“be given further consideration at both
the Strategic Education Committee and
the College’s Management Board.”
Professor Omar Matar, Director of Un-
dergraduate Studies (DoUG) for Chemi-
cal Engineering acknowledged that the
changes were being proposed “with the
best of intentions, to create more flex-
ibility in the timetable”. However, he
questioned the need for them, saying:
“We haven’t asked for an extension to
the College day.” He told Felix that he
was “confident that we will not need
to schedule any undergraduate lectures
from 8am-9am or from 6pm-7pm. How-
ever, ProfessorAngus Mackinnon, Direc-
tor of Undergraduate Studies for Physics,
said that though he was “not a fan of the
proposed change”, he would be forced to
use it due to the “timetable congestion in
[the] Physics [department].”
Colin Kerr, the Departmental Ad-
ministrator for Civil Engineering, con-
curred: “If we were to extend the day, it
would make the job of timetabling class-
es easier. There would be less clashing
of modules and it would be possible to
offer a range of options.”
Professor Buckingham said the Col-
lege is “approaching a limit on the
teaching space available for all the ac-
tivities undertaken day to day.”
Professor Matar told Felix that neither
he nor his colleagues had been consult-
ed: “The proposed changes haven’t been
discussed with me and I have consulted
with a number of my colleagues and
they haven’t been discussed with them
either.” The sentiment was shared by
other members of staff, many of whom
had not heard of the proposals.
A spokesperson for UCL confirmed
that lectures there start at 9am, although
“Undergraduate Computer Sciences
teaching occasionally starts at 8am”.
The last lectures are from 4pm-5pm ac-
cording to the spokesperson.
There has been significant concern
about the impact of early morning lec-
tures on the welfare of both students
and staff. Professor Mackinnon pointed
out that “there are bound to be serious
problems for staff […] who have to or-
ganise childcare.” He also expressed
his sympathy for students and staff who
might have a lecture at 8am and also
at 6pm in the same day: “I’d hate to be
either a lecturer or a student who found
himself with lectures at both 8am and
6pm.” Charlotte Ivision, Deputy Presi-
dent (Welfare), argued that a longer day
would take a “physical toll on students in
terms of fatigue and in terms of less flex-
ibility when it comes to managing their
free time.” One Director of Undergradu-
ate Studies told Felix privately, “the gen-
eral effect would be tiring for students”.
Professor Buckingham told Felix that
“that any new arrangements must be fam-
ily friendly” and that staff and students
would be expected to work longer hours.
Professor Mater argued that it would
be difficult for some staff to attend 8am
lectures: “I know a lecturer who lives
in Peterborough, another who lives in
Reading. It will be extremely difficult
for them to teach lectures at 8am.”
He also questioned the likely atten-
dance rate of students saying: “I’m not
entirely sure what the attendance of stu-
dents will be like for early or late lec-
tures. We know that attendance at 9am
lectures is less than at other times.”
Postgraduate students, however, were
generally more receptive to the ideas.
While Ritika Gupta, a masters student
in biomedical engineering, said that she
thought that “it’s hard enough to cope
with the timetable at the moment” and
others said that since they already had to
stay in college for most of the day they
wouldn’t mind their lectures being spread
over a longer period. Charlotte Ivision,
Union Deputy President (Welfare), raised
concerns about the well-being of students
affected by the changes. She said there
could be problems for “mature students
with children and students from certain
ethnic backgrounds who may have home
commitments requiring them to be at
home in the time currently free”.
Zahra Kadom, a representative of the
Ahulul Bayt Islamic Society, comment-
ed that the changes would be problem-
atic in the months of Ramadan, during
which “a lot of people travel to their lo-
cal mosques to attend services”, usually
between “6-7pm, which would clash
with the proposed timetabling.”
Stephen Long, an Ordinary Member
of the Union Council, raised the issue of
accommodation arguing that long hours
The Social Space in Silwood Park, Imperial’s cam-
pus in Ascot, has been undergoing refurbishment
to provide better recreational conditions. The com-
mon room will be transformed to meet the qual-
ity standards of other parts of the campus, with
significant heating and lighting upgrades to be
applied. The estimated completion date is today
(Friday 21st January).
President of the Silwood Park Student Union, Mark
Ramsden, was informed of the work beginning early
this term. Plans will incorporate finishes to the floor
and walls chosen by students themselves.
Students were pleased to hear the plans, with ap-
preciation for the common room’s standards rising
to better represent the world class research centre.
Various divisions of Natural Sciences have a pres-
ence on campus, in addition to the NERC (Natural
Environment Research Council) Centre for Popula-
tion Biology, the International Pesticide Application
Research Centre (IPARC) and the Imperial College
Reactor Centre. A science and business park is also
nearby.
Silwood Park, sporting a reactor and therefore a
licensed nuclear site, is home to one hundred hect-
ares of semi-natural habitats including a lake, three
streams, grasslands, woodlands and wetlands. The
campus is tailored to postgraduate and PhD stu-
dents studying Biology, Geophysics, Meteorology
and is a frequently visited site for Civil Engineers to
perform surveying.
Many Silwood Park staff have spent time working
on pest problems overseas, and are highly experi-
enced in the field of Life Sciences. Restructuring
took place between 2001 and 2007, causing the
merge of the Biology and Biochemistry departments
and eventually categorising them within the Faculty
of Natural Sciences. The Division of Biology course
is one of many based at Silwood Park.
The site was built in 1878 and was acquired by Im-
perial in 1947. The designer of Silwood Park Manor
House, Alfred Waterhouse, is also credited with de-
signing the Natural History Museum.
Alex Karapetian
Corrections
In the article entitled: “The most wonderful time of
year” (Issue 1478 – 14/01/11), the subtitle mistak-
enly referred to the Fellwanderers as the Outdoor
Club. Felix apologises for this error.
In the article entitled: King Colin proves speech is no
impediment” (Issue 1478 – 14/01/11), King Edward
VIII is mistakenly referred to as King David VIII. Felix
apologises for this error.
If you notice an error in the paper, please email the
Editor at felix@imperial.ac.uk. Felix will always en-
deavour to correct mistakes in the following issue
and as soon as possible online.
Editor
Join the debate!
Share your views
on this issue at
felixonline.co.uk

