FELIX 5
NEWS
already push Imperial students “to live
much closer to our campus than most
other London universities”, with the as-
sociated higher costs. He went on to say
that the longer hours would disadvan-
tage poorer students by making it more
difficult to keep part-time jobs.
Opinions about the change in the
lunch period were mixed. Dr Leroy
Gardner, Director of Undergraduate
Studies for Civil Engineering, con-
firmed that 1-hour of lunch was already
the norm for Civil Engineering stu-
dents. However, the proposed change
in the lunch hour has caused particular
concern in the humanities department.
Many students, including those on Year
in Europe and Language for Science de-
grees, already continue their language
studies into lunchtime and would have
no lunch break at all if the change was
implemented.
The reduced lunch hour would also
have a negative impact on participa-
tion in activities at ETHOS, some have
argued. Daniel Taffard, the Fitness
Manager at ETHOS, said that popular
lunchtime classes would be hit if lunch
was shortened to one hour: “Lunchtime
classes are usually one of most produc-
tive times in terms of usage so from a
service and monetary point of view it
is important to have these classes run-
ning.” He further explained: “The fact
that the students have more than one
hour is VERY important. The class is
usually of one hour duration so having
the time either side to shower, change,
eat etc. would be important to a student.”
Heather Jones, Deputy President
(Clubs & Societies), has also argued
that the changes would have a negative
impact on participation in sports and
other clubs and societies. Neil Mosley,
the Head of Sport Imperial, told Felix
that he had written to Professor Dorothy
Griffiths, who is chairing the committee
investigating the changes, to express his
views and that they were “supportive of
those of [Imperial College Union].”
Jones expressed concern about Clubs
& Societies’ access to rooms in College.
“Either Departmental Administrators
will have their workload increased sig-
nificantly; they will have to check each
room booking for clashes with classes,
which they currently do not have to do.
Or, they will simply not allow any room
bookings between 6pm-8pm on the af-
fected days.” Colin Kerr, Departmental
Administrator for Civil Engineering, as-
sures societies that although “we might
not be able to make the big lecture
theatres available to clubs and societ-
ies within those hours, on occasion, we
should be able to [continue to] provide
for clubs and societies.” Mr Kerr said
that he felt that the impact would be
“manageable”.
There is significant concern amongst
sports teams. Bernice Cutler, Netball
Team Captain, said that late lectures
would particularly affect matches be-
tween universities. “The changes will
be workable for home matches [...] but
we’re going to face problems [with
away games].”
Friday 21 january 2011
Fears for
Humanities
F
or many students, the option
to balance their science de-
grees with humanities sub-
jects is fantastic opportunity
offered to ensure they acquire
the widest range of skills during their
time here. However, some of the pro-
posed timetable changes could increase
the pressure on humanities students. It
is critical that the panel overseeing the
proposed timetabling changes recognise
the importance of humanities to students,
both in terms of enjoyment as well as the
development of skills and improved em-
ployability that comes with the classes.
The proposal to have teaching during
the lunch hours could mean that those
undertaking language courses as part of
Year in Europe or Language for Science
degrees, have no lunch break at all. Ben-
jamin Chadwick, a first year Mathemati-
cian andYear in Europe student remarked
that continuing his French classes into the
single lunch hour “would be a nightmare
on a busy day, [I need] a break from lec-
tures in which I can relax”.
The Languages coordinator, Charm-
ian Brinson, highlighted how the change
would cut back the Humanities lunchtime
programme. “Reducing the lunchtime
from two hours to one would effectively
shrink our timetable and the availability
of places on our courses by half”.
Another proposal is to move the Hu-
manities and Language classes of the
Year in Europe and Language for Sci-
ence degrees to the evening, from 6pm
to 8pm, a change welcomed by neither
staff nor students. “It would be very
disadvantageous for any student taking
a Languages or Humanities option for
credit to be obliged to take this part of
their course in the evenings after a full
day of lectures and labs,” commented
Charmian Brinson.
Miriam Kennedy, a Mechanical En-
gineering and French student, remarked
that Humanities seemed “completely un-
der-appreciated”. He added: “If they are
an accredited part of their degree, they
should be held during college hours and
valued as much as any other module.”
However, the value that Imperial
places in Humanities shoudn’t be under-
estimated. There is already a very large
evening class programme of Languages
and Humanities options from 6pm to
8pm that are open to everyone including
staff, students and members of the pub-
lic. They have now also proposed offer-
ing new Humanities and business classes
at these times, on a voluntary basis.
With the Humanities department hav-
ing no representation on the panel, it is
hoped that the views of both staff and
students will be taken into account in
any decisions made about the depart-
ment. Students are lucky to have such
a flourishing Humanities department
at a science institution and to be able
to study such a wide array of subjects.
Hopefully, this will not change.
Sophia David argues
that Humanities could be
negatively affected by the
proposed changes
Sports training
could be hit
The College’s proposals to extend the
working day would have several impli-
cations in terms of the available time for
extra-curricular sporting activity.
Although some might find Imperial’s
location within London an advantage,
for the sports teams the significant dis-
tance to the grounds and the added costs
of transport has meant that certain teams
have the highest budgets and travel ex-
penses of the clubs and societies at Im-
perial. The latest movements towards
the extension of the day has angered
some involved in sport, with Netball
Club Captain Bernice Cutler explain-
ing how training at White City presents
some problems in the face of an extend-
ed day: “It’s going to be quite difficult
to get students there and back at a rea-
sonable time if people are going to have
lectures until 7pm.”
Imperial College Union have provid-
ed a response to the proposals, with the
view that an impact on sports training
would reduce Imperial’s sporting per-
formance as a university. Neil Mosley,
Head of Sports Imperial, has said that he
is “supportive” of the Union’s views.
In terms of rescheduling training to
different days, some clubs are evidently
wary. Hockey Club Captain Ed Lacey,
whose club trains on a Monday at Har-
lington (near Heathrow) explains that,
“People don’t want to train on Tuesdays
because we have matches the next day
on Wednesday. Similarly for Thursday,
we’ve had a match the day before and
trying to get people to train on Friday
night would be difficult to say the least.”
Most, if not all, sports teams also play
weekend matches.
Heather Jones warned that “[students]
will face a decision between their club
commitments and their degree. Some
will be discouraged from participating
in clubs because they won’t be able to
fit it around their lectures whereas oth-
ers will choose their club over certain
lectures and will see their education suf-
fer.”
Students protesting cuts to the Humanities Department in 2009
Imperial College London
Jovan Nedic
David Murray
Imperial train with the England team at Harlington in 2008

