FEATURE
FELIX
6
News Editors: Matt Colvin
Alex Karapetian
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 21 january 2011
Imperial students reject concerns about dr
cause Imperial is one of the top univer-
sities [in the country] there’s this higher
expectation of our behaviours, but in the
end we’re just students.”
The Football Club Captain, Simon Kil-
roy, agreed, commenting that: “It seems
like [the Daily Mail] were surprised that
students at Imperial have a drink.”
However, Professor J. Laycock of the
Faculty of Medicine said that Imperial’s
medical students had a responsibility to
behave in a professional manner: “our
medical students have an even greater
responsibility […] than other students,
in order to publicly demonstrate their
suitability to represent the doctors of the
future, and to reassure the public of their
professional behaviour”.
There is a perception of medical stu-
dents as being heavier drinkers than
the rest of Imperial. Despite not being
shocked by the ‘antics’ described in the
Daily Mail article, some non-medic stu-
dents have described the drinking habits
of their medic peers as more “extreme”.
Ed Lacey, Hockey Club Captain said, “I
suppose the medics are a bit more ex-
treme in their antics. Not every time we
drink do we get plastered, but it seems
that way with the medics.” Tristan Col-
lier, President of the 22s, a private social
club affiliated with the Royal College of
Science (see “Drinking Clubs or Social
Clubs?”), commented: “I don’t person-
ally think that people should throw up in
the middle of a bar. I certainly wouldn’t
enjoy having a beer next to a bucket of
sick.” Simon Kilroy agreed saying wry-
ly “[the Football Club] don’t need buck-
ets. I think our members can make their
way to the toilets if needs be.”
Medics, however, rejected the sug-
gestions. Professor Laycock said: “I
certainly don’t think that our [medical]
students are any different from many
of their peer group.” Research from the
Harvard Medical School, released in
1991, showed that “medical students did
not drink especially heavily and were
no more vulnerable to alcoholism than
were their counterparts in pharmacy and
other professions.”
Imperial College School of Medicine
Student Union (ICSMSU) President
David Smith insisted that there wasn’t a
culture of heavy drinking in the medi-
cal school: “A small minority of stu-
dents do end up drinking too much but
[…] the vast majority of ICSM students
are either moderate drinkers or teetotal.”
Indeed, many medics believe they are
the same as any other type of student
in terms of drinking: “I think the [Daily
Mail] article highlights a universal prob-
lem, not just for medics, because every-
body does it,” said a Medic who wished
to remain anonymous. Scott Heath,
RCSU President, questioned whether
the article was bad publicity at all, say-
ing: “Frankly, it was nice for the media to
finally portray a part of Imperial College
student life as comparable to that of any
other university in the UK.”
Positive or not, the publicity has trig-
gered changes at Reynolds Bar. Jugs of
beer have been banned and ID will be
required at the door, a measure already
in place at Imperial College Union on
busy nights, as well as at the bar. A
Medic who wished to remain anony-
mous commented that the changes cre-
ated “more of a hassle for the bar staff”
but that “people seem to still be enjoying
themselves.” David Smith conceded that
some people would be disappointed, but
said in an email to club captains that the
changes made the best of a bad situation.
Professor Laycock said that although
drinking “has always been part of the
growing-up learning experience [for
students]” that “a more responsible at-
titude to drinking is to be encouraged.”
There have also been attempts, success-
ful whether positive or not, to change the
drinking atmosphere at Imperial College
Union this year. The new bar and club,
FiveSixEight and Metric respectively,
have been designed to discourage drink-
ing games. Ed Lacey commented, “The
drinking atmosphere at the Union has
changed since the refurbishment. There’s
less space for drinking games.” Imperial
College Union has launched a website
this year, yourlimits.co.uk, designed to
educate students about the effect of alco-
hol and drugs on their health.
Whether fair or not, there is a com-
monly held perception that Imperial
College Union’s Sports teams, and some
other societies, are responsible for pro-
moting a culture of heavy drinking
at Imperial. There have already been
attempts to change this perception;
Wednesday’s sports night at the Union
has been rebranded “Boom Box”.
Joe Harris, the Rugby Club Captain,
accepted that there was a culture of
heavy drinking associated with sports
teams. “To deny that the culture exists
would be irresponsible” but he denied
that it was unique “to the rugby club,
rugby in general or to Imperial.” Ed Lac-
ey echoed his sentiments: “The drinking
culture is [...] a tradition for sports teams
but I would also say that it’s a tradition
for students in the UK in general”.
However, Harris went on to explain
that the drinking culture may partly
“stem from the sport itself.” He said that
a game like rugby is extremely demand-
ing and requires strong bonds between
players. “Socialising off the pitch is
incredibly important in developing this
bond between players. Doing so doesn’t
necessarily have to be alcohol-related,
it’s just convenient to do so as everyone
meets in the bar.”
of Gloucestershire were filmed taking
part in a “Nazi-style initiation” in 2008
while a student at the University of Ex-
eter died of alcohol poisoning in 2006
after a Golf Club initiation. Imperial’s
social clubs, which are not affiliated
with the Union and therefore not subject
to their ban on initiations, have insisted
that their initiations are nothing like
those reported in the media. Tristan Col-
lier, President of the 22s, said that their
initiations did not involve any nudity or
humiliation of any kind. “We take very
good care of our initiates and [we don’t]
push people over the edge,” he said.
Drinking games, forfeits and dirty
pints, seen as controversial by some,
were defended across the board. Lacey
accepted that some people “might see
[those] things [...] as unacceptable,” but
insisted that there was no coercion in-
volved: “We always take care of people
and we don’t force feed [them] alcohol.”
Rahul Mudannayake, a steward at the
Union, agreed that the Union was a safe
environment for students and argued that
it was far preferable that, if students want
to get drunk, that they do so at the Union.
“I’d rather that students were drinking at
the Union, in a safe environment, than
elsewhere where they won’t have stew-
ards looking out for them,” he said.
The issue of alcohol consumption is
one that is under increasing scrutiny as
the government tries to reduce binge
drinking through minimum pricing and
researchers like Imperial’s Professor
David Nutt attempt to show the com-
Drinking Clubs or Social Clubs?
The Links, Chaps and 22s abso-
lutely reject the label ‘drinking
club’. The Social Clubs of the City
and Guilds College (CGC), Royal
School of Mines (RSM) and the
Royal College of Science (RCS),
respectively, all insist that drink-
ing is no more central to their ac-
tivities than any club or society of
the Union.
The Chaps Club refused to com-
ment on who is allowed to join
the club, but suggested that the
entry was based on involvement
in RSM sports. The 22s does not
offer membership to women while
the Links Club is open to men and
women who are “generally from a
sporting background.”
The common perception of the
clubs as drinking clubs is primarily
based on the fact that they initiate
prospective members. The Chaps
Club refused to comment on their
initiation but Tristan Collier, Presi-
dent of the 22s, defended their
‘22-pint ordeal’ – a term not used
by their members insists Tristan
– saying that “there’s a tendency
to [imagine] the worse examples
of initiations where people are
stripped naked and humiliated”.
He categorically denied that the
22s were involved in that kind
of behaviour and said “we take
very good care of our initiates”.
Joe Harris, Links Club Honorary
Secretary, echoed Collier’s com-
ments saying “we don’t humiliate
[initiates]. We always make sure
we look after them.”
The Links and 22s emphasised
their charitable activities; the
22s raised £1,600 for Macmil-
lan Cancer Support last year.
However, it seems unlikely that
the male-dominated clubs are go-
ing to shake off their reputation
as drinking clubs, given that the
main point of contact that most
students have with the clubs is
in the bar. Interestingly, part of
the criteria for entrance into the
Chaps Club is that members are
“true and whole-hearted support-
ers of the Union Bar”
Join the debate! Share your
views on this issue at
felixonline.co.uk
...Continued from Front Page
All of the sports teams with which
Felix spoke were keen to emphasise
that they are just as welcoming to non-
drinkers as they are to non-drinkers.
Football Club Captain Simon Kilroy said
that most members of the Football club
didn’t attend Sports night at the Union on
Wednesday while Bernice Cutler pointed
out that last year’s Netball Club Social
Secretary is a non-drinker. While she
conceded, “some people at times will feel
pressured into drinking” she argued that it
was a problem that was seen in many ar-
eas of society and wasn’t “specific to this
or that club, or to this university at all.”
Scott Heath, however, was less ac-
commodating, arguing that “if you are
part of a sports team that is renowned
for its Wednesday Night piss up it will
take a lot to say no their tradition.” He
went on to claim that students had been
deterred from joining sports teams be-
cause of the drinking culture: “I can
guarantee that there are students out
there who have been deterred from join-
ing teams because they want to avoid
this.” Ed Lacey disagreed, insisting that
non-drinkers were as welcome as drink-
ers: “Non-drinkers are always respected.
It’s not like you have to drink to be in
the Hockey Club.” Indeed initiations are
banned by the Union and at many other
universities. Students at the University
“We always take
care of people and
we don’t force feed
[them] alcohol”
All together now Imperial... “LADS”
Marie Chkaiban

