FELIX 7
FEATURE
Friday 21 january 2011
Agile
minds
see
a new vision
teamwork
local impact
global projects
investment
Deutsche Bank
more
First Year Opportunities
Look beyond the construction sites of Qatar and you’ll find a complex
system of planning and development. Look closer and you’ll see
Deutsche Bank’s place in it all.
To establish your place in the world of Global Finance, you need to
know where you are going. We offer a range of opportunities for
students in their first year which will provide you with an insight into
what a career at Deutsche Bank is really like.
Deutsche Bank Start-up Scholarship
A scholarship program open to all students, deadline Tuesday,
1 February 2011
Spring into Banking
A one week introduction to find out what a career at Deutsche Bank
is really like, deadline Sunday, 13 February 2011
Deutsche Bank Ambassador Program
Campus ambassadors required to promote Deutsche Bank career
opportunities, deadline Sunday, 27 February 2011
To see how far your agile mind could take you go to db.com/careers
Deutsche Bank
DOHA, QATAR
rinking
parative harm of legal drugs, like alco-
hol, against socially unacceptable illegal
drugs. There is certainly complacency
when it comes to the harm caused by al-
cohol. The issue of damage to a person’s
health scarcely appeared in our discus-
sions with students – and certainly the
authors of this piece are as guilty as
those students. (Rahul Mudannayake
told Felix that there were certainly a
few who drank far in excess of what is
healthy, noting one student who he knew
drank 278 units of alcohol in one week
– government guidelines recommended
no more than 3-4 per day.)
It is hard to defend heavy drinking on
an intellectual level. As the Football Club
Captain put it, dirty pints and drinking
games are “probably not ‘civilised’ be-
haviour”. However, it is clear that most
students believe that it is an individual’s
responsibility to regulate their own intake
– whether or not this is justifiable when
you include peer pressure is debatable.
But while the Daily Mail article im-
plied there was something unique, or
uniquely wrong, about medical students
at Imperial getting drunk and engaging
in questionable behaviour, Heather Jones
disagreed saying: “Like any university,
and like society in general, we probably
have some people who drink more than
they should. And I’m sure that there are
some clubs with a large proportion of
those people. But to suggest that there is
an Imperial-wide problem, that’s unique
to this university, is wrong.”
Additional reporting: Katherine Bettany

