SCIENCE
FELIX
8
Science Editors: Katya-yani Vyas
Kelly Oakes, Charlie Harvey
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
The New World of Mr Tompkins
by George Gamow and Russell Stannard
And a few suggestions...
You won’t believe it...
Eating crickets, locusts, or even cockroaches, in-
stead of a nice juicy steak, could help stop climate
change. New research shows creepy crawlies pro-
duce significnatly less methane and nitrous oxide
than traditional livestock; gases which have a great-
er warming effect than carbon dioxide. The authors
of the research say that insects are an “excellent
food source” and are eaten in over 80% of the
world’s countries. So while the thought of climate
change might leave you with a sinking feeling in the
pit of your stomach, we doubt eating insects and
worms will likely help the situation much.
I’m going to be a little self-indulgent this week, with
a book that triggered my interest in physics. The
new world of Mr Tompkins is a revised version of
Gamow’s classic, bringing the witty and engaging
story of Mr Tompkins up to date with current phys-
ics. Taking the reader on a whirlwind tour through
relativity, quantum mechanics, antimatter and black
holes, Mr Tompkins provides an endearing medium
for the authors to explain some complicated ideas.
The physics is, of course, the backbone of the book
but it reads like a novel, with Mr Tompkins’ plight
for romance and love bringing the characters to life.
Gamow was one of the most significant physicists
of the last century but also had a unique gift for
popularising science; Stannard is equally prolific as
a science communicator today. Between the two of
them they are able to pull apart the foundations of
physics and explain the intricacies whilst we watch
them being put back together.
Katya-Yani Vyas
New gene heralds inflammation cures
Ben Good
Inflammation is a major cause and constitu-
ent of many different conditions and scientists
believe they have identified a “master switch”
protein that could hold the key to new treat-
ments for these diseases.
The immune inflammatory response is a vital
part of the body’s reaction to potential dam-
age, whether that be infectious or due to other
stimuli. This process is the responsibility of im-
mune cells known as macrophages. These cells
have a dual role, able to stimulate or suppress
inflammation depending on what chemicals the
cell secretes into the tissues.
However, despite the defensive intentions of
the inflammatory response, in many conditions
it is the inflammation that is the main cause of
symptoms and complications.
A team from Imperial College London has
come up with a potential new way to control
the inflammatory response. There results indi-
cate that a protein, known as Interferon regu-
latory factor 5 (IRF5), is the “master switch”
responsible for the role of macrophages in in-
flammation.
If this protein is blocked it could have po-
tential therapeutic benefits for several differ-
ent conditions including rheumatoid arthritis,
Friday 21 JANUARY 2011
lupus and multiple sclerosis.
A senior researcher who worked on this
study, Dr Irina Udalova, said “Diseases can
affect which genes are switched on and off in
particular types of cells.
Understanding how this switching is regu-
lated is crucial for designing targeted strategies
to suppress unwanted cell responses.”
IRF5 was targeted after gene association
studies linked variations in the protein to auto-
immune diseases. The study itself was carried
out using genetic technology to introduce more
copies of the genes encoding for IRF5 into in-
vitro cells. After this they were able to observe
that the macrophages with anti-inflammatory
characteristics given additional copies of IRF5
promoted inflammation. As well as this, they
found that by blocking IRF5 with synthetic
molecules they could block the inflammatory
effects.
Dr Udalova summed up the potential of the
study by saying “This is really exciting, be-
cause it could give us new anti-inflammatory
treatments for a wide variety of conditions.”
Maciej Matuszewski
Time lapse photographs, such as this, are helping scientists discover new meteorites
Shooting the stars to find meteorites
The finding of a new meteorite in Western Aus-
tralia’s Nullarbor Desert has been announced
by an international group of scientists, led by
Imperial’s Dr Philip Bland. This was achieved
using the Desert Fireball Network, a project in-
volving the Onarejov Observatory in the Czech
Republic, the Western Australia Museum, Cur-
tin University, Perth, as well as Imperial Col-
lege. The Network consists of a number of film
based cameras, used because the available digi-
tal cameras do not have a good enough resolu-
tion, spread out over several thousand square
kilometres of the desert. Each takes time lapse
photographs of the night sky, the film of which
is sent by local farmers back to the researchers
to be developed and studied. The clear Austra-
lian sky allows useful photos to be taken almost
every night. If a meteorite fireball appears in
more than one picture the scientists are able to
calculate not only its previous orbit, but, us-
ing climate models, also where it landed. The
system is so accurate that the position of the
latest find was calculated to be just 150m from
its true location.
While this is not the first such tracking sys-
tem to be set up, it is the first in the Southern
Hemisphere and the first which allows easy
retrieval of the meteorites. The dry, featureless
desert means that they remain undisturbed in
the months between the scientists’ visits and
that they are easy to spot when the researchers
do arrive. Dr Bland has said that “other teams
have encountered problems because meteorites
are small rocks and they’re quite hard to find
in vegetated areas”. The new meteorite, only
the size of a fifty pence piece and a deep black
colour, would have been very difficult to locate
had it not contrasted so well with the flat, white
limestone of the Nullarbor.
Knowing the composition of the meteorites
as well as where they came from can tell sci-
entists a lot about the formation of the Solar
System. This project is very significant as there
have previously only been about a dozen me-
teorites whose orbits have been recorded. The
only other alternative which can collect the
same data, sending probes out into space, is
several times more expensive.
The team’s previous find, the first using the
equipment, was the Bunburra Rochole meteor-
ite, samples of which were recovered in 2008
and 2009 after it fell on the 20 July 2007. It had
a very unusual orbit and composition and pro-
vided evidence for a theory of how planetesi-
mals, large asteroids which were the building
blocks of planets, may have been formed in the
inner Solar System.
Macrophages are responsible for regulating the body’s immune response

