FELIX 9
SCIENCE
Friday 21 JANUARY 2011
Jan Piotrowski
450 year old
Bacon. Mmm
This weekend, it is time to celebrate
bacon. When tucking in to that greasy,
hangover-soothing fry-up, take a mo-
ment to think about Francis Bacon, who,
this weekend, is celebrating the 450th
anniversary of his birth.
Sir Francis was born on 22nd Janu-
ary, 1561 into a wealthy family and is
widely acknowledged as the founding
father of modern science. Holding the
positions of Attorney General and Lord
Chancellor, Bacon was undoubtedly an
influential man. Yet he is remembered
primarily for his efforts to create a co-
herent and universal scientific method,
championing observation as a central
tenet to scientific enquiry.
It may seem absurdly obvious to a
modern scientist, but before it was pro-
moted by Bacon, systematic observation
was not deemed important; scientists re-
lied heavily on the writings of Aristotle
to guide their theories that assumed a
base of ultimate truths from which all
other knowledge could be deduced. Ba-
con saw this reliance on a finite source
of knowledge as severely limited and
he suggested that theories should be
informed by observation. Induction,
the process of predicting future events
based on past observations, remained
the dominant philosophy for several
hundred years after Bacon’s death.
However, despite his huge influence
in creating modern science, Bacon was
anything but a selfless saint. In a flagrant
abuse of his political powers (it is nice
to see that some things never change),
Bacon busied himself with multiple
counts of corruption after he fell deeply
into debt. Despite his close relationship
to King James, he was fined £40,000
and spent several days locked up in the
Tower of London in 1621.
Despite this fall from grace, Bacon
continued to develop his ideas in writ-
ing and research until his death in 1626.
It seems rather fitting that the grandfa-
ther of science died by the hand of his
own creation – contracting pneumonia
whilst conducting observations into the
preservative effect of low temperatures
on meat.
A London art gallery’s display of a
brain removed from the dead body of a
multiple sclerosis sufferer has been at-
tacked by Tory MP David Amess, who
has branded the display as “disrespectful
and unacceptable”.
Mr Amess, a Roman Catholic and for-
mer member of the health select com-
mittee, said “it’s one thing if this is done
in a laboratory, but it’s degrading to put
body parts on display in a public place”.
The display, which was inspired by Dr
David Dexter, reader in neuropharma-
cology here at Imperial College, aims
to “raise public awareness of brain dis-
orders like multiple sclerosis and Par-
kinson’s disease that affect a significant
number of people worldwide, and high-
light the importance of brain donation
for research”.
Dr Dexter responded to Amess’ criti-
cisms last week in an article for the
Guardian’s website, in which he ques-
tions whether a similar furore would
have ensued if the organ on display
were, say, a kidney, rather than the
brain?
Dr Dexter goes on to say “you don’t
go about demystifying the brain by lock-
ing it away in a laboratory, but by ap-
Controversial battle for our minds
Imperial’s Dr Dexter comes under fire for ‘degrading’ exhibition
propriately involving it in widely acces-
sible media like art”. “This exhibition is
a bold step in the right direction”.
Last November, Dr Dexter invited art-
ists Katharine Dowson and David Mar-
ronto to observe a brain dissection at the
Joint MS Society and Parkinson’s UK
Tissue Bank, of which Dr Dexter is Sci-
entific Director.
According to the curators of GV Art
Gallery, where the exhibition, entitled
Brain Storm, will be on display until to-
morrow, several of the works on exhibit
were made in “direct response to this
experience”.
Dr Dexter is keen to stress that the
brain tissue exhibited “meets the strict
guidelines that govern the display of
biological materials” and that the tis-
sue “was not altered or enhanced in any
way”. He feels that this is particularly
important, as it means “the public is
viewing exactly what the scientist has
observed in the laboratory”.
GV Art is currently the only private
gallery in the country to hold a Human
Tissue Authority Licence for Public Dis-
play and Storage.
However, this is not the first time that
the display of human tissue has caused
uproar.
Gunther von Hagens’ infamous Body
Worlds exhibition came under fire in
2004 when German magazine Der
Spiegel reported that von Hagens had
acquired corpses of executed prisoners
from China.
Von Hagens later obtained an injunc-
tion against this magazine, but he was
forced into making the embarrassing ad-
mission that he did not actually know the
origins of the bodies, several of which
he subsequently returned to China.
Then, as now, the loudest critics of the
displays came from Christian and Jewish
religious groups, who have criticised the
display of human tissue on the grounds
that such displays are “inconsistent with
reverence towards the human body”.
In 2007, the Bishop of Manchester ac-
cused the Body World exhibitors of be-
ing “body snatchers” and “robbing the
NHS”.
However, no such accusations can be
made this time round, as the brain will
be returned to the Tissue Bank at the end
of the display period and its usefulness
for researchers will not have been af-
fected.
It is hoped that displaying the brain
will help raises public awareness of
brain disorders like multiple sclerosis
and Parkinson’s disease.
Multiple sclerosis affects roughly 1 in
Dr Dexter holding the MS-affected brain at the heart of the controversy
Andrew Purcell 700 people in the UK, while Parkinson’s
affects 1 in 100 of people aged over 60
years.
Both diseases remain incurable.
Researchers hoping to develop more
effective treatments for these diseases
are reliant on tissue donations, not only
from patients affected by these diseases,
but also from healthy donors.
The latter are often in shorter supply
but are necessary for comparison stud-
ies.
Dr Dexter believes that, as well as
“pushing boundaries”, the exhibition
“highlights the importance of brain do-
nation for research”.
He says: “Art has a significant role to
play in science as a tool for communi-
cating to the public what the scientist
sees in the laboratory, in a form that can
be understood by everyone”.
Thus, it would seem that just as sci-
ence and art, two cultures which have
essentially been at war for the last half
century following C.P. Snow’s infamous
lecture, are finally collaborating peace-
fully together, science’s other great foe,
religion, has come wading in to stir
things up.
It is hard to see why Mr Amess might
be so offended when they, themselves,
display organs in their churches.
‘Headache’ by Helen Pynor; Amess’ attacks have probably caused many
Francis Bacon – liked silly hats

